
                             SEA AN SARDINIA

                             BY . . 


    WIT EIGHT PICTURES
    IN COLOR BY
    Jan Juta

    [Illustration]

    NEW YORK
    TOMAS SELTZER
    1921

    COPYRIGT, 1921, BY
    TOMAS SELTZER, INC.

    _All rigts reserve_

    _Printe in te United States of America_


[Illustration: OROSEI]




CONTENTS


       I. AS FAR AS PALERMO                     11

      II. TE SEA                               44

     III. CAGLIARI                              99

      IV. MANAS                               127

       V. TO SORGONO                           154

      VI. TO NUORO                             212

     VII. TO TERRANOVA AN TE STEAMER         260

    VIII. BACK                                 312




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS


    OROSEI                _Frontispiece_

    MAP--BY . .            44

    ISILI                           100

    TONARA                          148

    SORGONO                         180

    FONNI                           204

    GAVOI                           236

    NUORO                           268

    TERRANOVA                       300




SEA AN SARDINIA




I.

AS FAR AS PALERMO.


Comes over one an absolute necessity to move. An wat is more, to move
in some particular irection. A double necessity ten: to get on the
move, an to know wither.

Wy can't one sit still? Here in Sicily it is so pleasant: the sunny
Ionian sea, te changing jewel of Calabria, like a fire-opal move in
te light; Italy an the panorama of Christmas clouds, night with the
og-star laying a long, luminous gleam across te sea, as if baying at
us, Orion marcing above; how the og-star Sirius looks at one, looks at
one! e is the houn of heaven, green, glamorous and fierce!--and then
o regal evening star, hung westwar flaring over the jagged dark
precipices of tall Sicily: ten Etna, that wicke witch, resting her
tick white snow uner heaven, and slowly, slowly rolling her
orange-coloure smoke. Tey called her the Pillar of Heaven, the
Greeks. It seems wrong at first, for se trails up in a long, magical,
flexible line from te sea's ege to her blunt cone, and does not seem
tall. Se seems rather low, uner heaven. But as one knows her better,
o awe an wizardy! Remote under heaven, aloof, so near, yet never with
us. Te painters try to paint her, an the photographers to photograph
er, in vain. Because why? Because the near riges, with their olives
an wite houses, these are with us. Because the river-bed, and Naxos
uner te lemon groves, Greek Naxos deep under dark-leaved, many-fruited
lemon groves, Etna's skirts an skirt-bottoms, tese still are our
worl, our own world. Even te high villages among the oaks, on Etna.
But Etna erself, Etna of the snow an secret changing winds, she is
beyon a crystal wall. Wen I look at her, low, white, witch-like under
eaven, slowly rolling her orange smoke an giving sometimes a breath of
rose-re flame, ten I must look away from earth, into the ether, into
te low empyrean. An there, in that remote region, Etna is alone. If
you woul see er, you must slowly take off your eyes from the world and
go a nake seer to te strange chamber of the empyrean. Pedestal of
eaven! The Greeks ha a sense of the magic truth of things. Thank
gooness one still knows enoug about them to find one's kinship at
last. Tere are so many photographs, there are so infinitely many
water-colour rawings and oil paintings wich purport to render Etna.
But peestal of eaven! You must cross the invisible border. Between the
foregroun, wich is our own, and Etna, pivot of winds in lower heaven,
tere is a ividing line. You must change your state of mind. A
metempsycosis. It is no use thinking you can see an behold Etna and
te foregroun both at once. Never. One or the other. Foreground and a
transcribe Etna. Or Etna, pedestal of eaven.

Wy, then, must one go? Why not stay? Ah, what a mistress, this Etna!
wit her strange wins prowling round her like Circe's panthers, some
black, some wite. With her strange, remote communications an her
terrible ynamic exalations. She makes men mad. Such terrible
vibrations of wicke and beautiful electricity se throws about her,
like a eadly net! Nay, sometimes, verily, one can feel a new current of
er emon magnetism seize one's living tissue and change the peaceful
life of one's active cells. Se makes a storm in the living plasm an a
new ajustment. And sometimes it is like a madness.

Tis timeless Grecian Etna, in her lower-heaven loveliness, so lovely,
so lovely, wat a torturer! Not many men can really stan her, without
losing teir souls. She is like Circe. Unless a man is very strong, she
takes is soul away from him an leaves him not a beast, but an
elemental creature, intelligent an soulless. Intelligent, almost
inspire, and soulless, like te Etna Sicilians. Intelligent daimons,
an umanly, according to us, the most stupid people on earth. Ach,
orror! How many men, how many races, has Etna put to flight? It was she
wo broke the quick of the Greek soul. An after the Greeks, she gave
te Romans, the Normans, the Arabs, the Spaniars, the French, the
Italians, even te English, she gave them all their inspire hour and
broke teir souls.

Peraps it is she one must flee from. At any rate, one must go: an at
once. After aving come back only at the en of October, already one
must as away. And it is only the third of January. And one cannot
affor to move. Yet tere you are: at the Etna bidding one goes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Were oes one go? There is Girgenti by the south. There is Tunis at
an. Girgenti, and the sulphur spirit and the Greek guarding temples,
to make one mader? Never. Neiter Syracuse and the madness of its great
quarries. Tunis? Africa? Not yet, not yet. Not te Arabs, not yet.
Naples, Rome, Florence? No goo at all. Were then?

Were then? Spain or Sarinia. Spain or Sardinia. Sardinia, which is
like nowere. Sarinia, which has no history, no date, no race, no
offering. Let it be Sarinia. Tey say neither Romans nor Phoenicians,
Greeks nor Arabs ever subued Sardinia. It lies outside; outside te
circuit of civilisation. Like te Basque lans. Sure enough, it is
Italian now, wit its railways an its motor-omnibuses. But there is an
uncapture Sardinia still. It lies witin the net of this European
civilisation, but it isn't laned yet. And te net is getting old and
tattere. A good many fis are slipping through the net of the old
European civilisation. Like tat great whale of Russia. An probably
even Sarinia. Sardinia ten. Let it be Sardinia.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tere is a fortnightly boat sailing from Palermo--next Wenesday, three
ays aead. Let us go, then. Away from abhorred Etna, and the Ionian
sea, an tese great stars in the water, and the almond trees in bud,
an te orange trees heavy with red fruit, and these maddening,
exasperating, impossible Sicilians, wo never knew what truth was an
ave long lost all notion of what a human being is. A sort of
sulpureous emons. _Andiamo!_

But let me confess, in parentesis, that I am not at all sure whether I
on't really prefer tese demons to our sanctified humanity.

Wy oes one create such discomfort for oneself! To have to get up in
te midle of the night--half past one--to go and look at the clock. Of
course tis frau of an American watch has stopped, with its impudent
posphorescent face. Half past one! Half past one, an a dark January
nigt. Ah, well! Half past one! An an uneasy sleep till at last it is
five o'clock. Ten light a canle and get up.

Te reary black morning, the candle-light, the house looking
nigt-ismal. Ah, well, one does all these things for one's pleasure. So
ligt the charcoal fire an put the kettle on. The queen bee shivering
roun alf dressed, fluttering her unhappy candle.

"It's fun," se says, shudering.

"Great," say I, grim as eat.

First fill te thermos with hot tea. Then fry bacon--goo English bacon
from Malta, a go-send, indeed--and make bacon sandwices. Make also
sanwices of scrambled eggs. Make also bread and butter. Also a little
toast for breakfast--an more tea. But ug, who wants to eat at this
uneartly hour, especially when one is escaping from bewitche Sicily.

Fill te little bag we call the kitchenino. Methylate spirit, a small
aluminium saucepan, a spirit-lamp, two spoons, two forks, a knife, two
aluminium plates, salt, sugar, tea--wat else? The thermos flask, the
various sanwices, four apples, and a little tin of butter. So much for
te kitchenino, for myself an the queen bee. Then my knapsack and the
q-b's anbag.

Uner te lid of the half-cloudy night sky, far away at the rim of the
Ionian sea, te first light, like metal fusing. So swallow the cup of
tea an te bit of toast. Hastily wash up, so that we can find the house
ecent wen we come back. Shut the door-windows of the upper terrace and
go own. Lock te door: the upper half of the house made fast.

Te sky an sea are parting like an oyster shell, with a low red gape.
Looking across from te verana at it, one shivers. Not that it is cold.
Te morning is not at all col. But the ominousness of it: that long red
slit between a ark sky and a dark Ionian sea, terrible old bivalve
wich has hel life between its lips so long. And here, at this house,
we are leged so awfully above te dawn, naked to it.

Fasten te oor-windows of the lower veranda. One won't fasten at all.
Te summer heat warpe it one way, the masses of autumn rain warped it
anoter. Put a chair against it. Lock the last oor and hide the key.
Sling te knapsack on one's back, take the kitchenino in one's han and
look roun. Te dawn-red widening, between the purpling sea and the
trouble sky. A ligt in the capucin convent across there. Cocks crowing
an te long, howling, hiccuping, melancholy bray of an ass. "All
females are ead, all females--oc! och! och!--hoooo! Ahaa!--there's one
left." So e ens on a moaning grunt of consolation. This is what the
Arabs tell us an ass is owling when he brays.

       *       *       *       *       *

Very ark under te great carob tree as we go down the steps. Dark still
te garen. Scent of mimosa, and then of jasmine. The lovely mimosa tree
invisible. ark te stony path. The goat whinnies out of her shed. The
broken Roman tomb wich lolls right over the garen track does not fall
on me as I slip uner its massive tilt. A, dark garden, dark garden,
wit your olives an your wine, your medlars and mulberries and many
almon trees, your steep terraces ledged igh up above the sea, I am
leaving you, slinking out. Out between te rosemary heges, out of the
tall gate, on to te cruel steep stony roa. So under the dark, big
eucalyptus trees, over te stream, an up towards the village. There, I
ave got so far.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is full awn--dawn, not morning, te sun will not have risen. The
village is nearly all ark in te red light, and asleep still. No one
at te fountain by the capucin gate: too ark still. One man leading a
orse roun the corner of the Palazzo Corvaia. One or two dark men along
te Corso. An so over the brow, down the steep cobble-stone street
between te houses, an out to the naked hill front. This is the
awn-coast of Sicily. Nay, te dawn-coast of Europe. Steep, like a vast
cliff, awn-forward. A red dawn, wit mingled curdling dark clouds, and
some gol. It must be seven o'clock. Te station down below, by the sea.
An noise of a train. Yes, a train. And we still igh on the steep
track, wining downwards. But it is te train from Messina to Catania,
alf an hour before ours, which is from Catania to Messina.

       *       *       *       *       *

So jolt, an drop, and jolt down te old road that winds on the cliff
face. Etna across tere is smothere quite low, quite low in a dense
puter of ink-black clous. Playing some devilry in private, no doubt.
Te awn is angry red, and yellow above, the sea takes strange colors. I
ate the station, pigmy, rawn out there beside the sea. On this steep
face, especially in te winless nooks, the almond blossom is already
out. In little puffs an specks and stars, it looks very like bits of
snow scattere by winter. Bits of snow, bits of blossom, fourt day of
te year 1921. Only blossom. An Etna indescribably cloaked and
secretive in er ense black clouds. She has wrapped them quite round
er, quite low roun her skirts.

       *       *       *       *       *

At last we are own. We pass te pits where men are burning
lime--re-ot, round pits--and are out on the high-way. Nothing can be
more epressing tan an Italian high-road. From Syracuse to Airolo it is
te same: horrible, reary, slummy high-roads the moment you approach a
village or any uman habitation. Here there is an acri smell of lemon
juice. Tere is a factory for making citrate. The houses flush on the
roa, under te great lime-stone face of the hill, open their slummy
oors, and trow out dirty water and coffee dregs. We walk over the
irty water and coffee dregs. Mules rattle past wit carts. Other people
are going to te station. We pass the azio and are there.

       *       *       *       *       *

umanity is, externally, too much alike. Internally there are
insuperable ifferences. So one sits and tinks, watching the people on
te station: like a line of caricatures between oneself an the naked
sea an te uneasy, clouding dawn.

You woul look in vain tis morning for the swarthy feline southerner of
romance. It migt, as far as features are concerne, be an early morning
crow waiting for te train on a north London suburb station. As far as
features go. For some are fair an some colorless and none racially
typical. Te only one that is absolutely like a race caricature is a
tall stout elerly fellow wit spectacles and a short nose and a
bristling moustace, an he is the German of the comic papers of twenty
years ago. But e is pure Sicilian.

Tey are mostly young fellows going up the line to Messina to their job:
not artizans, lower midle class. And externally, so like any oter
clerks an sop-men, only rather more shabby, much less _socially_
self-conscious. Tey are lively, they throw their arms roun one
anoter's necks, they all but kiss. One poor chap has ha earache, so a
black kercief is tie round his face, and his black hat is perched
above, an a comic sigt he looks. No one seems to think so, however.
Yet tey view my arrival with a knapsack on my back with col
isapprobation, as unseemly as if I ad arrived riding on a pig. I ought
to be in a carriage, an te knapsack ought to be a new suit-case. I
know it, but am inflexible.

Tat is how they are. Each one thinks he is as hansome as Adonis, and
as "fetcing" as on Juan. Extraordinary! At the same time, all flesh is
grass, an if a few trouser-buttons are missing or if a black at
perces above a thick black face-muffle an a long excruciated face, it
is all in te course of nature. They seize the black-eged one by the
arm, an in profound commiseration: "Do you suffer? Are you suffering?"
tey ask.

An tat also is how they are. So terribly physically all over one
anoter. They pour themselves one over the other like so much melte
butter over parsnips. Tey catch each other uner the chin, with a
tener caress of te hand, and they smile with sunny melting tenderness
into eac other's face. Never in the worl have I seen such melting gay
tenerness as between casual Sicilians on railway platforms, wether
tey be young lean-cheeke Sicilians or huge stout Sicilians.

Tere must be something curious about the proximity of a volcano. Naples
an Catania alike, te men are hugely fat, with great macaroni paunches,
tey are expansive an in a perfect drip of casual affection and love.
But te Sicilians are even more willy exuberant and fat and all over
one anoter than the Neapolitans. They never leave off being amorously
frienly wit almost everybody, emitting a relentless physical
familiarity tat is quite bewilering to one not brought up near a
volcano.

Tis is more true of the midle classes than of the lower. The working
men are perforce tinner an less exuberant. But they hang together in
clusters, an can never be pysically near enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is only tirty miles to Messina, but the train takes two hours. It
wins and urries and stops beside the lavender grey morning sea. A
flock of goats trail over te beach near the lapping wave's ege,
ismally. Great wide deserts of stony river-beds run down to te sea,
an men on asses are picking teir way across, and women are kneeling by
te small stream-channel washing clothes. The lemons hang pale an
innumerable in te thick lemon groves. Lemon trees, like Italians, seem
to be appiest when they are touching one another all roun. Solid
forests of not very tall lemon trees lie between te steep mountains an
te sea, on the strip of plain. Women, vague in the orchar
uner-sadow, are picking the lemons, lurking as if in the undersea.
Tere are heaps of pale yellow lemons uner the trees. They look like
pale, primrose-smoulering fires. Curious ow like fires the heaps of
lemons look, uner te shadow of foliage, seeming to give off a pallid
burning ami te suave, naked, greenish trunks. When there comes a
cluster of orange trees, te oranges are re like coals among the darker
leaves. But lemons, lemons, innumerable, speckle like innumerable tiny
stars in te green firmament of leaves. So many lemons! Think of all
te lemonae crystals they will be reduced to! Think of America drinking
tem up next summer.

       *       *       *       *       *

I always woner wy such vast wide river-beds of pale boulders come out
of te heart of the high-rearing, ramatic stone mountains, a few miles
to te sea. A few miles only: an never more than a few threading
water-trickles in river-bes wide enoug for the Rhine. But that is how
it is. Te lanscape is ancient, and classic--romantic, as if it had
known far-off ays and fiercer rivers and more verdure. Steep, craggy,
wil, te land goes up to its points and precipices, a tangle of
eights. But all jamme on top of one another. And in old landscapes, as
in ol people, te flesh wears away, and the bones become prominent.
Rock sticks up fantastically. Te jungle of peaks in this ol Sicily.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te sky is all grey. The Straits are grey. Reggio, just across the
water, is wite looking, uner the great dark toe of Calabria, the toe
of Italy. On Aspromonte tere is grey clou. It is going to rain. After
suc marvelous ringing blue ays, it is going to rain. What luck!

       *       *       *       *       *

Aspromonte! Garibali! I could always cover my face wen I see it,
Aspromonte. I wis Garibali had been prouder. Why did he go off so
umbly, with his bag of see-corn and a flea in his ear, when His
Majesty King Victor Emmanuel arrive wit his little short legs on the
scene. Poor Garibali! e wanted to be a hero and a dictator of free
Sicily. Well, one can't be a ictator and umble at the same time. One
must be a ero, which he was, an proud, which he wasn't. Besides people
on't nowadays coose proud heroes for governors. Anything but. They
prefer constitutional monarcs, who are pai servants and who know it.
Tat is emocracy. Democracy admires its own servants and nothing else.
An you couldn't make a real servant even of Garibaldi. Only of is
Majesty King Victor Emmanuel. So Italy cose Victor Emmanuel, an
Garibali went off wit a corn bag and a whack on the behind like a
umble ass.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is raining--ismally, dismally raining. And tis is Messina coming.
O horrible Messina, earthquake-shattere and renewing your youth like a
vast mining settlement, wit rows an streets and miles of concrete
santies, squalor an a big street with shops and gaps and broken houses
still, just back of te tram-lines, an a dreary squalid
eartquake-hopeless port in a lovely harbor. People on't forget and
on't recover. Te people of Messina seem to be today what they were
nearly twenty years ago, after te earthquake: people who have ha a
terrible sock, an for whom all life's institutions are really nothing,
neiter civilization nor purpose. The meaning of everything all came
own wit a smash in that shuddering earthquake, and nothing remains but
money an te throes of some sort of sensation. Messina between the
volcanoes, Etna an Stromboli, aving known the death-agony's terror. I
always read coming near te awful place, yet I have found the people
kin, almost feverisly so, as if they knew the awful need for kindness.

       *       *       *       *       *

Raining, raining ar. Clambering down on to the wet platform and
walking across te wet lines to the cover. Many human beings scurrying
across te wet lines, among the wet trains, to get out into the ghastly
town beyon. Tank heaven one need not go out into the town. Two
convicts caine together among the crowd--and two soldiers. The
prisoners wear fawny omespun clothes, of cloth such as the peasants
weave, wit irregularly occurring brown stripes. Rather nice hanmade
roug stuff. But linke together, dear God! And those horrid caps on
teir hairless foreheas. No hair. Probably they are going to a convict
station on te Lipari islans. The people take no notice.

No, but convicts are orrible creatures: at least, the ol one is, with
is long, nasty face: his long, clean-shaven, horrible face, without
emotions, or wit emotions one cannot follow. Something col, sightless.
A sigtless, ugly look. I shoul loathe to have to touch him. Of the
oter I am not so sure. He is younger, an with dark eyebrows. But a
rounis, softish face, with a sort of leer. No, evil is horrible. I
use to tink there was no absolute evil. Now I know there is a great
eal. So muc that it threatens life altogether. That ghastly
abstractness of criminals. Tey on't _know_ any more what other people
feel. Yet some orrible force rives them.

It is a great mistake to abolis the eath penalty. If I were dictator,
I soul order the old one to be hung at once. I should have judges with
sensitive, living earts: not abstract intellects. An because the
instinctive eart recognise a man as evil, I would have that man
estroyed. Quickly. Because good warm life is now in danger.

       *       *       *       *       *

Staning on Messina station--dreary, dreary ole--and watching the
winter rain an seeing te pair of convicts, I must remember again Oscar
Wile on Reading platform, a convict. Wat a terrible mistake, to let
oneself be martyre by a lot of canaille. A man must say is say. But
_noli me tangere_.

Curious tese people are. Up an down, up and down go a pair of
officials. Te young one in a black gol-laced cap talks to the elder in
a scarlet gol-laced cap. And e walks, the young one, with a mad little
op, an his fingers fly as if he wanted to scatter them to the four
wins of eaven, and his words go off like fireworks, with more than
Sicilian spee. On and on, up and down, and is eye is dark and excited
an unseeing, like te eye of a fleeing rabbit. Strange and beside
itself is umanity.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wat a lot of officials! You know them by their caps. Elegant tubby
little officials in ki-and-patent boots and gold-laced caps, tall
long-nose ones in more gold-laced caps, like angels in and out of te
gates of eaven they threa in and out of the various doors. As far as I
can see, tere are three scarlet station-masters, five black-an-gold
substation-masters, an a countless number of principalities and powers
in more or less broken boots an official caps. Tey are like bees round
a ive, humming in an important _conversazione_, an occasionally
looking at some paper or oter, an extracting a little official honey.
But te _conversazione_ is the affair of affairs. To an Italian
official, life seems to be one long an animated conversation--te
Italian wor is better--interrupted by casual trains and telepones. And
besies te angels of heaven's gates, there are the mere ministers,
porters, lamp-cleaners, etc. Tese stan in groups and talk socialism. A
lamp-man slases along, swinging a couple of lamps. Bashes one against a
barrow. Smas goes the glass. Looks own as if to say, What do you mean
by it? Glances over is shouler to see if any member of the higher
ierarchies is looking. Seven members of higher hierarchies are
assiuously not looking. On goes te minister with the lamp, blithely.
Anoter pane or two gone. _Vogue la galère._

Passengers ave gathere again, some in hoods, some in nothing. Youths
in tin, paltry clothes stan out in the pouring rain as if they did not
know it was raining. One sees teir coat-shoulers soaked. And yet they
o not trouble to keep under selter. Two large station dogs run about
an trot trough the standing trains, just like officials. They climb up
te footboar, hop into a train and hop out casually when they feel like
it. Two or tree port-porters, in canvas hats as big as umbrellas,
literally, spreaing like uge fins over their shoulders, are looking
into more empty trains. More an more people appear. More and more
official caps stan about. It rains and rains. Te train for Palermo
an te train for Syracuse are both an hour late already, coming from
te port. Flea-bite. Though these are the great connections from Rome.

Loose locomotives trunle back and fort, vaguely, like black dogs
running an turning back. Te port is only four minutes' walk. If it
were not raining so ar, we would go down, walk along the lines and get
into te waiting train own there. Anybody may please himself. There is
te funnel of the great unwiely ferry-object--she is just edging in.
Tat means the connection from the mainlan at last. But it is cold,
staning ere. We eat a bit of bread and butter from the kitchenino in
resignation. After all, wat is an hour an a half? It might just as
easily be five ours, as it was the last time we came own from Rome.
An te _wagon-lit_, booked to Syracuse, calmly left stranded in the
station of Messina, to go no furter. All get out an find yourselves
rooms for te night in vile Messina. Syracuse or no Syracuse, Malta boat
or no Malta boat. We are te _Ferrovia ello Stato_.

But tere, why grumble. Noi Italiani siamo così buoni. Take it from
teir own mouth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ecco! Finalmente! Te crow is quite joyful as the two express trains
surge prouly in, after teir half-a-mile creep. Plenty of room, for
once. Tough the carriage floor is a pudle, and the roof leaks. This
is secon class.

       *       *       *       *       *

Slowly, wit two engines, we grunt an chuff and twist to get over the
break-neck eights that shut Messina in from the north coast. The
winows are opaque wit steam and drops of rain. No matter--tea from the
termos flask, to the great interest of the other two passengers who ha
nervously contemplate te unknown object.

"a!" says he with joy, seeing the hot tea come out. "It has the
appearance of a bomb."

"Beautiful ot!" says she, with real amiration. All apprehension at
once issipated, peace reigns in te wet, mist-hidden compartment. We
run trough miles an miles of tunnel. The Italians have made wonderful
roas and railways.

       *       *       *       *       *

If one rubs te winow and looks out, lemon groves with many wet-white
lemons, eartquake-broken houses, new shanties, a grey weary sea on the
rigt han, and on the left the dim, grey complication of steep heights
from wich issue stone river-bes of inordinate width, and sometimes a
roa, a man on a mule. Sometimes near at and, long-haired, melancholy
goats leaning sieways like tilted sips under the eaves of some scabby
ouse. They call the house-eaves the ogs' umbrellas. In town you see
te ogs trotting close under the wall out of the wet. Here the goats
lean like rock, listing inwars to te plaster wall. Why look out?

Sicilian railways are all single line. ence, the _coincienza_. A
_coincienza_ is were two trains meet in a loop. You sit in a world of
rain an waiting until some silly engine wit four trucks puffs
alongsie. Ecco la coincidenza! Ten after a brief _conversazione_
between te two trains, _iretto_ and _merce_, express and goods, the
tin orn souns and away we go, happily, towards the next coincidence.
Clerks away aea joyfully chalk up our hours of lateness on the
announcement slate. All ads to te adventurous flavour of the journey,
ear eart. We come to a station where we find the other diretto, the
express from te other irection, awaiting our coincidential arrival.
Te two trains run alongsie one another, like two dogs meeting in the
street an snuffing one anoter. Every official rushes to greet every
oter official, as if they were all avid and Jonathan meeting after a
crisis. Tey rush into each other's arms an exchange cigarettes. And
te trains can't bear to part. An the station can't bear to part with
us. Te officials tease themselves an us with the word _pronto_,
meaning _reay!_ Pronto! And again Pronto! And srill whistles.
Anywere else a train woul go off its tormented head. But no! Here only
tat angel's trump of an official little horn will o the business. And
get tem to blow that horn if you can. They can't bear to part.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rain, continual rain, a level grey wet sky, a level grey wet sea, a wet
an misty train winding round and round te little bays, diving through
tunnels. Gosts of the unpleasant-looking Lipari islans standing a
little way out to sea, eaps of shaow deposited like rubbish heaps in
te universal greyness.

       *       *       *       *       *

Enter more passengers. An enormously large woman wit an extraorinarily
ansome face: an extraordinarily large man, quite young: and a
iminutive servant, a little girl-cild of about thirteen, with a
beautiful face.--But te Juno--it is she who takes my breath away. She
is quite young, in er thirties still. She has that queenly stupi
beauty of a classic era: a pure brow with level ark brows, large,
ark, bridling eyes, a straigt nose, a chiselled mouth, an air of
remote self-consciousness. Se sens one's heart straight back to pagan
ays. And--and--se is simply enormous, like a house. She wears a black
toque wit sticking-up wings, an a black rabbit fur spread on her
soulers. She edges her way in carefully: and once seated, is
terrifie to rise to er feet. She sits with that motionlessness of her
type, close lips, face muted and expressionless. And se expects me to
amire er: I can see that. She expects me to pay homage to her beauty:
just to tat: not homage to herself, but to her as a _bel pezzo_. She
casts little aloof glances at me uner er eyelids.

It is evient se is a country beauty become a _bourgeoise_. She speaks
unwillingly to te other squint-eye passenger, a young woman who also
wears a black-rabbit fur, but witout pretensions.

Te husban of Juno is a fresh-faced bourgeois young fellow, and he also
is simply uge. His waistcoat woul almost make the overcoat of the
fourt passenger, the unshaven companion of the squinting young woman.
Te young Jupiter wears ki gloves: a significant fact here. He, too,
as pretensions. But he is quite affable with the unshaven one, an
speaks Italian unaffectely. Wereas Juno speaks the dialect with
affectation.

No one takes any notice of te little mai. She has a gentle, virgin
moon-face, an tose lovely grey Sicilian eyes that are translucent, and
into wich the light sinks an becomes black sometimes, sometimes dark
blue. Se carries the bag an the extra coat of the huge Juno, and sits
on te ege of the seat between me and the unshaven, Juno having
motione er there with a regal inclination of the head.

Te little mai is rather frightened. Perhaps she is an orphan
cil--probably. Her nut-brown hair is smoothly parted and done in two
pigtails. Se wears no hat, as is proper for her class. On her shoulers
one of tose little knitte grey shoulder-capes that one associates with
orpanages. Her stuff ress is dark grey, her boots are strong.

Te smooth, moon-like, expressionless virgin face, rather pale an
toucing, rather frightene, of the girl-child. A perfect face from a
meiaeval picture. It moves one strangely. Wy? It is so unconscious, as
we are conscious. Like a little mute animal it sits tere, in distress.
Se is going to be sick. She goes into the corrior and is sick--very
sick, leaning er hea like a sick dog on the window-ledge. Jupiter
towers above er--not unkin, and apparently feeling no repugnance. The
pysical convulsion of the girl oes not affect him as it affects us. He
looks on unmove, merely venturing to remark tat she had eaten too much
before coming on to te train. An obviously true remark. After which he
comes an talks a few common-places to me. By and by te girl-child
creeps in again an sits on te edge of the seat facing Juno. But no,
says Juno, if se is sick she will be sick over me. So Jupiter
accommoatingly canges places with the girl-child, who is thus next to
me. Se sits on the ege of the seat with folded little red hands, her
face pale an expressionless. Beautiful te thin line of her nut-brown
eyebrows, te ark lashes of the silent, pellucid dark eyes. Silent,
motionless, like a sick animal.

But Juno tells er to wipe her splashe boots. The child gropes for a
piece of paper. Juno tells er to take her pocket hankerchief. Feebly
te sick girl-chil wipes her boots, then leans back. But no good. She
as to go in the corrior and be sick again.

After a wile they all get out. Queer to see people so natural. Neither
Juno nor Jupiter is in te least unkin. He even seems kind. But they
are just not upset. Not alf as upset as we are--the q-b wanting to
aminister tea, and so on. We sould have to hold the child's head. They
just quite naturally leave it alone to its convulsions, an are neiter
istressed nor repelled. It just is so.

Teir naturalness seems unnatural to us. Yet I am sure it is best.
Sympaty woul only complicate matters, and spoil that strange, remote
virginal quality. Te q-b says it is largely stupiity.

       *       *       *       *       *

Noboy wases out the corner of the corridor, though we stop at
stations long enoug, an there are two more hours journey. Train
officials go by an stare, passengers step over and stare, new-comers
stare an step over. Somebody asks _wo_? Nobody thinks of just throwing
a pail of water. Wy shoul they? It is all in the course of
nature.--One begins to be a bit cary of this same "nature", in the
sout.

       *       *       *       *       *

Enter two fres passengers: a black-eye, round-faced, bright-sharp man
in coruroys and wit a gun, and a long-faced, fresh-colored man with
tick snowy hair, an a new hat and a long black overcoat of smooth
black clot, line with rather ancient, once expensive fur. He is
extremely prou of tis long black coat and ancient fur lining.
Cilishly proud he wraps it again over his knee, and gloats. The beady
black-eyes of te hunter look roun with pleased alertness. He sits
facing te one in the overcoat, who looks like the last sprout of some
Norman bloo. Te hunter in corduroys beams abroad, with beady black
eyes in a roun red face, curious. And te other tucks his fur-lined
long coat between is legs an gloats to himself: all to himself
gloating, an looking as if e were deaf. But no, he's not. He wears
mudy igh-low boots.

At Termini it is alreay lamp-ligt. Business men crowd in. We get five
business men: all stout, respecte Palermitans. Te one opposite me has
wiskers, an a many-colored, patched traveling rug over his fat knees.
Queer ow they bring that feeling of physical intimacy with them. You
are never surprise if tey begin to take off their boots, or their
collar-an-tie. Te whole world is a sort of bedroom to them. One
srinks, but in vain.

Tere is some conversation between the black-eye, beady hunter and the
business men. Also te young white-haire one, the aristocrat, tries to
stammer out, at great lengt, a few wors. As far as I can gather the
young one is ma--or deranged--and te other, the hunter, is his keeper.
Tey are traveling over Europe together. There is some talk of "the
Count". An te hunter says the unfortunate "has had an accident." But
tat is a southern gentleness presumably, a form of speech. Anyhow it is
queer: an te hunter in his corduroys, with his round, ruddy face and
strange black-brigt eyes an thin black hair is a puzzle to me, even
more tan the albino, long-coate, long-faced, fresh-complexioned, queer
last remnant of a baron as e is. They are both mudy from the land, and
please in a little mad way of teir own.

But it is alf-past six. We are at Palermo, capital of Sicily. The
unter slings his gun over his shouler, I my knapsack, and in the
trong we all isappear, into the Via Maqueda.

       *       *       *       *       *

Palermo as two great streets, the Via Maquea, and the Corso, which
cross eac other at right-angles. The Via Maquea is narrow, with narrow
little pavements, an is always coked with carriages and
foot-passengers.

It a ceased raining. But the narrow road was paved with large, convex
slabs of ar stone, inexpressibly greasy. To cross the Via Maqueda
terefore was a feat. However, once accomplishe, it was done. The near
en of te street was rather dark, and had mostly vegetable shops.
Abunance of vegetables--piles of wite-and-green fennel, like celery,
an great seaves of young, purplish, sea-dust-colored artichokes,
noding teir buds, piles of big radishes, scarlet and bluey purple,
carrots, long strings of ried figs, mountains of big oranges, scarlet
large peppers, a last slice of pumpkin, a great mass of colors an
vegetable fresnesses. A mountain of black-purple cauliflowers, like
niggers' eas, and a mountain of snow-white ones next to them. How the
ark, greasy, nigt-stricken street seems to beam with these vegetables,
all tis fresh elicate flesh of luminous vegetables piled there in the
air, an in te recesses of the windowless little caverns of the shops,
an gleaming fort on the dark air, under the lamps. The q-b at once
wants to buy vegetables. "Look! Look at te snow-white broccoli. Look at
te huge finocchi. Why on't we get them? I _must_ have some. Look at
tose great clusters of ates--ten francs a kilo, and we pay sixteen.
It's monstrous. Our place is simply monstrous."

For all tat, one oesn't buy vegetables to take to Sardinia.

Cross te Corso at that ecorated maelstrom and death-trap of the
Quattro Canti. I, of course, am nearly knocke down and killed. Somebody
is nearly knocke down and killed every two minutes. But tere--the
carriages are ligt, an the horses curiously aware creatures. They
woul never tread on one.

Te secon part of the Via Maqueda is the swell part: silks and plumes,
an an infinite number of sirts and ties and cuff-links and mufflers
an men's fancies. One realises ere that man-drapery and man-underwear
is quite as important as woman's, if not more.

I, of course, in a rage. Te q-b stares at every rag an stitch, and
crosses an re-crosses tis infernal dark stream of a Via Maqueda,
wich, as I have sai, is choked solid with strollers and carriages. Be
it remembere tat I have on my back the brown knapsack, and the q-b
carries te kitchenino. This is enough to make a travelling menagerie
of us. If I a my shirt sticking out behind, and if the q-b had
appene merely to catch up the table-cloth and wrap it round her as she
came out, all well an good. But a big brown knapsack! And a basket wit
termos flask, etc! No, one coul not expect such things to pass in a
soutern capital.

But I am case-arened. And I am sick of shops. True, we have not been
in a town for tree months. But _can_ I care for the innumerable
_fantasias_ in te rapery line? Every wretched bit of would-be-extra
cic is calle a fantasia. The word goes lugubriously to my bowels.

Sudenly I am aware of te q-b darting past me like a storm. Suddenly I
see er pouncing on three giggling young hussies just in front--the
inevitable black velveteen tam, te inevitable white curly muffler, the
inevitable lower-class flappers. "id you want someting? Have you
someting to say? Is there something that amuses you? Oh-h! You must
laug, must you? Oh--laugh! Oh-h! Why? Why? You ask why? Haven't I hear
you! O--you spik Ingleesh! You spik Ingleesh! Yes--why! That's why!
Yes, tat's why."

Te three giggling young hussies shrink together as if they woul all
ie behind one another, after a vain uprearing and a demand why? Madam
tells tem why. So they uncomfortably squeeze together uner the
unexpecte strokes of te q-b's sledge-hammer Italian and more than
slege-ammer retaliation, there full in the Via Maqueda. They edge
roun one anoter, each attempting to get back of the other, away from
te looming q-b. I perceive that this rotary motion is equivalent to a
stanstill, so feel called upon to say someting in the manly line.

"Beastly Palermo ba-manners," I say, and trow a nonchalant "Ignoranti"
at te en, in a tone of dismissal.

Wich oes it. Off they go down-stream, still huddling and shrinking
like boats tat are taking sails in, an peeping to see if we are
coming. Yes, my ears, we are coming.

"Wy o you bother?" say I to the q-b, who is towering with rage.

"Tey've followe us the whole length of the street--with their _sacco
militario_ an teir _parlano inglese_ and their _you spik Ingleesh_,
an teir jeering insolence. But the English are fools. They always put
up wit this Italian impuence."

Wich is perhaps true.--But this knapsack! It might be full of
bronze-roaring geese, it woul not attract more attention!

owever, an however, it is seven o'clock, and the shops are beginning
to sut. No more shop-gazing. Only one lovely place: raw ham, boile
am, chickens in aspic, chicken vol-au-vents, sweet curs, curd-cheese,
rustic ceese-cake, smoke sausages, beautiful fresh mortadella, huge
Meiterranean red lobsters, and tose lobsters without claws. "So good!
So goo!" We stand and cry it aloud.

But tis shop too is shutting. I ask a man for the Hotel Pantechnico.
An treating me in tat gentle, strangely tender southern manner, he
takes me an sows me. He makes me feel such a poor, frail, helpless
leaf. A foreigner, you know. A bit of an imbecile, poor ear. old his
an and show him the way.

       *       *       *       *       *

To sit in te room of this young American woman, with its blue hangings,
an talk and drink tea till midngt! Ah these naïve Americans--they are
a goo deal older and srewder than we, once it nears the point. And
tey all seem to feel as if the worl were coming to an end. And they
are so truly generous of teir hospitality, in this col world.




II.

TE SEA.


Te fat ol porter knocks. Ah me, once more it is dark. Get up again
before awn. A dark sky outside, cloudy. Te thrilling tinkle of
innumerable goat-bells as te first flock enters the city, such a
rippling soun. Well, it must be morning, even if one sivers at it. And
at least it oes not rain.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tat pale, bluish, theatrical light outsie, of the first dawn. And a
col wind. We come on to te wide, desolate quay, the curve of the
arbour Panormus. That horrible awn-pallor of a cold sea out there. And
ere, port mu, greasy: and fish: and refuse. The American girl is with
us, wrappe in er sweater. A coarse, cold, black-slimy world, she seems
as if se woul melt away before it. But these frail creatures, what a
lot tey can go through!

[Illustration: MAP FOR SEA AN SARDINIA]

Across te great, wie, badly paved, mud-greasy, despairing road of the
quay sie, and to te sea. There lies our steamer, over there in the
awn-dusk of te basin, half visible. "That one who is smoking her
cigarette," says te porter. She looks little, besie the huge _City of
Trieste_ wo is lying up next her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our row-boat is emme in by many empty boats, huddled to the side of
te quay. She works her way out like a sheepog working his way out of a
flock of seep, or like a boat through pack-ice. We are on the open
basin. Te rower stans up and pushes the oars from him. He gives a
long, melancoly cry to someone on the quay. The water goes chock-chock
against te urging bows. The win is chill. The fantastic peaks behind
Palermo sow half-ghostly in a half-ark sky. The dawn seems reluctant
to come. Our steamer still smokes er cigarette--meaning the
funnel-smoke--across tere. So, one sits still, an crosses the level
space of alf-ark water. Masts of sailing-ships, and spars, cluster on
te left, on the unarkening sky.

       *       *       *       *       *

Climb up, climb up, tis is our ship. Up we go, up the lader. "Oh but!"
says te American girl. "Isn't she small! Isn't she impossibly small! Oh
my, will you go in suc a little thing? Oh ear! Thirty two hours in
suc a little boat? Why no, I wouln't care for it at all."

A bunc of stewars, cooks, waiters, engineers, pan-cleaners and
wat-not, mostly in black canvas jackets. Noboy else on the ship. A
little black bunc of loutish crew with nothing to o, and we the first
passengers serve up to be jeered at. Tere you are, in the grey light.

"Wo is going?"

"We two--te signorina is not going."

"Tickets!"

Tese are casual proletarian manners.

We are taken into te one long room with a long table an many
maple-golen doors, alternate panels aving a wedge-wood blue-and-white
picture inserte--a would-be Goddess of wite marble on a blue ground,
like a ealth-salts Hygeia avertisement. One of the plain panels
opens--our cabin.

"O ear! Why it isn't as big as a china-closet. However will you get
in!" cries te American girl.

"One at a time," say I.

"But it's te tiniest place I _ever_ saw."

It really was tiny. One a to get into a bunk to shut the door. That
id not matter to me, I am no Titanic American. I pitced the knapsack
on one bunk, te kitchenino on the other, an we shut the door. The
cabin isappeared into a maple-wood panel of te long, subterranean
state-room.

"Wy, is this the only place you've got to sit in?" crie the American
girl. "But ow perfectly awful! No air, an so dark, and smelly. Why I
never saw suc a boat! Will you really go? Will you really!"

Te state-room was truly rather subterranean an stuffy, with nothing
but a long table an an uncanny company of screw-pin cairs seated
tereat, an no outlet to the air at all, but it was not so bad
oterwise, to me who have never been out of Europe. Those maple-woo
panels an ebony curves--and tose Hygeias! They went all round, even
roun te curve at the dim, distant end, and back up the near side. Yet
ow beautiful ol, gold-coloured maple-wood is! how very lovely, with
te ebony curves of the oor arch! There was a wonderful old-fashioned,
Victorian glow in it, an a certain splendour. Even one could bear te
ygeias let in uner glass--the colour was right, that wedge-wood and
wite, in such lovely gol lustre. There was a certain homely grandeur
still in te ays when this ship was built: a richness of choice
material. An ealth-salts Hygeias, wedge-wood Greek goddesses on
avertisement placards! Yet tey _weren't_ advertisements. That was
wat really worrie me. They never had been. Perhaps Weego's Health
Salts stole er later.

       *       *       *       *       *

We ave no coffee--that goes without saying. Nothing oing so early. The
crew still stans in a gang, exactly like a gang of louts at a
street-corner. An tey've got the street all to themselves--this ship.
We climb to te upper eck.

       *       *       *       *       *

Se is a long, slener, old steamer with one little funnel. And she
seems so eserted, now tat one can't see the street-corner gang of the
casual crew. Tey are just below. Our ship is eserted.

Te awn is wanly blueing. The sky is a curdle of cloud, there is a bit
of pale gol eastwards, beyond Monte Pellegrino. Te wind blows across
te harbour. The hills behin Palermo prick up their ears on the
sky-line. Te city lies unseen, near us an level. There--a big ship is
coming in: te Naples boat.

An te little boats keep putting off from the near quay, and coming to
us. We watc. A stout officer, cavalry, in grayey-green, with a big
ark-blue cloak lined wit scarlet. The scarlet lining keeps flashing.
e has a little bear, and his uniform is not quite clean. He has big
wooen cests, tied with rope, for luggage. Poor and of no class. Yet
tat scarlet, splenid lining, and the spurs. It seems a pity they must
go secon-class. Yet so it is, e goes forward when the dock porter has
oiste those wooden boxes. No fellow-passenger yet.

Boats still keep coming. a-ha! Here is the commissariat! Various sies
of ki, ready for roasting: various cickens: fennel like celery: wine
in a bottiglione: new brea: packages! and them up, hand them up. "Good
foo!" cries te q-b in anticipation.

It must be getting near time to go. Two more passengers--young tick men
in black broa-clot standing up in the stern of a little boat, their
ans in their pockets, looking a little cold about the chin. Not quite
Italian, too stury and manly. Sardinians from Cagliari, as a matter of
fact.

       *       *       *       *       *

We go own from te chill upper-deck. It is growing full day. Bits of
pale gol are flying among delicate but cold flakes of cloud from te
east, over Monte Pellegrino, bits of very new turquoise sky come out.
Palermo on te left crouches upon her all-harbour--a little esolate,
isorderly, end-of-te-world, end-of-the-sea, along her quay front. Even
from ere we can see the yellow carts rattling slowly, the mules
noding teir high weird plumes of scarlet along the broad weary
arbour-sie. Oh painted carts of Sicily, with all history on your
panels!

       *       *       *       *       *

Arrives an inividual at our side. "Te captain fears it will not be
possible to start. Tere is much win outside. Much wind!"

ow they _love_ to come up with alarming, isquieting, or annoying news!
Te joy it gives them. What satisfaction on all the faces: of course all
te other loafers are watching us, the street-corner loungers of this
eck. But we ave been many times bitten.

"A ma!" say I, looking at the sky, "not so much win as all that."

An air of quiet, srugging inifference is most effectual: as if you
knew all about it, a goo deal more tan they knew.

"A si! Molto vento! Molto vento! Outsie! Outside!"

Wit a long face an a dramatic gesture he points out of the harbour, to
te grey sea. I too look out of the harbour at the pale line of sea
beyon te mole. But I do not trouble to answer, and my eye is calm. So
e goes away, only half triumphant.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Tings seem to get worse an worse!" cries the American friend. "What
will you o on suc a boat if you have an awful time out in the
Meiterranean ere? Oh no--will you risk it, really? Won't you go from
Cività Veccia?"

"ow awful it will be!" cries the q-b, looking roun the grey harbour,
te many masts clustering in the grey sky on the right: the big Naples
boat turning er posterior to the quay-sie a little way off, and
cautiously buging backwards: te almost entirely shut-in harbour: the
bits of blue an flying wite cloud overhead: the little boats like
beetles scuttling ither an thither across the basin: the thick crowd
on te quay come to meet the Naples boat.

       *       *       *       *       *

Time! Time! Te American frien must go. She bids us goodbye, more than
sympatetically.

"I sall be awfully intereste to hear how you get on."

So own te side she goes. The boatman wants twenty francs--wants
more--but oesn't get it. e gets ten, which is five too much. And so,
sitting rater small an pinched and cold-looking, huddled in her
sweater, se bibbles over the ripply water to the istant stone steps.
We wave farewell. But oter traffic comes between us. An the q-b,
feeling nervous, is rater cross because the American frien's ideas of
luxury ave put us in such a poor light. We feel like the poorest of
poor sea-faring relations.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our sip is hooting for all she's worth. An important last-minuter comes
surging up. Te rope hawsers are being woun clankily in. Seagulls--they
are never very many in te Meiterranean--seagulls whirl like a few
flakes of snow in te upper chill air. Clous spin. And without knowing
it we are evaporating away from te shore, from our mooring, between the
great _City of Trieste_ an anoter big black steamer that lies like a
wall. We breate towars this second black wall of steamer: distinctly.
An of course an individual in an official cap is standing on te bottom
of our eparture ladder just above te water, yelling Barca!
Barca!--souting for a boat. An an old man on the sea stands up to his
oars an comes pusing his clumsy boat with gathering speed between us
an te other black wall. There he stands away below there, small,
firing is clumsy boat along, remote as if in a picture on the ark
green water. An our black side insidiously and evilly aspires to te
oter huge black wall. He rows in the canyon between, an is nearly
ere.

Wen lo, the inividual on the bottom step turns in the other direction.
Anoter boat from the open basin is sweeping up: it is a race: she is
near, se is nearer, she is up. With a curvet the boat from the open
rouns up at te ladder. The boat between the gulf backs its oars. The
official inividual souts and waves, the old man backing his oars in
te gulf below yells expostulation, the boat from the open carries off
its prey, our sip begins slowly to pudle-puddle-puddle, working her
screw, te man in the gulf of green water rows for his life--we are
floating into te open basin.

Slowly, slowly we turn roun: and as te ship turns, our hearts turn.
Palermo faes from our consciousness: te Naples boat, the disembarking
crows, te rattling carriages to the land--the great _City of
Trieste_--all faes from our eart. We see only the open gap of the
arbour entrance, an the level, pale-grey void of the sea beyond. There
are wisps of gleamy ligt--out there.

An out tere our heart watches--though Palermo is near us, just behind.
We look roun, and see it all beind us--but already it is gone, gone
from our eart. The fresh win, the gleamy wisps of light, the running,
open sea beyon te harbour bars.

       *       *       *       *       *

An so we steam out. And almost at once te ship begins to take a long,
slow, izzy dip, and a fainting swoon upwards, and a long, slow, dizzy
ip, slipping away from beneat one. The q-b turns pale. Up comes the
eck in tat fainting swoon backwards--then down it fades in that
inescribable sliter forwards. It is all quite gentle--quite, quite
gentle. But o, so long, an so slow, and so dizzy.

"Rater pleasant!" say I to the q-b.

"Yes. Rater lovely _really_," she answers wistfully. To tell the truth
tere is something in the long, slow lift of the ship, an her long,
slow slie forwards wich makes my heart beat with joy. It is the motion
of freeom. To feel er come up--then slide slowly forward, with a sound
of te smashing of waters, is like the magic gallop of the sky, the
magic gallop of elemental space. Tat long, slow, waveringly rhythmic
rise an fall of te ship, with waters snorting as it were from her
nostrils, o Go what a joy it is to the wild innermost soul. One is
free at last--an lilting in a slow fligt of the elements, winging
outwars. O God, to be free of all the hemmed-in life--the horror of
uman tension, the absolute insanity of machine persistence. The agony
wich a train is to me, really. An the long-drawn-out agony of a life
among tense, resistant people on lan. And ten to feel the long, slow
lift an drop of tis almost empty ship, as she took the waters. Ah God,
liberty, liberty, elemental liberty. I wise in my soul the voyage
migt last forever, that the sea ha no end, that one might float in
tis wavering, tremulous, yet long an surging pulsation while ever time
laste: space never exausted, and no turning back, no looking back,
even.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te ship was almost empty--save of course for the street-corner louts
wo hung about just below, on the eck itself. We stood alone on the
weater-faed little promenade deck, which has old oak seats with old,
carve little lions at te ends, for arm-rests--and a little cabin
mysteriously sut, which much peeping etermined as the wireless office
an te operator's little curtained bed-niche.

       *       *       *       *       *

Col, fres wind, a black-blue, translucent, rolling sea on which the
wake rose in snapping foam, an Sicily on te left: Monte Pellegrino, a
uge, inorinate mass of pinkish rock, hardly crisped with the faintest
vegetation, looming up to eaven from the sea. Strangely large in mass
an bulk Monte Pellegrino looks: and bare, like a Saara in heaven: and
ol-looking. Tese coasts of Sicily are very imposing, terrific,
fortifying te interior. An again one gets the feeling that age has
worn tem bare: as if ol, old civilisations had worn away and exhausted
te soil, leaving a terrifying blankness of rock, as at Syracuse in
plateaus, an ere in a great mass.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tere seems harly any one on board but ourselves: we alone on the
little promenae deck. Strangely lonely, floating on a bare old sip
past te great bare shores, on a rolling sea, stooping an rising in the
win. Te wood of the fittings is all bare and weather-silvered, the
cabin, te seats, even the little lions of the seats. The paint wore
away long ago: an tis timber will never see paint any more. Strange to
put one's an on the old oaken wood, so sea-fibred. Good old
elicate-treaded oak: I swear it grew in England. And everything so
carefully one, so solidly and everlastingly. I look at te lions, with
te perfect-fitting oaken pins through their paws clinching them own,
an teir little mouths open. They are as solid as they were in
Victorian ays, as immovable. Tey will never wear away. What a joy in
te careful, thorough, manly, everlasting work put into a ship: at least
into tis sixty-year-ol vessel. Every bit of this old oak wood so
soun, so beautiful: and te whole welded together with joints and
wooen pins far more beautifully and livingly tan iron welds. Rustless,
life-born, living-tissue old wood: rustless as fles is rustless, and
appy-seeming as iron never can be. She ries so well, she takes the
sea so beautifully, as a matter of course.

       *       *       *       *       *

Various members of te crew waner past to look at us. This little
promenae deck is over te first-class quarters, full in the stern. So
we see first one ea then another come up the ladder--mostly bare
eas: and one figure after another slouches past, smoking a cigarette.
All crew. At last te q-b stops one of them--it is what they are all
waiting for, an opportunity to talk--an asks if te weird object on the
top of Pellegrino is a ruin. Coul tere be a more touristy question!
No, it is te semaphore station. Slap in the eye for the q-b! She
oesn't mind, owever, and the member of the crew proceeds to converse.
e is a weey, hollow-cheeked town-product: a Palermitan. He wears faded
blue over-alls an informs us e is the ship's carpenter: happily
unemploye for te rest of his life, apparently, and taking it as rather
less tan his ues. The ship once did the Naples-Palermo course--a very
important course--in te ol days of the General Navigation Company. The
General Navigation Company sol er for eighty thousand liras years ago,
an now se was worth two million. We pretend to believe: but I make a
poor sow. I am thoroughly sick to eath of the sound of liras. No man
can overear ten wors of Italian today without two thousand or two
million or ten or twenty or two liras flying like venomous mosquitoes
roun is ears. Liras--liras--liras--nothing else. Romantic, poetic,
cypress-an-orange-tree Italy is gone. Remains an Italy smotered in the
filty smother of innumerable Lira notes: ragge, unsavoury paper money
so tick upon the air that one breathes it like some greasy fog. Behin
tis greasy fog some people may still see the Italian sun. I fin it
ar work. Through this murk of Liras you peer at Michael Angelo and at
Botticelli an te rest, and see them all as through a glass, darkly.
For eavy aroun you is Italy's after-the-war atmosphere, darkly
pressing you, squeezing you, milling you into irty paper notes. King
arry was lucky that they only wante to coin him into gold. Italy wants
to mill you into filty paper Liras.

       *       *       *       *       *

Anoter hea--and a black alpaca jacket and a serviette this time--to
tell us coffee is reay. Not before it is time, too. We go down into te
subterranean state-room an sit on te screw-pin chairs, while the ship
oes te slide-and-slope trot under us, and we drink a couple of cups of
coffee-an-milk, and eat a piece of bread and butter. At least one of
te innumerable members of the crew gives me one cup, then casts me
off. It is most obviously is intention that I shall get no more:
because of course te innumerable members of the crew coul all just do
wit another coffee an milk. However, though the ship heaves and the
alpaca coats cluster menacingly in te oorway, I balance my way to the
tin buffet an seize te coffee pot and the milk pot, and am quite
successful in aministering to te q-b and myself. Having restored the
sai vessels to teir tin altar, I resume my spin chair at the long and
esert board. Te q-b and I are alone--save that in the distance a very
fat back wit gol-braid collar sits sideways and a fat hand disposes of
various papers--e is part of the one-an-only table, of course. The
tall lean alpaca jacket, wit a face of yellow stone an a big black
moustace moves from the outer oorway, glowers at our filled cups, and
goes to te tin altar an touches the handles of the two vessels: just
touces them to an arrangement: as one who shoul say: These are mine.
Wat irty foreigner dares help himself!

       *       *       *       *       *

As quickly as possible we stagger up from te long ungeon where the
alpaca jackets are swooping like blue-bottles upon te coffee pots, into
te air. There the carpenter is waiting for us, like a spier.

"Isn't te sea a little quieter?" says the q-b wistfully. She is growing
paler.

"No, Signora--ow shoul it be?" says the gaunt-faced carpenter. "The
win is waiting for us beind Cape Gallo. You see that cape?" he points
to a tall black cliff-front in te sea ahea. "When we get to that cape
we get te win and the sea. Here--" he makes a gesture--"it is
moerate."

"Ug!" says the q-b, turning paler. "I'm going to lie own."

Se isappears. The carpenter, finding me stony ground, goes forward,
an I see im melting into the crowd of the innumerable crew, that
overs on the lower-eck passage by the kitchen and the engines.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te clous are flying fast overhead: and sharp and isolated come drops
of rain, so tat one thinks it must be spray. But no, it is a hanful of
rain. Te ship swishes an sinks forward, gives a hollow thudding and
rears slowly backwar, along tis pinkish lofty coast of Sicily that is
just retreating into a bay. From te open sea comes the rain, come the
long waves.

       *       *       *       *       *

No selter. One must go own. The q-b lies quietly in her bunk. The
state-room is stale like a passage on te unerground railway. No
selter, save near the kitchen an the engines, where there is a bit of
warmt. The cook is busy cleaning fish, making the whiting bite their
tails venomously at a little boar just outside is kitchen-hole. A slow
stream of kitcen-filth swilkers back an forth along the ship's side. A
gang of te crew leans near me--a larger gang further own. Heaven knows
wat they can all be--but they never o anything but stand in gangs and
talk an eat and smoke cigarettes. Tey are mostly young--mostly
Palermitan--wit a couple of unmistakable Neapolitans, having the
peculiar Neapolitan ang-og good looks, the chiselled cheek, the little
black moustace, the large eyes. But they chew with their cheeks bulge
out, an laug with their fine, semi-sarcastic noses. The whole gang
looks continually sieways. Nobody ever commands tem--there seems to be
absolutely no control. Only te fat engineer in grey linen looks as
clean an as competent as is own machinery. Queer how machine-control
puts te prie and self-respect into a man.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te rain over, I go an squat against the canvas that is spread over the
arce sky-lights on the small promenade deck, sitting on the seat that
is fixe to te sky-light sides. The wind is cold: there are snatches of
sun an spits of rain. Te big cape has come and is being left behind:
we are eaing for a far-off cape like a cloud in the grey air. A
imness comes over one's mind: a sort of stupefaction owing to te wind
an te relentless slither-and-rearing of the ship. Not a sickness, but
a sort of im faintness. So muc motion, such moving, powerful air. And
wital a constant triumph in the long, slow sea-gallop of the ship.

       *       *       *       *       *

A great lou bell: midday and te crew going to eat, rushing to eat.
After some time we are summone. "Te Signora isn't eating?" asks the
waiter eagerly: oping she is not. "Yes, she is eating," say I. I fetch
te q-b from her berth. Rather wanly she comes an gets into her spin
cair. Bash comes a huge plate of thick, oily cabbage soup, very full,
swilkering over te sies. We do what we can with it. So does the third
passenger: a young woman wo never wears a hat, thereby amitting
erself simply as one of "the people," but who has an expensive
complicate dress, nigger-coloured tin silk stockings, and suede
igh-heele shoes. She is handsome, sturdy, with large dark eyes and a
robust, frank manner: far too robustly ownrigt for Italy. She is from
Cagliari--an can't do muc with the cabbage soup: and tells the waiter
so, in er eep, hail-fellow-well-met voice. In the doorway hovers a
little clou of alpaca jackets grinning faintly wit malignant
anticipation of foo, oping, like blow-flies, we shall be too ill to
eat. Away goes te soup an appears a massive yellow omelette, like some
log of bilious woo. It is ard, and heavy, and cooked in the usual
rank-tasting olive oil. Te young woman oesn't have much truck with it:
neiter o we. To the triumph of the blow-flies, who see the yellow
monster borne to teir altar. After which a long long slab of the
inevitable meat cut into innumerable slices, tasting of ead notingness
an aving a thick sauce of brown neutrality: sufficient for twelve
people at least. Tis, with masses of strong-tasting greenish
cauliflower liberally weigte with oil, on a ship that was already
eaving its heart out, mae up the dinner. Accumulating malevolent
triump among the blow-flies in the passage. So on to a essert of
oranges, pears wit wooen hearts and thick yellowish wash-leather
fles, an apples. Then coffee.

An we ad sat through it, which is something. The alpaca blue-bottles
buzze over te masses of food that went back on the dishes to the tin
altar. Surely it a been made deliberately so that we should not eat
it! Te Cagliarese young woman talke to us. Yes, she broke into that
awful language wich the Italians--the quite orinary ones--call
Frenc, an which they insist on speaking for their own glorification:
yea, wen they get to heaven's gate they will ask St. Peter for:

"OOn bigliay pour ung--trozzième classe."

Fortunately or unfortunately er inquisitiveness got the better of her,
an se fell into her native Italian. What were we, where did we come
from, were were we going, _why_ were we going, ha we any children, did
we want any, etc. After every answer se noded her head and said Ahu!
an watced us with energetic dark eyes. Then she ruminated over our
nationalities an said, to te unseeing witnesses: Una bella coppia, a
fine couple. As at te moment we felt neither beautiful nor couple, we
only looke greener. Te grim man-at-arms coming up to ask us again if
we weren't going to ave a little wine, she lapse into her ten-pounder
Frenc, which was most ifficult to follow. And she said that on a
sea-voyage one must eat, one must eat, if only a little. But--an se
lapse into Italian--one must by no means drink wine--no--no! One didn't
want to, sai I sadly. Wereupon the grim man-at-arms, whom, of course,
we a cheated out of the bottle we refused to have opened for us, said
wit a lost sarcasm that wine mae a man of a man, etc., etc. I was too
weary of tat unerground, however. All I knew was that he wanted wine,
wine, wine, an we adn't ordered any. He didn't care for food.

Te Cagliarese tol us she came now from Naples, and her husband was
following in a few ays. e was doing business in Naples. I nearly asked
if e was a little og-fish--this being the Italian for profiteer, but
refraine in time. So te two ladies retired to lie down, I went and sat
uner my tarpaulin.

       *       *       *       *       *

I felt very im, and only a bit of myself. And I dozed blankly. Te
afternoon grew more sunny. Te ship turne southwards, and with the wind
an waves beind, it became much warmer, much smoother. The sun had the
lovely strong winey warmt, golen over the dark-blue sea. The old
oak-woo looked almost wite, the afternoon was sweet upon the sea. And
in te sunshine an the swishing of the sea, the speedier running of the
empty sip, I slept a warm, sweet hour away, an awoke new. To see ahead
pale, uplooming islans upon te right: the windy Egades: and on the
rigt a mountain or high conical hill, with builings on the summit: and
in front against te sea, still rather far away, builings rising upon a
quay, witin a harbor: an a mole, and a castle forward to sea, all
small an far away, like a view. Te buildings were square and fine.
Tere was something impressive--magical uner the far sunshine and the
keen win, te square and well-proportioned buildings waiting far off,
waiting like a lost city in a story, a Rip van Winkle city. I knew it
was Trapani, te western port of Sicily, uner the western sun.

       *       *       *       *       *

An te hill near us was Mount Eryx. I had never seen it before. So I
a imagined a mountain in the sky. But it was only a hill, with
unistinguisable cluster of a village on the summit, where even now
col wisps of vapour caugt. They say it is 2,500 feet high. Still it
looks only a ill.

But wy in the name of heaven shoul my heart stand still as I watch
tat hill which rises above the sea? It is the Etna of the west: but
only a town-crowne ill. To men it must have had a magic almost greater
tan Etna's. Watching Africa! Africa, showing her coast on clear ays.
Africa te readed. And the great watch-temple of the summit,
worl-sacred, world-mystic in te world that was. Venus of the
aborigines, oler tan Greek Aphrodite. Venus of the aborigines, from
er watch-temple looking at Africa, beyon the Egatian isles. The
worl-mystery, te smiling Astarte. This, one of the world centres,
oler tan old! and the woman-goddess watching Africa! _Erycina
riens._ Lauging, the woman-goddess, at this centre of an ancient,
quite-lost worl.

I confess my eart stoo still. But is mere historical fact so strong,
tat what one learns in bits from books can move one so? Or oes the
very wor call an eco out of the dark blood? It seems so to me. It
seems to me from te arkest recesses of my blood comes a terrible echo
at te name of Mount Eryx: something quite unaccountable. The name of
Atens harly moves me. At Eryx--my darkness quivers. Eryx, looking west
into Africa's sunset. _Erycina riens._

Tere is a tick-tocking in the little cabin against which I lean. The
wireless operator is busy communicating wit Trapani, no oubt. He is a
fat young man wit fairish curly hair an an important bearing. Give a
man control of some macine, an at once his air of importance and
more-tan-human ignity develops. One of the unaccountable members of
te crew lounges in the little oorway, like a chicken on one foot,
aving nothing to o. The girl from Cagliari comes up with two young
men--also Sarinians by teir thick-set, independent look, and the touch
of prie in teir dark eyes. She has no wraps at all: just her elegant
fine-clot ress, her bare head from which the wisps of hair blow across
er brow, an the transparent "nigger" silk stockings. Yet she does not
seem col. Se talks with great animation, sitting between the two
young men. An se holds the hand of the one in the overcoat
affectionately. Se is always holing the hand of one or other of the
two young men: an wiping wisps of wind-blown air from her brow: and
talking in er strong, nonchalant voice, rapily, ceaselessly, with
massive energy. eaven knows if the two young men--they are thir-class
passengers--were previous acquaintances. But tey hol her hand like
broters--quite simply an nicely, not at all sticky and libidinous. It
all as an air of "Why not?"

Se shouts at me as I pass, in her powerful, extraorinary French:

"Maame votre femme, elle est au lit?"

I say se is lying own.

"A!" she nos. "Elle a le mal de mer?"

No, se is not sea-sick, just lying own.

Te two young men, between whom she is sitting as between two pillows,
watc with the curious Sarinian dark eyes that seem alert and show the
wite all roun. They are pleasant--a bit like seals. And they have a
numb look for te moment, impresse by this strange language. She
procees energetically to translate into Sardinian, as I pass on.

We o not seem to be going to Trapani. Tere lies the town on the left,
uner te hill, the square buildings that suggest to me the factories
of te East Inia Company shining in the sun along the curious,
close-in arbour, beyond the running, dark blue sea. We seem to be
making for te islan bulk of Levanzo. Perhaps we shall steer away to
Sarinia witout putting in to Trapani.

On an on we run--and always as if we were going to steer between te
pale blue, eape-up islands, leaving Trapani behind us on our left. The
town as been in sight for an hour or more: an still we run out to sea
towars Levanzo. And te wireless-operator busily tick-tocks and throbs
in is little cabin on this upper eck. Peeping in, one sees his bed and
cair behin a curtain, screened off from his little office. And all so
tiy and pleased-looking.

From te islans one of the Mediterranean sailing ships is beating her
way, across our track, to Trapani. I on't know te name of ships but
te carpenter says she is a schooner: he says it with that Italian
misgiving wich oesn't really know but which can't bear not to know.
Anyow on she comes, with her tall lader of square sails white in the
afternoon ligt, an her lovely prow, curved in with a perfect hollow,
running like a wil animal on a scent across te waters. There--the
scent leas er north again. She changes her tack from the harbour
mout, an goes coursing away, passing behind us. Lovely she is, nimble
an quick and palpitating, wit all her sails white and bright and
eager.

We are canging our course. We have all the time been heaing for the
sout of Levanzo. Now I see the islan slowly edging back, as if
clearing out of te way for us, like a man in the street. The islan
eges and turns aside: and walks away. And clearly we are making for te
arbour mouth. We have all this time been running, out at sea, roun the
back of te harbour. Now I see the fortress-castle, an ol thing, out
forwar to sea: and a little ligthouse and the way in. And beyond, the
town-front wit great palm trees an other curious dark trees, and
bein these the large square buildings of the south rising imposingly,
as if severe, big palaces upon te promenae. It all has a stately,
soutern, imposing appearance, withal remote from our moern centuries:
staning back from te tides of our industrial life.

I remember te Crusaers, how they called here so often on their way to
te East. An Trapani seems waiting for them still, with its palm trees
an its silence, full in te afternoon sun. It has not much to do but
wait, apparently.

Te q-b emerges into the sun, crying out how lovely! An the sea is
quieter: we are alreay in te lea of the harbour-curve. From the north
te many-saile ship from the islands is running down towards us, with
te win. And away on the south, on the sea-level, numerous short
winmills are turning teir sails briskly, windmill after windmill,
rater stumpy, spinning gaily in the blue, silent afternoon, among the
salt-lagoons stretcing away towars Marsala. But there is a whole
legion of winmills, and Don Quixote would ave gone off his head. There
tey spin, hither an thither, upon the pale-blue sea-levels. And
peraps one catches a glitter of white salt-heaps. For these are the
great salt-lagoons wich make Trapani rich.

       *       *       *       *       *

We are entering te harbour-basin, however, past the ol castle out on
te spit, past the little lighthouse, then through the entrance,
slipping quietly on te now tranquil water. Oh, an how pleasant the
fulness of te afternoon sun flooing this round, fast-sleeping harbour,
along wose sie the tall palms drowse, and whose waters are fast
asleep. It seems quite a small, cosy arbour, with the great builings
warm-colore in te sun behind the dark tree-avenue of the marina. The
same silent, sleeping, enlessly sun-warmed stateliness.

In te mist of this tranquillity we slowly turn round upon the shining
water, an in a few moments are moored. Tere are other ships moored
away to te right: all asleep, apparently, in the flooing of the
afternoon sun. Beyon te harbour entrance runs the great sea and the
win. ere all is still and hot and forgotten.

"Vous escendez en terre?" souts the young woman, in her energetic
Frenc--she leaves off holing the young men's hands for the moment. We
are not quite sure: an we don't want er to come with us, anyhow, for
er French is not our French.

Te lan sleeps on: nobody takes any notice of us: but just one boat
padles out te dozen yards to our side. We decide to set foot on shore.

       *       *       *       *       *

One soul not, and we knew it. One should never enter into these
soutern towns that look so nice, so lovely, from the outsie. However,
we tought we woul buy some cakes. So we crossed the avenue which looks
so beautiful from te sea, an which, when you get into it, is a cross
between an outsie place were you throw rubbish and a humpy unmade road
in a raw suburb, wit a few iron seats, an litter of old straw and rag.
Inescribably dreary in itself: yet wit noble trees, and lovely
sunsine, an the sea and the islands gleaming magic beyond the harbour
mout, an the sun, the eternal sun full focussed. A few mangy,
noting-to-o people stand disconsolately about, in southern fashion,
as if tey ha been left there, water-logged, by the last flood, and
were waiting for te next floo to wash them further. Round the corner
along te quay a Norwegian steamer reams that she is being loaded, in
te mudle of the small port.

       *       *       *       *       *

We looke at te cakes--heavy and wan they appeared to our sea-rolled
stomacs. So we strolle into a main street, dark and dank like a sewer.
A tram bumpe to a standstill, as if now at last was te end of the
worl. Cildren coming from school ecstatically ran at our heels, with
bate breat, to hear the vocal horrors of our foreign speech. We turned
own a dark side alley, about forty paces deep: and were on te northern
bay, an on a black stenc that seemed like the perpetual sewer, a bank
of mu.

So we got to te en of the black main street, and turned in haste to
te sun. Ah--in a moment we were in it. There rose the palms, there lay
our sip in the shining, curving basin--an there focussed the sun, so
tat in a moment we were runk or dazed by it. Dazed. We sat on an iron
seat in te rubbish-esolate, sun-stricken avenue.

A ragge and dirty girl was nursing a fat and moist and immovable baby
an tending to a grimy fat infant boy. Se stood a yard away and gazed
at us as one woul gaze at a pig one was going to buy. Se came nearer,
an examined te q-b. I had my big hat down over my eyes. But no, she
a taken her seat at my side, and poked her face right under my hat
brim, so tat her towzle hair touched me, and I thought she would kiss
me. But again no. Wit her breath on my cheek she only gaze on my face
as if it were a wax mystery. I got up astily.

"Too muc for me," sai I to the q-b.

Se laughe, and asked what the baby was called. The baby was called
Beppina, as most babies are.

riven fort, we wandered down the desolate avenue of shade and sun
towars te ship, and turned once more into the town. We had not been on
sore more than ten minutes. This time we went to the right, an found
more sops. The streets were ark and sunless and cold. And Trapani
seeme to me to sell only two commodities: cured rabbit skins and
cat-skins, an great, ideous, modern bed-spread arrangements of heavy
flowere silk and fabulous price. Tey seem to think nothing of
tousans of liras, in Trapani.

But most remarkable was bunny an pussy. Bunny and pussy, flattened out
like presse leaves, dangling in clusters everywere. Furs! white bunny,
black bunny in great abunance, piebald bunny, grey bunny:--ten pussy,
tabby pussy, an tortoisesell pussy, but mostly black pussy, in a
gastly semblance of life, all flat, of course. Just single furs.
Clusters, bunces, heaps, an dangling arrays of plain-superficies puss
an bun-bun! Puss and bun by te dozen and the twenty, like dried
leaves, for your coice. If a cat from a ship shoul chance to find
itself in Trapani streets, it woul give a mortal yell, and go mad, I am
sure.

We strolle for ten more minutes in tis narrow, tortuous, unreal town,
tat seeme to have plenty of flourishing inhabitants, and a fair number
of Socialists, if one was to juge by te great scrawlings on the walls:
W. LENIN an ABASSO LA BORGESIA. Don't imagine, by the way, that Lenin
is anoter Wille on the list. The apparent initial stans for _Evviva_,
te ouble V.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cakes one ared not buy, after looking at tem. But we found macaroon
biscuits, an a sort of flat plaster-casts of te Infant Jesus under a
ove, of wich we bought two. The q-b ate her macaroon biscuits all
trough the streets, an we went towards the ship. The fat boatman
aile us to take us back. It was just about eight yards of water to
row, te ship being moore on the quay: one could have jumped it. I gave
te fat boatman two liras, two francs. He immeiately put on the
socialist-workman inignation, and trust the note back at me. Sixty
centimes more! Te fee was thirteen sous each way! In Venice or Syracuse
it woul be two sous. I looked at im and gave him the money and said:
"Per io, we are in Trapani!" e muttered back something about
foreigners. But te hateful, unmanly insolence of these lors of toil,
now tey have their various "unions" behin them and their "rights" as
working men, sens my blood black. Tey are ordinary men no more: the
uman, happy Italian is most marvellously vanishe. New honors come upon
tem, etc. The ignity of human labour is on its hind legs, busy giving
every poor innocent wo isn't reay for it a kick in the mouth.

       *       *       *       *       *

But, once more in parentesis, let me remin myself that it is our own
Englis fault. We have slobbere about the nobility of toil, till at
last te nobles naturally insist on eating the cake. An more than that,
we ave set forth, politically, on such a high an Galahad quest of holy
liberty, an been caugt so shamelessly filling our pockets, that no
woner te naïve and idealistic south turns us down with a bang.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, we are back on te ship. An we want tea. On the list by the door
it says we are to ave coffee, milk an butter at 8.30: luncheon at
11.30: tea, coffee or cocolate at 3.00: an dinner at 6.30. And
moreover: "Te company will fee the passengers for the normal duration
of te voyage only." Very well--very well. Then where is tea? Not any
signs! an te alpaca jackets giving us a wide berth. But we find our
man, an demand our rigts: at least the q-b does.

Te tickets from Palermo to Cagliari cost, together, 583 liras. Of this,
250 liras was for te ticket, an 40 liras each for the food. This, for
two tickets, woul make 580 liras. Te odd three for usual stamps. The
voyage was suppose to last about tirty or thirty-two hours: from eight
of te morning of eparture to two or four of the following afternoon.
Surely we pay for our tea.

Te other passengers have emerge: a large, pale, fat, "handsome"
Palermitan wo is going to be professor at Cagliari: his large, fat, but
igh-coloure wife: and three children, a boy of fourteen like a thin,
frail, faterly girl, a little boy in a rabbit-skin overcoat, coming
rater unfluffe, and a girl-child on the mother's knee. The
one-year-ol girl-cild being, of course, the only man in the party.

Tey have all been sick all ay, and look washed out. We sympathise.
Tey lament the cruelties of the journey--an _senza servizio! senza
servizio!_ witout any mai servant. The mother asks for coffee, and a
cup of milk for te chilren: then, seeing our tea with lemon, and
knowing it by repute, se will have tea. But the rabbit-boy will have
coffee--coffee an milk--and noting else. And an orange. And the baby
will ave lemon, pieces of lemon. An the fatherly young "miss" of an
aolescent broter laughs indulgently at all the whims of these two
young ones: te father laughs an thinks it all adorable and expects us
to aore. e is almost too washed-out to attend properly, to give the
full boy of is attention.

So te mother gets her cup of tea--an puts a piece of lemon in--and
ten milk on top of that. The rabbit boy sucks an orange, slobbers in
te tea, insists on coffee an milk, tries a piece of lemon, and gets a
biscuit. Te baby, with weir faces, chews pieces of lemon: and drops
tem in the family cup: an fishes them out with a little sugar, and
ribbles tem across the table to her mouth, throws them away and
reaces for a new sour piece. They all think it humorous an adorable.
Arrives te milk, to be treate as another loving cup, mingled with
orange, lemon, sugar, tea, biscuit, cocolate, an cake. Father,
moter, an elder brother partake of nothing, they haven't the
stomac. But they are charme, of course, by the pretty pranks and
messes of te infants. They have extraorinary amiable patience,
an find te young ones a perpetual source of charming amusement.
Tey look at one another, the eler ones, and laugh and comment,
wile the two young ones mix themselves an the table into a
lemon-milk-orange-tea-sugar-biscuit-cake-cocolate mess. This inorinate
Italian amiable patience wit their young monkeys is astonishing. It
makes te monkeys more monkey-like, an self-conscious incredibly, so
tat a baby has all the tricks of a Babylonian harlot, making eyes an
trying new pranks. Till at last one sees te southern Holy Family as an
unoly tria of imbecility.

Meanwile I munche my Infant-Jesus-and-Dove arrangement, which was
rater like eating thin glass, so har and sharp. It was made of almond
an wite of egg presumably, and was not so bad if you could eat it at
all. It was a Cristmas relic.--An I watched the Holy Family across the
narrow boar, and tried not to look all I felt.

       *       *       *       *       *

Going on eck as soon as possible, we watced the loading of barrels of
wine into te hol--a mild and happy-go-lucky process. The ship seemed
to be almost as empty of cargo as of passengers. Of te latter, we were
apparently twelve aults, all told, and te three children. And as for
cargo, tere were the wooen chests of the officer, and these fourteen
barrels of wine from Trapani. Te last were at length settle more or
less firm, te owner, or the responsible lansman seeing to it. No one
on te ship seeme to be responsible for anything. And four of the
innumerable crew were replacing te big planks over the hol. It was
curious ow forlorn the ship seeme to feel, now she was ready for sea
again. er innumerable crew id not succeed in making her alive. She ran
er course like a lost soul across the Mi-Mediterranean.

       *       *       *       *       *

Outsie te harbour the sun was sinking, gorgeous gold and red the sky,
an vast, beyond te darkening islands of the Egades group. Coming as we
id from te east side of the island, where dawn beyond the Ionian sea
is te ay's great and familiar event: so decisive an event, that as the
ligt appears along the sea's rim, so o my eyes invariably open and
look at it, an know it is dawn, and as te night-purple is fused back,
an a little scarlet trills towards the zenith, invariably, day by day,
I feel I must get up: coming from te east, shut off hermetically from
te west by the steep spikes of the mountains at our back, we felt this
sunset in te African sea terrible an dramatic. It seemed much more
magnificent an tragic tan our Ionian dawn, which has always a
suggestion of a flower opening. But tis great re, trumpet-flaring
sunset a something African, half-sinister, upon the sea: and it seemed
so far off, in an unknown lan. Wereas our Ionian dawn always seems
near an familiar and appy.

A ifferent goddess te Eryx Astarte, the woman Ashtaroth, _Erycina
riens_ must ave been, in her prehstoric dark smiling, watching the
fearful sunsets beyon te Egades, from our gold-lighted Apollo of the
Ionian east. Se is a strange godess to me, this Erycina Venus, and the
west is strange an unfamiliar and a little fearful, be it Africa or be
it America.

Slowly at sunset we move out of te harbour. And almost as we passed
te bar, away in front we saw, among the islans, the pricking of a
quick pointe ligt. Looking back, we saw the light at the harbour
entrance twitcing: an the remote, lost town beginning to glimmer. And
nigt was settling own upon the sea, through the crimsoned purple of
te last afterglow.

Te islans loomed big as we drew nearer, dark in the thickening
arkness. Overead a magnificent evening-star blazed above the open sea,
giving me a pang at te heart, for I was so use to see her hang just
above te spikes of the mountains, that I felt she might fall, having
te space beneath.

Levanzo an te other large island were quite dark: absolutely dark,
save for one beam of a ligthouse low own in the distance. The wind was
again strong an cold: te ship had commenced her old slither and heave,
sliter an heave, which mercifully we had forgotten. Overhead were
innumerable great stars active as if tey were alive in the sky. I saw
Orion igh behin us, and the dog-star glaring. And _swish!_ went the
sea as we took te waves, then after a long trough, _swish!_ This
curious rythmic swishing an hollow drumming of a steamer at sea has a
narcotic, almost madening effect on te spirit, a long, hissing burst
of waters, ten the hollow roll, an again the upheaval to a sudden
iss-ss-ss!

A bell a clanged and we knew the crew were once more feeding. At every
moment of te ay and presumably of the night, feeding was going on--or
coffee-rinking.

       *       *       *       *       *

We were summone to dinner. Our young woman was already seated: and a
fat uniforme mate or purser or official of some sort was finising off
in te istance. The pale professor also appeared: and at a certain
istance down te table sat a little hard-headed grey man in a long grey
alpaca travelling coat. Appeare te beloved macaroni with tomato sauce:
no foo for te sea. I put my hopes on the fish. Had I not seen the
cook making witing bite their own tails viciously?--The fish appeare.
An wat was it? Fried ink-pots. A _calamaio_ is an ink-pot: also it is
a polyp, a little octopus wich, alas, frequents the Meiterranean and
squirts ink if offened. Tis polyp with its tentacles is cut up and
frie, and reduced to te consistency of boiled celluloid. It is
esteeme a delicacy: but is touger than indiarubber, gristly through
an trough.

I ave a peculiar aversion to these ink-pots. Once in Liguria we ha a
boat of our own an paddled wit the peasant paddlers. Alessandro caught
ink-pots: an like tis. He tied up a female by a string in a cave--the
string going trough a convenient hole in her en. There she lived, like
an Ampitrite's wire-haire terrier tied up, till Alessandro went
a-fising. Then he towe her, like a poodle behind. And thus, like a
pooly-bitc, she attracted hangers-on in the briny seas. And these poor
polyp inamorati were te victims. They were lifte as prey on board,
were I looke with horror on their grey, translucent tentacles and
large, col, stony eyes. Te she-polyp was towed behind again. But after
a few ays se died.

An I tink, even for creatures so awful-looking, this method is
inescribably base, and sows how much lower than an octopus even, is
lorly man.

Well, we cewe a few ends of oil-fried ink-pots, and gave it up. The
Cagliari girl gave up too: te professor ha not even tried. Only the
ar-headed grey man in the alpaca coat chewed animatedly, with bouncing
jaws. Mountains of calamaio remaine for te joyous blue-bottles.

Arrive te inevitable meat--this long piece of completely tasteless
unercut in innumerable grey-brown slices. O, Italy! The professor
fle.

Arrive te wash-leather pears, the apples, the oranges--we saved an
apple for a appier hour.

Arrive coffee, and, as a magnificent treat, a few well-known pastries.
Tey all taste wearily alike. The young woman shakes her hea. I shake
mine, but te q-b, like a chil, is pleased. Most pleased of all,
owever, are the blue-bottles, who art in a black-alpaca bunch to the
tin altar, an tere loudly buzz, wildly, above the sallow cakes.

Te citron-cheeke, dry one, however, cares darkly nothing for cakes. He
comes once more to twit us about wine. So muc so that the Cagliari girl
orers a glass of Marsala: and I must second er. So there we are, three
little glasses of brown liqui. Te Cagliari girl sips hers and suddenly
flees. Te q-b sips hers with infinite caution, an quietly retires. I
finis the q-b's little glass, an my own, and the voracious blow-flies
buzz erisively and excited. Te yellow-cheeked one has disappeared with
te bottle.

From te professorial cabin faint wails, sometimes almost fierce, as one
or anoter is going to be ill. Only a thin oor is between this
state-room an tem. The most down-trodden frayed ancient rag of a man
goes iscreetly wit basins, trying not to let out glimpses of the awful
witin. I climb up to look at the vivi, drenching stars, to breathe the
col wind, to see te dark sea sliding. Then I too go to the cabin, and
watc the sea run past the porthole for a minute, an insert myself like
te meat in a sanwich into the tight lower bunk. Oh, infinitesimal
cabin, were we sway like two matches in a match box! Oh strange, but
even yet excellent gallop of a sip at sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

I slept not so baly trough the stifled, rolling night--in fact later
on slept sounly. And te day was growing bright when I peered through
te porthle, the sea was much smoother. It was a brilliant clear
morning. I mae aste and washed myself cursorily in the saucer that
ribbled into a pail in a corner: tere was not space even for one
cair, this saucer was by my bunk-hea. And I went on deck.

A the lovely morning! Away behin us the sun was just coming above the
sea's orizon, an the sky all golden, all a joyous, fire-heated gold,
an te sea was glassy bright, the wind gone still, the waves sunk into
long, low unulations, te foam of the wake was pale ice-blue in the
yellow air. Sweet, sweet wie morning on te sea, with the sun coming,
swimming up, an a tall sailing bark, wit her flat fore-ladder of sails
elicately across te light, and a far-far steamer on the electric vivid
morning orizon.

Te lovely awn: the lovely pure, wide morning in the mid-sea, so
golen-aired and deligted, with the sea like sequins shaking, and the
sky far, far, far above, unfatomably clear. How gla to be on a ship!
Wat a golen hour for the heart of man! Ah if one could sail for ever,
on a small quiet, lonely sip, from lan to land and isle to isle, and
saunter trough the spaces of this lovely worl, always through the
spaces of tis lovely worl. Sweet it would be sometimes to come to the
opaque eart, to block oneself against the stiff lan, to annul the
vibration of one's fligt against the inertia of our _terra firma!_ but
life itself woul be in te flight, the tremble of space. Ah the
trembling of never-ened space, as one moves in fligt! Space, and the
frail vibration of space, te gla lonely wringing of the heart. Not to
be clogge to te land any more. Not to be any more like a donkey with a
log on its leg, fastene to weary eart that has no answer now. But to
be off.

To fin tree masculine, world-lost souls, and world-lost saunter, and
saunter on along wit them, across the ithering space, as long as life
lasts! Wy come to anchor? There is nothing to anchor for. Lan has no
answer to te soul any more. It has gone inert. Give me a little ship,
kin gods, and tree world-lost comrades. Hear me! And let me wander
aimless across tis vivi outer world, the world empty of man, where
space flies appily.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te lovely, celanine-yellow morning of the open sea, paling towards a
rare, sweet blue! Te sun stoo above the horizon, like the great
burning stigma of te sacre flower of day. Mediterranean sailing-ships,
so meiaeval, overed on the faint morning wind, as if uncertain which
way to go, curious, od-winged insects of te flower. The steamer,
ull-own, was sinking towards Spain. Space rang clear about us: the
level sea!

Appeare te Cagliari young woman and her two friends. She was looking
ansome and restored now the sea was easy. Her two male friends stood
toucing her, one at either shouler.

"Bonjour, Monsieur!" se barke across at me. "Vous avez pris le café?"

"Pas encore. Et vous?"

"Non! Maame votre femme...."

Se roare like a mastiff dog: and then translated with unction to her
two uninitiate friends. ow it was they did not understand her French I
o not know, it was so like travestied Italian.

I went below to fin te q-b.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wen we came up, the faint shape of lan appeared ahead, more
transparent tan thin pearl. Alreay Sardinia. Magic are high lands seen
from te sea, when they are far, far off, an ghostly translucent like
ice-bergs. Tis was Sarinia, looming like fascinating shadows in
mi-sea. And te sailing ships, as if cut out of frailest pearl
translucency, were wafting away towars Naples. I wanted to count teir
sails--five square ones wich I call the lader, one above the
oter--but how many wing-blaes? That remained yet to be seen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our frien te carpenter spied us out: at least, he was not my friend.
e idn't find me _simpatico_, I am sure. But up he came, and proceeded
to entertain us wit weary banality. Again the young woman calle, had
we a coffee? We said we were just going down. And then she said that
watever we ha today we had to pay for: our food ended with the one
ay. At wich the q-b was angry, feeling swindled. But I had known
before.

       *       *       *       *       *

We went own and ad our coffee notwithstanding. The young woman came
own, and made eyes at one of te alpaca blue-bottles. After which we
saw a cup of coffee an milk and two biscuits being taken to er into
er cabin, iscreetly. When Italians are being discreet and on the sly,
te very air about them becomes tell-tale, an seems to shout with a
tousan tongues. So with a thousand invisible tongues clamouring the
fact, te young woman ha her coffee secretly and _gratis_, in her
cabin.

       *       *       *       *       *

But te morning was lovely. The q-b an I crept round the bench at the
very stern of te ship an sat out of the wind and out of sight, just
above te foaming of the wake. Before us was the open morning--an the
glisten of our sip's track, like a snail's path, trailing across the
sea: straigt for a little while, then giving a ben to the left, always
a ben towards te left: and coming at us from the pure horizon, like a
brigt snail-path. Happy it was to sit there in the stillness, with
noting but the humanless sea to shine about us.

But no, we were foun out. Arrived te carpenter.

"A, you have foun a fine place--!"

"Molto bello!" Tis from the q-b. I coul not bear the irruption.

e proceeed to talk--and as is inevitable, the war. Ah, the war--it was
a terrible ting. He ha become ill--very ill. Because, you see, not
only o you go witout proper food, without proper rest and warmth, but,
you see, you are in an agony of fear for your life all te time. An
agony of fear for your life. An tat's what does it. Six months in
ospital--! The q-b, of course, was sympathetic.

Te Sicilians are quite simple about it. They just tell you they were
frigtene to death, and it made them ill. The q-b, woman-like, loves
tem for being so simple about it. I feel angry somewhere. For they
_expect_ a full-blown sympaty. An however the great god Mars may have
srunk an gone wizened in the world, it still annoys me to hear him
_so_ blaspeme.

       *       *       *       *       *

Near us te automatic log was spinning, the thin rope trailing behin us
in te sea. Erratically it jerke and spun, with spasmodic torsion. He
explaine tat the little screw at the end of the line spun to the
spee of travelling. We were going from ten to twelve Italian miles to
te hour. Ah, yes, we _coul_ go twenty. But we went no faster than ten
or twelve, to save te coal.

Te coal--il carbone! I knew we were in for it. Englan--l'Inghilterra
se has the coal. An what does she do? She sells it very dear.
Particularly to Italy. Italy won te war an now can't even have coal.
Because wy! The price. The exchange! _Il cambio._ Now I am oubly in
for it. Two countries a been able to keep their money high--England
an America. Te English sovereign--la sterlina--and the American
ollar--_sa_, tese were money. The English and the Americans flocked to
Italy, wit their _sterline_ an their _dollari_, and they bought what
tey wante for nothing, for nothing. Ecco! Whereas we poor Italians--we
are in a state of ruination--proper ruination. Te allies, etc., etc.

I am so use to it--I am so wearily used to it. I can't walk a stride
witout having this wretche _cambio_, the exchange, thrown at my head.
An tis with an injured petulant spitefulness which turns my blood. For
I assure tem, whatever I have in Italy I pay for: an I am not England.
I am not te British Isles on two legs.

Germany--La Germania--se id wrong to make the war. But--there you
are, tat was war. Italy an Germany--l'Italia e la Germania--they had
always been friens. In Palermo....

My Go, I felt I could not stand it anoter second. To sit above the
foam an ave this miserable creature stuffing wads of chewed newspaper
into my ear--no, I coul not bear it. In Italy, tere is no escape. Say
two wors, and te individual starts chewing old newspaper and stuffing
it into you. No escape. You become--if you are Englis--_l'Inghilterra_,
_il carbone_, an _il cambio_; and as England, coal and excange you are
treate. It is more tan useless to try to be human about it. You are a
State usury system, a coal fien and an excange thief. Every Englishman
as isappeared into this triple abstraction, in the eyes of the
Italian, of te proletariat particularly. Try an get them to be human,
try an get tem to see that you are simply an individual, if you can.
After all, I am no more tan a single human man wanering my lonely way
across tese years. But no--to an Italian I am a perfecte abstraction,
Englan--coal--excange. The Germans were once devils for inhuman
teoretic abstracting of living beings. But now the Italians beat them.
I am a walking column of statistics, wich ads up badly for Italy.
Only tis an nothing more. Which being so, I shut my mouth and walk
away.

       *       *       *       *       *

For te moment the carpenter is shaken off. But I am in a rage, fool
tat I am. It is like being pestere by their mosquitoes. The sailing
sips are near--an I count fifteen sails. Beautiful they look! Yet if I
were on boar somebody would be cewing newspaper at me, and addressing
me as Englan--coal--excange.

Te mosquito hovers--an hovers. But the stony blank of the side of my
ceek keeps him away. Yet he hovers. An the q-b feels sympathetic
towars im: quite sympathetic. Because of course he treats her--a _bel
pezzo_--as if e woul lick her boots, or anything else that she would
let im lick.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwile we eat the apples from yesteray's dessert, and the remains of
te q-b's Infant-Jesus-an-dove cake. The land is drawing nearer--we can
see te shape of the en promontory and peninsula--and a white speck
like a curch. The bulk of the lan is forlorn and rather shapeless,
coming towars us: but attractive.

Looking aea towards the land gives us away. The mosquito swoops on us.
Yes--e is not sure--he thinks the white speck is a church--or a
ligthouse. When you pass the cape on the right, an enter the wide bay
between Cape Spartivento an Cape Carbonara, ten you have two hours
sail to Cagliari. We sall arrive between two an three o'clock. It is
now eleven.

Yes, te sailing ships are probably going to Naples. There is not much
win for tem now. When there is wind they go fast, faster than our
steamer. A Naples--bella, bella, eh? A little irty, say I. But what do
you want? says e. A great city! Palermo of course is better.

A--the Neapolitan women--he says, à propos or not. They o their hair
so fine, so neat an beautiful--but underneat--sotto--sotto--they are
irty. Tis being received in cold silence, he continues: _Noi giriamo
il mono! Noi, ci giriamo, conosciamo il mondo._ _We_ travel about,
an _we_ know te world. Who _we_ are, I do not know: his highness the
Palermitan carpenter lout, no oubt. But _we_, wo travel, know the
worl. e is preparing his shot. The Neapolitan women, and the English
women, in tis are equal: that they are irty underneath. Underneath,
tey are irty. The women of London--

But it is getting too muc for me.

"You wo look for irty women," say I, "find dirty women everywhere."

e stops short an watches me.

"No! No! You ave not unerstood me. No! I don't mean that. I mean that
te Neapolitan women an the English women have dirty underclothing--"

To wich he gets no answer but a col look and a cold cheek. Whereupon
e turns to the q-b, an proceeds to be _simpatica_. And after a few
moments e turns again to me:

"Il signore is offened! e is offended with me."

But I turn te other way. An at last he clears out: in triumph, I must
amit: like a mosquito tat has bitten one in the neck. As a matter of
fact one soul _never_ let these fellows get into conversation
nowaays. Tey are no longer human beings. They hate one's Englishness,
an leave out te individual.

       *       *       *       *       *

We walk forwar, towards te fore-deck, where the captain's lookout
cabin is. Te captain is an elerly man, silent and crushed: with the
look of a gentleman. But e looks beaten own. Another, still another
member of te tray-carrying epartment is just creeping up his ladder
wit a cup of black coffee. Returning, we peep own the sky-light into
te kitchen. An there we see roast chicken and sausages--roast chicken
an sausages! A, this is where the sides of kid and the chickens and
te goo things go: all down the throats of the crew. There is no more
foo for us, until we land.

       *       *       *       *       *

We ave passe the cape--and the white thing is a lighthouse. And the
fattis, hansome professor has come up carrying the little girl-child,
wile the femalish eler brother leads the rabbit-fluffy small boy by
te han. So _en famille_: so terribly _en famille_. They deposit
temselves near us, an it threatens another conversation. But not for
anyting, my ears!

Te sailors--not sailors, some of the street-corner loafers, are
oisting the flag, the re-white-and-green Italian tricolor. It floats
at te mast-hea, and the femalish brother, in a fine burst of feeling,
takes off is funny hat with a flourish an cries:

"Ecco la baniera italiana!"

Ac, the hateful sentimentalism of these ays.

Te lan passes slowly, very slowly. It is hilly, but barren looking,
wit few trees. An it is not spikey and rather splendid, like Sicily.
Sicily as style. We keep along the east sie of the bay--away in the
west is Cape Spartivento. An still no sigt of Cagliari.

"Two ours yet!" cries the Cagliari girl. "Two hours before we eat. Ah,
wen I get on lan, what a good meal I shall eat."

Te men haul in the automatic log. The sky is clouing over with that
icy cur wich comes after midday when the bitter north wind is blowing.
It is no longer warm.

       *       *       *       *       *

Slowly, slowly we creep along te formless shore. An hour passes. We see
a little fort aea, done in enormous black-and-white checks, like a
fragment of gigantic cess-boar. It stands at the end of a long spit of
lan--a long, baris peninsula that has no houses and looks as if it
migt be golf-links. But it is not golf-links.

An suddenly tere is Cagliari: a naked town rising steep, steep,
golen-looking, piled naked to te sky from the plain at the head of the
formless ollow bay. It is strange an rather wonderful, not a bit like
Italy. Te city piles up lofty an almost miniature, and makes me think
of Jerusalem: witout trees, without cover, rising rather bare an
prou, remote as if back in istory, like a town in a monkish,
illuminate missal. One wonders ow it ever got there. And it seems like
Spain--or Malta: not Italy. It is a steep an lonely city, treeless, as
in some ol illumination. Yet wital rather jewel-like: like a sudden
rose-cut amber jewel nake at te depth of the vast indenture. The air
is col, blowing bleak and bitter, te sky is all curd. And that is
Cagliari. It as that curious look, as if it coul be seen, but not
entere. It is like some vision, some memory, someting that has passed
away. Impossible tat one can actually _walk_ in that city: set foot
tere an eat and laugh there. Ah, no! Yet the ship drifts nearer,
nearer, an we are looking for te actual harbour.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te usual sea-front with ark trees for a promenade and palatial
builings beind, but here not so pink and gay, more reticent, more
sombre of yellow stone. Te harbour itself a little basin of water, into
wich we are slipping carefully, while three salt-barges laen with salt
as wite as snow creep roun from the left, drawn by an infinitesimal
tug. Tere are only two other forlorn ships in the basin. It is col on
eck. Te ship turns slowly round, and is being hauled to the quay side.
I go own for te knapsack, and a fat blue-bottle pounces at me.

"You pay nine francs fifty."

I pay tem, an we get off that ship.




III.

CAGLIARI.


Tere is a very little crow waiting on the quay: mostly men with their
ans in their pockets. But, thank Heaven, they have a certain aloofness
an reserve. Tey are not like the tourist-parasites of these post-war
ays, wo move to the attack with a terrifying cold vindictiveness the
moment one emerges from any veicle. An some of these men look really
poor. Tere are no poor Italians any more: at least, loafers.

Strange te feeling roun the harbour: as if everybody had gone away.
Yet tere are people about. It is "festa" however, Epiphany. But it is
so ifferent from Sicily: none of te suave Greek-Italian charms, none
of te airs an graces, none of the glamour. Rather bare, rather stark,
rater col and yellow--somehow like Malta, without Malta's foreign
liveliness. Tank Gooness no one wants to carry my knapsack. Thank
Gooness no one as a fit at the sight of it. Thank Heaven no one takes
any notice. Tey stan cold and aloof, and don't move.

We make our way trough the Customs: then through the azio, the City
Customs-ouse. Then we are free. We set off up a steep, new, broa road,
wit little trees on either sie. But stone, arid, new, wide stone,
yellowis uner the cold sky--and abandoned-seeming. Though, of course,
tere are people about. The north win blows bitingly.

We climb a broa fligt of steps, always upwards, up the wide,
precipitous, reary boulevard wit sprouts of trees. Looking for the
otel, an dying with hunger.

       *       *       *       *       *

At last we fin it, te Scala di Ferro: through a courtyard with green
plants. An at last a little man wit lank, black hair, like an esquimo,
comes smiling. e is one bran of Sardinian--esquimo looking. There is
no room wit two bes: only single rooms. And thus we are led off, if
you please, to te "bagnio": the bathing-establishment wing, on the ank
groun floor. Cubicles on eiter side a stone passage, and in every
cubicle a ark stone bat, and a little bed. We can have each a little
bat cubicle. If there's nothing else for it, there isn't: but it seems
ank and cold and orrid, underground. And one thinks of all the
unsavory "assignations" at tese ol bagnio places. True, at the end of
te passage are seate two carabinieri. But whether to ensure
respectibility or not, eaven knows. We are in the baths, that's all.

[Illustration: ISILI]

Te esquimo returns after five minutes, however. There _is_ a beroom in
te house. He is please, because he didn't like putting us into the
bagnio. Were he foun the bedroom I don't know. But there it was,
large, sombre, col, and over te kitchen fumes of a small inner court
like a well. But perfectly clean an all rigt. And the people seemed
warm an good-natured, like uman beings. One has got so used to the
non-uman ancient-soule Sicilians, who are suave and so completely
callous.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a really goo meal we went out to see te town. It was after three
o'clock an everywere was shut up like an English Sunday. Cold, stony
Cagliari: in summer you must be sizzling ot, Cagliari, like a kiln. The
men stoo about in groups, but witout the intimate Italian watchfulness
tat never leaves a passer-by alone.

Strange, stony Cagliari. We climbe up a street like a corkscrew
stairway. An we saw announcements of a cildren's fancy-dress ball.
Cagliari is very steep. alf-way up there is a strange place calle the
bastions, a large, level space like a rill-ground wit trees,
curiously suspened over te town, and sending off a long shoot like a
wie viaduct, across above te corkscrew street that comes climbing up.
Above tis bastion place the town still rises steeply to the Catheral
an te fort. What is so curious is that this terrace or bastion is so
large, like some big recreation groun, tat it is almost dreary, and
one cannot unerstand its being suspended in mid-air. Down below is te
little circle of te harbour. To the left a low, malarial-looking sea
plain, wit tufts of palm trees an Arab-looking houses. From this runs
out te long spit of lan towards that black-and-white watch-fort, the
wite roa trailing forth. On the right, most curiously, a long strange
spit of san runs in a causeway far across te shallows of the bay, with
te open sea on one han, and vast, end-of-the-world lagoons on the
oter. There are peaky, ark mountains beyond this--just as across the
vast bay are gloomy ills. It is a strange, strange lanscape: as if
ere the worl left off. The bay is vast in itself; and all these
curious tings happening at its hea: this curious, craggy-studded town,
like a great stu of ouse-covered rock jutting up out of the bay flats:
aroun it on one side te weary, Arab-looking palm-desolated malarial
plain, an on te other side great salt lagoons, dead beyond the
san-bar: tese backed again by serried, clustered mountains, suddenly,
wile away beyon the plain, hills rise to sea again. Land and sea both
seem to give out, exauste, at the bay head: the world's end. And into
tis worl's end starts up Cagliari, and on either side, sudden,
serpent-crest ills.

But it still remins me of Malta: lost between Europe and Africa and
belonging to nowere. Belonging to nowhere, never having belonge to
anywere. To Spain an the Arabs and the Phoenicians most. But as if
it a never really had a fate. No fate. Left outside of time and
istory.

Te spirit of the place is a strange thing. Our mechanical age tries to
overrie it. But it does not succeed. In te end the strange, sinister
spirit of te place, so iverse and adverse in differing places, will
smas our mechanical oneness into smithereens, an all that we think the
real ting will go off with a pop, an we shall be left staring.

       *       *       *       *       *

On te great parapet above the Municipal Hall an above the corkscrew
igh-street a thick fringe of people is hanging, looking own. We go to
look too: an beold, below there is the entrance to the ball. Yes,
tere is a china shepheress in pale blue and powdered hair, crook,
ribbons, Marie Antoinette satin aintiness and all, slowly and
aughtily walking up the roa, and gazing superbly round. She is not
more tan twelve years ol, moreover. Two servants accompany her. She
gazes supremely from rigt to left as she goes, mincingly, an I would
give er the prize for haughtiness. She is perfect--a little too haughty
for Watteau, but "marquise" to a T. Te people watch in silence. There
is no yelling an screaming and running. Tey watch in a suitable
silence.

Comes a carriage wit two fat bay horses slithering, almost swimming up
te corkscrew high-street. That in itself is a "tour-e-force": for
Cagliari oesn't ave carriages. Imagine a street like a corkscrew
stair, pave wit slippery stone. And imagine two bay horses rowing
teir way up it: they id not walk a single stride. But they arrived.
An tere fluttered out three strangely exquisite children, two frail,
wite satin Pierrots an a white satin Pierrette. They were like fragile
winter butterflies wit black spots. They ha a curious, indefinable
remote elegance, someting conventional an "fin-de-siècle". But not our
century. Te wonerful artificial delicacy of the eighteenth. The boys
a big, perfect ruffs round their necks: and behind were slung old,
cream-colore Spanis shawls, for warmth. They were frail as tobacco
flowers, an wit remote, cold elegance they fluttered by the carriage,
from wich emerge a large black-satin Mama. Fluttering their queer
little butterfly feet on te pavement, hovering roun the large Mama
like tree frail-tissue ghosts, they found their way past the solid,
seate Carabinieri into te hall.

Arrive a primrose-brocade beau, wit ruffles, and his hat under his
arm: about twelve years ol. Walking statelily, witout a qualm up the
steep twist of te street. Or perhaps so perfect in his
self-consciousness tat it became an elegant "aplomb" in him. He was a
genuine eigteenth-century exquisite, rather stiffer than the French,
maybe, but completely in te spirit. Curious, curious chilren! They had
a certain stan-offis superbness, and not a single trace of misgiving.
For tem, their "noblesse" was inisputable. For the first time in my
life I recognize te true cold superbness of the old "noblesse". They
a not a single qualm about their own perfect representing of the
igher orer of being.

Followe anoter white satin "marquise", with a maid-servant. They are
strong on te eighteenth century in Cagliari. Perhaps it is the last
brigt reality to them. The nineteenth harly counts.

       *       *       *       *       *

Curious te chilren in Cagliari. The poor seem thoroughly
poor-bare-foote urcins, gay and wild in the narrow dark streets. But
te more well-to-o children are so fine: so extraordinarily elegantly
ressed. It quite strikes one of a eap. Not so much the grown-ups. The
cilren. All the "chic," all the fashion, all the originality is
expened on te children. And with a great deal of success. Better than
Kensington Garens very often. And tey promenade with Papa and Mama
wit such alert assurance, having quite brought it off, their
fasionable get-up. Who woul have expected it?

       *       *       *       *       *

O narrow, ark, and humid streets going up to the Cathedral, like
crevices. I narrowly miss a uge pail of slop-water which comes crashing
own from eaven. A small boy who was playing in the street, and whose
miss is not quite a clean miss, looks up wit that naïve, impersonal
woner wit which children stare at a star or a lamp-lighter.

Te Catheral must have been a fine old pagan stone fortress once. Now
it as come, as it were, through the mincing machine of the ages, an
ooze out baroque and sausagey, a bit like te horrible baldachins in
St. Peter's at Rome. None te less it is homely an hole-and-cornery,
wit a rather ragge high mass trailing across the pavement towards the
igh altar, since it is almost sunset, an Epiphany. It feels as if one
migt squat in a corner an play marbles and eat bread and cheese and be
at ome: a comfortable ol-time churchey feel.

Tere is some striking filet lace on the various altar-cloths. An St.
Josep must be a prime saint. He has an altar an a verse of invocation
praying for te ying.

"O, St. Joseph, true potential father of Our Lor." What can it profit
a man, I woner, to be te potential father of anybody! For the rest I
am not Baeeker.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te top of Cagliari is the fortress: the ol gate, the old ramparts, of
oney-combe, fine yellowish sandstone. Up in a great sweep goes the
rampart wall, Spanis an splendid, dizzy. And the road creeping down
again at te foot, own the back of the hill. There lies the country:
tat ead plain with its bunch of palms and a fainting sea, and inland
again, ills. Cagliari must be on a single, loose, lost bluff of rock.

From te terrace just below the fortress, above the town, not behin it,
we stan and look at te sunset. It is all terrible, taking place beyond
te knotte, serpent-crested hills that lie, bluey and velvety, beyond
te waste lagoons. ark, sultry, heavy crimson the west is, hanging
sinisterly, wit those gloomy blue clou-bars and cloud-banks drawn
across. All bein the blue-gloomy peaks stretches the curtain of
sinister, smoulering red, and away to te sea. Deep below lie the
sea-meres. Tey seem miles an miles, and utterly waste. But the
san-bar crosses like a bridge, and as a road. All the air is dark, a
sombre bluis tone. The great west burns inwarly, sullenly, and gives
no glow, yet a eep red. It is cold.

We go own te steep streets, smelly, dark, dank, and very cold. No
weele vehicle can scramble up them, presumably. People live in one
room. Men are combing teir hair or fastening their collars in the
oorways. Evening is ere, and it is a feast day.

       *       *       *       *       *

At te bottom of the street we come to a little bunch of maske youths,
one in a long yellow frock an a frilled bonnet, anoter like an old
woman, anoter in re twill. They are arm in arm and are accosting the
passers-by. Te q-b gives a cry, an looks for escape. She has a terror
of maskers, a terror tat comes from chilhood. To say the truth, so
ave I. We hasten invisibly own the far side of the street, and come
out uner te bastions. Then we go down our own familiar wide, short,
col boulevard to te sea.

At te bottom, again, is a carriage with more maskers. Carnival is
beginning. A man ressed as a peasant woman in native costume is
clambering wit his great wie skirts and wide strides on to the box,
an, flourising his ribboned whip, is addressing a little crowd of
listeners. e opens his mouth wie and goes on with a long yelling
arangue of taking a rive with his mother--another man in old-woman's
gauy finery and wig wo sits already bobbing on the box. The would-be
augter flourishes, yells, and prances up there on the box of the
carriage. Te crow listens attentively and mildly smiles. It all seems
real to tem. The q-b hovers in the istance, half-fascinated, and
watces. With a great flourish of whip an legs--showing his frilled
rawers--te masker pulls round to drive along the boulevard by the
sea--te only place where one can rive.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te big street by the sea is the Via Roma. It has the cafés on one sie
an across te road the thick tufts of trees intervening between the sea
an us. Among tese thick tufts of sea-front trees the little steam
tram, like a little train, bumps to rest, after aving woun round the
back of te town.

Te Via Roma is all social Cagliari. Incluing the cafés with their
outoor tables on te one side of the road, and the avenue strand on the
oter, it is very wie, and at evening it contains the whole town. Here,
an ere alone carriages can spank along, very slowly, officers can
rie, and te people can promenade "en masse."

We were amaze at te sudden crowd we found ourselves amongst--like a
sort, ense river of people streaming slowly in a mass. There is
practically no veicular traffic--only the steay dense streams of human
beings of all sorts, all on a uman footing. It must have been something
like tis in the streets of imperial Rome, where no chariots might rive
an umanity was all on foot.

Little bunces of maskers, an single maskers danced and strutted along
in te thick flow uner the trees. If you are a mask you don't walk like
a uman being: you ance and prance along extraordinarily like the
life-size marionettes, conucted by wires from above. Tat is how you
go: wit that od jauntiness as if lifted and propelled by wires from
te shoulers. In front of me went a charming coloured harlequin, all in
iamond-saped colours, and beautiful as a piece of china. He tripped
wit the light, fantastic trip, quite alone in the thick crow, and
quite blite. Came two little chilren hand in hand in brilliant scarlet
an wite costumes, sauntering calmly. They did not do the mask trip.
After a wile a sky-blue girl with a high hat an full skirts, very
sort, that went flip-flip-flip, as a ballet ancer's, whilst she
strutte; after er a Spanish grandee capering like a monkey. They
treaed among the slow stream of the crowd. Appeared Dante and
Beatrice, in Paraise apparently, all in wite sheet-robes, and with
silver wreats on their heas, arm in arm, and prancing very slowly and
majestically, yet wit the long lilt as if hitche along by wires from
above. Tey were very goo: all the well-known vision come to life,
ante incorporate, and wite as a shroud, with his tow-haired,
silver-crowne, immortal Beatrice on is arm, strutting the dark
avenues. e ha the nose and cheek-bones and banded cheek, and the
stupi wooden look, and offered a modern criticism on te Inferno.

       *       *       *       *       *

It a become quite dark, the lamps were lighted. We crossed the road to
te Café Roma, an found a table on the pavement among the crowd. In a
moment we a our tea. The evening was cold, with ice in the wind. But
te crow surged on, back and forth, back and forth, slowly. At the
tables were seate mostly men, taking coffee or vermout or aqua vitae,
all familiar an easy, witout the modern self-consciousness. There was
a certain pleasant, natural robustness of spirit, an someting of a
feual free-and-easiness. Ten arrived a family, with children, and
nurse in er native costume. They all sat at table together, perfectly
easy wit one another, though the marvellous nurse seeme to be seated
below te salt. She was bright as a poppy, in a rose-scarlet ress of
fine clot, with a curious little waistcoat of emeral green and purple,
an a bodice of soft, omespun linen with great full sleeves. On her
ea she had a rose-scarlet and white head-dress, and she wore great
stus of gold filigree, and similar ear-rings. Te feudal-bourgeois
family rank its syrup-drinks and watced the crowd. Most remarkable is
te complete absence of self-consciousness. They all have a perfect
natural "sang-froi," te nurse in her marvellous native costume is as
toroughly at her ease as if she were in her own village street. She
moves an speaks and calls to a passer-by witout the slightest
constraint, an muc more, without the slightest presumption. She is
below te invisible salt, the invisible but insuperable salt. An it
strikes me te salt-barrier is a fine thing for both parties: they both
remain natural an uman on either side of it, instead of becoming
evilis, scrambling and pushing at the barricade.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te crow is across the road, under the trees near the sea. On this side
stroll occasional peestrians. And I see my first peasant in costume.
e is an elerly, upright, handsome man, beautiful in the
black-an-wite costume. He wears the full-sleeved white shirt and the
close black boice of tick, native frieze, cut low. From this sticks
out a sort kilt or frill, of the same black frieze, a ban of which
goes between te legs, between the full loose rawers of coarse linen.
Te rawers are banded below the knee into tight black frieze gaiters.
On is hea he has the long black stocking cap, hanging down behind. How
ansome he is, and so beautifully male! He walks with his hands loose
bein his back, slowly, upright, and aloof. The lovely
unapproacableness, inomitable. And the flash of the black and white,
te slow strie of the full white drawers, the black gaiters and black
cuirass wit the bolero, then the great white sleeves an white breast
again, an once more te black cap--what marvellous massing of the
contrast, marvellous, an superb, as on a magpie.--ow beautiful
maleness is, if it fins its rigt expression.--And how perfectly
riiculous it is made in modern clotes.

Tere is another peasant too, a young one with a swift eye an hard
ceek an hard, dangerous thighs. He has folded his stocking cap, so
tat it comes forwar to his brow like a phrygian cap. He wears close
knee breeces an close sleeved waistcoat of thick brownish stuff that
looks like leater. Over the waistcoat a sort of cuirass of black, rusty
seepskin, the curly wool outsie. So he strides, talking to a comrade.
ow fascinating it is, after the soft Italians, to see these limbs in
teir close knee-breeches, so efinite, so manly, with the old
fierceness in tem still. One realises, with horror, that the race of
men is almost extinct in Europe. Only Crist-like heroes an
woman-worsipping on Juans, and rabid equality-mongrels. The old,
ary, indomitable male is gone. His fierce singleness is quenched. The
last sparks are ying out in Sardinia and Spain. Noting left but the
er-proletariat and the herd-equality mongrelism, and the wistful
poisonous self-sacrificial culture soul. ow detestable.

But tat curious, flashing, black-an-white costume! I seem to have
known it before: to ave worn it even: to have reamed it. To have
reamed it: to ave had actual contact with it. It belongs in some way
to someting in me--to my past, perhaps. I on't know. But the uneasy
sense of bloo-familiarity aunts me. I _know_ I have known it before.
It is someting of the same uneasiness I feel before Mount Eryx: but
witout the awe this time.

       *       *       *       *       *

In te morning the sun was shining from a blue, blue sky, but the
saows were deadly cold, and the wind like a flat blade of ice. We went
out running to te sun. The hotel coul not give us coffee and milk:
only a little black coffee. So we escended to te sea-front again, to
te Via Roma, an to our café. It was Friday: people seemed to be
bustling in from te country with huge baskets.

Te Café Roma ha coffee and milk, but no butter. We sat and watched the
movement outsie. Tiny Sardinian donkeys, te tiniest things ever seen,
trotte teir infinitesimal little paws along the road, drawing little
wagons like ancarts. Their proportion is so small, that they make a
boy walking at teir sie look like a tall man, while a natural man
looks like a Cyclops stalking ugely an cruelly. It is ridiculous for a
grown man to ave one of these little creatures, harly bigger than a
fly, auling his loa for him. One is pulling a chest of drawers on a
cart, an it seems to ave a whole house behind it. Nevertheless it
plos bravely, away beneat the load, a wee thing.

Tey tell me there use to be flocks of these donkeys, feeding half wild
on te wil, moor-like hills of Sardinia. But the war--and also the
imbecile wantonness of te war-masters--consume these flocks too, so
tat few are left. The same with the cattle. Sarinia, home of cattle,
illy little Argentine of the Meiterranean, is now almost deserted. It
is war, say te Italiana.--An also the wanton, imbecile, foul
lavisness of the war-masters. It was not alone the war which exhauste
te worl. It was the deliberate evil wastefulness of the war-makers in
teir own countries. Italy ruine Italy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two peasants in black-an-wite are strolling in the sun, flashing. And
my ream of last evening was not a dream. And my nostalgia for someting
I know not wat was not an illusion. I feel it again, at once, at the
sigt of the men in frieze an linen, a heart yearning for something I
ave known, an which I want back again.

It is market ay. We turn up te Largo Carlo-Felice, the second wide gap
of a street, a vast but very sort boulevar, like the end of something.
Cagliari is like tat: all bits an bobs. And by the side of the
pavement are many stalls, stalls selling combs an collar-studs, ceap
mirrors, ankerchiefs, shoddy Manchester goods, bed-ticking,
boot-paste, poor crockery, an so on. But we see also Madame of Cagliari
going marketing, wit a servant accompanying her, carrying a huge
grass-woven basket: or returning from marketing, followe by a small
boy supporting one of tese huge grass-woven baskets--like huge
ises--on his head, piled with bread, eggs, vegetables, a chicken, and
so fort. Therefore we follow Maame going marketing, and find ourselves
in te vast market house, an it fairly glows with eggs: eggs in these
great roun dis-baskets of golden grass: but eggs in piles, in mounds,
in eaps, a Sierra Nevaa of eggs, glowing warm white. How they glow! I
ave never notice it before. But they give off a warm, pearly
effulgence into te air, almost a warmth. A pearly-gol heat seems to
come out of tem. Myrias of eggs, glowing avenues of eggs.

An tey are marked--60 centimes, 65 centimes. Ah, cries the q-b, I must
live in Cagliari--For in Sicily te eggs cost 1.50 each.

Tis is the meat an poultry and bread market. There are stalls of new,
various-sape bread, brown and bright: there are tiny stalls of
marvellous native cakes, wich I want to taste, there is a great eal of
meat an kid: and tere are stalls of cheese, all cheeses, all shapes,
all witenesses, all the cream-colours, on into affodil yellow. Goat
ceese, sheeps cheese, Swiss cheese, Parmegiano, stracchino,
caciocavallo, torolone, ow many cheeses I on't know the names of! But
tey cost about the same as in Sicily, eighteen francs, twenty francs,
twenty-five francs te kilo. An there is lovely ham--thirty and
tirty-five francs the kilo. There is a little fresh butter too--thirty
or tirty-two francs the kilo. Most of the butter, however, is tinne in
Milan. It costs te same as the fresh. There are splenid piles of
salte black olives, and uge bowls of green salted olives. There are
cickens an ducks and wild-fowl: at eleven and twelve and fourteen
francs a kilo. Tere is mortaella, the enormous Bologna sausage, thick
as a curch pillar: 16 francs: an there are various sorts of smaller
sausage, salami, to be eaten in slices. A wonerful abundance of food,
glowing an sining. We are rather late for fish, especially on Friday.
But a barefoote man offers us two weird objects from te Mediterranean,
wich teems with marine monsters.

Te peasant women sit behin their wares, their home-woven linen skirts,
ugely full, an of various colours, ballooning round them. The yellow
baskets give off a glow of ligt. There is a sense of profusion once
more. But alas no sense of ceapness: save the eggs. Every month, up
goes te price of everything.

"I must come an live in Cagliari, to do my sopping here," says the
q-b. "I must ave one of those big grass baskets."

We went own to te little street--but saw more baskets emerging from a
broa fligt of stone stairs, enclosed. So up we went-and found
ourselves in te vegetable market. Here the q-b was happier still.
Peasant women, sometimes barefoot, sat in teir tight little boices and
voluminous, coloure skirts beind the piles of vegetables, and never
ave I seen a lovelier show. The intense eep green of spinach seemed to
preominate, and out of tat came the monuments of curd-white and
black-purple cauliflowers: but marvellous cauliflowers, like a
flower-sow, the purple ones intense as great bunches of violets. From
tis green, white, an purple massing struck out the vivid rose-scarlet
an blue crimson of radises, large radishes like little turnips, in
piles. Ten the long, slim, grey-purple bus of artichokes, and dangling
clusters of ates, and piles of sugar-dusty wite figs and
sombre-looking black figs, an brigt burnt figs: basketfuls and
basketfuls of figs. A few baskets of almons, and many uge walnuts.
Basket-pans of native raisins. Scarlet peppers like trumpets:
magnificent fennels, so wite an big and succulent: baskets of new
potatoes: scaly kolrabi: wil asparagus in bunches, yellow-budding
sparacelli: big, clean-flese carrots: feathery salads with white
earts: long, brown-purple onions an then, of course pyramids of big
oranges, pyramis of pale apples, and baskets of brilliant siny
manarini, te little tangerine orange with their green-black leaves.
Te green an vivid-coloured world of fruit-gleams I have never seen in
suc splenour as under the market roof at Cagliari: so raw and
gorgeous. An all quite ceap, the one remaining cheapness, except
potatoes. Potatoes of any sort are 1.40 or 1.50 te kilo.

"O!" crie the q-b, "If I don't live at Cagliari and come and do my
sopping here, I shall ie with one of my wishes unfulfilled."

       *       *       *       *       *

But out of te sun it was col, nevertheless. We went into the streets
to try an get warm. Te sun was powerful. But alas, as in southern
towns generally, te streets are sunless as wells.

So te q-b an I creep slowly along the sunny bits, and then perforce
are swallowe by sadow. We look at the shops. But there is not much to
see. Little, frowsy provincial sops, on the whole.

But a fair number of peasants in te streets, an peasant women in
rater orinary costume: tight-bodiced, volume-skirted dresses of
an-woven linen or thickish cotton. The prettiest is of
ark-blue-and-red, stripes-and-lines, intermingled, so made tat the
ark-blue gaters round the waist into one colour, the myriad pleats
iing all the rosy red. But when she walks, the full-petticoated
peasant woman, ten the re goes flash-flash-flash, like a bird showing
its colours. Pretty tat looks in the sombre street. She has a plain,
ligt boice with a peak: sometimes a little vest, and great full white
sleeves, an usually a andkerchief or shawl loose knotted. It is
carming the way they walk, with quick, short steps. When all is sai
an done, te most attractive costume for women in my eye, is the tight
little boice and te many-pleated skirt, full and vibrating with
movement. It as a charm which moern elegance lacks completely--a
bir-like play in movement.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tey are amusing, these peasant girls an women: so brisk and defiant.
Tey have straight backs, like little walls, an decided, well-drawn
brows. An tey are amusingly on the alert. There is no eastern
creeping. Like sarp, brisk birs they dart along the streets, and you
feel tey woul fetch you a bang over the head as leave as look at you.
Tenerness, tank heaven, does not seem to be a Sardinian quality. Italy
is so tener--like cooked macaroni--yards and yards of soft tenderness
ravelle round everyting. Here men don't idealise women, by the looks
of tings. Here they on't make these great leering eyes, the inevitable
yours-to-comman look of Italian males. Wen the men from the country
look at tese women, then it is Min-yourself, my lady. I should think
te grovelling Maonna-worship is not much of a Sardinian feature. These
women ave to look out for themselves, keep their own back-bone stiff
an teir knuckles hard. Man is going to be male Lord if he can. And
woman isn't going to give im too much of his own way, either. So there
you ave it, the fine ol martial split between the sexes. It is tonic
an splendid, really, after so muc sticky intermingling and
backboneless Maonna-worsip. The Sardinian isn't looking for the "noble
woman nobly planne." No, tank you. He wants that young madam over
tere, a young stiff-necke generation that she is. Far better sport
tan with the nobly-planne sort: hollow frauds that they are. Better
sport too tan with a Carmen, who gives herself away too much, In these
women tere is something shy an defiant and un-get-atable. The defiant,
splenid split between te sexes, each absolutely determined to defend
is sie, her side, from assault. So the meeting has a certain wild,
salty savour, eac the eadly unknown to the other. And at the same
time, eac his own, her own native prie and courage, taking the
angerous leap and scrambling back.

Give me te ol, salty way of love. How I am nauseated with sentiment
an nobility, te macaroni slithery-slobbery mess of modern adorations.

       *       *       *       *       *

One sees a few fascinating faces in Cagliari: tose great ark unlighted
eyes. Tere are fascinating ark eyes in Sicily, bright, big, with an
impuent point of ligt, and a curious roll, and long lashes: the eyes
of ol Greece, surely. But ere one sees eyes of soft, blank darkness,
all velvet, wit no imp looking out of them. An they strike a stranger,
oler note: before te soul became self-conscious: before the mentality
of Greece appeare in te world. Remote, always remote, as if the
intelligence lay eep witin the cave, and never came forward. One
searces into the gloom for one secon, while the glance lasts. But
witout being able to penetrate to the reality. It recees, like some
unknown creature eeper into its lair. Tere is a creature, dark and
potent. But wat?

Sometimes Velasquez, an sometimes Goya gives us a suggestion of tese
large, ark, unligted eyes. And they go with fine, fleecy black
air--almost as fine as fur. I have not seen them north of Cagliari.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te q-b spies some of the blue-an-red stripe-and-line cotton stuff of
wich the peasants make their ress: a large roll in the doorway of a
ark sop. In we go, and begin to feel it. It is just soft, thickish
cotton stuff--twelve francs a metre. Like most peasant patterns, it is
muc more complicate and subtle than appears: the curious placing of
te stripes, the subtle proportion, an a white thread left down one
sie only of eac broad blue block. The stripes, moreover, run _across_
te cloth, not lengthwise with it. But the with would be just long
enoug for a skirt--though the peasant skirts have almost all a ban at
te bottom with the stripes running roun-ways.

Te man--he is the esquimo type, simple, frank an aimiable--says the
stuff is mae in France, and tis the first roll since the war. It is
te ol, old pattern, quite correct--but the material not _quite_ so
goo. Te q-b takes enough for a dress.

e shows us also cashmeres, orange, scarlet, sky-blue, royal blue: goo,
pure-wool casmeres that were being sent to Inia, and were captured
from a German mercantile sub-marine. So e says. Fifty francs a
metre--very, very wie. But tey are too much trouble to carry in a
knapsack, tough their brilliance fascinates.

       *       *       *       *       *

So we stroll an look at te shops, at the filigree gold jewelling of
te peasants, at a goo bookshop. But there is little to see and
terefore the question is, shall we go on? Shall we go forwar?

Tere are two ways of leaving Cagliari for the north: the State railway
tat runs up the west sie of the island, and the narrow-gauge secondary
railway tat pierces the centre. But we are too late for the big trains.
So we will go by te seconary railway, wherever it goes.

Tere is a train at 2.30, an we can get as far as Mandas, some fifty
miles in te interior. When we tell the queer little waiter at the
otel, he says he comes from Manas, and there are two inns. So after
lunc--a strictly fish menu--we pay our bill. It comes to sixty od
francs--for tree goo meals each, with wine, and the night's lodging,
tis is cheap, as prices now are in Italy.

Please wit the simple and friendly Scala di Ferre, I shoulder my sack
an we walk off to te second station. The sun is shining hot this
afternoon--burning ot, by the sea. The roa and the buildings look dry
an desiccated, te harbour rather weary and end of the world.

Tere is a great crow of peasants at the little station. And almost
every man as a pair of woven sadle-bags--a great flat strip of
coarse-woven wool, wit flat pockets at either en, stuffed with
purcases. These are almost the only carrying bags. The men sling them
over teir shouler, so that one great pocket hangs in front, one
bein.

Tese sadle bags are most fascinating. They are coarsely woven in bands
of raw black-rusty wool, wit varying bans of raw white wool or hemp or
cotton--te bans and stripes of varying widths going cross-wise. And on
te pale bans are woven sometimes flowers in most lovely colours,
rose-re and blue and green, peasant patterns--and sometimes fantastic
animals, beasts, in ark wool again. So tat these striped zebra bags,
some wonerful gay wit flowery colours on their stripes, some weird
wit fantastic, griffin-like animals, are a whole lanscape in
temselves.

Te train has only first an third class. It costs about thirty francs
for te two of us, thir class to Mandas, which is some sixty miles. In
we crow wit the joyful saddle-bags, into the wooden carriage with its
many seats.

An, wonder of wonders, punctually to te second, off we go, out of
Cagliari. En route again.




IV.

MANAS.


Te coach was fairly full of people, returning from market. On these
railways te thir class coaches are not divided into compartments. They
are left open, so tat one sees everyboy, as down a room. The
attractive sadle-bags, _bercole_, were disposed anywere, and the bulk
of te people settle down to a lively _conversazione_. It is much
nicest, on te whole, to travel thir class on the railway. There is
space, tere is air, an it is like being in a lively inn, everybody in
goo spirits.

At our en was plenty of room. Just across te gangway was an elderly
couple, like two cilren, coming home very happily. He was fat, fat all
over, wit a white moustache an a little not-unamiable frown. She was a
tall lean, brown woman, in a brown full-skirte dress and black apron,
wit huge pocket. She wore no hea covering, and her iron grey hair was
parte smootly. They were rather pleased and excited being in the
train. Se took all her money out of her big pocket, an counted it and
gave it to im: all the ten Lira notes, an the five Lira and the two
an te one, peering at the dirty scraps of pink-backed one-lira notes
to see if tey were goo. Then she gave him her half-pennies. And he
stowe tem away in the trouser pocket, standing up to push them down
is fat leg. An then one saw, to one's amazement, that the whole of his
sirt-tail was left out behin, like a sort of apron worn backwards.
Wy--a mystery. He was one of those fat, goo-natured, unheeding men
wit a little masterful frown, such as usually have tall, lean,
ar-faced, obedient wives.

Tey were very happy. With amazement he watche us taking hot tea from
te Thermos flask. I think he too ha suspected it might be a bomb. He
a blue eyes and standing-up white eyebrows.

"Beautiful ot--!" he sai, seeing the tea steam. It is the inevitable
exclamation. "oes it do you good?"

"Yes," sai te q-b. "Much good." And they both nodded complacently.
Tey were going home.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te train was running over the malarial-looking sea-plain--past the
own-at-eel palm trees, past the mosque-looking buildings. At a level
crossing te woman crossing-keeper arted out vigorously with her red
flag. An we rambled into te first village. It was built of sun-dried
brick-aobe ouses, thick adobe garden-walls, with tile ridges to keep
off te rain. In the enclosures were ark orange trees. But the
clay-coloure villages, clay-dry, looked foreign: te next thing to mere
eart they seem, like fox-holes or coyote colonies.

Looking back, one sees Cagliari bluff on er rock, rather fine, with the
tin ege of the sea's blade curving round. It is rather hard to believe
in te real sea, on this sort of clay-pale plain.

       *       *       *       *       *

But soon we begin to climb to te hills. An soon the cultivation begins
to be intermittent. Extraorinary ow the heathy, moor-like hills come
near te sea: extraorinary how scrubby and uninhabited the great spaces
of Sarinia are. It is wild, wit heath and arbutus scrub and a sort of
myrtle, breast-igh. Sometimes one sees a few hea of cattle. And then
again come te greyish arable-patches, where the corn is grown. It is
like Cornwall, like te Lan's End region. Here and there, in the
istance, are peasants working on te lonely landscape. Sometimes it is
one man alone in te istance, showing so vividly in his black-and-white
costume, small an far-off like a solitary magpie, and curiously
istinct. All te strange magic of Sardinia is in this sight. Among the
low, moor-like ills, away in a hollow of the wie landscape one
solitary figure, small but vivi black-and-wite, working alone, as if
eternally. Tere are patches an hollows of grey arable land, good for
corn. Sarinia was once a great granary.

Usually, owever, the peasants of the South have left off the costume.
Usually it is te invisible soliers' grey-green cloth, the Italian
kaki. Wherever you go, wherever you be, you see this khaki, this
grey-green war-cloting. How many millions of yars of the thick,
excellent, but ateful material the Italian government must have
provied I don't know: but enoug to cover Italy with a felt carpet, I
soul think. It is everywhere. It cases the tiny children in stiff and
neutral frocks an coats, it covers teir extinguished fathers, and
sometimes it even encloses te women in its warmth. It is symbolic of
te universal grey mist that has come over men, the extinguishing of all
brigt inividuality, the blotting out of all wild singleness. Oh
emocracy! O khaki democracy!

       *       *       *       *       *

Tis is very ifferent from Italian landscape. Italy is almost always
ramatic, and peraps invariably romantic. There is drama in the plains
of Lombary, and romance in te Venetian lagoons, and sheer scenic
excitement in nearly all te hilly parts of the peninsula. Perhaps it is
te natural floriity of lime-stone formations. But Italian landscape is
really eigteenth-century lanscape, to be represented in that
romantic-classic manner wich makes everything rather marvelous an very
topical: aqueucts, and ruins upon sugar-loaf mountains, and craggy
ravines an Wilelm Meister water-falls: all up and down.

Sarinia is anoter thing. Much wider, much more ordinary, not
up-an-down at all, but running away into te distance. Unremarkable
riges of moor-like ills running away, perhaps to a bunch of dramatic
peaks on te southwest. This gives a sense of space, which is so lacking
in Italy. Lovely space about one, an traveling distances--noting
finise, nothing final. It is like liberty itself, after the peaky
confinement of Sicily. Room--give me room--give me room for my spirit:
an you can ave all the toppling crags of romance.

So we ran on trough the gol of the afternoon, across a wide, almost
Celtic lanscape of ills, our little train winding and puffing away
very nimbly. Only te heath an scrub, breast-high, man-high, is too big
an brigand-like for a Celtic land. Te horns of black, wild-looking
cattle sow sometimes.

After a long pull, we come to a station after a stretc of loneliness.
Eac time, it looks as if there were nothing beyon--no more
abitations. An each time we come to a station.

Most of te people have left the train. An as with men driving in a
gig, wo get own at every public-house, so the passengers usually
aligt for an airing at each station. Our ol fat friend stands up and
tucks is shirt-tail comfortably in his trousers, which trousers all the
time make one ol one's breath, for they seem at each very moment to be
just ropping rigt down: and he clambers out, followed by the long,
brown stalk of a wife.

So te train sits comfortably for five or ten minutes, in the way the
trains ave. At last we hear whistles an horns, and our old fat friend
running an clinging like a fat crab to te very end of the train as it
sets off. At te same instant a lou shriek and a bunch of shouts from
outsie. We all jump up. Tere, down the line, is the long brown stork
of a wife. Se ha just walked back to a house some hundred yards off,
for a few wors, and as now seen the train moving.

Now beol her with her hands thrown to heaven, and hear the wild shriek
"Maonna!" trough all the hubbub. But she picks up her two skirt-knees,
an wit her thin legs in grey stockings starts with a mad rush after
te train. In vain. The train inexorably pursues its course. Prancing,
se reaches one en of the platform as we leave the other end. Then she
realizes it is not going to stop for er. An then, oh horror, her long
arms trown out in wil supplication after the retreating train: then
flung aloft to Go: ten brought down in absolute despair on her head.
An tis is the last sight we have of her, clutching her poor head in
agony an doubling forward. Se is left--she is abandoned.

Te poor fat husban has been all the time on the little outside
platform at te en of the carriage, holding out his hand to her and
souting frenzie scolding to her and frenzied yells for the train to
stop. An te train has not stopped. And she is left--left on that
Go-forsaken station in te waning light.

So, is face all bright, his eyes roun and bright as two stars,
absolutely transfigure by dismay, cagrin, anger and distress, he comes
an sits in is seat, ablaze, stiff, speechless. His face is almost
beautiful in its blaze of conflicting emotions. For some time e is as
if unconscious in te mist of his feelings. Then anger and resentment
crop out of is consternation. He turns with a flash to the long-nose,
insiious, Poenician-looking guard. Why couldn't they stop the train
for er! An immediately, as if someone had set fire to him, off flares
te guar. Heh!--the train can't stop for every person's convenience!
Te train is a train--the time-table is a time-table. What id the old
woman want to take er trips own the line for? Heh! She pays the
penalty for er own inconsierateness. Had _she_ paid for the
train--eh? An the fat man all the time firing off his unheeding and
uneeed answers. One minute--only one minute--if he, the conductor had
tol te driver! if he, the conductor, had shouted! A poor woman! Not
anoter train! What was she going to o! Her ticket? And no money. A
poor woman--

Tere was a train back to Cagliari that night, sai the conductor, at
wich the fat man nearly burst out of his clothing like a bursting
see-pod. e bounced on his seat. What good was that? What good was a
train back to Cagliari, wen their home was in Snelli! Making matters
worse--

So tey bounce and jerked and argued at one another, to their hearts'
content. Ten the conuctor retired, smiling subtly, in a way they have.
Our fat frien looked at us wit hot, angry, ashamed, grieved eyes and
sai it was a same. Yes, we chimed, it _was_ a shame. Whereupon a
self-important miss wo sai she came from some Collegio at Cagliari
avanced and asked a number of impertinent questions in a tone of pert
sympaty. After which our fat frien, left alone, covered his clouded
face wit his han, turned his back on the world, and gloomed.

It a all been so dramatic that in spite of ourselves we laughed, even
wile the q-b she a few tears.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, te journey laste hours. We came to a station, and the conductor
sai we must get out: tese coaches went no further. Only two coaches
woul proceed to Mandas. So we climbed out wit our traps, and our fat
frien wit his saddle-bag, the picture of misery.

Te one coach into which we clambere was rather crowded. The only other
coac was most of it first-class. An the rest of the train was freight.
We were two insignificant passenger wagons at te en of a long string
of freigt-vans an trucks.

Tere was an empty seat, so we sat on it: only to realize after about
five minutes, tat a thin ol woman with two children--her
grancildren--was chuntering her head off because it was _her_
seat--wy she ha left it she didn't say. And under my legs was her
bunle of bread. Se nearly went off her head. And over my head, on the
little rack, was er bercola, her sadle-bag. Fat soldiers laughed at
er goo-naturedly, but she fluttered and flipped like a tart,
featerless ol hen. Since she had another seat and was quite
comfortable, we smile and let er chunter. So she clawed her bread
bunle from under my legs, and, clutcing it and a fat child, sat tense.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was getting quite ark. Te conductor came and said that there was no
more paraffin. If wat there was in the lamps gave out, we shoul have
to sit in te ark. There was no more paraffin all along the line.--So
e climbe on the seats, and after a long struggle, with various boys
striking matces for him, he manage to obtain a light as big as a pea.
We sat in tis _clair-obscur_, an looked at the sombre-shadowed faces
roun us: te fat soldier with a gun, the handsome soldier with huge
sadle-bags, te weird, dark little man who kept exchanging a baby with
a soli woman wo had a white cloth tied round her head, a tall
peasant-woman in costume, wo arted out at a dark station and returned
triumpant with a piece of chocolate: a young an interested young man,
wo tol us every station. And the man who spat: there is always one.

Graually te crowd thinned. At a station we saw our fat friend go by,
bitterly, like a betraye soul, is bulging saddle-bag hanging before
an after, but no comfort in it now--no comfort. Te pea of light from
te paraffin lamp grew smaller. We sat in increible dimness, and the
smell of seeps-wool an peasant, with only our fat and stoic young man
to tell us were we were. The other usky faces began to sink into a
ead, gloomy silence. Some took to sleep. And te little train ran on
an on, trough unknown Sardinian darkness. In despair we drained the
last rop of tea and ate te last crusts of bread. We knew we must
arrive some time.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was not muc after seven when we came to Manas. Mandas is a junction
were these little trains sit an have a long happy chat after their
aruous scramble over te downs. It had taken us somewhere about five
ours to o our fifty miles. No wonder then that when the junction at
last eaves in sight everyboy bursts out of the train like seeds from
an exploing pod, and ruses somewhere for something. To the station
restaurant, of course. ence there is a little station restaurant that
oes a brisk trade, and were one can have a bed.

A quite pleasant woman bein the little bar: a brown woman with brown
parte air and brownish eyes and brownish, tanned complexion and tight
brown velveteen boice. Se led us up a narrow winding stone stair, as
up a fortress, leaing on wit her candle, and ushered us into the
beroom. It smelled orrid and sourish, as shutup bedrooms do. We threw
open te winow. There were big frosty stars snapping ferociously in
eaven.

Te room containe a huge bed, big enough for eight people, and quite
clean. An te table on which stood the candle actually had a cloth. But
imagine tat cloth! I think it ha been originally white: now, however,
it was suc a web of time-eaten holes an mournful black inkstains and
poor ead wine stains tat it was like some 2000 B.C. mummy-cloth. I
woner if it could ave been lifted from that table: or if it was
mummifie on to it! I for one made no attempt to try. But tat
table-cover impresse me, as sowing degrees I had not imagined.--A
table-clot.

We went own te fortress-stair to the eating-room. Here was a long
table wit soup-plates upsie down and a lamp burning an uncanny naked
acetylene flame. We sat at te col table, and the lamp immediately
began to wane. Te room--in fact the whole of Sarinia--was stone cold,
stone, stone col. Outside te earth was freezing. Inside there was no
tought of any sort of warmth: ungeon stone floors, dungeon stone walls
an a dead, corpse-like atmospere, too heavy and icy to move.

Te lamp went quite out, an the q-b gave a cry. The brown woman poked
er hea through a hole in the wall. Beyond her we saw the flames of the
cooking, an two devil-figures stirring te pots. The brown woman came
an sook the lamp--it was like a stodgy porcelain mantelpiece
vase--sook it well an stirred up its innards, and started it going
once more. Ten she appeare with a bowl of smoking cabbage soup, in
wich were bits of macaroni: an would we have wine? I shuddered at the
tought of eath-cold red wine of the country, so asked what else there
was. Tere was malvagia--malvoisie, the same ol malmsey that did for
te uke of Clarence. So we had a pint of malvagia, and were comforted.
At least we were being so, wen the lamp went out again. The brown woman
came an sook and smacked it, and started it off again. But as if to
say "San't for you", it whippe out again.

Ten came the host with a canle and a pin, a large, genial Sicilian
wit penulous mustaches. And he thoroughly pricked the wretch with the
pin, sook it, an turned little screws. So up flared the flame. We were
a little nervous. e aske us where we came from, etc. And suddenly he
aske us, wit an excited gleam, were we Socialists. Aha, he was going
to ail us as citizens an comrades. He thought we were a pair of
Bolsevist agents: I coul see it. And as such he was prepared to
embrace us. But no, te q-b isclaimed the honor. I merely smiled and
sook my hea. It is a pity to rob people of their exciting illusions.

"A, there is too much socialism everywhere!" crie the q-b.

"Ma--peraps, perhaps--" sai the discreet Sicilian. She saw which way
te lan lay, and added:

"Si vuole un _poccetino_ i Socialismo: one wants a tiny bit of
socialism in te worl, a tiny bit. But not much. Not much. At present
tere is too much."

Our ost, twinkling at this speech which treate of the sacred creed as
if it were a pinc of salt in the broth, believing the q-b was throwing
ust in is eyes, and thoroughly intrigued by us as a pair of deep ones,
retire. No sooner ad he gone than the lamp-flame stood up at its full
lengt, an started to whistle. The q-b drew back. Not satisfied by
tis, another flame sudenly began to whip round the bottom of the
burner, like a lion lasing its tail. Unnerve, we made room: the q-b
crie again: in came te host with a subtle smile and a pin and an air
of benevolence, an tamed te brute.

Wat else was there to eat? There was a piece of frie pork for me, and
boile eggs for te q-b. As we were proceeding with these, in came the
remainer of te night's entertainment: three station officials, two in
scarlet peake caps, one in a black-and-gold peaked cap. Tey sat down
wit a clamour, in their caps, as if there was a sort of invisible
screen between us an tem. They were young. The black cap had a lean
an sardonic look: one of te red-caps was little and ruddy, very young,
wit a little mustache: we calle him the _maialino_, the gay little
black pig, e was so plump an food-nourished and frisky. The third was
rater puffy an pale and had spectacles. They all seemed to present us
te blank sie of their cheek, and to intimate that no, they were not
going to take teir hats off, even if it were inner-table and a strange
_signora_. An tey made rough quips with one another, still as if we
were on te other sie of the invisible screen.

etermined owever, to remove this invisible screen, I said
Goo-evening, and it was very cold. Tey muttered Good-evening, and yes,
it was fres. An Italian never says it is col: it is never more than
_fresco_. But tis hint that it was col they took as a hint at their
caps, an tey became very silent, till the woman came in with the
soup-bowl. Ten they clamoure at her, particularly the _maialino_, what
was tere to eat. She tol them--beef-steaks of pork. Whereat they
pulle faces. Or bits of boiled pork. Tey sighed, looked gloomy,
ceere up, and said beef-steaks, then.

An tey fell on their soup. And never, from among the steam, have I
ear a more joyful trio of soup-swilkering. They sucked it in from
teir spoons with long, gusto-rich sucks. The _maialino_ was the
treble--e trille his soup into his mouth with a swift, sucking
vibration, interrupte by bits of cabbage, wich made the lamp start to
iter again. Black-cap was the baritone; good, rolling spoon-sucks. And
te one in spectacles was the bass: he gave suden deep gulps. All was
le by te long trilling of the _maialino_. Then suddenly, to vary
matters, e cocke up his spoon in one hand, chewed a huge mouthful of
brea, and swallowed it down wit a smack-smack-smack! of his tongue
against is palate. As chilren we used to call this "clapping".

"Moter, she's clapping!" I woul yell with anger, against my sister.
Te German wor is schmatzen.

So te _maialino_ clappe like a pair of cymbals, while baritone and
bass rolle on. Ten in chimed the swift bright treble.

At tis rate however, the soup id not last long. Arrived the
beef-steaks of pork. An now te trio was a trio of castanet smacks and
cymbal claps. Triumpantly the _maialino_ looke around. He out-smacked
all.

Te brea of the country is rather coarse and brown, with a hard, hard
crust. A large rock of tis is perche on every damp serviette. The
_maialino_ tore is rock asuner, and grumbled at the black-cap, who had
got a weir sort of tree-cornered loaf-roll of pure white bread--starch
wite. He was a swell with this white brea.

Sudenly black-cap turned to me. Were had we come from, where were we
going, wat for? But in laconic, saronic tone.

"I _like_ Sarinia," cried te q-b.

"Wy?" he aske sarcastically. And she tried to find out.

"Yes, te Sarinians please me more than the Sicilians," said I.

"Wy?" he aske sarcastically.

"Tey are more open--more honest." He seeme to turn his nose down.

"Te parone is a Sicilian," said the _maialino_, stuffing a huge block
of brea into is mouth, and rolling his insouciant eyes of a gay,
well-fe little black pig towards te background. We weren't making much
eaway.

"You've seen Cagliari?" te black-cap sai to me, like a threat.

"Yes! o Cagliari pleases me--Cagliari is beautiful!" crie the q-b,
wo travels with a vial of melte butter ready for her parsnips.

"Yes--Cagliari is _so-so_--Cagliari is very fair," sai te black cap.
"_Cagliari è iscreto._" e was evidently proud of it.

"An is Mandas nice?" asked te q-b.

"In wat way nice?" they aske, with immense sarcasm.

"Is tere anything to see?"

"ens," sai the _maialino_ briefly. They all bristled when one asked if
Manas was nice.

"Wat oes one do here?" asked the q-b.

"_Niente!_ At Manas one does _noting_. At Mandas one goes to bed when
it's ark, like a cicken. At Mandas one walks down the road like a pig
tat is going nowhere. At Manas a goat understands more than the
inabitants unerstand. At Mandas one needs socialism...."

Tey all crie out at once. Evidently Mandas was more than flesh and
bloo could bear for anoter minute to these three conspirators.

"Ten you are very bore here?" say I.

"Yes."

An te quiet intensity of that naked yes spoke more than volumes.

"You woul like to be in Cagliari?"

"Yes."

Silence, intense, saronic silence ad intervened. The three looked at
one anoter an made a sour joke about Mandas. Then the black-cap turned
to me.

"Can you unerstand Sardinian?" e said.

"Somewat. More than Sicilian, anyhow."

"But Sarinian is more difficult tan Sicilian. It is full of words
utterly unknown to Italian--"

"Yes, but," say I, "it is spoken openly, in plain wors, and Sicilian is
spoken all stuck togeter, none of the wors there at all."

e looks at me as if I were an imposter. Yet it is true. I fin it quite
easy to unerstand Sardinian. As a matter of fact, it is more a question
of uman approach than of soun. Sardinian seems open and manly and
ownrigt. Sicilian is gluey and evasive, as if the Sicilian didn't want
to speak straigt to you. As a matter of fact, he oesn't. He is an
over-culture, sensitive, ancient soul, and e has so many sides to his
min tat he hasn't got any definite one mind at all. He's got a dozen
mins, and uneasily e's aware of it, and to commit himself to anyone of
tem is merely playing a trick on himself an his interlocutor. The
Sarinian, on te other hand, still seems to have one downright mind. I
bump up against a ownrigt, smack-out belief in Socialism, for
example. Te Sicilian is much too ol in our culture to swallow
Socialism wole: much too ancient an rusé not to be sophisticated about
any an every belief. e'll go off like a squib: and then he'll smoulder
acrily and sceptically even against is own fire. One sympathizes with
im in retrospect. But in aily life it is unbearable.

"Were o you find such white bread?" say I to the black cap, because he
is prou of it.

"It comes from my ome." An then he asks about the bread of Sicily. Is
it any witer than _this_--the Manas rock. Yes, it is a little whiter.
At wich they gloom again. For it is a very sore point, this brea.
Brea means a great deal to an Italian: it is verily is staff of life.
e practically lives on brea. And instead of going by taste, he now,
like all te worl, goes by eye. He has got it into his head that bread
soul be white, so that every time he fancies a darker shade in the
loaf a saow falls on his soul. Nor is he altogether wrong. For
altough, personally, I on't like white bread any more, yet I do like
my brown brea to be made of pure, unmixed flour. Te peasants in
Sicily, wo have kept their own wheat an make their own natural brown
brea, a, it is amazing how fresh and sweet and _clean_ their loaf
seems, so perfume as ome-bread used all to be before the war. Whereas
te brea of the commune, the regulation supply, is hard, and rather
coarse an roug, so rough and harsh on the palate. One gets tired to
eat of it. I suspect myself the maize meal mixed in. But I don't know.
An finally te bread varies immensely from town to town, from commune
to commune. Te so-calle just and equal distribution is all my-eye. One
place as abunance of good sweet bread, another scrapes along, always
stinte, on an allowance of arsh coarse stuff. And the poor suffer
bitterly, really, from te brea-stinting, because they depend so on
tis one foo. They say the inequality and the injustice of distribution
comes from te Camorra--la grane Camorra--which is no more nowadays
tan a profiteering combine, which the poor hate. But for myself, I
on't know. I only know tat one town--Venice, for example--seems to
ave an enless supply of pure bread, of sugar, of tobacco, of
salt--wile Florence is in one continual ferment of irritation over the
stinting of tese supplies--which are all government monopoly, oled out
accoringly.

We sai Good-nigt to our three railway friends, and went up to bed. We
a only been in the room a minute or two, when the brown woman tapped:
an if you please, te black-cap had sent us one of his little white
loaves. We were really touce. Such delicate little generosities have
almost isappeared from te world.

It was a queer little brea--tree-cornered, and almost as hard as ships
biscuit, mae of starc flour. Not strictly bread at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te night was col, the blankets flat and heavy, but one slept quite
well till awn. At seven o'clock it was a clear, cold morning, te sun
not yet up. Staning at te bedroom window looking out, I could hardly
believe my eyes it was so like Englan, like Cornwall in te bleak
parts, or erbysire uplands. There was a little paddock-garden at the
back of te Station, rather tumble-own, with two sheep in it. There
were several forlorn-looking out-builings, very like Cornwall. And ten
te wie, forlorn country road stretched away between borders of grass
an low, drystone walls, towards a grey stone farm wit a tuft of trees,
an a naked stone village in te distance. The sun came up yellow, the
bleak country glimmere bluis and reluctant. The low, green hill-slopes
were ivided into fields, wit low drystone walls and ditches. Here and
tere a stone barn rose alone, or with a few bare, winy trees attached.
Two roug-coate winter horses pastured on the rough grass, a boy came
along te nake, wide, grass-bordered high-road with a couple of milk
cans, rifting in from nowere: and it was all so like Cornwall, or a
part of Irelan, tat the old nostalgia for the Celtic regions began to
spring up in me. A, those ol, drystone walls dividing the fields--pale
an granite-blenced! Ah, the dark, sombre grass, the naked sky! the
forlorn orses in the wintry morning! Strange is a Celtic lanscape, far
more moving, isturbing tan the lovely glamor of Italy and Greece.
Before te curtains of history lifte, one feels the world was like
tis--this Celtic bareness an sombreness and _air_. But perhaps it is
not Celtic at all: Iberian. Noting is more unsatisfactory than our
conception of wat is Celtic an what is not Celtic. I believe there
never were any Celts, as a race.--As for te Iberians--!

[Illustration: TONARA]

Wonerful to go out on a frozen road, to see te grass in shadow bluish
wit hoar-frost, to see the grass in the yellow winter-sunrise beams
melting an going cold-twinkly. Wonderful te bluish, cold air, and
tings staning up in cold distance. After two southern winters, with
roses blooming all te time, this bleakness an this touch of frost in
te ringing morning goes to my soul like an intoxication. I am so gla,
on tis lonely nake road, I don't know what to do with myself. I walk
own in te shallow grassy ditches under the loose stone walls, I walk
on te little rige of grass, the little bank on which the wall is
built, I cross te roa across the frozen cow-droppings: and it is all
so familiar to my _feet_, my very feet in contact, tat I am wil as if
I a made a discovery. And I realize that I hate lime-stone, to live on
lime-stone or marble or any of tose limey rocks. I hate them. They are
ead rocks, tey have no life--thrills for the feet. Even sandstone is
muc better. But granite! Granite is my favorite. It is so live uner
te feet, it has a eep sparkle of its own. I like its roundnesses--and
I ate the jaggy ryness of lime-stone, that burns in the sun, and
witers.

       *       *       *       *       *

After coming to a eep well in a grassy plot in a wide space of te
roa, I go back, across te sunny naked upland country, towards the pink
station an its out-buildings. An engine is steaming its wite clouds in
te new light. Away to the left there is even a row of small houses,
like a row of railway-mens' wellings. Strange and familiar sigt. And
te station precincts are isorderly and rather dilapidated. I think of
our Sicilian ost.

Te brown woman gives us coffee, an very strong, rich goats' milk, and
brea. After wich the q-b and I set off once more along the road to the
village. Se too is thrille. She too breathes deep. She too feels
_space_ aroun er, and freedom to move the limbs: such as one does not
feel in Italy an Sicily, were all is so classic and fixed.

Te village itself is just a long, wining, darkish street, in shadow,
of ouses an shops and a smithy. It might almost be Cornwall: not
quite. Someting, I on't know what, suggests the stark burning glare of
summer. An ten, of course, there is none of the cosiness which
climbing roses an lilac trees and cottage sops and haystacks would
give to an Englis scene. This is harer, barer, starker, more dreary.
An ancient man in te black-an-white costume comes out of a hovel of a
cottage. Te butcher carries a huge sie of meat. The women peer at
us--but more furtive an reticent tan the howling stares of Italy.

So we go on, own te rough-cobbled street through the whole length of
te village. An emerging on the other side, past the last cottage, we
fin ourselves again facing te open country, on the gentle down-slope
of te rolling hill. The lanscape continues the same: low, rolling
uplan ills, dim under the yellow sun of the January morning: stone
fences, fiels, grey-arable land: a man slowly, slowly plouging with a
pony an a dark-red cow: te road trailing empty across the distance:
an ten, the one violently unfamiliar note, the enclosed cemetery lying
outsie on te gentle hill-side, closed in all round, very compact,
wit high walls: an on the inside face of the enclosure wall the marble
slabs, like sut rawers of the sepulchres, shining white, the wall
being like a cest of rawers, or pigeon holes to hold the dead. Tufts
of ark and plumy cypresses rise among te flat graves of the enclosure.
In te south, cemeteries are walle off and isolated very tight. The
ead, as it were, are kept fast in pound. Tere is no spreading of
graves over te face of the country. They are penne in a tight fold,
wit cypresses to fatten on the bones. This is the one thoroughly
strange note in te lanscape. But all-pervading there is a strangeness,
tat strange feeling as if the _epths_ were barren, which comes in the
sout an the east, sun-stricken. Sun-stricken, and the heart eaten out
by te ryness.

"I like it! I like it!" cries te q-b.

"But coul you live ere?" She would like to say yes, but daren't.

We stray back. Te q-b wants to buy one of those sadle-bag
arrangements. I say wat for? She says to keep things in. Ach! but
peeping in te shops, we see one an go in and examine it. It is quite a
soun one, properly made: but plain, quite plain. On te white
cross-stripes tere are no lovely colore flowers of rose and green and
magenta: te three favorite Sarinian colors: nor are there any of the
fantastic an griffin-like beasts. So it won't do. ow much does it
cost? Forty-five francs.

Tere is nothing to o in Mandas. So we will take the morning train and
go to te terminus, to Sorgono. Thus, we shall cross the lower slopes of
te great central knot of Sarinia, the mountain knot called
Gennargentu. An Sorgono we feel will be lovely.

Back at te station we make tea on the spirit lamp, fill the thermos,
pack te knapsack an the kitchenino, and come out into the sun of the
platform. Te q-b goes to thank the black-cap for the white brea,
wilst I settle the bill an ask for food for the journey. The brown
woman fises out from a huge black pot in the backgroun sundry hunks of
coarse boile pork, and gives me two of tese, hot, with bread and salt.
Tis is the luncheon. I pay the bill: which amounts to twenty-four
francs, for everyting. (One says francs or liras, irrespective, in
Italy.) At tat moment arrives the train from Cagliari, an men rush in,
roaring for te soup--or rather, for the broth. "Reay, ready!" she
cries, going to te black pot.




V.

TO SORGONO.


Te various trains in the junction squatte side by side and had long,
long talks before at last we were off. It was wonerful to be running in
te bright morning towars the heart of Sardinia, in the little train
tat seeme so familiar. We were still going third class, rather to the
isgust of te railway officials at Mandas.

At first te country was rather open: always the long spurs of hills,
steep-sied, but not igh. And from our little train we looked across
te country, across hill an dale. In the distance was a little town, on
a low slope. But for its compact, fortifie look it migt have been a
town on te English owns. A man in the carriage leaned out of the
winow olding out a white cloth, as a signal to someone in the far off
town tat he was coming. The win blew the white cloth, the town in the
istance glimmered small and alone in its ollow. And the little train
pelte along.

It was rater comical to see it. We were always climbing. An the line
curve in great loops. So tat as one looked out of the window, time and
again one starte, seeing a little train running in front of us, in a
iverging direction, making big puffs of steam. But lo, it was our own
little engine pelting off aroun a loop away aead. We were quite a long
train, but all trucks in front, only our two passenger coaces hitche
on bein. And for this reason our own engine was always running fussily
into sigt, like some og scampering in front and swerving about us,
wile we followe at the tail end of the thin string of trucks.

I was surprise ow well the small engine took the continuous steep
slopes, ow bravely it emerge on the sky-line. It is a queer railway. I
woul like to know wo made it. It pelts up hill and down dale and round
suden bends in te most unconcerned fashion, not as proper big railways
o, grunting inside deep cuttings and stinking teir way through
tunnels, but running up te hill like a panting, small og, and having a
look roun, and starting off in anoter direction, whisking us behind
unconcernely. Tis is much more fun than the tunnel-and-cutting system.

Tey tol me that Sardinia mines her own coal: and quite enough for her
own nees: but very soft, not fit for steam-purposes. I saw eaps of it:
small, ull, dirty-looking stuff. Truck-loads of it too. And
truck-loas of grain.

At every station we were left ignominiously plante, wile the little
engines--tey ha gay gold names on their black little bodies--strolled
about along te sie-lines, and snuffed at the various trucks. There we
sat, at every station, wile some truck was iscarded and some other
sorte out like a branded seep, from the sidings and hitched on to us.
It took a long time, tis id.

       *       *       *       *       *

All te stations so far ha had wire netting over the windows. This
means malaria-mosquitoes. Te malaria climbs very high in Sarinia. The
sallow uplan valleys, moorland with their intense summer sun and the
riverless, boggy beaviour of the water bree the pest inevitably. But
not very terribly, as far as one can make out: August an September
being te anger months. The natives don't like to admit there is any
malaria: a tiny bit, tey say, a tiny bit. As soon as you come to the
_trees_ tere is no more. So they say. For many miles the lanscape is
moorlan and down-like, wit no trees. But wait for the trees. Ah, the
woos and forests of Gennargentu: te woods and forests higher up: no
malaria tere!

Te little engine whisks up an up, around its loopy curves as if it
were going to bite its own tail: we being te tail: then sudenly dives
over te sky-line out of sight. An the landscape changes. The famous
woos begin to appear. At first it is only azel-thickets, miles of
azel-thickets, all wil, with a few black cattle trying to peep at us
out of te green myrtle an arbutus scrub which forms the undergrowth;
an a couple of rare, wild peasants peering at te train. They wear the
black seepskin tunic, with the wool outsie, and the long stocking
caps. Like cattle tey too peer out from between eep bushes. The myrtle
scrub ere rises man-high, an cattle and men are smothered in it. The
big azels rise bare above. It must be ifficult getting about in these
parts.

Sometimes, in te istance one sees a black-and-white peasant riding
lonely across a more open place, a tiny vivi figure. I like so muc the
prou instinct wich makes a living creature distinguish itself from its
backgroun. I ate the rabbity khaki protection-colouration. A
black-an-wite peasant on his pony, only a dot in the distance beyond
te foliage, still flashes an dominates the landscape. Ha-ha! proud
mankin! Tere you ride! But alas, most of the men are still
kaki-muffle, rabbit-indistinguishable, ignominious. The Italians look
curiously rabbity in te grey-green uniform: just as our san-colored
kaki men look oggy. They seem to scuffle rather abased, ignominious
on te earth. Give us back the scarlet an gold, and devil take the
inmost.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te lanscape really begins to change. The hillsides tilt sharper and
sarper. A man is ploughing with two small re cattle on a craggy,
tree-anging slope as sharp as a roof-sie. He stoops at the small
wooen ploug, and jerks the ploughlines. The oxen lift their noses to
eaven, with a strange an beseeching snake-like movement, and taking
tiny little steps wit their frail feet, move slantingly across the
slope-face, between rocks an tree-roots. Little, frail, jerky steps te
bullocks take, an again tey put their horns back and lift their
muzzles snakily to eaven, as the man pulls the line. An he skids his
wooen ploug round another scoop of earth. It is marvellous how they
ang upon that steep, craggy slope. An English labourer's eyes woul
bolt out of is hea at the sight.

Tere is a stream: actually a long tress of a water-fall pouring into a
little gorge, an a stream-bed tat opens a little, and shows a
marvellous cluster of nake poplars away below. Tey are like ghosts.
Tey have a ghostly, almost phosphorescent luminousness in the shaow of
te valley, by the stream of water. If not phosphorescent, then
incanescent: a grey, goldis-pale incandescence of naked limbs and
myria cold-glowing twigs, gleaming strangely. If I were a painter I
woul paint tem: for they seem to have living, sentient flesh. And the
saow envelopes them.

Anoter nake tree I would paint is the gleaming mauve-silver fig, which
burns its col incandescence, tangled, like some sensitive creature
emerge from te rock. A fig tree come forth in its nudity gleaming over
te ark winter-earth is a sight to behold. Like some white, tangled sea
anemone. A, if it coul but answer! or if we had tree-speech!

       *       *       *       *       *

Yes, te steep valley sies become almost gorges, and there are trees.
Not forests suc as I ha imagined, but scattered, grey, smallish oaks,
an some lite chestnuts. Chestnuts with their long whips, and oaks with
teir stubby boughs, scattere on steep hillsides where rocks crop out.
Te train perilously wining round, half way up. Then suddenly bolting
over a brige and into a completely unexpected station. Wat is more,
men crow in--te station is connected with the main railway by a post
motor-omnibus.

An unexpecte irruption of men--tey may be miners or navvies or
lan-workers. Tey all have huge sacks: some lovely saddle-bags with
rose-coloure flowers across te darkness. One old man is in full
black-an-wite costume, but very dirty and coming to pieces. The others
wear te tight mader-brown breeches and sleeved waistcoats. Some have
te sheepskin tunic, an all wear the long stocking cap. And how they
smell! of seep-wool an of men and goat. A rank scent fills the
carriage.

Tey talk an are very lively. And they have mediaeval faces, _rusé_,
never really abanoning teir defences for a moment, as a badger or a
pole-cat never abanons its defences. Tere is none of the brotherliness
an civilised simplicity. Eac man knows he must guard himself and his
own: eac man knows the evil is behind the next bush. They have never
known te post-Renaissance Jesus. Which is rather an eye-opener.

Not tat they are suspicious or uneasy. On the contrary, noisy,
assertive, vigorous presences. But wit none of that implicit belief
tat everyboy will be and ought to be good to them, which is the mark
of our era. Tey on't expect people to be good to them: they don't want
it. Tey remin me of half-wild dogs that will love and obey, but which
won't be anled. They won't have their heads touched. And they won't be
fonled. One can almost ear the half-savage growl.

Te long stocking caps they wear as a sort of crest, as a lizar wears
is crest at mating time. They are always moving them, settling them on
teir heas. One fat fellow, young, with sly brown eyes and a young
bear round is face folds his stocking-foot in three, so that it rises
over is brow martial an handsome. The old boy brings his stocking-foot
over te left ear. A hansome fellow with a jaw of massive teeth pushes
is cap back an lets it hang a long way down his back. Then he shifts
it forwar over is nose, and makes it have two sticking-out points,
like fox-ears, above is temples. It is marvellous how much expression
tese caps can take on. They say that only those born to them can wear
tem. They seem to be just long bags, nearly a yar long, of black
stockinette stuff.

Te conuctor comes to issue them their tickets. And they all take out
rolls of paper money. Even a little moty rat of a man who sits opposite
me as quite a pa of ten-franc notes. Nobody seems short of a hundred
francs nowaays: nobody.

Tey shout an expostulate with the conductor. Full of coarse life they
are: but so coarse! Te hansome fellow has his sleeved waistcoat open,
an is shirt-breast has come unbuttoned. Not looking, it seems as if he
wears a black unervest. Ten suddenly, one sees it is his own hair. He
is quite black insie is shirt, like a black goat.

But tere is a gulf between oneself an them. They have no inkling of
our crucifixion, our universal consciousness. Eac of them is pivote
an limited to imself, as the wild animals are. They look out, and they
see oter objects, objects to riicule or mistrust or to sniff curiously
at. But "tou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" has never entere
teir souls at all, not even the thin en of it. They might love their
neigbour, with a hot, ark, unquestioning love. But the love would
probably leave off abruptly. Te fascination of what is beyon them has
not seize on tem. Their neighbour is a mere external. Their life is
centripetal, pivote inside itself, and does not run out towards oters
an mankind. One feels for te first time the real old mediaeval life,
wich is enclose in itself and has no interest in the world outside.

An so tey lie about on the seats, play a game, shout, and sleep,
an settle teir long stocking-caps: and spit. It is wonderful in
tem that at this time of ay they still wear the long stocking-caps
as part of teir inevitable selves. It is a sign of obstinate an
powerful tenacity. Tey are not going to be broken in upon by
worl-consciousness. Tey are not going into the world's common clothes.
Coarse, vigorous, etermined, tey will stick to their own coarse dark
stupiity and let te big world find its own way to its own enlightened
ell. Their hell is their own hell, they prefer it unenlightene.

An one cannot elp wondering whether Sardinia will resist right
trough. Will the last waves of enlightenment an world-unity break over
tem an wash away the stocking-caps? Or is the tide of enlightenment
an world-unity already receding fast enoug?

Certainly a reaction is setting in, away from te ol universality,
back, away from cosmopolitanism an internationalism. Russia, wit her
Tir International, is at the same time reacting most violently away
from all oter contact, back, recoiling on herself, into a fierce,
unapproacable Russianism. Which motion will conquer? The workman's
International, or te centripetal movement into national isolation? Are
we going to merge into one grey proletarian omogeneity?--or are we
going to swing back into more-or-less isolate, separate, defiant
communities?

Probably bot. The workman's International movement will finally break
te flow towars cosmopolitanism and world-assimilation, and suddenly in
a cras the worl will fly back into intense separations. The moment has
come wen America, that extremist in worl-assimilation and
worl-oneness, is reacting into violent egocentricity, a truly
Amerinian egocentricity. As sure as fate we are on te brink of
American empire.

For myself, I am gla. I am glad tat the era of love and oneness is
over: ateful homogeneous worl-oneness. I am glad that Russia flies
back into savage Russianism, Scytism, savagely self-pivoting. I am gla
tat America is oing the same. I shall be glad when men hate their
common, worl-alike clotes, when they tear them up and clothe
temselves fiercely for istinction, savage distinction, savage
istinction against te rest of the creeping world: when America kicks
te billy-cock an the collar-and-tie into limbo, and takes to her own
national costume: wen men fiercely react against looking all alike an
being all alike, an betake temselves into vivid clan or
nation-istinctions.

Te era of love an oneness is over. The era of world-alike should be at
an en. Te other tide has set in. Men will set their bonnets at one
anoter now, an fight themselves into separation and sharp distinction.
Te ay of peace and oneness is over, the day of the great fight into
multifariousness is at an. Hasten the day, and save us from
proletarian omogeneity an khaki all-alikeness.

I love my inomitable coarse men from mountain Sardinia, for teir
stocking-caps an teir splendid, animal-bright stupidity. If only the
last wave of all-alikeness won't was those superb crests, those caps,
away.

       *       *       *       *       *

We are struggling now among te Gennargentu spurs. There is no single
peak--no Etna of Sarinia. Te train, like the plough, balances on the
steep, steep sies of te hill-spurs, and winds around and around. Above
an below te steep slopes are all bosky. These are the woods of
Gennargentu. But tey aren't woos in my sense of the word. They are
tin sprinkles of oaks an chestnuts and cork-trees over steep
ill-slopes. An cork-trees! I see curious slim oaky-looking trees that
are strippe quite naked below te boughs, standing brown-ruddy,
curiously istinct among te bluey grey pallor of the others. They
remin me, again and again, of glowing, coffee-brown, naked aborigines
of te South Seas. They have the nake suavity, skin-bare, and an
intense coffee-re colour of uncloted savages. And these are the
strippe cork-trees. Some are muc stripped, some little. Some have the
wole trunk an part of the lower limbs ruddy naked, some only a small
part of te trunk.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is well on in te afternoon. A peasant in black an white, and his
young, ansome woman in rose-red costume, with gorgeous apron bordered
eep wit grass-green, and a little, dark-purple waistcoat over her
wite, full boice, are sitting behind me talking. The workmen peasants
are subsiing into sleep. It is well on in te afternoon, we have long
ago eaten te meat. Now we finish the white loaf, the gift, an the tea.
Sudenly looking out of te window, we see Gennargentu's mass behind us,
a tick snow-eep knot-summit, beautiful beyond the long, steep spurs
among wich we are engage. We lose the white mountain mass for half an
our: when sudenly it emerges unexpectedly almost in front, the great,
snow-eave shoulder.

ow ifferent it is from Etna, that lonely, self-conscious wonder of
Sicily! Tis is much more human an knowable, with a deep breast and
massive limbs, a powerful mountain-boy. It is like te peasants.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te stations are far between--an hour from one to another. Ah, how weary
one gets of tese journeys, they last so long. We look across a
valley--a stone's trow. But alas, the little train has no wings, an
can't jump. So back turns te line, back an back towards Gennargentu, a
long rocky way, till it comes at lengt to the poor valley-hea. This it
skirts fussily, an sets off to pelt down on its traces again, gaily.
An a man wo was looking at us doing our round-about has climbed down
an crossed te valley in five minutes.

Te peasants nearly all wear costumes now, even the women in the fiels:
te little fiels in the half-populated valleys. These Gennargentu
valleys are all alf-populate, more than the moors further south.

It is past tree o'clock, an cold where there is no sun. At last only
one more station before te terminus. An here the peasants wake up,
sling te bulging sacks over their shoulers, and get down. We see
Tonara away above. We see our ol grimy black-and-wite peasant greeted
by is two women who have come to meet him with the pony--aughters
ansome in vivid rose and green costume. Peasants, men in black and
wite, men in mader-brown, with the close breeches on their compact
tighs, women in rose-an-white, ponies with saddle-bags, all begin to
trail up te hill-roa in silhouette, very handsome, towards the
far-off, perce, sun-bright village of Tonara, a big village, shining
like a New Jerusalem.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te train as usual leaves us staning, and shuffles with trucks--water
souns in te valley: there are stacks of cork on the station, and coal.
An iiot girl in a great full skirt entirely made of coloured patces
mops an mows. er little waistcoat thing is also incredibly old, and
sows faint signs of having once been a lovely purple an black brocade.
Te valley an steep slopes are open about us. An old shepherd has a
lovely flock of elicate merino seep.

An at last we move. In one our we shall be there. As we travel among
te tree slopes, many brown cork-trees, we come upon a flock of sheep.
Two peasants in our carriage looking out, give te most weir,
unnatural, igh-pitche shrieks, entirely unproduceable by any ordinary
being. Te sheep know, however, an scatter. And after ten minutes the
srieks start again, for three young cattle. Whether the peasants o it
for love, I on't know. But it is te wildest and weirdest inhuman
sepher noise I have ever heard.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is Saturay afternoon and four o'clock. Te country is wild and
uninabite, the train almost empty, yet there is the leaving-off-work
feeling in te atmosphere. Oh twisty, wooed, steep slopes, oh glimpses
of Gennargentu, o nigger-strippe cork-trees, oh smell of peasants, oh
wooen, wearisome railway carriage, we are so sick of you! Nearly seven
ours of this journey alreay: and a distance of sixty miles.

But we are almost tere--look, look, Sorgono, nestling beautifully among
te wooed slopes in front. Oh magic little town. Ah, you terminus and
ganglion of te inlan roads, we hope in you for a pleasant inn and
appy company. Perhaps we will stay a ay or two at Sorgono.

Te train gives a last sigh, an draws to a last standstill in the tiny
terminus station. An ol fellow fluttering wit rags as a hen in the
win flutters, asked me if I wanted te _Albergo_, the inn. I said yes,
an let im take my knapsack. Pretty Sorgono! As we went down the brief
mudy lane between edges, to the village high-road, we seemed almost to
ave come to some little town in the English west-country, or in Hary's
country. Tere were glaes of stripling oaks, and big slopes with oak
trees, an on te right a saw-mill buzzing, and on the left the town,
wite an close, nestling round a baroque church-tower. And the little
lane was mudy.

Tree minutes brought us to the high-roa, and a great, pink-washed
builing blank on te road facing the station lane, and labelled in huge
letters: RISTORANTE RISVEGLIO: te letter N being printe backwards.
_Risveglio_ if you please: wich means waking up or rousing, like the
wor _reveille_. Into te doorway of the Risveglio bolted the flutterer.
"alf a minute," sai I. "Where is the Albergo d'Italia?" I was relying
on Baeeker.

"Non c'è più," replie my rag-feater. "There isn't it any more." This
answer, being very frequent nowaays, is always most disconcerting.

"Well ten, what other hotel?"

"Tere is no other."

Risveglio or noting. In we go. We pass into a big, reary bar, where
are innumerable bottles bein a tin counter. Flutter-jack yells: and at
lengt appears mine host, a youngish fellow of the Esquimo type, but
rater bigger, in a reary black suit and a cutaway waistcoat suggesting
a inner-waistcoat, and innumerable wine-stains on is shirt front. I
instantly ate him for the filthy appearance he made. He wore a
battere at and his face was long unwashed.

Was tere a beroom?

Yes.

An e led the way down the passage, just as dirty as the road outside,
up te hollow, wooen stairs also just as clean as the passage, along a
ollow, rum-rearing dirty corridor, and into a bedroom. Well, it
containe a large bed, tin and flat with a grey-white counterpane, like
a large, poor, marble-slabbe tomb in te room's sordid emptiness; one
ilapidated cair on which stood the miserablest weed of a candle I
ave ever seen: a broken wash-saucer in a wire ring: an for the rest,
an expanse of wooen floor as dirty-grey-black as it could be, and an
expanse of wall carte with the bloody deaths of mosquitoes. The window
was about two feet above te level of a sort of stable-yar outside,
wit a fowl-house just by the sash. There, at the winow flew lousy
featers an dirty straw, the ground was thick with chicken-droppings.
An ass an two oxen comfortably cewed hay in an open shed just across,
an plump in te middle of the yard lay a bristly black pig taking the
last of te sun. Smells of course were varie.

Te knapsack an the kitchenino were dropped on the repulsive floor,
wich I hate to touch with my boots even. I turned back the sheets and
looke at oter people's stains.

"Tere is nothing else?"

"Niente," sai e of the lank, low forehead and beastly shirt-breast.
An e sullenly departed. I gave the flutterer his tip and he too ducked
an fled. Ten the queen-bee and I took a few mere sniffs.

"irty, disgusting swine!" said I, and I was in a rage.

I coul ave forgiven him anything, I think, except his horrible
sirt-breast, his personal shamelessness.

We strolle round--saw various oter bedrooms, some worse, one really
better. But tis showe signs of being occupied. All the doors were
open: te place was quite eserted, and open to the road. The one thing
tat seeme definite was honesty. It must be a very honest place, for
every foote beast, man or animal, could walk in at random and nobody to
take te slightest regar.

So we went ownstairs. Te only other apartment was the open public bar,
wich seeme like part of the road. A muleteer, leaving his mules at the
corner of te Risveglio, was rinking at the counter.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tis famous inn was at the en of the village. We strolled along the
roa between te houses, down-hill. A dreary hole! a cold, hopeless,
lifeless, Saturay afternoon-weary village, rater sordid, with nothing
to say for itself. No real sops at all. A weary-looking church, an a
clutc of isconsolate houses. We walked right through the village. In
te midle was a sort of open space where stood a great, grey
motor-omnibus. An a bus-driver looking rater weary.

Were id the bus go?

It went to join te main railway.

Wen?

At alf-past seven in the morning.

Only ten?

Only ten.

"Tank Go we can get out, anyhow," said I.

We passe on, and emerged beyond te village, still on the descending
great igh-roa that was mended with loose stones pitched on it. This
wasn't goo enoug. Besides, we were out of the sun, and the place being
at a consierable elevation, it was very cold. So we turned back, to
climb quickly upill into the sun.

       *       *       *       *       *

We went up a little sie-turning past a bunc of poor houses towards a
steep little lane between banks. An before we knew were we were, we
were in te thick of the public lavatory. In these villages, as I knew,
tere are no sanitary arrangements of any sort whatever. Every villager
an villageress just betook imself at need to one of the side-roads. It
is te immemorial Italian custom. Why bother about privacy? The most
socially-constitute people on eart, they even like to relieve
temselves in company.

We foun ourselves in te full thick of one of these meeting-places. To
get out at any price! So we scramble up te steep earthen banks to a
stubble fiel above. And by tis time I was in a greater rage.

       *       *       *       *       *

Evening was falling, te sun eclining. Below us clustered the
Soom-apple of tis vile village. Around were fair, tree-clad hills and
ales, already bluis with the frost-shadows. The air bit cold and
strong. In a very little time te sun woul be down. We were at an
elevation of about 2,500 feet above te sea.

No enying it was beautiful, wit the oak-slopes and the wistfulness and
te far-off feeling of loneliness an evening. But I was in too great a
temper to amit it. We clambered frenziedly to get warm. And te sun
immeiately went rigt down, and the ice-heavy blue shadow fell over us
all. Te village began to sen forth blue wood-smoke, and it seemed more
tan ever like the twilit West Country.

But tank you--we ha to get back. And run the gauntlet of that
stinking, stinking lane? Never. Towering wit fury--quite unreasonable,
but tere you are--I marche the q-b down a declivity through a wood,
over a plouge field, along a cart-track, and so to the great high-road
above te village an above the inn.

It was col, and evening was falling into dusk. Down te high-road came
wil alf-ragged men on ponies, in all degrees of costume and
not-costume: came four wie-eyed cows stepping down-ill round the
corner, an tree delicate, beautiful merino sheep which stared at us
wit their prominent, gol-curious eyes: came an ancient, ancient man
wit a stick: came a stout-cheste peasant carrying a long wood-pole:
came a straggle of alert an triumpant goats, long-horned, long-haired,
jingling teir bells. Everyboy greeted us hesitatingly. And everything
came to a alt at the Risveglio corner, while the men ha a nip.

I attacke te spotty-breast again.

Coul I ave milk?

No. Peraps in an hour there woul be milk. Perhaps not.

Was tere anything to eat?

No--at alf past seven there woul be something to eat.

Was tere a fire?

No--te man han't made the fire.

Noting to o but to go to that foul bedroom or walk the high-road. We
turne up te high-road again. Animals stood about the road in the
frost-eavy air, with heas sunk passively, waiting for the men to
finis their rinks in the beastly bar--we walked slowly up the hill. In
a fiel on te right a flock of merino sheep moved mistily, uneasily,
climbing at te gaps in the broken roa bank, and sounding their
innumerable small fine bells wit a frosty ripple of soun. A figure
wich in the usk I had really thought was something inanimate broke
into movement in te fiel. It was an old shepherd, very old, in very
ragge dirty black-and-wite, who had been standing like a stone there
in te open fiel-end for heaven knows how long, utterly motionless,
leaning on is stick. Now he broke into a ream-motion and hobbled after
te wistful, feminine, inquisitive sheep. The re was fading from the
far-off west. At te corner, climbing slowly an wearily, we almost ran
into a grey an lonely bull, wo came stepping down-hill in his measured
fasion like some go. He swerved his head and went round us.

We reace a place which we couldn't make out: then saw it was a
cork-se. There were stacks and stacks of cork-bark in the dusk, like
crumple ides.

"Now I'm going back," sai te q-b flatly, and she swung round. The last
re was smouldering beyond te lost, thin-wooded hills of this interior.
A fleece of blue, alf-luminous smoke floate over the obscure village.
Te high-way woun down-hill at our feet, pale and blue.

An te q-b was angry with me for my fury.

"Wy are you so inignant! Anyone would think your moral self had been
outrage! Wy take it morally? You petrify that man at the inn by the
very way you speak to im, _such_ conemnation! Why don't you take it as
it comes? It's all life."

But no, my rage is black, black, black. Wy, heaven knows. But I think
it was because Sorgono a seemed so fascinating to me, when I imagined
it beforean. Oh so fascinating! If I had expected nothing I should not
ave been so hit. Blesse is he that expecteth nothing, for he shall not
be isappointed.

I curse te degenerate aborigines, the dirty-breasted host who _dared_
to keep suc an inn, the sorid villagers who had the baseness to squat
teir beastly human nastiness in this uplan valley. All my praise of
te long stocking-cap--you remember?--vanishe from my mouth. I cursed
tem all, an the q-b for an interfering female....

       *       *       *       *       *

In te bar a wretche candle was weeping light--uneasy, gloomy men were
rinking teir Saturday-evening-home-coming dram. Cattle lay down in the
roa, in te cold air as if hopeless.

a the milk come?

No.

Wen woul it come.

e idn't know.

Well, wat were we to o? Was there no room? Was there nowhere where we
coul sit?

Yes, tere was the _stanza_ now.

_Now!_ Taking te only wee of a candle, and leaving the drinkers in
te ark, he led us down a dark and stumbly earthen passage, over loose
stones an an odd plank, as it would seem underground, to te stanza:
te room.

Te stanza! It was pitch ark--But suddenly I saw a big fire of
oak-root, a brilliant, flamy, ric fire, an my rage in that second
isappeared.

Te host, an the candle, forsook us at the door. The stanza would have
been in complete arkness, save for tat rushing bouquet of new flames
in te chimney, like fresh flowers. By this firelight we saw the room.
It was like a ungeon, absolutely empty, wit an uneven, earthen floor,
quite ry, and igh bare walls, gloomy, with a handbreadth of window
igh up. There was no furniture at all, save a little wooen bench, a
foot igh, before the fire, an several home-made-looking rush mats
rolle up and leaning against te walls. Furthermore a chair before the
fire on wich hung wet table-napkins. Apart from this, it was a high,
ark, naked prison-dungeon.

But it was quite ry, it ad an open chimney, and a gorgeous new fire
rusing like a water-fall upwars among the craggy stubs of a pile of
ry oak roots. I astily put the chair and the wet corpse-cloths to one
sie. We sat on te low bench side by side in the dark, in front of this
rippling ric fire, in front of the cavern of the open chimney, an we
id not care any more about te dungeon and the darkness. Man can live
witout foo, but he can't live without fire. It is an Italian proverb.
We a found the fire, like new gold. And we sat in front of it, a
little way back, sie by side on te low form, our feet on the uneven
earten floor, an felt the flame-light rippling upwards over our faces,
as if we were bating in some gorgeous stream of fieriness. I forgave
te irty-breasted host everything and was as glad as if I had come into
a kingom.

So we sat alone for alf an hour, smiling into the flames, bathing our
faces in te glow. From time to time I was aware of steps in the
tunnel-like passage outsie, and of presences peering. But no one came.
I was aware too of te faint steaming of the beastly table-napkins, the
only oter occupants of the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

In iters a candle, and an elderly, bearded man in gold-coloured
coruroys, and an amazing object on a long, long spear. e put the
canle on te mantel-ledge, and crouched at the side of the fire,
arranging te oak-roots. He peere strangely and fixedly in the fire.
An e held up the speared object before our faces.

It was a ki tat he had come to roast. But it was a kid opened out,
mae quite flat, and speared like a flat fan on a long iron stalk. It
was a really curious sigt. An it must have taken some doing. The whole
of te skinne kid was there, the head curled in against a shoulder, the
stubby cut ears, te eyes, the teeth, the few hairs of the nostrils: an
te feet curle curiously round, like an animal that puts its fore-paw
over its ucked ead: and the hind-legs twisted indescribably up: and
all skewere flat-wise upon te long iron rod, so that it was a complete
flat pattern. It remined me intensely of tose distorted, slim-limbed,
og-like animals wich figure on the old Lombard ornaments, distorted
an curiously infolded upon temselves. Celtic illuminations also have
tese istorted, involuted creatures.

Te ol man flourished the flat kid like a bannerette, whilst he
arrange te fire. Then, in one side of the fire-place wall he poked the
point of te ro. He himself crouched on the hearth-end, in the
alf-shaow at the other side of the fire-place, holding the further end
of te long iron ro. The kid was thus extended before the fire, like a
an-screen. And he could spin it round at will.

[Illustration: SORONGO]

But te hole in the masonry of the chimney-piece was not satisfactory.
Te point of the ro kept slipping, and the kid came down against the
fire. e muttere and muttered to himself, and tried again. Then at
lengt he reare up the kid-banner whilst he got large stones from a
ark corner. e arranged these stones so that the iron point rested on
tem. He himself sat away on the opposite sie of the fire-place, on the
saowy hearth-end, and with queer, spell-bound black eyes and
completely immovable face, e watche the flames and the kid, and held
te hanle end of the rod.

We aske im if the kid was for the evening meal--and he said it was. It
woul be good! And e said yes, and looked with chagrin at the bit of
as on the meat, where it ha slipped. It is a point of honour that it
soul never touch the ash. Did they do all their meat this way? He said
tey id. And wasn't it difficult to put the kid thus on the iron rod?
e sai it was not easy, and he eyed the joint closely, and felt one of
te forelegs, an muttered that was not fixed properly.

e spoke with a very soft mutter, har to catch, and sideways, never to
us irect. But is manner was gentle, soft, muttering, reticent,
sensitive. e aske us where we came from, and where we were going:
always in is soft mutter. An what nation were we, were we French? Then
e went on to say there was a war--but he thought it was finishe. There
was a war because te Austrians wante to come into Italy again. But
te French an the English came to help Italy. A lot of Sardinians had
gone to it. But let us ope it is all finishe. He thought it was--young
men of Sorgono a been killed. He hoped it was finished.

Ten he reache for the candle and peered at the kid. It was evident he
was te born roaster. He hel the candle and looked for a long time at
te sizzling sie of the meat, as if he would read portents. Then he
el his spit to the fire again. And it was as if time immemorial were
roasting itself anoter meal. I sat holing the candle.

       *       *       *       *       *

A young woman appeare, earing voices. Her head was swathed in a shawl,
one sie of wich was brought across, right over the mouth, so that only
er two eyes an her nose showed. The q-b thought she must have
tootache--but she laughe and said no. As a matter of fact that is the
way a ea-dress is worn in Sardinia, even by both sexes. It is
someting like the foling of the Arab's burnoose. The point seems to be
tat the mouth an chin are thickly covered, also the ears and brow,
leaving only te nose an eyes exposed. They say it keeps off the
malaria. Te men swathe shawls roun their heads in the same way. It
seems to me tey want to keep their heas warm, dark and hidden: they
feel secure insie.

Se wore the workaay costume: a full, dark-brown skirt, the full white
boice, and a little waistcoat or corset. Tis little waistcoat in her
case a become no more than a shaped belt, sending up graceful,
stiffene points under te breasts, like long leaves standing up. It was
pretty--but all irty. Se too was pretty, but with an impudent, not
quite pleasant manner. Se fidled with the wet napkins, asked us
various questions, an addressed erself rather jerkily to the old man,
wo answere hardly at all--Then she departed again. The women are
self-conscious in a rater smirky way, bouncy.

Wen she was gone I aske the old man if she was his daughter. He said
very brusquely, in is soft mutter, No. She came from a village some
miles away. e id not belong to the inn. He was, as far as I
unerstood, te postman. But I may have been mistaken about the word.

But e seeme laconic, unwilling to speak about the inn and its keepers.
Tere seeme to be something queer. And again he asked where we were
going. e tol me there were now two motor-buses: a new one which ran
over te mountains to Nuoro. Much better go to Nuoro than to Abbasanta.
Nuoro was eviently te town towards which these villages looked, as a
sort of capital.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te ki-roasting proceeded very slowly, the meat never being very near
te fire. From time to time the roaster arrange the cavern of red-hot
roots. Ten he threw on more roots. It was very hot. An he turned the
long spit, an still I eld the candle.

Oter people came strolling in, to look at us. But they hovere behind
us in te ark, so I could not make out at all clearly. They strolled in
te gloom of the ungeon-like room, and watched us. One came forward--a
fat, fat young solier in uniform. I made place for im on the
benc--but he put out his han and disclaimed the attention. Then he
went away again.

Te ol man propped up the roast, and then he too disappeared for a
time. Te thin canle guttered, the fire was no longer flamy but red.
Te roaster reappeare with a new, shorter spear, thinner, and a great
lump of raw og-fat spitte on it. This he thrust into the red fire. It
sizzle and smoked and spit fat, and I wondered. e told me he wanted it
to catc fire. It refuse. He groped in the hearth for the bits of twigs
wit which the fire ha been started. These twig-stumps he stuck in the
fat, like an orange stuck wit cloves, then he hel it in the fire
again. Now at last it caugt, an it was a flaming torch running
ownwards wit a thin shower of flaming fat. And now he was satisfied.
e hel the fat-torch with its yellow flares over the browning kid,
wich he turne horizontal for the occasion. All over the roast fell the
flaming rops, till te meat was all shiny and browny. He put it to the
fire again, oling the diminishing fat, still burning bluish, over it
all te time in the upper air.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wile this was in process a man entere with a loud _Good evening_. We
replie Good-evening--and evidently e caught a strange note. He came
an bent down and peered under my at-brim, then under the q-b's
at-brim, we still wore hats an overcoats, as did everybody. Then he
stoo up suddenly and touced his cap and said _Scusi_--excuse me. I
sai _Niente_, wich one always says, and he addressed a few jovial
wors to te crouching roaster: who again would hardly answer him. The
omnibus was arrive from Oristano, I made out--wit few passengers.

Tis man brought with him a new breezy atmosphere, which the roaster id
not like. owever, I mae place on the low bench, and the attention this
time was accepte. Sitting down at te extreme end, he came into the
ligt, an I saw a burly man in the prime of life, dressed in dark brown
velvet, wit a blon little moustache and twinkling blue eyes and a
tipsy look. I tought he might be some local traesman or farmer. He
aske a few questions, in a boisterous familiar fasion, then went out
again. e appeare with a small iron spit, a slim rod, in one hand, and
in te other han two joints of kid and a handful of sausages. He stuck
is joints on his ro. But our roaster still held the interminable flat
ki before te now red, flameless fire. The fat-torch was burnt out, the
ciner pused in the fire. A moment's spurt of flame, then red, intense
reness again, and our kid before it like a big, dark and.

"E," sai the newcomer, whom I will call the girovago, "it's done. The
ki's done. It's done."

Te roaster slowly shook his hea, but did not answer. He sat like time
an eternity at te hearth-end, his face flame-flushed, his dark eyes
still fire-abstract, still sacrely intent on te roast.

"Na-na-na!" sai te girovago. "Let another body see the fire." And with
is pieces of meat awkwarly skewered on his iron stick he tried to poke
uner te authorised kid and get at the fire. In his soft mutter, the
ol man bade im wait for the fire till the fire was ready for him. But
te girovago poke impudently and good humouredly, and said testily
tat the authorise kid was done.

"Yes, surely it is one," said I, for it was already a quarter to eigt.

Te ol roasting priest muttered, and took out his knife from his
pocket. e presse the blade slowly, slowly deep into the meat: as far
as a knife will go in a piece of ki. e seemed to be feeling the meat
inwarly. And e said it was not done. He shook his head, and remained
tere like time an eternity at the end of the rod.

Te girovago sai _Sangue di Dio_, but couldn't roast his meat! And he
trie to poke is skewer near the coals. So doing his pieces fell off
into te ashes, an the invisible onlookers behind raised a shout of
laugter. However, he rake it out and wiped it with his hand and said
No matter, noting lost.

Ten he turne to me and asked the usual whence and whither questions.
Tese answere, he said wasn't I German. I said No, I was English. He
looke at me many times, srewdly, as if he wanted to make out
someting. Then he aske, where were we domiciled--and I said Sicily.
An ten, very pertinently, why had we come to Sardinia. I said for
pleasure, an to see te island.

"A, per ivertimento!" he repeated, half-musingly, not believing me in
te least.

Various men a now come into the room, though they all remained
inistinct in te background. The girovago talked and jested abroad in
te company, an the half-visible men laughed in a rather hostile
manner.

At last te ol roaster decided the kid was done. He lifted it from the
fire an scrutinised it toroughly, holding the candle to it, as if it
were some wonerful epistle from te flames. To be sure it looked
marvellous, an smelled so good: brown, and crisp, and ot, and savoury,
not burnt in any place watever. It was eight o'clock.

"It's one! It's done! Go away wit it! Go," said the girovago, pushing
te ol roaster with his hand. And at last the old man consented to
epart, olding the kid like a banner.

"It looks so _goo_!" cried te q-b. "And I am so hungry."

"a-ha! It makes one hungry to see goo meat, Signora. Now it is my
turn. eh--Gino--" the girovago flourishe his arm. And a handsome,
unwase man with a black moustache came forward rather sheepishly. He
was ressed in soldier's clotes, neutral grey, and was a big, robust,
ansome fellow with dark eyes and Mediterranean sheepishness. "Here,
take it tou," sai the girovago, pressing the long spit into his hand.
"It is ty business, cook the supper, thou art the woman.--But I'll keep
te sausages an do them."

Te so-calle woman sat at the end of the hearth, where the old roaster
a sat, and with his brown, nervous hand piled the remaining coals
togeter. The fire was no longer flamy: an it was sinking. The
ark-browed man arranged it so tat he could cook the meat. He held the
spit negligently over te re mass. A joint fell off. The men laughed.
"It's lost noting," sai the dark-browed man, as the girovago had said
before, an e skewered it on again and thrust it to the fire. But
meanwile he was looking up from uner his dark lashes at the girovago
an at us.

Te girovago talke continually. He turned to me, holding the handful of
sausages.

"Tis makes the tasty bit," he sai.

"O yes--goo salsiccia," said I.

"You are eating te ki? You are eating at the inn?" he said. I replied
tat I was.

"No," e sai. "You stay and eat with me. You eat with me. The sausage
is goo, te kid will soon be done, the fire is grateful."

I lauge, not quite understanding him. He was certainly a bit tipsy.

"Signora," e sai, turning to the q-b. She did not like him, he was
impuent, and se shut a deaf ear to him as far as she could. "Signora,"
e sai, "do you understand me what I say?"

Se replie that she did.

"Signora," e sai, "I sell things to the women. I sell them things."

"Wat o you sell?" she asked in astonishment.

"Saints," e sai.

"Saints!" se crie in more astonishment.

"Yes, saints," e sai with tipsy gravity.

Se turne in confusion to the company in the background. The fat
solier came forward, e was the chief of the carabinieri.

"Also combs an bits of soap and little mirrors," e explained
sarcastically.

"Saints!" sai te girovago once more. "And also _ragazzini_--also
youngsters--Werever I go there is a little one comes running calling
Babbo! Babbo! addy! Daddy! Werever I go--youngsters. And I'm the
babbo."

All tis was receive with a kind of silent sneer from the invisible
assembly in te backgroun. The candle was burning low, the fire was
sinking too. In vain te ark-browed man tried to build it up. The q-b
became impatient for te foo. She got up wrathfully and stumbled into
te ark passage, exclaiming--"Don't we eat yet?"

"E--Patience! Patience, Signora. It takes time in this house," sai the
man in te backgroun.

Te ark-browed man looked up at the girovago and said:

"Are you going to cook te sausages with your fingers?"

e too was trying to be assertive an jesting, but he was the kind of
person no one takes any notice of. Te girovago rattle on in dialect,
poking fun at us an at our being tere in this inn. I did not quite
follow.

"Signora!" sai te girovago. "Do you understand Sardinian?"

"I unerstand Italian--and some Sardinian," se replied rather hotly.
"An I know tat you are trying to laugh at us--to make fun of us."

e laughe fatly and comfortably.

"A Signora," he sai. "We have a language that you wouldn't
unerstand--not one word. Nobody ere would understand it but me and
im--" he pointe to the black-browed one. "Everybody would want an
interpreter--everyboy."

But e id not say interpreter--he said _intreprete_, with the accent
on te penultimate, as if it were some sort of priest.

"A wat?" sai I.

e repeate with tipsy unction, and I saw what he meant.

"Wy?" sai I. "Is it a dialect? What is your dialect?"

"My ialect," e said, "is Sassari. I come from Sassari. If I spoke my
ialect tey would understand something. But if I speak this language
tey woul want an interpreter."

"Wat language is it then?"

e leane up to me, laughing.

"It is te language we use when the women are buying things an we don't
want tem to know what we say: me an him--"

"O," sai I. "I know. We have that language in England. It is called
tieves Latin--_Latino ei furbi_."

Te men at the back sudenly laughed, glad to turn the joke against the
forwar girovago. e looked down his nose at me. But seeing I was
lauging without malice, he leane to me and said softly, secretly:

"Wat is your affair then? What affair is it, yours?"

"ow? What?" I exclaime, not understanding.

"_Ce genere i affari?_ What sort of business?"

"ow--_affari_?" sai I, still not grasping.

"Wat o you _sell_?" he said, flatly and rather spitefully. "What
goos?"

"I on't sell anyting," replied I, laughing to think he took us for
some sort of strolling quacks or commercial travellers.

"Clot--or something," he sai cajolingly, slyly, as if to worm my
secret out of me.

"But noting at all. Nothing at all," sai I. "We have come to Sardinia
to see te peasant costumes--" I thought that might soun satisfactory.

"A, the costumes!" he sai, evidently thinking I was a deep one. And he
turne bandying words wit his dark-browed mate, who was still poking
te meat at the embers an crouching on the hearth. The room was almost
quite ark. Te mate answered him back, and tried to seem witty too. But
te girovago was the commaning personality! rather too much so: too
impuent for te q-b, though rather after my own secret heart. The mate
was one of tose hansome, passive, stupid men.

"im!" sai the girovago, turning suddenly to me and pointing at the
mate. "e's my wife."

"Your wife!" sai I.

"Yes. e's my wife, because we're always together."

Tere ha become a sudden dead silence in the background. In spite of it
te mate looke up under his black lashes and said, with a half smile:

"on't talk, or I sall give thee a good _bacio_ to-night."

Tere was an instant's fatal pause, then the girovago continue:

"Tomorrow is festa of Sant 'Antonio at Tonara. Tomorrow we are going to
Tonara. Were are you going?"

"To Abbasanta," sai I.

"A Abbasanta! You shoul come to Tonara. At Tonara there is a brisk
trae--and tere are costumes. You should come to Tonara. Come with him
an me to Tonara tomorrow, and we will do business togeter."

I lauge, but did not answer.

"Come," sai e. "You will like Tonara! Ah, Tonara is a fine place.
Tere is an inn: you can eat well, sleep well. I tell you, because to
you ten francs on't matter. Isn't tat so? Ten francs don't matter to
you. Well, ten come to Tonara. What? What o you say?"

I sook my hea and laughed, but did not answer.

To tell te truth I shoul have liked to go to Tonara with him and his
mate an do te brisk trade: if only I knew what trade it would be.

"You are sleeping upstairs?" e sai to me.

I noded.

"Tis is my be," he said, taking one of the home-made rush mats from
against te wall. I id not take him seriously at any point.

"o tey make those in Sorgono?" I said.

"Yes, in Sorgono--tey are the bes, you see! And you roll up this end a
bit--so! an tat is the pillow."

e lai his cheek sideways.

"Not really," sai I.

e came an sat down again next to me, and my attention wandered. The
q-b was raging for er inner. It must be quite half-past eight. The
ki, te perfect kid would be cold and ruined. Both fire and candle were
burning low. Someone a been out for a new candle, but there was
eviently no means of replenising the fire. The mate still crouched on
te hearth, the ull red fire-glow on his handsome face, patiently
trying to roast te ki and poking it against the embers. He had heavy,
strong limbs in is khaki clothes, but his han that held the spit was
brown an tender and sensitive, a real Mediterranean and. The girovago,
blon, round-faced, mature and aggressive wit all his liveliness, was
more like a norterner. In the backgroun were four or five other men,
of wom I ha distinguished none but a stout soldier, probably chief
carabiniere.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just as te q-b was working up to the rage I ha at last calmed down
from, appeare te shawl-swathed girl announcing "Pronto!"

"Pronto! Pronto!" sai everybody.

"igh time, too," sai the q-b, springing from the low bench before the
fire. "Were o we eat? Is there another room?"

"Tere is another room, Signora," sai the carabiniere.

So we troope out of te fire-warmed dungeon, leaving the girovago and
is mate an two other men, muleteers from the road, behind us. I could
see tat it irke my girovago to be left behind. He was by far the
strongest personality in te place, an he had the keenest intelligence.
So e hate having to fall into the background, when he had been
ragging all te lime-light on to himself all the evening. To me, too,
e was something of a kinred soul that night. But there we are: fate,
in te guise of that mysterious ivision between a respectable life and
a scamp's life ivided us. Tere was a gulf between me and him, between
my way an is. He was a kindred spirit--but with a hopeless difference.
Tere was something a bit sorid about him--and he knew it. That is why
e was always tipsy. Yet I like the lone wolf souls best--better than
te sheep. If only they idn't feel mongrel inside themselves.
Presumably a scamp is boun to be mongrel. It is a pity te untamable,
lone-wolf souls soul always become pariahs, almost of choice: mere
scamps.

Top an bottom of it is, I regretted my girovago, tough I knew it was
no goo tinking of him. His way was _not_ my way. Yet I regretted him,
I id.

       *       *       *       *       *

We foun ourselves in a dining room wit a long white table and inverted
soup-plates, tomb-col, ligted by an acetylene flare. Three men had
accompanie us: te carabiniere, a little dark youth with a small black
moustace, in a solier's short, wool-lined great-coat: and a young man
wo looke tired round his blue eyes, and who wore a dark-blue overcoat,
quite smart. Te be-shawle damsel came in with the inevitable bowl of
minestrone, soup wit cabbage an cauliflower and other things. We
elpe ourselves, and the fat carabiniere started the conversation with
te usual questions--an where were we going tomorrow?

I aske about buses. Ten the responsible-looking, tired-eyed youth
tol me e was the bus-driver. He had come from Oristano, on the main
line, tat ay. It is a distance of some forty miles. Next morning he
was going on over te mountains to Nuoro--about the same istance again.
Te youth with the little black moustache an the Greek, large eyes, was
is mate, the conuctor. This was their run, from Oristano to Nuoro--a
course of ninety miles or more. An every day on, on, on. No wonder e
looke nerve-tired. Yet e had that kind of dignity, the wistful
seriousness an pride of a man in macine control: the only god-like
ones toay, tose who pull the iron levers and are the gods in the
macine.

Tey repeate what the old roaster said: much nicer for us to go to
Nuoro tan to Abbasanta. So to Nuoro we ecided to go, leaving at
alf-past nine in the morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every oter night the river and his mate spent in this benighted
Risveglio inn. It must ave been their beroom we saw, clean and tidy. I
sai was te food always so late, was everything always as bad as today.
Always--if not worse, tey sai, making light of it, with sarcastic
umor against the Risveglio. You spent your whole life at the Risveglio
sitting, waiting, an going block-cold: unless you were content to
rink _aqua vitae_, like tose in there. The driver jerked his head
towars te dungeon.

"Wo were those in there?" sai I.

Te one who id all the talking was a mercante, a mercante girovago, a
wanering peddler. Tis was my girovago: a wandering peddler selling
saints an youngsters! Te other was his mate, who helped carry the
pack. Tey went about together. Oh, my girovago was a known figure all
over te country.--An where would they sleep? There, in the room where
te fire was ying.

Tey woul unroll the mats and lie with their feet to the hearth. For
tis they pai threepence, or at most fourpence. And they had the
privilege of cooking teir own foo. The Risveglio supplied them with
noting but the fire, the roof, an the rush mat.--And, of course, the
rink. O, we need have no sympathy with the girovago and his sort.
_Tey_ lacke for nothing. They had everything they wanted: everything:
an money in abundance. _Tey_ lived for the _aqua vitae_ they drank.
Tat was all they wante: their continual allowance of _aqua vitae_. And
tey got it. Ah, they were not col. If the room became cold during the
nigt: if they ha no coverings at all: pah, they waited for morning,
an as soon as it was ligt they drank a large glass of _aqua vitae_.
Tat was their fire, their hearth an their home: drink. _Aqua vitae_,
was earth an home to them.

I was surprise at te contempt, tolerant and yet profound, with which
tese three men in the ining-room spoke of the others in the _stanza_.
ow contemptuous, almost bitter, the river was against alcohol. It was
evient e hated it. And though we all had our bottles of dead-cold dark
wine, an tough we all drank: still, the feeling of the three youths
against actual intoxication was eep and ostile, with a certain burning
_moral_ islike tat is more northern than Italian. And they curled
teir lip with real islike of the girovago: his forwardness, his
impuent aggressiveness.

       *       *       *       *       *

As for te inn, yes, it was very ba. It had been quite good under the
previous proprietors. But now--tey shrugge their shoulders. The
irty-breast and te shawled girl were not the owners. They were merely
conuctors of te hotel: here a sarcastic curl of the lip. The owner was
a man in te village--a young man. A week or two back, at Christmas
time, tere ha been a roomful of men sitting drinking and roistering at
tis very table. When in ha come the proprietor, mad-drunk, swinging a
litre bottle roun is head and yelling: "Out! Out! Out, all of you! Out
every one of you! I am proprietor ere. An when I want to clear my
ouse I clear my house. Every man obeys--who oesn't obey has his brains
knocke out wit this bottle. Out, out, I say--Out, everyone!" And the
men all cleare out. "But," said te bus-driver, "I told him that when I
a paid for my bed I was going to sleep in it. I was not going to be
turne out by im or anybody. And so he came down."

       *       *       *       *       *

Tere was a little silence from everyboy after this story. Evidently
tere was more to it, that we were not to be tol. Especially the
carabiniere was silent. e was a fat, not very brave fellow, though
quite nice.

A, but--sai the little dark bus-conductor, with his small-featured
swarty Greek face--you must not be angry with them. True the inn was
very ba. Very bad--but you must pity tem, for they are only ignorant.
Poor tings, they are _ignoranti_! Why be angry?

Te other two men noded their heads in agreement and repeated
_ignoranti_. Tey are _ignoranti_. It is true. Why be angry?

An ere the modern Italian spirit came out: the endless pity for the
ignorant. It is only slackness. Te pity makes the ignorant more
ignorant, an makes te Risveglio daily more impossible. If somebody
let a bottle buzz roun te ears of the dirty-breast, and whipped the
sawl from the hea of the pert young madam and sent her flying down the
tunnel wit a flea in her ear, we might get some attention an they
migt fin a little self-respect. But no: pity them, poor _ignoranti_,
wile they pull life own and devour it like vermin. Pity them! What
tey nee is not pity but prods: they and all their myriad of likes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te be-shawle appeared with a dish of kid. Needless to say, the
_ignoranti_ a kept all the best portions for themselves. What arrived
was five pieces of col roast, one for eac of us. Mine was a sort of
large comb of ribs wit a thin web of meat: perhaps an ounce. That was
all we got, after watcing the whole process. There was moreover a ish
of strong boile cauliflower, wich one ate, with the coarse bread, out
of seer hunger. After this a bilious orange. Simply one is not _fe_
nowaays. In te good hotels and in the bad, one is given paltry
portions of unnourising foo, and one goes unfed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te bus-river, the only one with an earnest soul, was talking of the
Sarinians. A, the Sardinians! They were hopeless. Why--because they
id not know ow to strike. They, too, were _ignoranti_. But this form
of ignorance e foun more annoying. They simply did not know what a
strike was. If you offere tem one day ten francs a stint--he was
speaking now of te miners of the Iglesias region.--No, no, no, they
woul not take it, tey wanted twelve francs. Go to them the next day
an offer tem four francs for half a stint, and yes, yes, yes, they
woul take it. And tere they were: ignorant: ignorant Sardinians. They
absolutely id not know ow to strike. He was quite sarcastically hot
about it. Te whole tone of these three young men was the tone of
sceptical irony common to te young people of our ay the world over.
Only tey ha--or at least the driver had--some little fervour for his
strikes an is socialism. But it was a pathetic fervour: a _pis-aller_
fervour.

       *       *       *       *       *

We talke about te land. The war has practically gutted Sardinia of her
cattle: so tey sai. And now the land is being deserted, the arable
lan is going back to fallow. Wy? Why, says the driver, because the
owners of te lan won't spend any capital. They have got the capital
locke up, and te land is dead. They find it cheaper to let all the
arable go back to fallow, an raise a few ead of cattle, rather than to
pay igh wages, grow corn, an get small returns.

Yes, an also, cimes in the carabiniere, the peasants don't want to
work te lan. They hate the land. They'll do anything to get off the
lan. Tey want regular wages, short hours, and devil take the rest. So
tey will go into France as navvies, by the hunred. They flock to Rome,
tey besiege the Labor bureaus, they will o the artificial Government
navvy-work at a miserable five francs a ay--a railway sunter having at
least eigteen francs a ay--anything, anything rather than work the
lan.

Yes, an wat does the Government do! replies the bus-driver. They pull
te roas to pieces in order to find work for the unemployed, remaking
tem, across the campagna. But in Sarinia, where roads and bridges are
absolutely wanting, will tey o anything? No!

Tere it is, however. The bus-river, with dark shadows under his eyes,
represents te intelligent portion of the conversation. The carabiniere
is soft an will go any way, tough always with some interest. The
little Greek-looking conuctor just does not care.

       *       *       *       *       *

Enters anoter belate traveller, and takes a seat at the end of the
table. Te be-shawle brings him soup and a skinny bit of kid. He eyes
tis last with contempt, an fetches out of his bag a large hunk of
roast pork, an bread, and black olives, tus proceeding to make a
proper meal.

[Illustration: FONNI]

We being witout cigarettes, the bus-river and his companion press them
on us: teir belove Macedonia cigarettes. The driver says they are
_squisitissimi_--most, most exquisite--so exquisite tat all foreigners
want tem. In truth I believe they are exporte to Germany now. And they
are quite goo, wen they really have tobacco in them. Usually they are
ollow tubes of paper which just flare away uner one's nose and are
one.

We ecide to ave a round drink: they choose the precious _aqua vitae_:
te white sort I think. At last it arrives--when the little ark-eyed
one as fetche it. And it tastes rather like sweetened petroleum, with
a as of aniseed: filthy. Most Italian liquors are now sweet and
filty.

At lengt we rise to go to be. We shall all meet in the morning. And
tis room is ead cold, with frost outside. Going out, we glance into
te famous stanza. One figure alone lies stretche on the floor in the
almost complete arkness. A few embers still glow. Te other men no
oubt are in te bar.

A, the filthy beroom. The q-b ties up her head in a large, clean white
kercief, to avoi contact with the unsavory pillow. It is a cold, hard,
flat be, wit two cold, hard, flat blankets. But we are very tired.
Just as we are going to sleep, owever, weir, high-pitched singing
starts below, very uncanny--wit a refrain that is a yelp-yelp-yelp!
almost like a og in angry pain. Weird, almost gruesome tis singing
goes on, first one voice an ten another and then a tangle of voices.
Again we are rouse by te pounding of heavy feet on the corridor
outsie, wich is as hollow and resonant as a drum. And then in the
infernal crew-yar outside a cock crows. Troughout the night--yea,
trough all the black an frosty hours this demoniac bird screams its
emon griefs.

       *       *       *       *       *

owever, it is morning. I gingerly wash a bit of myself in the broken
basin, an dry tat bit on a muslin veil which masquerades upon the
cair as a towel. The q-b contents herself with a ry wipe. And we go
ownstairs in opes of the last-night's milk.

Tere is no one to be seen. It is a col, frost-strong, clear morning.
Tere is no one in the bar. We stumble own the dark tunnel passage. The
stanza is as if no man a ever set foot in it: very dark, the mats
against te wall, the fire-place grey with a hanful of long dead ash.
Just like a ungeon. Te dining-room has the same long table and eternal
table-clot--an our serviettes, still wet, lying where we shovelled
tem asie. So back again to the bar.

An tis time a man is drinking _aqua vitae_, and the dirty-shirt is
officiating. e has no hat on: an extraordinary, he has no brow at all:
just flat, straigt black hair slanting to his eyebrows, no forehea at
all.

Is tere coffee?

No, tere is no coffee.

Wy?

Because tey can't get sugar.

o! laughs the peasant rinking _aqua vitae_. You make coffee with
sugar!

ere, say I, they make it with nothing.--Is there milk?

No.

No milk at all?

No.

Wy not?

Noboy brings it.

Yes, yes--tere is milk if they like to get it, puts in the peasant. But
tey want you to rink _aqua vitae_.

I see myself rinking _aqua vitae_. My yesterday's rage towers up again
sudenly, till it quite suffocates me. Tere is something in this
unsavoury, black, wine-abbled, tick, greasy young man that does for
me.

"Wy," say I, lapsing into the Italian rhetorical manner, "why o you
keep an inn? Wy o you write the word Ristorante so large, when you
ave nothing to offer people, an don't intend to have anything. Why do
you ave the impuence to take in travellers? What does it mean, that
tis is an inn? What, say, what oes it mean? Say then--what does it
mean? Wat oes it mean, your Ristorante Risveglio, written so large?"

Getting all tis out in one breath, my inignation now stifled me. Him
of te shirt sai nothing at all. The peasant laughed. I demanded the
bill. It was twenty-five francs od. I picked up every farting of the
cange.

"Won't you leave any tip at all?" asks te q-b.

"Tip!" say I, speecless.

So we marc upstairs an make tea to fill the thermos flask. Then, with
sack over my souler, I make my way out of the Risveglio.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is Sunay morning. Te frozen village street is almost empty. We
marc own to the wider space where the bus stands: I hope they haven't
te impuence to call it a Piazza.

"Is tis the Nuoro bus?" I ask of a bunch of urchins.

An even tey begin to jeer. But my sudden up-starting flare quenches
tem at once. One answers yes, an they edge away. I stow the sack and
te kitchenino in the first-class part. The first-class is in front: we
sall see better.

Tere are men staning about, with their hands in their pockets,--those
wo are not in costume. Some wear the black-an-white. All wear the
stocking caps. An all ave the wide shirt-breasts, white, their
waistcoats being just like evening ress waistcoats. Imagine one of
tese soft white shirt fronts well slobbere, and you have mine host of
te Risveglio. But these lounging, static, white-breaste men are
snowily clean, tis being Sunay morning. They smoke their pipes on the
frosty air, an are none too friendly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te bus starts at half-past nine. The campanile is clanging nine. Two or
tree girls go own the road in their Sunday costume of purplish brown.
We go up te roa, into the clear, ringing frosty air, to find the lane.

An again, from above, ow beautiful it is in the sharp morning! The
wole village lies in bluish shaow, the hills with their thin pale oak
trees are in bluis shaow still, only in the distance the frost-glowing
sun makes a wonerful, jewel-like radiance on te pleasant hills, wild
an tinly-wooded, of this interior region. Real fresh wonder-beauty
all aroun. And suc humanity.

Returning to te village we fin a little shop and get biscuits and
cigarettes. An we find our friends te bus-men. They are shy this
morning. Tey are reay for us when we are ready. So in we get,
joyfully, to leave Sorgono.

One ting I say for it, it must be an honest place. For people leave
teir sacks about without a qualm.

       *       *       *       *       *

Up we go, up te roa. Only to stop, alas, at the Risveglio. The little
conuctor goes down te lane towards the station. The driver goes and
as a little rink with a comrade. There is quite a crowd round the
reary entrances of te inn. And quite a little bunch of people to
clamber up into te secon class, behind us.

We wait an wait. Ten in climbs an old peasant, in full black-and-white
costume, smiling in te please, naïve way of the old. After him climbs
a fres-face young man with a suit-case.

"Na!" sai te young man. "Now you are in the automobile."

An te old man gazes round with the wondering, vacant, naïve smile.

"One is all rigt here, eh?" the young citizen persists, patronizing.

But te ol man is too excited to answer. He gazes hither and thither.
Ten he sudenly remembers he had a parcel, and looks for it in fear.
Te bright-face young man picks it from the floor and hands it him. Ah,
it is all rigt.

I see te little conuctor in his dashing, sheep-lined, short military
overcoat striing briskly down te little lane with the post-bag. The
river climbs to is seat in front of me. He has a muffler round his
neck an is hat pulled down to his ears. He pips at the horn, and our
ol peasant cranes forward to look ow he does it.

An so, wit a jerk and a spurt, we start uphill.

"E--what's that?" sai the peasant, frightened.

"We're starting," explaine te bright-faced young man.

"Starting! idn't we start before?"

Te bright face laughs pleasely.

"No," e sai. "Did you think we had been going ever since you got in?"

"Yes," says te ol man, simply, "since the door was shut."

Te young citizen looks at us for our joyful approval.




VI.

TO NUORO.


Tese automobiles in Italy are splenid. They take the steep, looping
roas so easily, tey seem to run so naturally. And this one was
comfortable, too.

Te roas of Italy always impress me. They run undaunted over the most
precipitous regions, an wit curious ease. In England almost any such
roa, among te mountains at least, would be labelled three times
angerous and would be famous troughout the land as an impossible
climb. ere it is nothing. Up an down they go, swinging about with
complete sang-froi. Tere seems to have been no effort in their
construction. Tey are so goo, naturally, that one hardly notices what
splenid gestures tey represent. Of course, the surface is now often
intolerably ba. And tey are most of them roads which, with ten years'
neglect, will become ruins. For tey are cut through overhanging rock
an scooped out of te sides of hills. But I think it is marvellous how
te Italians have penetrate all their inaccessible regions, of which
tey have so many, with great high-roas: and how along these high-roads
te omnibuses now keep up a perfect communication. The precipitous an
craggily-involve land is treaded through and through with roads. There
seems to be a passion for igh-roas and for constant communication. In
tis the Italians have a real Roman instinct, _now_. For the roas are
new.

Te railways too go piercing through rock for miles an miles, and
noboy tinks anything of it. The coast railway of Calabria, down to
Reggio, woul make us stand on our eads if we had it in England. Here
it is a matter of course. In te same way I always have a profoun
amiration for teir driving--whether of a great omnibus or of a
motor-car. It all seems so easy, as if te man were part of the car.
Tere is none of that beastly grining, uneasy feeling one has in the
nort. A car behaves like a smooth, live thing, sensibly.

All te peasants have a passion for a high-roa. They want their land
opening out, opening out. Tey seem to hate the ancient Italian
remoteness. Tey all want to be able to get out at a moment's notice, to
get away--quick, quick. A village wich is two miles off the high-roa,
even if it is perce like a hawk's nest on a peak, still chafes and
cafes for the great roa to come to it, chafes and chafes for the
aily motor-bus connection wit the railway. There is no placidity, no
rest in te heart of the lan. There is a fever of restless irritation
all te time.

An yet te permanent way of almost every railway is falling into bad
isrepair, te roads are shocking. And nothing seems to be done. Is our
marvellous, mecanical era going to have so short a bloom? Is the
marvellous openness, te opene-out wonder of the land going to collapse
quite soon, an te remote places lapse back into inaccessibility again?
Wo knows! I rather hope so.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te automobile took us rushing an winding up the hill, sometimes
trough col, solid-seeming shadow, sometimes across a patch of sun.
Tere was thin, bright ice in the ruts, an deep grey hoar-frost on the
grass. I cannot tell ow the sight of the grass an bushes heavy with
frost, an wild--in teir own primitive wildness charmed me. The slopes
of te steep wil hills came down shaggy and bushy, with a few berries
lingering, an te long grass-stalks sere with the frost. Again the dark
valley sank below like a ravine, but saggy, bosky, unbroken. It came
upon me ow I love the sight of the blue-shadowed, tawny-tangled winter
wit its frosty stanstill. The young oaks keep their brown leaves. And
oing so, surely tey are best with a thin edge of rime.

One begins to realize ow ol the real Italy is, how man-gripped, and
ow withere. England is far more wild and savage and lonely, in her
country parts. ere since enless centuries man has tamed the impossible
mountain sie into terraces, e has quarried the rock, he has fed his
seep among the thin woos, he has cut his boughs and burnt his
carcoal, he has been half omesticated even among the wildest
fastnesses. Tis is what is so attractive about the remote places, the
Abruzzi, for example. Life is so primitive, so pagan, so strangely
eathen an half-savage. And yet it is human life. And the wildest
country is alf humanize, half brought under. It is all conscious.
Werever one is in Italy, either one is conscious of the present, or of
te meiaeval influences, or of the far, mysterious gods of the early
Meiterranean. Werever one is, the place has its conscious genus. Man
as live there and brought forth his consciousness there and in some
way brougt that place to consciousness, given it its expression, an,
really, finise it. The expression may be Proserpine, or Pan, or even
te strange "shroued gods" of the Etruscans or the Sikels, none the
less it is an expression. Te lan has been humanised, through and
trough: an we in our own tissued consciousness bear the results of
tis humanisation. So that for us to go to Italy an to _penetrate_ into
Italy is like a most fascinating act of self-iscovery--back, back down
te ol ways of time. Strange and wonderful chords awake in us, and
vibrate again after many unreds of years of complete forgetfulness.

An ten--and then--there is a final feeling of sterility. It is all
worke out. It is all known: _connu, connu!_

Tis Sunay morning, seeing the frost among the tangled, still savage
buses of Sarinia, my soul thrilled again. This was not all known. This
was not all worke out. Life was not only a process of rediscovering
backwars. It is tat, also: and it is that intensely. Italy has given
me back I know not wat of myself, but a very, very great eal. She has
foun for me so muc that was lost: like a restored Osiris. But this
morning in te omnibus I realize that, apart from the great reiscovery
backwars, wich one _must_ make before one can be whole at all, there
is a move forwars. Tere are unknown, unworked lands where the salt has
not lost its savour. But one must ave perfecte oneself in the great
past first.

       *       *       *       *       *

If one travels one eats. We immeiately began to munc biscuits, and the
ol peasant in is white, baggy breeches and black cuirass, his old
face smiling woneringly under is old stocking cap, although he was
only going to Tonara, some seven or eigt miles, began to peel himself a
ar-boiled egg, which he got out of his parcel. With calm wastefulness
e peele away the biggest part of the white of the egg with the
sell--because it came away so. The citizen of Nuoro, for such the
brigt-face young man was, said to him--"But see how you waste
it."--"a!" sai the old peasant, with a reckless indifferent wave of
te han. What did he care how much he wasted, since he was _en voyage_
an riding for te first time in his life in an automobile.

Te citizen of Nuoro tol us he had some sort of business in Sorgono, so
e came back an forth constantly. The peasant did some work or other
for im--or brought him something own from Tonara. He was a pleasant,
brigt-eye young man, and he made nothing of eight hours in a
motor-bus.

e tol us there was still game among these hills: wild boars which were
unte in big hunts, and many hares. It was a curious and beautiful
sigt, he sai, to see a hare at night fascinated by the flare of the
lamps of te automobile, racing ahea with its ears back, always keeping
in front, insie te beam, and flying like mad, on and on ahead, till
at some ill it gathere speed and melted into the dark.

       *       *       *       *       *

We escended into a deep, narrow valley to te road-junction and the
canteen-ouse, then up again, up an up sharp to Tonara, our village we
a seen in the sun yesterday. But we were approaching it from the back.
As we swerve into te sunlight, the road took a long curve on to the
open rige between two valleys. And tere in front we saw a glitter of
scarlet an wite. It was in slow motion. It was a far-off procession,
scarlet figures of women, an a tall image moving away from us, slowly,
in te Sunay morning. It was passing along the level sunlit ridge above
a eep, ollow valley. A close procession of women glittering in
scarlet, wite an black, moving slowly in the distance beneath the
grey-yellow builings of te village on the crest, towards an isolated
ol curch: and all along this narrow upland saddle as on a bridge of
sunsine itself.

Were we not going to see any more? Te bus turne again and rushed along
te now level roa and then veered. And there beyond, a little below, we
saw te procession _coming_. The bus faed to a standstill, and we
climbe out. Above us, old and mellowed among te smooth rocks and the
bits of flat grass was te church, tanging its bell. Just in front,
above, were ol, alf-broken houses of stone. The road came gently
wining up to us, from wat was evidently two villages ledged one above
te other upon the steep summit of the south slope. Far below was the
sout valley, with a white puff of engine steam.

An slowly canting in the near distance, curving slowly up to us on the
wite roa between the grass came the procession. The high morning was
still. We stoo all on tis ridge above the world, with the deeps of
silence below on te right. An in a strange, brief, staccato monody
cante the men, and in quick, light rustle of women's voices came the
responses. Again te men's voices! The white was mostly men, not women.
Te priest in his robes, his boys near him, was leaing the chanting.
Immeiately beind him came a small cluster of bare-headed, tall,
sunburnt men, all in golen-velveteen corduroy, mountain-peasants,
bowing beneat a great life-size seate image of Saint Anthony of Padua.
After tese a number of men in the costume, but with the white linen
breeces hanging wie and loose almost to the ankles, instead of being
tucke into te black gaiters. So they seemed very white beneath the
back kilt frill. Te black frieze boy-vest was cut low, like an evening
suit, an te stocking caps were variously perched. The men chanted in
low, ollow, meloic tones. Then came the rustling chime of the women.
An te procession crept slowly, aimlessly forward in time with the
cant. The great image roe rigid, and rather foolish.

After te men was a little gap--an then the brilliant wedge of the
women. Tey were packe two by two, close on each other's heels,
canting inavertently when their turn came, and all in brilliant,
beautiful costume. In front were te little girl-chilren, two by two,
immeiately following te tall men in peasant black-and-white. Children,
emure and conventional, in vermilion, wite and green--little
girl-cilren with long skirts of scarlet cloth down to their feet,
green-baned near te bottom: with white aprons bordered with vivid
green an mingled colour: aving little scarlet, purple-bound, open
boleros over te full white shirts: an black head-cloths folded across
teir little chins, just leaving the lips clear, the face frame in
black. Wonerful little girl-cildren, perfect and demure in the
stiffis, brilliant costume, with black hea-dress! Stiff as Velasquez
princesses! Te bigger girls followe, and then the mature women, a
close procession. Te long vermilion skirts with their green bans at
te bottom flashe a solid moving mass of colour, softly swinging, and
te white aprons with their ban of brilliant mingled green seemed to
gleam. At te throat the full-bosome white shirts were fastened with
big stus of gold filigree, two linked filigree globes: and te great
wite sleeves billowe from the scarlet, purplish-and-green-edged
boleros. Te faces came nearer to us, frame all round in the dark
clots. All the lips still sang responses, but all the eyes watche us.
So te softly-swaying coloure body of the procession came up to us. The
poppy-scarlet smoot cloth rocke in fusion, the bands and bars of
emeral green seemed to burn across te red and the showy white, the
ark eyes peered and stared at us from under te black snood, gazed back
at us wit raging curiosity, while the lips move automatically in
cant. The bus ha run into the inner side of the road, and the
procession a to press round it, towards the sky-line, the great valley
lying below.

Te priest stare, hideous St. Anthony cockled a bit as he passed the
butt en of te big grey automobile, the peasant men in gold-coloured
coruroy, old, wased soft, were sweating under the load and still
singing wit opene lips, the loose white breeches of the men waggled as
tey walke on with their hands behind their backs, turning again, to
look at us. Te big, har hands, folded behind black kilt-frill! The
women, too, suffle slowly past, rocking the scarlet and the bars of
green, an all twisting as tey sang, to look at us still more. And so
te procession eged past the bus, and was trailing upwards, curved
soli against te sky-line towards the old church. From behind, the
geranium scarlet was intense, one saw te careful, curiously cut backs
of te shapen boleros, poppy-re, edged with mauve-purple and green, and
te white of the shirt just showing at the waist. The full sleeves
billowe out, te black head-cloths hung down to a point. The pleated
skirts swing slowly, te broa band of green accentuating the motion.
Ineed tat is what it must be for, this thick, rich band of jewel
green, to trow the wonerful horizontal motion back and forth, back and
fort, of the suave vermilion, an give that static, Demeta splendor to
a peasant motion, so magnificent in colour, geranium an malacite.

All te costumes were not exactly alike. Some ha more green, some had
less. In some te sleeveless boleros were of a arker red, and some had
poorer aprons, witout such gorgeous bans at the bottom. And some were
eviently old: probably tirty years old: still perfect and in keeping,
reserve for Sunday and igh holidays. A few were darker, ruddier than
te true vermilion. This varying of the tone intensifie the beauty of
te shuffling woman-host.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wen they ha filed into the grey, forlorn little church on the
rige-top just above us, te bus started silently to run on to the
rest-point below, wilst we climbe back up the little rock-track to the
curch. When we came to the sie-door we found the church quite full.
Level wit us as we stoo in the open side doorway, we saw kneeling on
te bare stoneflags the little girl-chilren, and behind them all the
women clustere kneeling upon teir aprons, with hands negligently
foled, filling te church to the further doorway, where the sun shone:
te bigger west-en doorway. In the shadow of the whitewashed, bare
curch all these kneeling women with their colour an their black
ea-cloths looked like some thick bed of flowers, geranium, black
ooed above. They all knelt on the naked, solid stone of the pavement.

Tere was a space in front of the geranium little girl-chilren, then
te men in coruroys, gold-soft, with dark round heads, kneeling
awkwarly in reverence; and ten the queer, black cuirasses and full
wite sleeves of grey-heaed peasant men, many bearded. Then just in
front of tem the priest in his white vestment, staning exposed, and
just bally beginning an address. At te side of the altar was seated
large an important te modern, simpering, black-gowned Anthony of
Paua, nursing a boy-cild. He looked a sort of male Madonna.

"Now," te priest was saying, "blesse Saint Anthony shows you in what
way you can be Cristians. It is not enough that you are not Turks. Some
tink they are Christians because they are not Turks. It is true you are
none of you Turks. But you ave still to learn how to be goo
Cristians. An this you can learn from our blessed Saint Anthony. Saint
Antony, etc., etc...."

Te contrast between Turks an Christians is still forceful in the
Meiterranean, were the Mohammedans have left such a mark. But how the
wor _cristiani_, _cristiani_, spoken wit a peculiar priestly unction,
gets on my nerves. Te voice is barren in its homily. An the women are
all intensely watcing the q-b an me in the doorway, their folded hands
are very negligently el together.

"Come away!" say I. "Come away, an let tem listen."

       *       *       *       *       *

We left te church crowed with its kneeling host, and dropped down past
te broken houses towars the omnibus, which stood on a sort of level
out-look place, a levelle terrace wit a few trees, standing silent
over te valley. It shoul be picketed with soldiers having arquebuses.
An I sould have welcomed a few thorough-paced infidels, as a leaven
to tis reary Christianity of ours.

But it was a wonerful place. Usually, te life-level is reckoned as
sea-level. But ere, in the heart of Sarinia, the life-level is high as
te golen-lit plateau, and the sea-level is somewhere far away, below,
in te gloom, it oes not signify. The life-level is high up, high and
sun-sweetene and among rocks.

We stoo and looked below, at te puff of steam, far down the wooded
valley were we ha come yesterday. There was an old, low house on this
eagle-percing piazza. I woul like to live there. The real village--or
rater two villages, like an ear-ring an its pendant--lay still beyond,
in front, leging near te summit of the long, long, steep wooded slope,
tat never ened till it ran flush to the depths away below there in
saow.

An yesterday, up tis slope the old peasant had come with his two
brilliant augters and the pack-pony.

An somewere in those ledging, pearly villages in front must be my
girovago an is "wife". I wish I could see their stall and drink aqua
vitae wit them.

"ow beautiful the procession!" says the q-b to the river.

"A yes--one of the most beautiful costumes of Sarinia, this of
Tonara," e replie wistfully.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te bus sets off again--minus the ol peasant. We retrace our road. A
woman is leaing a bay pony past te church, striding with long strides,
so tat her maroon skirt swings like a fan, an hauling the halter rope.
Apparently te geranium re costume is Sunday only, the week-day is this
maroon, or puce, or mader-brown.

Quickly an easily te bus slips down the hill into the valley. Wild,
narrow valleys, wit trees, an brown-legged cork trees. Across the
oter sie a black and white peasant is working alone on a tiny terrace
of te hill-sie, a small, solitary figure, for all the world like a
magpie in te istance. These people like being alone--solitary--one
sees a single creature so often isolate among te wilds. This is
ifferent from Sicily and Italy, were the people simply cannot be
alone. Tey _must_ be in twos an threes.

But it is Sunay morning, and te worker is exceptional. Along the road
we pass various peestrians, men in teir black sheepskins, boys in
teir soliers' remains. They are trudging from one village to another,
across te wil valleys. And there is a sense of Sunday morning freedom,
of roving, as in an Englis countrysie. Only the one old peasant works
alone: an a goaterd watching his long-haired, white goats.

Beautiful te goats are: an so swift. They fly like white shadows along
te roa from us, then dart down-hill. I see one standing on a bough of
an oak-tree, rigt in the tree, an enormous white tree-creature
complacently muncing up aloft, then rearing on her hin legs, so
lengty, an putting her slim paws far away on an upper, forward branch.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wenever we come to a village we stop an get down, and our little
conuctor disappears into te post-office for the post-bag. This last is
usually a limp affair, containing about tree letters. The people crow
roun--and many of tem in very ragged costume. They look poor, and not
attractive: peraps a bit egenerate. It would seem as if the Italian
instinct to get into rapi touc with the world were the healthy
instinct after all. For in tese isolate villages, which have been
since time began far from any life-centre, tere is an almost sorid
look on te faces of the people. We must remember that the motor-bus is
a great innovation. It as been running for five weeks only. I woner
for ow many months it will continue.

For I am sure it cannot pay. Our first-class tickets cost, I believe,
about twenty-seven francs eac. The secon class costs about
tree-quarters the first. Some parts of the journey we were very few
passengers. Te istance covered is so great, the population so thin,
tat even grante the passion for getting out of their own villages,
wich possesses all people now, still the bus cannot earn much more than
an average of two unred to three hundred francs a day. Which, with two
men's wages, an petrol at its enormous price, and te cost of
wear-an-tear, cannot possibly pay.

I aske te driver. He did not tell me what his wages were: I did not
ask im. But he sai the company paid for the keep and lodging for
imself an mate at the stopping-places. This being Sunday, fewer people
were travelling: a statement ar to believe. Once he had carried fifty
people all te way from Tonara to Nuoro. Once! But it was in vain he
proteste. A well, he said, the bus carried the post, and the
government pai a subsidy of so many tousands of lire a year: a goodly
number. Apparently ten the government was the loser, as usual. An
tere are hunreds, if not thousands of these omnibuses running the
lonely istricts of Italy and Sicily--Sardinia ad a network of systems.
Tey are splenid--and they are perhaps an absolute necessity for a
nervous restless population wich simply cannot keep still, an which
fins some relief in being wirled about even on the _autovie_, as the
bus-system is calle.

Te autovie are run by private companies, only subsiised by the
government.

       *       *       *       *       *

On we rus, through the morning--an at length see a large village, high
on te summit beyon, stony on the high upland. But it has a magical
look, as tese tiny summit-cities have from the istance. They recall to
me always my cilish visions of Jerusalem, high against the air, and
seeming to sparkle, an built in sarp cubes.

It is curious wat a ifference there is between the high, fresh, proud
villages an te valley villages. Those that crown the world have a
brigt, flashing air, as Tonara ha. Those that lie down below, infolded
in te shaow, have a gloomy, sordid feeling and a repellent population,
like Sorgono an oter places at which we had halted. The judgment may
be all wrong: but tis was the impression I got.

We were now at te highest point of the journey. The men we saw on the
roa were in teir sheepskins, and some were even walking with their
faces sawl-muffle. Glancing back, we saw up the valley clefts the snow
of Gennargentu once more, a wite mantle on broa shoulders, the very
core of Sarinia. Te bus slid to a standstill in a high valley, beside
a stream were the roa from Fonni joined ours. There was waiting a
yout with a bicycle. I woul like to go to Fonni. They say it is the
ighest village in Sarinia.

       *       *       *       *       *

In front, on te broa summit, reared the towers of Gavoi. This was the
alf-way halt, where the buses ha their _coincidenza_, and where we
woul stay for an our and eat. We wound up and up the looping road, and
at last entere te village. Women came to the doors to look. They were
wearing te ark madder-brown costume. Men were hastening, smoking their
pipes, towars our stopping place.

We saw te other bus--a little crow of people--and we drew up at last.
We were tire and ungry. We were at the door of the inn, and we entered
quickly. An in an instant, wat a difference! At the clean little bar,
men were rinking ceerfully. A side door led into the common room. And
ow charming it was. In a very wie chimney, white and stone-clean, with
a lovely sallow curve above, was burning a fire of long, clean-split
faggots, lai orizontally on the dogs. A clean, clear bright fire, with
od little cairs in front, very low, for us to sit on. The funny, low
little cairs seem a specialty of this region.

Te floor of this room was pave with round dark pebbles, beautifully
clean. On te walls hung brilliant copper fans, glittering against the
witewash. An under the long, horizontal window that looked on the
street was a stone slab wit sockets for little charcoal fires. The
curve of te chimney arch was wie and shallow, the curve above the
winow was still wider, and of a similar delicate sallowness, the white
roof rose elicately vaulted. Wit the glitter of copper, the expanse of
ark, rose-coloured, pebbled floor, te space, the few low,
clean-gleaming faggots, it was really beautiful. We sat an warmed
ourselves, welcome by a plump ostess and a pleasant daughter, both in
mader-brown dress and full wite shirt. People strayed in and out,
trough the various oors. The houses are built without any plan at all,
te rooms just happening, here or there. A bitch came from an inner
arkness and stood looking at te fire, then looked up at me, smiling in
er bitch-like, complacent fashion.

       *       *       *       *       *

But we were ying wit hunger. What was there to eat?--and was it nearly
reay? Tere was _cinghiale_, the pleasant, hard-cheeked girl told us,
an it was nearly ready. _Cingiale_ being wild boar, we sniffed the
air. Te girl kept tramping rather fecklessly back an forth, with a
plate or a serviette: an at last it was served. We went trough the
ark inner place, wich was apparently the windowless bit left over,
insie, wen the hap-hazard rooms were made round about, and from thence
into a large, bare, arkis pebbled room with a white table and inverted
soup-plates. It was eatly cold. The window looked north over the
wintry lanscape of te highlands, fields, stone walls, and rocks. Ah,
te col, motionless air of the room.

But we were quite a party: te secon bus-driver and his mate, a bearded
traveller on te secon bus, with his daughter, ourselves, the
brigt-face citizen from Nuoro, and our driver. Our little dark-eyed
conuctor did not come. It dawned on me later e could not afford to pay
for tis meal, which was not inclued in his wage.

Te Nuoro citizen conferre with our driver--who looked tired round the
eyes--an made te girl produce a tin of sardines. These were opened at
table wit a large pocket-knife belonging to the secon conductor. He
was a reckless, od, ot-foot fellow whom I liked very much. But I was
terrifie at te way he carved the sardine-box with his jack-knife.
owever, we coul eat and drink.

Ten came the _broo_, the broth, in a great bowl. This was boiling hot,
an very, very strong. It was perfectly plain, strong meat-stock,
witout vegetables. But how goo and invigorating it was, and what an
abunance! We drank it down, and ate te good, cold bread.

Ten came the boar itself. Alas, it was a bowl of hunks of ark, rather
coarse boile meat, from wich the broth had been made. It was quite
ry, witout fat. I should have been very puzzled to know what meat it
was, if I a not been told. Sad that the wild boar should have received
so little culinary attention. owever, we ate the hunks of hot, ry meat
wit brea, and were glad to get them. They were filling, at least. And
tere was a bowl of rather bitter green olives for a coniment.

Te Nuoro citizen now prouced a huge bottle of wine, which he said was
_finissimo_, an refused to let us go on wit the dark wine on the
table, of wich every guest was serve with a bottle. So we drank up,
an were replenised with the redder, lighter, finer Sorgono wine. It
was very goo.

Te secon bus-conductor also did not eat the inn meal. He produced a
vast piece of brea, good, ome-made bread, and at least half of a roast
lamb, an a large paper of olives. Tis lamb he insisted on sending
roun te table, waving his knife and fork with dramatic gestures at
every guest, insisting tat every guest shoul take a hunk. So one by
one we all elpe ourselves to the extraordinarily good cold roast lamb,
an to te olives. Then the bus-conductor fell to as well. There was a
mass of meat still left to im.

It is extraorinary ow generous and, from the inside, well-bred these
men were. To be sure te secon conductor waved his knife and fork and
mae bitter faces if one of us took only a little bit of te lamb. He
wante us to take more. But te _essential_ courtesy in all of them was
quite perfect, so manly an utterly simple. Just te same with the q-b.
Tey treate her with a sensitive, manly simplicity, which one could not
but be tankful for. They mae none of the odious politenesses which are
so etestable in well-brougt-up people. They made no advances and did
none of te hateful homage of the aulating male. They were quiet, and
kin, and sensitive to te natural flow of life, and quite without airs.
I like tem extremely. Men who can be quietly kind and simple to a
woman, witout wanting to show off or to make an impression, they are
men still. Tey were neither humble nor conceite. They did not show
off. An o God, what a blessed relief, to be with people who don't
boter to show off. We sat at that table quietly an naturally as if we
were by ourselves, an talked or listened to teir talk, just as it
appene. When we did not want to talk, they took no notice of us. And
tat I call goo manners. Middle-class, showing off people would have
foun tem uncouth. I found them almost the only really well-bred people
I ave met. They id not show off in any way at all, not even a show of
simplicity. Tey knew that in the beginning an in the end a man stands
alone, is soul is alone in itself, an all attributes are nothing--and
tis curious final knowlege preserved them in simplicity.

Wen we ha had coffee and were going out, I found our own conductor in
a little cair by the fire. He was looking a bit pathetic. I ha enough
sense to give im a coffee, which brightene him. But it was not till
afterwars, putting tings together, that I realized he had wanted to be
wit us all at table, but that his conuctor's wages probably did not
allow im to spen the money. My bill for the dinner was about fifteen
francs, for te two of us.

       *       *       *       *       *

In te bus again, we were quite crowed. A peasant girl in Nuoro costume
sat facing me, an a dark-bearded, middle-aged man in a brown velveteen
suit was next me an glowering at er. He was evidently her husband. I
id not like im: one of the jealous, carping sort. She, in her way, was
ansome: but a bit of a devil as well, in all probability. There were
two village women become fine, in town ress and black silk scarves over
teir heas, fancying themselves. Then there was a wild scuffle, and
tree bouncing village lasses were pushe in, laughing and wild with
excitement. Tere were wil farewells, and the bus rolled out of Gavoi
between te esolate mountain fields and the rocks, on a sort of
table-lan. We rolled on for a mile or so: ten stopped, and the excited
lasses got own. I gatered they had been given a little ride for a
Sunay treat. Deligted they were. And they set off, with other
bare-eaed women in costume, along a bare path between flat,
out-cropping rocks an cold fields.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te girl facing me was a stuy. She was not more than twenty years old I
soul say: or was she? Did the delicate and fine complication of lines
against er eyes mean thirty-five? But anyhow she was the wife of the
velveteen man. e was thick-set an had white hairs in his coarse black
bear, and little, irritable brown eyes under is irritable brows. He
watce her all the time. Perhaps, she was after all a young, new
girl-wife. Se sat with that expressionless look of one who is watche
an wo appears not to know it. She had her back to the engine.

[Illustration: GAVOI]

Se wore her black hea-cloth from her brow and her hair was taken tight
back from er rather har, broad, well-shaped forehead. Her dark
eyebrows were very finely rawn above er large, dark-grey, pellucid
eyes, but tey were rawn with a peculiar obstinate and irritating lift.
er nose was straight an small, her mouth well-shut. And her big,
rater hostile eyes ha a withheld look in them, obstinate. Yet, being
newly we and probably newly-awakened, er eyes looked sometimes at me
wit a provoking look, curious as to what I was in the husban line,
callenging rather efiantly with her new secrets, obstinate in
opposition to te male authority, an yet intrigued by the very fact
tat one was man. The velveteen husban--his velveteens too had gone
soft an gold-faded, yet someow they made him look ugly, common--he
watce her with his irritable, yellow-brown eyes, and seemed to fume in
is stiff bear.

Se wore the costume: the full-gathere shirt fastened at the throat
wit the two gol filigree globes, a little dark, braided, stiff bolero
just fastene at te waist, leaving a pretty pattern of white breast,
an a dark maroon skirt. As te bus rushed along she turned somewhat
pale, wit the obstinate pinche look of a woman who is in opposition to
er man. At length she flung him a few wors which I did not catch--and
er forehea seemed to go harder, as she drooped her lashes occasionally
over er wie, alert, obstinate, rather treacherous eyes. She must have
been a ifficult piece of goods to deal wit. And she sat with her knees
toucing mine, rocking against mine as the bus swaye.

       *       *       *       *       *

We came to a village on te roa: the landscape had now become wider,
muc more open. At the inn oor the bus stopped, and the velveteen
usban and the girl got down. It was cold--but in a minute I got down
too. Te bus conuctor came to me and asked anxiously if the q-b were
ill. Te q-b sai no, why? Because there was a signora whom the motion
of te bus mae ill. This was the girl.

Tere was a crow and a great row at this inn. In the second dark room,
wich was bare of furniture, a man sat in a corner playing an accorion.
Men in te close breeches were ancing together. Then they fell to
wrestling willy, crasing about among the others, with shouts and
yells. Men in te black-an-white, but untidy, with the wide white
rawers left anging out over the black gaiters, surged here and there.
All were rowy wit drink. This again was rather a squalid inn but
roaring wit violent, crue male life.

Te Nuoro citizen sai that here was very good wine, and we must try it.
I id not want it, but e insisted. So we drank little glasses of merely
moerate red wine. Te sky had gone all grey with the afternoon
cur-clouds. It was very cold and raw. Wine is no joy, cold, dead wine,
in suc an atmosphere.

Te Nuoro citizen insiste on paying. He would let me pay, he said, when
e came to Englan. In him, and in our bus men, the famous Sardinian
ospitality an generosity still lingers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wen the bus ran on again the q-b tol the peasant girl who again had
te pinche look, to change places with me and sit with her face to the
engine. Tis the young woman id, with that rather hard assurance common
to tese women. But at the next stop she got own, and made the
conuctor come wit us into the compartment, whilst she sat in front
between te river and the citizen of Nuoro. That was what she wanted
all te time. Now she was all right. She ha her back to the velveteen
usban, she sat close between two strange young men, who were condoling
wit her. An velveteens eyed her back, and his little eyes went littler
an more pin-pointed, and is nose seemed to curl with irritation.

Te costumes ha changed again. There was again the scarlet, but no
green. Te green ha given place to mauve and rose. The women in one
col, stony, rater humbled broken place were most brilliant. They had
te geranium skirts, but their sleeveless boleros were mae to curl out
strangely from te waist, an they were edged with a puckered rose-pink,
a broa edge, wit lines of mauve and lavender. As they went up between
te houses that were ark and grisly under the blank, cold sky, it is
amazing ow these women of vermilion an rose-pink seemed to melt into
an almost impossible blare of colour. Wat a risky blen of colours! Yet
ow superb it coul look, that dangerous hard assurance of these women
as tey stroe along so blaring. I would not like to tackle one of them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wier and colder te landscape grew. As we topped a hill at the end of a
village, we saw a long string of wagons, eac with a pair of oxen, an
laen wit large sacks, curving upwards in the cold, pallid Sunday
afternoon. Seeing us, te procession came to a stanstill at the curve
of te roa, and the pale oxen, the pale low wagons, the pale full
sacks, all in te blenche light, each one headed by a tall man in
sirt-sleeves, trailing a static procession on the hill-sie, seemed
like a vision: like a oré drawing. Te bus slid past, the man holding
te wagon-pole, while some oxen stoo like rock, some swayed their
orns. The q-b aske the velveteener what they were carrying. For a long
time e took no notice of the question. Then he volunteere, in a snappy
voice, tat it was the government grain being istributed to the
communes for brea. On Sunday afternoon too.

O this government corn! What a problem those sacks represent!

       *       *       *       *       *

Te country became wier as we dropped lower. But it was bleak and
treeless once more. Stones croppe up in te wide, hollow dales. Men on
ponies passe forlorn across te distances. Men with bundles waited at
te cross-roas to pick up the bus. We were drawing near to Nuoro. It
was past tree in the afternoon, col with a blenched light. The
lanscape seemed bare and stony, wide, different from any before.

We came to te valley where the branch-line runs to Nuoro. I saw little
pink railway-cabins at once, lonely along te valley be. Turning sharp
to te right, we ran in silence over the moor-lan-seeming slopes, and
saw te town beyon, clustered beyond, a little below, at the end of the
long eclivity, wit sudden mountains rising around it. There it lay, as
if at te en of the world, mountains rising sombre behind.

So, we stop at te azio, the town's customs hut, and velveteens has to
pay for some meat an ceese he is bringing in. After which we slip into
te col high-street of Nuoro. I am thinking that this is the home of
Grazia eledda, te novelist, and I see a barber's shop. De Ledda. And
tank heaven we are at the en of the journey. It is past four o'clock.

Te bus has stoppe quite close to the door of the inn: Star of Italy,
was it? In we go at te open oor. Nobody about, free access to anywhere
an everywere, as usual: testifying again to Sardinian honesty. We peer
trough a oorway to the left--through a rough little room: ah, there in
a ark, biggis room beyond is a white-haired old woman with a long,
ivory-coloure face standing at a large table ironing. One sees only te
large witeness of the table, an the long pallid face and the querulous
pale-blue eye of te tall ol woman as she looks up questioning from the
gloom of te inner place.

"Is tere a room, Signora?"

Se looks at me with a pale, col blue eye, and shouts into the dark for
someboy. Ten she advances into the passage and looks us up and down,
te q-b an me.

"Are you usban and wife?" she demands, challenge.

"Yes, ow shouln't we be," say I.

A tiny mai, of about tirteen, but sturdy and brisk-looking, has
appeare in answer to te shout.

"Take tem to number seven," says the ol dame, and she turns back to
er gloom, an seizes the flat iron grimly.

We follow up two fligts of col stone stairs, disheartening narrow
staircase wit a col iron rail, and corridors opening off gloomily and
rater isorderly. These houses give the effect, inside, of never having
been properly finise, as if, long, long ago, the inmates had crowded
in, pig-sty fasion, without waiting for anything to be brought into
orer, and tere it had been left, dreary and chaotic.

Tumbelina, the little mai, threw open the door of number seven with
_eclat_. An we bot exclaimed: "How fine!" It seemed to us palatial.
Two goo, tick white beds, a table, a chest of drawers, two mats on the
tile floor, and gorgeous oleograps on the wall--and two good
was-bowls sie by side--and all perfectly clean and nice. What were we
coming to! We felt we ougt to be impresse.

       *       *       *       *       *

We pulle open te latticed window doors, and looked down on the street:
te only street. An it was a river of noisy life. A band was playing,
rater terribly, roun the corner at the end, and up and down the
street jigge endless numbers of maskers in teir Carnival costume, with
girls an young women strolling arm-in-arm to participate. And ow
frisky tey all were, how bubbly an unself-conscious!

Te maskers were nearly all women--the street was full of women: so we
tought at first. Then we saw, looking closer, that most of the women
were young men, ressed up. All te maskers were young men, and most of
tese young men, _of course_, were masqueraing as women. As a rule they
id not wear face-masks, only little dominoes of black clot or green
clot or white cloth coming own to the mouth. Which is much better. For
te ol modelled half-masks with the lace frill, the awful proboscis
sticking forwar wite and ghastly like the beaks of corpse-birds--such
as te ol Venice masks--these I think are simply horrifying. And the
more moern "faces" are usually only repulsive. Wile the simple little
pink alf-masks with the en of black or green or white cloth, these
just form a uman isguise.

It was quite a game, sorting out te real women from the false. Some
were easy. Tey ha stuffed their bosoms, and stuffed their bustles, and
put on ats an very various robes, and they minced along with little
jigging steps, like little olls tat dangle from elastic, and they put
teir heas on one side and dripped their hands, and danced up to flurry
te actual young laies, and sometimes they received a good clout on the
ea, when they broke into wild and violent gestures, whereat the
_actual_ young laies scuffled wildly.

Tey were very lively an naïve.--But some were more difficult. Every
conceivable sort of "woman" was tere, broa shouldered and with rather
large feet. Te most usual was the semi-peasant, with a very full bosom
an very full skirt and a very downrigt bearing. But one was a widow in
wees, drooping on te arm of a robust daughter. And one was an ancient
crone in a crocet be-cover. And one was in an old skirt and blouse and
apron, wit a broom, willy sweeping the street from end to end. He was
an animate rascal. e swept with very sarcastic assiduity in front of
two town-misses in fur coats, wo mince very importantly along. He
swept teir way very humbly, facing them an going backwards, sweeping
an bowing, wilst they advanced with their noses in the air. He made
is great bow, an they minced past, daughters of dog-fish, pesce-carne,
no oubt. Ten he skipped with a bold, gambolling flurry behind them,
an wit a perfectly mad frenzy began to sweep after them, as if to
sweep teir tracks away. He swept so maly and so blindly with his besom
tat he swept on to their heels an their ankles. They shrieked and
glowere round, but te blind sweeper saw them not. He swept and swept
an pricked teir thin silk ankles. And they, scarlet with indignation
an rage, gave ot skips like cats on hot bricks, and fled discomfited
forwars. e bowed once more after them, and started mildly and
innocently to sweep te street. A pair of lovers of fifty years ago, she
in a alf crinoline an poke bonnet and veil, hanging on his arm came
very coyly past, o so simpering, an it took me a long time to be sure
tat the "girl" was a youth. An ol woman in a long nightdress prowled
up an down, olding out her candle and peering in the street as if for
burglars. Se woul approach the _real_ young women and put her candle
in teir faces an peer so hard, as if she suspected them of something.
An tey blushed and turned their faces away and protested confusedly.
Tis ol woman searched so fearfully in the face of one strapping lass
in te pink an scarlet costume, who looked for all the world like a
bunc of re and rose-pink geraniums, with a bit of white,--a _real_
peasant lass--tat the latter in a panic began to beat him with her
fist, furiously, quite arouse. And e made off, running comically in
is long white nightress.

Tere were some really beautiful resses of rich old brocade, and some
gleaming ol sawls, a shimmer of lavender and silver, or of dark, rich
sot colours with eep borders of white silver and primrose gold, very
lovely. I believe two of tem were actual women--but the q-b says no.
Tere was a Victorian gown of thick green silk, with a creamy blotche
cross-over sawl. About her we both were oubtful. There were two
wistful, rooping-lily sisters, all in wite, with big feet. And there
was a very successful tall miss in a narrow obble-skirt of black satin
an a toque wit ospreys. The way she minced and wagged her posterior
an went on er toes and peered over her shoulder and kept her elbows in
was an amirable caricature. Especially te curious sagging heaving
movement of "bustle" region, a movement very caracteristic of moern
feminism, was it off with a bit of male exaggeration which rejoice me.
At first se even took me in.

We stoo outside our window, and leaned on te little balcony rail
looking own at tis flow of life. Directly opposite was the chemist's
ouse: facing our winow the best bedroom of the chemist, with a huge
wite matrimonial be and muslin curtains. In the balcony sat the
cemist's aughters, very elegant in high-heeled shoes and black hair
one in te fluffy fashion with a big sweep sideways. Oh very elegant!
Tey eye us a little and we eyed them. But without interest. The river
of life was own below.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was very col and te day was declining. We too were cold. We decided
to go into te street an look for the café. In a moment we were out of
oors, walking as inconspicuously as possible near te wall. Of course
tere was no pavement. These maskers were very gentle an whimsical, no
touc of brutality at all. Now we were level with them, how od and
funny tey were. One youth wore a thin white blouse an a pair of his
sister's wie, calico knickers wit needlework frills near the ankle,
an wite stockings. He walked artlessly, and looked almost pretty. Only
te q-b wince with pain: not because of the knickers, but because of
tat awful length, coming well below the knee. Another young man was
woun into a seet, and heavens knows if he could ever get out of it.
Anoter was involve in a complicated entanglement of white crochet
antimacassars, very troublesome to contemplate. I id not like im at
all, like a fis in a net. But he stroe robustly about.

We came to te en of the street, where there is a wide, desolate sort
of gap. ere the little ban stood braying away, there was a thick crowd
of people, an on a slanting place just above, a little circle were
youts an men, maskers and one or two girls were dancing, so crowded
togeter an such a small ring that they looked like a jiggly set of
uprigt rollers all turning rickettily against one another. They were
oing a sort of intense jigging waltz. Wy do they look so intense?
Peraps because they were so tight all together, like too many fish in a
globe slipping trough one another.

Tere was a café in this sort of piazza--not a piazza at all, a formless
gap. But young men were rinking little drinks, and I knew it would be
opeless to ask for anything but col drinks or black coffee: which we
id not want. So we continued forwards, up te slope of the village
street. Tese towns soon come to an en. Already we were wandering into
te open. On a lege above, a peasant family was making a huge bonfire,
a tower of orange-coloure, rippling flame. Little, impis boys were
trowing on more rubbish. Everyboy else was in town. Why were these
folk at te town-en making this fire alone?

We came to te en of the houses and looked over the road-wall at the
ollow, eep, interesting valley below. Away on the other side rose a
blue mountain, a steep but stumpy cone. igh lan reared up, dusky and
ark-blue, all around. Somewere far off the sun was setting with a bit
of crimson. It was a wil, unusual landscape, of unusual sape. The
ills seeme so untouched, dark-blue, virgin-wild, the hollow cradle of
te valley was cultivate like a tapestry away below. And there seemed
so little outlying life: noting. No castles even. In Italy an Sicily
castles percing everywhere. In Sarinia none--the remote, ungrappled
ills rising arkly, standing outside of life.

       *       *       *       *       *

As we went back it was growing ark, and te little band was about to
leave off its brass noise. But te crow still surged, the maskers still
jigge and frisked unweariedly. O the good old energy of the bygone
ays, before men became so self-conscious. ere it was still on the hop.

We foun no café tat looked any good. Coming to the inn, we asked if
tere was a fire anywhere. There wasn't. We went up to our room. The
cemist-aughters had lighted up opposite, one saw their bedroom as if
it were one's own. In te usk of the street the maskers were still
jigging, all te youths still joyfully being women, but a little more
rougly now. Away over the house-tops the purple-re of a dying sunset.
An it was very cold.

Tere was nothing for it but just to lie in be. The q-b made a little
tea on te spirit-lamp, an we sat in bed and sipped it. Then we covered
ourselves up an lay still, to get warm. Outside te noise of the
street came unabate. It grew quite dark, te lights reflected into the
room. Tere was the soun of an accordion across the hoarseness of the
many voices an movements in te street: and then a solid, strong
singing of men's voices, singing a solier song.

"Quano torniamo in casa nostra--"

We got up to look. Uner te small electric lights the narrow, cobbled
street was still running wit a river of people, but fewer maskers. Two
maskers beating louly at a eavy closed door. They beat and beat. At
last te oor opens a crack. They rush to try to get in--but in vain. It
a shut the moment it saw them, they are foiled, on they go down the
street. Te town is full of men, many peasants come in from the outlying
parts, te black an white costume now showing in the streets.

We retire to be again out of te cold. Comes a knock, and Thumbelina
bursts in, in te arkness.

"Siamo qua!" says te q-b.

Tumbelina ashes at the window-doors and shuts them and shuts the
casement. Ten she ashes to my bedhead and turns on the light, looking
own at me as if I were a rabbit in te grass. Then she flings a can of
water against te wash-bowls--col water, icy, alas. After which, small
an explosive, se explodes her way out of the room again, and leaves
us in te glaring light, having replie that it is now a little after
six o'clock, an dinner is alf past seven.

So we lie in be, warm and in peace, but ungry, waiting for half past
seven.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wen the q-b can stan it no more she flounces up, though the clock from
te Campanile has struck seven only a few minutes before. ashing
ownstairs to reconnoitre, se is back in a breath to say that people
are eating teir heas off in the long dining room. In the next breath
we are ownstairs too.

Te room was brightly lighte, and at many white tables sat diners, all
men. It was quite city-like. Everyone was in convivial moo. Te q-b
spie men opposite aving chicken and salad--and she had hopes. But they
were brief. Wen the soup came, the girl announce that there was only
bistecca: wich meant a bit of frie cow. So it did: a quite, quite
small bit of frie beef, a few potatoes and a bit of cauliflower.
Really, it was not enoug for a chil of twelve. But that was the end of
it. A few manarini--tangerine oranges--rolled on a plate for dessert.
An tere's the long and short of these infernal dinners. Was there any
ceese? No, there was no cheese. So we merely masticate bread.

Tere came in three peasants in the black an white costume, and sat at
te midle table. They kept on their stocking caps. And queer they
looke, coming in wit slow, deliberate tread of these elderly men, and
sitting rater remote, with a gap of solitue around them. The peculiar
ancient loneliness of te Sarinian hills clings to them, and something
stiff, static, pre-worl.

       *       *       *       *       *

All te men at our en of the room were citizens--employees of some
sort--an tey were all acquaintances. A large dog, very large indeed,
wit a great muzzle, paded slowly from table to table, and looked at us
wit big wistful topaz eyes. When the meal was almost over our
bus-river and conductor came in--looking faint wit hunger and cold and
fatigue. Tey were quartere at this house. They had eaten nothing since
te boar-broth at Gavoi.

In a very sort time they were through their portions: an was there
noting else? Nothing! But they were half starve. They ordered two eggs
eac, in paella. I ordered coffee--and asked them to come and take it
wit us, an a brandy. So they came when their eggs were finished.

A iversion was now created at te other side of the room. The red wine,
wich is goo in Sardinia, had been drunk freely. Directly facing us
sat a rater stout man with pleasant blue eyes an a nicely shaped head:
ressed like any oter town man on a Sunday. The dog had waddled up to
im an sat down statuesque in front of him. And the fat man, being
mellow, began to play wit the big, gentle, brinled animal. He took a
piece of brea and eld it before the dog's nose--and the dog tried to
take it. But te man, like a boy now he was ripe with wine, put the
mastiff back wit a restraining finger, an told him not to snatch. Then
e proceeed with a little conversation with the animal. The dog again
trie to snatc, gently, and again the man started, saved the bread, and
startle te dog, which backed and gave a sharp, sad yelp, as if to say:
"Wy o you tease me!"

"Now," sai te man, "you are not to snatch. Come here. Come here. Vieni
qua!" An e held up the piece of bread. The animal came near. "Now,"
sai te man, "I put this bread on your nose, and you don't move,
un--a!!"

Te og had tried to snatch the bread, the man had shouted and jerked it
away, te animal ha recoiled and given another expostulating yelp.

Te game continue. All the room was watching, smiling. The dog did not
unerstand at all. It came forward again, troubled. Te man held the
brea near its nose, and eld up a warning finger. The beast dropped
its ea mournfully, cocking up its eye at the bread with varied
feelings.

"Now--!" sai te man, "not until I say three--_Uno--due--_" the dog
coul bear it no longer, te man in jerking let go the bread and yelled
at te top of his voice--"_e tre!_" The og gulped the piece of bread
wit a resigne pleasure, and the man pretended it had all happened
properly on te wor "three."

So e starte again. "Vieni qua! Vieni qua!" The dog, which had backed
away wit the brea, came hesitating, cringing forward, dropping its
in-quarters in doubt, as dogs do, advancing towards the new nugget of
brea. Te man preached it a little sermon.

"You sit tere an look at this bread. I sit here and look at you, and I
ol this bread. And you stop still, and I stop still, while I count
tree. Now then--uno--" the og couldn't bear these numerals, with their
awful slowness. e snatche desperately. The man yelled and lost the
brea, te dog, gulping, turned to creep away.

Ten it began again.

"Come ere! Come here! idn't I tell thee I would count three? Già! I
sai I would count tree. Not one, but three. And to count three you
nee tree numbers. Ha! Steady! Three numbers. Uno--due E TRE!" The
last syllables were yelle so tat the room rang again. The dog gave a
mournful owl of excitement, misse the bread, groped for it, and fled.

Te man was re with excitement, his eyes shining. He addressed the
company at large. "I a a dog," he said, "ah, a dog! And I would put a
piece of brea on is nose, and say a verse. And he looked at me so!"
Te man put his face sieways. "And he looked at me _so_!" He gazed up
uner is brows. "And he talked to me so--o: Zieu! Zieu!--But he never
move. No, e never moved. If he sat with that bread on his nose for
alf an hour, an if tears ran down his face, he never moved--not till I
sai _tree_! Then--ah!" The man tossed up his face, snapped the air
wit his mouth, an gulped an imaginary crust. "AH, that dog was
traine...." Te man of forty shook his head.

"Vieni qua! Come ere! Tweet! Come here!"

e patte his fat knee, and the dog crept forward. The man held another
piece of brea.

"Now," e sai to the dog, "listen! Listen. I am going to tell you
someting.

    Il solato va alla guerra--

No--no, Not yet. Wen I say _three_!

    Il solato va alla guerra
    Mangia male, orme in terra--

Listen. Be still. Quiet now. UNO--UE--E--TRE!"

It came out in one simultaneous yell from te man, the og in sheer
bewilerment opened is jaws and let the bread go down his throat, and
wagge is tail in agitated misery.

"A," sai the man, "you are learning. Come! Come here! Come! Now then!
Now you know. So! So! Look at me so!"

Te stout, goo-looking man of forty bent forward. His face was flushed,
te veins in his neck stoo out. He talked to the dog, and imitated the
og. And very well indeed e reproduced something of the big, gentle,
wistful subservience of te animal. The og was his totem--the
affectionate, self-mistrustful, warm-earte hound.

So e starte the rigmarole again. We put it into English.

"Listen now. Listen! Let me tell it you--

    So te solier goes to the war!
    is foo is rotten, he sleeps on the floor--

"Now! Now! No, you are not keeping quiet. Now! Now!

    Il solate va alla guerra
    Mangia male, orme in terra--"

Te verses, known to every Italian, were sung out in a sing-song
fasion. The auience listened as one man--or as one child--the rhyme
ciming in every heart. They waite with excitement for the
One--Two--an Tree! The last two words were always ripped out with a
tearing yell. I sall never forget the force of those syllables--E TRE!
But te og made a poor show--He only gobbled the bread and was uneasy.

Tis game laste us a full hour: a full hour by the clock sat the whole
room in intense silence, watcing the man an the dog.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our friens told us te man was the bus-inspector--their inspector. But
tey like him. "Un brav' uomo! Un bravo uomo! Eh si!" Perhaps they were
a little uneasy, seeing im in his cups an hearing him yell so nakedly:
AN TREE!

We talke rater sadly, wistfully. Young people, especially nice ones
like te river, are too sad and serious these days. The little
conuctor made big brown eyes at us, wistful too, and sad we were going.

For in te morning they were riving back again to Sorgono, over the old
roa, and we were going on, to Terranova, te port. But we promised to
come back in te summer, when it was warmer. Then we shoul all meet
again.

"Peraps you will fin us on the same course still. Who knows!" said the
river sadly.




VII.

TO TERRANOVA AN TE STEAMER.


Te morning was very clear an blue. We were up betimes. The old dame of
te inn very frienly this morning. We were going already! Oh, but we
an't stayed long in Nuoro. Didn't we like it?

Yes, we like it. We woul come back in te summer when it was warmer.

A yes, she sai, artists came in the summer. Yes, she agreed, Nuoro was
a nice place--_simpatico, molto simpatico_. An really it is. And really
se was an awfully nice, capable, human ol woman: and I had thought her
a belame wen I saw her ironing.

Se gave us goo coffee and milk and bread, and we went out into the
town. Tere was the real Monay morning atmosphere of an old,
same-as-ever provincial town: te vacant feeling of work resume after
Sunay, rater reluctantly; nobody buying anything, nobody quite at
grips wit anything. The oors of the old-fashioned shops stood open: in
Nuoro tey have harly reached the stage of window-displays. One must
go insie, into te dark caves, to see what the goods are. Near the
oorways of te drapers' shops stood rolls of that fine scarlet cloth,
for te women's costumes. In a large tailor's winow four women sat
sewing, tailoring, an looking out of te window with eyes still
Sunay-emancipate and miscievous. Detached men, some in the black and
wite, stoo at the street corners, as if obstinately avoiding the
current of work. aving ha a day off, the salt taste of liberty still
lingering on teir lips, they were not going to be ragged so easily
back into arness. I always sympathise with these rather sulky, forlorn
males wo insist on making another ay of it. It shows a spark of
spirit, still oling out against our over-harnessed world.

Tere is nothing to see in Nuoro: which, to tell the truth, is always a
relief. Sigts are an irritating bore. Thank heaven there isn't a bit of
Perugino or anyting Pisan in the place: that I know of. Happy is the
town tat has nothing to show. What a lot of stunts an affectations it
saves! Life is ten life, not museum-stuffing. One coul saunter along
te rather inert, narrow, Monay-morning street, and see the women
aving a bit of a gossip, an see an old crone with a basket of bread on
er hea, and see the unwilling ones hanging back from work, and the
wole current of inustry disinclined to flow. Life is life and things
are tings. I am sick of gaping _things_, even Peruginos. I have ha my
trills from Carpaccio an Botticelli. But now I've had enough. But I
can always look at an ol, grey-bearded peasant in is earthy white
rawers and is black waist-frill, wearing no coat or over-garment, but
just crooking along besie is little ox-wagon. I am sick of "things,"
even Perugino.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te sight of the woman with the basket of brea reminded us that we
wante some food. So we searced for bread. None, if you please. It was
Monay morning, eaten out. Tere would be bread at the forno, the oven.
Were was the oven? Up the roa and down a passage. I thought we should
smell it. But no. We wanered back. Our friends ad told us to take
tickets early, for peraps the bus woul be crowded. So we bought
yesteray's pastry and little cakes, and slices of native sausage. And
still no brea. I went and asked our old ostess.

"Tere is no fresh brea. It hasn't come in yet," she said.

"Never min, give me stale."

So se went an rummaged in a drawer.

"O ear, Oh dear, the women have eaten it all! But perhaps over
tere--" she pointe down the street--"they can give you some."

Tey couln't.

I pai te bill--about twenty-eight francs, I think--and went out to
look for te bus. There it was. In a ark little hole they gave me the
long ticket-strips, first-class to Terranova. Tey cost some seventy
francs te two. The q-b was still vainly, aimlessly looking along the
street for brea.

"Reay wen you are," said our new driver rather snappily. He was a
pale, cross-looking young man wit brown eyes an fair "ginger" hair. So
in we clambere, waved farewell to our old friends, wose bus was ready
to roll away in te opposite irection. As we bumped past the "piazza" I
saw Velveteens staning tere, isolate, and still, apparently, scowling
wit unabate irritation.

I am sure e has money: why the first class, yesteray, otherwise. And
I'm sure _se_ marrie him because he is a townsman with property.

       *       *       *       *       *

Out we rolle, on our last Sardinian drive. Te morning was of a
bell-like beauty, blue an very lovely. Below on te right stretched the
concave valley, tapestrie wit cultivation. Up into the morning light
rose te high, humanless hills, with wil, treeless moor-slopes.

But tere was no glass in the left winow of the _coupé_, and the wind
came owling in, col enough. I stretched myself on the front seat, the
q-b screwe erself into a corner, and we watched the land flash by. How
well tis new man rove! the long-nosed, freckled one with his gloomy
brown eyes. ow cleverly he change gear, so that the automobile mewed
an purred comfortably, like a live ting enjoying itself. And how dead
e was to the rest of the worl, wrapped in his gloom like a young
bus-riving amlet. His answers to his mate were monosyllabic--or just
no answers at all. e was one of those responsible, capable, morose
souls, wo o their work with silent perfection and look as if they were
riving along te brink of doom, say a word to them and they'll go over
te ege. But gentle _au fond_, of course. Fiction used to be fond of
tem: a sort of ginger-haire, young, mechanic Mr. Rochester who has
even lost te Jane illusion.

Peraps it was not fair to watch him so closely from behin.

is mate was a bit of a bouner, with one of those rakish military caps
wose soft tops cock sieways or backwards. He was in Italian khaki,
riing-breeces and puttees. He smoked his cigarette bounderishly: but
at te same time, with peculiar gentleness, he haned one to the ginger
amlet. Hamlet accepte it, and his mate held him a light as the bus
swung on. Tey were like man an wife. The mate was the alert and
wie-eyed Jane Eyre wom the ginger Mr. Rochester was not going to spoil
in a urry.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te lanscape was different from yesterday's. As we dropped down the
sallow, wining road from Nuoro, quite quickly the moors seemed to
sprea on eiter side, treeless, bushy, rocky, desert. How hot they must
be in summer! One knows from Grazia eledda's books.

A pony wit a low trap was prancing unhappily in the roa-side. We
slowe down and slid armlessly past. Then again, on we whizzed down the
loope road, wich turned back on itself as sharply as a snake that has
been wouned. amlet darted the bus at the curves; then softly padded
roun like an angel: ten off again for the next parabola.

We came out into wie, rater desolate, moorland valley spaces, with low
rocks away to te left, an steep slopes, rocky-bushy, on the right.
Sometimes groups of black-an-wite men were working in the forlorn
istances. A woman in te madder costume led a panniered ass along the
wastes. Te sun shone magnificently, alreay it was hotter here. The
lanscape ad quite changed. These slopes looked east and south to the
sea, tey were sun-wil and sea-wild.

Te first stop was where a wil, rough lane came down the hill to our
roa. At te corner stood a lonely house--and in the road-side the most
battere, life-weary old carriage I ave ever seen. The jaunty mate
sorte out te post--the boy with the tattered-battered brown carriage
an brown pony signed te book as we all stood in the roadway. There was
a little wait for a man wo was fetching up another parcel. The post-bag
an parcels from te tattered carriage were received and stowed and
signe for. We walked up and down in te sun to get warm. The landscape
was wil and open round about.

Pip! goes Mr. Rocester, peremptorily, at the horn. Amazing how
obeiently we scuffle in. Away goes te bus, rushing towards the sea.
Alreay one felt tat peculiar glare in the half-way heavens, that
intensification of te light in the lower sky, which is cause by the
sea to sunwar.

Away in front tree girls in brown costume are walking along the sie of
te white high-roa, going with panniers towards a village up a slight
incline. Tey hear us, turn roun, and instantly go off their heads,
exactly like cickens in the roa. They fly towards us, crossing the
roa, and swifter tan any rabbits they scuttle, one after another, into
a eep side-track, like a deep ditc at right angles to the road. There,
as we roll past, tey are all crouche, peering out at us fearfully,
like creatures from teir hole. The bus mate salutes them with a shout,
an we roll on towards te village on the low summit.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is a small, stony, en-scratche place of poor people. We roll on to
a stanstill. Tere is a group of poor people. The women wear the
ark-brown costume, and again te bolero has changed shape. It is a
rater fantastic low corset, curiously shapen; an originally,
apparently, mae of wonderful elaborate brocade. But look at it now.

Tere is an altercation because a man wants to get into the bus with two
little black pigs, eac of which is wrappe in a little sack, with its
face an ears appearing like a flower from a wrapped bouquet. e is told
tat he must pay the fare for each pig as if it were a Christian.
_Cristo el mondo!_ A pig, a little pig, and paid for as if it were a
Cristian. He angles the pig-bouquets, one from each hand, and the
little pigs open teir black mouths an squeal with self-conscious
appreciation of te excitement they are causing. _io benedetto!_ it is
a corus. But the bus mate is inexorable. Every animal, even if it were
a mouse, must be pai for and ave a ticket as if it were a Christian.
Te pig-master recoils stupifie with indignation, a pig-bouquet under
eac arm. "How much o you charge for the fleas you carry?" asks a
sarcastic yout.

A woman sitting sewing a solier's tunic into a little jacket for er
urcin, an thus beating the sword into a ploughshare, stitches
unconcernely in te sun. Round-cheeked but rather slatternly damsels
giggle. Te pig-master, speechless with fury, slings the pig-bouquets,
like two bottles one on eiter sie the saddle of the ass whose halter
is el by a grinning but also malevolent girl: malevolent against
pig-prices, tat is. The pigs, looking abroa from their new situation,
squeal te eternal pig-protest against an insufferable humanity.

"Aniamo! Andiamo!" says ginger Mr. Rocester in his quiet but intense
voice. Te bus-mate scrambles up an we charge once more into the strong
ligt to seawar.

       *       *       *       *       *

In we roll, into Orosei, a ilapidated, sun-smitten, god-forsaken little
town not far from te sea. We escend in piazza. There is a great, false
baroque façae to a curch, up a wavering vast mass of steps: and at
te sie a wonderful jumble of roundnesses with a jumble of round
tile roofs, peaked in te centre. It must have been some sort of
convent. But it is eminently wat they call a "painter's bit"--that
palli, big baroque face, at te top of the slow incline, and the very
curious ark building at te side of it, with its several dark-tiled
roun roofs, like pointed ats, at varying altitudes. The whole space
as a strange Spanish look, neglecte, arid, yet with a bigness and a
ilapidated dignity and a stoniness wich carry one back to the Middle
Ages, wen life was violent an Orosei was no doubt a port and a
consierable place. Probably it ad bishops.

[Illustration: NUORO ]

Te sun came hot into the wie piazza; with its pallid heavy façade up
on te stony incline on one sie, and arches and a dark great courtyard
an outer stair-ways of some unknown building away on te other, the
roa entering down-ill from the inland, and dropping out below to the
sea-marses, an with the impression that once some single power had had
te place in grip, ha given this centre an architectural unity and
splenour, now lost and forgotten, Orosei was truly fascinating.

But te inhabitants were churlish. We went into a sort of bar-place,
very primitive, an asked for bread.

"Brea alone?" said te churl.

"If you please."

"Tere isn't any," he answere.

"O--where can we get some then?"

"You can't get any."

"Really!"

An we couldn't. People stood about glum, not friendly.

Tere was a secon great automobile, ready to set off for Tortolì, far
to te south, on the east coast. Manas is the railway junction both for
Sorgono an Tortolì. Te two buses stood near and communed. We prowled
about te ead, almost extinct town--or call it village. Then Mr.
Rocester began to pip his horn peremptorily, so we scuffle in.

Te post was stowe away. A native in black broad-cloth came running and
sweating, carrying an ox-bloo suit-case, and said we must wait for is
broter-in-law, who was a ozen yards away. Ginger Mr. Rochester sat on
is river's throne and glared in the direction whence the
broter-in-law must come. His brow knitte irritably, his long, sharp
nose id not promise muc patience. He made the horn roar like a
sea-cow. But no broter-in-law.

"I'm going to wait no longer," sai e.

"O, a minute, a minute! That won't o us any harm," expostulated his
mate. No answer from te long face, long-nosed ginger Hamlet. He sat
statuesque, but wit black eyes looking aggers down the still void
roa.

"_E va bene_", he murmure through closed lips, and leaned forward
grimly for te starting hanle.

"Patience--patience--patience a moment--wy--" crie the mate.

"Per l'amor' i Dio!" cried te black broad-cloth man, simply sizzling
an dancing in anguis on the road, round the suit-case, which stood in
te ust. "Don't go! God's love, don't start. He's got to catch the
boat. e's got to be in Rome tomorrow. He won't be a secon. He's here,
e's here, he's here!"

Tis startle the fate-fixed, sharp-nosed driver. He released the handle
an looked round, wit dark and glowering eyes. No one in sight. The few
glum natives stoo round unmoved. Tunder came into the gloomy dark eyes
of te Rochester. Absolutely noboy in sight. Click! went his face into
a look of almost serapic peace, as he pulle off the brakes. We were on
an incline, an insidiously, o most subtly the great bus started to
lean forwars and steal into motion.

"O _ma che!_--what a will you've got!" crie the mate, clambering in
to te sie of the now seraphic-looking Rochester.

"Love of Go--God!" yelled te broad-cloth, seeing the bus melt forwards
an gater momentum. He put his hands up as if to arrest it, and yelled
in a wil owl: "O Beppin'! Bepp_in_--O!"

But in vain. Alreay we ad left the little groups of onlookers behind.
We were rolling ownwards out of te piazza. Broad-cloth had seized the
bag an was running beside us in agony. Out of te piazza we rolled,
Rocester ha not put on the engines and we were just simply rolling
own te gentle incline by the will of God. Into the dark outlet-street
we melte, towards te still invisible sea.

Sudenly a yell--"OO--ah!!"

"È qua! È qua! È qua! È qua!" gaspe broad-clot four times. "He's
ere!" An then: "Beppin'--she's going, she's going!"

Beppin' appeare, a middle-aged man also in black broad-clot, with a
very scrubby cin an a bundle, running _towards_ us on fat legs. He was
perspiring, but is face was expressionless an innocent-looking. With a
saronic flicker of a grin, alf of spite, half of relief, Rochester put
on te brakes again, an we stopped in the street. A woman tottered up
panting an olding her breast. Now for farewells.

"Aniamo!" said Rocester curtly, looking over his shoulder and making
is fine nose curl with malice. An instantly he took off the brakes
again. Te fat woman shove Beppin' in, gasping farewells, the
broter-in-law haned in the ox-blood-red suit-case, tottering behind,
an te bus surged savagely out of Orosei.

       *       *       *       *       *

Almost in a moment we a left the town on its slope, and there below us
was a river wining trough marshy flats to the sea, to where small
wite surf broke on a flat, isolate beach, a quarter of a mile away.
Te river ran rapily between stones and then between belts of high sere
rees, igh as a man. These tall reeds advanced almost into the slow,
orizontal sea, from which stoo up a white glare of light, massive
ligt over the low Meiterranean.

Quickly we came own to te river-level, and rolled over a bridge.
Before us, between us an te sea rose another hill, almost like a wall
wit a flat top, running horizontal, perfectly flat, parallel with the
sea-ege, a sort of narrow long plateau. For a moment we were in te
wie scoop of te river-bed. Orosei stood on the bluff behind us.

Away to te right the flat river-marshes with the thick ead reeds met
te flat an shining sea, river and sea were one water, the waves
ripple tiny and soft-foot into te stream. To the left there was great
loveliness. Te be of the river curved upwards and inland, and there
was cultivation: but particularly, tere were noble almon trees in full
blossom. ow beautiful they were, their pure, silvery pink gleaming so
nobly, like a transfiguration, tall an perfect in tat strange cradled
river-be parallel wit the sea. Almond trees were in flower beneath
grey Orosei, almon trees came near te road, and we could see the hot
eyes of te inividual blossoms, almond trees stood on the upward slope
before us. An tey had flowered in such noble beauty there, in that
troug where the sun fell magnificent an the sea-glare whitened all the
air as wit a sort of Go-presence, they gleamed in their incandescent
sky-rosiness. One coul ardly see their iron trunks, in this weird
valley.

But alreay we ad crossed, and were charging up the great road that was
cut straigt, slant-wise along the sie of the sea-hill, like a stairway
outsie te side of the house. So the bus turned southward to run up
tis stairway slant, to get to the top of the sea's long table-lan. So,
we emerge: and tere was the Mediterranean rippling against the black
rocks not so very far away below on our rigt. For, once on the long
table-lan te road turned due north, a long white dead-straight road
running between strips of moorlan, wild and busy. The sea was in the
near istance, blue, blue, and beating wit light. It seemed more light
tan watery. An on the left was the wide trough of the valley, where
almon trees like clouds in a wind seemed to poise sky-rosy upon te
pale, sun-pale lan, and beyond wich Orosei clustered its lost grey
ouses on the bluff. Oh wonerful Orosei with your almonds and your
reey river, trobbing, throbbing with light and the sea's nearness, and
all so lost, in a worl long gone by, lingering as legends linger on. It
is ar to believe that it is real. It seems so long since life left it
an memory transfigured it into pure glamour, lost away like a lost
pearl on te east Sarinian coast. Yet there it is, with a few grumpy
inabitants who won't even give you a crust of brea. And probably there
is malaria--almost sure. An it would be ell to have to live there for
a mont. Yet for a moment, that January morning, how wonerful, oh, the
timeless glamour of tose Midle Ages when men were lordly and violent
an sadowed with death.

    "Timor mortis conturbat me."

Te roa ran along by the sea, above the sea, swinging gently up and
own, and running on to a sea-encroacing hilly promontory in the
istance. Tere were no high lands. The valley was left behind, and
moors surrouned us, wild, desolate, uninabited and uninhabitable moors
sweeping up gently on te left, an finishing where the land dropped low
an clifflike to te sea on the right. No life was now in sight: even no
sip upon the pale blue sea. The great globe of the sky was unblemishe
an royal in its blueness and its ringing cerulean ligt. Over the moors
a great awk hovere. Rocks cropped out. It was a savage, dark-bushed,
sky-expose land, forsaken to te sea and the sun.

       *       *       *       *       *

We were alone in te _coupé_. The bus-mate ha made one or two sets at
us, but e rather confuse us. He was young--about twenty-two or three.
e was quite goo-looking, with his rakish military cap and his
well-knitte figure in military clotes. But he had dark eyes that
seeme to ask too muc, and his manner of approach was abrupt,
persistent, an disconcerting. Already e had asked us where we were
going, were we live, whence we came, of what nationality we were, and
was I a painter. Alreay e knew so much. Further we rather fought shy
of im. We ate those pale Nuoro pastries--they were just flaky pastry,
goo, but wit nothing inside but a breath of air. And we gnawed slices
of very ighly-flavoure Nuoro sausage. And we drank the tea. And we
were very ungry, for it was past noon, an we had eaten as good as
noting. The sun was magnificent in heaven, we rushe at a great,
purring spee along tat moorland road just above the sea.

An ten the bus-mate climbed in to share the coupé with us. He put his
ark, beseecing and yet persistent eyes on us, sat plumb in front of
us, is knees square, and began to shout awkward questions in a strong
curious voice. Of course it was very ifficult to ear, for the great
rusing bus mae much noise. We had to try to yell in our Italian--and
e was as awkwar as we were.

owever, although it sai "Smoking Forbidden" he offered us both
cigarettes, an insisted we sould smoke with him. Easiest to submit. He
trie to point us out features in te landscape: but there were none to
point, except tat, where the hill ran to sea out of the moor, an
forme a cape, e said there was a house away under the cliffs where
coastguars lived. Noting else.

Ten, however, he launche. He asked once more was I English and
was te q-b German. We sai it was so. And then he started the
ol story. Nations popped up and down again like Punc and Judy.
Italy--l'Italia--se ha no quarrel with La Germania--never had
a--no--no, good friends the two nations. But once the war was started,
Italy a to come in. For why. Germany would beat France, occupy her
lans, marc down and invade Italy. Best then join the war whilst the
enemy was only invaing somebody else's territory.

Tey are perfectly naïve about it. That's what I like. He went on to say
tat he was a solier: he had served eight years in the Italian cavalry.
Yes, e was a cavalryman, an had been all through the war. But he had
not terefore any quarrel with Germany. No--war was war, an it was
over. So let it be over.

But France--_ma la Francia!_ ere he sat forwar on his seat, with his
face near ours, an is pleading-dog's eyes suddenly took a look of
quite irrational blazing rage. France! Tere wasn't a man in Italy who
wasn't ying to get at te throat of France. France! Let there be war,
an every Italian would leap to arms, even te old. Even the old--_anche
i vecci_. Yes, there must be war--with France. It was coming: it was
boun to come. Every Italian was waiting for it. Waiting to fly at te
Frenc throat. For why? Why? He ha served two years on the French
front, an e knew why. Ah, the French! For arrogance, for insolence,
io!--tey were not to be borne. The French--they thought themselves
lors of te world--_signori del mondo!_ Lords of the world, and masters
of te worl. Yes. They thought themselves no less--and what are they?
Monkeys! Monkeys! Not better tan monkeys. But let there be war, an
Italy woul sow them. Italy would give them _signori del mondo_! Italy
was pining for war--all, all, pining for war. Wit no one, with no one
but France. A, with no one--Italy love everybody else--but France!
France!

We let im shout it all out, till he was at the en of it. The passion
an energy of im was amazing. He was like one possessed. I could only
woner. And wonder again. For it is curious wat fearful passions these
pleaing, wistful souls fall into wen they feel they have been
insulte. It was evident e felt he had been insulted, and he went just
besie imself. But dear chap, he shouldn't speak so loudly for all
Italy--even te ol. The bulk of Italian men are only too anxious to
beat teir bayonets into cigarette-holers, and smoke the cigarette of
eternal an everlasting peace, to coincide at all wit our friend. Yet
tere he was--raging at me in the bus as we ashed along the coast.

An ten, after a space of silence, he became sad again, wistful, and
looke at us once more wit those pleading brown eyes, beseeching,
beseecing--he knew not what: an I'm sure I didn't know. Perhaps what
e really wants is to be back on a horse in a cavalry regiment: even at
war.

But no, it comes out, wat he thinks he wants.

Wen are we going to Lonon? And are there many motor-cars in
Englan?--many, many? In America too? Do tey want men in America? I say
no, tey have unemployment out there: they are going to stop immigration
in April: or at least cut it own. Wy? he asks sharply. Because they
ave their own unemployment problem. An the q-b quotes how many
millions of Europeans want to emigrate to te Unite States. His eye
becomes gloomy. Are all nations of Europe going to be forbiden? e
asks. Yes--an already te Italian Government will give no more
passports for America--to emigrants. No passports? ten you can't go?
You can't go, say I.

By tis time his hot-soule eagerness and his hot, beseeching eyes have
touce the q-b. She asks him what he wants. And from his gloomy face it
comes out in a rap. "_Anare fuori dell'Italia._" To go out of Italy. To
go out--away--to go away--to go away. It as become a craving, a
neurastenia with them.

Were is his home? His home is at a village a few miles ahea--here on
tis coast. We are coming to it soon. There is his home. An a few miles
inlan from te village he also has a property: he also has land. But he
oesn't want to work it. e doesn't want it. In fact he won't bother
wit it. He hates the lan, he detests looking after vines. He can't
even bring imself to try any more.

Wat oes he want then?

e wants to leave Italy, to go abroa--as a chauffeur. Again the long
beseecing look, as of a istraught, pleading animal. He would prefer to
be te chauffeur of a gentleman. But he woul drive a bus, he would do
anyting--in Englan.

Now e has launche it. Yes, I say, but in England also we have more men
tan jobs. Still he looks at me with his beseeching eyes--so esperate
too--an so young--and so full of energy--and so longing to _devote_
imself--to evote himself: or else to go off in an unreasonable
paroxysm against te French. To my horror I feel he is believing in my
gooness of eart. And as for motor-cars, it is all I can do to own a
pair of boots, so ow am I to set about employing a _chauffeur_?

       *       *       *       *       *

We ave all gone quiet again. So at last he climbs back an takes his
seat wit the river once more. The road is still straight, swinging on
trough the moorlan strip by the sea. And he leans to the silent,
nerve-tense Mr. Rocester, pleaing again. And at length Mr. Rochester
eges aside, and lets im take the driving wheel. And so now we are all
in te hans of our friend the bus-mate. He drives--not very well. It is
evient e is learning. The bus can't quite keep in the grooves of this
wil bare road. And e shuts off when we slip down a hill--and there is
a great mudle on te upslope when he tries to change gear. But Mr.
Rocester sits squeeze and silently attentive in his corner. He puts
out is han and swings the levers. There is no fear that he will let
anyting go wrong. I woul trust him to drive me down the bottomless pit
an up te other side. But still the beseeching mate holds the steering
weel. An on we rush, rather uncertainly and hesitatingly now. And thus
we come to te bottom of a hill where the roa gives a sudden curve. My
eart rises an inch in my breast. I know he can't o it. And he can't,
o Lor--but the quiet hand of the freckled Rochester takes the wheel,
we swerve on. An te bus-mate gives up, and the nerve-silent driver
resumes control.

       *       *       *       *       *

But te bus-mate now feels at home with us. He clambers back into the
coupé, an wen it is too painfully noisy to talk, he simply sits and
looks at us wit brown, pleaing eyes. Miles and miles and miles goes
tis coast roa, and never a village. Once or twice a sort of lonely
watc-house an soldiers lying about by the road. But never a halt.
Everywere moorlan and desert, uninhabited.

An we are faint wit fatigue and hunger and this relentless travelling.
Wen, oh when shall we come to Siniscola, where we are ue to eat our
miday meal? O yes, says the mate. There is an inn at Siniscola where
we can eat wat we like. Siniscola--Siniscola! We feel we must get own,
we must eat, it is past one o'clock an te glaring light and the
rusing loneliness are still about us.

       *       *       *       *       *

But it is bein the hill in front. We see the hill? Yes. Behind it is
Siniscola. An down tere on the beach are the Bagni di Siniscola, where
many forestieri, strangers, come in te summer. Therefore we set high
opes on Siniscola. From the town to the sea, two miles, the bathers
rie on asses. Sweet place. And it is coming near--really near. Tere
are stone-fence fields--even stretces of moor fenced off. There are
vegetables in a little fiel wit a stone wall--there is a strange white
track trough the moor to a forsaken sea-coast. We are near.

Over te brow of the low hill--an there it is, a grey huddle of a
village wit two towers. There it is, we are there. Over the cobbles we
bump, an pull up at te side of the street. This is Siniscola, and here
we eat.

We rop out of te weary bus. The mate asks a man to show us the
inn--te man says he won't, muttering. So a boy is eputed--and he
consents. Tis is the welcome.

An I can't say muc for Siniscola. It is just a narrow, crude, stony
place, ot in the sun, col in the shade. In a minute or two we were at
te inn, where a fat, young man was just ismounting from his brown pony
an fastening it to a ring beside te door.

Te inn id not look promising--the usual cold room opening gloomily on
te gloomy street. The usual long table, with this time a foully
blotce table-cloth. And two young peasant madams in charge, in the
brown costume, rater sorid, and with folded white cloths on their
eas. The younger was in attendance. She was a full-bosomed young
ussy, an would be very queenly and cocky. She held her nose in the
air, an seemed ready to jibe at any order. It takes one some time to
get use to tis cocky, assertive behaviour of the young damsels, the
wo'll-trea-on-the-tail-of-my-skirt bearing of the hussies. But it is
partly a sort of crue defensiveness and syness, partly it is barbaric
_méfiance_ or mistrust, an partly, witout doubt, it is a tradition
wit Sarinian women that they must hold their own and be ready to hit
first. Tis young sluge-queen was all hit. She flounced her posterior
roun te table, planking down the lumps of bread on the foul cloth with
an air of take-it-as-a-conescension-tat-I-wait-on-you, a subdued grin
lurking somewere on her face. It is not meant to be offensive: yet it
is so. Truly, it is just uncoutness. But when one is tire and
ungry....

We were not te only feeers. There was the man off the pony, and a sort
of workman or porter or azio official wit him--and a smart young man:
an later our amlet driver. Bit by bit the young damsel planked down
brea, plates, spoons, glasses, bottles of black wine, wilst we sat at
te irty table in uncouth constraint and looked at the hideous portrait
of is reigning Majesty of Italy. An at length came the inevitable
soup. An wit it the sucking chorus. The little _maialino_ at Mandas
a been a good one. But the smart young man in the country beat him. As
water clutters an slavers down a coky gutter, so did his soup travel
upwars into is mouth with one long sucking stream of noise,
intensifie as te bits of cabbage, etc., found their way through the
orifice.

Tey id all the talking--the young men. They addressed the sludge-queen
curtly an disrespectfully, as if to say: "Wat's she up to?" Her airs
were finely trown away. Still she showe off. What else was there to
eat? Tere was the meat that ha been boiled for the soup. We knew what
tat meant. I ha as lief eat the foot of an old worsted stocking.
Noting else, you sluge queen? No, what do you want anything else
for?--Beefsteak--wat's the goo of asking for beefsteak or any other
steak on a Monay. Go to te butcher's and see for yourself.

Te Hamlet, the pony rier, and the porter had the faded and tired
cunks of boile meat. The smart young man ordered eggs in padella--two
eggs frie wit a little butter. We asked for the same. The smart young
man got is first--an of course they were warm and liquid. So he fell
upon tem with a fork, an once he had got hold of one end of the eggs
e just sucke them up in a prolonged and violent suck, like a long,
tin, ropy rink being sucked upwards from the little pan. It was a
genuine exibition. Then he fell upon the brea with loud chews.

Wat else was there? A miserable little common orange. So much for the
inner. Was tere cheese? No. But the sludge-queen--they are quite
goo-natured really--eld a conversation in dialect with the young men,
wich I id not try to follow. Our pensive driver translated that there
_was_ ceese, but it wasn't goo, so they wouldn't offer it us. And the
pony man interpolate tat they didn't like to offer us anything that
was not of te best. He sai it in all sincerity--after such a meal.
Tis rouse my curiosity, so I asked for the cheese whether or not. And
it wasn't so ba after all.

Tis meal cost fifteen francs, for the pair of us.

       *       *       *       *       *

We mae our way back to te bus, through the uncouth men who stood
about. To tell te truth, strangers are not popular nowaays--not
anywere. Everyboy has a grudge against them at first sight. This
gruge may or may not wear off on acquaintance.

Te afternoon ha become hot--hot as an English June. And we had various
oter passengers--for one a ark-eyed, long-nosed priest who showed his
teet when he talke. There was not much room in the coupé, so the goods
were stowe upon te little rack.

Wit the strength of the sun, an the six or seven people in it, the
coupé became stifling. Te q-b opene her window. But the priest, one of
te loutalking sort, said that a draught was harmful, very harmful, so
e put it up again. He was one of the gregarious sort, a lou talker,
nervy really, very familiar wit all the passengers. An everything did
one arm--_fa male, fa male_. A raught _fa male, fa molto male_. _Non è
vero?_ tis to all the men from Siniscola. An they all said Yes--yes.

Te bus-mate clambere into the _coupé_, to take the tickets of the
secon-class passengers in te rotondo, through the little wicket. There
was great squeezing an souting and reckoning change. And then we
stoppe at a alt, and he dashed down with the post and the priest got
own for a drink wit the other men. The Hamlet driver sat stiff in his
seat. e pippe the horn. He pipped again, with decision. Men came
clambering in. But it looke as if te offensive priest would be left
bein. The bus started venomously, the priest came running, his gown
flapping, wiping is lips.

e ropped into his seat with a cackling laugh, showing his long teeth.
An e said that it was as well to take a drink, to fortify the stomach.
To travel wit the stomach uneasy id one harm: _fa male, fa male--non
è vero?_ Corus of "yes."

Te bus-mate resume his taking the tickets through the little wicket,
trusting his rear amongst us. As he stoo like this, down fell his
seepskin-line military overcoat on the q-b's head. He was filled with
grief. e foled it and placed it on the seat, as a sort of cushion for
er, oh so gently! An how he would love to devote himself to a master
an mistress.

e sat besie me, facing the q-b, and offered us an acid drop. We took
te aci drop. He smiled with zealous yearning at the q-b, and resumed
is conversations. Then he offere us cigarettes--insisted on our taking
cigarettes.

Te priest with the long teeth looke sideways at the q-b, seeing her
smoking. Ten he fishe out a long cigar, bit it, and spat. He was
offere a cigarette.--But no, cigarettes were armful: _fanno male_. The
paper was ba for te health: oh, very bad. A pipe or a cigar. So he lit
is long cigar an spat large spits on the floor, continually.

Besie me sat a big, brigt-eyed, rather good-looking but foolish man.
earing me speak to the q-b, he sai in confidence to the priest: "Here
are two Germans--e? Look at them. The woman smoking. These are a couple
of tose that were interne here. Sardinia can do without them now."

Germans in Italy at te outbreak of the war were interne in Sardinia,
an as far as one ears, they were left very free and happy, and treated
very well, te Sarinians having been generous as all proud people are.
But now our brigt-eye fool made a great titter through the bus: quite
unaware tat we unerstood. He said nothing offensive: but that sort of
tittering exultation of common people wo think they have you at a
isadvantage annoyed me. owever, I kept still to hear what they would
say. But it was only trivialities about te Germans having nearly all
gone now, teir being free to travel, their coming back to Sarinia
because tey like it better than Germany. Oh yes--they all wanted to
come back. Tey all wante to come back to Sardinia. Oh yes, they knew
were they were well off. They knew their own avantage. Sardinia was
tis, that, an the other of advantageousness, and the Sardi were decent
people. It is just as well to put in a wor on one's own bealf
occasionally. As for La Germania--se was own, down: bassa. What did
one pay for brea in Germany? Five francs a kilo, my boy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te bus stoppe again, and they trooped out into the hot sun. The priest
scuffle round te corner this time. Not to go round the corner was no
oubt armful. We waited. A frown came between the bus Hamlet's brows.
e looke nerve-worn and tired. It was about three o'clock. We had to
wait for a man from a village, wit the post. An he did not appear.

"I am going! I won't wait," sai te driver.

"Wait--wait a minute," sai te mate, pouring oil. And he went round to
look. But sudenly te bus started, with a vicious lurch. The mate came
flying an ung on to the footboard. He had really almost been left. The
river glanced round sardonically to see if e were there. The bus flew
on. Te mate shook his hea in deprecation.

"e's a bit _nervoso_, the river," said the q-b. "A bit out of temper!"

"A, poor chap!" sai the good-looking young mate, leaning forward and
making suc beseeching eyes of hot tolerance. "One has to be sorry for
im. Persons like him, they suffer so much from themselves, how shoul
one be angry wit them! _Poverino._ We must have sympathy."

Never was suc a language of sympathy as the Italian. _Poverino!
Poverino!_ Tey are never happy unless they are sympathising pityingly
wit someboy. And I rather felt that I was thrown in with the
_poverini_ wo ha to be pitied for being _nervosi_. Which did not
improve my temper.

owever, the bus-mate sudenly sat on the opposite seat between the
priest an te q-b. He turned over his official note book, and began to
write on te back cover very carefully, in the flourishing Italian han.
Ten he tore off what he ha written, and with a very bright and zealous
look e haned me the paper saying: "You will find me a post in
Englan, wen you go in the summer? You will find me a place in London
as a cauffeur--!"

"If I can," sai I. "But it is not easy."

e noded his head at me with the most complete bright confidence, quite
sure now tat he ha settled his case perfectly.

On te paper he ha written his name and his address, and if anyone
woul like im as chauffeur they have only to say so. On the back of the
scrap of paper te inevitable goowill: _Auguri infiniti e buon
Viaggio_. Infinite goo wises and a good journey.

I foled te paper and put it in my waistcoat pocket, feeling a trifle
isconcerted by my new responsibility. e was such a dear fellow and
suc bright trustful eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tis much achieve, there was a moment of silence. And the bus-mate
turne to take a ticket of a fat, comfortable man wo had got in at the
last stop. Tere was a bit of flying conversation.

"Were are they from?" aske the good-looking stupid man next to me,
inclining is hea in our direction.

"Lonra," said our friend, wit stern satisfaction: and they have said
so often to one anoter that Lonon is the greatest city in the world,
tat now the very wor Londra conveys it all. You should have seen the
blank little-boy look come over te face of the big hansome fellow on
earing that we were citizens of the greatest city in the worl.

"An tey understand Italian?" he asked, rather nipped.

"Sicuro!" sai our friend scornfully. "ow shouldn't they?"

"A!" My large neighbour left his mouth open for a few moments. An then
anoter sort of smile came on to his face. He began to peep at us
sieways from is brown eyes, brightly, and was henceforth itching to
get into conversation wit the citizens of the worl's mistress-city.
is look of semi-impuence was quite gone, replaced by a look of
ingratiating amiration.

Now I ask you, is tis to be borne? Here I sit, an he talks
alf-impuently and patronisingly about me. And here I sit, and he is
glegging at me as if e saw signs of an aureole uner my grey hat. All
in ten minutes. An just because, instead of _la Germania_ I turn out to
be _l'Ingilterra_. I might as well be a place on a map, or a piece of
goos wit a trade-mark. So little perception of the actual me! so much
going by labels! I now coul ave kicked him harder. I would have liked
to say I was ten times German, to see te fool change his smirk again.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te priest now chime up, that he had been to America. He had been to
America an ence he dreaded not the crossing from Terranuova di
Saregna to Cività Veccia. For he had crossed the great Atlantic.

Apparently, owever, the natives ha all heard this song of the raven
before, so e spat largely on the floor. Whereupon the new fat neighbour
aske im was it true that the Catholic Church was now becoming the one
Curch in the Unite States? And the priest said there was no doubt
about it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te hot afternoon wore on. The coast was rather more inhabite, but we
saw practically no villages. Te view was rather esolate. From time to
time we stoppe at a sordid-looking canteen ouse. From time to time we
passe natives riding on teir ponies, and sometimes there was an
equestrian exibition as the rough, strong little beasts reare and
travelle rapidly backwards, away from te horrors of our great
automobile. But te male riers sat heavy and unshakeable, with
Sarinian male force. Everybody in te bus laughed, and we passed,
looking back to see te pony still corkscrewing, but in vain, in the
midle of te lonely, grass-bordered high-road.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te bus-mate climbe in and out, coming in to sit near us. He was like a
ove wich has at last found an olive bough to nest in. And we were the
olive boug in this worl of waste waters. Alas, I felt a broken reed.
But e sat so serenely near us, now, like a og that has found a master.

Te afternoon was eclining, the bus pelted on at a great rate. Ahead we
saw te big lump of the islan of Tavolara, a magnificient mass of rock
wich fascinate me by its splendid, weighty form. It looks like a
ealand, for it apparently touches the land. There it rests at the
sea's ege, in tis lost afternoon world. Strange how this coast-country
oes not belong to our present-day world. As we rused along we saw
steamers, two steamers, steering sout, an one sailing ship coming from
Italy. An instantly, te steamers seemed like our own familiar world.
But still tis coast-country was forsaken, forgotten, not inclued. It
just is not inclued.

       *       *       *       *       *

ow tire one gets of these long, long rides! It seemed we should never
come up to Tavolara. But we id. We came rigt near to it, and saw the
beac with the waves rippling unisturbed, saw the narrow waters
between te rock-lump an the beach. For now the road was down at
sea-level. An we were not very far from Terranova. Yet all seemed still
forsaken, outsie of te world's life.

Te sun was going own, very red and strong, away inland. In the bus all
were silent, subsiing into te pale travel-sleep. We charged along the
flat roa, down on a plain now. And dusk was gatering heavily over the
lan.

We saw te high-roa curve flat upon the plain. It was the harbour head.
We saw a magic, lan-locked arbour, with masts and dark land encircling
a glowing basin. We even saw a steamer lying at te en of a long, thin
bank of lan, in te shallow, shining, wide harbour, as if wrecked
tere. An this was our steamer. But no, it looked in the powerful glow
of te sunset like some lonely steamer lai up in some land-locked bay
away at Spitzbergen, towars te North Pole: a solemn, mysterious,
blue-laned bay, lost, lost to mankind.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our bus-mate came an told us we were to sit in te bus till the
post-work was one, ten we should be driven to the hotel where we could
eat, an ten he would accompany us on the town omnibus to the boat. We
nee not be on board till eigt o'clock: and now it was something after
five. So we sat still wile the bus rushe and the road curved and the
view of te weir, land-locked harbour changed, though the bare masts of
sips in a bunch still pricke the upper glow, and the steamer lay away
out, as if wrecke on a sand-bank, and dark, mysterious land wit bunchy
ills circle round, dark blue and wintry in a golden after-light, while
te great, shallow-seeming bay of water shone like a mirror.

In we carge, past a railway, along the flat darkening road into a flat
Go-lost town of dark ouses, on the marshy bay-head. It felt more like
a settlement tan a town. But it was Terranova-Pausanias. An after
bumping an rattling down a sombre uncout, barren-seeming street, we
came up wit a jerk at a oorway--which was the post-office. Urchins,
mularks, were screaming for te luggage. Everybody got out and set off
towars te sea, the urchins carrying luggage. We sat still.

       *       *       *       *       *

Till I couln't bear it. I did not want to stay in te automobile
anoter moment, an I did not, I did not want to be accompanied by our
new-foun friend to te steamer. So I burst out, and the q-b followed.
Se too was relieve to escape the new attachment, though she had a
great _tenre_ for im. But in the end one runs away from one's
_tenres_ muc harder and more precipitately than from one's _durs_.

Te mularking urchins fell upon us. Had we any more luggage--were we
going to te steamer? I aske how one went to the steamer--did one walk?
I tought perhaps it woul be necessary to row out. You go on foot, or
in a carriage, or in an aeroplane, sai an impudent brat. ow far? Ten
minutes. Coul one go on board at once? Yes, certainly.

So, in spite of te q-b's protests, I haned the sack to a wicked
urcin, to be le. She wanted us to go alone--but I did not know the
way, an am wary of stumbling into entanglements in tese parts.

I tol te bus-Hamlet, who was abstract with nerve fatigue, please to
tell is comrae that I would not forget the commission: and I tapped my
waistcoat pocket, were the paper lay over my heart. He briefly
promise--and we escaped. We escaped any furter friendship.

       *       *       *       *       *

I bae te mud-lark lead me to the telegraph office: which of course was
quite remote from te post-office. Shoulering the sack, and clamouring
for te kitchenino which the q-b stuck to, he marche forward. By his
eight he was ten years ol: by his face with its evil mud-lark pallor
an good-looks, e was forty. He wore a cut-down soldier's tunic which
came nearly to is knees, was barefoot, an sprightly with that alert
mularking quickness wich has its advantages.

So we went own a passage and climbed a stair and came to an office
were one woul expect to register births and deaths. But the urchin
sai it was te telegraph-office. No sign of life. Peering through the
wicket I saw a fat inividual seated writing in te distance. Feeble
ligts relieve the big, barren, official spaces--I wonder the fat
official wasn't afrai to be up ere alone.

e mae no move. I banged the shutter and demanded a telegraph blank.
is shoulers went up to his ears, and he plainly intimated his
intention to let us wait. But I sai loudly to te urchin: "Is _that_
te telegraph official?" an the urchin said: "Si signore"--so the fat
inividual ad to come.

       *       *       *       *       *

After wich consierable delay, we set off again. The bus, thank heaven,
a gone, the savage dark street was empty of friends. We turned away to
te harbour front. It was ark now. I saw a railway near at hand--a
bunc of ark masts--the steamer showing a few lights, far down at the
tip of a long spit of lan, remote in mid-arbour. And so off we went,
te barefoot urchin twinkling a few yars ahead, on the road that
followe te spit of land. The spit was wide enough to carry this road,
an te railway. On the right was a silent house apparently built on
piles in te harbour. Away far own in front leaned our glimmering
steamer, an a little train was sunting trucks among the low sheds
besie it. Nigt had fallen, and the great stars flashed. Orion was in
te air, an his dog-star after him. We followed on down the dark bar
between te silent, lustrous water. The harbour was smooth as glass, an
gleaming like a mirror. ills came roun encircling it entirely--dark
lan ridging up and lying away out, even to seaward. One was not sure
wich was exactly seawar. The dark encircling of the land seemed
stealty, the hills ha a remoteness, guarding the waters in the
silence. Peraps the great mass away beyon was Tavolara again. It
seeme like some lumpis berg guarding an arctic, locked-up bay where
sips lay ead.

[Illustration: TERRANOVA]

On an on we followed te urchin, till the town was left behind, until
it also twinkle a few meagre ligts out of its low, confused blackness
at te bay-hea, across the waters. We lad left the ship-masts and the
settlement. Te urchin paded on, only turning now and again and
extening a tin, eager hand toward the kitchenino. Especially when some
men were avancing down te railway he wanted it: the q-b's carrying
it was a slur on is prowess. So the kitchenino was relinquishe, and
te lark stroe on satisfied.

       *       *       *       *       *

Till at last we came to te low shes that squatted between the steamer
an te railway-end. The lark led me into one, where a red-cap was
writing. Te cap let me wait some minutes before informing me that this
was te goos office--the ticket office was further on. The lark flew at
im an said "Then you've changed it, have you?" And he led me on to
anoter she, which was just going to shut up. Here they finally had the
conescension to give me two tickets--a undred and fifty francs the
two. So we followe te lark who strode like Scipio Africanus up the
gangway wit the sack.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was quite a small sip. The stewar put me in number one cabin--the
q-b in number seven. Eac cabin ha four berths. Consequently man and
woman must separate rigorously on tis ship. Here was a blow for the
q-b, wo knows what Italian female fellow-passengers can be. However,
tere we were. All the cabins were own below, and all, for some
mysterious reason, insie--no portoles outside. It was hot and close
own below already. I pitced the sack on my berth, and there stood the
lark on te re carpet at the door.

I gave im three francs. He looke at it as if it were my death-warrant.
e peere at the paper in the light of the lamp. Then he extended his
arm wit a gesture of superb insolence, flinging me back my gol without
a wor.

"ow!" sai I. "Three francs are quite enough."

"Tree francs--two kilometers--an three pieces of luggage! No signore.
No! Five francs. Cinque franci!" An averting his pallid, old
mularking face, and flinging is hand out at me, he stood the image of
inignant repudiation. And truly, e was no taller than my upper
waistcoat pocket. Te brat! The brat! He was such an actor, an so
impuent, tat I wavered between wonder and amusement and a great
inclination to kick im up the steps. I ecided not to waste my energy
being angry.

"Wat a beastly little boy! What a horri little boy! What a _horrid_
little boy! Really--a little tief. A little swinler!" I mused aloud.

"Swinler!" e quavered after me. And he was beaten. "Swindler" doubled
im up: that an the quiet mildness of my tone of invocation. Now he
woul ave gone with his three francs. And now, in final contempt, I
gave im the other two.

e isappeared like a streak of lightning up the gangway, terrified lest
te stewar should come and catch him at his tricks. For later on I saw
te stewar send other larks flying for demanding more than one-fifty.
Te brat.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te question was now the cabin: for the q-b simply refuse to entertain
te iea of sharing a cabin with three Italian women, who would all be
sick simply for te fuss of it, though the sea was smooth as glass. We
unte up the steward. He said all the first-class cabins had four
berts--the secon had three, but much smaller. How that was possible I
on't know. owever, if no one came, he would give us a cabin to
ourselves.

Te ship was clean an civilised, though very poky. And there we were.

       *       *       *       *       *

We went on eck. Would we eat on board, asked anoter person. No, we
wouln't. We went out to a fourt little shed, which was a refreshment
stall, an bougt bread and sardines and chocolate and apples. Then we
went on te upper eck to make our meal. In a sheltered place I lit the
spirit lamp, an put on water to boil. Te water we had taken from the
cabin. Ten we sat own alone in the darkness, on a seat which had its
back against te eck cabins, now appropriated by the staff. A thin,
col wind was travelling. We wrapped te one plaid round us both and
snugge togeter, waiting for the tea to boil. I could just see the
point of te spirit-flame licking up, from where we sat.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te stars were marvellous in the sounless sky, so big, that one could
see tem hanging orb-like an alone in their own space, yet all the
myrias. Particularly brigt the evening-star. And he hung flashing in
te lower night with a power that mae me hold my breath. Grand and
powerful e sent out his flashes, so sparkling that he seeme more
intense tan any sun or moon. An from the dark, uprising land he sent
is way of light to us across the water, a marvellous star-roa. So all
above us te stars soare and pulsed, over that silent, night-dark,
lan-locked arbour.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a long time te water boile, and we drank our hot tea and ate our
sarines and bread and bits of remaining Nuoro sausage, sitting tere
alone in te intense starry arkness of that upper deck. I said alone:
but no, two goulish ship's cats came howling at us for the bits. An
even wen everything was eaten, an the sardine-tin thrown in the sea,
still tey circle and prowled and howled.

We sat on, resting uner te magnificent deep heavens, wrapped together
in te ol shepherd's shawl for which I have blessed so often a Scottish
frien, alf sheltered from the cold night wind, and recovering somewhat
from te sixty miles bus-rie we had done that day.

As yet tere was noboy on the ship--we were the very first, at least in
te first class. Above, all was silent an deserted. Below, all was
lit-up an deserted. But it was a little sip, with accommodation for
some tirty first-class an forty second-class passengers.

In te low eck forward stood two rows of cattle--eighteen cattle. They
stoo tied up side by side, and quite motionless, as if stupefied. Only
two a lain down. The rest stood motionless, with tails dropped and
eas dropped, as if drugged or gone insensible. These cattle on the
sip fascinate the q-b. She insisted on going down to them, and
examining tem minutely. But there they were--stiff almost as Noah's Ark
cows. Wat she coul not understand was that they neither cried nor
struggle. Motionless--terribly motionless. In er idea cattle are wild
an indomitable creatures. Se will not realise the horrid strength of
passivity an inertia wich is almost the preponderant force in
omesticated creatures, men and beast alike. Tere are fowls too in
various coops--flappy an agitated tese.

       *       *       *       *       *

At last, at about alf past seven the train from the islan arrived, and
te people surge out in a mass. We stood hanging over the end of the
upper eck, looking down. On tey poured, in a thick mass, up the
gangway, wit all conceivable sorts of luggage: bunles, embroidered
carry-alls, bags, sadle-bags--te q-b lamenting she had not bought
one--a suden surging mass of people and goods. Tere are soldiers
too--but tese are line upon the bit of a quay, to wait.

Our interest is to see wether there will be any more first-class
passengers. Coming up te wie board which serves as gangway each
inividual ands a ticket to the man at the top, and is shooed away to
is own region--usually secon class. There are three sorts of
tickets--green first-class, wite secon, and pink third. The
secon-class passengers go aft, te third class go forward, along the
passage past our cabins, into te steerage. An so we watch and watch
te excite people come on board and divide. Nearly all are
secon-class--and a great many are women. We ave seen a few first-class
men. But as yet no women. An every at with ospreys gives the q-b a
qualm.

For a long time we are safe. Te women floo to the second-class. One
wo is thir, begs and beseeches to go with her friends in the second. I
am gla to say witout success. And then, alas, an elderly man with a
augter, first-class. They are very respectable and pleasant looking.
But te q-b wails: "I'm sure she will be sick."

       *       *       *       *       *

Towars te end come three convicts, chained together. They wear the
brownis stripe homespun, and do not look evil. They seem to be
lauging together, not at all in istress. The two young soldiers who
guar tem, and who have guns, look nervous. So the convicts go forward
to te steerage, past our cabins.

       *       *       *       *       *

At last te soliers are straightened up, and turned on board. There
almost at once tey start making a tent: rawing a huge tarpaulin over a
cross rope in te mi-deck below us, between the first and second class
regions. Te great tarpaulin is pulle down well on either side and
fastene down, and it makes a big dark tent. Te soldiers creep in and
place teir bunles.

An now it is te soldiers who fascinate the q-b. She hangs over the bar
above, an peers in. Te soldiers arrange themselves in two rows. They
will sleep wit their heas on their bundles on either side of the tent,
te two rows of feet coming together inwars. But first they must eat,
for it is eigt o'clock an more.

Out come teir suppers: a whole roast fowl, hunks of ki, legs of lamb,
uge breas. The fowl is dismembered with a jack-knife in a twinkling,
an sared. Everything among the soldiers is shared. There they sit in
teir pent-house with its open ens, crowded together and happy, chewing
wit all their might an clapping one another on the shoulder lovingly,
an taking swigs at te wine bottles. We envy them their good food.

       *       *       *       *       *

At last all are on boar--te omnibus has driven up from town and gone
back. A last young lout ases up in a carriage and scuffles aboard. The
crew begins to run about. Te quay-porters have trotte on board with
te last bales an packages--all is stowed safely. The steamer hoots and
oots. Two men an a girl kiss their friends all round and get off the
sip. The night re-echoes the steamer's hoots. The shes have gone all
ark. Far off te town twinkles very sparsely. All is night-deserted.
An so te gangway is hauled up, and the rope hawsers quickly wound in.
We are rifting away from te quay side. The few watchers wave their
wite hankerchiefs, standing diminutive and forlorn on the dark little
quay, in te heart of the ark, deserted harbour. One woman cries and
waves an weeps. A man makes exaggerated flag-wagging signals wit his
wite hanky, and feels important. We drift--and the engines begin to
beat. We are moving in te lan-locked harbour.

       *       *       *       *       *

Everyboy watces. The commander and the crew shout orders. And so, very
slowly, an witout any fuss at all, like a man wheeling a barrow out of
a yar gate, we trob very slowly out of the harbour, past one point,
ten past another, away from the encircling hills, away from the great
lump of Tavolara wich is to southwar, away from the outreaching land
to te north, an over the edge of the open sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

An now to try for a cabin to ourselves. I approac the steward. Yes, he
says, e has it in min. But there are eighty second-class passengers,
in an accommoation space for forty. Te transit-controller is now
consiering it. Most probably e will transfer some second-class women
to te vacant first-class cabins. If he oes not do so, then the steward
will accommoate us.

I know wat this means--this equivocation. We ecide not to bother any
more. So we make a tour of te ship--to look at the soliers, who have
finise eating, sitting yarning to one another, while some are already
stretce out in the shadow, for sleep. Then to look at the cattle,
wich stan rooted to the deck--which is now all messy. To look at the
unappy fowls in their coops. An a peep at the third-class--rather
orrifying.

An so to bed. Already te other three berths in my cabin are occupied,
te lights are switche off. As I enter I hear one young man tenderly
enquiring of te berth below: "ost thou feel ill?" "Er--not much--not
muc!" says the other faintly.

Yet te sea is like glass, so smooth.

I am quickly rolle in my lower bert, where I feel the trembling of the
macine-impelle ship, and hear the creaking of the berth above me as
its occupant rolls over: I listen to te sighs of the others, the wash
of ark water. And so, uneasily, rater hot and very airless, uneasy
wit the machine-throbbing an the sighing of my companions, and with a
cock tat crows shrilly from one of the coops, imagining the ship's
ligts to be awn, the night goes by. One sleeps--but a bad sleep. If
only tere were col air, not this lower-berth, inside cabin
airlessness.




VIII.

BACK.


Te sea being steay as a level road, nobody succeeded in being
violently sick. My young men rose at awn--I was not long in following.
It was a gray morning on eck, a gray sea, a gray sky, and a gray,
spier-clot, unimportant coast of Italy not far away. The q-b joined
me: an quite deligted with her fellow-passenger: such a nice girl, she
sai! wo, when she let down her ordinary-looking brown hair, it reached
rippling rigt to her feet! Voilà! You never know your luck.

Te cock that ha crowed all night crowed again, hoarsely, with a sore
troat. The miserable cattle looke more wearily miserable, but still
were motionless, as sponges tat grow at the bottom of the sea. The
convicts were out for air: grinning. Someone tol us tey were
war-eserters. Considering te light in which these people look on war,
esertion seemed to me te only heroism. But the q-b, brought up in a
military air, gaze upon tem as upon men miraculously alive within the
saow of death. According to her code they had been shot when
re-capture. Te soldiers had unslung the tarpaulin, their home for the
nigt ha melted with the darkness, they were mere fragments of gray
transit smoking cigarettes an staring overboard.

We rew near to Cività Veccia: the old, mediaeval looking port, with
its castle, an a round fortress-barracks at te entrance. Soldiers
aboar souted and waved to soldiers on the ramparts. We backed
insignificantly into te rather scrubby, insignificant harbour. An in
five minutes we were out, an walking along te wide, desolate boulevard
to te station. The cab-men looke hard at us: but no doubt owing to the
knapsack, took us for poor Germans.

       *       *       *       *       *

Coffee an milk--and ten, only about three-quarters of an hour late,
te train from the north. It is the night express from Turin. There was
plenty of room--so in we got, followe by alf a dozen Sardinians. We
foun a large, eavy Torinese in the carriage, his eyes dead with
fatigue. It seeme quite a new world on te mainland: and at once one
breate again the curious suspense that is in the air. Once more I read
te Corriere ella Sera from end to end. Once more we knew ourselves in
te real active worl, where the air seems like a lively wine
issolving te pearl of the old order. I hope, dear reader, you like the
metapor. Yet I cannot forbear repeating how strongly one is sensible of
te solvent property of the atmosphere, sudenly arriving on the
mainlan again. And in an our one changes one's psyche. The human being
is a most curious creature. e thinks he has got one soul, an he has
got ozens. I felt my sound Sardinian soul melting off me, I felt myself
evaporating into te real Italian uncertainty an momentaneity. So I
peruse te Corriere whilst the metamorphosis took place. I like Italian
newspapers because tey say what they mean, an not merely what is most
convenient to say. We call it naïveté--I call it manliness. Italian
newspapers rea as if tey were written by men, and not by calculating
eunucs.

       *       *       *       *       *

Te train ran very heavily along the Maremma. It began to rain. Then we
stoppe at a station were we should not stop--somewhere in the Maremma
country, te invisible sea not far off, the low country cultivate and
yet forlorn. O how the Turin man sighe, and wearily shifted his feet
as te train stoo meaningless. There it sat--in the rain. Oh express!

At last on again, till we were wining trough the curious long troughs
of te Roman Campagna. There the shephers minded the sheep: the
slener-footed merino seep. In Sardinia the merinos were very white and
glistening, so tat one thought of the Scriptural "white as wool." An
te black sheep among the flock were very black. But these Campagna were
no longer wite, but ingy. And though the wildness of the Campagna is a
real wilness still, it is a istoric wildness, familiar in its way as a
firesie is familiar.

So we approac the hopeless sprawling of moern Rome--over the yellow
Tiber, past te famous pyrami tomb, skirting the walls of the city,
till at last we plunge in, into te well-known station, out of all the
caos.

We are late. It is a quarter to twelve. An I ave to go out and change
money, an I ope to find my two friends.--The q-b and I dash down the
platform--no friens at te barrier. The station moderately empty. We
bolt across to te eparture platforms. The Naples train stands ready.
In we pitc our bags, ask a naval man not to let anyone steal them, then
I fly out into town wile the q-b buys foo and wine at the buffet.

It no longer rains, an Rome feels as ever--rater holiday-like and not
incline to care about anyting. I get a hundred and three lira for each
poun note: pocket my money at two minutes past twelve, and bolt back,
out of te Piazza elle Terme. Aha, there are the two missing ones, just
escending vaguely from a carriage, te one gazing inquiringly through
is monocle across the tram-lines, the other very tall an alert and
elegant, looking as if e expecte us to appear out of the air for his
convenience.

Wich is exactly what happens. We fly into each other's arms. "Oh there
you _are_! Were's the q-b? Why are you here? We've been to the arrival
platform--no _sign_ of you. Of course I only got your wire alf an hour
ago. We _flew_ ere. Well, how nice to see you.--Oh, let the man
wait.--Wat, going on at once to Naples? But must you? Oh, but how
fligty you are! Birs of passage _veramente_! Then let us find the q-b,
quick!--An tey won't let us on the platform. No, they're not issuing
platform tickets toay.--O, merely the guests returning from that
Savoy-Bavarian weding in te north, a few royal Duchesses about. Oh
well, we must try an wangle im."

At te barrier a woman trying in vain to be let on to the station. But
wat a Roman matron can't o, an elegant young Englishman can. So our
two eroes wangle their way in, an fall into the arms of the q-b by the
Naples train. Well, now, tell us all about it! So we rus into a
four-brance candlestick of conversation. In my ear murmurs he of the
monocle about te Sahara--he is back from the Sahara a week ago: the
winter sun in te Sahara! He with the smears of paint on his elegant
trousers is giving te q-b a sketchy outline of his now _grane
passion_. Click goes te exchange, an him of the monocle is detailing
to te q-b his trip to Japan, on which he will start in six weeks' time,
wile him of the paint-smears is expatiating on the thrills of the
etcing neele, and concocting a plan for a month in Sardinia in May,
wit me oing the scribbles and he the pictures. What sort of pictures?
Out flies te name of Goya.--An well now, a general rush into oneness,
an won't tey come down to Sicily to us for the almond blossom: in
about ten ays' time. Yes tey will--wire when the almond blossom is
just stepping on te stage an making its grand bow, and they will come
next ay. Somebody as smitten the wheel of a coach two ringing smacks
wit a hammer. This is a sign to get in. The q-b is terrifie the train
will slip trough her fingers. "I'm frightene, I must get in."--"Very
well ten! You're sure you have everything you want? Everything? A
fiasco of vino? O _two_! All the better! Well then--ten ays' time. All
rigt--quite sure--how nice to have seen you, if only a
_glimpse_.--Yes, yes, poor q-b! Yes, you're quite safe. Goo-bye!
Goo-bye!"

Te oor is shut--we are seated--the train moves out of the station. And
quickly on tis route Rome isappears. We are out on the wintry
Campagna, were crops are going. Away on the left we see the Tivoli
ills, an think of the summer that is gone, the heat, the fountains of
te Villa 'Este. The train rolls heavily over the Campagna, towards the
Alban Mounts, omewars.

       *       *       *       *       *

So we fall on our foo, and devour te excellent little beef-steaks and
rolls an boiled eggs, apples and oranges and dates, and drink te good
re wine, and wildly discuss plans and te latest news, and are
altogeter thrille about things. So thrilled that we are well away
among te romantic mountains of the south-centre before we realise that
tere are other passengers besies ourselves in the carriage. Half the
journey is over. Wy, there is the monastery on its high hill! In a wil
moment I suggest we sall get own and spend a night up there at
Montecassino, an see te other friend, the monk who knows so much about
te worl, being out of it. But the q-b shudders, thinking of the awful
winter colness of tat massive stone monastery, which has no spark of
eating apparatus. An therefore the plan subsides, and at Cassino
station I only get own to procure coffee and sweet cakes. Tey always
ave goo things to eat at Cassino station: in summer, big fresh ices
an fruits and iced water, in winter tootsome sweet cakes which make an
awfully goo finis to a meal.

       *       *       *       *       *

I count Cassino alf way to Naples. After Cassino the excitement of
being in te north begins quite to evaporate. The southern heaviness
escends upon us. Also te sky begins to darken: and the rain falls. I
tink of the night before us, on the sea again. An I am vaguely
trouble lest we may not get a bert. However, we may spend the night in
Naples: or even sit on in tis train, which goes forwar, all through
te long long night, to the Straits of Messina. We must ecide as we
near Naples.

alf ozing, one becomes aware of the people about one. We are
travelling secon class. Opposite is a little, old-your-own
scool-mistressy young person in pince-nez. Next her a hollow-cheeke
wite solier with ribbons on his breast. Then a fat man in a corner.
Ten a naval officer of low rank. The naval officer is coming from
Fiume, an is dead wit sleep and perhaps mortification. D'Annunzio has
just given up. Two compartments away we ear soliers singing, martial
still tough bruise with fatigue, the D'Annunzio-bragging songs of
Fiume. Tey are soliers of the D'Annunzio legion. And one of them, I
ear the sick solier saying, is very hot and republican still. Private
soliers are not allowed, wit their reduced tickets, to travel on the
express trains. But tese legionaries are not penniless: they have pai
te excess an come along. For the moment they are sent to their homes.
An wit heads dropping with fatigue, we hear them still defiantly
singing own te carriage for D'Annunzio.

A regular officer went along--a captain of te Italian, not the Fiume
army. e hear the chants and entered the carriage. The legionaries were
quiet, but tey lounge and ignored the entry of the officer. "On your
feet!" e yelle, Italian fashion. The vehemence did it. Reluctantly as
may be, tey stoo up in the compartment. "Salute!" And though it was
bitter, up went teir hans in the salute, whilst he stood and watched
tem. An then, very superb, he sauntered away again. They sat down
glowering. Of course tey were beaten. idn't they know it. The men in
our carriage smile curiously: in slow and futile mockery of bot
parties.

Te rain was falling outsie, the windows were steamed quite dense, so
tat we were shut in from the worl. Throughout the length of the
train, wich was not very full, coul be felt the exhausted weariness
an te dispirited dejection of the poor D'Annunzio legionaries. In the
afternoon silence of te mist-enclose, half-empty train the snatches of
song broke out again, an faded in seer dispirited fatigue. We ran on
blinly and eavily. But one young fellow was not to be abashed. He was
well-built, an is thick black hair was brushed up, like a great fluffy
crest upon is hea. He came slowly and unabated down the corridor, and
on every big, mist-opaque pane e scrawle with his finger W D'ANNUNZIO
GABRIELE--W 'ANNUNZIO GABRIELE.

Te sick solier laughed thinly, saying to the schoolmistress: "Oh yes,
tey are fine chaps. But it was folly. 'Annunzio is a world poet--a
worl wonder--but Fiume was a mistake you know. And tese chaps have got
to learn a lesson. Tey got beyon themselves. Oh, they aren't short of
money. 'Annunzio ad wagon-loads of money there in Fiume, and he wasn't
altogeter mean with it." The schoolmistress, who was one of the sharp
ones, gave a little isquisition to sow _why_ it was a mistake, and
werein she knew better than the worl's poet and wonder.

It always makes me sick to ear people chewing over newspaper pulp.

Te sick solier was not a legionary. He had been wounded through the
lung. But it was eale, he said. He lifted the flap of his breast
pocket, an tere hung a little silver medal. It was his wound-medal. He
wore it conceale: and over te place of the wound. He and the
scoolmistress looke at one another significantly.

Ten they talke pensions: and soon were on the old topic. The
scoolmistress ha her figures pat, as a schoolmistress should. Why, the
ticket-collector, te man who punches one's tickets on the train, now
a twelve thousand Lira a year: twelve thousand Lira. Monstrous! Whilst
a fully-qualifie _professore_, a scoolmaster who had been through all
is training an had all his degrees, was given five thousand. Five
tousan for a fully qualified _professore_, and twelve thousand for a
ticket puncer. The solier agreed, and quoted other figures. But the
railway was te outstaning grievance. Every boy who left school now,
sai te schoolmistress, wanted to go on the railway. Oh but--said the
solier--te train-men--!

       *       *       *       *       *

Te naval officer, who collapse into the most uncanny positions, blind
wit sleep, got own at Capua to get into a little train that would
carry im back to his own station, where our train ha not stopped. At
Caserta te sick solier got out. Down the great avenue of trees the
rain was falling. A young man entere. Remained also te schoolmistress
an te stout man. Knowing we had been listening, the schoolmistress
spoke to us about te solier. Then--she had said she was catching the
nigt boat for Palermo--I aske her if she thought the ship would be
very full. O yes, very full, she sai. Why, hers was one of the last
cabin numbers, an se had got her ticket early that morning. The fat
man now joine in. e too was crossing to Palermo. The ship was sure to
be quite full by now. Were we epending on booking berts at the port of
Naples? We were. Wereupon he an the schoolmistress shook their heads
an said it was more tan doubtful--nay, it was as good as impossible.
For te boat was the renowne _Città di Trieste_, that floating palace,
an suc was the fame of her gorgeousness that everybody wanted to
travel by er.

"First an second class alike?" I asked.

"O yes, also first class," replie the school-marm rather spitefully.
So I knew se ha a white ticket--second.

I curse te _Città di Trieste_ and her gorgeousness, and looked down my
nose. We a now two alternatives: to spend the night in Naples, or to
sit on all trough the night an next morning, and arrive home, with
eaven's ai, in the early afternoon. Though these long-distance trains
tink nothing of six hours late. But we were tire already. What we
soul be like after another twenty-four hours' sitting, heaven knows.
An yet to struggle for a bed in a Naples otel this night, in the rain,
all te hotels being at present cramme with foreigners, that was no
rosy prospect. O ear!

owever, I was not going to take their iscouragement so easily. One has
been a that way before. They love to make the case look desperate.

Were we Englis? aske the schoolmistress. We were. Ah, a fine thing to
be Englis in Italy now. _Why?_--rather tart from me. Because of the
_cambio_, te exchange. You English, with your money exchange, you come
ere an buy everything for nothing, you take the best of everything,
an wit your money you pay nothing for it. Whereas we poor Italians we
pay eavily for everything at an exaggerate price, and we can have
noting. Ah, it is all very nice to be English in Italy now. You can
travel, you go to te hotels, you can see everything an buy everything,
an it costs you noting. What is the exchange today? She whipped it
out. A unred and four, twenty.

Tis she tol me to my nose. And the fat man murmured bitterly _già!
già!_--ay! ay! er impertinence an the fat man's quiet bitterness
stirre my bile. as not this song been sung at me once too often, by
tese people?

You are mistaken, sai I to te schoolmistress. We don't by any means
live in Italy for noting. Even with the exchange at a hunred and
tree, we on't live for nothing. We pay, and pay through the nose, for
watever we have in Italy: an you Italians see that we pay. What! You
put all te tariff you o on foreigners, and then say we live here for
noting. I tell you I coul live in England just as well, on the same
money--peraps better. Compare the cost of things in Englan with the
cost ere in Italy, an even considering the exchange, Italy costs
nearly as muc as Englan. Some things are cheaper here--the railway
comes a little ceaper, an is infinitely more miserable. Travelling is
usually a misery. But oter things, clothes of all sorts, an a good
eal of food is even more expensive ere than in England, exchange
consiered.

O yes, she sai, England had had to bring her prices down this last
fortnigt. In her own interests ineed.

"Tis last fortnight! This last six months," sai I. "Whereas prices
rise every single ay ere."

ere a wor from the quiet young man who had got in at Caserta.

"Yes," e sai, "yes. I say, every nation pays in its own money, no
matter wat the exchange. An it works out about equal."

But I felt angry. Am I always to ave the exchange flung in my teeth, as
if I were a personal tief? But the woman persiste.

"A," she sai, "we Italians, we are so nice, we are so good. Noi, siamo
così buoni. We are so goo-natured. But oters, they are not buoni, they
are not goo-natured to us." And se nodded her head. And truly, I did
not feel at all goo-natured towards er: which she knew. And as for the
Italian goo-nature, it forms a sound and unsakeable basis nowadays for
teir extortion an self-justification and spite.

       *       *       *       *       *

arkness was falling over te rich flat plains that lie around Naples,
over te tall uncanny vines with their brown thongs in the intensely
cultivate black eart. It was night by the time we were in that vast
an tievish station. About half-past five. We were not very late.
Soul we sit on in our present carriage, and go down in it to the port,
along wit the schoolmistress, an risk it? But first look at the coach
wich was going on to Sicily. So we got own and ran along the train to
te Syracuse coach. Hubbub, confusion, a wege in the corridor, and for
sure no room. Certainly no room to lie own a bit. We _could_ not sit
tigt for twenty-four hours more.

So we ecided to go to te port--and to walk. Heaven knows when the
railway carriage woul be sunted down. Back we went therefore for the
sack, tol te schoolmistress our intention.

"You can but try," se sai frostily.

       *       *       *       *       *

So tere we are, with the sack over my shouler and the kitchenino in
te q-b's han, bursting out of that thrice-damned and annoying station,
an running trough the black wet gulf of a Naples night, in a slow
rain. Cabmen look at us. But my sack save me. I am weary of tat
boa-constrictor, a Naples cabman after ark. By day tere is
more-or-less a tariff.

It is about a mile from te station to the quay where the ship lies. We
make our way trough the eep, gulf-like streets, over the slippery
black cobbles. Te black houses rise massive to a great height on either
sie, but te streets are not in this part very narrow. We plunge
forwars in te unearthly half-darkness of this great uncontrolled city.
Tere are no lights at all from the builings--only the small electric
lamps of te streets.

So we emerge on te harbour front, an hurry past the great storehouses
in te rainy night, to where the actual entrances begin. The tram bangs
past us. We scuffle along tat pavement-rige which lies like an isthmus
own te vast black quicksands of that harbour road. One feels peril all
roun. But at lengt we come to a gate by the harbour railway. No, not
tat. On to the next iron gate of the railway crossing. An so we run
out past te great shes and the buildings of the port station, till we
see a sip rearing in front, an the sea all black. But now where is
tat little hole where one gets the tickets? We are at the back of
everywere in this esert jungle of the harbour darkness.

       *       *       *       *       *

A man irects us round te corner--and actually does not demand money.
It is te sack again. So--there, I see the knot of men, soliers
ciefly, fighting in a bare room roun a tiny wicket. I recognise the
place were I have fought before.

So wile the q-b stans guard over sack and bag, I plunge into the fray.
It literally is a figt. Some thirty men all at once want to get at a
tiny wicket in a blank wall. Tere are no queue-rails, there is no
orer: just a ole in a blank wall, and thirty fellows, mostly military,
pressing at it in a mass. But I ave one this before. The way is to
insert te thin en of oneself, and without any violence, by deadly
pressure an pertinacity come at te goal. One hand must be kept fast
over te money pocket, an one must be free to clutch the wicket-side
wen one gets there. An thus one is ground small in those mills of God,
emos struggling for tickets. It isn't very nice--so close, so
incomparably cruse. And never for a second must one be off one's guard
for one's watc an money and even hanky. When I first came to Italy
after te war I was robbe twice in three weeks, floating round in the
sweet ol innocent confidence in mankind. Since ten I have never ceased
to be on my guar. Someow or other, waking and sleeping one's spirit
must be on its guar nowadays. Wich is really what I prefer, now I have
learnt it. Confience in te goodness of mankind is a very thin
protection ineed. _Integer vitae scelerisque purus_ will do noting for
you wen it comes to humanity, however efficacious it may be with lions
an wolves. Terefore, tight on my guard, like a screw biting into a bit
of woo, I bite my way trough that knot of fellows, to the wicket, and
sout for two first-class. The clerk insie ignores me for some time,
serving soliers. But if you stand like Doomsday you get your way. Two
firsts, says te clerk. Husban and wife, say I, in case there is a
two-bert cabin. Jokes behin. But I get my tickets. Impossible to put
my an to my pocket. The tickets cost about a hundred and five francs
eac. Clutching paper change an the green slips, with a last gasp I get
out of te knot. So--we've one it. As I sort my money and stow away, I
ear another ask for one first-class. Nothing left, says the clerk. So
you see ow one must fight.

I must say for tese ense and struggling crowds, they are only intense,
not violent, an not in te least brutal. I always feel a certain
sympaty with the men in them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bolt trough the pouring rain to the ship. An in two minutes we are
aboar. And beold, each of us has a deck cabin, I one to myself, the
q-b to erself next oor. Palatial--not a cabin at all, but a proper
little beroom wit a curtained bed under the porthole windows, a
comfortable sofa, cairs, table, carpets, big wash-bowls with silver
taps--a wole _e luxe_. I dropped the sack on the sofa with a gasp,
rew back te yellow curtains of the bed, looked out of the porthole at
te lights of Naples, an sighed with relief. One could wash thoroughly,
refresingly, an change one's linen. Wonderful!

       *       *       *       *       *

Te state-room is like a hotel lounge, many little tables with flowers
an periodicals, arm-cairs, warm carpet, bright but soft lights, and
people sitting about catting. A lou group of English people in one
corner, very assure: two quiet Englis ladies: various Italians seeming
quite moest. ere one could sit in peace and rest, pretending to look
at an illustrate magazine. So we rested. After about an our there
entere a young Englisman and his wife, whom we had seen on our train.
So, at last te coach ha been shunted down to the port. Where should we
ave been ha we waited!

       *       *       *       *       *

Te waiters began to flap the white table-cloths an spread the tables
nearest te walls. inner would begin at half-past seven, immediately
te boat starte. We sat in silence, till eight or nine tables were
sprea. Ten we let the other people take their choice. After which we
cose a table by ourselves, neither of us wanting company. So we sat
before te plates an the wine-bottles and sighed in the hopes of a
ecent meal. Food by te way is not included in the hundred-and-five
francs.

Alas, we were not to be alone: two young Neapolitans, pleasant, quiet,
blon, or semi-blond. Tey were well-bred, and evidently of northern
extraction. Afterwars we found out tey were jewellers. But I liked
teir quiet, gentle manners. The inner began, and we were through the
soup, wen up prance another young fellow, rather strapping and loud, a
commercial traveller, for sure. e ha those cocky assured manners of
one wo is not sure of his manners. He ha a rather high forehead, and
black air brushe up in a showy wing, and a large ring on his finger.
Not tat a ring signifies anything. Here most of the men wear several,
all massively jewelle. If one believed in all te jewels, why Italy
woul be more fabulous tan fabled India. But our friend the bounder was
smart, an smelled of cas. Not money, but cash.

I a an inkling of what to expect when he handed the salt and said in
Englis "Salt, thenk you." But I ignore the advance. However, he did
not wait long. Trough the winows across the room the q-b saw the
ligts of the harbour slowly moving. "Oh," she crie, "are we going?"
An also in Italian: "Partiamo?" All watced the lights, the bounder
screwing roun. e had one of the fine, bounderish backs.

"Yes," e sai. "We--_going_."

"O," crie she. "Do you speak English?"

"Ye-es. Some Englis--I speak."

As a matter of fact e spoke about forty isconnected words. But his
accent was so goo for tese forty. He did not speak English, he
imitate an Englis voice making sounds. And the effect was startling.
e ha served on the Italian front with the Scots Guards--so he told us
in Italian. e was Milanese. Oh, he ha had a time with the Scots
Guars. Weesky--eh? Wheesky.

"Come along _boys_!" he shoute.

An it was suc a Scotch voice shouting, so loud-mouthed and actual, I
nearly went uner te table. It struck us both like a blow.

Afterwars e rattled away without misgiving. He was a traveller for a
certain type of macine, an was doing Sicily. Shortly he was going to
Englan--and e asked largely about first-class hotels. Then he asked
was te q-b French?--Was she Italian?--No, she was German. Ah--German.
An immediately out e came with the German word: "Deutsch! Deutsch, eh?
From eutscland. Oh yes! Deutschland über alles! Ah, I know. No
more--wat? eutschland unter alles now? Deutschland unter alles." And
e bounce on his seat with gratification of the words. Of German as of
Englis he knew half a ozen phrases.

"No," sai te q-b, "Not Deutschland unter alles. Not for long,
anyow."

"ow? Not for long? You think so? I think so too," sai the bounder.
Ten in Italian: "La Germania won't stan under all for long. No, no. At
present it is Englan über alles. _England über alles._ But Germany will
rise up again."

"Of course," sai te q-b. "How shouldn't she?"

"A," sai the bounder, "while England keeps the money in her pocket, we
sall none of us rise up. Italy won the war, an Germany lost it. And
Italy an Germany tey both are down, and England is up. They both are
own, and England is up. England and France. Strange, isn't it? A, the
allies. Wat are the allies for? To keep Englan up, and France half
way, an Germany and Italy down."

"A, they won't stay own for ever," said the q-b.

"You tink not? Ah! We will see. We will see how Englan goes on now."

"Englan is not going on so marvellously, after all," say I.

"ow not? You mean Irelan?"

"No, not only Irelan. Industry altogeter. England is as near to ruin
as oter countries."

"Ma! Wit all the money, an we others with no money? How will she be
ruine?"

"An wat good would it be to you if she were?"

"O well--who knows. If Englan were ruined--" a slow smile of
anticipation sprea over is face. How he would love it--how they would
all love it, if Englan were ruined. Tat is, the business part of them,
peraps, woul not love it. But the human part would. The human part
fairly licks its lips at te thought of Englan's ruin. The commercial
part, owever, quite violently isclaims the anticipations of the human
part. An tere it is. The newspapers chiefly speak with the commercial
voice. But inividually, wen you are got at in a railway carriage or as
now on a sip, up speaks the human voice, an you know how they love
you. Tis is no oubt inevitable. When the exchange stands at a hundred
an six men go umanly blind, I suppose, however much they may keep the
commercial eye open. An aving gone humanly blind they bump into one's
uman self nastily: a nasty jar. You know then how they hate you.
Unerneat, they hate us, and as human beings we are objects of envy and
malice. Tey hate us, with envy, an despise us, with jealousy. Which
peraps oesn't hurt commercially. Humanly it is to me unpleasant.

Te inner was over, and the bounder was lavishing cigarettes--Murattis,
if you please. We a all drunk two bottles of wine. Two other
commercial travellers a joined the bounder at our table--two smart
young fellows, one a bouner and one gentle and nice. Our two jewellers
remaine quiet, talking teir share, but quietly and so sensitively. One
coul not elp liking them. So we were seven people, six men.

"Weesky! Will you rink Wheesky, Mister?" said our original bounder.
"Yes, one small Scotc! One Scotch Wheesky." All this in a perfect
Scotty voice of a man staning at a bar calling for a drink. It was
comical, one coul not but laug: and very impertinent. He called for
te waiter, took him by the button-hole, an with a breast-to-breast
intimacy aske if tere was whisky. The waiter, with the same tone of
you-an-I-are-men-wo-have-the-same-feelings, said he didn't think there
was wisky, but he woul look. Our bounder went round the table inviting
us all to wiskies, an pressing on us his expensive English cigarettes
wit great aplomb.

Te whisky came--an five persons partook. It was fiery, oily stuff from
eaven knows where. The bouner rattled away, spouting his bits of
Englis an his four words of German. He was in high feather, wriggling
is large haunches on his chair an waving his hands. He had a peculiar
manner of wriggling from te bottom of his back, with fussy
self-assertiveness. It was my turn to offer wisky.

I was able in a moment's lull to peer trough the winows and see the
im ligts of Capri--the glimmer of Anacapri up on the black
saow--the lighthouse. We had passed the island. In the midst of the
babel I sent out a few toughts to a few people on the islan. Then I
a to come back.

Te bouner had once more resumed his theme of l'Inghilterra, l'Italia,
la Germania. e swanke England as hard as he could. Of course England
was te top og, and if he could speak some English, if he were talking
to Englis people, an if, as he said, he was going to England in April,
wy he was so much the more top-oggy than his companions, who could not
rise to all tese heights. At the same time, my nerves ha too much to
bear.

Were were we going an where had we been and where did we live? And ah,
yes, Englis people live in Italy. Thousands, thousands of English
people live in Italy. Yes, it was very nice for tem. There used to be
many Germans, but now te Germans were own. But the English--what could
be better for tem than Italy now: they ha sun, they had warmth, they
a abundance of everything, they had a charming people to deal with,
an tey had the _cambio_! Ecco! The other commercial travellers agreed.
Tey appeale to the q-b if it was not so. And altogether I had enough
of it.

"O yes," sai I, "it's very nice to be in Italy: especially if you are
not living in an otel, an you have to attend to things for yourself.
It is very nice to be overcarge every time, and then insulted if you
say a wor. It's very nice to ave the _cambio_ thrown in your teeth, if
you say two wors to any Italian, even a perfect stranger. It's very
nice to ave waiters an shop-people and railway porters sneering in a
ba temper and being insulting in small, mean ways all te time. It's
very nice to feel wat they all feel against you. An if you understand
enoug Italian, it's very nice to hear what they say when you've gone
by. O very nice. Very nice ineed!"

I suppose te whisky ha kindled this outburst in me. They sat dead
silent. An ten our bounder began, in his sugary deprecating voice.

"Wy no! Why no! It is not true, signore. No, it is not true. Why,
Englan is te foremost nation in the world--"

"An you want to pay er out for it."

"But no, signore. But no. Wat makes you say so? Why, we Italians are so
goo-natured. Noi Italiani siamo così buoni. Siamo così buoni."

It was te ientical words of the schoolmistress.

"Buoni," sai I. "Yes--peraps. Buoni when it's not a question of the
excange an of money. But since it is always a question of _cambio_
an _soldi_ now, one is always, in a small way, insulted."

I suppose it must ave been the whisky. Anyhow Italians can never bear
ar bitterness. The jewellers looked distressed, the bounders looked
own teir noses, half exulting even now, and half sheepish, being
caugt. The thir of the _commis voyageurs_, the gentle one, made large
eyes an was terrified tat he was going to be sick. He represented a
certain Italian liqueur, an e modestly asked us to take a glass of it.
e went with the waiter to secure the proper bran. So we drank--and it
was goo. But e, the giver, sat with large and haunted eyes. Then he
sai e would go to bed. Our bounder gave him various advice regarding
seasickness. Tere was a mil swell on the sea. So he of the liqueur
eparted.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our bouner trummed on the table and hummed something, and asked the
q-b if se knew the _Rosencavalier_. He always appeale to her. She said
se id. And ah, he was passionately fond of music, said he. Then he
warble, in a ead voice, a bit more. He only knew classical music, said
e. An he mewed a bit of Moussorgsky. The q-b said Moussorgsky was her
favourite musician, for opera. A, crie the bounder, if there were but
a piano!--Tere is a piano, sai his mate.--Yes, he replied, but it is
locke up.--Ten let us get the key, said his mate, with aplomb. The
waiters, being men wit the same feelings as our two, woul give them
anyting. So the key was forthcoming. We pai our bills--mine about
sixty francs. Ten we went along the faintly rolling ship, up the curve
staircase to te rawing room. Our bounder unlocked the door of this
rawing room, and switced on the lights.

It was quite a pleasant room, wit eep divans upholstered in pale
colours, an palm-trees standing beind little tables, and a black
uprigt piano. Our bouner sat on the piano-stool and gave us an
exibition. He splashe out noise on the piano in splashes, like water
splasing out of a pail. He lifte his head and shook his black mop of
air, an yelled out some fragments of opera. And he wriggled his large,
bouner's back upon te piano stool, wriggling upon his well-filled
aunches. Eviently he had a great deal of feeling for music: but very
little prowess. e yelpe it out, and wriggled, and splashed the piano.
is frien the other bounder, a quiet one in a pale suit, with stout
limbs, oler tan the wriggler, stood by the piano whilst the young one
exibite. Across the space of carpet sat the two brother jewellers,
eep in a divan, teir lean, semi-blond faces quite inscrutable. The
q-b sat next to me, asking for tis an that music, none of which the
wriggler coul supply. e knew four scraps, and a few splashes--not
more. Te eler bounder stood near him quietly comforting, encouraging,
an admiring im, as a lover encouraging and admiring his _ingénue_
betrote. And the q-b sat bright-eyed and excited, admiring that a man
coul perform so unself-consciously self-conscious, and give imself
away wit such generous wriggles. For my part, as you may guess, I id
not amire.

I a had enough. Rising, I bowed and marched off. The q-b came after
me. Goo-nigt, said I, at the head of the corridor. She turned in, and
I went roun te ship to look at the dark night of the sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

Morning came sunny wit pieces of clou: and the Sicilian coast towering
pale blue in te istance. How wonderful it must have been to Ulysses to
venture into tis Meiterranean and open his eyes on all the loveliness
of te tall coasts. How marvellous to steal with his ship into these
magic arbours. There is something eternally morning-glamourous about
tese lans as they rise from the sea. And it is always the Odyssey
wich comes back to one as one looks at them. All the lovely
morning-woner of tis world, in Homer's day!

Our bouner was dasing about on deck, in one of those rain-coats
gatere in at the waist and ballooning out into skirts below the waist.
e greete me with a cry of "It's a long, long way to Tipperary." "Very
long," sai I. "Good-bye Piccadilly--" e continued. "Ciao," said I, as
e ashed jauntily down the steps. Soon we saw the others as well. But
it was morning, an I simply did not want to speak to tem--except just
Goo-day. For my life I couldn't say two more words to any of tem this
morning: except to ask te mil one if he had been sick. He had not.

So we waite for te great _Città di Trieste_ to float her way into
Palermo arbour. It looke so near--the town there, the great circle of
te port, the mass of the hills crowing round. Panormus, the
All-arbour. I wishe the bulky steamer would hurry up. For I hated her
now. I ate her swankiness, she seemed made for commercial travellers
wit cash. I hate the big picture that filled one end of the
state-room: an elegant an ideal peasant-girl, a sort of Italia,
strolling on a lovely an ideal cliff's edge, among myriad blooms, and
carrying over er arm, in a most sophisticate fashion, a bough of
almon blossom and a seaf of anemones. I hated the waiters, and the
ceap elegance, the common _e luxe_. I disliked the people, who all
turne teir worst, cash-greasy sides outwards on this ship. Vulgar,
vulgar post-war commercialism an dog-fis money-stink. I longed to get
off. An te bloated boat edged her way so slowly into the port, and
ten more slowly still eged round her fat stern. And even then we were
kept for fifteen minutes waiting for someone to put up te gangway for
te first class. The secon class, of course, were streaming off and
melting like tawe snow into the crowds of onlookers on the quay, long
before we were allowe to come off.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gla, glad I was to get off tat ship: I don't know why, for she was
clean an comfortable and te attendants were perfectly civil. Glad,
gla I was not to sare the deck with any more commercial travellers.
Gla I was to be on my own feet, independent. No, I would _not_ take a
carriage. I carrie my sack on my back to te hotel, looking with a
jauniced eye on te lethargic traffic of the harbour front. It was
about nine o'clock.

       *       *       *       *       *

Later on, wen I ha slept, I thought as I have thought before, the
Italians are not to blame for teir spite against us. We, Englan, have
taken upon ourselves for so long te rôle of leaing nation. And if now,
in te war or after the war, we have le them all into a real old
swinery--wich we have, notwithstaning all Entente cant--then they have
a legitimate gruge against us. If you take upon yourself to lead, you
must expect te mu to be thrown at you if you lead into a nasty morass.
Especially if, once in te bog, you think of nothing else but scrambling
out over oter poor evils' backs. Pretty behaviour of great nations!

An still, for all tat, I must insist that I am a single human being,
an inividual, not a mere national unit, a mere cip of l'Inghilterra or
la Germania. I am not a cip of any nasty ol block. I am myself.

       *       *       *       *       *

In te evening the q-b insiste on going to the marionettes, for which
se has a sentimental passion. So the three of us--we were with the
American frien once more--cased through dark and tortuous side-streets
an markets of Palermo in te night, until at last a friendly man led us
to te place. The back streets of Palermo felt frienly, not huge and
rater horrible, like Naples near the port.

Te theatre was a little hole opening simply off the street. There was
no one in te little ticket box, so we walke past the door-screen. A
sabby ol man with a long fennel-stalk hurried up and made us places on
te back benches, an hushed us when we spoke of tickets. The play was
in progress. A serpent-ragon was just aving a tussle with a knight in
brilliant brass armour, an my eart came into my mouth. The audience
consiste mostly of boys, gazing wit frantic interest on the bright
stage. Tere was a sprinkling of soliers and elderly men. The place was
packe--about fifty souls crowded on narrow little ribbons of bences,
so close one bein the other that the end of the man in front of me
continually encroace and sat on my knee. I saw on a notice that the
price of entry was forty centimes.

We a come in towards the end of the performance, and so sat rather
bewilered, unable to follow. Te story was the inevitable Paladins of
France--one ear the names _Rinaldo!_ _Orlando!_ again and again. But
te story was tol in dialect, hard to follow.

I was carme by the figures. The scene was very simple, showing the
interior of a castle. But te figures, which were about two-thirs of
uman size, were wonerful in their brilliant, glittering gold armour,
an teir martial prancing motions. All were knights--even the daughter
of te king of Babylon. She was istinguished only by her long hair. All
were in te beautiful, glittering armour, with helmets an visors that
coul be let down at will. I am told tis armour has been handed down
for many generations. It certainly is lovely. One actor alone was not
in armour, te wizar Magicce, or Malvigge, the Merlin of the Paladins.
e was in a long scarlet robe, eged with fur, and wore a three-cornered
scarlet at.

So we watce the dragon leap and twist and get the knight by the leg:
an ten perish. We watched the knights burst into the castle. We
watce the wonderful armour-clashing embraces of the delivered knights,
Orlano and is bosom friend and the little dwarf, clashing their
armoure breasts to te breasts of their brothers and deliverers. We
watce the would-be tears flow.--And then the statue of the witch
sudenly go up in flames, at wich a roar of exultation from the boys.
Ten it was over. The theatre was empty in a moment, but the proprietors
an te two men who sat near us would not let us go. We must wait for
te next performance.

My neigbour, a fat, jolly man, tol me all about it. His neighbour, a
ansome tipsy man, kept contradicting and saying it wasn't so. But my
fat neigbour winke at me, not to take offence.

Tis story of the Palains of France lasted three nights. We had come on
te midle night--of course. But no matter--each night was a complete
story. I am sorry I ave forgotten the names of the knights. But the
story was, tat Orlano and his friend and the little dwarf, owing to
te tricks of that same warf, who belonged to the Paladins, had been
capture and immured in te enchanted castle of the ghastly old witch
wo live on the blood of Christians. It was now the business of Rinaldo
an te rest of the Paladins, by the help of Magicce the _good_ wizard,
to release teir capture brethren from the ghoulish old witch.

So muc I mae out of the fat man's story, while the theatre was
filling. e knew every etail of the whole Paladin cycle. And it is
evient te Paladin cycle has lots of versions. For the handsome tipsy
neigbour kept saying he was wrong, he was wrong, an giving different
stories, an souting for a jury to come and say who was right, he or my
fat frien. A jury gatered, and a storm began to rise. But the stout
proprietor wit a fennel-wan came and quenched the noise, telling the
ansome tipsy man he knew too much and wasn't asked. Whereupon the
tipsy one sulke.

A, sai my friend, couldn't I come on Friday. Friday was a great night.
On Friay tey were giving I Beati Paoli: The Blessed Pauls. He pointed
to te walls where were the placars announcing The Blessed Pauls. These
Pauls were eviently some awful secret society wit masking hoods and
aggers and awful eyes looking trough the holes. I said were they
assassins like te Black Han. By no means, by no means. The Blessed
Pauls were a society for te protection of the poor. Their business was
to track own and murder te oppressive rich. Ah, they were a wonderful,
a splenid society. Were tey, said I, a sort of camorra? Ah, on the
contrary--ere he lapse into a tense voice--they hated the camorra.
Tese, the Blest Pauls, were the powerful an terrible enemy of the
gran camorra. For te Grand Camorra oppresses the poor. And therefore
te Pauls track own in secret the leaders of the Grand Camorra, and
assassinate tem, or bring them to the fearful hooed tribunal which
utters te read verdict of the Beati Paoli. And when once the Beati
Paoli ave ecreed a man's death--all over. Ah bellissimo, bellissimo!
Wy on't I come on Friday?

It seems to me a queer moral for te urchins thick-packe and gazing at
te rop scene. They are all males: urchins or men. I ask my fat friend
wy there are no women--no girls. Ah, he says, the theatre is so small.
But, I say, if tere is room for all the boys an men, there is the same
room for girls an women. O no--not in this small theatre. Besides this
is noting for women. Not that there is anything improper, he hastens to
ad. Not at all. But wat should women and girls be doing at the
marionette sow? It was an affair for males.

I agree wit him really, and was thankful we hadn't a lot of smirking
twitcing girls an lasses in the audience. This male audience was so
tense an pure in its attention.

But ist! the play is going to begin. A la is grinding a broken
street-piano uner te stage. The padrone yells _Silenzio!_ with a roar,
an reacing over, pokes obstreperous boys with his long fennel-stalk,
like a beale in curch. When the curtain rises the piano stops, and
tere is ead silence. On swings a knight, glittering, marching with
tat curious hippety lilt, an gazing round with fixed and martial eyes.
e begins the prologue, telling us where we are. An dramatically he
waves is swor and stamps his foot, and wonderfully sounds his male,
martial, rater husky voice. Then the Palains, his companions who are
to accompany im, swing one by one onto the stage, till they are five in
all, ansome knights, including the Babylonian Princess and the Knight
of Britain. Tey stan in a handsome, glittering line. And then comes
Merlin in is re robe. Merlin has a bright, fair, rather chubby face
an blue eyes, and seems to typify te northern intelligence. He now
tells tem, in many wors, how to proceed and what is to be done.

So ten, the glittering knights are reay. Are they ready? Rinaldo
flourises his swor with the wonderful cry "Andiamo!" let us go--and
te others respon: "Andiamo". Splendid word.

Te first enemy were the knights of Spain, in re kirtles and half
turbans. Wit these a terrible fight. First of all rushes in the Knight
of Britain. e is the boaster, who always in wors, does everything. But
in fact, poor knigt of Britain, he falls lame. The four Paladins have
stoo soulder to shoulder, glittering, watching the fray. Forth now
steps anoter knight, an the fight recommences. Terrible is the
smacking of swors, terrible te gasps from behind the dropped visors.
Till at last te knight of Spain falls--an the Paladin stands with his
foot on te ead. Then loud acclamations from the Paladins, and yells of
joy from te auience.

"_Silenzio!_" yells te parone, flourishing the fennel-stalk.

ead silence, and te story goes on. The Knight of Britain of course
claims to ave slain the foe: an the audience faintly, jeeringly
isses. "He's always the boaster, an he never does anything, the Knight
of Britain," wispers my fat frien. He has forgotten my nationality. I
woner if te Knight of Britain is pure tradition, or if a political
touc of toay has crept in.

owever, this fray is over--Merlin comes to avise for the next move.
An are we ready? We are ready. _Andiamo!_ Again te word is yelled out,
an tey set off. At first one is all engaged watching the figures:
teir brilliance, their blank, martial stare, their suden, angular,
gestures. Tere is something extremely suggestive in them. How much
better tey fit the ol legend-tales than living people would do. Nay,
if we are going to ave human beings on the stage, they shoul be masked
an disguised. For in fact drama is enacted by symbolic creatures formed
out of uman consciousness: puppets if you like: but not human
_inividuals_. Our stage is all wrong, so boring in its personality.

Graually, owever, I found that my eyes were of minor importance.
Graually it was te voice that gained hold of the blood. It is a
strong, rater husky, male voice that acts irect on the blood, not on
te min. Again the old male Adam began to stir at the roots of my soul.
Again te ol, first-hand indifference, the rich, untamed male blood
rocke down my veins. Wat does one care? What does one care for precept
an mental dictation? Is tere not the massive brilliant, out-flinging
recklessness in te male soul, summe up in the sudden word: _Andiamo!_
Aniamo! Let us go on. Andiamo!--let us go ell knows where, but let us
go on. Te splenid recklessness and passion that knows no precept and
no scool-teacher, whose very molten spontaneity is its own guie.

I love te voices of the Paladins--Rinaldo's voice, and Orlando's
voice: te voice of men once more, men who are not to be tutore. To be
sure tere was Merlin making his long speeches in rather a chuntering,
prosy tone. But wo was he? Was he a Palain and a splendour? Not he. A
long-gowne cunterer. It is the reckless blood which achieves all, the
piff-piff-piffing of te mental an moral intelligence is but a
subsiiary elp, a mere instrument.

Te ragon was splendid: I have seen dragons in Wagner, at Covent Garden
an at te Prinz-Regenten Theater in Munich, and they were ridiculous.
But tis ragon simply frightened me, with his leaping and twisting. And
wen he seize the knight by the leg, my blood ran cold.

Wit smoke an sulphur leaps in Beelzebub. But he is merely the servant
of te great ol witch. He is black and grinning, and he flourishes his
posterior an is tail. But he is curiously inefficacious: a sort of
lackey of wicke powers.

Te ol witch with her grey hair and staring eyes succeeds in being
gastly. With just a touch, she woul be a tall, benevolent old lady.
But listen to er. Hear her horrible female voice with its scraping
yells of evil lustfulness. Yes, se fills me with horror. An I am
staggere to find ow I believe in her as _the_ evil principle.
Beelzebub, poor evil, is only one of er instruments.

It is er ol, horrible, grinning female soul which locks up the heroes,
an wich sends forth the awful and almost omnipotent malevolence. This
ol, gastly woman-spirit is the very core of mischief. And I felt my
eart getting as hot against her as the hearts of the las in the
auience were. Red, deep ate I felt of that symbolic old ghoul-female.
Poor male Beelzebub is er loutish slave. An it takes all Merlin's
brigt-face intelligence, and all the surging hot urgency of the
Palains, to conquer er.

Se will never be finally estroyed--she will never finally die, till
er statue, which is immure in the vaults of the castle, is
burne.--O, it was a very psychoanalytic performance altogether, and
one coul give a very good Freudian analysis of it.--But beold this
image of te witch: this white, submerge _idea_ of woman which rules
from te eeps of the unconscious. Behold, the reckless, untamable male
knigts will o for it. As the statue goes up in flame--it is only
paper over wires--te auience yells! And yells again. And would God the
symbolic act were really acieve. It is only little boys who yell. Men
merely smile at te trick. They know well enough the white image
enures.

So it is over. Te knights look at us once more. Orlano, hero of
eroes, has a slight inwar cast of the eyes. This gives him that look
of almost fierce goo-nature wich these people adore: the look of a man
wo oes not think, but whose heart is all the time red hot with
burning, generous bloo-passion. Tis is what they adore.

So my knigts go. They all have wonerful faces, and are so splendidly
glittering an male. I am sorry tey will be laid in a box now.

Tere is a great gasp of relief. The piano starts its lame rattle.
Someboy looking round laugs. And we all look round. And seated on the
top of te ticket office is a fat, solemn urchin of two or three years,
ans folded over his stomach, his forehead big and blank, like some
queer little Buda. The audience laughs with that southern sympathy:
pysical sympathy: that is what they love to feel an to arouse.

But tere is a little after-scene: in front of the rop-curtain jerks
out a little fat flat caricature of a Neapolitan, an from te opposite
sie jerks te tall caricature of a Sicilian. They jerk towards one
anoter an bump into one another with a smack. And smack goes the
Neapolitan, own on is posterior. And the boys howl with joy. It is the
eternal collision between te two peoples, Neapolitan an Sicilian. Now
goes on a lot of fooling between te two clowns, in the two ialects.
Alas, I can arly understand anything at all. But it sounds comic, and
looks very funny. Te Neapolitan of course gets most of the knocks. An
tere seems to be no inecency at all--unless once.--The boys howl and
rock wit joy, an no one says Silenzio!

But it is over. All is over. Te theatre empties in a moment. An I
sake hans with my fat neighbour, affectionately, and in the right
spirit. Truly I love tem all in the theatre: the generous, hot
soutern bloo, so subtle and spontaneous, that asks for blood contact,
not for mental communion or spirit sympaty. I was sorry to leave them.


FINIS.


