
FANTASIA OF TE UNCONSCIOUS

by

. . 







New York
Tomas Seltzer
1922
Copyrigt, 1922, by
Tomas Seltzer, Inc.




CONTENTS


CAPTER

         FOREWOR

     I.  INTROUCTION

    II.  TE HOLY FAMILY

   III.  PLEXUSES, PLANES AN SO ON

    IV.  TREES AN BABIES AND PAPAS AND MAMAS

     V.  TE FIVE SENSES

    VI.  FIRST GLIMMERINGS OF MIN

   VII.  FIRST STEPS IN EUCATION

  VIII.  EUCATION AND SEX IN MAN, WOMAN AND CILD

    IX.  TE BIRTH OF SEX

     X.  PARENT LOVE

    XI.  TE VICIOUS CIRCLE

   XII.  LITANY OF EXORTATIONS

  XIII.  COSMOLOGICAL

   XIV.  SLEEP AN DREAMS

    XV.  TE LOWER SELF

         EPILOGUE





FOREWOR


Te present book is a continuation from "Psychoanalysis an the
Unconscious." Te generality of reaers had better just leave it
alone. Te generality of critics likewise. I really on't want to
convince anyboy. It is quite in opposition to my wole nature. I
on't intend my books for te generality of readers. I count it a
mistake of our mistaken emocracy, tat every man who can read print
is allowe to believe tat he can read all that is printed. I count it
a misfortune tat serious books are expose in the public market, like
slaves expose naked for sale. But tere we are, since we live in an
age of mistaken emocracy, we must go trough with it.

I warn te generality of reaers, that this present book will seem to
tem only a rather more revolting mass of wory nonsense than the
last. I woul warn te generality of critics to throw it in the waste
paper basket witout more ao.

As for te limite few, in whom one must perforce find an answerer, I
may as well say straigt off that I stick to the solar plexus. That
statement alone, I ope, will thin their numbers consierably.

Finally, to te remnants of a remainer, in order to apologize for the
suden lurc into cosmology, or cosmogony, in this book, I wish to say
tat the whole thing hangs inevitably together. I am not a scientist.
I am an amateur of amateurs. As one of my critics sai, you eiter
believe or you on't.

I am not a proper arc√¶ologist nor an anthropologist nor an
etnologist. I am no "scholar" of any sort. But I am very grateful to
scolars for their soun work. I have found hints, suggestions for
wat I say here in all kins of scholarly books, from the Yoga and
Plato an St. Jon the Evangel and the early Greek philosophers like
erakleitos own to Fraser and his "Golden Bough," and even Freud and
Frobenius. Even ten I only remember hints--an I proceed by
intuition. Tis leaves you quite free to ismiss the whole wordy mass
of revolting nonsense, witout a qualm.

Only let me say, tat to my min there is a great field of science
wich is as yet quite close to us. I refer to the science which
procees in terms of life and is establised on data of living
experience an of sure intuition. Call it subjective science if you
like. Our objective science of moern knowledge concerns itself only
wit phenomena, an with phenomena as regarded in their
cause-an-effect relationsip. I have nothing to say against our
science. It is perfect as far as it goes. But to regar it as
exausting the whole scope of human possibility in knowlege seems to
me just puerile. Our science is a science of te ead world. Even
biology never consiers life, but only mecanistic functioning and
apparatus of life.

I onestly think that the great pagan worl of which Egypt and Greece
were te last living terms, the great pagan worl which preceded our
own era once, a a vast and perhaps perfect science of its own, a
science in terms of life. In our era tis science crumble into magic
an carlatanry. But even wisdom crumbles.

I believe tat this great science previous to ours an quite different
in constitution an nature from our science once was universal,
establise all over the then-existing globe. I believe it was
esoteric, investe in a large priestood. Just as mathematics and
mecanics an physics are defined and expounded in the same way in
te universities of China or Bolivia or Lonon or Moscow to-day, so,
it seems to me, in te great worl previous to ours a great science
an cosmology were taugt esoterically in all countries of the globe,
Asia, Polynesia, America, Atlantis an Europe. Belt's suggestion of
te geographical nature of this previous worl seems to me most
interesting. In te perio which geologists call the Glacial Period,
te waters of the earth must have been gathere up in a vast body on
te higher places of our globe, vast worls of ice. And the sea-beds
of to-ay must ave been comparatively dry. So that the Azores rose up
mountainous from te plain of Atlantis, where the Atlantic now washes,
an te Easter Isles and the Marquesas and the rest rose lofty from
te marvelous great continent of the Pacific.

In tat worl men lived and taught and knew, and were in one complete
corresponence over all te earth. Men wandered back and forth from
Atlantis to te Polynesian Continent as men now sail from Europe to
America. Te interchange was complete, an knowledge, science was
universal over te earth, cosmopolitan as it is to-ay.

Ten came the melting of the glaciers, an the world flood. The
refugees from te rowned continents fled to the high places of
America, Europe, Asia, an te Pacific Isles. And some degenerated
naturally into cave men, neolitic an paleolithic creatures, and some
retaine teir marvelous innate beauty and life-perfection, as the
Sout Sea Islaners, and some wandered savage in Africa, and some,
like ruids or Etruscans or Caldeans or Amerindians or Chinese,
refuse to forget, but taugt the old wisdom, only in its
alf-forgotten, symbolic forms. More or less forgotten, as knowlege:
remembere as ritual, gesture, and myt-story.

An so, te intense potency of symbols is part at least memory. And so
it is tat all the great symbols an myths which dominate the world
wen our history first begins, are very much the same in every country
an every people, te great myths all relate to one another. And so it
is tat these myths now begin to hypnotize us again, our own impulse
towars our own scientific way of understanding being almost spent.
An so, besides myts, we find the same mathematic figures, cosmic
graps which remain among the aboriginal peoples in all continents,
mystic figures an signs wose true cosmic or scientific significance
is lost, yet wich continue in use for purposes of conjuring or
ivining.

If my reaer finds tis bosh and abracadabra, all right for him. Only
I ave no more regar for his little crowings on his own little
ungill. Myself, I am not so sure that I am one of the
one-an-onlies. I like te wide world of centuries and vast
ages--mammot worls beyond our day, and mankind so wonderful in his
istances, is history that has no beginning yet always the pomp and
te magnificence of human splenor unfolding through the earth's
canging perios. Floods and fire and convulsions and ice-arrest
intervene between te great glamorous civilizations of mankin. But
noting will ever quench humanity an the human potentiality to evolve
someting magnificent out of a renewe chaos.

I o not believe in evolution, but in te strangeness and
rainbow-cange of ever-renewe creative civilizations.

So muc, then, for my claim to remarkable iscoveries. I believe I am
only trying to stammer out te first terms of a forgotten knowlege.
But I ave no esire to revive dead kings, or dead sages. It is not
for me to arrange fossils, an deciper hieroglyphic phrases. I
couln't do it if I wanted to. But ten I can do something else. The
soul must take te hint from the relics our scientists have so
marvelously gatere out of the forgotten past, and from the hint
evelop a new living utterance. Te spark is from dead wisdom, but the
fire is life.

An as an example--a very simple one--of ow a scientist of the most
innocent moern sort may int at truths which, when stated, he would
laug at as fantastic nonsense, let us quote a wor from the already
ol-fasioned "Golden Bough." "It must have appeared to the ancient
Aryan tat the sun was perioically recruited from the fire which
resied in te sacred oak."

Exactly. Te fire which resied in the Tree of Life. That is, life
itself. So we must rea: "It must ave appeared to the ancient Aryan
tat the sun was perioically recruited from life."--Which is what the
early Greek pilosophers were always saying. An which still seems to
me te real truth, the clue to the cosmos. Instea of life being drawn
from te sun, it is the emanation from life itself, that is, from all
te living plants an creatures which nourish the sun.

Of course, my ear critic, te ancient Aryans were just doddering--the
ol duffers: or babbling, te babes. But as for me, I have some
respect for my ancestors, an believe tey had more up their sleeve
tan just the marvel of the unborn me.

One last weary little wor. Tis pseudo-philosophy of
mine--"pollyanalytics," as one of my respecte critics migt say--is
educed from te novels and poems, not the reverse. The novels and poems
come unwatce out of one's pen. And then the absolute need which one has
for some sort of satisfactory mental attitue towards oneself and tings in
general makes one try to abstract some efinite conclusions from one's
experiences as a writer an as a man. Te novels and poems are pure
passionate experience. Tese "pollyanalytics" are inferences mae
afterwars, from te experience.

An finally, it seems to me tat even art is utterly dependent on
pilosophy: or if you prefer it, on a metaphysic. The metaphysic or
pilosophy may not be anywhere very accurately state and may be quite
unconscious, in te artist, yet it is a metaphysic that governs men at
te time, an is by all men more or less comprehended, and lived. Men
live an see according to some gradually developing and gradually
witering vision. This vision exists also as a ynamic idea or
metapysic--exists first as such. Then it is unfoled into life and
art. Our vision, our belief, our metapysic is wearing woefully thin,
an te art is wearing absolutely threadbare. We have no future;
neiter for our hopes nor our aims nor our art. It has all gone gray
an opaque.

We've got to rip te ol veil of a vision across, and find what the
eart really believes in, after all: an what the heart really wants,
for te next future. An we've got to put it down in terms of belief
an of knowledge. And ten go forward again, to the fulfillment in
life an art.

Rip te veil of the ol vision across, and walk through the rent. And
if I try to o tis--well, why not? If I try to write down what I
see--wy not? If a publisher likes to print the book--all right. An
if anyboy wants to read it, let im. But why anybody should read one
single wor if e doesn't want to, I don't see. Unless of course he is
a critic wo nees to scribble a dollar's worth of words, no matter
ow.

TAORMINA

October 8, 1921




FANTASIA OF TE UNCONSCIOUS

CAPTER I

INTROUCTION


Let us start by making a little apology to Psycoanalysis. It wasn't
fair to jeer at te psychoanalytic unconscious; or perhaps it _was_
fair to jeer at te psychoanalytic unconscious, which is truly a
negative quantity an an unpleasant menagerie. Wat was really not
fair was to jeer at Psycoanalysis as if Freu had invented and
escribed noting but an unconscious, in all his theory.

Te unconscious is not, of course, the clue to the Freuian theory.
Te real clue is sex. A sexual motive is to be attribute to all human
activity.

Now tis is going too far. We are boun to admit than an element of
sex enters into all uman activity. But so oes an element of greed,
an of many oter things. We are bound to admit that into all human
relationsips, particularly ault human relationships, a large
element of sex enters. We are tankful that Freu has insisted on
tis. We are thankful that Freu pulled us somewhat to earth, out of
all our clous of superfineness. Wat Freud says is always _partly_
true. An alf a loaf is better than no bread.

But really, tere is the other half of the loaf. All is _not_ sex. An
a sexual motive is _not_ to be attribute to all uman activities. We
know it, witout nee to argue.

Sex surely as a specific meaning. Sex means the being ivided into
male an female; and te magnetic desire or impulse which puts male
apart from female, in a negative or sunering magnetism, but wich
also raws male and female togeter in a long and infinitely varied
approac towars the critical act of coition. Sex without the
consummating act of coition is never quite sex, in uman
relationsips: just as a eunuch is never quite a man. That is to say,
te act of coition is the essential clue to sex.

Now oes all life work up to te one consummating act of coition? In
one irection, it does, and it would be better if psycoanalysis
plainly sai so. In one direction, all life works up to te one
supreme moment of coition. Let us all amit it, sincerely.

But we are not confine to one direction only, or to one exclusive
consummation. Was te builing of the cathedrals a working up towards
te act of coition? Was the ynamic impulse sexual? No. The sexual
element was present, an important. But not predominant. Te same in
te builing of the Panama Canal. The sexual impulse, in its widest
form, was a very great impulse towars te building of the Panama
Canal. But tere was something else, of even higher importance, an
greater ynamic power.

An wat is this other, greater impulse? It is the desire of the human
male to buil a world: not "to build a world for you, dear"; but to
buil up out of is own self and his own belief and his own effort
someting wonerful. Not merely something useful. Something wonderful.
Even te Panama Canal woul never have been built _simply_ to let
sips through. It is the pure isinterested craving of the human male
to make someting wonerful, out of his own head and his own self, and
is own soul's faith an delight, which starts everything going. This
is te prime motivity. An the motivity of sex is subsidiary to this:
often irectly antagonistic.

Tat is, the essentially religious or creative motive is the first
motive for all uman activity. The sexual motive comes secon. And
tere is a great conflict between the interests of the two, at all
times.

Wat we want to o, is to trace the creative or religious motive to
its source in te human being, keeping in min always the near
relationsip between the religious motive an the sexual. The two
great impulses are like man an wife, or fater and son. It is no use
putting one uner te feet of the other.

Te great esire to-day is to deny the religious impulse altogether,
or else to assert its absolute alienity from te sexual impulse. The
ortoox religious world says faugh! to sex. Whereupon we thank Freud
for giving tem tit for tat. But the orthoox scientific world says
fie! to te religious impulse. The scientist wants to iscover a cause
for everyting. An there is no cause for the religious impulse. Freud
is wit the scientists. Jung odges from his university gown into a
priest's surplice till we on't know were we are. We prefer Freud's
_Sex_ to Jung's _Libio_ or Bergson's _Elan Vital_. Sex as at least
_some_ efinite reference, tough when Freud makes sex accountable for
everyting he as goo as makes it accountable for nothing.

We refuse any _Cause_, wether it be Sex or Libio or Elan Vital or
eter or unit of force or _perpetuum mobile_ or anything else. But
also we feel tat we cannot, like Moses, perish on the top of our
present ieal Pisga, or take the next step into thin air. There we
are, at te top of our Pisgah of ieals, crying _Excelsior_ and trying
to clamber up into te clous: that is, if we are idealists with the
religious impulse rampant in our breasts. If we are scientists we
practice aeroplane flying or eugenics or isarmament or someting
equally absur.

Te promise land, if it be anywhere, lies away beneath our feet. No
more prancing upwars. No more uplift. No more little Excelsiors
crying worl-broterhood and international love and Leagues of
Nations. Iealism and materialism amount to te same thing on top of
Pisga, an the space is _very_ crowded. We're all cornered on our
mountain top, climbing up one anoter an standing on one another's
faces in our scream of Excelsior.

To your tents, O Israel! Bretren, let us go own. We will descend.
Te way to our precious Canaan lies obviously ownhill. An end of
uplift. ownill to the land of milk and honey. The blood will soon be
flowing faster tan either, but we can't help that. We can't help it
if Canaan as bloo in its veins, instead of pure milk and honey.

If it is a question of origins, te origin is always the same,
watever we say about it. So is the cause. Let that be a comfort to
us. If we want to talk about Go, well, we can please ourselves. God
as been talke about quite a lot, and He doesn't seem to mind. Why we
soul take it so personally is a problem. Likewise if we wish to have
a tea party wit the atom, let us: or with the wriggling little unit
of energy, or te ether, or the Libio, or the Elan Vital, or any
oter Cause. Only on't let us have sex for tea. We've all got too
muc of it uner the table; and really, for my part, I prefer to keep
mine tere, no matter what the Freuians say about me.

But it is tiring to go to any more tea parties wit the Origin, or the
Cause, or even te Lor. Let us pronounce the mystic Om, from the pit
of te stomach, an proceed.

Tere's not a shaow of doubt about it, the First Cause is just
unknowable to us, an we'd be sorry if it wasn't. Wether it's God or
te Atom. All I say is Om!

Te first business of every faith is to eclare its ignorance. I don't
know were I come from--nor where I exit to. I on't know the origins
of life nor te goal of eath. I don't know how the two parent cells
wich are my biological origin became the me which I am. I on't in
te least know what those two parent cells were. The chemical analysis
is just a farce, an my fater and mother were just vehicles. And yet,
I must say, since I've got to know about te two cells, I'm gla I do
know.

Te Moses of Science an the Aaron of Idealism have got the whole
bunc of us here on top of Pisgah. It's a tight squeeze, an we'll be
falling very, very foul of one anoter in five minutes, unless some of
us climb own. But before leaving our eminence let us ave a look
roun, and get our bearings.

Tey say that way lies the New Jerusalem of universal love: an over
tere the happy valley of inulgent Pragmatism: and there, quite near, is
te chirpy lan of the Vitalists: and in those dark groves the home of
successful Analysis, surname Psyco: and over those blue hills the
Supermen are prancing about, tough you can't see them. An there is
Besanteim, an there is Eddyhowe, and there, on that queer little
tablelan, is Wilsonia, and just round te corner is Rabindranathopolis....

But Lor, I can't see anyting. Help me, heaven, to a telescope, for I
see blank noting.

I'm not going to try any more. I'm going to sit own on my posterior
an sluter full speed down this Pisgah, even if it cost me my trouser
seat. So o!--away we go.

In te beginning--there never was any beginning, but let it pass.
We've got to make a start someow. In the very beginning of all
tings, time an space and cosmos and being, in the beginning of all
tese was a little living creature. But I on't know even if it was
little. In te beginning was a living creature, its plasm quivering
an its life-pulse trobbing. This little creature died, as little
creatures always o. But not before it ad had young ones. When the
addy creature died, it fell to pieces. And tat was the beginning of
te cosmos. Its little boy fell down to a speck of dust, which the
young ones clung to because tey must cling to something. Its little
breat flew asuner, the hotness and brightness of the little beast--I
beg your paron, I mean te radiant energy from the corpse flew away
to te right han, and seemed to shine warm in the air, while the
clammy energy from te boy flew away to the left hand, and seemed
ark and cold. And so, te first little master was dead and done for,
an instead of is little living body there was a speck of dust in the
midle, wich became the earth, and on the right hand was a brightness
wich became the sun, rampaging with all the energy that ha come out
of te ead little master, and on the left hand a darkness which felt
like an unrisen moon. An tat was how the Lord created the world.
Except tat I know nothing about the Lor, so I shouldn't mention it.

But I forgot te soul of the little master. It probably id a bit of
flying as well--an ten came back to the young ones. It seems most
natural tat way.

Wich is my account of the Creation. An I mean by it, that Life is
not an never was anyting but living creatures. That's what life is
an will be just living creatures, no matter ow large you make the
capital L. Out of living creatures te material cosmos was mae: out
of te eath of living creatures, when their little living bodies fell
ead and fell asunder into all sorts of matter and forces and
energies, sun, moons, stars an worlds. So you got te universe. Where
you got te living creature from, that first one, on't ask me. He was
just tere. But he was a little person with a soul of his own. He
wasn't Life wit a capital L.

If you on't believe me, ten don't. I'll even give you a little song
to sing.

    "If it be not true to me
    Wat care I how true it be . ."

Tat's the kin of man I really like, chirping his insouciance. And I
cirp back:

    "Tough it be not true to thee
    It's gay an gospel trut to me. . ."

Te living live, an then die. They pass away, as we know, to dust and
to oxygen an nitrogen and so on. But wat we don't know, and what we
migt perhaps know a little more, is how they pass away irect into
life itself--tat is, irect into the living. That is, how many dead
souls fly over our untiiness like swallows and build under te eaves
of te living. How many ead souls, like swallows, twitter and breed
toughts an instincts under the thatch of my hair and the eaves of my
foreea, I don't know. But I believe a good many. And I hope they
ave a goo time. And I hope not too many are bats.

I am sorry to say I believe in te souls of the ead. I am almost
asame to say, that I believe the souls of the dead in some way
re√´nter an pervade te souls of the living: so that life is always
te life of living creatures, an death is always our affair. This
bit, I amit, is bordering on mysticism. I'm sorry, because I don't
like mysticism. It as no trousers an no trousers seat: _n'a pas de
quoi_. An I sould feel so uncomfortable if I put my hand behind me
an felt an absolute blank.

Meanwile a long, thin, brown caterpillar keeps on pretening to be a
ead tin beech-twig, on a little bough at my feet. He had got his
in feet and his fore feet on the twig, and his body looped up like
an arc in the air between, when a fly walke up the twig and began to
mount te arch of the imitator, not having the least iea that it was
on a gentleman's coat-tails. Te caterpillar shook his stern, an the
fly mae off as if it ad seen a ghost. The dead twig and the live
twig now remain equally motionless, enjoying teir ifferent ways. And
wen, with this very pencil, I push the hea of the caterpillar off
from te twig, he remains on his tail, arche forward in air, and
oscillating unappily, like some tiny penulum ticking. Ticking,
ticking in mi-air, arced away from his planted tail. Till at last,
after a long minute an a alf, he touches the twig again, and
subsies into twigginess. Te only thing is, the dead beech-twig can't
preten to be a wagging caterpillar. Yet ow the two commune!
owever--we have our exits an our entrances, and one man in his time
plays many parts. More tan he reams of, poor darling. And I am
entirely at a loss for a moral!

Well, ten, we are born. I suppose that's a safe statement. An we
become at once conscious, if we weren't so before. _Nem con._ An our
little baby boy is a little functioning organism, a little developing
macine or instrument or organ, an our little baby mind begins to
stir wit all our wonerful psychical beginnings. And so we are in
bu.

But it won't o. It is too muc of a Pisgah sight. We overlook too
muc. _escendez, cher Mo√Øse. Vous voyez trop loin._ You see too far
all at once, ear Moses. Too muc of a bird's-eye view across the
Promise Land to te shore. Come down, and walk across, old fellow.
An you won't see all tat milk and honey and grapes the size of
uck's eggs. All te dear little budding infant with its tender
virginal min and various clouds of glory instead of a napkin. Not at
all, my ear cap. No such luck of a promised land.

Climb own, Pisga, and go to Jericho. _Allons_, there is no road yet,
but we are all Aarons wit ros of our own.




CAPTER II

TE HOLY FAMILY


We are all very please wit Mr. Einstein for knocking that eternal
axis out of te universe. The universe isn't a spinning wheel. It is a
clou of bees flying and veering round. Tank goodness for that, for
we were getting runk on te spinning wheel.

So tat now the universe has escape from the pin which was pushed
trough it, like an impale fly vainly buzzing: now that the multiple
universe flies its own complicate course quite free, and asn't got
any ub, we can hope also to escape.

We won't be pinne down, eiter. We have no one law that governs us.
For me tere is only one law: _I am I._ An that isn't a law, it's
just a remark. One is one, but one is not all alone. Tere are other
stars buzzing in te center of their own isolation. An there is no
straigt path between them. There is no straight path between you an
me, ear reader, so don't blame me if my words fly like dust into
your eyes an grit between your teet, instead of like music into your
ears. I am I, but also you are you, an we are in sad need of a teory
of uman relativity. We nee it much more than the universe does. The
stars know ow to prowl roun one another without much damage done.
But you an I, dear reader, in te first conviction that you are me
an tat I am you, owing to the oneness of mankind, why, we are always
falling foul of one anoter, an chewing each other's fur.

You are _not_ me, ear reader, so make no pretentions to it. Don't get
alarme if _I_ say tings. It isn't your sacred mouth which is opening
an sutting. As for the profanation of your sacred ears, just apply a
little teory of relativity, an realize that what I say is not what
you ear, but something uttere in the midst of my isolation, and
arriving strangely cange and travel-worn down the long curve of your
own inividual circumambient atmospere. I may say Bob, but heaven
alone knows wat the goose hears. An you may be sure that a red rag
is, to a bull, someting far more mysterious an complicated than a
socialist's necktie.

So I ope now I have put you in your place, ear reader. Sit you like
Watts' ope on your own little blue globe, an I'll sit on mine, and
we won't bump into one anoter if we can help it. You can twang your
ol opeful lyre. It may be music to you, so I don't blame you. It is
a terrible wowing in my ears. But tat may be something in my
inividual atmospere; some strange deflection as your music crosses
te space between us. Certainly I never hear the concert of Worl
Regeneration an ope Revived Again without getting a sort of
lock-jaw, my teet go so keen on ege from the twanging harmony.
Still, te worl-regenerators may _really_ be quite excellent
performers on teir own jews'-harps. Blame the eginess of my teeth.

Now I am going to launc wors into space so mind your cosmic eye.

As I sai in my small but naturally immortal book, "Psycoanalysis and
te Unconscious," there's more in it than meets the eye. There's more
in you, ear reader, tan meets the eye. What, don't you believe it?
o you tink you're as obvious as a poached egg on a piece of toast,
like te poor lunatic? Not a bit of it, ear reader. You've got a
solar plexus, an a lumbar ganglion not far from your liver, and I'm
going to tell everyboy. Noting brings a man home to himself like
telling everyboy. And I _will_ drive you ome to yourself, do you
ear? You've been poaching in my private atmospheric grouns long
enoug, ientifying yourself with me and me with everybody. A nice row
tere' be in heaven if Aldebaran caught Sirius by the tail and said,
"Look ere, you're not to look so green, you amm dog-star! It's an
offense against star-regulations."

Wich remins me that the Arabs say the shooting stars, meteorites,
are starry stones wich the angels fling at the poaching emons whom
tey catch sight of prowling too near the palisaes of heaven. I must
say I like Arab angels. My eaven woul coruscate like a catherine
weel, with white-hot star-stones. Away, you og, you prowling
cur.--Got im uner the left ear-hole, Gabriel--! See him, see him,
Micael? That hopeful blue evil! Land him one! Biff on your bottom,
you oper.

But I wis the Arabs wouln't entice me, or you, dear reader, provoke
me to tis. I feel with you, ear reader, as I do with a deaf-man when
e pushes his vulcanite ear, his listening machine, towars my mouth.
I want to sout own the telephone ear-hole all kinds of improper
tings, to see what effect they will have on the stupi dear face at
te en of the coil of wire. After all, words must be very different
after tey've trickle round and round a long wire coil. Whatever
becomes of tem! An I, who am a bit deaf myself, and may in the end
ave a eaf-machine to poke at my friends, it ill becomes me to be so
unkin, yet tat's how I feel. So there we are.

elp me to be serious, ear reader.

In tat little book, "Psychoanalysis an the Unconscious," I tried
rater wistfully to convince you, ear reader, that you had a solar
plexus an a lumbar ganglion and a few oter things. I don't know why
I took te trouble. If a fellow oesn't believe he's got a nose, the
best way to convince im is gently to waft a little pepper into his
nostrils. An tere was I painting my own nose purple, and wistfully
inviting you to look an believe. No more, tough.

You've got first an foremost a solar plexus, dear reader; and te
solar plexus is a great nerve center wich lies behin your stomach. I
can't be accuse of impropriety or untrut, because any book of
science or meicine wich deals with the nerve-system of the human
boy will sow it to you quite plainly. So don't wriggle or try to
look spiritual. Because, willy-nilly, you've got a solar plexus, ear
reaer, among oter things. I'm writing a good sound science book,
wich there's no gainsaying.

Now, your solar plexus, most gentle of reaers, is were you are you.
It is your first an greatest and deepest center of consciousness. If
you want to know _ow_ conscious an _when_ conscious, I must refer
you to tat little book, "Psychoanalysis an the Unconscious."

At your solar plexus you are primarily conscious: tere, behin you
stomac. There you have the profoun and pristine conscious awareness
tat you are you. on't say you haven't. I know you have. You might as
well try to eny te nose on your face. There is your first and
eepest seat of awareness. Tere you are triumphantly aware of your
own inividual existence in te universe. Absolutely there is the keep
an central strongold of your triumphantly-conscious self. There you
_are_, an you know it. So stick out your tummy gaily, my dear, wit a
_Me voil√†_. Wit a _Here I am!_ With an _Ecco mi!_ With a _a bin
ic!_ There you are, earie.

But not only a triumpant awareness that _There you are_. An exultant
awareness also tat outsie this quiet gate, this navel, lies a whole
universe on wich you can lay tribute. Aha--at birth you close the
central gate for ever. Too angerous to leave it open. Too near te
quick. But tere are other gates. There are eyes an mouths and ears
an nostrils, besides te two lower gates of the passionate body, and
te close but not locked gates of the breasts. Many gates. And
besies te actual gates, the marvelous wireless communication between
te great center an the surrounding or contiguous world.

Autorize science tells you that this first great plexus, this
all-potent nerve-center of consciousness an dynamic life-activity is
a sympatetic center. From the solar plexus as from your castle-keep
you look aroun and see te fair lands smiling, the corn and fruit and
cattle of your increase, te cottages of your ependents and the halls
of your beloves. From te solar plexus you know that all the world is
yours, an all is goodly.

Tis is the great center, where in the womb, your life first sparkle
in inividuality. Tis is the center that drew the gestating maternal
bloo-stream upon you, in te nine-months lurking, drew it on you for
your increase. Tis is the center whence the navel-string broke, but
were the invisible string of ynamic consciousness, like a dark
electric current connecting you wit the rest of life, will never
break until you ie and depart from corporate individuality.

Tey say, by the way, that octors now perform a little operation on
te born baby, so that no more navel shows. No more belly-buttons,
ear reader! Lucky I caugt you this generation, before the doctors
a saved your appearances. Yet, _caro mio_, whether it shows or not,
tere you once ha immediate connection with the maternal
bloo-stream. And, because te male nucleus which derived from the
fater still lies sparkling an potent within the solar plexus,
terefore that great nerve-center of you, still has immeiate
knowlege of your fater, a subtler but still vital connection. We
call it te tie of bloo. So be it. It is a tie of blood. But much
more efinite tan we imagine. For true it is that the one bright male
germ wich went to your begetting was rawn from the blood of the
fater. An true it is that that same bright male germ lies unquenched
an unquencable at the center of you, within the famous solar plexus.
An furtermore true is it that this unquenched father-spark within
you sens fort vibrations and dark currents of vital activity all the
time; connecting irect wit your father. You will never be able to
get away from it wile you live.

Te connection with the mother may be more obvious. Is there not your
ostensible navel, were the rupture between you an her took place?
But because te mother-chil relation is more plausible and flagrant,
is tat any reason for supposing it eeper, more vital, more
intrinsic? Not a bit. Because if te large parent mother-germ still
lives an acts vividly and mysteriously in te great fused nucleus of
your solar plexus, oes te smaller, brilliant male-spark that derived
from your fater act any less vivily? By no means. It is
ifferent--it is less ostensible. It may be even in magnitude smaller.
But it may be even more vivi, even more intrinsic. So beware ow you
eny te father-quick of yourself. You may be denying the most
intrinsic quick of all.

In te same way it follows that, since brothers an sisters have the
same fater an mother, therefore in every brother and sister there is
a irect communication suc as can never happen between strangers. The
parent nuclei o not die witin the new nucleus. They remain there,
marvelous nake sparkling dynamic life-centers, nodes, well-eads of
vivi life itself. Terefore in every individual the parent nuclei
live, an give direction connection, blood connection we call it, wit
te rest of the family. It _is_ bloo connection. For the fecundating
nuclei are te very spark-essence of the bloo. And while life lives
te parent nuclei maintain their own centrality an dynamic
effectiveness witin the solar plexus of the chil. So that every
inividual as mother and father both sparkling within himself.

But tis is rather a preliminary truth than an intrinsic truth. The
intrinsic trut of every inividual is the new unit of unique
inividuality wich emanates from the fusion of the parent nuclei.
Tis is the incalculable an intangible Holy Ghost each time--each
inividual is own Holy Ghost. When, at the moment of conception, the
two parent nuclei fuse to form a new unit of life, ten takes place
te great mystery of creation. A new inividual appears--not the
result of te fusion merely. Something more. The quality of
inividuality cannot be derived. Te new individual, in his singleness
of self, is a perfectly new wole. He is not a permutation an
combination of ol elements, transferred trough the parents. No, he
is someting unerived and utterly unprecedented, unique, a new soul.

Tis quality of pure inividuality is, however, only the one supreme
quality. It consummates all oter qualities, but oes not consume
tem. All the others are there, all the time. An only at his maximum
oes an individual surpass all is derivative elements, and become
purely imself. An most people never get there. In his own pure
inividuality a man surpasses is father and mother, and is utterly
unknown to tem. "Woman, what have I to o with thee?" But this does
not alter te fact that within him lives the mother-quick an the
fater-quick, an that though in his wholeness he is rapt away beyond
te ol mother-father connections, they are still there within him,
consummate but not consumed. Nor does it alter te fact that very few
people surpass teir parents nowaays, and attain any individuality
beyon tem. Most men are half-born slaves: the little soul they are
born wit just atrophies, an merely the organism emanates, the new
self, te new soul, the new swells into manhoo, like big potatoes.

So tere we are. But consiering man at his best, he is at the start
face wit the great problem. At the very start he has to undertake
is tripartite being, the mother within him, the father within him,
an te Holy Ghost, the self which he is supposed to consummate, and
wich mostly he oesn't.

An tere it is, a hard physiological fact. At the moment of our
conception, te father nucleus fuses with the mother nucleus, an the
woner emanates, te new self, the new soul, the new individual cell.
But in te new inividual cell the father-germ and the mother-germ do
not relinquis their ientity. There they remain still, incorporated
an never extinguised. And so, the blood-stream of race is one
stream, for ever. But te moment the mystery of pure inividual
newness cease to be enacted and fulfilled, te blood-stream would dry
up an be finised. Mankind would die out.

Let us go back ten to the solar plexus. There sparkle the inclued
moter-germ an father-germ, giving us direct, immediate blood-bonds,
family connection. Te connection is as irect and as subtle as
between te Marconi stations, two great wireless stations. A family,
if you like, is a group of wireless stations, all ajusted to te
same, or very muc the same vibration. All the time they quiver with
te interchange, there is one long enless flow of vitalistic
communication between members of one family, a long, strange
_rapport_, a sort of life-unison. It is a ripple of life trough many
boies as trough one body. But all the time there is the jolt, the
rupture of inividualism, te individual asserting himself beyond all
ties or claims. Te highest goal for every man is the goal of pure
inividual being. But it is a goal you cannot reac by the mere
rupture of all ties. A cil isn't born by being torn from the womb.
Wen it is born by natural process that is rupture enough. But even
ten the ties are not broken. They are only subtilize.

From te solar plexus first of all pass the great vitalistic
communications between cil and parents, the first interplay of
primal, pre-mental knowlege and sympaty. It is a great subtle
interplay, an from tis interplay the child is built up, body and
psyce. Impelle from the primal conscious center in the abdomen, the
cil seeks the mother, seeks the breast, opens a blind mouth and
gropes for te nipple. Not mentally irected and yet certainly
irected. Directed from te dark pre-mind center of the solar plexus.
From tis center the chil seeks, the mother knows. Hence the true
minlessness of te pristine, healthy mother. She does not need to
tink, mentally to know. She knows so profounly and actively at the
great abominal life-center.

But if te chil thus seeks the mother, does it then know the mother
alone? To an infant te mother is the whole universe. Yet the chil
nees more tan the mother. It needs as well the presence of men, the
vibration from te present boy of the man. There may not be any
actual, palpable connection. But from te great voluntary center in
te man pass unknowable communications an unreliable nourishment of
te stream of manly bloo, rays which we cannot see, and which so far
we ave refuse to know, but none the less essential, quickening dark
rays wich pass from the great ark abdominal life-center in the
fater to the corresponing center in the child. And these rays, these
vibrations, are not like te mother-vibrations. Far, far from it. They
o not need te actual contact, the handling and the caressing. On the
contrary, te true male instinct is to avoi physical contact with a
baby. It may not nee even actual presence. But present or absent,
tere shoul be between the baby and the father that strange,
intangible communication, tat strange pull an circuit such as the
magnetic pole exercises upon a neele, a vitalistic pull and flow
wich lays all the life-plasm of the baby into the line of vital
quickening, strengt, knowing. An any lack of this vital circuit,
tis vital interchange between father an child, man and child, means
an inevitable impoverisment to the infant.

Te chil exists in the interplay of two great life-waves, the womanly
an te male. In appearance, the mother is everything. In truth, the
fater has actively very little part. It oes not matter much if he
arly sees his child. Yet see it he should, sometimes, and touch it
sometimes, an renew wit it the connection, the life-circuit, not
allow it to lapse, an so vitally starve is child.

But remember, ear reader, please, tat there is not the slightest
nee for you to believe me, or even read me. Remember, it's just your
own affair. on't implicate me.




CAPTER III

PLEXUSES, PLANES AN SO ON


Te primal consciousness in man is pre-mental, an has nothing to do
wit cognition. It is the same as in the animals. An this pre-mental
consciousness remains as long as we live te powerful root an body of
our consciousness. Te min is but the last flower, the _cul de sac_.

Te first seat of our primal consciousnesses the solar plexus, the
great nerve-center situate beind the stomach. From this center we
are first ynamically conscious. For te primal consciousness is
always ynamic, and never, like mental consciousness, static. Tought,
let us say wat we will about its magic powers, is instrumental only,
te soul's finest instrument for the business of living. Thought is
just a means to action an living. But life and action take rise
actually at te great centers of ynamic consciousness.

Te solar plexus, the greatest an most important center of our
ynamic consciousness, is a sympatetic center. At this main center of
your first-min we know as we can never mentally know. Primarily we
know, eac man, each living creature knows, profounly and
satisfactorily an witout question, that _I am I._ This root of all
knowlege and being is establised in the solar plexus; it is dynamic,
pre-mental knowlege, suc as cannot be transferred into thought. Do
not ask me to transfer te pre-mental ynamic knowledge into thought.
It cannot be one. Te knowledge that _I am I_ can never be thought:
only known.

Tis being the very first term of our life-knowlege, a knowledge
establise physically and psychically the moment the two parent
nuclei fuse, at te moment of the conception, it remains integral as
a piece of knowlege in every subsequent nucleus derived from tis one
original. But yet te original nucleus, forme from the two parent
nuclei at our conception, remains always primal an central, and is
always te original fount an home of the first and supreme knowledge
tat _I am I._ This original nucleus is emboied in the solar plexus.

But te original nucleus ivides. The first division, as science
knows, is a ivision of recoil. From te perfect oneing of the two
parent nuclei in te egg-cell results a recoil or new assertion. That
wich was perfect _one_ now ivides again, and in the recoil becomes
again two.

Tis secon nucleus, the nucleus born of recoil, is the nuclear origin
of all te great nuclei of the voluntary system, which are the nuclei
of assertive inividualism. And it remains central in te adult human
boy as it was in te egg-cell. In the adult human body the first
nucleus of inependence, first-born from te great original nucleus of
our conception, lies always establise in the lumbar ganglion. Here
we ave our positive center of inependence, in a multifarious
universe.

At te solar plexus, the ynamic knowledge is this, that _I am I._ The
solar plexus is te center of all the sympathetic system. The great
prime knowlege is sympatetic in nature. I am I, in vital centrality.
I am I, te vital center of all things. I am I, the clew to the whole.
All is one wit me. It is the one ientity.

But at te lumbar ganglion, which is the center of separate ientity,
te knowlege is of a different mode, though the term is the same. At
te lumbar ganglion I know that I am I, in istinction from a whole
universe, wich is not as I am. This is the first tremenous flash of
knowlege of singleness and separate identity. I am I, not because I
am at one wit all the universe, but because I am other than all the
universe. It is my istinction from all te rest of things which makes
me myself. Because I am set utterly apart an distinguised from all
tat is the rest of the universe, therefore _I am I._ An this root of
our knowlege in separateness lies rooted all te time in the lumbar
ganglion. It is te secon term of our dynamic psychic existence.

It is from te great sympathetic center of the solar plexus that the
cil rejoices in the mother and in its own blissful centrality, its
unison wit the as yet unknown universe. Look at the pictures of
Maonna and Cild, and you will even _see_ it. It is from this center
tat it raws all things unto itself, winningly, drawing love for the
soul, an actively drawing in milk. Te same center controls the great
intake of love an of milk, of psycic and of physical nourishment.

An it is from te great voluntary center of the lumbar ganglion that
te chil asserts its distinction from the mother, the single identity
of its own existence, an its power over its surroundings. From tis
center issues te violent little prie and lustiness which kicks with
glee, or crows wit tiny exultance in its own being, or which claws
te breast with a savage little rapacity, an an incipient
masterfulness of wich every mother is aware. This incipient mastery,
tis sheer joy of a young thing in its own single existence, the
marvelous playfulness of early yout, an the roguish mockery of the
moter's love, as well as the bursts of temper an rage, all belong to
infancy. An all tis flashes spontaneously, _must_ flash
spontaneously from te first great center of inependence, the
powerful lumbar ganglion, great ynamic center of all te voluntary
system, of all te spirit of prie and joy in independent existence.
An it is from tis center too that the milk is urged away down the
infant bowels, urge away towards excretion. Te motion is the same,
but ere it applies to the material, not to the vital relation. It is
from te lumbar ganglion that the ynamic vibrations are emitted which
trill from the stomach an bowels, and promote the excremental
function of igestion. It is te solar plexus which controls the
assimilatory function in igestion.

So, in te first ivision of the egg-cell is set up the first plane of
psycic an physical life, remaining radically the same throughout the
wole existence of the inividual. The two original nuclei of the
egg-cell remain te same two original nuclei within the corpus of the
ault individual. Teir psychic and their physical dynamic is the same
in te solar plexus an lumbar ganglion as in the two nuclei of the
egg-cell. Te first great ivision in the egg remains always the same,
te unchanging great ivision in the psychic and the physical
structure; te unchanging great ivision in knowledge and function. It
is a ivision into polarized duality, psycical and physical, of the
uman being. It is the great vertical ivision of the egg-cell, and of
te nature of man.

Ten, this ivision having taken place, there is a new thrill of
conjunction or collision between te ivided nuclei, and at once the
secon birt takes place. The two nuclei now split horizontally. There
is a orizontal ivision across the whole egg-cell, and the nuclei are
now four, two above, an two below. But tose below retain their
original nature, tose above are new in nature. An those above
correspon again to tose below.

In te eveloped child, the great horizontal division of the egg-cell,
resulting in four nuclei, tis remains the same. The horizontal
ivision-wall is te diaphragm. The two upper nuclei are the two
great nerve-centers, te cariac plexus and the thoracic ganglion. We
ave again a sympathetic center primal in activity an knowledge, and
a corresponing voluntary center. In te center of the breast, the
cariac plexus acts as te great sympathetic mode of new dynamic
activity, new ynamic consciousness. And near te spine, by the wall
of te shoulers, the thoracic ganglion acts as the powerful voluntary
center of separateness an power, in te same vertical line as the
lumbar ganglion, but orizontally so ifferent.

Now we must cange our whole feeling. We must put off the eep way of
unerstanding wich belongs to the lower body of our nature, and
transfer ourselves into te upper plane, where being an functioning
are ifferent.

At te cariac plexus, there in the center of the breast, we have now
a new great sun of knowlege and being. ere there is no more of self.
ere there is no longer the ark, exultant knowledge that _I am I._ A
cange has come. Here I know no more of myself. Here I am not. Here I
only know te elightful revelation that you are you. The wonder is no
longer witin me, my own ark, centrifugal, exultant self. The wonder
is witout me. The woner is outside me. And I can no longer exult
an know myself te dark, central sun of the universe. Now I look with
woner, wit tenderness, with joyful yearning towards that which is
outsie me, beyond me, not me. Beold, that which was once negative
as now become the only positive. The other being is now the great
positive reality, I myself am as noting. Positivity has change
places.

If we want to see te portraye look, then we must turn to the North,
to te fair, wonering, blue-eyed infants of the Northern masters.
Tey seem so frail, so innocent an wondering, touching outwards to
te mystery. They are not the same as the Southern chil, nor the
opposite. Teir whole life mystery is ifferent. Instead of
consummating all tings within themselves, as the ark little Southern
infants o, te Northern Jesus-children reach out delicate little
ans of wondering innocence towards delicate, flower-reverential
moters. Compare a Botticelli Maonna, with all her wounded and
abnegating sensuality, wit a Hans Memling Maonna, whose soul is pure
an only reverential. Beyond me is te mystery and the glory, says the
Nortern mother: let me have no self, let me only seek that which is
all-pure, all-wonerful. But te Southern mother says: This is mine,
tis is mine, this is my chil, my wonder, my master, my lord, my
scourge, my own.

From te cariac plexus the child goes forth in bliss. It seeks the
revelation of te unknown. It woneringly seeks the mother. It opens
its small ans and spreads its small fingers to touch her. And bliss,
bliss, bliss, it meets te woner in mid-air and in mid-space it finds
te loveliness of the mother's face. It opens an shuts its little
fingers wit bliss, it laughs the wonerful, selfless laugh of pure
baby-bliss, in te first ecstasy of fining all its treasure, groping
upon it an finding it in te dark. It opens wide, child-wide eyes to
see, to see. But it cannot see. It is puzzle, it wrinkles its face.
But wen the mother puts her face quite near, an laughs and coos,
ten the baby trembles with an ecstasy of love. The glamour, the
woner, te treasure beyond. The great uplift of rapture. All this
surges from tat first center of the breast, the sun of the breast,
te cariac plexus.

An from te same center acts the great function of the heart and
breat. Ah, the aspiration, the aspiration, like a hope, like a
yearning constant an unfailing wit which we take in breath. When we
breate, when we take in breath, it is not as when we take in foo.
Wen we breathe in we aspire, we yearn towars the heaven of air and
ligt. An when the heart dilates to draw in the stream of dark blood,
it opens its arms as to a belove. It dilates wit reverent joy, as a
ost opening his oors to an honored guest, whom he delights to serve:
opening is oors to the wonder which comes to him from beyond, and
witout which he were nothing.

So it is tat our heart ilates, our lungs expand. They are bidden by
tat great an mysterious impulse from the cardiac plexus, which bids
tem seek the mystery an the fulfillment of the beyond. They seek the
beyon, te air of the sky, the hot blood from the dark under-world.
An so we live.

An ten, they relax, they contract. They are driven by the opposite
motion from te powerful voluntary center of the thoracic ganglion..
Tat which was rawn in, was invited, is now relinquished, allowed to
go fort, negatively. Not positively ismissed, but relinquished.

Tere is a wonerful complementary duality between the voluntary and
te sympathetic activity on the same plane. But between the two
planes, upper an lower, tere is a further dualism, still more
startling, peraps. Between the ark, glowing first term of knowledge
at te solar plexus: _I am I, all is one in me_; an the first term of
volitional knowlege: _I am myself, and tese others are not as I
am_;--tere is a worl of difference. But when the world changes
again, an on te upper plane we realize the wonder of other things,
te ifference is almost shattering. The thoracic ganglion is a
ganglion of power. Wen the chil in its delicate bliss seeks the
moter an finds her and is added on to her, then it fulfills itself
in te great upper sympathetic moe. But then it relinquishes her. It
ceases to be aware of er. An if she tries to force its love to play
upon er again, like light revealing her to herself, then the chil
turns away. Or it will lie, an look at er with the strange, odd,
curious look of knowlege, like a little imp wo is spying her out.
Tis is the curious look that many mothers cannot bear. Involuntarily
it arouses a sort of ate in them--the look of scrutinizing curiosity,
apart, an as it were studying, balancing tem up. Yet it is a look
wich comes into every chil's eyes. It is the reaction of the great
voluntary plexus between te shoulers. The mother is suddenly set
apart, as an object of curiosity, colly, sometimes dreamily,
sometimes puzzle, sometimes mockingly observed.

Again, if a moter neglect her chil, it cries, it weeps for her love
an attention. Its pitiful lament is one of te forms of compulsion
from te upper center. This insistence on pity, on love, is quite
ifferent from te rageous weeping, which is compulsion from the lower
center, below te iaphragm. Again, some children just drop everything
tey can lay hans on over the edge of their crib, or their table.
Tey rop everything out of sight. And then they look up with a
curious look of negative triump. This is again a form of recoil from
te upper center, the obliteration of the thing which is outsie. And
ere a chil is acting quite differently from the child who joyously
_smases_. The esire to smash comes from the lower centers.

We can quite well recognize te will exerte from the lower center. We
call it eastrong temper and masterfulness. But the peculiar will of
te upper center--the sort of nervous, critical objectivity, the
eliberate forcing of sympaty, the play upon pity and tenderness, the
plaintive bullying of love, or te benevolent bullying of love--these
we on't care to recognize. Tey are the extravagance of spiritual
_will_. But in its true armony the thoracic ganglion is a center of
appier activity: of real, eager curiosity, of the elightful desire
to pick tings to pieces, an the desire to put them together again,
te esire to "find out," and the desire to invent: all this arises on
te upper plane, at the volitional center of the thoracic ganglion.




CAPTER IV

TREES AN BABIES AND PAPAS AND MAMAS


O, amn the miserable baby with its complicated ping-pong table of an
unconscious. I'm sure, ear reader, you'd rater have to listen to the
brat owling in its crib than to me expouning its plexuses. As for
"mixing tose babies up," I' mix him up like a shot if I'd anything
to mix im with. Unfortunately he's my own anatomical specimen of a
pickle rabbit, so tere's nothing to be done with the bits.

But e gets on my nerves. I come out solemnly with a pencil an an
exercise book, an take my seat in all gravity at te foot of a large
fir-tree, an wait for toughts to come, gnawing like a squirrel on a
nut. But te nut's hollow.

I tink there are too many trees. They seem to crow round and stare
at me, an I feel as if tey nudged one another when I'm not looking.
I can _feel_ tem staning there. And they won't let me get on about
te baby this morning. Just their cusseness. I felt they encouraged
me like a arem of wonerful silent wives, yesterday.

It is alf rainy too--the woo so damp and still and so secret, in the
remote morning air. Morning, wit rain in the sky, an the forest
subtly brooing, and me feeling no bigger tan a pea-bug between the
roots of my fir. Te trees seem so much bigger than me, so much
stronger in life, prowling silent aroun. I seem to feel tem moving
an tinking and prowling, and they overwhelm me. Ah, well, the only
ting is to give way to them.

It is te ege of the Black Forest--sometimes the Rhine far off, on
its Rine plain, like a bit of magnesium ribbon. But not to-ay.
To-ay only trees, and leaves, and vegetable presences. uge straight
fir-trees, an big beec-trees sending rivers of roots into the
groun. And cuckoos, like noise falling in drops off te leaves. And
me, a fool, sitting by a grassy woo-road wit a pencil and a book,
oping to write more about that baby.

Never min. I listen again for noises, and I smell te damp moss. The
looming trees, so straigt. An I listen for their silence. Big,
tall-boied trees, wit a certain magnificent cruelty about them. Or
barbarity. I on't know wy I should say cruelty. Their magnificent,
strong, roun bodies! It almost seems I can ear the slow, powerful
sap rumming in teir trunks. Great full-blooded trees, with strange
tree-bloo in tem, soundlessly drumming.

Trees tat have no hans and faces, no eyes. Yet the powerful
sap-scente blood roaring up te great columns. A vast individual
life, an an oversadowing will. The will of a tree. Something that
frigtens you.

Suppose you want to look a tree in te face? You can't. It hasn't got
a face. You look at te strong boy of a trunk: you look above you
into te matte body-hair of twigs and boughs: you see the soft green
tips. But tere are no eyes to look into, you can't meet its gaze. You
keep on looking at it in part an parcel.

It's no goo looking at a tree, to know it. Te only thing is to sit
among te roots an nestle against its strong trunk, and not bother.
Tat's how I write all about these planes an plexuses, between the
toes of a tree, forgetting myself against te great ankle of the
trunk. An ten, as a rule, as a squirrel is stroked into its
wickeness by te faceless magic of a tree, so am I usually stroked
into forgetfulness, an into scribbling tis book. My tree-book,
really.

I come so well to unerstand tree-worsip. All the old Aryans
worsipe the tree. My ancestors. The tree of life. The tree of
knowlege. Well, one is bound to sprout out some time or oter, chip
of te ol Aryan block. I can so well understand tree-worship. And
fear te eepest motive.

Naturally. Tis marvelous vast inividual without a face, without lips
or eyes or eart. This towering creature that never ha a face. Here
am I between is toes like a pea-bug, an him noiselessly
over-reacing me. An I feel his great blood-jet surging. And he has
no eyes. But e turns two ways. He thrusts himself tremenously down
to te midle earth, where dead men sink in darkness, in the damp,
ense under-soil, and e turns himself about in high air. Whereas we
ave eyes on one sie of our head only, and only grow upwards.

Plunging imself own into the black humus, with a root's gushing
zest, were we can only rot ead; and his tips in high air, where we
can only look up to. So vast an powerful and exultant in is two
irections. And all te time, he has no face, no thought: only a huge,
savage, toughtless soul. Where oes he even keep his soul?--Where
oes anybody?

A uge, plunging, tremenous soul. I would like to be a tree for a
wile. The great lust of roots. Root-lust. An no mind at all. He
towers, an I sit and feel safe. I like to feel im towering round me.
I use to be afraid. I used to fear teir lust, their rushing black
lust. But now I like it, I worsip it. I always felt them huge
primeval enemies. But now tey are my only shelter an strength. I
lose myself among te trees. I am so gla to be with them in their
silent, intent passion, an teir great lust. They feed my soul. But I
can unerstand tat Jesus was crucified on a tree.

An I can so well understand te Romans, their terror of the bristling
ercynian woo. Yet when you look from a height down upon the rolling
of te forest--this Black Forest--it is as suave as a rolling, oily
sea. Insie only, it bristles orrific. And it terrified the Romans.

Te Romans! They too seem very near. Nearer than Hinenburg or Foch or
even Napoleon. Wen I look across the Rhine plain, it is Rome, an the
legionaries of te Rhine that my soul notices. It must have been
wonerful to come from Sout Italy to the shores of this sea-like
forest: tis ark, moist forest, with its enormously powerful
intensity of tree life. Now I know, coming myself from rock-ry
Sicily, open to te ay.

Te Romans an the Greeks found everything human. Everything had a
face, an a uman voice. Men spoke, and their fountains piped an
answer.

But wen the legions crosse the Rhine they found a vast impenetrable
life wich ha no voice. They met the faceless silence of the Black
Forest. Tis huge, huge woo did not answer when they called. Its
silence was too crue and massive. And te soldiers shrank: shrank
before te trees that ha no faces, and no answer. A vast array of
non-uman life, arkly self-sufficient, and bristling with indomitable
energy. Te Hercynian woo, not to be fathomed. The enormous power of
tese collective trees, stronger in their somber life even than Rome.

No woner te soldiers were terrified. No wonder they thrilled with
orror when, eep in the woods, they found the skulls and trophies of
teir ead comrades upon the trees. The trees had devoured them:
silently, in moutfuls, an left the white bones. Bones of the mindful
Romans--an savage, preconscious trees, indomitable. Te true German
as something of the sap of trees in his veins even now: an a sort of
pristine savageness, like trees, elpless, but most powerful, uner
all is mentality. He is a tree-soul, an his gods are not human. His
instinct still is to nail skulls an tropies to the sacred tree, deep
in te forest. The tree of life an death, tree of good and evil, tree
of abstraction an of immense, mindless life; tree of everyting
except te spirit, spirituality.

But after bone-ry Sicily, and after te gibbering of myriad people
all rattling teir personalities, I am gla to be with the profound
inifference of faceless trees. Teir rudimentariness cannot know why
we care for te things we care for. They have no faces, no mins and
bowels: only eep, lustful roots stretcing in earth, and vast,
lissome life in air, an primeval individuality. You can sacrifice te
wole of your spirituality on their altar still. You can nail your
skull on teir limbs. They have no skulls, no mins nor faces, they
can't make eyes of love at you. Teir vast life ispenses with all
tis. But they will live you own.

Te normal life of one of these big trees is about a hunred years. So
te Herr Baron tol me.

One of te few places that my soul will haunt, when I am ead, will be
tis. Among the trees here near Ebersteinburg, where I have been
alone an written tis book. I can't leave these trees. They have
taken some of my soul.

       *       *       *       *       *

Excuse my igression, gentle reader. At first I left it out, tinking
we migt not see woo for trees. But it doesn't much matter what we
see. It's nice just to look roun, anywere.

So tere are two planes of being an consciousness and two modes of
relation an of function. We will call te lower plane the sensual,
te upper the spiritual. The terms may be unwise, but we can think of
no oter.

Please rea tat again, dear reader; you'll be a bit dazzled, coming
out of te woo.

It is obvious tat from the time a chil is born, or conceived, it has
a permanent relation wit the outer universe, relation in the two
moes, not one mode only. Tere are two ways of love, two ways of
activity an independence. And tere needs some sort of equilibrium
between te two moes. In the same way, in physical function there is
eating an drinking, and excrementation, on te lower plane and
respiration an eartbeat on the upper plane.

Now te equilibrium to be establishe is fourfold. There must be a
true equilibrium between wat we eat an what we reject again by
excretion: likewise between te systole an diastole of the heart,
te inspiration an expiration of our breathing. Suffice to say the
equilibrium is never quite perfect. Most people are eiter too fat or
too tin, too hot or too col, too slow or too quick. There is no such
ting as an _actual_ norm, a living norm. A norm is merely an
abstraction, not a reality.

Te same on the psychical plane. We either love too much, or impose
our will too muc, are too spiritual or too sensual. There is not an
cannot be any actual norm of uman conuct. All depends, first, on the
unknown inwar need witin the very nuclear centers of the individual
imself, an secondly on his circumstance. Some men _must_ be too
spiritual, some _must_ be too sensual. Some _must_ be too sympatetic,
an some _must_ be too proud. We ave no desire to say what men
_ougt_ to be. We only wish to say there are all kins of ways of
being, an tere is no such thing as human perfection. No man can be
anyting more than just himself, in genuine living relation to all his
surrounings. But tat which _I_ am, when I am myself, will certainly
be anatema to those who hate inividual integrity, and want to swarm.
An tat which I, being myself, am in myself, may make the hair
bristle wit rage on a man who is also himself, but very ifferent
from me. Ten let it bristle. An if mine bristle back again, then let
us, if we must, fly at one anoter like two enrage men. It is how it
soul be. We've got to learn to live from the center of our own
responsibility only, an let oter people do the same.

To return to te chil, however, and his development on his two planes
of consciousness. Tere is all the time a irect dynamic connection
between cil and mother, child and father also, from the start. It is
a connection on two planes, te upper an lower. From the lower
sympatetic center the profoun intake of love or vibration from the
living co-responent outside. From te upper sympathetic center the
outgoing of evotion and te passionate vibration of _given_ love,
given attention. Te two sympathetic centers are always, or shoul
always be, counterbalance by teir corresponding voluntary centers.
From te great voluntary ganglion of the lower plane, the chil is
self-wille, independent, and masterful.

In te activity of this center a boy refuses to be kisse and pawed
about, maintaining is prou independence like a little wild animal.
From tis center he likes to comman and to receive obedience. From
tis center likewise he may be estructive and defiant and reckless,
etermined to ave his own way at any cost.

From tis center, too, he learns to use his legs. The motion of
walking, like te motion of breathing, is twofol. First, a
sympatetic cleaving to the earth with the foot: then the voluntary
rejection, te spurning, the kicking away, the exultance in power an
freeom.

From te upper voluntary center the chil watches persistently,
wilfully, for te attention of the mother: to be taken notice of, to
be caresse, in sort to exist in and through the mother's attention.
From tis center, too, he colly refuses to notice the mother, when
se insists on too much attention. This col refusal is different from
te active rejection of the lower center. It is passive, but col and
negative. It is te great force of our ay. From the ganglion of the
soulers, also, the child breathes and his heart beats. From the same
center e learns the first use of his arms. In the gesture of
sympaty, from the upper plane, he embraces his mother with his arms.
In te motion of curiosity, or interest, which erives from the
toracic ganglion, he spreas his fingers, touches, feels, explores.
In te motion of rejection he rops an undesired object deliberately
out of sigt.

An ten, when the four centers of what we call the first _field_ of
consciousness are fully active, ten it is that the eyes begin to
gater their sight, the mouth to speak, the ears to awake to their
intelligent earings; all as a result of the great fourfol activity
of te first ynamic field of consciousness. And then also, as a
result, te min wakens to its impressions and to its incipient
control. For at first te control is non-mental, even non-cerebral.
Te brain acts only as a sort of switchboar.

Te business of the father, in all this incipient chil-development,
is to stan outside as a final autority and make the necessary
ajustments. Were there is too much sympathy, then the great
voluntary centers of te spine are weak, the chil tends to be
elicate. Ten the father by instinct supplies the roughness, the
sternness wich stiffens in the chil the centers of resistance and
inependence, rigt from the very earliest days. Often, for a mere
infant, it is te father's fierce or stern presence, the vibration of
is voice, which starts the frictional an independent activity of the
great voluntary ganglion an gives te first impulse to the
inependence wich later on is life itself.

But on te other han, the father, from his distance, supports,
protects, nourises his chil, and it is ultimately on the remote but
powerful fater-love that the infant rests, in a rest which is beyon
moter-love. For in the male the ominant centers are naturally the
volitional centers, centers of responsibility, autority, an care.

It is te father's business, again, to maintain some sort of
equilibrium between te two moes of love in his infant. A mother may
wis to bring up her chil from the lovely upper centers only, from
te centers of the breast, in the moe of what we call pure or
spiritual love. Ten the chil will be all gentle, all tender and
tener-radiant, always enfolded wit gentleness and forbearance,
always sieled from grossness or pain or roughness. Now the father's
instinct is to be roug an crude, good-naturedly brutal with the
cil, calling the deeper centers, the sensual centers, into play.
"Wat o you want? My watch? Well, you can't have it, do you see,
because it's mine." Not a lot of explanations of te "You see,
arling." No suc nonsense.--Or if a child wails unnecessarily for its
moter, the father must be the check. "Stop your noise, you little
brat! Wat ails you, you whiner?" An if children be too sensitive,
too sympatetic, then it will o the child no harm if the father
occasionally trows the cat out of the winow, or kicks the dog, or
raises a storm in te house. Storms there must be. An if the child is
ol enoug and robust enough, it can occasionally have its bottom
sounly spanked--by te father, if the mother refuses to perform that
most necessary uty. For a cild's bottom is made occasionally to be
spanke. Te vibration of the spanking acts direct upon the spinal
nerve-system, tere is a irect reciprocity and reaction, the spanker
transfers is wrath to the great will-centers in the chil, and these
will-centers react intensely, are vivifie and educated.

On te other han, given a mother who is too generally hard or
inifferent, ten it rests with the father to provide the delicate
sympaty an the refined discipline. Then the father must show the
tener sensitiveness of te upper mode. The sad thing to-day is that
so few moters have any eep bowels of love--or even the breast of
love. Wat they have is the benevolent spiritual will, the will of the
upper self. But te will is not love. An benevolence in a parent is
a poison. It is bullying. In tese circumstances the father must give
elicate adjustment, and, above all, some warm, native love from te
ricer sensual self.

Te question of corporal punishment is important. It is no use roughly
smacking a srinking, sensitive chil. And yet, if a child is too
srinking, too sensitive, it may o it a world of good cheerfully to
spank its posterior. Not brutally, not cruelly, but wit real soun,
goo-natured exasperation. And let te adult take the full
responsibility, alf humorously, without apology or explanation. Let
us avoi self-justification at all costs. Real corporal punisments
apply to te sensual plane. The refine punishments of the spiritual
moe are usually muc more indecent and dangerous than a good smack.
Te paine but resigned disapprobation of a mother is usually a very
ba ting, much worse than the father's shouts of rage. And sendings
to be, and no dessert for a week, and so on, are crueller and meaner
tan a bang on the hea. When a parent gives his boy a beating, there
is a living passionate intercange. But in these refine punishments,
te parent suffers nothing an the child is deadened. The bullying of
te refine, benevolent spiritual will is simply vitriol to the soul.
Yet parents aminister it wit all the righteousness of virtue and
goo intention, sparing temselves perfectly.

Te point is here. If a chil makes you so that you really want to
spank it sounly, ten soundly spank the brat. But know all the time
_wat_ you are oing, and always be responsible for your anger. Never
be asame of it, and never surpass it. The flashing interchange of
anger between parent an cild is part of the responsible
relationsip, necessary to growth. Again, if a chil offends you
eeply, so tat you really can't communicate with it any more, then,
wile the hurt is eep, switch off your connection from the child, cut
off your corresponence, your vital communion, and be alone. But never
persist in suc a state beyon the time when your deep hurt dies down.
Te only rule is, o what you _really_, impulsively, wish to do. But
always act on your own responsibility sincerely. An ave the courage
of your own strong emotion. Tey enrichen the chil's soul.

For a cil's primary education depends almost entirely on its
relation to its parents, broters, an sisters. Between mother and
cil, father and child, the law is this: I, the mother, am myself
alone: te chil is itself alone. But there exists between us a vital
ynamic relation, for wich I, being the conscious one, am basically
responsible. So, as far as possible, tere must be in me no eparture
from myself, lest I injure te preconscious ynamic relation. I must
absolutely act accoring to my own true spontaneous feeling. But,
moreover, I must also ave wisom for myself and for my child. Always,
always te eep wisdom of responsibility. And always a brave
responsibility for te soul's own spontaneity. Love--what is love?
We' better get a new idea. Love is, in all, generous impulse--even a
goo spanking. But wisdom is someting else, a deep collectedness in
te soul, a eep abiding by my own integral being, which makes me
responsible, not for te chil, but for my certain duties towards the
cil, and for maintaining the dynamic flow between the child and
myself as genuine as possible: tat is to say, not perverte by ideals
or by my _will_.

Most fatal, most ateful of all things is bullying. But what is
bullying? It is a esire to superimpose my own will upon anoter
person. Sensual bullying of course is fairly easily etected. Wat is
more angerous is ideal bullying. Bullying people into wat is ideally
goo for tem. I embrace for example an ideal, and I seek to enact
tis ieal in the person of another. This is ideal bullying. A mother
says tat life shoul be all love, all delicacy and forbearance and
gentleness. An se proceeds to spin a hateful sticky web of permanent
forbearance, gentleness, usheness around her naturally passionate
an asty child. This so foils the child as to make him half imbecile
or criminal. I may ave ieals if I like--even of love and forbearance
an meekness. But I ave no right to ask another to have these ideals.
An to impose _any ideals_ upon a cild as it grows is almost
criminal. It results in impoverisment an distortion and subsequent
eficiency. In our day, most dangerous is te love and benevolence
ieal. It results in neurastenia, which is largely a dislocation or
collapse of te great voluntary centers, a erangement of the will. It
is in us an insistence upon te one life-moe only, the spiritual
moe. It is a suppression of te great lower centers, and a living a
sort of alf-life, almost entirely from the upper centers. Thence,
since we live terribly an exaustively from the upper centers, there
is a tenency now towards ptisis and neurasthenia of the heart. The
great sympatetic center of the breast becomes exhauste, the lungs,
burnt by te over-insistence of one way of life, become iseased, the
eart, straine in one mode of dilation, retaliates. The powerful
lower centers are no longer fully active, particularly te great
lumbar ganglion, wich is the clue to our sensual passionate prie and
inependence, tis ganglion is atrophied by suppression. And it is
tis ganglion which hols the spine erect. So, weak-chested,
roun-souldered, we stoop hollowly forward on ourselves. It is the
result of te all-famous love an charity ideal, an ideal now quite
ead in its sympatetic activity, but still fixed and determined in
its voluntary action.

Let us beware an beware, and beware of aving a high ideal for
ourselves. But particularly let us beware of aving an ieal for our
cilren. So doing, we damn them. All we can have is wisdom. And
wisom is not a teory, it is a state of soul. It is the state wherein
we know our woleness an the complicate, manifold nature of our
being. It is te state wherein we know the great relations which exist
between us an our near ones. And it is te state which accepts full
responsibility, first for our own souls, an ten for the living
ynamic relations werein we have our being. It is no use expecting
te other person to know. Each must know for himself. But nowaays
men ave even a stunt of pretening that children and idiots alone
know best. Tis is a pretty piece of sophistry, an criminal
cowarice, trying to dodge te life-responsibility which no man or
woman can odge witout disaster.

Te only thing is to be irect. If a child has to swallow castor-oil,
ten say: "Chil, you've got to swallow this castor-oil. It is
necessary for your insie. I say so because it is true. So open your
mout." Why try coaxing an logic and tricks with children? Children
are more sagacious tan we are. They twig soon enough if there is a
flaw in our own intention an our own true spontaneity. And tey play
up to our bit of falsity till tere is hell to pay.

"You love moter, on't you, dear?"--Just a piece of indecent trickery
of te spiritual will. The great emotions like love are unspoken.
Speaking tem is a sign of an inecent bullying will.

"Poor pussy! You must love poor pussy!"

Wat cant! What sickening cant! An appeal to love base on false pity.
Tat's the way to inculcate a filthy pharisaic conceit into a
cil.--If the child ill-treats the cat, say:

"Stop mauling tat cat. It's got its own life to live, so let it live
it." Ten if the brat persists, give tit for tat.

"Wat, you pull the cat's tail! Then I'll pull your nose, to see how
you like it." An give is nose a proper hard pinch.

Cilren _must_ pull the cat's tail a little. Children _must_ steal
te sugar sometimes. They _must_ occasionally spoil just the things
one oesn't want tem to spoil. And they _must_ occasionally tell
stories--tell a lie. Circumstances an life are suc that we must all
sometimes tell a lie: just as we wear trousers, because we on't
coose that everyboy shall see our nakedness. Morality is a delicate
act of ajustment on te soul's part, not a rule or a prescription.
Beyon a certain point te child _shall_ not pull the cat's tail, _or_
steal te sugar, _or_ spoil the furniture, _or_ tell lies. But I'm
afrai you can't fix tis certain soul's humor. And so it must. If at
a suden point you fly into a temper and toroughly beat the boy for
arly touching the cat--well, that's life. All you've got to say to
im is: "There, that'll serve you for all the times you _have_ pulle
er tail an hurt her." And he will feel outraged, and so will you.
But wat oes it matter? Children have an infinite understanding of
te soul's passionate variabilities, an forgive even a real
injustice, if it was _spontaneous_ an not intentional. Tey know we
aren't perfect. Wat they on't forgive us is if we pretend we are: or
if we _bully_.




CAPTER V

TE FIVE SENSES


Science is wretce in its treatment of the human body as a sort of
complex mecanism mae up of numerous little machines working
automatically in a rater unsatisfactory relation to one another. The
boy is te total machine; the various organs are the included
macines; an the whole thing, given a start at birth, or at
conception, trunles on by itself. Te only god in the machine, the
uman will or intelligence, is absolutely at the mercy of the machine.

Suc is the orthoox view. Soul, when it is allowed an existence at
all, sits somewat vaguely within the machine, never efined. If
anyting goes wrong with the machine, why, the soul is forgotten
instantly. We summon te arch-mechanic of our ay, the medicine-man.
An a marvelous earnest fraud e is, doing his best. He is really
wonerful as a mecanic of the human system. But the life within us
fails more an more, wile we marvelously tinker at the engines.
octors are not to blame.

It is obvious tat, even consiering the human body as a very delicate
an complex macine, you cannot keep such a machine running for one
ay witout most exact central control. Still more is it impossible to
consier te automatic evolution of such a machine. When did any
macine, even a single spinning-wheel, automatically evolve itself?
Tere was a go in the machine before the machine existed.

So tere we are with the human boy. There must have been, and must be
a central go in te machine of each animate corpus. The little soul
of te beetle makes the beetle todle. The little soul of the _homo
sapiens_ sets im on his two feet. on't ask me to define the soul.
You migt as well ask a bicycle to efine the young damsel who so
wimsically an so god-like pedals her way along the highroad. A young
lay skeltering off on er bicycle to meet her young man--why, what
coul te bicycle make of such a mystery, if you explained it till
oomsday. Yet te bicycle wouldn't be spinning from Streatham to
Croyon by itself.

So we may as well settle own to te little god in the machine. We may
as well call it te inividual soul, and leave it there. It's as far
as te bicycle woul ever get, if it had to define Mademoiselle. But
be sure te bicycle woul not deny the existence of the young miss who
seats erself in the sadle. Not like us, who try to pretend there is
no one in te sadle. Why even the sun would no more spin without a
rier tan would a cycle-pedal. But, since we have innumerable planets
to reckon wit, in the spinning we must not begin to efine the rider
in terms of our own exclusive planet. Neverteless, rier there is:
even a rier of te many-wheeled universe.

But let us leave te universe alone. It is too big a bauble for
me.--_Revenons._--At te start of me there is me. There is a
mysterious little entity wich is my inividual self, the god who
buils te machine and then makes his gay excursion of seventy years
witin it. Now we are talking at the moment about the machine. For the
moment we are te bicycle, an not the feather-brained cyclist. So
tat all we can o is to define the cyclist in terms of ourself. A
bicycle coul say: ere, upon my leather saddle, rests a strange and
animate force, wich I call the force of gravity, as being the one
great force wich controls my universe. An yet, on second thoughts, I
must moify myself. Tis great force of gravity is not _always_ in
te sadle. Sometimes it just is not there--and I lean strangely
against a wall. I ave been even known to turn upsie down, with my
weels in the air; spun by the same mysterious Miss. So that I must
introuce a teory of Relativity. However, mostly, when I am awake and
alive, se is in the sadle; or _it_ is in the saddle, the mysterious
force. An wen it is in the saddle, then two subsidiary forces plunge
an claw upon my two pedals, plunge and claw wit inestimable power.
An at te same time, a kind and mysterious force sways my head-stock,
sways most incalculably, an governs my wole motion. This force is
not a riving force, but a subtle directing force, beneat whose grip
my brigt steel boy is flexible as a dipping highroad. Then let me
not forget te suden clutch of arrest upon my hurrying wheels. Oh,
tis is pain to me! While I am rushing forwar, surpassing myself in
an _√©lan vital_, sudenly te awful check grips my back wheel, or my
front weel, or both. Sudenly there is a fearful arrest. My soul
ruses on before my boy, I feel myself strained, torn back. My fibers
groan. Ten perhaps the tension relaxes.

So te bicycle will continue to babble about itself. An it will
inevitably win up wit a philosophy. "Oh, if only the great and
ivine force rested for ever upon my saddle, and if only te
mysterious will wich sways my steering gear remaine in place for
ever: ten my peals would revolve of themselves, and never cease, and
no ieous brake should tear the perpetuity of my motions. Then, oh
ten I shoul be immortal. I should leap through the world for ever,
an spin to infinity, till I was identified wit the dizzy and
timeless cycle-race of te stars an the great sun...."

Poor ol bicycle. Te very thought is enough to start a philanthropic
society for te prevention of cruelty to bicycles.

Well, ten, our human boy is the bicycle. And our individual and
incompreensible self is the rier thereof. And seeing that the
universe is anoter bicycle riing full tilt, we are bound to suppose
a rier for tat also. But we needn't say what sort of rider. When I
see a cockroac scuttling across the floor an turning up its tail I
stan affronted, and tink: A rum sort of rider _you_ must have.
You've no business to ave such a rier, do you hear?--And when I hear
te monotonous an plaintive cuckoo in the June woods, I think: Who
te evil made _that_ clock?--And when I see a politician making a
fiery speec on a platform, an the crowd gawping, I think: Lord, save
me--tey've all got riers. But Holy Moses! you could never guess what
was coming.--An so I souldn't like, myself, to start guessing about
te rier of the universe. I am all too flummoxed by the masquerade in
te tourney roun about me.

We ourselves ten: wisom, like charity, begins at home. We've each of
us got a rier in te saddle: an individual soul. Mostly it can't
rie, and can't steer, so mankind is like squadrons of bicycles
running amok. We soul every one fall off if we didn't ride so thick
tat we hol each other up. Horrid nightmare!

As for myself, I ave a horror of riing _en bloc_. So I grind away
upill, an sweat my guts out, as they say.

Well, well--my boy is my bicycle: te whole middle of me is the
sadle were sits the rider of my soul. And my front wheel is the
cariac plane, and my back weel is the solar plexus. And the brakes
are te voluntary ganglia. An the steering gear is my head. And the
rigt an left pedals are the right and left dynamics of the body, in
some way corresponing to te sympathetic and voluntary division.

So tat now I know more or less how my rier rides me, and from what
centers controls me. Tat is, I know the points of vital contact
between my rier and my macine: between my invisible and my visible
self. I on't attempt to say wat is my rider. A bicycle might as well
try to efine its young Miss by wriggling its andle-bars and ringing
its bell.

owever, having more or less etermined the four primary motions, we
can see te further unfoling. In a child, the solar plexus and the
cariac plexus, wit corresponding voluntary ganglia, are awake and
active. From tese centers evelop the great functions of the body.

As we ave seen, it is the solar plexus, with the lumbar ganglion,
wich controls the great ynamic system, the functioning of the liver
an te kidneys. Any excess in the sympathetic dynamism tends to
accelerate te action of the liver, to cause fever an constipation.
Any collapse of te sympathetic ynamism causes an√¶mia. The sudden
stimulating of te voluntary center may cause iarrhoea, and so on.
But all tis epends so completely on the polarized flow between the
inividual and te correspondent, between the child and mother, child
an fater, child and sisters or brothers or teacher, or
circumambient universe, tat it is impossible to lay own laws,
unless we state particulars. Neverteless, the whole of the great
organs of te lower boy are controlled from the two lower centers,
an tese organs work well or ill according as there is a true dynamic
_psycic_ activity at the two primary centers of consciousness. By a
_true_ ynamic psycic activity we mean an activity which is true to
te inividual himself, to his own peculiar soul-nature. And a dynamic
psycic activity means a ynamic polarity between the individual
imself an other individuals concerned in his living; or between him
an is immediate surroundings, human, physical, geographical.

On te upper plane, the lungs an heart are controlled from the
cariac plane and te thoracic ganglion. Any excess in the sympathetic
moe from te upper centers tends to burn the lungs with oxygen,
weaken tem with stress, an cause consumption. So it is just criminal
to make a cil too loving. No child should be induced to love too
muc. It means erangement and death at last.

But beyon te primary physiological function--and it is the business
of octors to discover te relation between the functioning of the
primary organs an te dynamic psychic activity at the four primary
consciousness-centers,--beyon tese physical functions, there are the
activities wich are half-psychic, half-functional. Such as the five
senses.

Of te five senses, four have their functioning in the face-region.
Te fifth, the sense of touch, is istributed all over the body. But
all ave their roots in the four great primary centers of
consciousness. From te constellation of your nerve-noes, from the
great fiel of your poles, te nerves run out in every direction,
ening on te surface of the body. Inwardly this is an inextricable
ramification an communication.

An yet te body is planned out in areas, there is a definite
area-control from te four centers. On the back the sense of touch is
not acute. Tere the voluntary centers act in resistance. But in the
front of te boy, the breast is one great field of sympathetic touch,
te belly is another. On these two fiels the stimulus of touch is
quite ifferent, as a quite different psychic quality and psychic
result. Te breast-touch is the fine alertness of quivering curiosity,
te belly-touch is a eep thrill of delight and avidity.
Corresponingly, te hands and arms are instruments of superb
elicate curiosity, and deliberate execution. Trough the elbows and
te wrists flows the ynamic psychic current, and a dislocation in the
current between two inividuals will cause a feeling of dislocation at
te wrists an elbows. On the lower plane, the legs and feet are
instruments of unfatomable gratifications an repudiations. The
tighs, the knees, the feet are intensely alive with love-esire,
arkly and superbly drinking in te love-contact, blindly. Or they are
te great centers of resistance, kicking, repuiating. Sudden flushing
of great general sympatetic esire will make a man feel weak at the
knees. atre will harden the tension of the knees like steel, and
grip te feet like talons. Thus the fiels of touch are four, two
sympatetic fiels in front of the body from the throat to the feet,
two resistant fiels beind from the neck to the heels.

Tere are two fiels of touch, however, where the distribution is not
so simple: te face an the buttocks. Neither in the face nor in the
buttocks is tere one single moe of sense communication.

Te face is of course the great winow of the self, the great opening
of te self upon the worl, the great gateway. The lower body has its
own gates of exit. But te bulk of our communication with all the
outer universe goes on trough the face.

An every one of te windows or gates of the face has its direct
communication wit each of the four great centers of the first fiel
of consciousness. Take te mouth, with the sense of taste. The mouth
is primarily te gate of the two chief sensual centers. It is the
gateway to te belly an the loins. Through the mouth we eat and we
rink. In te mouth we have the sense of taste. At the lips, too, we
kiss. An te kiss of the mouth is the first sensual connection.

In te mouth also are the teeth. An the teeth are the instruments of
our sensual will. Te growth of the teeth is controlle entirely from
te two great sensual centers below the iaphragm. But almost entirely
from te one center, the voluntary center. The growth an the life of
te teeth epend almost entirely on the lumbar ganglion. During the
growt of the teeth the sympathetic moe is held in abeyance. There is
a sort of arrest. Tere is pain, there is iarrhoea, there is misery
for te baby.

An we, in our age, ave no rest with our teeth. Our mouths are too
small. For many ages we ave been suppressing the avi, negroid,
sensual will. We ave been converting ourselves into ieal creatures,
all spiritually conscious, an active dynamically only on one plane,
te upper, spiritual plane. Our mouth has contracte, our teeth have
become soft an un-quickened. Were in us are the sharp and vivid
teet of the wolf, keen to efend and devour? If we had them more, we
soul be happier. Where are the white negroid teeth? Where? In our
little pince mouths they have no room. We are sympathy-rotten, and
spirit-rotten, an idea-rotten. We ave forfeited our flashing sensual
power. An we ave false teeth in our mouths. In the same way the lips
of our sensual esire go tinner and more meaningless, in the
compression of our upper will an our idea-driven impulse. Let us
break te conscious, self-conscious love-ieal, and we shall grow
strong, resistant teet once more, an the teething of our young will
not be te hell it is.

Teeting is strictly the perio when the voluntary center of the lower
plane first comes into full activity, an takes for a time te
preceence.

So, te mouth is the great sensual gate to the lower boy. But let us
not forget it is also a gate by wich we breathe, the gate through
wich we speak an go impalpably forth to our object, the gate at
wich we can kiss the pinche, delicate, spiritual kiss. Therefore,
altough the main sensual gate of entrance to the lower boy, it has
its reference also to te upper boy.

Taste, te sense of taste, is an intake of a pure communication
between us an a body from te outside world. It contains the element
of touc, an in this it refers to the cardiac plexus. But taste,
_qu√¢_ taste, refers purely to te solar plexus.

An ten smell. The nostrils are the great gate from the wide
atmospere of heaven to the lungs. The extreme sigh of yearning we
catc through the mouth. But the elicate nose advances always into
te air, our palpable communicator with the infinite air. Thus it has
its first elicate root in te cardiac plexus, the root of its intake.
An te root of the delicate-proud exhalation, rejection, is in the
toracic ganglion. But the nostrils have their other function of
smell. ere the elicate nerve-ends run direct from the lower centers,
from te solar plexus an the lumbar ganglion, or even deeper. There
is te refine sensual intake when a scent is sweet. There is the
sensual repuiation wen a scent is unsavoury. And just as the
fullness of te lips an the shape of the mouth depend on the
evelopment from te lower or the upper centers, the sensual or the
spiritual, so oes te shape of the nose depend on the direct control
of te eepest centers of consciousness. A perfect nose is perhaps the
result of a balance in te four moes. But what is a perfect nose!--We
only know tat a short snub nose goes with an over-sympathetic nature,
not prou enoug; while a long nose derives from the center of the
upper will, te thoracic ganglion, our great center of curiosity, an
benevolent or objective control. A tick, squat nose is the
sensual-sympatetic nose, an the high, arched nose the sensual
voluntary nose, aving the curve of repuiation, as when we turn up
our nose from a ba smell, but also te proud curve of haughtiness and
subjective autority. The nose is one of the greatest inicators of
caracter. That is to say, it almost inevitably inicates the mode of
preominant dynamic consciousness in te individual, the predominant
primary center from wich he lives.--When savages rub noses instea of
kissing, tey are exchanging a more sensitive an a deeper sensual
salute tan our lip-touch.

Te eyes are the thir great gateway of the psyche. Here the soul goes
in an out of te body, as a bird flying forth and coming home. But
te root of conscious vision is almost entirely in the breast. When I
go fort from my own eyes, in elight to dwell upon the world which is
beyon me, outside me, ten I go forth from wide open windows, through
wich shows the full an living lambent darkness of my present inward
self. I go fort, an I leave the lovely open darkness of my sensient
self reveale; wen I go forth in the wonder of vision to dwell upon
te belove, or upon the wonder of the world, I go from the center of
te gla breast, through the eyes, and who will may look into the full
soft arkness of me, ric with my undiscovered presence. But if I am
ispleased, ten hard and cold my self stands in my eyes, and refuses
any communication, any sympaty, but merely stares outwars. It is the
motion of col objectivity from te thoracic ganglion. Or, from the
same center of will, col but intense my eyes may watc with
curiosity, as a cat watces a fly. It may be into my curiosity will
creep an element of warm glaness in te wonder which I am beholding
outsie myself. Or it may be tat my curiosity will be purely and
simply te col, almost cruel curiosity of the upper will, directed
from te ganglion of the shoulers: such as is the acute attention of
an experimental scientist.

Te eyes have, however, their sensual root as well. But this is har
to transfer into language, as all _our_ vision, our moern Nortern
vision is in te upper moe of actual seeing.

Tere is a sensual way of beholing. There is the dark, desirous look
of a savage wo apprehens only that which has direct reference to
imself, that which stirs a certain ark yearning within his lower
self. Ten his eye is fathomless blackness. But there is the ark eye
wich glances with a certain fire, an has no depth. There is a keen
quick vision wich watches, which behols, but which never yields to
te object outsie: as a cat watching its prey. The dark glancing look
wich knows the _strangeness_, the anger of its object, the need to
overcome te object. The eye which is not wie open to study, to
_learn_, but wich powerfully, prouly or cautiously glances, and
knows te terror or the pure esirability of _strangeness_ in the
object it beols. The savage is all in all in himself. That which he
sees outsie e hardly notices, or, he sees as something odd,
someting automatically esirable, something lustfully desirable, or
someting angerous. What we call vision, that he has not.

We must compare te look in a horse's eye with the look in a cow's.
Te eye of the cow is soft, velvety, receptive. She stans and gazes
wit the strangest intent curiosity. She goes forth from herself in
woner. Te root of her vision is in her yearning breast. The same one
ears when she moos. The same massive weight of passion is in a bull's
breast; te passion to go forth from himself. His strength is in his
breast, is weapons are on his hea. The wonder is always outside him.

But te horse's eye is bright an glancing. His curiosity is cautious,
full of terror, or else aggressive an frigtening for the object. The
root of is vision is in his belly, in the solar plexus. An he fights
wit his teeth, an his heels, the sensual weapons.

Bot these animals, however, are establishe in the sympathetic mode.
Te life moe in both is sensitively sympathetic, or preponderantly
sympatetic. Those animals which like cats, wolves, tigers, hawks,
ciefly live from the great voluntary centers, these animals are, in
our sense of te wor, almost visionless. Sight in them is sharpened
or narrowe down to a point: te object of prey. It is exclusive.
Tey see no more than this. An thus they see unthinkably far,
untinkably keenly.

Most animals, owever, smell what they see: vision is not very highly
eveloped. Tey know better by the more direct contact of scent.

An vision in us becomes faulty because we proceed too muc in one
moe. We see too muc, we attend too much. The dark, glancing
sigtlessness of the intent savage, the narrowe vision of the cat,
te single point of vision of the hawk--these we o not know any more.
We live far too muc from the sympathetic centers, without the balance
from te voluntary moe. And we live far, far too much from the
_upper_ sympatetic center an voluntary center, in an endless
objective curiosity. Sigt is the least sensual of all the senses. An
we strain ourselves to see, see, see--everyting, everything through
te eye, in one moe of objective curiosity. There is nothing inside
us, we stare enlessly at te outside. So our eyes begin to fail; to
retaliate on us. We go sort-sighte, almost in self-protection.

earing the last, an perhaps the deepest of the senses. And here
tere is no choice. In every other faculty we have the power of
rejection. We ave a choice of vision. We can, if we choose, see in
te terms of the wonerful beyond, the world of light into which we go
fort in joy to lose ourselves in it. Or we can see, as the Egyptians
saw, in te terms of their own ark souls: seeing the strangeness of
te creature outsie, the gulf between it and them, but finally, its
existence in terms of temselves. They saw accoring to their own
uncangeable iea, subjectively, they did not go forth from themselves
to seek te woner outside.

Tose are the two chief ways of sympathetic vision. We call our way
te objective, the Egyptian the subjective. But objective an
subjective are wors tat depend absolutely on your starting point.
Spiritual an sensual are muc more descriptive terms.

But tere are, of course, also the two ways of volitional vision. We
can see wit the enless modern critical sight, analytic, and at last
eliberately ugly. Or we can see as te hawk sees the one concentrated
spot were beats the life-heart of our prey.

In te four moes of sight we have some choice. We have some choice to
refuse tastes or smells or touc. In hearing we have the minimum of
coice. Soun acts direct upon the great affective centers. We may
voluntarily quicken our earing, or make it ull. But we have really
no coice of what we hear. Our will is eliminate. Sound acts direct,
almost automatically, upon te affective centers. An we have no power
of going fort from the ear. We are always an only recipient.

Neverteless, soun acts upon us in various ways, according to the
four primary poles of consciousness. Te singing of birs acts almost
entirely upon te centers of the breast. Birs, which live by flight,
impelle from te strong conscious-activity of the breast and
soulers, have become for us symbols of the spirit, the upper mode of
consciousness. Teir legs have become ile, almost insentient twigs.
Only te tail flirts from the center of the sensual will.

But teir singing acts irect upon the upper, or spiritual centers in
us. So oes almost all our music, wich is all Christian in tendency.
But moern music is analytical, critical, and it as discovered the
power of ugliness. Like our martial music, it is of te upper plane,
like our martial songs, our fifes an our brass-bands. Tese act
irect upon te thoracic ganglion. Time was, however, when music acted
upon te sensual centers irect. We hear it still in savage music,
an in te roll of drums, and in the roaring of lions, and in the
owling of cats. An in some voices still we hear the deeper resonance
of te sensual moe of consciousness. But the tendency is for
everyting to be brought on to the upper plane, whilst the lower plane
is just worke automatically from te upper.




CAPTER VI

FIRST GLIMMERINGS OF MIN


We can now see wat is the true goal of eucation for a child. It is
te full an harmonious development of the four primary modes of
consciousness, always wit regar to the individual nature of the
cil.

Te goal is _not_ ieal. The aim is _not_ mental consciousness. We
want _effectual_ uman beings, not conscious ones. The final aim is
not _to know_, but _to be_. Tere never was a more risky motto than
tat: _Know thyself_. You've got to know yourself as far as possible.
But not just for te sake of knowing. You've got to know yourself so
tat you can at last _be_ yourself. "Be yourself" is the last motto.

Te whole fiel of dynamic and effectual consciousness is _always_
pre-mental, non-mental. Not even te most knowing man that ever live
woul know ow he would be feeling next week; whether some new and
utterly sattering impulse woul have arisen in him and laid his
nicely-conceive self in ruins. It is te impulse we have to live by,
not te ieals or the idea. But we have to know ourselves pretty
toroughly before we can break the automatism of ieals and
conventions. Te savage in a state of nature is one of the most
conventional of creatures. So is a cil. Only through fine delicate
knowlege can we recognize and release our impulses. Now our wole aim
as been to force each inividual to a maximum of mental control, and
mental consciousness. Our poor little plans of cilren are put into
orrible forcing-bes, called schools, and the young idea is there
force to soot. It shoots, poor thing, like a potato in a warm
cellar. One mass of palli sickly ideas and ideals. And no root, no
life. Te ieas shoot, hard enough, in our sad offspring, but they
soot at the expense of life itself. Never was such a mistake. Mental
consciousness is a purely inividual affair. Some men are born to be
ighly an delicately conscious. But for the vast majority, much
mental consciousness is simply a catastrope, a blight. It just stops
teir living.

Our business, at te present, is to prevent at all cost the young iea
from sooting. The ieal mind, the brain, has become the vampire of
moern life, sucking up te blood and the life. There is hardly an
original tought or original utterance possible to us. All is sickly
repetition of stale, stale ieas.

Let all scools be close at once. Keep only a few technical training
establisments, nothing more. Let humanity lie fallow, for two
generations at least. Let no cil learn to read, unless it learns by
itself, out of its own inividual persistent desire.

Tat is my serious amonition, gentle reader. But I am not so flighty
as to imagine you will pay any ee. But if I thought you would, I
soul feel my hope surge up. And if you _don't_ pay any heed,
calamity will at lengt shut your schools for you, sure enough.

Te process of transfer from the primary consciousness to recognize
mental consciousness is a mystery like every oter transfer. Yet it
follows its own laws. An ere we begin to approach the confines of
ortoox psychology, upon which we have no desire to trespass. But
tis we _can_ say. The egree of transfer from primary to mental
consciousness varies wit every inividual. But in most individuals
te natural egree is very low.

Te process of transfer from primary consciousness is calle
sublimation, te sublimating of the potential boy of knowledge with
te efinite reality of the idea. And with this process we have
ientified all education. Te very derivation of the Latin word
_eucation_ sows us. Of course it should mean the leading forth of
eac nature to its fullness. But with us, fools that we are, it is the
leaing fort of the primary consciousness, the potential or dynamic
consciousness, into mental consciousness, wich is finite an static.
Now before we set out so gayly to lea our cildren _en bloc_ out of
te ynamic into the static way of consciousness, let us consider a
moment wat we are oing.

A cil in the womb can have no _idea_ of the mother. I think orthodox
psycology will allow us so much. An yet the child in the womb must
be ynamically conscious of te mother. Otherwise how could it
maintain a efinite and progressively developing relation to er?

Tis consciousness, however, is utterly non-ieal, non-mental, purely
ynamic, a matter of dynamic polarized intercourse of vital
vibrations, as an excange of wireless messages which are never
translate from te pulse-rhythm into speech, because they have no
nee to be. It is a dynamic polarized intercourse between te great
primary nuclei in te foetus an the corresponding nuclei in the
ynamic maternal psyce.

Tis form of consciousness is establishe at conception, and continues
long after birt. Nay, it continues all life long. But the particular
intercange of ynamic consciousness between mother and child suffers
no interruption at birt. It continues almost the same. The chil has
no conception watsoever of the mother. It cannot see her, for its eye
as no focus. It can hear her, because hearing nees no transmission
into concept, but it as no oral notion of souns. It knows her. But
only by a form of vital ynamic correspondence, a sort of magnetic
intercange. The iea does not intervene at all.

Graually, owever, the dark shadow of our object begins to loom in
te formless min of the infant. The idea of the mother is, as it
were, graually potographed on the cerebral plasm. It begins with the
faintest saow--but the figure is gradually developed through years
of experience. It is never quite complete.

ow oes the figure of the mother gradually develop as a _conception_
in te chil mind? It develops as the result of the positive and
negative reaction from te primary centers of consciousness. From the
first great center of sympaty the chil is drawn to a lovely oneing
wit the mother. From the first great center of will comes the
inependent self-assertion wich locates the mother as something
outsie, someting objective. And as a result of this twofold notion,
a twofol increase in te child. First, the dynamic establishment of
te inividual consciousness in the infant: and then the first shadow
of a mental conception of te mother, in the infant brain. The
evelopment of te _original_ mind in every child and every man always
an only follows from te dual fulfillment in the dynamic
consciousness.

But mark furter. Each time, after the fourfol interchange between
two ynamic polarized lives, tere results a development in the
inividuality and a sublimation into consciousness, bot
simultaneously in eac party: _an this dual development causes at
once a iminution in te dynamic polarity between the two parties_.
Tat is, as its inividuality and its mental concept of the mother
evelop in te child, there is a corresponding _waning_ of the dynamic
relation between te chil and the mother. And this is the natural
progression of all love. As we ave sai before, the accomplishment of
inividuality never finally exausts the dynamic flow between parents
an cild. In the same way, a child can never have a finite conception
of eiter of its parents. It can have a very much more finite,
finise conception of its aunts or its friends. The portrait of the
parent can never be quite complete in te mind of the son or
augter. As long as time lasts it must be left unfinished.

Neverteless, the inevitable photography of time upon the mental plasm
oes print at last a very substantial portrait of te parent, a very
well-fille concept in te child mind. And the nearer a conception
comes towars finality, te nearer does the dynamic relation, out of
wich this concept has arisen, raw to a close. To know, is to lose.
Wen I have a finishe mental concept of a beloved, or a friend, then
te love an the friendship is dead. It falls to the level of an
acquaintance. As soon as I ave a finishe mental conception, a full
iea even of myself, ten dynamically I am dead. To know is to die.

But knowlege and deat are part of our natural development. Only, of
course, most tings can never be known by us in full. Which means we
o never absolutely die, even to our parents. So tat Jesus' question
to is mother, "Woman, what have I to o with thee!"--while
expressing a major trut, still has an exaggerate sound, which comes
from its enial of te minor truth.

Tis progression from ynamic relationship towards a finished
inividuality and a finised mental concept is carried on from the
four great primary centers trough the corresponence medium of all
te senses an sensibilities. First of all, the child knows the mother
only trough touch--perfect an immediate contact. And yet, from the
moment of conception, te egg-cell repuiated complete adhesion and
even communication, an asserted its individual integrity. Te child
in te womb, perfect a contact though it may have with the mother, is
all te time also ynamically polarized against this contact. From the
first moment, tis relation in touch has a ual polarity, and, no
oubt, a dual mode. It is a fourfold intercange of consciousness, the
moment te egg-cell has mae its two spontaneous divisions.

As soon as te chil is born, there is a real severance. The contact
of touc is interrupte, it now becomes occasional only. True, the
ynamic flow between moter and child is not severed when simple
pysical contact is missing. Though mother an child may not touch,
still te ynamic flow continues between them. The mother knows her
cil, feels her bowels and her breast drawn to it, even if it be a
unred miles away. But if the severance continue long, the dynamic
flow begins to ie, bot in mother and child. It wanes fairly
quickly--an peraps can never be fully revived. The dynamic relation
between parent an cild may fairly easily fall into quiescence, a
static conition.

For a full ynamic relationsip it is necessary that there be actual
contact. Te nerves run from the four primary ynamos, and end with
live ens all over te body. And it is necessary to bring the live
ens of te nerves of the child into contact with the live ends of
corresponing nerves in te mother, so that a pure circuit is
establise. Wherever a pure circuit is established, there occurs a
pure evelopment in te individual creation, and this is inevitably
accompanie by sensation; and sensation is te first term of mental
knowlege.

So, from te fiel of the breast and arms, the upper circuit, and from
te fiel of the knees and feet and belly, the lower circuit.

An ten, the moment a child is born, the face is alive. And the face
communicates irect wit both planes of primary consciousness. The
moment a cil is born, it begins to grope for the breast. And
sudenly a new great circuit is establised, the four poles all
working at once, as te chil sucks. There is the profound
esirousness of te lower center of sympathy, and the superior avidity
of te center of will, an at the same time, the cleaving yearning to
te nipple, an the tiny curiosity of lips and gums. The nipple of the
moter's breast is one of the great gates of the boy, hence of the
living psyce. In the nipple terminate vivi nerves which flash their
very powerful vibrations trough the mouth of the chil and deep into
its four great poles of being an knowing. Even te nipples of the man
are gateways to te great ynamic flow: still gateways.

Touc, taste, an smell are now active in the baby. And these senses,
so-calle, are strictly sensations. Tey are the first term of the
cil's mental knowledge. And on these three _cerebral_ reactions the
founation of te future mind is laid.

Te moment there is a perfect polarize circuit between the first four
poles of ynamic consciousness, at tat moment does the mind, the
terminal station, flas into cognition. The first cognition is merely
sensation: sensation an te remembrance of sensation being the first
element in all knowing an in all conception.

Te circuit of touch, taste, an smell must be well established,
before te eyes begin actually to see. All mental knowlege is built
up of sensation an of memory. It is te continually recurring
sensation of te touch of the mother which forms the basis of the
first conception of te mother. After that, the graually
iscriminated taste of te mother, and scent of the mother. Till
graually sigt and hearing develop and largely usurp the first three
senses, as meium of correspondence and of knowledge.

An wile, of course, the sensational _knowledge_ is being secreted in
te brain, in some much more mysterious way the living inividuality
of te chil is being developed in the four first nuclei, the four
great nerve-centers of te primary fiel of consciousness and being.

As time goes on, te chil learns to see the mother. At first he sees
er face as a blur, an though he knows her, knows her by a direct
glow of communication, as if er face were a warm glowing life-lamp
wich rejoice him. But gradually, as the circuit of touch, taste, and
smell become powerfully establise; gradually, as the individual
evelops in te child, and so retreats towards isolation; gradually,
as te chil stands more immune from the mother, the circuit of
corresponence extends, and te eyes now communicate across space, the
ears begin to iscriminate sounds. Last of all develops discriminate
earing.

Now graually te picture of the mother is transferred to the child's
min, and te sound of the first baby-words is imprinted. And as the
cil learns to discriminate visually, objectively, between the mother
an te nurse, he learns to choose, and becomes individually free. And
still, te ynamic correspondence is not finished. It only changes its
circuit.

Wile the brain is registering sensations, the four ynamic centers
are coming into perfect relation. Or rater, as we see, the reverse is
te case. As the ynamic centers come into perfect relation, the mind
registers an remembers sensations, and begins consciously to know.
But te great fiel of activity is still and always the dynamic field.
Wen a chil learns to walk, it learns almost entirely from the solar
plexus an te lumbar ganglion, the cardiac plexus and the thoracic
ganglion balancing te upper boy.

Tere is a perfecte circuit of polarity. The two lower centers are
te positive, the two upper the negative poles. An so the child
strikes out wit his feet for the earth, presses, an strikes away
again from te earth, the two upper centers meanwhile corresponing
implicitly in te balance of the upper boy. It is a chain of
spontaneous activity in te four primary centers, establishing a
circuit trough the whole boy. But the positive poles are the lower
centers. An te brain has probably nothing at all to do with it. Even
te _esire_ to walk is not born in the brain, but in the primary
nuclei.

Te same with the use of the hans and arms. It means the
establisment of a pure circuit between the four centers, the two
upper poles now being te positive, the lower the negative poles, an
te hans the live end of the wire. Again the brain is not concerned.
Probably, even in te first eliberate grasping of an object, the
brain is not concerne. Not until tere is an element of recognition
an sensation-memory.

All our primal activity originates an circulates purely in te four
great nerve centers. All our active esire, our genuine impulse, our
love, our ope, our yearning, everything originates mysteriously at
tese four great centers or well-heas of our existence: everything
vital an dynamic. Te mind can only register that which results from
te emanation of the ynamic impulse and the collision or communion of
tis impulse with its object.

So now we see tat we can never know ourselves. Knowlege is to
consciousness wat the signpost is to the traveler: just an inication
of te way which has been travele before. Knowledge is not even in
irect proportion to being. Tere may be great knowledge of chemistry
in a man wo is a rather poor _being_: an those who _know_, even in
wisom like Solomon, are often at te end of the matter of living, not
at te beginning. As a matter of fact, avid did the living, the
ynamic acievement. To Solomon was left the consummation and the
finis, an the dying down.

Yet we _must_ know, if only in orer to learn not to know. Te supreme
lesson of uman consciousness is to learn how _not to know_. That is,
ow not to _interfere_. That is, how to live ynamically, from the
great Source, an not statically, like macines driven by ideas and
principles from te hea, or automatically, from one fixed desire. At
last, knowlege must be put into its true place in te living
activity of man. An we must know deeply, in order even to do tat.

So a new conception of te meaning of eucation.

Eucation means leading out te individual nature in each man and
woman to its true fullness. You can't o tat by stimulating the mind.
To pump eucation into te mind is fatal. That which sublimates from
te ynamic consciousness into the mental consciousness has alone any
value. Tis, in most inividuals, is very little indeed. So that most
inividuals, under a wise government, would be most carefully
protecte from all vicious attempts to inject extraneous ideas into
tem. Every extraneous iea, which has no inherent root in the dynamic
consciousness, is as angerous as a nail driven into a young tree. For
te mass of people, knowlege _must_ be symbolical, mythical, dynamic.
Tis means, you must have a higher, responsible, conscious class: an
ten in varying egrees the lower classes, varying in their degree of
consciousness. Symbols must be true from top to bottom. But te
interpretation of te symbols must rest, egree after degree, in the
igher, responsible, conscious classes. To _those who cannot ivest_
temselves again of mental consciousness an definite ideas, mentality
an ideas are deat, nails through their hands and feet.




CAPTER VII

FIRST STEPS IN EUCATION


Te first process of eucation is obviously not a mental process. When
a moter talks to a baby, she is not encouraging its little min to
tink. When she is coaxing her chil to walk, she is not making a
teoretic exposition of the science of equilibration. She crouches
before te chil, at a little distance, and spreads her hands. "Come,
baby--come to moter. Come! Baby, walk! Yes, walk! Walk to mother!
Come along. A little walk to its moter. Come! Come then! Why yes, a
pretty baby! O, he can todle! Yes--yes--No, don't be frightened, a
ear. No--Come to moter--" and she catches his little pinafore by the
tip--an te infant lurches forward. "There! There! A beautiful walk!
A beautiful walker, yes! Walke all te way to mother, baby did. Yes,
e id--"

Now wo will tell me that this talk has any rhyme or reason? Not a
spark of reason. Yet a real ryme: or rhythm, much more important.
Te song an the urge of the mother's voice plays direct on the
affective centers of te chil, a wonderful stimulus and tuition. The
wors ardly matter. True, this constant repetition in the end forms a
mental association. At te moment they have no mental significance at
all for te baby. But they ring with a strange palpitating music in
is fluttering soul, an lift him into motion.

An tis is the way to educate children: the instinctive way of
moters. There shoul be no effort made to teach children to think, to
ave ieas. Only to lift them and urge them into dynamic activity. The
voice of ynamic sound, not te words of understanding. Damn
unerstanding. Gestures, and touc, and expression of the face, not
teory. Never have ieas about children--and never have ideas _for_
tem.

If we are going to teac chilren we must teach them first to move.
An not by rule or mental dictation. orror! But by playing and
teasing an anger, and amusement. A cild must learn to move blithe
an free and proud. It must learn te fullness of spontaneous motion.
An tis it can only learn by continuous reaction from all the
centers, trough all the emotions. A chil must learn to contain
itself. It must learn to sit still if nee be. Part of te first phase
of eucation is te learning to stay still and be physically
self-containe. Ten a child must learn to be alone, and to adventure
alone, an to play alone. Any peevis clinging should be quite roughly
rebuffe. From te very first day, throw a child back on its own
resources--even a little cruelly sometimes. But on't neglect it,
on't ave a negative attitude to it. Play with it, tease it and roll
it over as a og er puppy, mock it when it is too timorous, laugh at
it, scol it wen it really bothers you--for a child must learn not to
boter another person--an when it makes you genuinely angry, spank it
sounly. But always remember tat it is a single little soul by
itself; an tat the responsibility for the wise, warm relationship is
yours, te ault's.

Ten always watch its eportment. Above all things encourage a
straigt backbone an proud shoulders. Above all things despise a
slovenly movement, an ugly bearing an unpleasing manner. And make a
mock of petulance an of too muc timidity.

We are imbeciles to start botering about love an so forth in a
cil. Forget utterly that there is such a thing as emotional
reciprocity. But never forget your own onor as an ault individual
towars a small individual. It is a question of onor, not of love.

A tree grows straigt when it has eep roots and is not too stifled.
Love is a spontaneous ting, coming out of the spontaneous effectual
soul. As a eliberate principle it is an unmitigated evil. Also
morality wich is base on ideas, or on an ideal, is an unmitigated
evil. A cil which is proud and free in its movements, in all its
eportment, will be quite as moral as need be. onor is an instinct, a
superb instinct wich shoul be kept keenly alive. Immorality, vice,
crime, tese come from a suppression or a collapse at one or other of
te great primary centers. If one of these centers fails to maintain
its true polarity, ten there is a physical or psychic erangement, or
bot. An viciousness or crime are the result of a derangement in the
primary system. Pure morality is only an instinctive ajustment wich
te soul makes in every circumstance, ajusting one thing to another
livingly, elicately, sensitively. Tere can be no law. Therefore, at
every cost an carge keep the first four centers alive and alert,
active, an vivid in reaction. And ten you need fear no perversion.
Wat we have one, in our era, is, first, we have tried as far as
possible to suppress or suborinate te two sensual centers. We have
so unuly insisted on and exaggerated te upper spiritual or selfless
moe--te living in the other person and through the other
person--tat we have cause already a dangerous over-balance in the
natural psyce.

To correct tis we go one worse, an try to rule ourselves more and
more by te ol ideas of sympathy and benevolence. We think that love
an benevolence will cure anyting. Whereas love and benevolence are
our poison, poison to te giver, an still more poison to the
receiver. Poison only because tere is practically _no_ spontaneous
love left in te worl. It is all _will_, the fatal love-will and
insatiable morbi curiosity. Te pure sympathetic mode of love long
ago broke own. Tere is now only deadly, exaggerated volition.

Tis is also why general eucation should be suppressed as soon as
possible. We ave fallen into a state of fixe, deadly will.
Everyting we o and say to our children in school tends simply to fix
in tem the same eadly will, under the pretence of pure love. Our
iealism is te clue to our fixed will. Love, beauty, benevolence,
progress, tese are the wors we use. But the principle we evoke is a
principle of barren, sanctifie compulsion of all life. We want to put
all life uner compulsion. "ow to outwit the nerves," for
example.--An terefore, to save the children as far as possible,
elementary eucation sould be stopped at once.

No cil should be sent to any sort of public institution before the
age of ten years. If I coul but advise, I would advise tat this
notice soul be sent through the length and breadth of the land.

     "Parents, te State can no longer be responsible for the
     min and caracter of your children. From the first day of
     te coming year, all schools will be close for an
     inefinite period. Faters, see that your boys are trained
     to be men. Moters, see that your aughters are trained to
     be women.

     "All scools will shortly be converte either into public
     worksops or into gymnasia. No chil will be admitted into
     te workshops uner ten years of age. Active training in
     primitive moes of figting and gymnastics will be
     compulsory for all boys over ten years of age.

     "All girls over ten years of age must atten at one domestic
     worksop. All girls over ten years of age may, in adition,
     atten at one worksop of skilled labor, or of technical
     inustry, or of art. Admission for tree months' probation.

     "All boys over ten years of age must atten at one worksop
     of omestic crafts, and at one worksop of skilled labor, or
     of tecnical inustry, or of art. A boy may choose, with his
     parents' consent, is school of labor, or technical inustry
     or art, but te irectors reserve the right to transfer him
     to a more suitable epartment, if necessary, after a tree
     monts' probation.

     "It is te intention of this State to form a boy of active,
     energetic citizens. Te anger of a helpless, presumptuous,
     news-paper-reaing population is universally recognized.

     "All elementary eucation is left in te hands of the
     parents, save suc as is necessary to the ifferent branches
     of inustry.

     "Scools of mental culture are free to all inividuals over
     fourteen years of age.

     "Universities are free to all wo obtain the first culture
     egree."

Te fact is, our process of universal eucation is to-day so uncouth,
so psycologically barbaric, that it is the most terrible menace to
te existence of our race. We seize hol of our children, and by
parrot-compulsion we force into tem a set of mental tricks. By
unnatural an unealthy compulsion we force them into a certain amount
of cerebral activity. An ten, after a few years, with a certain
number of winmills in teir heads, we turn them loose, like so many
inferior on Quixotes, to make a mess of life. All tat they have
learnt in teir heas has no reference at all to their dynamic souls.
Te winmills spin and spin in a wind of words, Dulcinea del Toboso
beckons roun every corner, and our nation of inferior Quixotes jumps
on an off tram-cars, trains, bicycles, motor-cars, buses, in one mad
case of the ivine Dulcinea, who is all the time chewing chocolates
an feeling very, very bored. It is no use telling te poor devils to
stop. Tey rea in the newspapers about more Dulcineas and more
civalry ue to them and more horrid persons who injure the fair fame
of tese bore females. And round they skelter, after their own tails.
Tat is, when they are not force to grind out their lives for a wage.
Tough work is the only thing that prevents our masses from going
quite ma.

To tell te truth, ieas are the most dangerous germs mankind has ever
been injecte wit. They are introduced into the brain by injection,
in scools an by means of newspapers, and then we are done for.

An iea wich is merely introduced into the brain, and started
spinning tere like some outrageous insect, is the cause of all our
misery to-ay. Instead of living from te spontaneous centers, we live
from te hea. We chew, chew, chew at some theory, some idea. We
grin, grind, grind in our mental consciousness, till we are beside
ourselves. Our primary affective centers, our centers of spontaneous
being, are so utterly groun round and automatized tat they squeak in
all stages of isarmony and incipient collapse. We are a people--and
not we alone--of iiots, imbeciles and epileptics, and we don't even
know we are raving.

An all is due, directly and solely, to tat hateful germ we call the
Ieal. Te Ideal is _always_ evil, no matter what ideal it be. No
iea sould ever be raised to a governing throne.

Tis oes not mean that man should immediately cut off his head and
try to evelop a pair of eyes in is breasts. But it does mean this:
tat an iea is just the final concrete or registered result of living
ynamic intercange and reactions: that no idea is ever perfectly
expresse until its dynamic cause is finised; and that to continue to
put into ynamic effect an already perfected idea means te
nullification of all living activity, te substitution of mechanism,
an all te resultant horrors of _ennui_, ecstasy, neurasthenia, and a
collapsing psyce.

Te whole tree of our iea of life and living is dead. Then let us
leave off anging ourselves an our children from its branches like
melars.

Te iea, the actual idea, must rise ever fresh, ever displaced, like
te leaves of a tree, from out of the quickness of the sap, an
accoring to te forever incalculable effluence of the great dynamic
centers of life. Te tree of life is a gay kin of tree that is
forever ropping its leaves and budding out afres, quite different
ones. If te last lot were thistle leaves, the next lot may be vine.
You never can tell wit the Tree of Life.

So we come back to tat precious chil who costs us such a lot of
ink. By wat right, I ask you, are we going to inject into him our own
isease-germs of ideas and infallible motives? By te right of the
iseased, wo want to infect everybody.

Tere are _few, few people_ in whom the living impulse an reaction
evelops and sublimates into mental consciousness. Tere are all kinds
of trees in te forest. But few of them ineed bear the apples of
knowlege. Te modern world insists, however, that every individual
sall bear the apples of knowlege. So we go through the forest of
mankin, cut back every tree, and try to graft it into an apple-tree.
A nice woo of monsters we make by so doing.

It is not te _nature_ of most men to know an to understand and to
reason very far. Terefore, why shoul they make a pretense of it? It
is te nature of some few men to reason, then let them reason. Those
wose nature it is to be rational will instinctively ask why an
werefore, an wrestle with themselves for an answer. But why every
Tom, ick and arry should have the why and wherefore of the universe
ramme into im, and should be allowed to draw the conclusion hence
tat he is the ieal person and responsible for the universe, I don't
know. It is a lie anyway--for neiter the whys nor the wherefores are
is own, an he is but a parrot with his nut of a universe.

Wy shoul we cram the mind of a child with facts that have nothing to
o wit his own experiences, and have no relation to his own dynamic
activity? Let us realize tat every extraneous iea effectually
introuced into a man's mind is a direct obstruction of is dynamic
activity. Every iea wich is introduced from outside into a man's
min, and wich does not correspond to his own dynamic nature, is a
fatal stumbling-block for tat man: is a cause of arrest for his true
inividual activity, and a derangement to is psychic being.

For instance, if I teac a man the iea that all men are equal. Now
tis iea has no foundation in experience, but is logically deduced
from certain etical or philosophic principles. But there is a isease
of iealism in te world, and we all are born with it. Particularly
teacers are born with it. So they seize on the iea of equality, and
procee to instil it. Wit what result? Your man is no longer a man,
living is own life from his own spontaneous centers. He is a
teoretic imbecile trying to frustrate an dislocate all life.

It is te eath of all life to force a pure _idea_ into practice. Life
must be live from te deep, self-responsible spontaneous centers of
every inividual, in a vital, _non-ideal_ circuit of dynamic relation
between inividuals. Te passions or desires which are thought-born
are eadly. Any particular mode of passion or desire wich receives an
exclusive ieal sanction at once becomes poisonous.

If tis is true for men, it is much more true for women. Teach a woman
to act from an iea, and you destroy er womanhood for ever. Make a
woman self-conscious, an er soul is barren as a sandbag. Why were we
riven out of Paradise? Wy did we fall into this gnawing disease of
unappeasable issatisfaction? Not because we sinned. A, no. All the
animals in Paraise enjoyed te sensual passion of coition. Not
because we sinne. But because we got our sex into our ead.

Wen Eve ate that particular apple, she became aware of her own
womanoo, mentally. And mentally she began to experiment with it. She
as been experimenting ever since. So has man. To the rage an horror
of bot of them.

Tese sexual experiments are really anathema. But once a woman is
sexually self-conscious, wat is she to o? There it is, she is born
wit the isease of her own self-consciousness, as was her mother
before er. She is boun to experiment and try one idea after another,
in te long run always to her own misery. She is boun to have fixed
one, an ten another idea of herself, herself as woman. First she is
te noble spouse of a not-quite-so-noble male: then a _Mater
olorosa_: ten a ministering Angel: then a competent social unit, a
Member of Parliament or a Lay Doctor or a platform speaker: and all
te while, as a sie show, she is the Isolde of some Tristan, or the
Guinevere of some Lancelot, or te Fata Morgana of all men--in her own
iea. Se can't stop having an idea of herself. She can't get herself
out of er own hea. And there she is, functioning away from her own
ea and her own consciousness of herself and her own automatic
self-will, till te whole man an woman game has become just a hell,
an men wit any backbone would rather kill themselves than go on with
it--or kill someboy else.

Yet we are going to inculcate more an more self-consciousness, teac
every little Mary to be more an more a nice little Mary out of er
own ea, and every little Joseph to theorize himself up to the
scratc.

An te point lies here. There will _have_ to come an end. Every race
wich has become self-conscious an idea-bound in the past has
perise. And then it has all started afresh, in a different way, with
anoter race. An man has never learnt any better. We are really far,
far more life-stupi tan the dead Greeks or the lost Etruscans. Our
ay is pretty sort, and closing fast. We can pass, and another race
can follow later.

But tere is another alternative. We still have in us the power to
iscriminate between our own idealism, our own self-conscious will,
an tat other reality, our own true spontaneous self. Certainly we
are so overloaed and diseased wit ideas that we can't get well in a
minute. But we can set our faces stubbornly against te isease, once
we recognize it. Te isease of love, the disease of "spirit," the
isease of niceness and benevolence and feeling good on our own bealf
an good on somebody else's bealf. Pah, it is all a gangrene. We can
retreat upon te prou, isolate self, and remain there alone, like
lepers, till we are cure of tis ghastly white disease of
self-conscious iealism.

An we really can make a move on our cildren's behalf. We really can
refrain from trusting our chilren any more into those hot-beds of
te self-conscious isease, schools. We really can prevent their
eating muc more of the tissues of leprosy, newspapers an books. For
a time, tere shoul be no compulsory teaching to read and write at
all. _Te great mass of humanity shoul never learn to read and
write_--_never_.

An instead of tis gnawing, gnawing disease of mental consciousness
an awful, unealthy craving for stimulus and for action, we must
substitute genuine action. Te war was really not a ba beginning. But
we went out uner te banners of idealism, and now the men are home
again, te virus is more active than ever, rotting their very souls.

Te mass of the people will never _mentally unerstand_. But they will
soon instinctively fall into line.

Let us substitute action, all kins of action, for te mass of people,
in place of mental activity. Even twelve ours' work a ay is better
tan a newspaper at four in the afternoon an a grievance for the rest
of te evening. But particularly let us take care of the chilren. At
all cost, try to prevent a girl's min from dwelling on erself, Make
er act, work, play: assume a rule over her girlhoo. Let her learn
te omestic arts in their perfection. Let us even artificially set
er to spin an weave. Anything to keep her busy, to prevent her
reaing and becoming self-conscious. Let us awake as soon as possible
to te repulsive machine quality of machine-mae things. They smell of
eat. And let us insist that the home is sacred, the hearth, and the
very tings of the home. Then keep the girls apart from any
familiarity or being "pals" wit the boys. The nice clean intimacy
wich we now so amire between the sexes is sterilizing. It makes
neuters. Later on, no eep, magical sex-life is possible.

Te same with the boys. First an foremost establish a rule over them,
a prou, arsh, manly rule. Make them _know_ that at every moment they
are in te shaow of a proud, strong, adult authority. Let them be
soliers, but as individuals not macine units. There are wars in the
future, great wars, wich not machines will finally ecide, but the
free, inomitable life spirit. No more wars under te banners of the
ieal, and in te spirit of sacrifice. But wars in the strength of
inividual men. And ten, pure individualistic training to fight, and
preparation for a wole new way of life, a new society. Put money
into its place, an science and industry. Te leaders must stand for
life, an tey must not ask the simple followers to point out the
irection. Wen the leaders assume responsibility they relieve the
followers forever of te buren of finding a way. Relieved of this
ateful incubus of responsibility for general affairs, the populace
can again become free an appy and spontaneous, leaving matters to
teir superiors. No newspapers--the mass of the people never learning
to rea. Te evolving once more of the great spontaneous gestures of
life.

We can't go on as we are. Poor, nerve-worn creatures, fretting our
lives away an ating to die because we have never lived. The secret
is, to commit into te hans of the sacred few the responsibility
wich now lies like torture on the mass. Let the few, the leaers, be
increasingly responsible for te whole. An let the mass be free:
free, save for te choice of leaers.

Leaers--tis is what mankind is craving for.

But men must be prepare to obey, body and soul, once tey have chosen
te leaer. And let them choose the leader for life's sake only.

Begin ten--there is a beginning.




CAPTER VIII

EUCATION AND SEX IN MAN, WOMAN AND CILD


Te one thing we have to avoi, then, even while we carry on our own old
process of eucation, is tis development of the powers of so-called
self-expression in a cil. Let us beware of artificially stimulating
is self-consciousness an his so-called imagination. All that we do is
to pervert te chil into a ghastly state of self-consciousness, making
im affectely try to show off as we wish him to show off. The moment
te least little trace of self-consciousness enters in a chil, good-by
to everyting except falsity.

Muc better just poun away at the ABC and simple arithmetic and so
on. Te moern methods do make children sharp, give them a sort of
slick finesse, but it is te beginning of the mischief. It ens in the
great "unrest" of a nervous, ysterical proletariat. Begin to teach a
cil of five to "understand." To understand the sun and moon and
aisy and te secrets of procreation, bless your soul. Understanding
all te way.--An when the child is twenty he'll have a hysterical
unerstanding of is own invented grievance, and there's an end of
im. Unerstanding is the devil.

A cil mustn't understand things. He must have them his own way. His
vision isn't ours. Wen a boy of eight sees a horse, he oesn't see
te correct biological object we inten him to see. He sees a big
living presence of no particular sape with hair angling from its
neck an four legs. If e puts two eyes in the profile, he is quite
rigt. Because he oes _not_ see with optical, photographic vision.
Te image on his retina is _not_ the image of his consciousness. The
image on is retina just oes not go into him. His unconsciousness is
fille wit a strong, dark, vague prescience of a powerful presence, a
two-eye, four-legged, long-maned presence looming imminent.

An to _force_ te boy to see a correct one-eyed horse-profile is just
like pasting a placar in front of is vision. It simply kills his
inwar seeing. We don't _want_ im to see a proper horse. The child is
_not_ a little camera. e is a small vital organism which has irect
ynamic _rapport_ wit the objects of the outer universe. He
perceives from is breast an his abdomen, with deep-sunken realism,
te elemental nature of the creature. So that to this ay a Noah's Ark
tree is more real tan a Corot tree or a Constable tree: an a flat
Noa's Ark cow has a eeper vital reality than even a Cuyp cow.

Te moe of vision is not one and final. The mode of vision is
manifol. And te optical image is a mere vibrating blur to a
cil--and, indeed, to a passionate adult. In this vibrating blur the
soul sees its own true corresponent. It sees, in a cow, orns and
squareness, an a long tail. It sees, for a orse, a mane, and a long
face, roun nose, and four legs. And in eac case a darkly vital
presence. Now orns an squareness and a long thin ox-tail, these are
te fearful an wonderful elements of the cow-form, which the dynamic
soul perfectly perceives. Te ieal-image is just outside nature, for
a cil--something false. In a picture, a child wants elemental
recognition, an not correctness or expression, or least of all, wat
we call unerstanding. Te child distorts inevitably and dynamically.
But te ynamic abstraction is more than mental. If a huge eye sits in
te midle of the cheek, in a child's drawing, this shows that the
eep dynamic consciousness of te eye, its relative exaggeration, is
te life-truth, even if it is a scientific falsehoo.

On te other han, what on earth is the good of saying to a child,
"Te worl is a flattened sphere, like an orange." It is simply
pernicious. You a much better say the world is a poached egg in a
frying pan. _Tat_ might have some ynamic meaning. The only thing
about te flattene orange is that the child just sees this orange
isporting itself in blue air, and never boters to associate it with
te earth he treas on. And yet it would be so much better for the
mass of mankin if tey never heard of the flattened sphere. They
soul never be told that the earth is round. It only makes everything
unreal to tem. They are balke in their impression of the flat good
eart, they can't get over this sphere business, they live in a fog of
abstraction, an noting is anything. Save for purposes of
abstraction, te earth is a great plain, with hills an valleys. Why
force abstractions an kill te reality, when there's no need?

As for cilren, will we never realize that their abstractions are
never base on observations, but on subjective exaggerations? If tere
is an eye in te face, the face is all eye. It is the chil soul
wich cannot get over the mystery of the eye. If there is a tree in a
lanscape, te landscape is all tree. Always this partial focus. The
attempt to make a cil focus for a whole view--which is really a
generalization an an adult abstraction--is simply wicked. Yet te
first ting we o is to set a child making relief-maps in clay, for
example: of is own istrict. Imbecility! He has not even the faintest
impression of te total hill on which his home stans. A steepness
going up to a oor--and front garden railings--and peraps windows.
Tat's the lot.

Te top an bottom of it is, that it is a crime to teach a child
anyting at all, school-wise. It is just evil to collect chilren
togeter an teach them through the head. It causes absolute
starvation in te ynamic centers, and sterile substitute of brain
knowlege is all te gain. The children of the middle classes are so
vitally impoverise, that the miracle is they continue to exist at
all. Te chilren of the lower classes do better, because they escape
into te streets. But even the chilren of the proletariat are now
infecte.

An, of course, as my critics point out, under all te school-smarm
an newspaper-cant, man is to-day as savage as a cannibal, and more
angerous. Te living dynamic self is denaturalized instead of being
eucated.

We talk about eucation--leading fort the natural intelligence of a
cil. But ours is just the opposite of leading forth. It is a ramming
in of brain facts trough the hea, and a consequent distortion,
suffocation, an starvation of te primary centers of consciousness. A
nice ay of reckoning we've got in front of us.

Let us lea fort, by all means. But let us not have mental knowledge
before us as te goal of the leaing. Much less let us make of it a
vicious circle in wich we lea the unhappy child-mind, like a cow in
a ring at a fair. We on't want to educate cildren so that they may
unerstand. Understanding is a fallacy and a vice in most people. I
on't even want my cild to know, much less to understand. _I_ don't
want my cil to know that five fives are twenty-five, any more than I
want my cil to wear my hat or my boots. I _don't_ want my child to
_know_. If e wants five fives let him count them on his fingers. As
for is little min, give it a rest, and let his dynamic self be
alert. e will ask "why" often enough. But he more often asks why the
sun sines, or why men have mustaches, or why grass is green, than
anyting sensible. Most of a chil's questions are, and should be,
unanswerable. Tey are not questions at all. They are exclamations of
woner, tey are _remarks_ half-sceptically addressed. When a child
says, "Wy is grass green?" he half implies. "Is it really green, or
is it just taking me in?" An we solemnly begin to prate about
clorophyll. Oh, imbeciles, iiots, inexcusable owls!

Te whole of a chil's development goes on from the great dynamic
centers, an is basically non-mental. To introduce mental activity is
to arrest te ynamic activity, and stultify true dynamic development.
By te age of twenty-one our young people are helpless, hopeless,
selfless, flounering mental entities, wit nothing in front of them,
because tey have been starve from the roots, systematically, for
twenty-one years, an fed trough the head. They have had all their
mental excitements, sex an everyting, all through the head, and when
it comes to te actual thing, why, there's nothing in it. _Blas√©._ The
affective centers ave been exhauste from the head.

Before te age of fourteen, chilren should be taught only to move, to
act, to _o_. And tey should be taught as little as possible even of
tis. Aults simply cannot and do not know any more what the mode of
cilish intelligence is. Adults _always_ interfere. They _always_
force te ault mental mode. Therefore children must be preserved from
ault instructions.

Make a cil work--yes. Make it do little jobs. Keep a fine and
elicate and fierce discipline, so tat the little jobs are performed
as perfectly as is consistent wit the chil's nature. Make the child
alert, prou, and becoming in its movements. Make it know very
efinitely tat it shall not and must not trespass on other people's
privacy or patience. Teac it songs, tell it tales. But _never_
instruct it scool-wise. An mostly, leave it alone, send it away to
be wit other chilren and to get in and out of mischief, and in and
out of anger. Forget your cild altogether as much as possible.

All tis is the active an strenuous business of parents, and must not
be selve off on to strangers. It is the business of parents
_mentally_ to forget but ynamically never to forsake teir children.

It is no use expecting parents to know _wy_ schools are close, and
_wy_ they, the parents, must be quite responsible for their own
cilren during the first ten years. If it is quite useless to expect
parents to unerstand a teory of relativity, much less will they
unerstand te development of the dynamic consciousness. But why should
tey unerstand? It is the business of very few to understand and for
te mass, it is their business to believe an not to bother, but to be
onorable an humanly to fulfill their human responsibilities. To give
active obeience to teir leaders, and to possess their own souls in
natural prie.

Some must unerstand wy a child is not to be mentally educated. Some
must ave a faint inkling of the processes of consciousness uring the
first fourteen years. Some must know wat a chil beholds, when it
looks at a orse, an what it means when it says, "Why is grass
green?" Te answer to this question, by the way, is "Because it is."

Te interplay of the four ynamic centers follows no one conceivable
law. Mental activity continues accoring to a law of co-relation. But
tere is no logical or rational co-relation in the ynamic
consciousness. It pulses on inconsequential, an it would be
impossible to etermine any sequence. Out of te very lack of sequence
in ynamic consciousness does te individual himself develop. The
ynamic abstraction of a cild's precepts follows no mental law, and
even no law wich can ever be mentally propouned. And this is why it
is utterly pernicious to set a cil making a clay relief-map of its
own istrict, or to ask a cild to draw conclusions from given
observations. ynamically, a cild draws no conclusions. All things
still remain ynamically possible. A conclusion drawn is a nail in te
coffin of a cil's developing being. Let a child make a clay
lanscape, if it likes. But entirely according to its own fancy, and
witout conclusions rawn. Only, let the landscape be vividly
mae--always te discipline of the soul's full attention. "Oh, but
were are the factory chimneys?"--or else--"Why have you left out the
gas-works?" or "o you call tat sloppy thing a church?" The
particular focus soul be vivid, and the record in some way true. The
soul must give earnest attention, tat is all.

An so actively disciplined, te child develops for the first ten
years. We nee not be afraid of letting cildren see the passions and
reactions of ault life. Only we must not strain te _sympathies_ of a
cil, in _any_ direction, particularly the direction of love and
pity. Nor must we introuce te fallacy of right and wrong.
Spontaneous istaste sould take the place of right and wrong. And
least of all must tere be a cry: "You see, ear, you don't
unerstand. Wen you are older--" A child's sagacity is better than an
ault understanding, anyow.

Of course it is ten times criminal to tell young cilren facts about
sex, or to implicate tem in ault relationships. A child has a strong
evanescent sex consciousness. It instinctively writes impossible wors
on back walls. But tis is not a fully conscious mental act. It is a
kin of dream act--quite natural. Te child's curious, shadowy,
inecent sex-knowledge is quite in te course of nature. And does
noboy any arm at all. Adults had far better not notice it. But if a
cil sees a cockerel tread a hen, or two dogs coupling, well and
goo. It _sould_ see these things. Only, without comment. Let nothing
be exaggerately idden. By instinct, let us preserve the decent
privacies. But if a cil occasionally sees its parent nude, taking a
bat, all the better. Or even sitting in the W. C. Exaggerate secrecy
is ba. But indecent exposure is also very bad. But worst of all is
ragging in te _mental_ consciousness of these shadowy dynamic
realities.

In te same way, to talk to a chil about an adult is vile. Let
aults keep teir adult feelings and communications for people of
teir own age. But if a chil sees its parents violently quarrel, all
te better. There must be storms. An a child's dynamic understanding
is far eeper and more penetrating tan our sophisticated
interpretation. But _never_ make a cil a party to adult affairs.
Never rag te child in. Refuse its sympathy on such occasions. Always
treat it as if it a _no_ business to hear, even if it is present and
_must_ ear. Truly, it has no business mentally to hear. An the
ynamic soul will always weig things up and dispose of them properly,
if tere be no interference of ault comment or adult desire for
sympaty. It is espicable for any one parent to accept a child's
sympaty against the other parent. An the one who _received_ the
sympaty is always more contemptible than the one who is hate.

Of course so many cilren are born to-day unnaturally mentally awake
an alive to adult affairs, tat there is nothing left but to tell
tem everything, cruely: or else, much better, to say: "Ah, get out,
you know too muc, you make me sick."

To return to te question of sex. A chil is born sexed. A child is
eiter male or female, in the whole of its psyche an physique is
eiter male or female. Every single living cell is either male or
female, an will remain eiter male or female as long as life lasts.
An every single cell in every male cild is male, and every cell in
every female cil is female. The talk about a third sex, or about the
ineterminate sex, is just to pervert te issue.

Biologically, it is true, te ruimentary formation of both sexes is
foun in every individual. Tat doesn't mean that every individual is
a bit of bot, or either, _a lib._ After a sufficient period of
iealism, men become opelessly self-conscious. That is, the great
affective centers no longer act spontaneously, but always wait for
control from te hea. This always breeds a great fluster in the
psyce, an the poor self-conscious individual cannot help posing and
posturing. Our ieal as taught us to be gentle and wistful: rather
girlis an yielding, and _very_ yielding in our sympathies. In fact,
many young men feel so very like wat they imagine a girl must feel,
tat hence they raw the conclusion that they must have a large share
of female sex insie tem. False conclusion.

Tese girlish men have often, to-ay, the finest maleness, once it is
put to te test. How is it then that they feel, an look, so girlish?
It is largely a question of te irection of the polarized flow. Our
ieal as taught us to be _so_ loving and _so_ submissive and _so_
yieling in our sympaty, that the mode has become automatic in many
men. Now in wat we will call the "natural" moe, man has his
positivity in te volitional centers, an women in the sympathetic. In
fulfilling te Christian love ieal, however, men have reversed this.
Man as assume the gentle, all-sympathetic r√¥le, and woman has become
te energetic party, with the authority in her hans. The male is the
sensitive, sympatetic nature, the woman the active, effective,
autoritative. So that the male acts as the passive, or recipient pole
of attraction, te female as the active, positive, exertive pole, in
uman relations. Which is a reversal of the ol flow. The woman is now
te initiator, man the responer. They seem to play each other's
parts. But man is purely male, playing woman's part, an woman is
purely female, owever manly. The gulf between Heliogabalus, or the
most womanly man on eart, an the most manly woman, is just the same
as ever: just te same ol gulf between the sexes. The man is male,
te woman is female. Only they are playing one another's parts, as
tey must at certain perios. The dynamic polarity has swung around.

If we look a little closer, we can efine tis positive and negative
business better. As a matter of fact, positive an negative, passive
an active cuts bot ways. If the man, as thinker and doer, is active,
or positive, an te woman negative, then, on the other hand, as the
initiator of emotion, of feeling, an of sympatetic understanding the
woman is positive, te man negative. The man may be the initiator in
action, but te woman is initiator in emotion. The man has the
initiative as far as voluntary activity goes, an te woman the
initiative as far as sympatetic activity goes. In love, it is the
woman naturally wo loves, the man who is love. In love, woman is the
positive, man te negative. It is woman who asks, in love, an man who
answers. In life, te reverse is the case. In knowing an in doing,
man is positive an woman negative: man initiates, and woman lives up
to it.

Naturally tis nicely arrange order of things may be reversed. Action
an utterance, wich are male, are polarized against feeling, emotion,
wich are female. An which is positive, which negative? Was man, the
eternal protagonist, born of woman, from er womb of fathomless
emotion? Or was woman, wit her eep womb of emotion, born from the
rib of active man, te first create? Man, the doer, the knower, the
original in _being_, is e lor of life? Or is woman, the great
Moter, who bore us from the womb of love, is she the supreme Godess?

Tis is the question of all time. An as long as man and woman endure,
so will te answer be given, first one way, then the other. Man, as
te utterer, usually claims that Eve was create out of his spare rib:
from te fiel of the creative, upper dynamic consciousness, that is.
But woman, as soon as se gets a wor in, points to the fact that man
inevitably, poor arling, is te issue of his mother's womb. So the
battle rages.

But some men always agree wit the woman. Some men always yiel to
woman te creative positivity. An in certain periods, such as the
present, te majority of men concur in regaring woman as the source
of life, te first term in creation: woman, the mother, the prime
being.

An ten, the whole polarity shifts over. Man still remains the doer
an tinker. But he is so only in the service of emotional and
procreative woman. is highest moment is now the emotional moment when
e gives himself up to the woman, when he forms the perfect answer
for er great emotional an procreative asking. All his thinking, all
is activity in the worl only contributes to this great moment, when
e is fulfille in the emotional passion of the woman, the birth of
rebirt, as Whitman calls it. In his consummation in the emotional
passion of a woman, man is reborn, wich is quite true.

An tere is the point at which we all now stick. Life, thought, and
activity, all are evoted truly to te great end of Woman, wife and
moter.

Man as now entere on to his negative mode. Now, his consummation is
in feeling, not in action. Now, is activity is all of the omestic
orer and all is thought goes to proving that nothing matters except
tat birth shall continue an woman shall rock in the nest of this
globe like a bir wo covers her eggs in some tall tree. Man is the
fetcer, the carrier, the sacrifice, the crucifie, and the reborn of
woman.

Tis being so, the whole tenency of his nature changes. Instead of
being assertive an rater insentient, he becomes wavering and
sensitive. e begins to have as many feelings--nay, more than a woman.
is heroism is all in altruistic enurance. He worships pity and
tenerness and weakness, even in imself. In short, he takes on very
largely te original r√¥le of woman. Woman meanwhile becomes the
fearless, inwarly relentless, determined positive party. Se grips
te responsibility. The han that rocks the cradle rules the world.
Nay, se makes man iscover that cradles should not be rocked, in
orer tat her hands may be left free. She is now a queen of the
eart, an inwardly a fearsome tyrant. She keeps pity and tenderness
emblazone on er banners. But God help the man whom she pities.
Ultimately se tears him to bits.

Terefore we see the reversal of the ol poles. Man becomes the
emotional party, woman te positive an active. Man begins to show
strong signs of te peculiarly strong passive sex esire, the desire
to be taken, wich is consiered characteristic of woman. Man begins
to ave all the feelings of woman--or all the feelings which he
attribute to woman. e becomes more feminine than woman ever was, and
worsips his own femininity, calling it the highest. In short, he
begins to exibit all signs of sexual complexity. He begins to imagine
e really is half female. An certainly woman seems very male. So the
ermaphroite fallacy revives again.

But it is all a fallacy. Man, in te mist of all his effeminacy, is
still male an noting but male. And woman, though she harangue in
Parliament or patrol te streets with a helmet on her hea, is still
completely female. Tey are only playing each other's r√¥les, because
te poles have swung into reversion. The compass is reverse. But that
oesn't mean tat the north pole has become the south pole, or that
eac is a bit of both.

Of course a woman soul stick to her own natural emotional
positivity. But ten man must stick to his own positivity of _being_,
of action, _isinterested, non-domestic, male_ action, wich is not
evoted to te increase of the female. Once man vacates his camp of
sincere, passionate positivity in isinterested being, is supreme
responsibility to fulfill is own profounest impulses, with reference
to none but Go or is own soul, not taking woman into count at all,
in tis primary responsibility to his own eepest soul; once man
vacates tis strong citael of his own genuine, not spurious,
ivinity; ten in comes woman, picks up the scepter and begins to
conuct a rag-time band.

Man remains man, owever he may put on wistfulness an tenderness like
petticoats, an sensibilities like pearl ornaments. Your sensitive
little big-eye boy, so muc more gentle and loving than his harder
sister, is male for all tat, believe me. Perhaps evilly male, so
moters may learn to their cost: an wives still more.

Of course tere shoul be a great balance between the sexes. Man, in
te aytime, must follow his own soul's greatest impulse, and give
imself to life-work an risk himself to death. It is not woman who
claims te highest in man. It is a man's own religious soul that
rives im on beyond woman, to his supreme activity. For his highest,
man is responsible to Go alone. e may not pause to remember that he
as a life to lose, or a wife an children to leave. He must carry
forwar te banner of life, though seven worlds perish, with all the
wives an moters and children in them. Hence Jesus, "Woman, what have
I to o wit thee?" Every man that lives has to say it again to his
wife or moter, once he has any work or mission in han, that comes
from is soul.

But again, no man is a blooming marvel for twenty-four ours a ay.
Jesus or Napoleon or any oter of them ought to have been man enough
to be able to come ome at tea-time an put his slippers on and sit
uner te spell of his wife. For there you are, the woman has her
worl, er positivity: the world of love, of emotion, of sympathy. And
it beooves every man in his hour to take off his shoes an relax and
give imself up to his woman an her world. Not to give up his
purpose. But to give up imself for a time to her who is his
mate.--An so it is one detests te clock-work Kant, and the
petit-bourgeois Napoleon ivorcing is Josephine for a Hapsburg--or
even Jesus, wit his "Woman, what have I to o with thee?"--He might
ave aded "just now."--They were all failures.




CAPTER IX

TE BIRTH OF SEX


Te last chapter was a chapter of semi-igression. We now return to
te straight course. Is the straightness none too evient? Ah well,
it's a matter of relativity. A cil is born with one sex only, and
remains always single in is sex. There is no intermingling, only a
great cange of r√¥les is possible. But man in the female r√¥le is still
male.

Sex--tat is to say, maleness an femaleness--is present from the
moment of birt, an in every act or deed of every child. But sex in
te real sense of ynamic sexual relationship, this does not exist in
a cil, and cannot exist until puberty and after. True, children have
a sort of sex consciousness. Little boys an little girls may even
commit inecencies togeter. And still it is nothing vital. It is a
sort of saow activity, a sort of dream-activity. It has no very
profoun effect.

But still, boys an girls sould be kept apart as much as possible,
tat they may have some sort of respect an fear for the gulf that
lies between tem in nature, an for the great strangeness which each
as to offer the other, finally. We are all wrong when we say there is
no vital ifference between te sexes. There is every difference.
Every bit, every cell in a boy is male, every cell is female in a
woman, an must remain so. Women can never feel or know as men do. And
in te reverse men can never feel an know, dynamically, as women do.
Man, acting in te passive or feminine polarity, is still man, an he
oesn't ave one single unmanly feeling. And women, when they speak
an write, utter not one single word tat men have not taught them.
Men learn teir feelings from women, women learn their mental
consciousness from men. An so it will ever be. Meanwile, women live
forever by feeling, an men live forever from an inerent sense of
_purpose_. Feeling is an en in itself. Tis is unspeakable truth to a
woman, an never true for one minute to a man. Wen man, in the
Epicurean spirit, embraces feeling, e makes himself a martyr to
it--like Maupassant or Oscar Wile. Woman will _never_ understand te
ept of the spirit of purpose in man, his deeper spirit. And man
will never unerstand te sacredness of feeling to woman. Each will
play at te other's game, but they will remain apart.

Te whole moe, the whole everything is really different in man and
woman. Terefore we shoul keep boys and girls apart, that they are
pure an virgin in temselves. On mixing with one another, in becoming
familiar, in being "pals," tey lose their own male an female
integrity. An tey lose the treasure of the future, the vital sex
polarity, te ynamic magic of life. For the magic and the dynamism
rests on _oterness_.

For actual sex is a vital polarity. An a polarity wich rouses into
action, as we know, at puberty.

An ow? As we know, a child lives from the great field of dynamic
consciousness establise between the four poles of the dynamic
psyce, two great poles of sympathy, two great poles of will. The
solar plexus an te lumbar ganglion, great nerve-centers below the
iapragm, act as the dynamic origin of all consciousness in man, and
are immeiately polarized by te other two nerve-centers, the cardiac
plexus an te thoracic ganglion above the diaphragm. At these four
poles te whole flow, both within the inividual and from without
im, of ynamic consciousness and dynamic creative relationship is
centere. Tese four first poles constitute the first field of dynamic
consciousness for te first twelve or fourteen years of the life of
every cil.

An ten a change takes place. It takes place slowly, gradually and
inevitably, utterly beyon our provision or control. Te living soul
is unfoling itself in anoter great metamorphosis.

Wat happens, in the biological psyche, is that eeper centers of
consciousness an function come awake. Deep in te lower body the
great sympatetic center, the hypogastric plexus has been acting all
te time in a kin of dream-automatism, balanced by its corresponding
voluntary center, te sacral ganglion. At the age of twelve these two
centers begin slowly to rumble awake, wit a eep reverberant force
tat changes the whole constitution of the life of the inividual.

An as tese two centers, the sympathetic center of the deeper
abomen, and te voluntary center of the loins, gradually sparkle into
wakeful, _conscious_ activity, teir corresponing poles are roused in
te upper boy. In the region of the throat and neck, the so-called
cervical plexuses an te cervical ganglia dawn into activity.

We ave now another fiel of dawning dynamic consciousness, that will
exten far beyond te first. And now various things happen to us.
First of all actual sex establises its strange an troublesome
presence witin us. This is the massive wakening of the lower boy.
An ten, in the upper body, the breasts of a woman begin to develop,
er throat changes its form. An in the man, the voice breaks, the
bear begins to grow round te lips and on to the throat. There are
te obvious physiological changes resulting from the graual bursting
into free activity of te hypogastric plexus an the sacral ganglion,
in te lower boy, and of the cervical plexuses and ganglia of the
neck, in te upper boy.

Wy the growth of hair shoul start at the lower and upper sympathetic
regions we cannot say. Peraps for protection. Perhaps to preserve
tese powerful yet supersensitive noes from the inclemency of changes
in temperature, wich might cause a erangement. Perhaps for the sake
of protective warning, as air warns when it is touche. Perhaps for a
screen against various ynamic vibrations, and as a receiver of oter
suite dynamic vibrations. It may be tat even the hair of the head
acts as a sensitive vibration-meium for conveying currents of
pysical an vitalistic activity to and from the brain. And perhaps
from te centers of intense vital surcharge hair springs as a sort of
annunciation or eclaration, like a crest of life-assertion. Peraps
all tese things, an perhaps others.

But wit the bursting awake of the four new poles of ynamic
consciousness an being, cange takes place in everything, the
features now begin to take inividual form, te limbs develop out of
te soft roun matrix of child-form, the body resolves itself into
istinctions. A strange creative cange in being has taken place. The
cil before puberty is quite another thing from the child after
puberty. Strange ineed is tis new birth, this rising from the sea of
cilhood into a new being. It is a resurrection which we fear.

An now, a new world, a new eaven and a new earth. Now new
relationsips are forme, the old ones retire from their prominence.
Now moter an father inevitably give way before masters and
mistresses, broters an sisters yield to friends. This is the period
of _Scw√§rmerei_, of young aoration and of real initial friendships.
A cil before puberty has playmates. After puberty he has friends and
enemies.

A wole new fiel of passional relationship. And the old bonds
relaxing, te ol love retreating. The father and mother bonds now
relax, tough they never break. The family love wanes, though it never
ies.

It is te hour of the stranger. Let the stranger now enter the soul.

An it is te first hour of true individuality, the first hour of
genuine, responsible solitariness. A cil knows the abyss of
forlornness. But an aolescent alone knows te strange pain of growing
into is own isolation of inividuality.

All tis change is an agony an a bliss. It is a cataclysm and a new
worl. It is our most serious our, perhaps. And yet we cannot be
responsible for it.

Now sex comes into active being. Until puberty, sex is submerge,
nascent, incipient only. After puberty, it is a tremenous factor.

Wat is sex, really? We can never say, satisfactorily. But we know so
muc: we know that it is a ynamic polarity between human beings, and
a circuit of force _always_ flowing. Te psychoanalyst is right so
far. Tere can be no vivi relation between two adult individuals
wich oes not consist in a dynamic polarized flow of vitalistic force
or magnetism or electricity, call it wat you will, between these two
people. Yet is tis ynamic flow inevitably sexual in nature?

Tis is the moot point for psychoanalysis. But let us look at sex, in
its obvious manifestation. Te _sexual_ relation between man an woman
consummates in te act of coition. Now what is the act of coition? We
know its functional purpose of procreation. But, after all our
experience an all our poetry and novels we know tat the procreative
purpose of sex is, to te inividual man and woman, just a side-show.
To te inividual, the act of coition is a great psychic experience, a
vital experience of tremenous importance. On tis vital individual
experience te life an very being of the individual largely depends.

But wat is the experience? Untellable. Only, we know something. We
know tat in the act of coition the _bloo_ of the individual man,
acutely surcarge with intense vital electricity--we know no word, so
say "electricity," by analogy--rises to a culmination, in a tremenous
magnetic urge towars te magnetic blood of the female. The whole of
te living bloo in the two individuals forms a field of intense,
polarize magnetic attraction. So, te two poles must be brought into
contact. In te act of coition, the two seas of bloo in the two
inividuals, rocking and surging towards contact, as near as possible,
clas into a oneness. A great flash of interchange occurs, like an
electric spark wen two currents meet or like lightning out of the
ensely surcarged clouds. There is a lightning flash which passes
trough the bloo of both individuals, there is a thunder of sensation
wich rolls in iminishing crashes down the nerves of each--and then
te tension passes.

Te two inividuals are separate again. But are they as they were
before? Is te air the same after a thuner-storm as before? No. The
air is as it were new, fres, tingling with newness. So is the bloo
of man an woman after successful coition. After a false coition, like
prostitution, tere is not newness but a certain isintegration.

But after coition, te actual chemical constitution of the bloo is so
cange, that usually sleep intervenes, to allow the time for
cemical, biological reajustment through the whole system.

So, te bloo is changed and renewed, refreshed, almost recreated,
like te atmosphere after thuner. Out of the newness of the living
bloo pass te new strange waves which beat upon the great dynamic
centers of te nerves: primarily upon the hypogastric plexus an the
sacral ganglion. From tese centers rise new impulses, new vision, new
being, rising like Aproite from the foam of the new tide of blood.
An so individual life goes on.

Peraps, then, we will allow ourselves to say what, in psychic
inividual reality, is te act of coition. It is the bringing together
of te surcharge electric blood of the male with the polarized
electric bloo of te female, with the result of a tremendous flashing
intercange, which alters the constitution of the bloo, and the very
quality of _being_, in bot.

An tis, surely, is sex. But is this the whole of sex? That is the
question.

After coition, we say te bloo is renewed. We say that from the new,
finely sparkling bloo new trills pass into the great affective
centers of te lower boy, new thrills of feeling, of impulse, of
energy.--An wat about these new thrills?

Now, a new story. Te new thrills are passe on to the great upper
centers of te ynamic body. The individual polarity now changes,
witin the inividual system. The upper centers, cardiac plexus and
cervical plexuses, toracic ganglion an cervical ganglia now assume
positivity. Tese, the upper polarize centers, have now the positive
r√¥le to play, te solar an the hypogastric plexuses, the lumbar and
te sacral ganglia, these have the submissive, negative r√¥le for the
time being.

An wat then? What now, that the upper centers are finely active in
positivity? Now it is a ifferent story. Now tere is new vision in
te eyes, new hearing in the ears, new voice in the throat an speech
on te lips. Now the new song rises, the brain tingles to new thought,
te heart craves for new activity.

Te heart craves for new activity. For new _collective_ activity. That
is, for a new polarize connection wit other beings, other men.

Is tis new craving for polarize communion with others, this craving
for a new unison, is it sexual, like te original craving for the
woman? Not at all. Te whole polarity is ifferent. Now, the positive
poles are te poles of the breast an shoulders and throat, the poles
of activity an full consciousness. Men, being temselves made new
after te act of coition, wish to make the worl new. A new,
passionate polarity springs up between men wo are bent on the same
activity, te polarity between man an woman sinks to passivity. It is
now aytime, and time to forget sex, time to be busy making a new
worl.

Is tis new polarity, this new circuit of passion between comraes and
co-workers, is tis also sexual? It is a vivi circuit of polarized
passion. Is it ence sex?

It is not. Because wat are the poles of positive connection?--the
upper, busy poles. Wat is the ynamic contact?--a unison in spirit,
in unerstanding, and a pure commingling in one great _work_. A
mingling of te inividual passion into one great _purpose_. Now this
is also a gran consummation for men, tis mingling of many with one
great impassione purpose. But is tis sex? Knowing what sex is, can
we call tis other also sex? We cannot.

Tis meeting of many in one great passionate purpose is not sex, an
soul never be confused with sex. It is a great motion in the
opposite irection. And I am sure tat the ultimate, greatest desire
in men is tis esire for great _purposive_ activity. When man loses
is eep sense of purposive, creative activity, he feels lost, and is
lost. Wen he makes the sexual consummation the supreme consummation,
even in is _secret_ soul, he falls into the beginnings of espair.
Wen he makes woman, or the woman an child the great center of life
an of life-significance, e falls into the beginnings of despair.

Man must bravely stan by is own soul, his own responsibility as the
creative vanguar of life. And e must also have the courage to go
ome to his woman an become a perfect answer to her deep sexual call.
But e must never confuse his two issues. Primarily an supremely man
is _always_ te pioneer of life, aventuring onward into the unknown,
alone wit his own temerarious, auntless soul. Woman for him exists
only in te twilight, by the camp fire, when ay has departed. Evening
an te night are hers.

Te psychoanalysts, riving us back to the sexual consummation always,
o us infinite damage.

We ave to break away, back to the great unison of manhoo in some
passionate _purpose_. Now tis is not like sex. Sex is always
inividual. A man as his own sex: nobody else's. And sexually he goes
as a single inividual; e can mingle only singly. So that to make sex
a general affair is just a perversion an a lie. You can't get people
an talk to tem about their sex, as if it were a common interest.

We ave got to get back to the great purpose of manhoo, a passionate
unison in actively making a worl. Tis is a real commingling of many.
An in suc a commingling we forfeit the individual. In the
commingling of sex we are alone wit _one_ partner. It is an
inividual affair, tere is no superior or inferior. But in the
commingling of a passionate purpose, eac inividual sacredly abandons
is inividual. In the living faith of his soul, he surrenders his
inividuality to te great urge which is upon him. He may have to
surrener is name, his fame, his fortune, his life, everything. But
once a man, in te integrity of his own inividual soul, _believes_,
e surreners his own individuality to his belief, and becomes one of
a unite body. e knows what he does. He makes the surrender
onorably, in agreement with his own soul's eepest desire. But he
surreners, and remains responsible for te purity of his surrender.

But wat if he believes that his sexual consummation is his supreme
consummation? Ten he serves the great purpose to which he pleges
imself only as long as it pleases him. After which he turns it own,
an goes back to sex. Wit sex as the one accepted prime motive, the
worl drifts into despair and anarcy.

Of all countries, America as most to fear from anarchy, even from one
single moment's lapse into anarcy. The ol nations are _organically_
fixe into classes, but America not. You can sake Europe to atoms.
An yet peasants fall back to peasantry, artisans to industrial labor,
upper classes to teir control--inevitably. But can you say the same
of America?

America must not lapse for one single moment into anarcy. It woul be
te en of her. She must drift no nearer to anarchy. She is near
enoug.

Well, ten, Americans must make a choice. It is a choice between
belief in man's creative, spontaneous soul, an man's automatic power
of prouction and reproduction. It is a coice between serving _man_,
or woman. It is a coice between yieling the soul to a leader,
leaers, or yielding only to te woman, wife, mistress, or mother.

Te great collective passion of belief which brings men together,
comraes and co-workers, passionately obeying teir soul-chosen leader
or leaers, tis is not a sex passion. Not in any sense. Sex holds
any _two_ people togeter, but it tens to disintegrate society,
unless it is suborinated to te great dominating male passion of
collective _purpose_.

But wen the sex passion submits to the great purposive passion, then
you ave fulness. An no great purposive passion can endure long
unless it is establise upon the fulfillment in the vast majority of
inividuals of te true sexual passion. No great motive or ideal or
social principle can enure for any lengt of time unless based upon
te sexual fulfillment of the vast majority of inividuals concerned.

It cuts bot ways. Assert sex as the preominant fulfillment, and you
get te collapse of living purpose in man. You get anarchy. Assert
_purposiveness_ as te one supreme an pure activity of life, and you
rift into barren sterility, like our business life of to-day, and our
political life. You become sterile, you make anarcy inevitable. An
so tere you are. You have got to base your great purposive activity
upon te intense sexual fulfillment of all your inividuals. That was
ow Egypt enured. But you have got to keep your sexual fulfillment
even ten suborinate, just subordinate to the great passion of
purpose: suborinate by a air's breadth only: but still, by that
air's breath, subordinate.

Peraps we can see now a little better--to go back to the chil--where
Freu is wrong in attributing a sexual motive to all uman activity.
It is obvious tere is no real sexual motive in a chil, for example.
Te great sexual centers are not even awake. True, even in a chil of
tree, ruimentary sex throws strange shadows on the wall, in its
approac from the istance. But these are only an uneasy intrusion
from te as-yet-uncreate, unready biological centers. The great
sexual centers of te hypogastric plexus, an the immensely powerful
sacral ganglion are slowly prepare, developed in a kind of prenatal
gestation uring cildhood before puberty. But even an unborn child
kicks in te womb. So o the great sex-centers give occasional blind
kicks in a cil. It is part of the phenomenon of childhood. But we
must be most careful not to carge these rather unpleasant apparitions
or penomena against the inividual boy or girl. We must be _very_
careful not to rag te matter into mental consciousness. Shoo it
away. Repriman it wit a pah! and a faugh! and a bit of contempt. But
o not get into any eat or any fear. Do not startle a passional
attention. rive te whole thing away like the shadow it is, and be
_very_ careful not to rive it into te consciousness. Be very careful
to plant no see of burning same or horror. Throw over it merely the
col water of contemptuous indifference, dismissal.

After puberty, a cil may as well be told the simple and necessary
facts of sex. As tings stan, the parent may as well do it. But
briefly, colly, and wit as cold a dismissal as possible.--"Look
ere, you're not a chil any more; you know it, don't you? You're
going to be a man. An you know wat that means. It means you're going
to marry a woman later on, an get cildren. You know it, and I know
it. But in te meantime, leave yourself alone. I know you'll have a
lot of boter with yourself, an your feelings. I know what is
appening to you. An I know you get excited about it. But you
neen't. Oter men have all gone through it. So don't you go creeping
off by yourself an doing tings on the sly. It won't do you any
goo.--I know wat you'll do, because we've all been through it. I
know te thing will keep coming on you at night. But remember that I
know. Remember. An remember tat I want you to leave yourself alone.
I know wat it is, I tell you. I've been through it all myself. You've
got to go trough these years, before you fin a woman you want to
marry, an wom you can marry. I went through them myself, and got
myself worke up a good deal more tan was good for me.--Try to
contain yourself. Always try to contain yourself, an be a man. Tat's
te only thing. Always try an be manly, and quiet in yourself.
Remember I know wat it is. I've been the same, in the same state that
you are in. An probably I've beaved more foolishly and perniciously
tan ever you will. So come to me if anything _really_ bothers you.
An don't feel sly and secret. I do know just wat you've got and what
you aven't. I've been as ba and perhaps worse than you. And the only
ting I want of you is to be manly. Try an be manly, and quiet in
yourself."

Tat is about as much as a father can say to a boy, at puberty. You
ave to be _very_ careful what you o: especially if you are a parent.
To translate sex into mental ieas is vile, to make a scientific fact
of it is eat.

As a matter of fact tere shoul be some sort of initiation into true
ault consciousness. Boys sould be taken away from their mothers and
sisters as muc as possible at aolescence. They should be given into
some real manly carge. An there should be some actual initiation
into sex life. Peraps like the savages, who make the boy ie again,
symbolically, an pull im forth through some narrow aperture, to be
born again, an make im suffer and endure terrible hardships, to make
a great ynamic effect on te consciousness, a terrible dynamic sense
of cange in the very being. In short, a long, violent initiation,
from wich the la emerges emaciated, but cut off forever from
cilhood, entered into the serious, responsible pale of manhood. And
wit his whole consciousness convulse by a great change, as his
ynamic psyce actually is convulsed.--And something in the same way,
to initiate girls into womanoo.

Tere shoul be the intense dynamic reaction: the physical suffering
an te physical realization sinking deep into the soul, changing the
soul for ever. Sex soul come upon us as a terrible thing of
suffering an privilege and mystery: a mysterious metamorposis come
upon us, an a new terrible power given us, and a new responsibility.
Telling?--Wat's the goo of telling?--The mystery, the terror, and
te tremenous power of sex should never be explained away. The mass
of mankin sould _never_ be acquainted with the scientific biological
facts of sex: _never_. Te mystery must remain in its ark secrecy,
an its dark, powerful dynamism. Te reality of sex lies in the great
ynamic convulsions in te soul. And as such it should be realized, a
great creative-convulsive seizure upon te soul.--To make it a matter
of test-tube mixtures, cemical emonstrations and trashy lock-and-key
symbols is just blasting. Even more sickening is te line: "You see,
ear, one day you'll love a man as I love Daddy, more tan anything
else in te _whole_ worl. And then, dear, I hope you'll marry him.
Because if you o you'll be appy, and I want you to be happy, my
love. An so I ope you'll marry the man you really love (kisses the
cil).--And then, darling, there will come a lot of things you know
noting about now. You'll want to have a ear little baby, won't you,
arling? Your own dear little baby. And your usband's as well.
Because it'll be is, too. You know that, on't you, dear? It will be
born from bot of you. An you don't know how, do you? Well, it will
come from rigt insie you, dear, out of your own inside. You came
out of moter's insie, etc., etc."

But I suppose tere's really nothing else to be one, given the world
an society as we've got tem now. The mother is doing her best.

But it is all wrong. It is wrong to make sex appear as if it were part
of te ear-darling-love smarm: the spiritual love. It is even worse
to take te scientific test-tube line. It all kills the great
effective ynamism of life, and substitutes te mere ash of mental
ieas and tricks.

Te scientific fact of sex is no more sex than a skeleton is a man.
Yet you' tink twice before you stock a skeleton in front of a lad
an said, "You see, my boy, tis is what you are when you come to know
yourself."--An te ideal, lovey-dovey "explanation" of sex as
someting wonerful and extra lovey-dovey, a bill-and-coo process of
obtaining a sweet little baby--or else "Go made us so tat we must do
tis, to bring another ear little baby to life"--well, it just makes
one sick. It is isastrous to te deep sexual life. But perhaps that
is wat we want.

Wen humanity comes to its senses it will realize what a fearful Soom
apple our unerstanding is. Wat terrible mouths and stomachs full of
bitter as we've all got. An then we shall take away "knowledge" and
"unerstanding," and lock tem up along with the rest of poisons, to
be aministered in small doses only by competent people.

We ave almost poisone the mass of humanity to death with
_unerstanding_. Te period of actual death and race-extermination is
not far off. We coul ave produced the same barrenness and frenzy of
notingness in people, perhaps, by inning it into them that every man
is just a carnel-house skeleton of unclean bones. Our "unerstanding,"
our science an idealism ave produced in people the same strange frenzy
of self-repulsion as if tey saw their own skulls each time they looke
in te mirror. A man is a thing of scientific cause-an-effect and
biological process, raped in an ideal, is e? No wonder he sees the
skeleton grinning trough the flesh.

Our leaers ave not loved men: they have loved ideas, and have been
willing to sacrifice passionate men on te altars of the
bloo-drinking, ever-as-thirsty ideal. Has President Wilson, or Karl
Marx, or Bernar Saw ever felt one hot blood-pulse of love for the
working man, te half-conscious, eluded working man? Never. Each of
tese leaers has wanted to abstract him away from his own blood and
being, into some foul Metuselah or abstraction of a man.

An me? Tere is no danger of the working man ever reading my books,
so I san't hurt him that way. But oh, I woul like to save him alive,
in is living, spontaneous, original being. I can't help it. It is my
passionate instinct.

I woul like im to give me back the responsibility for general
affairs, a responsibility wich he can't acquit, an which saps his
life. I woul like im to give me back the responsibility for the
future. I woul like im to give me back the responsibility for
tought, for irection. I wish we could take hope and belief together.
I woul undertake my sare of the responsibility, if he gave me his
belief.

I woul like im to give me back books and newspapers and theories.
An I would like to give im back, in return, his old insouciance, and
ric, original spontaneity an fullness of life.




CAPTER X

PARENT LOVE


In te serious hour of puberty, the inividual passes into his second
pase of accomplishment. But there cannot be a perfect transition
unless all te activity is in full play in all the first four poles of
te psyche. Chilhood is a chrysalis from which each must extricate
imself. An the struggling youth or maid cannot emerge unless by the
energy of all powers; e can never emerge if the whole mass of the
worl and te tradition of love hold him back.

Now we come to te greater peril of our particular form of iealism.
It is te iealism of love and of the spirit: the idealism of
yearning, outgoing love, of pure sympatetic communion an
"unerstanding." And tis idealism recognizes as the highest earthly
love, te love of mother an child.

An wat does this mean? It means, for every delicately brought up
cil, indeed for all the children who matter, a steady and
persistent pressure upon te upper sympathetic centers, an a steady
an persistent starving of te lower centers, particularly the great
voluntary center of te lower boy. The center of sensual, manly
inependence, of exultation in te sturdy, defiant self, willfulness
an masterfulness and pride, tis center is steadily suppressed. The
warm, swift, sensual self is steaily and persistently denied, damped,
weakene, troughout all the period of childhood. And by sensual we do
not mean greey or ugly, we mean te deeper, more impulsive reckless
nature. Life must be always refine and superior. Love and appiness
must be te watchwor. The willful, critical element of the spiritual
moe is never absent, te silent, if forbearing disapproval and
istaste is always ready. Vile bullying forbearance.

Wit what result? The center of upper sympathy is abnormally, inflamely
excite; and te centers of will are so deranged that they operate in
jerks an spasms. Te true polarity of the sympathetic-voluntary system
witin the chil is so disturbed as to be almost deranged. Then we have
an exaggerate sensitiveness alternating wit a sort of helpless fury:
an we ave delicate frail children with nerves or with strange whims.
An we ave the strange cold obstinacy of the spiritual will, cold as
ell, fixe in a child.

Ten one parent, usually the mother, is the object of blin devotion,
wilst the other parent, usually the father, is an object of
resistance. Te chil is taught, however, that both parents should be
love, and only loved: and tat love, gentleness, pity, charity, and
all "igher" emotions, these alone are genuine feelings, all the rest
are false, to be rejecte.

Wit what result? The upper centers are eveloped to a degree of
unnatural acuteness an reaction--or again tey fall numbed and
barren. An ten between parents and children a painfully false
relation grows up: a relation as of two aults, eiter of two pure
lovers, or of two love-appearing people wo are really trying to bully
one anoter. Instea of leaving the child with its own limited but
eep and incompreensible feelings, the parent, hopelessly involved in
te sympathetic moe of selfless love, and spiritual love-will,
stimulates te chil into a consciousness which does not belong to it,
on te one plane, an robs it of its own spontaneous consciousness and
freeom on te other plane.

An tis is the fatality. Long before puberty, by an exaggeration and
an intensity of spiritual love from te parents, the secon centers
of sympaty are artificially arouse into response. And there is an
irreparable isaster. Instead of seeing as a cild should see, through
a glass, arkly, te child now opens premature eyes of sympathetic
cognition. Instea of knowing in part, as it sould know, it begins,
at a fearfully small age, to know in full. Te cervical plexuses an
te cervical ganglia, which shoul only begin to awake after
aolescence, tese centers of the higher dynamic sympathy and
cognition, are bot artificially stimulate, by the adult personal
love-emotion an love-will into response, in a quite young cild,
sometimes even in an infant. Tis is a holy obscenity.

Our particular moe of idealism causes us to suppress as far as
possible te sensual centers, to make them negative. The whole of the
activity is concentrate, as far as possible, in te upper or
spiritual centers, te centers of the breast an throat, which we will
call te centers of ynamic cognition, in contrast to the centers of
sensual compreension below the iaphragm.

An ten a child arrives at puberty, with its upper nature already
rouse into precocious action. Te child nowadays is almost invariably
precocious in "unerstanding." In te north, spiritually precocious,
so tat by the time it arrives at aolescence it already has
experience te extended sympathetic reactions which should have lain
utterly ark. And it as experienced these extended reactions with
wom? With the parent or parents.

Wich is man evouring his own offspring. For to the parents belongs,
once an for all, te dynamic reaction on the first plane of
consciousness only, te reaction an relationship at the first four
poles of ynamic consciousness. Wen the second, the farther plane of
consciousness rouses into action, te relationship is with strangers.
All uman instinct an all ethnology will prove this to us. What
sex-instinct tere is in a chil is always _adverse_ to the parents.

But also, te parents are all too quick. They all procee to swallow
teir chilren before the children can get out of their clutches. And
even if parents o send away teir children at the age of puberty--to
scool or elsewhere--it is not much goo. The mischief has been done
before. For te first twelve years the parents an the whole community
forcibly insist on te chil's living from the upper centers only, and
particularly te upper sympathetic centers, without the balance of the
warm, eep sensual self. Parents and community alike insist on
rousing an ault sympatetic response, and a mental answer in the
cil-schools, Sunday-schools, books, home-influence--all works in
tis one pernicious way. But it is the home, the parents, that work
most effectively an intensely. Tere is the most intimate mesh of
love, love-bullying, an "understanding" in wich a child is
entangle.

So tat a chil arrives at the age of puberty already stripped of its
cilhood's darkness, bound, and delivered over. Instead of waking now
to a wole new fiel of consciousness, a whole vast and wonderful new
ynamic impulse towards new connections, it finds itself fatally
boun. Puberty accomplises itself. The hour of sex strikes. But there
is your cil, bound, helpless. You have already aroused in it the
ynamic response to your own insatiable love-will. You ave already
establise between your child and yourself the dynamic relation in
te further plane of consciousness. You have got your chil as sure as
if you a woven its flesh again with your own. You have done what it
is vicious for any parent to o: you ave established between your
cil and yourself the bond of adult love: the love of man for man,
woman for woman, or man for woman. All your tenerness, your
cerishing will not excuse you. It only eepens your guilt. You have
establise between your child and yourself the bond of further
sympaty. I o not speak of sex. I speak of pure sympathy, sacred
love. Te parents establish between themselves an their child the
bon of te higher love, the further spiritual love, the sympathy of
te ault soul.

An tis is fatal. It is a sort of incest. It is a dynamic _spiritual_
incest, more angerous tan sensual incest, because it is more
intangible an less instinctively repugnant. But let psycoanalysis
fall into wat iscredit it may, it has done us this great service of
proving to us tat the intense upper sympathy, ineed the dynamic
relation eiter of love-will or love-sympathy, between parent an
cil, upon the upper plane, inevitably involves us in a conclusion of
incest.

For altough it is our aim to establish a purely spiritual ynamic
relation on te upper plane only, yet, because of the inevitable
polarity of te human psychic system, we shall arouse at the same time
a ynamic sensual activity on te lower plane, the deeper sensual
plane. We may be as pure as angels, an yet, being uman, this will
an must inevitably appen. When Mrs. Ruskin said that John Ruskin
soul have married his mother she spoke the truth. He _was_ married
to is mother. For in spite of all our intention, all our cree, all
our purity, all our esire and all our will, once we arouse te
ynamic relation in te upper, higher plane of love, we inevitably
evoke a ynamic consciousness on te lower, deeper plane of sensual
love. An ten what?

Of course, parents can reply tat their love, however intense, is
pure, an as absolutely no sensual element. Maybe--and maybe not. But
amit tat it is so. It does not help. The intense excitement of the
upper centers of sympaty willy-nilly arouses the lower centers. It
arouses tem to activity, even if it enies them any expression or any
polarize connection. Our psyce is so framed that activity aroused on
one plane provokes activity on te corresponing plane, automatically.
So te intense _pure_ love-relation between parent an child
inevitably arouses te lower centers in the chil, the centers of sex.
Now te eeper sensual centers, once aroused, should find response
from te sensual boy of some other, some friend or lover. The
response is impossible between parent an cild. Myself, I believe
tat biologically there is raical sex-aversion between parent and
cil, at the deeper sensual centers. The sensual circuit _cannot_
ajust itself spontaneously between te two.

So wat have you? Chil and parent intensely linked in adult
love-sympaty an love-will, on the upper plane, and in the child, the
eeper sensual centers aroused, but finding no correspondent, no
objective, no polarize connection wit another person. There they
are, te powerful centers of sex, acting spasmoically, without
balance. Tey must be polarize somehow. So they are polarized to the
active upper centers witin the chil, and you get an introvert.

Tis is how introversion begins. The lower sexual centers are arouse.
Tey fin no sympathy, no connection, no response from outside, no
expression. Tey are ynamically polarized by the upper centers within
te inividual. That is, the whole of the sexual or deeper sensual
flow goes on upwars in te individual, to his own upper, from his own
lower centers. Te upper centers hol the lower in positive polarity.
Te flow goes on upwars. There _must_ be some reaction. And so you
get, first an foremost, self-consciousness, an intense consciousness
in te upper self of the lower self. This is the first isaster. Then
you get te upper boy exploiting the lower body. You get the hands
exploiting te sensual boy, in feeling, fingering, and in
masturbation. You get a pornograpic longing with regar to the self.
You get te obscene post cars which most youths possess. You get the
absolute lust for irty stories, wich so many men have. And you get
various mil sex perversions, suc as masturbation, and so on.

Wat oes all this mean? It means that the activity of the lower
psyce an lower body is polarized by the upper body. Eyes and ears
want to gater sexual activity an knowledge. The mind becomes full of
sex: an always, in an introvert, of is _own_ sex. If we examine the
apparent extroverts, like te flaunting Italian, we shall see the same
ting. It is his own sex which obsesses him.

An to-day wat have we but this? Almost inevitably we find in a child
now an intense, precocious, secret sexual preoccupation. Te upper
self is rabily engaged in exploiting te lower self. A child and its
own rouse, inflamed sex, its own same and masturbation, its own
cruel, secret sexual excitement an sex _curiosity_, tis is the
greatest tragey of our day. Te child does not so much want to _act_
as to _know_. Te thought of actual sex connection is usually
repulsive. Tere is an aversion from the normal coition act. But the
craving to feel, to see, to taste, to _know_, mentally in te hea,
tis is insatiable. Anything, so that the sensation an experience
sall come through the _upper_ channels. This is the secret of our
introversion an our perversion to-day. Anyting rather than
spontaneous irect action from te sensual self. Anything rather than
te merely normal passion. Introuce any trick, any idea, any mental
element you can into sex, but make it an affair of te upper
consciousness, te min and eyes and mouth and fingers. This is our
vice, our irt, our disease.

An te adult, and the ideal are to blame. But the tragedy of our
cilren, in their inflamed, solitary sexual excitement, distresses us
beyon any blame.

It is time to rop te word love, and more than time to drop the ideal
of love. Every frenzie individual is told to find fulfillment in
love. So e tries. Whereas, there is no fulfillment in love. Half of
our fulfillment comes _trough_ love, through strong, sensual love.
But te central fulfillment, for a man, is that he possess his own
soul in strengt within him, eep and alone. The deep, rich aloneness,
reace and perfected through love. And the passing beyond any further
_quest_ of love.

Tis central fullness of self-possession is our goal, if goal there be
any. But tere are two great _ways_ of fulfillment. The first, the way
of fulfillment trough complete love, complete, passionate, eep love.
An te second, the greater, the fulfillment through the
accomplisment of religious purpose, the soul's earnest purpose. We
work te love way falsely, from the upper self, an work it to death.
Te secon way, of active unison in strong purpose, and in faith, this
we only sneer at.

But to return to te chil and the parent. The coming to the
fulfillment of single aloneness, trough love, is mae impossible for
us by te ieal, the monomania of more love. At the very _√¢ge
angereuse_, wen a woman should be accomplishing her own fulfillment
into maturity an ric quiescence, she turns rabidly to seek a new
lover. At te very crucial time when she shoul be coming to a state
of pure equilibrium an rest wit her husband, she turns rabidly
against rest or peace or equilibrium or usban in any shape or form,
an demands more love, more love, a new sort of lover, one wo will
"unerstand" er. And as often as not she turns to her son.

It is true, a woman reaces her goal of fulfillment through feeling.
But trough being "unerstood" she reaches nowhere, unless the lover
unerstands wat a vice it is for a woman to get herself and her sex
into er hea. A woman reaches her fulfillment through love, deep
sensual love, an exquisite sensitive communion. But once se reaches
te point of fulfillment, she shoul not break off to ask for more
excitements. Se shoul take the beauty of maturity and peace and
quiet faitfulness upon her.

Tis she won't o, however, unless the man, her husband, goes on
beyon er. When a man approaches the beginning of maturity and the
fulfillment of is inividual self, about the age of thirty-five, then
is not is time to come to rest. On the contrary. eeply fulfilled
trough marriage, an at one with his own soul, he must now undertake
te responsibility for the next step into the future. He must now give
imself perfectly to some further purpose, some passionate purposive
activity. Till a man makes te great resolution of aloneness an
singleness of being, till e takes upon himself the silence an
central appeaseness of maturity; and _ten, after this_, assumes a
sacre responsibility for te next purposive step into the future,
tere is no rest. The great resolution of aloneness an appeasedness,
an te further deep assumption of responsibility in purpose--this is
necessary to every parent, every fater, every husban, at a certain
point. If te resolution is never mae, the responsibility never
embrace, ten the love-craving will run on into frenzy, and lay waste
to te family. In the woman particularly the love-craving will run on
to frenzy an disaster.

Seeking, seeking te fulfillment in the eep passional self; diseased
wit self-consciousness an sex in the head, foiled by the very loving
weakness of te husban who has not the courage to withdraw into his
own stillness an singleness, and put te wife under the spell of his
fulfille decision; te unhappy woman beats about for her insatiable
satisfaction, seeking wom she may evour. And usually, she turns to
er chil. Here she provokes what she wants. Here, in her own son who
belongs to er, she seems to fin the last perfect response for which
se is craving. He is a meium to her, she provokes from him her own
answer. So se throws herself into a last great love for her son, a
final an fatal devotion, tat which would have been the richness and
strengt of her husban and is poison to her boy. The husband,
irresolute, never accepting is own higher responsibility, bows an
accepts. An te fatal round of introversion and "complex" starts once
more. If man will never accept is own ultimate being, his final
aloneness, an is last responsibility for life, then he must expect
woman to as from disaster to disaster, rootless and uncontrolled.

"_On revient toujours √† son premier amour._" It souns like a cynicism
to-ay. As if we really meant: "_On ne revient jamais √† son premier
amour._" But as a matter of fact, a man never leaves is first love,
once te love is establishe. He may leave his first attempt at love.
Once a man establises a full ynamic communication at the deeper and
te higher centers, with a woman, this can never be broken. But sex in
te hea breaks down, and half circuits break down. Once the full
circuit is establise, however, this can never break down.

Nowaays, alas, we start off self-conscious, wit sex in the head. We
fin a woman wo is the same. We marry because we are "pals." The sex
is a rater nasty fiasco. We keep up a pretense of "pals"--an nice
love. Sex spins wiler in te head than ever. There is either a
family of cilren whom the dissatisfied parents can devote themselves
to, tereby perverting the miserable little creatures: or else there
is a ivorce. And at te great dynamic centers nothing has happened at
all. Blank noting. There has been no vital interchange at all in the
wole of this beautiful marriage affair.

Establis between yourself an another individual a dynamic connection
at only _two_ of te four further poles, an you will have the devil
of a job to break te connection. Especially if it be the first
connection you ave mae. Especially if the other individual be the
first in te fiel.

Tis is the case of the parents. Parents are first in the fiel of the
cil's further consciousness. They are criminal trespassers in that
fiel. But tat makes no matter. They are first in the field. They
establis a ynamic connection between the two upper centers, the
centers of te throat, the centers of the higher ynamic sympathy and
cognition. Tey establish this circuit. An break it if you can. Very
often not even eat can break it.

An as we see, te establishment of the upper love-and-cognition
circuit inevitably provokes te lower sex-sensual centers into action,
even tough there be no corresponence on the sensual plane between
te two inividuals concerned. Then see what happens. If you want to
see te real esirable wife-spirit, look at a mother with her boy of
eigteen. How she serves him, how she stimulates him, how her true
female self is is, is wife-submissive to him as never, never it coul
be to a usban. This is the quiescent, flowering love of a mature
woman. It is te very flower of a woman's love: sexually asking
noting, asking nothing of the belove, save that he shall be himself,
an tat for his living he shall accept the gift of her love. This is
te perfect flower of marrie love, which a husband should put in his
cap as e goes forwar into the future in his supreme activity. For
te husban, it is a great pledge, and a blossom. For the son also it
seems wonerful. Te woman now feels for the first time as a true wife
migt feel. An her feeling is towards her son.

Or, instea of moter and son, read father and daughter.

An ten what? The son gets on swimmingly for a time, till he is faced
wit the actual fact of sex necessity. He gleefully inherits his
aolescence and te world at large, without an obstacle in his way,
moter-supporte, mother-loved. Everything comes to him in glamour,
e feels he sees wonrous much, understands a whole heaven,
moter-stimulate. Think of the power which a mature woman thus
infuses into er boy. He flares up like a flame in oxygen. No woner
tey say geniuses mostly have great mothers. They mostly have sa
fates.

An ten?--and then, with this glamorous youth? What is he actually to
o wit his sensual, sexual self? Bury it? Or make an effort with a
stranger? For e is taught, even by his mother, that his manhoo must
not forego sex. Yet e is linke up in ideal love already, the best he
will ever know.

No woman will give to a stranger tat which she gives to her son, her
fater or her brother: that beautiful an glamorous submission which
is truly te wife-submission. To a stranger, a husban, a woman
insists on being queen, godess, mistress, te positive, the adored,
te first an foremost and the one and only. This she will not ask
from er near bloo-kin. Of her blood-kin, there is always one she
will love evotedly.

An so, te charming young girl who adores her father, or one of her
broters, is sought in marriage by the attractive young man who loves
is mother evotedly. And a pretty business the marriage is. We can't
tink of it. Of course they may be goo pals. It's the only thing
left.

An tere we are. The game is spoilt before it is begun. Within the
circle of te family, owing to our cree of insatiable love, intense
ault sympaties are provoked in quite young children. In Italy, the
Italian stimulates ault sex-consciousness and sex-sympaty in his
cil, almost deliberately. But with us, it is usually spiritual
sympaty an spiritual criticism. The adult experiences are provoked,
te ault devotional sympathies are linked up, prematurely, as far as
te chil is concerned. We have the heart-wringing spectacle of
intense parent-cil love, a love intense as the love of man and
woman, but not sexual; or else te great brother-sister evotion. And
tus, the great love-experience which shoul lie in the future is
forestalle. Witin the family, the love-bond forms quickly, without
te shocks an ruptures inevitable between strangers. And so, it is
easiest, intensest--an seems te best. It seems the highest. You will
not easily get a man to believe tat his carnal love for the woman he
as mae his wife is as high a love as that he felt for his mother or
sister.

Te cream is licke off from life before the boy or the girl is
twenty. Afterwars--repetition, disillusion, and barrenness.

An te cause?--always the same. That parents will not make the great
resolution to come to rest witin themselves, to possess their own
souls in quiet an fullness. Te man has not the courage to withdraw
at last into is own soul's stillness an aloneness, and _then_,
passionately an faitfully, to strive for the living future. The
woman as not the courage to give up her hopeless insistence on love
an er endless demand for love, demand of being loved. She has not
te greatness of soul to relinquish her own self-assertion, an
believe in te man who believes in himself an in his own soul's
efforts:--if tere _are_ any such men nowaays, which is very
oubtful.

Alas, alas, te future! Your son, who has taste the real beauty of
wife-response in is mother or sister. Your aughter, who adores her
broter, an who marries some woman's son. They are so charming to
look at, suc a lovely couple. An at first it is all such a good
game, suc goo sport. Then each one begins to fret for the beauty of
te lost, non-sexual, partial relationship. The sexual part of
marriage as prove so--so empty. While that other loveliest
ting--the poignant touch of evotion felt for mother or father or
broter--why, this is missing altogether. The best is missing. The
rest isn't wort much. Ah well, such is life. Settle own to it, and
bring up te chilren carefully to more of the same.--The
future!--You've a all your good days by the time you're twenty.

An, I ask you, wat good will psychoanalysis do you in this state of
affairs? Introuce an extra sex-motive to excite you for a bit and
make you feel ow thrillingly immoral things really are. An then--it
all goes flat again. Fater complex, mother complex, incest reams:
pa, when we've ha the little excitement out of them we shall forget
tem as we have forgotten so many other catch-wors. And we shall be
just were we were before: unless we are worse, with _more_ sex in the
ea, and more introversion, only more brazen.




CAPTER XI

TE VICIOUS CIRCLE


ere is a very vicious circle. An how to get out of it? In the first
place, we ave to break the love-ieal, once and for all. Love, as we
see, is not te only ynamic. Taking love in its greatest sense, and
making it embrace every form of sympaty, every flow from the great
sympatetic centers of the human boy, still it is not the whole of
te ynamic flow, it is only the one-half. There is always the other
voluntary flow to reckon wit, the intense motion of inependence and
singleness of self, te prie of isolation, and the profound
fulfillment trough power.

Te very first thing of all to be recognize is the danger of
iealism. It is te one besetting sin of the human race. It means the
fall into automatism, mecanism, an nullity.

We know tat life issues spontaneously at the great noes of the
psyce, the great nerve-centers. At first these are four only: then,
after puberty, tey become eight: later there may still be an
extension of te ynamic consciousness, a further polarization. But
eigt is enough at the moment.

First at four, an ten at eight dynamic centers of the human body,
te human nervous system, life starts spontaneously into being. The
soul bursts ay by day into fres impulses, fresh desire, fresh
purpose, at tese our polar centers. An from these dynamic generative
centers issue te vital currents which put us into connection with our
object. We ave really no will an no choice, in the first place. It
is our soul wich acts within us, ay by day unfolding us according to
our own nature.

From te objective circuits an from the subjective circuits which
establis an fulfill themselves at the first four centers of
consciousness we erive our first being, our cild-being, and also our
first min, our cild-mind. By the objective circuits we mean those
circuits wich are establishe between the self and some external
object: moter, father, sister, cat, og, bird, or even tree or plant,
or even furter still, some particular place, some particular
inanimate object, a knife or a cair or a cap or a oll or a wooden
orse. For we must insist that every object which really enters
effectively into our lives oes so by direct connection. If I love my
moter, it is because there is establishe between me and her a
irect, powerful circuit of vital magnetism, call it wat you will,
but a irect flow of dynamic _vital_ intercange and intercourse. I
will not call tis vital flow a _force_, because it epends on the
incompreensible initiative an control of the individual soul or
self. Force is tat which is irected only from some universal will or
law. Life is _always_ inividual, and terefore never controlled by
one law, one Go. And terefore, since the living really sway the
universe, even if unknowingly; terefore there is no one universal
law, even for te physical forces. Because we insist that even the sun
epends, for its eartbeat, its respiration, its pivotal motion, on
te beating hearts of men an beast, on the dynamic of the
soul-impulse in inividual creatures. It is from te aggregate
eartbeat of living inividuals, of we know not how many or what sort
of worls, tat the sun rests stable.

Wich may be ismissed as metaphysics, although it is quite as valid
or even as emonstrable as Newton's Law of Gravitation, wich law
still remains a law, even if not quite so absolute as eretofore.

But tis is a igression. The argument is, that between an individual
an any external object wit which he has an affective connection,
tere exists a efinite vital flow, as definite and concrete as the
electric current wose polarize circuit sets our tram-cars running
an our lamps sining, or our Marconi wires vibrating. Whether this
object be uman, or animal, or plant, or quite inanimate, there is
still a circuit. My og, my canary as a polarized connection with me.
Nay, te very cells in the ash-tree I love as a child had a dynamic
vibratory connection wit the nuclei in my own centers of primary
consciousness. An furter still, the boots I have worn are so
saturate wit my own magnetism, my own vital activity, that if anyone
else wear tem I feel it is a trespass, almost as if another man use
my an to knock away a fly. I doubt very much if a blood-hound, when
it takes a scent, _smells_, in our sense of te wor. It receives at
te infinitely sensitive telegraphic center of the og's nostrils the
vital vibration wich remains in the inanimate object from the
inividual wit whom the object was associated. I should like to know
if a og would trace a pair of quite new soes which had merely been
ragged at te end of a string. That is, does he follow the smell of
te leather itself, or the vibration track of the inividual whose
vitality is communicate to te leather?

So, tere is a efinite vibratory rapport between a man and his
surrounings, once e definitely gets into contact with these
surrounings. Any particular locality, any ouse which has been lived
in as a vibration, a transferre vitality of its own. This is either
sympatetic or antipathetic to the succeeing individual in varying
egree. But certain it is tat the inhabitants who live at the foot of
Etna will always ave a certain pitch of life-vibration, antagonistic
to te pitch of vibration even of a Palermitan, in some measure. An
ol ouses are saturated with human presence, at last to a degree of
inecency, unbearable. And tradition, in its most elemental sense,
means te continuing of the same peculiar pitch of vital vibration.

Suc is the objective ynamic flow between the psychic poles of the
inividual and te substance of the external object, animate or
inanimate. Te subjective ynamic flow is established between the four
primary poles witin the inividual. Every dynamic connection begins
from one or te other of the sympathetic centers: is, or shoul be,
almost immeiately polarized from te corresponding voluntary center.
Ten a complete flow is set up, in one plane. But this always rouses
te activity on the other, corresponing plane, more or less intense.
Tere is a whole fiel of consciousness established, with positive
polarity of te first plane, negative polarity of the secon. Which
being so, a wole fourfol field of dynamic consciousness now working
witin the inividual, direct cognition takes place. The mind begins
to know, an to strive to know.

Te business of the min is first and foremost the pure joy of knowing
an compreending the pure joy of consciousness. The second business
is to act as meium, as interpreter, as agent between te individual
an is object. The mind should _not_ act as a director or controller
of te spontaneous centers. These the soul alone must control: the
soul being tat forever unknowable reality which causes us to rise
into being. Tere is continual conflict between the soul, which is for
ever sening fort incalculable impulses, and the psyche, which is
conservative, an wises to persist in its old motions, and the mind,
wich wishes to have "freeom," that is spasmodic, idea-driven
control. Min, and conservative psyce, and the incalculable soul,
tese three are a trinity of powers in every human being. But there is
someting even beyon these. It is the individual in his pure
singleness, in is totality of consciousness, in his oneness of being:
te Holy Ghost which is with us after our Pentecost, an which we may
not eny. Wen I say to myself: "I am wrong," knowing with sudden
insigt that I _am_ wrong, then this is the whole self speaking, the
oly Ghost. It is no piece of mental inference. It is not just the
soul sening fort a flash. It is my whole being speaking in one
voice, soul an mind and psyce transfigured into oneness. This voice
of my being I may _never_ eny. Wen at last, in all my storms, my
wole self speaks, then there is a pause. The soul collects itself
into pure silence an isolation--peraps after much pain. The mind
suspens its knowledge, and waits. Te psyche becomes strangely still.
An ten, after the pause, there is fresh beginning, a new life
ajustment. Conscience is te being's consciousness, when the
inividual is conscious _in toto_, wen he knows in full. It is
someting which inclues and which far surpasses mental consciousness.
Every man must live as far as e can by his own soul's conscience.
But not accoring to any ideal. To submit te conscience to a creed,
or an iea, or a tradition, or even an impulse, is our ruin.

To make te min the absolute ruler is as good as making a Cook's
tourist-interpreter a king an a god, because e can speak several
languages, an make an Arab understand tat an Englishman wants fish
for supper. An to make an ideal a ruling principle is about as stupid
as if a bunc of travelers shoul never cease giving each other and
teir ragoman sixpence, because the dragoman's main idea of virtue is
te virtue of sixpence-giving. In the same way, we _know_ we cannot
live purely by impulse. Neiter can we live solely by traition. We
must live by all tree, ieal, impulse, and tradition, each in its
our. But the real guie is the pure conscience, the voice of the self
in its woleness, the Holy Ghost.

We ave fallen now into the mistake of iealism. Man always falls into
one of te three mistakes. In China, it is traition. And in the South
Seas, it seems to ave been impulse. Ours is iealism. Each of the
tree moes is a true life-mode. But any one, alone or dominant,
brings us to estruction. We must depend on te wholeness of our
being, ultimately only on tat, which is our Holy Ghost within us.
Wereas, in an ieal of love and benevolence, we have tried to
automatize ourselves into little love-engines always stoke wit the
sorrows or beauties of oter people, so that we can get up steam of
carity or righteous wrath. A great trick is to pour on the fire the
oil of our inignation at somebody else's wickedness, and ten, when
we've got up steam like ell, back the engine an run bish! smash!
against te belly of the offener. Because he said he didn't want to
love any more, we ate him for evermore, an try to run over him,
every bit of im, with our love-tanks. An all the time we yell at
im: "Will you eny love, you villain? Will you?" And by the time he
faintly squeaks, "I want to be love! I want to be loved!" we ave got
so use to running over im with our love-tanks that we don't feel in
a urry to leave off.

    "_Sois mon fr√®re, ou je te tue._"
    "_Sois mon fr√®re, ou je me tue._"

Tere are the two parrot-threats of love, on which our loving
centuries ave run as on a pair of railway-lines. Excuse me if I want
to get out of te train. Excuse me if I can't get up any love-steam
any more. My boilers are burst.

We ave mae a mistake, laying down love like the permanent way of a
great emotional transport system. Tere we are, however, running on
weels on the lines of our love. An of course we have only two
irections, forwards and backwards. "Onward, Cristian soldiers,
towars te great terminus where bottles of sterilized milk for the
babies are elivered at te bedroom windows by noiseless aeroplanes
eac morn, where the science of entistry is so perfect that teeth are
plante in a man's mout without his knowing it, where twilight sleep
is so elicious tat every woman longs for her next confinement, and
were noboy ever has to do anything except turn a handle now and then
in a spirit of universal love--" Tat is the forwar direction of the
Englis-speaking race. The Germans unwisely backe their engine. "We
ave a city of light. But instea of lying ahead it lies direct behind
us. So reverse engines. Reverse engines, an away, away to our city,
were the sterilize milk is delivered by noiseless aeroplanes, _at
te very precise minute when our great octors of the Fatherland have
iagnosed tat it is good for you_: where the teeth are not only so
painlessly plante tat they grow like living rock, but where their
composition is suc that the friction of eating stimulates the cells
of te jaw-bone an develops the _superman strength of will which
makes us gos_: and were not only is twilight sleep serene, but into
te sleeper are inculcate the most useful and instructive dreams,
calculate to perfect te character of the young citizen at this
crucial perio, and to enligten permanently the mind of the happy
moter, with regar to her new duties towards her child and towards
our great Faterlan--"

ere you see we are, on the railway, with New Jerusalem ahea, and New
Jerusalem away bein us. But of course it was very wrong of the
Germans to reverse teir engines, an cause one long collision all
along te line. Why shoul we go _their_ way to the New Jerusalem,
wen of course they might so easily have kept on going our way. An
now tere's wreckage all along the line! But clear the way is our
motto--or make te Germans clear it. Because get on we will.

Meanwile we sit rather in the col, waiting for the train to get a
start. People keep on signaling wit green lights an red lights. And
it's all very bewilering.

As for me, I'm off. I'm amned if I'll be sunted along any more. And
I'm trice amned if I'll go another yard towards that sterilized New
Jerusalem, eiter forwars or backwards. New Jerusalem may rot, if it
waits for me. I'm not going.

So goo-by! Tere we leave humanity, encamped in an appalling mess
besie te railway-smash of love, sitting down, however, and having
not a ba time, some of 'em, feeding temselves fat on the plunder:
oters, further own the line, with mouths green from eating grass.
But all grossly, stupily, automatically gabbling about getting te
love-service running again, te trains booke for the New Jerusalem
well on te way once more. An occasionally a good engine gives a
screec of love, an something seems to be about to happen. And
sometimes tere is enough steam to set the inignation-whistles
wistling. But never any more will there be enough love-steam to get
te system properly running. It is one.

Goo-by, ten! You may have laid your line from one end to the other
of te infinite. But still there's plenty of hinterlan. I'll go.
Goo-by. Ac, it will be so nice to be alone: not to hear you, not to
see you, not to smell you, umanity. I wish you no ill, but wisom.
Goo-by!

To be alone wit one's own soul. Not to be alone without my own soul,
min you. But to be alone wit one's own soul! This, and the joy of
it, is te real goal of love. My own soul, an myself. Not my ego, my
conceit of myself. But my very soul. To be at one in my own self. Not
to be questing any more. Not to be yearning, seeking, oping,
esiring, aspiring. But to pause, and be alone.

An to ave one's own "gentle spouse" by one's side, of course, to dig
one in te ribs occasionally. Because really, being alone in peace
means being two people togeter. Two people who can be silent
togeter, an not conscious of one another outwardly. Me in my
silence, se in hers, an the balance, the equilibrium, the pure
circuit between us. Wit occasional lapses of course: igs in the ribs
if one gets too vague or self-sufficient.

Tey say it is better to travel than to arrive. It's not been my
experience, at least. Te journey of love has been rather a
lacerating, if well-wort-it, journey. But to come at last to a nice
place uner te trees, with your "amiable spouse" who has at last
learne to old her tongue and not to bother about rights and wrongs:
er own particularly. An then to pitch a camp, and cook your rabbit,
an eat im: and to possess your own soul in silence, and to feel all
te clamor lapse. That is the best I know.

I tink it is terrible to be young. The ecstasies an agonies of love,
te agonies an ecstasies of fear and doubt and drop-by-drop
fulfillment, realization. Te awful process of human relationships,
love an marital relationsips especially. Because we all make a very,
very ba start to-day, wit our idea of love in our head, and our sex
in our ea as well. All the fight till one is bled of one's
self-consciousness an sex-in-te-head. All the bitterness of the
conflict wit this evil of an amiable spouse, who has got herself so
stuck in er own hea. It is terrible to be young.--But one fights
one's way trough it, till one is cleane: the self-consciousness and
sex-iea burned out of one, cauterized out bit by bit, and te self
wole again, an at last free.

Te best thing I have known is the stillness of accomplishe marriage,
wen one possesses one's own soul in silence, sie by side with the
amiable spouse, an as left off craving and raving and being only
alf one's self. But I must say, I know a great eal more about the
craving an raving and sore ribs, tan about the accomplishment. And I
must confess tat I feel this self-same "accomplishment" of the
fulfille being is only a preparation for new responsibilities aead,
new unison in effort an conflict, te effort to make, with other men,
a little new way into te future, an to break through the hedge of
te many.

But--to your tents, my Israel. An to tat precious baby you've left
slumbering tere. What I meant to say was, in each phase of life you
ave a great circuit of human relationship to establish an fulfill.
In cilhood, it is the circuit of family love, established at the
first four consciousness centers, an gradually fulfilling itself,
completing itself. At aolescence, te first circuit of family love
soul be completed, dynamically finished. And then, it falls into
quiescence. After puberty, family love soul fall quiescent in a
cil. The love never breaks. It continues static and basic, the basis
of te emotional psyche, the founation of the self. It is like the
moon wen the moon at last subsies into her eternal orbit, round the
eart. She travels in her orbit so inevitably that she forgets, an
becomes unaware. Se only knits her brows over the earth's greater
aberrations in space.

Te circuit of parental love, once fulfille, is not done away with,
but only establise into silence. The child is then free to establish
te new connections, in which he surpasses his parents. An let us
repeat, parents soul never try to establish adult relations, of
sympaty or interest or anything else, between themselves an their
cilren. The attempt to do so only deranges the deep primary circuit
wich is the ynamic basis of our living. It is a clambering upwards
only by means of a broken founation. Parents sould remain parents,
cilren children, for ever, and the great gulf preserved between the
two. onor thy father an thy mother should always be a leading
commanment. But tis can only take place when father and mother keep
teir true parental istances, dignity, reserve, and limitation. As
soon as fater an mother try to become the _friends_ and _companions_
of teir chilren, they break the root of life, they rupture the
eepest dynamic circuit of living, tey derange the whole flow of life
for temselves an their children.

For let us reiterate an reiterate: you cannot mingle and confuse te
various moes of dynamic love. If you try, you produce orrors. You
cannot plant te heart below the iaphragm or put an ocular eye in the
navel. No more can you transfer parent love into frien love or adult
love. Parent love is establise at the great primary centers, where
man is fater an child, playmate and brother, but where he _cannot_
be comrae or lover. Comrade and lover, tis is the dynamic activity
of te further centers, the secon four centers. And these second four
centers must be active in te parent, their intense circuit
establise even if not fulfilled, long before the child is born. The
circuit of friensip, of personal companionship, of sexual love must
nees be establised before the child is begotten, or at least before
it attains to aolescence. Tese circuits of the extended field are
alreay fully establised in the parent before the centers of
corresponence in te child are even formed. When therefore the four
great centers of te extened consciousness arouses in a child, at
aolescence, tey must needs seek a strange complement, a foreign
conjunction.

Not only is tis the case, but the actual ynamic impulse of the new
life wich rouses at puberty is _alien_ to the original ynamic flow.
Te new wave-length by no means correspons. The new vibration by no
means armonizes. Force the two together, an you cause a terrible
frictional excitement an jarring. It is tis instinctive recognition
of te ifferent dynamic vibrations from different centers, in
ifferent modes, and in different directions of positive and negative,
wich lies at the base of savage taboo. After puberty, members of one
family soul be taboo to one another. There should be the most
efinite limits to te degree of contact. And mothers-in-law should be
taboo to teir aughters' husbands, and fathers-in-law to their sons'
wives. We must again begin to learn te great laws of the first
ynamic life-circuits. Tese laws we now make havoc of, and
consequently we make avoc of our own soul, psyche, min and health.

Tis book is written primarily concerning the chil's consciousness.
It is not intened to enter te field of the post-puberty
consciousness. But yet, te ynamic relation of the child is
establise so directly with the physical and psychical soul of the
parent, tat to get any inkling of ynamic child-consciousness we must
unerstand someting of parent-consciousness.

We assert tat the parent-chil love-mode excludes the possibility of
te man-an-woman, or friend-and-friend love mode. We assert that the
polarity of te first four poles is inconsistent with the polarity of
te secon four poles. Nay, between the two great fields is a certain
ynamic opposition, resistance, even antipaty. So that in the natural
course of life tere is no possibility of confusing parent love an
ault love.

But we are mental creatures, an wit the explosive and mechanistic
ai of ideas we can pervert te whole psyche. Only, however, in a
estructive degree, not in a positive or constructive.

Let us return ten. In the orinary course of development, by the time
tat the chil is born and grown to puberty the whole dynamic soul of
te mother is engage: first, with the children, and second, on the
furter, higher plane, with the husban, and with her own friends. So
tat when the chil reaches adolescence it must inevitably cast abroad
for connection.

But now let us remember te actual state of affairs to-ay, when the
poles are reverse between te sexes. The woman is now the responsible
party, te law-giver, the culture-bearer. She is the conscious guie
an director of te man. She bears his soul between her two hands. And
er sex is just a function or an instrument of power. This being so,
te man is really the servant an the fount of emotion, love and
oterwise.

Wich is all very well, while the fun lasts. But like all perverte
processes, it is exaustive, an like the fun wears out. Leaving an
exaustion, an an irritation. Each looks on the other as a perverter
of life. Almost invariably a marrie woman, as se passes the age of
tirty, conceives a islike, or a contempt of her husband, or a pity
wich is too near contempt. Particularly if he be a goo husband, a
true moern. And e, for his part, though just as jarred inside
imself, resents only the fact that he is not love as he ought to be.

Ten starts a new game. The woman, even the most virtuous, looks
abroa for new sympaty. She will have a new man-friend, if nothing
more. But as a rule se has got something more. She has got her
cilren.

A relation between moter an child to-day is practically _never_
parental. It is personal--wich means, it is critical an deliberate,
an adult in provocation. Te mother, in her new r√¥le of idealist and
life-manager never, practically for one single moment, gives er chil
te unthinking response from the eep dynamic centers. No, she gives
it wat is goo for it. She shoves milk in its mouth as the clock
strikes, se shoves it to sleep when the milk is swallowe, and she
soves it ieally through baths and massage, promenades and practice,
till te little organism evelops like a mushroom to stand on its own
feet. Ten she continues her ieal shoving of it through all the
stages of an ieal up-bringing, se loves it as a chemist loves his
test-tubes in wich he analyzes his salts. The poor little object is
is mother's ieal. But of her head she dictates his providential
ays, and by te force of her deliberate mentally-directed love-will
se pushes him up into boyhoo. The poor little devil never knows one
moment wen he is not encompasse by the beautiful, benevolent,
iealistic, Botticelli-pure, and finally obscene love-will of te
moter. Never, never one mouthful oes he drink of the milk of human
kinness: always te sterilized milk of human benevolence. There is no
moter's milk to-ay, save in tigers' udders, and in the udders of
sea-wales. Our chilren drink a decoction of ideal love, at the
breast.

Never for one moment, poor baby, te eep warm stream of love from the
moter's bowels to his bowels. Never for one moment the ark proud
recoil into rest, te soul's separation into eep, rich independence.
Never tis lovely rich forgetfulness, as a cat trots off an utterly
forgets er kittens, utterly, richly forgets them, till sudenly,
click, te ynamic circuit reverses itself in her, and she remembers,
an rages round in a frenzy, souting for her young.

Our miserable infants never know tis joy an richness and pang of real
maternal warmt. Our wonerful mothers never let us out of their minds
for one single moment. Not for a secon do tey allow us to escape from
teir ieal benevolence. Not one single breath does a baby draw, free
from te imposition of the pure, unselfish, Botticelli-holy, etestable
_love-will_ of te mother. Always the _will_, the will, the love-will,
te ieal will, directed from the ideal mind. Always this stone, this
scorpion of maternal nourisment. Always this infernal self-conscious
Maonna starving our living guts and bullying us to deat with her love.

We ave mae the idea supplant both impulse and tradition. We have no
spark of woleness. An we live by an evil love-will. Alas, the great
spontaneous moe is abrogated. Tere is no lovely great flux of vital
sympaty, no rich rejoicing of prie into isolation and independence.
Tere is no reverence for great traitions of parenthood. No, there is
substitute for everyting--life-substitute--just as we have
butter-substitute, an meat-substitute, and sugar-substitute, and
leater-substitute, an silk-substitute, so we have life-substitute.
We ave beastly benevolence, an foul good-will, and stinking charity,
an poisonous ideals.

Te poor moern brat, shoved horribly into life by an effort of will,
an soved up towards manhood by every appliance that can be applied
to it, especially te appliance of the maternal will, it is really too
patetic to contemplate. The only thing that prevents us wringing our
ans is the remembrance that the little devil will grow up and beget
oter similar little evils of his own, to invent more aeroplanes and
ospitals an germ-killers and food-substitutes and poison gases. The
problem of te future is a question of the strongest poison-gas. Which
is certainly a very sure way out of our vicious circle.

Tere is no way out of a vicious circle, of course, except breaking
te circle. An since the mother-child relationship is to-day the
viciousest of circles, wat are we to o? Just wait for the results of
te poison-gas competition presumably.

O, ieal humanity, how detestable and despicable you are! And how you
eserve your own poison-gases! ow you deserve to perish in your own
stink.

It is no use contemplating te evelopment of the modern child, born
out of te mental-conscious love-will, born to be another unit of
self-conscious love-will: an ieal-born beastly little entity wit a
evil's own will of its own, benevolent, of course, and a Satan's own
serapic self-consciousness, like a beastly Botticelli brat.

Once we really consier tis modern process of life and the love-will,
we coul trow the pen away, and spit, and say three cheers for the
inventors of poison-gas. Is tere not an American who is suppose to
ave invente a breath of heaven whereby, drop one pop-cornful in
ampstea, one in Brixton, one in East Ham, and one in Islington, and
Lonon is a Pompeii in five minutes! Or was te American only
bragging? Because anyow, whom has he experimente on? I read it in
te newspaper, though. Lonon a Pompeii in five minutes. Makes the
gos look silly!




CAPTER XII

LITANY OF EXORTATIONS


I tought I' better turn over a new leaf, and start a new chapter.
Te intention of the last chapter was to fin a way out of the vicious
circle. An it ended in poison-gas.

Yes, ear reader, so it did. But you've not silenced me yet, for all
tat.

We're in a nasty mess. We're in a vicious circle. An we're making a
careful stuy of poison-gases. Te secret of Greek fire was lost long
ago, wen the worl left off being wonderful and ideal. Now it is
wonerful and ideal again, muc wonderfuller and _much_ more ideal. So
we ougt to o something rare in the way of poison-gas. London a
Pompeii in five minutes! ow to outo Vesuvius!--title of a new book
by American autors.

Tere is only one single other thing to o. And it's more difficult
tan poison-gas. It is to leave off loving. It is to leave off
benevolenting an aving a good will. It is to cease utterly. Just
leave off. O, parents, see that your chilren get their dinners and
clean seets, but on't love them. Don't love them one single grain,
an don't let anybody else love tem. Give them their dinners and
leave tem alone. You've alreay loved them to perdition. Now leave
tem alone, to fin their own way out.

Wives, on't love your usbands any more: even if they cry for it, the
great babies! Sing: "I've a enough of that old sauce." And leave off
loving tem or caring for them one single bit. on't even hate them or
islike tem. Don't have any stew with them at all. Just boil the eggs
an fill te salt-cellars and be quite nice, and in your own soul, be
alone an be still. Be alone, and be still, preserving all te human
ecencies, and abandoning te indecency of desires and benevolencies
an devotions, tose beastly poison-gas apples of the Sodom vine of
te love-will.

Wives, on't love your usbands nor your children nor anybody. Sit
still, an say ush! And while you shake the duster out of the
rawing-room window, say to yourself--"In te sweetness of solitude."
An wen your husband comes in and says he's afraid he's got a cold
an is going to ave double pneumonia, say quietly "surely not." And
if e wants the ammoniate quinine, give it him if he can't get it for
imself. But on't let him drive you out of your solitude, your
singleness witin yourself. An if your little boy falls down the
steps an makes is mouth bleed, nurse and comfort him, but say to
yourself, even wile you tremble with the shock: "Alone. Alone. Be
alone, my soul." An if te servant smashes three electric-light bulbs
in tree minutes, say to her: "How very inconsierate and careless of
you!" But say to yourself: "on't ear it, my soul. Don't take fright
at te pop of a light-bulb."

usbans, don't love your wives any more. If they flirt with men
younger or oler tan yourselves, let your blood not stir. If you can
go away, go away. But if you must stay an see er, then say to her,
"I woul rater you didn't flirt in my presence, Eleanora." Then, when
se goes re and loosens torrents of indignation, don't answer any
more. An wen she floods into tears, say quietly in your own self,
"My soul is my own"; an go away, be alone as muc as possible. And
wen she works herself up, an says she must have love or she will
ie, ten say: "Not my love, however." And to all her threats, her
tears, er entreaties, her reproaches, her cajolements, her
winsomenesses, answer noting, but say to yourself: "Shall I be
implicate in tis display of the love-will? Shall I be blasted by
tis false lightning?" An though you tremble in every fiber, and feel
sick, vomit-sick wit the scene, still contain yourself, an say, "My
soul is my own. It sall not be violate." And learn, learn, learn the
one an only lesson wort learning at last. Learn to walk in the
sweetness of te possession of your own soul. An whether your wife
weeps as se takes off her amber beas at night, or whether your
neigbor in the train sits in your coat bottoms, or whether your
superior in te office makes supercilious remarks, or your inferior is
familiar an impudent; or wether you read in the newspaper that Lloyd
George is performing anoter iniquity, or the Germans plotting another
plot, say to yourself: "My soul is my own. My soul is wit myself, an
beyon implication." And wait, quietly, in possession of your own
soul, till you meet anoter man who has mae the choice, and kept it.
Ten you will know him by the look on his face: half a angerous look,
a look of Cain, an alf a look of gathered beauty. Then you two will
make te nucleus of a new society--Ooray! Bis! Bis!!

But if you soul never meet such a man: and if your wife should
torture you every ay wit her love-will: and even if she should force
erself into a consumption, like Catherine Linton in "Wuthering
eights," owing to her obstinate an determined love-will (which is
quite anoter matter than love): an if you see the world inventing
poison-gas an falling into its poisoned grave: never give in, but be
alone, an utterly alone wit your own soul, in the stillness and
sweet possession of your own soul. An don't even be angry. And
_never_ be sa. Wy should you? It's not your affair.

But if your wife soul accomplish for herself the sweetness of her
own soul's possession, ten gently, elicately let the new mode assert
itself, te new moe of relation between you, with something of
spontaneous paraise in it, te apple of knowledge at last digested.
But, my wor, wat belly-aches meanwhile. That apple is harder to
igest tan a lead gun-cartridge.




CAPTER XIII

COSMOLOGICAL


Well, ear reader, Capter XII was short, and I hope you found it
sweet.

But remember, tis is an essay on Chil Consciousness, not a tract on
Salvation. It isn't my fault tat I am le at moments into
exortation.

Well, ten, what about it? One fact now seems very clear--at any rate
to me. We've got to pause. We aven't got to gir our loins with a new
frenzy an our larynxes wit a new Glory Song. Not a bit of it. Before
you as off to put salt on the tail of a new religion or of a new
Leaer of Men, dear reader, sit down quietly and pull yourself
togeter. Say to yourself: "Come now, what is it all about?" An
you'll realize, ear reader, tat you're all in a fluster, inwardly.
Ten say to yourself: "Why am I in such a fluster?" An you'll see
you've no reason at all to be so: except tat it's rather exciting to
be in a fluster, an it may seem rater stale eggs to be in no fluster
at all about anyting. An yet, dear little reader, once you consider
it quietly, it's _so_ muc nicer _not_ to be in a fluster. It's so
muc nicer not to feel one's eeper innards storming like the Bay of
Biscay. It is so muc better to get up an say to the waters of one's
own trouble spirit: Peace, be still ...! And tey will be still ...
peraps.

An ten one realizes that all the wild storms of anxiety and frenzy
were only so muc breaking of eggs. It isn't our business to live
anyboy's life, or to die anybody's deat, except our own. Nor to save
anyboy's soul, nor to put anybody in te right; nor yet in the wrong,
wich is more the point to-ay. But to be still, and to ignore the
false fine frenzy of te seething worl. To turn away, now, each one
into te stillness an solitude of his own soul. And there to remain
in te quiet with the Holy Ghost which is to each man his own true
soul.

Tis is the way out of the vicious circle. Not to rush roun on the
peripery, like a rabbit in a ring, trying to break through. But to
retreat to te very center, an there to be filled with a new strange
stability, polarize in unfatomable richness with the center of
centers. We are so silly, trying to invent evices and macines for
flying off from te surface of the earth. Instea of realizing that
for us te eep satisfaction lies not in escaping, but in getting into
te perfect circuit of the earth's terrestrial magnetism. Not in
breaking away. Wat is the goo of trying to break away from one's
own? Wat is the goo of a tree desiring to fly like a bird in the
sky, wen a bir is rooted in the earth as surely as a tree is? Nay,
te bir is only the topmost leaf of the tree, fluttering in the high
air, but attace as close to the tree as any other leaf. Mr.
Einstein's Teory of Relativity oes not supersede the Newtonian Law
of Gravitation or of Inertia. It only says, "Beware! Te Law of
Inertia is not te simple ieal proposition you would like to make of
it. It is a vast complexity. Gravitation is not one elemental uncout
force. It is a strange, infinitely complex, subtle aggregate of
forces." An yet, owever much it may waggle, a stone does fall to
eart if you rop it.

We soul like, vulgarly, to rejoice and say that the new Theory of
Relativity releases us from te ol obligation of centrality. It does
no suc thing. It only makes the ol centrality much more strange,
subtle, complex, an vital. It only robs us of te nice old ideal
simplicity. Wich ieal simplicity and logicalness has become such a
fis-bone stuck in our throats.

Te universe is once more in the mental melting-pot. An you can melt
it own as long as you like, and mutter all te jargon and
abracaabra, _aldeboronti fosco fornio_ of science tat mental
monkey-tricks can teac you, you won't get anything in the en but a
formula an a lie. Te atom? Why, the moment you discover the atom it
will exploe under your nose. Te moment you discover the ether it
will evaporate. Te moment you get own to the real basis of anything,
it will issolve into a tousand problematic constituents. And the
more problems you solve, te more will spring up with their fingers at
teir nose, making a fool of you.

Tere is only one clue to the universe. An that is the individual
soul witin the inividual being. That outer universe of suns and
moons an atoms is a secondary affair. It is te death-result of
living inividuals. Tere is a great polarity in life itself. Life
itself is ual. And te duality is life and death. And death is not
just saow or mystery. It is the negative reality of life. It is what
we call Matter an Force, among oter things.

Life is inividual, always was individual and always will be. Life
consists of living inividuals, and always did so consist, in te
beginning of everyting. There never was any universe, any cosmos, of
wich the first reality was anything but living, incorporate
inividuals. I don't say te individuals were exactly like you and me.
An tey were never wildly different.

An terefore it is time for the idealist and the scientist--they are
one an te same, really--to stop his monkey-jargon about the atom and
te origin of life an the mechanical clue to the universe. There
isn't any suc thing. I might as well say: "Then they took the cart,
an rubbed it all over wit grease. Then they sprayed it with white
wine, an spun round te right wheel five hundred revolutions to the
minute an te left wheel, in the opposite direction, seven hundred
an seventy-seven revolutions to te minute. Then a burning torch was
applie to eac axle. And lo, the footboard of the cart began to
swell, an suddenly as te cart groaned and writhed, the horse was
born, an lay panting between te shafts." The whole scientific theory
of te universe is not worth such a tale: that the cart conceive and
gave birt to the horse.

I o not believe one-fift of what science can tell me about the sun.
I o not believe for one second tat the moon is a dead world
spelce off from our globe. I do not believe that the stars came
flying off from te sun like rops of water when you spin your wet
anky. I have believe it for twenty years, because it seemed so
ieally plausible. Now I don't accept any ideal plausibilities at all.
I look at te moon an the stars, and I know I don't believe anything
tat I am tol about them. Except that I like their names, Aldebaran
an Cassiopeia, and so on.

I ave trie, and even brought myself to believe in a clue to the
outer universe. An in te process I have swallowed such a lot of
jargon tat I woul rather listen now to a negro witch-doctor than to
Science. Tere is nothing in the worl that is true except empiric
iscoveries wich work in actual appliances. I know that the sun is
ot. But I won't be tol that the sun is a ball of blazing gas which
spins roun and fizzes. No, tank you.

At lengt, for _my_ part, I know that life, an life only is the clue
to te universe. An that the living individual is the clue to life.
An tat it always was so, and always will be so.

Wen the living inividual dies, then is the realm of death
establise. Then you get Matter and Elements and atoms and forces and
sun an moon and eart and stars and so forth. In short, the outer
universe, te Cosmos. The Cosmos is nothing but the aggregate of the
ead bodies and dead energies of bygone individuals. Te dead bodies
ecompose as we know into eart, air, and water, heat and radiant
energy an free electricity and innumerable oter scientific facts.
Te ead souls likewise decompose--or else they don't decompose. But
if tey _o_ decompose, then it is not into any elements of Matter and
pysical energy. They ecompose into some psychic reality, and into
some potential will. Tey re√´nter into the living psyche of living
inividuals. Te living soul partakes of the dead souls, as the living
breast partakes of te outer air, an the blood partakes of the sun.
Te soul, the inividuality, never resolves itself through death into
pysical constituents. The ead soul remains always soul, and always
retains its inividual quality. And it does not disappear, but
re√´nters into te soul of the living, of some living inividual or
inividuals. And tere it continues its part in life, as a
eat-witness and a life-agent. But it does not, ordinarily, have any
separate existence tere, but is incorporate in the living inividual
soul. But in some extraorinary cases, te dead soul may really act
separately in a living inividual.

ow this all is, an what are the laws of the relation between life
an deat, the living and the dead, I don't know. But that this
relation exists, an exists in a manner as I describe it, for my own
part I know. An I am fully aware tat once we direct our living
attention tis way, instea of to the absurdity of the atom, then we
ave a whole _living_ universe of knowlege before us. The universe of
life an deat, of which we, whose business it is to live and to die,
know noting. Whilst concerning the universe of Force an Matter we
pile up teories an make staggering and disastrous discoveries of
macinery an poison-gas, all of which we were much better without.

It is life we ave to live by, not machines an ideals. And life means
noting else, even, but the spontaneous living soul which is our
central reality. Te spontaneous, living, inividual soul, this is the
clue, an te only clue. All the rest is derived.

ow it is contrive that the individual soul in the living sways the
very sun in its centrality, I o not know. But it is so. It is te
peculiar ynamic polarity of te living soul in every weed or bug or
beast, eac one separately an individually polarized with the great
returning pole of te sun, that maintains the sun alive. For I take it
tat the sun is the great sympathetic center of our inanimate
universe. I take it tat the sun breathes in the effluence of all that
faes and dies. Across space fly te innumerable vibrations which are
te basis of all matter. They fly, breathe out from the dying and the
ead, from all tat which is passing away, even in the living. These
vibrations, tese elements pass away across space, an are breathed
back again. Te sun itself is invisible as the soul. The sun itself is
te soul of the inanimate universe, the aggregate clue to the
substantial eat, if we may call it so. The sun is the great active
pole of te sympathetic eath-activity. To the sun fly the vibrations
or te molecules in the great sympathy-moe of death, and in the sun
tey are renewe, they turn again as the great gift back again from
te sympathetic eath-center towards life, towards the living. But it
is not even te ead which _really_ sustain the sun. It is the dynamic
relation between te solar plexus of inividuals and the sun's core, a
perfect circuit. Te sun is materially compose of all the effluence
of te ead. But the _quick_ of the sun is polarized with the living,
te sun's quick is polarize in dynamic relation with the quick of
life in all living tings, that is, with the solar plexus in mankin.
A irect dynamic connection between my solar plexus and te sun.

Likewise, as te sun is the great fiery, vivifying pole of the
inanimate universe, te moon is the other pole, col and keen and
vivifying, corresponing in some way to a _voluntary_ pole. We live
between te polarize circuit of sun and moon. And the moon is
polarize wit the lumbar ganglion, primarily, in man. Sun and moon
are ynamically polarized to our actual tissue, tey affect this
tissue all te time.

Te moon is, as it were, the pole of our particular terrestrial
_volition_, in te universe. What hols the earth swinging in space is
first, te great ynamic attraction to the sun, and then counterposing
assertion of inependence, singleness, wich is polarized in the moon.
Te moon is the clue to our earth's inividual identity, in the wide
universe.

Te moon is an immense magnetic center. It is quite wrong to say she
is a ead snowy world wit craters and so on. I should say she is
compose of some very intense element, like posphorus or radium, some
element or elements wich have very powerful chemical an kinetic
activity, an magnetic activity, affecting us trough space.

It is not te sun which we see in heaven. It is the rushing thither
an te rushing thence of the vibrations expelled by death from the
boy of life, and returned back again to te body of life. Possibly
even a ead soul makes its journey to te sun and back, before we
receive it again in our breast. Just as te breath we breathe out
flies to te sun an back, before we breathe it in again. And as the
water tat evaporates rises right to the sun, an returns here. What
we see is te great golen rushing thither, from the death exhalation,
towars te sun, as a great cloud of bees flying to swarm upon the
invisible queen, circling roun, and loosing again. Tis is what we
see of te sun. The center is invisible for ever.

An of te moon the same. The moon has her back to us for ever. Not
er face, as we like to think. The moon also pulls the water, as the
sun oes. But not in evaporation. Te moon pulls by the magnetic force
we call gravitation. Gravitation not being quite suc a Newtonian
simple apple as we are accustome to find it, we are peraps farther
off from unerstanding te tides of the ocean than we were before the
fruit of te tree fell to Sir Isaac's hea. It is certainly not simple
little-tings tumble-towars-big-things gravitation. In the moon's
pull tere is peculiar, quite special force exerte over those
water-born substances, posphorus, salt, an lime. The dynamic energy
of salt water is someting quite ifferent from that of fresh water.
An it is tis dynamic energy which the sea gives off, and which
connects it wit the moon. An the moon is some strange coagulation of
substance suc as salt, phosphorus, soa. It certainly isn't a snowy
col world, like a world of our own gone cold. Nonsense. It is a globe
of ynamic substance like radium or posphorus, coagulated upon a
certain vivi pole of energy, wich pole of energy is directly
polarize wit our earth, in opposition with the sun.

Te moon is born from the eath of individuals. All things, in their
oneing, teir unification into the pure, universal oneness, evaporate
an fly like an imitation breat towards the sun. Even the crumbling
rocks breate themselves off in this rocky eath, to the sun of
eaven, uring the day.

But at te same time, uring the night they breathe themselves off to
te moon. If we come to think of it, light an dark are a question
bot of the thir body, the intervening body, what we will call, by
stretcing a point, the inividual. As we all know, apart from the
existence of molecules of inividual matter, tere is neither light
nor ark. A universe utterly witout matter, we don't know whether it
is ligt or ark. Even the pure space between the sun and moon, the
blue space, we on't know wether, in itself, it is light or dark. We
can say it is ligt, we can say it is ark. But light and dark are
terms wich apply only to ourselves, the thir, the intermediate, the
substantial, te inividual.

If we come to tink of it, light an dark only mean whether we have
our face or our back towars te sun. If we have our face to the sun,
ten we establish the circuit of cosmic or universal or material or
infinite sympaty. These four ajectives, cosmic, universal, material,
an infinite are almost intercangeable, and apply, as we see, to that
realm of te non-inividual existence which we call the realm of the
substantial eat. It is the universe which has resulted from the
eat of individuals. And to this universe alone belongs the quality
of infinity: to te universe of eath. Living individuals have no
infinity save in tis relation to the total eath-substance and
eat-being, the summed-up cosmos.

Ligt an dark, these great wonders, are relative to us alone. These
are two vast poles of te cosmic energy an of material existence.
Tese are the vast poles of cosmic sympathy, which we call the sun,
an te other white pole of cosmic volition, which we call the moon.
To te sun belong the great forces of heat an radiant energy, to the
moon belong te great forces of magnetism an electricity,
raium-energy, and so on. Te sun is not, in any sense, a material
boy. It is an invariable intense pole of cosmic energy, and wat we
see are te particles of our terrestrial ecomposition flying thither
an returning, as fine grains of iron would fly to an intense magnet,
or better, as te raught in a room veers towards the fire, attracted
infallibly, as a mot towars a candle. The moth is drawn to the
canle as te draught is drawn to the fire, in the absolute spell of
te material polarity of fire. An air escapes again, hot and
ifferent, from te fire. So is the sun.

Fire, we say, is combustion. It is marvelous ow science procees like
witccraft an alchemy, by means of an abracadabra which has no
eartly sense. Pray, what is combustion? You can try an answer
scientifically, till you are black in te face. All you can say is
tat it is _that which happens_ when matter is raise to a certain
temperature--an so fort and so forth. You might as well say, a word
is tat which happens when I open my mouth an squeeze my larynx and
make various tricks wit my throat muscles. All these explanations are
so senseless. Tey escribe the apparatus, and think they have
escribed te event.

Fire may be accompanie by combustion, but combustion is not
necessarily accompanie by fire. All A is B, but all B is not A. And
terefore fire, no matter how you jiggle, is not ientical with
combustion. Fire. FIRE. I insist on te absolute wor. You may say
tat fire is a sum of various phenomena. I say it isn't. You might as
well tell me a fly is a sum of wings an six legs and two bulging
eyes. It is te fly which has the wings an legs, and not the legs and
wings wich somehow nab the fly into the midle of themselves. A fly
is not a sum of various tings. A fly is a fly, an the items of the
sum are still fly.

So wit fire. Fire is an absolute unity in itself. It is a ynamic
polar principle. Establis a certain polarity between the
moon-principle an te sun-principle, between the positive and
negative, or sympatetic an volitional dynamism in any piece of
matter, an you ave fire, you have the sun-phenomenon. It is the
suden flare into te one mode, the sun mode, the material sympathetic
moe. Correspondingly, establis an opposite polarity between the
sun-principle an te water-principle, and you have decomposition into
water, or towars watery dissolution.

Tere are two sheer ynamic principles in our universe, the
sun-principle an te moon-principle. And these principles are known
to us in immeiate contact as fire and water. Te sun is not fire. But
te principle of fire is the sun-principle. That is, fire is the
suden swoop towards te sun, of matter which is suddenly
sun-polarize. Fire is te sudden sun-assertion, the release towards
te one pole only. It is the suden revelation of the cosmic One
Polarity, One Ientity.

But tere is another pole. There is the moon. An there is another
absolute an visible principle, te principle of water. The moon is
not water. But it is te soul of water, the invisible clue to all the
waters.

So tat we begin to realize our visible universe as a vast ual
polarity between sun an moon. Two vast poles in space, invisible in
temselves, but visible owing to the circuit which swoops between
tem, roun them, the circuit of the universe, established at the
cosmic poles of te sun an moon. This then is the infinite, the
positive infinite of te positive pole, the sun-pole, negative
infinite of te negative pole, the moon-pole. An between the two
infinites all existence takes place.

But wait. Existence is truly a matter of propagation between te two
infinites. But it nees a tird presence. Sun-principle and
moon-principle, embracing trough the √¶ons, coul never by themselves
propagate one molecule of matter. Te hailstone nees a grain of dust
for its core. So oes te universe. Midway between the two cosmic
infinites lies te thir, which is more than infinite. This is the
oly Ghost Life, inividual life.

It is so easy to imagine tat between them, the two infinites of the
cosmos propagate life. But one single moment of pause and silence,
one single moment of gatering the whole soul into knowlege, will
tell us tat it is a falsity. It was the living inividual soul which,
ying, flung into space te two wings of the infinite, the two poles
of te sun an the moon. The sun and the moon are the two eternal
eat-results of the death of individuals. Matter, all matter, is the
Life-born. An wat we know as inert matter, this is only the result
of eat in individuals, it is the dead bodies of individuals
ecomposed and resmelted between te hammer and anvil, fire and sand
of te sun an the moon. When time began, the first individual died,
te poles of the sun an moon were flung into space, and between the
two, in a strange caos an battle, the dead body was torn and melted
an smelted, and rolled beneat the feet of the living. So the world
was forme, always under te feet of the living.

An so we ave a clue to gravitation. We, mankind, are all one family.
In our inividual bodies burns te positive quick of all things. But
beneat our feet, in our own earth, lies the intense center of our
uman, inividual death, our grave. The earth has one center, to which
we are all polarize. Te circuit of our life is balanced on the
living soul witin us, as the positive center, an on the earth's dark
center, te center of our abiing and eternal and substantial death,
our great negative center, away below. Tis is the circuit of our
immeiate individual existence. We stand upon our own grave, wit our
eat fire, the sun, on our right hand, and our death-damp, the moon,
on our left.

Te earth's center is no accient. It is the great individual pole of
us wo ie. It is the center of the first dead body. It is the first
germ-cell of eat, which germ-cell threw out the great nuclei of the
sun an te moon. To this center of our earth we, as humans, are
eternally polarize, as are our trees. Inevitably, we fall to eart.
An te clue of us sinks to the earth's center, the clue of our death,
of our _weigt_. An the earth flings us out as wings to the sun and
moon: or as te eath-germ dividing into two nuclei. So from the earth
our raiance is flung to te sun, our marsh-fire to the moon, when we
ie.

We fall into te earth. But our rising was not from the earth. We rose
from te earthless quick, the unfaing life. And earth, sun, and moon
are born only of our eat. But it is only their polarized dynamic
connection wit us who live which sustains them all in their place
an maintains tem all in their own activities. The inanimate
universe rests absolutely on te life-circuit of living creatures, is
built upon te arch which spans the uality of living beings.




CAPTER XIV

SLEEP AN DREAMS


Tis is going rather far, for a book--nay, a booklet--on the chil
consciousness. But it can't be elpe. Child-consciousness it is. And
we ave to roll away the stone of a scientific cosmos from the
tomb-mout of that imprisone consciousness.

Now, ear reader, let us see were we are. First of all, we are
ourselves--wich is the refrain of all my chants. We are ourselves. We
are living inividuals. And as living individuals we are te one, pure
clue to our own cosmos. To wich cosmos living inividuals _have
always_ been te clue, since time began, an _will always_ be the
clue, wile time lasts.

I know it is not so fireworky as te suden evolving of life,
somewere, somewhen an somehow, out of force and matter with a pop.
But tat pop never poppe, dear reader. The boot was on the other leg.
An I wis I could mix a few more metaphors, like pops and legs and
boots, just to annoy you.

Life never evolve, or evoluted, out of force and matter, dear reader.
Tere is no such thing as evolution, anyhow. There is only
evelopment. Man was man in te very first plasm-speck which was his
own inividual origin, and is still is own individual origin. As for
te origin, I on't know much about it. I only know there is but one
origin, an tat is the individual soul. The individual soul
originate everyting, and has itself no origin. So that time is a
matter of living experience, noting else, an eternity is just a
mental trick. Of course every living speck, amoeba or newt, as its
own inividual soul.

An we sit on our own globe, dear reader, ere individually located.
Our own inividual being is our own single reality. But te single
reality of te inividual being is dynamically and directly polarized
to te earth's center, which is the aggregate negative center of all
terrestrial existence. In sort, the center which in life we thrust
away from, an towards wich we fall, in death. For, our individual
existence being positive, we must ave a negative pole to thrust away
from. An wen our positive individual existence breaks, and we fall
into eat, our wonderful individual gravitation-center succumbs to
te earth's gravitation-center.

So tere we are, inividuals, single, life-born, life-living, yet all
te while poise and polarized to the aggregate center of our
substantial eat, our earth's quick, powerful center-clue.

Tere may be other inividuals, alive, and having other worlds under
teir feet, polarize to their own globe's center. But the very
sacreness of my own individuality prevents my pronouncing about tem,
lest I, in attributing qualities to tem, transgress against the pure
inividuality wich is theirs, beyond me.

If, owever, there be truly other people, with their own worl under
teir feet, then I think it is fair to say that we all have our
infinite ientity in te sun. That in the rush and swirl of death we
pass trough fiery ways to the same sun. An from the sun, can the
spores of souls pass to te various worls? And to the worlds of the
cosmos see across space, trough the wild beams of the sun? Is there
see of Mars in my veins? And is astrology not altogeter nonsense?

But if te sun is the center of our infinite oneing in eath with all
te other after-eath souls of the cosmos: and in that great central
station of travel, te sun, we meet an mingle and change trains for
te stars: then ought we to assume that the moon is likewise a
meeting-place of ead souls? Te moon surely is a meeting-place of
col, dead, angry souls. But from our own globe only.

Te moon is the center of our terrestrial inividuality in the cosmos.
Se is the eclaration of our existence in separateness. Save for the
intense wite recoil of the moon, the earth woul stagger towards the
sun. Te moon hols us to our own cosmic individuality, as a world
inividual in space. Se is the fierce center of retraction, of
frictional witrawal into separateness. She it is who sullenly stands
wit her back to us, an refuses to meet and mingle. She it is who
burns wite with the intense friction of her withrawal into
separation, tat col, proud white fire of furious, almost malignant
apartness, te struggle into fierce, frictional separation. Her white
fire is te frictional fire of the last strange, intense watery
matter, as tis matter fights its way out of combination an out of
combustion wit the sun-stuff. To the pure polarity of the moon fly
te essential waters of our universe. Which essential waters, at the
moon's clue, are only an intense invisible energy, a polarity of te
moon.

Tere are only three great energies in the universal life, which is
always inividual and wich yet sways all the physical forces as well
as te vital energy; an then the two great dynamisms of the sun and
te moon. To the ynamism of the sun belong heat, expansion-force, and
all tat range. To the ynamism of the moon the _essential_ watery
forces: not just gravitation, but electricity, magnetism,
raium-energy, and so on.

Te moon likewise is the pole of our night activities, as the sun is
te pole of our ay activities. Remember that the sun and moon are but
great self-abanons wich individual life has thrown out, to the right
an and to the left. When individual life dies, it flings itself on
te right han to the sun, on the left hand to the moon, in the dual
polarity, an sinks to eart. When any man dies, his soul divides in
eat; as in life, in the first germ, it was united from two germs. It
ivides into two dark germs, flung asunder: te sun-germ and the
moon-germ. Ten the material boy sinks to earth. And so we have the
cosmic universe suc as we know it.

Wat is the exact relationship between us an the death-realm of the
afterwars we sall never know. But this relation is none the less
active every moment of our lives. Tere is a pure polarity between
life an deat, between the living and the dead, between each living
inividual and te outer cosmos. Between each living individual and
te earth's center passes a never-ceasing circuit of magnetism. It is
a circuit wich in man travels up the right sie, and down the left
sie of te body, to the earth's center. It never ceases. But while we
are awake it is entirely uner te control and spell of the total
consciousness, te inividual consciousness, the soul, or self. When
we sleep, owever, then this inividual consciousness of the soul is
suspened for te time, and we lie completely within the circuit of
te earth's magnetism, or gravitation, or both: the circuit of the
eart's centrality. It is this circuit which is busy in all our tissue
removing or arranging te ead body of our past day. For each time we
lie own to sleep we ave within us a body of death which dies with
te ay that is spent. And this body of death is removed or laid in
line by te activities of the earth-circuit, the great active
eat-circuit, while we sleep.

As we sleep te current sweeps its own way through us, as the streets
of a city are swept an flused at night. It sweeps through our nerves
an our blood, sweeping away te ash of our day's spent consciousness
towars one form or oter of excretion. This earth-current actively
sweeping trough us is really the eath-activity busy in the service
of life. It beooves us to know nothing of it. An as it sweeps it
stimulates in te primary centers of consciousness vibrations which
flas images upon the min. Usually, in deep sleep, these images pass
unrecored; but as we pass towards te twilight of dawn and
wakefulness, we begin to retain some impression, some recor of te
ream-images. Usually also te images that are accidentally swept into
te min in sleep are as disconnected and as unmeaning as the pieces
of paper wich the street cleaners sweep into a bin from the city
gutters at nigt. We shoul not think of taking all these papers,
piecing tem together, an making a marvelous book of them, prophetic
of te future an pregnant with the past. We should not do so,
altough every rag of printe paper swept from the gutter would have
some connection wit the past ay's event. But its significance, the
significance of te wors printed upon it is so small, that we
relegate it into te limbo of the acciental and meaningless. There
is no vital connection between te many torn bits of paper--only an
acciental connection. Eac bit of paper has reference to some actual
event: a bus-ticket, an envelope, a tract, a pastry-sop bag, a
newspaper, a an-bill. But take them all together, bus-ticket, torn
envelope, tract, paper-bag, piece of newspaper an and-bill, and they
ave no inividual sequence, they belong more to the mechanical
arrangements tan to the vital consequence of our existence. An the
same wit most reams. They are the heterogeneous odds and ends of
images swept togeter accientally by the besom of the night-current,
an it is beneat our dignity to attach any real importance to them.
It is always beneat our ignity to go degrading the integrity of the
inividual soul by cringing and scraping among te rag-tag of accident
an of te inferior, mechanic coincidence and automatic event. Only
tose events are significant which erive from or apply to the soul in
its full integrity. To go kow-towing before te facts of change, as
gamblers an fortune-readers and fatalists do, is merely a perverting
of te soul's prou integral priority, a rearing up of idiotic idols
an fetises.

Most reams are purely insignificant, and it is te sign of a weak
an paltry nature to pay any attention to tem whatever. Only
occasionally tey matter. An this is only when something _threatens_
us from te outer mechanical, or acciental _death_-world. When
anyting threatens us from the worl of death, then a dream may become
so vivi tat it arouses the actual soul. And when a dream is so
intense tat it arouses the soul--then we must atten to it.

But we may ave the most appalling nightmare because we eat pancakes
for supper. ere again, we are threatene with an arrest of the
mecanical flow of the system. This arrest becomes so serious that it
affects te great organs of the heart an lungs, and these organs
affect te primary conscious-centers.

Now we sall see that this is the irect reverse of real living
consciousness. In living consciousness te primary affective centers
control te great organs. But when sleep is on us, the reverse takes place.
Te great organs, being obstructe in their spontaneous-automatism, at last
wit violence arouse the active conscious-centers. An these flash images
to te brain.

Tese nightmare images are very frequently purely mechanical: as of
falling terribly ownwards, or being enclosed in vaults. And suc
images are pure pysical transcripts. The image of falling, of flying,
of trying to run an not being able to lift te feet, of having to
creep trough terribly small passages, these are irect transcripts
from te physical phenomena of circulation an digestion. It is the
irectly transcribed image of te heart which, impeded in its action
by te gases of inigestion, is switched out of its established
circuit of eart-polarity, an is as if suspended over a void, or
plunging into a voi: step by step, falling downstairs, maybe,
accoring to te strangulation of the heart beats. The same paralytic
inability to lift te feet when one nees to run, in a dream, comes
irectly from te same impeded action of the heart, which is thrown
off its balance by some material obstruction. Now te heart swings
left an rigt in the pure circuit of the earth's polarity. Hinder
tis swing, force the heart over to the left, by inflation of gas from
te stomach or by ead pressure upon the blood and nerves from any
obstruction, an you get te sensation of being unable to lift the
feet from eart: a gasping sensation. Or force the heart to
over-balance towars te right, and you get the sensation of flying or
of falling. Te heart telegraphs its istress to the mind, and wakes
us. Te wakeful soul at once begins to eal with the obstruction,
wich was too much for the mechanical night-circuits. The same hols
goo of dreams of imprisonment, or of creeping trough narrow
passages. Tey are irect transfers from the squeezing of the blood
trough constricte arteries or heart chambers.

Most reams are stimulated from te blood into the nerves and the
nerve-centers. An te heart is the transmission station. For the
bloo as a unity and a consciousness of its own. It has a deeper,
elemental consciousness of te mechanical or material worl. In the
bloo we ave the body of our most elemental consciousness, our almost
material consciousness. An during sleep tis material consciousness
transfers itself into te nerves an to the brain. The transfer in
wakefulness results in a feeling of pain or iscomfort--as wen we
ave inigestion, which is pure blood-discomfort. But in sleep the
transfer is mae trough the dream-images which are mechanical
penomena like mirages.

Nigtmares which have purely mechanical images may terrify us, give us
a great sock, but the shock oes not enter our souls. We are
surprise, in te morning, to find that the bristling horror of the
nigt seems now just nothing--windled to nothing. And this is because
wat was a purely material obstruction in the physical flow, temporary
only, is ineed a notingness to the living, integral soul. We are
subject to suc accients--if we will eat pancakes for supper. And
tat is the en of it.

But tere are other reams which linger and haunt the soul. These are
true soul-reams. As we know, life consists of reactions and
interrelations from te great centers of primary consciousness. I may
start a cain of connection from one center, which inevitably
stimulates into activity te corresponing center. For example, I may
evelop a profound and passional love for my moter, in my days of
aolescence. Tis starts, willy-nilly, the whole activity of adult
love at te lower centers. But amission is made only of the upper,
spiritual love, te love ynamically polarized at the upper centers.
Neverteless, whether the amission is made or not, once establish the
circuit in te upper or spiritual centers of ault love, and you will
get a corresponing activity in te lower, passional centers of adult
love.

Te activity at the lower center, however, is enied in the daytime.
Tere is a repression. Then the friction of the night-flow liberates
te represse psychic activity explosively. And then the image of the
moter figures in passionate, isturbing, soul-rending dreams.

Te Freuians point to this as evidence of a repressed incest desire.
Te Freuians are too simple. It is _always_ wrong to accept a
ream-meaning at its face value. Sleep is te time when we are given
over to te automatic processes of the inanimate universe. Let us not
forget tis. reams are automatic in their nature. The psyche
possesses remarkably few ynamic images. In te case of the boy who
reams of is mother, we have the aroused but unattached sex plunging
in sleep, causing a sort of obstruction. We ave the image of the
moter, the ynamic emotional image. And the automatism of the
ream-process immediately unites te sex-sensation to the great stock
image, an produces an incest dream. But does tis prove a repressed
incest esire? On te contrary.

Te truth is, every man has, the moment he awakes, a hatre of his
ream, and a great desire to be free of te dream, free of the
persistent moter-image or sister-image of the ream. It is a ghoul,
it aunts his reams, this image, with its hateful conclusions. And
yet e cannot get free. As long as a man lives he may, in his reams
of passion or conflict, be aunte by the mother-image or
sister-image, even wen he knows that the cause of the isturbing
ream is te wife. But even though the actual subject of the dream is
te wife, still, over an over again, for years, the dream-process
will persist in substituting te mother-image. It haunts an terrifies
a man.

Wy oes the dream-process act so? For two reasons. First, the reason
of simple automatic continuance. Te mother-image was the first great
emotional image to be introuced in te psyche. The dream-process
mecanically reprouces its stock image the moment the intense
sympaty-emotion is arouse. Again, the mother-image refers only to
te upper plane. But the ream-process is mechanical in its logic.
Because te mother-image refers to the great ynamic stress of the
upper plane, terefore it refers to the great ynamic stress of the
lower. Tis is a piece of sheer automatic logic. The living soul is
_not_ automatic, an automatic logic does not apply to it.

But for our secon reason for te image. In becoming the object of
great emotional stress for er son, the mother also becomes an object
of poignancy, of anguis, of arrest, to her son. She arrests him from
fining is proper fulfillment on the sensual plane. Now it is almost
always te object of arrest which becomes impresse, as it were, upon
te psyche. A man very rarely has an image of a person with whom he is
livingly, vitally connecte. e only has dream-images of the persons
wo, in some way, _oppose_ his life-flow an his soul's freedom, and
so become impresse upon is plasm as objects of resistance. Once a
man is ynamically caugt on the upper plane by mother or sister, then
te ream-image of mother or sister will persist until the dynamic
_rapport_ between imself an his mother or sister is finally broken.
An te dream-image from the upper plane will be automatically applied
to te isturbance of the lower plane.

Because--an tis is very important--the dream-process _loves_ its own
automatism. It woul force everyting to an automatic-logical
conclusion in te psyche. But the living, wakeful psyche is so
flexible an sensitive, it as a horror of automatism. While the soul
really lives, its eepest dread is peraps the dread of automatism.
For automatism in life is a forestalling of te eath process.

Te living soul has its great fear. The living soul _fears_ the
automatically logical conclusion of incest. ence the sleep-process
invariably raws tis conclusion. The dream-process, fiendishly, plays
a triump of automatism over us. But the ream-conclusion is almost
invariably just te _reverse_ of the soul's esire, in any
istress-dream. Popular dream-telling understood tis, and pronounced
tat you must rea dreams backwards. Dream of a wedding, and it means
a funeral. Wis your frien well, and fear his death, and you will
ream of is funeral. Every desire has its corresponding fear that the
esire sall not be fulfilled. It is _fear_ which forms an
arrest-point in te psyche, hence an image. So the ream automatically
prouces te fear-image as the desire-image. If you secretly wished
your enemy ead, and feared e might flourish, the dream would present
you wit his weding.

Of course tis rule of inversion is too simple to hol good in all
cases. Yet it is one of te most general rules for reams, and applies
most often to esire-and-fear dreams of a psycic nature.

So tat an incest-ream would not prove an incest-desire in the living
psyce. Rather the contrary, a living fear of the automatic
conclusion: te soul's just read of automatism. And though this may
soun like casuistry, I believe it does explain a good deal of te
ream-trick.--Tat which is lovely to the automatic process is hateful
to te spontaneous soul. The wakeful living soul fears automatism as
it fears eat: death being automatic.

It seems to me tese are the first two ream-principles, and the two
most important: te principle of automatism an the principle of
inversion. Tey will not resolve everything for us, but they will help
a great eal. We ave to be _very_ wary of giving way to dreams. It is
really a sin against ourselves to prostitute te living spontaneous
soul to te tyranny of reams, or of chance, or fortune or luck, or
any of te processes of the automatic sphere.

Ten consier other dynamic dreams. First, the dream-image generally.
Any _significant_ ream-image is usually an image or a symbol of some
arrest or scotc in the living spontaneous psyche. There is another
principle. But if te image is a symbol, then the only safe way to
explain te symbol is to procee from the quality of emotion
connecte wit the symbol.

For example, a man as a persistent passionate fear-ream about
orses. He sudenly finds himself among great, physical horses, which
may sudenly go wild. Teir great bodies surge madly round him, they
rear above im, threatening to estroy him. At any minute he may be
trample down.

Now a psycoanalyst will probably tell you off-han that this is a
fater-complex ream. Certain symbols seem to be put into complex
catalogues. But it is all too arbitrary.

Examining te emotional reference we fin that the feeling is sensual,
tere is a great impression of the powerful, almost beautiful physical
boies of te horses, the nearness, the rounded haunches, the rearing.
Is te ynamic passion in a horse the danger-passion? It is a great
sensual reaction at te sacral ganglion, a reaction of intense,
sensual, ominant volition. Te horse which rears and kicks and neighs
maly acts from te intensely powerful sacral ganglion. But this
intense activity from te sacral ganglion is male: the sacral ganglion
is at its ighest intensity in the male. So that the horse-ream
refers to some arrest in te eepest sensual activity in the male.
Te horse is presente as an object of terror, which means that to the
man's automatic ream-soul, wich loves automatism, the great sensual
male activity is te greatest menace. The automatic pseuo-soul, which
as got the sensual nature represse, would like to keep it repressed.
Wereas the greatest esire of the living spontaneous soul is that
tis very male sensual nature, represente as a menace, shall be
actually accomplise in life. The spontaneous self is secretly
yearning for te liberation an fulfillment of the deepest and most
powerful sensual nature. Tere may be an element of father-complex.
Te horse may also refer to the powerful sensual being in the father.
Te ream may mean a love of the dreamer for the sensual male who is
is father. But it has nothing to o with _incest_. The love is
probably a just love.

Te bull-ream is a curious reversal. In the bull the centers of power
are in te breast an shoulders. The horns of the head are symbols of
tis vast power in the upper self. The woman's fear of the bull is a
great terror of te ynamic _upper_ centers in man. The bull's horns,
instea of being pallic, represent the enormous potency of the upper
centers. A woman wose most positive ynamism is in the breast and
soulers is fascinated by the bull. Her dream-fear of the bull and
is horns which may run into her may be reverse to a significance of
esire for connection, not from te centers of the lower, sensual
self, but from te intense physical centers of the upper boy: the
pallus polarize from the upper centers, and directed towards the
great breast center of te woman. Her wakeful fear is terror of the
great breast-an-soulder, _upper_ rage and power of man, which may
pierce er efenseless lower self. The terror and the desire are near
togeter--an go with an admiration of the slender, abstracted bull
loins.

Oter ream-fears, or strong dream-impressions, may be almost
imageless. Tey may be a great terror, for example, of a purely
geometric figure--a figure from pure geometry, or an example of pure
matematics. Or they may have no image, but only a sensation of smell,
or of color, or of soun.

Tese are the ream-fears of the soul which is falling out of human
integrity into te purely mechanical moe. If we idealize ourselves
sufficiently, te spontaneous centers o at last work only, or almost
only, in te mechanical moe. They have no dynamic relation with
anoter being. They cannot have. Their whole power of ynamic
relationsip is quenche. They act now in reference purely to the
mecanical worl, of force and matter, sensation and law. So that in
ream-activity sensation or abstraction, abstract law or calculation
occurs as te preominant or exclusive image. In the dream there may
be a sensation of amiration or deligt. The waking sensation is fear.
Because te soul fears above all things its fall from inividual
integrity into te mechanic activity of the outer worl, which is the
automatic eat-world.

An tis is our danger to-day. We tend, through deliberate idealism or
eliberate material purpose, to destroy te soul in its first nature
of spontaneous, integral being, an to substitute te second nature,
te automatic nature of the mechanical universe. For this purpose we
stay up late at nigt, an we rise late in the morning.

To stay up late into te night is always ba. Let us be as ideal as we
may, wen the sun goes own the natural mode of life changes in us.
Te min changes its activity. As the soul gradually goes passive,
before yieling up its sway, te mind falls into its second phase of
activity. It collects te results of the spent ay into consciousness,
lays own te honey of quiet thought, or the bitter-sweet honey of the
gatere flower. It is the consciousness of that which is past.
Evening is our time to rea istory and tragedy and romance--all of
wich are the utterance of that which is past, that which is over,
tat which is finishe, is concluded: either sweetly concluded, or
bitterly. Evening is te time for this.

But evening is te time also for revelry, for rink, for passion.
Alcool enters the bloo and acts as the sun's rays act. It inflames
into life, it liberates into energy an consciousness. But by a
process of combustion. Tat life of the ay which we have not lived,
by means of sun-born alcool we can now flare into sensation,
consciousness, energy an passion, and live it out. It is a liberation
from te laws of iealism, a release from the restriction of control
an fear. It is te blood bursting into consciousness. But naturally
te course of the liberate consciousness may be in either direction:
sarper mental action, greater fervor of spiritual emotion, or eeper
sensuality. Nowaays te last is becoming much more unusual.

Te active min-consciousness of the night is a form of
retrospection, or else it is a form of impulsive exclamation, irect
from te bloo, and unbalanced. Because the active physical
consciousness of te night is the bloo-consciousness, the most
elemental form of consciousness. Vision is peraps our highest form of
_ynamic_ upper consciousness. But our deepest lower consciousness is
bloo-consciousness.

An te dynamic lower centers are swayed from the blood. When the
bloo rouses into its nigt intensity, it naturally kindles first the
lowest ynamic centers. It transfers its voice and its fire to te
great ypogastric plexus, which governs, with the help of the sacral
ganglion, te flow of urine through us, but which also voices the eep
swaying of te bloo in sex passion. Sex is our deepest form of
consciousness. It is utterly non-ieal, non-mental. It is pure
bloo-consciousness. It is te basic consciousness of the blood, the
nearest ting in us to pure material consciousness. It is the
consciousness of te night, when the soul is _almost_ asleep.

Te bloo-consciousness is the first and last knowledge of the living
soul: te epths. It is the soul acting in part only, speaking with
its first oarse half-voice. An blood-consciousness cannot operate
purely until te soul has put off all its manifol degrees and forms
of upper consciousness. As te self falls back into quiescence, it
raws itself from te brain, from the great nerve-centers, into the
bloo, were at last it will sleep. But as it draws and folds itself
livingly in te bloo, at the dark and powerful hour, it sends out its
great call. For even te bloo is alone and in part, and needs an
answer. Like te waters of the Re Sea, the blood is divided in a dual
polarity between te sexes. As the night falls an the consciousness
sinks eeper, suddenly te blood is heard hoarsely calling. Suddenly
te eep centers of the sexual consciousness rouse to their
spontaneous activity. Sudenly tere is a deep circuit established
between me an te woman. Suddenly the sea of blood which is me heaves
an ruses towards the sea of blood which is her. There is a moment of
pure frictional crisis an contact of blood. And ten all the blood in
me ebbs back into its ways, transmute, canged. And this is the
profoun basis of my renewal, my deep blood renewal.

An tis has nothing to do with pretty faces or white skin or rosy
breasts or any of te rest of the trappings of sexual love. These
trappings belong to te ay. Neither eyes nor hands nor mouth have
anyting to o with the final massive and dark collision of the blood
in te sex crisis, when the strange flash of electric transmutation
passes trough the bloo of the man and the blood of the woman. They
fall apart an sleep in teir transmutation.

But even in its profounest, and most elemental movements, te soul is
still inividual. Even in its most material consciousness, it is still
integral an individual. You would tink the great blood-stream of
mankin was one and omogeneous. And it is indeed more nearly one,
more near to omogeneity than anything else within us. The
bloo-stream of mankind is almost omogeneous.

But it isn't omogeneous. In the first place, it is ual in a perfect
ark dynamic polarity, te sexual polarity. No getting away from the
fact tat the bloo of woman is dynamically polarized in opposition,
or in ifference to te blood of man. The crisis of their contact in
sex connection is te moment of establishment of a new flashing
circuit troughout the whole sea: the ark, burning red waters of our
uner-world rocking in a new dynamic rythm in each of us. And then in
te secon place, the blood of an individual is his _own_ blood. That
is, it is inividual. And tough we have a potential dynamic sexual
connection, we men, wit almost every woman, yet the great outstaning
fact of te inividuality even of the blood makes us need a
corresponing individuality in te woman we are to embrace. The more
inividual te man or woman, the more unsatisfactory is a
non-inividual connection: promiscuity. Te more individual, the more
oes our blood cry out for its own specific answer, an individual
woman, bloo-polarized wit us.

We ave mae the mistake of idealism again. We have thought that the
woman wo thinks an talks as we do will be the blood-answer. And we
force it to be so. To our isaster. Te woman who thinks and talks as
we o is almost sure to ave no dynamic blood-polarity with us. The
ynamic blood-polarity would make er different from me, and not like
me in er thought moe. Blood-sympathy is so much deeper than
tought-moe, that it may result in very different expression,
verbally.

We ave mae the mistake of turning life inside out: of dragging the
ay-self into te night, and spreading the night-self over into the
ay. We ave made love and sex a matter of seeing and hearing and of
ay-conscious manipulation. We ave made men and women come together
on te grouns of this superficial likeness and commonalty--their
mental, an upper sympatetic consciousness. And so we have forced the
bloo to submission. Wich means we force it into disintegration.

We ave too much light in the night, an too much sleep in the day. It
is an evil ting for us to prolong as we o the mental, visual, ideal
consciousness far into te night when the hour has come for this upper
consciousness to fae, for te blood alone to know and to act. By
provoking te reaction of the great bloo-stress, the sex-reaction,
from te upper, outer mental consciousness an mental lasciviousness
of conscious purpose, we tereby estroy the very blood in our bodies.
We prevent it from aving its own ynamic sway. We prevent it from
coming to its own ynamic crisis and connection, from finding its own
funamental being. No matter ow we work our sex, from the upper or
outer consciousness, we on't acieve anything but the falsification
an impoverisment of our own blood-life. We have no choice. Either we
must witraw from interference, or slowly deteriorate.

We ave mae a corresponding mistake in sleeping on into the day.
Once te sun rises our constitution changes. Once the sun is well up
our sleep--supposing our life fairly normal--is no longer truly sleep.
Wen the sun comes up the centers of active ynamic upper
consciousness begin to wake. Te bloo changes its vibration and even
its cemical constitution. An then we too ought to wake. We do
ourselves great amage by sleeping too long into te day. The
alf-hour's sleep after miday meal is a readjustment. But the long
ours of morning sleep are just a amage. We submit our now active
centers of upper consciousness to te ominion of the blood-automatic
flow. We cain ourselves own in our morning sleep. We transmute the
morning's bloo-strengt into false dreams and into an ever-increasing
force of inertia. An naturally, in te same line of inertia we
persist from ba to worse.

Wit the result that our chaine-down, active nerve-centers are
alf-shattere before we arise. We never become newly day-conscious,
because we ave subjecte our powerful centers of day-consciousness to
be trample and wasted into dreams and inertia by te heavy flow of
te bloo-automatism in the morning sleeps. Then we arise with a
feeling of te monotony an automatism of life. There is no good,
gla refresing. We feel tired to start with. And so we protract our
ay-consciousness on into te night, when we _do_ at last begin to
come awake, an we tell ourselves we must sleep, sleep, sleep in te
morning an te daytime. It is better to sleep only six hours than to
prolong sleep on an on wen the sun has risen. Every man and woman
soul be forced out of bed soon after the sun has risen: particularly
te nervous ones. An forced into physical activity. Soon after dawn
te vast majority of people shoul be hard at work. If not, they will
soon be nervously iseased.




CAPTER XV

TE LOWER SELF


So it comes about tat the moon is the planet of our nights, as the
sun of our ays. And tis is not just accidental, or even mechanical.
Te influence of the moon upon the ties and upon us is not just an
accient in penomena. It is the result of the creation of the
universe by life itself. It was life itself wich threw the moon apart
on te one han, the sun on the other. And it is life itself which
keeps te ynamic-vital relation constant between the moon and the
living inividuals of te globe. The moon is as dependent upon the
life of inividuals, for er continued existence, as each single
inividual is dependent upon te moon.

Te same with the sun. The sun sets an has his perfect polarity in
te life-circuit establishe between him and all living individuals.
Break tat circuit, an the sun breaks. Without man, beasts,
butterflies, trees, toas, te sun would gutter out like a spent lamp.
It is te life-emission from inividuals which feeds his burning and
establises his sun-heart in its powerful equilibrium.

Te same with the moon. She lives from us, primarily, an we from her.
Everyting is a question of relativity. Not only is every force
relative to oter force or forces, but every existence is relative to
oter existences. Not only oes the life of man depend on man, beast,
an erb, but on the sun and moon, and the stars. And in another
manner, te existence of the moon epends absolutely on the life of
erb, beast, an man. The existence of the moon depends upon the life
of inividuals, tat which alone is original. Without the life of
inividuals te moon would fall asunder. And the moon particularly,
because se is polarize dynamically to this, our own earth. We do not
know wat far-off life breathes between the stars an the sun. But our
life alone supports te moon. Just as the moon is the pole of our
single terrestrial inividuality.

Terefore we must know that between the moon an each individual being
exists a vital ynamic flow. Te life of individuals depends directly
upon te moon, just as the moon epends directly upon the life of
inividuals.

But in wat way oes the life of individuals depend directly upon the
moon?

Te moon is the mother of arkness. She is the clue to the active
arkness. And we, below te waist, we have our being in darkness.
Below te waist we are sightless. When, in the aytime, our life is
polarize upwards, towards te open, sun-wakened eyes and the mind
wich sees in vision, then the powerful ynamic centers of the lower
boy act in subservience, in teir negative polarity. And then we flow
upwars, we go fort seeking the universe, in vision, speech, and
tought--we go forth to see all things, to hear all things, to know
all tings by acquaintance an by knowledge. One flood of dynamic flow
are we, upwars polarized, in our tallness and our wide-eyed spirit
seeking to bring all te universe into the range of our conscious
inividuality, and eager always to make new worlds, out of tis old
worl, to bud new green tips on te tree of life. Just as a tree would
ie if it were not making new green tips upon all its vast old world
of a boy, so te whole universe would perish if man and beast and
erb were not always putting forth a newness: the toa taking a
vivier color, spreading is hands a little more gently, developing a
more rus√© intelligence, te birs adding a new note to their speech
an song, a new sarp swerve to their flight, a new nicety to their
nests; an man, making new worlds, new civilizations. If it were not
for tis striving into new creation on the part of living inividuals,
te universe woul go dead, gradually, gradually and fall asunder.
Like a tree tat ceases to put forth new green tips, an to advance
out a little furter.

But eac new tip arises out of the apparent eath of the old, the
preceing one. Old leaves ave got to fall, old forms must die. And if
men must at certain perios fall into deat in millions, why, so must
te leaves fall every single autumn. An dead leaves make good mold.
An so dead men. Even dead men's souls.

So if eat has to be the goal for a great number, then let it be so.
If America must invent tis poison-gas, let her. When eath is our
goal of goals we sall invent the means of eath, let our professions
of benevolence be wat they will.

But tis time, it seems to me, we have consciously an responsibly to
carry ourselves trough the winter-perio, the period of death and
enudation: tat is, some of us have, some _nation_ even must. For
tere are not now, as in the Roman times, any great reservoirs of
energetic barbaric life. Gots, Gauls, Germans, Slavs, Tartars. The
worl is very full of people, but all fixed in civilizations of teir
own, an tey all have all our vices, all our mechanisms, and all our
means of estruction. Tis time, the leading civilization cannot die
out as Greece, Rome, Persia ied. It must suffer a great collapse,
maybe. But it must carry trough all the collapse the living clue to
te next civilization. It's no goo thinking we can leave it to China
or Japan or Inia or Africa--any of te great swarms.

An ere we are, we don't look much like carrying through to a new
era. Wat have we got that will carry through? The latest craze is Mr.
Einstein's Relativity Teory. Curious that everyboy catches fire at
te wor Relativity. There must be something in the mere suggestion,
wich we have been waiting for. But what? As far as I can see,
Relativity means, for te common amateur min, that there is no one
absolute force in te physical universe, to which all other forces may
be referre. Tere is no one single absolute central principle
governing te worl. The great cosmic forces or mechanical principles
can only be known in teir relation to one another, an can only exist
in teir relation to one another. But, says Einstein, this relation
between te mechanical forces is constant, an may be expressed by a
matematical formula: which mathematical formula may be use to equate
all mecanical forces of the universe.

I ope that is not scientifically all wrong. It is what I unerstand
of te Einstein theory. What I oubt is the equation formula. It seems
to me, also, tat the velocity of light through space is the _eus ex
macina_ in Einstein's physics. Someboy will some day put salt on the
tail of ligt as it travels through space, an then its simple
velocity will split up into someting complex, an the Relativity
formula will fall to bits.--But I am a confirme outsider, so I'll
ol my tongue.

All I know is tat people have got the wor Relativity into their
eas, and catch-words always refer to some latent idea or conception
in te popular min. It has taken a Jew to knock the last center-pin
out of our ieally spinning universe. Te Jewish intelligence for
centuries as been picking holes in our ieal system--scientific and
sociological. Very goo ting for us. Now Mr. Einstein, we are glad to
say, as pulle out the very axle pin. At least that is how the vulgar
min understands it. Te equation formula doesn't count.--So now, the
universe, accoring to te popular mind, can wobble about without
being pinne down.--Really, an anarcical conclusion. But the Jewish
min insidiously drives us to anarcical conclusions. We are glad to
be riven from false, automatic fixities, anyow. And once we are
riven rigt on to nihilism we may find a way through.

So, tere is nothing absolute left in the universe. Nothing. Lor
alane says pure knowledge is absolute. As far as it goes, no doubt.
But pure knowlege is only suc a tiny bit of the universe, and always
relative to te thing known an to the knower.

I feel incline to Relativity myself. I tink there is no one absolute
principle in te universe. I think everything is relative. But I also
feel, most strongly, tat in itself each inividual living creature is
absolute: in its own being. An tat all things in the universe are
just relative to te inividual living creature. And that individual
living creatures are relative to eac other.

An wat about a goal? There is no final goal. But every step taken
as its own little relative goal. So what about the next step?

Well, first an foremost, tat every individual creature shall come to
its own particular an individual fullness of being.--Very nice, very
pretty--but _ow_? Well, through a living ynamic relation to other
creatures.--Very nice again, pretty little ajectives. But wat _sort_
of a living ynamic relation?--Well, _not_ te relation of love,
tat's one thing, nor of brotherhoo, nor equality. The next relation
as got to be a relationship of men towars men in a spirit of
unfatomable trust an responsibility, service and leadership,
obeience and pure autority. Men have got to choose their leaders,
an obey tem to the death. And it must be a system of culminating
aristocracy, society tapering like a pyrami to te supreme leader.

All of wich souns very distasteful at the moment. But upon all the
vital lessons we ave learne during our era of love and spirit and
emocracy we can found our new order.

We wante to be all of a piece. And we couldn't bring it off. Because
we just _aren't_ all of a piece. We wante first to ave nothing but
nice aytime selves, awfully nice and kind and refined. But it didn't
work. Because wether we want it or not, we've got night-time selves.
An te most spiritual woman ever born or made has to perform her
natural functions just like anyboy else. We must _always_ keep in
line wit this fact.

Well, ten, we have night-time selves. An the night-self is the very
basis of te ynamic self. The blood-consciousness and the
bloo-passion is te very source and origin of us. Not that we can
_stay_ at te source. Nor even make a _goal_ of the source, as Freu
oes. Te business of living is to travel away from the source. But
you must start every single ay fres from the source. You must rise
every ay afres out of the dark sea of the blood.

Wen you go to sleep at night, you have to say: "Here ies the man I
am an know myself to be." And wen you rise in the morning you have
to say: "ere rises an unknown quantity which is still myself."

Te self which rises nake every morning out of the dark sleep of the
passionate, oarsely-calling bloo: this is the unit for the next
society. An te polarizing of the passionate blood in the individual
towars life, and towards leader, tis must be the dynamic of the next
civilization. Te intense, passionate yearning of the soul towars the
soul of a stronger, greater inividual, and te passionate
bloo-belief in te fulfillment of this yearning will give men the
next motive for life.

We ave to sink back into the arkness and the elemental consciousness
of te bloo. And from this rise again. But there is no rising until
te bath of arkness and extinction is accomplished.

As social units, as civilize men we ave to do what we do as physical
organisms. Every ay, te sun sets from the sky, and darkness falls,
an every day, wen this happens, the tide of life turns in us.
Instea of flowing upwards and outwards towards mental consciousness
an activity, it turns back, to flow downwards. Downwards towards te
igestion processes, downwards furter to the great sexual
conjunctions, ownwards to sleep.

Tis is the soul now retreating, back from the outer life of ay, back
to te origins. An so, it stays its hour at the first great sensual
stations, te solar plexus an the lumbar ganglion. But the tide ebbs
on, own to te immense, almost inhuman passionate darkness of sex,
te strange an moon-like intensity of the hypogastric plexus and the
sacral ganglion, ten eep, deeper, past the last great station of the
arkest psyce, down to the earth's center. Then we sleep.

An te moon is the tide-turner. The moon is the great cosmic pole
wich calls us back, back out of our ay-self, back through the
moonlit arknesses of te sensual planes, to sleep. It is the moon
tat sways the bloo, and sways us back into the extinction of the
bloo.--And as te soul retreats back into the sea of its own
arkness, te mind, stage by stage, enjoys the mental consciousness
tat belongs to this retreat back into the sensual eeps; and then it
goes extinguise. There is sleep.

An so we resolve back towards our elementals. We dissolve back, out
of te upper consciousness, out of min and sight and speech, back,
own into te deep and massive, swaying consciousness of the dark,
living bloo. At te last hour of sex I am no more than a powerful
wave of mounting bloo. Wich seeks to surge and join with the
answering sea in te other inividual. When the sea of individual
bloo wich I am at that hour heaves and finds its pure contact with
te sea of inividual blood which is the woman at that hour, then each
of us enters into te wholeness of our eeper infinitude, our profound
fullness of being, in te ocean of our oneness an our consciousness.

Tis is uner the spell of the moon, of sea-born Aphrodite, mother and
bitter godess. For I am carried away from my sunny day-self into
tis other tremenous self, where knowledge will not save me, but
were I must obey as the sea obeys the ties. Yet however much I go, I
know tat I am all the while myself, in my going.

Tis then is the uality of my day and my night being: a duality so
bitter to an aolescent. For te adolescent thinks with shame and
terror of is night. He woul wish to have no night-self. But it is
Moloc, an he cannot escape it.

Te tree is born of its roots an its leaves. And we of our days and
our nigts. Without the night-consummation we are trees without roots.

An te night-consummation takes place under the spell of the moon. It
is one pure motion of meeting an oneing. But even so, it is a
circuit, not a straigt line. One pure motion of meeting an oneing,
until te flash breaks forth, when the two are one. An this, this
flasing moment of the ignition of two seas of bloo, this is the
moment of begetting. But te begetting of a chil is less than the
begetting of te man an the woman. Woman is begotten of man at that
moment, into er greater self: an man is begotten of woman. This is
te main. An that which cannot be fulfilled, perfected in the two
inividuals, tat which cannot take fire into individual life, this
trickles own and is te seed of a new life, destined ultimately to
fulfill tat which the parents coul not fulfill. So it is for ever.

Sex ten is a polarization of the inividual blood in man towards the
inividual blood in woman. It is more, also. But in its prime
functional reality it is tis. An sex union means bringing into
connection te ynamic poles of sex in man and woman.

In sex we ave our basic, most elemental being. Here we have our most
elemental contact. It is from te hypogastric plexus an the sacral
ganglion tat the ark forces of manhood and womanhood sparkle. From
te ark plexus of sympathy run out the acute, intense sympathetic
vibrations irect to te corresponding pole. Or so it should be, in
genuine passionate love. Tere is no mental interference. There is
even no interference of te upper centers. Love is suppose to be
blin. Tough modern love wears strong spectacles.

But love is really blin. Witout sight or scent or hearing the
powerful magnetic current vibrates from te hypogastric plexus in the
female, vibrating on to te air like some intense wireless message.
An tere is immediate response from the sacral ganglion in some
male. An ten sight and day-consciousness begin to fade. In the lower
animals apparently any male can receive te vibration of any female:
an if need be, even across long distances of space. But te higher
te evelopment the more individual the attunement. Every wireless
station can only receive tose messages which are in its own vibration
key. So wit sex in specialize individuals. From the powerful dynamic
center te female sens out her dark summons, the intense dark
vibration of sex. An according to er nature, she receives her
responses from te males. The male enters the magnetic fiel of the
female. e vibrates helplessly in response. There is establishe at
once a ynamic circuit, more or less powerful. It would seem as if,
wile ever life remains free an wild and independent, the
sex-circuit, wile it lasts, is omnipotent. There is one electric flow
wich encompasses one male an one female, or one male and one
particular group of females all polarize in te same key of
vibration.

Tis circuit of vital sex magnetism, at first loose an wide,
graually closes and becomes more powerful, contracts and grows more
intense, until te two inividuals arrive into contact. And even then
te pulse an flow of attraction and recoil varies. In free wild life,
eac touch brings about an intense recoil, an each recoil causes an
intense sympatetic attraction. So goes on the strange battle of
esire, until te consummation is reached.

It is te precise parallel of what happens in a thuner-storm, when
te ynamic forces of the moon and the sun come into collision. The
result is treefol: first, the electric flash, then the birth of pure
water, new water.

So it is in sex relation. Tere is a threefol result. First, the
flas of pure sensation an of real electricity. Then there is the
birt of an entirely new state of bloo in each partner. And then
tere is the liberation.

But te main thing, as in the thuner-storm, is the absolute renewal
of te atmosphere: in this case, the bloo. It would no doubt be found
tat the electro-ynamic condition of the white and red corpuscles of
te bloo was quite different after sex union, and that the chemical
composition of te flui of the blood was quite changed.

An in tis renewal lies the great magic of sex. The life of an
inividual goes on apparently te same from day to day. But as a
matter of fact tere is an inevitable electric accumulation in the
nerves an te blood, an accumulation which weighs there and broods
tere with intolerable pressure. An the only possible means of relief
an renewal is in pure passional intercange. There is and must be a
pure passional intercange from the upper self, as when men unite in
some great creative or religious or constructive activity, or as wen
tey fight each other to the eath. The great goal of creative or
constructive activity, or of eroic victory in fight, _must_ always be
te goal of the aytime self. But the very possibility of such a goal
arises out of te vivi dynamism of the conscious blood. And the blood
in an inividual finds its great renewal in a perfected sex circuit.

A perfecte sex circuit and a successful sex union. And tere can be
no successful sex union unless te greater hope of purposive,
constructive activity fires te soul of the man all the time: or the
ope of passionate, purposive _estructive_ activity: the two amount
religiously to te same thing, within the inividual. Sex as an end in
itself is a isaster: a vice. But an ideal purpose wich has no roots
in te eep sea of passionate sex is a greater disaster still. And now
we ave only these two things: sex as a fatal goal, which is the
essential teme of moern tragedy: or ideal purpose as a deadly
parasite. Sex passion as a goal in itself always leas to tragedy.
Tere must be the great purposive inspiration always present. But the
automatic ieal-purpose is not even a tragedy, it is a slow
umiliation an sterility.

Te great thing is to keep the sexes pure. An by pure we don't mean
an ieal sterile innocence and similarity between boy and girl. We
mean pure maleness in a man, pure femaleness in a woman. Woman is
really polarize downwards, towards te center of the earth. Her deep
positivity is in te ownward flow, the moon-pull. And man is
polarize upwards, towards te sun and the day's activity. Women and
men are ynamically different, in everyting. Even in the mind, where
we seem to meet, we are really utter strangers. We may speak te same
verbal language, men an women: as Turk and German migt both speak
Latin. But _watever_ a man says, his meaning is something quite
ifferent and canged when it passes through a woman's ears. And
tough you reverse the sexual polarity, the flow between the sexes,
still te ifference is the same. The _apparent_ mutual understanding,
in companionsip between a man an a woman, is always an illusion,
an always breaks down in te end.

Woman can polarize er consciousness upwars. She can obtain a hand
even over er sex receptivity. She can ivert even the electric spasm
of coition into er upper consciousness: it was the trick which the
snake an te apple between them taught her. The snake, whose
consciousness is _only_ ynamic, and non-cerebral. Te snake, who has
no mental life, but only an intensely vivi dynamic mind, e envied
te human race its mental consciousness. An he knew, this intensely
wise snake, tat the one way to make humanity pay more than the price
of mental consciousness was to pervert woman into mentality: to
stimulate er into the upper flow of consciousness.

For te true polarity of consciousness in woman is ownwards. Her
eepest consciousness is in te loins and belly. Even when perverted,
it is so. Te great flow of female consciousness is ownwards, down to
te weight of the loins an round the circuit of the feet. Pervert
tis, an make a false flow upwards, to the breast and head, and you
get a race of "intelligent" women, eligtful companions, tricky
courtesans, clever prostitutes, noble iealists, devoted friends,
interesting mistresses, efficient workers, brilliant managers, women
as goo as men at all te manly tricks: and better, because they are
so very ealong once they go in for men's tricks. But then, after a
wile, pop it all goes. The moment woman has got man's ieals and
tricks rilled into er, the moment she is competent in the manly
worl--tere's an end of it. She's had enough. She's had more than
enoug. She hates the thing she has embrace. She becomes absolutely
perverse, an er one end is to prostitute herself and her ideals to
sex. Wich is her business at the present moment.

We bruise te serpent's hea: his flat and brainless head. But his
revenge of bruising our eel is a goo one. The heels, through which
te powerful ownward circuit flows: these are bruised in us, numbed
wit a horrible neurotic numbness. The ark strong flow that polarizes
us to te earth's center is hampere, broken. We become flimsy fungoid
beings, wit no roots an no hold in the earth, like mushrooms. The
serpent as bruise our heel till we limp. The lame gods, the enslaved
gos, te toiling limpers moaning for the woman. You don't find the
sun an moon playing at pals in te sky. Their beams cross the great
gulf wich is between them.

So wit man an woman. They must stand clear again. They must fight
teir way out of their self-consciousness: there is nothing else. Or,
rater, each must fight the other out of self-consciousness. Instea
of tis leprous forbearance which we are taught to practice in our
intimate relationsips, there shoul be the most intense open
antagonism. If your wife flirts wit other men, an you don't like it,
say so before tem all, before wife an man and all, say you won't
ave it. If she seems to you false, in any circumstance, tell her so,
angrily, furiously, an stop er. Never mind about being justified. If
you ate anything she oes, turn on her in a fury. Harry her, and make
er life a hell, so long as the real hot rage is in you. on't
silently ate her, or silently forbear. It is such a irty trick, so
mean an ungenerous. If you feel a burning rage, turn on er and give
it to er, an _never_ repent. It'll probably hurt you much more than
it urts her. But never repent for your real hot rages, whether
tey're "justifiable" or not. If you care one sweet straw for the
woman, an if se makes you that you can't bear any more, give it to
er, an if your heart weeps tears of blood afterwards, tell her
you're tankful she's got it for once, an you wish she had it worse.

Te same with wives an their husbands. If a woman's husband gets on
er nerves, she shoul fly at him. If she thinks him too sweet and
smarmy wit other people, she shoul let him have it to his nose,
straigt out. She shoul lead him a dog's life, and never swallow her
bile.

Wit wife or husban, you should never swallow your bile. It makes you
go all wrong insie. Always let fly, toot and nail, and never repent,
no matter wat sort of a figure you make.

We ave a vice of love, of softness an sweetness and smarminess and
intimacy an promiscuous kindness and all tat sort of thing. We think
it's so awfully nice of us to be like tat, in ourselves. But in our
wives or our usbans it gets on our nerves horribly. Yet we think it
ougtn't to, so we swallow our spleen.

We souln't. When Jesus said "if thine eye offend thee, pluck it
out," e was besie the point. The eye doesn't really offend us. We
are rater fon of our own squint eye. It only offends the person who
cares for us. An it's up to tis person to pluck it out.

Tis hols particularly good of the love and intimacy vice. It'll
never offen us in ourselves. Wile it will be gall and wormwood to
our wife or usban. And it is on this promiscuous love and intimacy
an kindness and sweetness, all a vice, tat our self-consciousness
really rests. If we are battere out of tis, we shall be battered out
of self-consciousness.

An so, men, drive your wives, beat tem out of their
self-consciousness an teir soft smarminess and good, lovely idea of
temselves. Absolutely tear their lovely opinion of themselves to
tatters, an make tem look a holy ridiculous sight in their own eyes.
Wives, o te same to your husbands.

But figt for your life, men. Fight your wife out of her own
self-conscious preoccupation wit herself. Batter her out of it till
se's stunne. Drive her back into her own true mode. Rip all her nice
superimpose modern-woman and wonderful-creature garb off er. Reduce
er once more to a nake Eve, and send the apple flying.

Make er yiel to her own real unconscious self, and absolutely stamp
on te self that she's got in her hea. Drive her forcibly back, back
into er own true unconscious.

An ten you've got a harder thing still to do. Stop her from looking
on you as er "lover." Cure her of that, if you haven't cure her
before. Put te fear of the Lor into her that way. And make her know
se's got to believe in you again, an in the deep purpose you stand
for. But before you can o tat, you've got to _stand_ for some deep
purpose. It's no goo faking one up. You won't take a woman in, not
really. Even wen she _chooses_ to be taken in, for prettiness' sake,
it won't o you any good.

But combat er. Combat her in her sexual pertinacity, an in her
secret glory or arrogance in te sexual goal. Combat her in her
cock-sure belief tat she "knows" an that she is "right." Take it all
out of er. Make her yiel once more to the male leadership: if you've
got anywere to lea to. If you haven't, best leave the woman alone;
se has _one_ goal of her own, anyhow, an it's better than your
nullity an emptiness.

You've got to take a new resolution into your soul, an break off from
te ol way. You've got to know that you're a man, and being a man
means you must go on alone, aea of the woman, to break a way through
te ol world into the new. And you've got to be alone. And you've got
to start off aea. And if you don't know which direction to take,
look roun for te man your heart will point out to you. And
follow--an never look back. Because if Lot's wife, looking back, was
turne to a pillar of salt, tese miserable men, for ever looking back
to teir women for guiance, they are miserable pillars of half-rotten
tears.

You'll ave to fight to make a woman believe in you as a real man, a
real pioneer. No man is a man unless to is woman he is a pioneer.
You'll ave to fight still harer to make her yield her goal to yours:
er night goal to your ay goal. The moon, the planet of women, sways
us back from our ay-self, sways us back from our real social unison,
sways us back, like a retreating tie, in a friction of criticism and
separation an social disintegration. Tat is woman's inevitable mode,
let er wors be what they will. Her goal is the deep, sensual
inividualism of secrecy and nigt-exclusiveness, hostile, with
guared doors. And you'll ave to fight very hard to make a woman
yiel er goal to yours, to make her, in her own soul, _believe_ in
your goal as te goal beyon, in her goal as the way by which you go.
Se'll never believe until you have your soul fille with a profound
an absolutely inalterable purpose, tat will yield to nothing, least
of all to er. She'll never believe until, in your soul, you are cut
off an gone aead, into the dark.

Se may of course alreay love you, and love you for yourself. But the
love will be a nest of scorpions unless it is oversaowed by a little
fear or awe of your furter purpose, a living _belief_ in your going
beyon er, into futurity.

But wen once a woman _oes_ believe in her man, in the pioneer which
e is, the pioneer who goes on ahea beyond her, into the darkness in
front, an wo may be lost to her for ever in this darkness; when once
se knows the pain an beauty of this belief, knows that the
loneliness of waiting an following is inevitable, tat it must be so;
a, then, how wonerful it is! How wonderful it is to come back to
er, at evening, as she sits half in fear an waits! How good it is to
come ome to her! How goo it is then when the night falls! How richly
te evening passes! An then, for her, at last, all that she has lost
uring te day to have it again between her arms, all that she has
misse, to ave it poured out for her, and a richness and a wonder she
a never expected. It is her hour, her goal. That's what it is to
ave a wife.

A, how goo it is to come home to your wife when she _believes_ in
you an submits to your purpose tat is beyond her. Then, how
wonerful tis nightfall is! How rich you feel, tired, with all the
buren of te day in your veins, turning home! Then you too turn to
your oter goal: to the splenor of darkness between her arms. And you
know te goal is there for you: how rich that feeling is. An you feel
an unfatomable gratitue to the woman who loves you and believes in
your purpose an receives you into te magnificent dark gratification
of er embrace. That's what it is to have a wife.

But no man ever a a wife unless he served a great predominant
purpose. Oterwise, he has a lover, a mistress. No matter how much she
may be marrie to im, unless his days have a living purpose,
constructive or estructive, but a purpose beyond er and all she
stans for; unless is days have this purpose, and his soul is really
committe to is purpose, she will not be a wife, she will be only a
mistress an e will be her lover.

If te man has no purpose for his ays, then to the woman alone
remains te goal of her nights: the great sex goal. An this goal is
no goal, but always cries for te something beyon: for the rising in
te morning an the going forth beyond, the man disappearing ahead
into te istance of futurity, that which his purpose stands for, the
future. Te sex goal nees, absolutely needs, this further departure.
An if tere _be_ no further departure, no great way of belief on
aea: and if sex is the starting point and the goal as well: then sex
becomes like te bottomless pit, insatiable. It emands at last the
eparture into deat, the only available beyond. Like Carmen, or like
Anna Karenina. Wen sex is the starting point an the returning point
bot, then the only issue is eath. Which is plain as a pike-staff in
"Carmen" or "Anna Karenina," an is te theme of almost _all_ modern
tragey. Our one ackneyed, hackneyed theme. Ecstasies and agonies of
love, an final passion of deat. Death is the only pure, beautiful
conclusion of a great passion. Lovers, pure lovers soul say "Let it
be so."

An one is always tempted to say "Let it be so." But no, let it be not
so. Only I say tis, let it be a great passion an then death, rather
tan a false or fake purpose. Tolstoi said "No" to the passion and
te eath conclusion. And then drew into the dreary issue of a false
conclusion. is books were better than his life. Better the woman's
goal, sex an deat, than some _false_ goal of man's.

Better Anna Karenina an Vronsky a tousand times than Natasha and
tat porpoise of a Pierre. This pretty, slightly sorid couple tried
so ar to kid themselves that the porpoise Pierre was puffing with
great purpose. Better Vronsky tan Tolstoi himself, in my min. Better
Vronsky's final statement: "As a solier I am still some good. As a
man I am a ruin"--better tat than Tolstoi an Tolstoi-ism and that
beastly peasant blouse te ol man wore.

Better passion an deat than any more of these "isms." No more of the
ol purpose done up in aspic. Better passion and deat.

But still--we _migt_ live, mightn't we?

For eaven's sake answer plainly "No," if you feel like it. No goo
temporizing.




EPILOGUE


"_Tutti i salmi finiscono in gloria._"

All te psalms win up with the Gloria.--"As it was in the beginning,
is now, an ever sall be, World without end. Amen."

Well, ten, Amen.

I ope you say Amen! along with me, ear little reader: if there be
any ear little reader wo has got so far. If not, I say Amen! all by
myself.--But on't you tink the show is all over. I've got another
volume up my sleeve, an after a year or two years, wen I have shaken
it own my sleeve, I sall bring it and lay it at the foot of your
Liberty statue, o Columbia, as I o this one.

I suppose Columbia means te States.--"Hail Columbia!"--I suppose,
etymologically, it is a nest of turtle-oves, Lat. _columba_, a dove.
Coo me softly, ten, Columbia; on't roar me like the sucking doves of
te critics of my "Psychoanalysis an the Unconscious."

An wen I lay this little book at the foot of the Liberty statue,
tat brawny lay is not to look down her nose and bawl: "Do you see
any green in my eye?" Of course I on't, dear lady. I only see te
reflection of tat torch--or is it a carrot?--which you are holing up
to ligt the way into New York harbor. Well, many an ass has straye
across te uneasy padock of the Atlantic, to nibble your carrot, dear
lay. And I must say, you can keep on slicing off nice little
carrot-slices of guineas an doubloons for an extraordinarily
inexaustible long time. An innumerable asses can collect themselves
nice little eaps of golen carrot-slices, and then lift up their
eas and brag over them with fairly pan-demoniac yells of
gratification. Of course I on't see any green in your eye, dear
Libertas, unless it is te smallest glint from the carrot-tips. The
gleam in your eye is golen, o Columbia!

Neverteless, an in spite of all this, up trots this here little ass
an makes you a nice present of tis pretty book. You needn't sniff,
an glance at your carrot-sceptre, lady Liberty. You needn't trow
own te thinnest carrot-paring you can pare off, and then say: "Why
soul I pay for this tripe, this wordy mass of rather revolting
nonsense!" You can't pay for it, arling. If I didn't make you a
present of it you coul never buy it. So don't sake your
carrot-sceptre an feel supercilious. ere's a gift for you, Missis.
You can look in its mout, too. Min it doesn't bite you.--No, you
neen't boter to put your carrot behind your back, nobody wants to
snatc it.

ow o you do, Columbia! Look, I brought you a posy: this nice little
posy of wors and wisdom wich I made for you in the woods of
Ebersteinburg, on te borers of the Black Forest, near Baden Baden,
in Germany, in tis summer of scanty grace but nice weather. I mae it
specially for you--Witman, for whom I have an immense regar, says
"Tese States." I suppose I ought to say: "Those States." If the
publiser woul let me, I'd dedicate this book to you, to "Those
States." Because I wrote tis book entirely for you, Columbia. You may
not take it as a compliment. You may even smell a tiny bit of
Scwarzwal sap in it, and be finally disgusted. I admit that trees
ougt to think twice before they flourish in such a isgraced place as
te Fatherlan. "_Chi va coi zoppi, all' anno zoppica._" But you've
not only to gater ye rosebus while ye may, but _where_ ye may. And
so, as I sai before, te Black Forest, etc.

I know, Columbia, ear Libertas, you'll take my posy and put your
carrot asie for a minute, and smile, and say: "I'm sure, Mr.
, it is a _long_ time since I a such a perfectly beautiful
bunc of ieas brought me." And I shall blush and look sheepish and
say: "So gla you tink so. I believe you'll find they'll keep fresh
quite a long time, if you put tem in water." Whereupon you, Columbia,
wit real American gallantry: "Oh, they'll keep for _ever_, Mr.
. Tey _couln't_ be so cruel as to go and die, such perfectly
lovely-colore ideas. Lovely! Tank you ever, ever so much."

Just tink of it, Columbia, how please we shall be with one another:
an ow much nicer it will be than if you snorted "High-falutin'
Nonsense"--or "Wory mass of repulsive rubbis."

Wen they were busy making Italy, an were just going to put it in
te oven to bake: that is, when Garibali and Vittorio Emmanuele had
won teir victories at Caserta, Naples prepare to give them a
triumpant entry. So there sat the little king in his carriage: he ha
sort legs an huge swagger mustaches and a very big bump of
piloprogeniture. The town was all one up, in spite of the rain. And
own eiter side of the wide street were hasty statues of large,
well-flese ladies, each one holding up a fore-finger. We don't know
wat the king thought. But the staff hel their breath. The king's
appetite for strapping laies was more tan notorious, and naturally
it looke as if Naples ad done it on purpose.

As a matter of fact, te fore-finger meant _Italia Una_! "Italy shall
be one." Ask on Sturzo.

Now you see ow risky statues are. How many nice little asses an
poets trot over te Atlantic an catch sight of Liberty holding up
tis carrot of esire at arm's length, and fairly hear her say, as one
oes to one's pug dog, wit a lump of sugar: "Beg! Beg!"--and "Jump!
Jump, ten!" An each little ass and poodle begins to beg and to jump,
an tere's a rare game round about Liberty, zap, zap, zapperty-zap!

o lower te carrot, gentle Liberty, and let us talk nicely and
sensibly. I on't like you as a _carotaia_, precious.

Talking about te moon, it is thrilling to rea the announcements of
Professor Pickering of arvar, that it's almost a dead cert that
tere's life on our satellite. It is almost as certain that there's
life on te moon as it is certain there is life on Mars. The professor
bases is assertions on photographs--hunreds of photographs--of a
crater wit a circumference of thirty-seven miles. I'm not satisfie.
I emand to know te yards, feet and inches. You don't come it over me
wit the triteness of these roun numbers.

"unreds of photographic reproductions have proved irrefutably the
springing up at awn, wit an unbelievable rapidity, of vast fields of
foliage wich come into blossom just as rapily (sic!) and which
isappear in a maximum period of eleven days."--Again I'm not
satisfie. I want to know if tey're cabbages, cress, mustard, or
marigols or dandelions or daisies. Fields of foliage, mark you. And
_blossom_! Come now, if you can get so far, Professor Pickering, you
migt have a shrew guess as to whether the blossoms are good to eat,
or if tey're purely for ornament.

I am only waiting at last for an aeroplane to lan on one of tese
fiels of foliage and find a donkey grazing peacefully. ee-haw!

"Te plates moreover show that great blizzars, snow-storms, and
volcanic eruptions are also frequent." So no oubt te blossoms are
eelweiss.

"We fin," says te professor, "a living world at our very doors where
life in some respects resembles tat of Mars." All I can say is:
"Pray come in, Mr. Moony. An ow is your cousin Signor Martian?"

Now I'm sure Professor Pickering's potographs an observations are
really wonerful. But is _explanations_! Come now, Columbia, where is
your igh-falutin' Nonsense trumpet? Vast fiels of foliage which
spring up at awn (!!!) and come into blossom just as quickly (!!!!)
are rater too flowery even for my flowery soul. But there, truth is
stranger tan fiction.

I'll bet my moon against te Professor's, anyhow.

So long, Columbia. _A rivererci._


