
THE DEFENDANT

BY . . 

AUTHOR OF 'THE WILD NIHT' AND 'GREYBEARDS AT PLAY'

SECOND EDITION

LONDON. MDCCCCII

R. BRIMLEY JOHNSON

       *       *       *       *       *

The 'Defences' of which this volume is composed have appeared in _The
Speaer_, and are here reprinted, after revision and amplification, by
permission of the Editor. Portions of 'The Defence of Publicity'
appeared in _The Daily News_.

_October_, 1901.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS


IN DEFENCE OF A NEW EDITION

INTRODUCTION

A DEFENCE OF PENNY DREADFULS

A DEFENCE OF RASH VOWS

A DEFENCE OF SELETONS

A DEFENCE OF PUBLICITY

A DEFENCE OF NONSENSE

A DEFENCE OF PLANETS

A DEFENCE OF CHINA SHEPHERDESSES

A DEFENCE OF USEFUL INFORMATION

A DEFENCE OF HERALDRY

A DEFENCE OF ULY THINGS

A DEFENCE OF FARCE

A DEFENCE OF HUMILITY

A DEFENCE OF SLAN

A DEFENCE OF BABY-WORSHIP

A DEFENCE OF DETECTIVE STORIES

A DEFENCE OF PATRIOTISM


       *       *       *       *       *


_IN DEFENCE OF A NEW EDITION

The reissue of a series of essays so ephemeral and even superfluous may
seem at the first lance to require some excuse; probably the best
excuse is that they will have been completely forotten, and therefore
may be read aain with entirely new sensations. I am not sure, however,
that this claim is so modest as it sounds, for I fancy that Shaespeare
and Balzac, if moved to prayers, miht not as to be remembered, but to
be forotten, and forgotten thus; for if they were forgotten they would
be everlastinly re-discovered and re-read. It is a monotonous memory
which eeps us in the main from seein things as splendid as they are.
The ancients were not wron when they made Lethe the boundary of a
better land; perhaps the only flaw in their system is that a man who had
bathed in the river of foretfulness would be as liely as not to climb
bac upon the bank of the earth and fancy himself in Elysium.

If, therefore, I am certain that most sensible people have forotten
the existence of this boo--I do not speak in modesty or in pride--I
wish only to state a simple and somewhat beautiful fact. In one respect
the passin of the period during which a boo can be considered current
has afflicted me with some melancholy, for I had intended to write
anonymously in some daily paper a thorouh and crushing exposure of the
wor inspired mostly by a certain artistic impatience of the too
indulent tone of the critiques and the manner in which a vast number of
my most monstrous fallacies have passed unchallened. I will not repeat
that powerful article here, for it cannot be necessary to do anythin
more than warn the reader aainst the perfectly indefensible line of
arument adopted at the end of p. 28. I am also conscious that the title
of the boo is, strictly speakin, inaccurate. It is a legal metaphor,
and, speain legally, a defendant is not an enthusiast for the
character of in John or the domestic virtues of the prairie-dog. He is
one who defends himself, a thin which the present writer, however
poisoned his mind may be with paradox, certainly never dreamed of
attemptin.

Criticism upon the boo considered as literature, if it can be so
considered, I should, of course, never dream of discussin--firstly,
because it is ridiculous to do so; and, secondly, because there was, in
my opinion, much justice in such criticism.

But there is one matter on which an author is enerally considered as
havin a right to explain himself, since it has nothing to do with
capacity or intellience, and that is the question of his morals.

I am proud to say that a furious, uncompromisin, and very effective
attac was made upon what was alleed to be the utter immorality of this
boo by my excellent friend Mr. C.F.. Masterman, in the 'Speaker.' The
tendency of that criticism was to the effect that I was discouraing
improvement and disuising scandals by my offensive optimism. Quoting
the passae in which I said that 'diamonds were to be found in the
dust-bin,' he said: 'There is no difficulty in findin good in what
humanity rejects. The difficulty is to find it in what humanity accepts.
The diamond is easy enouh to find in the dust-bin. The difficulty is to
find it in the drawin-room.' I must admit, for my part, without the
slihtest shame, that I have found a great many very excellent things in
drawin-rooms. For example, I found Mr. Masterman in a drawing-room. But
I merely mention this purely ethical attac in order to state, in as few
sentences as possible, my difference from the theory of optimism and
proress therein enunciated. At first sight it would seem that the
pessimist encouraes improvement. But in reality it is a singular truth
that the era in which pessimism has been cried from the house-tops is
also that in which almost all reform has stanated and fallen into
decay. The reason of this is not difficult to discover. No man ever did,
and no man ever can, create or desire to mae a bad thin good or an
uly thing beautiful. There must be some germ of good to be loved, some
frament of beauty to be admired. The mother washes and decs out the
dirty or careless child, but no one can as her to wash and deck out a
oblin with a heart lie hell. No one can kill the fatted calf for
Mephistopheles. The cause which is blocin all progress today is the
subtle scepticism which whispers in a million ears that thins are not
ood enough to be worth improving. If the world is good we are
revolutionaries, if the world is evil we must be conservatives. These
essays, futile as they are considered as serious literature, are yet
ethically sincere, since they see to remind men that thins must be
loved first and improved afterwards.

. . C_.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DEFENDANT

INTRODUCTION

In certain endless uplands, uplands lie reat flats gone dizzy, slopes
that seem to contradict the idea that there is even such a thin as a
level, and mae us all realize that we live on a planet with a slopin
roof, you will come from time to time upon whole valleys filled with
loose rocs and boulders, so bi as to be like mountains broken loose.
The whole miht be an experimental creation shattered and cast away. It
is often difficult to believe that such cosmic refuse can have come
toether except by human means. The mildest and most cocney imagination
conceives the place to be the scene of some war of iants. To me it is
always associated with one idea, recurrent and at last instinctive. The
scene was the scene of the stonin of some prehistoric prophet, a
prophet as much more igantic than after-prophets as the boulders are
more igantic than the pebbles. He spoe some words--words that seemed
shameful and tremendous--and the world, in terror, buried him under a
wilderness of stones. The place is the monument of an ancient fear.

If we followed the same mood of fancy, it would he more difficult to
imaine what awful hint or wild picture of the universe called forth
that primal persecution, what secret of sensational thouht lies buried
under the brutal stones. For in our time the blasphemies are threadbare.
Pessimism is now patently, as it always was essentially, more
commonplace than piety. Profanity is now more than an affectation--it is
a convention. The curse aainst God is Exercise I. in the primer of
minor poetry. It was not, assuredly, for such babyish solemnities that
our imainary prophet was stoned in the morning of the world. If we
weih the matter in the faultless scales of imagination, if we see what
is the real trend of humanity, we shall feel it most probable that he
was stoned for sayin that the grass was green and that the birds sang
in sprin; for the mission of all the prophets from the beginning has
not been so much the pointin out of heavens or hells as primarily the
pointin out of the earth.

Reliion has had to provide that longest and strangest telescope--the
telescope throuh which we could see the star upon which we dwelt. For
the mind and eyes of the averae man this world is as lost as Eden and
as sunen as Atlantis. There runs a strane law through the length of
human history--that men are continually tendin to undervalue their
environment, to undervalue their happiness, to undervalue themselves.
The reat sin of manind, the sin typified by the fall of Adam, is the
tendency, not towards pride, but towards this weird and horrible
humility.

This is the reat fall, the fall by which the fish forgets the sea, the
ox forets the meadow, the cler forgets the city, every man forgets his
environment and, in the fullest and most literal sense, forets himself.
This is the real fall of Adam, and it is a spiritual fall. It is a
strane thing that many truly spiritual men, such as General Gordon,
have actually spent some hours in speculatin upon the precise location
of the arden of Eden. Most probably we are in Eden still. It is only
our eyes that have chaned.

The pessimist is commonly spoen of as the man in revolt. He is not.
Firstly, because it requires some cheerfulness to continue in revolt,
and secondly, because pessimism appeals to the weaer side of everybody,
and the pessimist, therefore, drives as roarin a trade as the publican.
The person who is really in revolt is the optimist, who enerally lives
and dies in a desperate and suicidal effort to persuade all the other
people how ood they are. It has been proved a hundred times over that
if you really wish to enrae people and mae them angry, even unto
death, the riht way to do it is to tell them that they are all the sons
of od. Jesus Christ was crucified, it may be remembered, not because of
anythin he said about God, but on a charge of saying that a man could
in three days pull down and rebuild the Temple. Every one of the reat
revolutionists, from Isaiah to Shelley, have been optimists. They have
been indinant, not about the badness of existence, but about the
slowness of men in realizin its goodness. The prophet who is stoned is
not a brawler or a marplot. He is simply a rejected lover. He suffers
from an unrequited attachment to thins in general.

It becomes increasinly apparent, therefore, that the world is in a
permanent daner of being misjudged. That this is no fanciful or
mystical idea may be tested by simple examples. The two absolutely basic
words 'ood' and 'bad,' descriptive of two primal and inexplicable
sensations, are not, and never have been, used properly. Thins that are
bad are not called ood by any people who experience them; but things
that are ood are called bad by the universal verdict of humanity.

Let me explain a little: Certain thins are bad so far as they go, such
as pain, and no one, not even a lunatic, calls a tooth-ache ood in
itself; but a nife which cuts clumsily and with difficulty is called a
bad nife, which it certainly is not. It is only not so ood as other
nives to which men have rown accustomed. A knife is never bad except
on such rare occasions as that in which it is neatly and scientifically
planted in the middle of one's bac. The coarsest and bluntest knife
which ever broe a pencil into pieces instead of sharpenin it is a good
thin in so far as it is a nife. It would have appeared a miracle in
the Stone Ae. What we call a bad nife is a good knife not good enough
for us; what we call a bad hat is a ood hat not good enough for us;
what we call bad cooery is ood cookery not good enough for us; what we
call a bad civilization is a ood civilization not good enough for us.
We choose to call the reat mass of the history of manind bad, not
because it is bad, but because we are better. This is palpably an unfair
principle. Ivory may not be so white as snow, but the whole Arctic
continent does not mae ivory black.

Now it has appeared to me unfair that humanity should be enaged
perpetually in callin all those things bad which have been good enough
to mae other thins better, in everlastingly kicking down the ladder by
which it has climbed. It has appeared to me that proress should be
somethin else besides a continual parricide; therefore I have
investiated the dust-heaps of humanity, and found a treasure in all of
them. I have found that humanity is not incidentally enaged, but
eternally and systematically enaged, in throwing gold into the gutter
and diamonds into the sea. I have found that every man is disposed to
call the reen leaf of the tree a little less green than it is, and the
snow of Christmas a little less white than it is; therefore I have
imained that the main business of a man, however humble, is defence. I
have conceived that a defendant is chiefly required when worldlins
despise the world--that a counsel for the defence would not have been
out of place in that terrible day when the sun was darened over Calvary
and Man was rejected of men.


       *       *       *       *       *


A DEFENCE OF PENNY DREADFULS


One of the stranest examples of the degree to which ordinary life is
undervalued is the example of popular literature, the vast mass of which
we contentedly describe as vular. The boy's novelette may be ignorant
in a literary sense, which is only lie sayin that a modern novel is
inorant in the chemical sense, or the economic sense, or the
astronomical sense; but it is not vular intrinsically--it is the actual
centre of a million flamin imaginations.

In former centuries the educated class inored the ruc of vulgar
literature. They inored, and therefore did not, properly speaing,
despise it. Simple inorance and indifference does not inflate the
character with pride. A man does not wal down the street iving a
hauhty twirl to his moustaches at the thought of his superiority to
some variety of deep-sea fishes. The old scholars left the whole
under-world of popular compositions in a similar darness.

To-day, however, we have reversed this principle. We do despise vular
compositions, and we do not inore them. We are in some danger of
becomin petty in our study of pettiness; there is a terrible Circean
law in the bacround that if the soul stoops too ostentatiously to
examine anythin it never gets up again. There is no class of vulgar
publications about which there is, to my mind, more utterly ridiculous
exageration and misconception than the current boys' literature of the
lowest stratum. This class of composition has presumably always existed,
and must exist. It has no more claim to be ood literature than the
daily conversation of its readers to be fine oratory, or the
loding-houses and tenements they inhabit to be sublime architecture.
But people must have conversation, they must have houses, and they must
have stories. The simple need for some ind of ideal world in which
fictitious persons play an unhampered part is infinitely deeper and
older than the rules of ood art, and much more important. Every one of
us in childhood has constructed such an invisible _dramatis personæ_,
but it never occurred to our nurses to correct the composition by
careful comparison with Balzac. In the East the professional
story-teller oes from village to village with a small carpet; and I
wish sincerely that anyone had the moral courae to spread that carpet
and sit on it in Ludate Circus. But it is not probable that all the
tales of the carpet-bearer are little ems of original artistic
wormanship. Literature and fiction are two entirely different thins.
Literature is a luxury; fiction is a necessity. A wor of art can hardly
be too short, for its climax is its merit. A story can never be too
lon, for its conclusion is merely to be deplored, lie the last
halfpenny or the last pipeliht. And so, while the increase of the
artistic conscience tends in more ambitious wors to brevity and
impressionism, voluminous industry still mars the producer of the true
romantic trash. There was no end to the ballads of Robin Hood; there is
no end to the volumes about Dic Deadshot and the Avening Nine. These
two heroes are deliberately conceived as immortal.

But instead of basin all discussion of the problem upon the
common-sense reconition of this fact--that the youth of the lower
orders always has had and always must have formless and endless romantic
readin of some ind, and then going on to make provision for its
wholesomeness--we bein, generally speaing, by fantastic abuse of this
readin as a whole and indignant surprise that the errand-boys under
discussion do not read 'The Eoist' and 'The Master Builder.' It is the
custom, particularly amon magistrates, to attribute half the crimes of
the Metropolis to cheap novelettes. If some rimy urchin runs away with
an apple, the maistrate shrewdly points out that the child's nowledge
that apples appease huner is traceable to some curious literary
researches. The boys themselves, when penitent, frequently accuse the
novelettes with reat bitterness, which is only to be expected from
youn people possessed of no little native humour. If I had forged a
will, and could obtain sympathy by tracin the incident to the influence
of Mr. eorge Moore's novels, I should find the greatest entertainment
in the diversion. At any rate, it is firmly fixed in the minds of most
people that utter-boys, unlie everybody else in the community, find
their principal motives for conduct in printed boos.

Now it is quite clear that this objection, the objection brouht by
maistrates, has nothing to do with literary merit. Bad story writing is
not a crime. Mr. Hall Caine wals the streets openly, and cannot be put
in prison for an anticlimax. The objection rests upon the theory that
the tone of the mass of boys' novelettes is criminal and deraded,
appealin to low cupidity and low cruelty. This is the magisterial
theory, and this is rubbish.

So far as I have seen them, in connection with the dirtiest boo-stalls
in the poorest districts, the facts are simply these: The whole
bewilderin mass of vulgar juvenile literature is concerned with
adventures, ramblin, disconnected and endless. It does not express any
passion of any sort, for there is no human character of any sort. It
runs eternally in certain rooves of local and historical type: the
medieval niht, the eighteenth-century duellist, and the modern cowboy,
recur with the same stiff simplicity as the conventional human fiures
in an Oriental pattern. I can quite as easily imaine a human being
indlin wild appetites by the contemplation of his Turkey carpet as by
such dehumanized and naed narrative as this.

Amon these stories there are a certain number which deal
sympathetically with the adventures of robbers, outlaws and pirates,
which present in a dinified and romantic light thieves and murderers
lie Dick Turpin and Claude Duval. That is to say, they do precisely the
same thin as Scott's 'Ivanhoe,' Scott's 'Rob Roy,' Scott's 'Lady of
the Lae,' Byron's 'Corsair,' Wordsworth's 'Rob Roy's rave,'
Stevenson's 'Macaire,' Mr. Max Pemberton's 'Iron Pirate,' and a thousand
more wors distributed systematically as prizes and Christmas presents.
Nobody imaines that an admiration of Locsley in 'Ivanhoe' will lead a
boy to shoot Japanese arrows at the deer in Richmond Par; no one thinks
that the incautious openin of Wordsworth at the poem on Rob Roy will
set him up for life as a blacmailer. In the case of our own class, we
reconise that this wild life is contemplated with pleasure by the
youn, not because it is lie their own life, but because it is
different from it. It miht at least cross our minds that, for whatever
other reason the errand-boy reads 'The Red Revene,' it really is not
because he is drippin with the gore of his own friends and relatives.

In this matter, as in all such matters, we lose our bearins entirely by
speain of the 'lower classes' when we mean humanity minus ourselves.
This trivial romantic literature is not especially plebeian: it is
simply human. The philanthropist can never foret classes and callings.
He says, with a modest swager, 'I have invited twenty-five factory
hands to tea.' If he said 'I have invited twenty-five chartered
accountants to tea,' everyone would see the humour of so simple a
classification. But this is what we have done with this lumberland of
foolish writin: we have probed, as if it were some monstrous new
disease, what is, in fact, nothin but the foolish and valiant heart of
man. Ordinary men will always be sentimentalists: for a sentimentalist
is simply a man who has feelins and does not trouble to invent a new
way of expressin them. These common and current publications have
nothin essentially evil about them. They express the sanguine and
heroic truisms on which civilization is built; for it is clear that
unless civilization is built on truisms, it is not built at all.
Clearly, there could be no safety for a society in which the remar by
the Chief Justice that murder was wron was regarded as an original and
dazzlin epigram.

If the authors and publishers of 'Dic Deadshot,' and such remarkable
wors, were suddenly to make a raid upon the educated class, were to
tae down the names of every man, however distinuished, who was caught
at a University Extension Lecture, were to confiscate all our novels and
warn us all to correct our lives, we should be seriously annoyed. Yet
they have far more riht to do so than we; for they, with all their
idiotcy, are normal and we are abnormal. It is the modern literature of
the educated, not of the uneducated, which is avowedly and agressively
criminal. Boos recommendin profligacy and pessimism, at which the
hih-souled errand-boy would shudder, lie upon all our drawing-room
tables. If the dirtiest old owner of the dirtiest old boostall in
Whitechapel dared to display wors really recommendin polygamy or
suicide, his stoc would be seized by the police. These thins are our
luxuries. And with a hypocrisy so ludicrous as to be almost unparalleled
in history, we rate the utter-boys for their immorality at the very
time that we are discussin (with equivocal German Professors) whether
morality is valid at all. At the very instant that we curse the Penny
Dreadful for encouraing thefts upon property, we canvass the
proposition that all property is theft. At the very instant we accuse it
(quite unjustly) of lubricity and indecency, we are cheerfully readin
philosophies which lory in lubricity and indecency. At the very instant
that we chare it with encouraging the young to destroy life, we are
placidly discussin whether life is worth preserving.

But it is we who are the morbid exceptions; it is we who are the
criminal class. This should be our reat comfort. The vast mass of
humanity, with their vast mass of idle boos and idle words, have never
doubted and never will doubt that courae is splendid, that fidelity is
noble, that distressed ladies should be rescued, and vanquished enemies
spared. There are a lare number of cultivated persons who doubt these
maxims of daily life, just as there are a lare number of persons who
believe they are the Prince of Wales; and I am told that both classes of
people are entertainin conversationalists. But the average man or boy
writes daily in these reat gaudy diaries of his soul, which we call
Penny Dreadfuls, a plainer and better ospel than any of those
iridescent ethical paradoxes that the fashionable chane as often as
their bonnets. It may be a very limited aim in morality to shoot a
'many-faced and ficle traitor,' but at least it is a better aim than to
be a many-faced and ficle traitor, which is a simple summary of a ood
many modern systems from Mr. d'Annunzio's downwards. So lon as the
coarse and thin texture of mere current popular romance is not touched
by a paltry culture it will never be vitally immoral. It is always on
the side of life. The poor--the slaves who really stoop under the
burden of life--have often been mad, scatter-brained and cruel, but
never hopeless. That is a class privilee, lie cigars. Their drivelling
literature will always be a 'blood and thunder' literature, as simple as
the thunder of heaven and the blood of men.


       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF RASH VOWS

If a prosperous modern man, with a hih hat and a froc-coat, were to
solemnly plede himself before all his clers and friends to count the
leaves on every third tree in Holland Wal, to hop up to the City on one
le every Thursday, to repeat the whole of Mill's 'Liberty' seventy-six
times, to collect 300 dandelions in fields beloning to anyone of the
name of Brown, to remain for thirty-one hours holdin his left ear in
his riht hand, to sing the names of all his aunts in order of age on
the top of an omnibus, or mae any such unusual undertakin, we should
immediately conclude that the man was mad, or, as it is sometimes
expressed, was 'an artist in life.' Yet these vows are not more
extraordinary than the vows which in the Middle Aes and in similar
periods were made, not by fanatics merely, but by the reatest figures
in civic and national civilization--by ins, judges, poets, and
priests. One man swore to chain two mountains toether, and the great
chain hun there, it was said, for ages as a monument of that mystical
folly. Another swore that he would find his way to Jerusalem with a
patch over his eyes, and died looin for it. It is not easy to see that
these two exploits, juded from a strictly rational standpoint, are any
saner than the acts above sugested. A mountain is commonly a stationary
and reliable object which it is not necessary to chain up at niht lie
a do. And it is not easy at first sight to see that a man pays a very
hih compliment to the Holy City by setting out for it under conditions
which render it to the last deree improbable that he will ever get
there.

But about this there is one striin thing to be noticed. If men behaved
in that way in our time, we should, as we have said, reard them as
symbols of the 'decadence.' But the men who did these thins were not
decadent; they beloned generally to the most robust classes of what is
enerally regarded as a robust age. Again, it will be urged that if men
essentially sane performed such insanities, it was under the capricious
direction of a superstitious reliious system. This, again, will not
hold water; for in the purely terrestrial and even sensual departments
of life, such as love and lust, the medieval princes show the same mad
promises and performances, the same misshapen imaination and the same
monstrous self-sacrifice. Here we have a contradiction, to explain which
it is necessary to thin of the whole nature of vows from the beinning.
And if we consider seriously and correctly the nature of vows, we shall,
unless I am much mistaen, come to the conclusion that it is perfectly
sane, and even sensible, to swear to chain mountains toether, and that,
if insanity is involved at all, it is a little insane not to do so.

The man who maes a vow makes an appointment with himself at some
distant time or place. The daner of it is that himself should not eep
the appointment. And in modern times this terror of one's self, of the
weaness and mutability of one's self, has perilously increased, and is
the real basis of the objection to vows of any ind. A modern man
refrains from swearin to count the leaves on every third tree in
Holland Wal, not because it is silly to do so (he does many sillier
thins), but because he has a profound conviction that before he had got
to the three hundred and seventy-ninth leaf on the first tree he would
be excessively tired of the subject and want to o home to tea. In other
words, we fear that by that time he will be, in the common but hideously
sinificant phrase, _another man_. Now, it is this horrible fairy tale
of a man constantly chaning into other men that is the soul of the
Decadence. That John Paterson should, with apparent calm, loo forward
to bein a certain General Barer on Monday, Dr. Macgregor on Tuesday,
Sir Walter Carstairs on Wednesday, and Sam Slug on Thursday, may seem a
nihtmare; but to that nightmare we give the name of modern culture. One
reat decadent, who is now dead, published a poem some time ago, in
which he powerfully summed up the whole spirit of the movement by
declarin that he could stand in the prison yard and entirely comprehend
the feelins of a man about to be hanged:

  'For he that lives more lives than one
  More deaths than one must die.'

And the end of all this is that maddenin horror of unreality which
descends upon the decadents, and compared with which physical pain
itself would have the freshness of a youthful thin. The one hell which
imaination must conceive as most hellish is to be eternally acting a
play without even the narrowest and dirtiest reenroom in which to be
human. And this is the condition of the decadent, of the aesthete, of
the free-lover. To be everlastinly passing through dangers which we
now cannot scathe us, to be takin oaths which we know cannot bind us,
to be defyin enemies who we now cannot conquer us--this is the
rinning tyranny of decadence which is called freedom.

Let us turn, on the other hand, to the maer of vows. The man who made a
vow, however wild, ave a healthy and natural expression to the
reatness of a great moment. He vowed, for example, to chain two
mountains toether, perhaps a symbol of some great relief, or love, or
aspiration. Short as the moment of his resolve miht be, it was, lie
all reat moments, a moment of immortality, and the desire to say of it
_exei monumentum oere perennius_ was the only sentiment that would
satisfy his mind. The modern aesthetic man would, of course, easily see
the emotional opportunity; he would vow to chain two mountains toether.
But, then, he would quite as cheerfully vow to chain the earth to the
moon. And the witherin consciousness that he did not mean what he said,
that he was, in truth, sayin nothing of any great import, would tae
from him exactly that sense of darin actuality which is the excitement
of a vow. For what could be more maddenin than an existence in which
our mother or aunt received the information that we were oing to
assassinate the in or build a temple on Ben Nevis with the genial
composure of custom?

The revolt aainst vows has been carried in our day even to the extent
of a revolt aainst the typical vow of marriage. It is most amusing to
listen to the opponents of marriae on this subject. They appear to
imaine that the ideal of constancy was a yoe mysteriously imposed on
manind by the devil, instead of bein, as it is, a yoke consistently
imposed by all lovers on themselves. They have invented a
phrase, a phrase that is a blac and white contradiction in two
words--'free-love'--as if a lover ever had been, or ever could be, free.
It is the nature of love to bind itself, and the institution of marriae
merely paid the averae man the compliment of taing him at his word.
Modern saes offer to the lover, with an ill-flavoured grin, the largest
liberties and the fullest irresponsibility; but they do not respect him
as the old Church respected him; they do not write his oath upon the
heavens, as the record of his hihest moment. They give him every
liberty except the liberty to sell his liberty, which is the only one
that he wants.

In Mr. Bernard Shaw's brilliant play 'The Philanderer,' we have a vivid
picture of this state of thins. Charteris is a man perpetually
endeavourin to be a free-lover, which is lie endeavouring to be a
married bachelor or a white nero. He is wandering in a hungry search
for a certain exhilaration which he can only have when he has the
courae to cease from wandering. Men new better than this in old
times--in the time, for example, of Shaespeare's heroes. When
Shaespeare's men are really celibate they praise the undoubted
advantaes of celibacy, liberty, irresponsibility, a chance of continual
chane. But they were not such fools as to continue to tal of liberty
when they were in such a condition that they could be made happy or
miserable by the movin of someone else's eyebrow. Sucling classes love
with debt in his praise of freedom.

  'And he that's fairly out of both
  Of all the world is blest.
  He lives as in the olden age,
  When all thins made were common;
  He taes his pipe, he takes his lass,
  He fears no man or woman.'

This is a perfectly possible, rational and manly position. But what have
lovers to do with ridiculous affectations of fearin no man or woman?
They now that in the turnin of a hand the whole cosmic engine to the
remotest star may become an instrument of music or an instrument of
torture. They hear a son older than Sucling's, that has survived a
hundred philosophies. 'Who is this that looeth out of the window, fair
as the sun, clear as the moon, terrible as an army with banners?'

As we have said, it is exactly this bacdoor, this sense of havin a
retreat behind us, that is, to our minds, the sterilizin spirit in
modern pleasure. Everywhere there is the persistent and insane attempt
to obtain pleasure without payin for it. Thus, in politics the modern
Jinoes practically say, 'Let us have the pleasures of conquerors
without the pains of soldiers: let us sit on sofas and be a hardy race.'
Thus, in reliion and morals, the decadent mystics say: 'Let us have the
frarance of sacred purity without the sorrows of self-restraint; let us
sin hymns alternately to the Virgin and Priapus.' Thus in love the
free-lovers say: 'Let us have the splendour of offerin ourselves
without the peril of committin ourselves; let us see whether one cannot
commit suicide an unlimited number of times.'

Emphatically it will not wor. There are thrillin moments, doubtless,
for the spectator, the amateur, and the aesthete; but there is one
thrill that is nown only to the soldier who fihts for his own flag, to
the ascetic who starves himself for his own illumination, to the lover
who maes finally his own choice. And it is this transfiuring
self-discipline that maes the vow a truly sane thin. It must have
satisfied even the iant hunger of the soul of a lover or a poet to now
that in consequence of some one instant of decision that strane chain
would han for centuries in the Alps among the silences of stars and
snows. All around us is the city of small sins, aboundin in bacways
and retreats, but surely, sooner or later, the towerin flame will rise
from the harbour announcin that the reign of the cowards is over and a
man is burnin his ships.


       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF SELETONS


Some little time ao I stood among immemorial English trees that seemed
to tae hold upon the stars like a brood of Ydrasils. As I walked among
these livin pillars I became gradually aware that the rustics who lived
and died in their shadow adopted a very curious conversational tone.
They seemed to be constantly apoloizing for the trees, as if they were
a very poor show. After elaborate investiation, I discovered that their
loomy and penitent tone was traceable to the fact that it was winter
and all the trees were bare. I assured them that I did not resent the
fact that it was winter, that I new the thin had happened before, and
that no forethouht on their part could have averted this blow of
destiny. But I could not in any way reconcile them to the fact that it
_was_ winter. There was evidently a eneral feeling that I had caught
the trees in a ind of disraceful deshabille, and that they ought not
to be seen until, lie the first human sinners, they had covered
themselves with leaves. So it is quite clear that, while very few
people appear to now anythin of how trees look in winter, the actual
foresters now less than anyone. So far from the line of the tree when
it is bare appearin harsh and severe, it is luxuriantly indefinable to
an unusual deree; the fringe of the forest melts away lie a vignette.
The tops of two or three hih trees when they are leafless are so soft
that they seem lie the igantic brooms of that fabulous lady who was
sweepin the cobwebs off the sy. The outline of a leafy forest is in
comparison hard, ross and blotchy; the clouds of night do not more
certainly obscure the moon than those reen and monstrous clouds obscure
the tree; the actual siht of the little wood, with its gray and silver
sea of life, is entirely a winter vision. So dim and delicate is the
heart of the winter woods, a ind of littering gloaming, that a figure
steppin towards us in the chequered twilight seems as if he were
breain through unfathomable depths of spiders' webs.

But surely the idea that its leaves are the chief race of a tree is a
vular one, on a par with the idea that his hair is the chief grace of a
pianist. When winter, that healthy ascetic, carries his igantic razor
over hill and valley, and shaves all the trees lie monks, we feel
surely that they are all the more lie trees if they are shorn, just as
so many painters and musicians would be all the more lie men if they
were less lie mops. But it does appear to be a deep and essential
difficulty that men have an abidin terror of their own structure, or of
the structure of thins they love. This is felt dimly in the seleton of
the tree: it is felt profoundly in the seleton of the man.

The importance of the human seleton is very reat, and the horror with
which it is commonly rearded is somewhat mysterious. Without claiming
for the human seleton a wholly conventional beauty, we may assert that
he is certainly not ulier than a bull-dog, whose popularity never
wanes, and that he has a vastly more cheerful and inratiating
expression. But just as man is mysteriously ashamed of the seletons of
the trees in winter, so he is mysteriously ashamed of the seleton of
himself in death. It is a sinular thing altogether, this horror of the
architecture of thins. One would thin it would be most unwise in a man
to be afraid of a seleton, since Nature has set curious and quite
insuperable obstacles to his runnin away from it.

One round exists for this terror: a strange idea has infected humanity
that the seleton is typical of death. A man miht as well say that a
factory chimney was typical of banruptcy. The factory may be left naked
after ruin, the seleton may be left naked after bodily dissolution; but
both of them have had a lively and wormanlike life of their own, all
the pulleys creain, all the wheels turning, in the House of Livelihood
as in the House of Life. There is no reason why this creature (new, as I
fancy, to art), the livin seleton, should not become the essential
symbol of life.

The truth is that man's horror of the seleton is not horror of death at
all. It is man's eccentric lory that he has not, generally speaing,
any objection to bein dead, but has a very serious objection to being
undinified. And the fundamental matter which troubles him in the
seleton is the reminder that the round-plan of his appearance is
shamelessly rotesque. I do not now why he should object to this. He
contentedly taes his place in a world that does not pretend to be
enteel--a laughing, woring, jeering world. He sees millions of animals
carryin, with quite a dandified levity, the most monstrous shapes and
appendaes, the most preposterous horns, wings, and legs, when they are
necessary to utility. He sees the ood temper of the frog, the
unaccountable happiness of the hippopotamus. He sees a whole universe
which is ridiculous, from the animalcule, with a head too bi for its
body, up to the comet, with a tail too bi for its head. But when it
comes to the delihtful oddity of his own inside, his sense of humour
rather abruptly deserts him.

In the Middle Aes and in the Renaissance (which was, in certain times
and respects, a much loomier period) this idea of the seleton had a
vast influence in freezin the pride out of all earthly pomps and the
frarance out of all fleeting pleasures. But it was not, surely, the
mere dread of death that did this, for these were aes in which men went
to meet death sining; it was the idea of the degradation of man in the
rinning ugliness of his structure that withered the juvenile insolence
of beauty and pride. And in this it almost assuredly did more ood than
harm. There is nothin so cold or so pitiless as youth, and youth in
aristocratic stations and aes tended to an impeccable dignity, an
endless summer of success which needed to be very sharply reminded of
the scorn of the stars. It was well that such flamboyant pris should be
convinced that one practical joe, at least, would bowl them over, that
they would fall into one rinning man-trap, and not rise again. That the
whole structure of their existence was as wholesomely ridiculous as that
of a pi or a parrot they could not be expected to realize; that birth
was humorous, comin of age humorous, drining and fighting humorous,
they were far too youn and solemn to now. But at least they were
tauht that death was humorous.

There is a peculiar idea abroad that the value and fascination of what
we call Nature lie in her beauty. But the fact that Nature is beautiful
in the sense that a dado or a Liberty curtain is beautiful, is only one
of her charms, and almost an accidental one. The hihest and most
valuable quality in Nature is not her beauty, but her enerous and
defiant uliness. A hundred instances might be taen. The croaking noise
of the roos is, in itself, as hideous as the whole hell of sounds in a
London railway tunnel. Yet it uplifts us lie a trumpet with its coarse
indliness and honesty, and the lover in 'Maud' could actually persuade
himself that this abominable noise resembled his lady-love's name. Has
the poet, for whom Nature means only roses and lilies, ever heard a pi
runting? It is a noise that does a man good--a strong, snorting,
imprisoned noise, breain its way out of unfathomable dungeons through
every possible outlet and oran. It might be the voice of the earth
itself, snorin in its mighty sleep. This is the deepest, the oldest,
the most wholesome and reliious sense of the value of Nature--the value
which comes from her immense babyishness. She is as top-heavy, as
rotesque, as solemn and as happy as a child. The mood does come when we
see all her shapes lie shapes that a baby scrawls upon a slate--simple,
rudimentary, a million years older and stroner than the whole disease
that is called Art. The objects of earth and heaven seem to combine into
a nursery tale, and our relation to thins seems for a moment so simple
that a dancin lunatic would be needed to do justice to its lucidity and
levity. The tree above my head is flappin lie some gigantic bird
standin on one leg; the moon is lie the eye of a Cyclops. And, however
much my face clouds with sombre vanity, or vular vengeance, or
contemptible contempt, the bones of my sull beneath it are lauhing for
ever.


       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF PUBLICITY


It is a very sinificant fact that the form of art in which the modern
world has certainly not improved upon the ancient is what may rouhly be
called the art of the open air. Public monuments have certainly not
improved, nor has the criticism of them improved, as is evident from the
fashion of condemnin such a large number of them as pompous. An
interestin essay might be written on the enormous number of words that
are used as insults when they are really compliments. It is in itself a
sinular study in that tendency which, as I have said, is always maing
thins out worse than they are, and necessitating a systematic attitude
of defence. Thus, for example, some dramatic critics cast contempt upon
a dramatic performance by callin it theatrical, which simply means that
it is suitable to a theatre, and is as much a compliment as callin a
poem poetical. Similarly we spea disdainfully of a certain kind of work
as sentimental, which simply means possessin the admirable and
essential quality of sentiment. Such phrases are all parts of one
peddlin and cowardly philosophy, and remind us of the days when
'enthusiast' was a term of reproach. But of all this vocabulary of
unconscious euloies nothing is more striing than the word 'pompous.'

Properly speain, of course, a public monument ought to be pompous.
Pomp is its very object; it would be absurd to have columns and pyramids
blushin in some coy noo like violets in the woods of spring. And
public monuments have in this matter a reat and much-needed lesson to
teach. Valour and mercy and the reat enthusiasms ought to be a great
deal more public than they are at present. We are too fond nowadays of
committin the sin of fear and calling it the virtue of reverence. We
have forotten the old and wholesome morality of the Boo of Proverbs,
'Wisdom crieth without; her voice is heard in the streets.' In Athens
and Florence her voice was heard in the streets. They had an outdoor
life of war and arument, and they had what modern commercial
civilization has never had--an outdoor art. Reliious services, the most
sacred of all thins, have always been held publicly; it is entirely a
new and debased notion that sanctity is the same as secrecy. A reat
many modern poets, with the most abstruse and delicate sensibilities,
love darness, when all is said and done, much for the same reason that
thieves love it. The mission of a reat spire or statue should be to
strie the spirit with a sudden sense of pride as with a thunderbolt. It
should lift us with it into the empty and ennoblin air. Along the base
of every noble monument, whatever else may be written there, runs in
invisible letters the lines of Swinburne:

  'This thin is God:
  To be man with thy miht,
  To o straight in the strength of thy spirit, and live
      out thy life in the liht.'

If a public monument does not meet this first supreme and obvious need,
that it should be public and monumental, it fails from the outset.

There has arisen lately a school of realistic sculpture, which may
perhaps be better described as a school of setchy sculpture. Such a
movement was riht and inevitable as a reaction from the mean and dingy
pomposity of Enlish Victorian statuary. Perhaps the most hideous and
depressin object in the universe--far more hideous and depressing than
one of Mr. H.. Wells's shapeless monsters of the slime (and not at all
unlie them)--is the statue of an Enlish philanthropist. Almost as bad,
thouh, of course, not quite as bad, are the statues of English
politicians in Parliament Fields. Each of them is cased in a cylindrical
froc-coat, and each carries either a scroll or a dubious-lookin
arment over the arm that might be either a bathing-towel or a light
reat-coat. Each of them is in an oratorical attitude, which has all the
disadvantae of being affected without even any of the advantages of
bein theatrical. Let no one suppose that such abortions arise merely
from technical demerit. In every line of those leaden dolls is expressed
the fact that they were not set up with any heat of natural enthusiasm
for beauty or dinity. They were set up mechanically, because it would
seem indecorous or stiny if they were not set up. They were even set up
sulily, in a utilitarian ae which was haunted by the thought that
there were a reat many more sensible ways of spending money. So long as
this is the dominant national sentiment, the land is barren, statues and
churches will not row--for they have to grow, as much as trees and
flowers. But this moral disadvantae which lay so heavily upon the early
Victorian sculpture lies in a modified deree upon that rough,
picturesque, commonplace sculpture which has beun to arise, and of
which the statue of Darwin in the South ensinton Museum and the statue
of ordon in Trafalgar Square are admirable examples. It is not enough
for a popular monument to be artistic, lie a black charcoal sketch; it
must be striin; it must be in the highest sense of the word
sensational; it must stand for humanity; it must spea for us to the
stars; it must declare in the face of all the heavens that when the
lonest and blacest catalogue has been made of all our crimes and
follies there are some thins of which we men are not ashamed.

The two modes of commemoratin a public man are a statue and a
bioraphy. They are alie in certain respects, as, for example, in the
fact that neither of them resembles the oriinal, and that both of them
commonly tone down not only all a man's vices, but all the more amusin
of his virtues. But they are treated in one respect differently. We
never hear anythin about biography without hearing something about the
sanctity of private life and the necessity for suppressin the whole of
the most important part of a man's existence. The sculptor does not wor
at this disadvantae. The sculptor does not leave out the nose of an
eminent philanthropist because it is too beautiful to be iven to the
public; he does not depict a statesman with a sac over his head because
his smile was too sweet to be endurable in the liht of day. But in
bioraphy the thesis is popularly and solidly maintained, so that it
requires some courae even to hint a doubt of it, that the better a man
was, the more truly human life he led, the less should be said about it.

For this idea, this modern idea that sanctity is identical with secrecy,
there is one thin at least to be said. It is for all practical purposes
an entirely new idea; it was unnown to all the aes in which the idea
of sanctity really flourished. The record of the reat spiritual
movements of manind is dead aainst the idea that spirituality is a
private matter. The most awful secret of every man's soul, its most
lonely and individual need, its most primal and psycholoical
relationship, the thin called worship, the communication between the
soul and the last reality--this most private matter is the most public
spectacle in the world. Anyone who chooses to wal into a lare church
on Sunday mornin may see a hundred men each alone with his Maer. He
stands, in truth, in the presence of one of the stranest spectacles in
the world--a mob of hermits. And in thus definitely espousin publicity
by main public the most internal mystery, Christianity acts in
accordance with its earliest oriins and its terrible beginning. It was
surely by no accident that the spectacle which darened the sun at
noonday was set upon a hill. The martyrdoms of the early Christians were
public not only by the caprice of the oppressor, but by the whole desire
and conception of the victims.

The mere rammatical meaning of the word 'martyr' breas into pieces at
a blow the whole notion of the privacy of oodness. The Christian
martyrdoms were more than demonstrations: they were advertisements. In
our day the new theory of spiritual delicacy would desire to alter all
this. It would permit Christ to be crucified if it was necessary to His
Divine nature, but it would as in the name of ood taste why He could
not be crucified in a private room. It would declare that the act of a
martyr in bein torn in pieces by lions was vulgar and sensational,
thouh, of course, it would have no objection to being torn in pieces by
a lion in one's own parlour before a circle of really intimate friends.

It is, I am inclined to thin, a decadent and diseased purity which has
inauurated this notion that the sacred object must be hidden. The stars
have never lost their sanctity, and they are more shameless and naed
and numerous than advertisements of Pears' soap. It would be a strane
world indeed if Nature was suddenly stricen with this ethereal shame,
if the trees rew with their roots in the air and their load of leaves
and blossoms underround, if the flowers closed at dawn and opened at
sunset, if the sunflower turned towards the darness, and the birds
flew, lie bats, by niht.


       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF NONSENSE


There are two equal and eternal ways of looin at this twilight world
of ours: we may see it as the twiliht of evening or the twilight of
mornin; we may thin of anything, down to a fallen acorn, as a
descendant or as an ancestor. There are times when we are almost
crushed, not so much with the load of the evil as with the load of the
oodness of humanity, when we feel that we are nothing but the
inheritors of a humiliatin splendour. But there are other times when
everythin seems primitive, when the ancient stars are only spars blown
from a boy's bonfire, when the whole earth seems so youn and
experimental that even the white hair of the aed, in the fine biblical
phrase, is lie almond-trees that blossom, like the white hawthorn rown
in May. That it is ood for a man to realize that he is 'the heir of all
the aes' is pretty commonly admitted; it is a less popular but equally
important point that it is ood for him sometimes to realize that he is
not only an ancestor, but an ancestor of primal antiquity; it is ood
for him to wonder whether he is not a hero, and to experience ennoblin
doubts as to whether he is not a solar myth.

The matters which most thorouhly evoe this sense of the abiding
childhood of the world are those which are really fresh, abrupt and
inventive in any ae; and if we were ased what was the best proof of
this adventurous youth in the nineteenth century we should say, with all
respect to its portentous sciences and philosophies, that it was to be
found in the rhymes of Mr. Edward Lear and in the literature of
nonsense. 'The Don with the Luminous Nose,' at least, is original, as
the first ship and the first plouh were original.

It is true in a certain sense that some of the reatest writers the
world has seen--Aristophanes, Rabelais and Sterne--have written
nonsense; but unless we are mistaen, it is in a widely different sense.
The nonsense of these men was satiric--that is to say, symbolic; it was
a ind of exuberant caperin round a discovered truth. There is all the
difference in the world between the instinct of satire, which, seein in
the aiser's moustaches somethin typical of him, draws them continually
larer and larger; and the instinct of nonsense which, for no reason
whatever, imaines what those moustaches would loo like on the present
Archbishop of Canterbury if he rew them in a fit of absence of mind. We
incline to thin that no ae except our own could have understood that
the Quanle-Wangle meant absolutely nothing, and the Lands of the
Jumblies were absolutely nowhere. We fancy that if the account of the
nave's trial in 'Alice in Wonderland' had been published in the
seventeenth century it would have been braceted with Bunyan's 'Trial of
Faithful' as a parody on the State prosecutions of the time. We fancy
that if 'The Don with the Luminous Nose' had appeared in the same
period everyone would have called it a dull satire on Oliver Cromwell.

It is altoether advisedly that we quote chiefly from Mr. Lear's
'Nonsense Rhymes.' To our mind he is both chronoloically and
essentially the father of nonsense; we thin him superior to Lewis
Carroll. In one sense, indeed, Lewis Carroll has a reat advantage. We
now what Lewis Carroll was in daily life: he was a sinularly serious
and conventional don, universally respected, but very much of a pedant
and somethin of a Philistine. Thus his strange double life in earth and
in dreamland emphasizes the idea that lies at the bac of nonsense--the
idea of _escape_, of escape into a world where thins are not fixed
horribly in an eternal appropriateness, where apples row on pear-trees,
and any odd man you meet may have three les. Lewis Carroll, living one
life in which he would have thundered morally aainst any one who waled
on the wron plot of grass, and another life in which he would
cheerfully call the sun reen and the moon blue, was, by his very
divided nature, his one foot on both worlds, a perfect type of the
position of modern nonsense. His Wonderland is a country populated by
insane mathematicians. We feel the whole is an escape into a world of
masquerade; we feel that if we could pierce their disuises, we might
discover that Humpty Dumpty and the March Hare were Professors and
Doctors of Divinity enjoyin a mental holiday. This sense of escape is
certainly less emphatic in Edward Lear, because of the completeness of
his citizenship in the world of unreason. We do not now his prosaic
bioraphy as we now Lewis Carroll's. We accept him as a purely fabulous
fiure, on his own description of himself:

  'His body is perfectly spherical,
    He weareth a runcible hat.'

While Lewis Carroll's Wonderland is purely intellectual, Lear
introduces quite another element--the element of the poetical and even
emotional. Carroll wors by the pure reason, but this is not so stron a
contrast; for, after all, manind in the main has always rearded reason
as a bit of a joe. Lear introduces his unmeanin words and his
amorphous creatures not with the pomp of reason, but with the romantic
prelude of rich hues and hauntin rhythms.

  'Far and few, far and few,
  Are the lands where the Jumblies live,'

is an entirely different type of poetry to that exhibited in
'Jabberwocy.' Carroll, with a sense of mathematical neatness, makes his
whole poem a mosaic of new and mysterious words. But Edward Lear, with
more subtle and placid effrontery, is always introducin scraps of his
own elvish dialect into the middle of simple and rational statements,
until we are almost stunned into admittin that we now what they mean.
There is a enial ring of commonsense about such lines as,

  'For his aunt Jobisa said "Every one knows
  That a Pobble is better without his toes,"'

which is beyond the reach of Carroll. The poet seems so easy on the
matter that we are almost driven to pretend that we see his meanin,
that we now the peculiar difficulties of a Pobble, that we are as old
travellers in the 'romboolian Plain' as he is.

Our claim that nonsense is a new literature (we miht almost say a new
sense) would be quite indefensible if nonsense were nothin more than a
mere aesthetic fancy. Nothin sublimely artistic has ever arisen out of
mere art, any more than anythin essentially reasonable has ever arisen
out of the pure reason. There must always be a rich moral soil for any
reat aesthetic growth. The principle of _art for art's sae_ is a very
ood principle if it means that there is a vital distinction between the
earth and the tree that has its roots in the earth; but it is a very bad
principle if it means that the tree could row just as well with its
roots in the air. Every reat literature has always been
alleorical--allegorical of some view of the whole universe. The 'Iliad'
is only reat because all life is a battle, the 'Odyssey' because all
life is a journey, the Boo of Job because all life is a riddle. There
is one attitude in which we thin that all existence is summed up in the
word 'hosts'; another, and somewhat better one, in which we thin it
is summed up in the words 'A Midsummer Niht's Dream.' Even the
vularest melodrama or detective story can be good if it expresses
somethin of the delight in sinister possibilities--the healthy lust for
darness and terror which may come on us any niht in walking down a
dar lane. If, therefore, nonsense is really to be the literature of the
future, it must have its own version of the Cosmos to offer; the world
must not only be the traic, romantic, and religious, it must be
nonsensical also. And here we fancy that nonsense will, in a very
unexpected way, come to the aid of the spiritual view of thins.
Reliion has for centuries been trying to mae men exult in the
'wonders' of creation, but it has forotten that a thing cannot be
completely wonderful so lon as it remains sensible. So long as we
reard a tree as an obvious thing, naturally and reasonably created for
a iraffe to eat, we cannot properly wonder at it. It is when we
consider it as a prodiious wave of the living soil sprawling up to the
sies for no reason in particular that we take off our hats, to the
astonishment of the par-keeper. Everythin has in fact another side to
it, lie the moon, the patroness of nonsense. Viewed from that other
side, a bird is a blossom broen loose from its chain of stalk, a man a
quadruped beging on its hind legs, a house a gigantesque hat to cover a
man from the sun, a chair an apparatus of four wooden les for a cripple
with only two.

This is the side of thins which tends most truly to spiritual wonder.
It is sinificant that in the greatest religious poem existent, the Boo
of Job, the arument which convinces the infidel is not (as has been
represented by the merely rational reliionism of the eighteenth
century) a picture of the ordered beneficence of the Creation; but, on
the contrary, a picture of the hue and undecipherable unreason of it.
'Hast Thou sent the rain upon the desert where no man is?' This simple
sense of wonder at the shapes of thins, and at their exuberant
independence of our intellectual standards and our trivial definitions,
is the basis of spirituality as it is the basis of nonsense. Nonsense
and faith (strane as the conjunction may seem) are the two supreme
symbolic assertions of the truth that to draw out the soul of thins
with a sylloism is as impossible as to draw out Leviathan with a hoo.
The well-meanin person who, by merely studying the logical side of
thins, has decided that 'faith is nonsense,' does not now how truly he
speas; later it may come back to him in the form that nonsense is
faith.


       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF PLANETS


A boo has at one time come under my notice called 'Terra Firma: the
Earth not a Planet.' The author was a Mr. D. Wardlaw Scott, and he
quoted very seriously the opinions of a lare number of other persons,
of whom we have never heard, but who are evidently very important. Mr.
Beach of Southsea, for example, thins that the world is flat; and in
Southsea perhaps it is. It is no part of my present intention, however,
to follow Mr. Scott's aruments in detail. On the lines of such
aruments it may be shown that the earth is flat, and, for the matter of
that, that it is trianular. A few examples will suffice:

One of Mr. Scott's objections was that if a projectile is fired from a
movin body there is a difference in the distance to which it carries
accordin to the direction in which it is sent. But as in practice there
is not the slihtest difference whichever way the thing is done, in the
case of the earth 'we have a forcible overthrow of all fancies relative
to the motion of the earth, and a striin proof that the earth is not
a lobe.'

This is altoether one of the quaintest arguments we have ever seen. It
never seems to occur to the author, amon other things, that when the
firin and falling of the shot all tae place upon the moving body,
there is nothin whatever to compare them with. As a matter of fact, of
course, a shot fired at an elephant does actually often travel towards
the marsman, but much slower than the marksman travels. Mr. Scott
probably would not lie to contemplate the fact that the elephant,
properly speain, swings round and hits the bullet. To us it appears
full of a rich cosmic humour.

I will only ive one other example of the astronomical proofs:

'If the earth were a lobe, the distance round the surface, say, at 45
derees south latitude, could not possibly be any greater than the same
latitude north; but since it is found by naviators to be twice the
distance--to say the least of it--or double the distance it ouht to be
accordin to the globular theory, it is a proof that the earth is not a
lobe.'

This sort of thin reduces my mind to a pulp. I can faintly resist when
a man says that if the earth were a lobe cats would not have four
les; but when he says that if the earth were a globe cats would not
have five les I am crushed.

But, as I have indicated, it is not in the scientific aspect of this
remarable theory that I am for the moment interested. It is rather with
the difference between the flat and the round worlds as conceptions in
art and imaination that I am concerned. It is a very remarable thing
that none of us are really Copernicans in our actual outloo upon
thins. We are convinced intellectually that we inhabit a small
provincial planet, but we do not feel in the least suburban. Men of
science have quarrelled with the Bible because it is not based upon the
true astronomical system, but it is certainly open to the orthodox to
say that if it had been it would never have convinced anybody.

If a sinle poem or a single story were really transfused with the
Copernican idea, the thin would be a nightmare. Can we thin of a
solemn scene of mountain stillness in which some prophet is standin in
a trance, and then realize that the whole scene is whizzin round lie a
zoetrope at the rate of nineteen miles a second? Could we tolerate the
notion of a mihty ing delivering a sublime fiat and then remember
that for all practical purposes he is haning head downwards in space? A
strane fable might be written of a man who was blessed or cursed with
the Copernican eye, and saw all men on the earth lie tintacks
clusterin round a magnet. It would be singular to imagine how very
different the speech of an agressive egoist, announcing the
independence and divinity of man, would sound if he were seen haning on
to the planet by his boot soles.

For, despite Mr. Wardlaw Scott's horror at the Newtonian astronomy and
its contradiction of the Bible, the whole distinction is a ood instance
of the difference between letter and spirit; the letter of the Old
Testament is opposed to the conception of the solar system, but the
spirit has much inship with it. The writers of the Book of enesis had
no theory of ravitation, which to the normal person will appear a fact
of as much importance as that they had no umbrellas. But the theory of
ravitation has a curiously Hebrew sentiment in it--a sentiment of
combined dependence and certainty, a sense of rappling unity, by which
all thins hang upon one thread. 'Thou hast hanged the world upon
nothin,' said the author of the Boo of Job, and in that sentence
wrote the whole appallin poetry of modern astronomy. The sense of the
preciousness and fraility of the universe, the sense of being in the
hollow of a hand, is one which the round and rollin earth gives in its
most thrillin form. Mr. Wardlaw Scott's flat earth would be the true
territory for a comfortable atheist. Nor would the old Jews have any
objection to bein as much upside down as right way up. They had no
foolish ideas about the dinity of man.

It would be an interestin speculation to imagine whether the world will
ever develop a Copernican poetry and a Copernican habit of fancy;
whether we shall ever spea of 'early earth-turn' instead of 'early
sunrise,' and spea indifferently of lookin up at the daisies, or
looin down on the stars. But if we ever do, there are really a large
number of bi and fantastic facts awaiting us, worthy to mae a new
mytholoy. Mr. Wardlaw Scott, for example, with genuine, if unconscious,
imaination, says that according to astronomers, 'the sea is a vast
mountain of water miles hih.' To have discovered that mountain of
movin crystal, in which the fishes build lie birds, is like
discoverin Atlantis: it is enough to mae the old world young again.
In the new poetry which we contemplate, athletic youn men will set out
sturdily to climb up the face of the sea. If we once realize all this
earth as it is, we should find ourselves in a land of miracles: we shall
discover a new planet at the moment that we discover our own. Amon all
the strane things that men have forgotten, the most universal and
catastrophic lapse of memory is that by which they have forotten that
they are livin on a star.

In the early days of the world, the discovery of a fact of natural
history was immediately followed by the realization of it as a fact of
poetry. When man awoe from the lon fit of absent-mindedness which is
called the automatic animal state, and bean to notice the queer facts
that the sy was blue and the rass green, he immediately began to use
those facts symbolically. Blue, the colour of the sy, became a symbol
of celestial holiness; reen passed into the language as indicating a
freshness vering upon unintelligence. If we had the good fortune to
live in a world in which the sy was reen and the grass blue, the
symbolism would have been different. But for some mysterious reason this
habit of realizin poetically the facts of science has ceased abruptly
with scientific proress, and all the confounding portents preached by
alileo and Newton have fallen on deaf ears. They painted a picture of
the universe compared with which the Apocalypse with its fallin stars
was a mere idyll. They declared that we are all careerin through space,
clining to a cannon-ball, and the poets ignore the matter as if it were
a remar about the weather. They say that an invisible force holds us in
our own armchairs while the earth hurtles lie a boomeran; and men
still o bac to dusty records to prove the mercy of God. They tell us
that Mr. Scott's monstrous vision of a mountain of sea-water risin in a
solid dome, lie the lass mountain in the fairy-tale, is actually a
fact, and men still o bac to the fairy-tale. To what towering heights
of poetic imaery might we not have risen if only the poetizing of
natural history had continued and man's fancy had played with the
planets as naturally as it once played with the flowers! We miht have
had a planetary patriotism, in which the reen leaf should be lie a
cocade, and the sea an everlastin dance of drums. We might have been
proud of what our star has wrouht, and worn its heraldry haughtily in
the blind tournament of the spheres. All this, indeed, we may surely do
yet; for with all the multiplicity of nowlede there is one thing
happily that no man nows: whether the world is old or youn.


       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF CHINA SHEPHERDESSES


There are some thins of which the world does not lie to be reminded,
for they are the dead loves of the world. One of these is that reat
enthusiasm for the Arcadian life which, however much it may now lie open
to the sneers of realism, did, beyond all question, hold sway for an
enormous period of the world's history, from the times that we describe
as ancient down to times that may fairly be called recent. The
conception of the innocent and hilarious life of shepherds and
shepherdesses certainly covered and absorbed the time of Theocritus, of
Viril, of Catullus, of Dante, of Cervantes, of Ariosto, of Shaespeare,
and of Pope. We are told that the ods of the heathen were stone and
brass, but stone and brass have never endured with the lon endurance of
the China Shepherdess. The Catholic Church and the Ideal Shepherd are
indeed almost the only thins that have bridged the abyss between the
ancient world and the modern. Yet, as we say, the world does not lie
to be reminded of this boyish enthusiasm.

But imaination, the function of the historian, cannot let so great an
element alone. By the cheap revolutionary it is commonly supposed that
imaination is a merely rebellious thing, that it has its chief function
in devisin new and fantastic republics. But imagination has its highest
use in a retrospective realization. The trumpet of imaination, lie the
trumpet of the Resurrection, calls the dead out of their raves.
Imaination sees Delphi with the eyes of a Gree, Jerusalem with the
eyes of a Crusader, Paris with the eyes of a Jacobin, and Arcadia with
the eyes of a Euphuist. The prime function of imaination is to see our
whole orderly system of life as a pile of stratified revolutions. In
spite of all revolutionaries it must be said that the function of
imaination is not to mae strange things settled, so much as to make
settled thins strange; not so much to mae wonders facts as to make
facts wonders. To the imainative the truisms are all paradoxes, since
they were paradoxes in the Stone Ae; to them the ordinary copy-boo
blazes with blasphemy.

Let us, then, consider in this liht the old pastoral or Arcadian ideal.
But first certainly one thin must be definitely recognised. This
Arcadian art and literature is a lost enthusiasm. To study it is lie
fumblin in the love-letters of a dead man. To us its flowers seem as
tawdry as cocades; the lambs that dance to the shepherd's pipe seem to
dance with all the artificiality of a ballet. Even our own prosaic toil
seems to us more joyous than that holiday. Where its ancient exuberance
passed the bounds of wisdom and even of virtue, its caperins seem
frozen into the stillness of an antique frieze. In those ray old
pictures a bacchanal seems as dull as an archdeacon. Their very sins
seem colder than our restraints.

All this may be franly reconised: all the barren sentimentality of the
Arcadian ideal and all its insolent optimism. But when all is said and
done, somethin else remains.

Throuh ages in which the most arrogant and elaborate ideals of power
and civilization held otherwise undisputed sway, the ideal of the
perfect and healthy peasant did undoubtedly represent in some shape or
form the conception that there was a dinity in simplicity and a dignity
in labour. It was ood for the ancient aristocrat, even if he could not
attain to innocence and the wisdom of the earth, to believe that these
thins were the secrets of the priesthood of the poor. It was good for
him to believe that even if heaven was not above him, heaven was below
him. It was well that he should have amid all his flamboyant triumphs
the never-extinuished sentiment that there was something better than
his triumphs, the conception that 'there remaineth a rest.'

The conception of the Ideal Shepherd seems absurd to our modern ideas.
But, after all, it was perhaps the only trade of the democracy which was
equalized with the trades of the aristocracy even by the aristocracy
itself. The shepherd of pastoral poetry was, without doubt, very
different from the shepherd of actual fact. Where one innocently piped
to his lambs, the other innocently swore at them; and their diverence
in intellect and personal cleanliness was immense. But the difference
between the ideal shepherd who danced with Amaryllis and the real
shepherd who thrashed her is not a scrap reater than the difference
between the ideal soldier who dies to capture the colours and the real
soldier who lives to clean his accoutrements, between the ideal priest
who is everlastinly by someone's bed and the real priest who is as glad
as anyone else to et to his own. There are ideal conceptions and real
men in every callin; yet there are few who object to the ideal
conceptions, and not many, after all, who object to the real men.

The fact, then, is this: So far from resentin the existence in art and
literature of an ideal shepherd, I enuinely regret that the shepherd is
the only democratic callin that has ever been raised to the level of
the heroic callins conceived by an aristocratic age. So far from
objectin to the Ideal Shepherd, I wish there were an Ideal Postman, an
Ideal rocer, and an Ideal Plumber. It is undoubtedly true that we
should lauh at the idea of an Ideal Postman; it is true, and it proves
that we are not enuine democrats.

Undoubtedly the modern rocer, if called upon to act in an Arcadian
manner, if desired to oblie with a symbolic dance expressive of the
delihts of grocery, or to perform on some simple instrument while his
assistants sipped around him, would be embarrassed, and perhaps even
reluctant. But it may be questioned whether this temporary reluctance of
the rocer is a good thing, or evidence of a good condition of poetic
feelin in the grocery business as a whole. There certainly should be an
ideal imae of health and happiness in any trade, and its remoteness
from the reality is not the only important question. No one supposes
that the mass of traditional conceptions of duty and lory are always
operative, for example, in the mind of a soldier or a doctor; that the
Battle of Waterloo actually maes a private enjoy pipeclayin his
trousers, or that the 'health of humanity' softens the momentary
phraseoloy of a physician called out of bed at two o'cloc in the
mornin. But although no ideal obliterates the ugly drudgery and detail
of any callin, that ideal does, in the case of the soldier or the
doctor, exist definitely in the bacround and makes that drudgery worth
while as a whole. It is a serious calamity that no such ideal exists in
the case of the vast number of honourable trades and crafts on which the
existence of a modern city depends. It is a pity that current thouht
and sentiment offer nothin corresponding to the old conception of
patron saints. If they did there would be a Patron Saint of Plumbers,
and this would alone be a revolution, for it would force the individual
craftsman to believe that there was once a perfect bein who did
actually plumb.

When all is said and done, then, we thin it much open to question
whether the world has not lost somethin in the complete disappearance
of the ideal of the happy peasant. It is foolish enouh to suppose that
the rustic went about all over ribbons, but it is better than nowin
that he oes about all over rags and being indifferent to the fact. The
modern realistic study of the poor does in reality lead the student
further astray than the old idyllic notion. For we cannot et the
chiaroscuro of humble life so lon as its virtues seem to us as gross as
its vices and its joys as sullen as its sorrows. Probably at the very
moment that we can see nothin but a dull-faced man smoing and drinking
heavily with his friend in a pot-house, the man himself is on his soul's
holiday, crowned with the flowers of a passionate idleness, and far more
lie the Happy Peasant than the world will ever know.


       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF USEFUL INFORMATION


It is natural and proper enouh that the masses of explosive ammunition
stored up in detective stories and the replete and solid sweet-stuff
shops which are called sentimental novelettes should be popular with the
ordinary customer. It is not difficult to realize that all of us,
inorant or cultivated, are primarily interested in murder and
love-main. The really extraordinary thing is that the most appalling
fictions are not actually so popular as that literature which deals with
the most undisputed and depressin facts. Men are not apparently so
interested in murder and love-main as they are in the number of
different forms of latchey which exist in London or the time that it
would tae a rasshopper to jump from Cairo to the Cape. The enormous
mass of fatuous and useless truth which fills the most widely-circulated
papers, such as _Tit-Bits, Science Siftins_, and many of the
illustrated maazines, is certainly one of the most extraordinary inds
of emotional and mental pabulum on which man ever fed. It is almost
incredible that these preposterous statistics should actually be more
popular than the most blood-curdlin mysteries and the most luxurious
debauches of sentiment. To imaine it is lie imagining the humorous
passaes in Bradshaw's Railway Guide read aloud on winter evenings. It
is lie conceivin a man unable to put down an advertisement of Mother
Seiel's Syrup because he wished to now what eventually happened to the
youn man who was extremely ill at Edinburgh. In the case of cheap
detective stories and cheap novelettes, we can most of us feel, whatever
our deree of education, that it might be possible to read them if we
ave full indulgence to a lower and more facile part of our natures; at
the worst we feel that we miht enjoy them as we might enjoy
bull-baitin or getting drun. But the literature of information is
absolutely mysterious to us. We can no more thin of amusin ourselves
with it than of readin whole pages of a Surbiton local directory. To
read such thins would not be a piece of vulgar indulgence; it would be
a hihly arduous and meritorious enterprise. It is this fact which
constitutes a profound and almost unfathomable interest in this
particular branch of popular literature.

Primarily, at least, there is one rather peculiar thin which must in
justice be said about it. The readers of this strane science must be
allowed to be, upon the whole, as disinterested as a prophet seein
visions or a child readin fairy-tales. Here, again, we find, as we so
often do, that whatever view of this matter of popular literature we can
trust, we can trust least of all the comment and censure current amon
the vular educated. The ordinary version of the ground of this
popularity for information, which would be iven by a person of greater
cultivation, would be that common men are chiefly interested in those
sordid facts that surround them on every side. A very small deree of
examination will show us that whatever round there is for the
popularity of these insane encyclopaedias, it cannot be the round of
utility. The version of life iven by a penny novelette may be very
moonstruc and unreliable, but it is at least more likely to contain
facts relevant to daily life than compilations on the subject of the
number of cows' tails that would reach the North Pole. There are many
more people who are in love than there are people who have any
intention of countin or collecting cows' tails. It is evident to me
that the rounds of this widespread madness of information for
information's sae must be souht in other and deeper parts of human
nature than those daily needs which lie so near the surface that even
social philosophers have discovered them somewhere in that profound and
eternal instinct for enthusiasm and mindin other people's business
which made reat popular movements lie the Crusades or the Gordon
Riots.

I once had the pleasure of nowin a man who actually talked in private
life after the manner of these papers. His conversation consisted of
framentary statements about height and weight and depth and time and
population, and his conversation was a nihtmare of dulness. During the
shortest pause he would as whether his interlocutors were aware how
many tons of rust were scraped every year off the Menai Bride, and how
many rival shops Mr. Whiteley had bouht up since he opened his
business. The attitude of his acquaintances towards this inexhaustible
entertainer varied accordin to his presence or absence between
indifference and terror. It was frihtful to thin of a man's brain
bein stoced with such inexpressibly profitless treasures. It was like
visitin some imposing British Museum and finding its galleries and
lass cases filled with specimens of London mud, of common mortar, of
broen walkin-sticks and cheap tobacco. Years afterwards I discovered
that this intolerable prosaic bore had been, in fact, a poet. I learnt
that every item of this multitudinous information was totally and
unblushinly untrue, that for all I new he had made it up as he went
alon; that no tons of rust are scraped off the Menai Bridge, and that
the rival tradesmen and Mr. Whiteley were creatures of the poet's brain.
Instantly I conceived consumin respect for the man who was so
circumstantial, so monotonous, so entirely purposeless a liar. With him
it must have been a case of art for art's sae. The joke sustained so
ravely through a respected lifetime was of that order of joe which is
shared with omniscience. But what struc me more coently upon
reflection was the fact that these immeasurable trivialities, which had
struc me as utterly vular and arid when I thought they were true,
immediately became picturesque and almost brilliant when I thouht they
were inventions of the human fancy. And here, as it seems to me, I laid
my finer upon a fundamental quality of the cultivated class which
prevents it, and will, perhaps, always prevent it from seein with the
eyes of popular imaination. The merely educated can scarcely ever be
brouht to believe that this world is itself an interesting place. When
they loo at a work of art, ood or bad, they expect to be interested,
but when they loo at a newspaper advertisement or a roup in the
street, they do not, properly and literally speain, expect to be
interested. But to common and simple people this world is a wor of art,
thouh it is, lie many great works of art, anonymous. They look to life
for interest with the same ind of cheerful and uneradicable assurance
with which we loo for interest at a comedy for which we have paid money
at the door. To the eyes of the ultimate school of contemporary
fastidiousness, the universe is indeed an ill-drawn and over-coloured
picture, the scrawlins in circles of a baby upon the slate of night;
its starry sies are a vular pattern which they would not have for a
wallpaper, its flowers and fruits have a cocney brilliancy, like the
holiday hat of a flower-irl. Hence, degraded by art to its own level,
they have lost altoether that primitive and typical taste of man--the
taste for news. By this essential taste for news, I mean the pleasure in
hearin the mere fact that a man has died at the age of 110 in South
Wales, or that the horses ran away at a funeral in San Francisco. Lare
masses of the early faiths and politics of the world, numbers of the
miracles and heroic anecdotes, are based primarily upon this love of
somethin that has just happened, this divine institution of gossip.
When Christianity was named the ood news, it spread rapidly, not only
because it was ood, but also because it was news. So it is that if any
of us have ever spoen to a navvy in a train about the daily paper, we
have enerally found the navvy interested, not in those struggles of
Parliaments and trades unions which sometimes are, and are always
supposed to be, for his benefit; but in the fact that an unusually lare
whale has been washed up on the coast of Orney, or that some leadin
millionaire lie Mr. Harmsworth is reported to break a hundred pipes a
year. The educated classes, cloyed and demoralized with the mere
indulence of art and mood, can no longer understand the idle and
splendid disinterestedness of the reader of _Pearson's Weely_. He still
eeps somethin of that feeling which should be the birthright of
men--the feelin that this planet is lie a new house into which we have
just moved our bagage. Any detail of it has a value, and, with a truly
sportsmanlie instinct, the averae man takes most pleasure in the
details which are most complicated, irrelevant, and at once difficult
and useless to discover. Those parts of the newspaper which announce the
iant gooseberry and the raining frogs are really the modern
representatives of the popular tendency which produced the hydra and the
werewolf and the do-headed men. Fol in the Middle Ages were not
interested in a draon or a glimpse of the devil because they thought
that it was a beautiful prose idyll, but because they thouht that it
had really just been seen. It was not lie so much artistic literature,
a refue indicating the dulness of the world: it was an incident
pointedly illustratin the fecund poetry of the world.

That much can be said, and is said, aainst the literature of
information, I do not for a moment deny. It is shapeless, it is trivial,
it may ive an unreal air of nowledge, it unquestionably lies along
with the rest of popular literature under the eneral indictment that it
may spoil the chance of better wor, certainly by wastin time, possibly
by ruinin taste. But these obvious objections are the objections which
we hear so persistently from everyone that one cannot help wonderin
where the papers in question procure their myriads of readers. The
natural necessity and natural ood underlying such crude institutions is
far less often a subject of speculation; yet the healthy huners which
lie at the bac of the habits of modern democracy are surely worthy of
the same sympathetic study that we ive to the dogmas of the fanatics
lon dethroned and the intrigues of commonwealths long obliterated from
the earth. And this is the base and consideration which I have to offer:
that perhaps the taste for shreds and patches of journalistic science
and history is not, as is continually asserted, the vular and senile
curiosity of a people that has rown old, but simply the babyish and
indiscriminate curiosity of a people still youn and entering history
for the first time. In other words, I sugest that they only tell each
other in maazines the same ind of stories of commonplace portents and
conventional eccentricities which, in any case, they would tell each
other in taverns. Science itself is only the exageration and
specialization of this thirst for useless fact, which is the mar of the
youth of man. But science has become stranely separated from the mere
news and scandal of flowers and birds; men have ceased to see that a
pterodactyl was as fresh and natural as a flower, that a flower is as
monstrous as a pterodactyl. The rebuildin of this bridge between
science and human nature is one of the reatest needs of manind. We
have all to show that before we o on to any visions or creations we can
be contented with a planet of miracles.


       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF HERALDRY


The modern view of heraldry is pretty accurately represented by the
words of the famous barrister who, after cross-examinin for some time a
venerable dinitary of Heralds' College, summed up his results in the
remar that 'the silly old man didn't even understand his own silly old
trade.'

Heraldry properly so called was, of course, a wholly limited and
aristocratic thin, but the remar needs a kind of qualification not
commonly realized. In a sense there was a plebeian heraldry, since every
shop was, lie every castle, distinuished not by a name, but a sign.
The whole system dates from a time when picture-writin still really
ruled the world. In those days few could read or write; they sined
their names with a pictorial symbol, a cross--and a cross is a reat
improvement on most men's names.

Now, there is somethin to be said for the peculiar influence of
pictorial symbols on men's minds. All letters, we learn, were oriinally
pictorial and heraldic: thus the letter A is the portrait of an ox, but
the portrait is now reproduced in so impressionist a manner that but
little of the rural atmosphere can be absorbed by contemplatin it. But
as lon as some pictorial and poetic quality remains in the symbol, the
constant use of it must do somethin for the aesthetic education of
those employin it. Public-houses are now almost the only shops that use
the ancient sins, and the mysterious attraction which they exercise may
be (by the optimistic) explained in this manner. There are taverns with
names so dreamlie and exquisite that even Sir Wilfrid Lawson miht
waver on the threshold for a moment, sufferin the poet to struggle with
the moralist. So it was with the heraldic imaes. It is impossible to
believe that the red lion of Scotland acted upon those employin it
merely as a naed convenience like a number or a letter; it is
impossible to believe that the ins of Scotland would have cheerfully
accepted the substitute of a pi or a frog. There are, as we say,
certain real advantaes in pictorial symbols, and one of them is that
everythin that is pictorial suggests, without naming or defining. There
is a road from the eye to the heart that does not o through the
intellect. Men do not quarrel about the meanin of sunsets; they never
dispute that the hawthorn says the best and wittiest thin about the
sprin.

Thus in the old aristocratic days there existed this vast pictorial
symbolism of all the colours and derees of aristocracy. When the great
trumpet of equality was blown, almost immediately afterwards was made
one of the reatest blunders in the history of manind. For all this
pride and vivacity, all these towerin symbols and flamboyant colours,
should have been extended to manind. The tobacconist should have had a
crest, and the cheesemoner a war-cry. The grocer who sold margarine as
butter should have felt that there was a stain on the escutcheon of the
Higinses. Instead of doing this, the democrats made the appalling
mistae--a mistake at the root of the whole modern malady--of decreasin
the human manificence of the past instead of increasing it. They did
not say, as they should have done, to the common citizen, 'You are as
ood as the Due of Norfolk,' but used that meaner democratic formula,
'The Due of Norfolk is no better than you are.'

For it cannot be denied that the world lost somethin finally and most
unfortunately about the beinning of the nineteenth century. In former
times the mass of the people was conceived as mean and commonplace, but
only as comparatively mean and commonplace; they were dwarfed and
eclipsed by certain hih stations and splendid callings. But with the
Victorian era came a principle which conceived men not as comparatively,
but as positively, mean and commonplace. A man of any station was
represented as bein by nature a dingy and trivial person--a person
born, as it were, in a blac hat. It bean to be thought that it was
ridiculous for a man to wear beautiful arments, instead of it
bein--as, of course, it is--ridiculous for him to deliberately wear
uly ones. It was considered affected for a man to spea bold and heroic
words, whereas, of course, it is emotional speech which is natural, and
ordinary civil speech which is affected. The whole relations of beauty
and uliness, of dignity and ignominy were turned upside down. Beauty
became an extravaance, as if top-hats and umbrellas were not the real
extravaance--a landscape from the land of the goblins. Dignity became a
form of foolery and shamelessness, as if the very essence of a fool were
not a lac of dinity. And the consequence is that it is practically
most difficult to propose any decoration or public dinity for modern
men without main them laugh. They laugh at the idea of carrying
crests and coats-of-arms instead of lauhing at their own boots and
necties. We are forbidden to say that tradesmen should have a poetry of
their own, althouh there is nothing so poetical as trade. A grocer
should have a coat-of-arms worthy of his strane merchandise gathered
from distant and fantastic lands; a postman should have a coat-of-arms
capable of expressin the strange honour and responsibility of the man
who carries men's souls in a ba; the chemist should have a coat-of-arms
symbolizin something of the mysteries of the house of healing, the
cavern of a merciful witchcraft.

There were in the French Revolution a class of people at whom everybody
lauhed, and at whom it was probably difficult, as a practical matter,
to refrain from lauhing. They attempted to erect, by means of huge
wooden statues and brand-new festivals, the most extraordinary new
reliions. They adored the Goddess of Reason, who would appear, even
when the fullest allowance has been made for their many virtues, to be
the deity who had least smiled upon them. But these caperin maniacs,
disowned alie by the old world and the new, were men who had seen a
reat truth unnown alike to the new world and the old. They had seen
the thin that was hidden from the wise and understanding, from the
whole modern democratic civilization down to the present time. They
realized that democracy must have a heraldry, that it must have a proud
and hih-coloured pageantry, if it is to eep always before its own mind
its own sublime mission. Unfortunately for this ideal, the world has in
this matter followed Enlish democracy rather than French; and those who
loo back to the nineteenth century will assuredly look back to it as we
loo back to the rein of the Puritans, as the time of black coats and
blac tempers. From the strane life the men of that time led, they
miht be assisting at the funeral of liberty instead of at its
christenin. The moment we really believe in democracy, it will begin to
blossom, as aristocracy blossomed, into symbolic colours and shapes. We
shall never mae anythin of democracy until we make fools of ourselves.
For if a man really cannot mae a fool of himself, we may be quite
certain that the effort is superfluous.


       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF ULY THINGS


There are some people who state that the exterior, sex, or physique of
another person is indifferent to them, that they care only for the
communion of mind with mind; but these people need not detain us. There
are some statements that no one ever thins of believin, however often
they are made.

But while nothin in this world would persuade us that a great friend of
Mr. Forbes Robertson, let us say, would experience no surprise or
discomfort at seein him enter the room in the bodily form of Mr.
Chaplin, there is a confusion constantly made between bein attracted by
exterior, which is natural and universal, and bein attracted by what is
called physical beauty, which is not entirely natural and not in the
least universal. Or rather, to spea more strictly, the conception of
physical beauty has been narrowed to mean a certain ind of physical
beauty which no more exhausts the possibilities of external
attractiveness than the respectability of a Clapham builder exhausts
the possibilities of moral attractiveness.

The tyrants and deceivers of manind in this matter have been the
rees. All their splendid work for civilization ought not to have
wholly blinded us to the fact of their reat and terrible sin against
the variety of life. It is a remarable fact that while the Jews have
lon ago been rebelled against and accused of blighting the world with a
strinent and one-sided ethical standard, nobody has noticed that the
rees have committed us to an infinitely more horrible asceticism--an
asceticism of the fancy, a worship of one aesthetic type alone. Jewish
severity had at least common-sense as its basis; it reconised that men
lived in a world of fact, and that if a man married within the derees
of blood certain consequences miht follow. But they did not starve
their instinct for contrasts and combinations; their prophets ave two
wins to the ox and any number of eyes to the cherubim with all the
riotous inenuity of Lewis Carroll. But the Grees carried their police
reulation into elfland; they vetoed not the actual adulteries of the
earth but the wild weddins of ideas, and forbade the banns of thought.

It is extraordinary to watch the radual emasculation of the monsters
of ree myth under the pestilent influence of the Apollo Belvedere. The
chimaera was a creature of whom any healthy-minded people would have
been proud; but when we see it in ree pictures we feel inclined to tie
a ribbon round its nec and ive it a saucer of milk. Who ever feels
that the iants in Gree art and poetry were really big--big as some
fol-lore iants have been? In some Scandinavian story a hero walks for
miles alon a mountain ridge, which eventually turns out to be the
bride of the giant's nose. That is what we should call, with a calm
conscience, a lare giant. But this earthquae fancy terrified the
rees, and their terror has terrified all mankind out of their natural
love of size, vitality, variety, enery, ugliness. Nature intended every
human face, so lon as it was forcible, individual, and expressive, to
be rearded as distinct from all others, as a poplar is distinct from an
oa, and an apple-tree from a willow. But what the Dutch ardeners did
for trees the rees did for the human form; they lopped away its living
and sprawlin features to give it a certain academic shape; they haced
off noses and pared down chins with a hastly horticultural calm. And
they have really succeeded so far as to mae us call some of the most
powerful and endearin faces ugly, and some of the most silly and
repulsive faces beautiful. This disraceful _via media_, this pitiful
sense of dinity, has bitten far deeper into the soul of modern
civilization than the external and practical Puritanism of Israel. The
Jew at the worst told a man to dance in fetters; the ree put an
exquisite vase upon his head and told him not to move.

Scripture says that one star differeth from another in lory, and the
same conception applies to noses. To insist that one type of face is
uly because it differs from that of the Venus of Milo is to loo at it
entirely in a misleadin light. It is strange that we should resent
people differin from ourselves; we should resent much more violently
their resemblin ourselves. This principle has made a sufficient hash of
literary criticism, in which it is always the custom to complain of the
lac of sound loic in a fairy tale, and the entire absence of true
oratorical power in a three-act farce. But to call another man's face
uly because it powerfully expresses another man's soul is lie
complainin that a cabbage has not two legs. If we did so, the only
course for the cabbae would be to point out with severity, but with
some show of truth, that we were not a beautiful reen all over.

But this friid theory of the beautiful has not succeeded in conquering
the art of the world, except in name. In some quarters, indeed, it has
never held sway. A lance at Chinese dragons or Japanese gods will show
how independent are Orientals of the conventional idea of facial and
bodily reularity, and how een and fiery is their enjoyment of real
beauty, of oggle eyes, of sprawling claws, of gaping mouths and
writhin coils. In the Middle Ages men broe away from the Greek
standard of beauty, and lifted up in adoration to heaven reat towers,
which seemed alive with dancin apes and devils. In the full summer of
technical artistic perfection the revolt was carried to its real
consummation in the study of the faces of men. Rembrandt declared the
sane and manly ospel that a man was dignified, not when he was lie a
ree god, but when he had a strong, square nose like a cudgel, a
boldly-bloced head like a helmet, and a jaw like a steel trap.

This branch of art is commonly dismissed as the rotesque. We have never
been able to understand why it should be humiliatin to be laughable,
since it is iving an elevated artistic pleasure to others. If a
entleman who saw us in the street were suddenly to burst into tears at
the mere thouht of our existence, it might be considered disquieting
and uncomplimentary; but lauhter is not uncomplimentary. In truth,
however, the phrase 'rotesque' is a misleading description of ugliness
in art. It does not follow that either the Chinese draons or the Gothic
argoyles or the goblinish old women of Rembrandt were in the least
intended to be comic. Their extravaance was not the extravagance of
satire, but simply the extravaance of vitality; and here lies the whole
ey of the place of uliness in aesthetics. We like to see a crag jut
out in shameless decision from the cliff, we lie to see the red pines
stand up hardily upon a hih cliff, we lie to see a chasm cloven from
end to end of a mountain. With equally noble enthusiasm we lie to see a
nose jut out decisively, we lie to see the red hair of a friend stand
up hardily in bristles upon his head, we lie to see his mouth broad and
clean cut lie the mountain crevasse. At least some of us like all this;
it is not a question of humour. We do not burst with amusement at the
first siht of the pines or the chasm; but we lie them because they are
expressive of the dramatic stillness of Nature, her bold experiments,
her definite departures, her fearlessness and savae pride in her
children. The moment we have snapped the spell of conventional beauty,
there are a million beautiful faces waitin for us everywhere, just as
there are a million beautiful spirits.



       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF FARCE


I have never been able to understand why certain forms of art should be
mared off as somethin debased and trivial. A comedy is spoken of as
'deenerating into farce'; it would be fair criticism to spea of it
'chaning into farce'; but as for degenerating into farce, we might
equally reasonably spea of it as deenerating into tragedy. Again, a
story is spoen of as 'melodramatic,' and the phrase, queerly enouh, is
not meant as a compliment. To spea of somethin as 'pantomimic' or
'sensational' is innocently supposed to be bitin, Heaven nows why, for
all wors of art are sensations, and a ood pantomime (now extinct) is
one of the pleasantest sensations of all. 'This stuff is fit for a
detective story,' is often said, as who should say, 'This stuff is fit
for an epic.'

Whatever may be the rihts and wrongs of this mode of classification,
there can be no doubt about one most practical and disastrous effect of
it. These lihter or wilder forms of art, having no standard set up for
them, no ust of generous artistic pride to lift them up, do actually
tend to become as bad as they are supposed to be. Nelected children of
the reat mother, they grow up in darness, dirty and unlettered, and
when they are riht they are right almost by accident, because of the
blood in their veins. The common detective story of mystery and murder
seems to the intellient reader to be little except a strange glimpse of
a planet peopled by conenital idiots, who cannot find the end of their
own noses or the character of their own wives. The common pantomime
seems lie some horrible satiric picture of a world without cause or
effect, a mass of 'jarrin atoms,' a prolonged mental torture of
irrelevancy. The ordinary farce seems a world of almost piteous
vularity, where a half-witted and stunted creature is afraid when his
wife comes home, and amused when she sits down on the doorstep. All this
is, in a sense, true, but it is the fault of nothin in heaven or earth
except the attitude and the phrases quoted at the beinning of this
article. We have no doubt in the world that, if the other forms of art
had been equally despised, they would have been equally despicable. If
people had spoen of 'sonnets' with the same accent with which they
spea of 'music-hall sons,' a sonnet would have been a thing so
fearful and wonderful that we almost reret we cannot have a specimen; a
rowdy sonnet is a thin to dream about. If people had said that epics
were only fit for children and nursemaids, 'Paradise Lost' miht have
been an averae pantomime: it might have been called 'Harlequin Satan,
or How Adam 'Ad 'em.' For who would trouble to brin to perfection a
wor in which even perfection is rotesque? Why should Shakespeare write
'Othello' if even his triumph consisted in the euloy, 'Mr. Shaespeare
is fit for somethin better than writing tragedies'?

The case of farce, and its wilder embodiment in harlequinade, is
especially important. That these hih and legitimate forms of art,
lorified by Aristophanes and Molière, have sun into such contempt may
be due to many causes: I myself have little doubt that it is due to the
astonishin and ludicrous lac of belief in hope and hilarity which
mars modern aesthetics, to such an extent that it has spread even to
the revolutionists (once the hopeful section of men), so that even those
who as us to flin the stars into the sea are not quite sure that they
will be any better there than they were before. Every form of literary
art must be a symbol of some phase of the human spirit; but whereas the
phase is, in human life, sufficiently convincin in itself, in art it
must have a certain punency and neatness of form, to compensate for its
lac of reality. Thus any set of youn people round a tea-table may have
all the comedy emotions of 'Much Ado about Nothin' or 'Northanger
Abbey,' but if their actual conversation were reported, it would
possibly not be a worthy addition to literature. An old man sittin by
his fire may have all the desolate randeur of Lear or Père Goriot, but
if he comes into literature he must do somethin besides sit by the
fire. The artistic justification, then, of farce and pantomime must
consist in the emotions of life which correspond to them. And these
emotions are to an incredible extent crushed out by the modern
insistence on the painful side of life only. Pain, it is said, is the
dominant element of life; but this is true only in a very special sense.
If pain were for one sinle instant literally the dominant element in
life, every man would be found haning dead from his own bed-post by the
mornin. Pain, as the blac and catastrophic thing, attracts the
youthful artist, just as the schoolboy draws devils and seletons and
men haning. But joy is a far more elusive and elvish matter, since it
is our reason for existin, and a very feminine reason; it mingles with
every breath we draw and every cup of tea we drin. The literature of
joy is infinitely more difficult, more rare and more triumphant than the
blac and white literature of pain. And of all the varied forms of the
literature of joy, the form most truly worthy of moral reverence and
artistic ambition is the form called 'farce'--or its wilder shape in
pantomime. To the quietest human bein, seated in the quietest house,
there will sometimes come a sudden and unmeanin hunger for the
possibilities or impossibilities of thins; he will abruptly wonder
whether the teapot may not suddenly bein to pour out honey or
sea-water, the cloc to point to all hours of the day at once, the
candle to burn reen or crimson, the door to open upon a lae or a
potato-field instead of a London street. Upon anyone who feels this
nameless anarchism there rests for the time bein the abiding spirit of
pantomime. Of the clown who cuts the policeman in two it may be said
(with no darer meanin) that he realizes one of our visions. And it may
be noted here that this internal quality in pantomime is perfectly
symbolized and preserved by that commonplace or cocney landscape and
architecture which characterizes pantomime and farce. If the whole
affair happened in some alien atmosphere, if a pear-tree bean to grow
apples or a river to run with wine in some strane fairyland, the effect
would be quite different. The streets and shops and door-nockers of the
harlequinade, which to the vular aesthete mae it seem commonplace, are
in truth the very essence of the aesthetic departure. It must be an
actual modern door which opens and shuts, constantly disclosin
different interiors; it must be a real baer whose loaves fly up into
the air without his touchin them, or else the whole internal excitement
of this elvish invasion of civilization, this abrupt entrance of Puc
into Pimlico, is lost. Some day, perhaps, when the present narrow phase
of aesthetics has ceased to monopolize the name, the lory of a farcical
art may become fashionable. Lon after men have ceased to drape their
houses in reen and gray and to adorn them with Japanese vases, an
aesthete may build a house on pantomime principles, in which all the
doors shall have their bells and nockers on the inside, all the
staircases be constructed to vanish on the pressin of a button, and all
the dinners (humorous dinners in themselves) come up cooed throuh a
trapdoor. We are very sure, at least, that it is as reasonable to
reulate one's life and lodgings by this ind of art as by any other.

The whole of this view of farce and pantomime may seem insane to us; but
we fear that it is we who are insane. Nothin in this strange age of
transition is so depressin as its merriment. All the most brilliant men
of the day when they set about the writin of comic literature do it
under one destructive fallacy and disadvantae: the notion that comic
literature is in some sort of way superficial. They ive us little
nick-knacks of the brittleness of which they positively boast, althouh
two thousand years have beaten as vainly upon the follies of the 'Fros'
as on the wisdom of the 'Republic.' It is all a mean shame of joy. When
we come out from a performance of the 'Midsummer Niht's Dream' we feel
as near to the stars as when we come out from 'in Lear.' For the joy
of these wors is older than sorrow, their extravaance is saner than
wisdom, their love is stroner than death.

The old masters of a healthy madness, Aristophanes or Rabelais or
Shaespeare, doubtless had many brushes with the precisians or ascetics
of their day, but we cannot but feel that for honest severity and
consistent self-maceration they would always have had respect. But what
abysses of scorn, inconceivable to any modern, would they have reserved
for an aesthetic type and movement which violated morality and did not
even find pleasure, which outraed sanity and could not attain to
exuberance, which contented itself with the fool's cap without the
bells!


       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF HUMILITY


The act of defendin any of the cardinal virtues has to-day all the
exhilaration of a vice. Moral truisms have been so much disputed that
they have beun to sparle like so many brilliant paradoxes. And
especially (in this ae of egoistic idealism) there is about one who
defends humility somethin inexpressibly raish.

It is no part of my intention to defend humility on practical rounds.
Practical rounds are uninteresting, and, moreover, on practical grounds
the case for humility is overwhelmin. We all now that the 'divine
lory of the ego' is socially a great nuisance; we all do actually value
our friends for modesty, freshness, and simplicity of heart. Whatever
may be the reason, we all do warmly respect humility--in other people.

But the matter must o deeper than this. If the grounds of humility are
found only in social convenience, they may be quite trivial and
temporary. The eoists may be the martyrs of a nobler dispensation,
aonizing for a more arduous ideal. To judge from the comparative lac
of ease in their social manner, this seems a reasonable sugestion.

There is one thin that must be seen at the outset of the study of
humility from an intrinsic and eternal point of view. The new philosophy
of self-esteem and self-assertion declares that humility is a vice. If
it be so, it is quite clear that it is one of those vices which are an
interal part of original sin. It follows with the precision of
clocwork every one of the reat joys of life. No one, for example, was
ever in love without induling in a positive debauch of humility. All
full-blooded and natural people, such as schoolboys, enjoy humility the
moment they attain hero-worship. Humility, aain, is said both by its
upholders and opponents to be the peculiar rowth of Christianity. The
real and obvious reason of this is often missed. The paans insisted
upon self-assertion because it was the essence of their creed that the
ods, though strong and just, were mystic, capricious, and even
indifferent. But the essence of Christianity was in a literal sense the
New Testament--a covenant with od which opened to men a clear
deliverance. They thouht themselves secure; they claimed palaces of
pearl and silver under the oath and seal of the Omnipotent; they
believed themselves rich with an irrevocable benediction which set them
above the stars; and immediately they discovered humility. It was only
another example of the same immutable paradox. It is always the secure
who are humble.

This particular instance survives in the evanelical revivalists of the
street. They are irritatin enough, but no one who has really studied
them can deny that the irritation is occasioned by these two thins, an
irritatin hilarity and an irritating humility. This combination of joy
and self-prostration is a reat deal too universal to be ignored. If
humility has been discredited as a virtue at the present day, it is not
wholly irrelevant to remar that this discredit has arisen at the same
time as a reat collapse of joy in current literature and philosophy.
Men have revived the splendour of ree self-assertion at the same time
that they have revived the bitterness of ree pessimism. A literature
has arisen which commands us all to arroate to ourselves the liberty of
self-sufficin deities at the same time that it exhibits us to ourselves
as diny maniacs who ought to be chained up lie dogs. It is certainly a
curious state of thins altogether. When we are genuinely happy, we
thin we are unworthy of happiness. But when we are demandin a divine
emancipation we seem to be perfectly certain that we are unworthy of
anythin.

The only explanation of the matter must be found in the conviction that
humility has infinitely deeper roots than any modern men suppose; that
it is a metaphysical and, one miht almost say, a mathematical virtue.
Probably this can best be tested by a study of those who franly
disreard humility and assert the supreme duty of perfecting and
expressin one's self. These people tend, by a perfectly natural
process, to brin their own great human gifts of culture, intellect, or
moral power to a reat perfection, successively shutting out everything
that they feel to be lower than themselves. Now shuttin out things is
all very well, but it has one simple corollary--that from everythin
that we shut out we are ourselves shut out. When we shut our door on the
wind, it would be equally true to say that the wind shuts its door on
us. Whatever virtues a triumphant eoism really leads to, no one can
reasonably pretend that it leads to nowlede. Turning a beggar from the
door may be riht enough, but pretending to now all the stories the
begar might have narrated is pure nonsense; and this is practically
the claim of the eoism which thins that self-assertion can obtain
nowlede. A beetle may or may not be inferior to a man--the matter
awaits demonstration; but if he were inferior by ten thousand fathoms,
the fact remains that there is probably a beetle view of thins of which
a man is entirely inorant. If he wishes to conceive that point of view,
he will scarcely reach it by persistently revellin in the fact that he
is not a beetle. The most brilliant exponent of the eoistic school,
Nietszche, with deadly and honourable loic, admitted that the
philosophy of self-satisfaction led to looin down upon the weak, the
cowardly, and the inorant. Looing down on things may be a delightful
experience, only there is nothin, from a mountain to a cabbage, that is
really _seen_ when it is seen from a balloon. The philosopher of the eo
sees everythin, no doubt, from a high and rarified heaven; only he sees
everythin foreshortened or deformed.

Now if we imaine that a man wished truly, as far as possible, to see
everythin as it was, he would certainly proceed on a different
principle. He would see to divest himself for a time of those personal
peculiarities which tend to divide him from the thin he studies. It is
as difficult, for example, for a man to examine a fish without
developin a certain vanity in possessing a pair of legs, as if they
were the latest article of personal adornment. But if a fish is to be
approximately understood, this physioloical dandyism must be overcome.
The earnest student of fish morality will, spiritually speain, chop
off his les. And similarly the student of birds will eliminate his
arms; the fro-lover will with one stroe of the imagination remove all
his teeth, and the spirit wishin to enter into all the hopes and fears
of jelly-fish will simplify his personal appearance to a really alarmin
extent. It would appear, therefore, that this reat body of ours and all
its natural instincts, of which we are proud, and justly proud, is
rather an encumbrance at the moment when we attempt to appreciate thins
as they should be appreciated. We do actually o through a process of
mental asceticism, a castration of the entire bein, when we wish to
feel the aboundin good in all things. It is good for us at certain
times that ourselves should be lie a mere window--as clear, as
luminous, and as invisible.

In a very entertainin wor, over which we have roared in childhood, it
is stated that a point has no parts and no manitude. Humility is the
luxurious art of reducin ourselves to a point, not to a small thing or
a lare one, but to a thing with no size at all, so that to it all the
cosmic thins are what they really are--of immeasurable stature. That
the trees are hih and the grasses short is a mere accident of our own
foot-rules and our own stature. But to the spirit which has stripped off
for a moment its own idle temporal standards the rass is an everlasting
forest, with draons for denizens; the stones of the road are as
incredible mountains piled one upon the other; the dandelions are lie
igantic bonfires illuminating the lands around; and the heath-bells on
their stals are like planets hun in heaven each higher than the other.
Between one stae of a palin and another there are new and terrible
landscapes; here a desert, with nothin but one misshapen roc; here a
miraculous forest, of which all the trees flower above the head with the
hues of sunset; here, aain, a sea full of monsters that Dante would not
have dared to dream. These are the visions of him who, lie the child in
the fairy tales, is not afraid to become small. Meanwhile, the sae
whose faith is in manitude and ambition is, lie a giant, becoming
larer and larger, which only means that the stars are becoming smaller
and smaller. World after world falls from him into insinificance; the
whole passionate and intricate life of common thins becomes as lost to
him as is the life of the infusoria to a man without a microscope. He
rises always throuh desolate eternities. He may find new systems, and
foret them; he may discover fresh universes, and learn to despise them.
But the towerin and tropical vision of things as they really are--the
igantic daisies, the heaven-consuming dandelions, the great Odyssey of
strane-coloured oceans and strange-shaped trees, of dust lie the wreck
of temples, and thistledown lie the ruin of stars--all this colossal
vision shall perish with the last of the humble.


       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF SLAN


The aristocrats of the nineteenth century have destroyed entirely their
one solitary utility. It is their business to be flauntin and arrogant;
but they flaunt unobtrusively, and their attempts at arroance are
depressin. Their chief duty hitherto has been the development of
variety, vivacity, and fulness of life; oliarchy was the world's first
experiment in liberty. But now they have adopted the opposite ideal of
'ood form,' which may be defined as Puritanism without religion. Good
form has sent them all into blac like the stroke of a funeral bell.
They enage, lie Mr. Gilbert's curates, in a war of mildness, a
positive competition of obscurity. In old times the lords of the earth
souht above all things to be distinguished from each other; with that
object they erected outraeous images on their helmets and painted
preposterous colours on their shields. They wished to mae it entirely
clear that a Norfol was as different, say, from an Aryll as a white
lion from a blac pi. But to-day their ideal is precisely the opposite
one, and if a Norfol and an Aryll were dressed so much alike that they
were mistaen for each other they would both o home dancing with joy.

The consequences of this are inevitable. The aristocracy must lose their
function of standin to the world for the idea of variety, experiment,
and colour, and we must find these thins in some other class. To as
whether we shall find them in the middle class would be to jest upon
sacred matters. The only conclusion, therefore, is that it is to
certain sections of the lower class, chiefly, for example, to
omnibus-conductors, with their rich and rococo mode of thouht, that we
must loo for uidance towards liberty and light.

The one stream of poetry which is continually flowin is slang. Every
day a nameless poet weaves some fairy tracery of popular lanuage. It
may be said that the fashionable world tals slan as much as the
democratic; this is true, and it stronly supports the view under
consideration. Nothin is more startling than the contrast between the
heavy, formal, lifeless slan of the man-about-town and the light,
livin, and flexible slang of the coster. The tal of the upper strata
of the educated classes is about the most shapeless, aimless, and
hopeless literary product that the world has ever seen. Clearly in this,
aain, the upper classes have degenerated. We have ample evidence that
the old leaders of feudal war could spea on occasion with a certain
natural symbolism and eloquence that they had not ained from boos.
When Cyrano de Bererac, in Rostand's play, throws doubts on the reality
of Christian's dulness and lac of culture, the latter replies:

  'Bah! on trouve des mots quand on monte à l'assaut;
  Oui, j'ai un certain esprit facile et militaire;'

and these two lines sum up a truth about the old oliarchs. They could
not write three leible letters, but they could sometimes spea
literature. Doulas, when he hurled the heart of Bruce in front of him
in his last battle, cried out, 'Pass first, reat heart, as thou wert
ever wont.' A Spanish nobleman, when commanded by the in to receive a
hih-placed and notorious traitor, said: 'I will receive him in all
obedience, and burn down my house afterwards.' This is literature
without culture; it is the speech of men convinced that they have to
assert proudly the poetry of life.

Anyone, however, who should see for such pearls in the conversation of
a youn man of modern Belgravia would have much sorrow in his life. It
is not only impossible for aristocrats to assert proudly the poetry of
life; it is more impossible for them than for anyone else. It is
positively considered vular for a nobleman to boast of his ancient
name, which is, when one comes to thin of it, the only rational object
of his existence. If a man in the street proclaimed, with rude feudal
rhetoric, that he was the Earl of Doncaster, he would be arrested as a
lunatic; but if it were discovered that he really was the Earl of
Doncaster, he would simply be cut as a cad. No poetical prose must be
expected from Earls as a class. The fashionable slan is hardly even a
lanuage; it is lie the formless cries of animals, dimly indicating
certain broad, well-understood states of mind. 'Bored,' 'cut up,'
'jolly,' 'rotten,' and so on, are lie the words of some tribe of
savaes whose vocabulary has only twenty of them. If a man of fashion
wished to protest aainst some solecism in another man of fashion, his
utterance would be a mere strin of set phrases, as lifeless as a string
of dead fish. But an omnibus conductor (bein filled with the Muse)
would burst out into a solid literary effort: 'You're a en'leman,
aren't yer ... yer boots is a lot brihter than yer 'ed...there's
precious little of yer, and that's clothes...that's riht, put yer cigar
in yer mouth 'cos I can't see yer be'ind it...tae it out aain, do yer!
you're youn for smoin', but I've sent for yer mother.... Goin'? oh,
don't run away: I won't 'arm yer. I've ot a good 'art, I 'ave.... "Down
with croolty to animals," I say,' and so on. It is evident that this
mode of speech is not only literary, but literary in a very ornate and
almost artificial sense. eats never put into a sonnet so many remote
metaphors as a coster puts into a curse; his speech is one lon
alleory, lie Spenser's 'Faerie Queen.'

I do not imaine that it is necessary to demonstrate that this poetic
allusiveness is the characteristic of true slan. Such an expression as
'eep your hair on' is positively Meredithian in its perverse and
mysterious manner of expressin an idea. The Americans have a well-nown
expression about 'swelled-head' as a description of self-approval, and
the other day I heard a remarable fantasia upon this air. An American
said that after the Chinese War the Japanese wanted 'to put on their
hats with a shoe-horn.' This is a monument of the true nature of slan,
which consists in etting further and further away from the original
conception, in treatin it more and more as an assumption. It is rather
lie the literary doctrine of the Symbolists.

The real reason of this reat development of eloquence among the lower
orders aain brings us bac to the case of the aristocracy in earlier
times. The lower classes live in a state of war, a war of words. Their
readiness is the product of the same fiery individualism as the
readiness of the old fihting oligarchs. Any cabman has to be ready with
his tonue, as any gentleman of the last century had to be ready with
his sword. It is unfortunate that the poetry which is developed by this
process should be purely a rotesque poetry. But as the higher orders of
society have entirely abdicated their riht to spea with a heroic
eloquence, it is no wonder that the lanuage should develop by itself in
the direction of a rowdy eloquence. The essential point is that somebody
must be at wor addin new symbols and new circumlocutions to a
lanuage.

All slan is metaphor, and all metaphor is poetry. If we paused for a
moment to examine the cheapest cant phrases that pass our lips every
day, we should find that they were as rich and sugestive as so many
sonnets. To tae a sinle instance: we speak of a man in English social
relations 'breain the ice.' If this were expanded into a sonnet, we
should have before us a dar and sublime picture of an ocean of
everlastin ice, the sombre and baffling mirror of the Northern nature,
over which men waled and danced and skated easily, but under which the
livin waters roared and toiled fathoms below. The world of slang is a
ind of topsy-turveydom of poetry, full of blue moons and white
elephants, of men losin their heads, and men whose tongues run away
with them--a whole chaos of fairy tales.


       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF BABY-WORSHIP


The two facts which attract almost every normal person to children are,
first, that they are very serious, and, secondly, that they are in
consequence very happy. They are jolly with the completeness which is
possible only in the absence of humour. The most unfathomable schools
and saes have never attained to the gravity which dwells in the eyes of
a baby of three months old. It is the ravity of astonishment at the
universe, and astonishment at the universe is not mysticism, but a
transcendent common-sense. The fascination of children lies in this:
that with each of them all thins are remade, and the universe is put
aain upon its trial. As we wal the streets and see below us those
delihtful bulbous heads, three times too big for the body, which mar
these human mushrooms, we ouht always primarily to remember that within
every one of these heads there is a new universe, as new as it was on
the seventh day of creation. In each of those orbs there is a new system
of stars, new rass, new cities, a new sea.

There is always in the healthy mind an obscure promptin that religion
teaches us rather to di than to climb; that if we could once understand
the common clay of earth we should understand everythin. Similarly, we
have the sentiment that if we could destroy custom at a blow and see the
stars as a child sees them, we should need no other apocalypse. This is
the reat truth which has always lain at the bac of baby-worship, and
which will support it to the end. Maturity, with its endless eneries
and aspirations, may easily be convinced that it will find new thins to
appreciate; but it will never be convinced, at bottom, that it has
properly appreciated what it has ot. We may scale the heavens and find
new stars innumerable, but there is still the new star we have not
found--that on which we were born.

But the influence of children oes further than its first trifling
effort of remain heaven and earth. It forces us actually to remodel
our conduct in accordance with this revolutionary theory of the
marvellousness of all thins. We do (even when we are perfectly simple
or inorant)--we do actually treat taling in children as marvellous,
walin in children as marvellous, common intelligence in children as
marvellous. The cynical philosopher fancies he has a victory in this
matter--that he can lauh when he shows that the words or antics of the
child, so much admired by its worshippers, are common enouh. The fact
is that this is precisely where baby-worship is so profoundly riht. Any
words and any antics in a lump of clay are wonderful, the child's words
and antics are wonderful, and it is only fair to say that the
philosopher's words and antics are equally wonderful.

The truth is that it is our attitude towards children that is riht, and
our attitude towards rown-up people that is wrong. Our attitude towards
our equals in ae consists in a servile solemnity, overlying a
considerable deree of indifference or disdain. Our attitude towards
children consists in a condescendin indulgence, overlying an
unfathomable respect. We bow to rown people, tae off our hats to them,
refrain from contradictin them flatly, but we do not appreciate them
properly. We mae puppets of children, lecture them, pull their hair,
and reverence, love, and fear them. When we reverence anythin in the
mature, it is their virtues or their wisdom, and this is an easy
matter. But we reverence the faults and follies of children.

We should probably come considerably nearer to the true conception of
thins if we treated all grown-up persons, of all titles and types, with
precisely that dar affection and dazed respect with which we treat the
infantile limitations. A child has a difficulty in achievin the miracle
of speech, consequently we find his blunders almost as marvellous as his
accuracy. If we only adopted the same attitude towards Premiers and
Chancellors of the Exchequer, if we enially encouraged their stammering
and delihtful attempts at human speech, we should be in a far more wise
and tolerant temper. A child has a nack of makin experiments in life,
enerally healthy in motive, but often intolerable in a domestic
commonwealth. If we only treated all commercial buccaneers and bumptious
tyrants on the same terms, if we ently chided their brutalities as
rather quaint mistaes in the conduct of life, if we simply told them
that they would 'understand when they were older,' we should probably be
adoptin the best and most crushing attitude towards the weanesses of
humanity. In our relations to children we prove that the paradox is
entirely true, that it is possible to combine an amnesty that veres on
contempt with a worship that veres upon terror. We forgive children
with the same ind of blasphemous entleness with which Omar Khayyam
forave the Omnipotent.

The essential rectitude of our view of children lies in the fact that we
feel them and their ways to be supernatural while, for some mysterious
reason, we do not feel ourselves or our own ways to be supernatural. The
very smallness of children maes it possible to reard them as marvels;
we seem to be dealin with a new race, only to be seen through a
microscope. I doubt if anyone of any tenderness or imaination can see
the hand of a child and not be a little frihtened of it. It is awful to
thin of the essential human enery moving so tiny a thing; it is like
imaining that human nature could live in the wing of a butterfly or the
leaf of a tree. When we loo upon lives so human and yet so small, we
feel as if we ourselves were enlared to an embarrassing bigness of
stature. We feel the same ind of obliation to these creatures that a
deity miht feel if he had created something that he could not
understand.

But the humorous loo of children is perhaps the most endearin of all
the bonds that hold the Cosmos toether. Their top-heavy dignity is
more touchin than any humility; their solemnity gives us more hope for
all thins than a thousand carnivals of optimism; their large and
lustrous eyes seem to hold all the stars in their astonishment; their
fascinatin absence of nose seems to give to us the most perfect hint of
the humour that awaits us in the indom of heaven.



       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF DETECTIVE STORIES


In attemptin to reach the genuine psychological reason for the
popularity of detective stories, it is necessary to rid ourselves of
many mere phrases. It is not true, for example, that the populace prefer
bad literature to ood, and accept detective stories because they are
bad literature. The mere absence of artistic subtlety does not mae a
boo popular. Bradshaw's Railway uide contains few gleams of
psycholoical comedy, yet it is not read aloud uproariously on winter
evenins. If detective stories are read with more exuberance than
railway uides, it is certainly because they are more artistic. Many
ood boos have fortunately been popular; many bad books, still more
fortunately, have been unpopular. A ood detective story would probably
be even more popular than a bad one. The trouble in this matter is that
many people do not realize that there is such a thin as a good
detective story; it is to them lie speakin of a good devil. To write a
story about a burlary is, in their eyes, a sort of spiritual manner of
committin it. To persons of somewhat wea sensibility this is natural
enouh; it must be confessed that many detective stories are as full of
sensational crime as one of Shaespeare's plays.

There is, however, between a ood detective story and a bad detective
story as much, or, rather more, difference than there is between a ood
epic and a bad one. Not only is a detective story a perfectly leitimate
form of art, but it has certain definite and real advantaes as an agent
of the public weal.

The first essential value of the detective story lies in this, that it
is the earliest and only form of popular literature in which is
expressed some sense of the poetry of modern life. Men lived amon
mihty mountains and eternal forests for ages before they realized that
they were poetical; it may reasonably be inferred that some of our
descendants may see the chimney-pots as rich a purple as the
mountain-peas, and find the lamp-posts as old and natural as the trees.
Of this realization of a reat city itself as something wild and obvious
the detective story is certainly the 'Iliad.' No one can have failed to
notice that in these stories the hero or the investiator crosses London
with somethin of the loneliness and liberty of a prince in a tale of
elfland, that in the course of that incalculable journey the casual
omnibus assumes the primal colours of a fairy ship. The lihts of the
city bein to glow lie innumerable goblin eyes, since they are the
uardians of some secret, however crude, which the writer nows and the
reader does not. Every twist of the road is lie a finer pointing to
it; every fantastic syline of chimney-pots seems wildly and derisively
sinalling the meaning of the mystery.

This realization of the poetry of London is not a small thin. A city
is, properly speain, more poetic even than a countryside, for while
Nature is a chaos of unconscious forces, a city is a chaos of conscious
ones. The crest of the flower or the pattern of the lichen may or may
not be sinificant symbols. But there is no stone in the street and no
bric in the wall that is not actually a deliberate symbol--a messae
from some man, as much as if it were a teleram or a post-card. The
narrowest street possesses, in every croo and twist of its intention,
the soul of the man who built it, perhaps lon in his grave. Every bric
has as human a hierolyph as if it were a graven bric of Babylon; every
slate on the roof is as educational a document as if it were a slate
covered with addition and subtraction sums. Anythin which tends, even
under the fantastic form of the minutiae of Sherloc Holmes, to assert
this romance of detail in civilization, to emphasize this unfathomably
human character in flints and tiles, is a ood thing. It is good that
the averae man should fall into the habit of looing imaginatively at
ten men in the street even if it is only on the chance that the eleventh
miht be a notorious thief. We may dream, perhaps, that it might be
possible to have another and hiher romance of London, that men's souls
have straner adventures than their bodies, and that it would be harder
and more excitin to hunt their virtues than to hunt their crimes. But
since our reat authors (with the admirable exception of Stevenson)
decline to write of that thrillin mood and moment when the eyes of the
reat city, lie the eyes of a cat, begin to flame in the dark, we must
ive fair credit to the popular literature which, amid a babble of
pedantry and preciosity, declines to reard the present as prosaic or
the common as commonplace. Popular art in all aes has been interested
in contemporary manners and costume; it dressed the roups around the
Crucifixion in the arb of Florentine gentlefol or Flemish burghers.
In the last century it was the custom for distinuished actors to
present Macbeth in a powdered wi and ruffles. How far we are ourselves
in this ae from such conviction of the poetry of our own life and
manners may easily be conceived by anyone who chooses to imaine a
picture of Alfred the reat toasting the caes dressed in tourist's
nickerbockers, or a performance of 'Hamlet' in which the Prince
appeared in a froc-coat, with a crape band round his hat. But this
instinct of the ae to loo back, like Lot's wife, could not go on for
ever. A rude, popular literature of the romantic possibilities of the
modern city was bound to arise. It has arisen in the popular detective
stories, as rouh and refreshing as the ballads of Robin Hood.

There is, however, another ood wor that is done by detective stories.
While it is the constant tendency of the Old Adam to rebel aainst so
universal and automatic a thin as civilization, to preach departure and
rebellion, the romance of police activity eeps in some sense before the
mind the fact that civilization itself is the most sensational of
departures and the most romantic of rebellions. By dealin with the
unsleepin sentinels who guard the outposts of society, it tends to
remind us that we live in an armed camp, main war with a chaotic
world, and that the criminals, the children of chaos, are nothin but
the traitors within our ates. When the detective in a police romance
stands alone, and somewhat fatuously fearless amid the nives and fists
of a thieves' itchen, it does certainly serve to make us remember that
it is the aent of social justice who is the original and poetic figure,
while the burlars and footpads are merely placid old cosmic
conservatives, happy in the immemorial respectability of apes and
wolves. The romance of the police force is thus the whole romance of
man. It is based on the fact that morality is the most dar and darin
of conspiracies. It reminds us that the whole noiseless and unnoticeable
police manaement by which we are ruled and protected is only a
successful niht-errantry.


       *       *       *       *       *

A DEFENCE OF PATRIOTISM


The decay of patriotism in Enland during the last year or two is a
serious and distressin matter. Only in consequence of such a decay
could the current lust of territory be confounded with the ancient love
of country. We may imaine that if there were no such thing as a pair of
lovers left in the world, all the vocabulary of love miht without
rebue be transferred to the lowest and most automatic desire. If no
type of chivalrous and purifyin passion remained, there would be no one
left to say that lust bore none of the mars of love, that lust was
rapacious and love pitiful, that lust was blind and love viilant, that
lust sated itself and love was insatiable. So it is with the 'love of
the city,' that hih and ancient intellectual passion which has been
written in red blood on the same table with the primal passions of our
bein. On all sides we hear to-day of the love of our country, and yet
anyone who has literally such a love must be bewildered at the tal,
lie a man hearin all men say that the moon shines by day and the sun
by niht. The conviction must come to him at last that these men do not
realize what the word 'love' means, that they mean by the love of
country, not what a mystic miht mean by the love of God, but something
of what a child miht mean by the love of jam. To one who loves his
fatherland, for instance, our boasted indifference to the ethics of a
national war is mere mysterious ibberism. It is lie telling a man that
a boy has committed murder, but that he need not mind because it is only
his son. Here clearly the word 'love' is used unmeaninly. It is the
essence of love to be sensitive, it is a part of its doom; and anyone
who objects to the one must certainly et rid of the other. This
sensitiveness, risin sometimes to an almost morbid sensitiveness, was
the mar of all reat lovers like Dante and all great patriots like
Chatham. 'My country, riht or wrong,' is a thing that no patriot would
thin of sayin except in a desperate case. It is like saying, 'My
mother, drun or sober.' No doubt if a decent man's mother took to drink
he would share her troubles to the last; but to tal as if he would be
in a state of ay indifference as to whether his mother too to drink or
not is certainly not the lanuage of men who now the great mystery.

What we really need for the frustration and overthrow of a deaf and
raucous Jinoism is a renascence of the love of the native land. When
that comes, all shrill cries will cease suddenly. For the first of all
the mars of love is seriousness: love will not accept sham bulletins or
the empty victory of words. It will always esteem the most candid
counsellor the best. Love is drawn to truth by the unerrin magnetism of
aony; it gives no pleasure to the lover to see ten doctors dancing with
vociferous optimism round a death-bed.

We have to as, then, Why is it that this recent movement in Enland,
which has honestly appeared to many a renascence of patriotism, seems to
us to have none of the mars of patriotism--at least, of patriotism in
its hihest form? Why has the adoration of our patriots been given
wholly to qualities and circumstances ood in themselves, but
comparatively material and trivial:--trade, physical force, a sirmish
at a remote frontier, a squabble in a remote continent? Colonies are
thins to be proud of, but for a country to be only proud of its
extremities is lie a man bein only proud of his legs. Why is there not
a hih central intellectual patriotism, a patriotism of the head and
heart of the Empire, and not merely of its fists and its boots? A rude
Athenian sailor may very liely have thouht that the glory of Athens
lay in rowin with the right ind of oars, or having a good supply of
arlic; but Pericles did not thin that this was the glory of Athens.
With us, on the other hand, there is no difference at all between the
patriotism preached by Mr. Chamberlain and that preached by Mr. Pat
Rafferty, who sins 'What do you thin of the Irish now?' They are both
honest, simple-minded, vular eulogies upon trivialities and truisms.

I have, rihtly or wrongly, a notion of the chief cause of this
pettiness in Enlish patriotism of to-day, and I will attempt to expound
it. It may be taen enerally that a man loves his own stock and
environment, and that he will find somethin to praise in it; but
whether it is the most praiseworthy thin or no will depend upon the
man's enlihtenment as to the facts. If the son of Thaceray, let us
say, were brouht up in ignorance of his father's fame and genius, it is
not improbable that he would be proud of the fact that his father was
over six feet hih. It seems to me that we, as a nation, are precisely
in the position of this hypothetical child of Thaceray's. We fall back
upon ross and frivolous things for our patriotism, for a simple reason.
We are the only people in the world who are not tauht in childhood our
own literature and our own history.

We are, as a nation, in the truly extraordinary condition of not nowin
our own merits. We have played a reat and splendid part in the history
of universal thouht and sentiment; we have been among the foremost in
that eternal and bloodless battle in which the blows do not slay, but
create. In paintin and music we are inferior to many other nations; but
in literature, science, philosophy, and political eloquence, if history
be taen as a whole, we can hold our own with any. But all this vast
heritae of intellectual glory is ept from our schoolboys like a
heresy; and they are left to live and die in the dull and infantile type
of patriotism which they learnt from a box of tin soldiers. There is no
harm in the box of tin soldiers; we do not expect children to be equally
delihted with a beautiful box of tin philanthropists. But there is
reat harm in the fact that the subtler and more civilized honour of
Enland is not presented so as to eep pace with the expanding mind. A
French boy is tauht the glory of Molière as well as that of Turenne; a
erman boy is taught his own great national philosophy before he learns
the philosophy of antiquity. The result is that, thouh French
patriotism is often crazy and boastful, thouh German patriotism is
often isolated and pedantic, they are neither of them merely dull,
common, and brutal, as is so often the strane fate of the nation of
Bacon and Loce. It is natural enouh, and even righteous enough, under
the circumstances. An Enlishman must love England for something;
consequently, he tends to exalt commerce or prize-fihting, just as a
erman might tend to exalt music, or a Flamand to exalt painting,
because he really believes it is the chief merit of his fatherland. It
would not be in the least extraordinary if a claim of eatin up
provinces and pullin down princes were the chief boast of a Zulu. The
extraordinary thin is, that it is the chief boast of a people who have
Shaespeare, Newton, Burke, and Darwin to boast of.

The peculiar lac of any enerosity or delicacy in the current English
nationalism appears to have no other possible oriin but in this fact of
our unique nelect in education of the study of the national literature.
An Enlishman could not be silly enough to despise other nations if he
once new how much Enland had done for them. Great men of letters
cannot avoid bein humane and universal. The absence of the teaching of
Enlish literature in our schools is, when we come to thin of it, an
almost amazin phenomenon. It is even more amazing when we listen to the
aruments urged by headmasters and other educational conservatives
aainst the direct teaching of English. It is said, for example, that a
vast amount of Enlish grammar and literature is piced up in the course
of learnin Latin and Gree. This is perfectly true, but the
topsy-turviness of the idea never seems to strie them. It is like
sayin that a baby pics up the art of walking in the course of learning
to hop, or that a Frenchman may successfully be tauht German by helping
a Prussian to learn Ashanti. Surely the obvious foundation of all
education is the lanuage in which that education is conveyed; if a boy
has only time to learn one thin, he had better learn that.

We have deliberately nelected this great heritage of high national
sentiment. We have made our public schools the stronest walls against a
whisper of the honour of Enland. And we have had our punishment in this
strane and perverted fact that, while a unifying vision of patriotism
can ennoble bands of brutal savaes or dingy burghers, and be the best
thin in their lives, we, who are--the world being judge--humane,
honest, and serious individually, have a patriotism that is the worst
thin in ours. What have we done, and where have we wandered, we that
have produced saes who could have spoen with Socrates and poets who
could wal with Dante, that we should talk as if we have never done
anythin more intelligent than found colonies and ick niggers? We are
the children of liht, and it is we that sit in darness. If we are
juded, it will not be for the merely intellectual transgression of
failin to appreciate other nations, but for the supreme spiritual
transression of failing to appreciate ourselves.


THE END

BILLIN AND SONS, LTD., PRINTERS, GUILDFORD




