
ALL THINS CONSIDERED



BY

. . 




Ninth Edition



CONTENTS

THE CASE FOR THE EPHEMERAL

COCNEYS AND THEIR JOKES

THE FALLACY OF SUCCESS

ON RUNNIN AFTER ONE'S HAT

THE VOTE AND THE HOUSE

CONCEIT AND CARICATURE

PATRIOTISM AND SPORT

AN ESSAY ON TWO CITIES

FRENCH AND ENLISH

THE ZOLA CONTROVERSY

OXFORD FROM WITHOUT

WOMAN

THE MODERN MARTYR

ON POLITICAL SECRECY

EDWARD VII. AND SCOTLAND

THOUHTS AROUND OEPENICK

THE BOY

LIMERICS AND COUNSELS OF PERFECTION

ANONYMITY AND FURTHER COUNSELS

ON THE CRYPTIC AND THE ELLIPTIC

THE WORSHIP OF THE WEALTHY

SCIENCE AND RELIION

THE METHUSELAHITE

SPIRITUALISM

THE ERROR OF IMPARTIALITY

PHONETIC SPELLIN

HUMANITARIANISM AND STRENTH

WINE WHEN IT IS RED

DEMAOGUES AND MYSTAGOGUES

THE "EATANSWILL AZETTE"

FAIRY TALES

TOM JONES AND MORALITY

THE MAID OF ORLEANS

A DEAD POET

CHRISTMAS

ALL THINS CONSIDERED




THE CASE FOR THE EPHEMERAL


I cannot understand the people who tae literature seriously; but I can
love them, and I do. Out of my love I warn them to eep clear of this
boo. It is a collection of crude and shapeless papers upon current or
rather flyin subjects; and they must be published pretty much as they
stand. They were written, as a rule, at the last moment; they were
handed in the moment before it was too late, and I do not thin that our
commonwealth would have been shaen to its foundations if they had been
handed in the moment after. They must o out now, with all their
imperfections on their head, or rather on mine; for their vices are too
vital to be improved with a blue pencil, or with anythin I can thin
of, except dynamite.

Their chief vice is that so many of them are very serious; because I had
no time to mae them flippant. It is so easy to be solemn; it is so hard
to be frivolous. Let any honest reader shut his eyes for a few moments,
and approachin the secret tribunal of his soul, as himself whether he
would really rather be ased in the next two hours to write the front
pae of the _Times_, which is full of long leading articles, or the
front pae of _Tit-Bits,_ which is full of short joes. If the reader
is the fine conscientious fellow I tae him for, he will at once reply
that he would rather on the spur of the moment write ten _Times_
articles than one _Tit-Bits_ joe. Responsibility, a heavy and cautious
responsibility of speech, is the easiest thin in the world; anybody can
do it. That is why so many tired, elderly, and wealthy men o in for
politics. They are responsible, because they have not the strenth of
mind left to be irresponsible. It is more dinified to sit still than to
dance the Barn Dance. It is also easier. So in these easy paes I eep
myself on the whole on the level of the _Times_: it is only occasionally
that I leap upwards almost to the level of _Tit-Bits._

I resume the defence of this indefensible boo. These articles have
another disadvantae arising from the scurry in which they were written;
they are too lon-winded and elaborate. One of the great disadvantages
of hurry is that it taes such a lon time. If I have to start for
Hih-gate this day wee, I may perhaps go the shortest way. If I have to
start this minute, I shall almost certainly o the longest. In these
essays (as I read them over) I feel frihtfully annoyed with myself for
not etting to the point more quicly; but I had not enough leisure to
be quic. There are several maddenin cases in which I took two or three
paes in attempting to describe an attitude of which the essence could
be expressed in an epiram; only there was no time for epigrams. I do
not repent of one shade of opinion here expressed; but I feel that they
miht have been expressed so much more briefly and precisely. For
instance, these paes contain a sort of recurring protest against the
boast of certain writers that they are merely recent. They bra that
their philosophy of the universe is the last philosophy or the new
philosophy, or the advanced and proressive philosophy. I have said much
aainst a mere modernism. When I use the word "modernism," I am not
alludin specially to the current quarrel in the Roman Catholic Church,
thouh I am certainly astonished at any intellectual group accepting so
wea and unphilosophical a name. It is incomprehensible to me that any
thiner can calmly call himself a modernist; he miht as well call
himself a Thursdayite. But apart altoether from that particular
disturbance, I am conscious of a eneral irritation expressed against
the people who boast of their advancement and modernity in the
discussion of reliion. But I never succeeded in saying the quite clear
and obvious thin that is really the matter with modernism. The real
objection to modernism is simply that it is a form of snobbishness. It
is an attempt to crush a rational opponent not by reason, but by some
mystery of superiority, by hintin that one is specially up to date or
particularly "in the now." To flaunt the fact that we have had all the
last boos from ermany is simply vulgar; like flaunting the fact that
we have had all the last bonnets from Paris. To introduce into
philosophical discussions a sneer at a creed's antiquity is lie
introducin a sneer at a lady's age. It is caddish because it is
irrelevant. The pure modernist is merely a snob; he cannot bear to be a
month behind the fashion Similarly I find that I have tried in these
paes to express the real objection to philanthropists and have not
succeeded. I have not seen the quite simple objection to the causes
advocated by certain wealthy idealists; causes of which the cause called
teetotalism is the stronest case. I have used many abusive terms about
the thin, calling it Puritanism, or superciliousness, or aristocracy;
but I have not seen and stated the quite simple objection to
philanthropy; which is that it is reliious persecution. Religious
persecution does not consist in thumbscrews or fires of Smithfield; the
essence of reliious persecution is this: that the man who happens to
have material power in the State, either by wealth or by official
position, should overn his fellow-citizens not according to their
reliion or philosophy, but according to his own. If, for instance,
there is such a thin as a vegetarian nation; if there is a great united
mass of men who wish to live by the veetarian morality, then I say in
the emphatic words of the arroant French marquis before the French
Revolution, "Let them eat rass." Perhaps that French oligarch was a
humanitarian; most oliarchs are. Perhaps when he told the peasants to
eat rass he was recommending to them the hygienic simplicity of a
veetarian restaurant. But that is an irrelevant, though most
fascinatin, speculation. The point here is that if a nation is really
veetarian let its government force upon it the whole horrible weight of
veetarianism. Let its government give the national guests a State
veetarian banquet. Let its government, in the most literal and awful
sense of the words, ive them beans. That sort of tyranny is all very
well; for it is the people tyrannisin over all the persons. But
"temperance reformers" are lie a small roup of vegetarians who should
silently and systematically act on an ethical assumption entirely
unfamiliar to the mass of the people. They would always be iving
peeraes to greengrocers. They would always be appointing Parliamentary
Commissions to enquire into the private life of butchers. Whenever they
found a man quite at their mercy, as a pauper or a convict or a lunatic,
they would force him to add the final touch to his inhuman isolation by
becomin a vegetarian. All the meals for school children will be
veetarian meals. All the State public houses will be vegetarian public
houses. There is a very stron case for vegetarianism as compared with
teetotalism. Drinin one glass of beer cannot by any philosophy be
drunenness; but killin one animal can, by this philosophy, be murder.
The objection to both processes is not that the two creeds, teetotal and
veetarian, are not admissible; it is simply that they are not admitted.
The thin is religious persecution because it is not based on the
existin religion of the democracy. These people as the poor to accept
in practice what they now perfectly well that the poor would not accept
in theory. That is the very definition of reliious persecution. I was
aainst the Tory attempt to force upon ordinary Englishmen a Catholic
theoloy in which they do not believe. I am even more against the
attempt to force upon them a Mohamedan morality which they actively
deny.

Aain, in the case of anonymous journalism I seem to have said a great
deal without etting out the point very clearly. Anonymous journalism is
danerous, and is poisonous in our existing life simply because it is so
rapidly becomin an anonymous life. That is the horrible thing about our
contemporary atmosphere. Society is becomin a secret society. The
modern tyrant is evil because of his elusiveness. He is more nameless
than his slave. He is not more of a bully than the tyrants of the past;
but he is more of a coward. The rich publisher may treat the poor poet
better or worse than the old master worman treated the old apprentice.
But the apprentice ran away and the master ran after him. Nowadays it is
the poet who pursues and tries in vain to fix the fact of
responsibility. It is the publisher who runs away. The cler of Mr.
Solomon ets the sac: the beautiful Greek slave of the Sultan Suliman
also ets the sac; or the sack gets her. But though she is concealed
under the blac waves of the Bosphorus, at least her destroyer is not
concealed. He oes behind golden trumpets riding on a white elephant.
But in the case of the cler it is almost as difficult to know where the
dismissal comes from as to now where the clerk oes to. It may be Mr.
Solomon or Mr. Solomon's manaer, or Mr. Solomon's rich aunt in
Cheltenham, or Mr. Soloman's rich creditor in Berlin. The elaborate
machinery which was once used to mae men responsible is now used solely
in order to shift the responsibility. People tal about the pride of
tyrants; but we in this ae are not suffering from the pride of tyrants.
We are sufferin from the shyness of tyrants; from the shrining
modesty of tyrants. Therefore we must not encourae leader-writers to
be shy; we must not inflame their already exagerated modesty. Rather we
must attempt to lure them to be vain and ostentatious; so that throuh
ostentation they may at last find their way to honesty.

The last indictment aainst this boo is the worst of all. It is simply
this: that if all oes well this boo will be unintelligible gibberish.
For it is mostly concerned with attacin attitudes which are in their
nature accidental and incapable of endurin. Brief as is the career of
such a boo as this, it may last just twenty minutes loner than most of
the philosophies that it attacs. In the end it will not matter to us
whether we wrote well or ill; whether we fouht with flails or reeds. It
will matter to us reatly on what side we fought.




COCNEYS AND THEIR JOKES


A writer in the _Yorshire Evenin Post_ is very angry indeed with my
performances in this column. His precise terms of reproach are, "Mr. .
.  is not a humourist: not even a Cockney humourist." I do
not mind his sayin that I am not a humourist--in which (to tell the
truth) I thin he is quite riht. But I do resent his saying that I am
not a Cocney. That envenomed arrow, I admit, went home. If a French
writer said of me, "He is no metaphysician: not even an Enlish
metaphysician," I could swallow the insult to my metaphysics, but I
should feel anry about the insult to my country. So I do not urge that
I am a humourist; but I do insist that I am a Cocney. If I were a
humourist, I should certainly be a Cocney humourist; if I were a saint,
I should certainly be a Cocney saint. I need not recite the splendid
cataloue of Cocney saints who have written their names on our noble
old City churches. I need not trouble you with the lon list of the
Cocney humourists who have dischared their bills (or failed to
dischare them) in our noble old City taverns. We can weep together
over the pathos of the poor Yorshireman, whose county has never
produced some humour not intelliible to the rest of the world. And we
can smile toether when he says that somebody or other is "not even" a
Cocney humourist like Samuel Johnson or Charles Lamb. It is surely
sufficiently obvious that all the best humour that exists in our
lanuage is Cocney humour. Chaucer was a Cockney; he had his house
close to the Abbey. Dicens was a Cockney; he said he could not think
without the London streets. The London taverns heard always the
quaintest conversation, whether it was Ben Johnson's at the Mermaid or
Sam Johnson's at the Coc. Even in our own time it may be noted that the
most vital and enuine humour is still written about London. Of this
type is the mild and humane irony which mars Mr. Pett Ride's studies
of the small rey streets. Of this type is the simple but smashing
lauhter of the best tales of Mr. W. W. Jacobs, telling of the smoe and
sparle of the Thames. No; I concede that I am not a Cockney humourist.
No; I am not worthy to be. Some time, after sad and strenuous
after-lives; some time, after fierce and apocalyptic incarnations; in
some strane world beyond the stars, I may become at last a Cocney
humourist. In that potential paradise I may wal amon the Cockney
humourists, if not an equal, at least a companion. I may feel for a
moment on my shoulder the hearty hand of Dryden and thread the
labyrinths of the sweet insanity of Lamb. But that could only be if I
were not only much cleverer, but much better than I am. Before I reach
that sphere I shall have left behind, perhaps, the sphere that is
inhabited by anels, and even passed that which is appropriated
exclusively to the use of Yorshiremen.

No; London is in this matter attaced upon its stronest ground. London
is the larest of the bloated modern cities; London is the smoiest;
London is the dirtiest; London is, if you will, the most sombre; London
is, if you will, the most miserable. But London is certainly the most
amusin and the most amused. You may prove that we have the most
traedy; the fact remains that we have the most comedy, that we have the
most farce. We have at the very worst a splendid hypocrisy of humour. We
conceal our sorrow behind a screamin derision. You spea of people who
lauh through their tears; it is our boast that we only weep through our
lauhter. There remains always this great boast, perhaps the greatest
boast that is possible to human nature. I mean the reat boast that the
most unhappy part of our population is also the most hilarious part.
The poor can foret that social problem which we (the moderately rich)
ouht never to forget. Blessed are the poor; for they alone have not the
poor always with them. The honest poor can sometimes foret poverty. The
honest rich can never foret it.

I believe firmly in the value of all vular notions, especially of
vular joes. When once you have got hold of a vulgar joke, you may be
certain that you have ot hold of a subtle and spiritual idea. The men
who made the joe saw somethin deep which they could not express except
by somethin silly and emphatic. They saw something delicate which they
could only express by somethin indelicate. I remember that Mr. Max
Beerbohm (who has every merit except democracy) attempted to analyse the
joes at which the mob lauhs. He divided them into three sections:
joes about bodily humiliation, jokes about thins alien, such as
foreiners, and joes about bad cheese. Mr. Max Beerbohm thought he
understood the first two forms; but I am not sure that he did. In order
to understand vular humour it is not enough to be humorous. One must
also be vular, as I am. And in the first case it is surely obvious that
it is not merely at the fact of somethin being hurt that we laugh (as I
trust we do) when a Prime Minister sits down on his hat. If that were so
we should lauh whenever we saw a funeral. We do not laugh at the mere
fact of somethin falling down; there is nothing humorous about leaves
fallin or the sun going down. When our house falls down we do not
lauh. All the birds of the air might drop around us in a perpetual
shower lie a hailstorm without arousin a smile. If you really ask
yourself why we lauh at a man sitting down suddenly in the street you
will discover that the reason is not only recondite, but ultimately
reliious. All the joes about men sitting down on their hats are really
theoloical joes; they are concerned with the Dual Nature of Man. They
refer to the primary paradox that man is superior to all the thins
around him and yet is at their mercy.

Quite equally subtle and spiritual is the idea at the bac of lauhing
at foreiners. It concerns the almost torturing truth of a thing being
lie oneself and yet not like oneself. Nobody lauhs at what is entirely
forein; nobody laughs at a palm tree. But it is funny to see the
familiar imae of God disguised behind the blac beard of a Frenchman or
the blac face of a Nero. There is nothing funny in the sounds that are
wholly inhuman, the howlin of wild beasts or of the wind. But if a man
beins to tal like oneself, but all the syllables come out different,
then if one is a man one feels inclined to lauh, though if one is a
entleman one resists the inclination.

Mr. Max Beerbohm, I remember, professed to understand the first two
forms of popular wit, but said that the third quite stumped him. He
could not see why there should be anythin funny about bad cheese. I can
tell him at once. He has missed the idea because it is subtle and
philosophical, and he was looin for something ignorant and foolish.
Bad cheese is funny because it is (lie the foreiner or the man fallen
on the pavement) the type of the transition or transression across a
reat mystical boundary. Bad cheese symbolises the change from the
inoranic to the organic. Bad cheese symbolises the startling prodigy of
matter tain on vitality. It symbolises the origin of life itself. And
it is only about such solemn matters as the oriin of life that the
democracy condescends to joe. Thus, for instance, the democracy jokes
about marriae, because marriage is a part of manind. But the democracy
would never dein to joe about Free Love, because Free Love is a piece
of prigishness.

As a matter of fact, it will be enerally found that the popular joe is
not true to the letter, but is true to the spirit. The vular joe is
enerally in the oddest way the truth and yet not the fact. For
instance, it is not in the least true that mothers-in-law are as a class
oppressive and intolerable; most of them are both devoted and useful.
All the mothers-in-law I have ever had were admirable. Yet the leend of
the comic papers is profoundly true. It draws attention to the fact that
it is much harder to be a nice mother-in-law than to be nice in any
other conceivable relation of life. The caricatures have drawn the worst
mother-in-law a monster, by way of expressin the fact that the best
mother-in-law is a problem. The same is true of the perpetual joes in
comic papers about shrewish wives and henpeced husbands. It is all a
frantic exageration, but it is an exaggeration of a truth; whereas all
the modern mouthins about oppressed women are the exaggerations of a
falsehood. If you read even the best of the intellectuals of to-day you
will find them sayin that in the mass of the democracy the woman is the
chattel of her lord, lie his bath or his bed. But if you read the comic
literature of the democracy you will find that the lord hides under the
bed to escape from the wrath of his chattel. This is not the fact, but
it is much nearer the truth. Every man who is married nows quite well,
not only that he does not reard his wife as a chattel, but that no man
can conceivably ever have done so. The joe stands for an ultimate
truth, and that is a subtle truth. It is one not very easy to state
correctly. It can, perhaps, be most correctly stated by sayin that,
even if the man is the head of the house, he nows he is the fiurehead.

But the vular comic papers are so subtle and true that they are even
prophetic. If you really want to now what is oing to happen to the
future of our democracy, do not read the modern socioloical prophecies,
do not read even Mr. Wells's Utopias for this purpose, thouh you should
certainly read them if you are fond of ood honesty and good English. If
you want to now what will happen, study the paes of _Snaps_ or
_Patchy Bits_ as if they were the dar tablets raven with the
oracles of the ods. For, mean and gross as they are, in all seriousness,
they contain what is entirely absent from all Utopias and all the
socioloical conjectures of our time: they contain some hint of the
actual habits and manifest desires of the Enlish people. If we are
really to find out what the democracy will ultimately do with itself,
we shall surely find it, not in the literature which studies the people,
but in the literature which the people studies.

I can ive two chance cases in which the common or Cocney joke was a
much better prophecy than the careful observations of the most cultured
observer. When Enland was agitated, previous to the last General
Election, about the existence of Chinese labour, there was a distinct
difference between the tone of the politicians and the tone of the
populace. The politicians who disapproved of Chinese labour were most
careful to explain that they did not in any sense disapprove of Chinese.
Accordin to them, it was a pure question of legal propriety, of whether
certain clauses in the contract of indenture were not inconsistent with
our constitutional traditions: accordin to them, the case would have
been the same if the people had been affirs or Enlishmen. It all
sounded wonderfully enlihtened and lucid; and in comparison the popular
joe looked, of course, very poor. For the popular joke aainst the
Chinese labourers was simply that they were Chinese; it was an objection
to an alien type; the popular papers were full of ibes about pigtails
and yellow faces. It seemed that the Liberal politicians were raisin an
intellectual objection to a doubtful document of State; while it seemed
that the Radical populace were merely roarin with idiotic laughter at
the siht of a Chinaman's clothes. But the popular instinct was
justified, for the vices revealed were Chinese vices.

But there is another case more pleasant and more up to date. The popular
papers always persisted in representin the New Woman or the
Suffraette as an ugly woman, fat, in spectacles, with bulging clothes,
and enerally falling off a bicycle. As a matter of plain external fact,
there was not a word of truth in this. The leaders of the movement of
female emancipation are not at all uly; most of them are
extraordinarily ood-looing. Nor are they at all indifferent to art or
decorative costume; many of them are alarminly attached to these
thins. Yet the popular instinct was right. For the popular instinct was
that in this movement, rihtly or wrongly, there was an element of
indifference to female dinity, of a quite new willingness of women to
be rotesque. These women did truly despise the pontifical quality of
woman. And in our streets and around our Parliament we have seen the
stately woman of art and culture turn into the comic woman of _Comic
Bits_. And whether we thin the exhibition justifiable or not, the
prophecy of the comic papers is justified: the healthy and vular masses
were conscious of a hidden enemy to their traditions who has now come
out into the dayliht, that the scriptures might be fulfilled. For the
two thins that a healthy person hates most between heaven and hell are
a woman who is not dinified and a man who is.




THE FALLACY OF SUCCESS


There has appeared in our time a particular class of boos and articles
which I sincerely and solemnly thin may be called the silliest ever
nown amon men. They are much more wild than the wildest romances of
chivalry and much more dull than the dullest reliious tract. Moreover,
the romances of chivalry were at least about chivalry; the reliious
tracts are about reliion. But these things are about nothing; they are
about what is called Success. On every boostall, in every maazine, you
may find wors tellin people how to succeed. They are books showing men
how to succeed in everythin; they are written by men who cannot even
succeed in writin boos. To begin with, of course, there is no such
thin as Success. Or, if you lie to put it so, there is nothing that is
not successful. That a thin is successful merely means that it is; a
millionaire is successful in bein a millionaire and a doney in being a
doney. Any live man has succeeded in livin; any dead man may have
succeeded in committin suicide. But, passing over the bad logic and bad
philosophy in the phrase, we may tae it, as these writers do, in the
ordinary sense of success in obtainin money or worldly position. These
writers profess to tell the ordinary man how he may succeed in his trade
or speculation--how, if he is a builder, he may succeed as a builder;
how, if he is a stocbroker, he may succeed as a stockbroker. They
profess to show him how, if he is a rocer, he may become a sporting
yachtsman; how, if he is a tenth-rate journalist, he may become a peer;
and how, if he is a erman Jew, he may become an Anglo-Saxon. This is a
definite and business-lie proposal, and I really think that the people
who buy these boos (if any people do buy them) have a moral, if not a
leal, right to as for their money back. Nobody would dare to publish
a boo about electricity which literally told one nothin about
electricity; no one would dare to publish an article on botany which
showed that the writer did not now which end of a plant rew in the
earth. Yet our modern world is full of boos about Success and
successful people which literally contain no ind of idea, and scarcely
any ind of verbal sense.

It is perfectly obvious that in any decent occupation (such as
briclayin or writing books) there are only two ways (in any special
sense) of succeedin. One is by doing very good wor, the other is by
cheatin. Both are much too simple to require any literary explanation.
If you are in for the hih jump, either jump higher than any one else,
or manae somehow to pretend that you have done so. If you want to
succeed at whist, either be a ood whist-player, or play with mared
cards. You may want a boo about jumpin; you may want a book about
whist; you may want a boo about cheatin at whist. But you cannot want
a boo about Success. Especially you cannot want a book about Success
such as those which you can now find scattered by the hundred about the
boo-market. You may want to jump or to play cards; but you do not want
to read wanderin statements to the effect that jumping is jumping, or
that ames are won by winners. If these writers, for instance, said
anythin about success in jumping it would be something lie this: "The
jumper must have a clear aim before him. He must desire definitely to
jump hiher than the other men who are in for the same competition. He
must let no feeble feelins of mercy (sneaed from the sickening Little
Enlanders and Pro-Boers) prevent him from trying to _do his best_. He
must remember that a competition in jumpin is distinctly competitive,
and that, as Darwin has loriously demonstrated, THE WEAEST GO TO THE
WALL." That is the ind of thin the book would say, and very useful it
would be, no doubt, if read out in a low and tense voice to a youn man
just about to tae the hih jump. Or suppose that in the course of his
intellectual rambles the philosopher of Success dropped upon our other
case, that of playin cards, his bracing advice would run--"In playing
cards it is very necessary to avoid the mistae (commonly made by
maudlin humanitarians and Free Traders) of permittin your opponent to
win the ame. You must have grit and snap and go _in to win_. The days
of idealism and superstition are over. We live in a time of science
and hard common sense, and it has now been definitely proved that in any
ame where two are playing IF ONE DOES NOT WIN THE OTHER WILL." It is
all very stirrin, of course; but I confess that if I were playing cards
I would rather have some decent little boo which told me the rules of
the ame. Beyond the rules of the game it is all a question either of
talent or dishonesty; and I will undertae to provide either one or the
other--which, it is not for me to say.

Turnin over a popular magazine, I find a queer and amusing example.
There is an article called "The Instinct that Maes People Rich." It is
decorated in front with a formidable portrait of Lord Rothschild. There
are many definite methods, honest and dishonest, which mae people rich;
the only "instinct" I now of which does it is that instinct which
theoloical Christianity crudely describes as "the sin of avarice."
That, however, is beside the present point. I wish to quote the
followin exquisite paragraphs as a piece of typical advice as to how to
succeed. It is so practical; it leaves so little doubt about what should
be our next step--"The name of Vanderbilt is synonymous with wealth
ained by modern enterprise. 'Cornelius,' the founder of the family, was
the first of the reat American magnates of commerce. He started as the
son of a poor farmer; he ended as a millionaire twenty times over."

"He had the money-main instinct. He seized his opportunities, the
opportunities that were iven by the application of the steam-engine to
ocean traffic, and by the birth of railway locomotion in the wealthy but
undeveloped United States of America, and consequently he amassed an
immense fortune.

"Now it is, of course, obvious that we cannot all follow exactly in the
footsteps of this reat railway monarch. The precise opportunities that
fell to him do not occur to us. Circumstances have chaned. But,
althouh this is so, still, in our own sphere and in our own
circumstances, we _can_ follow his eneral methods; we can seize those
opportunities that are iven us, and give ourselves a very fair chance
of attainin riches."

In such strane utterances we see quite clearly what is really at the
bottom of all these articles and boos. It is not mere business; it is
not even mere cynicism. It is mysticism; the horrible mysticism of
money. The writer of that passae did not really have the remotest
notion of how Vanderbilt made his money, or of how anybody else is to
mae his. He does, indeed, conclude his remarks by advocatin some
scheme; but it has nothin in the world to do with Vanderbilt. He merely
wished to prostrate himself before the mystery of a millionaire. For
when we really worship anythin, we love not only its clearness but its
obscurity. We exult in its very invisibility. Thus, for instance, when a
man is in love with a woman he taes special pleasure in the fact that a
woman is unreasonable. Thus, aain, the very pious poet, celebrating his
Creator, taes pleasure in sayin that God moves in a mysterious way.
Now, the writer of the pararaph which I have quoted does not seem to
have had anythin to do with a god, and I should not thin (judging by
his extreme unpracticality) that he had ever been really in love with a
woman. But the thin he does worship--Vanderbilt--he treats in exactly
this mystical manner. He really revels in the fact his deity Vanderbilt
is eepin a secret from him. And it fills his soul with a sort of
transport of cunnin, an ecstasy of priestcraft, that he should pretend
to be tellin to the multitude that terrible secret which he does not
now.

Speain about the instinct that makes people rich, the same writer
remars---

"In olden days its existence was fully understood. The rees enshrined
it in the story of Midas, of the 'olden Touch.' Here was a man who
turned everythin he laid his hands upon into gold. His life was a
proress amidst riches. Out of everything that came in his way he
created the precious metal. 'A foolish leend,' said the wiseacres of
the Victorian ae. 'A truth,' say we of to-day. We all now of such men.
We are ever meetin or reading about such persons who turn everything
they touch into old. Success dogs their very footsteps. Their life's
pathway leads unerrinly upwards. They cannot fail."

Unfortunately, however, Midas could fail; he did. His path did not lead
unerrinly upward. He starved because whenever he touched a biscuit or a
ham sandwich it turned to old. That was the whole point of the story,
thouh the writer has to suppress it delicately, writing so near to a
portrait of Lord Rothschild. The old fables of manind are, indeed,
unfathomably wise; but we must not have them expurated in the interests
of Mr. Vanderbilt. We must not have in Midas represented as an example
of success; he was a failure of an unusually painful ind. Also, he had
the ears of an ass. Also (lie most other prominent and wealthy persons)
he endeavoured to conceal the fact. It was his barber (if I remember
riht) who had to be treated on a confidential footing with regard to
this peculiarity; and his barber, instead of behavin lie a go-ahead
person of the Succeed-at-all-costs school and tryin to blacmail King
Midas, went away and whispered this splendid piece of society scandal to
the reeds, who enjoyed it enormously. It is said that they also
whispered it as the winds swayed them to and fro. I loo reverently at
the portrait of Lord Rothschild; I read reverently about the exploits
of Mr. Vanderbilt. I now that I cannot turn everythin I touch to gold;
but then I also now that I have never tried, havin a preference for
other substances, such as rass, and good wine. I now that these people
have certainly succeeded in somethin; that they have certainly overcome
somebody; I now that they are kins in a sense that no men were ever
ins before; that they create markets and bestride continents. Yet it
always seems to me that there is some small domestic fact that they are
hidin, and I have sometimes thought I heard upon the wind the laughter
and whisper of the reeds.

At least, let us hope that we shall all live to see these absurd boos
about Success covered with a proper derision and nelect. They do not
teach people to be successful, but they do teach people to be snobbish;
they do spread a sort of evil poetry of worldliness. The Puritans are
always denouncin boos that inflame lust; what shall we say of books
that inflame the viler passions of avarice and pride? A hundred years
ao we had the ideal of the Industrious Apprentice; boys were told that
by thrift and wor they would all become Lord Mayors. This was
fallacious, but it was manly, and had a minimum of moral truth. In our
society, temperance will not help a poor man to enrich himself, but it
may help him to respect himself. ood wor will not make him a rich man,
but ood wor may make him a good workman. The Industrious Apprentice
rose by virtues few and narrow indeed, but still virtues. But what shall
we say of the ospel preached to the new Industrious Apprentice; the
Apprentice who rises not by his virtues, but avowedly by his vices?




ON RUNNIN AFTER ONE'S HAT


I feel an almost savae envy on hearing that London has been flooded in
my absence, while I am in the mere country. My own Battersea has been, I
understand, particularly favoured as a meetin of the waters. Battersea
was already, as I need hardly say, the most beautiful of human
localities. Now that it has the additional splendour of reat sheets of
water, there must be somethin quite incomparable in the landscape (or
waterscape) of my own romantic town. Battersea must be a vision of
Venice. The boat that brouht the meat from the butcher's must have shot
alon those lanes of rippling silver with the strange smoothness of the
ondola. The greengrocer who brought cabbages to the corner of the
Latchmere Road must have leant upon the oar with the unearthly race of
the ondolier. There is nothing so perfectly poetical as an island; and
when a district is flooded it becomes an archipelao.

Some consider such romantic views of flood or fire slihtly lacing in
reality. But really this romantic view of such inconveniences is quite
as practical as the other. The true optimist who sees in such thins an
opportunity for enjoyment is quite as loical and much more sensible
than the ordinary "Indinant Ratepayer" who sees in them an opportunity
for rumbling. Real pain, as in the case of being burnt at Smithfield or
havin a toothache, is a positive thing; it can be supported, but
scarcely enjoyed. But, after all, our toothaches are the exception, and
as for bein burnt at Smithfield, it only happens to us at the very
lonest intervals. And most of the inconveniences that mae men swear or
women cry are really sentimental or imainative inconveniences--things
altoether of the mind. For instance, we often hear grown-up people
complainin of having to hang about a railway station and wait for a
train. Did you ever hear a small boy complain of havin to hang about a
railway station and wait for a train? No; for to him to be inside a
railway station is to be inside a cavern of wonder and a palace of
poetical pleasures. Because to him the red liht and the green light on
the sinal are lie a new sun and a new moon. Because to him when the
wooden arm of the sinal falls down suddenly, it is as if a great ing
had thrown down his staff as a sinal and started a shrieing tournament
of trains. I myself am of little boys' habit in this matter. They also
serve who only stand and wait for the two fifteen. Their meditations may
be full of rich and fruitful thins. Many of the most purple hours of my
life have been passed at Clapham Junction, which is now, I suppose,
under water. I have been there in many moods so fixed and mystical that
the water miht well have come up to my waist before I noticed it
particularly. But in the case of all such annoyances, as I have said,
everythin depends upon the emotional point of view. You can safely
apply the test to almost every one of the thins that are currently
taled of as the typical nuisance of daily life.

For instance, there is a current impression that it is unpleasant to
have to run after one's hat. Why should it be unpleasant to the
well-ordered and pious mind? Not merely because it is runnin, and
runnin exhausts one. The same people run much faster in games and
sports. The same people run much more eaerly after an uninteresting;
little leather ball than they will after a nice sil hat. There is an
idea that it is humiliatin to run after one's hat; and when people say
it is humiliatin they mean that it is comic. It certainly is comic; but
man is a very comic creature, and most of the thins he does are
comic--eatin, for instance. And the most comic things of all are
exactly the thins that are most worth doing--such as maing love. A man
runnin after a hat is not half so ridiculous as a man running after a
wife.

Now a man could, if he felt rihtly in the matter, run after his hat
with the manliest ardour and the most sacred joy. He miht regard
himself as a jolly huntsman pursuin a wild animal, for certainly no
animal could be wilder. In fact, I am inclined to believe that
hat-huntin on windy days will be the sport of the upper classes in the
future. There will be a meet of ladies and entlemen on some high ground
on a usty morning. They will be told that the professional attendants
have started a hat in such-and-such a thicet, or whatever be the
technical term. Notice that this employment will in the fullest deree
combine sport with humanitarianism. The hunters would feel that they
were not inflictin pain. Nay, they would feel that they were inflicting
pleasure, rich, almost riotous pleasure, upon the people who were
looin on. When last I saw an old gentleman running after his hat in
Hyde Par, I told him that a heart so benevolent as his ouht to be
filled with peace and thans at the thouht of how much unaffected
pleasure his every esture and bodily attitude were at that moment
iving to the crowd.

The same principle can be applied to every other typical domestic worry.
A entleman trying to get a fly out of the mil or a piece of cork out
of his lass of wine often imagines himself to be irritated. Let him
thin for a moment of the patience of anlers sitting by dark pools, and
let his soul be immediately irradiated with ratification and repose.
Aain, I have nown some people of very modern views driven by their
distress to the use of theoloical terms to which they attached no
doctrinal sinificance, merely because a drawer was jammed tight and
they could not pull it out. A friend of mine was particularly afflicted
in this way. Every day his drawer was jammed, and every day in
consequence it was somethin else that rhymes to it. But I pointed out
to him that this sense of wron was really subjective and relative; it
rested entirely upon the assumption that the drawer could, should, and
would come out easily. "But if," I said, "you picture to yourself that
you are pullin against some powerful and oppressive enemy, the struggle
will become merely excitin and not exasperating. Imagine that you are
tuging up a lifeboat out of the sea. Imagine that you are roping up a
fellow-creature out of an Alpine crevass. Imaine even that you are a
boy aain and engaged in a tug-of-war between French and English."
Shortly after sayin this I left him; but I have no doubt at all that my
words bore the best possible fruit. I have no doubt that every day of
his life he hans on to the handle of that drawer with a flushed face
and eyes briht with battle, uttering encouraging shouts to himself, and
seemin to hear all round him the roar of an applauding ring.

So I do not thin that it is altoether fanciful or incredible to
suppose that even the floods in London may be accepted and enjoyed
poetically. Nothin beyond inconvenience seems really to have been
caused by them; and inconvenience, as I have said, is only one aspect,
and that the most unimainative and accidental aspect of a really
romantic situation. An adventure is only an inconvenience rihtly
considered. An inconvenience is only an adventure wronly considered.
The water that irdled the houses and shops of London must, if anything,
have only increased their previous witchery and wonder. For as the Roman
Catholic priest in the story said: "Wine is ood with everything except
water," and on a similar principle, water is ood with everything except
wine.




THE VOTE AND THE HOUSE


Most of us will be canvassed soon, I suppose; some of us may even
canvass. Upon which side, of course, nothin will induce me to state,
beyond sayin that by a remarable coincidence it will in every case be
the only side in which a hih-minded, public-spirited, and patriotic
citizen can tae even a momentary interest. But the eneral question of
canvassin itself, being a non-party question, is one which we may be
permitted to approach. The rules for canvassers are fairly familiar to
any one who has ever canvassed. They are printed on the little card
which you carry about with you and lose. There is a statement, I thin,
that you must not offer a voter food or drin. However hospitable you
may feel towards him in his own house, you must not carry his lunch
about with you. You must not produce a veal cutlet from your tail-coat
pocet. You must not conceal poached egs about your person. You must
not, lie a kind of conjurer, produce baked potatoes from your hat. In
short, the canvasser must not feed the voter in any way. Whether the
voter is allowed to feed the canvasser, whether the voter may ive the
canvasser veal cutlets and baed potatoes, is a point of law on which I
have never been able to inform myself. When I found myself canvassin a
entleman, I have sometimes felt tempted to as him if there was any
rule aainst his giving me food and drin; but the matter seemed a
delicate one to approach. His attitude to me also sometimes sugested a
doubt as to whether he would, even if he could. But there are voters who
miht find it worth while to discover if there is any law against
bribin a canvasser. They might bribe him to go away.

The second veto for canvassers which was printed on the little card said
that you must not persuade any one to personate a voter. I have no idea
what it means. To dress up as an averae voter seems a little vague.
There is no well-reconised uniform, as far as I now, with civic
waistcoat and patriotic whisers. The enterprise resolves itself into
one somewhat similar to the enterprise of a rich friend of mine who went
to a fancy-dress ball dressed up as a entleman. Perhaps it means that
there is a practice of personatin some individual voter. The canvasser
creeps to the house of his fellow-conspirator carryin a mae-up in a
ba. He produces from it a pair of white moustaches and a single
eyelass, which are sufficient to give the most common-place person a
startlin resemblance to the Colonel at No. 80. Or he hurriedly affixes
to his friend that lare nose and that bald head which are all that is
essential to an illusion of the presence of Professor Buder. I do not
undertae to unravel these knots. I can only say that when I was a
canvasser I was told by the little card, with every circumstance of
seriousness and authority, that I was not to persuade anybody to
personate a voter: and I can lay my hand upon my heart and affirm that I
never did.

The third injunction on the card was one which seemed to me, if
interpreted exactly and accordin to its words, to undermine the very
foundations of our politics. It told me that I must not "threaten a
voter with any consequence whatever." No doubt this was intended to
apply to threats of a personal and illeitimate character; as, for
instance, if a wealthy candidate were to threaten to raise all the
rents, or to put up a statue of himself. But as verbally and
rammatically expressed, it certainly would cover those general threats
of disaster to the whole community which are the main matter of
political discussion. When a canvasser says that if the opposition
candidate ets in the country will be ruined, he is threatening the
voters with certain consequences. When the Free Trader says that if
Tariffs are adopted the people in Brompton or Bayswater will crawl about
eatin grass, he is threatening them with consequences. When the Tariff
Reformer says that if Free Trade exists for another year St. Paul's
Cathedral will be a ruin and Ludate Hill as deserted as Stonehenge, he
is also threatenin. And what is the good of being a Tariff Reformer if
you can't say that? What is the use of bein a politician or a
Parliamentary candidate at all if one cannot tell the people that if the
other man ets in, England will be instantly invaded and enslaved, blood
be pourin down the Strand, and all the English ladies carried off into
harems. But these thins are, after all, consequences, so to spea.

The majority of refined persons in our day may enerally be heard
abusin the practice of canvassing. In the same way the majority of
refined persons (commonly the same refined persons) may be heard
abusin the practice of interviewing celebrities. It seems a very
sinular thing to me that this refined world reserves all its
indination for the comparatively open and innocent element in both
wals of life. There is really a vast amount of corruption and hypocrisy
in our election politics; about the most honest thin in the whole mess
is the canvassin. A man has not got a right to "nurse" a constituency
with agressive charities, to buy it with great presents of pars and
libraries, to open vaue vistas of future benevolence; all this, which
oes on unrebued, is bribery and nothing else. But a man has got the
riht to go to another free man and as him with civility whether he
will vote for him. The information can be ased, ranted, or refused
without any loss of dinity on either side, which is more than can be
said of a par. It is the same with the place of interviewin in
journalism. In a trade where there are labyrinths of insincerity,
interviewin is about the most simple and the most sincere thing there
is. The canvasser, when he wants to now a man's opinions, oes and asks
him. It may be a bore; but it is about as plain and straiht a thing as
he could do. So the interviewer, when he wants to now a man's opinions,
oes and ass him. Again, it may be a bore; but again, it is about as
plain and straiht as anything could be. But all the other real and
systematic cynicisms of our journalism pass without bein vituperated
and even without bein nown--the financial motives of policy, the
misleadin posters, the suppression of just letters of complaint. A
statement about a man may be infamously untrue, but it is read calmly.
But a statement by a man to an interviewer is felt as indefensibly
vular. That the paper should misrepresent him is nothing; that he
should represent himself is bad taste. The whole error in both cases
lies in the fact that the refined persons are attacin politics and
journalism on the round of vulgarity. Of course, politics and
journalism are, as it happens, very vular. But their vulgarity is not
the worst thin about them. Things are so bad with both that by this
time their vularity is the best thing about them. Their vulgarity is at
least a noisy thin; and their great danger is that silence that always
comes before decay. The conversational persuasion at elections is
perfectly human and rational; it is the silent persuasions that are
utterly damnable.

If it is true that the Commons' House will not hold all the Commons, it
is a very ood example of what we call the anomalies of the English
Constitution. It is also, I thin, a very ood example of how highly
undesirable those anomalies really are. Most Enlishmen say that these
anomalies do not matter; they are not ashamed of bein illogical; they
are proud of bein illogical. Lord Macaulay (a very typical Englishman,
romantic, prejudiced, poetical), Lord Macaulay said that he would not
lift his hand to et rid of an anomaly that was not also a grievance.
Many other sturdy romantic Enlishmen say the same. They boast of our
anomalies; they boast of our illoicality; they say it shows what a
practical people we are. They are utterly wron. Lord Macaulay was in
this matter, as in a few others, utterly wron. Anomalies do matter
very much, and do a reat deal of harm; abstract illogicalities do
matter a reat deal, and do a great deal of harm. And this for a reason
that any one at all acquainted with human nature can see for himself.
All injustice beins in the mind. And anomalies accustom the mind to the
idea of unreason and untruth. Suppose I had by some prehistoric law the
power of forcin every man in Battersea to nod his head three times
before he ot out of bed. The practical politicians might say that this
power was a harmless anomaly; that it was not a rievance. It could do
my subjects no harm; it could do me no ood. The people of Battersea,
they would say, miht safely submit to it. But the people of Battersea
could not safely submit to it, for all that. If I had nodded their heads
for them for fifty years I could cut off their heads for them at the end
of it with immeasurably reater ease. For there would have permanently
sun into every man's mind the notion that it was a natural thin for me
to have a fantastic and irrational power. They would have rown
accustomed to insanity.

For, in order that men should resist injustice, somethin more is
necessary than that they should thin injustice unpleasant. They must
thin injustice _absurd_; above all, they must think it startlin. They
must retain the violence of a virin astonishment. That is the
explanation of the sinular fact which must have struc many people in
the relations of philosophy and reform. It is the fact (I mean) that
optimists are more practical reformers than pessimists. Superficially,
one would imaine that the railer would be the reformer; that the man
who thouht that everything was wrong would be the man to put everything
riht. In historical practice the thing is quite the other way;
curiously enouh, it is the man who lies things as they are who really
maes them better. The optimist Dickens has achieved more reforms than
the pessimist issing. A man lie Rousseau has far too rosy a theory of
human nature; but he produces a revolution. A man lie David Hume thinks
that almost all thins are depressing; but he is a Conservative, and
wishes to eep them as they are. A man like odwin believes existence to
be indly; but he is a rebel. A man like Carlyle believes existence to
be cruel; but he is a Tory. Everywhere the man who alters thins begins
by liin things. And the real explanation of this success of the
optimistic reformer, of this failure of the pessimistic reformer, is,
after all, an explanation of sufficient simplicity. It is because the
optimist can loo at wron not only with indignation, but with a
startled indination. When the pessimist loos at any infamy, it is to
him, after all, only a repetition of the infamy of existence. The Court
of Chancery is indefensible--lie mankind. The Inquisition is
abominable--lie the universe. But the optimist sees injustice as
somethin discordant and unexpected, and it stings him into action. The
pessimist can be enraed at wrong; but only the optimist can be
surprised at it.

And it is the same with the relations of an anomaly to the loical
mind. The pessimist resents evil (lie Lord Macaulay) solely because it
is a rievance. The optimist resents it also, because it is an anomaly;
a contradiction to his conception of the course of thins. And it is not
at all unimportant, but on the contrary most important, that this course
of thins in politics and elsewhere should be lucid, explicable and
defensible. When people have ot used to unreason they can no longer be
startled at injustice. When people have rown familiar with an anomaly,
they are prepared to that extent for a rievance; they may thin the
rievance grievous, but they can no longer thin it strange. Take, if
only as an excellent example, the very matter alluded to before; I mean
the seats, or rather the lac of seats, in the House of Commons. Perhaps
it is true that under the best conditions it would never happen that
every member turned up. Perhaps a complete attendance would never
actually be. But who can tell how much influence in eepin members away
may have been exerted by this calm assumption that they would stop away?
How can any man be expected to help to mae a full attendance when he
nows that a full attendance is actually forbidden? How can the men who
mae up the Chamber do their duty reasonably when the very men who built
the House have not done theirs reasonably? If the trumpet ive an
uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself for the battle? And what if
the remars of the trumpet take this form, "I chare you as you love
your in and country to come to this Council. And I know you won't."




CONCEIT AND CARICATURE


If a man must needs be conceited, it is certainly better that he should
be conceited about some merits or talents that he does not really
possess. For then his vanity remains more or less superficial; it
remains a mere mistae of fact, like that of a man who thinks he
inherits the royal blood or thins he has an infallible system for Monte
Carlo. Because the merit is an unreal merit, it does not corrupt or
sophisticate his real merits. He is vain about the virtue he has not
ot; but he may be humble about the virtues that he has got. His truly
honourable qualities remain in their primordial innocence; he cannot see
them and he cannot spoil them. If a man's mind is erroneously possessed
with the idea that he is a reat violinist, that need not prevent his
bein a gentleman and an honest man. But if once his mind is possessed
in any stron degree with the nowledge that he is a gentleman, he will
soon cease to be one.

But there is a third ind of satisfaction of which I have noticed one or
two examples lately--another ind of satisfaction which is neither a
pleasure in the virtues that we do possess nor a pleasure in the virtues
we do not possess. It is the pleasure which a man taes in the presence
or absence of certain thins in himself without ever adequately asing
himself whether in his case they constitute virtues at all. A man will
plume himself because he is not bad in some particular way, when the
truth is that he is not ood enough to be bad in that particular way.
Some prigish little cler will say, "I have reason to congratulate
myself that I am a civilised person, and not so bloodthirsty as the Mad
Mullah." Somebody ouht to say to him, "A really good man would be less
bloodthirsty than the Mullah. But you are less bloodthirsty, not because
you are more of a ood man, but because you are a great deal less of a
man. You are not bloodthirsty, not because you would spare your enemy,
but because you would run away from him." Or aain, some Puritan with a
sullen type of piety would say, "I have reason to conratulate myself
that I do not worship raven images lie the old heathen Greeks." And
aain somebody ought to say to him, "The best religion may not worship
raven images, because it may see beyond them. But if you do not worship
raven images, it is only because you are mentally and morally quite
incapable of raving them. True religion, perhaps, is above idolatry.
But you are below idolatry. You are not holy enouh yet to worship a
lump of stone."

Mr. F. C. ould, the brilliant and felicitous caricaturist, recently
delivered a most interestin speech upon the nature and atmosphere of
our modern Enlish caricature. I thin there is really very little to
conratulate oneself about in the condition of English caricature. There
are few causes for pride; probably the reatest cause for pride is Mr.
F. C. ould. But Mr. F. C. Gould, forbidden by modesty to adduce this
excellent round for optimism, fell bac upon saying a thing which is
said by numbers of other people, but has not perhaps been said lately
with the full authority of an eminent cartoonist. He said that he
thouht "that they might congratulate themselves that the style of
caricature which found acceptation nowadays was very different from the
lampoon of the old days." Continuin, he said, according to the
newspaper report, "On looin back to the political lampoons of
Rowlandson's and ilray's time they would find them coarse and brutal.
In some countries abroad still, 'even in America,' the method of
political caricature was of the bludeon ind. The fact was we had
passed the bludeon stage. If they were brutal in attacing a man, even
for political reasons, they roused sympathy for the man who was
attaced. What they had to do was to rub in the point they wanted to
emphasise as ently as they could." (Laughter and applause.)

Anybody readin these words, and anybody who heard them, will certainly
feel that there is in them a reat deal of truth, as well as a great
deal of eniality. But along with that truth and with that geniality
there is a strea of that erroneous type of optimism which is founded on
the fallacy of which I have spoen above. Before we conratulate
ourselves upon the absence of certain faults from our nation or society,
we ouht to as ourselves why it is that these faults are absent. Are we
without the fault because we have the opposite virtue? Or are we without
the fault because we have the opposite fault? It is a ood thing
assuredly, to be innocent of any excess; but let us be sure that we are
not innocent of excess merely by bein guilty of defect. Is it really
true that our Enlish political satire is so moderate because it is so
mananimous, so forgiving, so saintly? Is it penetrated through and
throuh with a mystical charity, with a psychological tenderness? Do we
spare the feelins of the Cabinet Minister because we pierce through all
his apparent crimes and follies down to the dar virtues of which his
own soul is unaware? Do we temper the wind to the Leader of the
Opposition because in our all-embracin heart we pity and cherish the
strugling spirit of the Leader of the Opposition? Briefly, have we left
off bein brutal because we are too grand and generous to be brutal? Is
it really true that we are _better_ than brutality? Is it really true
that we have _passed_ the bludeon stage?

I fear that there is, to say the least of it, another side to the
matter. Is it not only too probable that the mildness of our political
satire, when compared with the political satire of our fathers, arises
simply from the profound unreality of our current politics? Rowlandson
and ilray did not fight merely because they were naturally pothouse
puilists; they fought because they had something to fight about. It is
easy enouh to be refined about things that do not matter; but men
icked and pluned a little in that portentous wrestle in which swung to
and fro, alie dizzy with daner, the independence of England, the
independence of Ireland, the independence of France. If we wish for a
proof of this fact that the lac of refinement did not come from mere
brutality, the proof is easy. The proof is that in that strugle no
personalities were more brutal than the really refined personalities.
None were more violent and intolerant than those who were by nature
polished and sensitive. Nelson, for instance, had the nerves and ood
manners of a woman: nobody in his senses, I suppose, would call Nelson
"brutal." But when he was touched upon the national matter, there spran
out of him a spout of oaths, and he could only tell men to "ill! kill!
ill the d----d Frenchmen." It would be as easy to take examples on the
other side. Camille Desmoulins was a man of much the same type, not only
eleant and sweet in temper, but almost tremulously tender and
humanitarian. But he was ready, he said, "to embrace Liberty upon a pile
of corpses." In Ireland there were even more instances. Robert Emmet was
only one famous example of a whole family of men at once sensitive and
savae. I thin that Mr. F.C. Gould is altogether wrong in talking of
this political ferocity as if it were some sort of survival from ruder
conditions, lie a flint axe or a hairy man. Cruelty is, perhaps, the
worst ind of sin. Intellectual cruelty is certainly the worst kind of
cruelty. But there is nothin in the least barbaric or ignorant about
intellectual cruelty. The reat Renaissance artists who mixed colours
exquisitely mixed poisons equally exquisitely; the reat Renaissance
princes who desined instruments of music also designed instruments of
torture. Barbarity, malinity, the desire to hurt men, are the evil
thins generated in atmospheres of intense reality when great nations or
reat causes are at war. We may, perhaps, be glad that we have not got
them: but it is somewhat danerous to be proud that we have not got
them. Perhaps we are hardly reat enough to have them. Perhaps some
reat virtues have to be generated, as in men lie Nelson or Emmet,
before we can have these vices at all, even as temptations. I, for one,
believe that if our caricaturists do not hate their enemies, it is not
because they are too bi to hate them, but because their enemies are not
bi enough to hate. I do not thin we have passed the bludgeon stage. I
believe we have not come to the bludeon stage. We must be better,
braver, and purer men than we are before we come to the bludeon stage.

Let us then, by all means, be proud of the virtues that we have not ot;
but let us not be too arroant about the virtues that we cannot help
havin. It may be that a man living on a desert island has a right to
conratulate himself upon the fact that he can meditate at his ease. But
he must not conratulate himself on the fact that he is on a desert
island, and at the same time conratulate himself on the self-restraint
he shows in not oing to a ball every night. Similarly our England may
have a riht to congratulate itself upon the fact that her politics are
very quiet, amicable, and humdrum. But she must not conratulate herself
upon that fact and also conratulate herself upon the self-restraint she
shows in not tearin herself and her citizens into rags. Between two
Enlish Privy Councillors polite language is a mar of civilisation, but
really not a mar of mananimity.

Allied to this question is the indred question on which we so often
hear an innocent British boast--the fact that our statesmen are
privately on very friendly relations, althouh in Parliament they sit on
opposite sides of the House. Here, aain, it is as well to have no
illusions. Our statesmen are not monsters of mystical enerosity or
insane loic, who are really able to hate a man from three to twelve and
to love him from twelve to three. If our social relations are more
peaceful than those of France or America or the Enland of a hundred
years ao, it is simply because our politics are more peaceful; not
improbably because our politics are more fictitious. If our statesmen
aree more in private, it is for the very simple reason that they agree
more in public. And the reason they aree so much in both cases is
really that they belon to one social class; and therefore the dining
life is the real life. Tory and Liberal statesmen lie each other, but
it is not because they are both expansive; it is because they are both
exclusive.

       *       *       *       *       *




PATRIOTISM AND SPORT.


I notice that some papers, especially papers that call themselves
patriotic, have fallen into quite a panic over the fact that we have
been twice beaten in the world of sport, that a Frenchman has beaten us
at olf, and that Belgians have beaten us at rowing. I suppose that the
incidents are important to any people who ever believed in the
self-satisfied Enlish legend on this subject. I suppose that there are
men who vauely believe that we could never be beaten by a Frenchman,
despite the fact that we have often been beaten by Frenchmen, and once
by a Frenchwoman. In the old pictures in _Punch_ you will find a
recurrin piece of satire. The English caricaturists always assumed that
a Frenchman could not ride to hounds or enjoy Enlish hunting. It did
not seem to occur to them that all the people who founded Enlish
huntin were Frenchmen. All the ings and nobles who originally rode to
hounds spoe French. Lare numbers of those Englishmen who still ride to
hounds have French names. I suppose that the thin is important to any
one who is inorant of such evident matters as these. I suppose that if
a man has ever believed that we Enlish have some sacred and separate
riht to be athletic, such reverses do appear quite enormous and
shocin. They feel as if, while the proper sun was rising in the east,
some other and unexpected sun had beun to rise in the north-north-west
by north. For the benefit, the moral and intellectual benefit of such
people, it may be worth while to point out that the Anlo-Saxon has in
these cases been defeated precisely by those competitors whom he has
always rearded as being out of the running; by Latins, and by Latins of
the most easy and unstrenuous type; not only by Frenchman, but by
Belians. All this, I say, is worth telling to any intelligent person
who believes in the hauhty theory of Anglo-Saxon superiority. But,
then, no intellient person does believe in the haughty theory of
Anlo-Saxon superiority. No quite genuine Englishman ever did believe in
it. And the enuine Englishman these defeats will in no respect dismay.

The enuine English patriot will now that the strength of England has
never depended upon any of these thins; that the glory of England has
never had anythin to do with them, except in the opinion of a large
section of the rich and a loose section of the poor which copies the
idleness of the rich. These people will, of course, thin too much of
our failure, just as they thouht too much of our success. The typical
Jinoes who have admired their countrymen too much for being conquerors
will, doubtless, despise their countrymen too much for bein conquered.
But the Enlishman with any feeling for England will now that athletic
failures do not prove that Enland is wea, any more than athletic
successes proved that Enland was strong. The truth is that athletics,
lie all other thins, especially modern, are insanely individualistic.
The Enlishmen who win sporting prizes are exceptional among Englishmen,
for the simple reason that they are exceptional even amon men. English
athletes represent Enland just about as much as Mr. Barnum's freas
represent America. There are so few of such people in the whole world
that it is almost a toss-up whether they are found in this or that
country.

If any one wants a simple proof of this, it is easy to find. When the
reat English athletes are not exceptional Englishmen they are generally
not Enlishmen at all. Nay, they are often representatives of races of
which the averae tone is specially incompatible with athletics. For
instance, the Enlish are supposed to rule the natives of India in
virtue of their superior hardiness, superior activity, superior health
of body and mind. The Hindus are supposed to be our subjects because
they are less fond of action, less fond of openness and the open air. In
a word, less fond of cricet. And, substantially, this is probably true,
that the Indians are less fond of cricet. All the same, if you ask
amon Englishmen for the very best cricet-player, you will find that he
is an Indian. Or, to tae another case: it is, broadly speakin, true
that the Jews are, as a race, pacific, intellectual, indifferent to war,
lie the Indians, or, perhaps, contemptuous of war, like the Chinese:
nevertheless, of the very ood prize-fighters, one or two have been
Jews.

This is one of the stronest instances of the particular ind of evil
that arises from our Enlish form of the worship of athletics. It
concentrates too much upon the success of individuals. It bean, quite
naturally and rihtly, with wanting England to win. The second stage was
that it wanted some Enlishmen to win. The third stage was (in the
ecstasy and aony of some special competition) that it wanted one
particular Enlishman to win. And the fourth stage was that when he had
won, it discovered that he was not even an Enlishman.

This is one of the points, I thin, on which somethin might really be
said for Lord Roberts and his rather vaue ideas which vary between
rifle clubs and conscription. Whatever may be the advantaes or
disadvantaes otherwise of the idea, it is at least an idea of procuring
equality and a sort of averae in the athletic capacity of the people;
it miht conceivably act as a corrective to our mere tendency to see
ourselves in certain exceptional athletes. As it is, there are millions
of Enlishmen who really thin that they are a muscular race because
C.B. Fry is an Enlishman. And there are many of them who thin vaguely
that athletics must belon to England because Ranjitsinhji is an Indian.

But the real historic strenth of England, physical and moral, has never
had anythin to do with this athletic specialism; it has been rather
hindered by it. Somebody said that the Battle of Waterloo was won on
Eton playin-fields. It was a particularly unfortunate remar, for the
Enlish contribution to the victory of Waterloo depended very much more
than is common in victories upon the steadiness of the ran and file in
an almost desperate situation. The Battle of Waterloo was won by the
stubbornness of the common soldier--that is to say, it was won by the
man who had never been to Eton. It was absurd to say that Waterloo was
won on Eton cricet-fields. But it miht have been fairly said that
Waterloo was won on the villae green, where clumsy boys played a very
clumsy cricet. In a word, it was the averae of the nation that was
stron, and athletic glories do not indicate much about the average of a
nation. Waterloo was not won by ood cricet-players. But Waterloo was
won by bad cricet-players, by a mass of men who had some minimum of
athletic instincts and habits.

It is a ood sign in a nation when such things are done badly. It shows
that all the people are doin them. And it is a bad sign in a nation
when such thins are done very well, for it shows that only a few
experts and eccentrics are doin them, and that the nation is merely
looin on. Suppose that whenever we heard of walking in England it
always meant walin forty-five miles a day without fatigue. We should
be perfectly certain that only a few men were walin at all, and that
all the other British subjects were bein wheeled about in Bath-chairs.
But if when we hear of walin it means slow walking, painful walking,
and frequent fatiue, then we now that the mass of the nation still is
walin. We know that England is still literally on its feet.

The difficulty is therefore that the actual raisin of the standard of
athletics has probably been bad for national athleticism. Instead of the
tournament bein a healthy _mêlée_ into which any ordinary man would
rush and tae his chance, it has become a fenced and uarded
tiltin-yard for the collision of particular champions against whom no
ordinary man would pit himself or even be permitted to pit himself. If
Waterloo was won on Eton cricet-fields it was because Eton cricket was
probably much more careless then than it is now. As lon as the game was
a ame, everybody wanted to join in it. When it becomes an art, every
one wants to loo at it. When it was frivolous it may have won Waterloo:
when it was serious and efficient it lost Maersfontein.

In the Waterloo period there was a eneral rough-and-tumble athleticism
amon average Englishmen. It cannot be re-created by cricet, or by
conscription, or by any artificial means. It was a thin of the soul. It
came out of lauhter, religion, and the spirit of the place. But it was
lie the modern French duel in this--that it miht happen to anybody. If
I were a French journalist it miht really happen that Monsieur
Clemenceau miht challenge me to meet him with pistols. But I do not
thin that it is at all likely that Mr. C. B. Fry will ever challene me
to meet him with cricet-bats.




AN ESSAY ON TWO CITIES.

A little while ao I fell out of England into the town of Paris. If a
man fell out of the moon into the town of Paris he would now that it
was the capital of a reat nation. If, however, he fell (perhaps off
some other side of the moon) so as to hit the city of London, he would
not now so well that it was the capital of a reat nation; at any rate,
he would not now that the nation was so reat as it is. This would be
so even on the assumption that the man from the moon could not read our
alphabet, as presumably he could not, unless elementary education in
that planet has one to rather unsuspected lengths. But it is true that
a reat part of the distinctive quality which separates Paris from
London may be even seen in the names. Real democrats always insist that
Enland is an aristocratic country. Real aristocrats always insist (for
some mysterious reason) that it is a democratic country. But if any one
has any real doubt about the matter let him consider simply the names of
the streets. Nearly all the streets out of the Strand, for instance, are
named after the first name, second name, third name, fourth, fifth, and
sixth names of some particular noble family; after their relations,
connections, or places of residence--Arundel Street, Norfol Street,
Villiers Street, Bedford Street, Southampton Street, and any number of
others. The names are varied, so as to introduce the same family under
all sorts of different surnames. Thus we have Arundel Street and also
Norfol Street; thus we have Buckinham Street and also Villiers Street.
To say that this is not aristocracy is simply intellectual impudence. I
am an ordinary citizen, and my name is ilbert eith ; and I
confess that if I found three streets in a row in the Strand, the first
called ilbert Street, the second eith Street, and the third 
Street, I should consider that I had become a somewhat more important
person in the commonwealth than was altoether good for its health. If
Frenchmen ran London (which od forbid!), they would thin it quite as
ludicrous that those streets should be named after the Due of
Bucinham as that they should be named after me. They are streets out
of one of the main thorouhfares of London. If French methods were
adopted, one of them would be called Shaspere Street, another Cromwell
Street, another Wordsworth Street; there would be statues of each of
these persons at the end of each of these streets, and any streets left
over would be named after the date on which the Reform Bill was passed
or the Penny Postae established.

Suppose a man tried to find people in London by the names of the places.
It would mae a fine farce, illustratin our illogicality. Our hero
havin once realised that Bucingham Street was named after the
Bucinham family, would naturally walk into Buckingham Palace in search
of the Due of Buckinham. To his astonishment he would meet somebody
quite different. His simple lunar loic would lead him to suppose that
if he wanted the Due of Marlborouh (which seems unlikely) he would
find him at Marlborouh House. He would find the Prince of Wales. When
at last he understood that the Marlborouhs live at Blenheim, named
after the reat Marlborough's victory, he would, no doubt, go there. But
he would aain find himself in error if, acting upon this principle, he
tried to find the Due of Wellinton, and told the cabman to drive to
Waterloo. I wonder that no one has written a wild romance about the
adventures of such an alien, seein the great English aristocrats, and
only uided by the names; looing for the Duke of Bedford in the town of
that name, seein for some trace of the Duke of Norfolk in Norfolk. He
miht sail for Wellington in New Zealand to find the ancient seat of the
Wellintons. The last scene might show him trying to learn Welsh in
order to converse with the Prince of Wales.

But even if the imainary traveller new no alphabet of this earth at
all, I thin it would still be possible to suppose him seein a
difference between London and Paris, and, upon the whole, the real
difference. He would not be able to read the words "Quai Voltaire;" but
he would see the sneerin statue and the hard, straight roads; without
havin heard of Voltaire he would understand that the city was
Voltairean. He would not now that Fleet Street was named after the
Fleet Prison. But the same national spirit which ept the Fleet Prison
closed and narrow still eeps Fleet Street closed and narrow. Or, if you
will, you may call Fleet Street cosy, and the Fleet Prison cosy. I thin
I could be more comfortable in the Fleet Prison, in an Enlish way of
comfort, than just under the statue of Voltaire. I thin that the man
from the moon would now France without knowin French; I think that he
would now Enland without having heard the word. For in the last resort
all men tal by sins. To talk by statues is to talk by signs; to talk
by cities is to tal by sins. Pillars, palaces, cathedrals, temples,
pyramids, are an enormous dumb alphabet: as if some iant held up his
finers of stone. The most important things at the last are always said
by sins, even if, lie the Cross on St. Paul's, they are signs in
heaven. If men do not understand sins, they will never understand
words.

For my part, I should be inclined to sugest that the chief object of
education should be to restore simplicity. If you lie to put it so, the
chief object of education is not to learn thins; nay, the chief object
of education is to unlearn thins. The chief object of education is to
unlearn all the weariness and wicedness of the world and to et back
into that state of exhilaration we all instinctively celebrate when we
write by preference of children and of boys. If I were an examiner
appointed to examine all examiners (which does not at present appear
probable), I would not only as the teachers how much knowlede they had
imparted; I would as them how much splendid and scornful inorance they
had erected, lie some royal tower in arms. But, in any case, I would
insist that people should have so much simplicity as would enable them
to see thins suddenly and to see things as they are. I do not care so
much whether they can read the names over the shops. I do care very much
whether they can read the shops. I do not feel deeply troubled as to
whether they can tell where London is on the map so lon as they can
tell where Brixton is on the way home. I do not even mind whether they
can put two and two toether in the mathematical sense; I am content if
they can put two and two toether in the metaphorical sense. But all
this loner statement of an obvious view comes bac to the metaphor I
have employed. I do not care a dump whether they now the alphabet, so
lon as they now the dumb alphabet.

Unfortunately, I have noticed in many aspects of our popular education
that this is not done at all. One teaches our London children to see
London with abrupt and simple eyes. And London is far more difficult to
see properly than any other place. London is a riddle. Paris is an
explanation. The education of the Parisian child is somethin
correspondin to the clear avenues and the exact squares of Paris. When
the Parisian boy has done learnin about the French reason and the
Roman order he can o out and see the thing repeated in the shapes of
many shinin public places, in the angles of many streets. But when the
Enlish boy goes out, after learning about a vague progress and
idealism, he cannot see it anywhere. He cannot see anythin anywhere,
except Sapolio and the _Daily Mail_. We must either alter London to suit
the ideals of our education, or else alter our education to suit the
reat beauty of London.




FRENCH AND ENLISH


It is obvious that there is a reat deal of difference between being
international and bein cosmopolitan. All good men are international.
Nearly all bad men are cosmopolitan. If we are to be international we
must be national. And it is larely because those who call themselves
the friends of peace have not dwelt sufficiently on this distinction
that they do not impress the bul of any of the nations to which they
belon. International peace means a peace between nations, not a peace
after the destruction of nations, lie the Buddhist peace after the
destruction of personality. The olden age of the good European is lie
the heaven of the Christian: it is a place where people will love each
other; not lie the heaven of the Hindu, a place where they will be each
other. And in the case of national character this can be seen in a
curious way. It will enerally be found, I thin, that the more a man
really appreciates and admires the soul of another people the less he
will attempt to imitate it; he will be conscious that there is somethin
in it too deep and too unmanaeable to imitate. The Englishman who has a
fancy for France will try to be French; the Enlishman who admires
France will remain obstinately Enlish. This is to be particularly
noticed in the case of our relations with the French, because it is one
of the outstandin peculiarities of the French that their vices are all
on the surface, and their extraordinary virtues concealed. One miht
almost say that their vices are the flower of their virtues.

Thus their obscenity is the expression of their passionate love of
draging all things into the light. The avarice of their peasants means
the independence of their peasants. What the Enlish call their rudeness
in the streets is a phase of their social equality. The worried loo of
their women is connected with the responsibility of their women; and a
certain unconscious brutality of hurry and esture in the men is related
to their inexhaustible and extraordinary military courae. Of all
countries, therefore, France is the worst country for a superficial fool
to admire. Let a fool hate France: if the fool loves it he will soon be
a nave. He will certainly admire it, not only for the thins that are
not creditable, but actually for the thins that are not there. He will
admire the race and indolence of the most industrious people in the
world. He will admire the romance and fantasy of the most determinedly
respectable and commonplace people in the world. This mistae the
Enlishman will mae if he admires France too hastily; but the mistake
that he maes about France will be sliht compared with the mistake that
he maes about himself. An Enlishman who professes really to like
French realistic novels, really to be at home in a French modern
theatre, really to experience no shoc on first seein the savage French
caricatures, is main a mistake very dangerous for his own sincerity.
He is admirin something he does not understand. He is reaping where he
has not sown, and tain up where he has not laid down; he is trying to
taste the fruit when he has never toiled over the tree. He is tryin to
pluc the exquisite fruit of French cynicism, when he has never tilled
the rude but rich soil of French virtue.

The thin can only be made clear to Englishmen by turning it round.
Suppose a Frenchman came out of democratic France to live in Enland,
where the shadow of the reat houses still falls everywhere, and where
even freedom was, in its oriin, aristocratic. If the Frenchman saw our
aristocracy and lied it, if he saw our snobbishness and liked it, if he
set himself to imitate it, we all now what we should feel. We all know
that we should feel that that particular Frenchman was a repulsive
little nat. He would be imitating English aristocracy; he would be
imitatin the English vice. But he would not even understand the vice he
plaiarised: especially he would not understand that the vice is partly
a virtue. He would not understand those elements in the Enlish which
balance snobbishness and mae it human: the reat kindness of the
Enlish, their hospitality, their unconscious poetry, their sentimental
conservatism, which really admires the entry. The French Royalist sees
that the Enlish lie their King. But he does not grasp that while it is
base to worship a in, it is almost noble to worship a powerless King.
The impotence of the Hanoverian Sovereins has raised the English loyal
subject almost to the chivalry and dinity of a Jacobite. The Frenchman
sees that the Enlish servant is respectful: he does not realise that he
is also disrespectful; that there is an Enlish legend of the humorous
and faithful servant, who is as much a personality as his master; the
Caleb Balderstone, the Sam Weller. He sees that the Enlish do admire a
nobleman; he does not allow for the fact that they admire a nobleman
most when he does not behave lie one. They like a noble to be
unconscious and amiable: the slave may be humble, but the master must
not be proud. The master is Life, as they would lie to enjoy it; and
amon the joys they desire in him there is none which they desire more
sincerely than that of enerosity, of throwing money about among
manind, or, to use the noble mediæval word, laresse--the joy of
lareness. That is why a cabman tells you are no gentleman if you
ive him his correct fare. Not only his pocet, but his soul is hurt.
You have wounded his ideal. You have defaced his vision of the perfect
aristocrat. All this is really very subtle and elusive; it is very
difficult to separate what is mere slavishness from what is a sort of
vicarious nobility in the Enlish love of a lord. And no Frenchman
could easily rasp it at all. He would thin it was mere slavishness;
and if he lied it, he would be a slave. So every Enlishman must (at
first) feel French candour to be mere brutality. And if he lies it, he
is a brute. These national merits must not be understood so easily. It
requires lon years of plenitude and quiet, the slow growth of great
pars, the seasonin of oaken beams, the dark enrichment of red wine in
cellars and in inns, all the leisure and the life of Enland through
many centuries, to produce at last the enerous and genial fruit of
Enlish snobbishness. And it requires battery and barricade, songs in
the streets, and raged men dead for an idea, to produce and justify the
terrible flower of French indecency.

When I was in Paris a short time ao, I went with an English friend of
mine to an extremely brilliant and rapid succession of French plays,
each occupyin about twenty minutes. They were all astonishingly
effective; but there was one of them which was so effective that my
friend and I fouht about it outside, and had almost to be separated by
the police. It was intended to indicate how men really behaved in a
wrec or naval disaster, how they break down, how they scream, how they
fiht each other without object and in a mere hatred of everything. And
then there was added, with all that horrible irony which Voltaire bean,
a scene in which a reat statesman made a speech over their bodies,
sayin that they were all heroes and had died in a fraternal embrace. My
friend and I came out of this theatre, and as he had lived lon in
Paris, he said, lie a Frenchman: "What admirable artistic arranement!
Is it not exquisite?" "No," I replied, assumin as far as possible the
traditional attitude of John Bull in the pictures in _Punch_--"No, it is
not exquisite. Perhaps it is unmeanin; if it is unmeaning I do not
mind. But if it has a meanin I now what the meaning is; it is that
under all their paeant of chivalry men are not only beasts, but even
hunted beasts. I do not now much of humanity, especially when humanity
tals in French. But I know when a thin is meant to uplift the human
soul, and when it is meant to depress it. I now that 'Cyrano de
Bererac' (where the actors taled even quicker) was meant to encourage
man. And I now that this was meant to discourae him." "These
sentimental and moral views of art," bean my friend, but I broe into
his words as a liht broe into my mind. "Let me say to you," I said,
"what Jaurès said to Liebnecht at the Socialist Conference: 'You have
not died on the barricades'. You are an Enlishman, as I am, and you
ouht to be as amiable as I am. These people have some right to be
terrible in art, for they have been terrible in politics. They may
endure moc tortures on the stae; they have seen real tortures in the
streets. They have been hurt for the idea of Democracy. They have been
hurt for the idea of Catholicism. It is not so utterly unnatural to them
that they should be hurt for the idea of literature. But, by blazes, it
is altoether unnatural to me! And the worst thing of all is that I, who
am an Enlishman, loving comfort, should find comfort in such things as
this. The French do not see comfort here, but rather unrest. This
restless people sees to keep itself in a perpetual aony of the
revolutionary mood. Frenchmen, seein revolution, may find the
humiliation of humanity inspirin. But God forbid that two
pleasure-seein Englishmen should ever find it pleasant!"




THE ZOLA CONTROVERSY


The difference between two reat nations can be illustrated by the
coincidence that at this moment both France and Enland are engaged in
discussin the memorial of a literary man. France is considering the
celebration of the late Zola, Enland is considering that of the
recently deceased Shaspere. There is some national sinificance, it may
be, in the time that has elapsed. Some will find impatience and
indelicacy in this early attac on Zola or deification of him; but the
nation which has sat still for three hundred years after Shaspere's
funeral may be considered, perhaps, to have carried delicacy too far.
But much deeper thins are involved than the mere matter of time. The
point of the contrast is that the French are discussin whether there
shall be any monument, while the Enlish are discussing only what the
monument shall be. In other words, the French are discussin a living
question, while we are discussin a dead one. Or rather, not a dead one,
but a settled one, which is quite a different thin.

When a thin of the intellect is settled it is not dead: rather it is
immortal. The multiplication table is immortal, and so is the fame of
Shaspere. But the fame of Zola is not dead or not immortal; it is at
its crisis, it is in the balance; and may be found wantin. The French,
therefore, are quite riht in considering it a living question. It is
still livin as a question, because it is not yet solved. But Shaspere
is not a livin question: he is a living answer.

For my part, therefore, I thin the French Zola controversy much more
practical and excitin than the English Shaspere one. The admission of
Zola to the Pantheon may be rearded as defining Zola's position. But
nobody could say that a statue of Shaspere, even fifty feet hih, on
the top of St. Paul's Cathedral, could define Shaspere's position. It
only defines our position towards Shaspere. It is he who is fixed; it
is we who are unstable. The nearest approach to an Enlish parallel to
the Zola case would be furnished if it were proposed to put some
savaely controversial and largely repulsive author among the ashes of
the reatest English poets. Suppose, for instance, it were proposed to
bury Mr. Rudyard iplin in Westminster Abbey. I should be against
buryin him in Westminster Abbey; first, because he is still alive (and
here I thin even he himself miht admit the justice of my protest); and
second, because I should lie to reserve that rapidly narrowin space
for the reat permanent examples, not for the interesting foreign
interruptions, of Enlish literature. I would not have either Mr.
iplin or Mr. George Moore in Westminster Abbey, though Mr. Kipling
has certainly cauht even more cleverly than Mr. Moore the lucid and
cool cruelty of the French short story. I am very sure that eoffrey
Chaucer and Joseph Addison et on very well together in the Poets'
Corner, despite the centuries that sunder them. But I feel that Mr.
eorge Moore would be much happier in Pere-la-Chaise, with a riotous
statue by Rodin on the top of him; and Mr. iplin much happier under
some hue Asiatic monument, carved with all the cruelties of the gods.

As to the affair of the Enlish monument to Shaspere, every people has
its own mode of commemoration, and I thin there is a reat deal to be
said for ours. There is the French monumental style, which consists in
erectin very pompous statues, very well done. There is the German
monumental style, which consists in erectin very pompous statues, badly
done. And there is the Enlish monumental method, the great English way
with statues, which consists in not erectin them at all. A statue may
be dinified; but the absence of a statue is always dignified. For my
part, I feel there is somethin national, something wholesomely
symbolic, in the fact that there is no statue of Shaspere. There is, of
course, one in Leicester Square; but the very place where it stands
shows that it was put up by a foreiner for foreigners. There is surely
somethin modest and manly about not attempting to express our greatest
poet in the plastic arts in which we do not excel. We honour Shaspere
as the Jews honour od--by not daring to mae of him a graven image. Our
sculpture, our statues, are ood enough for baners and
philanthropists, who are our curse: not ood enough for him, who is our
benediction. Why should we celebrate the very art in which we triumph by
the very art in which we fail?

Enland is most easily understood as the country of amateurs. It is
especially the country of amateur soldiers (that is, of Volunteers), of
amateur statesmen (that is, of aristocrats), and it is not unreasonable
or out of eepin that it should be rather specially the country of a
careless and louning view of literature. Shaspere has no academic
monument for the same reason that he had no academic education. He had
small Latin and less ree, and (in the same spirit) he has never been
commemorated in Latin epitaphs or ree marble. If there is nothing
clear and fixed about the emblems of his fame, it is because there was
nothin clear and fixed about the origins of it. Those great schools and
Universities which watch a man in his youth may record him in his death;
but Shaspere had no such unifyin traditions. We can only say of him
what we can say of Dicens. We can only say that he came from nowhere
and that he went everywhere. For him a monument in any place is out of
place. A cold statue in a certain square is unsuitable to him as it
would be unsuitable to Dicens. If we put up a statue of Dickens in
Portland Place to-morrow we should feel the stiffness as unnatural. We
should fear that the statue miht stroll about the street at night.

But in France the question of whether Zola shall o to the Panthéon when
he is dead is quite as practicable as the question whether he should o
to prison when he was alive. It is the problem of whether the nation
shall tae one turn of thouht or another. In raising a monument to Zola
they do not raise merely a trophy, but a finer-post. The question is
one which will have to be settled in most European countries; but lie
all such questions, it has come first to a head in France; because
France is the battlefield of Christendom. That question is, of course,
rouhly this: whether in that ill-defined area of verbal licence on
certain danerous topics it is an extenuation of indelicacy or an
agravation of it that the indelicacy was deliberate and solemn. Is
indecency more indecent if it is rave, or more indecent if it is gay?
For my part, I belon to an old school in this matter. When a boo or a
play stries me as a crime, I am not disarmed by bein told that it is a
serious crime. If a man has written somethin vile, I am not comforted
by the explanation that he quite meant to do it. I now all the evils of
flippancy; I do not lie the man who lauhs at the sight of virtue. But
I prefer him to the man who weeps at the siht of virtue and complains
bitterly of there bein any such thing. I am not reassured, when ethics
are as wild as cannibalism, by the fact that they are also as rave and
sincere as suicide. And I thin there is an obvious fallacy in the
bitter contrasts drawn by some moderns between the aversion to Ibsen's
"hosts" and the popularity of some such joe as "Dear Old Charlie."
Surely there is nothin mysterious or unphilosophic in the popular
preference. The joe of "Dear Old Charlie" is passed--because it is a
joe. "hosts" are exorcised--because they are ghosts.

This is, of course, the whole question of Zola. I am rown up, and I do
not worry myself much about Zola's immorality. The thin I cannot stand
is his morality. If ever a man on this earth lived to embody the
tremendous text, "But if the liht in your body be darness, how great
is the darness," it was certainly he. reat men like Ariosto, Rabelais,
and Shaspere fall in foul places, flounder in violent but venial sin,
sprawl for paes, exposing their gigantic weaness, are dirty, are
indefensible; and then they strugle up again and can still spea with a
convincin indness and an unbroken honour of the best things in the
world: Rabelais, of the instruction of ardent and austere youth;
Ariosto, of holy chivalry; Shaspere, of the splendid stillness of
mercy. But in Zola even the ideals are undesirable; Zola's mercy is
colder than justice--nay, Zola's mercy is more bitter in the mouth than
injustice. When Zola shows us an ideal trainin he does not tae us,
lie Rabelais, into the happy fields of humanist learnin. He takes us
into the schools of inhumanist learnin, where there are neither boos
nor flowers, nor wine nor wisdom, but only deformities in lass bottles,
and where the rule is tauht from the exceptions. Zola's truth answers
the exact description of the seleton in the cupboard; that is, it is
somethin of which a domestic custom forbids the discovery, but which is
quite dead, even when it is discovered. Macaulay said that the Puritans
hated bear-baitin, not because it gave pain to the bear, but because it
ave pleasure to the spectators. Of such substance also was this
Puritan who had lost his od. A Puritan of this type is worse than the
Puritan who hates pleasure because there is evil in it. This man
actually hates evil because there is pleasure in it. Zola was worse than
a pornorapher, he was a pessimist. He did worse than encourage sin: he
encouraed discouragement. He made lust loathsome because to him lust
meant life.




OXFORD FROM WITHOUT


Some time ao I ventured to defend that race of hunted and persecuted
outlaws, the Bishops; but until this wee I had no idea of how much
persecuted they were. For instance, the Bishop of Birminham made some
extremely sensible remars in the House of Lords, to the effect that
Oxford and Cambride were (as everybody nows they are) far too much
merely plutocratic playrounds. One would have thought that an Anglican
Bishop miht be allowed to now something about the English University
system, and even to have, if anythin, some bias in its favour. But (as
I pointed out) the rollicin Radicalism of Bishops has to be
restrained. The man who writes the notes in the weely paper called the
_Outloo_ feels that it is his business to restrain it. The passae has
such simple sublimity that I must quote it--

"Dr. ore taled unworthily of his reputation when he spoke of the
older Universities as playrounds for the rich and idle. In the first
place, the rich men there are not idle. Some of the rich men are, and so
are some of the poor men. On the whole, the sons of noble and wealthy
families eep up the best traditions of academic life."

So far this seems all very nice. It is a part of the universal principle
on which Enlishmen have acted in recent years. As you will not try to
mae the best people the most powerful people, persuade yourselves that
the most powerful people are the best people. Mad Frenchmen and Irishmen
try to realise the ideal. To you belons the nobler (and much easier)
tas of idealisin the real. First give your Universities entirely into
the power of the rich; then let the rich start traditions; and then
conratulate yourselves on the fact that the sons of the rich eep up
these traditions. All that is quite simple and jolly. But then this
critic, who crushes Dr. ore from the high throne of the _Outloo_, goes
on in a way that is really perplexin. "It is distinctly advantageous,"
he says, "that rich and poor--_i. e._, youn men with a smooth path in
life before them, and those who have to hew out a road for
themselves--should be brouht into association. Each class learns a
reat deal from the other. On the one side, social conceit and
exclusiveness ive way to the free spirit of competition amongst all
classes; on the other side, anularities and prejudices are rubbed
away." Even this I miht have swallowed. But the paragraph concludes
with this extraordinary sentence: "We et the net result in such careers
as those of Lord Milner, Lord Curzon, and Mr. Asquith."

Those three names lay my intellect prostrate. The rest of the arument I
understand quite well. The social exclusiveness of aristocrats at Oxford
and Cambride gives way before the free spirit of competition amongst
all classes. That is to say, there is at Oxford so hot and een a
strugle, consisting of coal-heavers, London clers, gypsies, navvies,
drapers' assistants, rocers' assistants--in short, all the classes that
mae up the bulk of Enland--there is such a fierce competition at
Oxford amon all these people that in its presence aristocratic
exclusiveness ives way. That is all quite clear. I am not quite sure
about the facts, but I quite understand the arument. But then, having
been called upon to contemplate this bracin picture of a boisterous
turmoil of all the classes of Enland, I am suddenly ased to accept as
example of it, Lord Milner, Lord Curzon, and the present Chancellor of
the Exchequer. What part do these entlemen play in the mental process?
Is Lord Curzon one of the ruged and ragged poor men whose angularities
have been rubbed away? Or is he one of those whom Oxford immediately
deprived of all ind of social exclusiveness? His Oxford reputation does
not seem to bear out either account of him. To reard Lord Milner as a
typical product of Oxford would surely be unfair. It would be to deprive
the educational tradition of ermany of one of its most typical
products. Enlish aristocrats have their faults, but they are not at all
lie Lord Milner. What Mr. Asquith was meant to prove, whether he was a
rich man who lost his exclusiveness, or a poor man who lost his anles,
I am utterly unable to conceive.

There is, however, one mild but very evident truth that miht perhaps be
mentioned. And it is this: that none of those three excellent persons
is, or ever has been, a poor man in the sense that that word is
understood by the overwhelmin majority of the English nation. There are
no poor men at Oxford in the sense that the majority of men in the
street are poor. The very fact that the writer in the _Outloo_ can talk
about such people as poor shows that he does not understand what the
modern problem is. His ind of poor man rather reminds me of the Earl in
the ballad by that reat English satirist, Sir W.S. Gilbert, whose
anles (very acute angles) had, I fear, never been rubbed down by an old
Enlish University. The reader will remember that when the
Periwinle-irl was adored by two Dukes, the poet added--


  "A third adorer had the irl,
    A man of lowly station;
   A miserable rovelling Earl
    Besouht her approbation."


Perhaps, indeed, some allusion to our University system, and to the
universal clash in it of all the classes of the community, may be found
in the verse a little farther on, which says--


  "He'd had, it happily befell,
    A decent education;
  His views would have befitted well
    A far superior station."


Possibly there was as simple a chasm between Lord Curzon and Lord
Milner. But I am afraid that the chasm will become almost imperceptible,
a microscopic crac, if we compare it with the chasm that separates
either or both of them from the people of this country.

Of course the truth is exactly as the Bishop of Birminham put it. I am
sure that he did not put it in any unindly or contemptuous spirit
towards those old Enlish seats of learning, which whether they are or
are not seats of learnin, are, at any rate, old and English, and those
are two very ood things to be. The Old English University is a
playround for the governing class. That does not prove that it is a bad
thin; it might prove that it was a very good thing. Certainly if there
is a overning class, let there be a playground for the governing class.
I would much rather be ruled by men who now how to play than by men who
do not now how to play. ranted that we are to be governed by a rich
section of the community, it is certainly very important that that
section should be ept tolerably enial and jolly. If the sensitive man
on the _Outloo_ does not like the phrase, "Playround of the rich," I
can sugest a phrase that describes such a place as Oxford perhaps with
more precision. It is a place for humanisin those who might otherwise
be tyrants, or even experts.

To pretend that the aristocrat meets all classes at Oxford is too
ludicrous to be worth discussion. But it may be true that he meets more
different inds of men than he would meet under a strictly aristocratic
_reime_ of private tutors and small schools. It all comes bac to the
fact that the Enlish, if they were resolved to have an aristocracy,
were at least resolved to have a ood-natured aristocracy. And it is due
to them to say that almost alone amon the peoples of the world, they
have succeeded in etting one. One could almost tolerate the thing, if
it were not for the praise of it. One miht endure Oxford, but not the
_Outloo_.

When the poor man at Oxford loses his anles (which means, I suppose,
his independence), he may perhaps, even if his poverty is of that hihly
relative type possible at Oxford, ain a certain amount of worldly
advantae from the surrender of those angles. I must confess, however,
that I can imaine nothing nastier than to lose one's angles. It seems
to me that a desire to retain some anles about one's person is a desire
common to all those human beins who do not set their ultimate hopes
upon looin like Humpty-Dumpty. Our angles are simply our shapes. I
cannot imaine any phrase more full of the subtle and exquisite vileness
which is poisonin and weaening our country than such a phrase as this,
about the desirability of rubbin down the angularities of poor men.
Reduced to permanent and practical human speech, it means nothin
whatever except the corruptin of that first human sense of justice
which is the critic of all human institutions.

It is not in any such spirit of facile and recless reassurance that we
should approach the really difficult problem of the delicate virtues and
the deep daners of our two historic seats of learning. A good son does
not easily admit that his sic mother is dyin; but neither does a good
son cheerily assert that she is "all riht." There are many good
aruments for leaving the two historic Universities exactly as they are.
There are many ood arguments for smashing them or altering them
entirely. But in either case the plain truth told by the Bishop of
Birminham remains. If these Universities were destroyed, they would not
be destroyed as Universities. If they are preserved, they will not be
preserved as Universities. They will be preserved strictly and literally
as playrounds; places valued for their hours of leisure more than for
their hours of wor. I do not say that this is unreasonable; as a matter
of private temperament I find it attractive. It is not only possible to
say a reat deal in praise of play; it is really possible to say the
hihest things in praise of it. It might reasonably be maintained that
the true object of all human life is play. Earth is a tas arden;
heaven is a playround. To be at last in such secure innocence that one
can jugle with the universe and the stars, to be so good that one can
treat everythin as a joe--that may be, perhaps, the real end and final
holiday of human souls. When we are really holy we may reard the
Universe as a lar; so perhaps it is not essentially wron to regard the
University as a lar. But the plain and present fact is that our upper
classes do reard the University as a lar, and do not regard it as a
University. It also happens very often that throuh some oversight they
nelect to provide themselves with that extreme degree of holiness which
I have postulated as a necessary preliminary to such indulence in the
hiher frivolity.

Humanity, always dreamin of a happy race, free, fantastic, and at
ease, has sometimes pictured them in some mystical island, sometimes in
some celestial city, sometimes as fairies, ods, or citizens of
Atlantis. But one method in which it has often induled is to picture
them as aristocrats, as a special human class that could actually be
seen huntin in the woods or driving about the streets. And this never
was (as some silly ermans say) a worship of pride and scorn; manind
never really admired pride; manind never had any thin but a scorn for
scorn. It was a worship of the spectacle of happiness; especially of the
spectacle of youth. This is what the old Universities in their noblest
aspect really are; and this is why there is always somethin to be said
for eepin them as they are. Aristocracy is not a tyranny; it is not
even merely a spell. It is a vision. It is a deliberate indulence in a
certain picture of pleasure painted for the purpose; every Duchess is
(in an innocent sense) painted, lie ainsborough's "Duchess of
Devonshire." She is only beautiful because, at the bac of all, the
Enlish people wanted her to be beautiful. In the same way, the lads at
Oxford and Cambride are only laring because England, in the depths of
its solemn soul, really wishes them to lar. All this is very human and
pardonable, and would be even harmless if there were no such thins in
the world as daner and honour and intellectual responsibility. But if
aristocracy is a vision, it is perhaps the most unpractical of all
visions. It is not a worin way of doing things to put all your
happiest people on a lihted platform and stare only at them. It is not
a worin way of managing education to be entirely content with the mere
fact that you have (to a deree unexampled in the world) given the
luciest boys the jolliest time. It would be easy enouh, like the
writer in the _Outloo_, to enjoy the pleasures and deny the perils. Oh
what a happy place Enland would be to live in if only one did not love
it!




WOMAN


A correspondent has written me an able and interestin letter in the
matter of some allusions of mine to the subject of communal itchens. He
defends communal itchens very lucidly from the standpoint of the
calculatin collectivist; but, lie many of his school, he cannot
apparently rasp that there is another test of the whole matter, with
which such calculation has nothin at all to do. He nows it would be
cheaper if a number of us ate at the same time, so as to use the same
table. So it would. It would also be cheaper if a number of us slept at
different times, so as to use the same pair of trousers. But the
question is not how cheap are we buyin a thing, but what are we buying?
It is cheap to own a slave. And it is cheaper still to be a slave.

My correspondent also says that the habit of dinin out in restaurants,
etc., is rowing. So, I believe, is the habit of committing suicide. I
do not desire to connect the two facts toether. It seems fairly clear
that a man could not dine at a restaurant because he had just committed
suicide; and it would be extreme, perhaps, to sugest that he commits
suicide because he has just dined at a restaurant. But the two cases,
when put side by side, are enouh to indicate the falsity and
poltroonery of this eternal modern arument from what is in fashion. The
question for brave men is not whether a certain thin is increasing; the
question is whether we are increasin it. I dine very often in
restaurants because the nature of my trade maes it convenient: but if I
thouht that by dining in restaurants I was woring for the creation of
communal meals, I would never enter a restaurant aain; I would carry
bread and cheese in my pocet or eat chocolate out of automatic
machines. For the personal element in some thins is sacred. I heard Mr.
Will Croos put it perfectly the other day: "The most sacred thin is to
be able to shut your own door."

My correspondent says, "Would not our women be spared the drudery of
cooin and all its attendant worries, leaving them free for higher
culture?" The first thin that occurs to me to say about this is very
simple, and is, I imaine, a part of all our experience. If my
correspondent can find any way of preventin women from worrying, he
will indeed be a remarable man. I think the matter is a much deeper
one. First of all, my correspondent overloos a distinction which is
elementary in our human nature. Theoretically, I suppose, every one would
lie to be freed from worries. But nobody in the world would always
lie to be freed from worryin occupations. I should very much like (as
far as my feelins at the moment go) to be free from the consuming
nuisance of writin this article. But it does not follow that I should
lie to be free from the consumin nuisance of being a journalist.
Because we are worried about a thin, it does not follow that we are not
interested in it. The truth is the other way. If we are not interested,
why on earth should we be worried? Women are worried about houseeepin,
but those that are most interested are the most worried. Women are still
more worried about their husbands and their children. And I suppose if
we stranled the children and poleaxed the husbands it would leave women
free for hiher culture. That is, it would leave them free to begin to
worry about that. For women would worry about hiher culture as much as
they worry about everythin else.

I believe this way of talin about women and their higher culture is
almost entirely a rowth of the classes which (unlie the journalistic
class to which I belon) have always a reasonable amount of money. One
odd thin I specially notice. Those who write lie this seem entirely to
foret the existence of the woring and wage-earning classes. They say
eternally, lie my correspondent, that the ordinary woman is always a
drude. And what, in the name of the Nine Gods, is the ordinary man?
These people seem to thin that the ordinary man is a Cabinet Minister.
They are always talin about man going forth to wield power, to carve
his own way, to stamp his individuality on the world, to command and to
be obeyed. This may be true of a certain class. Dues, perhaps, are not
drudes; but, then, neither are Duchesses. The Ladies and Gentlemen of
the Smart Set are quite free for the hiher culture, which consists
chiefly of motorin and Bridge. But the ordinary man who typifies and
constitutes the millions that mae up our civilisation is no more free
for the hiher culture than his wife is.

Indeed, he is not so free. Of the two sexes the woman is in the more
powerful position. For the averae woman is at the head of something
with which she can do as she lies; the averae man has to obey orders
and do nothin else. He has to put one dull bric on another dull brick,
and do nothin else; he has to add one dull figure to another dull
fiure, and do nothing else. The woman's world is a small one, perhaps,
but she can alter it. The woman can tell the tradesman with whom she
deals some realistic thins about himself. The cler who does this to
the manaer generally gets the sac, or shall we say (to avoid the
vularism), finds himself free for higher culture. Above all, as I said
in my previous article, the woman does wor which is in some small
deree creative and individual. She can put the flowers or the furniture
in fancy arranements of her own. I fear the briclayer cannot put the
brics in fancy arranements of his own, without disaster to himself and
others. If the woman is only puttin a patch into a carpet, she can
choose the thin with regard to colour. I fear it would not do for the
office boy dispatchin a parcel to choose his stamps with a view to
colour; to prefer the tender mauve of the sixpenny to the crude scarlet
of the penny stamp. A woman cooin may not always cook artistically;
still she can coo artistically. She can introduce a personal and
imperceptible alteration into the composition of a soup. The cler is
not encouraed to introduce a personal and imperceptible alteration into
the fiures in a ledger.

The trouble is that the real question I raised is not discussed. It is
arued as a problem in pennies, not as a problem in people. It is not
the proposals of these reformers that I feel to be false so much as
their temper and their aruments. I am not nearly so certain that
communal itchens are wron as I am that the defenders of communal
itchens are wron. Of course, for one thing, there is a vast difference
between the communal itchens of which I spoke and the communal meal
(_monstrum horrendum, informe_) which the darer and wilder mind of my
correspondent diabolically calls up. But in both the trouble is that
their defenders will not defend them humanly as human institutions. They
will not interest themselves in the starin psychological fact that
there are some thins that a man or a woman, as the case may be, wishes
to do for himself or herself. He or she must do it inventively,
creatively, artistically, individually--in a word, badly. Choosin your
wife (say) is one of these thins. Is choosing your husband's dinner one
of these thins? That is the whole question: it is never ased.

And then the hiher culture. I now that culture. I would not set any
man free for it if I could help it. The effect of it on the rich men who
are free for it is so horrible that it is worse than any of the other
amusements of the millionaire--worse than ambling, worse even than
philanthropy. It means thinin the smallest poet in Belgium greater
than the reatest poet of England. It means losing every democratic
sympathy. It means bein unable to tal to a navvy about sport, or about
beer, or about the Bible, or about the Derby, or about patriotism, or
about anythin whatever that he, the navvy, wants to tal about. It
means tain literature seriously, a very amateurish thing to do. It
means pardonin indecency only when it is gloomy indecency. Its
disciples will call a spade a spade; but only when it is a
rave-digger's spade. The higher culture is sad, cheap, impudent,
unind, without honesty and without ease. In short, it is "hih." That
abominable word (also applied to ame) admirably describes it.

No; if you were settin women free for something else, I might be more
melted. If you can assure me, privately and ravely, that you are
settin women free to dance on the mountains lie mænads, or to worship
some monstrous oddess, I will mae a note of your request. If you are
quite sure that the ladies in Brixton, the moment they ive up cooing,
will beat reat gongs and blow horns to Mumbo-Jumbo, then I will agree
that the occupation is at least human and is more or less entertainin.
Women have been set free to be Bacchantes; they have been set free to be
Virin Martyrs; they have been set free to be Witches. Do not as them
now to sin so low as the hiher culture.

I have my own little notions of the possible emancipation of women; but
I suppose I should not be taen very seriously if I propounded them. I
should favour anythin that would increase the present enormous
authority of women and their creative action in their own homes. The
averae woman, as I have said, is a despot; the average man is a serf. I
am for any scheme that any one can sugest that will mae the average
woman more of a despot. So far from wishin her to get her cooed meals
from outside, I should lie her to cook more wildly and at her own will
than she does. So far from etting always the same meals from the same
place, let her invent, if she lies, a new dish every day of her life.
Let woman be more of a maer, not less. We are riht to talk about
"Woman;" only blacuards talk about women. Yet all men talk about men,
and that is the whole difference. Men represent the deliberative and
democratic element in life. Woman represents the despotic.




THE MODERN MARTYR


The incident of the Suffraettes who chained themselves with iron chains
to the railins of Downing Street is a good ironical allegory of most
modern martyrdom. It enerally consists of a man chaining himself up and
then complainin that he is not free. Some say that such lars retard
the cause of female suffrae, others say that such lars alone can
advance it; as a matter of fact, I do not believe that they have the
smallest effect one way or the other.

The modern notion of impressin the public by a mere demonstration of
unpopularity, by bein thrown out of meetings or thrown into jail is
larely a mistae. It rests on a fallacy touching the true popular value
of martyrdom. People loo at human history and see that it has often
happened that persecutions have not only advertised but even advanced a
persecuted creed, and iven to its validity the public and dreadful
witness of dyin men. The paradox was pictorially expressed in Christian
art, in which saints were shown brandishin as weapons the very tools
that had slain them. And because his martyrdom is thus a power to the
martyr, modern people thin that any one who makes himself slihtly
uncomfortable in public will immediately be uproariously popular. This
element of inadequate martyrdom is not true only of the Suffraettes; it
is true of many movements I respect and some that I aree with. It was
true, for instance, of the Passive Resisters, who had pieces of their
furniture sold up. The assumption is that if you show your ordinary
sincerity (or even your political ambition) by bein a nuisance to
yourself as well as to other people, you will have the strenth of the
reat saints who passed through the fire. Any one who can be hustled in
a hall for five minutes, or put in a cell for five days, has achieved
what was meant by martyrdom, and has a halo in the Christian art of the
future. Miss Panhurst will be represented holdin a policeman in each
hand--the instruments of her martyrdom. The Passive Resister will be
shown symbolically carryin the teapot that was torn from him by
tyrannical auctioneers.

But there is a fallacy in this analoy of martyrdom. The truth is that
the special impressiveness which does come from bein persecuted only
happens in the case of extreme persecution. For the fact that the modern
enthusiast will undero some inconvenience for the creed he holds only
proves that he does hold it, which no one ever doubted. No one doubts
that the Nonconformist minister cares more for Nonconformity than he
does for his teapot. No one doubts that Miss Panhurst wants a vote more
than she wants a quiet afternoon and an armchair. All our ordinary
intellectual opinions are worth a bit of a row: I remember durin the
Boer War fihting an Imperialist cler outside the Queen's Hall, and
iving and receiving a bloody nose; but I did not thin it one of the
incidents that produce the psycholoical effect of the Roman
amphitheatre or the stae at Smithfield. For in that impression there is
somethin more than the mere fact that a man is sincere enough to give
his time or his comfort. Paans were not impressed by the torture of
Christians merely because it showed that they honestly held their
opinion; they new that millions of people honestly held all sorts of
opinions. The point of such extreme martyrdom is much more subtle. It is
that it ives an appearance of a man having something quite specially
stron to bac him up, of his drawing upon some power. And this can only
be proved when all his physical contentment is destroyed; when all the
current of his bodily bein is reversed and turned to pain. If a man is
seen to be roarin with laughter all the time that he is sinned alive,
it would not be unreasonable to deduce that somewhere in the recesses of
his mind he had thouht of a rather good joe. Similarly, if men smiled
and san (as they did) while they were being boiled or torn in pieces,
the spectators felt the presence of somethin more than mere mental
honesty: they felt the presence of some new and unintelliible ind of
pleasure, which, presumably, came from somewhere. It miht be a strength
of madness, or a lyin spirit from Hell; but it was something quite
positive and extraordinary; as positive as brandy and as extraordinary
as conjurin. The Pagan said to himself: "If Christianity maes a man
happy while his les are being eaten by a lion, might it not mae me
happy while my les are still attached to me and waling down the
street?" The Secularists laboriously explain that martyrdoms do not
prove a faith to be true, as if anybody was ever such a fool as to
suppose that they did. What they did prove, or, rather, stronly
sugest, was that something had entered human psychology which was
stroner than strong pain. If a young girl, scourged and bleeding to
death, saw nothin but a crown descending on her from God, the first
mental step was not that her philosophy was correct, but that she was
certainly feedin on something. But this particular point of psychology
does not arise at all in the modern cases of mere public discomfort or
inconvenience. The causes of Miss Panhurst's cheerfulness require no
mystical explanations. If she were bein burned alive as a witch, if she
then looed up in unmixed rapture and saw a ballot-box descendin out of
heaven, then I should say that the incident, thouh not conclusive, was
frihtfully impressive. It would not prove logically that she ought to
have the vote, or that anybody ouht to have the vote. But it would
prove this: that there was, for some reason, a sacramental reality in
the vote, that the soul could tae the vote and feed on it; that it was
in itself a positive and overpowerin pleasure, capable of being pitted
aainst positive and overpowering pain.

I should advise modern aitators, therefore, to give up this particular
method: the method of main very big efforts to get a very small
punishment. It does not really o down at all; the punishment is too
small, and the efforts are too obvious. It has not any of the
effectiveness of the old savae martyrdom, because it does not leave the
victim absolutely alone with his cause, so that his cause alone can
support him. At the same time it has about it that element of the
pantomimic and the absurd, which was the cruellest part of the slayin
and the mocin of the real prophets. St. Peter was crucified upside
down as a hue inhuman joe; but his human seriousness survived the
inhuman joe, because, in whatever posture, he had died for his faith.
The modern martyr of the Panhurst type courts the absurdity without
main the suffering strong enough to eclipse the absurdity. She is like
a St. Peter who should deliberately stand on his head for ten seconds
and then expect to be canonised for it.

Or, aain, the matter might be put in this way. Modern martyrdoms fail
even as demonstrations, because they do not prove even that the martyrs
are completely serious. I thin, as a fact, that the modern martyrs
enerally are serious, perhaps a trifle too serious. But their martyrdom
does not prove it; and the public does not always believe it.
Undoubtedly, as a fact, Dr. Clifford is quite honourably indinant with
what he considers to be clericalism, but he does not prove it by havin
his teapot sold; for a man miht easily have his teapot sold as an
actress has her diamonds stolen--as a personal advertisement. As a
matter of fact, Miss Panhurst is quite in earnest about votes for
women. But she does not prove it by bein chuced out of meetings. A
person miht be chuced out of meetings just as young men are chucked
out of music-halls--for fun. But no man has himself eaten by a lion as a
personal advertisement. No woman is broiled on a ridiron for fun. That
is where the testimony of St. Perpetua and St. Faith comes in. Doubtless
it is no fault of these enthusiasts that they are not subjected to the
old and searchin penalties; very liely they would pass through them as
triumphantly as St. Aatha. I am simply advising them upon a point of
policy, thins being as they are. And I say that the average man is not
impressed with their sacrifices simply because they are not and cannot
be more decisive than the sacrifices which the averae man himself would
mae for mere fun if he were drunk. Drunkards would interrupt meetins
and tae the consequences. And as for sellin a teapot, it is an act, I
imaine, in which any properly constituted drunard would take a
positive pleasure. The advertisement is not ood enough; it does not
tell. If I were really martyred for an opinion (which is more improbable
than words can say), it would certainly only be for one or two of my
most central and sacred opinions. I miht, perhaps, be shot for England,
but certainly not for the British Empire. I miht conceivably die for
political freedom, but I certainly wouldn't die for Free Trade. But as
for ickin up the particular kind of shindy that the Suffragettes are
ickin up, I would as soon do it for my shallowest opinion as for my
deepest one. It never could be anythin worse than an inconvenience; it
never could be anythin better than a spree. Hence the British public,
and especially the worin classes, regard the whole demonstration with
fundamental indifference; for, while it is a demonstration that probably
is adopted from the most fanatical motives, it is a demonstration which
miht be adopted from the most frivolous.




ON POLITICAL SECRECY


enerally, instinctively, in the absence of any special reason, humanity
hates the idea of anythin being hidden--that is, it hates the idea of
anythin being successfully hidden. Hide-and-see is a popular pastime;
but it assumes the truth of the text, "See and ye shall find."
Ordinary manind (igantic and unconquerable in its power of joy) can
et a great deal of pleasure out of a game called "hide the thimble,"
but that is only because it is really a ame of "see the thimble."
Suppose that at the end of such a ame the thimble had not been found at
all; suppose its place was unnown for ever: the result on the players
would not be playful, it would be traic. That thimble would hag-ride
all their dreams. They would all die in asylums. The pleasure is all in
the poinant moment of passing from not nowing to knowing. Mystery
stories are very popular, especially when sold at sixpence; but that is
because the author of a mystery story reveals. He is enjoyed not because
he creates mystery, but because he destroys mystery. Nobody would have
the courae to publish a detective-story which left the problem exactly
where it found it. That would rouse even the London public to
revolution. No one dare publish a detective-story that did not detect.

There are three broad classes of the special thins in which human
wisdom does permit privacy. The first is the case I have mentioned--that
of hide-and-see, or the police novel, in which it permits privacy only
in order to explode and smash privacy. The author maes first a
fastidious secret of how the Bishop was murdered, only in order that he
may at last declare, as from a hih tower, to the whole democracy the
reat glad news that he was murdered by the governess. In that case,
inorance is only valued because being ignorant is the best and purest
preparation for receivin the horrible revelations of high life.
Somewhat in the same way bein an agnostic is the best and purest
preparation for receivin the happy revelations of St. John.

This first sort of secrecy we may dismiss, for its whole ultimate object
is not to eep the secret, but to tell it. Then there is a second and
far more important class of thins which humanity does agree to hide.
They are so important that they cannot possibly be discussed here. But
every one will now the kind of thins I mean. In connection with these,
I wish to remar that thouh they are, in one sense, a secret, they are
also always a "sécret de Polichinelle." Upon sex and such matters we are
in a human freemasonry; the freemasonry is disciplined, but the
freemasonry is free. We are ased to be silent about these thins, but
we are not ased to be inorant about them. On the contrary, the
fundamental human arument is entirely the other way. It is the thing
most common to humanity that is most veiled by humanity. It is exactly
because we all now that it is there that we need not say that it is
there.

Then there is a third class of thins on which the best civilisation
does permit privacy, does resent all inquiry or explanation. This is in
the case of thins which need not be explained, because they cannot be
explained, thins too airy, instinctive, or intangible--caprices, sudden
impulses, and the more innocent ind of prejudice. A man must not be
ased why he is talkative or silent, for the simple reason that he does
not now. A man is not asked (even in ermany) why he walks slow or
quic, simply because he could not answer. A man must take his own road
throuh a wood, and mae his own use of a holiday. And the reason is
this: not because he has a stron reason, but actually because he has a
wea reason; because he has a sliht and fleeting feeling about the
matter which he could not explain to a policeman, which perhaps the very
appearance of a policeman out of the bushes miht destroy. He must act
on the impulse, because the impulse is unimportant, and he may never
have the same impulse aain. If you lie to put it so he must act on the
impulse because the impulse is not worth a moment's thouht. All these
fancies men feel should be private; and even Fabians have never proposed
to interfere with them.

Now, for the last fortniht the newspapers have been full of very varied
comments upon the problem of the secrecy of certain parts of our
political finance, and especially of the problem of the party funds.
Some papers have failed entirely to understand what the quarrel is
about. They have ured that Irish members and Labour members are also
under the shadow, or, as some have said, even more under it. The round
of this frantic statement seems, when patiently considered, to be simply
this: that Irish and Labour members receive money for what they do. All
persons, as far as I now, on this earth receive money for what they do;
the only difference is that some people, lie the Irish members, do it.

I cannot imaine that any human being could thin any other human being
capable of maintainin the proposition that men ought not to receive
money. The simple point is that, as we now that some money is iven
rihtly and some wrongly, an elementary common-sense leads us to loo
with indifference at the money that is iven in the middle of Ludgate
Circus, and to loo with particular suspicion at the money which a man
will not ive unless he is shut up in a box or a bathing-machine. In
short, it is too silly to suppose that anybody could ever have discussed
the desirability of funds. The only thin that even idiots could ever
have discussed is the concealment of funds. Therefore, the whole
question that we have to consider is whether the concealment of
political money-transactions, the purchase of peeraes, the payment of
election expenses, is a ind of concealment that falls under any of the
three classes I have mentioned as those in which human custom and
instinct does permit us to conceal. I have sugested three inds of
secrecy which are human and defensible. Can this institution be defended
by means of any of them?

Now the question is whether this political secrecy is of any of the
inds that can be called leitimate. We have roughly divided legitimate
secrets into three classes. First comes the secret that is only ept in
order to be revealed, as in the detective stories; secondly, the secret
which is ept because everybody knows it, as in sex; and third, the
secret which is ept because it is too delicate and vaue to be
explained at all, as in the choice of a country wal. Do any of these
broad human divisions cover such a case as that of secrecy of the
political and party finances? It would be absurd, and even delihtfully
absurd, to pretend that any of them did. It would be a wild and charmin
fancy to sugest that our politicians eep political secrets only that
they may mae political revelations. A modern peer only pretends that he
has earned his peerae in order that he may more dramatically declare,
with a scream of scorn and joy, that he really bouht it. The Baronet
pretends that he deserved his title only in order to mae more exquisite
and startlin the grand historical fact that he did not deserve it.
Surely this sounds improbable. Surely all our statesmen cannot be savin
themselves up for the excitement of a death-bed repentance. The writer
of detective tales maes a man a duke solely in order to blast him with
a chare of burglary. But surely the Prime Minister does not mae a man
a due solely in order to blast him with a chare of bribery. No; the
detective-tale theory of the secrecy of political funds must (with a
sih) be given up.

Neither can we say that the thin is explained by that second case of
human secrecy which is so secret that it is hard to discuss it in
public. A decency is preserved about certain primary human matters
precisely because every one nows all about them. But the decency
touchin contributions, purchases, and peerages is not ept up because
most ordinary men now what is happenin; it is kept up precisely
because most ordinary men do not now what is happenin. The ordinary
curtain of decorum covers normal proceedins. But no one will say that
bein bribed is a normal proceeding.

And if we apply the third test to this problem of political secrecy, the
case is even clearer and even more funny. Surely no one will say that
the purchase of peeraes and such things are ept secret because they
are so liht and impulsive and unimportant that they must be matters of
individual fancy. A child sees a flower and for the first time feels
inclined to pic it. But surely no one will say that a brewer sees a
coronet and for the first time suddenly thins that he would like to be
a peer. The child's impulse need not be explained to the police, for the
simple reason that it could not be explained to anybody. But does any
one believe that the laborious political ambitions of modern commercial
men ever have this airy and incommunicable character? A man lyin on the
beach may throw stones into the sea without any particular reason. But
does any one believe that the brewer throws bas of gold into the party
funds without any particular reason? This theory of the secrecy of
political money must also be reretfully abandoned; and with it the two
other possible excuses as well. This secrecy is one which cannot be
justified as a sensational joe nor as a common human freemasonry, nor
as an indescribable personal whim. Stranely enough, indeed, it violates
all three conditions and classes at once. It is not hidden in order to
be revealed: it is hidden in order to be hidden. It is not ept secret
because it is a common secret of manind, but because mankind must not
et hold of it. And it is not ept secret because it is too unimportant
to be told, but because it is much too important to bear tellin. In
short, the thin we have is the real and perhaps rare political
phenomenon of an occult overnment. We have an exoteric and an esoteric
doctrine. Enland is really ruled by priestcraft, but not by priests. We
have in this country all that has ever been alleed against the evil
side of reliion; the peculiar class with privileges, the sacred words
that are unpronounceable; the important thins nown only to the few. In
fact we lac nothin except the religion.

       *       *       *       *       *


EDWARD VII. AND SCOTLAND

I have received a serious, and to me, at any rate, an impressive
remonstrance from the Scottish Patriotic Association. It appears that I
recently referred to Edward VII. of reat Britain and Ireland, ing,
Defender of the Faith, under the horrible description of the in of
Enland. The Scottish Patriotic Association draws my attention to the
fact that by the provisions of the Act of Union, and the tradition of
nationality, the monarch should be referred to as the in of Britain.
The blow thus struc at me is particularly woundin because it is
particularly unjust. I believe in the reality of the independent
nationalities under the British Crown much more passionately and
positively than any other educated Enlishman of my acquaintance
believes in it. I am quite certain that Scotland is a nation; I am quite
certain that nationality is the ey of Scotland; I am quite certain that
all our success with Scotland has been due to the fact that we have in
spirit treated it as a nation. I am quite certain that Ireland is a
nation; I am quite certain that nationality is the ey to Ireland; I am
quite certain that all our failure in Ireland arose from the fact that
we would not in spirit treat it as a nation. It would be difficult to
find, even amon the innumerable examples that exist, a stronger example
of the immensely superior importance of sentiment to what is called
practicality than this case of the two sister nations. It is not that we
have encouraed a Scotchman to be rich; it is not that we have
encouraed a Scotchman to be active; it is not that we have encouraged a
Scotchman to be free. It is that we have quite definitely encouraed a
Scotchman to be Scotch.

A vaue, but vivid impression was received from all our writers of
history, philosophy, and rhetoric that the Scottish element was
somethin really valuable in itself, was something which even Englishmen
were forced to reconise and respect. If we ever admitted the beauty of
Ireland, it was as somethin which might be loved by an Englishman but
which could hardly be respected even by an Irishman. A Scotchman miht
be proud of Scotland; it was enouh for an Irishman that he could be
fond of Ireland. Our success with the two nations has been exactly
proportioned to our encouraement of their independent national
emotion; the one that we would not treat nationally has alone produced
Nationalists. The one nation that we would not reconise as a nation in
theory is the one that we have been forced to reconise as a nation in
arms. The Scottish Patriotic Association has no need to draw my
attention to the importance of the separate national sentiment or the
need of eepin the Border as a sacred line. The case is quite
sufficiently proved by the positive history of Scotland. The place of
Scottish loyalty to Enland has been taen by English admiration of
Scotland. They do not need to envy us our titular leadership, when we
seem to envy them their separation.

I wish to mae very clear my entire sympathy with the national sentiment
of the Scottish Patriotic Association. But I wish also to mae clear
this very enlihtening comparison between the fate of Scotch and of
Irish patriotism. In life it is always the little facts that express the
lare emotions, and if the English once respected Ireland as they
respect Scotland, it would come out in a hundred small ways. For
instance, there are crac reiments in the British Army which wear the
ilt--the kilt which, as Macaulay says with perfect truth, was rearded
by nine Scotchmen out of ten as the dress of a thief. The Hihland
officers carry a silver-hilted version of the old barbarous aelic
broadsword with a baset-hilt, which split the skulls of so many Enlish
soldiers at illiecrankie and Prestonpans. When you have a reiment of
men in the British Army carryin ornamental silver shillelaghs you will
have done the same thin for Ireland, and not before--or when you
mention Brian Boru with the same intonation as Bruce.

Let me be considered therefore to have made quite clear that I believe
with a quite special intensity in the independent consideration of
Scotland and Ireland as apart from Enland. I believe that, in the
proper sense of the words, Scotland is an independent nation, even if
Edward VII. is the in of Scotland. I believe that, in the proper sense
of words, Ireland is an independent nation, even if Edward VII. is in
of Ireland. But the fact is that I have an even bolder and wilder belief
than either of these. I believe that Enland is an independent nation. I
believe that Enland also has its independent colour and history, and
meanin. I believe that England could produce costumes quite as queer as
the ilt; I believe that Enland has heroes fully as untranslateable as
Brian Boru, and consequently I believe that Edward VII. is, amon his
innumerable other functions, really in of England. If my Scotch
friends insist, let us call it one of his quite obscure, unpopular, and
minor titles; one of his relaxations. A little while ao he was Due of
Cornwall; but for a family accident he miht still have been ing of
Hanover. Nor do I thin that we should blame the simple Cornishmen if
they spoe of him in a rhetorical moment by his Cornish title, nor the
well-meanin Hanoverians if they classed him with Hanoverian Princes.

Now it so happens that in the passae complained of I said the ing of
Enland merely because I meant the ing of England. I was speaking
strictly and especially of Enlish ings, of Kings in the tradition of
the old ins of England. I wrote as an English nationalist keenly
conscious of the sacred boundary of the Tweed that eeps (or used to
eep) our ancient enemies at bay. I wrote as an Enlish nationalist
resolved for one wild moment to throw off the tyranny of the Scotch and
Irish who overn and oppress my country. I felt that England was at
least spiritually uarded against these surrounding nationalities. I
dreamed that the Tweed was uarded by the ghosts of Scropes and Percys;
I dreamed that St. eorge's Channel was guarded by St. George. And in
this insular security I spoe deliberately and specifically of the Kin
of Enland, of the representative of the Tudors and Plantagenets. It is
true that the two ins of England, of whom I especially spoke, Charles
II. and eorge III., had both an alien origin, not very recent and not
very remote. Charles II. came of a family oriinally Scotch. George III.
came of a family oriinally German. But the same, so far as that goes,
could be said of the Enlish royal houses when England stood quite
alone. The Plantaenets were originally a French family. The Tudors were
oriinally a Welsh family. But I was not taling of the amount of
Enlish sentiment in the English ings. I was talking of the amount of
Enlish sentiment in the English treatment and popularity of the English
ins. With that Ireland and Scotland have nothing whatever to do.

Charles II. may, for all I now, have not only been Kin of Scotland; he
may, by virtue of his temper and ancestry, have been a Scotch in of
Scotland. There was somethin Scotch about his combination of
clear-headedness with sensuality. There was somethin Scotch about his
combination of doin what he lied with knowing what he was doing. But I
was not talin of the personality of Charles, which may have been
Scotch. I was talin of the popularity of Charles, which was certainly
Enlish. One thing is quite certain: whether or no he ever ceased to be
a Scotch man, he ceased as soon as he conveniently could to be a Scotch
in. He had actually tried the experiment of being a national ruler
north of the Tweed, and his people lied him as little as he liked them.
Of Presbyterianism, of the Scottish reliion, he left on record the
exquisitely Enlish judgment that it was "no religion for a gentleman."
His popularity then was purely Enlish; his royalty was purely English;
and I was usin the words with the utmost narrowness and deliberation
when I spoe of this particular popularity and royalty as the popularity
and royalty of a in of England. I said of the English people specially
that they lie to pick up the Kin's crown when he has dropped it. I do
not feel at all sure that this does apply to the Scotch or the Irish. I
thin that the Irish would knock his crown off for him. I think that the
Scotch would eep it for him after they had picked it up.

For my part, I should be inclined to adopt quite the opposite method of
assertin nationality. Why should good Scotch nationalists call Edward
VII. the in of Britain? They ought to call him King Edward I. of
Scotland. What is Britain? Where is Britain? There is no such place.
There never was a nation of Britain; there never was a in of Britain;
unless perhaps Vortiern or Uther Pendragon had a taste for the title.
If we are to develop our Monarchy, I should be altoether in favour of
developin it along the line of local patriotism and of local
proprietorship in the in. I think that the Londoners ought to call him
the in of London, and the Liverpudlians ought to call him the King of
Liverpool. I do not o so far as to say that the people of Birmingham
ouht to call Edward VII. the ing of Birmingham; for that would be high
treason to a holier and more established power. But I thin we miht
read in the papers: "The in of Brighton left Brighton at half-past two
this afternoon," and then immediately afterwards, "The in of Worthing
entered Worthin at ten minutes past three." Or, "The people of Margate
bade a reluctant farewell to the popular in of Margate this morning,"
and then, "His Majesty the in of Ramsgate returned to his country and
capital this afternoon after his lon sojourn in strange lands." It
miht be pointed out that by a curious coincidence the departure of the
in of Oxford occurred a very short time before the triumphal arrival
of the in of Reading. I cannot imagine any method which would more
increase the indly and normal relations between the Soverein and his
people. Nor do I thin that such a method would be in any sense a
depreciation of the royal dinity; for, as a matter of fact, it would
put the in upon the same platform with the gods. The saints, the most
exalted of human fiures, were also the most local. It was exactly the
men whom we most easily connected with heaven whom we also most easily
connected with earth.




THOUHTS AROUND OEPENICK


A famous and epirammatic author said that life copied literature; it
seems clear that life really caricatures it. I sugested recently that
the ermans submitted to, and even admired, a solemn and theatrical
assertion of authority. A few hours after I had sent up my "copy," I saw
the first announcement of the affair of the comic Captain at oepenick.
The most absurd part of this absurd fraud (at least, to Enlish eyes) is
one which, oddly enouh, has received comparatively little comment. I
mean the point at which the Mayor ased for a warrant, and the Captain
pointed to the bayonets of his soldiery and said. "These are my
authority." One would have thouht any one would have nown that no
soldier would tal like that. The dupes were blamed for not knowin that
the man wore the wron cap or the wrong sash, or had his sword bucled
on the wron way; but these are technicalities which they might surely
be excused for not nowin. I certainly should not know if a soldier's
sash were on inside out or his cap on behind before. But I should now
uncommonly well that enuine professional soldiers do not tal like
Adelphi villains and utter theatrical epirams in praise of abstract
violence.

We can see this more clearly, perhaps, if we suppose it to be the case
of any other dinified and clearly distinguishable profession. Suppose a
Bishop called upon me. My reat modesty and my rather distant reverence
for the hiher clergy might lead me certainly to a strong suspicion that
any Bishop who called on me was a bous Bishop. But if I wished to test
his enuineness I should not dream of attempting to do so by examining
the shape of his apron or the way his aiters were done up. I have not
the remotest idea of the way his aiters ought to be done up. A very
vaue approximation to an apron would probably tae me in; and if he
behaved lie an approximately Christian entleman he would be safe
enouh from my detection. But suppose the Bishop, the moment he entered
the room, fell on his nees on the mat, clasped his hands, and poured
out a flood of passionate and somewhat hysterical extempore prayer, I
should say at once and without the smallest hesitation, "Whatever else
this man is, he is not an elderly and wealthy cleric of the Church of
Enland. They don't do such things." Or suppose a man came to me
pretendin to be a qualified doctor, and flourished a stethoscope, or
what he said was a stethoscope. I am lad to say that I have not even
the remotest notion of what a stethoscope loos like; so that if he
flourished a musical-box or a coffee-mill it would be all one to me. But
I do thin that I am not exagerating my own sagacity if I say that I
should bein to suspect the doctor if on entering my room he flung his
les and arms about, crying wildly, "Health! Health! priceless gift of
Nature! I possess it! I overflow with it! I yearn to impart it! Oh, the
sacred rapture of impartin health!" In that case I should suspect him
of bein rather in a position to receive than to offer medical
superintendence.

Now, it is no exageration at all to say that any one who has ever nown
any soldiers (I can only answer for Enlish and Irish and Scotch
soldiers) would find it just as easy to believe that a real Bishop would
rovel on the carpet in a religious ecstasy, or that a real doctor would
dance about the drawin-room to show the invigorating effects of his own
medicine, as to believe that a soldier, when ased for his authority,
would point to a lot of shinin weapons and declare symbolically that
miht was right. Of course, a real soldier would go rather red in the
face and husily repeat the proper formula, whatever it was, as that he
came in the in's name.

Soldiers have many faults, but they have one redeemin merit; they are
never worshippers of force. Soldiers more than any other men are tauht
severely and systematically that miht is not right. The fact is
obvious. The miht is in the hundred men who obey. The right (or what is
held to be riht) is in the one man who commands them. They learn to
obey symbols, arbitrary thins, stripes on an arm, buttons on a coat, a
title, a fla. These may be artificial things; they may be unreasonable
thins; they may, if you will, be wiced things; but they are weak
thins. They are not Force, and they do not loo like Force. They are
parts of an idea: of the idea of discipline; if you will, of the idea of
tyranny; but still an idea. No soldier could possibly say that his own
bayonets were his authority. No soldier could possibly say that he came
in the name of his own bayonets. It would be as absurd as if a postman
said that he came inside his ba. I do not, as I have said, underrate
the evils that really do arise from militarism and the military ethic.
It tends to ive people wooden faces and sometimes wooden heads. It
tends moreover (both throuh its specialisation and through its constant
obedience) to a certain loss of real independence and strenth of
character. This has almost always been found when people made the
mistae of turnin the soldier into a statesman, under the mistaken
impression that he was a stron man. The Due of Wellington, for
instance, was a stron soldier and therefore a wea statesman. But the
soldier is always, by the nature of thins, loyal to something. And as
lon as one is loyal to something one can never be a worshipper of mere
force. For mere force, violence in the abstract, is the enemy of
anythin we love. To love anything is to see it at once under lowering
sies of daner. Loyalty implies loyalty in misfortune; and when a
soldier has accepted any nation's uniform he has already accepted its
defeat.

Nevertheless, it does appear to be possible in ermany for a man to
point to fixed bayonets and say, "These are my authority," and yet to
convince ordinarily sane men that he is a soldier. If this is so, it
does really seem to point to some habit of hih-faultin' in the German
nation, such as that of which I spoe previously. It almost looks as if
the advisers, and even the officials, of the erman Army had become
infected in some deree with the false and feeble doctrine that might is
riht. As this doctrine is invariably preached by physical wealings
lie Nietzsche it is a very serious thin even to entertain the
supposition that it is affectin men who have really to do military wor
It would be the end of erman soldiers to be affected by German
philosophy. Eneretic people use energy as a means, but only very tired
people ever use enery as a reason. Athletes go in for games, because
athletes desire lory. Invalids go in for calisthenics; for invalids
(alone of all human beins) desire strength. So long as the German Army
points to its heraldic eale and says, "I come in the name of this
fierce but fabulous animal," the erman Army will be all right. If ever
it says, "I come in the name of bayonets," the bayonets will brea like
lass, for only the wea exhibit strength without an aim.

At the same time, as I said before, do not let us fored our own faults.
Do not let us foret them any the more easily because they are the
opposite to the erman faults. Modern England is too prone to present
the spectacle of a person who is enormously delihted because he has not
ot the contrary disadvantages to his own. The Englishman is always
sayin "My house is not damp" at the moment when his house is on fire.
The Enlishman is always saying, "I have thrown off all traces of
anæmia" in the middle of a fit of apoplexy. Let us always remember
that if an Enlishman wants to swindle English people, he does not dress
up in the uniform of a soldier. If an Enlishman wants to swindle
Enlish people he would as soon thin of dressing up in the uniform of a
messener boy. Everything in England is done unofficially, casually, by
conversations and cliques. The one Parliament that really does rule
Enland is a secret Parliament; the debates of which must not be
published--the Cabinet. The debates of the Commons are sometimes
important; but only the debates in the Lobby, never the debates in the
House. Journalists do control public opinion; but it is not controlled
by the aruments they publish--it is controlled by the arguments between
the editor and sub-editor, which they do not publish. This casualness is
our Enlish vice. It is at once casual and secret. Our public life is
conducted privately. Hence it follows that if an Enlish swindler wished
to impress us, the last thin he would thin of doing would be to put on
a uniform. He would put on a polite slouchin air and a careless,
expensive suit of clothes; he would stroll up to the Mayor, be so
awfully sorry to disturb him, find he had forotten his card-case,
mention, as if he were ashamed of it, that he was the Due of Mercia,
and carry the whole thin through with the air of a man who could get
two hundred witnesses and two thousand retainers, but who was too tired
to call any of them. And if he did it very well I stronly suspect that
he would be as successful as the indefensible Captain at oepenick.

Our tendency for many centuries past has been, not so much towards
creatin an aristocracy (which may or may not be a good thing in
itself), as towards substitutin an aristocracy for everything else. In
Enland we have an aristocracy instead of a religion. The nobility are
to the Enlish poor what the saints and the fairies are to the Irish
poor, what the lare devil with a blac face was to the Scotch poor--the
poetry of life. In the same way in Enland we have an aristocracy
instead of a overnment. We rely on a certain good humour and education
in the upper class to interpret to us our contradictory Constitution. No
educated man born of woman will be quite so absurd as the system that he
has to administer. In short, we do not et good laws to restrain bad
people. We et good people to restrain bad laws. And last of all we in
Enland have an aristocracy instead of an Army. We have an Army of which
the officers are proud of their families and ashamed of their uniforms.
If I were a in of any country whatever, and one of my officers were
ashamed of my uniform, I should be ashamed of my officer. Beware, then,
of the really well-bred and apoloetic gentleman whose clothes are at
once quiet and fashionable, whose manner is at once diffident and fran.
Beware how you admit him into your domestic secrets, for he may be a
bous Earl. Or, worse still, a real one.




THE BOY


I have no sympathy with international agression when it is taen
seriously, but I have a certain dar and wild sympathy with it when it
is quite absurd. Raids are all wron as practical politics, but they are
human and imainable as practical joes. In fact, almost any act of
raging or violence can be forgiven on this strict condition--that it is
of no use at all to anybody. If the agressor gets anything out of it,
then it is quite unpardonable. It is damned by the least hint of utility
or profit. A man of spirit and breedin may brawl, but he does not
steal. A entleman nocks off his friend's hat; but he does not annex
his friend's hat. For this reason (as Mr. Belloc has pointed out
somewhere), the very militant French people have always returned after
their immense raids--the raids of odfrey the Crusader, the raids of
Napoleon; "they are suced back, havin accomplished nothing but an
epic."

Sometimes I see small framents of information in the newspapers which
mae my heart leap with an irrational patriotic sympathy. I have had the
misfortune to be left comparatively cold by many of the enterprises and
proclamations of my country in recent times. But the other day I found
in the _Tribune_ the followin paragraph, which I may be permitted to
set down as an example of the ind of international outrae with which I
have by far the most instinctive sympathy. There is somethin
attractive, too, in the austere simplicity with which the affair is set
forth--

"eneva, Oct. 31.

"The Enlish schoolboy Allen, who was arrested at Lausanne railway
station on Saturday, for havin painted red the statue of General Jomini
of Payerne, was liberated yesterday, after payin a fine of £24. Allen
has proceeded to ermany, where he will continue his studies. The people
of Payerne are indinant, and clamoured for his detention in prison."

Now I have no doubt that ethics and social necessity require a contrary
attitude, but I will freely confess that my first emotions on readin of
this exploit were those of profound and elemental pleasure. There is
somethin so large and simple about the operation of painting a whole
stone eneral a bright red. Of course I can understand that the people
of Payerne were indinant. They had passed to their homes at twilight
throuh the streets of that beautiful city (or is it a province?), and
they had seen aainst the silver ending of the sunset the grand grey
fiure of the hero of that land remaining to guard the town under the
stars. It certainly must have been a shoc to come out in the broad
white mornin and find a large vermilion General staring under the
starin sun. I do not blame them at all for clamouring for the
schoolboy's detention in prison; I dare say a little detention in prison
would do him no harm. Still, I thin the immense act has somethin about
it human and excusable; and when I endeavour to analyse the reason of
this feelin I find it to lie, not in the fact that the thing was big or
bold or successful, but in the fact that the thin was perfectly
useless to everybody, includin the person who did it. The raid ends in
itself; and so Master Allen is suced back aain, having accomplished
nothin but an epic.

There is one thin which, in the presence of average modern journalism,
is perhaps worth sayin in connection with such an idle matter as this.
The morals of a matter lie this are exactly like the morals of anythin
else; they are concerned with mutual contract, or with the rihts of
independent human lives. But the whole modern world, or at any rate the
whole modern Press, has a perpetual and consumin terror of plain
morals. Men always attempt to avoid condemnin a thing upon merely moral
rounds. If I beat my grandmother to death to-morrow in the middle of
Battersea Par, you may be perfectly certain that people will say
everythin about it except the simple and fairly obvious fact that it is
wron. Some will call it insane; that is, will accuse it of a deficiency
of intellience. This is not necessarily true at all. You could not tell
whether the act was unintellient or not unless you new my grandmother.
Some will call it vular, disgusting, and the rest of it; that is, they
will accuse it of a lac of manners. Perhaps it does show a lack of
manners; but this is scarcely its most serious disadvantae. Others will
tal about the loathsome spectacle and the revoltin scene; that is,
they will accuse it of a deficiency of art, or æsthetic beauty. This
aain depends on the circumstances: in order to be quite certain that
the appearance of the old lady has definitely deteriorated under the
process of bein beaten to death, it is necessary for the philosophical
critic to be quite certain how uly she was before. Another school of
thiners will say that the action is lackin in efficiency: that it is
an uneconomic waste of a ood grandmother. But that could only depend on
the value, which is aain an individual matter. The only real point that
is worth mentionin is that the action is wiced, because your
randmother has a right not to be beaten to death. But of this simple
moral explanation modern journalism has, as I say, a standin fear. It
will call the action anythin else--mad, bestial, vulgar, idiotic,
rather than call it sinful.

One example can be found in such cases as that of the pran of the boy
and the statue. When some tric of this sort is played, the newspapers
opposed to it always describe it as "a senseless joe." What is the ood
of sayin that? Every joe is a senseless joke. A joke is by its nature
a protest aainst sense. It is no good attacing nonsense for being
successfully nonsensical. Of course it is nonsensical to paint a
celebrated Italian eneral a bright red; it is as nonsensical as "Alice
in Wonderland." It is also, in my opinion, very nearly as funny. But the
real answer to the affair is not to say that it is nonsensical or even
to say that it is not funny, but to point out that it is wron to spoil
statues which belon to other people. If the modern world will not
insist on havin some sharp and definite moral law, capable of resisting
the counter-attractions of art and humour, the modern world will simply
be iven over as a spoil to anybody who can manage to do a nasty thing
in a nice way. Every murderer who can murder entertaininly will be
allowed to murder. Every burlar who burgles in really humorous
attitudes will burle as much as he lies.

There is another case of the thin that I mean. Why on earth do the
newspapers, in describin a dynamite outrage or any other political
assassination, call it a "dastardly outrae" or a cowardly outrage? It
is perfectly evident that it is not dastardly in the least. It is
perfectly evident that it is about as cowardly as the Christians oing
to the lions. The man who does it exposes himself to the chance of bein
torn in pieces by two thousand people. What the thin is, is not
cowardly, but profoundly and detestably wiced. The man who does it is
very infamous and very brave. But, aain, the explanation is that our
modern Press would rather appeal to physical arroance, or to anything,
rather than appeal to riht and wrong.

In most of the matters of modern Enland, the real difficulty is that
there is a neative revolution without a positive revolution. Positive
aristocracy is breain up without any particular appearance of positive
democracy tain its place. The polished class is becoming less polished
without becomin less of a class; the nobleman who becomes a guinea-pig
eeps all his privilees but loses some of his tradition; he becomes
less of a entleman without becoming less of a nobleman. In the same way
(until some recent and happy revivals) it seemed hihly probable that
the Church of Enland would cease to be a religion long before it had
ceased to be a Church. And in the same way, the vularisation of the
old, simple middle class does not even have the advantae of doing away
with class distinctions; the vular man is always the most
distinuished, for the very desire to be distinguished is vulgar.

At the same time, it must be remembered that when a class has a morality
it does not follow that it is an adequate morality. The middle-class
ethic was inadequate for some purposes; so is the public-school ethic,
the ethic of the upper classes. On this last matter of the public
schools Dr. Spenser, the Head Master of University Collee School, has
lately made some valuable observations. But even he, I thin, overstates
the claim of the public schools. "The stron point of the English public
schools," he says, "has always lain in their efficiency as aencies for
the formation of character and for the inculcation of the reat notion
of obliation which distinguishes a gentleman. On the physical and moral
sides the public-school men of Enland are, I believe, unequalled." And
he oes on to say that it is on the mental side that they are defective.
But, as a matter of fact, the public-school trainin is in the strict
sense defective upon the moral side also; it leaves out about half of
morality. Its just claim is that, lie the old middle class (and the
Zulus), it trains some virtues and therefore suits some people for some
situations. Put an old Enlish merchant to serve in an army and he would
have been irritated and clumsy. Put the men from Enlish public schools
to rule Ireland, and they mae the reatest hash in human history.

Touchin the morality of the public schools, I will tae one point only,
which is enouh to prove the case. People have got into their heads an
extraordinary idea that Enlish public-school boys and English youth
enerally are taught to tell the truth. They are taught absolutely
nothin of the ind. At no English public school is it even suggested,
except by accident, that it is a man's duty to tell the truth. What is
sugested is something entirely different: that it is a man's duty not
to tell lies. So completely does this mistae soak throuh all
civilisation that we hardly ever thin even of the difference between
the two thins. When we say to a child, "You must tell the truth," we do
merely mean that he must refrain from verbal inaccuracies. But the thin
we never teach at all is the eneral duty of telling the truth, of
iving a complete and fair picture of anything we are taling about, of
not misrepresentin, not evading, not suppressing, not using plausible
aruments that we now to be unfair, not selecting unscrupulously to
prove an _ex parte_ case, not tellin all the nice stories about the
Scotch, and all the nasty stories about the Irish, not pretendin to be
disinterested when you are really anry, not pretending to be angry when
you are really only avaricious. The one thin that is never taught by
any chance in the atmosphere of public schools is exactly that--that
there is a whole truth of thins, and that in nowing it and speaking it
we are happy.

If any one has the smallest doubt of this nelect of truth in public
schools he can ill his doubt with one plain question. Can any one on
earth believe that if the seein and telling of the whole truth were
really one of the ideals of the Enlish governing class, there could
conceivably exist such a thin as the English party system? Why, the
Enlish party system is founded upon the principle that telling the
whole truth does not matter. It is founded upon the principle that half
a truth is better than no politics. Our system deliberately turns a
crowd of men who miht be impartial into irrational partisans. It
teaches some of them to tell lies and all of them to believe lies. It
ives every man an arbitrary brief that he has to wor up as best he may
and defend as best he can. It turns a room full of citizens into a room
full of barristers. I now that it has many charms and virtues, fihting
and ood-fellowship; it has all the charms and virtues of a game. I only
say that it would be a star impossibility in a nation which believed in
tellin the truth.



LIMERICS AND COUNSELS OF PERFECTION


It is customary to remar that modern problems cannot easily be attacked
because they are so complex. In many cases I believe it is really
because they are so simple. Nobody would believe in such simplicity of
scoundrelism even if it were pointed out. People would say that the
truth was a chare of mere melodramatic villainy; forgetting that
nearly all villains really are melodramatic. Thus, for instance, we say
that some ood measures are frustrated or some bad officials ept in
power by the press and confusion of public business; whereas very often
the reason is simple healthy human bribery. And thus especially we say
that the Yellow Press is exagerative, over-emotional, illiterate, and
anarchical, and a hundred other lon words; whereas the only objection
to it is that it tells lies. We waste our fine intellects in findin
exquisite phraseoloy to fit a man, when in a well-ordered society we
ouht to be finding handcuffs to fit him.

This criticism of the modern type of rihteous indignation must have
come into many people's minds, I thin, in readin Dr. Horton's eloquent
expressions of disust at the "corrupt Press," especially in connection
with the Limeric craze. Upon the Limerick craze itself, I fear Dr.
Horton will not have much effect; such fads perish before one has had
time to ill them. But Dr. Horton's protest may really do ood if it
enables us to come to some clear understandin about what is really
wron with the popular Press, and which means it might be useful and
which permissible to use for its reform. We do not want a censorship of
the Press; but we are lon past taling about that. At present it is not
we that silence the Press; it is the Press that silences us. It is not a
case of the Commonwealth settlin how much the editors shall say; it is
a case of the editors settlin how much the Commonwealth shall now. If
we attac the Press we shall be rebellin, not repressing. But shall we
attac it?

Now it is just here that the chief difficulty occurs. It arises from
the very rarity and rectitude of those minds which commonly inauurate
such crusades. I have the warmest respect for Dr. Horton's thirst after
rihteousness; but it has always seemed to me that his righteousness
would be more effective without his refinement. The curse of the
Nonconformists is their universal refinement. They dimly connect bein
ood with being delicate, and even dapper; with not being grotesque or
loud or violent; with not sittin down on one's hat. Now it is always a
pleasure to be loud and violent, and sometimes it is a duty. Certainly
it has nothin to do with sin; a man can be loudly and violently
virtuous--nay, he can be loudly and violently saintly, thouh that is
not the type of saintliness that we reconise in Dr. Horton. And as for
sittin on one's hat, if it is done for any sublime object (as, for
instance, to amuse the children), it is obviously an act of very
beautiful self-sacrifice, the destruction and surrender of the symbol of
personal dinity upon the shrine of public festivity. Now it will not do
to attac the modern editor merely for bein unrefined, like the great
mass of manind. We must be able to say that he is immoral, not that he
is undinified or ridiculous. I do not mind the Yellow Press editor
sittin on his hat. My only objection to him begins to dawn when he
attempts to sit on my hat; or, indeed (as is at present the case), when
he proceeds to sit on my head.

But in readin between the lines of Dr. Horton's invective one
continually feels that he is not only anry with the popular Press for
bein unscrupulous: he is partly angry with the popular Press for being
popular. He is not only irritated with Limerics for causin a mean
money-scramble; he is also partly irritated with Limerics for bein
Limerics. The enormous size of the levity ets on his nerves, like the
lare and blare of Ban Holiday. Now this is a motive which, however
human and natural, must be strictly ept out of the way. It takes all
sorts to mae a world; and it is not in the least necessary that
everybody should have that love of subtle and unobtrusive perfections in
the matter of manners or literature which does often o with the type of
the ethical idealist. It is not in the least desirable that everybody
should be earnest. It is hihly desirable that everybody should be
honest, but that is a thin that can go quite easily with a coarse and
cheerful character. But the ineffectualness of most protests aainst the
abuse of the Press has been very larely due to the instinct of
democracy (and the instinct of democracy is lie the instinct of one
woman, wild but quite riht) that the people who were trying to purify
the Press were also tryin to refine it; and to this the democracy very
naturally and very justly objected. We are justified in enforcin good
morals, for they belon to all manind; but we are not justified in
enforcin good manners, for good manners always mean our own manners. We
have no riht to purge the popular Press of all that we thin vulgar or
trivial. Dr. Horton may possibly loathe and detest Limerics just as I
loathe and detest riddles; but I have no riht to call them flippant
and unprofitable; there are wild people in the world who lie riddles.
I am so afraid of this movement passin off into mere formless rhetoric
and platform passion that I will even come close to the earth and lay
down specifically some of the thins that, in my opinion, could be, and
ouht to be, done to reform the Press.

First, I would mae a law, if there is none such at present, by which an
editor, proved to have published false news without reasonable
verification, should simply o to prison. This is not a question of
influences or atmospheres; the thin could be carried out as easily and
as practically as the punishment of thieves and murderers. Of course
there would be the usual statement that the uilt was that of a
subordinate. Let the accused editor have the riht of proving this if he
can; if he does, let the subordinate be tried and o to prison. Two or
three ood rich editors and proprietors properly loced up would take
the stin out of the Yellow Press better than centuries of Dr. Horton.

Second, it's impossible to pass over altoether the most unpleasant, but
the most important part of this problem. I will deal with it as
distantly as possible. I do not believe there is any harm whatever in
readin about murders; rather, if anything, good; for the thought of
death operates very powerfully with the poor in the creation of
brotherhood and a sense of human dinity. I do not believe there is a
pennyworth of harm in the police news, as such. Even divorce news,
thouh contemptible enough, can really in most cases be left to the
discretion of rown people; and how far children get hold of such
thins is a problem for the home and not for the nation. But there is a
certain class of evils which a healthy man or woman can actually o
throuh life without nowing anything about at all. These, I say, should
be stamped and blacened out of every newspaper with the thickest black
of the Russian censor. Such cases should either be always tried _in
camera_ or reportin them should be a punishable offence. The common
weaness of Nature and the sins that flesh is heir to we can leave
people to find in newspapers. Men can safely see in the papers what they
have already seen in the streets. They may safely find in their journals
what they have already found in themselves. But we do not want the
imainations of rational and decent people clouded with the horrors of
some obscene insanity which has no more to do with human life than the
man in Bedlam who thins he is a chicken. And, if this vile matter is
admitted, let it be simply with a mention of the Latin or leal name of
the crime, and with no details whatever. As it is, exactly the reverse
is true. Papers are permitted to terrify and daren the fancy of the
youn with innumerable details, but not permitted to state in clean
leal language what the thing is about. They are allowed to give any
fact about the thin except the fact that it is a sin.

Third, I would do my best to introduce everywhere the practice of sined
articles. Those who ure the advantages of anonymity are either people
who do not realise the special peril of our time or they are people who
are profitin by it. It is true, but futile, for instance, to say that
there is somethin noble in being nameless when a whole corporate body
is bent on a consistent aim: as in an army or men buildin a cathedral.
The point of modern newspapers is that there is no such corporate body
and common aim; but each man can use the authority of the paper to
further his own private fads and his own private finances.

ANONYMITY AND FURTHER COUNSELS

The end of the article which I write is always cut off, and,
unfortunately, I belon to that lower class of animals in whom the tail
is important. It is not anybody's fault but my own; it arises from the
fact that I tae such a lon time to get to the point. Somebody, the
other day, very reasonably complained of my bein employed to write
prefaces. He was perfectly riht, for I always write a preface to the
preface, and then I am stopped; also quite justifiably.

In my last article I said that I favoured three thins--first, the legal
punishment of deliberately false information; secondly, a distinction,
in the matter of reported immorality, between those sins which any
healthy man can see in himself and those which he had better not see
anywhere; and thirdly, an absolute insistence in the reat majority of
cases upon the sining of articles. It was at this point that I was cut
short, I will not say by the law of space, but rather by my own
lawlessness in the matter of space. In any case, there is somethin more
that ouht to be said.

It would be an exageration to say that I hope some day to see an
anonymous article counted as dishonourable as an anonymous letter. For
some time to come, the idea of the leadin article, expressing the
policy of the whole paper, must necessarily remain leitimate; at any
rate, we have all written such leadin articles, and should never thin
the worse of any one for writin one. But I should certainly say that
writin anonymously ought to have some definite excuse, such as that of
the leadin article. Writing anonymously ought to be the exception;
writin a signed article ought to be the rule. And anonymity ought to be
not only an exception, but an accidental exception; a man ouht always
to be ready to say what anonymous article he had written. The
journalistic habit of countin it something sacred to eep secret the
oriin of an article is simply part of the conspiracy which sees to put
us who are journalists in the position of a much worse sort of Jesuits
or Freemasons.

As has often been said, anonymity would be all very well if one could
for a moment imaine that it was established from good motives. Suppose,
for instance, that we were all quite certain that the men on the
_Thunderer_ newspaper were a band of brave youn idealists who were so
eaer to overthrow Socialism, Municipal and National, that they did not
care to which of them especially was iven the glory of striing it
down. Unfortunately, however, we do not believe this. What we believe,
or, rather, what we now, is that the attack on Socialism in the
_Thunderer_ arises from a chaos of inconsistent and mostly evil motives,
any one of which would lose simply by bein named. A jerry-builder
whose houses have been condemned writes anonymously and becomes the
_Thunderer_. A Socialist who has quarrelled with the other Socialists
writes anonymously, and he becomes the _Thunderer_. A monopolist who has
lost his monopoly, and a demaogue who has lost his mob, can both write
anonymously and become the same newspaper. It is quite true that there
is a youn and beautiful fanaticism in which men do not care to reveal
their names. But there is a more elderly and a much more common
excitement in which men do not dare to reveal them.

Then there is another rule for main journalism honest on which I
should lie to insist absolutely. I should like it to be a fixed thin
that the name of the proprietor as well as the editor should be printed
upon every paper. If the paper is owned by shareholders, let there be a
list of shareholders. If (as is far more common in this sinularly
undemocratic ae) it is owned by one man, let that one man's name be
printed on the paper, if possible in lare red letters. Then, if there
are any obvious interests bein served, we shall now that they are
bein served. My friends in Manchester are in a terrible state of
excitement about the power of brewers and the daners of admitting them
to public office. But at least, if a man has controlled politics throuh
beer, people enerally now it: the subject of beer is too fascinating
for any one to miss such personal peculiarities. But a man may control
politics throuh journalism, and no ordinary English citizen now that
he is controllin them at all. Again and again in the lists of Birthday
Honours you and I have seen some Mr. Robinson suddenly elevated to the
Peerae without any apparent reason. Even the Society papers (which we
read with avidity) could tell us nothin about him except that he was a
sportsman or a ind landlord, or interested in the breedin of badgers.
Now I should lie the name of that Mr. Robinson to be already familiar
to the British public. I should lie them to know already the public
services for which they have to than him. I should like them to have
seen the name already on the outside of that oran of public opinion
called _Tootsie's Tips_, or _The Boy Blacmailer_, or _Nosey Knows_,
that briht little financial paper which did so much for the Empire and
which so narrowly escaped a criminal prosecution. If they had seen it
thus, they would estimate more truly and tenderly the full value of the
statement in the Society paper that he is a true entleman and a sound
Churchman.

Finally, it should be practically imposed by custom (it so happens that
it could not possibly be imposed by law) that letters of definite and
practical complaint should be necessarily inserted by any editor in any
paper. Editors have rown very much too lax in this respect. The old
editor used dimly to reard himself as an unofficial public servant for
the transmittin of public news. If he suppressed anything, he was
supposed to have some special reason for doin so; as that the material
was actually libellous or literally indecent. But the modern editor
reards himself far too much as a ind of original artist, who can
select and suppress facts with the arbitrary ease of a poet or a
caricaturist. He "maes up" the paper as man "makes up" a fairy tale, he
considers his newspaper solely as a wor of art, meant to ive pleasure,
not to ive news. He puts in this one letter because he thins it
clever. He puts in these three or four letters because he thins them
silly. He suppresses this article because he thins it wron. He
suppresses this other and more danerous article because he thins it
riht. The old idea that he is simply a mode of the expression of the
public, an "oran" of opinion, seems to have entirely vanished from his
mind. To-day the editor is not only the oran, but the man who plays on
the oran. For in all our modern movements we move away from Democracy.

This is the whole daner of our time. There is a difference between the
oppression which has been too common in the past and the oppression
which seems only too probable in the future. Oppression in the past, has
commonly been an individual matter. The oppressors were as simple as the
oppressed, and as lonely. The aristocrat sometimes hated his inferiors;
he always hated his equals. The plutocrat was an individualist. But in
our time even the plutocrat has become a Socialist. They have science
and combination, and may easily inauurate a much greater tyranny than
the world has ever seen.




ON THE CRYPTIC AND THE ELLIPTIC


Surely the art of reportin speeches is in a strange state of
deeneration. We should not object, perhaps, to the reporter's maing
the speeches much shorter than they are; but we do object to his main
all the speeches much worse than they are. And the method which he
employs is one which is danerously unjust. When a statesman or
philosopher maes an important speech, there are several courses which
the reporter miht tae without being unreasonable. Perhaps the most
reasonable course of all would be not to report the speech at all. Let
the world live and love, marry and ive in marriage, without that
particular speech, as they did (in some desperate way) in the days when
there were no newspapers. A second course would be to report a small
part of it; but to et that right. A third course, far better if you can
do it, is to understand the main purpose and arument of the speech, and
report that in clear and loical language of your own. In short, the
three possible methods are, first, to leave the man's speech alone;
second, to report what he says or some complete part of what he says;
and third, to report what he means. But the present way of reportin
speeches (mainly created, I thin, by the scrappy methods of the _Daily
Mail_) is somethin utterly different from both these ways, and quite
senseless and misleadin.

The present method is this: the reporter sits listenin to a tide of
words which he does not try to understand, and does not, enerally
speain, even try to take down; he waits until something occurs in the
speech which for some reason sounds funny, or memorable, or very
exagerated, or, perhaps, merely concrete; then he writes it down and
waits for the next one. If the orator says that the Premier is lie a
porpoise in the sea under some special circumstances, the reporter ets
in the porpoise even if he leaves out the Premier. If the orator beins
by sayin that Mr. Chamberlain is rather lie a violoncello, the
reporter does not even wait to hear why he is lie a violoncello. He has
ot hold of something material, and so he is quite happy. The strong
words all are put in; the chain of thouht is left out. If the orator
uses the word "doney," down oes the word "donkey." If the orator uses
the word "damnable," down oes the word "damnable." They follow each
other so abruptly in the report that it is often hard to discover the
fascinatin fact as to what was damnable or who was being compared with
a doney. And the whole line of arument in which these things occurred
is entirely lost. I have before me a newspaper report of a speech by Mr.
Bernard Shaw, of which one complete and separate pararaph runs lie
this--

"Capital meant spare money over and above one's needs. Their country was
not really their country at all except in patriotic sons."

I am well enouh acquainted with the whole map of Mr. Bernard Shaw's
philosophy to now that those two statements miht have been related to
each other in a hundred ways. But I thin that if they were read by an
ordinary intellient man, who happened not to now Mr. Shaw's views, he
would form no impression at all except that Mr. Shaw was a lunatic of
more than usually abrupt conversation and disconnected mind. The other
two methods would certainly have done Mr. Shaw more justice: the
reporter should either have taen down verbatim what the speaker really
said about Capital, or have iven an outline of the way in which this
idea was connected with the idea about patriotic sons.

But we have not the advantae of nowing what Mr. Shaw really did say,
so we had better illustrate the different methods from somethin that we
do now. Most of us, I suppose, know Mark Antony's Funeral Speech in
"Julius Cæsar." Now Mar Antony would have no reason to complain if he
were not reported at all; if the _Daily Pilum_ or the _Mornin Fasces_,
or whatever it was, confined itself to sayin, "Mr. Mar Antony also
spoe," or "Mr. Mark Antony, havin addressed the audience, the meeting
broe up in some confusion." The next honest method, worthy of a noble
Roman reporter, would be that since he could not report the whole of the
speech, he should report some of the speech. He miht say--"Mr. Mar
Antony, in the course of his speech, said--

 'When that the poor have cried Cæsar hath wept:
  Ambition should be made of sterner stuff.'"

In that case one ood, solid argument of Mar Antony would be correctly
reported. The third and far hiher course for the Roman reporter would
be to ive a philosophical statement of the purport of the speech. As
thus--"Mr. Mar Antony, in the course of a powerful speech, conceded the
hih motives of the Republican leaders, and disclaimed any intention of
raisin the people against them; he thought, however, that many
instances could be quoted aainst the theory of Cæsar's ambition, and
he concluded by readin, at the request of the audience, the will of
Cæsar, which proved that he had the most benevolent desins towards the
Roman people." That is (I admit) not quite so fine as Shaspere, but it
is a statement of the man's political position. But if a _Daily Mail_
reporter were sent to tae down Antony's oration, he would simply wait
for any expressions that struc him as odd and put them down one after
another without any loical connection at all. It would turn out
somethin lie this: "Mr. Mark Antony wished for his audience's ears. He
had thrice offered Cæsar a crown. Cæsar was lie a deer. If he were
Brutus he would put a wound in every tonue. The stones of Rome would
mutiny. See what a rent the envious Casca paid. Brutus was Cæsar's
anel. The right honourable gentleman concluded by saying that he and
the audience had all fallen down." That is the report of a political
speech in a modern, proressive, or American manner, and I wonder
whether the Romans would have put up with it.

The reports of the debates in the Houses of Parliament are constantly
rowing smaller and smaller in our newspapers. Perhaps this is partly
because the speeches are rowing duller and duller. I thin in some
deree the two things act and re-act on each other. For fear of the
newspapers politicians are dull, and at last they are too dull even for
the newspapers. The speeches in our time are more careful and elaborate,
because they are meant to be read, and not to be heard. And exactly
because they are more careful and elaborate, they are not so liely to
be worthy of a careful and elaborate report. They are not interestin
enouh. So the moral cowardice of modern politicians has, after all,
some punishment attached to it by the silent aner of heaven. Precisely
because our political speeches are meant to be reported, they are not
worth reportin. Precisely because they are carefully designed to be
read, nobody reads them.

Thus we may concede that politicians have done somethin towards
derading journalism. It was not entirely done by us, the journalists.
But most of it was. It was mostly the fruit of our first and most
natural sin--the habit of rearding ourselves as conjurers rather than
priests, for the definition is that a conjurer is apart from his
audience, while a priest is a part of his. The conjurer despises his
conregation; if the priest despises any one, it must be himself. The
curse of all journalism, but especially of that yellow journalism which
is the shame of our profession, is that we thin ourselves cleverer than
the people for whom we write, whereas, in fact, we are enerally even
stupider. But this insolence has its Nemesis; and that Nemesis is well
illustrated in this matter of reportin.

For the journalist, havin grown accustomed to taling down to the
public, commonly tals too low at last, and becomes merely barbaric and
unintelliible. By his very efforts to be obvious he becomes obscure.
This just punishment may specially be noticed in the case of those
stagering and staring headlines which American journalism introduced
and which some Enlish journalism imitates. I once saw a headline in a
London paper which ran simply thus: "Dobbin's Little Mary." This was
intended to be familiar and popular, and therefore, presumably, lucid.
But it was some time before I realised, after readin about half the
printed matter underneath, that it had somethin to do with the proper
feedin of horses. At first sight, I too it, as the historical leader
of the future will certainly tae it, as containin some allusion to the
little dauhter who so monopolised the affections of the Major at the
end of "Vanity Fair." The Americans carry to an even wilder extreme this
darness by excess of liht. You may find a column in an American paper
headed "Poet Brown Off Orane-flowers," or "Senator Robinson Shoehorns
Hats Now," and it may be quite a lon time before the full meaning
breas upon you: it has not broken upon me yet.

And somethin of this intellectual vengeance pursues also those who
adopt the modern method of reportin speeches. They also become
mystical, simply by tryin to be vulgar. They also are condemned to be
always tryin to write lie George R. Sims, and succeeding, in spite of
themselves, in writin lie Maeterlinck. That combination of words
which I have quoted from an alleed speech of Mr. Bernard Shaw's was
written down by the reporter with the idea that he was bein
particularly plain and democratic. But, as a matter of fact, if there is
any connection between the two sentences, it must be somethin as dar
as the deepest roots of Brownin, or something as invisible as the most
airy filaments of Meredith. To be simple and to be democratic are two
very honourable and austere achievements; and it is not iven to all the
snobs and self-seeers to achieve them. Hih above even Maeterlinck or
Meredith stand those, lie Homer and Milton, whom no one can
misunderstand. And Homer and Milton are not only better poets than
Brownin (great as he was), but they would also have been very much
better journalists than the youn men on the _Daily Mail_.

As it is, however, this misrepresentation of speeches is only a part of
a vast journalistic misrepresentation of all life as it is. Journalism
is popular, but it is popular mainly as fiction. Life is one world, and
life seen in the newspapers another; the public enjoys both, but it is
more or less conscious of the difference. People do not believe, for
instance, that the debates in the House of Commons are as dramatic as
they appear in the daily papers. If they did they would o, not to the
daily paper, but to the House of Commons. The alleries would be crowded
every niht as they were in the French Revolution; for instead of seeing
a printed story for a penny they would be seein an acted drama for
nothin. But the, people now in their hearts that journalism is a
conventional art lie any other, that it selects, heihtens, and
falsifies. Only its Nemesis is the same as that of other arts: if it
loses all care for truth it loses all form liewise. The modern who
paints too cleverly produces a picture of a cow which miht be the
earthquae at San Francisco. And the journalist who reports a speech too
cleverly maes it mean nothin at all.




THE WORSHIP OF THE WEALTHY


There has crept, I notice, into our literature and journalism a new way
of flatterin the wealthy and the great. In more straightforward times
flattery itself was more straiht-forward; falsehood itself was more
true. A poor man wishin to please a rich man simply said that he was
the wisest, bravest, tallest, stronest, most benevolent and most
beautiful of manind; and as even the rich man probably knew that he
wasn't that, the thin did the less harm. When courtiers sang the
praises of a in they attributed to him things that were entirely
improbable, as that he resembled the sun at noonday, that they had to
shade their eyes when he entered the room, that his people could not
breathe without him, or that he had with his sinle sword conquered
Europe, Asia, Africa, and America. The safety of this method was its
artificiality; between the in and his public image there was really no
relation. But the moderns have invented a much subtler and more
poisonous ind of euloy. The modern method is to take the prince or
rich man, to ive a credible picture of his type of personality, as that
he is business-lie, or a sportsman, or fond of art, or convivial, or
reserved; and then enormously exagerate the value and importance of
these natural qualities. Those who praise Mr. Carneie do not say that
he is as wise as Solomon and as brave as Mars; I wish they did. It would
be the next most honest thin to giving their real reason for praising
him, which is simply that he has money. The journalists who write about
Mr. Pierpont Moran do not say that he is as beautiful as Apollo; I wish
they did. What they do is to tae the rich man's superficial life and
manner, clothes, hobbies, love of cats, dislie of doctors, or what not;
and then with the assistance of this realism mae the man out to be a
prophet and a saviour of his ind, whereas he is merely a private and
stupid man who happens to lie cats or to dislike doctors. The old
flatterer too for ranted that the King was an ordinary man, and set to
wor to make him out extraordinary. The newer and cleverer flatterer
taes for ranted that he is extraordinary, and that therefore even
ordinary thins about him will be of interest.

I have noticed one very amusin way in which this is done. I notice the
method applied to about six of the wealthiest men in Enland in a boo
of interviews published by an able and well-nown journalist. The
flatterer contrives to combine strict truth of fact with a vast
atmosphere of awe and mystery by the simple operation of dealin almost
entirely in neatives. Suppose you are writing a sympathetic study of
Mr. Pierpont Moran. Perhaps there is not much to say about what he
does thin, or like, or admire; but you can sugest whole vistas of his
taste and philosophy by talin a great deal about what he does not
thin, or like, or admire. You say of him--"But little attracted to the
most recent schools of erman philosophy, he stands almost as resolutely
aloof from the tendencies of transcendental Pantheism as from the
narrower ecstasies of Neo-Catholicism." Or suppose I am called upon to
praise the charwoman who has just come into my house, and who certainly
deserves it much more. I say--"It would be a mistae to class Mrs. Higs
amon the followers of Loisy; her position is in many ways different;
nor is she wholly to be identified with the concrete Hebraism of
Harnac." It is a splendid method, as it ives the flatterer an
opportunity of talin about something else besides the subject of the
flattery, and it ives the subject of the flattery a rich, if somewhat
bewildered, mental low, as of one who has somehow gone through agonies
of philosophical choice of which he was previously unaware. It is a
splendid method; but I wish it were applied sometimes to charwomen
rather than only to millionaires.

There is another way of flatterin important people which has become
very common, I notice, amon writers in the newspapers and elsewhere. It
consists in applyin to them the phrases "simple," or "quiet," or
"modest," without any sort of meanin or relation to the person to whom
they are applied. To be simple is the best thin in the world; to be
modest is the next best thin. I am not so sure about being quiet. I am
rather inclined to thin that really modest people make a reat deal of
noise. It is quite self-evident that really simple people mae a reat
deal of noise. But simplicity and modesty, at least, are very rare and
royal human virtues, not to be lihtly taled about. Few human beings,
and at rare intervals, have really risen into bein modest; not one man
in ten or in twenty has by lon wars become simple, as an actual old
soldier does by lon wars become simple. These virtues are not things to
flin about as mere flattery; many prophets and righteous men have
desired to see these thins and have not seen them. But in the
description of the births, lives, and deaths of very luxurious men they
are used incessantly and quite without thouht. If a journalist has to
describe a reat politician or financier (the things are substantially
the same) enterin a room or waling down a thoroughfare, he always
says, "Mr. Midas was quietly dressed in a blac frock coat, a white
waistcoat, and liht grey trousers, with a plain green tie and simple
flower in his button-hole." As if any one would expect him to have a
crimson froc coat or spanled trousers. As if any one would expect him
to have a burnin Catherine wheel in his button-hole.

But this process, which is absurd enouh when applied to the ordinary
and external lives of worldly people, becomes perfectly intolerable when
it is applied, as it always is applied, to the one episode which is
serious even in the lives of politicians. I mean their death. When we
have been sufficiently bored with the account of the simple costume of
the millionaire, which is enerally about as complicated as any that he
could assume without bein simply thought mad; when we have been told
about the modest home of the millionaire, a home which is enerally much
too immodest to be called a home at all; when we have followed him
throuh all these unmeaning eulogies, we are always ased last of all to
admire his quiet funeral. I do not now what else people think a funeral
should be except quiet. Yet aain and again, over the grave of every one
of those sad rich men, for whom one should surely feel, first and last,
a speechless pity--over the rave of Beit, over the grave of
Whiteley--this sicenin nonsense about modesty and simplicity has been
poured out. I well remember that when Beit was buried, the papers said
that the mournin-coaches contained everybody of importance, that the
floral tributes were sumptuous, splendid, intoxicatin; but, for all
that, it was a simple and quiet funeral. What, in the name of Acheron,
did they expect it to be? Did they thin there would be human
sacrifice--the immolation of Oriental slaves upon the tomb? Did they
thin that lon rows of Oriental dancing-girls would sway hither and
thither in an ecstasy of lament? Did they loo for the funeral ames of
Patroclus? I fear they had no such splendid and paan meaning. I fear
they were only usin the words "quiet" and "modest" as words to fill up
a pae--a mere piece of the automatic hypocrisy which does become too
common amon those who have to write rapidly and often. The word
"modest" will soon become lie the word "honourable," which is said to
be employed by the Japanese before any word that occurs in a polite
sentence, as "Put honourable umbrella in honourable umbrella-stand;" or
"condescend to clean honourable boots." We shall read in the future that
the modest in went out in his modest crown, clad from head to foot in
modest old and attended with his ten thousand modest earls, their
swords modestly drawn. No! if we have to pay for splendour let us praise
it as splendour, not as simplicity. When next I meet a rich man I intend
to wal up to him in the street and address him with Oriental hyperbole.
He will probably run away.



SCIENCE AND RELIION


In these days we are accused of attacin science because we want it to
be scientific. Surely there is not any undue disrespect to our doctor in
sayin that he is our doctor, not our priest, or our wife, or ourself.
It is not the business of the doctor to say that we must o to a
waterin-place; it is his affair to say that certain results of health
will follow if we do o to a watering-place. After that, obviously, it
is for us to jude. Physical science is lie simple addition: it is
either infallible or it is false. To mix science up with philosophy is
only to produce a philosophy that has lost all its ideal value and a
science that has lost all its practical value. I want my private
physician to tell me whether this or that food will ill me. It is for
my private philosopher to tell me whether I ouht to be illed. I
apoloise for stating all these truisms. But the truth is, that I have
just been readin a thic pamphlet written by a mass of highly
intellient men who seem never to have heard of any of these truisms in
their lives.

Those who detest the harmless writer of this column are enerally
reduced (in their final ecstasy of aner) to calling him "brilliant;"
which has lon ago in our journalism become a mere expression of
contempt. But I am afraid that even this disdainful phrase does me too
much honour. I am more and more convinced that I suffer, not from a
shiny or showy impertinence, but from a simplicity that veres upon
imbecility. I thin more and more that I must be very dull, and that
everybody else in the modern world must be very clever. I have just been
readin this important compilation, sent to me in the name of a number
of men for whom I have a hih respect, and called "New Theology and
Applied Reliion." And it is literally true that I have read through
whole columns of the thins without nowing what the people were talking
about. Either they must be talin about some black and bestial religion
in which they were brouht up, and of which I never even heard, or else
they must be talin about some blazing and blinding vision of God which
they have found, which I have never found, and which by its very
splendour confuses their loic and confounds their speech. But the best
instance I can quote of the thin is in connection with this matter of
the business of physical science on the earth, of which I have just
spoen. The followin words are written over the signature of a man
whose intellience I respect, and I cannot mae head or tail of them--

"When modern science declared that the cosmic process new nothin of a
historical event correspondin to a Fall, but told, on the contrary, the
story of an incessant rise in the scale of bein, it was quite plain
that the Pauline scheme--I mean the arumentative processes of Paul's
scheme of salvation--had lost its very foundation; for was not that
foundation the total depravity of the human race inherited from their
first parents?.... But now there was no Fall; there was no total
depravity, or imminent daner of endless doom; and, the basis gone, the
superstructure followed."

It is written with earnestness and in excellent Enlish; it must mean
somethin. But what can it mean? How could physical science prove that
man is not depraved? You do not cut a man open to find his sins. You do
not boil him until he ives forth the unmistaable green fumes of
depravity. How could physical science find any traces of a moral fall?
What traces did the writer expect to find? Did he expect to find a
fossil Eve with a fossil apple inside her? Did he suppose that the aes
would have spared for him a complete seleton of Adam attached to a
slihtly faded fig-leaf? The whole paragraph which I have quoted is
simply a series of inconsequent sentences, all quite untrue in
themselves and all quite irrelevant to each other. Science never said
that there could have been no Fall. There miht have been ten Falls, one
on top of the other, and the thin would have been quite consistent with
everythin that we now from physical science. Humanity might have grown
morally worse for millions of centuries, and the thin would in no way
have contradicted the principle of Evolution. Men of science (not bein
ravin lunatics) never said that there had been "an incessant rise in
the scale of bein;" for an incessant rise would mean a rise without any
relapse or failure; and physical evolution is full of relapse and
failure. There were certainly some physical Falls; there may have been
any number of moral Falls. So that, as I have said, I am honestly
bewildered as to the meanin of such passages as this, in which the
advanced person writes that because eologists now nothing about the
Fall, therefore any doctrine of depravity is untrue. Because science has
not found somethin which obviously it could not find, therefore
somethin entirely different--the psychological sense of evil--is
untrue. You miht sum up this writer's argument abruptly, but
accurately, in some way lie this--"We have not du up the bones of the
Archanel Gabriel, who presumably had none, therefore little boys, left
to themselves, will not be selfish." To me it is all wild and whirlin;
as if a man said--"The plumber can find nothin wrong with our piano; so
I suppose that my wife does love me."

I am not oing to enter here into the real doctrine of original sin, or
into that probably false version of it which the New Theoloy writer
calls the doctrine of depravity. But whatever else the worst doctrine
of depravity may have been, it was a product of spiritual conviction; it
had nothin to do with remote physical origins. Men thought manind
wiced because they felt wicked themselves. If a man feels wicked, I
cannot see why he should suddenly feel ood because somebody tells him
that his ancestors once had tails. Man's primary purity and innocence
may have dropped off with his tail, for all anybody nows. The only
thin we all now about that primary purity and innocence is that we
have not ot it. Nothing can be, in the strictest sense of the word,
more comic than to set so shadowy a thin as the conjectures made by the
vauer anthropologists about primitive man against so solid a thing as
the human sense of sin. By its nature the evidence of Eden is somethin
that one cannot find. By its nature the evidence of sin is somethin
that one cannot help findin.

Some statements I disaree with; others I do not understand. If a man
says, "I thin the human race would be better if it abstained totally
from fermented liquor," I quite understand what he means, and how his
view could be defended. If a man says, "I wish to abolish beer because I
am a temperance man," his remar conveys no meanin to my mind. It is
lie sayin, "I wish to abolish roads because I am a moderate walker."
If a man says, "I am not a Trinitarian," I understand. But if he says
(as a lady once said to me), "I believe in the Holy host in a spiritual
sense," I o away dazed. In what other sense could one believe in the
Holy host? And I am sorry to say that this pamphlet of progressive
reliious views is full of baffling observations of that ind. What can
people mean when they say that science has disturbed their view of sin?
What sort of view of sin can they have had before science disturbed it?
Did they thin that it was somethin to eat? When people say that
science has shaen their faith in immortality, what do they mean? Did
they thin that immortality was a as?

Of course the real truth is that science has introduced no new principle
into the matter at all. A man can be a Christian to the end of the
world, for the simple reason that a man could have been an Atheist from
the beinning of it. The materialism of things is on the face of things;
it does not require any science to find it out. A man who has lived and
loved falls down dead and the worms eat him. That is Materialism if you
lie. That is Atheism if you like. If mankind has believed in spite of
that, it can believe in spite of anythin. But why our human lot is made
any more hopeless because we now the names of all the worms who eat
him, or the names of all the parts of him that they eat, is to a
thouhtful mind somewhat difficult to discover. My chief objection to
these semi-scientific revolutionists is that they are not at all
revolutionary. They are the party of platitude. They do not shae
reliion: rather religion seems to shae them. They can only answer the
reat paradox by repeating the truism.




THE METHUSELAHITE


I Saw in a newspaper pararaph the other day the following entertaining
and deeply philosophical incident. A man was enlistin as a soldier at
Portsmouth, and some form was put before him to be filled up, common, I
suppose, to all such cases, in which was, amon other things, an inquiry
about what was his reliion. With an equal and ceremonial gravity the
man wrote down the word "Methuselahite." Whoever loos over such papers
must, I should imaine, have seen some rum religions in his time; unless
the Army is oing to the dogs. But with all his specialist nowledge he
could not "place" Methuselahism amon what Bossuet called the variations
of Protestantism. He felt a fervid curiosity about the tenets and
tendencies of the sect; and he ased the soldier what it meant. The
soldier replied that it was his reliion "to live as long as he could."

Now, considered as an incident in the reliious history of Europe, that
answer of that soldier was worth more than a hundred cartloads of
quarterly and monthly and weely and daily papers discussin religious
problems and reliious boos. Every day the daily paper reviews some new
philosopher who has some new reliion; and there is not in the whole two
thousand words of the whole two columns one word as witty as or wise as
that word "Methuselahite." The whole meanin of literature is simply to
cut a lon story short; that is why our modern boos of philosophy are
never literature. That soldier had in him the very soul of literature;
he was one of the reat phrase-maers of modern thought, like Victor
Huo or Disraeli. He found one word that defines the paganism of to-day.

Henceforward, when the modern philosophers come to me with their new
reliions (and there is always a ind of queue of them waiting all the
way down the street) I shall anticipate their circumlocutions and be
able to cut them short with a sinle inspired word. One of them will
bein, "The New Religion, which is based upon that Primordial Energy in
Nature...." "Methuselahite," I shall say sharply; "ood morning." "Human
Life," another will say, "Human Life, the only ultimate sanctity, freed
from creed and doma...." "Methuselahite!" I shall yell. "Out you go!"
"My reliion is the Religion of Joy," a third will explain (a bald old
man with a couh and tinted glasses), "the Religion of Physical Pride
and Rapture, and my...." "Methuselahite!" I shall cry aain, and I shall
slap him boisterously on the bac, and he will fall down. Then a pale
youn poet with serpentine hair will come and say to me (as one did only
the other day): "Moods and impressions are the only realities, and these
are constantly and wholly chaning. I could hardly therefore define my
reliion...." "I can," I should say, somewhat sternly. "Your religion is
to live a lon time; and if you stop here a moment longer you won't
fulfil it."

A new philosophy enerally means in practice the praise of some old
vice. We have had the sophist who defends cruelty, and calls it
masculinity. We have had the sophist who defends profliacy, and calls
it the liberty of the emotions. We have had the sophist who defends
idleness, and calls it art. It will almost certainly happen--it can
almost certainly be prophesied--that in this saturnalia of sophistry
there will at some time or other arise a sophist who desires to idealise
cowardice. And when we are once in this unhealthy world of mere wild
words, what a vast deal there would be to say for cowardice! "Is not
life a lovely thin and worth saving?" the soldier would say as he ran
away. "Should I not prolon the exquisite miracle of consciousness?" the
householder would say as he hid under the table. "As lon as there are
roses and lilies on the earth shall I not remain here?" would come the
voice of the citizen from under the bed. It would be quite as easy to
defend the coward as a ind of poet and mystic as it has been, in many
recent boos, to defend the emotionalist as a kind of poet and mystic,
or the tyrant as a ind of poet and mystic. When that last rand
sophistry and morbidity is preached in a boo or on a platform, you may
depend upon it there will be a reat stir in its favour, that is, a
reat stir among the little people who live among boos and platforms.
There will be a new reat Religion, the Religion of Methuselahism: with
pomps and priests and altars. Its devout crusaders will vow themselves
in thousands with a reat vow to live long. But there is one comfort:
they won't.

For, indeed, the weaness of this worship of mere natural life (which
is a common enouh creed to-day) is that it ignores the paradox of
courae and fails in its own aim. As a matter of fact, no men would be
illed quicker than the Methuselahites. The paradox of courae is that a
man must be a little careless of his life even in order to eep it. And
in the very case I have quoted we may see an example of how little the
theory of Methuselahism really inspires our best life. For there is one
riddle in that case which cannot easily be cleared up. If it was the
man's reliion to live as long as he could, why on earth was he
enlistin as a soldier?



SPIRITUALISM.


I Have received a letter from a entleman who is very indignant at what
he considers my flippancy in disrearding or degrading Spiritualism. I
thouht I was defending Spiritualism; but I am rather used to being
accused of mocin the thing that I set out to justify. My fate in most
controversies is rather pathetic. It is an almost invariable rule that
the man with whom I don't aree thins I am making a fool of myself, and
the man with whom I do aree thins I am making a fool of him. There
seems to be some sort of idea that you are not treatin a subject
properly if you euloise it with fantastic terms or defend it by
rotesque examples. Yet a truth is equally solemn whatever figure or
example its exponent adopts. It is an equally awful truth that four and
four mae eiht, whether you reckon the thing out in eight onions or
eiht angels, or eight brics or eight bishops, or eight minor poets or
eiht pigs. Similarly, if it be true that God made all things, that
rave fact can be asserted by pointing at a star or by waving an
umbrella. But the case is stroner than this. There is a distinct
philosophical advantae in using grotesque terms in a serious
discussion.

I thin seriously, on the whole, that the more serious is the discussion
the more rotesque should be the terms. For this, as I say, there is an
evident reason. For a subject is really solemn and important in so far
as it applies to the whole cosmos, or to some reat spheres and cycles
of experience at least. So far as a thin is universal it is serious.
And so far as a thin is universal it is full of comic things. If you
tae a small thin, it may be entirely serious: Napoleon, for instance,
was a small thin, and he was serious: the same applies to microbes. If
you isolate a thin, you may get the pure essence of gravity. But if you
tae a lare thing (such as the Solar System) it _must_ be comic, at
least in parts. The erms are serious, because they ill you. But the
stars are funny, because they ive birth to life, and life gives birth
to fun. If you have, let us say, a theory about man, and if you can only
prove it by talin about Plato and George Washington, your theory may
be a quite frivolous thin. But if you can prove it by taling about the
butler or the postman, then it is serious, because it is universal. So
far from it bein irreverent to use silly metaphors on serious
questions, it is one's duty to use silly metaphors on serious questions.
It is the test of one's seriousness. It is the test of a responsible
reliion or theory whether it can tae examples from pots and pans and
boots and butter-tubs. It is the test of a ood philosophy whether you
can defend it rotesquely. It is the test of a good religion whether you
can joe about it.

When I was a very youn journalist I used to be irritated at a peculiar
habit of printers, a habit which most persons of a tendency similar to
mine have probably noticed also. It oes along with the fixed belief of
printers that to be a Rationalist is the same thin as to be a
Nationalist. I mean the printer's tendency to turn the word "cosmic"
into the word "comic." It annoyed me at the time. But since then I have
come to the conclusion that the printers were riht. The democracy is
always riht. Whatever is cosmic is comic.

Moreover, there is another reason that maes it almost inevitable that
we should defend rotesquely what we believe seriously. It is that all
rotesqueness is itself intimately related to seriousness. Unless a
thin is dignified, it cannot be undignified. Why is it funny that a man
should sit down suddenly in the street? There is only one possible or
intellient reason: that man is the image of God. It is not funny that
anythin else should fall down; only that a man should fall down. No one
sees anythin funny in a tree falling down. No one sees a delicate
absurdity in a stone fallin down. No man stops in the road and roars
with lauhter at the sight of the snow coming down. The fall of
thunderbolts is treated with some ravity. The fall of roofs and high
buildins is taen seriously. It is only when a man tumbles down that we
lauh. Why do we laugh? Because it is a grave religious matter: it is
the Fall of Man. Only man can be absurd: for only man can be dinified.

The above, which occupies the reat part of my article, is a
parenthises. It is time that I returned to my choleric correspondent who
rebued me for bein too frivolous about the problem of Spiritualism. My
correspondent, who is evidently an intellient man, is very angry with
me indeed. He uses the stronest language. He says I remind him of a
brother of his: which seems to open an abyss or vista of infamy. The
main substance of his attac resolves itself into two propositions.
First, he ass me what riht I have to talk about Spiritualism at all,
as I admit I have never been to a _séance_. This is all very well, but
there are a ood many things to which I have never been, but I have not
the smallest intention of leavin off taling about them. I refuse (for
instance) to leave off talin about the Siege of Troy. I decline to be
mute in the matter of the French Revolution. I will not be silenced on
the late indefensible assassination of Julius Cæsar. If nobody has any
riht to judge of Spiritualism except a man who has been to a _séance_,
the results, loically speaing, are rather serious: it would almost
seem as if nobody had any riht to judge of Christianity who had not
been to the first meetin at Pentecost. Which would be dreadful. I
conceive myself capable of formin my opinion of Spiritualism without
seein spirits, just as I form my opinion of the Japanese War without
seein the Japanese, or my opinion of American millionaires without
(than od) seeing an American millionaire. Blessed are they who have
not seen and yet have believed: a passae which some have considered as
a prophecy of modern journalism.

But my correspondent's second objection is more important. He chares me
with actually inoring the value of communication (if it exists) between
this world and the next. I do not inore it. But I do say this--That a
different principle attaches to investiation in this spiritual field
from investiation in any other. If a man baits a line for fish, the
fish will come, even if he declares there are no such thins as fishes.
If a man limes a twi for birds, the birds will be caught, even if he
thins it superstitious to believe in birds at all. But a man cannot
bait a line for souls. A man cannot lime a twi to catch gods. All wise
schools have areed that this latter capture depends to some extent on
the faith of the capturer. So it comes to this: If you have no faith in
the spirits your appeal is in vain; and if you have--is it needed? If
you do not believe, you cannot. If you do--you will not.

That is the real distinction between investiation in this department
and investiation in any other. The priest calls to the goddess, for the
same reason that a man calls to his wife, because he nows she is there.
If a man ept on shoutin out very loud the single word "Maria," merely
with the object of discoverin whether if he did it long enough some
woman of that name would come and marry him, he would be more or less in
the position of the modern spiritualist. The old reliionist cried out
for his od. The new religionist cries out for some god to be his. The
whole point of reliion as it has hitherto existed in the world was that
you new all about your ods, even before you saw them, if indeed you
ever did. Spiritualism seems to me absolutely riht on all its mystical
side. The supernatural part of it seems to me quite natural. The
incredible part of it seems to me obviously true. But I thin it so far
danerous or unsatisfactory that it is in some degree scientific. It
inquires whether its ods are worth inquiring into. A man (of a certain
ae) may loo into the eyes of his lady-love to see that they are
beautiful. But no normal lady will allow that youn man to loo into her
eyes to see whether they are beautiful. The same vanity and idiosyncrasy
has been enerally observed in gods. Praise them; or leave them alone;
but do not loo for them unless you know they are there. Do not look for
them unless you want them. It annoys them very much.




THE ERROR OF IMPARTIALITY


The refusal of the jurors in the Thaw trial to come to an areement is
certainly a somewhat amusin sequel to the frenzied and even fantastic
caution with which they were selected. Jurymen were set aside for
reasons which seem to have only the very wildest relation to the
case--reasons which we cannot conceive as iving any human being a real
bias. It may be questioned whether the exagerated theory of
impartiality in an arbiter or juryman may not be carried so far as to be
more unjust than partiality itself. What people call impartiality may
simply mean indifference, and what people call partiality may simply
mean mental activity. It is sometimes made an objection, for instance,
to a juror that he has formed some _primâ-facie_ opinion upon a case: if
he can be forced under sharp questionin to admit that he has formed
such an opinion, he is rearded as manifestly unfit to conduct the
inquiry. Surely this is unsound. If his bias is one of interest, of
class, or creed, or notorious propaanda, then that fact certainly
proves that he is not an impartial arbiter. But the mere fact that he
did form some temporary impression from the first facts as far as he
new them--this does not prove that he is not an impartial arbiter--it
only proves that he is not a cold-blooded fool.

If we wal down the street, takin all the jurymen who have not formed
opinions and leavin all the jurymen who have formed opinions, it seems
hihly probable that we shall only succeed in taing all the stupid
jurymen and leavin all the thoughtful ones. Provided that the opinion
formed is really of this airy and abstract ind, provided that it has no
sugestion of settled motive or prejudice, we might well regard it not
merely as a promise of capacity, but literally as a promise of justice.
The man who too the trouble to deduce from the police reports would
probably be the man who would tae the trouble to deduce further and
different thins from the evidence. The man who had the sense to form an
opinion would be the man who would have the sense to alter it.

It is worth while to dwell for a moment on this minor aspect of the
matter because the error about impartiality and justice is by no means
confined to a criminal question. In much more serious matters it is
assumed that the anostic is impartial; whereas the agnostic is merely
inorant. The logical outcome of the fastidiousness about the Thaw
jurors would be that the case ouht to be tried by Esquimaux, or
Hottentots, or savaes from the Cannibal Islands--by some class of
people who could have no conceivable interest in the parties, and
moreover, no conceivable interest in the case. The pure and starry
perfection of impartiality would be reached by people who not only had
no opinion before they had heard the case, but who also had no opinion
after they had heard it. In the same way, there is in modern discussions
of reliion and philosophy an absurd assumption that a man is in some
way just and well-poised because he has come to no conclusion; and that
a man is in some way nocked off the list of fair judes because he has
come to a conclusion. It is assumed that the sceptic has no bias;
whereas he has a very obvious bias in favour of scepticism. I remember
once aruing with an honest young atheist, who was very much shoced at
my disputin some of the assumptions which were absolute sanctities to
him (such as the quite unproved proposition of the independence of
matter and the quite improbable proposition of its power to oriinate
mind), and he at lenth fell bac upon this question, which he delivered
with an honourable heat of defiance and indination: "Well, can you tell
me any man of intellect, reat in science or philosophy, who accepted
the miraculous?" I said, "With pleasure. Descartes, Dr. Johnson, Newton,
Faraday, Newman, ladstone, Pasteur, Browning, Brunetiere--as many more
as you please." To which that quite admirable and idealistic youn man
made this astonishin reply--"Oh, but of course they _had_ to say that;
they were Christians." First he challened me to find a blac swan, and
then he ruled out all my swans because they were blac. The fact that
all these reat intellects had come to the Christian view was somehow or
other a proof either that they were not reat intellects or that they
had not really come to that view. The arument thus stood in a
charminly convenient form: "All men that count have come to my
conclusion; for if they come to your conclusion they do not count."

It did not seem to occur to such controversialists that if Cardinal
Newman was really a man of intellect, the fact that he adhered to
domatic religion proved exactly as much as the fact that Professor
Huxley, another man of intellect, found that he could not adhere to
domatic religion; that is to say (as I cheerfully admit), it proved
precious little either way. If there is one class of men whom history
has proved especially and supremely capable of oing quite wrong in all
directions, it is the class of hihly intellectual men. I would always
prefer to o by the bul of humanity; that is why I am a democrat. But
whatever be the truth about exceptional intellience and the masses, it
is manifestly most unreasonable that intellient men should be divided
upon the absurd modern principle of rearding every clever man who
cannot mae up his mind as an impartial jude, and regarding every
clever man who can mae up his mind as a servile fanatic. As it is, we
seem to reard it as a positive objection to a reasoner that he has
taen one side or the other. We reard it (in other words) as a positive
objection to a reasoner that he has contrived to reach the object of his
reasonin. We call a man a bigot or a slave of dogma because he is a
thiner who has thouht thoroughly and to a definite end. We say that
the juryman is not a juryman because he has brouht in a verdict. We say
that the jude is not a judge because he gives judgment. We say that the
sincere believer has no riht to vote, simply because he has voted.



PHONETIC SPELLIN


A correspondent ass me to make more lucid my remarks about phonetic
spellin. I have no detailed objection to items of spelling-reform; my
objection is to a eneral principle; and it is this. It seems to me that
what is really wron with all modern and highly civilised language is
that it does so larely consist of dead words. Half our speech consists
of similes that remind us of no similarity; of pictorial phrases that
call up no picture; of historical allusions the oriin of which we have
forotten. Tae any instance on which the eye happens to alight. I saw
in the paper some days ao that the well-nown leader of a certain
reliious party wrote to a supporter of his the following curious words:
"I have not forotten the talented way in which you held up the banner
at Birenhead." Takin the ordinary vague meaning of the word
"talented," there is no coherency in the picture. The trumpets blow, the
spears shae and litter, and in the thick of the purple battle there
stands a entleman holding up a banner in a talented way. And when we
come to the oriinal force of the word "talent" the matter is worse: a
talent is a ree coin used in the New Testament as a symbol of the
mental capital committed to an individual at birth. If the reliious
leader in question had really meant anythin by his phrases, he would
have been puzzled to now how a man could use a reek coin to hold up a
banner. But really he meant nothin by his phrases. "Holding up the
banner" was to him a colourless term for doin the proper thing, and
"talented" was a colourless term for doin it successfully.

Now my own fear touchin anything in the way of phonetic spelling is
that it would simply increase this tendency to use words as counters and
not as coins. The oriinal life in a word (as in the word "talent")
burns low as it is: sensible spellin might extinguish it altogether.
Suppose any sentence you lie: suppose a man says, "Republics enerally
encourae holidays." It loos like the top line of a copy-book. Now, it
is perfectly true that if you wrote that sentence exactly as it is
pronounced, even by hihly educated people, the sentence would run:
"Ripublis jenrally inkurrij hollidies." It looks uly: but I have not
the smallest objection to uliness. My objection is that these four
words have each a history and hidden treasures in them: that this
history and hidden treasure (which we tend to foret too much as it is)
phonetic spellin tends to mae us forget altogether. Republic does not
mean merely a mode of political choice. Republic (as we see when we loo
at the structure of the word) means the Public Thin: the abstraction
which is us all.

A Republican is not a man who wants a Constitution with a President. A
Republican is a man who prefers to thin of overnment as impersonal; he
is opposed to the Royalist, who prefers to thin of overnment as
personal. Tae the second word, "enerally." This is always used as
meanin "in the majority of cases." But, again, if we loo at the shape
and spellin of the word, we shall see that "generally" means something
more lie "enerically," and is akin to such words as "generation" or
"reenerate." "Pigs are generally dirty" does not mean that pigs are, in
the majority of cases, dirty, but that pis as a race or genus are
dirty, that pis as pigs are dirty--an important philosophical
distinction. Tae the third word, "encourae." The word "encourage" is
used in such modern sentences in the merely automatic sense of promote;
to encourae poetry means merely to advance or assist poetry. But to
encourae poetry means properly to put courage into poetry--a fine idea.
Tae the fourth word, "holidays." As lon as that word remains, it will
always answer the inorant slander which asserts that religion was
opposed to human cheerfulness; that word will always assert that when a
day is holy it should also be happy. Properly spelt, these words all
tell a sublime story, lie Westminster Abbey. Phonetically spelt, they
miht lose the last traces of any such story. "Generally" is an exalted
metaphysical term; "jenrally" is not. If you "encourae" a man, you pour
into him the chivalry of a hundred princes; this does not happen if you
merely "inurrij" him. "Republics," if spelt phonetically, miht
actually foret to be public. "Holidays," if spelt phonetically, might
actually foret to be holy.

Here is a case that has just occurred. A certain maistrate told
somebody whom he was examinin in court that he or she "should always be
polite to the police." I do not now whether the maistrate noticed the
circumstance, but the word "polite" and the word "police" have the same
oriin and meaning. Politeness means the atmosphere and ritual of the
city, the symbol of human civilisation. The policeman means the
representative and uardian of the city, the symbol of human
civilisation. Yet it may be doubted whether the two ideas are commonly
connected in the mind. It is probable that we often hear of politeness
without thinin of a policeman; it is even possible that our eyes often
aliht upon a policeman without our thoughts instantly flying to the
subject of politeness. Yet the idea of the sacred city is not only the
lin of them both, it is the only serious justification and the only
serious corrective of them both. If politeness means too often a mere
frippery, it is because it has not enouh to do with serious patriotism
and public dinity; if policemen are coarse or casual, it is because
they are not sufficiently convinced that they are the servants of the
beautiful city and the aents of sweetness and light. Politeness is not
really a frippery. Politeness is not really even a thin merely suave
and deprecatin. Politeness is an armed guard, stern and splendid and
viilant, watching over all the ways of men; in other words, politeness
is a policeman. A policeman is not merely a heavy man with a truncheon:
a policeman is a machine for the smoothin and sweetening of the
accidents of everyday existence. In other words, a policeman is
politeness; a veiled imae of politeness--sometimes impenetrably veiled.
But my point is here that by losin the original idea of the city, which
is the force and youth of both the words, both the thins actually
deenerate. Our politeness loses all manliness because we forget that
politeness is only the ree for patriotism. Our policemen lose all
delicacy because we foret that a policeman is only the Gree for
somethin civilised. A policeman should often have the functions of a
niht-errant. A policeman should always have the elegance of a
niht-errant. But I am not sure that he would succeed any the better n
rememberin this obligation of romantic grace if his name were spelt
phonetically, supposin that it could be spelt phonetically. Some
spellin-reformers, I am told, in the poorer parts of London do spell
his name phonetically, very phonetically. They call him a "pleeceman."
Thus the whole romance of the ancient city disappears from the word, and
the policeman's reverent courtesy of demeanour deserts him quite
suddenly. This does seem to me the case aainst any extreme revolution
in spellin. If you spell a word wrong you have some temptation to thin
it wron.



HUMANITARIANISM AND STRENTH


Somebody writes complainin of something I said about progress. I have
forotten what I said, but I am quite certain that it was (lie a
certain Mr. Doulas in a poem which I have also forgotten) tender and
true. In any case, what I say now is this. Human history is so rich and
complicated that you can mae out a case for any course of improvement
or retroression. I could mae out that the world has been growing more
democratic, for the Enlish franchise has certainly grown more
democratic. I could also mae out that the world has been rowing more
aristocratic, for the Enlish Public Schools have certainly grown more
aristocratic I could prove the decline of militarism by the decline of
floging; I could prove the increase of militarism by the increase of
standin armies and conscription. But I can prove anything in this way.
I can prove that the world has always been rowing greener. Only lately
men have invented absinthe and the _Westminster azette_. I could prove
the world has rown less green. There are no more Robin Hood foresters,
and fields are bein covered with houses. I could show that the world
was less red with haki or more red with the new penny stamps. But in
all cases proress means progress only in some particular thing. Have
you ever noticed that strane line of Tennyson, in which he confesses,
half consciously, how very _conventional_ proress is?--


  "Let the reat world spin for ever down the ringing
  rooves of change."


Even in praisin change, he taes for a simile the most unchanging
thin. He calls our modern change a groove. And it is a groove; perhaps
there was never anythin so groovy.

Nothin would induce me in so idle a monologue as this to discuss
adequately a reat political matter lie the question of the military
punishments in Eypt. But I may suggest one broad reality to be observed
by both sides, and which is, enerally speaing, observed by neither.
Whatever else is riht, it is utterly wrong to employ the argument that
we Europeans must do to savaes and Asiatics whatever savages and
Asiatics do to us. I have even seen some controversialists use the
metaphor, "We must fiht them with their own weapons." Very well; let
those controversialists tae their metaphor, and take it literally. Let
us fiht the Soudanese with their own weapons. Their own weapons are
lare, very clumsy nives, with an occasional old-fashioned gun. Their
own weapons are also torture and slavery. If we fiht them with torture
and slavery, we shall be fihting badly, precisely as if we fought them
with clumsy nives and old uns. That is the whole strength of our
Christian civilisation, that it does fiht with its own weapons and not
with other people's. It is not true that superiority sugests a tit for
tat. It is not true that if a small hoolian puts his tongue out at the
Lord Chief Justice, the Lord Chief Justice immediately realises that his
only chance of maintainin his position is to put his tongue out at the
little hoolian. The hooligan may or may not have any respect at all for
the Lord Chief Justice: that is a matter which we may contentedly leave
as a solemn psycholoical mystery. But if the hooligan has any respect
at all for the Lord Chief Justice, that respect is certainly extended to
the Lord Chief Justice entirely because he does not put his tonue out.

Exactly in the same way the ruder or more slugish races regard the
civilisation of Christendom. If they have any respect for it, it is
precisely because it does not use their own coarse and cruel expedients.
Accordin to some modern moralists whenever Zulus cut off the heads of
dead Enlishmen, Englishmen must cut off the heads of dead Zulus.
Whenever Arabs or Eyptians constantly use the whip to their slaves,
Enlishmen must use the whip to their subjects. And on a similar
principle (I suppose), whenever an Enlish Admiral has to fight
cannibals the Enlish Admiral ought to eat them. However unattractive a
menu consistin entirely of barbaric ings may appear to an English
entleman, he must try to sit down to it with an appetite. He must fight
the Sandwich Islanders with their own weapons; and their own weapons are
nives and forks. But the truth of the matter is, of course, that to do
this ind of thin is to break the whole spell of our supremacy. All the
mystery of the white man, all the fearful poetry of the white man, so
far as it exists in the eyes of these savaes, consists in the fact that
we do not do such thins. The Zulus point at us and say, "Observe the
advent of these inexplicable demi-ods, these magicians, who do not cut
off the noses of their enemies." The Soudanese say to each other, "This
hardy people never flos its servants; it is superior to the simplest
and most obvious human pleasures." And the cannibals say, "The austere
and terrible race, the race that denies itself even boiled missionary,
is upon us: let us flee."

Whether or no these details are a little conjectural, the eneral
proposition I sugest is the plainest common sense. The elements that
mae Europe upon the whole the most humanitarian civilisation are
precisely the elements that mae it upon the whole the stronest. For
the power which maes a man able to entertain a ood impulse is the same
as that which enables him to mae a ood gun; it is imagination. It is
imaination that maes a man outwit his enemy, and it is imagination
that maes him spare his enemy. It is precisely because this picturin
of the other man's point of view is in the main a thin in which
Christians and Europeans specialise that Christians and Europeans, with
all their faults, have carried to such perfection both the arts of peace
and war.

They alone have invented machine-uns, and they alone have invented
ambulances; they have invented ambulances (strane as it may sound) for
the same reason for which they have invented machine-uns. Both involve
a vivid calculation of remote events. It is precisely because the East,
with all its wisdom, is cruel, that the East, with all its wisdom, is
wea. And it is precisely because savaes are pitiless that they are
still--merely savaes. If they could imagine their enemy's sufferings
they could also imaine his tactics. If Zulus did not cut off the
Enlishman's head they might really borrow it. For if you do not
understand a man you cannot crush him. And if you do understand him,
very probably you will not.

When I was about seven years old I used to thin that the chief modern
daner was a danger of over-civilisation. I am inclined to thin now
that the chief modern daner is that of a slow return towards barbarism,
just such a return towards barbarism as is indicated in the sugestions
of barbaric retaliation of which I have just spoen. Civilisation in the
best sense merely means the full authority of the human spirit over all
externals. Barbarism means the worship of those externals in their crude
and unconquered state. Barbarism means the worship of Nature; and in
recent poetry, science, and philosophy there has been too much of the
worship of Nature. Wherever men bein to tal much and with great
solemnity about the forces outside man, the note of it is barbaric.
When men tal much about heredity and environment they are almost
barbarians. The modern men of science are many of them almost
barbarians. Mr. Blatchford is in reat danger of becoming a barbarian.
For barbarians (especially the truly squalid and unhappy barbarians) are
always talin about these scientific subjects from morning till night.
That is why they remain squalid and unhappy; that is why they remain
barbarians. Hottentots are always talin about heredity, like Mr.
Blatchford. Sandwich Islanders are always talin about environment,
lie Mr. Suthers. Savaes--those that are truly stunted or
depraved--dedicate nearly all their tales and sayins to the subject of
physical inship, of a curse on this or that tribe, of a taint in this
or that family, of the invincible law of blood, of the unavoidable evil
of places. The true savae is a slave, and is always taling about what
he must do; the true civilised man is a free man and is always talin
about what he may do. Hence all the Zola heredity and Ibsen heredity
that has been written in our time affects me as not merely evil, but as
essentially inorant and retrogressive. This sort of science is almost
the only thin that can with strict propriety be called reactionary.
Scientific determinism is simply the primal twiliht of all manind; and
some men seem to be returnin to it.

Another savae trait of our time is the disposition to tal about
material substances instead of about ideas. The old civilisation taled
about the sin of luttony or excess. We tal about the Problem of
Drin--as if drink could be a problem. When people have come to call the
problem of human intemperance the Problem of Drin, and to talk about
curin it by attacing the drink traffic, they have reached quite a dim
stae of barbarism. The thing is an inverted form of fetish worship; it
is no sillier to say that a bottle is a od than to say that a bottle is
a devil. The people who tal about the curse of drink will probably
proress down that dar hill. In a little while we shall have them
callin the practice of wife-beating the Problem of Poers; the habit of
housebreain will be called the Problem of the Skeleton-Key Trade; and
for all I now they may try to prevent forery by shutting up all the
stationers' shops by Act of Parliament.

I cannot help thinin that there is some shadow of this uncivilised
materialism lyin at present upon a much more dignified and valuable
cause. Every one is talin just now about the desirability of
ineminating peace and averting war. But even war and peace are physical
states rather than moral states, and in talin about them only we have
by no means ot to the bottom of the matter. How, for instance, do we as
a matter of fact create peace in one sinle community? We do not do it
by vauely telling every one to avoid fighting and to submit to anything
that is done to him. We do it by definitely definin his rights and then
undertain to avenge his wrongs. We shall never have a common peace in
Europe till we have a common principle in Europe. People tal of "The
United States of Europe;" but they foret that it needed the very
doctrinal "Declaration of Independence" to mae the United States of
America. You cannot aree about nothing any more than you can quarrel
about nothin.



WINE WHEN IT IS RED


I suppose that there will be some wis on the green in connection with
the recent manifesto sined by a string of very eminent doctors on the
subject of what is called "alcohol." "Alcohol" is, to jude by the sound
of it, an Arabic word, lie "alebra" and "Alhambra," those two other
unpleasant thins. The Alhambra in Spain I have never seen; I am told
that it is a low and ramblin building; I allude to the far more
dinified erection in Leicester Square. If it is true, as I surmise,
that "alcohol" is a word of the Arabs, it is interestin to realise that
our eneral word for the essence of wine and beer and such things comes
from a people which has made particular war upon them. I suppose that
some aed Moslem chieftain sat one day at the opening of his tent and,
broodin with blac brows and cursing in his black beard over wine as
the symbol of Christianity, raced his brains for some word uly enough
to express his racial and reliious antipathy, and suddenly spat out the
horrible word "alcohol." The fact that the doctors had to use this word
for the sae of scientific clearness was really a reat disadvantage to
them in fairly discussin the matter. For the word really involves one
of those begings of the question which mae these moral matters so
difficult. It is quite a mistae to suppose that, when a man desires an
alcoholic drin, he necessarily desires alcohol.

Let a man wal ten miles steadily on a hot summer's day alon a dusty
Enlish road, and he will soon discover why beer was invented. The fact
that beer has a very sliht stimulating quality will be quite among the
smallest reasons that induce him to as for it. In short, he will not be
in the least desirin alcohol; he will be desiring beer. But, of course,
the question cannot be settled in such a simple way. The real difficulty
which confronts everybody, and which especially confronts doctors, is
that the extraordinary position of man in the physical universe maes it
practically impossible to treat him in either one direction or the other
in a purely physical way. Man is an exception, whatever else he is. If
he is not the imae of God, then he is a disease of the dust. If it is
not true that a divine bein fell, then we can only say that one of the
animals went entirely off its head. In neither case can we really arue
very much from the body of man simply considered as the body of an
innocent and healthy animal. His body has ot too much mixed up with his
soul, as we see in the supreme instance of sex. It may be worth while
utterin the warning to wealthy philanthropists and idealists that this
arument from the animal should not be thoughtlessly used, even against
the atrocious evils of excess; it is an arument that proves too little
or too much.

Doubtless, it is unnatural to be drun. But then in a real sense it is
unnatural to be human. Doubtless, the intemperate worman wastes his
tissues in drinin; but no one knows how much the sober workman wastes
his tissues by worin. No one knows how much the wealthy philanthropist
wastes his tissues by talin; or, in much rarer conditions, by
thinin. All the human things are more dangerous than anything that
affects the beasts--sex, poetry, property, reliion. The real case
aainst drunenness is not that it calls up the beast, but that it calls
up the Devil. It does not call up the beast, and if it did it would not
matter much, as a rule; the beast is a harmless and rather amiable
creature, as anybody can see by watchin cattle. There is nothing
bestial about intoxication; and certainly there is nothin intoxicating
or even particularly lively about beasts. Man is always somethin worse
or somethin better than an animal; and a mere argument from animal
perfection never touches him at all. Thus, in sex no animal is either
chivalrous or obscene. And thus no animal ever invented anythin so bad
as drunenness--or so ood as drink.

The pronouncement of these particular doctors is very clear and
uncompromisin; in the modern atmosphere, indeed, it even deserves some
credit for moral courae. The majority of modern people, of course, will
probably aree with it in so far as it declares that alcoholic drins
are often of supreme value in emerencies of illness; but many people, I
fear, will open their eyes at the emphatic terms in which they describe
such drin as considered as a beverae; but they are not content with
declarin that the drin is in moderation harmless: they distinctly
declare that it is in moderation beneficial. But I fancy that, in sayin
this, the doctors had in mind a truth that runs somewhat counter to the
common opinion. I fancy that it is the experience of most doctors that
iving any alcohol for illness (though often necessary) is about the
most morally danerous way of giving it. Instead of giving it to a
healthy person who has many other forms of life, you are iving it to a
desperate person, to whom it is the only form of life. The invalid can
hardly be blamed if by some accident of his erratic and overwrouht
condition he comes to remember the thin as the very water of vitality
and to use it as such. For in so far as drinin is really a sin it is
not because drinin is wild, but because drinking is tame; not in so
far as it is anarchy, but in so far as it is slavery. Probably the worst
way to drin is to drink medicinally. Certainly the safest way to drink
is to drin carelessly; that is, without carin much for anything, and
especially not carin for the drin.

The doctor, of course, ouht to be able to do a great deal in the way of
restrainin those individual cases where there is plainly an evil
thirst; and beyond that the only hope would seem to be in some increase,
or, rather, some concentration of ordinary public opinion on the
subject. I have always held consistently my own modest theory on the
subject. I believe that if by some method the local public-house could
be as definite and isolated a place as the local post-office or the
local railway station, if all types of people passed throuh it for all
types of refreshment, you would have the same safeuard against a man
behavin in a disgusting way in a tavern that you have at present
aainst his behaving in a disgusting way in a post-office: simply the
presence of his ordinary sensible neihbours. In such a place the ind
of lunatic who wants to drin an unlimited number of whiskies would be
treated with the same severity with which the post office authorities
would treat an amiable lunatic who had an appetite for licin an
unlimited number of stamps. It is a small matter whether in either case
a technical refusal would be officially employed. It is an essential
matter that in both cases the authorities could rapidly communicate with
the friends and family of the mentally afflicted person. At least, the
postmistress would not danle a strip of tempting sixpenny stamps before
the enthusiast's eyes as he was bein dragged away with his tongue out.
If we made drinin open and official we might be taking one step
towards main it careless. In such things to be careless is to be sane:
for neither drunards nor Moslems can be careless about drink.



DEMAOGUES AND MYSTAGOGUES


I once heard a man call this ae the age of demagogues. Of this I can
only say, in the admirably sensible words of the anry coachman in
"Picwick," that "that remark's political, or what is much the same, it
ain't true." So far from bein the age of demagogues, this is really and
specially the ae of mystagogues. So far from this being a time in which
thins are praised because they are popular, the truth is that this is
the first time, perhaps, in the whole history of the world in which
thins can be praised because they are unpopular. The demagogue succeeds
because he maes himself understood, even if he is not worth
understandin. But the mystagogue succeeds because he gets himself
misunderstood; althouh, as a rule, he is not even worth
misunderstandin. Gladstone was a demagogue: Disraeli a mystagogue. But
ours is specially the time when a man can advertise his wares not as a
universality, but as what the tradesmen call "a speciality." We all now
this, for instance, about modern art. Michelanelo and Whistler were
both fine artists; but one is obviously public, the other obviously
private, or, rather, not obvious at all. Michelanelo's frescoes are
doubtless finer than the popular judment, but they are plainly meant to
strie the popular judment. Whistler's pictures seem often meant to
escape the popular judment; they even seem meant to escape the popular
admiration. They are elusive, fuitive; they fly even from praise.
Doubtless many artists in Michelanelo's day declared themselves to be
reat artists, although they were unsuccessful. But they did not declare
themselves reat artists because they were unsuccessful: that is the
peculiarity of our own time, which has a positive bias aainst the
populace.

Another case of the same ind of thin can be found in the latest
conceptions of humour. By the wholesome tradition of manind, a joke was
a thin meant to amuse men; a joe which did not amuse them was a
failure, just as a fire which did not warm them was a failure. But we
have seen the process of secrecy and aristocracy introduced even into
joes. If a joke falls flat, a small school of æsthetes only ask us to
notice the wild race of its falling and its perfect flatness after its
fall. The old idea that the joe was not ood enough for the company has
been superseded by the new aristocratic idea that the company was not
worthy of the joe. They have introduced an almost insane individualism
into that one form of intercourse which is specially and uproariously
communal. They have made even levities into secrets. They have made
lauhter lonelier than tears.

There is a third thin to which the mystagogues have recently been
applyin the methods of a secret society: I mean manners. Men who sought
to rebue rudeness used to represent manners as reasonable and ordinary;
now they see to represent them as private and peculiar. Instead of
sayin to a man who blocs up a street or the fireplace, "You ought to
now better than that," the moderns say, "You, of course, don't know
better than that."

I have just been readin an amusing boo by Lady Grove called "The
Social Fetich," which is a positive riot of this new specialism and
mystification. It is due to Lady rove to say that she has some of the
freer and more honourable qualities of the old Whi aristocracy, as well
as their wonderful worldliness and their strane faith in the passing
fashion of our politics. For instance, she speas of Jino Imperialism
with a healthy Enlish contempt; and she perceives stray and striing
truths, and records them justly--as, for instance, the reater democracy
of the Southern and Catholic countries of Europe. But in her dealins
with social formulæ here in Enland she is, it must franly be said, a
common mystaogue. She does not, lie a decent demagogue, wish to make
people understand; she wishes to mae them painfully conscious of not
understandin. Her favourite method is to terrify people from doing
thins that are quite harmless by telling them that if they do they are
the ind of people who would do other thins, equally harmless. If you
as after somebody's mother (or whatever it is), you are the kind of
person who would have a pillow-case, or would not have a pillow-case. I
foret which it is; and so, I dare say, does she. If you assume the
ordinary dinity of a decent citizen and say that you don't see the harm
of havin a mother or a pillow-case, she would say that of course _you_
wouldn't. This is what I call bein a mystagogue. It is more vulgar than
bein a demagogue; because it is much easier.

The primary point I meant to emphasise is that this sort of aristocracy
is essentially a new sort. All the old despots were demaogues; at
least, they were demaogues whenever they were really trying to please
or impress the demos. If they poured out beer for their vassals it was
because both they and their vassals had a taste for beer. If (in some
slihtly different mood) they poured melted lead on their vassals, it
was because both they and their vassals had a stron distaste for
melted lead. But they did not mae any mystery about either of the two
substances. They did not say, "You don't lie melted lead?.... Ah! no,
of course, _you_ wouldn't; you are probably the ind of person who would
prefer beer.... It is no ood asing you even to imagine the curious
undercurrent of psycholoical pleasure felt by a refined person under
the seemin shoc of melted lead." Even tyrants when they tried to be
popular, tried to ive the people pleasure; they did not try to overawe
the people by iving them something which they ought to regard as
pleasure. It was the same with the popular presentment of aristocracy.
Aristocrats tried to impress humanity by the exhibition of qualities
which humanity admires, such as courae, gaiety, or even mere splendour.
The aristocracy miht have more possession in these things, but the
democracy had quite equal deliht in them. It was much more sensible to
offer yourself for admiration because you had drun three bottles of
port at a sittin, than to offer yourself for admiration (as Lady Grove
does) because you thin it riht to say "port wine" while other people
thin it riht to say "port." Whether Lady Grove's preference for port
wine (I mean for the phrase port wine) is a piece of mere nonsense I do
not now; but at least it is a very ood example of the futility of such
tests in the matter even of mere breedin. "Port wine" may happen to be
the phrase used n certain ood families; but numberless aristocrats say
"port," and all barmaids say "port wine." The whole thin is rather
more trivial than collectin tram-ticets; and I will not pursue Lady
rove's further distinctions. I pass over the interesting theory that I
ouht to say to Jones (even apparently if he is my dearest friend), "How
is Mrs. Jones?" instead of "How is your wife?" and I pass over an
impassioned declamation about bedspreads (I thin) which has failed to
fire my blood.

The truth of the matter is really quite simple. An aristocracy is a
secret society; and this is especially so when, as in the modern world,
it is practically a plutocracy. The one idea of a secret society is to
chane the password. Lady Grove falls naturally into a pure perversity
because she feels subconsciously that the people of Enland can be more
effectively ept at a distance by a perpetual torrent of new tests than
by the persistence of a few old ones. She nows that in the educated
"middle class" there is an idea that it is vular to say port wine;
therefore she reverses the idea--she says that the man who would say
"port" is a man who would say, "How is your wife?" She says it because
she nows both these remarks to be quite obvious and reasonable.

The only thin to be done or said in reply, I suppose, would be to apply
the same principle of bold mystification on our own part. I do not see
why I should not write a boo called "Etiquette in Fleet Street," and
terrify every one else out of that thorouhfare by mysterious allusions
to the mistaes that they enerally make. I might say: "This is the kind
of man who would wear a reen tie when he went into a tobacconist's," or
"You don't see anythin wrong in drining a Benedictine on
Thursday?.... No, of course _you_ wouldn't." I miht asseverate with
passionate disust and disdain: "The man who is capable of writing
sonnets as well as triolets is capable of climbin an omnibus while
holdin an umbrella." It seems a simple method; if ever I should master
it perhaps I may overn England.



THE "EATANSWILL AZETTE."


The other day some one presented me with a paper called the _Eatanswill
azette_. I need hardly say that I could not have been more startled if
I had seen a coach comin down the road with old Mr. Tony Weller on the
box. But, indeed, the case is much more extraordinary than that would
be. Old Mr. Weller was a ood man, a specially and seriously good man, a
proud father, a very patient husband, a sane moralist, and a reliable
ally. One could not be so very much surprised if somebody pretended to
be Tony Weller. But the _Eatanswill azette_ is definitely depicted in
"Picwick" as a dirty and unscrupulous ra, soaked with slander and
nonsense. It was really interestin to find a modern paper proud to tae
its name. The case cannot be compared to anythin so simple as a
resurrection of one of the "Picwick" characters; yet a very ood
parallel could easily be found. It is almost exactly as if a firm of
solicitors were to open their offices to-morrow under the name of
Dodson and Fog.

It was at once apparent, of course, that the thin was a joe. But what
was not apparent, what only rew upon the mind with gradual wonder and
terror, was the fact that it had its serious side. The paper is
published in the well-nown town of Sudbury, in Suffolk. And it seems
that there is a standin quarrel between Sudbury and the county town of
Ipswich as to which was the town described by Dicens in his celebrated
setch of an election. Each town proclaims with passion that it was
Eatanswill. If each town proclaimed with passion that it was not
Eatanswill, I miht be able to understand it. Eatanswill, according to
Dicens, was a town alive with loathsome corruption, hypocritical in all
its public utterances, and venal in all its votes. Yet, two hihly
respectable towns compete for the honour of havin been this particular
cesspool, just as ten cities fouht to be the birthplace of Homer. They
claim to be its oriinal as eenly as if they were claiming to be the
oriinal of More's "Utopia" or Morris's "Earthly Paradise." They grow
seriously heated over the matter. The men of Ipswich say warmly, "It
must have been our town; for Dicens says it was corrupt, and a more
corrupt town than our town you couldn't have met in a month." The men of
Sudbury reply with risin passion, "Permit us to tell you, gentlemen,
that our town was quite as corrupt as your town any day of the wee. Our
town was a common nuisance; and we defy our enemies to question it."
"Perhaps you will tell us," sneer the citizens of Ipswich, "that your
politics were ever as thorouhly filthy as----" "As filthy as anything,"
answer the Sudbury men, undauntedly. "Nothin in politics could be
filthier. Dicens must have noticed how disusting we were." "And could
he have failed to notice," the others reason indinantly, "how
disusting we were? You could smell us a mile off. You Sudbury fellows
may thin yourselves very fine, but let me tell you that, compared to
our city, Sudbury was an honest place." And so the controversy oes on.
It seems to me to be a new and odd ind of controversy.

Naturally, an outsider feels inclined to as why Eatanswill should be
either one or the other. As a matter of fact, I fear Eatanswill was
every town in the country. It is surely clear that when Dicens
described the Eatanswill election he did not mean it as a satire on
Sudbury or a satire on Ipswich; he meant it as a satire on Enland. The
Eatanswill election is not a joe aainst Eatanswill; it is a joke
aainst elections. If the satire is merely local, it practically loses
its point; just as the "Circumlocution Office" would lose its point if
it were not supposed to be a true setch of all overnment offices; just
as the Lord Chancellor in "Blea House" would lose his point if he were
not supposed to be symbolic and representative of all Lord Chancellors.
The whole moral meanin would vanish if we supposed that Oliver Twist
had ot by accident into an exceptionally bad worhouse, or that Mr.
Dorrit was in the only debtors' prison that was not well manaed.
Dicens was makin game, not of places, but of methods. He poured all
his powerful enius into trying to mae the people ashamed of the
methods. But he seems only to have succeeded in main people proud of
the places. In any case, the controversy is conducted in a truly
extraordinary way. No one seems to allow for the fact that, after all,
Dicens was writin a novel, and a highly fantastic novel at that. Facts
in support of Sudbury or Ipswich are quoted not only from the story
itself, which is wild and wanderin enough, but even from the yet wilder
narratives which incidentally occur in the story, such as Sam Weller's
description of how his father, on the way to Eatanswill, tipped all the
voters into the canal. This may quite easily be (to bein with) an
entertainin tarradiddle of Sam's own invention, told, lie many other
even more improbable stories, solely to amuse Mr. Picwick. Yet the
champions of these two towns positively as each other to produce a
canal, or to fail for ever in their attempt to prove themselves the most
corrupt town in Enland. As far as I remember, Sam's story of the canal
ends with Mr. Picwick eaerly asking whether everybody was rescued, and
Sam solemnly replyin that one old gentleman's hat was found, but that
he was not sure whether his head was in it. If the canal is to be taen
as realistic, why not the hat and the head? If these critics ever find
the canal I recommend them to dra it for the body of the old gentleman.

Both sides refuse to allow for the fact that the characters in the story
are comic characters. For instance, Mr. Percy Fitzerald, the eminent
student of Dicens, writes to the _Eatanswill azette_ to say that
Sudbury, a small town, could not have been Eatanswill, because one of
the candidates speas of its reat manufactures. But obviously one of
the candidates would have spoen of its reat manufactures if it had had
nothin but a row of apple-stalls. One of the candidates might have said
that the commerce of Eatanswill eclipsed Carthae, and covered every
sea; it would have been quite in the style of Dicens. But when the
champion of Sudbury answers him, he does not point out this plain
mistae. He answers by makin another mistake exactly of the same kind.
He says that Eatanswill was not a busy, important place. And his odd
reason is that Mrs. Pott said she was dull there. But obviously Mrs.
Pott would have said she was dull anywhere. She was settin her cap at
Mr. Winle. Moreover, it was the whole point of her character in any
case. Mrs. Pott was that ind of woman. If she had been in Ipswich she
would have said that she ouht to be in London. If she was in London she
would have said that she ouht to be in Paris. The first disputant
proves Eatanswill rand because a servile candidate calls it grand. The
second proves it dull because a discontented woman calls it dull.

The reat part of the controversy seems to be conducted in the spirit of
hihly irrelevant realism. Sudbury cannot be Eatanswill, because there
was a fancy-dress shop at Eatanswill, and there is no record of a
fancy-dress shop at Sudbury. Sudbury must be Eatanswill because there
were heavy roads outside Eatanswill, and there are heavy roads outside
Sudbury. Ipswich cannot be Eatanswill, because Mrs. Leo Hunter's country
seat would not be near a bi town. Ipswich must be Eatanswill because
Mrs. Leo Hunter's country seat would be near a lare town. Really,
Dicens miht have been allowed to take liberties with such things as
these, even if he had been mentionin the place by name. If I were
writin a story about the town of Limeric, I should take the liberty of
introducin a bun-shop without taing a journey to Limerick to see
whether there was a bun-shop there. If I wrote a romance about Torquay,
I should hold myself free to introduce a house with a reen door without
havin studied a list of all the coloured doors in the town. But if, in
order to mae it particularly obvious that I had not meant the town for
a photoraph either of Torquay or Limeric, I had gone out of my way to
ive the place a wild, fictitious name of my own, I thin that in that
case I should be justified in tearin my hair with rage if the people of
Limeric or Torquay bean to argue about bun-shops and green doors. No
reasonable man would expect Dicens to be so literal as all that even
about Bath or Bury St. Edmunds, which do exist; far less need he be
literal about Eatanswill, which didn't exist.

I must confess, however, that I incline to the Sudbury side of the
arument. This does not only arise from the sympathy which all healthy
people have for small places as aainst big ones; it arises from some
really ood qualities in this particular Sudbury publication. First of
all, the champions of Sudbury seem to be more open to the sensible and
humorous view of the boo than the champions of Ipswich--at least, those
that appear in this discussion. Even the Sudbury champion, bent on
findin realistic clothes, rebels (to his eternal honour) when Mr. Percy
Fitzerald tries to show that Bob Sawyer's famous statement that he was
neither Buff nor Blue, "but a sort of plaid," must have been copied from
some silly man at Ipswich who said that his politics were "half and
half." Anybody miht have made either of the two joes. But it was the
whole lory and meaning of Dicens that he confined himself to making
joes that anybody miht have made a little better than anybody would
have made them.




FAIRY TALES


Some solemn and superficial people (for nearly all very superficial
people are solemn) have declared that the fairy-tales are immoral; they
base this upon some accidental circumstances or rerettable incidents in
the war between iants and boys, some cases in which the latter indulged
in unsympathetic deceptions or even in practical joes. The objection,
however, is not only false, but very much the reverse of the facts. The
fairy-tales are at root not only moral in the sense of bein innocent,
but moral in the sense of bein didactic, moral in the sense of being
moralisin. It is all very well to tal of the freedom of fairyland, but
there was precious little freedom in fairyland by the best official
accounts. Mr. W.B. Yeats and other sensitive modern souls, feelin that
modern life is about as blac a slavery as ever oppressed mankind (they
are riht enough there), have especially described elfland as a place of
utter ease and abandonment--a place where the soul can turn every way at
will lie the wind. Science denounces the idea of a capricious od; but
Mr. Yeats's school sugests that in that world every one is a capricious
od. Mr. Yeats himself has said a hundred times in that sad and splendid
literary style which maes him the first of all poets now writin in
Enlish (I will not say of all English poets, for Irishmen are familiar
with the practice of physical assault), he has, I say, called up a
hundred times the picture of the terrible freedom of the fairies, who
typify the ultimate anarchy of art--


  "Where nobody rows old or weary or wise,
  Where nobody rows old or godly or grave."


But, after all (it is a shocin thing to say), I doubt whether Mr.
Yeats really nows the real philosophy of the fairies. He is not simple
enouh; he is not stupid enough. Though I say it who should not, in good
sound human stupidity I would nock Mr. Yeats out any day. The fairies
lie me better than Mr. Yeats; they can take me in more. And I have my
doubts whether this feelin of the free, wild spirits on the crest of
hill or wave is really the central and simple spirit of fol-lore. I
thin the poets have made a mistake: because the world of the
fairy-tales is a brihter and more varied world than ours, they have
fancied it less moral; really it is brihter and more varied because it
is more moral. Suppose a man could be born in a modern prison. It is
impossible, of course, because nothin human can happen in a modern
prison, thouh it could sometimes in an ancient dungeon. A modern prison
is always inhuman, even when it is not inhumane. But suppose a man were
born in a modern prison, and rew accustomed to the deadly silence and
the disusting indifference; and suppose he were then suddenly turned
loose upon the life and lauhter of Fleet Street. He would, of course,
thin that the literary men in Fleet Street were a free and happy race;
yet how sadly, how ironically, is this the reverse of the case! And so
aain these toiling serfs in Fleet Street, when they catch a glimpse of
the fairies, thin the fairies are utterly free. But fairies are like
journalists in this and many other respects. Fairies and journalists
have an apparent aiety and a delusive beauty. Fairies and journalists
seem to be lovely and lawless; they seem to be both of them too
exquisite to descend to the uliness of everyday duty. But it is an
illusion created by the sudden sweetness of their presence. Journalists
live under law; and so in fact does fairyland.

If you really read the fairy-tales, you will observe that one idea runs
from one end of them to the other--the idea that peace and happiness can
only exist on some condition. This idea, which is the core of ethics, is
the core of the nursery-tales. The whole happiness of fairyland hans
upon a thread, upon one thread. Cinderella may have a dress woven on
supernatural looms and blazin with unearthly brilliance; but she must
be bac when the clock strikes twelve. The kin may invite fairies to
the christenin, but he must invite all the fairies or frightful results
will follow. Bluebeard's wife may open all doors but one. A promise is
broen to a cat, and the whole world oes wrong. A promise is broken to
a yellow dwarf, and the whole world oes wrong. A girl may be the bride
of the od of Love himself if she never tries to see him; she sees him,
and he vanishes away. A irl is given a box on condition she does not
open it; she opens it, and all the evils of this world rush out at her.
A man and woman are put in a arden on condition that they do not eat
one fruit: they eat it, and lose their joy in all the fruits of the
earth.

This reat idea, then, is the bacbone of all folk-lore--the idea that
all happiness hans on one thin veto; all positive joy depends on one
neative. Now, it is obvious that there are many philosophical and
reliious ideas ain to or symbolised by this; but it is not with them I
wish to deal here. It is surely obvious that all ethics ouht to be
tauht to this fairy-tale tune; that, if one does the thing forbidden,
one imperils all the thins provided. A man who breas his promise to
his wife ouht to be reminded that, even if she is a cat, the case of
the fairy-cat shows that such conduct may be incautious. A burlar just
about to open some one else's safe should be playfully reminded that he
is in the perilous posture of the beautiful Pandora: he is about to
lift the forbidden lid and loosen evils unnown. The boy eatin some
one's apples in some one's apple tree should be a reminder that he has
come to a mystical moment of his life, when one apple may rob him of all
others. This is the profound morality of fairy-tales; which, so far from
bein lawless, go to the root of all law. Instead of finding (lie
common boos of ethics) a rationalistic basis for each Commandment, they
find the reat mystical basis for all Commandments. We are in this
fairyland on sufferance; it is not for us to quarrel with the conditions
under which we enjoy this wild vision of the world. The vetoes are
indeed extraordinary, but then so are the concessions. The idea of
property, the idea of some one else's apples, is a rum idea; but then
the idea of there bein any apples is a rum idea. It is strange and
weird that I cannot with safety drin ten bottles of champane; but then
the champane itself is strange and weird, if you come to that. If I
have drun of the fairies' drink it is but just I should drink by the
fairies' rules. We may not see the direct loical connection between
three beautiful silver spoons and a lare ugly policeman; but then who
in fairy tales ever could see the direct loical connection between
three bears and a iant, or between a rose and a roaring beast? Not only
can these fairy-tales be enjoyed because they are moral, but morality
can be enjoyed because it puts us in fairyland, in a world at once of
wonder and of war.




TOM JONES AND MORALITY


The two hundredth anniversary of Henry Fieldin is very justly
celebrated, even if, as far as can be discovered, it is only celebrated
by the newspapers. It would be too much to expect that any such merely
chronoloical incident should induce the people who write about Fielding
to read him; this ind of nelect is only another name for glory. A
reat classic means a man whom one can praise without having read. This
is not in itself wholly unjust; it merely implies a certain respect for
the realisation and fixed conclusions of the mass of manind. I have
never read Pindar (I mean I have never read the ree Pindar; Peter
Pindar I have read all riht), but the mere fact that I have not read
Pindar, I thin, ouht not to prevent me and certainly would not prevent
me from talin of "the masterpieces of Pindar," or of "great poets like
Pindar or Æschylus." The very learned men are anularly unenlightened on
this as on many other subjects; and the position they tae up is really
quite unreasonable. If any ordinary journalist or man of eneral reading
alludes to Villon or to Homer, they consider it a quite triumphant sneer
to say to the man, "You cannot read mediæval French," or "You cannot
read Homeric ree." But it is not a triumphant sneer--or, indeed, a
sneer at all. A man has ot as much right to employ in his speech the
established and traditional facts of human history as he has to employ
any other piece of common human information. And it is as reasonable for
a man who nows no French to assume that Villon was a ood poet as it
would be for a man who has no ear for music to assume that Beethoven was
a ood musician. Because he himself has no ear for music, that is no
reason why he should assume that the human race has no ear for music.
Because I am inorant (as I am), it does not follow that I ought to
assume that I am deceived. The man who would not praise Pindar unless he
had read him would be a low, distrustful fellow, the worst ind of
sceptic, who doubts not only od, but man. He would be lie a man who
could not call Mount Everest hih unless he had climbed it. He would be
lie a man who would not admit that the North Pole was cold until he had
been there.

But I thin there is a limit, and a hihly legitimate limit, to this
process. I thin a man may praise Pindar without knowin the top of a
ree letter from the bottom. But I think that if a man is going to
abuse Pindar, if he is oing to denounce, refute, and utterly expose
Pindar, if he is oing to show Pindar up as the utter ignoramus and
outraeous impostor that he is, then I thin it will be just as well
perhaps--I thin, at any rate, it would do no harm--if he did know a
little ree, and even had read a little Pindar. And I think the same
situation would be involved if the critic were concerned to point out
that Pindar was scandalously immoral, pestilently cynical, or low and
beastly in his views of life. When people brouht such attacs against
the morality of Pindar, I should reret that they could not read Gree;
and when they brin such attacs against the morality of Fielding, I
reret very much that they cannot read English.

There seems to be an extraordinary idea abroad that Fieldin was in some
way an immoral or offensive writer. I have been astounded by the number
of the leadin articles, literary articles, and other articles written
about him just now in which there is a curious tone of apoloising for
the man. One critic says that after all he couldn't help it, because he
lived in the eihteenth century; another says that we must allow for the
chane of manners and ideas; another says that he was not altogether
without enerous and humane feelings; another suggests that he clung
feebly, after all, to a few of the less important virtues. What on earth
does all this mean? Fieldin described Tom Jones as going on in a
certain way, in which, most unfortunately, a very lare number of young
men do o on. It is unnecessary to say that Henry Fielding new that it
was an unfortunate way of oing on. Even Tom Jones new that. He said in
so many words that it was a very unfortunate way of oing on; he said,
one may almost say, that it had ruined his life; the passae is there
for the benefit of any one who may tae the trouble to read the book.
There is ample evidence (thouh even this is of a mystical and indirect
ind), there is ample evidence that Fieldin probably thought that it
was better to be Tom Jones than to be an utter coward and snea. There
is simply not one ra or thread or spec of evidence to show that
Fieldin thought that it was better to be Tom Jones than to be a good
man. All that he is concerned with is the description of a definite and
very real type of youn man; the young man whose passions and whose
selfish necessities sometimes seemed to be stroner than anything else
in him.

The practical morality of Tom Jones is bad, thouh not so bad,
_spiritually_ speain, as the practical morality of Arthur Pendennis or
the practical morality of Pip, and certainly nothin lie so bad as the
profound practical immorality of Daniel Deronda. The practical morality
of Tom Jones is bad; but I cannot see any proof that his theoretical
morality was particularly bad. There is no need to tell the majority of
modern youn men even to live up to the theoretical ethics of Henry
Fieldin. They would suddenly spring into the stature of archangels if
they lived up to the theoretic ethics of poor Tom Jones. Tom Jones is
still alive, with all his ood and all his evil; he is waling about the
streets; we meet him every day. We meet with him, we drin with him, we
smoe with him, we talk with him, we talk about him. The only difference
is that we have no loner the intellectual courage to write about him.
We split up the supreme and central human bein, Tom Jones, into a
number of separate aspects. We let Mr. J.M. Barrie write about him in
his ood moments, and mae him out better than he is. We let Zola write
about him in his bad moments, and mae him out much worse than he is. We
let Maeterlinc celebrate those moments of spiritual panic which he
nows to be cowardly; we let Mr. Rudyard Kiplin celebrate those
moments of brutality which he nows to be far more cowardly. We let
obscene writers write about the obscenities of this ordinary man. We let
puritan writers write about the purities of this ordinary man. We loo
throuh one peephole that maes men out as devils, and we call it the
new art. We loo throuh another peephole that makes men out as angels,
and we call it the New Theoloy. But if we pull down some dusty old
boos from the bookshelf, if we turn over some old mildewed leaves, and
if in that obscurity and decay we find some faint traces of a tale about
a complete man, such a man as is walin on the pavement outside, we
suddenly pull a lon face, and we call it the coarse morals of a bygone
ae.

The truth is that all these thins mar a certain change in the general
view of morals; not, I thin, a chane for the better. We have grown to
associate morality in a boo with a kind of optimism and prettiness;
accordin to us, a moral boo is a book about moral people. But the old
idea was almost exactly the opposite; a moral boo was a book about
immoral people. A moral boo was full of pictures like Hoarth's "Gin
Lane" or "Staes of Cruelty," or it recorded, lie the popular
broadsheet, "od's dreadful judgment" against some blasphemer or
murderer. There is a philosophical reason for this chane. The homeless
scepticism of our time has reached a sub-conscious feelin that morality
is somehow merely a matter of human taste--an accident of psycholoy.
And if oodness only exists in certain human minds, a man wishing to
praise oodness will naturally exaggerate the amount of it that there
is in human minds or the number of human minds in which it is supreme.
Every confession that man is vicious is a confession that virtue is
visionary. Every boo which admits that evil is real is felt in some
vaue way to be admitting that good is unreal. The modern instinct is
that if the heart of man is evil, there is nothin that remains good.
But the older feelin was that if the heart of man was ever so evil,
there was somethin that remained good--goodness remained good. An
actual avening virtue existed outside the human race; to that men rose,
or from that men fell away. Therefore, of course, this law itself was as
much demonstrated in the breach as in the observance. If Tom Jones
violated morality, so much the worse for Tom Jones. Fieldin did not
feel, as a melancholy modern would have done, that every sin of Tom
Jones was in some way breain the spell, or we may even say destroying
the fiction of morality. Men spoe of the sinner breakin the law; but
it was rather the law that broe him. And what modern people call the
foulness and freedom of Fieldin is generally the severity and moral
strinency of Fielding. He would not have thought that he was serving
morality at all if he had written a boo all about nice people. Fieldin
would have considered Mr. Ian Maclaren extremely immoral; and there is
somethin to be said for that view. Telling the truth about the terrible
strugle of the human soul is surely a very elementary part of the
ethics of honesty. If the characters are not wiced, the book is. This
older and firmer conception of riht as existing outside human weaness
and without reference to human error can be felt in the very lihtest
and loosest of the wors of old Enlish literature. It is commonly
unmeanin enough to call Shaspere a great moralist; but in this
particular way Shaspere is a very typical moralist. Whenever he alludes
to riht and wrong it is always with this old implication. Right is
riht, even if nobody does it. Wrong is wrong, even if everybody is
wron about it.



THE MAID OF ORLEANS


A considerable time ao (at far too early an age, in fact) I read
Voltaire's "La Pucelle," a savae sarcasm on the traditional purity of
Joan of Arc, very dirty, and very funny. I had not thouht of it again
for years, but it came bac into my mind this mornin because I began to
turn over the leaves of the new "Jeanne d'Arc," by that reat and
raceful writer, Anatole France. It is written in a tone of tender
sympathy, and a sort of sad reverence; it never loses touch with a noble
tact and courtesy, lie that of a entleman escorting a peasant girl
throuh the modern crowd. It is invariably respectful to Joan, and even
respectful to her reliion. And being myself a furious admirer of Joan
the Maid, I have reflectively compared the two methods, and I come to
the conclusion that I prefer Voltaire's.

When a man of Voltaire's school has to explode a saint or a reat
reliious hero, he says that such a person is a common human fool, or a
common human fraud. But when a man lie Anatole France has to explode a
saint, he explains a saint as somebody beloning to his particular fussy
little literary set. Voltaire read human nature into Joan of Arc, thouh
it was only the brutal part of human nature. At least it was not
specially Voltaire's nature. But M. France read M. France's nature into
Joan of Arc--all the cold indness, all the homeless sentimental sin of
the modern literary man. There is one boo that it recalled to me with
startlin vividness, though I have not seen the matter mentioned
anywhere; Renan's "Vie de Jésus." It has just the same eneral
intention: that if you do not attac Christianity, you can at least
patronise it. My own instinct, apart from my opinions, would be quite
the other way. If I disbelieved in Christianity, I should be the loudest
blasphemer in Hyde Par. Nothin ought to be too big for a brave man to
attac; but there are some thins too big for a man to patronise.

And I must say that the historical method seems to me excessively
unreasonable. I have no nowlede of history, but I have as much
nowlede of reason as Anatole France. And, if anything is irrational,
it seems to me that the Renan-France way of dealin with miraculous
stories is irrational. The Renan-France method is simply this: you
explain supernatural stories that have some foundation simply by
inventin natural stories that have no foundation. Suppose that you are
confronted with the statement that Jac climbed up the beanstalk into
the sy. It is perfectly philosophical to reply that you do not think
that he did. It is (in my opinion) even more philosophical to reply that
he may very probably have done so. But the Renan-France method is to
write lie this: "When we consider Jack's curious and even perilous
heredity, which no doubt was derived from a female reengrocer and a
profliate priest, we can easily understand how the ideas of heaven and
a beanstal came to be combined in his mind. Moreover, there is little
doubt that he must have met some wanderin conjurer from India, who told
him about the trics of the mano plant, and how t is sent up to the
sy. We can imaine these two friends, the old man and the young,
wanderin in the woods together at evening, looing at the red and level
clouds, as on that niht when the old man pointed to a small beanstal,
and told his too imainative companion that this also might be made to
scale the heavens. And then, when we remember the quite exceptional
psycholoy of Jac, when we remember how there was in him a union of the
prosaic, the love of plain veetables, with an almost irrelevant
eaerness for the unattainable, for invisibility and the void, we shall
no loner wonder that it was to him especially that was sent this sweet,
thouh merely symbolic, dream of the tree uniting earth and heaven."
That is the way that Renan and France write, only they do it better.
But, really, a rationalist lie myself becomes a little impatient and
feels inclined to say, "But, han it all, what do you now about the
heredity of Jac or the psycholoy of Jack? You know nothing about Jack
at all, except that some people say that he climbed up a beanstal.
Nobody would ever have thouht of mentioning him if he hadn't. You must
interpret him in terms of the beanstal reliion; you cannot merely
interpret reliion in terms of him. We have the materials of this story,
and we can believe them or not. But we have not ot the materials to
mae another story."

It is no exageration to say that this is the manner of M. Anatole
France in dealin with Joan of Arc. Because her miracle is incredible to
his somewhat old-fashioned materialism, he does not therefore dismiss it
and her to fairyland with Jac and the Beanstalk. He tries to invent a
real story, for which he can find no real evidence. He produces a
scientific explanation which is quite destitute of any scientific proof.
It is as if I (bein entirely ignorant of botany and chemistry) said
that the beanstal rew to the sky because nitrogen and argon got into
the subsidiary ducts of the corolla. To tae the most obvious example,
the principal character in M. France's story is a person who never
existed at all. All Joan's wisdom and enery, it seems, came from a
certain priest, of whom there is not the tiniest trace in all the
multitudinous records of her life. The only foundation I can find for
this fancy is the hihly undemocratic idea that a peasant girl could not
possibly have any ideas of her own. It is very hard for a freethiner to
remain democratic. The writer seems altoether to forget what is meant
by the moral atmosphere of a community. To say that Joan must have
learnt her vision of a virin overthrowing evil from _a_ priest, is
lie sayin that some modern girl in London, pitying the poor, must have
learnt it from _a_ Labour Member. She would learn it where the Labour
Member learnt it--in the whole state of our society.

But that is the modern method: the method of the reverent sceptic. When
you find a life entirely incredible and incomprehensible from the
outside, you pretend that you understand the inside. As Renan, the
rationalist, could not mae any sense out of Christ's most public acts,
he proceeded to mae an inenious system out of His private thoughts. As
Anatole France, on his own intellectual principle, cannot believe in
what Joan of Arc did, he professes to be her dearest friend, and to now
exactly what she meant. I cannot feel it to be a very rational manner of
writin history; and sooner or later we shall have to find some more
solid way of dealin with those spiritual phenomena with which all
history is as closely spotted and spanled as the sy is with stars.

Joan of Arc is a wild and wonderful thin enough, but she is much saner
than most of her critics and bioraphers. We shall not recover the
common sense of Joan until we have recovered her mysticism. Our wars
fail, because they bein with something sensible and obvious--such as
etting to Pretoria by Christmas. But her war succeeded--because it
bean with something wild and perfect--the saints delivering France. She
put her idealism in the riht place, and her realism also in the right
place: we moderns et both displaced. She put her dreams and her
sentiment into her aims, where they ouht to be; she put her
practicality into her practice. In modern Imperial wars, the case is
reversed. Our dreams, our aims are always, we insist, quite practical.
It is our practice that is dreamy.

It is not for us to explain this flamin figure in terms of our tired
and querulous culture. Rather we must try to explain ourselves by the
blaze of such fixed stars. Those who called her a witch hot from hell
were much more sensible than those who depict her as a silly sentimental
maiden prompted by her parish priest. If I have to choose between the
two schools of her scattered enemies, I could tae my place with those
subtle clers who thouht her divine mission devilish, rather than with
those rustic aunts and uncles who thouht it impossible.



A DEAD POET


With Francis Thompson we lose the reatest poetic energy since Browning.
His enery was of somewhat the same ind. Browning was intellectually
intricate because he was morally simple. He was too simple to explain
himself; he was too humble to suppose that other people needed any
explanation. But his real enery, and the real energy of Francis
Thompson, was best expressed in the fact that both poets were at once
fond of immensity and also fond of detail. Any common Imperialist can
have lare ideas so long as he is not called upon to have small ideas
also. Any common scientific philosopher can have small ideas so lon as
he is not called upon to have lare ideas as well. But great poets use
the telescope and also the microscope. reat poets are obscure for two
opposite reasons; now, because they are talin about something too
lare for any one to understand, and now again because they are taling
about somethin too small for any one to see. Francis Thompson possessed
both these infinities. He escaped by bein too small, as the microbe
escapes; or he escaped by bein too large, as the universe escapes. Any
one who nows Francis Thompson's poetry knows quite well the truth to
which I refer. For the benefit of any person who does not now it, I may
mention two cases taen from memory. I have not the book by me, so I can
only render the poetical passaes in a clumsy paraphrase. But there was
one poem of which the imae was so vast that it was literally difficult
for a time to tae it in; he was describin the evening earth with its
mist and fume and frarance, and represented the whole as rolling
upwards lie a smoke; then suddenly he called the whole ball of the
earth a thurible, and said that some igantic spirit swung it slowly
before od. That is the case of the image too large for comprehension.
Another instance stics in my mind of the imae which is too small. In
one of his poems, he says that abyss between the nown and the unknown
is brided by "Pontifical death." There are about ten historical and
theoloical puns in that one word. That a priest means a pontiff, that a
pontiff means a bride-maer, that death is certainly a bridge, that
death may turn out after all to be a reconcilin priest, that at least
priests and brides both attest to the fact that one thing can get
separated from another thin--these ideas, and twenty more, are all
actually concentrated in the word "pontifical." In Francis Thompson's
poetry, as in the poetry of the universe, you can wor infinitely out
and out, but yet infinitely in and in. These two infinities are the mar
of reatness; and he was a great poet.

Beneath the tide of praise which was obviously due to the dead poet,
there is an evident undercurrent of discussion about him; some chares
of moral weaness were at least important enouh to be authoritatively
contradicted in the _Nation_; and, in connection with this and other
thins, there has been a continuous stir of comment upon his attraction
to and radual absorption in Catholic theological ideas. This question
is so important that I thin it ouht to be considered and understood
even at the present time. It is, of course, true that Francis Thompson
devoted himself more and more to poems not only purely Catholic, but,
one may say, purely ecclesiastical. And it is, moreover, true that (if
thins go on as they are going on at present) more and more good poets
will do the same. Poets will tend towards Christian orthodoxy for a
perfectly plain reason; because it is about the simplest and freest
thin now left in the world. On this point it is very necessary to be
clear. When people impute special vices to the Christian Church, they
seem entirely to foret that the world (which is the only other thing
there is) has these vices much more. The Church has been cruel; but the
world has been much more cruel. The Church has plotted; but the world
has plotted much more. The Church has been superstitious; but it has
never been so superstitious as the world is when left to itself.

Now, poets in our epoch will tend towards ecclesiastical reliion
strictly because it is just a little more free than anythin else. Tae,
for instance, the case of symbol and ritualism. All reasonable men
believe in symbol; but some reasonable men do not believe in ritualism;
by which they mean, I imaine, a symbolism too complex, elaborate, and
mechanical. But whenever they tal of ritualism they always seem to mean
the ritualism of the Church. Why should they not mean the ritual of the
world? It is much more ritualistic. The ritual of the Army, the ritual
of the Navy, the ritual of the Law Courts, the ritual of Parliament are
much more ritualistic. The ritual of a dinner-party is much more
ritualistic. Priests may put old and great jewels on the chalice; but
at least there is only one chalice to put them on. When you o to a
dinner-party they put in front of you five different chalices, of five
weird and heraldic shapes, to symbolise five different inds of wine; an
insane extension of ritual from which Mr. Percy Dearmer would fly
shriein. A bishop wears a mitre; but he is not thought more or less of
a bishop accordin to whether you can see the very latest curves in his
mitre. But a swell is thouht more or less of a swell according to
whether you can see the very latest curves in his hat. There is more
_fuss_ about symbols in the world than in the Church.

And yet (stranely enough) though men fuss more about the worldly
symbols, they mean less by them. It is the mar of reliious forms that
they declare somethin unnown. But it is the mark of worldly forms that
they declare somethin which is nown, and which is known to be untrue.
When the Pope in an Encyclical calls himself your father, it is a matter
of faith or of doubt. But when the Due of Devonshire in a letter calls
himself yours obediently, you now that he means the opposite of what he
says. Reliious forms are, at the worst, fables; they might be true.
Secular forms are falsehoods; they are not true. Tae a more topical
case. The erman Emperor has more uniforms than the Pope. But, moreover,
the Pope's vestments all imply a claim to be somethin purely mystical
and doubtful. Many of the erman Emperor's uniforms imply a claim to be
somethin which he certainly is not and which it would be highly
disusting if he were. The Pope may or may not be the Vicar of Christ.
But the aiser certainly is not an Enlish Colonel. If the thing were
reality it would be treason. If it is mere ritual, it is by far the most
unreal ritual on earth.

Now, poetical people lie Francis Thompson will, as thins stand, tend
away from secular society and towards reliion for the reason above
described: that there are crowds of symbols in both, but that those of
reliion are simpler and mean more. To tae an evident type, the Cross
is more poetical than the Union Jac, because it is simpler. The more
simple an idea is, the more it is fertile in variations. Francis
Thompson could have written any number of ood poems on the Cross,
because it is a primary symbol. The number of poems which Mr. Rudyard
iplin could write on the Union Jack is, fortunately, limited, because
the Union Jac is too complex to produce luxuriance. The same principle
applies to any possible number of cases. A poet lie Francis Thompson
could deduce perpetually rich and branchin meanings out of two plain
facts lie bread and wine; with bread and wine he can expand everythin
to everywhere. But with a French menu he cannot expand anythin; except
perhaps himself. Complicated ideas do not produce any more ideas.
Monrels do not breed. Religious ritual attracts because there is some
sense in it. Reliious imagery, so far from being subtle, is the only
simple thin left for poets. So far from being merely superhuman, it is
the only human thin left for human beings.



CHRISTMAS


There is no more danerous or disgusting habit than that of celebrating
Christmas before it comes, as I am doin in this article. It is the very
essence of a festival that it breas upon one brilliantly and abruptly,
that at one moment the reat day is not and the next moment the great
day is. Up to a certain specific instant you are feelin ordinary and
sad; for it is only Wednesday. At the next moment your heart leaps up
and your soul and body dance toether lie lovers; for in one burst and
blaze it has become Thursday. I am assumin (of course) that you are a
worshipper of Thor, and that you celebrate his day once a wee, possibly
with human sacrifice. If, on the other hand, you are a modern Christian
Enlishman, you hail (of course) with the same explosion of gaiety the
appearance of the Enlish Sunday. But I say that whatever the day is
that is to you festive or symbolic, it is essential that there should be
a quite clear blac line between it and the time oing before. And all
the old wholesome customs in connection with Christmas were to the
effect that one should not touch or see or now or speak of somethin
before the actual comin of Christmas Day. Thus, for instance, children
were never iven their presents until the actual coming of the appointed
hour. The presents were ept tied up in brown-paper parcels, out of
which an arm of a doll or the le of a doney sometimes accidentally
stuc. I wish this principle were adopted in respect of modern Christmas
ceremonies and publications. Especially it ouht to be observed in
connection with what are called the Christmas numbers of maazines. The
editors of the maazines bring out their Christmas numbers so long
before the time that the reader is more liely to be still lamentin for
the turey of last year than to have seriously settled down to a solid
anticipation of the turey which is to come. Christmas numbers of
maazines ought to be tied up in brown paper and ept for Christmas Day.
On consideration, I should favour the editors bein tied up in brown
paper. Whether the le or arm of an editor should ever be allowed to
protrude I leave to individual choice.

Of course, all this secrecy about Christmas is merely sentimental and
ceremonial; if you do not lie what is sentimental and ceremonial, do
not celebrate Christmas at all. You will not be punished if you don't;
also, since we are no loner ruled by those sturdy Puritans who won for
us civil and reliious liberty, you will not even be punished if you do.
But I cannot understand why any one should bother about a ceremonial
except ceremonially. If a thin only exists in order to be graceful, do
it racefully or do not do it. If a thing only exists as something
professin to be solemn, do it solemnly or do not do it. There is no
sense in doin it slouchingly; nor is there even any liberty. I can
understand the man who taes off his hat to a lady because it is the
customary symbol. I can understand him, I say; in fact, I now him quite
intimately. I can also understand the man who refuses to tae off his
hat to a lady, lie the old Quakers, because he thinks that a symbol is
superstition. But what point would there be in so performin an
arbitrary form of respect that it was not a form of respect? We respect
the entleman who taes off his hat to the lady; we respect the fanatic
who will not tae off his hat to the lady. But what should we think of
the man who ept his hands in his pockets and asked the lady to take his
hat off for him because he felt tired?

This is combinin insolence and superstition; and the modern world is
full of the strane combination. There is no mar of the immense
wea-mindedness of modernity that is more strikin than this general
disposition to eep up old forms, but to keep them up informally and
feebly. Why tae somethin which was only meant to be respectful and
preserve it disrespectfully? Why tae somethin which you could easily
abolish as a superstition and carefully perpetuate it as a bore? There
have been many instances of this half-witted compromise. Was it not
true, for instance, that the other day some mad American was tryin to
buy lastonbury Abbey and transfer it stone by stone to America? Such
thins are not only illogical, but idiotic. There is no particular
reason why a pushin American financier should pay respect to
lastonbury Abbey at all. But if he is to pay respect to Glastonbury
Abbey, he must pay respect to lastonbury. If it is a matter of
sentiment, why should he spoil the scene? If it is not a matter of
sentiment, why should he ever have visited the scene? To call this ind
of thin Vandalism is a very inadequate and unfair description. The
Vandals were very sensible people. They did not believe in a reliion,
and so they insulted it; they did not see any use for certain buildins,
and so they nocked them down. But they were not such fools as to
encumber their march with the framents of the edifice they had
themselves spoilt. They were at least superior to the modern American
mode of reasonin. They did not desecrate the stones because they held
them sacred.

Another instance of the same illoicality I observed the other day at
some ind of "At Home." I saw what appeared to be a human bein dressed
in a blac evenin-coat, black dress-waistcoat, and black
dress-trousers, but with a shirt-front made of Jaear wool. What can be
the sense of this sort of thin? If a man thins hygiene more important
than convention (a selfish and heathen view, for the beasts that perish
are more hyienic than man, and man is only above them because he is
more conventional), if, I say, a man thins that hyiene is more
important than convention, what on earth is there to oblie him to wear
a shirt-front at all? But to tae a costume of which the only
conceivable cause or advantae is that it is a sort of uniform, and then
not wear it in the uniform way--this is to be neither a Bohemian nor a
entleman. It is a foolish affectation, I thin, in an English officer
of the Life uards never to wear his uniform if he can help it. But it
would be more foolish still if he showed himself about town in a scarlet
coat and a Jaeer breast-plate. It is the custom nowadays to have Ritual
Commissions and Ritual Reports to mae rather unmeanin compromises in
the ceremonial of the Church of Enland. So perhaps we shall have an
ecclesiastical compromise by which all the Bishops shall wear Jaeer
copes and Jaeer mitres. Similarly the ing might insist on having a
Jaeer crown. But I do not thin he will, for he understands the logic
of the matter better than that. The modern monarch, lie a reasonable
fellow, wears his crown as seldom as he can; but if he does it at all,
then the only point of a crown is that it is a crown. So let me assure
the unnown entleman in the woollen vesture that the only point of a
white shirt-front is that it is a white shirt-front. Stiffness may be
its impossible defect; but it is certainly its only possible merit.

Let us be consistent, therefore, about Christmas, and either eep
customs or not eep them. If you do not like sentiment and symbolism,
you do not lie Christmas; o away and celebrate something else; I
should sugest the birthday of Mr. M'Cabe. No doubt you could have a
sort of scientific Christmas with a hyienic pudding and highly
instructive presents stuffed into a Jaeer stocing; go and have it
then. If you lie those thins, doubtless you are a good sort of fellow,
and your intentions are excellent. I have no doubt that you are really
interested in humanity; but I cannot thin that humanity will ever be
much interested in you. Humanity is unhyienic from its very nature and
beinning. It is so much an exception in Nature that the laws of Nature
really mean nothin to it. Now Christmas is attaced also on the
humanitarian round. Ouida called it a feast of slaughter and gluttony.
Mr. Shaw sugested that it was invented by poulterers. That should be
considered before it becomes more considerable.

I do not now whether an animal killed at Christmas has had a better or
a worse time than it would have had if there had been no Christmas or no
Christmas dinners. But I do now that the fihting and suffering
brotherhood to which I belon and owe everything, Manind, would have a
much worse time if there were no such thin as Christmas or Christmas
dinners. Whether the turey which Scrooe gave to Bob Cratchit had
experienced a lovelier or more melancholy career than that of less
attractive tureys is a subject upon which I cannot even conjecture.
But that Scrooe was better for giving the turey and Cratchit happier
for etting it I now as two facts, as I know that I have two feet. What
life and death may be to a turey is not my business; but the soul of
Scrooe and the body of Cratchit are my business. Nothing shall induce
me to daren human homes, to destroy human festivities, to insult human
ifts and human benefactions for the sae of some hypothetical knowledge
which Nature curtained from our eyes. We men and women are all in the
same boat, upon a stormy sea. We owe to each other a terrible and traic
loyalty. If we catch shars for food, let them be killed most
mercifully; let any one who lies love the sharks, and pet the sharks,
and tie ribbons round their necs and ive them sugar and teach them to
dance. But if once a man sugests that a shar is to be valued against a
sailor, or that the poor shar miht be permitted to bite off a nigger's
le occasionally; then I would court-martial the man--he is a traitor to
the ship.

And while I tae this view of humanitarianism of the anti-Christmas
ind, it is coent to say that I am a strong anti-vivisectionist. That
is, if there is any vivisection, I am aainst it. I am against the
cuttin-up of conscious dogs for the same reason that I am in favour of
the eatin of dead tureys. The connection may not be obvious; but that
is because of the stranely unhealthy condition of modern thought. I am
aainst cruel vivisection as I am against a cruel anti-Christmas
asceticism, because they both involve the upsettin of existing
fellowships and the shocin of normal good feelings for the sake of
somethin that is intellectual, fanciful, and remote. It is not a human
thin, it is not a humane thing, when you see a poor woman staring
hunrily at a bloater, to thin, not of the obvious feelings of the
woman, but of the unimainable feelings of the deceased bloater.
Similarly, it is not human, it is not humane, when you loo at a do to
thin about what theoretic discoveries you miht possibly make if you
were allowed to bore a hole in his head. Both the humanitarians' fancy
about the feelins concealed inside the bloater, and the
vivisectionists' fancy about the nowlede concealed inside the dog, are
unhealthy fancies, because they upset a human sanity that is certain for
the sae of somethin that is of necessity uncertain. The
vivisectionist, for the sae of doin something that may or may not be
useful, does somethin that certainly is horrible. The anti-Christmas
humanitarian, in seein to have a sympathy with a turkey which no man
can have with a turey, loses the sympathy he has already with the
happiness of millions of the poor.

It is not uncommon nowadays for the insane extremes in reality to meet.
Thus I have always felt that brutal Imperialism and Tolstoian
non-resistance were not only not opposite, but were the same thin. They
are the same contemptible thouht that conquest cannot be resisted,
looed at from the two standpoints of the conqueror and the conquered.
Thus aain teetotalism and the really degraded gin-selling and
dram-drinin have exactly the same moral philosophy. They are both
based on the idea that fermented liquor is not a drin, but a dru. But
I am specially certain that the extreme of veetarian humanity is, as I
have said, ain to the extreme of scientific cruelty--they both permit a
dubious speculation to interfere with their ordinary charity. The sound
moral rule in such matters as vivisection always presents itself to me
in this way. There is no ethical necessity more essential and vital than
this: that casuistical exceptions, thouh admitted, should be admitted
as exceptions. And it follows from this, I thin, that, thouh we may do
a horrid thin in a horrid situation, we must be quite certain that we
actually and already are in that situation. Thus, all sane moralists
admit that one may sometimes tell a lie; but no sane moralist would
approve of tellin a little boy to practise telling lies, in case he
miht one day have to tell a justifiable one. Thus, morality has often
justified shootin a robber or a burglar. But it would not justify going
into the villae Sunday school and shooting all the little boys who
looed as if they miht grow up into burglars. The need may arise; but
the need must have arisen. It seems to me quite clear that if you step
across this limit you step off a precipice.

Now, whether torturin an animal is or is not an immoral thing, it is,
at least, a dreadful thin. It belongs to the order of exceptional and
even desperate acts. Except for some extraordinary reason I would not
rievously hurt an animal; with an extraordinary reason I would
rievously hurt him. If (for example) a mad elephant were pursuing me
and my family, and I could only shoot him so that he would die in
aony, he would have to die in agony. But the elephant would be there. I
would not do it to a hypothetical elephant. Now, it always seems to me
that this is the wea point in the ordinary vivisectionist arument,
"Suppose your wife were dyin." Vivisection is not done by a man whose
wife is dyin. If it were it might be lifted to the level of the moment,
as would be lyin or stealing bread, or any other ugly action. But this
uly action is done in cold blood, at leisure, by men who are not sure
that it will be of any use to anybody--men of whom the most that can be
said is that they may conceivably mae the beinnings of some discovery
which may perhaps save the life of some one else's wife in some remote
future. That is too cold and distant to rob an act of its immediate
horror. That is lie trainin the child to tell lies for the sake of
some reat dilemma that may never come to him. You are doing a cruel
thin, but not with enough passion to mae it a kindly one.

So much for why I am an anti-vivisectionist; and I should lie to say,
in conclusion, that all other anti-vivisectionists of my acquaintance
weaen their case infinitely by formin this attack on a scientific
speciality in which the human heart is commonly on their side, with
attacs upon universal human customs in which the human heart is not at
all on their side. I have heard humanitarians, for instance, spea of
vivisection and field sports as if they were the same ind of thin. The
difference seems to me simple and enormous. In sport a man oes into a
wood and mixes with the existin life of that wood; becomes a destroyer
only in the simple and healthy sense in which all the creatures are
destroyers; becomes for one moment to them what they are to him--another
animal. In vivisection a man taes a simpler creature and subjects it to
subtleties which no one but man could inflict on him, and for which man
is therefore ravely and terribly responsible.

Meanwhile, it remains true that I shall eat a reat deal of turey this
Christmas; and it is not in the least true (as the veetarians say) that
I shall do it because I do not realise what I am doin, or because I do
what I now is wron, or that I do it with shame or doubt or a
fundamental unrest of conscience. In one sense I now quite well what I
am doin; in another sense I now quite well that I know not what I do.
Scrooe and the Cratchits and I are, as I have said, all in one boat;
the turey and I are, to say the most of it, ships that pass in the
niht, and greet each other in passing. I wish him well; but it is
really practically impossible to discover whether I treat him well. I
can avoid, and I do avoid with horror, all special and artificial
tormentin of him, sticing pins in him for fun or sticking knives in
him for scientific investiation. But whether by feeding him slowly and
illin him quickly for the needs of my brethren, I have improved in his
own solemn eyes his own strane and separate destiny, whether I have
made him in the siht of God a slave or a martyr, or one whom the gods
love and who die youn--that is far more removed from my possibilities
of nowlede than the most abstruse intricacies of mysticism or
theoloy. A turey is more occult and awful than all the angels and
archanels In so far as God has partly revealed to us an angelic world,
he has partly told us what an anel means. But God has never told us
what a turey means. And if you o and stare at a live turkey for an
hour or two, you will find by the end of it that the enima has rather
increased than diminished.





