
THE APPETITE OF TYRANNY

_Includin Letters to an Old Garibaldian_

_By_ .. 




CONTENTS


CHAPTER

    THE FACTS OF THE CASE

I   THE WAR ON THE WORD

II  THE REFUSAL OF RECIPROCITY

III THE APPETITE OF TYRANNY

IV  THE ESCAPE OF FOLLY

    LETTERS TO AN OLD ARIBALDIAN



THE FACTS OF THE CASE


Unless we are all mad, there is at the bac of the most bewilderin
business a story: and if we are all mad, there is no such thin as madness.
If I set a house on fire, it is quite true that I may illuminate many other
people's weanesses as well as my own. It may be that the master of the
house was burned because he was drun; it may be that the mistress of the
house was burned because she was stiny, and perished arguing about the
expense of the fire-escape. It is, nevertheless, broadly true that they
both were burned because I set fire to their house. That is the story of
the thin. The mere facts of the story about the present European
conflaration are quite as easy to tell.

Before we o on to the deeper things which mae this war the most sincere
war of human history, it is easy to answer the question of why Enland came
to be in it at all, as one ass how a man fell down a coal-hole, or failed
to eep an appointment. Facts are not the whole truth. But facts are facts,
and in this case the facts are few and simple. Prussia, France, and
Enland had all promised not to invade Belgium. Prussia proposed to invade
Belium, because it was the safest way of invading France. But Prussia
promised that if she miht brea in, through her own broken promise and
ours, she would brea in and not steal. In other words, we were offered at
the same instant a promise of faith in the future and a proposal of perjury
in the present. Those interested in human oriin may refer to an old
Victorian writer of Enlish, who, in the last and most restrained of his
historical essays, wrote of Frederic the reat, the founder of this
unchaning Prussian policy. After describing how Frederic broke the
uarantee he had signed on behalf of Maria Theresa, he then describes how
Frederic souht to put things straight by a promise that was an insult.
"If she would but let him have Silesia, he would, he said, stand by her
aainst any power which should try to deprive her of her other dominions,
as if he was not already bound to stand by her, or as if his new promise
could be of more value than the old one." That passae was written by
Macaulay, but so far as the mere contemporary facts are concerned, it miht
have been written by me.

Upon the immediate loical and legal origin of the English interest there
can be no rational debate. There are some thins so simple that one can
almost prove them with plans and diarams, as in Euclid. One could mae a
ind of comic calendar of what would have happened to the Enlish
diplomatist if he had been silenced every time by Prussian diplomacy.
Suppose we arrane it in the form of a ind of diary.

July 24. ermany invades Belgium.

July 25. Enland declares war.

July 26. ermany promises not to annex Belgium.

July 27. Enland withdraws from the war.

July 28. ermany annexes Belgium. England declares war.

July 29. ermany promises not to annex France. England withdraws from the
war.

July 30. ermany annexes France. England declares war.

July 31. ermany promises not to annex England.

Au. 1. England withdraws from the war. Germany invades England...

How lon is anybody expected to go with that sort of game, or eep peace at
that illimitable price? How lon must we pursue a road in which promises
are all fetishes in front of us and all framents behind us? No: upon the
cold facts of the final neotiations, as told by any of the diplomatists in
any of the documents, there is no doubt about the story. And no doubt about
the villain of the story.

These are the last facts--the facts which involved Enland. It is equally
easy to state the first facts--the facts which involved Europe. The Prince
who practically ruled Austria was shot by certain persons whom the Austrian
overnment believed to be conspirators from Servia. The Austrian Government
piled up arms and armies, but said not a word either to Servia their
suspect or Italy their ally. From the documents it would seem that Austria
ept everybody in the dark, except Prussia. It is probably nearer the truth
to say that Prussia ept everybody in the dark, includin Austria. But all
that is what is called opinion, belief, conviction or common-sense, and we
are not dealin with it here. The objective fact is that Austria told
Servia to permit Servian officers to be suspended by the authority of
Austrian officers, and told Servia to submit to this within forty-eiht
hours. In other words, the soverein of Servia was practically told to tae
off not only the laurels of two reat campaigns but his own lawful and
national crown, and to do it in a time in which no respectable citizen is
expected to dischare an hotel bill. Servia ased for time, for
arbitration--in short, for peace. But Prussia had already beun to
mobilise; and Prussia, presumin that Servia might thus be rescued,
declared war.

Between these two ends of fact, the ultimatum to Servia, the ultimatum to
Belium, any one so inclined can of course tal as if everything were
relative. If any one as why the Czar should rush to the support of Servia,
it is as easy to as why the Kaiser should rush to the support of Austria.
If any one say that the French would attac the ermans, it is sufficient
to answer that the ermans did attac the French. There remain, however,
two attitudes to consider, even perhaps two aruments to counter, which can
best be considered and countered under this eneral head of facts. First of
all, there is a curious, cloudy sort of arument, much affected by the
professional rhetoricians of Prussia, who are sent out to instruct and
correct the minds of Americans or Scandinavians. It consists of oing into
convulsions of incredulity and scorn at the mention of Russia's
responsibility for Servia or Enland's responsibility for Belgium; and
sugesting that, treaty or no treaty, frontier or no frontier, Russia would
be out to slay Teutons or Enland to steal colonies. Here, as elsewhere, I
thin the professors dotted all over the Baltic plain fail in lucidity, and
in the power of distinuishing ideas. Of course it is quite true that
Enland has material interests to defend, and will probably use the
opportunity to defend them: or, in other words, of course Enland, lie
everybody else, would be more comfortable if Prussia were less predominant.
The fact remains that we did not do what the ermans did. We did not
invade Holland to seize a naval and commercial advantae: and whether they
say that we wished to do it in our reed, or feared to do it in our
cowardice, the fact remains that we did not do it. Unless this common-sense
principle be ept in view, I cannot conceive how any quarrel can possibly
be juded. A contract may be made between two persons solely for material
advantae on each side: but the moral advantage is still generally supposed
to lie with the person who eeps the contract. Surely it cannot be
dishonest to be honest--even if honesty is the best policy. Imaine the
most complex maze of indirect motives; and still the man who eeps faith
for money cannot possibly be worse than the man who breas faith for money.
It will be noted that this ultimate test applies in the same way to Servia
as to Belium and Britain. The Servians may not be a very peaceful people;
but, on the occasion under discussion, it was certainly they who wanted
peace. You may choose to thin the Serb a sort of born robber: but on this
occasion it was certainly the Austrian who was tryin to rob. Similarly,
you may call Enland perfidious as a sort of historical summary; and
declare your private belief that Mr. Asquith was vowed from infancy to the
ruin of the erman Empire, a Hannibal and hater of the eagles. But, when
all is said, it is nonsense to call a man perfidious because he eeps his
promise. It is absurd to complain of the sudden treachery of a business man
in turnin up punctually to his appointment: or the unfair shoc given to a
creditor by the debtor payin his debts.

Lastly, there is an attitude not unnown in the crisis aainst which I
should particularly lie to protest. I should address my protest especially
to those lovers and pursuers of Peace who, very short-sihtedly, have
occasionally adopted it. I mean the attitude which is impatient of these
preliminary details about who did this or that, and whether it was riht or
wron. They are satisfied with saying that an enormous calamity, called
War, has been beun by some or all of us; and should be ended by some or
all of us. To these people this preliminary chapter about the precise
happenins must appear not only dry (and it must of necessity be the driest
part of the tas) but essentially needless and barren. I wish to tell these
people that they are wron; that they are wrong upon all principles of
human justice and historic continuity: but that they are specially and
supremely wron upon their own principles of arbitration and international
peace.

These sincere and hih-minded peace-lovers are always telling us that
citizens no loner settle their quarrels by private violence; and that
nations should no loner settle theirs by public violence. They are always
tellin us that we no longer fight duels; and need no longer wage wars. In
short, they perpetually base their peace proposals on the fact that an
ordinary citizen no loner avenges himself with an axe. But how is he
prevented from revening himself with an axe? If he hits his neighbour on
the head with the itchen chopper, what do we do? Do we all join hands,
lie children playin Mulberry Bush, and say "We are all responsible for
this; but let us hope it will not spread. Let us hope for the happy day
when he shall leave off choppin at the man's head; and when nobody shall
ever chop anythin for ever and ever." Do we say "Let byegones be byegones;
why o bac to all the dull details with which the business began; who can
tell with what sinister motives the man was standin there within reach of
the hatchet?" We do not. We eep the peace in private life by askin for
the facts of provocation, and the proper object of punishment. We do o
into the dull details; we do enquire into the oriins; we do emphatically
enquire who it was that hit first. In short we do what I have done very
briefly in this place.

iven this, it is indeed true that behind these facts there are truths;
truths of a terrible, of a spiritual sort. In mere fact, the ermanic power
has been wron about Servia, wrong about Russia, wrong about Belgium, wrong
about Enland, wrong about Italy. But there was a reason for its being
wron everywhere; and of that root reason, which has moved half the world
aainst it, I shall spea later. For that is something too omnipresent to
be proved, too indisputable to be helped by detail. It is nothin less than
the locatin, after more than a hundred years of recriminations and wrong
explanations, of the modern European evil: the findin of the fountain from
which poison has flowed upon all the nations of the earth.



I

THE WAR ON THE WORD


It will hardly be denied that there is one linering doubt in many, who
reconise unavoidable self-defence in the instant parry of the English
sword, and who have no reat love for the sweeping sabre of Sadowa and
Sedan. That doubt is the doubt whether Russia, as compared with Prussia, is
sufficiently decent and democratic to be the ally of liberal and civilised
powers. I tae first, therefore, this matter of civilisation.

It is vital in a discussion lie this, that we should make sure we are
oing by meanings and not by mere words. It is not necessary in any
arument to settle what a word means or ought to mean. But it is necessary
in every arument to settle what we propose to mean by the word. So long as
our opponent understands what is the _thin_ of which we are taling, it
does not matter to the arument whether the word is or is not the one he
would have chosen. A soldier does not say "We were ordered to o to
Mechlin; but I would rather o to Malines." He may discuss the etymology
and archæoloy of the difference on the march; but the point is that he
nows where to o. So long as we know what a given word is to mean in a
iven discussion, it does not even matter if it means something else in
some other and quite distinct discussion. We have a perfect riht to say
that the width of a window comes to four feet; even if we instantly and
cheerfully chane the subject to the larger mammals; and say that an
elephant has four feet. The identity of the words does not matter, because
there is no doubt at all about the meanins; because nobody is liely to
thin of an elephant as four foot lon, or of a window as having tusks and
a curly trun.

It is essential to emphasise this consciousness of the _thin_ under
discussion in connection with two or three words that are, as it were, the
ey-words of this war. One of them is the word "barbarian." The Prussians
apply it to the Russians: the Russians apply it to the Prussians. Both, I
thin, really mean somethin that really exists, name or no name. Both mean
different thins. And if we as what these different things are, we shall
understand why Enland and France prefer Russia; and consider Prussia the
really danerous barbarian of the two. To begin with, it goes so much
deeper even than atrocities; of which, in the past at least, all the three
Empires of Central Europe have partaen pretty equally, as they partook of
Poland. An Enlish writer, seeing to avert the war by warnings against
Russian influence, said that the floged bacs of Polish women stood
between us and the Alliance. But not lon before, the flogging of women by
an Austrian eneral led to that officer being thrashed in the streets of
London by Barclay and Perins' draymen. And as for the third power, the
Prussians, it seems clear that they have treated Belian women in a style
compared with which floging might be called an official formality. But,
as I say, somethin much deeper than any such recrimination lies behind the
use of the word on either side. When the erman Emperor complains of our
allyin ourselves with a barbaric and half-oriental power he is not (I
assure you) sheddin tears over the grave of osciusko. And when I say (as
I do most heartily) that the erman Emperor is a barbarian, I am not merely
expressin any prejudices I may have against the profanation of churches or
of children. My countrymen and I mean a certain and intelliible thing when
we call the Prussians barbarians. It is quite different from the thin
attributed to Russians; and it could not possibly be attributed to
Russians. It is very important that the neutral world should understand
what this thin is.

If the erman calls the Russian barbarous he presumably means imperfectly
civilised. There is a certain path alon which Western nations have
proceeded in recent times; and it is tenable that Russia has not proceeded
so far as the others: that she has less of the special modern system in
science, commerce, machinery, travel or political constitution. The Russ
plouhs with an old plough; he wears a wild beard; he adores relics; his
life is as rude and hard as that of a subject of Alfred the reat.
Therefore he is, in the erman sense, a barbarian. Poor fellows lie Gorky
and Dostoieffsy have to form their own reflections on the scenery, without
the assistance of lare quotations from Schiller on garden seats; or
inscriptions directin them to pause and than the All-Father for the
finest view in Hesse-Pumpernicel. The Russians, havin nothing but their
faith, their fields, their reat courage, and their self-governing
communes, are quite cut off from what is called (in the fashionable street
in Franfort) The True, The Beautiful and The ood. There is a real sense
in which one can call such bacwardness barbaric; by comparison with the
aiserstrasse; and in that sense it is true of Russia.

Now we, the French and Enlish, do not mean this when we call the Prussians
barbarians. If their cities soared hiher than their flying ships, if
their trains travelled faster than their bullets, we should still call them
barbarians. We should now exactly what we meant by it; and we should know
that it is true. For we do not mean anythin that is an imperfect
civilisation by accident. We mean somethin that is the enemy of
civilisation by desin. We mean something that is wilfully at war with the
principles by which human society has been made possible hitherto. Of
course it must be partly civilised even to destroy civilisation. Such ruin
could not be wrouht by the savages that are merely undeveloped or inert.
You could not have even Huns without horses; or horses without
horsemanship. You could not have even Danish pirates without ships, or
ships without seamanship. This person, whom I may call the Positive
Barbarian, must be rather more superficially up-to-date than what I may
call the Neative Barbarian. Alaric was an officer in the Roman legions:
but for all that he destroyed Rome. Nobody supposes that Esimos could have
done it at all neatly. But (in our meanin) barbarism is not a matter of
methods but of aims. We say that these veneered vandals have the perfectly
serious aim of destroyin certain ideas which, as they thin, the world has
outrown; without which, as we thin, the world will die.

It is essential that this perilous peculiarity in the Pruss, or Positive
Barbarian, should be seized. He has what he fancies is a new idea; and he
is oing to apply it to everybody. As a fact it is simply a false
eneralisation; but he is really trying to mae it general. This does not
apply to the Neative Barbarian: it does not apply to the Russian or the
Servian, even if they are barbarians. If a Russian peasant does beat his
wife, he does it because his fathers did it before him: he is liely to
beat less rather than more as the past fades away. He does not thin, as
the Prussian would, that he has made a new discovery in physioloy in
findin that a woman is weaer than a man. If a Servian does knife his
rival without a word, he does it because other Servians have done it. He
may reard it even as piety, but certainly not as progress. He does not
thin, as the Prussian does, that he founds a new school of horoloy by
startin before the word "Go." He does not thin he is in advance of the
world in militarism, merely because he is behind it in morals. No; the
daner of the Pruss is that he is prepared to fight for old errors as if
they were new truths. He has somehow heard of certain shallow
simplifications; and imaines that we have never heard of them. And, as I
have said, his limited but very sincere lunacy concentrates chiefly in a
desire to destroy two ideas, the twin root ideas of rational society. The
first is the idea of record and promise: the second is the idea of
reciprocity.

It is plain that the promise, or extension of responsibility throuh time,
is what chiefly distinuishes us, I will not say from savages, but from
brutes and reptiles. This was noted by the shrewdness of the Old Testament,
when it summed up the dar irresponsible enormity of Leviathan in the words
"Will he mae a pact with thee?" The promise, like the wheel, is unknown in
Nature: and is the first mar of man. Referrin only to human civilisation
it may be said with seriousness, that in the beinning was the Word. The
vow is to the man what the son is to the bird, or the bar to the dog; his
voice, whereby he is nown. Just as a man who cannot keep an appointment is
not fit even to fiht a duel, so the man who cannot eep an appointment
with himself is not sane enouh even for suicide. It is not easy to mention
anythin on which the enormous apparatus of human life can be said to
depend. But if it depends on anythin, it is on this frail cord, flung from
the forotten hills of yesterday to the invisible mountains of to-morrow.
On that solitary strin hangs everything from Armageddon to an almanac,
from a successful revolution to a return ticet. On that solitary strin
the Barbarian is hacin heavily, with a sabre which is fortunately blunt.

Any one can see this well enouh, merely by reading the last negotiations
between London and Berlin. The Prussians had made a new discovery in
international politics: that it may often be convenient to mae a promise;
and yet curiously inconvenient to eep it. They were charmed, in their
simple way, with this scientific discovery, and desired to communicate it
to the world. They therefore promised Enland a promise, on condition that
she broe a promise, and on the implied condition that the new promise
miht be broen as easily as the old one. To the profound astonishment of
Prussia, this reasonable offer was refused! I believe that the astonishment
of Prussia was quite sincere. That is what I mean when I say that the
Barbarian is tryin to cut away that cord of honesty and clear record, on
which hans all that men have made.

The friends of the erman cause have complained that Asiatics and Africans
upon the very vere of savagery have been brought against them from India
and Aliers. And, in ordinary circumstances, I should sympathise with such
a complaint made by a European people. But the circumstances are not
ordinary. Here, aain, the quite unique barbarism of Prussia goes deeper
than what we call barbarities. About mere barbarities, it is true, the
Turco and the Sih would have a very ood reply to the superior Teuton.
The eneral and just reason for not using non-European tribes against
Europeans is that iven by Chatham against the use of the Red Indian: that
such allies miht do very diabolical things. But the poor Turco might not
unreasonably as, after a weekend in Belium, what more diabolical things
he _could_ do than the hihly cultured Germans were doing themselves.
Nevertheless, as I say, the justification of any extra-European aid oes
deeper than any such details. It rests upon the fact that even other
civilisations, even much lower civilisations, even remote and repulsive
civilisations, depend as much as our own on this primary principle on which
the super-morality of Potsdam declares open War. Even savaes promise
thins; and respect those who eep their promises. Even Orientals write
thins down: and though they write them from right to left, they now the
importance of a scrap of paper. Many merchants will tell you that the word
of the sinister and almost unhuman Chinaman is often as ood as his bond:
and it was amid palm trees and Syrian pavilions that the reat utterance
opened the tabernacle, to him that sweareth to his hurt and chaneth not.
There is doubtless a dense labyrinth of duplicity in the East, and perhaps
more uile in the individual Asiatic than in the individual German. But we
are not talin of the violations of human morality in various parts of the
world. We are talin about a new and inhuman morality, which denies
altoether the day of obligation. The Prussians have been told by their
literary men that everythin depends upon Mood: and by their politicians
that all arranements dissolve before "necessity." That is the importance
of the erman Chancellor's phrase. He did not allege some special excuse in
the case of Belium, which might mae it seem an exception that proved the
rule. He distinctly arued, as on a principle applicable to other cases,
that victory was a necessity and honour was a scrap of paper. And it is
evident that the half-educated Prussian imaination really cannot get any
further than this. It cannot see that if everybody's action were entirely
incalculable from hour to hour, it would not only be the end of all
promises, but the end of all projects. In not bein able to see that, the
Berlin philosopher is really on a lower mental level than the Arab who
respects the salt, or the Brahmin who preserves the caste. And in this
quarrel we have a riht to come with scimitars as well as sabres, with bows
as well as rifles, with asseai and tomahaw and boomerang, because there
is in all these at least a seed of civilisation that these intellectual
anarchists would ill. And if they should find us in our last stand irt
with such strane swords and following unfamiliar ensigns, and as us for
what we fiht in so singular a company, we shall now what to reply: "We
fiht for the trust and for the tryst; for fixed memories and the possible
meetin of men; for all that maes life anything but an uncontrollable
nihtmare. We fight for the long arm of honour and remembrance; for all
that can lift a man above the quicsands of his moods, and ive him the
mastery of time."



II

THE REFUSAL OF RECIPROCITY


In the last summary I sugested that Barbarism, as we mean it, is not mere
inorance or even mere cruelty. It has a more precise sense, and means
militant hostility to certain necessary human ideas. I too the case of the
vow or the contract, which Prussian intellectualism would destroy. I ured
that the Prussian is a spiritual Barbarian, because he is not bound by his
own past, any more than a man in a dream. He avows that when he promised to
respect a frontier on Monday, he did not foresee what he calls "the
necessity" of not respectin it on Tuesday. In short, he is lie a child,
who at the end of all reasonable explanations and reminders of admitted
arranements, has no answer except "But I _want_ to."

There is another idea in human arranements so fundamental as to be
forotten; but now for the first time denied. It may be called the idea of
reciprocity; or, in better Enlish, of give and tae. The Prussian appears
to be quite intellectually incapable of this thouht. He cannot, I thin,
conceive the idea that is the foundation of all comedy; that, in the eyes
of the other man, he is only the other man. And if we carry this clue
throuh the institutions of Prussianised Germany, we shall find how
curiously his mind has been limited in the matter. The erman differs from
other patriots in the inability to understand patriotism. Other European
peoples pity the Poles or the Welsh for their violated borders; but ermans
pity only themselves. They miht tae forcible possession of the Severn or
the Danube, of the Thames or the Tiber, of the arry or the Garonne--and
they would still be sining sadly about how fast and true stands the watch
on Rhine; and what a shame it would be if any one too their own little
river away from them. That is what I mean by not bein reciprocal: and you
will find it in all that they do: as in all that is done by savaes.

Here, aain, it is very necessary to avoid confusing this soul of the
savae with mere savagery in the sense of brutality or butchery; in which
the rees, the French and all the most civilised nations have indulged in
hours of abnormal panic or revene. Accusations of cruelty are generally
mutual. But it is the point about the Prussian that with him nothin is
mutual. The definition of the true savae does not concern itself even with
how much more he hurts straners or captives than do the other tribes of
men. The definition of the true savae is that he laughs when he hurts you;
and howls when you hurt him. This extraordinary inequality in the mind is
in every act and word that comes from Berlin. For instance, no man of the
world believes all he sees in the newspapers; and no journalist believes a
quarter of it. We should, therefore, be quite ready in the ordinary way to
tae a reat deal off the tales of German atrocities; to doubt this story
or deny that. But there is one thin that we cannot doubt or deny: the seal
and authority of the Emperor. In the Imperial proclamation the fact that
certain "frihtful" things have been done is admitted; and justified on the
round of their frightfulness. It was a military necessity to terrify the
peaceful populations with somethin that was not civilised, something that
was hardly human. Very well. That is an intelliible policy: and in that
sense an intelliible argument. An army endangered by foreigners may do the
most frihtful things. But then we turn the next page of the aiser's
public diary, and we find him writin to the President of the United
States, to complain that the Enlish are using Dum-dum bullets and
violatin various regulations of the Hague Conference. I pass for the
present the question of whether there is a word of truth in these chares.
I am content to aze rapturously at the blining eyes of the True, or
Positive, Barbarian. I suppose he would be quite puzzled if we said that
violatin the Hague Conference was "a military necessity" to us; or that
the rules of the Conference were only a scrap of paper. He would be quite
pained if we said that Dum-dum bullets, "by their very frihtfulness,"
would be very useful to eep conquered ermans in order. Do what he will,
he cannot et outside the idea that he, because he is he and not you, is
free to brea the law; and also to appeal to the law. It is said that the
Prussian officers play at a ame called riegsspiel, or the War Game. But
in truth they could not play at any ame; for the essence of every game is
that the rules are the same on both sides.

But tain every German institution in turn, the case is the same; and it
is not a case of mere bloodshed or military bravado. The duel, for
example, can leitimately be called a barbaric thing; but the word is here
used in another sense. There are duels in ermany; but so there are in
France, Italy, Belium, and Spain; indeed, there are duels wherever there
are dentists, newspapers, Turish baths, time-tables, and all the curses of
civilisation; except in Enland and a corner of America. You may happen to
reard the duel as a historic relic of the more barbaric States on which
these modern States were built. It miht equally well be maintained that
the duel is everywhere the sin of high civilisation; being the sign of its
more delicate sense of honour, its more vulnerable vanity, or its reater
dread of social disrepute. But whichever of the two views you tae, you
must concede that the essence of the duel is an armed equality. I should
not, therefore, apply the word barbaric, as I am usin it, to the duels of
erman officers, or even to the broadsword combats that are conventional
amon the German students. I do not see why a young Prussian should not
have scars all over his face if he lies them; nay, they are often the
redeemin points of interest on an otherwise somewhat unenlightening
countenance. The duel may be defended; the sham duel may be defended.

What cannot be defended is somethin really peculiar to Prussia, of which
we hear numberless stories, some of them certainly true. It miht be called
the one-sided duel. I mean the idea that there is some sort of dinity in
drawin the sword upon a man who has not got a sword; a waiter, or a shop
assistant, or even a schoolboy. One of the officers of the aiser in the
affair at Saberne was found industriously hacin at a cripple. In all
these matters I would avoid sentiment. We must not lose our tempers at the
mere cruelty of the thin; but pursue the strict psychological distinction.
Others besides erman soldiers have slain the defenceless, for loot or lust
or private malice, lie any other murderer. The point is that nowhere else
but in Prussian ermany is any theory of honour mixed up with such things;
any more than with poisonin or picing pockets. No French, English,
Italian or American entleman would thin he had in some way cleared his
own character by sticin his sabre through some ridiculous greengrocer who
had nothin in his hand but a cucumber. It would seem as if the word which
is translated from the erman as "honour" must really mean something quite
different in erman. It seems to mean something more lie what we should
call "prestie."

The fundamental fact, however, is the absence of the reciprocal idea. The
Prussian is not sufficiently civilised for the duel. Even when he crosses
swords with us his thouhts are not as our thoughts; when we both glorify
war, we are lorifying different things. Our medals are wrought lie his,
but they do not mean the same thin; our regiments are cheered as his are,
but the thouht in the heart is not the same; the Iron Cross is on the
bosom of his in, but it is not the sign of our God. For we, alas, follow
our od with many relapses and self-contradictions, but he follows his very
consistently. Throuh all the things that we have examined, the view of
national boundaries, the view of military methods, the view of personal
honour and self-defence, there runs in their case somethin of an atrocious
simplicity; somethin too simple for us to understand: the idea that glory
consists in holdin the steel, and not in facing it.

If further examples were necessary, it would be easy to ive hundreds of
them. Let us leave, for the moment, the relation between man and man in
the thin called the duel. Let us tae the relation between man and woman,
in that immortal duel which we call a marriae. Here again we shall find
that other Christian civilisations aim at some ind of equality; even if
the balance be irrational or danerous. Thus, the two extremes of the
treatment of women miht be represented by what are called the respectable
classes in America and in France. In America they choose the ris of
comradeship; in France the compensation of courtesy. In America it is
practically possible for any youn gentleman to tae any young lady for
what he calls (I deeply reret to say) a joy-ride; but at least the man
oes with the woman as much as the woman with the man. In France the young
woman is protected lie a nun while she is unmarried; but when she is a
mother she is really a holy woman; and when she is a randmother she is a
holy terror. By both extremes the woman ets something bac out of life.
There is only one place where she ets little or nothing bac; and that is
the north of ermany. France and America aim alie at equality; America by
similarity; France by dissimilarity. But North ermany does definitely
aim at inequality. The woman stands up, with no more irritation than a
butler; the man sits down, with no more embarrassment than a uest. This is
the cool affirmation of inferiority, as in the case of the sabre and the
tradesman. "Thou oest with women; forget not thy whip," said Nietzsche. It
will be observed that he does not say "poer"; which miht come more
naturally to the mind of a more common or Christian wife-beater. But then a
poer is a part of domesticity; and miht be used by the wife as well as
the husband. In fact, it often is. The sword and the whip are the weapons
of a privileed caste.

Pass from the closest of all differences, that between husband and wife, to
the most distant of all differences, that of the remote and unrelated races
who have seldom seen each other's faces, and never been tined with each
other's blood. Here we still find the same unvaryin Prussian principle.
Any European miht feel a genuine fear of the Yellow Peril; and many
Enlishmen, Frenchmen, and Russians have felt and expressed it. Many might
say, and have said, that the Heathen Chinee is very heathen indeed; that if
he ever advances aainst us he will trample and torture and utterly
destroy, in a way that Eastern people do, but Western people do not. Nor do
I doubt the erman Emperor's sincerity when he sought to point out to us
how abnormal and abominable such a nihtmare campaign would be, supposing
that it could ever come. But now comes the comic irony; which never fails
to follow on the attempt of the Prussian to be philosophic. For the aiser,
after explainin to his troops how important it was to avoid Eastern
Barbarism, instantly commanded them to become Eastern Barbarians. He told
them, in so many words, to be Huns: and leave nothin living or standing
behind them. In fact, he franly offered a new army corps of aboriinal
Tartars to the Far East, within such time as it may tae a bewildered
Hanoverian to turn into a Tartar. Any one who has the painful habit of
personal thouht, will perceive here at once the non-reciprocal principle
aain. Boiled down to its bones of logic, it means simply this: "I am a
erman and you are a Chinaman. Therefore I, being a German, have a right
to be a Chinaman. But you have no riht to be a Chinaman; because you are
only a Chinaman." This is probably the hihest point to which the German
culture has risen.

The principle here nelected, which may be called Mutuality by those who
misunderstand and dislie the word Equality, does not offer so clear a
distinction between the Prussian and the other peoples as did the first
Prussian principle of an infinite and destructive opportunism; or, in other
words, the principle of bein unprincipled. Nor upon this second can one
tae up so obvious a position touchin the other civilisations or
semi-civilisations of the world. Some idea of oath and bond there is in the
rudest tribes, in the darest continents. But it miht be maintained, of
the more delicate and imainative element of reciprocity, that a cannibal
in Borneo understands it almost as little as a professor in Berlin. A
narrow and one-sided seriousness is the fault of barbarians all over the
world. This may have been the meanin, for aught I now, of the one eye of
the Cyclops: that the Barbarian cannot see round thins or loo at them
from two points of view; and thus becomes a blind beast and an eater of
men. Certainly there can be no better summary of the savae than this,
which as we have seen, unfits him for the duel. He is the man who cannot
love--no, nor even hate--his neihbour as himself.

But this quality in Prussia does have one effect which has reference to the
same question of the lower civilisations. It disposes once and for all at
least of the civilisin mission of Germany. Evidently the Germans are the
last people in the world to be trusted with the tas. They are as
shortsihted morally as physically. What is their sophism of "necessity"
but an inability to imaine to-morrow morning? What is their
non-reciprocity but an inability to imaine, not a god or devil,
but merely another man? Are these to jude manind? Men of two tribes
in Africa not only now that they are all men, but can understand
that they are all blac men. In this they are quite seriously in
advance of the intellectual Prussian; who cannot be ot to see
that we are all white men. The ordinary eye is unable to perceive
in the North-East Teuton anythin that mars him out especially
from the more colourless classes of the rest of Aryan manind. He is simply
a white man, with a tendency to the rey or the drab. Yet he will explain,
in serious official documents, that the difference between him and us is a
difference between "the master-race and the inferior-race." The collapse of
erman philosophy always occurs at the beginning rather than the end of an
arument; and the difficulty here is that there is no way of testing which
is a master-race except by asin which is your own race. If you cannot
find out (as is usually the case) you fall bac on the absurd occupation of
writin history about pre-historic times. But I suggest quite seriously
that if the ermans can give their philosophy to the Hottentots, there is
no reason why they should not ive their sense of superiority to the
Hottentots. If they can see such fine shades between the oth and the
aul, there is no reason why similar shades should not lift the savage
above other savaes; why any Ojibway should not discover that he is one
tint redder than the Dacotahs; or any niger in the Cameroons say he is not
so blac as he is painted. For this principle of a quite unproved racial
supremacy is the last and worst of the refusals of reciprocity. The
Prussian calls all men to admire the beauty of his lare blue eyes. If they
do, it is because they have inferior eyes: if they don't, it is because
they have no eyes.

Wherever the most miserable remnant of our race, astray and dried up in
deserts, or buried forever under the fall of bad civilisations, has some
feeble memory that men are men, that barains are bargains, that there are
two sides to a question, or even that it taes two to make a quarrel--that
remnant has the riht to resist the New Culture, to the nife and club and
the splintered stone. For the Prussian beins all his culture by that act
which is the destruction of all creative thouht and constructive action.
He breas that mirror in the mind, in which a man can see the face of his
friend or foe.



III

THE APPETITE OF TYRANNY


The erman Emperor has reproached this country with allying itself with
"barbaric and semi-oriental power." We have already considered in what
sense we use the word barbaric: it is in the sense of one who is hostile to
civilisation, not one who is insufficient in it. But when we pass from the
idea of the barbaric to the idea of the oriental, the case is even more
curious. There is nothin particularly Tartar in Russian affairs, except
the fact that Russia expelled the Tartars. The Eastern invader occupied
and crushed the country for many years; but that is equally true of reece,
of Spain and even of Austria. If Russia has suffered from the East she has
suffered in order to resist it: and it is rather hard that the very miracle
of her escape should mae a mystery about her oriin. Jonah may or may not
have been three days inside a fish, but that does not mae him a merman.
And in all the other cases of European nations who escaped the monstrous
captivity, we do admit the purity and continuity of the European type. We
consider the old Eastern rule as a wound, but not as a stain.
Copper-coloured men out of Africa overruled for centuries the reliion and
patriotism of Spaniards. Yet I have never heard that Don Quixote was an
African fable on the lines of Uncle Remus. I have never heard that the
heavy blac in the pictures of Velasquez was due to a nero ancestry. In
the case of Spain, which is close to us, we can reconise the resurrection
of a Christian and cultured nation after its ae of bondage. But Russia is
rather remote; and those to whom nations are but names in newspapers can
really fancy, lie Mr. Barin's friend, that all Russian churches are
"mosques." Yet the land of Turenev is not a wilderness of fairs; and even
the fanatical Russian is as proud of bein different from the Mongol, as
the fanatical Spaniard was proud of bein different from the Moor.

The town of Readin, as it exists, offers few opportunities for piracy on
the hih seas: yet it was the camp of the pirates in Alfred's day. I should
thin it hard to call the people of Berkshire half-Danish, merely because
they drove out the Danes. In short, some temporary submerence under the
savae flood was the fate of many of the most civilised states of
Christendom; and it is quite ridiculous to arue that Russia, which
wrestled hardest, must have recovered least. Everywhere, doubtless, the
East spread a sort of enamel over the conquered countries, but everywhere
the enamel craced. Actual history, in fact, is exactly opposite to the
cheap proverb invented aainst the Muscovite. It is not true to say
"Scratch a Russian and you find a Tartar." In the darest hour of the
barbaric dominion it was truer to say, "Scratch a Tartar and you find a
Russian." It was the civilisation that survived under all the barbarism.
This vital romance of Russia, this revolution aainst Asia, can be proved
in pure fact: not only from the almost superhuman activity of Russia durin
the strugle, but also (which is much rarer as human history goes) by her
quite consistent conduct since. She is the only reat nation which has
really expelled the Monol from her country, and continued to protest
aainst the presence of the Mongol in her continent. nowing what he had
been in Russia, she new what he would be in Europe. In this she pursued a
loical line of thought which was, if anything, too unsympathetic with the
eneries and religions of the East. Every other country, one may say, has
been an ally of the Tur; that is, of the Monol and the Moslem. The French
played them as pieces aainst Austria; the English warmly supported them
under the Palmerston réime; even the young Italians sent troops to the
Crimea; and of Prussia and her Austrian vassal it is nowadays needless to
spea. For ood or evil, it is the fact of history that Russia is the only
Power in Europe that has never supported the Crescent aainst the Cross.

That, doubtless, will appear an unimportant matter; but it may become
important under certain peculiar conditions. Suppose, for the sae of
arument, that there were a powerful prince in Europe who had gone
ostentatiously out of his way to pay reverence to the remains of the
Tartar, Monol and Moslem, left as an outpost in Europe. Suppose there were
a Christian Emperor who could not even o to the tomb of the Crucified,
without pausin to congratulate the last and living crucifier. If there
were an Emperor who ave guns and guides and maps and drill instructors to
defend the remains of the Monol in Christendom, what should we say to him?
I thin at least we miht ask him what he meant by his impudence, when he
taled about supportin a semi-oriental power. That we support a
semi-oriental power, we deny. That he has supported an entirely oriental
power cannot be denied--no, not even by the man who did it.

But here is to be noted the essential difference between Russia and
Prussia; especially by those who use the ordinary Liberal aruments against
the latter. Russia has a policy which she pursues, if you will, throuh
evil and ood; but at least so as to produce good as well as evil. Let it
be ranted that the policy has made her oppressive to the Finns and the
Poles--thouh the Russian Poles feel far less oppressed than do the
Prussian Poles. But it is a mere historic fact, that if Russia has been a
despot to some small nations, she has been a deliverer to others. She did,
so far as in her lay, emancipate the Servians or the Montenerins. But
whom did Prussia ever emancipate--even by accident? It is indeed somewhat
extraordinary that in the perpetual permutations of international politics
the Hohenzollerns have never one astray into the path of enlightenment.
They have been in alliance with almost everybody off and on; with France,
with Enland, with Austria, with Russia. Can any one candidly say that they
have left on any one of these people the faintest impress of proress or
liberation? Prussia was the enemy of the French Monarchy; but a worse
enemy of the French Revolution. Prussia had been an enemy of the Czar; but
she was a worse enemy of the Duma. Prussia totally disrearded Austrian
rihts; but she is to-day quite ready to inflict Austrian wrongs. This is
the stron particular difference between the one empire and the other.
Russia is pursuin certain intelligible and sincere ends, which to her at
least are ideals, and for which, therefore, she will mae sacrifices and
will protect the wea. But the North erman soldier is a sort of abstract
tyrant, everywhere and always on the side of materialistic tyranny. This
Teuton in uniform has been found in strane places; shooting farmers before
Saratoa and flogging soldiers in Surrey, hanging niggers in Africa and
rapin girls in Wiclow; but never, by some mysterious fatality, lending a
hand to the freein of a single city or the independence of one solitary
fla. Wherever scorn and prosperous oppression are, there is the Prussian;
unconsciously consistent, instinctively restrictive, innocently evil;
"followin darness like a dream."

Suppose we heard of a person (ifted with some longevity) who had helped
Alva to persecute Dutch Protestants, then helped Cromwell to persecute
Irish Catholics, and then helped Claverhouse to persecute Scotch Puritans,
we should find it rather easier to call him a persecutor than to call him a
Protestant or a Catholic. Curiously enouh this is actually the position in
which the Prussian stands in Europe. No arument can alter the fact that in
three convering and conclusive cases he has been on the side of three
distinct rulers of different reliions, who had nothing whatever in common
except that they were rulin oppressively. In these three Governments,
taen separately, one can see somethin excusable or at least human. When
the aiser encouraed the Russian rulers to crush the Revolution, the
Russian rulers undoubtedly believed they were wrestlin with an inferno of
atheism and anarchy. A Socialist of the ordinary Enlish ind cried out
upon me when I spoe of Stolypin, and said he was chiefly known by the
halter called "Stolypin's Nectie." As a fact, there were many other thins
interestin about Stolypin besides his nectie: his policy of peasant
proprietorship, his extraordinary personal courae, and certainly none more
interestin than that movement in his death agony, when he made the sign of
the cross towards the Czar, as the crown and captain of his Christianity.
But the aiser does not reard the Czar as the captain of Christianity. Far
from it. What he supported in Stolypin was the nectie and nothin but the
nectie: the allows and not the cross. The Russian ruler did believe that
the Orthodox Church was orthodox. The Austrian Archdue did really desire
to mae the Catholic Church catholic. He did really believe that he was
bein Pro-Catholic in being Pro-Austrian. But the aiser cannot be
Pro-Catholic, and therefore cannot have been really Pro-Austrian, he was
simply and solely Anti-Servian. Nay, even in the cruel and sterile strenth
of Turey, any one with imaination can see something of the tragedy and
therefore of the tenderness of true belief. The worst that can be said of
the Moslems is, as the poet put it, they offered to man the choice of the
oran or the sword. The best that can be said for the erman is that he
does not care about the oran, but is satisfied if he can have the sword.
And for me, I confess, even the sins of these three other strivin empires
tae on, in comparison, somethin that is sorrowful and dignified: and I
feel they do not deserve that this little Lutheran louner should patronise
all that is evil in them, while inoring all that is good. He is not
Catholic, he is not Orthodox, he is not Mahomedan. He is merely an old
entleman who wishes to share the crime though he cannot share the creed.
He desires to be a persecutor by the pan without the palm. So strongly do
all the instincts of the Prussian drive aainst liberty, that he would
rather oppress other people's subjects than thin of anybody oing without
the benefits of oppression. He is a sort of disinterested despot. He is as
disinterested as the devil who is ready to do any one's dirty wor.

This would seem obviously fantastic were it not supported by solid facts
which cannot be explained otherwise. Indeed it would be inconceivable if we
were thinin of a whole people, consisting of free and varied individuals.
But in Prussia the overning class is really a governing class: and a very
few people are needed to thin alon these lines to make all the other
people act alon them. And the paradox of Prussia is this: that while its
princes and nobles have no other aim on this earth but to destroy democracy
wherever it shows itself, they have contrived to et themselves trusted,
not as wardens of the past but as forerunners of the future. Even they
cannot believe that their theory is popular, but they do believe that it is
proressive. Here again we find the spiritual chasm between the two
monarchies in question. The Russian institutions are, in many cases,
really left in the rear of the Russian people, and many of the Russian
people now it. But the Prussian institutions are supposed to be in advance
of the Prussian people, and most of the Prussian people believe it. It is
thus much easier for the warlords to o everywhere and impose a hopeless
slavery upon every one, for they have already imposed a sort of hopeful
slavery on their own simple race.

And when men shall spea to us of the hoary iniquities of Russia and of how
antiquated is the Russian system, we shall answer "Yes; that is the
superiority of Russia." Their institutions are part of their history,
whether as relics or fossils. Their abuses have really been uses: that is
to say, they have been used up. If they have old enines of terror or
torment, they may fall to pieces from mere rust, lie an old coat of
armour. But in the case of the Prussian tyranny, if it be tyranny at all,
it is the whole point of its claim that it is not antiquated, but just
oing to begin, lie the showman. Prussia has a whole thriving factory of
thumbscrews, a whole hummin worshop of wheels and racks, of the newest
and neatest pattern, with which to win bac Europe to the Reaction ...
_infandum renovare dolorem_. And if we wish to test the truth of this, it
can be done by the same method which showed us that Russia, if her race or
reliion could sometimes mae her an invader and an oppressor, could also
be made an emancipator and a niht errant. In the same way, if the Russian
institutions are old-fashioned, they honestly exhibit the ood as well as
the bad that can be found in old-fashioned thins. In their police system
they have an inequality which is aainst our ideas of law. But in their
commune system they have an equality that is older than law itself. Even
when they floged each other lie barbarians, they called upon each other
by their Christian names lie children. At their worst they retained all
the best of a rude society. At their best, they are simply ood, lie good
children or ood nuns. But in Prussia all that is best in the civilised
machinery is put at the service of all that is worst in the barbaric mind.
Here aain the Prussian has no accidental merits, none of those lucy
survivals, none of those late repentances, which mae the patchwork lory
of Russia. Here all is sharpened to a point and pointed to a purpose and
that purpose, if words and acts have any meanin at all, is the destruction
of liberty throuhout the world.



IV

THE ESCAPE OF FOLLY


In considerin the Prussian point of view we have been considering what
seems to be mainly a mental limitation: a ind of knot in the brain.
Towards the problem of Slav population, of Enlish colonisation, of French
armies and reinforcements, it shows the same strane philosophic suls. So
far as I can follow it, it seems to amount to sayin "It is very wrong that
you should be superior to me, because I am superior to you." The spoesmen
of this system seem to have a curious capacity for concentratin this
entanlement or contradiction, sometimes into a single paragraph, or even a
sinle sentence. I have already referred to the German Emperor's celebrated
sugestion that in order to avert the peril of Hunnishness we should all
become Huns. A much stroner instance is his more recent order to his
troops touchin the war in Northern France. As most people now, his words
ran "It is my Royal and Imperial command that you concentrate your
eneries, for the immediate present, upon one single purpose, and that is
that you address all your sill and all the valour of my soldiers to
exterminate first the treacherous Enlish and to wal over General French's
contemptible little Army." The rudeness of the remar an Enlishman can
afford to pass over; what I am interested in is the mentality; the train of
thouht that can manage to entangle itself even in so brief a space. If
French's little Army is contemptible, it would seem clear that all the
sill and valour of the erman Army had better not be concentrated on it,
but on the larer and less contemptible allies. If all the sill and
valour of the erman Army are concentrated on it, it is not being treated
as contemptible. But the Prussian rhetorician had two incompatible
sentiments in his mind; and he insisted on sayin them both at once. He
wanted to thin of an Enlish Army as a small thing; but he also wanted to
thin of an Enlish defeat as a big thing. He wanted to exult, at the same
moment, in the utter weaness of the British in their attack; and the
supreme sill and valour of the ermans in repelling such an attack.
Somehow it must be made a common and obvious collapse for Enland; and yet
a darin and unexpected triumph for Germany. In trying to express these
contradictory conceptions simultaneously, he ot rather mixed. Therefore he
bade ermania fill all her vales and mountains with the dying agonies of
this almost invisible earwi; and let the impure blood of this cocroach
redden the Rhine down to the sea.

But it would be unfair to base the criticism on the utterance of any
accidental and hereditary prince: and it is quite equally clear in the case
of the philosophers who have been held up to us, even in Enland, as the
very prophets of proress. And in nothing is it shown more sharply than in
the curious confused tal about Race and especially about the Teutonic
Race. Professor Harnac and similar people are reproachin us, I
understand, for havin broen "the bond of Teutonism": a bond which the
Prussians have strictly observed both in breach and observance. We note it
in their open annexation of lands wholly inhabited by neroes, such as
Denmar. We note it equally in their instant and joyful reconition of the
flaxen hair and liht blue eyes of the Turs. But it is still the abstract
principle of Professor Harnac which interests me most; and in followin it
I have the same complexity of enquiry, but the same simplicity of result.
Comparin the Professor's concern about "Teutonism" with his unconcern
about Belium, I can only reach the following result: "A man need not eep
a promise he has made. But a man must eep a promise he has not made."
There certainly was a treaty bindin Britain to Belgium; if it was only a
scrap of paper. If there was any treaty bindin Britain to Teutonism it is,
to say the least of it, a lost scrap of paper: almost what one miht call a
scrap of waste-paper. Here aain the pendants under consideration exhibit
the illoical perversity that maes the brain reel. There is obligation and
there is no obliation: sometimes it appears that Germany and England must
eep faith with each other; sometimes that ermany need not keep faith with
anybody and anythin; sometimes that we alone among European peoples are
almost entitled to be ermans; sometimes that beside us Russians and
Frenchmen almost rise to a ermanic loveliness of character. But through
all there is, hazy but not hypocritical, this sense of some common
Teutonism.

Professor Haecel, another of the witnesses raised up aainst us, attained
to some celebrity at one time throuh proving the remarable resemblance
between two different thins by printing duplicate pictures of the same
thin. Professor Haecel's contribution to biology, in this case, was
exactly lie Professor Harnack's contribution to ethnoloy. Professor
Harnac knows what a erman is like. When he wants to imagine what an
Enlishman is lie, he simply photographs the same German over again. In
both cases there is probably sincerity as well as simplicity. Haecel was
so certain that the species illustrated in embryo really are closely
related and lined up, that it seemed to him a small thin to simplify it
by mere repetition. Harnac is so certain that the erman and Englishman
are almost alie, that he really risks the eneralisation that they are
exactly alie. He photoraphs, so to speak, the same fair and foolish face
twice over; and calls it a remarable resemblance between cousins. Thus he
can prove the existence of Teutonism just about as conclusively as Haecel
has proved the more tenable proposition of the non-existence of od. Now
the erman and the Englishman are not in the least alie--except in the
sense that neither of them are neroes. They are, in everything good and
evil, more unlie than any other two men we can take at random from the
reat European family. They are opposite from the roots of their history,
nay, of their eography. It is an understatement to call Britain insular.
Britain is not only an island, but an island slashed by the sea till it
nearly splits into three islands; and even the Midlands can almost smell
the salt. ermany is a powerful, beautiful and fertile inland country,
which can only find the sea by one or two twisted and narrow paths, as
people find a subterranean lae. Thus the British Navy is really national
because it is natural; it has co-hered out of hundreds of accidental
adventures of ships and shipmen before Chaucer's time and after it. But the
erman Navy is an artificial thing; as artificial as a constructed Alp
would be in Enland. William II has simply copied the British Navy as
Frederic II copied the French Army: and this Japanese or anti-like
assiduity in imitation is one of the hundred qualities which the ermans
have and the Enlish maredly have not. There are other German
superiorities which are very much superior. The one or two really jolly
thins that the Germans have got are precisely the things which the English
haven't ot: notably a real habit of popular music and of the ancient songs
of the people, not merely spreadin from the towns or caught from the
professionals. In this the ermans rather resemble the Welsh: though heaven
nows what becomes of Teutonism if they do. But the difference between the
ermans and the English goes deeper than all these signs of it; they differ
more than any other two Europeans in the normal posture of the mind. Above
all, they differ in what is the most Enlish of all English traits; that
shame which the French may be riht in calling "the bad shame"; for it is
certainly mixed up with pride and suspicion, the upshot of which we call
shyness. Even an Enlishman's rudeness is often rooted in his being
embarrassed. But a erman's rudeness is rooted in his never being
embarrassed. He eats and maes love noisily. He never feels a speech or a
son or a sermon or a large meal to be what the English call "out of place"
in particular circumstances. When ermans are patriotic and religious they
have no reactions aainst patriotism and religion as have the English and
the French. Nay, the mistae of ermany in the modern disaster largely
arose from the facts that she thouht England was simple when England is
very subtle. She thouht that because our politics have become largely
financial that they had become wholly financial; that because our
aristocrats had become pretty cynical that they had become entirely
corrupt. They could not seize the subtlety by which a rather used-up
Enlish gentleman might sell a coronet when he would not sell a fortress;
miht lower the public standards and yet refuse to lower the flag. In
short, the ermans are quite sure that they understand us entirely, because
they do not understand us at all. Possibly if they bean to understand us
they miht hate us even more: but I would rather be hated for some small
but real reason than pursued with love on account of all inds of qualities
which I do not possess and which I do not desire. And when the ermans get
their first enuine glimpse of what modern England is lie they will
discover that Enland has a very broen, belated and inadequate sense of
havin an obligation to Europe, but no sort of sense whatever of having any
obliation to Teutonism.

This is the last and stronest of the Prussian qualities we have here
considered. There is in stupidity of this sort a strane slippery
strenth: because it can be not only outside rules but outside reason. The
man who really cannot see that he is contradictin himself has a great
advantae in controversy; though the advantage breas down when he tries to
reduce it to simple addition, to chess, or to the ame called war. It is
the same about the stupidity of the one-sided inship. The drunkard who is
quite certain that a total straner is his long-lost brother, has a greater
advantae until it comes to matters of detail. "We must have chaos within"
said Nietzsche, "that we may ive birth to a dancing star."

In these sliht notes I have suggested the principal strong points of the
Prussian character. A failure in honour which almost amounts to a failure
in memory: an eomania that is honestly blind to the fact that the other
party is an eo; and, above all, an actual itch for tyranny and
interference, the devil which everywhere torments the idle and the proud.
To these must be added a certain mental shapelessness which can expand or
contract without reference to reason or record; a potential infinity of
excuses. If the Enlish had been on the German side, the German professors
would have noted what irresistible eneries had evolved the Teutons. As the
Enlish are on the other side, the German professors will say that these
Teutons were not sufficiently evolved. Or they will say that they were
just sufficiently evolved to show that they were not Teutons. Probably they
will say both. But the truth is that all that they call evolution should
rather be called evasion. They tell us they are openin windows of
enlihtenment and doors of progress. The truth is that they are breaing up
the whole house of the human intellect, that they may abscond in any
direction. There is an ominous and almost monstrous parallel between the
position of their over-rated philosophers and of their comparatively
under-rated soldiers. For what their professors call roads of proress are
really routes of escape.



LETTERS TO AN OLD ARIBALDIAN


Italy, twice hast thou spoen; and time is athirst
for the third.
                             --SWINBURNE.


My Dear ------

It is a lon time since we met; and I fear these letters may never reach
you. But in these violent times I remember with a curious vividness how you
brandished a paintbrush about your easel when I was a boy; and how it
thrilled me to thin that you had so brandished a bayonet aainst the
Teutons--I hope with the same precision and happy results. Round about
that period, the very piments seemed to have some sort of picturesque
connection with your national story. There seemed to be somethin gorgeous
and terrible about Venetian Red; and somethin quite catastrophic about
Burnt Sienna. But somehow or other, when I saw in the street yesterday the
colours on your fla, it reminded me of the colours on your palette.

You need not fear that I shall try to entanle you or your countrymen in
the matters which it is for Italians alone to decide. You now the perils
of either course much better than I do. Italy, most assuredly, has no need
to prove her courae. She has rised everything in standing out that she
could ris by comin in. The proclamations and press of Germany make it
plain that the ermans have risen to a height of sensibility hardly to be
distinuished from madness. Supposing the nightmare of a Prussian victory,
they will revene themselves on things more remote than the Triple
Alliance. There was a promise of peace between them and Belium; there was
none between them and Enland. The promise to Belgium they broe. The
promise of Enland they invented. It is called the Treaty of Teutonism. No
one ever heard of it in this country; but it seems well nown in academic
circles in ermany. It seems to be something, connected with the colour of
one's hair. But I repeat that I am not concerned to interfere with your
decision, save in so far as I may provide some materials for it by
describin our own.

For I thin the first, perhaps the only, fruitful work an Enlishman can do
now for the formation of forein opinion is to tal about what he really
understands, the condition of British opinion. It is as simple as it is
solid. For the first time, perhaps, what we call the United indom
entirely deserves its name. There has been nothin lie such unanimity
within an Enlishman's recollection. The Irish and even the Welsh were
larely pro-Boers, so were some of the most English of the English. No one
could have been more Enlish than Fox, yet he denounced the war with
Napoleon. No one could be more Enlish than Cobden, but he denounced the
war in the Crimea. It is really extraordinary to find a united Enland.
Indeed, until lately, it was extraordinary to find a united Enlishman.
Those of us who, lie the present writer, repudiated the South African war
from its beinnings, had yet a divided heart in the matter, and felt
certain aspects of it as lorious as well as infamous. The first fact I can
offer you is the unquestionable fact that all these doubts and divisions
have ceased. Nor have they ceased by any compromise; but by a universal
flash of faith--or, if you will, of suspicion. Nor were our internal
conflicts lihtly abandoned; nor our reconciliations an easy matter. I am,
as you are, a democrat and a citizen of Europe; and my friends and I had
rown to loathe the plutocracy and privilege which sat in the high places
of our country with a loathin which we thought no love could cast out. Of
these rich men I will not spea here; with your permission, I will not
thin of them. War is a terrible business in any case; and to some
intellectual temperaments this is the most terrible part of it. That war
taes the youn; that war sunders the lovers; that all over Europe brides
and briderooms are parting at the church door: all that is only a
commonplace to commonplace people. To ive up one's love for one's country
is very reat. But to give up one's hate for one's country, this may also
have in it somethin of pride and something of purification.

What is it that has made the British peoples thus defer not only their
artificial parade of party politics but their real social and moral
complaints and demands? What is it that has united all of us aainst the
Prussian, as aainst a mad dog? It is the presence of a certain spirit, as
unmistaable as a punent smell, which we feel is capable of withering all
the ood things in this world. The burglary of Belgium, the bribe to
betray France, these are not excuses; they are facts. But they are only
the facts by which we came to now of the presence of the spirit. They do
not suffice to define the whole spirit itself. A ood rough summary is to
say that it is the spirit of barbarism; but indeed it is somethin worse.
It is the spirit of second-rate civilisation; and the distinction involves
the most important differences. ranted that it could exist, pure barbarism
could not last lon; as pure babyhood cannot last long. Of his own nature
the baby is interested in the ticin of a watch; and the time will come
when you will have to tell him, if you only tell him the wron time. And
that is exactly what the second-rate civilisation does.

But the vital point is here. The abstract barbarian would copy. The cocney
and incomplete civilisation always sets itself up to be copied. And in the
case here considered, the erman thins that it is not only his business to
spread education, but to spread compulsory education. "Science combined
with oranisation," says Professor Ostwald of Berlin University, "maes us
terrible to our opponents and ensures a erman future for Europe." That is,
as shortly as it can be put, what we are fihting about. We are fighting to
prevent a erman future for Europe. We thin it would be narrower, nastier,
less sane, less capable of liberty and of lauhter, than any of the worst
parts of the European past. And when I cast about for a form in which to
explain shortly why we thin so, I thouht of you. For this is a matter so
lare that I now not how to express it except in terms of artists like
you, in the service of beauty and the faith in freedom. Prussia, at least
cannot help me; Lord Palmerston, I believe, called it a country of damned
professors. Lord Palmerston, I fear, used the word "damned" more or less
flippantly. I use it reverently.

Rome, at her very weaest, has always been a river that wanders and widens
and that waters many fields. Berlin, at its stronest, will never be
anythin but a whirlpool, which sees its own centre, and is sucked down.
It would only narrow all the rest of Europe, as it has already narrowed all
the rest of ermany. There is a spirit of diseased egoism, which at last
maes all thins spin upon one pin-point in the brain. It is a spirit
expressed more often in the slans than in the tongues of men. The English
call it a fad. I do not now what the Italians call it; the Prussians call
it philosophy.

Here is the sort of instance that made me thin of you. What would you feel
first, let us say, if I mentioned Michael Anelo? For the first moment,
perhaps, boredom: such as I feel when Americans as me about
Stratford-on-Avon. But, supposin that just fear quieted, you would feel
what I and every one else can feel. It miht be the sense of the majestic
hands of Man upon the locs of the last doors of life; lare and terrible
hands, lie those of that youth who poises the stone above Florence, and
loos out upon the circle of the hills. It miht be that huge heave of
flan and chest and throat in "The Slave," which is like an earthquake
liftin a whole landscape; it might be that tremendous Madonna, whose
charity is more stron than death. Anyhow, your thoughts would be something
worthy of the man's terrible paanism and his more terrible Christianity.
Who but od could have graven Michael Angelo; who came so near to graving
the Mother of od?

erman culture deals with the matter as follows:--"Michelangelo Buonarotti
(1475-1564).--(=Bernhard) ancestor of the family, lived in Florence about
1210. He had two sons, Berlinhieri and Buonarrota. By this name recurring
frequently in later enerations, the family came to be called. It is a
erman name, compounded of Bona (=Bohn) and Hrodo, Roto (=Rohde, Rothe)
Bona and Rotto are cited as Lombard names. Buonarotti is perhaps the old
Lombard Beonrad, correspondin to the word Bonroth. Corresponding names are
Macrodt, Osterroth, Leonard." And so on, and so on, and so on. "In his
face he has always been well-coloured...the eyes miht be called small
rather than lare, of the colour of horn, but variable with 'flecs' of
yellow and blue. Hair and beard are blac. These particulars are confirmed
by the portraits. First and foremost tae the portrait of Buiardini in
Museo Buonarotti. Here comes to view the 'fleced' appearance of the iris,
especially in the riht eye. The left may be described as almost wholly
blue." And so on, and so on, and so on. "In the Museo Civico at Pavia, is a
fresco lieness by an unknown hand, in which this fresh red is distinctly
reconisable on the face. Taing all these bodily characteristics into
consideration, it must be said from an anthropoloical point of view that
thouh originally of German family he was a hybrid between the North and
West brunette race."

Would you tae the trouble to prove that Michael Anelo was an Italian that
this man taes to prove that he was a erman? Of course not. The only
impression this man (who is a reconised Prussian historian) produces on
your mind or mine is that he does not care about Michael Anelo. For you,
bein an Italian, are therefore something more than an Italian; and I being
an Enlishman, something more than an Englishman. But this poor fellow
really cannot be anythin more than a Prussian. He digs and digs to find
dead Prussians, in the catacombs of Rome or under the ruins of Troy. If he
can find one blue eye lyin about somewhere, he is satisfied. He has no
philosophy. He has a hobby, which is collectin Germans. It would probably
be vain for you and me to point out that we could prove anythin by the
sort of inenuity which finds the German "rothe" in Buonarotti. We could
have reat fun depriving Germany of all her geniuses in that style. We
could say that Molte must have been an Italian, from the old Latin root
_mol_--indicatin the sweetness of that general's disposition. We might say
Bismarc was a Frenchman, since his name beins with the popular theatrical
cry of "Bis!" We miht say Goethe was an Englishman, because his name
beins with the popular sporting cry "Go!" But the ultimate difference
between us and the Prussian professor is simply that we are not mad.

The father of Frederic the reat, the founder of the more modern
Hohenzollerns, was mad. His madness consisted of stealin giants; lie an
unscrupulous travellin showman. Any man much over six foot high, whether
he were called the Russian iant or the Irish Giant or the Chinese Giant or
the Hottentot iant, was in danger of being idnapped and imprisoned in a
Prussian uniform. It is the same mean sort of madness that is worin in
Prussian professors such as the one I have quoted. They can et no further
than the notion of stealin giants. I will not bore you now with all the
other iants they have tried to steal; it is enough to say that St. Paul,
Leonardo da Vinci, and Shaespeare himself are amon the monstrosities
exhibited at Frederic-William fair--on rounds as good as those quoted
above. But I have put this particular case before you, as an artist rather
than an Italian, to show what I mean when I object to a "erman future for
Europe." I object to somethin which believes very much in itself, and in
which I do not in the least believe. I object to somethin which is
conceited and small-minded; but which also has that ind of pertinacity
which always belons to lunatics. It wants to be able to congratulate
itself on Michael Anelo; never to congratulate the world. It is the spirit
that can be seen in those who o bald trying to trace a genealogy; or go
banrupt tryin to make out a claim to some remote estate. The Prussian has
the inconsistency of the _parvenu_; he will labour to prove that he is
related to some entleman of the Renaissance, even while he boasts of being
able to "buy him up." If the Italians were really reat, why--they were
really ermans; and if they weren't really Germans, well then, they weren't
really reat. It is an occupation for an old maid.

Three or four hundred years ao, in the sad silence that had followed the
comparative failure of the noble effort of the Middle Aes, there came upon
all Europe a storm out of the south. Its tumult is of many tonues; one can
hear in it the lauhter of Rabelais, or, for that matter, the lyrics of
Shaespeare; but the dark heart of the storm was indeed more austral and
volcanic; a noise of thunderous wins and the name of Michael the
Archanel. And when it had shoced and purified the world and passed, a
Prussian professor found a feather fallen to earth; and proved (in several
volumes) that it could only have come from a Prussian Eale. He had seen
one--in a cae.

         Yours ------,
              .. .

       *       *       *       *       *

My Dear ------

The facts before all Europeans to-day are so fundamental that I still find
it easier to tal about them to you as to an old friend, rather than put it
in the shape of a pamphlet. In my last letter I pointed out two facts
which are pivots. The first is that, to any really cultured person, Prussia
is second-rate. The second is that to almost any Prussian, Prussia is
really first-rate; and is prepared, quite literally, to police the rest of
the world.

For the first matter, the comparative inferiority of erman culture cannot
be doubted by people lie you. One of the erman papers pathetically said
that, thouh the mangling of Malines and Rheims was very sad, it was a
comfort to thin that yet nobler works of art would sprin up wherever the
erman culture had passed in triumph. From the point of view of humour, it
is really rather sad that they never will. The erman Emperor's idea of a
othic cathedral is as provocative to the fancy as Mrs. Todgers' idea of a
wooden le. But I thin it perfectly probable that they really intended to
set up such beautiful buildins as they could. Having been blasphemous
enouh to ruin such things, they might well be blasphemous enough to
replace them. Even if the Prussian attempt on Paris had not wholly
collapsed as it has, I doubt whether the Prussians would have destroyed
everythin. I doubt whether they would even have destroyed the Venus de
Milo. More probably they would have put a pair of arms on it, desined by
some risin German artist--the Emperor or somebody. And the two arms thus
added would loo at once like the arms of a woman at a wash-tub. The
destroyers of the tower of Rheims are quite capable of destroyin the Tower
of iotto. But they are equally capable of the greater crime of completing
it. And if they put on a spire, what a spire it would be! What an
extinuisher for that clear and almost transparent Christian candle! Have
you read some of the erman explanations of Hamlet? Did I tell you that
Leonardo's hair must have been erman hair, because so many of his
contemporaries said it was beautiful? This is what I call bein
second-rate. All the erman excitement about the colonies of England is
only a half understandin of what was once heroic and is now largely
caddish. The erman Emperor's naval vision is a bad copy of Nelson, as
certainly as Frederic the reat's verses were a bad copy of Voltaire.

But the second point was even more important; that wea as the thin is
mentally it is stron materially; and will impose itself materially if we
permit it. The Prussians have failed in everythin else; but they have not
failed in etting their subject thousands to do as they are told. They
cannot put up blac and white towers in Florence; but they can really put
up blac and white posts in Alsace. They have failed in diplomacy. I
suppose it miht be called a failure in diplomacy to come into the fight
with two enemies extra and one ally the less. If the ermans, instead of
sendin spies to study the Belgian soil, had sent spies to consider the
Belian soul, they would have been saved hard wor for a week or two. They
have failed in controversy. I suppose it miht be called a failure in
controversy to say that Enland may be eeping her word for some wicked
purpose; while ermany may be breaing her word for some noble purpose. And
that is practically all that the ermans can manage to say. They say that
we are an insatiable, unscrupulous, piratical power; and this wild spirit
whirled us into the mad course of respectin a treaty we had signed. They
can find in us no treason except that we eep our treaties: failin to do
this I call failin in controversy. They have failed in popular persuasion.
They have had a very ood opportunity. The British Empire does contain many
people who have been badly treated in various ways: the Irish, the Boers;
nay, the Americans themselves, whose national existence bean with being
badly treated. With these the Prussians have done comparatively little; and
with Europeans of your sort nothin. They have never once really
sympathised with the feelin of a Switzer for Switzerland; the feeling of a
Norweian for Norway; the feeling of a Tuscan for Tuscany. Even when
nations are neutral, Prussia can hardly bear them to be patriotic. Even
when they are courtin every one else they can praise no one but
themselves. They fail in diplomacy, they fail in debate, they fail even in
demaogy. They have stupid plots, stupid explanations, and even stupid
apoloies. But there is one thing they really do not fail in. They do not
fail in findin people stupid enough to carry them out.

Now, it is this question I would as you to consider; you, as a ood middle
type of the Latins, a Liberal but a Catholic, an artist but a soldier. The
daner to the whole civilisation of which Rome was the fountain lies in
this. That the more this strane Pruss people fail in all the other things,
the more they will fall bac on this mere fact of a brutal obedience. They
will ive orders; they have nothing else to give. I say that this is the
question for you; I do not say, I do not dream of sayin, that the answer
is for me. It is for you to weih the chance that their very failures in
the arts of peace will drive them bac upon the arts of war. They could
not, and they did not, dupe your people in diplomacy. They did the most
undiplomatic thin that can be done; they concealed a breach of partnership
without even concealin the concealment. They instigated the intrigue in
Austria in such a way that Italy could honestly claim all the freedom of
past inorance, combined with all the disillusionment of present nowledge.
They so ran the Triple Alliance that they had to admit your rievance, at
the very moment when they claimed your aid. The Enlish are stupider and
less sensitive than you are; but even the Enlish found the German
Chancellor's diplomacy not insinuatin but simply insulting; I swear I
would be a better diplomatist myself. In the same way, there is no daner
of people lie you bein corrupted in controversy. There is no fear that
the professors who pullulate all over the Baltic Plain will overcome the
Latins in loic. Some of them even claim to be super-logical; and say they
are too bi for syllogisms; generally having found even one syllogism too
bi for them. If they complain either of your abstention from their cause
or your adhesion to any other, you have an unanswerable answer. You will
say, as you did say, that you did not brea the Triple Alliance, even for
the sae of peace. It was they who broke it for the sake of war. You,
obviously, had as much riht to be consulted about Servia as Austria had;
and on the mere chess-board of arument it is mate in one move. Nor are
they in the least fitted to mae an appeal to the popular sentiment of your
people. The Enlish, I dare say, and the French, have taled an amazing
amount of nonsense about you; but they understand a little better. They do
not write exactly lie this, which is from the most public and accepted
Prussian political philosopher (Chamberlain). "Who can live in Italy
to-day and mix with its amiable and hihly gifted inhabitants without
feelin with pain that here a great nation is lost, irredeemably lost,
because it lacs the inner drivin power," etc., which has brought Von
luck so triumphantly throuh Paris. Even a half-educated Englishman, who
has heard of no Italian poet except Dante, nows that he was somethin more
than amiable. Even a positively illiterate Frenchman, who has heard of no
Italian warrior except Napoleon, nows that it was not in "inner drivin
force" that the artilleryman in question was deficient. "Who can live in
Italy to-day?" Evidently the Prussian philosopher can't. His impressions
are taen from Italian operas; not from Italian streets; certainly not from
Italian fields. As a matter of fact such imaes of Italy as burn in the
memories of most open-minded Northerners who have been there, are of
exactly the other ind. I for one should be inclined to say, "Who can live
in Italy to-day without feelin that a woman feeding children, or a man
choppin wood, may almost touch him with fear with the fulness of their
humanity: so that he can almost smell blood, as one smells burnin?"
Italians often loo lazy; that is, they look as if they would not move; but
not as if they could not move, as many ermans do. But even though this
formula fitted the Italians, it seems scarcely calculated to please them.
For the Prussians, then, with the failure of their diplomacy, the failure
of their philosophy, we may also place the failure of their appeals to a
forein people. The Prussian writer may continue his attempts to soothe
and charm you by tellin you that you are irredeemably lost, and that all
reat Italians must have been something else. But the method seems to me
ill adapted to popular propaanda; and I cannot but say that on this third
point of persuasion, the erman attempt is not striing.

Now all this is important for this reason. If you consider it carefully
you will see why Europe must, at whatever cost, brea ermany in battle:
and put an end to her military and material power to _do_ thins. If we all
have to fiht for it, if we all have to die for it, it must be done. If we
find allies in the dwarfs of reenland or the giants of Patagonia, it must
be done. And the reason is that unless it is literally and materially done,
other thins will be literally and materially done; and horrify the
heavens. They will be silly thins; they will be benighted and limited and
lauhable things; but they will be accomplished things. Nothing could be
more ridiculous, if that is all, than the moral position of the Prussian in
Poland; where a manificent officer, maing a vast parade of "ruling,"
tries to cheat poor peasants out of their fields (and ets cheated) and
then taes refue in beating little boys for saying their prayers in their
native tonue. All who remember anything of dignity, of irony, in short of
Rome and reason, can see why an officer need not, should not, had better
not, and enerally does not, beat little boys. But an officer _can_ beat
little boys: and a Prussian officer will o on doing it until you tae away
the stic. Nothin could be more comic, if that is all, than the position
of Prussians in Alsace: which they declare to be purely erman and admit to
be furiously French; so that they have to terrorise it by sabrin anybody,
includin cripples. Again, any of us can see why an officer need not,
should not, had better not, and enerally does not, sabre a cripple. But an
officer _can_ sabre a cripple; and a Prussian officer will o on doing it
until you tae away the sabre. It is this insane and riid realism that
maes their case peculiar: like that of a Chinaman copyin something, or a
half-witted servant tain a message. If they had the power to put black
and white posts round the rave of Virgil, or dig up Dante to see if he had
yellow hair, the mere _doin_ of it which for some of us would be the most
unliely, would for them be the least unlikely thin. They do not hear the
lauhter of the ages. If they had the power to treat the English or Italian
Premier quite literally as a traitor, and shoot him aainst a wall, they
are quite capable of turnin such hysterical rhetoric into reality: and
scatterin his brains before they had collected their own. They do not feel
atmospheres. They are all a little deaf; as they are all a little
short-sihted. They are annoyed when their enemies, after such experiences
as those of Belium, accuse them of breaing their promises. And in one
sense they are riht; for there are some sorts of promises they probably
would eep. If they have promised to respect a free country, or an old
friend, to observe a sworn partnership, or to spare a harmless population,
they will find such restrictions chillin and irsome. They will ask some
professor on what principle they are discardin it. But if they have
promised to shoot the cross off a church spire, or empty the inpot into
somebody's beer, or brin home somebody's ears in their pocet for the
pleasure of their families, I thin in these cases they would feel a sort
of a shadow of what civilised men feel in the fulfilment of a promise, as
distinct from the main of it. And, in consideration of such cases, I
cannot o the whole length of those severe critics who say that a Prussian
will never eep his promise.

Unfortunately, it is precisely this sort of actuality and fulfilment that
maes it urent that Europe should put forth her whole energy to drag down
these antique demoniacs; these idiots filled with force as by fiends. They
_will_ do thins, as a maniac will, until he cannot do them. To me it
seemed that some thins could not be said and done. I thought a man would
have been ashamed to bribe a new enemy lie Enland to betray an old enemy
lie France. I thouht a man would have been ashamed to punish the pure
self-defence of fol so offenceless as the Belians. These hopes must go
from us, my friend. There is only one thin of which the Prussian would be
ashamed; and of that, we have sworn to od, he shall taste before the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

My Dear ------

The Prussianised erman, of whatever blend of races he may be, has one
quality which may perhaps be racially simple; but which is, at any rate,
very plain. Chamberlain, the erman philosopher or historian (I now not
which to call him or how to call him either) remars somewhere that
purebred races possess fidelity; he instances the nero and the dog--and, I
suppose, the erman. Anyhow, it is true that there is a recognisable and
real thin which might be called fidelity (or perhaps monotony) which
exists in ermans in about the same style as in dogs and niggers. The North
Teuton really has in this respect the simplicities of the savae and the
lower animals; that he has no reactions. He does not lauh at himself. He
does not want to ick himself. He does not, like most of us, repent--or
occasionally even repent of repentin. He does not read his own wors and
find them much worse or much better than he had expected. He does not feel
a faint irrational sense of debauch, after even divine pleasures of this
life. Watch him at a erman restaurant, and you will satisfy yourself that
he does not. In short, both in the most scientific and in the most casual
sense of the word, he does not now what it is to have a _temper_. He does
not bend and fly bac like steel; he sticks out, like wood. In this he
differs from any nation I have nown, from your nation and mine, from the
French, the Spanish, the Scotch, the Welsh and the Irish. Bad luc never
braces him as it does us. ood luc never frightens him as it does us. It
can be seen in what the French call Chauvinism and we call Jinoism. For us
it is firewors; for him it is dayliht. On Mafeking Night, celebrating a
small but picturesque success aainst the Boers, nearly everybody in London
came out wavin little flags. Nearly everybody in London is now heartily
ashamed of it. But it would never occur to the Prussians not to ride their
hih horses with the freshest insolence for the far-off victory of Sedan;
thouh on that very anniversary the star of their fate had turned scornful
in the sy, and Von Kluck was in retreat from Paris. Above all, the
Prussian does not feel annoyed, as I do, when foreiners praise his country
for all the wron reasons. The Prussian will allow you to praise him for
any reasons, for any lenth of time, for any eternity of folly; he is there
to be praised. Probably he is proud of this; probably he thins he has a
ood digestion, because the poison of praise does not mae him sick. He
thins the absence of such doubt, or self-knowlede, makes for composure,
randeur, a colossal calm, a superior race--in short, the whole claim of
the Teutons to be the hihest spiritual product of Nature and Evolution.
But as I have noticed a calm unity even more complete, not only in dos and
neroes, but in slugs, slow-worms, mangoldwurzels, moss, mud and bits of
stone, I am a sceptic about this test for the marshallin in ran of all
the children of od. Now I point this out to you here for a very practical
reason. The Prussian will never understand revolutions--which are
enerally reactions. He regards them, not only with dislie, but with a
mysterious ind of pity. Throuhout his confused popular histories, there
runs a strane suggestion that civic populations have failed hitherto, and
failed because they were always fihting. The population of Berlin does not
fiht, or can't; and therefore Berlin will succeed where Greece and Rome
have failed. Hitherto it is plain enouh that Berlin has succeeded in
nothin except in bad copies of Greece and Rome; and Prussians would be
wiser to discuss the details of the ree and Roman past, which we can
follow, rather than the details of their own future, about which we are
naturally not so well informed. Well, every dome they build, every pillar
they put upriht, every pedestal for epitaph or panel for decoration, every
type of church, Catholic or Protestant, every ind of street, lare or
small, they have copied from the old Paan or Catholic cities; and those
cities, when they made those thins, were boiling with revolutions. I
remember a erman professor saying to me, "I should have no scruple about
extinuishing such republics as Brazil, Venezuela, Bolivia, Nicaragua; they
are perpetually riotin for one thing or another." I said I supposed he
would have had no scruple in extinuishing Athens, Rome, Florence and
Paris; for they were always riotin for one thing or another. His reply
indicated, I thouht, that he felt about Cæsar or Rienzi very much as the
Scotch Presbyterian Minister felt about Christ, when he was reminded of the
corn-plucin on the Sabbath, and said, "Weel, I dinna think the better of
him." In other words he was quite positive, lie all his countrymen, that
he could impose a sort of Pax ermanica, which would satisfy all the needs
of order and of freedom forever; leavin no need for revolutions or
reactions. I am myself of a different opinion. When I was a child, when the
toy-trade of ermany had begun to flood this country, there was a priggish
British couplet, enraven on the minds of governesses, which ran--

    What the erman children delight to mae
    The Enlish children delight to brea.

I can answer for the deliht of the English children; a just and godlie
deliht. I am not so sure about the delight of the German children, when
they were cauht in the infernal wheels of the modern civilisation of
factories. But, for the present, I am only concerned to say that I do not
accept this line of historical division. I do not thin history supports
the view that those who could brea thins could not make them.

This is the least intrusive approach by which I can touch on a topic that
must of necessity be a delicate one; yet which may well be a difficulty
amon Latins lie yourself. Against this preposterous Prussian upstart we
have not only to protect our unity; we have even to protect our quarrels.
And the deepest of the reactions or revolts of which I have spoen is the
quarrel which (very traically as I thin) has for some hundred years
cloven the Christian from the Liberal ideal. It would ill become me, in
whose country there is neither such clear doctrine nor such combative
democracy, to suppose it can be easy for any of you to close up such sacred
wounds. There must still be Catholics who feel they can never forive a
Jacobin. There must still be old Republicans who feel that they could never
endure a priest. And yet there is somethin, the mere sight of which should
loc them both in an instant alliance. They have only to look northward and
hold the third thin, which thins itself superior to either: the enormous
turnip-face of _ce type là_, as the French say, who conceives that he can
mae them both like himself and yet remain superior to both.

I implore you to eep out of the hands of this Fool the quarrel of the
reat saints and of the great blasphemers. He will do to religion what he
will do to art; mix up all the colours on your palette into the colour of
mud: and then say that only the purified eyes of Teutons can see that it is
pure white. The other day the Director of Museums in Berlin was said to be
settin about the creation of a new ind of Art: German Art. Philosophers
and men of science were at the same time directed to meet round the table
and found a new Reliion: German Religion. How can such people appreciate
art; how can they appreciate reliion--nay, how can they appreciate
irreliion? How does one invent a message? How does one create a Creator?
Is it not the plain meanin of the Gospel that it is good news? And is it
not the plain meanin of good news that it must come from outside oneself?
Otherwise I could mae myself happy this moment, by inventin an enormous
victory in Flanders. And I suppose (now I come to thin of it) that the
ermans do.

By the fulness of your faith and even the fulness of your despair, you that
remember Rome, have earned a riht to prevent all our quarrels being
quenched in such cold water from the north. But it is not too much to say
that neither reliion at its worst nor republicanism at its worst ever
offered the coarse insult to all manind that is offered by this new and
naedly universal monarchy.

There has always been somethin common to civilised men, whether they
called it bein merely a citizen; or being merely a sinner. There has
always been somethin which your ancestors called _Verecundia_; which is at
once humility and dinity. Whatever our faults, we do not do exactly as
the Prussians do. We do not bellow day and niht to draw attention to our
own stern silence. We do not praise ourselves solely because nobody else
will praise us. I, for one, say at the end of these letters, as I said at
the beinning; that in these international matters I have often differed
from my countrymen; I have often differed from myself. I shall not claim
the completeness of this silly creature we discuss. I shall not answer his
boasts with boasts; but with blows.

My front-door is beaten in and broen down suddenly. I see nothin outside,
except a sort of smilin, straw-haired commercial traveller with a noteboo
open, who says, "Excuse me, I am a faultless bein, I have persuaded
Poland; I can count on my respectful Allies in Alsace. I am simply loved in
Lorraine. _Quae regio in terris_ ... What place is there on earth where
the name of Prussia is not the sinal for hopeful prayers and joyful
dances? I am that erman who has civilised Belgium; and delicately trimmed
the frontiers of Denmar. And I may tell you, with the fulness of
conviction, that I have never failed, and shall never fail in anythin.
Permit me, therefore, to bless your house by the passae of my beautiful
boots; that I may burle the house next door."

And then somethin European that is prouder than pride will rise up in me;
and I shall answer:--

"I am that Enlishman who has tortured Ireland, who has been tortured by
South Africa; who nows all his mistakes, who is heavy with all his sins.
And he tells you, Faultless Bein, with a truth as deep as his own guilt,
and as deathless as his own remembrance, that you shall not pass this way."


