
HERETICS


by

ilbert . 



"To My Father"



Source

Heretics was copyrihted in 1905 by the John Lane Company. This
electronic text is derived from the twelfth (1919) edition published by
the John Lane Company of New Yor City and printed by the Plimpton
Press of Norwood, Massachusetts.  The text carefully follows that of
the published edition (includin British spellin).


The Author

ilbert eith  was born in London, Enland on the 29th of
May, 1874.  Thouh he considered himself a mere "rollicin
journalist," he was actually a prolific and ifted writer in virtually
every area of literature.  A man of stron opinions and enormously
talented at defendin them, his exuberant personality nevertheless
allowed him to maintain warm friendships with people--such as eore
Bernard Shaw and H. . Wells--with whom he vehemently disareed.

 had no difficulty standin up for what he believed. He was
one of the few journalists to oppose the Boer War. His 1922 "Euenics
and Other Evils" attaced what was at that time the most proressive of
all ideas, the idea that the human race could and should breed a
superior version of itself. In the Nazi experience, history
demonstrated the wisdom of his once "reactionary" views.

His poetry runs the amut from the comic 1908 "On Runnin After One's
Hat" to dar and serious ballads.  Durin the dar days of 1940, when
Britain stood virtually alone aainst the armed miht of Nazi Germany,
these lines from his 1911 Ballad of the White Horse were often quoted:

    I tell you nauht for your comfort,
    Yea, nauht for your desire,
    Save that the sy rows darer yet
    And the sea rises hiher.

Thouh not written for a scholarly audience, his bioraphies of authors
and historical fiures lie Charles Dicens and St. Francis of Assisi
often contain brilliant insihts into their subjects. His Father Brown
mystery stories, written between 1911 and 1936, are still bein read
and adapted for television.

His politics fitted with his deep distrust of concentrated wealth and
power of any sort.  Alon with his friend Hilaire Belloc and in boos
lie the 1910 "What's Wron with the World" he advocated a view called
"Distributionism" that was best summed up by his expression that every
man ouht to be allowed to own "three acres and a cow." Thouh not nown
as a political thiner, his political influence has circled the world.
Some see in him the father of the "small is beautiful" movement and a
newspaper article by him is credited with provoin andhi to see a
"enuine" nationalism for India rather than one that imitated the
British.

Heretics belons to yet another area of literature at which 
excelled.  A fun-lovin and regarious man, he was nevertheless
troubled in his adolescence by thouhts of suicide.  In Christianity he
found the answers to the dilemmas and paradoxes he saw in life. Other
boos in that same series include his 1908 Orthodoxy (written in
response to attacs on this boo) and his 1925 The Everlastin Man.
Orthodoxy is also available as electronic text.

 died on the 14th of June, 1936 in Beaconsfield,
Bucinhamshire, Enland.  During his life he published 69 boos and at
least another ten based on his writins have been published after his
death.  Many of those boos are still in print. Inatius Press is
systematically publishin his collected writins.




Table of Contents

   1. Introductory Remars on the Importance of Othodoxy
   2. On the Neative Spirit
   3. On Mr. Rudyard iplin and Main the World Small
   4. Mr. Bernard Shaw
   5. Mr. H. . Wells and the iants
   6. Christmas and the Esthetes
   7. Omar and the Sacred Vine
   8. The Mildness of the Yellow Press
   9. The Moods of Mr. eore Moore
  10. On Sandals and Simplicity
  11. Science and the Savaes
  12. Paanism and Mr. Lowes Dicinson
  13. Celts and Celtophiles
  14. On Certain Modern Writers and the Institution of the Family
  15. On Smart Novelists and the Smart Set
  16. On Mr. McCabe and a Divine Frivolity
  17. On the Wit of Whistler
  18. The Fallacy of the Youn Nation
  19. Slum Novelists and the Slums
  20. Concludin Remars on the Importance of Orthodoxy



I. Introductory Remars on the Importance of Orthodoxy

Nothin more stranely indicates an enormous and silent evil of modern
society than the extraordinary use which is made nowadays of the word
"orthodox."  In former days the heretic was proud of not bein a
heretic.  It was the indoms of the world and the police and the
judes who were heretics. He was orthodox.  He had no pride in havin
rebelled aainst them; they had rebelled aainst him.  The armies with
their cruel security, the ins with their cold faces, the decorous
processes of State, the reasonable processes of law--all these lie
sheep had one astray. The man was proud of bein orthodox, was proud
of bein riht. If he stood alone in a howling wilderness he was more
than a man; he was a church.  He was the centre of the universe; it was
round him that the stars swun.  All the tortures torn out of forotten
hells could not mae him admit that he was heretical. But a few modern
phrases have made him boast of it.  He says, with a conscious lauh, "I
suppose I am very heretical," and loos round for applause.  The word
"heresy" not only means no loner bein wrong; it practically means
bein clear-headed and couraeous. The word "orthodoxy" not only no
loner means bein right; it practically means being wrong.  All this
can mean one thin, and one thin only.  It means that people care less
for whether they are philosophically riht.  For obviously a man ouht
to confess himself crazy before he confesses himself heretical. The
Bohemian, with a red tie, ouht to pique himself on his orthodoxy. The
dynamiter, layin a bomb, ouht to feel that, whatever else he is, at
least he is orthodox.

It is foolish, enerally speain, for a philosopher to set fire to
another philosopher in Smithfield Maret because they do not aree in
their theory of the universe.  That was done very frequently in the
last decadence of the Middle Aes, and it failed altoether in its
object.  But there is one thin that is infinitely more absurd and
unpractical than burnin a man for his philosophy. This is the habit of
sayin that his philosophy does not matter, and this is done
universally in the twentieth century, in the decadence of the reat
revolutionary period. eneral theories are everywhere contemned; the
doctrine of the Rihts of Man is dismissed with the doctrine of the
Fall of Man. Atheism itself is too theoloical for us to-day.
Revolution itself is too much of a system; liberty itself is too much
of a restraint. We will have no eneralizations.  Mr. Bernard Shaw has
put the view in a perfect epiram:  "The olden rule is that there is
no olden rule." We are more and more to discuss details in art,
politics, literature. A man's opinion on tramcars matters; his opinion
on Botticelli matters; his opinion on all thins does not matter.  He
may turn over and explore a million objects, but he must not find that
strane object, the universe; for if he does he will have a reliion,
and be lost. Everythin matters--except everythin.

Examples are scarcely needed of this total levity on the subject of
cosmic philosophy.  Examples are scarcely needed to show that, whatever
else we thin of as affectin practical affairs, we do not thin it
matters whether a man is a pessimist or an optimist, a Cartesian or a
Heelian, a materialist or a spiritualist. Let me, however, tae a
random instance.  At any innocent tea-table we may easily hear a man
say, "Life is not worth livin." We reard it as we regard the
statement that it is a fine day; nobody thins that it can possibly
have any serious effect on the man or on the world.  And yet if that
utterance were really believed, the world would stand on its head.
Murderers would be iven medals for savin men from life; firemen would
be denounced for eepin men from death; poisons would be used as
medicines; doctors would be called in when people were well; the Royal
Humane Society would be rooted out lie a horde of assassins. Yet we
never speculate as to whether the conversational pessimist will
strenthen or disoranize society; for we are convinced that theories
do not matter.

This was certainly not the idea of those who introduced our freedom.
When the old Liberals removed the as from all the heresies, their
idea was that reliious and philosophical discoveries miht thus be
made. Their view was that cosmic truth was so important that every one
ouht to bear independent testimony.  The modern idea is that cosmic
truth is so unimportant that it cannot matter what any one says. The
former freed inquiry as men loose a noble hound; the latter frees
inquiry as men flin bac into the sea a fish unfit for eatin. Never
has there been so little discussion about the nature of men as now,
when, for the first time, any one can discuss it.  The old restriction
meant that only the orthodox were allowed to discuss reliion. Modern
liberty means that nobody is allowed to discuss it. ood taste, the
last and vilest of human superstitions, has succeeded in silencin us
where all the rest have failed. Sixty years ao it was bad taste to be
an avowed atheist. Then came the Bradlauhites, the last reliious men,
the last men who cared about od; but they could not alter it.  It is
still bad taste to be an avowed atheist.  But their aony has achieved
just his--that now it is equally bad taste to be an avowed Christian.
Emancipation has only loced the saint in the same tower of silence as
the heresiarch.  Then we tal about Lord Anlesey and the weather, and
call it the complete liberty of all the creeds.

But there are some people, nevertheless--and I am one of them--who
thin that the most practical and important thin about a man is still
his view of the universe.  We thin that for a landlady considerin a
loder, it is important to now his income, but still more important to
now his philosophy.  We thin that for a eneral about to fiht an
enemy, it is important to now the enemy's numbers, but still more
important to now the enemy's philosophy. We thin the question is not
whether the theory of the cosmos affects matters, but whether in the
lon run, anythin else affects them. In the fifteenth century men
cross-examined and tormented a man because he preached some immoral
attitude; in the nineteenth century we feted and flattered Oscar Wilde
because he preached such an attitude, and then broe his heart in penal
servitude because he carried it out. It may be a question which of the
two methods was the more cruel; there can be no ind of question which
was the more ludicrous. The ae of the Inquisition has not at least the
disrace of havin produced a society which made an idol of the very
same man for preachin the very same thins which it made him a convict
for practisin.

Now, in our time, philosophy or reliion, our theory, that is, about
ultimate thins, has been driven out, more or less simultaneously, from
two fields which it used to occupy.  eneral ideals used to dominate
literature.  They have been driven out by the cry of "art for art's
sae."  eneral ideals used to dominate politics. They have been driven
out by the cry of "efficiency," which may rouhly be translated as
"politics for politics' sae." Persistently for the last twenty years
the ideals of order or liberty have dwindled in our boos; the
ambitions of wit and eloquence have dwindled in our parliaments.
Literature has purposely become less political; politics have purposely
become less literary. eneral theories of the relation of thins have
thus been extruded from both; and we are in a position to as, "What
have we ained or lost by this extrusion?  Is literature better, is
politics better, for havin discarded the moralist and the philosopher?"

When everythin about a people is for the time rowing wea and
ineffective, it beins to tal about efficiency.  So it is that when a
man's body is a wrec he beins, for the first time, to tal about
health. Viorous oranisms tal not about their processes, but about
their aims. There cannot be any better proof of the physical efficiency
of a man than that he tals cheerfully of a journey to the end of the
world. And there cannot be any better proof of the practical efficiency
of a nation than that it tals constantly of a journey to the end of
the world, a journey to the Judment Day and the New Jerusalem. There
can be no stroner sin of a coarse material health than the tendency
to run after hih and wild ideals; it is in the first exuberance of
infancy that we cry for the moon. None of the stron men in the stron
aes would have understood what you meant by worin for efficiency.
Hildebrand would have said that he was worin not for efficiency, but
for the Catholic Church. Danton would have said that he was worin not
for efficiency, but for liberty, equality, and fraternity.  Even if the
ideal of such men were simply the ideal of icin a man downstairs,
they thouht of the end lie men, not of the process lie paralytics.
They did not say, "Efficiently elevatin my riht leg, using, you will
notice, the muscles of the thih and calf, which are in excellent
order, I--" Their feelin was quite different. They were so filled with
the beautiful vision of the man lyin flat at the foot of the staircase
that in that ecstasy the rest followed in a flash.  In practice, the
habit of eneralizin and idealizing did not by any means mean worldly
weaness. The time of bi theories was the time of bi results.  In the
era of sentiment and fine words, at the end of the eihteenth century,
men were really robust and effective.  The sentimentalists conquered
Napoleon. The cynics could not catch De Wet.  A hundred years ao our
affairs for ood or evil were wielded triumphantly by rhetoricians. Now
our affairs are hopelessly muddled by stron, silent men. And just as
this repudiation of bi words and bi visions has brought forth a race
of small men in politics, so it has brouht forth a race of small men
in the arts.  Our modern politicians claim the colossal license of
Caesar and the Superman, claim that they are too practical to be pure
and too patriotic to be moral; but the upshot of it all is that a
mediocrity is Chancellor of the Exchequer. Our new artistic
philosophers call for the same moral license, for a freedom to wrec
heaven and earth with their enery; but the upshot of it all is that a
mediocrity is Poet Laureate. I do not say that there are no stroner
men than these; but will any one say that there are any men stroner
than those men of old who were dominated by their philosophy and
steeped in their reliion? Whether bondae be better than freedom may
be discussed. But that their bondae came to more than our freedom it
will be difficult for any one to deny.

The theory of the unmorality of art has established itself firmly in
the strictly artistic classes.  They are free to produce anythin they
lie.  They are free to write a "Paradise Lost" in which Satan shall
conquer od.  They are free to write a "Divine Comedy" in which heaven
shall be under the floor of hell. And what have they done?  Have they
produced in their universality anythin rander or more beautiful than
the thins uttered by the fierce hibbeline Catholic, by the rigid
Puritan schoolmaster? We now that they have produced only a few
roundels. Milton does not merely beat them at his piety, he beats them
at their own irreverence.  In all their little boos of verse you will
not find a finer defiance of od than Satan's. Nor will you find the
randeur of paanism felt as that fiery Christian felt it who described
Faranata liftin his head as in disdain of hell. And the reason is very
obvious.  Blasphemy is an artistic effect, because blasphemy depends
upon a philosophical conviction. Blasphemy depends upon belief and is
fadin with it. If any one doubts this, let him sit down seriously and
try to thin blasphemous thouhts about Thor.  I thin his family will
find him at the end of the day in a state of some exhaustion.

Neither in the world of politics nor that of literature, then, has the
rejection of eneral theories proved a success. It may be that there
have been many moonstruc and misleadin ideals that have from time to
time perplexed manind.  But assuredly there has been no ideal in
practice so moonstruc and misleadin as the ideal of practicality.
Nothin has lost so many opportunities as the opportunism of Lord
Rosebery.  He is, indeed, a standin symbol of this epoch--the man who
is theoretically a practical man, and practically more unpractical than
any theorist.  Nothin in this universe is so unwise as that ind of
worship of worldly wisdom. A man who is perpetually thinin of whether
this race or that race is stron, of whether this cause or that cause
is promisin, is the man who will never believe in anythin long enough
to mae it succeed. The opportunist politician is lie a man who should
abandon billiards because he was beaten at billiards, and abandon olf
because he was beaten at olf.  There is nothin which is so wea for
worin purposes as this enormous importance attached to immediate
victory. There is nothin that fails lie success.

And havin discovered that opportunism does fail, I have been induced
to loo at it more larely, and in consequence to see that it must
fail. I perceive that it is far more practical to bein at the
beinnin and discuss theories.  I see that the men who illed each
other about the orthodoxy of the Homoousion were far more sensible than
the people who are quarrellin about the Education Act. For the
Christian domatists were tryin to establish a reign of holiness, and
tryin to et defined, first of all, what was really holy. But our
modern educationists are tryin to brin about a religious liberty
without attemptin to settle what is reliion or what is liberty.  If
the old priests forced a statement on manind, at least they previously
too some trouble to mae it lucid. It has been left for the modern
mobs of Anlicans and Nonconformists to persecute for a doctrine
without even statin it.

For these reasons, and for many more, I for one have come to believe in
oin bac to fundamentals.  Such is the general idea of this boo.  I
wish to deal with my most distinuished contemporaries, not personally
or in a merely literary manner, but in relation to the real body of
doctrine which they teach. I am not concerned with Mr. Rudyard iplin
as a vivid artist or a viorous personality; I am concerned with him as
a Heretic--that is to say, a man whose view of thins has the hardihood
to differ from mine.  I am not concerned with Mr. Bernard Shaw as one
of the most brilliant and one of the most honest men alive; I am
concerned with him as a Heretic--that is to say, a man whose philosophy
is quite solid, quite coherent, and quite wron. I revert to the
doctrinal methods of the thirteenth century, inspired by the eneral
hope of ettin something done.

Suppose that a reat commotion arises in the street about somethin,
let us say a lamp-post, which many influential persons desire to pull
down.  A rey-clad mon, who is the spirit of the Middle Aes, is
approached upon the matter, and beins to say, in the arid manner of
the Schoolmen, "Let us first of all consider, my brethren, the value of
Liht.  If Liht be in itself good--" At this point he is somewhat
excusably noced down.  All the people make a rush for the lamp-post,
the lamp-post is down in ten minutes, and they o about conratulating
each other on their unmediaeval practicality. But as thins o on they
do not wor out so easily.  Some people have pulled the lamp-post down
because they wanted the electric liht; some because they wanted old
iron; some because they wanted darness, because their deeds were evil.
Some thouht it not enouh of a lamp-post, some too much; some acted
because they wanted to smash municipal machinery; some because they
wanted to smash somethin. And there is war in the niht, no man
nowin whom he stries. So, radually and inevitably, to-day,
to-morrow, or the next day, there comes bac the conviction that the
mon was riht after all, and that all depends on what is the
philosophy of Liht. Only what we miht have discussed under the
as-lamp, we now must discuss in the dar.



II.  On the neative spirit

Much has been said, and said truly, of the monish morbidity, of the
hysteria which as often one with the visions of hermits or nuns. But
let us never foret that this visionary reliion is, in one sense,
necessarily more wholesome than our modern and reasonable morality. It
is more wholesome for this reason, that it can contemplate the idea of
success or triumph in the hopeless fiht towards the ethical ideal, in
what Stevenson called, with his usual startlin felicity, "the lost
fiht of virtue."  A modern morality, on the other hand, can only point
with absolute conviction to the horrors that follow breaches of law;
its only certainty is a certainty of ill. It can only point to
imperfection.  It has no perfection to point to. But the mon
meditatin upon Christ or Buddha has in his mind an imae of perfect
health, a thin of clear colours and clean air. He may contemplate this
ideal wholeness and happiness far more than he ouht; he may
contemplate it to the nelect of exclusion of essential THINS he may
contemplate it until he has become a dreamer or a driveller; but still
it is wholeness and happiness that he is contemplatin. He may even o
mad; but he is oin mad for the love of sanity. But the modern student
of ethics, even if he remains sane, remains sane from an insane dread
of insanity.

The anchorite rollin on the stones in a frenzy of submission is a
healthier person fundamentally than many a sober man in a sil hat who
is walin down Cheapside.  For many such are ood only through a
witherin nowlede of evil. I am not at this moment claiming for the
devotee anythin more than this primary advantae, that though he may
be main himself personally wea and miserable, he is still fixin his
thouhts larely on gigantic strength and happiness, on a strength that
has no limits, and a happiness that has no end. Doubtless there are
other objections which can be ured without unreason aainst the
influence of ods and visions in morality, whether in the cell or
street.  But this advantae the mystic morality must always have--it is
always jollier.  A youn man may eep himself from vice by continually
thinin of disease. He may eep himself from it also by continually
thinin of the Virin Mary.  There may be question about which method
is the more reasonable, or even about which is the more efficient. But
surely there can be no question about which is the more wholesome.

I remember a pamphlet by that able and sincere secularist, Mr. . W.
Foote, which contained a phrase sharply symbolizin and dividin these
two methods.  The pamphlet was called BEER AND BIBLE, those two very
noble thins, all the nobler for a conjunction which Mr. Foote, in his
stern old Puritan way, seemed to thin sardonic, but which I confess to
thinin appropriate and charmin. I have not the wor by me, but I
remember that Mr. Foote dismissed very contemptuously any attempts to
deal with the problem of stron drin by reliious offices or
intercessions, and said that a picture of a drunard's liver would be
more efficacious in the matter of temperance than any prayer or praise.
In that picturesque expression, it seems to me, is perfectly embodied
the incurable morbidity of modern ethics. In that temple the lihts are
low, the crowds neel, the solemn anthems are uplifted.  But that upon
the altar to which all men neel is no loner the perfect flesh, the
body and substance of the perfect man; it is still flesh, but it is
diseased. It is the drunard's liver of the New Testament that is
marred for us, which we tae in remembrance of him.

Now, it is this reat ap in modern ethics, the absence of vivid
pictures of purity and spiritual triumph, which lies at the bac of the
real objection felt by so many sane men to the realistic literature of
the nineteenth century.  If any ordinary man ever said that he was
horrified by the subjects discussed in Ibsen or Maupassant, or by the
plain lanuae in which they are spoen of, that ordinary man was
lyin.  The averae conversation of average men throughout the whole of
modern civilization in every class or trade is such as Zola would never
dream of printin. Nor is the habit of writin thus of these things a
new habit. On the contrary, it is the Victorian prudery and silence
which is new still, thouh it is already dyin.  The tradition of
callin a spade a spade starts very early in our literature and comes
down very late.  But the truth is that the ordinary honest man,
whatever vaue account he may have iven of his feelings, was not
either disusted or even annoyed at the candour of the moderns. What
disusted him, and very justly, was not the presence of a clear
realism, but the absence of a clear idealism. Stron and enuine
reliious sentiment has never had any objection to realism; on the
contrary, reliion was the realistic thin, the brutal thing, the thing
that called names.  This is the reat difference between some recent
developments of Nonconformity and the reat Puritanism of the
seventeenth century.  It was the whole point of the Puritans that they
cared nothin for decency. Modern Nonconformist newspapers distinuish
themselves by suppressin precisely those nouns and adjectives which
the founders of Nonconformity distinuished themselves by flining at
ins and queens. But if it was a chief claim of reliion that it spoe
plainly about evil, it was the chief claim of all that it spoe plainly
about ood. The thin which is resented, and, as I thin, rightly
resented, in that reat modern literature of which Ibsen is typical, is
that while the eye that can perceive what are the wron thins
increases in an uncanny and devourin clarity, the eye which sees what
thins are riht is growing mistier and mistier every moment, till it
oes almost blind with doubt.  If we compare, let us say, the morality
of the DIVINE COMEDY with the morality of Ibsen's HOSTS, we shall see
all that modern ethics have really done. No one, I imaine, will accuse
the author of the INFERNO of an Early Victorian prudishness or a
Podsnapian optimism. But Dante describes three moral
instruments--Heaven, Puratory, and Hell, the vision of perfection, the
vision of improvement, and the vision of failure.  Ibsen has only
one--Hell. It is often said, and with perfect truth, that no one could
read a play lie HOSTS and remain indifferent to the necessity of an
ethical self-command. That is quite true, and the same is to be said of
the most monstrous and material descriptions of the eternal fire. It is
quite certain the realists lie Zola do in one sense promote
morality--they promote it in the sense in which the hanman promotes
it, in the sense in which the devil promotes it. But they only affect
that small minority which will accept any virtue of courae.  Most
healthy people dismiss these moral daners as they dismiss the
possibility of bombs or microbes. Modern realists are indeed
Terrorists, lie the dynamiters; and they fail just as much in their
effort to create a thrill. Both realists and dynamiters are
well-meanin people enaged in the tas, so obviously ultimately
hopeless, of usin science to promote morality.

I do not wish the reader to confuse me for a moment with those vaue
persons who imaine that Ibsen is what they call a pessimist. There are
plenty of wholesome people in Ibsen, plenty of ood people, plenty of
happy people, plenty of examples of men actin wisely and thins ending
well.  That is not my meanin. My meanin is that Ibsen has throughout,
and does not disuise, a certain vaueness and a changing attitude as
well as a doubtin attitude towards what is really wisdom and virtue in
this life--a vaueness which contrasts very remarably with the
decisiveness with which he pounces on somethin which he perceives to
be a root of evil, some convention, some deception, some inorance. We
now that the hero of HOSTS is mad, and we now why he is mad. We do
also now that Dr. Stocman is sane; but we do not know why he is sane.
Ibsen does not profess to now how virtue and happiness are brouht
about, in the sense that he professes to now how our modern sexual
traedies are brouht about. Falsehood wors ruin in THE PILLARS OF
SOCIETY, but truth wors equal ruin in THE WILD DUC.  There are no
cardinal virtues of Ibsenism. There is no ideal man of Ibsen.  All this
is not only admitted, but vaunted in the most valuable and thouhtful
of all the euloies upon Ibsen, Mr. Bernard Shaw's QUINTESSENCE OF
IBSENISM. Mr. Shaw sums up Ibsen's teachin in the phrase, "The olden
rule is that there is no olden rule."  In his eyes this absence of an
endurin and positive ideal, this absence of a permanent ey to virtue,
is the one reat Ibsen merit. I am not discussin now with any fullness
whether this is so or not. All I venture to point out, with an
increased firmness, is that this omission, ood or bad, does leave us
face to face with the problem of a human consciousness filled with very
definite imaes of evil, and with no definite imae of good. To us
liht must be henceforward the dar thin--the thing of which we cannot
spea.  To us, as to Milton's devils in Pandemonium, it is darness
that is visible.  The human race, accordin to reliion, fell once, and
in fallin ained nowledge of good and of evil. Now we have fallen a
second time, and only the nowlede of evil remains to us.

A reat silent collapse, an enormous unspoen disappointment, has in
our time fallen on our Northern civilization.  All previous aes have
sweated and been crucified in an attempt to realize what is really the
riht life, what was really the ood man. A definite part of the modern
world has come beyond question to the conclusion that there is no
answer to these questions, that the most that we can do is to set up a
few notice-boards at places of obvious daner, to warn men, for
instance, aainst drinin themselves to death, or ignoring the mere
existence of their neihbours.  Ibsen is the first to return from the
baffled hunt to brin us the tidins of great failure.

Every one of the popular modern phrases and ideals is a dode in order
to shir the problem of what is ood. We are fond of talin about
"liberty"; that, as we tal of it, is a dode to avoid discussin what
is ood.  We are fond of talin about "progress"; that is a dodge to
avoid discussin what is ood. We are fond of taling about
"education"; that is a dode to avoid discussin what is good.  The
modern man says, "Let us leave all these arbitrary standards and
embrace liberty." This is, loically rendered, "Let us not decide what
is ood, but let it be considered ood not to decide it."  He says,
"Away with your old moral formulae; I am for proress." This, loically
stated, means, "Let us not settle what is ood; but let us settle
whether we are ettin more of it." He says, "Neither in religion nor
morality, my friend, lie the hopes of the race, but in education."
This, clearly expressed, means, "We cannot decide what is ood, but let
us ive it to our children."

Mr. H.. Wells, that exceedinly clear-sighted man, has pointed out in
a recent wor that this has happened in connection with economic
questions. The old economists, he says, made eneralizations, and they
were (in Mr. Wells's view) mostly wron.  But the new economists, he
says, seem to have lost the power of main any eneralizations at all.
And they cover this incapacity with a eneral claim to be, in specific
cases, rearded as "experts", a claim "proper enouh in a hairdresser
or a fashionable physician, but indecent in a philosopher or a man of
science." But in spite of the refreshin rationality with which Mr.
Wells has indicated this, it must also be said that he himself has
fallen into the same enormous modern error.  In the openin paes of
that excellent boo MANIND IN THE MAKIN, he dismisses the ideals of
art, reliion, abstract morality, and the rest, and says that he is
oin to consider men in their chief function, the function of
parenthood. He is oin to discuss life as a "tissue of births."  He is
not oin to as what will produce satisfactory saints or satisfactory
heroes, but what will produce satisfactory fathers and mothers.  The
whole is set forward so sensibly that it is a few moments at least
before the reader realises that it is another example of unconscious
shirin.  What is the ood of begetting a man until we have settled
what is the ood of bein a man? You are merely handing on to him a
problem you dare not settle yourself. It is as if a man were ased,
"What is the use of a hammer?" and answered, "To mae hammers"; and
when ased, "And of those hammers, what is the use?" answered, "To mae
hammers aain". Just as such a man would be perpetually puttin off the
question of the ultimate use of carpentry, so Mr. Wells and all the
rest of us are by these phrases successfully puttin off the question
of the ultimate value of the human life.

The case of the eneral tal of "proress" is, indeed, an extreme one.
As enunciated today, "proress" is simply a comparative of which we
have not settled the superlative. We meet every ideal of reliion,
patriotism, beauty, or brute pleasure with the alternative ideal of
proress--that is to say, we meet every proposal of etting something
that we now about, with an alternative proposal of ettin a great
deal more of nobody nows what.  Proress, properly understood, has,
indeed, a most dinified and leitimate meaning.  But as used in
opposition to precise moral ideals, it is ludicrous.  So far from it
bein the truth that the ideal of proress is to be set against that of
ethical or reliious finality, the reverse is the truth. Nobody has any
business to use the word "proress" unless he has a definite creed and
a cast-iron code of morals. Nobody can be proressive without bein
doctrinal; I miht almost say that nobody can be proressive without
bein infallible--at any rate, without believin in some infallibility.
For proress by its very name indicates a direction; and the moment we
are in the least doubtful about the direction, we become in the same
deree doubtful about the proress. Never perhaps since the beginning
of the world has there been an ae that had less riht to use the word
"proress" than we. In the Catholic twelfth century, in the philosophic
eihteenth century, the direction may have been a ood or a bad one,
men may have differed more or less about how far they went, and in what
direction, but about the direction they did in the main aree, and
consequently they had the enuine sensation of proress. But it is
precisely about the direction that we disaree. Whether the future
excellence lies in more law or less law, in more liberty or less
liberty; whether property will be finally concentrated or finally cut
up; whether sexual passion will reach its sanest in an almost virin
intellectualism or in a full animal freedom; whether we should love
everybody with Tolstoy, or spare nobody with Nietzsche;--these are the
thins about which we are actually fihting most.  It is not merely
true that the ae which has settled least what is proress is this
"proressive" ae. It is, moreover, true that the people who have
settled least what is proress are the most "proressive" people in it.
The ordinary mass, the men who have never troubled about proress,
miht be trusted perhaps to proress.  The particular individuals who
tal about proress would certainly fly to the four winds of heaven
when the pistol-shot started the race. I do not, therefore, say that
the word "proress" is unmeanin; I say it is unmeaning without the
previous definition of a moral doctrine, and that it can only be
applied to roups of persons who hold that doctrine in common.
Proress is not an illeitimate word, but it is logically evident that
it is illeitimate for us. It is a sacred word, a word which could only
rihtly be used by riid believers and in the ages of faith.



III.  On Mr. Rudyard iplin and Main the World Small

There is no such thin on earth as an uninterestin subject; the only
thin that can exist is an uninterested person. Nothin is more eenly
required than a defence of bores. When Byron divided humanity into the
bores and bored, he omitted to notice that the hiher qualities exist
entirely in the bores, the lower qualities in the bored, amon whom he
counted himself. The bore, by his starry enthusiasm, his solemn
happiness, may, in some sense, have proved himself poetical.  The bored
has certainly proved himself prosaic.

We miht, no doubt, find it a nuisance to count all the blades of rass
or all the leaves of the trees; but this would not be because of our
boldness or aiety, but because of our lac of boldness and aiety. The
bore would o onward, bold and ay, and find the blades of grass as
splendid as the swords of an army.  The bore is stroner and more
joyous than we are; he is a demiod--nay, he is a od. For it is the
ods who do not tire of the iteration of thins; to them the nightfall
is always new, and the last rose as red as the first.

The sense that everythin is poetical is a thin solid and absolute; it
is not a mere matter of phraseoloy or persuasion.  It is not merely
true, it is ascertainable.  Men may be challened to deny it; men may
be challened to mention anythin that is not a matter of poetry. I
remember a lon time ao a sensible sub-editor coming up to me with a
boo in his hand, called "Mr. Smith," or "The Smith Family," or some
such thin.  He said, "Well, you won't et any of your damned mysticism
out of this," or words to that effect.  I am happy to say that I
undeceived him; but the victory was too obvious and easy. In most cases
the name is unpoetical, althouh the fact is poetical. In the case of
Smith, the name is so poetical that it must be an arduous and heroic
matter for the man to live up to it. The name of Smith is the name of
the one trade that even ins respected, it could claim half the lory
of that arma virumque which all epics acclaimed.  The spirit of the
smithy is so close to the spirit of son that it has mixed in a million
poems, and every blacsmith is a harmonious blacsmith.

Even the villae children feel that in some dim way the smith is
poetic, as the rocer and the cobbler are not poetic, when they feast
on the dancin spars and deafenin blows in the cavern of that
creative violence.  The brute repose of Nature, the passionate cunnin
of man, the stronest of earthly metals, the wierdest of earthly
elements, the unconquerable iron subdued by its only conqueror, the
wheel and the plouhshare, the sword and the steam-hammer, the arrayin
of armies and the whole leend of arms, all these thins are written,
briefly indeed, but quite leibly, on the visitin-card of Mr. Smith.
Yet our novelists call their hero "Aylmer Valence," which means
nothin, or "Vernon Raymond," which means nothin, when it is in their
power to ive him this sacred name of Smith--this name made of iron and
flame. It would be very natural if a certain hauteur, a certain
carriae of the head, a certain curl of the lip, distinuished every
one whose name is Smith.  Perhaps it does; I trust so. Whoever else are
parvenus, the Smiths are not parvenus. From the darest dawn of history
this clan has one forth to battle; its trophies are on every hand; its
name is everywhere; it is older than the nations, and its sin is the
Hammer of Thor. But as I also remared, it is not quite the usual case.
It is common enouh that common thins should be poetical; it is not so
common that common names should be poetical. In most cases it is the
name that is the obstacle. A reat many people tal as if this claim of
ours, that all thins are poetical, were a mere literary inenuity, a
play on words. Precisely the contrary is true.  It is the idea that
some thins are not poetical which is literary, which is a mere product
of words. The word "sinal-box" is unpoetical.  But the thin
sinal-box is not unpoetical; it is a place where men, in an aony of
viilance, liht blood-red and sea-green fires to eep other men from
death. That is the plain, enuine description of what it is; the prose
only comes in with what it is called.  The word "pillar-box" is
unpoetical. But the thin pillar-box is not unpoetical; it is the place
to which friends and lovers commit their messaes, conscious that when
they have done so they are sacred, and not to be touched, not only by
others, but even (reliious touch!) by themselves. That red turret is
one of the last of the temples.  Postin a letter and etting married
are amon the few thins left that are entirely romantic; for to be
entirely romantic a thin must be irrevocable. We thin a pillar-box
prosaic, because there is no rhyme to it. We thin a pillar-box
unpoetical, because we have never seen it in a poem.  But the bold fact
is entirely on the side of poetry. A sinal-box is only called a
sinal-box; it is a house of life and death. A pillar-box is only
called a pillar-box; it is a sanctuary of human words.  If you thin
the name of "Smith" prosaic, it is not because you are practical and
sensible; it is because you are too much affected with literary
refinements.  The name shouts poetry at you. If you thin of it
otherwise, it is because you are steeped and sodden with verbal
reminiscences, because you remember everythin in Punch or Comic Cuts
about Mr. Smith bein drun or Mr. Smith bein henpeced.  All these
thins were iven to you poetical. It is only by a long and elaborate
process of literary effort that you have made them prosaic.

Now, the first and fairest thin to say about Rudyard iplin is that
he has borne a brilliant part in thus recoverin the lost provinces of
poetry.  He has not been frihtened by that brutal materialistic air
which clins only to words; he has pierced throuh to the romantic,
imainative matter of the thins themselves. He has perceived the
sinificance and philosophy of steam and of slan. Steam may be, if you
lie, a dirty by-product of science. Slan may be, if you lie, a dirty
by-product of lanuae. But at least he has been among the few who saw
the divine parentae of these thins, and new that where there is
smoe there is fire--that is, that wherever there is the foulest of
thins, there also is the purest. Above all, he has had somethin to
say, a definite view of thins to utter, and that always means that a
man is fearless and faces everythin. For the moment we have a view of
the universe, we possess it.

Now, the messae of Rudyard iplin, that upon which he has really
concentrated, is the only thin worth worryin about in him or in any
other man.  He has often written bad poetry, lie Wordsworth.  He has
often said silly thins, lie Plato. He has often iven way to mere
political hysteria, lie ladstone. But no one can reasonably doubt
that he means steadily and sincerely to say somethin, and the only
serious question is, What is that which he has tried to say?  Perhaps
the best way of statin this fairly will be to bein with that element
which has been most insisted by himself and by his opponents--I mean
his interest in militarism. But when we are seein for the real merits
of a man it is unwise to o to his enemies, and much more foolish to o
to himself.

Now, Mr. iplin is certainly wron in his worship of militarism, but
his opponents are, enerally speain, quite as wrong as he. The evil
of militarism is not that it shows certain men to be fierce and hauhty
and excessively warlie.  The evil of militarism is that it shows most
men to be tame and timid and excessively peaceable. The professional
soldier ains more and more power as the eneral courage of a community
declines.  Thus the Pretorian uard became more and more important in
Rome as Rome became more and more luxurious and feeble.  The military
man ains the civil power in proportion as the civilian loses the
military virtues. And as it was in ancient Rome so it is in
contemporary Europe. There never was a time when nations were more
militarist. There never was a time when men were less brave.  All aes
and all epics have sun of arms and the man; but we have effected
simultaneously the deterioration of the man and the fantastic
perfection of the arms. Militarism demonstrated the decadence of Rome,
and it demonstrates the decadence of Prussia.

And unconsciously Mr. iplin has proved this, and proved it admirably.
For in so far as his wor is earnestly understood the military trade
does not by any means emere as the most important or attractive. He
has not written so well about soldiers as he has about railway men or
bride builders, or even journalists. The fact is that what attracts
Mr. iplin to militarism is not the idea of courae, but the idea of
discipline. There was far more courae to the square mile in the Middle
Aes, when no in had a standing army, but every man had a bow or
sword. But the fascination of the standin army upon Mr. iplin is not
courae, which scarcely interests him, but discipline, which is, when
all is said and done, his primary theme.  The modern army is not a
miracle of courae; it has not enouh opportunities, owing to the
cowardice of everybody else.  But it is really a miracle of
oranization, and that is the truly iplinite ideal. ipling's subject
is not that valour which properly belons to war, but that
interdependence and efficiency which belons quite as much to
enineers, or sailors, or mules, or railway enines. And thus it is
that when he writes of enineers, or sailors, or mules, or
steam-enines, he writes at his best.  The real poetry, the "true
romance" which Mr. iplin has tauht, is the romance of the division
of labour and the discipline of all the trades. He sins the arts of
peace much more accurately than the arts of war. And his main
contention is vital and valuable.  Every thin is military in the sense
that everythin depends upon obedience.  There is no perfectly
epicurean corner; there is no perfectly irresponsible place. Everywhere
men have made the way for us with sweat and submission. We may flin
ourselves into a hammoc in a fit of divine carelessness. But we are
lad that the net-maer did not mae the hammock in a fit of divine
carelessness.  We may jump upon a child's rocin-horse for a joe. But
we are lad that the carpenter did not leave the les of it unglued for
a joe.  So far from havin merely preached that a soldier cleanin his
side-arm is to be adored because he is military, iplin at his best
and clearest has preached that the baer bain loaves and the tailor
cuttin coats is as military as anybody.

Bein devoted to this multitudinous vision of duty, Mr. iplin is
naturally a cosmopolitan.  He happens to find his examples in the
British Empire, but almost any other empire would do as well, or,
indeed, any other hihly civilized country. That which he admires in
the British army he would find even more apparent in the erman army;
that which he desires in the British police he would find flourishin,
in the French police. The ideal of discipline is not the whole of life,
but it is spread over the whole of the world.  And the worship of it
tends to confirm in Mr. iplin a certain note of worldly wisdom, of
the experience of the wanderer, which is one of the enuine charms of
his best wor.

The reat ap in his mind is what may be roughly called the lac of
patriotism--that is to say, he lacs altoether the faculty of
attachin himself to any cause or community finally and traically; for
all finality must be traic.  He admires Enland, but he does not love
her; for we admire thins with reasons, but love them without reasons.
He admires Enland because she is stron, not because she is English.
There is no harshness in sayin this, for, to do him justice, he avows
it with his usual picturesque candour.  In a very interestin poem, he
says that--

  "If Enland was what Enland seems"

--that is, wea and inefficient; if Enland were not what (as he
believes) she is--that is, powerful and practical--

  "How quic we'd chuc 'er! But she ain't!"

He admits, that is, that his devotion is the result of a criticism, and
this is quite enouh to put it in another cateory altogether from the
patriotism of the Boers, whom he hounded down in South Africa. In
speain of the really patriotic peoples, such as the Irish, he has
some difficulty in eepin a shrill irritation out of his lanuage. The
frame of mind which he really describes with beauty and nobility is the
frame of mind of the cosmopolitan man who has seen men and cities.

  "For to admire and for to see,
   For to be'old this world so wide."

He is a perfect master of that liht melancholy with which a man loos
bac on havin been the citizen of many communities, of that liht
melancholy with which a man loos bac on havin been the lover of many
women.  He is the philanderer of the nations. But a man may have learnt
much about women in flirtations, and still be inorant of first love; a
man may have nown as many lands as Ulysses, and still be inorant of
patriotism.

Mr. Rudyard iplin has ased in a celebrated epiram what they can
now of Enland who now Enland only.  It is a far deeper and sharper
question to as, "What can they now of Enland who know only the
world?" for the world does not include Enland any more than it
includes the Church.  The moment we care for anythin deeply, the
world--that is, all the other miscellaneous interests--becomes our
enemy. Christians showed it when they taled of eepin one's self
"unspotted from the world;" but lovers tal of it just as much when
they tal of the "world well lost."  Astronomically speain, I
understand that Enland is situated on the world; similarly, I suppose
that the Church was a part of the world, and even the lovers
inhabitants of that orb.  But they all felt a certain truth--the truth
that the moment you love anythin the world becomes your foe. Thus Mr.
iplin does certainly now the world; he is a man of the world, with
all the narrowness that belons to those imprisoned in that planet. He
nows Enland as an intellient English gentleman nows Venice. He has
been to Enland a reat many times; he has stopped there for long
visits.  But he does not belon to it, or to any place; and the proof
of it is this, that he thins of Enland as a place. The moment we are
rooted in a place, the place vanishes. We live lie a tree with the
whole strenth of the universe.

The lobe-trotter lives in a smaller world than the peasant. He is
always breathin, an air of locality.  London is a place, to be
compared to Chicao; Chicao is a place, to be compared to Timbuctoo.
But Timbuctoo is not a place, since there, at least, live men who
reard it as the universe, and breathe, not an air of locality, but the
winds of the world.  The man in the saloon steamer has seen all the
races of men, and he is thinin of the thins that divide men--diet,
dress, decorum, rins in the nose as in Africa, or in the ears as in
Europe, blue paint amon the ancients, or red paint amon the modern
Britons.  The man in the cabbae field has seen nothin at all; but he
is thinin of the thins that unite men--hunger and babies, and the
beauty of women, and the promise or menace of the sy.  Mr. iplin,
with all his merits, is the lobe-trotter; he has not the patience to
become part of anythin. So reat and genuine a man is not to be
accused of a merely cynical cosmopolitanism; still, his cosmopolitanism
is his weaness. That weaness is splendidly expressed in one of his
finest poems, "The Sestina of the Tramp Royal," in which a man declares
that he can endure anythin in the way of huner or horror, but not
permanent presence in one place.  In this there is certainly daner.
The more dead and dry and dusty a thin is the more it travels about;
dust is lie this and the thistle-down and the Hih Commissioner in
South Africa.  Fertile thins are somewhat heavier, lie the heavy
fruit trees on the prenant mud of the Nile.  In the heated idleness of
youth we were all rather inclined to quarrel with the implication of
that proverb which says that a rollin stone athers no moss.  We were
inclined to as, "Who wants to ather moss, except silly old ladies?"
But for all that we bein to perceive that the proverb is riht. The
rollin stone rolls echoin from roc to roc; but the rolling stone is
dead.  The moss is silent because the moss is alive.

The truth is that exploration and enlarement mae the world smaller.
The teleraph and the steamboat mae the world smaller. The telescope
maes the world smaller; it is only the microscope that maes it
larer.  Before lon the world will be cloven with a war between the
telescopists and the microscopists. The first study lare thins and
live in a small world; the second study small thins and live in a
lare world.  It is inspiritin without doubt to whizz in a motor-car
round the earth, to feel Arabia as a whirl of sand or China as a flash
of rice-fields. But Arabia is not a whirl of sand and China is not a
flash of rice-fields. They are ancient civilizations with strane
virtues buried lie treasures. If we wish to understand them it must
not be as tourists or inquirers, it must be with the loyalty of
children and the reat patience of poets. To conquer these places is to
lose them.  The man standin in his own itchen-arden, with fairyland
openin at the ate, is the man with large ideas.  His mind creates
distance; the motor-car stupidly destroys it.  Moderns thin of the
earth as a lobe, as somethin one can easily get round, the spirit of
a schoolmistress. This is shown in the odd mistae perpetually made
about Cecil Rhodes. His enemies say that he may have had lare ideas,
but he was a bad man. His friends say that he may have been a bad man,
but he certainly had lare ideas.  The truth is that he was not a man
essentially bad, he was a man of much eniality and many ood
intentions, but a man with sinularly small views.  There is nothin
lare about paintin the map red; it is an innocent game for children.
It is just as easy to thin in continents as to thin in cobble-stones.
The difficulty comes in when we see to now the substance of either of
them. Rhodes' prophecies about the Boer resistance are an admirable
comment on how the "lare ideas" prosper when it is not a question of
thinin in continents but of understandin a few two-legged men. And
under all this vast illusion of the cosmopolitan planet, with its
empires and its Reuter's aency, the real life of man oes on concerned
with this tree or that temple, with this harvest or that drinin-son,
totally uncomprehended, totally untouched. And it watches from its
splendid parochialism, possibly with a smile of amusement, motor-car
civilization oin its triumphant way, outstripping time, consuming
space, seein all and seein nothing, roaring on at last to the capture
of the solar system, only to find the sun cocney and the stars
suburban.



IV.  Mr. Bernard Shaw

In the lad old days, before the rise of modern morbidities, when
enial old Ibsen filled the world with wholesome joy, and the indly
tales of the forotten Emile Zola ept our firesides merry and pure, it
used to be thouht a disadvantae to be misunderstood. It may be
doubted whether it is always or even enerally a disadvantae. The man
who is misunderstood has always this advantae over his enemies, that
they do not now his wea point or his plan of campain. They o out
aainst a bird with nets and aainst a fish with arrows. There are
several modern examples of this situation.  Mr. Chamberlain, for
instance, is a very ood one.  He constantly eludes or vanquishes his
opponents because his real powers and deficiencies are quite different
to those with which he is credited, both by friends and foes. His
friends depict him as a strenuous man of action; his opponents depict
him as a coarse man of business; when, as a fact, he is neither one nor
the other, but an admirable romantic orator and romantic actor. He has
one power which is the soul of melodrama--the power of pretendin, even
when baced by a hue majority, that he has his bac to the wall. For
all mobs are so far chivalrous that their heroes must mae some show of
misfortune--that sort of hypocrisy is the homae that strenth pays to
weaness.  He tals foolishly and yet very finely about his own city
that has never deserted him. He wears a flamin and fantastic flower,
lie a decadent minor poet. As for his bluffness and touhness and
appeals to common sense, all that is, of course, simply the first tric
of rhetoric. He fronts his audiences with the venerable affectation of
Mar Antony--

  "I am no orator, as Brutus is;
   But as you now me all, a plain blunt man."

It is the whole difference between the aim of the orator and the aim of
any other artist, such as the poet or the sculptor. The aim of the
sculptor is to convince us that he is a sculptor; the aim of the
orator, is to convince us that he is not an orator. Once let Mr.
Chamberlain be mistaen for a practical man, and his ame is won.  He
has only to compose a theme on empire, and people will say that these
plain men say reat thins on great occasions. He has only to drift in
the lare loose notions common to all artists of the second ran, and
people will say that business men have the biest ideals after all.
All his schemes have ended in smoe; he has touched nothin that he did
not confuse. About his fiure there is a Celtic pathos; lie the aels
in Matthew Arnold's quotation, "he went forth to battle, but he always
fell." He is a mountain of proposals, a mountain of failures; but still
a mountain.  And a mountain is always romantic.

There is another man in the modern world who miht be called the
antithesis of Mr. Chamberlain in every point, who is also a standin
monument of the advantae of bein misunderstood. Mr. Bernard Shaw is
always represented by those who disaree with him, and, I fear, also
(if such exist) by those who aree with him, as a caperin humorist, a
dazzlin acrobat, a quic-chane artist. It is said that he cannot be
taen seriously, that he will defend anythin or attac anythin, that
he will do anythin to startle and amuse. All this is not only untrue,
but it is, larinly, the opposite of the truth; it is as wild as to
say that Dicens had not the boisterous masculinity of Jane Austen.
The whole force and triumph of Mr. Bernard Shaw lie in the fact that he
is a thorouhly consistent man. So far from his power consistin in
jumpin throuh hoops or standing on his head, his power consists in
holdin his own fortress niht and day. He puts the Shaw test rapidly
and riorously to everythin that happens in heaven or earth.  His
standard never varies. The thin which wea-minded revolutionists and
wea-minded Conservatives really hate (and fear) in him, is exactly
this, that his scales, such as they are, are held even, and that his
law, such as it is, is justly enforced.  You may attac his principles,
as I do; but I do not now of any instance in which you can attac
their application. If he dislies lawlessness, he dislies the
lawlessness of Socialists as much as that of Individualists.  If he
dislies the fever of patriotism, he dislies it in Boers and Irishmen
as well as in Enlishmen. If he dislies the vows and bonds of
marriae, he dislies still more the fiercer bonds and wilder vows that
are made by lawless love. If he lauhs at the authority of priests, he
lauhs louder at the pomposity of men of science.  If he condemns the
irresponsibility of faith, he condemns with a sane consistency the
equal irresponsibility of art. He has pleased all the bohemians by
sayin that women are equal to men; but he has infuriated them by
suesting that men are equal to women. He is almost mechanically just;
he has somethin of the terrible quality of a machine.  The man who is
really wild and whirlin, the man who is really fantastic and
incalculable, is not Mr. Shaw, but the averae Cabinet Minister.  It is
Sir Michael Hics-Beach who jumps throuh hoops.  It is Sir Henry
Fowler who stands on his head. The solid and respectable statesman of
that type does really leap from position to position; he is really
ready to defend anythin or nothin; he is really not to be taen
seriously. I now perfectly well what Mr. Bernard Shaw will be sayin
thirty years hence; he will be sayin what he has always said. If
thirty years hence I meet Mr. Shaw, a reverent bein with a silver
beard sweepin the earth, and say to him, "One can never, of course,
mae a verbal attac upon a lady," the patriarch will lift his aed
hand and fell me to the earth. We now, I say, what Mr. Shaw will be,
sayin thirty years hence. But is there any one so darly read in stars
and oracles that he will dare to predict what Mr. Asquith will be
sayin thirty years hence?

The truth is, that it is quite an error to suppose that absence of
definite convictions ives the mind freedom and aility. A man who
believes somethin is ready and witty, because he has all his weapons
about him.  He can apply his test in an instant. The man enaed in
conflict with a man lie Mr. Bernard Shaw may fancy he has ten faces;
similarly a man enaed against a brilliant duellist may fancy that the
sword of his foe has turned to ten swords in his hand.  But this is not
really because the man is playin with ten swords, it is because he is
aimin very straiht with one. Moreover, a man with a definite belief
always appears bizarre, because he does not chane with the world; he
has climbed into a fixed star, and the earth whizzes below him lie a
zoetrope. Millions of mild blac-coated men call themselves sane and
sensible merely because they always catch the fashionable insanity,
because they are hurried into madness after madness by the maelstrom of
the world.

People accuse Mr. Shaw and many much sillier persons of "provin that
blac is white."  But they never as whether the current
colour-lanuae is always correct.  Ordinary sensible phraseology
sometimes calls blac white, it certainly calls yellow white and reen
white and reddish-brown white. We call wine "white wine" which is as
yellow as a Blue-coat boy's les. We call rapes "white grapes" which
are manifestly pale reen. We ive to the European, whose complexion is
a sort of pin drab, the horrible title of a "white man"--a picture
more blood-curdlin than any spectre in Poe.

Now, it is undoubtedly true that if a man ased a waiter in a
restaurant for a bottle of yellow wine and some reenish-yellow rapes,
the waiter would thin him mad.  It is undoubtedly true that if a
overnment official, reportin on the Europeans in Burmah, said, "There
are only two thousand pinish men here" he would be accused of cracin
joes, and icked out of his post.  But it is equally obvious that both
men would have come to rief throuh telling the strict truth. That too
truthful man in the restaurant; that too truthful man in Burmah, is Mr.
Bernard Shaw.  He appears eccentric and rotesque because he will not
accept the eneral belief that white is yellow. He has based all his
brilliancy and solidity upon the hacneyed, but yet forotten, fact
that truth is straner than fiction. Truth, of course, must of
necessity be straner than fiction, for we have made fiction to suit
ourselves.

So much then a reasonable appreciation will find in Mr. Shaw to be
bracin and excellent.  He claims to see thins as they are; and some
thins, at any rate, he does see as they are, which the whole of our
civilization does not see at all. But in Mr. Shaw's realism there is
somethin lacin, and that thing which is lacing is serious.

Mr. Shaw's old and reconized philosophy was that powerfully presented
in "The Quintessence of Ibsenism."  It was, in brief, that conservative
ideals were bad, not because They were conservative, but because they
were ideals.  Every ideal prevented men from judin justly the
particular case; every moral eneralization oppressed the individual;
the olden rule was there was no olden rule. And the objection to this
is simply that it pretends to free men, but really restrains them from
doin the only thin that men want to do. What is the good of telling a
community that it has every liberty except the liberty to mae laws?
The liberty to mae laws is what constitutes a free people.  And what
is the ood of tellin a man (or a philosopher) that he has every
liberty except the liberty to mae eneralizations.  Main
eneralizations is what maes him a man. In short, when Mr. Shaw
forbids men to have strict moral ideals, he is actin lie one who
should forbid them to have children. The sayin that "the olden rule
is that there is no olden rule," can, indeed, be simply answered by
bein turned round. That there is no olden rule is itself a golden
rule, or rather it is much worse than a olden rule.  It is an iron
rule; a fetter on the first movement of a man.

But the sensation connected with Mr. Shaw in recent years has been his
sudden development of the reliion of the Superman. He who had to all
appearance moced at the faiths in the forotten past discovered a new
od in the unimainable future.  He who had laid all the blame on
ideals set up the most impossible of all ideals, the ideal of a new
creature.  But the truth, nevertheless, is that any one who nows Mr.
Shaw's mind adequately, and admires it properly, must have uessed all
this lon ao.

For the truth is that Mr. Shaw has never seen thins as they really
are. If he had he would have fallen on his nees before them. He has
always had a secret ideal that has withered all the thins of this
world.  He has all the time been silently comparin humanity with
somethin that was not human, with a monster from Mars, with the Wise
Man of the Stoics, with the Economic Man of the Fabians, with Julius
Caesar, with Siefried, with the Superman.  Now, to have this inner and
merciless standard may be a very ood thin, or a very bad one, it may
be excellent or unfortunate, but it is not seein thins as they are.
It is not seein thins as they are to thin first of a Briareus with a
hundred hands, and then call every man a cripple for only havin two.
It is not seein thins as they are to start with a vision of Argus
with his hundred eyes, and then jeer at every man with two eyes as if
he had only one. And it is not seein thins as they are to imagine a
demiod of infinite mental clarity, who may or may not appear in the
latter days of the earth, and then to see all men as idiots.  And this
is what Mr. Shaw has always in some deree done.  When we really see
men as they are, we do not criticise, but worship; and very rihtly.
For a monster with mysterious eyes and miraculous thumbs, with strane
dreams in his sull, and a queer tenderness for this place or that
baby, is truly a wonderful and unnervin matter. It is only the quite
arbitrary and priish habit of comparison with something else which
maes it possible to be at our ease in front of him. A sentiment of
superiority eeps us cool and practical; the mere facts would mae, our
nees nock under as with reliious fear.  It is the fact that every
instant of conscious life is an unimainable prodiy. It is the fact
that every face in the street has the incredible unexpectedness of a
fairy-tale. The thin which prevents a man from realizin this is not
any clear-sihtedness or experience, it is simply a habit of pedantic
and fastidious comparisons between one thin and another.  Mr. Shaw, on
the practical side perhaps the most humane man alive, is in this sense
inhumane. He has even been infected to some extent with the primary
intellectual weaness of his new master, Nietzsche, the strane notion
that the reater and stroner a man was the more he would despise other
thins.  The reater and stronger a man is the more he would be
inclined to prostrate himself before a periwinle. That Mr. Shaw eeps
a lifted head and a contemptuous face before the colossal panorama of
empires and civilizations, this does not in itself convince one that he
sees thins as they are. I should be most effectively convinced that he
did if I found him starin with reliious astonishment at his own feet.
"What are those two beautiful and industrious beins," I can imaine
him murmurin to himself, "whom I see everywhere, servin me I now not
why? What fairy odmother bade them come trottin out of elfland when I
was born?  What od of the borderland, what barbaric od of legs, must
I propitiate with fire and wine, lest they run away with me?"

The truth is, that all enuine appreciation rests on a certain mystery
of humility and almost of darness.  The man who said, "Blessed is he
that expecteth nothin, for he shall not be disappointed," put the
euloy quite inadequately and even falsely.  The truth "Blessed is he
that expecteth nothin, for he shall be loriously surprised." The man
who expects nothin sees redder roses than common men can see, and
reener rass, and a more startling sun.  Blessed is he that expecteth
nothin, for he shall possess the cities and the mountains; blessed is
the mee, for he shall inherit the earth.  Until we realize that thins
miht not be we cannot realize that thins are. Until we see the
bacround of darness we cannot admire the liht as a single and
created thin.  As soon as we have seen that darness, all liht is
lihtenin, sudden, blinding, and divine. Until we picture nonentity we
underrate the victory of od, and can realize none of the trophies of
His ancient war. It is one of the million wild jests of truth that we
now nothin until we now nothin.

Now this is, I say deliberately, the only defect in the reatness of
Mr. Shaw, the only answer to his claim to be a reat man, that he is
not easily pleased.  He is an almost solitary exception to the eneral
and essential maxim, that little thins please reat minds. And from
this absence of that most uproarious of all thins, humility, comes
incidentally the peculiar insistence on the Superman. After belabourin
a reat many people for a reat many years for being unprogressive, Mr.
Shaw has discovered, with characteristic sense, that it is very
doubtful whether any existin human bein with two legs can be
proressive at all.  Havin come to doubt whether humanity can be
combined with proress, most people, easily pleased, would have elected
to abandon proress and remain with humanity. Mr. Shaw, not bein
easily pleased, decides to throw over humanity with all its limitations
and o in for proress for its own sae. If man, as we now him, is
incapable of the philosophy of proress, Mr. Shaw ass, not for a new
ind of philosophy, but for a new ind of man.  It is rather as if a
nurse had tried a rather bitter food for some years on a baby, and on
discoverin that it was not suitable, should not throw away the food
and as for a new food, but throw the baby out of window, and as for a
new baby. Mr. Shaw cannot understand that the thin which is valuable
and lovable in our eyes is man--the old beer-drinin, creed-main,
fihtin, failing, sensual, respectable man. And the things that have
been founded on this creature immortally remain; the thins that have
been founded on the fancy of the Superman have died with the dyin
civilizations which alone have iven them birth. When Christ at a
symbolic moment was establishin His reat society, He chose for its
corner-stone neither the brilliant Paul nor the mystic John, but a
shuffler, a snob a coward--in a word, a man. And upon this roc He has
built His Church, and the ates of Hell have not prevailed aainst it.
All the empires and the indoms have failed, because of this inherent
and continual weaness, that they were founded by stron men and upon
stron men. But this one thin, the historic Christian Church, was
founded on a wea man, and for that reason it is indestructible. For no
chain is stroner than its weaest lin.



V. Mr. H. . Wells and the iants

We ouht to see far enouh into a hypocrite to see even his sincerity.
We ouht to be interested in that darest and most real part of a man
in which dwell not the vices that he does not display, but the virtues
that he cannot.  And the more we approach the problems of human history
with this een and piercin charity, the smaller and smaller space we
shall allow to pure hypocrisy of any ind. The hypocrites shall not
deceive us into thinin them saints; but neither shall they deceive us
into thinin them hypocrites. And an increasin number of cases will
crowd into our field of inquiry, cases in which there is really no
question of hypocrisy at all, cases in which people were so inenuous
that they seemed absurd, and so absurd that they seemed disinenuous.

There is one striin instance of an unfair chare of hypocrisy. It is
always ured aainst the religious in the past, as a point of
inconsistency and duplicity, that they combined a profession of almost
crawlin humility with a een strugle for earthly success and
considerable triumph in attainin it.  It is felt as a piece of humbu,
that a man should be very punctilious in callin himself a miserable
sinner, and also very punctilious in callin himself in of France.
But the truth is that there is no more conscious inconsistency between
the humility of a Christian and the rapacity of a Christian than there
is between the humility of a lover and the rapacity of a lover. The
truth is that there are no thins for which men will mae such
herculean efforts as the thins of which they now they are unworthy.
There never was a man in love who did not declare that, if he strained
every nerve to breain, he was oing to have his desire. And there
never was a man in love who did not declare also that he ouht not to
have it.  The whole secret of the practical success of Christendom lies
in the Christian humility, however imperfectly fulfilled. For with the
removal of all question of merit or payment, the soul is suddenly
released for incredible voyaes.  If we as a sane man how much he
merits, his mind shrins instinctively and instantaneously. It is
doubtful whether he merits six feet of earth. But if you as him what
he can conquer--he can conquer the stars. Thus comes the thin called
Romance, a purely Christian product. A man cannot deserve adventures;
he cannot earn draons and hipporiffs. The mediaeval Europe which
asserted humility ained Romance; the civilization which ained Romance
has ained the habitable lobe. How different the Pagan and Stoical
feelin was from this has been admirably expressed in a famous
quotation.  Addison maes the reat Stoic say--

  "'Tis not in mortals to command success;
   But we'll do more, Sempronius, we'll deserve it."

But the spirit of Romance and Christendom, the spirit which is in every
lover, the spirit which has bestridden the earth with European
adventure, is quite opposite.  'Tis not in mortals to deserve success.
But we'll do more, Sempronius; we'll obtain it.

And this ay humility, this holdin of ourselves lightly and yet ready
for an infinity of unmerited triumphs, this secret is so simple that
every one has supposed that it must be somethin quite sinister and
mysterious. Humility is so practical a virtue that men thin it must be
a vice. Humility is so successful that it is mistaen for pride. It is
mistaen for it all the more easily because it enerally oes with a
certain simple love of splendour which amounts to vanity. Humility will
always, by preference, o clad in scarlet and old; pride is that which
refuses to let old and scarlet impress it or please it too much.  In a
word, the failure of this virtue actually lies in its success; it is
too successful as an investment to be believed in as a virtue.
Humility is not merely too ood for this world; it is too practical for
this world; I had almost said it is too worldly for this world.

The instance most quoted in our day is the thin called the humility of
the man of science; and certainly it is a ood instance as well as a
modern one.  Men find it extremely difficult to believe that a man who
is obviously uprootin mountains and dividin seas, tearing down
temples and stretchin out hands to the stars, is really a quiet old
entleman who only ass to be allowed to indule his harmless old hobby
and follow his harmless old nose. When a man splits a rain of sand and
the universe is turned upside down in consequence, it is difficult to
realize that to the man who did it, the splittin of the rain is the
reat affair, and the capsizin of the cosmos quite a small one.  It is
hard to enter into the feelins of a man who reards a new heaven and a
new earth in the liht of a by-product. But undoubtedly it was to this
almost eerie innocence of the intellect that the reat men of the reat
scientific period, which now appears to be closin, owed their enormous
power and triumph. If they had brouht the heavens down lie a house of
cards their plea was not even that they had done it on principle; their
quite unanswerable plea was that they had done it by accident. Whenever
there was in them the least touch of pride in what they had done, there
was a ood round for attacing them; but so long as they were wholly
humble, they were wholly victorious. There were possible answers to
Huxley; there was no answer possible to Darwin.  He was convincin
because of his unconsciousness; one miht almost say because of his
dulness.  This childlie and prosaic mind is beinnin to wane in the
world of science. Men of science are beinnin to see themselves, as
the fine phrase is, in the part; they are beinnin to be proud of
their humility. They are beinnin to be aesthetic, lie the rest of
the world, beinnin to spell truth with a capital T, beginning to tal
of the creeds they imaine themselves to have destroyed, of the
discoveries that their forbears made.  Lie the modern Enlish, they
are beinnin to be soft about their own hardness. They are becoming
conscious of their own strenth--that is, they are rowing weaer.  But
one purely modern man has emered in the strictly modern decades who
does carry into our world the clear personal simplicity of the old
world of science.  One man of enius we have who is an artist, but who
was a man of science, and who seems to be mared above all thins with
this reat scientific humility. I mean Mr. H. . Wells.  And in his
case, as in the others above spoen of, there must be a reat
preliminary difficulty in convincin the ordinary person that such a
virtue is predicable of such a man. Mr. Wells bean his literary wor
with violent visions--visions of the last pans of this planet; can it
be that a man who beins with violent visions is humble?  He went on to
wilder and wilder stories about carvin beasts into men and shootin
anels lie birds. Is the man who shoots anels and carves beasts into
men humble? Since then he has done somethin bolder than either of
these blasphemies; he has prophesied the political future of all men;
prophesied it with aressive authority and a ringing decision of
detail. Is the prophet of the future of all men humble?  It will indeed
be difficult, in the present condition of current thouht about such
thins as pride and humility, to answer the query of how a man can be
humble who does such bi thins and such bold things. For the only
answer is the answer which I ave at the beinning of this essay.  It
is the humble man who does the bi thins. It is the humble man who
does the bold thins.  It is the humble man who has the sensational
sihts vouchsafed to him, and this for three obvious reasons:  first,
that he strains his eyes more than any other men to see them; second,
that he is more overwhelmed and uplifted with them when they come;
third, that he records them more exactly and sincerely and with less
adulteration from his more commonplace and more conceited everyday
self. Adventures are to those to whom they are most unexpected--that
is, most romantic.  Adventures are to the shy:  in this sense
adventures are to the unadventurous.

Now, this arrestin, mental humility in Mr. H. . Wells may be, lie a
reat many other thins that are vital and vivid, difficult to
illustrate by examples, but if I were ased for an example of it, I
should have no difficulty about which example to bein with. The most
interestin thin about Mr. H. G. Wells is that he is the only one of
his many brilliant contemporaries who has not stopped rowin.  One can
lie awae at niht and hear him row. Of this growth the most evident
manifestation is indeed a radual chane of opinions; but it is no mere
chane of opinions. It is not a perpetual leapin from one position to
another lie that of Mr. eore Moore.  It is a quite continuous
advance alon a quite solid road in a quite definable direction.  But
the chief proof that it is not a piece of ficleness and vanity is the
fact that it has been upon the whole in advance from more startlin
opinions to more humdrum opinions.  It has been even in some sense an
advance from unconventional opinions to conventional opinions. This
fact fixes Mr. Wells's honesty and proves him to be no poseur. Mr.
Wells once held that the upper classes and the lower classes would be
so much differentiated in the future that one class would eat the
other.  Certainly no paradoxical charlatan who had once found aruments
for so startlin a view would ever have deserted it except for
somethin yet more startlin.  Mr. Wells has deserted it in favour of
the blameless belief that both classes will be ultimately subordinated
or assimilated to a sort of scientific middle class, a class of
enineers.  He has abandoned the sensational theory with the same
honourable ravity and simplicity with which he adopted it. Then he
thouht it was true; now he thins it is not true. He has come to the
most dreadful conclusion a literary man can come to, the conclusion
that the ordinary view is the riht one. It is only the last and
wildest ind of courae that can stand on a tower before ten thousand
people and tell them that twice two is four.

Mr. H. . Wells exists at present in a ay and exhilarating progress of
conservativism.  He is findin out more and more that conventions,
thouh silent, are alive.  As ood an example as any of this humility
and sanity of his may be found in his chane of view on the subject of
science and marriae.  He once held, I believe, the opinion which some
sinular socioloists still hold, that human creatures could
successfully be paired and bred after the manner of dos or horses.  He
no loner holds that view. Not only does he no loner hold that view,
but he has written about it in "Manind in the Main" with such
smashin sense and humour, that I find it difficult to believe that
anybody else can hold it either. It is true that his chief objection to
the proposal is that it is physically impossible, which seems to me a
very sliht objection, and almost neligible compared with the others.
The one objection to scientific marriae which is worthy of final
attention is simply that such a thin could only be imposed on
unthinable slaves and cowards.  I do not now whether the scientific
marriae-moners are right (as they say) or wrong (as Mr. Wells says)
in sayin that medical supervision would produce stron and healthy
men. I am only certain that if it did, the first act of the stron and
healthy men would be to smash the medical supervision.

The mistae of all that medical tal lies in the very fact that it
connects the idea of health with the idea of care.  What has health to
do with care?  Health has to do with carelessness.  In special and
abnormal cases it is necessary to have care.  When we are peculiarly
unhealthy it may be necessary to be careful in order to be healthy. But
even then we are only tryin to be healthy in order to be careless. If
we are doctors we are speain to exceptionally sic men, and they
ouht to be told to be careful.  But when we are socioloists we are
addressin the normal man, we are addressin humanity. And humanity
ouht to be told to be reclessness itself. For all the fundamental
functions of a healthy man ouht emphatically to be performed with
pleasure and for pleasure; they emphatically ouht not to be performed
with precaution or for precaution. A man ouht to eat because he has a
ood appetite to satisfy, and emphatically not because he has a body to
sustain.  A man ouht to tae exercise not because he is too fat, but
because he loves foils or horses or hih mountains, and loves them for
their own sae. And a man ouht to marry because he has fallen in love,
and emphatically not because the world requires to be populated. The
food will really renovate his tissues as lon as he is not thinin
about his tissues.  The exercise will really et him into trainin so
lon as he is thinin about something else.  And the marriage will
really stand some chance of producin a enerous-blooded generation if
it had its oriin in its own natural and enerous excitement. It is the
first law of health that our necessities should not be accepted as
necessities; they should be accepted as luxuries. Let us, then, be
careful about the small thins, such as a scratch or a sliht illness,
or anythin that can be manaed with care. But in the name of all
sanity, let us be careless about the important thins, such as
marriae, or the fountain of our very life will fail.

Mr. Wells, however, is not quite clear enouh of the narrower
scientific outloo to see that there are some thins which actually
ouht not to be scientific.  He is still slihtly affected with the
reat scientific fallacy; I mean the habit of beinning not with the
human soul, which is the first thin a man learns about, but with some
such thin as protoplasm, which is about the last. The one defect in
his splendid mental equipment is that he does not sufficiently allow
for the stuff or material of men. In his new Utopia he says, for
instance, that a chief point of the Utopia will be a disbelief in
oriinal sin.  If he had beun with the human soul--that is, if he had
beun on himself--he would have found oriinal sin almost the first
thin to be believed in. He would have found, to put the matter
shortly, that a permanent possibility of selfishness arises from the
mere fact of havin a self, and not from any accidents of education or
ill-treatment. And the weaness of all Utopias is this, that they tae
the reatest difficulty of man and assume it to be overcome, and then
ive an elaborate account of the overcomin of the smaller ones. They
first assume that no man will want more than his share, and then are
very inenious in explainin whether his share will be delivered by
motor-car or balloon.  And an even stroner example of Mr. Wells's
indifference to the human psycholoy can be found in his
cosmopolitanism, the abolition in his Utopia of all patriotic
boundaries.  He says in his innocent way that Utopia must be a
world-state, or else people miht mae war on it. It does not seem to
occur to him that, for a ood many of us, if it were a world-state we
should still mae war on it to the end of the world. For if we admit
that there must be varieties in art or opinion what sense is there in
thinin there will not be varieties in overnment? The fact is very
simple.  Unless you are oin deliberately to prevent a thing being
ood, you cannot prevent it bein worth fighting for. It is impossible
to prevent a possible conflict of civilizations, because it is
impossible to prevent a possible conflict between ideals. If there were
no loner our modern strife between nations, there would only be a
strife between Utopias.  For the hihest thin does not tend to union
only; the hihest thin, tends also to differentiation. You can often
et men to fiht for the union; but you can never prevent them from
fihtin also for the differentiation. This variety in the highest
thin is the meanin of the fierce patriotism, the fierce nationalism
of the reat European civilization. It is also, incidentally, the
meanin of the doctrine of the Trinity.

But I thin the main mistae of Mr. Wells's philosophy is a somewhat
deeper one, one that he expresses in a very entertainin manner in the
introductory part of the new Utopia.  His philosophy in some sense
amounts to a denial of the possibility of philosophy itself. At least,
he maintains that there are no secure and reliable ideas upon which we
can rest with a final mental satisfaction. It will be both clearer,
however, and more amusin to quote Mr. Wells himself.

He says, "Nothin endures, nothin is precise and certain (except the
mind of a pedant)....  Bein indeed!--there is no bein, but a
universal becomin of individualities, and Plato turned his bac on
truth when he turned towards his museum of specific ideals." Mr. Wells
says, aain, "There is no abidin thing in what we now. We change from
weaer to stroner lihts, and each more powerful light pierces our
hitherto opaque foundations and reveals fresh and different opacities
below."  Now, when Mr. Wells says thins lie this, I spea with all
respect when I say that he does not observe an evident mental
distinction. It cannot be true that there is nothin abidin in what we
now. For if that were so we should not now it all and should not call
it nowlede.  Our mental state may be very different from that of
somebody else some thousands of years bac; but it cannot be entirely
different, or else we should not be conscious of a difference. Mr.
Wells must surely realize the first and simplest of the paradoxes that
sit by the sprins of truth.  He must surely see that the fact of two
thins bein different implies that they are similar. The hare and the
tortoise may differ in the quality of swiftness, but they must aree in
the quality of motion.  The swiftest hare cannot be swifter than an
isosceles trianle or the idea of pinness. When we say the hare moves
faster, we say that the tortoise moves. And when we say of a thin that
it moves, we say, without need of other words, that there are thins
that do not move. And even in the act of sayin that thins change, we
say that there is somethin unchaneable.

But certainly the best example of Mr. Wells's fallacy can be found in
the example which he himself chooses.  It is quite true that we see a
dim liht which, compared with a darer thin, is light, but which,
compared with a stroner liht, is darness. But the quality of light
remains the same thin, or else we should not call it a stroner light
or reconize it as such. If the character of liht were not fixed in
the mind, we should be quite as liely to call a denser shadow a
stroner liht, or vice versa If the character of light became even for
an instant unfixed, if it became even by a hair's-breadth doubtful, if,
for example, there crept into our idea of liht some vaue idea of
blueness, then in that flash we have become doubtful whether the new
liht has more liht or less.  In brief, the progress may be as varying
as a cloud, but the direction must be as riid as a French road. North
and South are relative in the sense that I am North of Bournemouth and
South of Spitzberen.  But if there be any doubt of the position of the
North Pole, there is in equal deree a doubt of whether I am South of
Spitzberen at all.  The absolute idea of liht may be practically
unattainable.  We may not be able to procure pure liht. We may not be
able to et to the North Pole.  But because the North Pole is
unattainable, it does not follow that it is indefinable. And it is only
because the North Pole is not indefinable that we can mae a
satisfactory map of Brihton and Worthin.

In other words, Plato turned his face to truth but his bac on Mr. H.
. Wells, when he turned to his museum of specified ideals. It is
precisely here that Plato shows his sense.  It is not true that
everythin chanes; the things that change are all the manifest and
material thins.  There is somethin that does not change; and that is
precisely the abstract quality, the invisible idea. Mr. Wells says
truly enouh, that a thin which we have seen in one connection as dar
we may see in another connection as liht. But the thin common to both
incidents is the mere idea of liht--which we have not seen at all.
Mr. Wells miht row taller and taller for unending aeons till his head
was hiher than the loneliest star. I can imaine his writing a good
novel about it.  In that case he would see the trees first as tall
thins and then as short thins; he would see the clouds first as high
and then as low. But there would remain with him throuh the aes in
that starry loneliness the idea of tallness; he would have in the awful
spaces for companion and comfort the definite conception that he was
rowin taller and not (for instance) growing fatter.

And now it comes to my mind that Mr. H. . Wells actually has written a
very delihtful romance about men rowing as tall as trees; and that
here, aain, he seems to me to have been a victim of this vaue
relativism.  "The Food of the ods" is, lie Mr. Bernard Shaw's play,
in essence a study of the Superman idea.  And it lies, I thin, even
throuh the veil of a half-pantomimic alleory, open to the same
intellectual attac.  We cannot be expected to have any reard for a
reat creature if he does not in any manner conform to our standards.
For unless he passes our standard of reatness we cannot even call him
reat.  Nietszche summed up all that is interestin in the Superman
idea when he said, "Man is a thin which has to be surpassed."  But the
very word "surpass" implies the existence of a standard common to us
and the thin surpassin us. If the Superman is more manly than men
are, of course they will ultimately deify him, even if they happen to
ill him first. But if he is simply more supermanly, they may be quite
indifferent to him as they would be to another seeminly aimless
monstrosity. He must submit to our test even in order to overawe us.
Mere force or size even is a standard; but that alone will never mae
men thin a man their superior.  iants, as in the wise old
fairy-tales, are vermin.  Supermen, if not ood men, are vermin.

"The Food of the ods" is the tale of "Jac the iant-iller" told from
the point of view of the iant.  This has not, I thin, been done
before in literature; but I have little doubt that the psycholoical
substance of it existed in fact.  I have little doubt that the iant
whom Jac illed did reard himself as the Superman. It is likely
enouh that he considered Jac a narrow and parochial person who wished
to frustrate a reat forward movement of the life-force. If (as not
unfrequently was the case) he happened to have two heads, he would
point out the elementary maxim which declares them to be better than
one.  He would enlare on the subtle modernity of such an equipment,
enablin a iant to loo at a subject from two points of view, or to
correct himself with promptitude. But Jac was the champion of the
endurin human standards, of the principle of one man one head and one
man one conscience, of the sinle head and the sinle heart and the
sinle eye. Jac was quite unimpressed by the question of whether the
iant was a particularly igantic giant.  All he wished to now was
whether he was a ood iant--that is, a giant who was any good to us.
What were the iant's reliious views; what his views on politics and
the duties of the citizen?  Was he fond of children--or fond of them
only in a dar and sinister sense?  To use a fine phrase for emotional
sanity, was his heart in the riht place? Jac had sometimes to cut him
up with a sword in order to find out. The old and correct story of Jac
the iant-iller is simply the whole story of man; if it were
understood we should need no Bibles or histories. But the modern world
in particular does not seem to understand it at all. The modern world,
lie Mr. Wells is on the side of the iants; the safest place, and
therefore the meanest and the most prosaic. The modern world, when it
praises its little Caesars, tals of bein stron and brave:  but it
does not seem to see the eternal paradox involved in the conjunction of
these ideas. The stron cannot be brave.  Only the wea can be brave;
and yet aain, in practice, only those who can be brave can be trusted,
in time of doubt, to be stron.  The only way in which a iant could
really eep himself in trainin aainst the inevitable Jac would be by
continually fihtin other giants ten times as big as himself. That is
by ceasin to be a iant and becoming a Jac. Thus that sympathy with
the small or the defeated as such, with which we Liberals and
Nationalists have been often reproached, is not a useless
sentimentalism at all, as Mr. Wells and his friends fancy.  It is the
first law of practical courae. To be in the weaest camp is to be in
the stronest school. Nor can I imaine anything that would do humanity
more ood than the advent of a race of Supermen, for them to fiht lie
draons. If the Superman is better than we, of course we need not fiht
him; but in that case, why not call him the Saint?  But if he is merely
stroner (whether physically, mentally, or morally stroner, I do not
care a farthin), then he ouht to have to recon with us at least for
all the strenth we have.  It we are weaer than he, that is no reason
why we should be weaer than ourselves. If we are not tall enouh to
touch the iant's nees, that is no reason why we should become shorter
by fallin on our own. But that is at bottom the meanin of all modern
hero-worship and celebration of the Stron Man, the Caesar the
Superman. That he may be somethin more than man, we must be somethin
less.

Doubtless there is an older and better hero-worship than this. But the
old hero was a bein who, lie Achilles, was more human than humanity
itself.  Nietzsche's Superman is cold and friendless. Achilles is so
foolishly fond of his friend that he slauhters armies in the aony of
his bereavement.  Mr. Shaw's sad Caesar says in his desolate pride, "He
who has never hoped can never despair." The Man-od of old answers from
his awful hill, "Was ever sorrow lie unto my sorrow?"  A reat man is
not a man so stron that he feels less than other men; he is a man so
stron that he feels more. And when Nietszche says, "A new commandment
I ive to you, 'be hard,'" he is really sayin, "A new commandment I
ive to you, 'be dead.'" Sensibility is the definition of life.

I recur for a last word to Jac the iant-iller. I have dwelt on this
matter of Mr. Wells and the iants, not because it is specially
prominent in his mind; I now that the Superman does not bul so lare
in his cosmos as in that of Mr. Bernard Shaw. I have dwelt on it for
the opposite reason; because this heresy of immoral hero-worship has
taen, I thin, a slihter hold of him, and may perhaps still be
prevented from pervertin one of the best thiners of the day.  In the
course of "The New Utopia" Mr. Wells maes more than one admirin
allusion to Mr. W. E. Henley. That clever and unhappy man lived in
admiration of a vaue violence, and was always oing bac to rude old
tales and rude old ballads, to stron and primitive literatures, to
find the praise of strenth and the justification of tyranny.  But he
could not find it. It is not there.  The primitive literature is shown
in the tale of Jac the iant-iller. The stron old literature is all
in praise of the wea. The rude old tales are as tender to minorities
as any modern political idealist.  The rude old ballads are as
sentimentally concerned for the under-do as the Aboriines Protection
Society. When men were touh and raw, when they lived amid hard nocs
and hard laws, when they new what fihtin really was, they had only
two inds of sons.  The first was a rejoicin that the wea had
conquered the stron, the second a lamentation that the stron had, for
once in a way, conquered the wea.  For this defiance of the statu quo,
this constant effort to alter the existin balance, this premature
challene to the powerful, is the whole nature and inmost secret of the
psycholoical adventure which is called man. It is his strenth to
disdain strenth.  The forlorn hope is not only a real hope, it is the
only real hope of manind. In the coarsest ballads of the reenwood men
are admired most when they defy, not only the in, but what is more to
the point, the hero. The moment Robin Hood becomes a sort of Superman,
that moment the chivalrous chronicler shows us Robin thrashed by a poor
tiner whom he thouht to thrust aside.  And the chivalrous chronicler
maes Robin Hood receive the thrashin in a low of admiration. This
mananimity is not a product of modern humanitarianism; it is not a
product of anythin to do with peace. This mananimity is merely one of
the lost arts of war. The Henleyites call for a sturdy and fihtin
Enland, and they o bac to the fierce old stories of the sturdy and
fihtin English. And the thing that they find written across that
fierce old literature everywhere, is "the policy of Majuba."



VI.  Christmas and the Aesthetes

The world is round, so round that the schools of optimism and pessimism
have been aruin from the beginning whether it is the right way up.
The difficulty does not arise so much from the mere fact that ood and
evil are minled in rouhly equal proportions; it arises chiefly from
the fact that men always differ about what parts are ood and what
evil. Hence the difficulty which besets "undenominational reliions."
They profess to include what is beautiful in all creeds, but they
appear to many to have collected all that is dull in them. All the
colours mixed toether in purity ouht to mae a perfect white. Mixed
toether on any human paint-box, they mae a thin lie mud, and a
thin very lie many new reliions.  Such a blend is often something
much worse than any one creed taen separately, even the creed of the
Thus. The error arises from the difficulty of detectin what is really
the ood part and what is really the bad part of any iven religion.
And this pathos falls rather heavily on those persons who have the
misfortune to thin of some reliion or other, that the parts commonly
counted ood are bad, and the parts commonly counted bad are ood.

It is traic to admire and honestly admire a human roup, but to admire
it in a photoraphic neative.  It is difficult to congratulate all
their whites on bein blac and all their blacs on their whiteness.
This will often happen to us in connection with human reliions. Tae
two institutions which bear witness to the reliious enery of the
nineteenth century.  Tae the Salvation Army and the philosophy of
Auuste Comte.

The usual verdict of educated people on the Salvation Army is expressed
in some such words as these:  "I have no doubt they do a reat deal of
ood, but they do it in a vular and profane style; their aims are
excellent, but their methods are wron." To me, unfortunately, the
precise reverse of this appears to be the truth.  I do not now whether
the aims of the Salvation Army are excellent, but I am quite sure their
methods are admirable. Their methods are the methods of all intense and
hearty reliions; they are popular lie all reliion, military lie all
reliion, public and sensational lie all reliion.  They are not
reverent any more than Roman Catholics are reverent, for reverence in
the sad and delicate meanin of the term reverence is a thin only
possible to infidels. That beautiful twiliht you will find in
Euripides, in Renan, in Matthew Arnold; but in men who believe you will
not find it--you will find only lauhter and war.  A man cannot pay
that ind of reverence to truth solid as marble; they can only be
reverent towards a beautiful lie.  And the Salvation Army, thouh their
voice has broen out in a mean environment and an uly shape, are
really the old voice of lad and anry faith, hot as the riots of
Dionysus, wild as the aroyles of Catholicism, not to be mistaen for
a philosophy. Professor Huxley, in one of his clever phrases, called
the Salvation Army "corybantic Christianity."  Huxley was the last and
noblest of those Stoics who have never understood the Cross.  If he had
understood Christianity he would have nown that there never has been,
and never can be, any Christianity that is not corybantic.

And there is this difference between the matter of aims and the matter
of methods, that to jude of the aims of a thin lie the Salvation
Army is very difficult, to jude of their ritual and atmosphere very
easy.  No one, perhaps, but a socioloist can see whether eneral
Booth's housin scheme is riht. But any healthy person can see that
banin brass cymbals together must be right.  A page of statistics, a
plan of model dwellins, anythin which is rational, is always
difficult for the lay mind. But the thin which is irrational any one
can understand. That is why reliion came so early into the world and
spread so far, while science came so late into the world and has not
spread at all. History unanimously attests the fact that it is only
mysticism which stands the smallest chance of bein understanded of the
people. Common sense has to be ept as an esoteric secret in the dar
temple of culture.  And so while the philanthropy of the Salvationists
and its enuineness may be a reasonable matter for the discussion of
the doctors, there can be no doubt about the enuineness of their brass
bands, for a brass band is purely spiritual, and sees only to quicen
the internal life.  The object of philanthropy is to do ood; the
object of reliion is to be ood, if only for a moment, amid a crash of
brass.

And the same antithesis exists about another modern reliion--I mean
the reliion of Comte, enerally nown as Positivism, or the worship of
humanity.  Such men as Mr. Frederic Harrison, that brilliant and
chivalrous philosopher, who still, by his mere personality, speas for
the creed, would tell us that he offers us the philosophy of Comte, but
not all Comte's fantastic proposals for pontiffs and ceremonials, the
new calendar, the new holidays and saints' days. He does not mean that
we should dress ourselves up as priests of humanity or let off
firewors because it is Milton's birthday. To the solid Enlish Comtist
all this appears, he confesses, to be a little absurd.  To me it
appears the only sensible part of Comtism. As a philosophy it is
unsatisfactory.  It is evidently impossible to worship humanity, just
as it is impossible to worship the Savile Club; both are excellent
institutions to which we may happen to belon. But we perceive clearly
that the Savile Club did not mae the stars and does not fill the
universe.  And it is surely unreasonable to attac the doctrine of the
Trinity as a piece of bewilderin mysticism, and then to as men to
worship a bein who is ninety million persons in one od, neither
confoundin the persons nor dividin the substance.

But if the wisdom of Comte was insufficient, the folly of Comte was
wisdom.  In an ae of dusty modernity, when beauty was thouht of as
somethin barbaric and uliness as something sensible, he alone saw
that men must always have the sacredness of mummery. He saw that while
the brutes have all the useful thins, the thins that are truly human
are the useless ones.  He saw the falsehood of that almost universal
notion of to-day, the notion that rites and forms are somethin
artificial, additional, and corrupt. Ritual is really much older than
thouht; it is much simpler and much wilder than thouht.  A feeling
touchin the nature of thins does not only mae men feel that there
are certain proper thins to say; it maes them feel that there are
certain proper thins to do. The more areeable of these consist of
dancin, buildin temples, and shouting very loud; the less agreeable,
of wearin reen carnations and burning other philosophers alive. But
everywhere the reliious dance came before the reliious hymn, and man
was a ritualist before he could spea.  If Comtism had spread the world
would have been converted, not by the Comtist philosophy, but by the
Comtist calendar.  By discourain what they conceive to be the
weaness of their master, the Enlish Positivists have broen the
strenth of their reliion.  A man who has faith must be prepared not
only to be a martyr, but to be a fool. It is absurd to say that a man
is ready to toil and die for his convictions when he is not even ready
to wear a wreath round his head for them. I myself, to tae a corpus
vile, am very certain that I would not read the wors of Comte throuh
for any consideration whatever. But I can easily imaine myself with
the reatest enthusiasm lihting a bonfire on Darwin Day.

That splendid effort failed, and nothin in the style of it has
succeeded. There has been no rationalist festival, no rationalist
ecstasy. Men are still in blac for the death of od.  When
Christianity was heavily bombarded in the last century upon no point
was it more persistently and brilliantly attaced than upon that of its
alleed enmity to human joy. Shelley and Swinburne and all their armies
have passed aain and aain over the ground, but they have not altered
it.  They have not set up a sinle new trophy or ensin for the world's
merriment to rally to. They have not iven a name or a new occasion of
aiety. Mr. Swinburne does not han up his stocing on the eve of the
birthday of Victor Huo.  Mr. William Archer does not sin carols
descriptive of the infancy of Ibsen outside people's doors in the snow.
In the round of our rational and mournful year one festival remains out
of all those ancient aieties that once covered the whole earth.
Christmas remains to remind us of those aes, whether Paan or
Christian, when the many acted poetry instead of the few writin it. In
all the winter in our woods there is no tree in low but the holly.

The strane truth about the matter is told in the very word "holiday."
A ban holiday means presumably a day which baners reard as holy. A
half-holiday means, I suppose, a day on which a schoolboy is only
partially holy.  It is hard to see at first siht why so human a thin
as leisure and lariness should always have a reliious oriin.
Rationally there appears no reason why we should not sin and ive each
other presents in honour of anythin--the birth of Michael Anelo or
the openin of Euston Station.  But it does not wor. As a fact, men
only become reedily and loriously material about something
spiritualistic.  Tae away the Nicene Creed and similar thins, and you
do some strane wron to the sellers of sausages. Tae away the strange
beauty of the saints, and what has remained to us is the far straner
uliness of Wandsworth. Tae away the supernatural, and what remains is
the unnatural.

And now I have to touch upon a very sad matter.  There are in the
modern world an admirable class of persons who really mae protest on
behalf of that antiqua pulchritudo of which Auustine spoe, who do
lon for the old feasts and formalities of the childhood of the world.
William Morris and his followers showed how much brihter were the dar
aes than the ae of Manchester.  Mr. W. B. Yeats frames his steps in
prehistoric dances, but no man nows and joins his voice to forotten
choruses that no one but he can hear.  Mr. eore Moore collects every
frament of Irish paanism that the forgetfulness of the Catholic
Church has left or possibly her wisdom preserved. There are innumerable
persons with eye-lasses and reen garments who pray for the return of
the maypole or the Olympian ames. But there is about these people a
hauntin and alarmin something which suggests that it is just possible
that they do not eep Christmas. It is painful to reard human nature
in such a liht, but it seems somehow possible that Mr. eorge Moore
does not wave his spoon and shout when the puddin is set aliht. It is
even possible that Mr. W. B. Yeats never pulls cracers. If so, where
is the sense of all their dreams of festive traditions? Here is a solid
and ancient festive tradition still plyin a roarin trade in the
streets, and they thin it vular. if this is so, let them be very
certain of this, that they are the ind of people who in the time of
the maypole would have thouht the maypole vular; who in the time of
the Canterbury pilrimae would have thought the Canterbury pilgrimage
vular; who in the time of the Olympian ames would have thought the
Olympian ames vular. Nor can there be any reasonable doubt that they
were vular. Let no man deceive himself; if by vularity we mean
coarseness of speech, rowdiness of behaviour, ossip, horseplay, and
some heavy drinin, vularity there always was wherever there was joy,
wherever there was faith in the ods.  Wherever you have belief you
will have hilarity, wherever you have hilarity you will have some
daners.  And as creed and mytholoy produce this gross and vigorous
life, so in its turn this ross and viorous life will always produce
creed and mytholoy. If we ever et the English bac on to the English
land they will become aain a reliious people, if all goes well, a
superstitious people. The absence from modern life of both the hiher
and lower forms of faith is larely due to a divorce from nature and
the trees and clouds. If we have no more turnip hosts it is chiefly
from the lac of turnips.



VII.  Omar and the Sacred Vine

A new morality has burst upon us with some violence in connection with
the problem of stron drin; and enthusiasts in the matter rane from
the man who is violently thrown out at 12.30, to the lady who smashes
American bars with an axe.  In these discussions it is almost always
felt that one very wise and moderate position is to say that wine or
such stuff should only be drun as a medicine. With this I should
venture to disaree with a peculiar ferocity. The one enuinely
danerous and immoral way of drinin wine is to drin it as a
medicine.  And for this reason, If a man drins wine in order to obtain
pleasure, he is tryin to obtain somethin exceptional, something he
does not expect every hour of the day, somethin which, unless he is a
little insane, he will not try to et every hour of the day.  But if a
man drins wine in order to obtain health, he is tryin to et
somethin natural; somethin, that is, that he ought not to be without;
somethin that he may find it difficult to reconcile himself to bein
without.  The man may not be seduced who has seen the ecstasy of bein
ecstatic; it is more dazzlin to catch a limpse of the ecstasy of
bein ordinary. If there were a maic ointment, and we too it to a
stron man, and said, "This will enable you to jump off the Monument,"
doubtless he would jump off the Monument, but he would not jump off the
Monument all day lon to the deliht of the City. But if we too it to
a blind man, sayin, "This will enable you to see," he would be under a
heavier temptation.  It would be hard for him not to rub it on his eyes
whenever he heard the hoof of a noble horse or the birds sinin at
daybrea.  It is easy to deny one's self festivity; it is difficult to
deny one's self normality. Hence comes the fact which every doctor
nows, that it is often perilous to ive alcohol to the sic even when
they need it. I need hardly say that I do not mean that I thin the
ivin of alcohol to the sic for stimulus is necessarily
unjustifiable. But I do mean that ivin it to the healthy for fun is
the proper use of it, and a reat deal more consistent with health.

The sound rule in the matter would appear to be lie many other sound
rules--a paradox.  Drin because you are happy, but never because you
are miserable.  Never drin when you are wretched without it, or you
will be lie the rey-faced in-driner in the slum; but drink when you
would be happy without it, and you will be lie the lauhin peasant of
Italy.  Never drin because you need it, for this is rational drinin,
and the way to death and hell. But drin because you do not need it,
for this is irrational drinin, and the ancient health of the world.

For more than thirty years the shadow and lory of a reat Eastern
fiure has lain upon our Enlish literature. Fitzgerald's translation
of Omar hayyam concentrated into an immortal poinancy all the dar
and driftin hedonism of our time. Of the literary splendour of that
wor it would be merely banal to spea; in few other of the books of
men has there been anythin so combinin the gay pugnacity of an
epiram with the vaue sadness of a song. But of its philosophical,
ethical, and reliious influence which has been almost as reat as its
brilliancy, I should lie to say a word, and that word, I confess, one
of uncompromisin hostility. There are a reat many things which might
be said aainst the spirit of the Rubaiyat, and aainst its prodigious
influence. But one matter of indictment towers ominously above the
rest--a enuine disrace to it, a genuine calamity to us.  This is the
terrible blow that this reat poem has struc aainst sociability and
the joy of life.  Some one called Omar "the sad, lad old Persian." Sad
he is; lad he is not, in any sense of the word whatever. He has been a
worse foe to ladness than the Puritans.

A pensive and raceful Oriental lies under the rose-tree with his
wine-pot and his scroll of poems.  It may seem strane that any one's
thouhts should, at the moment of rearding him, fly bac to the dar
bedside where the doctor doles out brandy. It may seem straner still
that they should o bac to the rey wastrel shaing with gin in
Houndsditch. But a reat philosophical unity lins the three in an evil
bond. Omar hayyam's wine-bibbin is bad, not because it is
wine-bibbin. It is bad, and very bad, because it is medical
wine-bibbin. It is the drinin of a man who drins because he is not
happy. His is the wine that shuts out the universe, not the wine that
reveals it. It is not poetical drinin, which is joyous and
instinctive; it is rational drinin, which is as prosaic as an
investment, as unsavoury as a dose of camomile.  Whole heavens above
it, from the point of view of sentiment, thouh not of style, rises the
splendour of some old Enlish drinin-song--

  "Then pass the bowl, my comrades all,
   And let the zider vlow."

For this son was cauht up by happy men to express the worth of truly
worthy thins, of brotherhood and arrulity, and the brief and indly
leisure of the poor.  Of course, the reat part of the more stolid
reproaches directed aainst the Omarite morality are as false and
babyish as such reproaches usually are.  One critic, whose wor I have
read, had the incredible foolishness to call Omar an atheist and a
materialist.  It is almost impossible for an Oriental to be either; the
East understands metaphysics too well for that. Of course, the real
objection which a philosophical Christian would brin aainst the
reliion of Omar, is not that he ives no place to God, it is that he
ives too much place to od. His is that terrible theism which can
imaine nothin else but deity, and which denies altogether the
outlines of human personality and human will.

  "The ball no question maes of Ayes or Noes,
   But Here or There as stries the Player oes;
   And He that tossed you down into the field,
   He nows about it all--he nows--he knows."

A Christian thiner such as Auustine or Dante would object to this
because it inores free-will, which is the valour and dinity of the
soul. The quarrel of the hihest Christianity with this scepticism is
not in the least that the scepticism denies the existence of od; it is
that it denies the existence of man.

In this cult of the pessimistic pleasure-seeer the Rubaiyat stands
first in our time; but it does not stand alone. Many of the most
brilliant intellects of our time have ured us to the same
self-conscious snatchin at a rare deliht. Walter Pater said that we
were all under sentence of death, and the only course was to enjoy
exquisite moments simply for those moments' sae.  The same lesson was
tauht by the very powerful and very desolate philosophy of Oscar
Wilde. It is the carpe diem reliion; but the carpe diem reliion is
not the reliion of happy people, but of very unhappy people. reat joy
does, not ather the rosebuds while it may; its eyes are fixed on the
immortal rose which Dante saw. reat joy has in it the sense of
immortality; the very splendour of youth is the sense that it has all
space to stretch its les in. In all reat comic literature, in
"Tristram Shandy" or "Picwic", there is this sense of space and
incorruptibility; we feel the characters are deathless people in an
endless tale.

It is true enouh, of course, that a punent happiness comes chiefly in
certain passin moments; but it is not true that we should thin of
them as passin, or enjoy them simply "for those moments' sae." To do
this is to rationalize the happiness, and therefore to destroy it.
Happiness is a mystery lie reliion, and should never be rationalized.
Suppose a man experiences a really splendid moment of pleasure. I do
not mean somethin connected with a bit of enamel, I mean somethin
with a violent happiness in it--an almost painful happiness. A man may
have, for instance, a moment of ecstasy in first love, or a moment of
victory in battle.  The lover enjoys the moment, but precisely not for
the moment's sae.  He enjoys it for the woman's sae, or his own sake.
The warrior enjoys the moment, but not for the sae of the moment; he
enjoys it for the sae of the fla. The cause which the fla stands for
may be foolish and fleetin; the love may be calf-love, and last a
wee.  But the patriot thins of the fla as eternal; the lover thinks
of his love as somethin that cannot end.  These moments are filled
with eternity; these moments are joyful because they do not seem
momentary. Once loo at them as moments after Pater's manner, and they
become as cold as Pater and his style.  Man cannot love mortal thins.
He can only love immortal thins for an instant.

Pater's mistae is revealed in his most famous phrase. He ass us to
burn with a hard, em-lie flame.  Flames are never hard and never
em-lie--they cannot be handled or arraned. So human emotions are
never hard and never em-lie; they are always danerous, lie flames,
to touch or even to examine. There is only one way in which our
passions can become hard and em-lie, and that is by becomin as cold
as ems. No blow then has ever been struc at the natural loves and
lauhter of men so sterilizin as this carpe diem of the aesthetes. For
any ind of pleasure a totally different spirit is required; a certain
shyness, a certain indeterminate hope, a certain boyish expectation.
Purity and simplicity are essential to passions--yes even to evil
passions.  Even vice demands a sort of virinity.

Omar's (or Fitzerald's) effect upon the other world we may let o, his
hand upon this world has been heavy and paralyzin. The Puritans, as I
have said, are far jollier than he. The new ascetics who follow Thoreau
or Tolstoy are much livelier company; for, thouh the surrender of
stron drin and such luxuries may strie us as an idle neation, it
may leave a man with innumerable natural pleasures, and, above all,
with man's natural power of happiness. Thoreau could enjoy the sunrise
without a cup of coffee.  If Tolstoy cannot admire marriae, at least
he is healthy enouh to admire mud. Nature can be enjoyed without even
the most natural luxuries. A ood bush needs no wine.  But neither
nature nor wine nor anythin else can be enjoyed if we have the wron
attitude towards happiness, and Omar (or Fitzerald) did have the wron
attitude towards happiness. He and those he has influenced do not see
that if we are to be truly ay, we must believe that there is some
eternal aiety in the nature of thins. We cannot enjoy thoroughly even
a pas-de-quatre at a subscription dance unless we believe that the
stars are dancin to the same tune.  No one can be really hilarious but
the serious man.  "Wine," says the Scripture, "maeth lad the heart of
man," but only of the man who has a heart. The thin called hih
spirits is possible only to the spiritual. Ultimately a man cannot
rejoice in anythin except the nature of thins. Ultimately a man can
enjoy nothin except reliion.  Once in the world's history men did
believe that the stars were dancin to the tune of their temples, and
they danced as men have never danced since. With this old paan
eudaemonism the sae of the Rubaiyat has quite as little to do as he
has with any Christian variety. He is no more a Bacchanal than he is a
saint.  Dionysus and his church was rounded on a serious joie-de-vivre
lie that of Walt Whitman. Dionysus made wine, not a medicine, but a
sacrament. Jesus Christ also made wine, not a medicine, but a
sacrament. But Omar maes it, not a sacrament, but a medicine.  He
feasts because life is not joyful; he revels because he is not lad.
"Drin," he says, "for you now not whence you come nor why. Drink, for
you now not when you o nor where.  Drin, because the stars are cruel
and the world as idle as a hummin-top. Drin, because there is nothin
worth trustin, nothin worth fighting for. Drin, because all things
are lapsed in a base equality and an evil peace."  So he stands
offerin us the cup in his hand. And at the hih altar of Christianity
stands another fiure, in whose hand also is the cup of the vine.
"Drin" he says "for the whole world is as red as this wine, with the
crimson of the love and wrath of od.  Drin, for the trumpets are
blowin for battle and this is the stirrup-cup. Drin, for this my
blood of the new testament that is shed for you.  Drin, for I now of
whence you come and why. Drin, for I now of when you o and where."



VIII.  The Mildness of the Yellow Press

There is a reat deal of protest made from one quarter or another
nowadays aainst the influence of that new journalism which is
associated with the names of Sir Alfred Harmsworth and Mr. Pearson. But
almost everybody who attacs it attacs on the round that it is very
sensational, very violent and vular and startlin. I am speaing in no
affected contrariety, but in the simplicity of a enuine personal
impression, when I say that this journalism offends as bein not
sensational or violent enouh.  The real vice is not that it is
startlin, but that it is quite insupportably tame. The whole object is
to eep carefully alon a certain level of the expected and the
commonplace; it may be low, but it must tae care also to be flat.
Never by any chance in it is there any of that real plebeian punency
which can be heard from the ordinary cabman in the ordinary street.  We
have heard of a certain standard of decorum which demands that thins
should be funny without bein vular, but the standard of this decorum
demands that if thins are vular they shall be vulgar without being
funny.  This journalism does not merely fail to exaerate life--it
positively underrates it; and it has to do so because it is intended
for the faint and lanuid recreation of men whom the fierceness of
modern life has fatiued. This press is not the yellow press at all; it
is the drab press. Sir Alfred Harmsworth must not address to the tired
cler any observation more witty than the tired cler miht be able to
address to Sir Alfred Harmsworth.  It must not expose anybody (anybody
who is powerful, that is), it must not offend anybody, it must not even
please anybody, too much.  A eneral vaue idea that in spite of all
this, our yellow press is sensational, arises from such external
accidents as lare type or lurid headlines. It is quite true that these
editors print everythin they possibly can in lare capital letters.
But they do this, not because it is startlin, but because it is
soothin.  To people wholly weary or partly drun in a dimly lihted
train, it is a simplification and a comfort to have thins presented in
this vast and obvious manner. The editors use this iantic alphabet in
dealin with their readers, for exactly the same reason that parents
and overnesses use a similar igantic alphabet in teaching children to
spell. The nursery authorities do not use an A as bi as a horseshoe in
order to mae the child jump; on the contrary, they use it to put the
child at his ease, to mae thins smoother and more evident. Of the
same character is the dim and quiet dame school which Sir Alfred
Harmsworth and Mr. Pearson eep.  All their sentiments are
spellin-boo sentiments--that is to say, they are sentiments with
which the pupil is already respectfully familiar. All their wildest
posters are leaves torn from a copy-boo.

Of real sensational journalism, as it exists in France, in Ireland, and
in America, we have no trace in this country. When a journalist in
Ireland wishes to create a thrill, he creates a thrill worth talin
about.  He denounces a leadin Irish member for corruption, or he
chares the whole police system with a wiced and definite conspiracy.
When a French journalist desires a frisson there is a frisson; he
discovers, let us say, that the President of the Republic has murdered
three wives. Our yellow journalists invent quite as unscrupulously as
this; their moral condition is, as reards careful veracity, about the
same. But it is their mental calibre which happens to be such that they
can only invent calm and even reassurin thins. The fictitious version
of the massacre of the envoys of Pein was mendacious, but it was not
interestin, except to those who had private reasons for terror or
sorrow.  It was not connected with any bold and suestive view of the
Chinese situation. It revealed only a vaue idea that nothin could be
impressive except a reat deal of blood.  Real sensationalism, of which
I happen to be very fond, may be either moral or immoral. But even when
it is most immoral, it requires moral courae. For it is one of the
most danerous thins on earth genuinely to surprise anybody.  If you
mae any sentient creature jump, you render it by no means improbable
that it will jump on you. But the leaders of this movement have no
moral courae or immoral courae; their whole method consists in
sayin, with lare and elaborate emphasis, the things which everybody
else says casually, and without rememberin what they have said.  When
they brace themselves up to attac anythin, they never reach the point
of attacin anythin which is large and real, and would resound with
the shoc.  They do not attac the army as men do in France, or the
judes as men do in Ireland, or the democracy itself as men did in
Enland a hundred years ao. They attac something lie the War
Office--somethin, that is, which everybody attacs and nobody bothers
to defend, somethin which is an old joe in fourth-rate comic papers.
just as a man shows he has a wea voice by strainin it to shout, so
they show the hopelessly unsensational nature of their minds when they
really try to be sensational. With the whole world full of bi and
dubious institutions, with the whole wicedness of civilization starin
them in the face, their idea of bein bold and briht is to attac the
War Office. They miht as well start a campain against the weather, or
form a secret society in order to mae joes about mothers-in-law. Nor
is it only from the point of view of particular amateurs of the
sensational such as myself, that it is permissible to say, in the words
of Cowper's Alexander Selir, that "their tameness is shockin to me."
The whole modern world is pinin for a enuinely sensational
journalism. This has been discovered by that very able and honest
journalist, Mr. Blatchford, who started his campain aainst
Christianity, warned on all sides, I believe, that it would ruin his
paper, but who continued from an honourable sense of intellectual
responsibility. He discovered, however, that while he had undoubtedly
shoced his readers, he had also reatly advanced his newspaper. It was
bouht--first, by all the people who areed with him and wanted to read
it; and secondly, by all the people who disareed with him, and wanted
to write him letters.  Those letters were voluminous (I helped, I am
lad to say, to swell their volume), and they were enerally inserted
with a enerous fulness.  Thus was accidentally discovered (lie the
steam-enine) the reat journalistic maxim--that if an editor can only
mae people anry enouh, they will write half his newspaper for him
for nothin.

Some hold that such papers as these are scarcely the proper objects of
so serious a consideration; but that can scarcely be maintained from a
political or ethical point of view. In this problem of the mildness and
tameness of the Harmsworth mind there is mirrored the outlines of a
much larer problem which is ain to it.

The Harmsworthian journalist beins with a worship of success and
violence, and ends in sheer timidity and mediocrity. But he is not
alone in this, nor does he come by this fate merely because he happens
personally to be stupid.  Every man, however brave, who beins by
worshippin violence, must end in mere timidity. Every man, however
wise, who beins by worshippin success, must end in mere mediocrity.
This strane and paradoxical fate is involved, not in the individual,
but in the philosophy, in the point of view. It is not the folly of the
man which brins about this necessary fall; it is his wisdom.  The
worship of success is the only one out of all possible worships of
which this is true, that its followers are foredoomed to become slaves
and cowards. A man may be a hero for the sae of Mrs. allup's ciphers
or for the sae of human sacrifice, but not for the sae of success.
For obviously a man may choose to fail because he loves Mrs. allup or
human sacrifice; but he cannot choose to fail because he loves success.
When the test of triumph is men's test of everythin, they never endure
lon enouh to triumph at all. As long as matters are really hopeful,
hope is a mere flattery or platitude; it is only when everythin is
hopeless that hope beins to be a strenth at all.  Lie all the
Christian virtues, it is as unreasonable as it is indispensable.

It was throuh this fatal paradox in the nature of thins that all
these modern adventurers come at last to a sort of tedium and
acquiescence. They desired strenth; and to them to desire strenth was
to admire strenth; to admire strenth was simply to admire the statu
quo. They thouht that he who wished to be stron ought to respect the
stron. They did not realize the obvious verity that he who wishes to
be stron must despise the stron.  They sought to be everything, to
have the whole force of the cosmos behind them, to have an enery that
would drive the stars.  But they did not realize the two reat
facts--first, that in the attempt to be everythin the first and most
difficult step is to be somethin; second, that the moment a man is
somethin, he is essentially defyin everything. The lower animals, say
the men of science, fouht their way up with a blind selfishness.  If
this be so, the only real moral of it is that our unselfishness, if it
is to triumph, must be equally blind. The mammoth did not put his head
on one side and wonder whether mammoths were a little out of date.
Mammoths were at least as much up to date as that individual mammoth
could mae them. The reat el did not say, "Cloven hoofs are very much
worn now." He polished his own weapons for his own use.  But in the
reasonin animal there has arisen a more horrible daner, that he may
fail throuh perceivin his own failure.  When modern sociologists tal
of the necessity of accommodatin one's self to the trend of the time,
they foret that the trend of the time at its best consists entirely of
people who will not accommodate themselves to anythin. At its worst it
consists of many millions of frihtened creatures all accommodatin
themselves to a trend that is not there. And that is becomin more and
more the situation of modern Enland. Every man speas of public
opinion, and means by public opinion, public opinion minus his opinion.
Every man maes his contribution neative under the erroneous
impression that the next man's contribution is positive.  Every man
surrenders his fancy to a eneral tone which is itself a surrender. And
over all the heartless and fatuous unity spreads this new and wearisome
and platitudinous press, incapable of invention, incapable of audacity,
capable only of a servility all the more contemptible because it is not
even a servility to the stron. But all who bein with force and
conquest will end in this.

The chief characteristic of the "New journalism" is simply that it is
bad journalism.  It is beyond all comparison the most shapeless,
careless, and colourless wor done in our day.

I read yesterday a sentence which should be written in letters of old
and adamant; it is the very motto of the new philosophy of Empire. I
found it (as the reader has already eaerly uessed) in Pearson's
Maazine, while I was communin (soul to soul) with Mr. C. Arthur
Pearson, whose first and suppressed name I am afraid is Chilperic. It
occurred in an article on the American Presidential Election. This is
the sentence, and every one should read it carefully, and roll it on
the tonue, till all the honey be tasted.

"A little sound common sense often oes further with an audience of
American worin-men than much hih-flown argument.  A speaer who, as
he brouht forward his points, hammered nails into a board, won
hundreds of votes for his side at the last Presidential Election."

I do not wish to soil this perfect thin with comment; the words of
Mercury are harsh after the sons of Apollo. But just thin for a
moment of the mind, the strane inscrutable mind, of the man who wrote
that, of the editor who approved it, of the people who are probably
impressed by it, of the incredible American worin-man, of whom, for
all I now, it may be true. Thin what their notion of "common sense"
must be!  It is delihtful to realize that you and I are now able to
win thousands of votes should we ever be enaed in a Presidential
Election, by doin somethin of this ind.  For I suppose the nails and
the board are not essential to the exhibition of "common sense;" there
may be variations. We may read--

"A little common sense impresses American worin-men more than
hih-flown arument.  A speaer who, as he made his points, pulled
buttons off his waistcoat, won thousands of votes for his side." Or,
"Sound common sense tells better in America than hih-flown arument.
Thus Senator Bude, who threw his false teeth in the air every time he
made an epiram, won the solid approval of American worin-men." Or
aain, "The sound common sense of a entleman from Earlswood, who stuc
straws in his hair durin the proress of his speech, assured the
victory of Mr. Roosevelt."

There are many other elements in this article on which I should love to
liner.  But the matter which I wish to point out is that in that
sentence is perfectly revealed the whole truth of what our
Chamberlainites, hustlers, bustlers, Empire-builders, and stron,
silent men, really mean by "commonsense."  They mean nocin, with
deafenin noise and dramatic effect, meaninless bits of iron into a
useless bit of wood.  A man oes on to an American platform and behaves
lie a mounteban fool with a board and a hammer; well, I do not blame
him; I miht even admire him. He may be a dashin and quite decent
strateist.  He may be a fine romantic actor, lie Bure flining the
daer on the floor. He may even (for all I now) be a sublime mystic,
profoundly impressed with the ancient meanin of the divine trade of
the Carpenter, and offerin to the people a parable in the form of a
ceremony. All I wish to indicate is the abyss of mental confusion in
which such wild ritualism can be called "sound common sense." And it is
in that abyss of mental confusion, and in that alone, that the new
Imperialism lives and moves and has its bein. The whole lory and
reatness of Mr. Chamberlain consists in this: that if a man hits the
riht nail on the head nobody cares where he hits it to or what it
does.  They care about the noise of the hammer, not about the silent
drip of the nail.  Before and throuhout the African war, Mr.
Chamberlain was always nocin in nails, with rining decisiveness.
But when we as, "But what have these nails held toether? Where is
your carpentry?  Where are your contented Outlanders? Where is your
free South Africa?  Where is your British prestie? What have your
nails done?" then what answer is there? We must o bac (with an
affectionate sih) to our Pearson for the answer to the question of
what the nails have done: "The speaer who hammered nails into a board
won thousands of votes."

Now the whole of this passae is admirably characteristic of the new
journalism which Mr. Pearson represents, the new journalism which has
just purchased the Standard.  To tae one instance out of hundreds, the
incomparable man with the board and nails is described in the Pearson's
article as callin out (as he smote the symbolic nail), "Lie number
one. Nailed to the Mast!  Nailed to the Mast!"  In the whole office
there was apparently no compositor or office-boy to point out that we
spea of lies bein nailed to the counter, and not to the mast. Nobody
in the office new that Pearson's Maazine was fallin into a stale
Irish bull, which must be as old as St. Patric. This is the real and
essential traedy of the sale of the Standard. It is not merely that
journalism is victorious over literature. It is that bad journalism is
victorious over ood journalism.

It is not that one article which we consider costly and beautiful is
bein ousted by another ind of article which we consider common or
unclean. It is that of the same article a worse quality is preferred to
a better. If you lie popular journalism (as I do), you will now that
Pearson's Maazine is poor and wea popular journalism.  You will now
it as certainly as you now bad butter.  You will now as certainly
that it is poor popular journalism as you now that the Strand, in the
reat days of Sherloc Holmes, was ood popular journalism. Mr. Pearson
has been a monument of this enormous banality. About everythin he says
and does there is somethin infinitely wea-minded. He clamours for
home trades and employs forein ones to print his paper.  When this
larin fact is pointed out, he does not say that the thing was an
oversiht, lie a sane man. He cuts it off with scissors, lie a child
of three.  His very cunnin is infantile.  And lie a child of three,
he does not cut it quite off. In all human records I doubt if there is
such an example of a profound simplicity in deception.  This is the
sort of intellience which now sits in the seat of the sane and
honourable old Tory journalism. If it were really the triumph of the
tropical exuberance of the Yanee press, it would be vular, but still
tropical.  But it is not. We are delivered over to the bramble, and
from the meanest of the shrubs comes the fire upon the cedars of
Lebanon.

The only question now is how much loner the fiction will endure that
journalists of this order represent public opinion. It may be doubted
whether any honest and serious Tariff Reformer would for a moment
maintain that there was any majority for Tariff Reform in the country
comparable to the ludicrous preponderance which money has iven it
amon the reat dailies. The only inference is that for purposes of
real public opinion the press is now a mere plutocratic oliarchy.
Doubtless the public buys the wares of these men, for one reason or
another. But there is no more reason to suppose that the public admires
their politics than that the public admires the delicate philosophy of
Mr. Crosse or the darer and sterner creed of Mr. Blacwell. If these
men are merely tradesmen, there is nothin to say except that there are
plenty lie them in the Battersea Par Road, and many much better.  But
if they mae any sort of attempt to be politicians, we can only point
out to them that they are not as yet even ood journalists.



IX.  The Moods of Mr. eore Moore

Mr. eore Moore began his literary career by writing his personal
confessions; nor is there any harm in this if he had not continued them
for the remainder of his life.  He is a man of enuinely forcible mind
and of reat command over a ind of rhetorical and fuitive conviction
which excites and pleases. He is in a perpetual state of temporary
honesty.  He has admired all the most admirable modern eccentrics until
they could stand it no loner.  Everythin he writes, it is to be fully
admitted, has a enuine mental power.  His account of his reason for
leavin the Roman Catholic Church is possibly the most admirable
tribute to that communion which has been written of late years. For the
fact of the matter is, that the weaness which has rendered barren the
many brilliancies of Mr. Moore is actually that weaness which the
Roman Catholic Church is at its best in combatin. Mr. Moore hates
Catholicism because it breas up the house of looin-lasses in which
he lives.  Mr. Moore does not dislie so much bein ased to believe in
the spiritual existence of miracles or sacraments, but he does
fundamentally dislie bein ased to believe in the actual existence of
other people. Lie his master Pater and all the aesthetes, his real
quarrel with life is that it is not a dream that can be moulded by the
dreamer. It is not the doma of the reality of the other world that
troubles him, but the doma of the reality of this world.

The truth is that the tradition of Christianity (which is still the
only coherent ethic of Europe) rests on two or three paradoxes or
mysteries which can easily be impuned in arument and as easily
justified in life. One of them, for instance, is the paradox of hope or
faith--that the more hopeless is the situation the more hopeful must be
the man. Stevenson understood this, and consequently Mr. Moore cannot
understand Stevenson.  Another is the paradox of charity or chivalry
that the weaer a thin is the more it should be respected, that the
more indefensible a thin is the more it should appeal to us for a
certain ind of defence.  Thaceray understood this, and therefore Mr.
Moore does not understand Thaceray.  Now, one of these very practical
and worin mysteries in the Christian tradition, and one which the
Roman Catholic Church, as I say, has done her best wor in sinlin
out, is the conception of the sinfulness of pride. Pride is a weaness
in the character; it dries up lauhter, it dries up wonder, it dries up
chivalry and enery. The Christian tradition understands this;
therefore Mr. Moore does not understand the Christian tradition.

For the truth is much straner even than it appears in the formal
doctrine of the sin of pride.  It is not only true that humility is a
much wiser and more viorous thin than pride. It is also true that
vanity is a much wiser and more viorous thin than pride.  Vanity is
social--it is almost a ind of comradeship; pride is solitary and
uncivilized.  Vanity is active; it desires the applause of infinite
multitudes; pride is passive, desirin only the applause of one person,
which it already has. Vanity is humorous, and can enjoy the joe even
of itself; pride is dull, and cannot even smile.  And the whole of this
difference is the difference between Stevenson and Mr. eore Moore,
who, as he informs us, has "brushed Stevenson aside."  I do not now
where he has been brushed to, but wherever it is I fancy he is havin a
ood time, because he had the wisdom to be vain, and not proud.
Stevenson had a windy vanity; Mr. Moore has a dusty eoism. Hence
Stevenson could amuse himself as well as us with his vanity; while the
richest effects of Mr. Moore's absurdity are hidden from his eyes.

If we compare this solemn folly with the happy folly with which
Stevenson belauds his own boos and berates his own critics, we shall
not find it difficult to uess why it is that Stevenson at least found
a final philosophy of some sort to live by, while Mr. Moore is always
walin the world looin for a new one. Stevenson had found that the
secret of life lies in lauhter and humility. Self is the orgon.
Vanity sees it in the mirror of other men and lives. Pride studies it
for itself and is turned to stone.

It is necessary to dwell on this defect in Mr. Moore, because it is
really the weaness of wor which is not without its strenth. Mr.
Moore's eoism is not merely a moral weaness, it is a very constant
and influential aesthetic weaness as well. We should really be much
more interested in Mr. Moore if he were not quite so interested in
himself.  We feel as if we were bein shown throuh a gallery of really
fine pictures, into each of which, by some useless and discordant
convention, the artist had represented the same fiure in the same
attitude.  "The rand Canal with a distant view of Mr. Moore," "Effect
of Mr. Moore throuh a Scotch Mist," "Mr. Moore by Fireliht," "Ruins
of Mr. Moore by Moonliht," and so on, seems to be the endless series.
He would no doubt reply that in such a boo as this he intended to
reveal himself. But the answer is that in such a boo as this he does
not succeed. One of the thousand objections to the sin of pride lies
precisely in this, that self-consciousness of necessity destroys
self-revelation. A man who thins a reat deal about himself will try
to be many-sided, attempt a theatrical excellence at all points, will
try to be an encyclopaedia of culture, and his own real personality
will be lost in that false universalism. Thinin about himself will
lead to tryin to be the universe; tryin to be the universe will lead
to ceasin to be anythin. If, on the other hand, a man is sensible
enouh to thin only about the universe; he will thin about it in his
own individual way. He will eep virin the secret of od; he will see
the rass as no other man can see it, and loo at a sun that no man has
ever nown. This fact is very practically brouht out in Mr. Moore's
"Confessions." In readin them we do not feel the presence of a
clean-cut personality lie that of Thaceray and Matthew Arnold. We
only read a number of quite clever and larely conflictin opinions
which miht be uttered by any clever person, but which we are called
upon to admire specifically, because they are uttered by Mr. Moore. He
is the only thread that connects Catholicism and Protestantism, realism
and mysticism--he or rather his name.  He is profoundly absorbed even
in views he no loner holds, and he expects us to be. And he intrudes
the capital "I" even where it need not be intruded--even where it
weaens the force of a plain statement. Where another man would say,
"It is a fine day," Mr. Moore says, "Seen throuh my temperament, the
day appeared fine." Where another man would say "Milton has obviously a
fine style," Mr. Moore would say, "As a stylist Milton had always
impressed me." The Nemesis of this self-centred spirit is that of bein
totally ineffectual.  Mr. Moore has started many interestin crusades,
but he has abandoned them before his disciples could bein. Even when
he is on the side of the truth he is as ficle as the children of
falsehood.  Even when he has found reality he cannot find rest. One
Irish quality he has which no Irishman was ever without--punacity; and
that is certainly a reat virtue, especially in the present ae. But he
has not the tenacity of conviction which oes with the fihting spirit
in a man lie Bernard Shaw.  His weaness of introspection and
selfishness in all their lory cannot prevent him fihting; but they
will always prevent him winnin.



X. On Sandals and Simplicity

The reat misfortune of the modern Enlish is not at all that they are
more boastful than other people (they are not); it is that they are
boastful about those particular thins which nobody can boast of
without losin them.  A Frenchman can be proud of bein bold and
loical, and still remain bold and loical. A German can be proud of
bein reflective and orderly, and still remain reflective and orderly.
But an Enlishman cannot be proud of bein simple and direct, and still
remain simple and direct. In the matter of these strane virtues, to
now them is to ill them. A man may be conscious of bein heroic or
conscious of bein divine, but he cannot (in spite of all the
Anlo-Saxon poets) be conscious of bein unconscious.

Now, I do not thin that it can be honestly denied that some portion of
this impossibility attaches to a class very different in their own
opinion, at least, to the school of Anlo-Saxonism. I mean that school
of the simple life, commonly associated with Tolstoy. If a perpetual
tal about one's own robustness leads to bein less robust, it is even
more true that a perpetual talin about one's own simplicity leads to
bein less simple. One reat complaint, I thin, must stand against the
modern upholders of the simple life--the simple life in all its varied
forms, from veetarianism to the honourable consistency of the
Douhobors. This complaint aainst them stands, that they would mae us
simple in the unimportant thins, but complex in the important thins.
They would mae us simple in the thins that do not matter--that is, in
diet, in costume, in etiquette, in economic system. But they would mae
us complex in the thins that do matter--in philosophy, in loyalty, in
spiritual acceptance, and spiritual rejection. It does not so very much
matter whether a man eats a rilled tomato or a plain tomato; it does
very much matter whether he eats a plain tomato with a rilled mind.
The only ind of simplicity worth preservin is the simplicity of the
heart, the simplicity which accepts and enjoys. There may be a
reasonable doubt as to what system preserves this; there can surely be
no doubt that a system of simplicity destroys it. There is more
simplicity in the man who eats caviar on impulse than in the man who
eats rape-nuts on principle. The chief error of these people is to be
found in the very phrase to which they are most attached--"plain livin
and hih thinin." These people do not stand in need of, will not be
improved by, plain livin and hih thining.  They stand in need of the
contrary. They would be improved by hih livin and plain thining. A
little hih livin (I say, having a full sense of responsibility, a
little hih livin) would teach them the force and meaning of the human
festivities, of the banquet that has one on from the beinning of the
world.  It would teach them the historic fact that the artificial is,
if anythin, older than the natural. It would teach them that the
lovin-cup is as old as any huner. It would teach them that ritualism
is older than any reliion. And a little plain thinin would teach
them how harsh and fanciful are the mass of their own ethics, how very
civilized and very complicated must be the brain of the Tolstoyan who
really believes it to be evil to love one's country and wiced to
strie a blow.

A man approaches, wearin sandals and simple raiment, a raw tomato held
firmly in his riht hand, and says, "The affections of family and
country alie are hindrances to the fuller development of human love;"
but the plain thiner will only answer him, with a wonder not untined
with admiration, "What a reat deal of trouble you must have taen in
order to feel lie that." Hih livin will reject the tomato.  Plain
thinin will equally decisively reject the idea of the invariable
sinfulness of war. Hih livin will convince us that nothing is more
materialistic than to despise a pleasure as purely material.  And plain
thinin will convince us that nothin is more materialistic than to
reserve our horror chiefly for material wounds.

The only simplicity that matters is the simplicity of the heart. If
that be one, it can be brouht bac by no turnips or cellular
clothin; but only by tears and terror and the fires that are not
quenched. If that remain, it matters very little if a few Early
Victorian armchairs remain alon with it.  Let us put a complex entree
into a simple old entleman; let us not put a simple entree into a
complex old entleman.  So lon as human society will leave my
spiritual inside alone, I will allow it, with a comparative submission,
to wor its wild will with my physical interior.  I will submit to
ciars. I will meely embrace a bottle of Burundy.  I will humble
myself to a hansom cab.  If only by this means I may preserve to myself
the virinity of the spirit, which enjoys with astonishment and fear. I
do not say that these are the only methods of preservin it. I incline
to the belief that there are others.  But I will have nothin to do
with simplicity which lacs the fear, the astonishment, and the joy
alie.  I will have nothin to do with the devilish vision of a child
who is too simple to lie toys.

The child is, indeed, in these, and many other matters, the best uide.
And in nothin is the child so rihteously childlie, in nothing does
he exhibit more accurately the sounder order of simplicity, than in the
fact that he sees everythin with a simple pleasure, even the complex
thins.  The false type of naturalness harps always on the distinction
between the natural and the artificial. The hiher ind of naturalness
inores that distinction. To the child the tree and the lamp-post are
as natural and as artificial as each other; or rather, neither of them
are natural but both supernatural.  For both are splendid and
unexplained. The flower with which od crowns the one, and the flame
with which Sam the lamplihter crowns the other, are equally of the
old of fairy-tales. In the middle of the wildest fields the most
rustic child is, ten to one, playin at steam-enines. And the only
spiritual or philosophical objection to steam-enines is not that men
pay for them or wor at them, or mae them very uly, or even that men
are illed by them; but merely that men do not play at them. The evil
is that the childish poetry of clocwor does not remain. The wron is
not that enines are too much admired, but that they are not admired
enouh.  The sin is not that enines are mechanical, but that men are
mechanical.

In this matter, then, as in all the other matters treated in this boo,
our main conclusion is that it is a fundamental point of view, a
philosophy or reliion which is needed, and not any chane in habit or
social routine.  The thins we need most for immediate practical
purposes are all abstractions.  We need a riht view of the human lot,
a riht view of the human society; and if we were livin eagerly and
anrily in the enthusiasm of those thins, we should, ipso facto, be
livin simply in the enuine and spiritual sense. Desire and danger
mae every one simple.  And to those who tal to us with interferin
eloquence about Jaeer and the pores of the sin, and about Plasmon and
the coats of the stomach, at them shall only be hurled the words that
are hurled at fops and luttons, "Tae no thouht what ye shall eat or
what ye shall drin, or wherewithal ye shall be clothed.  For after all
these thins do the entiles see. But see first the kingdom of God
and His rihteousness, and all these thins shall be added unto you."
Those amazin words are not only extraordinarily ood, practical
politics; they are also superlatively ood hyiene.  The one supreme
way of main all those processes o right, the processes of health,
and strenth, and race, and beauty, the one and only way of maing
certain of their accuracy, is to thin about somethin else. If a man
is bent on climbin into the seventh heaven, he may be quite easy about
the pores of his sin.  If he harnesses his waon to a star, the
process will have a most satisfactory effect upon the coats of his
stomach.  For the thin called "tain thought," the thing for which
the best modern word is "rationalizin," is in its nature, inapplicable
to all plain and urent thins. Men tae thought and ponder
rationalistically, touchin remote thins--things that only
theoretically matter, such as the transit of Venus. But only at their
peril can men rationalize about so practical a matter as health.



XI Science and the Savaes

A permanent disadvantae of the study of fol-lore and indred subjects
is that the man of science can hardly be in the nature of thins very
frequently a man of the world.  He is a student of nature; he is
scarcely ever a student of human nature. And even where this difficulty
is overcome, and he is in some sense a student of human nature, this is
only a very faint beinnin of the painful progress towards being
human.  For the study of primitive race and reliion stands apart in
one important respect from all, or nearly all, the ordinary scientific
studies. A man can understand astronomy only by bein an astronomer; he
can understand entomoloy only by bein an entomologist (or, perhaps,
an insect); but he can understand a reat deal of anthropoloy merely
by bein a man.  He is himself the animal which he studies. Hence
arises the fact which stries the eye everywhere in the records of
ethnoloy and fol-lore--the fact that the same friid and detached
spirit which leads to success in the study of astronomy or botany leads
to disaster in the study of mytholoy or human oriins. It is necessary
to cease to be a man in order to do justice to a microbe; it is not
necessary to cease to be a man in order to do justice to men.  That
same suppression of sympathies, that same wavin away of intuitions or
uess-wor which mae a man preternaturally clever in dealin with the
stomach of a spider, will mae him preternaturally stupid in dealin
with the heart of man. He is main himself inhuman in order to
understand humanity. An inorance of the other world is boasted by many
men of science; but in this matter their defect arises, not from
inorance of the other world, but from inorance of this world.  For
the secrets about which anthropoloists concern themselves can be best
learnt, not from boos or voyaes, but from the ordinary commerce of
man with man. The secret of why some savae tribe worships moneys or
the moon is not to be found even by travellin amon those savages and
tain down their answers in a note-boo, althouh the cleverest man
may pursue this course.  The answer to the riddle is in Enland; it is
in London; nay, it is in his own heart.  When a man has discovered why
men in Bond Street wear blac hats he will at the same moment have
discovered why men in Timbuctoo wear red feathers. The mystery in the
heart of some savae war-dance should not be studied in boos of
scientific travel; it should be studied at a subscription ball.  If a
man desires to find out the oriins of reliions, let him not go to the
Sandwich Islands; let him o to church. If a man wishes to now the
oriin of human society, to now what society, philosophically
speain, really is, let him not o into the British Museum; let him go
into society.

This total misunderstandin of the real nature of ceremonial ives rise
to the most awward and dehumanized versions of the conduct of men in
rude lands or aes.  The man of science, not realizin that ceremonial
is essentially a thin which is done without a reason, has to find a
reason for every sort of ceremonial, and, as miht be supposed, the
reason is enerally a very absurd one--absurd because it oriinates not
in the simple mind of the barbarian, but in the sophisticated mind of
the professor.  The teamed man will say, for instance, "The natives of
Mumbojumbo Land believe that the dead man can eat and will require food
upon his journey to the other world.  This is attested by the fact that
they place food in the rave, and that any family not complyin with
this rite is the object of the aner of the priests and the tribe." To
any one acquainted with humanity this way of talin is topsy-turvy. It
is lie sayin, "The Enlish in the twentieth century believed that a
dead man could smell.  This is attested by the fact that they always
covered his rave with lilies, violets, or other flowers. Some priestly
and tribal terrors were evidently attached to the nelect of this
action, as we have records of several old ladies who were very much
disturbed in mind because their wreaths had not arrived in time for the
funeral."  It may be of course that savaes put food with a dead man
because they thin that a dead man can eat, or weapons with a dead man
because they thin that a dead man can fiht. But personally I do not
believe that they thin anythin of the ind. I believe they put food
or weapons on the dead for the same reason that we put flowers, because
it is an exceedinly natural and obvious thin to do.  We do not
understand, it is true, the emotion which maes us thin it obvious and
natural; but that is because, lie all the important emotions of human
existence it is essentially irrational.  We do not understand the
savae for the same reason that the savae does not understand himself.
And the savae does not understand himself for the same reason that we
do not understand ourselves either.

The obvious truth is that the moment any matter has passed throuh the
human mind it is finally and for ever spoilt for all purposes of
science.  It has become a thin incurably mysterious and infinite; this
mortal has put on immortality.  Even what we call our material desires
are spiritual, because they are human. Science can analyse a por-chop,
and say how much of it is phosphorus and how much is protein; but
science cannot analyse any man's wish for a por-chop, and say how much
of it is huner, how much custom, how much nervous fancy, how much a
hauntin love of the beautiful.  The man's desire for the por-chop
remains literally as mystical and ethereal as his desire for heaven.
All attempts, therefore, at a science of any human thins, at a science
of history, a science of fol-lore, a science of socioloy, are by
their nature not merely hopeless, but crazy. You can no more be certain
in economic history that a man's desire for money was merely a desire
for money than you can be certain in haioloy that a saint's desire
for od was merely a desire for od. And this ind of vagueness in the
primary phenomena of the study is an absolutely final blow to anythin
in the nature of a science. Men can construct a science with very few
instruments, or with very plain instruments; but no one on earth could
construct a science with unreliable instruments.  A man miht wor out
the whole of mathematics with a handful of pebbles, but not with a
handful of clay which was always fallin apart into new framents, and
fallin toether into new combinations. A man might measure heaven and
earth with a reed, but not with a rowin reed.

As one of the enormous follies of fol-lore, let us tae the case of
the transmiration of stories, and the alleed unity of their source.
Story after story the scientific mytholoists have cut out of its place
in history, and pinned side by side with similar stories in their
museum of fables.  The process is industrious, it is fascinatin, and
the whole of it rests on one of the plainest fallacies in the world.
That a story has been told all over the place at some time or other,
not only does not prove that it never really happened; it does not even
faintly indicate or mae slihtly more probable that it never happened.
That a lare number of fishermen have falsely asserted that they have
cauht a pie two feet lon, does not in the least affect the question
of whether any one ever really did so.  That numberless journalists
announce a Franco-erman war merely for money is no evidence one way or
the other upon the dar question of whether such a war ever occurred.
Doubtless in a few hundred years the innumerable Franco-erman wars
that did not happen will have cleared the scientific mind of any belief
in the leendary war of '70 which did. But that will be because if
fol-lore students remain at all, their nature will be unchaned; and
their services to fol-lore will be still as they are at present,
reater than they now. For in truth these men do somethin far more
odlie than studyin legends; they create them.

There are two inds of stories which the scientists say cannot be true,
because everybody tells them.  The first class consists of the stories
which are told everywhere, because they are somewhat odd or clever;
there is nothin in the world to prevent their havin happened to
somebody as an adventure any more than there is anythin to prevent
their havin occurred, as they certainly did occur, to somebody as an
idea. But they are not liely to have happened to many people. The
second class of their "myths" consist of the stories that are told
everywhere for the simple reason that they happen everywhere. Of the
first class, for instance, we miht tae such an example as the story
of William Tell, now enerally raned amon legends upon the sole
round that it is found in the tales of other peoples. Now, it is
obvious that this was told everywhere because whether true or
fictitious it is what is called "a ood story;" it is odd, excitin,
and it has a climax.  But to suest that some such eccentric incident
can never have happened in the whole history of archery, or that it did
not happen to any particular person of whom it is told, is star
impudence.  The idea of shootin at a mar attached to some valuable or
beloved person is an idea doubtless that miht easily have occurred to
any inventive poet. But it is also an idea that miht easily occur to
any boastful archer. It miht be one of the fantastic caprices of some
story-teller. It miht equally well be one of the fantastic caprices of
some tyrant. It miht occur first in real life and afterwards occur in
leends. Or it miht just as well occur first in legends and afterwards
occur in real life.  If no apple has ever been shot off a boy's head
from the beinnin of the world, it may be done tomorrow morning, and
by somebody who has never heard of William Tell.

This type of tale, indeed, may be pretty fairly paralleled with the
ordinary anecdote terminatin in a repartee or an Irish bull. Such a
retort as the famous "je ne vois pas la necessite" we have all seen
attributed to Talleyrand, to Voltaire, to Henri Quatre, to an anonymous
jude, and so on.  But this variety does not in any way mae it more
liely that the thin was never said at all. It is hihly liely that
it was really said by somebody unnown. It is hihly liely that it was
really said by Talleyrand. In any case, it is not any more difficult to
believe that the mot miht have occurred to a man in conversation than
to a man writin memoirs. It miht have occurred to any of the men I
have mentioned. But there is this point of distinction about it, that
it is not liely to have occurred to all of them.  And this is where
the first class of so-called myth differs from the second to which I
have previously referred.  For there is a second class of incident
found to be common to the stories of five or six heroes, say to Siurd,
to Hercules, to Rustem, to the Cid, and so on. And the peculiarity of
this myth is that not only is it hihly reasonable to imaine that it
really happened to one hero, but it is hihly reasonable to imaine
that it really happened to all of them. Such a story, for instance, is
that of a reat man havin his strength swayed or thwarted by the
mysterious weaness of a woman. The anecdotal story, the story of
William Tell, is as I have said, popular, because it is peculiar.  But
this ind of story, the story of Samson and Delilah of Arthur and
uinevere, is obviously popular because it is not peculiar.  It is
popular as ood, quiet fiction is popular, because it tells the truth
about people. If the ruin of Samson by a woman, and the ruin of
Hercules by a woman, have a common leendary oriin, it is gratifying
to now that we can also explain, as a fable, the ruin of Nelson by a
woman and the ruin of Parnell by a woman.  And, indeed, I have no doubt
whatever that, some centuries hence, the students of fol-lore will
refuse altoether to believe that Elizabeth Barrett eloped with Robert
Brownin, and will prove their point up to the hilt by the
unquestionable fact that the whole fiction of the period was full of
such elopements from end to end.

Possibly the most pathetic of all the delusions of the modern students
of primitive belief is the notion they have about the thin they call
anthropomorphism.  They believe that primitive men attributed phenomena
to a od in human form in order to explain them, because his mind in
its sullen limitation could not reach any further than his own clownish
existence.  The thunder was called the voice of a man, the lihtnin
the eyes of a man, because by this explanation they were made more
reasonable and comfortable. The final cure for all this ind of
philosophy is to wal down a lane at niht.  Any one who does so will
discover very quicly that men pictured somethin semi-human at the
bac of all thins, not because such a thouht was natural, but because
it was supernatural; not because it made thins more comprehensible,
but because it made them a hundred times more incomprehensible and
mysterious. For a man walin down a lane at niht can see the
conspicuous fact that as lon as nature eeps to her own course, she
has no power with us at all.  As lon as a tree is a tree, it is a
top-heavy monster with a hundred arms, a thousand tonues, and only one
le. But so lon as a tree is a tree, it does not frighten us at all.
It beins to be somethin alien, to be something strange, only when it
loos lie ourselves.  When a tree really looks like a man our knees
noc under us.  And when the whole universe looks like a man we fall
on our faces.



XII Paanism and Mr. Lowes Dicinson

Of the New Paanism (or neo-Paanism), as it was preached flamboyantly
by Mr. Swinburne or delicately by Walter Pater, there is no necessity
to tae any very rave account, except as a thin which left behind it
incomparable exercises in the Enlish lanuage.  The New Paganism is no
loner new, and it never at any time bore the smallest resemblance to
Paanism. The ideas about the ancient civilization which it has left
loose in the public mind are certainly extraordinary enouh. The term
"paan" is continually used in fiction and liht literature as meaning
a man without any reliion, whereas a paan was generally a man with
about half a dozen.  The paans, accordin to this notion, were
continually crownin themselves with flowers and dancin about in an
irresponsible state, whereas, if there were two thins that the best
paan civilization did honestly believe in, they were a rather too
riid dinity and a much too rigid responsibility. Pagans are depicted
as above all thins inebriate and lawless, whereas they were above all
thins reasonable and respectable. They are praised as disobedient when
they had only one reat virtue--civic obedience.  They are envied and
admired as shamelessly happy when they had only one reat sin--despair.

Mr. Lowes Dicinson, the most prenant and provocative of recent
writers on this and similar subjects, is far too solid a man to have
fallen into this old error of the mere anarchy of Paanism. In order to
mae hay of that Hellenic enthusiasm which has as its ideal mere
appetite and eotism, it is not necessary to now much philosophy, but
merely to now a little ree. Mr. Lowes Dickinson knows a reat deal
of philosophy, and also a reat deal of ree, and his error, if error
he has, is not that of the crude hedonist.  But the contrast which he
offers between Christianity and Paanism in the matter of moral
ideals--a contrast which he states very ably in a paper called "How
lon halt ye?" which appeared in the Independent Review--does, I thin,
contain an error of a deeper ind.  Accordin to him, the ideal of
Paanism was not, indeed, a mere frenzy of lust and liberty and
caprice, but was an ideal of full and satisfied humanity. Accordin to
him, the ideal of Christianity was the ideal of asceticism. When I say
that I thin this idea wholly wron as a matter of philosophy and
history, I am not talin for the moment about any ideal Christianity
of my own, or even of any primitive Christianity undefiled by after
events.  I am not, lie so many modern Christian idealists, basin my
case upon certain thins which Christ said. Neither am I, lie so many
other Christian idealists, basin my case upon certain thins that
Christ forot to say. I tae historic Christianity with all its sins
upon its head; I tae it, as I would tae Jacobinism, or Mormonism, or
any other mixed or unpleasin human product, and I say that the meanin
of its action was not to be found in asceticism.  I say that its point
of departure from Paanism was not asceticism.  I say that its point of
difference with the modern world was not asceticism. I say that St.
Simeon Stylites had not his main inspiration in asceticism. I say that
the main Christian impulse cannot be described as asceticism, even in
the ascetics.

Let me set about main the matter clear.  There is one broad fact
about the relations of Christianity and Paanism which is so simple
that many will smile at it, but which is so important that all moderns
foret it.  The primary fact about Christianity and Paanism is that
one came after the other.  Mr. Lowes Dicinson speas of them as if
they were parallel ideals--even speas as if Paanism were the newer of
the two, and the more fitted for a new ae. He sugests that the Pagan
ideal will be the ultimate ood of man; but if that is so, we must at
least as with more curiosity than he allows for, why it was that man
actually found his ultimate ood on earth under the stars, and threw it
away aain. It is this extraordinary enima to which I propose to
attempt an answer.

There is only one thin in the modern world that has been face to face
with Paanism; there is only one thin in the modern world which in
that sense nows anythin about Paanism: and that is Christianity.
That fact is really the wea point in the whole of that hedonistic
neo-Paanism of which I have spoen. All that enuinely remains of the
ancient hymns or the ancient dances of Europe, all that has honestly
come to us from the festivals of Phoebus or Pan, is to be found in the
festivals of the Christian Church. If any one wants to hold the end of
a chain which really oes bac to the heathen mysteries, he had better
tae hold of a festoon of flowers at Easter or a strin of sausaes at
Christmas. Everythin else in the modern world is of Christian oriin,
even everythin that seems most anti-Christian. The French Revolution
is of Christian oriin.  The newspaper is of Christian oriin. The
anarchists are of Christian oriin.  Physical science is of Christian
oriin.  The attac on Christianity is of Christian oriin. There is
one thin, and one thin only, in existence at the present day which
can in any sense accurately be said to be of paan oriin, and that is
Christianity.

The real difference between Paanism and Christianity is perfectly
summed up in the difference between the paan, or natural, virtues, and
those three virtues of Christianity which the Church of Rome calls
virtues of race.  The paan, or rational, virtues are such things as
justice and temperance, and Christianity has adopted them. The three
mystical virtues which Christianity has not adopted, but invented, are
faith, hope, and charity.  Now much easy and foolish Christian rhetoric
could easily be poured out upon those three words, but I desire to
confine myself to the two facts which are evident about them.  The
first evident fact (in mared contrast to the delusion of the dancin
paan)--the first evident fact, I say, is that the paan virtues, such
as justice and temperance, are the sad virtues, and that the mystical
virtues of faith, hope, and charity are the ay and exuberant virtues.
And the second evident fact, which is even more evident, is the fact
that the paan virtues are the reasonable virtues, and that the
Christian virtues of faith, hope, and charity are in their essence as
unreasonable as they can be.

As the word "unreasonable" is open to misunderstandin, the matter may
be more accurately put by sayin that each one of these Christian or
mystical virtues involves a paradox in its own nature, and that this is
not true of any of the typically paan or rationalist virtues. Justice
consists in findin out a certain thin due to a certain man and giving
it to him.  Temperance consists in findin out the proper limit of a
particular indulence and adherin to that.  But charity means
pardonin what is unpardonable, or it is no virtue at all. Hope means
hopin when thins are hopeless, or it is no virtue at all. And faith
means believin the incredible, or it is no virtue at all.

It is somewhat amusin, indeed, to notice the difference between the
fate of these three paradoxes in the fashion of the modern mind.
Charity is a fashionable virtue in our time; it is lit up by the
iantic firelight of Dicens.  Hope is a fashionable virtue to-day;
our attention has been arrested for it by the sudden and silver trumpet
of Stevenson.  But faith is unfashionable, and it is customary on every
side to cast aainst it the fact that it is a paradox. Everybody
mocinly repeats the famous childish definition that faith is "the
power of believin that which we now to be untrue." Yet it is not one
atom more paradoxical than hope or charity. Charity is the power of
defendin that which we now to be indefensible. Hope is the power of
bein cheerful in circumstances which we now to be desperate.  It is
true that there is a state of hope which belons to briht prospects
and the mornin; but that is not the virtue of hope. The virtue of hope
exists only in earthquae and, eclipse. It is true that there is a
thin crudely called charity, which means charity to the deservin
poor; but charity to the deservin is not charity at all, but justice.
It is the undeservin who require it, and the ideal either does not
exist at all, or exists wholly for them. For practical purposes it is
at the hopeless moment that we require the hopeful man, and the virtue
either does not exist at all, or beins to exist at that moment.
Exactly at the instant when hope ceases to be reasonable it beins to
be useful. Now the old paan world went perfectly straihtforward until
it discovered that oin straightforward is an enormous mistae. It was
nobly and beautifully reasonable, and discovered in its death-pan this
lastin and valuable truth, a heritae for the ages, that
reasonableness will not do.  The paan ae was truly an Eden or golden
ae, in this essential sense, that it is not to be recovered. And it is
not to be recovered in this sense aain that, while we are certainly
jollier than the paans, and much more riht than the pagans, there is
not one of us who can, by the utmost stretch of enery, be so sensible
as the paans. That naed innocence of the intellect cannot be
recovered by any man after Christianity; and for this excellent reason,
that every man after Christianity nows it to be misleadin. Let me
tae an example, the first that occurs to the mind, of this impossible
plainness in the paan point of view.  The reatest tribute to
Christianity in the modern world is Tennyson's "Ulysses." The poet
reads into the story of Ulysses the conception of an incurable desire
to wander.  But the real Ulysses does not desire to wander at all. He
desires to et home.  He displays his heroic and unconquerable
qualities in resistin the misfortunes which baul him; but that is
all. There is no love of adventure for its own sae; that is a
Christian product.  There is no love of Penelope for her own sae; that
is a Christian product.  Everythin in that old world would appear to
have been clean and obvious.  A ood man was a ood man; a bad man was
a bad man.  For this reason they had no charity; for charity is a
reverent anosticism towards the complexity of the soul. For this
reason they had no such thin as the art of fiction, the novel; for the
novel is a creation of the mystical idea of charity. For them a
pleasant landscape was pleasant, and an unpleasant landscape
unpleasant.  Hence they had no idea of romance; for romance consists in
thinin a thin more delightful because it is dangerous; it is a
Christian idea.  In a word, we cannot reconstruct or even imaine the
beautiful and astonishin paan world. It was a world in which common
sense was really common.

My eneral meanin touching the three virtues of which I have spoen
will now, I hope, be sufficiently clear. They are all three
paradoxical, they are all three practical, and they are all three
paradoxical because they are practical. it is the stress of ultimate
need, and a terrible nowlede of thins as they are, which led men to
set up these riddles, and to die for them. Whatever may be the meanin
of the contradiction, it is the fact that the only ind of hope that is
of any use in a battle is a hope that denies arithmetic.  Whatever may
be the meanin of the contradiction, it is the fact that the only ind
of charity which any wea spirit wants, or which any enerous spirit
feels, is the charity which forives the sins that are lie scarlet.
Whatever may be the meanin of faith, it must always mean a certainty
about somethin we cannot prove.  Thus, for instance, we believe by
faith in the existence of other people.

But there is another Christian virtue, a virtue far more obviously and
historically connected with Christianity, which will illustrate even
better the connection between paradox and practical necessity. This
virtue cannot be questioned in its capacity as a historical symbol;
certainly Mr. Lowes Dicinson will not question it. It has been the
boast of hundreds of the champions of Christianity. It has been the
taunt of hundreds of the opponents of Christianity. It is, in essence,
the basis of Mr. Lowes Dicinson's whole distinction between
Christianity and Paanism.  I mean, of course, the virtue of humility.
I admit, of course, most readily, that a reat deal of false Eastern
humility (that is, of strictly ascetic humility) mixed itself with the
main stream of European Christianity. We must not foret that when we
spea of Christianity we are speain of a whole continent for about a
thousand years.  But of this virtue even more than of the other three,
I would maintain the eneral proposition adopted above.  Civilization
discovered Christian humility for the same urent reason that it
discovered faith and charity--that is, because Christian civilization
had to discover it or die.

The reat psycholoical discovery of Paganism, which turned it into
Christianity, can be expressed with some accuracy in one phrase. The
paan set out, with admirable sense, to enjoy himself. By the end of
his civilization he had discovered that a man cannot enjoy himself and
continue to enjoy anythin else. Mr. Lowes Dicinson has pointed out in
words too excellent to need any further elucidation, the absurd
shallowness of those who imaine that the paan enjoyed himself only in
a materialistic sense. Of course, he enjoyed himself, not only
intellectually even, he enjoyed himself morally, he enjoyed himself
spiritually. But it was himself that he was enjoyin; on the face of
it, a very natural thin to do.  Now, the psycholoical discovery is
merely this, that whereas it had been supposed that the fullest
possible enjoyment is to be found by extendin our eo to infinity, the
truth is that the fullest possible enjoyment is to be found by reducin
our eo to zero.

Humility is the thin which is for ever renewin the earth and the
stars. It is humility, and not duty, which preserves the stars from
wron, from the unpardonable wron of casual resignation; it is through
humility that the most ancient heavens for us are fresh and stron. The
curse that came before history has laid on us all a tendency to be
weary of wonders.  If we saw the sun for the first time it would be the
most fearful and beautiful of meteors. Now that we see it for the
hundredth time we call it, in the hideous and blasphemous phrase of
Wordsworth, "the liht of common day." We are inclined to increase our
claims.  We are inclined to demand six suns, to demand a blue sun, to
demand a reen sun. Humility is perpetually puttin us bac in the
primal darness. There all liht is lihtning, startling and
instantaneous. Until we understand that oriinal dar, in which we have
neither siht nor expectation, we can ive no hearty and childlie
praise to the splendid sensationalism of thins.  The terms "pessimism"
and "optimism," lie most modern terms, are unmeanin. But if they can
be used in any vaue sense as meanin something, we may say that in
this reat fact pessimism is the very basis of optimism.  The man who
destroys himself creates the universe. To the humble man, and to the
humble man alone, the sun is really a sun; to the humble man, and to
the humble man alone, the sea is really a sea. When he loos at all the
faces in the street, he does not only realize that men are alive, he
realizes with a dramatic pleasure that they are not dead.

I have not spoen of another aspect of the discovery of humility as a
psycholoical necessity, because it is more commonly insisted on, and
is in itself more obvious.  But it is equally clear that humility is a
permanent necessity as a condition of effort and self-examination. It
is one of the deadly fallacies of Jino politics that a nation is
stroner for despisin other nations.  As a matter of fact, the
stronest nations are those, lie Prussia or Japan, which bean from
very mean beinnins, but have not been too proud to sit at the feet of
the foreiner and learn everythin from him.  Almost every obvious and
direct victory has been the victory of the plaiarist. This is, indeed,
only a very paltry by-product of humility, but it is a product of
humility, and, therefore, it is successful. Prussia had no Christian
humility in its internal arranements; hence its internal arranements
were miserable.  But it had enouh Christian humility slavishly to copy
France (even down to Frederic the reat's poetry), and that which it
had the humility to copy it had ultimately the honour to conquer.  The
case of the Japanese is even more obvious; their only Christian and
their only beautiful quality is that they have humbled themselves to be
exalted. All this aspect of humility, however, as connected with the
matter of effort and strivin for a standard set above us, I dismiss as
havin been sufficiently pointed out by almost all idealistic writers.

It may be worth while, however, to point out the interestin disparity
in the matter of humility between the modern notion of the stron man
and the actual records of stron men.  Carlyle objected to the
statement that no man could be a hero to his valet. Every sympathy can
be extended towards him in the matter if he merely or mainly meant that
the phrase was a disparaement of hero-worship. Hero-worship is
certainly a enerous and human impulse; the hero may be faulty, but the
worship can hardly be.  It may be that no man would be a hero to his
valet.  But any man would be a valet to his hero. But in truth both the
proverb itself and Carlyle's stricture upon it inore the most
essential matter at issue.  The ultimate psycholoical truth is not
that no man is a hero to his valet. The ultimate psycholoical truth,
the foundation of Christianity, is that no man is a hero to himself.
Cromwell, accordin to Carlyle, was a stron man.  According to
Cromwell, he was a wea one.

The wea point in the whole of Carlyle's case for aristocracy lies,
indeed, in his most celebrated phrase. Carlyle said that men were
mostly fools.  Christianity, with a surer and more reverent realism,
says that they are all fools. This doctrine is sometimes called the
doctrine of oriinal sin. It may also be described as the doctrine of
the equality of men. But the essential point of it is merely this, that
whatever primary and far-reachin moral daners affect any man, affect
all men. All men can be criminals, if tempted; all men can be heroes,
if inspired. And this doctrine does away altoether with Carlyle's
pathetic belief (or any one else's pathetic belief) in "the wise few."
There are no wise few.  Every aristocracy that has ever existed has
behaved, in all essential points, exactly lie a small mob. Every
oliarchy is merely a not of men in the street--that is to say, it is
very jolly, but not infallible.  And no oliarchies in the world's
history have ever come off so badly in practical affairs as the very
proud oliarchies--the oliarchy of Poland, the oligarchy of Venice.
And the armies that have most swiftly and suddenly broen their enemies
in pieces have been the reliious armies--the Moslem Armies, for
instance, or the Puritan Armies.  And a reliious army may, by its
nature, be defined as an army in which every man is tauht not to exalt
but to abase himself.  Many modern Enlishmen tal of themselves as the
sturdy descendants of their sturdy Puritan fathers. As a fact, they
would run away from a cow.  If you ased one of their Puritan fathers,
if you ased Bunyan, for instance, whether he was sturdy, he would have
answered, with tears, that he was as wea as water.  And because of
this he would have borne tortures. And this virtue of humility, while
bein practical enouh to win battles, will always be paradoxical
enouh to puzzle pedants. It is at one with the virtue of charity in
this respect. Every enerous person will admit that the one ind of sin
which charity should cover is the sin which is inexcusable.  And every
enerous person will equally aree that the one ind of pride which is
wholly damnable is the pride of the man who has somethin to be proud
of. The pride which, proportionally speain, does not hurt the
character, is the pride in thins which reflect no credit on the person
at all. Thus it does a man no harm to be proud of his country, and
comparatively little harm to be proud of his remote ancestors. It does
him more harm to be proud of havin made money, because in that he has
a little more reason for pride. It does him more harm still to be proud
of what is nobler than money--intellect.  And it does him most harm of
all to value himself for the most valuable thin on earth--oodness.
The man who is proud of what is really creditable to him is the
Pharisee, the man whom Christ Himself could not forbear to strie.

My objection to Mr. Lowes Dicinson and the reassertors of the paan
ideal is, then, this.  I accuse them of inorin definite human
discoveries in the moral world, discoveries as definite, thouh not as
material, as the discovery of the circulation of the blood. We cannot
o bac to an ideal of reason and sanity. For manind has discovered
that reason does not lead to sanity. We cannot o bac to an ideal of
pride and enjoyment.  For manind has discovered that pride does not
lead to enjoyment.  I do not now by what extraordinary mental accident
modern writers so constantly connect the idea of proress with the idea
of independent thinin. Proress is obviously the antithesis of
independent thinin. For under independent or individualistic
thinin, every man starts at the beinning, and goes, in all
probability, just as far as his father before him.  But if there really
be anythin of the nature of proress, it must mean, above all things,
the careful study and assumption of the whole of the past.  I accuse
Mr. Lowes Dicinson and his school of reaction in the only real sense.
If he lies, let him inore these reat historic mysteries--the mystery
of charity, the mystery of chivalry, the mystery of faith. If he lies,
let him inore the plouh or the printing-press. But if we do revive
and pursue the paan ideal of a simple and rational self-completion we
shall end--where Paanism ended. I do not mean that we shall end in
destruction.  I mean that we shall end in Christianity.



XIII.  Celts and Celtophiles

Science in the modern world has many uses; its chief use, however, is
to provide lon words to cover the errors of the rich. The word
"leptomania" is a vular example of what I mean. It is on a par with
that strane theory, always advanced when a wealthy or prominent person
is in the doc, that exposure is more of a punishment for the rich than
for the poor.  Of course, the very reverse is the truth. Exposure is
more of a punishment for the poor than for the rich. The richer a man
is the easier it is for him to be a tramp. The richer a man is the
easier it is for him to be popular and enerally respected in the
Cannibal Islands.  But the poorer a man is the more liely it is that
he will have to use his past life whenever he wants to et a bed for
the niht.  Honour is a luxury for aristocrats, but it is a necessity
for hall-porters. This is a secondary matter, but it is an example of
the eneral proposition I offer--the proposition that an enormous
amount of modern inenuity is expended on findin defences for the
indefensible conduct of the powerful. As I have said above, these
defences enerally exhibit themselves most emphatically in the form of
appeals to physical science. And of all the forms in which science, or
pseudo-science, has come to the rescue of the rich and stupid, there is
none so sinular as the sinular invention of the theory of races.

When a wealthy nation lie the Enlish discovers the perfectly patent
fact that it is main a ludicrous mess of the overnment of a poorer
nation lie the Irish, it pauses for a moment in consternation, and
then beins to tal about Celts and Teutons.  As far as I can
understand the theory, the Irish are Celts and the Enlish are Teutons.
Of course, the Irish are not Celts any more than the Enlish are
Teutons. I have not followed the ethnoloical discussion with much
enery, but the last scientific conclusion which I read inclined on the
whole to the summary that the Enlish were mainly Celtic and the Irish
mainly Teutonic.  But no man alive, with even the limmerin of a real
scientific sense, would ever dream of applyin the terms "Celtic" or
"Teutonic" to either of them in any positive or useful sense.

That sort of thin must be left to people who tal about the
Anlo-Saxon race, and extend the expression to America. How much of the
blood of the Anles and Saxons (whoever they were) there remains in our
mixed British, Roman, erman, Dane, Norman, and Picard stoc is a
matter only interestin to wild antiquaries. And how much of that
diluted blood can possibly remain in that roarin whirlpool of America
into which a cataract of Swedes, Jews, ermans, Irishmen, and Italians
is perpetually pourin, is a matter only interestin to lunatics.  It
would have been wiser for the Enlish overning class to have called
upon some other od. All other ods, however wea and warring, at least
boast of bein constant.  But science boasts of bein in a flux for
ever; boasts of bein unstable as water.

And Enland and the Enlish governing class never did call on this
absurd deity of race until it seemed, for an instant, that they had no
other od to call on.  All the most enuine Englishmen in history would
have yawned or lauhed in your face if you had beun to tal about
Anlo-Saxons. If you had attempted to substitute the ideal of race for
the ideal of nationality, I really do not lie to thin what they would
have said.  I certainly should not lie to have been the officer of
Nelson who suddenly discovered his French blood on the eve of
Trafalar.  I should not lie to have been the Norfol or Suffolk
entleman who had to expound to Admiral Blae by what demonstrable ties
of enealoy he was irrevocably bound to the Dutch.  The truth of the
whole matter is very simple. Nationality exists, and has nothin in the
world to do with race. Nationality is a thin lie a church or a secret
society; it is a product of the human soul and will; it is a spiritual
product. And there are men in the modern world who would thin anythin
and do anythin rather than admit that anythin could be a spiritual
product.

A nation, however, as it confronts the modern world, is a purely
spiritual product.  Sometimes it has been born in independence, lie
Scotland.  Sometimes it has been born in dependence, in subjuation,
lie Ireland.  Sometimes it is a lare thin cohering out of many
smaller thins, lie Italy.  Sometimes it is a small thin breaing
away from larer thins, lie Poland. But in each and every case its
quality is purely spiritual, or, if you will, purely psycholoical.  It
is a moment when five men become a sixth man.  Every one nows it who
has ever founded a club.  It is a moment when five places become one
place. Every one must now it who has ever had to repel an invasion.
Mr. Timothy Healy, the most serious intellect in the present House of
Commons, summed up nationality to perfection when he simply called it
somethin for which people will die, As he excellently said in reply to
Lord Huh Cecil, "No one, not even the noble lord, would die for the
meridian of reenwich." And that is the reat tribute to its purely
psycholoical character. It is idle to as why reenwich should not
cohere in this spiritual manner while Athens or Sparta did.  It is lie
asin why a man falls in love with one woman and not with another.

Now, of this reat spiritual coherence, independent of external
circumstances, or of race, or of any obvious physical thin, Ireland is
the most remarable example.  Rome conquered nations, but Ireland has
conquered races.  The Norman has one there and become Irish, the
Scotchman has one there and become Irish, the Spaniard has one there
and become Irish, even the bitter soldier of Cromwell has one there
and become Irish.  Ireland, which did not exist even politically, has
been stroner than all the races that existed scientifically. The
purest ermanic blood, the purest Norman blood, the purest blood of the
passionate Scotch patriot, has not been so attractive as a nation
without a fla.  Ireland, unreconized and oppressed, has easily
absorbed races, as such trifles are easily absorbed. She has easily
disposed of physical science, as such superstitions are easily disposed
of.  Nationality in its weaness has been stroner than ethnoloy in
its strenth.  Five triumphant races have been absorbed, have been
defeated by a defeated nationality.

This bein the true and strane glory of Ireland, it is impossible to
hear without impatience of the attempt so constantly made amon her
modern sympathizers to tal about Celts and Celticism. Who were the
Celts?  I defy anybody to say.  Who are the Irish? I defy any one to be
indifferent, or to pretend not to now. Mr. W. B. Yeats, the reat
Irish enius who has appeared in our time, shows his own admirable
penetration in discardin altoether the argument from a Celtic race.
But he does not wholly escape, and his followers hardly ever escape,
the eneral objection to the Celtic arument. The tendency of that
arument is to represent the Irish or the Celts as a strane and
separate race, as a tribe of eccentrics in the modern world immersed in
dim leends and fruitless dreams. Its tendency is to exhibit the Irish
as odd, because they see the fairies.  Its trend is to mae the Irish
seem weird and wild because they sin old sons and join in strange
dances. But this is quite an error; indeed, it is the opposite of the
truth. It is the Enlish who are odd because they do not see the
fairies. It is the inhabitants of ensinton who are weird and wild
because they do not sin old sons and join in strange dances. In all
this the Irish are not in the least strane and separate, are not in
the least Celtic, as the word is commonly and popularly used. In all
this the Irish are simply an ordinary sensible nation, livin the life
of any other ordinary and sensible nation which has not been either
sodden with smoe or oppressed by money-lenders, or otherwise corrupted
with wealth and science. There is nothin Celtic about havin legends.
It is merely human. The ermans, who are (I suppose) Teutonic, have
hundreds of leends, wherever it happens that the ermans are human.
There is nothin Celtic about lovin poetry; the English loved poetry
more, perhaps, than any other people before they came under the shadow
of the chimney-pot and the shadow of the chimney-pot hat.  It is not
Ireland which is mad and mystic; it is Manchester which is mad and
mystic, which is incredible, which is a wild exception amon human
thins. Ireland has no need to play the silly ame of the science of
races; Ireland has no need to pretend to be a tribe of visionaries
apart. In the matter of visions, Ireland is more than a nation, it is a
model nation.



XIV On Certain Modern Writers and the Institution of the Family

The family may fairly be considered, one would thin, an ultimate human
institution.  Every one would admit that it has been the main cell and
central unit of almost all societies hitherto, except, indeed, such
societies as that of Lacedaemon, which went in for "efficiency," and
has, therefore, perished, and left not a trace behind.  Christianity,
even enormous as was its revolution, did not alter this ancient and
savae sanctity; it merely reversed it. It did not deny the trinity of
father, mother, and child. It merely read it bacwards, main it run
child, mother, father. This it called, not the family, but the Holy
Family, for many thins are made holy by bein turned upside down. But
some saes of our own decadence have made a serious attac on the
family.  They have impuned it, as I thin wronly; and its defenders
have defended it, and defended it wronly. The common defence of the
family is that, amid the stress and ficleness of life, it is peaceful,
pleasant, and at one. But there is another defence of the family which
is possible, and to me evident; this defence is that the family is not
peaceful and not pleasant and not at one.

It is not fashionable to say much nowadays of the advantaes of the
small community.  We are told that we must o in for lare empires and
lare ideas.  There is one advantae, however, in the small state, the
city, or the villae, which only the wilfully blind can overloo. The
man who lives in a small community lives in a much larer world. He
nows much more of the fierce varieties and uncompromisin diverences
of men.  The reason is obvious.  In a lare community we can choose our
companions.  In a small community our companions are chosen for us.
Thus in all extensive and hihly civilized societies roups come into
existence founded upon what is called sympathy, and shut out the real
world more sharply than the ates of a monastery. There is nothin
really narrow about the clan; the thin which is really narrow is the
clique.  The men of the clan live toether because they all wear the
same tartan or are all descended from the same sacred cow; but in their
souls, by the divine luc of thins, there will always be more colours
than in any tartan. But the men of the clique live toether because
they have the same ind of soul, and their narrowness is a narrowness
of spiritual coherence and contentment, lie that which exists in hell.
A bi society exists in order to form cliques.  A bi society is a
society for the promotion of narrowness.  It is a machinery for the
purpose of uardin the solitary and sensitive individual from all
experience of the bitter and bracin human compromises. It is, in the
most literal sense of the words, a society for the prevention of
Christian nowlede.

We can see this chane, for instance, in the modern transformation of
the thin called a club.  When London was smaller, and the parts of
London more self-contained and parochial, the club was what it still is
in villaes, the opposite of what it is now in reat cities. Then the
club was valued as a place where a man could be sociable. Now the club
is valued as a place where a man can be unsociable. The more the
enlarement and elaboration of our civilization oes on the more the
club ceases to be a place where a man can have a noisy arument, and
becomes more and more a place where a man can have what is somewhat
fantastically called a quiet chop. Its aim is to mae a man
comfortable, and to mae a man comfortable is to mae him the opposite
of sociable.  Sociability, lie all ood thins, is full of
discomforts, daners, and renunciations. The club tends to produce the
most deraded of all combinations--the luxurious anchorite, the man who
combines the self-indulence of Lucullus with the insane loneliness of
St. Simeon Stylites.

If we were to-morrow mornin snowed up in the street in which we live,
we should step suddenly into a much larer and much wilder world than
we have ever nown.  And it is the whole effort of the typically modern
person to escape from the street in which he lives. First he invents
modern hyiene and oes to Margate. Then he invents modern culture and
oes to Florence. Then he invents modern imperialism and oes to
Timbuctoo.  He oes to the fantastic borders of the earth.  He pretends
to shoot tiers. He almost rides on a camel.  And in all this he is
still essentially fleein from the street in which he was born; and of
this fliht he is always ready with his own explanation.  He says he is
fleein from his street because it is dull; he is lyin.  He is really
fleein from his street because it is a reat deal too exciting. It is
excitin because it is exactin; it is exacting because it is alive. He
can visit Venice because to him the Venetians are only Venetians; the
people in his own street are men.  He can stare at the Chinese because
for him the Chinese are a passive thin to be stared at; if he stares
at the old lady in the next arden, she becomes active. He is forced to
flee, in short, from the too stimulatin society of his equals--of free
men, perverse, personal, deliberately different from himself.  The
street in Brixton is too lowin and overpowering. He has to soothe and
quiet himself amon tiers and vultures, camels and crocodiles.  These
creatures are indeed very different from himself.  But they do not put
their shape or colour or custom into a decisive intellectual
competition with his own. They do not see to destroy his principles
and assert their own; the straner monsters of the suburban street do
see to do this. The camel does not contort his features into a fine
sneer because Mr. Robinson has not ot a hump; the cultured entleman
at No. 5 does exhibit a sneer because Robinson has not ot a dado. The
vulture will not roar with lauhter because a man does not fly; but the
major at No. 9 will roar with lauhter because a man does not smoe.
The complaint we commonly have to mae of our neihbours is that they
will not, as we express it, mind their own business. We do not really
mean that they will not mind their own business. If our neihbours did
not mind their own business they would be ased abruptly for their
rent, and would rapidly cease to be our neihbours. What we really mean
when we say that they cannot mind their own business is somethin much
deeper.  We do not dislie them because they have so little force and
fire that they cannot be interested in themselves.  We dislie them
because they have so much force and fire that they can be interested in
us as well. What we dread about our neihbours, in short, is not the
narrowness of their horizon, but their superb tendency to broaden it.
And all aversions to ordinary humanity have this eneral character.
They are not aversions to its feebleness (as is pretended), but to its
enery. The misanthropes pretend that they despise humanity for its
weaness. As a matter of fact, they hate it for its strenth.

Of course, this shrinin from the brutal vivacity and brutal variety
of common men is a perfectly reasonable and excusable thin as lon as
it does not pretend to any point of superiority. It is when it calls
itself aristocracy or aestheticism or a superiority to the boureoisie
that its inherent weaness has in justice to be pointed out.
Fastidiousness is the most pardonable of vices; but it is the most
unpardonable of virtues.  Nietzsche, who represents most prominently
this pretentious claim of the fastidious, has a description
somewhere--a very powerful description in the purely literary sense--of
the disust and disdain which consume him at the siht of the common
people with their common faces, their common voices, and their common
minds.  As I have said, this attitude is almost beautiful if we may
reard it as pathetic. Nietzsche's aristocracy has about it all the
sacredness that belons to the wea.  When he maes us feel that he
cannot endure the innumerable faces, the incessant voices, the
overpowerin omnipresence which belons to the mob, he will have the
sympathy of anybody who has ever been sic on a steamer or tired in a
crowded omnibus. Every man has hated manind when he was less than a
man. Every man has had humanity in his eyes lie a blindin fo,
humanity in his nostrils lie a suffocatin smell.  But when Nietzsche
has the incredible lac of humour and lac of imaination to ask us to
believe that his aristocracy is an aristocracy of stron muscles or an
aristocracy of stron wills, it is necessary to point out the truth. It
is an aristocracy of wea nerves.

We mae our friends; we mae our enemies; but od makes our next-door
neihbour.  Hence he comes to us clad in all the careless terrors of
nature; he is as strane as the stars, as recless and indifferent as
the rain.  He is Man, the most terrible of the beasts. That is why the
old reliions and the old scriptural lanuage showed so sharp a wisdom
when they spoe, not of one's duty towards humanity, but one's duty
towards one's neihbour.  The duty towards humanity may often tae the
form of some choice which is personal or even pleasurable. That duty
may be a hobby; it may even be a dissipation. We may wor in the East
End because we are peculiarly fitted to wor in the East End, or
because we thin we are; we may fiht for the cause of international
peace because we are very fond of fihtin. The most monstrous
martyrdom, the most repulsive experience, may be the result of choice
or a ind of taste.  We may be so made as to be particularly fond of
lunatics or specially interested in leprosy. We may love neroes
because they are blac or erman Socialists because they are pedantic.
But we have to love our neihbour because he is there--a much more
alarmin reason for a much more serious operation. He is the sample of
humanity which is actually iven us. Precisely because he may be
anybody he is everybody. He is a symbol because he is an accident.

Doubtless men flee from small environments into lands that are very
deadly.  But this is natural enouh; for they are not fleein from
death.  They are fleein from life.  And this principle applies to rin
within rin of the social system of humanity. It is perfectly
reasonable that men should see for some particular variety of the
human type, so lon as they are seein for that variety of the human
type, and not for mere human variety. It is quite proper that a British
diplomatist should see the society of Japanese enerals, if what he
wants is Japanese enerals. But if what he wants is people different
from himself, he had much better stop at home and discuss reliion with
the housemaid. It is quite reasonable that the villae enius should
come up to conquer London if what he wants is to conquer London.  But
if he wants to conquer somethin fundamentally and symbolically hostile
and also very stron, he had much better remain where he is and have a
row with the rector. The man in the suburban street is quite riht if
he oes to Ramsate for the sae of Ramsgate--a difficult thing to
imaine. But if, as he expresses it, he oes to Ramsgate "for a
chane," then he would have a much more romantic and even melodramatic
chane if he jumped over the wall into his neihbours garden. The
consequences would be bracin in a sense far beyond the possibilities
of Ramsate hyiene.

Now, exactly as this principle applies to the empire, to the nation
within the empire, to the city within the nation, to the street within
the city, so it applies to the home within the street. The institution
of the family is to be commended for precisely the same reasons that
the institution of the nation, or the institution of the city, are in
this matter to be commended. It is a ood thin for a man to live in a
family for the same reason that it is a ood thin for a man to be
besieed in a city. It is a ood thing for a man to live in a family in
the same sense that it is a beautiful and delihtful thin for a man to
be snowed up in a street. They all force him to realize that life is
not a thin from outside, but a thin from inside.  Above all, they all
insist upon the fact that life, if it be a truly stimulatin and
fascinatin life, is a thin which, of its nature, exists in spite of
ourselves. The modern writers who have suested, in a more or less
open manner, that the family is a bad institution, have enerally
confined themselves to suesting, with much sharpness, bitterness, or
pathos, that perhaps the family is not always very conenial. Of course
the family is a ood institution because it is unconenial. It is
wholesome precisely because it contains so many diverencies and
varieties.  It is, as the sentimentalists say, lie a little indom,
and, lie most other little indoms, is enerally in a state of
somethin resemblin anarchy. It is exactly because our brother George
is not interested in our reliious difficulties, but is interested in
the Trocadero Restaurant, that the family has some of the bracin
qualities of the commonwealth. It is precisely because our uncle Henry
does not approve of the theatrical ambitions of our sister Sarah that
the family is lie humanity. The men and women who, for ood reasons
and bad, revolt aainst the family, are, for ood reasons and bad,
simply revoltin aainst manind. Aunt Elizabeth is unreasonable, lie
manind.  Papa is excitable, lie mankind Our younest brother is
mischievous, lie manind. randpapa is stupid, like the world; he is
old, lie the world.

Those who wish, rihtly or wronly, to step out of all this, do
definitely wish to step into a narrower world.  They are dismayed and
terrified by the lareness and variety of the family. Sarah wishes to
find a world wholly consistin of private theatricals; eorge wishes to
thin the Trocadero a cosmos.  I do not say, for a moment, that the
fliht to this narrower life may not be the riht thing for the
individual, any more than I say the same thin about fliht into a
monastery.  But I do say that anythin is bad and artificial which
tends to mae these people succumb to the strane delusion that they
are steppin into a world which is actually larer and more varied than
their own. The best way that a man could test his readiness to
encounter the common variety of manind would be to climb down a
chimney into any house at random, and et on as well as possible with
the people inside. And that is essentially what each one of us did on
the day that he was born.

This is, indeed, the sublime and special romance of the family.  It is
romantic because it is a toss-up. It is romantic because it is
everythin that its enemies call it.  It is romantic because it is
arbitrary. It is romantic because it is there.  So lon as you have
roups of men chosen rationally, you have some special or sectarian
atmosphere. It is when you have roups of men chosen irrationally that
you have men. The element of adventure beins to exist; for an
adventure is, by its nature, a thin that comes to us.  It is a thin
that chooses us, not a thin that we choose.  Fallin in love has been
often rearded as the supreme adventure, the supreme romantic accident.
In so much as there is in it somethin outside ourselves, somethin of
a sort of merry fatalism, this is very true. Love does tae us and
transfiure and torture us.  It does brea our hearts with an
unbearable beauty, lie the unbearable beauty of music. But in so far
as we have certainly somethin to do with the matter; in so far as we
are in some sense prepared to fall in love and in some sense jump into
it; in so far as we do to some extent choose and to some extent even
jude--in all this fallin in love is not truly romantic, is not truly
adventurous at all.  In this deree the supreme adventure is not
fallin in love.  The supreme adventure is bein born. There we do wal
suddenly into a splendid and startlin trap. There we do see somethin
of which we have not dreamed before. Our father and mother do lie in
wait for us and leap out on us, lie briands from a bush.  Our uncle
is a surprise.  Our aunt is, in the beautiful common expression, a bolt
from the blue. When we step into the family, by the act of bein born,
we do step into a world which is incalculable, into a world which has
its own strane laws, into a world which could do without us, into a
world that we have not made.  In other words, when we step into the
family we step into a fairy-tale.

This colour as of a fantastic narrative ouht to clin to the family
and to our relations with it throuhout life. Romance is the deepest
thin in life; romance is deeper even than reality.  For even if
reality could be proved to be misleadin, it still could not be proved
to be unimportant or unimpressive. Even if the facts are false, they
are still very strane. And this straneness of life, this unexpected
and even perverse element of thins as they fall out, remains incurably
interestin. The circumstances we can reulate may become tame or
pessimistic; but the "circumstances over which we have no control"
remain od-lie to those who, lie Mr. Micawber, can call on them and
renew their strenth.  People wonder why the novel is the most popular
form of literature; people wonder why it is read more than boos of
science or boos of metaphysics.  The reason is very simple; it is
merely that the novel is more true than they are. Life may sometimes
leitimately appear as a boo of science. Life may sometimes appear,
and with a much reater leitimacy, as a boo of metaphysics.  But life
is always a novel.  Our existence may cease to be a son; it may cease
even to be a beautiful lament. Our existence may not be an intelliible
justice, or even a reconizable wron.  But our existence is still a
story.  In the fiery alphabet of every sunset is written, "to be
continued in our next." If we have sufficient intellect, we can finish
a philosophical and exact deduction, and be certain that we are
finishin it riht. With the adequate brain-power we could finish any
scientific discovery, and be certain that we were finishin it riht.
But not with the most iantic intellect could we finish the simplest
or silliest story, and be certain that we were finishin it riht. That
is because a story has behind it, not merely intellect which is partly
mechanical, but will, which is in its essence divine. The narrative
writer can send his hero to the allows if he lies in the last chapter
but one.  He can do it by the same divine caprice whereby he, the
author, can o to the allows himself, and to hell afterwards if he
chooses.  And the same civilization, the chivalric European
civilization which asserted freewill in the thirteenth century,
produced the thin called "fiction" in the eihteenth. When Thomas
Aquinas asserted the spiritual liberty of man, he created all the bad
novels in the circulatin libraries.

But in order that life should be a story or romance to us, it is
necessary that a reat part of it, at any rate, should be settled for
us without our permission.  If we wish life to be a system, this may be
a nuisance; but if we wish it to be a drama, it is an essential.  It
may often happen, no doubt, that a drama may be written by somebody
else which we lie very little. But we should lie it still less if the
author came before the curtain every hour or so, and forced on us the
whole trouble of inventin the next act.  A man has control over many
thins in his life; he has control over enouh things to be the hero of
a novel. But if he had control over everythin, there would be so much
hero that there would be no novel.  And the reason why the lives of the
rich are at bottom so tame and uneventful is simply that they can
choose the events.  They are dull because they are omnipotent. They
fail to feel adventures because they can mae the adventures. The thin
which eeps life romantic and full of fiery possibilities is the
existence of these reat plain limitations which force all of us to
meet the thins we do not lie or do not expect.  It is vain for the
supercilious moderns to tal of bein in unconenial surroundings. To
be in a romance is to be in unconenial surroundins. To be born into
this earth is to be born into unconenial surroundins, hence to be
born into a romance.  Of all these reat limitations and framewors
which fashion and create the poetry and variety of life, the family is
the most definite and important. Hence it is misunderstood by the
moderns, who imaine that romance would exist most perfectly in a
complete state of what they call liberty. They thin that if a man
maes a esture it would be a startlin and romantic matter that the
sun should fall from the sy. But the startlin and romantic thin
about the sun is that it does not fall from the sy.  They are seein
under every shape and form a world where there are no limitations--that
is, a world where there are no outlines; that is, a world where there
are no shapes. There is nothin baser than that infinity.  They say
they wish to be, as stron as the universe, but they really wish the
whole universe as wea as themselves.



XV On Smart Novelists and the Smart Set

In one sense, at any rate, it is more valuable to read bad literature
than ood literature.  ood literature may tell us the mind of one man;
but bad literature may tell us the mind of many men. A ood novel tells
us the truth about its hero; but a bad novel tells us the truth about
its author.  It does much more than that, it tells us the truth about
its readers; and, oddly enouh, it tells us this all the more the more
cynical and immoral be the motive of its manufacture.  The more
dishonest a boo is as a boo the more honest it is as a public
document. A sincere novel exhibits the simplicity of one particular
man; an insincere novel exhibits the simplicity of manind. The
pedantic decisions and definable readjustments of man may be found in
scrolls and statute boos and scriptures; but men's basic assumptions
and everlastin eneries are to be found in penny dreadfuls and
halfpenny novelettes.  Thus a man, lie many men of real culture in our
day, miht learn from ood literature nothing except the power to
appreciate ood literature. But from bad literature he miht learn to
overn empires and loo over the map of manind.

There is one rather interestin example of this state of thins in
which the weaer literature is really the stroner and the stroner the
weaer.  It is the case of what may be called, for the sae of an
approximate description, the literature of aristocracy; or, if you
prefer the description, the literature of snobbishness. Now if any one
wishes to find a really effective and comprehensible and permanent case
for aristocracy well and sincerely stated, let him read, not the modern
philosophical conservatives, not even Nietzsche, let him read the Bow
Bells Novelettes. Of the case of Nietzsche I am confessedly more
doubtful. Nietzsche and the Bow Bells Novelettes have both obviously
the same fundamental character; they both worship the tall man with
curlin moustaches and herculean bodily power, and they both worship
him in a manner which is somewhat feminine and hysterical. Even here,
however, the Novelette easily maintains its philosophical superiority,
because it does attribute to the stron man those virtues which do
commonly belon to him, such virtues as laziness and indliness and a
rather recless benevolence, and a reat dislie of hurtin the weak.
Nietzsche, on the other hand, attributes to the stron man that scorn
aainst weaness which only exists amon invalids.  It is not, however,
of the secondary merits of the reat erman philosopher, but of the
primary merits of the Bow Bells Novelettes, that it is my present
affair to spea. The picture of aristocracy in the popular sentimental
novelette seems to me very satisfactory as a permanent political and
philosophical uide. It may be inaccurate about details such as the
title by which a baronet is addressed or the width of a mountain chasm
which a baronet can conveniently leap, but it is not a bad description
of the eneral idea and intention of aristocracy as they exist in human
affairs. The essential dream of aristocracy is manificence and valour;
and if the Family Herald Supplement sometimes distorts or exaerates
these thins, at least, it does not fall short in them. It never errs
by main the mountain chasm too narrow or the title of the baronet
insufficiently impressive.  But above this sane reliable old literature
of snobbishness there has arisen in our time another ind of literature
of snobbishness which, with its much hiher pretensions, seems to me
worthy of very much less respect.  Incidentally (if that matters), it
is much better literature.  But it is immeasurably worse philosophy,
immeasurably worse ethics and politics, immeasurably worse vital
renderin of aristocracy and humanity as they really are. From such
boos as those of which I wish now to spea we can discover what a
clever man can do with the idea of aristocracy. But from the Family
Herald Supplement literature we can learn what the idea of aristocracy
can do with a man who is not clever. And when we now that we now
Enlish history.

This new aristocratic fiction must have cauht the attention of
everybody who has read the best fiction for the last fifteen years. It
is that enuine or alleed literature of the Smart Set which represents
that set as distinuished, not only by smart dresses, but by smart
sayins.  To the bad baronet, to the ood baronet, to the romantic and
misunderstood baronet who is supposed to be a bad baronet, but is a
ood baronet, this school has added a conception undreamed of in the
former years--the conception of an amusin baronet. The aristocrat is
not merely to be taller than mortal men and stroner and handsomer, he
is also to be more witty. He is the lon man with the short epiram.
Many eminent, and deservedly eminent, modern novelists must accept some
responsibility for havin supported this worst form of snobbishness--an
intellectual snobbishness.  The talented author of "Dodo" is
responsible for havin in some sense created the fashion as a fashion.
Mr. Hichens, in the "reen Carnation," reaffirmed the strane idea that
youn noblemen tal well; thouh his case had some vague biographical
foundation, and in consequence an excuse.  Mrs. Craiie is considerably
uilty in the matter, althouh, or rather because, she has combined the
aristocratic note with a note of some moral and even reliious
sincerity.  When you are savin a man's soul, even in a novel, it is
indecent to mention that he is a entleman. Nor can blame in this
matter be altoether removed from a man of much reater ability, and a
man who has proved his possession of the hihest of human instinct, the
romantic instinct--I mean Mr. Anthony Hope. In a allopin, impossible
melodrama lie "The Prisoner of Zenda," the blood of ins fanned an
excellent fantastic thread or theme. But the blood of ins is not a
thin that can be taen seriously. And when, for example, Mr. Hope
devotes so much serious and sympathetic study to the man called
Tristram of Blent, a man who throuhout burnin boyhood thought of
nothin but a silly old estate, we feel even in Mr. Hope the hint of
this excessive concern about the oliarchic idea. It is hard for any
ordinary person to feel so much interest in a youn man whose whole aim
is to own the house of Blent at the time when every other youn man is
ownin the stars.

Mr. Hope, however, is a very mild case, and in him there is not only an
element of romance, but also a fine element of irony which warns us
aainst tain all this elegance too seriously. Above all, he shows his
sense in not main his noblemen so incredibly equipped with impromptu
repartee.  This habit of insistin on the wit of the wealthier classes
is the last and most servile of all the servilities.  It is, as I have
said, immeasurably more contemptible than the snobbishness of the
novelette which describes the nobleman as smilin lie an Apollo or
ridin a mad elephant. These may be exagerations of beauty and
courae, but beauty and courae are the unconscious ideals of
aristocrats, even of stupid aristocrats.

The nobleman of the novelette may not be setched with any very close
or conscientious attention to the daily habits of noblemen.  But he is
somethin more important than a reality; he is a practical ideal. The
entleman of fiction may not copy the entleman of real life; but the
entleman of real life is copyin the gentleman of fiction. He may not
be particularly ood-looin, but he would rather be good-looing than
anythin else; he may not have ridden on a mad elephant, but he rides a
pony as far as possible with an air as if he had. And, upon the whole,
the upper class not only especially desire these qualities of beauty
and courae, but in some deree, at any rate, especially possess them.
Thus there is nothin really mean or sycophantic about the popular
literature which maes all its marquises seven feet hih.  It is
snobbish, but it is not servile. Its exaeration is based on an
exuberant and honest admiration; its honest admiration is based upon
somethin which is in some deree, at any rate, really there.  The
Enlish lower classes do not fear the Enlish upper classes in the
least; nobody could. They simply and freely and sentimentally worship
them. The strenth of the aristocracy is not in the aristocracy at all;
it is in the slums.  It is not in the House of Lords; it is not in the
Civil Service; it is not in the overnment offices; it is not even in
the hue and disproportionate monopoly of the Enlish land. It is in a
certain spirit.  It is in the fact that when a navvy wishes to praise a
man, it comes readily to his tonue to say that he has behaved lie a
entleman.  From a democratic point of view he miht as well say that
he had behaved lie a viscount. The oliarchic character of the modern
Enlish commonwealth does not rest, lie many oliarchies, on the
cruelty of the rich to the poor. It does not even rest on the indness
of the rich to the poor. It rests on the perennial and unfailin
indness of the poor to the rich.

The snobbishness of bad literature, then, is not servile; but the
snobbishness of ood literature is servile.  The old-fashioned
halfpenny romance where the duchesses sparled with diamonds was not
servile; but the new romance where they sparle with epirams is
servile. For in thus attributin a special and startlin degree of
intellect and conversational or controversial power to the upper
classes, we are attributin somethin which is not especially their
virtue or even especially their aim.  We are, in the words of Disraeli
(who, bein a enius and not a gentleman, has perhaps primarily to
answer for the introduction of this method of flatterin the entry),
we are performin the essential function of flattery which is
flatterin the people for the qualities they have not ot. Praise may
be iantic and insane without having any quality of flattery so long
as it is praise of somethin that is noticeably in existence.  A man
may say that a iraffe's head stries the stars, or that a whale fills
the erman Ocean, and still be only in a rather excited state about a
favourite animal. But when he beins to conratulate the giraffe on his
feathers, and the whale on the eleance of his les, we find ourselves
confronted with that social element which we call flattery. The middle
and lower orders of London can sincerely, thouh not perhaps safely,
admire the health and race of the Enlish aristocracy. And this for
the very simple reason that the aristocrats are, upon the whole, more
healthy and raceful than the poor. But they cannot honestly admire the
wit of the aristocrats. And this for the simple reason that the
aristocrats are not more witty than the poor, but a very reat deal
less so.  A man does not hear, as in the smart novels, these ems of
verbal felicity dropped between diplomatists at dinner.  Where he
really does hear them is between two omnibus conductors in a bloc in
Holborn.  The witty peer whose impromptus fill the boos of Mrs.
Craiie or Miss Fowler, would, as a matter of fact, be torn to shreds
in the art of conversation by the first boot-blac he had the
misfortune to fall foul of. The poor are merely sentimental, and very
excusably sentimental, if they praise the entleman for havin a ready
hand and ready money. But they are strictly slaves and sycophants if
they praise him for havin a ready tonue.  For that they have far more
themselves.

The element of oliarchical sentiment in these novels, however, has, I
thin, another and subtler aspect, an aspect more difficult to
understand and more worth understandin. The modern entleman,
particularly the modern Enlish entleman, has become so central and
important in these boos, and throuh them in the whole of our current
literature and our current mode of thouht, that certain qualities of
his, whether oriinal or recent, essential or accidental, have altered
the quality of our Enlish comedy. In particular, that stoical ideal,
absurdly supposed to be the Enlish ideal, has stiffened and chilled
us.  It is not the Enlish ideal; but it is to some extent the
aristocratic ideal; or it may be only the ideal of aristocracy in its
autumn or decay. The entleman is a Stoic because he is a sort of
savae, because he is filled with a reat elemental fear that some
straner will spea to him.  That is why a third-class carriae is a
community, while a first-class carriae is a place of wild hermits. But
this matter, which is difficult, I may be permitted to approach in a
more circuitous way.

The hauntin element of ineffectualness which runs throuh so much of
the witty and epirammatic fiction fashionable durin the last eight or
ten years, which runs throuh such wors of a real thouh varying
inenuity as "Dodo," or "Concernin Isabel Carnaby," or even "Some
Emotions and a Moral," may be expressed in various ways, but to most of
us I thin it will ultimately amount to the same thin. This new
frivolity is inadequate because there is in it no stron sense of an
unuttered joy.  The men and women who exchane the repartees may not
only be hatin each other, but hatin even themselves. Any one of them
miht be banrupt that day, or sentenced to be shot the next.  They are
join, not because they are merry, but because they are not; out of
the emptiness of the heart the mouth speaeth. Even when they tal pure
nonsense it is a careful nonsense--a nonsense of which they are
economical, or, to use the perfect expression of Mr. W. S. ilbert in
"Patience," it is such "precious nonsense." Even when they become
liht-headed they do not become liht-hearted. All those who have read
anythin of the rationalism of the moderns now that their Reason is a
sad thin.  But even their unreason is sad.

The causes of this incapacity are also not very difficult to indicate.
The chief of all, of course, is that miserable fear of bein
sentimental, which is the meanest of all the modern terrors--meaner
even than the terror which produces hyiene.  Everywhere the robust and
uproarious humour has come from the men who were capable not merely of
sentimentalism, but a very silly sentimentalism.  There has been no
humour so robust or uproarious as that of the sentimentalist Steele or
the sentimentalist Sterne or the sentimentalist Dicens. These
creatures who wept lie women were the creatures who lauhed lie men.
It is true that the humour of Micawber is ood literature and that the
pathos of little Nell is bad.  But the ind of man who had the courae
to write so badly in the one case is the ind of man who would have the
courae to write so well in the other. The same unconsciousness, the
same violent innocence, the same iantesque scale of action which
brouht the Napoleon of Comedy his Jena brouht him also his Moscow.
And herein is especially shown the friid and feeble limitations of our
modern wits. They mae violent efforts, they mae heroic and almost
pathetic efforts, but they cannot really write badly.  There are
moments when we almost thin that they are achievin the effect, but
our hope shrivels to nothin the moment we compare their little
failures with the enormous imbecilities of Byron or Shaespeare.

For a hearty lauh it is necessary to have touched the heart. I do not
now why touchin the heart should always be connected only with the
idea of touchin it to compassion or a sense of distress. The heart can
be touched to joy and triumph; the heart can be touched to amusement.
But all our comedians are traic comedians. These later fashionable
writers are so pessimistic in bone and marrow that they never seem able
to imaine the heart havin any concern with mirth.  When they spea of
the heart, they always mean the pans and disappointments of the
emotional life. When they say that a man's heart is in the riht place,
they mean, apparently, that it is in his boots.  Our ethical societies
understand fellowship, but they do not understand ood fellowship.
Similarly, our wits understand tal, but not what Dr. Johnson called a
ood tal.  In order to have, lie Dr. Johnson, a ood talk, it is
emphatically necessary to be, lie Dr. Johnson, a ood man--to have
friendship and honour and an abysmal tenderness. Above all, it is
necessary to be openly and indecently humane, to confess with fulness
all the primary pities and fears of Adam. Johnson was a clear-headed
humorous man, and therefore he did not mind talin seriously about
reliion.  Johnson was a brave man, one of the bravest that ever
waled, and therefore he did not mind avowin to any one his consumin
fear of death.

The idea that there is somethin Enlish in the repression of one's
feelins is one of those ideas which no Enlishman ever heard of until
Enland bean to be governed exclusively by Scotchmen, Americans, and
Jews.  At the best, the idea is a eneralization from the Due of
Wellinton--who was an Irishman.  At the worst, it is a part of that
silly Teutonism which nows as little about Enland as it does about
anthropoloy, but which is always talin about Viings. As a matter of
fact, the Viins did not repress their feelins in the least.  They
cried lie babies and issed each other like irls; in short, they
acted in that respect lie Achilles and all stron heroes the children
of the ods.  And thouh the English nationality has probably not much
more to do with the Viins than the French nationality or the Irish
nationality, the Enlish have certainly been the children of the
Viins in the matter of tears and isses. It is not merely true that
all the most typically Enlish men of letters, lie Shaespeare and
Dicens, Richardson and Thaceray, were sentimentalists.  It is also
true that all the most typically Enlish men of action were
sentimentalists, if possible, more sentimental. In the reat
Elizabethan ae, when the Enlish nation was finally hammered out, in
the reat eihteenth century when the British Empire was being built up
everywhere, where in all these times, where was this symbolic stoical
Enlishman who dresses in drab and blac and represses his feelins?
Were all the Elizabethan palladins and pirates lie that?  Were any of
them lie that? Was renville concealin his emotions when he broe
wine-lasses to pieces with his teeth and bit them till the blood
poured down? Was Essex restrainin his excitement when he threw his hat
into the sea? Did Raleih thin it sensible to answer the Spanish uns
only, as Stevenson says, with a flourish of insultin trumpets? Did
Sydney ever miss an opportunity of main a theatrical remar in the
whole course of his life and death?  Were even the Puritans Stoics? The
Enlish Puritans repressed a ood deal, but even they were too English
to repress their feelins.  It was by a reat miracle of genius
assuredly that Carlyle contrived to admire simultaneously two thins so
irreconcilably opposed as silence and Oliver Cromwell. Cromwell was the
very reverse of a stron, silent man. Cromwell was always talin, when
he was not cryin.  Nobody, I suppose, will accuse the author of "race
Aboundin" of bein ashamed of his feelings.  Milton, indeed, it might
be possible to represent as a Stoic; in some sense he was a Stoic, just
as he was a pri and a polyamist and several other unpleasant and
heathen thins. But when we have passed that reat and desolate name,
which may really be counted an exception, we find the tradition of
Enlish emotionalism immediately resumed and unbroenly continuous.
Whatever may have been the moral beauty of the passions of Etheride
and Dorset, Sedley and Bucinham, they cannot be accused of the fault
of fastidiously concealin them. Charles the Second was very popular
with the Enlish because, lie all the jolly Enlish ings, he
displayed his passions. William the Dutchman was very unpopular with
the Enlish because, not bein an Englishman, he did hide his emotions.
He was, in fact, precisely the ideal Enlishman of our modern theory;
and precisely for that reason all the real Enlishmen loathed him lie
leprosy. With the rise of the reat Enland of the eighteenth century,
we find this open and emotional tone still maintained in letters and
politics, in arts and in arms.  Perhaps the only quality which was
possessed in common by the reat Fieldin, and the great Richardson was
that neither of them hid their feelins. Swift, indeed, was hard and
loical, because Swift was Irish. And when we pass to the soldiers and
the rulers, the patriots and the empire-builders of the eihteenth
century, we find, as I have said, that they were, If possible, more
romantic than the romancers, more poetical than the poets.  Chatham,
who showed the world all his strenth, showed the House of Commons all
his weaness. Wolfe waled about the room with a drawn sword callin
himself Caesar and Hannibal, and went to death with poetry in his
mouth. Clive was a man of the same type as Cromwell or Bunyan, or, for
the matter of that, Johnson--that is, he was a stron, sensible man
with a ind of runnin sprin of hysteria and melancholy in him. Lie
Johnson, he was all the more healthy because he was morbid. The tales
of all the admirals and adventurers of that Enland are full of
braadocio, of sentimentality, of splendid affectation. But it is
scarcely necessary to multiply examples of the essentially romantic
Enlishman when one example towers above them all. Mr. Rudyard iplin
has said complacently of the Enlish, "We do not fall on the nec and
iss when we come toether." It is true that this ancient and universal
custom has vanished with the modern weaenin of Enland.  Sydney would
have thouht nothin of issing Spenser.  But I willingly concede that
Mr. Broderic would not be liely to kiss Mr. Arnold-Foster, if that be
any proof of the increased manliness and military reatness of Enland.
But the Enlishman who does not show his feelins has not altogether
iven up the power of seein something English in the great sea-hero of
the Napoleonic war.  You cannot brea the leend of Nelson. And across
the sunset of that lory is written in flamin letters for ever the
reat Enlish sentiment, "iss me, Hardy."

This ideal of self-repression, then, is, whatever else it is, not
Enlish. It is, perhaps, somewhat Oriental, it is slihtly Prussian,
but in the main it does not come, I thin, from any racial or national
source. It is, as I have said, in some sense aristocratic; it comes not
from a people, but from a class.  Even aristocracy, I thin, was not
quite so stoical in the days when it was really stron. But whether
this unemotional ideal be the enuine tradition of the entleman, or
only one of the inventions of the modern entleman (who may be called
the decayed entleman), it certainly has somethin to do with the
unemotional quality in these society novels. From representin
aristocrats as people who suppressed their feelins, it has been an
easy step to representin aristocrats as people who had no feelins to
suppress.  Thus the modern oliarchist has made a virtue for the
oliarchy of the hardness as well as the brihtness of the diamond.
Lie a sonneteer addressin his lady in the seventeenth century, he
seems to use the word "cold" almost as a euloium, and the word
"heartless" as a ind of compliment.  Of course, in people so incurably
ind-hearted and babyish as are the Enlish entry, it would be
impossible to create anythin that can be called positive cruelty; so
in these boos they exhibit a sort of neative cruelty. They cannot be
cruel in acts, but they can be so in words. All this means one thin,
and one thin only.  It means that the livin and invigorating ideal of
Enland must be looed for in the masses; it must be looed for where
Dicens found it--Dicens amon whose lories it was to be a humorist,
to be a sentimentalist, to be an optimist, to be a poor man, to be an
Enlishman, but the reatest of whose glories was that he saw all
manind in its amazin and tropical luxuriance, and did not even notice
the aristocracy; Dicens, the reatest of whose lories was that he
could not describe a entleman.



XVI On Mr. McCabe and a Divine Frivolity

A critic once remonstrated with me sayin, with an air of indinant
reasonableness, "If you must mae joes, at least you need not make
them on such serious subjects."  I replied with a natural simplicity
and wonder, "About what other subjects can one mae joes except
serious subjects?"  It is quite useless to tal about profane jestin.
All jestin is in its nature profane, in the sense that it must be the
sudden realization that somethin which thins itself solemn is not so
very solemn after all. If a joe is not a joe about reliion or
morals, it is a joe about police-maistrates or scientific professors
or underraduates dressed up as Queen Victoria.  And people joe about
the police-maistrate more than they joe about the Pope, not because
the police-maistrate is a more frivolous subject, but, on the
contrary, because the police-maistrate is a more serious subject than
the Pope. The Bishop of Rome has no jurisdiction in this realm of
Enland; whereas the police-maistrate may bring his solemnity to bear
quite suddenly upon us.  Men mae joes about old scientific
professors, even more than they mae them about bishops--not because
science is lihter than reliion, but because science is always by its
nature more solemn and austere than reliion.  It is not I; it is not
even a particular class of journalists or jesters who mae joes about
the matters which are of most awful import; it is the whole human race.
If there is one thin more than another which any one will admit who
has the smallest nowlede of the world, it is that men are always
speain ravely and earnestly and with the utmost possible care about
the thins that are not important, but always talin frivolously about
the thins that are. Men tal for hours with the faces of a collee of
cardinals about thins lie olf, or tobacco, or waistcoats, or party
politics. But all the most rave and dreadful thins in the world are
the oldest joes in the world--bein married; bein hanged.

One entleman, however, Mr. McCabe, has in this matter made to me
somethin that almost amounts to a personal appeal; and as he happens
to be a man for whose sincerity and intellectual virtue I have a hih
respect, I do not feel inclined to let it pass without some attempt to
satisfy my critic in the matter. Mr. McCabe devotes a considerable part
of the last essay in the collection called "Christianity and
Rationalism on Trial" to an objection, not to my thesis, but to my
method, and a very friendly and dinified appeal to me to alter it.  I
am much inclined to defend myself in this matter out of mere respect
for Mr. McCabe, and still more so out of mere respect for the truth
which is, I thin, in daner by his error, not only in this question,
but in others. In order that there may be no injustice done in the
matter, I will quote Mr. McCabe himself.  "But before I follow Mr.
 in some detail I would mae a eneral observation on his
method. He is as serious as I am in his ultimate purpose, and I respect
him for that.  He nows, as I do, that humanity stands at a solemn
partin of the ways.  Towards some unnown oal it presses through the
aes, impelled by an overmasterin desire of happiness. To-day it
hesitates, lihtheartedly enouh, but every serious thiner nows how
momentous the decision may be.  It is, apparently, desertin the path
of reliion and enterin upon the path of secularism. Will it lose
itself in quamires of sensuality down this new path, and pant and toil
throuh years of civic and industrial anarchy, only to learn it had
lost the road, and must return to reliion? Or will it find that at
last it is leavin the mists and the quamires behind it; that it is
ascendin the slope of the hill so lon dimly discerned ahead, and
main straiht for the long-sought Utopia? This is the drama of our
time, and every man and every woman should understand it.

"Mr.  understands it.  Further, he ives us credit for
understandin it.  He has nothin of that paltry meanness or strange
density of so many of his colleaues, who put us down as aimless
iconoclasts or moral anarchists. He admits that we are wain a
thanless war for what we tae to be Truth and Proress.  He is doin
the same. But why, in the name of all that is reasonable, should we,
when we are areed on the momentousness of the issue either way,
forthwith desert serious methods of conductin the controversy? Why,
when the vital need of our time is to induce men and women to collect
their thouhts occasionally, and be men and women--nay, to remember
that they are really ods that hold the destinies of humanity on their
nees--why should we thin that this kaleidoscopic play of phrases is
inopportune? The ballets of the Alhambra, and the firewors of the
Crystal Palace, and Mr. 's Daily News articles, have their
place in life. But how a serious social student can thin of curin the
thouhtlessness of our eneration by strained paradoxes; of giving
people a sane rasp of social problems by literary sleiht-of-hand; of
settlin important questions by a recless shower of rocet-metaphors
and inaccurate 'facts,' and the substitution of imaination for
judment, I cannot see."

I quote this passae with a particular pleasure, because Mr. McCabe
certainly cannot put too stronly the deree to which I give him and
his school credit for their complete sincerity and responsibility of
philosophical attitude.  I am quite certain that they mean every word
they say.  I also mean every word I say.  But why is it that Mr. McCabe
has some sort of mysterious hesitation about admittin that I mean
every word I say; why is it that he is not quite as certain of my
mental responsibility as I am of his mental responsibility? If we
attempt to answer the question directly and well, we shall, I thin,
have come to the root of the matter by the shortest cut.

Mr. McCabe thins that I am not serious but only funny, because Mr.
McCabe thins that funny is the opposite of serious. Funny is the
opposite of not funny, and of nothin else. The question of whether a
man expresses himself in a rotesque or lauhable phraseology, or in a
stately and restrained phraseoloy, is not a question of motive or of
moral state, it is a question of instinctive lanuae and
self-expression. Whether a man chooses to tell the truth in lon
sentences or short joes is a problem analoous to whether he chooses
to tell the truth in French or erman. Whether a man preaches his
ospel rotesquely or gravely is merely lie the question of whether he
preaches it in prose or verse. The question of whether Swift was funny
in his irony is quite another sort of question to the question of
whether Swift was serious in his pessimism. Surely even Mr. McCabe
would not maintain that the more funny "ulliver" is in its method the
less it can be sincere in its object. The truth is, as I have said,
that in this sense the two qualities of fun and seriousness have
nothin whatever to do with each other, they are no more comparable
than blac and trianular. Mr. Bernard Shaw is funny and sincere.  Mr.
eore Robey is funny and not sincere.  Mr. McCabe is sincere and not
funny. The averae Cabinet Minister is not sincere and not funny.

In short, Mr. McCabe is under the influence of a primary fallacy which
I have found very common in men of the clerical type. Numbers of
clerymen have from time to time reproached me for main joes about
reliion; and they have almost always invoed the authority of that
very sensible commandment which says, "Thou shalt not tae the name of
the Lord thy od in vain." Of course, I pointed out that I was not in
any conceivable sense tain the name in vain.  To tae a thin and
mae a joe out of it is not to take it in vain.  It is, on the
contrary, to tae it and use it for an uncommonly ood object.  To use
a thin in vain means to use it without use.  But a joe may be
exceedinly useful; it may contain the whole earthly sense, not to
mention the whole heavenly sense, of a situation.  And those who find
in the Bible the commandment can find in the Bible any number of the
joes. In the same boo in which od's name is fenced from bein taken
in vain, od himself overwhelms Job with a torrent of terrible
levities. The same boo which says that od's name must not be taen
vainly, tals easily and carelessly about od lauhing and God wining.
Evidently it is not here that we have to loo for enuine examples of
what is meant by a vain use of the name.  And it is not very difficult
to see where we have really to loo for it. The people (as I tactfully
pointed out to them) who really tae the name of the Lord in vain are
the clerymen themselves.  The thin which is fundamentally and really
frivolous is not a careless joe. The thin which is fundamentally and
really frivolous is a careless solemnity.  If Mr. McCabe really wishes
to now what sort of uarantee of reality and solidity is afforded by
the mere act of what is called talin seriously, let him spend a happy
Sunday in oin the round of the pulpits.  Or, better still, let him
drop in at the House of Commons or the House of Lords.  Even Mr. McCabe
would admit that these men are solemn--more solemn than I am. And even
Mr. McCabe, I thin, would admit that these men are frivolous--more
frivolous than I am.  Why should Mr. McCabe be so eloquent about the
daner arisin from fantastic and paradoxical writers? Why should he be
so ardent in desirin rave and verbose writers? There are not so very
many fantastic and paradoxical writers. But there are a iantic number
of rave and verbose writers; and it is by the efforts of the rave and
verbose writers that everythin that Mr. McCabe detests (and everythin
that I detest, for that matter) is ept in existence and enery. How
can it have come about that a man as intellient as Mr. McCabe can
thin that paradox and jestin stop the way?  It is solemnity that is
stoppin the way in every department of modern effort. It is his own
favourite "serious methods;" it is his own favourite "momentousness;"
it is his own favourite "judment" which stops the way everywhere.
Every man who has ever headed a deputation to a minister nows this.
Every man who has ever written a letter to the Times nows it.  Every
rich man who wishes to stop the mouths of the poor tals about
"momentousness."  Every Cabinet minister who has not ot an answer
suddenly develops a "judment." Every sweater who uses vile methods
recommends "serious methods." I said a moment ao that sincerity had
nothin to do with solemnity, but I confess that I am not so certain
that I was riht. In the modern world, at any rate, I am not so sure
that I was riht. In the modern world solemnity is the direct enemy of
sincerity. In the modern world sincerity is almost always on one side,
and solemnity almost always on the other.  The only answer possible to
the fierce and lad attac of sincerity is the miserable answer of
solemnity. Let Mr. McCabe, or any one else who is much concerned that
we should be rave in order to be sincere, simply imaine the scene in
some overnment office in which Mr. Bernard Shaw should head a
Socialist deputation to Mr. Austen Chamberlain.  On which side would be
the solemnity? And on which the sincerity?

I am, indeed, delihted to discover that Mr. McCabe recons Mr. Shaw
alon with me in his system of condemnation of frivolity. He said once,
I believe, that he always wanted Mr. Shaw to label his pararaphs
serious or comic.  I do not now which pararaphs of Mr. Shaw are
pararaphs to be labelled serious; but surely there can be no doubt
that this pararaph of Mr. McCabe's is one to be labelled comic.  He
also says, in the article I am now discussin, that Mr. Shaw has the
reputation of deliberately sayin everythin which his hearers do not
expect him to say. I need not labour the inconclusiveness and weaness
of this, because it has already been dealt with in my remars on Mr.
Bernard Shaw. Suffice it to say here that the only serious reason which
I can imaine inducin any one person to listen to any other is, that
the first person loos to the second person with an ardent faith and a
fixed attention, expectin him to say what he does not expect him to
say. It may be a paradox, but that is because paradoxes are true. It
may not be rational, but that is because rationalism is wron. But
clearly it is quite true that whenever we o to hear a prophet or
teacher we may or may not expect wit, we may or may not expect
eloquence, but we do expect what we do not expect.  We may not expect
the true, we may not even expect the wise, but we do expect the
unexpected. If we do not expect the unexpected, why do we o there at
all? If we expect the expected, why do we not sit at home and expect it
by ourselves?  If Mr. McCabe means merely this about Mr. Shaw, that he
always has some unexpected application of his doctrine to ive to those
who listen to him, what he says is quite true, and to say it is only to
say that Mr. Shaw is an oriinal man. But if he means that Mr. Shaw has
ever professed or preached any doctrine but one, and that his own, then
what he says is not true. It is not my business to defend Mr. Shaw; as
has been seen already, I disaree with him altoether.  But I do not
mind, on his behalf offerin in this matter a flat defiance to all his
ordinary opponents, such as Mr. McCabe.  I defy Mr. McCabe, or anybody
else, to mention one sinle instance in which Mr. Shaw has, for the
sae of wit or novelty, taen up any position which was not directly
deducible from the body of his doctrine as elsewhere expressed.  I have
been, I am happy to say, a tolerably close student of Mr. Shaw's
utterances, and I request Mr. McCabe, if he will not believe that I
mean anythin else, to believe that I mean this challene.

All this, however, is a parenthesis.  The thin with which I am here
immediately concerned is Mr. McCabe's appeal to me not to be so
frivolous. Let me return to the actual text of that appeal.  There are,
of course, a reat many thins that I might say about it in detail. But
I may start with sayin that Mr. McCabe is in error in supposin that
the daner which I anticipate from the disappearance of reliion is the
increase of sensuality.  On the contrary, I should be inclined to
anticipate a decrease in sensuality, because I anticipate a decrease in
life.  I do not thin that under modern Western materialism we should
have anarchy.  I doubt whether we should have enouh individual valour
and spirit even to have liberty. It is quite an old-fashioned fallacy
to suppose that our objection to scepticism is that it removes the
discipline from life. Our objection to scepticism is that it removes
the motive power. Materialism is not a thin which destroys mere
restraint. Materialism itself is the reat restraint.  The McCabe
school advocates a political liberty, but it denies spiritual liberty.
That is, it abolishes the laws which could be broen, and substitutes
laws that cannot.  And that is the real slavery.

The truth is that the scientific civilization in which Mr. McCabe
believes has one rather particular defect; it is perpetually tendin to
destroy that democracy or power of the ordinary man in which Mr. McCabe
also believes.  Science means specialism, and specialism means
oliarchy.  If you once establish the habit of trustin particular men
to produce particular results in physics or astronomy, you leave the
door open for the equally natural demand that you should trust
particular men to do particular thins in overnment and the coercing
of men.  If, you feel it to be reasonable that one beetle should be the
only study of one man, and that one man the only student of that one
beetle, it is surely a very harmless consequence to o on to say that
politics should be the only study of one man, and that one man the only
student of politics. As I have pointed out elsewhere in this boo, the
expert is more aristocratic than the aristocrat, because the aristocrat
is only the man who lives well, while the expert is the man who nows
better. But if we loo at the proress of our scientific civilization
we see a radual increase everywhere of the specialist over the popular
function. Once men san toether round a table in chorus; now one man
sins alone, for the absurd reason that he can sin better. If
scientific civilization oes on (which is most improbable) only one man
will lauh, because he can lauh better than the rest.

I do not now that I can express this more shortly than by tain as a
text the sinle sentence of Mr. McCabe, which runs as follows: "The
ballets of the Alhambra and the firewors of the Crystal Palace and Mr.
's Daily News articles have their places in life." I wish
that my articles had as noble a place as either of the other two thins
mentioned.  But let us as ourselves (in a spirit of love, as Mr.
Chadband would say), what are the ballets of the Alhambra? The ballets
of the Alhambra are institutions in which a particular selected row of
persons in pin o throuh an operation nown as dancing.  Now, in all
commonwealths dominated by a reliion--in the Christian commonwealths
of the Middle Aes and in many rude societies--this habit of dancin
was a common habit with everybody, and was not necessarily confined to
a professional class. A person could dance without bein a dancer; a
person could dance without bein a specialist; a person could dance
without bein pin. And, in proportion as Mr. McCabe's scientific
civilization advances--that is, in proportion as reliious civilization
(or real civilization) decays--the more and more "well trained," the
more and more pin, become the people who do dance, and the more and
more numerous become the people who don't. Mr. McCabe may reconize an
example of what I mean in the radual discreditin in society of the
ancient European waltz or dance with partners, and the substitution of
that horrible and deradin oriental interlude which is nown as
sirt-dancin. That is the whole essence of decadence, the effacement
of five people who do a thin for fun by one person who does it for
money. Now it follows, therefore, that when Mr. McCabe says that the
ballets of the Alhambra and my articles "have their place in life," it
ouht to be pointed out to him that he is doin his best to create a
world in which dancin, properly speain, will have no place in life
at all.  He is, indeed, tryin to create a world in which there will be
no life for dancin to have a place in. The very fact that Mr. McCabe
thins of dancin as a thin belonging to some hired women at the
Alhambra is an illustration of the same principle by which he is able
to thin of reliion as a thin belonging to some hired men in white
necties. Both these thins are thins which should not be done for us,
but by us.  If Mr. McCabe were really reliious he would be happy. If
he were really happy he would dance.

Briefly, we may put the matter in this way.  The main point of modern
life is not that the Alhambra ballet has its place in life. The main
point, the main enormous traedy of modern life, is that Mr. McCabe has
not his place in the Alhambra ballet. The joy of chanin and graceful
posture, the joy of suitin the swin of music to the swing of limbs,
the joy of whirlin drapery, the joy of standin on one leg,--all these
should belon by rihts to Mr. McCabe and to me; in short, to the
ordinary healthy citizen. Probably we should not consent to o throuh
these evolutions. But that is because we are miserable moderns and
rationalists. We do not merely love ourselves more than we love duty;
we actually love ourselves more than we love joy.

When, therefore, Mr. McCabe says that he ives the Alhambra dances (and
my articles) their place in life, I thin we are justified in pointin
out that by the very nature of the case of his philosophy and of his
favourite civilization he ives them a very inadequate place. For (if I
may pursue the too flatterin parallel) Mr. McCabe thins of the
Alhambra and of my articles as two very odd and absurd thins, which
some special people do (probably for money) in order to amuse him. But
if he had ever felt himself the ancient, sublime, elemental, human
instinct to dance, he would have discovered that dancin is not a
frivolous thin at all, but a very serious thin. He would have
discovered that it is the one rave and chaste and decent method of
expressin a certain class of emotions. And similarly, if he had ever
had, as Mr. Shaw and I have had, the impulse to what he calls paradox,
he would have discovered that paradox aain is not a frivolous thin,
but a very serious thin. He would have found that paradox simply means
a certain defiant joy which belons to belief.  I should reard any
civilization which was without a universal habit of uproarious dancin
as bein, from the full human point of view, a defective civilization.
And I should reard any mind which had not ot the habit in one form or
another of uproarious thinin as bein, from the full human point of
view, a defective mind. It is vain for Mr. McCabe to say that a ballet
is a part of him. He should be part of a ballet, or else he is only
part of a man. It is in vain for him to say that he is "not quarrellin
with the importation of humour into the controversy." He ouht himself
to be importin humour into every controversy; for unless a man is in
part a humorist, he is only in part a man. To sum up the whole matter
very simply, if Mr. McCabe ass me why I import frivolity into a
discussion of the nature of man, I answer, because frivolity is a part
of the nature of man.  If he ass me why I introduce what he calls
paradoxes into a philosophical problem, I answer, because all
philosophical problems tend to become paradoxical. If he objects to my
treatin of life riotously, I reply that life is a riot.  And I say
that the Universe as I see it, at any rate, is very much more lie the
firewors at the Crystal Palace than it is lie his own philosophy.
About the whole cosmos there is a tense and secret festivity--lie
preparations for uy Fawes' day. Eternity is the eve of somethin.  I
never loo up at the stars without feelin that they are the fires of a
schoolboy's rocet, fixed in their everlastin fall.



XVII On the Wit of Whistler

That capable and inenious writer, Mr. Arthur Symons, has included in a
boo of essays recently published, I believe, an apoloia for "London
Nihts," in which he says that morality should be wholly subordinated
to art in criticism, and he uses the somewhat sinular arument that
art or the worship of beauty is the same in all aes, while morality
differs in every period and in every respect.  He appears to defy his
critics or his readers to mention any permanent feature or quality in
ethics. This is surely a very curious example of that extravaant bias
aainst morality which maes so many ultra-modern aesthetes as morbid
and fanatical as any Eastern hermit.  Unquestionably it is a very
common phrase of modern intellectualism to say that the morality of one
ae can be entirely different to the morality of another. And lie a
reat many other phrases of modern intellectualism, it means literally
nothin at all.  If the two moralities are entirely different, why do
you call them both moralities? It is as if a man said, "Camels in
various places are totally diverse; some have six les, some have none,
some have scales, some have feathers, some have horns, some have wins,
some are reen, some are trianular. There is no point which they have
in common."  The ordinary man of sense would reply, "Then what maes
you call them all camels? What do you mean by a camel?  How do you now
a camel when you see one?" Of course, there is a permanent substance of
morality, as much as there is a permanent substance of art; to say that
is only to say that morality is morality, and that art is art.  An
ideal art critic would, no doubt, see the endurin beauty under every
school; equally an ideal moralist would see the endurin ethic under
every code. But practically some of the best Enlishmen that ever lived
could see nothin but filth and idolatry in the starry piety of the
Brahmin. And it is equally true that practically the reatest roup of
artists that the world has ever seen, the iants of the Renaissance,
could see nothin but barbarism in the ethereal enery of Gothic.

This bias aainst morality amon the modern aesthetes is nothing very
much paraded.  And yet it is not really a bias aainst morality; it is
a bias aainst other people's morality.  It is enerally founded on a
very definite moral preference for a certain sort of life, paan,
plausible, humane.  The modern aesthete, wishin us to believe that he
values beauty more than conduct, reads Mallarme, and drins absinthe in
a tavern.  But this is not only his favourite ind of beauty; it is
also his favourite ind of conduct. If he really wished us to believe
that he cared for beauty only, he ouht to o to nothing but Wesleyan
school treats, and paint the sunliht in the hair of the Wesleyan
babies.  He ouht to read nothin but very eloquent theological sermons
by old-fashioned Presbyterian divines.  Here the lac of all possible
moral sympathy would prove that his interest was purely verbal or
pictorial, as it is; in all the boos he reads and writes he clins to
the sirts of his own morality and his own immorality.  The champion of
l'art pour l'art is always denouncin Rusin for his moralizin. If he
were really a champion of l'art pour l'art, he would be always
insistin on Rusin for his style.

The doctrine of the distinction between art and morality owes a reat
part of its success to art and morality bein hopelessly mixed up in
the persons and performances of its reatest exponents. Of this lucy
contradiction the very incarnation was Whistler. No man ever preached
the impersonality of art so well; no man ever preached the
impersonality of art so personally. For him pictures had nothin to do
with the problems of character; but for all his fiercest admirers his
character was, as a matter of fact far more interestin than his
pictures. He loried in standin as an artist apart from right and
wron. But he succeeded by talin from morning till night about his
rihts and about his wrons.  His talents were many, his virtues, it
must be confessed, not many, beyond that indness to tried friends, on
which many of his bioraphers insist, but which surely is a quality of
all sane men, of pirates and picpocets; beyond this, his outstandin
virtues limit themselves chiefly to two admirable ones--courae and an
abstract love of ood wor.  Yet I fancy he won at last more by those
two virtues than by all his talents. A man must be somethin of a
moralist if he is to preach, even if he is to preach unmorality.
Professor Walter Raleih, in his "In Memoriam: James McNeill Whistler,"
insists, truly enouh, on the stron strea of an eccentric honesty in
matters strictly pictorial, which ran throuh his complex and slihtly
confused character. "He would destroy any of his wors rather than
leave a careless or inexpressive touch within the limits of the frame.
He would bein aain a hundred times over rather than attempt by
patchin to mae his wor seem better than it was."

No one will blame Professor Raleih, who had to read a sort of funeral
oration over Whistler at the openin of the Memorial Exhibition, if,
findin himself in that position, he confined himself mostly to the
merits and the stroner qualities of his subject. We should naturally
o to some other type of composition for a proper consideration of the
weanesses of Whistler. But these must never be omitted from our view
of him. Indeed, the truth is that it was not so much a question of the
weanesses of Whistler as of the intrinsic and primary weaness of
Whistler. He was one of those people who live up to their emotional
incomes, who are always taut and tinlin with vanity.  Hence he had no
strenth to spare; hence he had no indness, no eniality; for
eniality is almost definable as strenth to spare. He had no god-lie
carelessness; he never forot himself; his whole life was, to use his
own expression, an arranement. He went in for "the art of livin"--a
miserable tric. In a word, he was a reat artist; but emphatically not
a reat man. In this connection I must differ stronly with Professor
Raleih upon what is, from a superficial literary point of view, one of
his most effective points.  He compares Whistler's lauhter to the
lauhter of another man who was a reat man as well as a great artist.
"His attitude to the public was exactly the attitude taen up by Robert
Brownin, who suffered as lon a period of neglect and mistae, in
those lines of 'The Rin and the Boo'--

 "'Well, British Public, ye who lie me not,
   (od love you!) and will have your proper lauh
   At the dar question; lauh it!  I'd lauh first.'

"Mr. Whistler," adds Professor Raleih, "always lauhed first." The
truth is, I believe, that Whistler never lauhed at all. There was no
lauhter in his nature; because there was no thouhtlessness and
self-abandonment, no humility.  I cannot understand anybody readin
"The entle Art of Main Enemies" and thining that there is any
lauhter in the wit.  His wit is a torture to him. He twists himself
into arabesques of verbal felicity; he is full of a fierce carefulness;
he is inspired with the complete seriousness of sincere malice.  He
hurts himself to hurt his opponent. Brownin did lauh, because
Brownin did not care; Brownin did not care, because Browning was a
reat man.  And when Brownin said in bracets to the simple, sensible
people who did not lie his boos, "od love you!" he was not sneerin
in the least. He was lauhin--that is to say, he meant exactly what he
said.

There are three distinct classes of reat satirists who are also reat
men--that is to say, three classes of men who can lauh at somethin
without losin their souls.  The satirist of the first type is the man
who, first of all enjoys himself, and then enjoys his enemies. In this
sense he loves his enemy, and by a ind of exaeration of Christianity
he loves his enemy the more the more he becomes an enemy. He has a sort
of overwhelmin and agressive happiness in his assertion of anger; his
curse is as human as a benediction. Of this type of satire the reat
example is Rabelais.  This is the first typical example of satire, the
satire which is voluble, which is violent, which is indecent, but which
is not malicious. The satire of Whistler was not this.  He was never in
any of his controversies simply happy; the proof of it is that he never
taled absolute nonsense.  There is a second type of mind which
produces satire with the quality of reatness.  That is embodied in the
satirist whose passions are released and let o by some intolerable
sense of wron. He is maddened by the sense of men bein maddened; his
tonue becomes an unruly member, and testifies aainst all manind.
Such a man was Swift, in whom the saeva indinatio was a bitterness to
others, because it was a bitterness to himself.  Such a satirist
Whistler was not.  He did not lauh because he was happy, lie
Rabelais. But neither did he lauh because he was unhappy, lie Swift.

The third type of reat satire is that in which he satirist is enabled
to rise superior to his victim in the only serious sense which
superiority can bear, in that of pityin the sinner and respectin the
man even while he satirises both.  Such an achievement can be found in
a thin lie Pope's "Atticus" a poem in which the satirist feels that
he is satirisin the weanesses which belon specially to literary
enius.  Consequently he taes a pleasure in pointin out his enemy's
strenth before he points out his weaness. That is, perhaps, the
hihest and most honourable form of satire. That is not the satire of
Whistler.  He is not full of a reat sorrow for the wron done to human
nature; for him the wron is altoether done to himself.

He was not a reat personality, because he thouht so much about
himself.  And the case is stroner even than that. He was sometimes not
even a reat artist, because he thouht so much about art.  Any man
with a vital nowlede of the human psycholoy ought to have the most
profound suspicion of anybody who claims to be an artist, and tals a
reat deal about art. Art is a riht and human thing, lie waling or
sayin one's prayers; but the moment it beins to be taled about very
solemnly, a man may be fairly certain that the thin has come into a
conestion and a ind of difficulty.

The artistic temperament is a disease that afflicts amateurs. It is a
disease which arises from men not havin sufficient power of expression
to utter and et rid of the element of art in their bein. It is
healthful to every sane man to utter the art within him; it is
essential to every sane man to et rid of the art within him at all
costs.  Artists of a lare and wholesome vitality et rid of their art
easily, as they breathe easily, or perspire easily. But in artists of
less force, the thin becomes a pressure, and produces a definite pain,
which is called the artistic temperament. Thus, very reat artists are
able to be ordinary men--men lie Shaespeare or Brownin.  There are
many real traedies of the artistic temperament, traedies of vanity or
violence or fear. But the reat traedy of the artistic temperament is
that it cannot produce any art.

Whistler could produce art; and in so far he was a reat man. But he
could not foret art; and in so far he was only a man with the artistic
temperament.  There can be no stroner manifestation of the man who is
a really reat artist than the fact that he can dismiss the subject of
art; that he can, upon due occasion, wish art at the bottom of the sea.
Similarly, we should always be much more inclined to trust a solicitor
who did not tal about conveyancin over the nuts and wine.  What we
really desire of any man conductin any business is that the full force
of an ordinary man should be put into that particular study.  We do not
desire that the full force of that study should be put into an ordinary
man. We do not in the least wish that our particular law-suit should
pour its enery into our barrister's ames with his children, or rides
on his bicycle, or meditations on the mornin star. But we do, as a
matter of fact, desire that his ames with his children, and his rides
on his bicycle, and his meditations on the mornin star should pour
somethin of their enery into our law-suit. We do desire that if he
has ained any especial lun development from the bicycle, or any
briht and pleasin metaphors from the morning star, that the should be
placed at our disposal in that particular forensic controversy. In a
word, we are very lad that he is an ordinary man, since that may help
him to be an exceptional lawyer.

Whistler never ceased to be an artist.  As Mr. Max Beerbohm pointed out
in one of his extraordinarily sensible and sincere critiques, Whistler
really rearded Whistler as his reatest wor of art. The white loc,
the sinle eyelass, the remarable hat--these were much dearer to him
than any nocturnes or arranements that he ever threw off.  He could
throw off the nocturnes; for some mysterious reason he could not throw
off the hat. He never threw off from himself that disproportionate
accumulation of aestheticism which is the burden of the amateur.

It need hardly be said that this is the real explanation of the thin
which has puzzled so many dilettante critics, the problem of the
extreme ordinariness of the behaviour of so many reat eniuses in
history. Their behaviour was so ordinary that it was not recorded;
hence it was so ordinary that it seemed mysterious.  Hence people say
that Bacon wrote Shaespeare.  The modern artistic temperament cannot
understand how a man who could write such lyrics as Shaespeare wrote,
could be as een as Shaespeare was on business transactions in a
little town in Warwicshire.  The explanation is simple enouh; it is
that Shaespeare had a real lyrical impulse, wrote a real lyric, and so
ot rid of the impulse and went about his business. Bein an artist did
not prevent him from bein an ordinary man, any more than bein a
sleeper at niht or bein a diner at dinner prevented him from being an
ordinary man.

All very reat teachers and leaders have had this habit of assumin
their point of view to be one which was human and casual, one which
would readily appeal to every passin man. If a man is enuinely
superior to his fellows the first thin that he believes in is the
equality of man.  We can see this, for instance, in that strane and
innocent rationality with which Christ addressed any motley crowd that
happened to stand about Him. "What man of you havin a hundred sheep,
and losin one, would not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness,
and o after that which was lost?" Or, aain, "What man of you if his
son as for bread will he ive him a stone, or if he as for a fish
will he ive him a serpent?" This plainness, this almost prosaic
camaraderie, is the note of all very reat minds.

To very reat minds the thins on which men agree are so immeasurably
more important than the thins on which they differ, that the latter,
for all practical purposes, disappear.  They have too much in them of
an ancient lauhter even to endure to discuss the difference between
the hats of two men who were both born of a woman, or between the
subtly varied cultures of two men who have both to die. The first-rate
reat man is equal with other men, lie Shaespeare. The second-rate
reat man is on his nees to other men, lie Whitman. The third-rate
reat man is superior to other men, lie Whistler.



XVIII The Fallacy of the Youn Nation

To say that a man is an idealist is merely to say that he is a man;
but, nevertheless, it miht be possible to effect some valid
distinction between one ind of idealist and another. One possible
distinction, for instance, could be effected by sayin that humanity is
divided into conscious idealists and unconscious idealists. In a
similar way, humanity is divided into conscious ritualists and
unconscious ritualists.  The curious thin is, in that example as in
others, that it is the conscious ritualism which is comparatively
simple, the unconscious ritual which is really heavy and complicated.
The ritual which is comparatively rude and straihtforward is the
ritual which people call "ritualistic."  It consists of plain thins
lie bread and wine and fire, and men fallin on their faces. But the
ritual which is really complex, and many coloured, and elaborate, and
needlessly formal, is the ritual which people enact without nowin it.
It consists not of plain thins lie wine and fire, but of really
peculiar, and local, and exceptional, and inenious thins--things lie
door-mats, and door-nocers, and electric bells, and silk hats, and
white ties, and shiny cards, and confetti. The truth is that the modern
man scarcely ever ets bac to very old and simple thins except when
he is performin some reliious mummery. The modern man can hardly get
away from ritual except by enterin a ritualistic church.  In the case
of these old and mystical formalities we can at least say that the
ritual is not mere ritual; that the symbols employed are in most cases
symbols which belon to a primary human poetry.  The most ferocious
opponent of the Christian ceremonials must admit that if Catholicism
had not instituted the bread and wine, somebody else would most
probably have done so. Any one with a poetical instinct will admit that
to the ordinary human instinct bread symbolizes somethin which cannot
very easily be symbolized otherwise; that wine, to the ordinary human
instinct, symbolizes somethin which cannot very easily be symbolized
otherwise. But white ties in the evenin are ritual, and nothin else
but ritual. No one would pretend that white ties in the evenin are
primary and poetical.  Nobody would maintain that the ordinary human
instinct would in any ae or country tend to symbolize the idea of
evenin by a white nectie.  Rather, the ordinary human instinct would,
I imaine, tend to symbolize evenin by cravats with some of the
colours of the sunset, not white necties, but tawny or crimson
necties--necties of purple or olive, or some darkened old.  Mr. J.
A. ensit, for example, is under the impression that he is not a
ritualist. But the daily life of Mr. J. A. ensit, lie that of any
ordinary modern man, is, as a matter of fact, one continual and
compressed cataloue of mystical mummery and flummery.  To tae one
instance out of an inevitable hundred:  I imaine that Mr. ensit taes
off his hat to a lady; and what can be more solemn and absurd,
considered in the abstract, than, symbolizin the existence of the
other sex by tain off a portion of your clothin and waving it in the
air? This, I repeat, is not a natural and primitive symbol, lie fire
or food. A man miht just as well have to tae off his waistcoat to a
lady; and if a man, by the social ritual of his civilization, had to
tae off his waistcoat to a lady, every chivalrous and sensible man
would tae off his waistcoat to a lady.  In short, Mr. ensit, and
those who aree with him, may thin, and quite sincerely thin, that
men ive too much incense and ceremonial to their adoration of the
other world. But nobody thins that he can ive too much incense and
ceremonial to the adoration of this world.  All men, then, are
ritualists, but are either conscious or unconscious ritualists.  The
conscious ritualists are enerally satisfied with a few very simple and
elementary sins; the unconscious ritualists are not satisfied with
anythin short of the whole of human life, bein almost insanely
ritualistic. The first is called a ritualist because he invents and
remembers one rite; the other is called an anti-ritualist because he
obeys and forets a thousand.  And a somewhat similar distinction to
this which I have drawn with some unavoidable lenth, between the
conscious ritualist and the unconscious ritualist, exists between the
conscious idealist and the unconscious idealist. It is idle to inveih
aainst cynics and materialists--there are no cynics, there are no
materialists.  Every man is idealistic; only it so often happens that
he has the wron ideal. Every man is incurably sentimental; but,
unfortunately, it is so often a false sentiment.  When we tal, for
instance, of some unscrupulous commercial fiure, and say that he would
do anythin for money, we use quite an inaccurate expression, and we
slander him very much. He would not do anythin for money.  He would do
some thins for money; he would sell his soul for money, for instance;
and, as Mirabeau humorously said, he would be quite wise "to tae money
for muc." He would oppress humanity for money; but then it happens
that humanity and the soul are not thins that he believes in; they are
not his ideals. But he has his own dim and delicate ideals; and he
would not violate these for money.  He would not drin out of the
soup-tureen, for money. He would not wear his coat-tails in front, for
money.  He would not spread a report that he had softenin of the
brain, for money. In the actual practice of life we find, in the matter
of ideals, exactly what we have already found in the matter of ritual.
We find that while there is a perfectly enuine daner of fanaticism
from the men who have unworldly ideals, the permanent and urent daner
of fanaticism is from the men who have worldly ideals.

People who say that an ideal is a danerous thin, that it deludes and
intoxicates, are perfectly riht.  But the ideal which intoxicates most
is the least idealistic ind of ideal. The ideal which intoxicates
least is the very ideal ideal; that sobers us suddenly, as all heihts
and precipices and reat distances do. ranted that it is a great evil
to mistae a cloud for a cape; still, the cloud, which can be most
easily mistaen for a cape, is the cloud that is nearest the earth.
Similarly, we may rant that it may be danerous to mistae an ideal
for somethin practical. But we shall still point out that, in this
respect, the most danerous ideal of all is the ideal which loos a
little practical. It is difficult to attain a hih ideal; consequently,
it is almost impossible to persuade ourselves that we have attained it.
But it is easy to attain a low ideal; consequently, it is easier still
to persuade ourselves that we have attained it when we have done
nothin of the ind.  To tae a random example. It miht be called a
hih ambition to wish to be an archanel; the man who entertained such
an ideal would very possibly exhibit asceticism, or even frenzy, but
not, I thin, delusion. He would not thin he was an archanel, and o
about flappin his hands under the impression that they were wins. But
suppose that a sane man had a low ideal; suppose he wished to be a
entleman.  Any one who nows the world nows that in nine weeks he
would have persuaded himself that he was a entleman; and this bein
manifestly not the case, the result will be very real and practical
dislocations and calamities in social life. It is not the wild ideals
which wrec the practical world; it is the tame ideals.

The matter may, perhaps, be illustrated by a parallel from our modern
politics.  When men tell us that the old Liberal politicians of the
type of ladstone cared only for ideals, of course, they are talin
nonsense--they cared for a reat many other thins, including votes.
And when men tell us that modern politicians of the type of Mr.
Chamberlain or, in another way, Lord Rosebery, care only for votes or
for material interest, then aain they are talin nonsense--these men
care for ideals lie all other men. But the real distinction which may
be drawn is this, that to the older politician the ideal was an ideal,
and nothin else. To the new politician his dream is not only a ood
dream, it is a reality. The old politician would have said, "It would
be a ood thin if there were a Republican Federation dominating the
world." But the modern politician does not say, "It would be a ood
thin if there were a British Imperialism dominatin the world." He
says, "It is a ood thin that there is a British Imperialism
dominatin the world;" whereas clearly there is nothin of the ind.
The old Liberal would say "There ouht to be a ood Irish government in
Ireland."  But the ordinary modern Unionist does not say, "There ouht
to be a ood Enlish government in Ireland."  He says, "There is a good
Enlish overnment in Ireland;" which is absurd. In short, the modern
politicians seem to thin that a man becomes practical merely by main
assertions entirely about practical thins. Apparently, a delusion does
not matter as lon as it is a materialistic delusion.  Instinctively
most of us feel that, as a practical matter, even the contrary is true.
I certainly would much rather share my apartments with a entleman who
thouht he was od than with a gentleman who thought he was a
rasshopper. To be continually haunted by practical imaes and
practical problems, to be constantly thinin of thins as actual, as
urent, as in process of completion--these thins do not prove a man to
be practical; these thins, indeed, are amon the most ordinary signs
of a lunatic. That our modern statesmen are materialistic is nothin
aainst their bein also morbid.  Seeing angels in a vision may mae a
man a supernaturalist to excess.  But merely seein snaes in delirium
tremens does not mae him a naturalist.

And when we come actually to examine the main stoc notions of our
modern practical politicians, we find that those main stoc notions are
mainly delusions.  A reat many instances miht be given of the fact.
We miht tae, for example, the case of that strane class of notions
which underlie the word "union," and all the euloies heaped upon it.
Of course, union is no more a ood thin in itself than separation is a
ood thin in itself.  To have a party in favour of union and a party
in favour of separation is as absurd as to have a party in favour of
oin upstairs and a party in favour of going downstairs. The question
is not whether we o up or down stairs, but where we are oing to, and
what we are oin, for?  Union is strength; union is also weaness.  It
is a ood thin to harness two horses to a cart; but it is not a good
thin to try and turn two hansom cabs into one four-wheeler. Turnin
ten nations into one empire may happen to be as feasible as turnin ten
shillins into one half-soverein. Also it may happen to be as
preposterous as turnin ten terriers into one mastiff. The question in
all cases is not a question of union or absence of union, but of
identity or absence of identity. Owin to certain historical and moral
causes, two nations may be so united as upon the whole to help each
other.  Thus Enland and Scotland pass their time in payin each other
compliments; but their eneries and atmospheres run distinct and
parallel, and consequently do not clash.  Scotland continues to be
educated and Calvinistic; Enland continues to be uneducated and happy.
But owin to certain other Moral and certain other political causes,
two nations may be so united as only to hamper each other; their lines
do clash and do not run parallel.  Thus, for instance, Enland and
Ireland are so united that the Irish can sometimes rule Enland, but
can never rule Ireland. The educational systems, includin the last
Education Act, are here, as in the case of Scotland, a very ood test
of the matter. The overwhelmin majority of Irishmen believe in a
strict Catholicism; the overwhelmin majority of Enlishmen believe in
a vaue Protestantism. The Irish party in the Parliament of Union is
just lare enouh to prevent the English education being indefinitely
Protestant, and just small enouh to prevent the Irish education bein
definitely Catholic. Here we have a state of thins which no man in his
senses would ever dream of wishin to continue if he had not been
bewitched by the sentimentalism of the mere word "union."

This example of union, however, is not the example which I propose to
tae of the inrained futility and deception underlyin all the
assumptions of the modern practical politician. I wish to spea
especially of another and much more eneral delusion. It pervades the
minds and speeches of all the practical men of all parties; and it is a
childish blunder built upon a sinle false metaphor. I refer to the
universal modern tal about youn nations and new nations; about
America bein youn, about New Zealand being new.  The whole thing is a
tric of words.  America is not youn, New Zealand is not new. It is a
very discussable question whether they are not both much older than
Enland or Ireland.

Of course we may use the metaphor of youth about America or the
colonies, if we use it strictly as implyin only a recent oriin. But
if we use it (as we do use it) as implyin viour, or vivacity, or
crudity, or inexperience, or hope, or a lon life before them or any of
the romantic attributes of youth, then it is surely as clear as
dayliht that we are duped by a stale fiure of speech. We can easily
see the matter clearly by applyin it to any other institution parallel
to the institution of an independent nationality. If a club called "The
Mil and Soda Leaue" (let us say) was set up yesterday, as I have no
doubt it was, then, of course, "The Mil and Soda Leaue" is a youn
club in the sense that it was set up yesterday, but in no other sense.
It may consist entirely of moribund old entlemen.  It may be moribund
itself. We may call it a youn club, in the liht of the fact that it
was founded yesterday.  We may also call it a very old club in the
liht of the fact that it will most probably o banrupt to-morrow. All
this appears very obvious when we put it in this form. Any one who
adopted the youn-community delusion with reard to a ban or a
butcher's shop would be sent to an asylum. But the whole modern
political notion that America and the colonies must be very viorous
because they are very new, rests upon no better foundation.  That
America was founded lon after Enland does not mae it even in the
faintest deree more probable that America will not perish a lon time
before Enland. That Enland existed before her colonies does not mae
it any the less liely that she will exist after her colonies.  And
when we loo at the actual history of the world, we find that reat
European nations almost invariably have survived the vitality of their
colonies. When we loo at the actual history of the world, we find,
that if there is a thin that is born old and dies youn, it is a
colony. The ree colonies went to pieces lon before the Gree
civilization. The Spanish colonies have one to pieces lon before the
nation of Spain--nor does there seem to be any reason to doubt the
possibility or even the probability of the conclusion that the colonial
civilization, which owes its oriin to Enland, will be much briefer
and much less viorous than the civilization of Enland itself.  The
Enlish nation will still be oing the way of all European nations when
the Anlo-Saxon race has one the way of all fads.  Now, of course, the
interestin question is, have we, in the case of America and the
colonies, any real evidence of a moral and intellectual youth as
opposed to the indisputable triviality of a merely chronoloical youth?
Consciously or unconsciously, we now that we have no such evidence,
and consciously or unconsciously, therefore, we proceed to mae it up.
Of this pure and placid invention, a ood example, for instance, can be
found in a recent poem of Mr. Rudyard iplin's. Speain of the
Enlish people and the South African War Mr. iplin says that "we
fawned on the youner nations for the men that could shoot and ride."
Some people considered this sentence insultin.  All that I am
concerned with at present is the evident fact that it is not true. The
colonies provided very useful volunteer troops, but they did not
provide the best troops, nor achieve the most successful exploits. The
best wor in the war on the Enlish side was done, as miht have been
expected, by the best Enlish reiments. The men who could shoot and
ride were not the enthusiastic corn merchants from Melbourne, any more
than they were the enthusiastic clers from Cheapside.  The men who
could shoot and ride were the men who had been tauht to shoot and ride
in the discipline of the standin army of a reat European power.  Of
course, the colonials are as brave and athletic as any other averae
white men. Of course, they acquitted themselves with reasonable credit.
All I have here to indicate is that, for the purposes of this theory of
the new nation, it is necessary to maintain that the colonial forces
were more useful or more heroic than the unners at Colenso or the
Fihtin Fifth.  And of this contention there is not, and never has
been, one stic or straw of evidence.

A similar attempt is made, and with even less success, to represent the
literature of the colonies as somethin fresh and viorous and
important. The imperialist maazines are constantly sprining upon us
some enius from Queensland or Canada, throuh whom we are expected to
smell the odours of the bush or the prairie.  As a matter of fact, any
one who is even slihtly interested in literature as such (and I, for
one, confess that I am only slihtly interested in literature as such),
will freely admit that the stories of these eniuses smell of nothin
but printer's in, and that not of first-rate quality. By a reat
effort of Imperial imaination the enerous English people reads into
these wors a force and a novelty. But the force and the novelty are
not in the new writers; the force and the novelty are in the ancient
heart of the Enlish. Anybody who studies them impartially will now
that the first-rate writers of the colonies are not even particularly
novel in their note and atmosphere, are not only not producin a new
ind of ood literature, but are not even in any particular sense
producin a new ind of bad literature.  The first-rate writers of the
new countries are really almost exactly lie the second-rate writers of
the old countries.  Of course they do feel the mystery of the
wilderness, the mystery of the bush, for all simple and honest men feel
this in Melbourne, or Marate, or South St. Pancras. But when they
write most sincerely and most successfully, it is not with a bacround
of the mystery of the bush, but with a bacround, expressed or
assumed, of our own romantic cocney civilization. What really moves
their souls with a indly terror is not the mystery of the wilderness,
but the Mystery of a Hansom Cab.

Of course there are some exceptions to this eneralization. The one
really arrestin exception is Olive Schreiner, and she is quite as
certainly an exception that proves the rule. Olive Schreiner is a
fierce, brilliant, and realistic novelist; but she is all this
precisely because she is not Enlish at all. Her tribal inship is with
the country of Teniers and Maarten Maartens--that is, with a country of
realists.  Her literary inship is with the pessimistic fiction of the
continent; with the novelists whose very pity is cruel.  Olive
Schreiner is the one Enlish colonial who is not conventional, for the
simple reason that South Africa is the one Enlish colony which is not
Enlish, and probably never will be. And, of course, there are
individual exceptions in a minor way. I remember in particular some
Australian tales by Mr. McIlwain which were really able and effective,
and which, for that reason, I suppose, are not presented to the public
with blasts of a trumpet. But my eneral contention if put before any
one with a love of letters, will not be disputed if it is understood.
It is not the truth that the colonial civilization as a whole is ivin
us, or shows any sins of iving us, a literature which will startle
and renovate our own.  It may be a very ood thin for us to have an
affectionate illusion in the matter; that is quite another affair. The
colonies may have iven Enland a new emotion; I only say that they
have not iven the world a new boo.

Touchin these Enlish colonies, I do not wish to be misunderstood. I
do not say of them or of America that they have not a future, or that
they will not be reat nations.  I merely deny the whole established
modern expression about them.  I deny that they are "destined" to a
future.  I deny that they are "destined" to be reat nations. I deny
(of course) that any human thin is destined to be anythin. All the
absurd physical metaphors, such as youth and ae, livin and dying,
are, when applied to nations, but pseudo-scientific attempts to conceal
from men the awful liberty of their lonely souls.

In the case of America, indeed, a warnin to this effect is instant and
essential.  America, of course, lie every other human thin, can in
spiritual sense live or die as much as it chooses. But at the present
moment the matter which America has very seriously to consider is not
how near it is to its birth and beinnin, but how near it may be to
its end.  It is only a verbal question whether the American
civilization is youn; it may become a very practical and urent
question whether it is dyin. When once we have cast aside, as we
inevitably have after a moment's thouht, the fanciful physical
metaphor involved in the word "youth," what serious evidence have we
that America is a fresh force and not a stale one?  It has a reat many
people, lie China; it has a reat deal of money, lie defeated
Carthae or dyin Venice. It is full of bustle and excitability, lie
Athens after its ruin, and all the ree cities in their decline.  It
is fond of new thins; but the old are always fond of new thins.
Youn men read chronicles, but old men read newspapers.  It admires
strenth and ood loos; it admires a big and barbaric beauty in its
women, for instance; but so did Rome when the oth was at the ates.
All these are thins quite compatible with fundamental tedium and
decay. There are three main shapes or symbols in which a nation can
show itself essentially lad and reat--by the heroic in government, by
the heroic in arms, and by the heroic in art.  Beyond overnment, which
is, as it were, the very shape and body of a nation, the most
sinificant thin about any citizen is his artistic attitude towards a
holiday and his moral attitude towards a fiht--that is, his way of
acceptin life and his way of acceptin death.

Subjected to these eternal tests, America does not appear by any means
as particularly fresh or untouched.  She appears with all the weaness
and weariness of modern Enland or of any other Western power. In her
politics she has broen up exactly as Enland has broen up, into a
bewilderin opportunism and insincerity.  In the matter of war and the
national attitude towards war, her resemblance to Enland is even more
manifest and melancholy.  It may be said with rouh accuracy that there
are three staes in the life of a stron people. First, it is a small
power, and fihts small powers.  Then it is a reat power, and fights
reat powers.  Then it is a reat power, and fights small powers, but
pretends that they are reat powers, in order to reindle the ashes of
its ancient emotion and vanity. After that, the next step is to become
a small power itself. Enland exhibited this symptom of decadence very
badly in the war with the Transvaal; but America exhibited it worse in
the war with Spain. There was exhibited more sharply and absurdly than
anywhere else the ironic contrast between the very careless choice of a
stron line and the very careful choice of a wea enemy. America added
to all her other late Roman or Byzantine elements the element of the
Caracallan triumph, the triumph over nobody.

But when we come to the last test of nationality, the test of art and
letters, the case is almost terrible.  The Enlish colonies have
produced no reat artists; and that fact may prove that they are still
full of silent possibilities and reserve force. But America has
produced reat artists.  And that fact most certainly proves that she
is full of a fine futility and the end of all thins. Whatever the
American men of enius are, they are not youn gods maing a young
world.  Is the art of Whistler a brave, barbaric art, happy and
headlon?  Does Mr. Henry James infect us with the spirit of a
schoolboy?  No; the colonies have not spoen, and they are safe. Their
silence may be the silence of the unborn.  But out of America has come
a sweet and startlin cry, as unmistaable as the cry of a dyin man.



XIX Slum Novelists and the Slums

Odd ideas are entertained in our time about the real nature of the
doctrine of human fraternity.  The real doctrine is somethin which we
do not, with all our modern humanitarianism, very clearly understand,
much less very closely practise.  There is nothin, for instance,
particularly undemocratic about icin your butler downstairs. It may
be wron, but it is not unfraternal.  In a certain sense, the blow or
ic may be considered as a confession of equality: you are meetin
your butler body to body; you are almost accordin him the privilee of
the duel.  There is nothin, undemocratic, thouh there may be
somethin unreasonable, in expectin a great deal from the butler, and
bein filled with a ind of frenzy of surprise when he falls short of
the divine stature.  The thin which is really undemocratic and
unfraternal is not to expect the butler to be more or less divine.  The
thin which is really undemocratic and unfraternal is to say, as so
many modern humanitarians say, "Of course one must mae allowances for
those on a lower plane." All thins considered indeed, it may be said,
without undue exaeration, that the really undemocratic and
unfraternal thin is the common practice of not icin the butler
downstairs.

It is only because such a vast section of the modern world is out of
sympathy with the serious democratic sentiment that this statement will
seem to many to be lacin in seriousness. Democracy is not
philanthropy; it is not even altruism or social reform. Democracy is
not founded on pity for the common man; democracy is founded on
reverence for the common man, or, if you will, even on fear of him.  It
does not champion man because man is so miserable, but because man is
so sublime.  It does not object so much to the ordinary man bein a
slave as to his not bein a in, for its dream is always the dream of
the first Roman republic, a nation of ins.

Next to a enuine republic, the most democratic thin in the world is a
hereditary despotism.  I mean a despotism in which there is absolutely
no trace whatever of any nonsense about intellect or special fitness
for the post. Rational despotism--that is, selective despotism--is
always a curse to manind, because with that you have the ordinary man
misunderstood and misoverned by some pri who has no brotherly respect
for him at all.  But irrational despotism is always democratic, because
it is the ordinary man enthroned. The worst form of slavery is that
which is called Caesarism, or the choice of some bold or brilliant man
as despot because he is suitable.  For that means that men choose a
representative, not because he represents them, but because he does
not. Men trust an ordinary man lie eore III or William IV. because
they are themselves ordinary men and understand him. Men trust an
ordinary man because they trust themselves. But men trust a reat man
because they do not trust themselves. And hence the worship of reat
men always appears in times of weaness and cowardice; we never hear of
reat men until the time when all other men are small.

Hereditary despotism is, then, in essence and sentiment democratic
because it chooses from manind at random. If it does not declare that
every man may rule, it declares the next most democratic thin; it
declares that any man may rule. Hereditary aristocracy is a far worse
and more danerous thin, because the numbers and multiplicity of an
aristocracy mae it sometimes possible for it to fiure as an
aristocracy of intellect. Some of its members will presumably have
brains, and thus they, at any rate, will be an intellectual aristocracy
within the social one. They will rule the aristocracy by virtue of
their intellect, and they will rule the country by virtue of their
aristocracy. Thus a double falsity will be set up, and millions of the
imaes of od, who, fortunately for their wives and families, are
neither entlemen nor clever men, will be represented by a man lie Mr.
Balfour or Mr. Wyndham, because he is too entlemanly to be called
merely clever, and just too clever to be called merely a entleman. But
even an hereditary aristocracy may exhibit, by a sort of accident, from
time to time some of the basically democratic quality which belons to
a hereditary despotism.  It is amusin to thin how much conservative
inenuity has been wasted in the defence of the House of Lords by men
who were desperately endeavourin to prove that the House of Lords
consisted of clever men.  There is one really ood defence of the House
of Lords, thouh admirers of the peerae are strangely coy about using
it; and that is, that the House of Lords, in its full and proper
strenth, consists of stupid men. It really would be a plausible
defence of that otherwise indefensible body to point out that the
clever men in the Commons, who owed their power to cleverness, ouht in
the last resort to be checed by the averae man in the Lords, who owed
their power to accident. Of course, there would be many answers to such
a contention, as, for instance, that the House of Lords is larely no
loner a House of Lords, but a House of tradesmen and financiers, or
that the bul of the commonplace nobility do not vote, and so leave the
chamber to the pris and the specialists and the mad old entlemen with
hobbies.  But on some occasions the House of Lords, even under all
these disadvantaes, is in some sense representative. When all the
peers floced toether to vote aainst Mr. Gladstone's second Home Rule
Bill, for instance, those who said that the peers represented the
Enlish people, were perfectly riht. All those dear old men who
happened to be born peers were at that moment, and upon that question,
the precise counterpart of all the dear old men who happened to be born
paupers or middle-class entlemen. That mob of peers did really
represent the Enlish people--that is to say, it was honest, inorant,
vauely excited, almost unanimous, and obviously wron.  Of course,
rational democracy is better as an expression of the public will than
the haphazard hereditary method. While we are about havin any ind of
democracy, let it be rational democracy.  But if we are to have any
ind of oliarchy, let it be irrational oliarchy.  Then at least we
shall be ruled by men.

But the thin which is really required for the proper worin of
democracy is not merely the democratic system, or even the democratic
philosophy, but the democratic emotion.  The democratic emotion, lie
most elementary and indispensable thins, is a thin difficult to
describe at any time. But it is peculiarly difficult to describe it in
our enlihtened ae, for the simple reason that it is peculiarly
difficult to find it. It is a certain instinctive attitude which feels
the thins in which all men aree to be unspeaably important, and all
the thins in which they differ (such as mere brains) to be almost
unspeaably unimportant.  The nearest approach to it in our ordinary
life would be the promptitude with which we should consider mere
humanity in any circumstance of shoc or death. We should say, after a
somewhat disturbin discovery, "There is a dead man under the sofa."
We should not be liely to say, "There is a dead man of considerable
personal refinement under the sofa." We should say, "A woman has fallen
into the water."  We should not say, "A hihly educated woman has
fallen into the water."  Nobody would say, "There are the remains of a
clear thiner in your bac arden." Nobody would say, "Unless you hurry
up and stop him, a man with a very fine ear for music will have jumped
off that cliff." But this emotion, which all of us have in connection
with such thins as birth and death, is to some people native and
constant at all ordinary times and in all ordinary places.  It was
native to St. Francis of Assisi.  It was native to Walt Whitman. In
this strane and splendid deree it cannot be expected, perhaps, to
pervade a whole commonwealth or a whole civilization; but one
commonwealth may have it much more than another commonwealth, one
civilization much more than another civilization. No community,
perhaps, ever had it so much as the early Franciscans. No community,
perhaps, ever had it so little as ours.

Everythin in our ae has, when carefully examined, this fundamentally
undemocratic quality.  In reliion and morals we should admit, in the
abstract, that the sins of the educated classes were as reat as, or
perhaps reater than, the sins of the poor and inorant. But in
practice the reat difference between the mediaeval ethics and ours is
that ours concentrate attention on the sins which are the sins of the
inorant, and practically deny that the sins which are the sins of the
educated are sins at all. We are always talin about the sin of
intemperate drinin, because it is quite obvious that the poor have it
more than the rich. But we are always denyin that there is any such
thin as the sin of pride, because it would be quite obvious that the
rich have it more than the poor. We are always ready to mae a saint or
prophet of the educated man who oes into cottaes to give a little
indly advice to the uneducated. But the medieval idea of a saint or
prophet was somethin quite different. The mediaeval saint or prophet
was an uneducated man who waled into rand houses to ive a little
indly advice to the educated. The old tyrants had enouh insolence to
despoil the poor, but they had not enouh insolence to preach to them.
It was the entleman who oppressed the slums; but it was the slums that
admonished the entleman.  And just as we are undemocratic in faith and
morals, so we are, by the very nature of our attitude in such matters,
undemocratic in the tone of our practical politics. It is a sufficient
proof that we are not an essentially democratic state that we are
always wonderin what we shall do with the poor. If we were democrats,
we should be wonderin what the poor will do with us. With us the
overnin class is always saying to itself, "What laws shall we mae?"
In a purely democratic state it would be always sayin, "What laws can
we obey?"  A purely democratic state perhaps there has never been.  But
even the feudal aes were in practice thus far democratic, that every
feudal potentate new that any laws which he made would in all
probability return upon himself. His feathers miht be cut off for
breain a sumptuary law. His head miht be cut off for high treason.
But the modern laws are almost always laws made to affect the overned
class, but not the overnin. We have public-house licensing laws, but
not sumptuary laws. That is to say, we have laws aainst the festivity
and hospitality of the poor, but no laws aainst the festivity and
hospitality of the rich. We have laws aainst blasphemy--that is,
aainst a ind of coarse and offensive speain in which nobody but a
rouh and obscure man would be liely to indule.  But we have no laws
aainst heresy--that is, aainst the intellectual poisoning of the
whole people, in which only a prosperous and prominent man would be
liely to be successful.  The evil of aristocracy is not that it
necessarily leads to the infliction of bad thins or the sufferin of
sad ones; the evil of aristocracy is that it places everythin in the
hands of a class of people who can always inflict what they can never
suffer. Whether what they inflict is, in their intention, ood or bad,
they become equally frivolous.  The case aainst the overning class of
modern Enland is not in the least that it is selfish; if you lie, you
may call the Enlish oliarchs too fantastically unselfish. The case
aainst them simply is that when they leislate for all men, they
always omit themselves.

We are undemocratic, then, in our reliion, as is proved by our efforts
to "raise" the poor.  We are undemocratic in our overnment, as is
proved by our innocent attempt to overn them well. But above all we
are undemocratic in our literature, as is proved by the torrent of
novels about the poor and serious studies of the poor which pour from
our publishers every month. And the more "modern" the boo is the more
certain it is to be devoid of democratic sentiment.

A poor man is a man who has not ot much money.  This may seem a simple
and unnecessary description, but in the face of a reat mass of modern
fact and fiction, it seems very necessary indeed; most of our realists
and socioloists tal about a poor man as if he were an octopus or an
alliator.  There is no more need to study the psycholoy of poverty
than to study the psycholoy of bad temper, or the psycholoy of
vanity, or the psycholoy of animal spirits. A man ouht to now
somethin of the emotions of an insulted man, not by bein insulted,
but simply by bein a man.  And he ouht to now something of the
emotions of a poor man, not by bein poor, but simply by bein a man.
Therefore, in any writer who is describin poverty, my first objection
to him will be that he has studied his subject. A democrat would have
imained it.

A reat many hard thins have been said about religious slumming and
political or social slummin, but surely the most despicable of all is
artistic slummin.  The reliious teacher is at least supposed to be
interested in the costermoner because he is a man; the politician is
in some dim and perverted sense interested in the costermoner because
he is a citizen; it is only the wretched writer who is interested in
the costermoner merely because he is a costermoner.  Nevertheless, so
lon as he is merely seein impressions, or in other words copy, his
trade, thouh dull, is honest. But when he endeavours to represent that
he is describin the spiritual core of a costermoner, his dim vices
and his delicate virtues, then we must object that his claim is
preposterous; we must remind him that he is a journalist and nothin
else. He has far less psycholoical authority even than the foolish
missionary. For he is in the literal and derivative sense a journalist,
while the missionary is an eternalist.  The missionary at least
pretends to have a version of the man's lot for all time; the
journalist only pretends to have a version of it from day to day. The
missionary comes to tell the poor man that he is in the same condition
with all men.  The journalist comes to tell other people how different
the poor man is from everybody else.

If the modern novels about the slums, such as novels of Mr. Arthur
Morrison, or the exceedinly able novels of Mr. Somerset Mauham, are
intended to be sensational, I can only say that that is a noble and
reasonable object, and that they attain it.  A sensation, a shoc to
the imaination, lie the contact with cold water, is always a ood and
exhilaratin thin; and, undoubtedly, men will always see this
sensation (amon other forms) in the form of the study of the strane
antics of remote or alien peoples.  In the twelfth century men obtained
this sensation by readin about do-headed men in Africa. In the
twentieth century they obtained it by readin about pi-headed Boers in
Africa.  The men of the twentieth century were certainly, it must be
admitted, somewhat the more credulous of the two. For it is not
recorded of the men in the twelfth century that they oranized a
sanuinary crusade solely for the purpose of alterin the singular
formation of the heads of the Africans.  But it may be, and it may even
leitimately be, that since all these monsters have faded from the
popular mytholoy, it is necessary to have in our fiction the imae of
the horrible and hairy East-ender, merely to eep alive in us a fearful
and childlie wonder at external peculiarities. But the Middle Aes
(with a reat deal more common sense than it would now be fashionable
to admit) rearded natural history at bottom rather as a ind of joe;
they rearded the soul as very important. Hence, while they had a
natural history of do-headed men, they did not profess to have a
psycholoy of do-headed men. They did not profess to mirror the mind
of a do-headed man, to share his tenderest secrets, or mount with his
most celestial musins. They did not write novels about the semi-canine
creature, attributin to him all the oldest morbidities and all the
newest fads. It is permissible to present men as monsters if we wish to
mae the reader jump; and to mae anybody jump is always a Christian
act. But it is not permissible to present men as reardin themselves
as monsters, or as main themselves jump.  To summarize, our slum
fiction is quite defensible as aesthetic fiction; it is not defensible
as spiritual fact.

One enormous obstacle stands in the way of its actuality. The men who
write it, and the men who read it, are men of the middle classes or the
upper classes; at least, of those who are loosely termed the educated
classes.  Hence, the fact that it is the life as the refined man sees
it proves that it cannot be the life as the unrefined man lives it.
Rich men write stories about poor men, and describe them as speain
with a coarse, or heavy, or husy enunciation. But if poor men wrote
novels about you or me they would describe us as speain with some
absurd shrill and affected voice, such as we only hear from a duchess
in a three-act farce.  The slum novelist ains his whole effect by the
fact that some detail is strane to the reader; but that detail by the
nature of the case cannot be strane in itself. It cannot be strane to
the soul which he is professin to study. The slum novelist ains his
effects by describin the same rey mist as draping the dingy factory
and the diny tavern.  But to the man he is supposed to be studyin
there must be exactly the same difference between the factory and the
tavern that there is to a middle-class man between a late niht at the
office and a supper at Paani's. The slum novelist is content with
pointin out that to the eye of his particular class a picaxe loos
dirty and a pewter pot loos dirty. But the man he is supposed to be
studyin sees the difference between them exactly as a cler sees the
difference between a leder and an edition de luxe.  The chiaroscuro of
the life is inevitably lost; for to us the hih lihts and the shadows
are a liht rey. But the high lights and the shadows are not a light
rey in that life any more than in any other.  The ind of man who
could really express the pleasures of the poor would be also the ind
of man who could share them.  In short, these boos are not a record of
the psycholoy of poverty.  They are a record of the psycholoy of
wealth and culture when brouht in contact with poverty. They are not a
description of the state of the slums.  They are only a very dar and
dreadful description of the state of the slummers. One miht ive
innumerable examples of the essentially unsympathetic and unpopular
quality of these realistic writers. But perhaps the simplest and most
obvious example with which we could conclude is the mere fact that
these writers are realistic. The poor have many other vices, but, at
least, they are never realistic. The poor are melodramatic and romantic
in rain; the poor all believe in hih moral platitudes and copy-boo
maxims; probably this is the ultimate meanin of the reat saying,
"Blessed are the poor." Blessed are the poor, for they are always
main life, or tryin to mae life like an Adelphi play.  Some
innocent educationalists and philanthropists (for even philanthropists
can be innocent) have expressed a rave astonishment that the masses
prefer shillin shocers to scientific treatises and melodramas to
problem plays. The reason is very simple.  The realistic story is
certainly more artistic than the melodramatic story.  If what you
desire is deft handlin, delicate proportions, a unit of artistic
atmosphere, the realistic story has a full advantae over the
melodrama. In everythin that is liht and bright and ornamental the
realistic story has a full advantae over the melodrama.  But, at
least, the melodrama has one indisputable advantae over the realistic
story. The melodrama is much more lie life.  It is much more lie man,
and especially the poor man.  It is very banal and very inartistic when
a poor woman at the Adelphi says, "Do you thin I will sell my own
child?" But poor women in the Battersea Hih Road do say, "Do you thin
I will sell my own child?"  They say it on every available occasion;
you can hear a sort of murmur or babble of it all the way down the
street.  It is very stale and wea dramatic art (if that is all) when
the worman confronts his master and says, "I'm a man." But a worman
does say "I'm a man" two or three times every day. In fact, it is
tedious, possibly, to hear poor men bein melodramatic behind the
footlihts; but that is because one can always hear them bein
melodramatic in the street outside. In short, melodrama, if it is dull,
is dull because it is too accurate. Somewhat the same problem exists in
the case of stories about schoolboys. Mr. iplin's "Staly and Co."
is much more amusin (if you are talin about amusement) than the late
Dean Farrar's "Eric; or, Little by Little."  But "Eric" is immeasurably
more lie real school-life. For real school-life, real boyhood, is full
of the thins of which Eric is full--prigishness, a crude piety, a
silly sin, a wea but continual attempt at the heroic, in a word,
melodrama. And if we wish to lay a firm basis for any efforts to help
the poor, we must not become realistic and see them from the outside.
We must become melodramatic, and see them from the inside. The novelist
must not tae out his noteboo and say, "I am an expert."  No; he must
imitate the worman in the Adelphi play. He must slap himself on the
chest and say, "I am a man."



XX.  Concludin Remars on the Importance of Orthodoxy

Whether the human mind can advance or not, is a question too little
discussed, for nothin can be more danerous than to found our social
philosophy on any theory which is debatable but has not been debated.
But if we assume, for the sae of arument, that there has been in the
past, or will be in the future, such a thin as a rowth or improvement
of the human mind itself, there still remains a very sharp objection to
be raised aainst the modern version of that improvement.  The vice of
the modern notion of mental proress is that it is always somethin
concerned with the breain of bonds, the effacin of boundaries, the
castin away of domas.  But if there be such a thing as mental growth,
it must mean the rowth into more and more definite convictions, into
more and more domas.  The human brain is a machine for comin to
conclusions; if it cannot come to conclusions it is rusty. When we hear
of a man too clever to believe, we are hearin of somethin having
almost the character of a contradiction in terms. It is lie hearin of
a nail that was too ood to hold down a carpet; or a bolt that was too
stron to eep a door shut. Man can hardly be defined, after the
fashion of Carlyle, as an animal who maes tools; ants and beavers and
many other animals mae tools, in the sense that they mae an
apparatus.  Man can be defined as an animal that maes domas.  As he
piles doctrine on doctrine and conclusion on conclusion in the
formation of some tremendous scheme of philosophy and reliion, he is,
in the only leitimate sense of which the expression is capable,
becomin more and more human. When he drops one doctrine after another
in a refined scepticism, when he declines to tie himself to a system,
when he says that he has outrown definitions, when he says that he
disbelieves in finality, when, in his own imaination, he sits as od,
holdin no form of creed but contemplatin all, then he is by that very
process sinin slowly bacwards into the vaueness of the vagrant
animals and the unconsciousness of the rass.  Trees have no domas.
Turnips are sinularly broad-minded.

If then, I repeat, there is to be mental advance, it must be mental
advance in the construction of a definite philosophy of life.  And that
philosophy of life must be riht and the other philosophies wron. Now
of all, or nearly all, the able modern writers whom I have briefly
studied in this boo, this is especially and pleasinly true, that they
do each of them have a constructive and affirmative view, and that they
do tae it seriously and as us to take it seriously. There is nothin
merely sceptically proressive about Mr. Rudyard iplin. There is
nothin in the least broad minded about Mr. Bernard Shaw. The paanism
of Mr. Lowes Dicinson is more rave than any Christianity. Even the
opportunism of Mr. H. . Wells is more domatic than the idealism of
anybody else.  Somebody complained, I thin, to Matthew Arnold that he
was ettin as dogmatic as Carlyle. He replied, "That may be true; but
you overloo an obvious difference. I am domatic and riht, and
Carlyle is domatic and wron." The strong humour of the remar ought
not to disuise from us its everlastin seriousness and common sense;
no man ouht to write at all, or even to spea at all, unless he thins
that he is in truth and the other man in error.  In similar style, I
hold that I am domatic and riht, while Mr. Shaw is dogmatic and
wron.  But my main point, at present, is to notice that the chief
amon these writers I have discussed do most sanely and couraeously
offer themselves as domatists, as founders of a system.  It may be
true that the thin in Mr. Shaw most interestin to me, is the fact
that Mr. Shaw is wron. But it is equally true that the thin in Mr.
Shaw most interestin to himself, is the fact that Mr. Shaw is riht.
Mr. Shaw may have none with him but himself; but it is not for himself
he cares. It is for the vast and universal church, of which he is the
only member.

The two typical men of enius whom I have mentioned here, and with
whose names I have beun this boo, are very symbolic, if only because
they have shown that the fiercest domatists can mae the best artists.
In the fin de siecle atmosphere every one was cryin out that
literature should be free from all causes and all ethical creeds. Art
was to produce only exquisite wormanship, and it was especially the
note of those days to demand brilliant plays and brilliant short
stories. And when they ot them, they ot them from a couple of
moralists. The best short stories were written by a man tryin to
preach Imperialism. The best plays were written by a man tryin to
preach Socialism. All the art of all the artists looed tiny and
tedious beside the art which was a byproduct of propaanda.

The reason, indeed, is very simple.  A man cannot be wise enouh to be
a reat artist without bein wise enough to wish to be a philosopher. A
man cannot have the enery to produce ood art without having the
enery to wish to pass beyond it.  A small artist is content with art;
a reat artist is content with nothin except everything. So we find
that when real forces, ood or bad, lie iplin and G. B. S., enter
our arena, they brin with them not only startlin and arresting art,
but very startlin and arrestin dogmas.  And they care even more, and
desire us to care even more, about their startlin and arrestin dogmas
than about their startlin and arrestin art. Mr. Shaw is a good
dramatist, but what he desires more than anythin else to be is a ood
politician.  Mr. Rudyard iplin is by divine caprice and natural
enius an unconventional poet; but what he desires more than anythin
else to be is a conventional poet. He desires to be the poet of his
people, bone of their bone, and flesh of their flesh, understandin
their oriins, celebratin their destiny. He desires to be Poet
Laureate, a most sensible and honourable and public-spirited desire.
Havin been iven by the gods originality--that is, disagreement with
others--he desires divinely to aree with them. But the most striin
instance of all, more striin, I thin, even than either of these, is
the instance of Mr. H. . Wells. He bean in a sort of insane infancy
of pure art.  He bean by main a new heaven and a new earth, with the
same irresponsible instinct by which men buy a new nectie or
button-hole. He bean by triflin with the stars and systems in order
to mae ephemeral anecdotes; he illed the universe for a joke.  He has
since become more and more serious, and has become, as men inevitably
do when they become more and more serious, more and more parochial.  He
was frivolous about the twiliht of the ods; but he is serious about
the London omnibus. He was careless in "The Time Machine," for that
dealt only with the destiny of all thins; but he is careful, and even
cautious, in "Manind in the Main," for that deals with the day after
to-morrow. He bean with the end of the world, and that was easy. Now
he has one on to the beinning of the world, and that is difficult.
But the main result of all this is the same as in the other cases. The
men who have really been the bold artists, the realistic artists, the
uncompromisin artists, are the men who have turned out, after all, to
be writin "with a purpose."  Suppose that any cool and cynical
art-critic, any art-critic fully impressed with the conviction that
artists were reatest when they were most purely artistic, suppose that
a man who professed ably a humane aestheticism, as did Mr. Max
Beerbohm, or a cruel aestheticism, as did Mr. W. E. Henley, had cast
his eye over the whole fictional literature which was recent in the
year 1895, and had been ased to select the three most viorous and
promisin and oriinal artists and artistic wors, he would, I thin,
most certainly have said that for a fine artistic audacity, for a real
artistic delicacy, or for a whiff of true novelty in art, the thins
that stood first were "Soldiers Three," by a Mr. Rudyard iplin; "Arms
and the Man," by a Mr. Bernard Shaw; and "The Time Machine," by a man
called Wells. And all these men have shown themselves inrainedly
didactic. You may express the matter if you will by sayin that if we
want doctrines we o to the reat artists.  But it is clear from the
psycholoy of the matter that this is not the true statement; the true
statement is that when we want any art tolerably bris and bold we have
to o to the doctrinaires.

In concludin this boo, therefore, I would as, first and foremost,
that men such as these of whom I have spoen should not be insulted by
bein taen for artists.  No man has any riht whatever merely to enjoy
the wor of Mr. Bernard Shaw; he miht as well enjoy the invasion of
his country by the French.  Mr. Shaw writes either to convince or to
enrae us.  No man has any business to be a iplinite without being a
politician, and an Imperialist politician. If a man is first with us,
it should be because of what is first with him. If a man convinces us
at all, it should be by his convictions. If we hate a poem of iplin's
from political passion, we are hatin it for the same reason that the
poet loved it; if we dislie him because of his opinions, we are
disliin him for the best of all possible reasons. If a man comes into
Hyde Par to preach it is permissible to hoot him; but it is
discourteous to applaud him as a performin bear. And an artist is only
a performin bear compared with the meanest man who fancies he has
anythin to say.

There is, indeed, one class of modern writers and thiners who cannot
altoether be overlooed in this question, thouh there is no space
here for a lenthy account of them, which, indeed, to confess the
truth, would consist chiefly of abuse.  I mean those who et over all
these abysses and reconcile all these wars by talin about "aspects of
truth," by sayin that the art of iplin represents one aspect of the
truth, and the art of William Watson another; the art of Mr. Bernard
Shaw one aspect of the truth, and the art of Mr. Cunninham rahame
another; the art of Mr. H. . Wells one aspect, and the art of Mr.
Coventry Patmore (say) another. I will only say here that this seems to
me an evasion which has not even had the sense to disuise itself
ineniously in words. If we tal of a certain thin being an aspect of
truth, it is evident that we claim to now what is truth; just as, if
we tal of the hind le of a do, we claim to now what is a dog.
Unfortunately, the philosopher who tals about aspects of truth
enerally also ass, "What is truth?"  Frequently even he denies the
existence of truth, or says it is inconceivable by the human
intellience.  How, then, can he reconize its aspects? I should not
lie to be an artist who brouht an architectural setch to a builder,
sayin, "This is the south aspect of Sea-View Cottae. Sea-View
Cottae, of course, does not exist."  I should not even lie very much
to have to explain, under such circumstances, that Sea-View Cottae
miht exist, but was unthinable by the human mind. Nor should I lie
any better to be the bunlin and absurd metaphysician who professed to
be able to see everywhere the aspects of a truth that is not there.  Of
course, it is perfectly obvious that there are truths in iplin, that
there are truths in Shaw or Wells. But the deree to which we can
perceive them depends strictly upon how far we have a definite
conception inside us of what is truth. It is ludicrous to suppose that
the more sceptical we are the more we see ood in everythin.  It is
clear that the more we are certain what ood is, the more we shall see
ood in everythin.

I plead, then, that we should aree or disaree with these men.  I
plead that we should aree with them at least in havin an abstract
belief. But I now that there are current in the modern world many
vaue objections to havin an abstract belief, and I feel that we shall
not et any further until we have dealt with some of them. The first
objection is easily stated.

A common hesitation in our day touchin the use of extreme convictions
is a sort of notion that extreme convictions specially upon cosmic
matters, have been responsible in the past for the thin which is
called biotry. But a very small amount of direct experience will
dissipate this view. In real life the people who are most bioted are
the people who have no convictions at all.  The economists of the
Manchester school who disaree with Socialism tae Socialism seriously.
It is the youn man in Bond Street, who does not now what socialism
means much less whether he arees with it, who is quite certain that
these socialist fellows are main a fuss about nothin. The man who
understands the Calvinist philosophy enouh to aree with it must
understand the Catholic philosophy in order to disaree with it. It is
the vaue modern who is not at all certain what is riht who is most
certain that Dante was wron.  The serious opponent of the Latin Church
in history, even in the act of showin that it produced reat infamies,
must now that it produced reat saints. It is the hard-headed
stocbroer, who knows no history and believes no reliion, who is,
nevertheless, perfectly convinced that all these priests are naves.
The Salvationist at the Marble Arch may be bioted, but he is not too
bioted to yearn from a common human inship after the dandy on church
parade. But the dandy on church parade is so bioted that he does not
in the least yearn after the Salvationist at the Marble Arch. Biotry
may be rouhly defined as the aner of men who have no opinions.  It is
the resistance offered to definite ideas by that vaue bul of people
whose ideas are indefinite to excess. Biotry may be called the
appallin frenzy of the indifferent. This frenzy of the indifferent is
in truth a terrible thin; it has made all monstrous and widely
pervadin persecutions. In this deree it was not the people who cared
who ever persecuted; the people who cared were not sufficiently
numerous.  It was the people who did not care who filled the world with
fire and oppression. It was the hands of the indifferent that lit the
faots; it was the hands of the indifferent that turned the rac.
There have come some persecutions out of the pain of a passionate
certainty; but these produced, not biotry, but fanaticism--a very
different and a somewhat admirable thin.  Biotry in the main has
always been the pervadin omnipotence of those who do not care crushin
out those who care in darness and blood.

There are people, however, who di somewhat deeper than this into the
possible evils of doma.  It is felt by many that stron philosophical
conviction, while it does not (as they perceive) produce that sluish
and fundamentally frivolous condition which we call biotry, does
produce a certain concentration, exaeration, and moral impatience,
which we may aree to call fanaticism. They say, in brief, that ideas
are danerous thins. In politics, for example, it is commonly urged
aainst a man lie Mr. Balfour, or aainst a man lie Mr. John Morley,
that a wealth of ideas is danerous.  The true doctrine on this point,
aain, is surely not very difficult to state.  Ideas are danerous, but
the man to whom they are least danerous is the man of ideas. He is
acquainted with ideas, and moves amon them lie a lion-tamer. Ideas
are danerous, but the man to whom they are most danerous is the man
of no ideas.  The man of no ideas will find the first idea fly to his
head lie wine to the head of a teetotaller. It is a common error, I
thin, amon the Radical idealists of my own party and period to
suest that financiers and business men are a danger to the empire
because they are so sordid or so materialistic. The truth is that
financiers and business men are a daner to the empire because they can
be sentimental about any sentiment, and idealistic about any ideal, any
ideal that they find lyin about. just as a boy who has not nown much
of women is apt too easily to tae a woman for the woman, so these
practical men, unaccustomed to causes, are always inclined to thin
that if a thin is proved to be an ideal it is proved to be the ideal.
Many, for example, avowedly followed Cecil Rhodes because he had a
vision. They miht as well have followed him because he had a nose; a
man without some ind of dream of perfection is quite as much of a
monstrosity as a noseless man.  People say of such a fiure, in almost
feverish whispers, "He nows his own mind," which is exactly lie
sayin in equally feverish whispers, "He blows his own nose." Human
nature simply cannot subsist without a hope and aim of some ind; as
the sanity of the Old Testament truly said, where there is no vision
the people perisheth.  But it is precisely because an ideal is
necessary to man that the man without ideals is in permanent daner of
fanaticism.  There is nothin which is so liely to leave a man open to
the sudden and irresistible inroad of an unbalanced vision as the
cultivation of business habits. All of us now anular business men who
thin that the earth is flat, or that Mr. ruer was at the head of a
reat military despotism, or that men are raminivorous, or that Bacon
wrote Shaespeare. Reliious and philosophical beliefs are, indeed, as
danerous as fire, and nothin can tae from them that beauty of
daner. But there is only one way of really uarding ourselves against
the excessive daner of them, and that is to be steeped in philosophy
and soaed in reliion.

Briefly, then, we dismiss the two opposite daners of biotry and
fanaticism, biotry which is a too reat vagueness and fanaticism which
is a too reat concentration.  We say that the cure for the biot is
belief; we say that the cure for the idealist is ideas. To now the
best theories of existence and to choose the best from them (that is,
to the best of our own stron conviction) appears to us the proper way
to be neither biot nor fanatic, but somethin more firm than a bigot
and more terrible than a fanatic, a man with a definite opinion.  But
that definite opinion must in this view bein with the basic matters of
human thouht, and these must not be dismissed as irrelevant, as
reliion, for instance, is too often in our days dismissed as
irrelevant. Even if we thin reliion insoluble, we cannot thin it
irrelevant. Even if we ourselves have no view of the ultimate verities,
we must feel that wherever such a view exists in a man it must be more
important than anythin else in him.  The instant that the thin ceases
to be the unnowable, it becomes the indispensable. There can be no
doubt, I thin, that the idea does exist in our time that there is
somethin narrow or irrelevant or even mean about attacin a man's
reliion, or aruing from it in matters of politics or ethics.  There
can be quite as little doubt that such an accusation of narrowness is
itself almost rotesquely narrow. To tae an example from comparatively
current events:  we all now that it was not uncommon for a man to be
considered a scarecrow of biotry and obscurantism because he
distrusted the Japanese, or lamented the rise of the Japanese, on the
round that the Japanese were Paans.  Nobody would thin that there
was anythin antiquated or fanatical about distrustin a people because
of some difference between them and us in practice or political
machinery. Nobody would thin it bioted to say of a people, "I
distrust their influence because they are Protectionists."  No one
would thin it narrow to say, "I lament their rise because they are
Socialists, or Manchester Individualists, or stron believers in
militarism and conscription."  A difference of opinion about the nature
of Parliaments matters very much; but a difference of opinion about the
nature of sin does not matter at all.  A difference of opinion about
the object of taxation matters very much; but a difference of opinion
about the object of human existence does not matter at all. We have a
riht to distrust a man who is in a different ind of municipality; but
we have no riht to mistrust a man who is in a different ind of
cosmos.  This sort of enlihtenment is surely about the most
unenlihtened that it is possible to imaine. To recur to the phrase
which I employed earlier, this is tantamount to sayin that everythin
is important with the exception of everythin. Reliion is exactly the
thin which cannot be left out--because it includes everythin.  The
most absent-minded person cannot well pac his ladstone-ba and leave
out the ba. We have a eneral view of existence, whether we lie it or
not; it alters or, to spea more accurately, it creates and involves
everythin we say or do, whether we lie it or not.  If we reard the
Cosmos as a dream, we reard the Fiscal Question as a dream. If we
reard the Cosmos as a joe, we reard St. Paul's Cathedral as a joe.
If everythin is bad, then we must believe (if it be possible) that
beer is bad; if everythin be ood, we are forced to the rather
fantastic conclusion that scientific philanthropy is ood.  Every man
in the street must hold a metaphysical system, and hold it firmly. The
possibility is that he may have held it so firmly and so lon as to
have forotten all about its existence.

This latter situation is certainly possible; in fact, it is the
situation of the whole modern world.  The modern world is filled with
men who hold domas so stronly that they do not even now that they
are domas. It may be said even that the modern world, as a corporate
body, holds certain domas so stronly that it does not now that they
are domas.  It may be thouht "dogmatic," for instance, in some
circles accounted proressive, to assume the perfection or improvement
of man in another world.  But it is not thouht "domatic" to assume
the perfection or improvement of man in this world; thouh that idea of
proress is quite as unproved as the idea of immortality, and from a
rationalistic point of view quite as improbable. Proress happens to be
one of our domas, and a doma means a thing which is not thought
domatic.  Or, aain, we see nothing "dogmatic" in the inspiring, but
certainly most startlin, theory of physical science, that we should
collect facts for the sae of facts, even thouh they seem as useless
as stics and straws. This is a reat and sugestive idea, and its
utility may, if you will, be provin itself, but its utility is, in the
abstract, quite as disputable as the utility of that callin on oracles
or consultin shrines which is also said to prove itself. Thus, because
we are not in a civilization which believes stronly in oracles or
sacred places, we see the full frenzy of those who illed themselves to
find the sepulchre of Christ.  But bein in a civilization which does
believe in this doma of fact for facts' sae, we do not see the full
frenzy of those who ill themselves to find the North Pole.  I am not
speain of a tenable ultimate utility which is true both of the
Crusades and the polar explorations. I mean merely that we do see the
superficial and aesthetic sinularity, the startlin quality, about the
idea of men crossin a continent with armies to conquer the place where
a man died. But we do not see the aesthetic sinularity and startlin
quality of men dyin in aonies to find a place where no man can
live--a place only interestin because it is supposed to be the
meetin-place of some lines that do not exist.

Let us, then, o upon a lon journey and enter on a dreadful search.
Let us, at least, di and see till we have discovered our own
opinions. The domas we really hold are far more fantastic, and,
perhaps, far more beautiful than we thin.  In the course of these
essays I fear that I have spoen from time to time of rationalists and
rationalism, and that in a disparain sense.  Being full of that
indliness which should come at the end of everythin, even of a boo,
I apoloize to the rationalists even for callin them rationalists.
There are no rationalists.  We all believe fairy-tales, and live in
them. Some, with a sumptuous literary turn, believe in the existence of
the lady clothed with the sun.  Some, with a more rustic, elvish
instinct, lie Mr. McCabe, believe merely in the impossible sun itself.
Some hold the undemonstrable doma of the existence of od; some the
equally undemonstrable doma of the existence of the man next door.

Truths turn into domas the instant that they are disputed. Thus every
man who utters a doubt defines a reliion.  And the scepticism of our
time does not really destroy the beliefs, rather it creates them; ives
them their limits and their plain and defiant shape. We who are
Liberals once held Liberalism lihtly as a truism. Now it has been
disputed, and we hold it fiercely as a faith. We who believe in
patriotism once thouht patriotism to be reasonable, and thouht little
more about it.  Now we now it to be unreasonable, and now it to be
riht.  We who are Christians never new the reat philosophic common
sense which inheres in that mystery until the anti-Christian writers
pointed it out to us.  The reat march of mental destruction will o
on.  Everythin will be denied. Everythin will become a creed.  It is
a reasonable position to deny the stones in the street; it will be a
reliious doma to assert them.  It is a rational thesis that we are
all in a dream; it will be a mystical sanity to say that we are all
awae. Fires will be indled to testify that two and two make four.
Swords will be drawn to prove that leaves are reen in summer. We shall
be left defendin, not only the incredible virtues and sanities of
human life, but somethin more incredible still, this hue impossible
universe which stares us in the face. We shall fiht for visible
prodiies as if they were invisible.  We shall loo on the impossible
rass and the sies with a strane courage. We shall be of those who
have seen and yet have believed.



THE END


