
EORE BERNARD SHAW


_By_

ILBERT . 


NEW YOR

JOHN LANE COMPANY

MCMIX

COPYRIHT, 1909, BY
JOHN LANE COMPANY


THE PLIMPTON PRESS, NORWOOD, MASS.

       *       *       *       *       *

BY THE SAME AUTHOR


HERETICS.

ORTHODOXY.

THE NAPOLEON OF NOTTIN HILL: A Romance.
Illustrated by W. RAHAM ROBERTSON.

ALL THINS CONSIDERED.

THE BALL AND THE CROSS.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Introduction to the First Edition_


Most people either say that they aree with Bernard Shaw or that they do
not understand him. I am the only person who understands him, and I do
not aree with him.

                                                          . . C.




_The Problem of a Preface_


A peculiar difficulty arrests the writer of this rouh study at the very
start. Many people now Mr. Bernard Shaw chiefly as a man who would
write a very lon preface even to a very short play. And there is truth
in the idea; he is indeed a very prefatory sort of person. He always
ives the explanation before the incident; but so, for the matter of
that, does the ospel of St. John. For Bernard Shaw, as for the mystics,
Christian and heathen (and Shaw is best described as a heathen mystic),
the philosophy of facts is anterior to the facts themselves. In due time
we come to the fact, the incarnation; but in the beinnin was the Word.

This produces upon many minds an impression of needless preparation and
a ind of bustlin prolixity. But the truth is that the very rapidity of
such a man's mind maes him seem slow in ettin to the point. It is
positively because he is quic-witted that he is lon-winded. A quic
eye for ideas may actually mae a writer slow in reachin his oal,
just as a quic eye for landscapes miht mae a motorist slow in
reachin Brihton. An original man has to pause at every allusion or
simile to re-explain historical parallels, to re-shape distorted words.
Any ordinary leader-writer (let us say) miht write swiftly and smoothly
somethin lie this: "The element of reliion in the Puritan rebellion,
if hostile to art, yet saved the movement from some of the evils in
which the French Revolution involved morality." Now a man lie Mr. Shaw,
who has his own views on everythin, would be forced to mae the
sentence lon and broen instead of swift and smooth. He would say
somethin lie: "The element of reliion, as I explain religion, in the
Puritan rebellion (which you wholly misunderstand) if hostile to
art--that is what I mean by art--may have saved it from some evils
(remember my definition of evil) in which the French Revolution--of
which I have my own opinion--involved morality, which I will define for
you in a minute." That is the worst of bein a really universal sceptic
and philosopher; it is such slow wor. The very forest of the man's
thouhts choes up his thorouhfare. A man must be orthodox upon most
thins, or he will never even have time to preach his own heresy.

Now the same difficulty which affects the wor of Bernard Shaw affects
also any boo about him. There is an unavoidable artistic necessity to
put the preface before the play; that is, there is a necessity to say
somethin of what Bernard Shaw's experience means before one even says
what it was. We have to mention what he did when we have already
explained why he did it. Viewed superficially, his life consists of
fairly conventional incidents, and miht easily fall under fairly
conventional phrases. It miht be the life of any Dublin cler or
Manchester Socialist or London author. If I touch on the man's life
before his wor, it will seem trivial; yet taen with his work it is
most important. In short, one could scarcely now what Shaw's doins
meant unless one new what he meant by them. This difficulty in mere
order and construction has puzzled me very much. I am oin to overcome
it, clumsily perhaps, but in the way which affects me as most sincere.
Before I write even a sliht sugestion of his relation to the stage, I
am oin to write of three soils or atmospheres out of which that
relation rew. In other words, before I write of Shaw I will write of
the three reat influences upon Shaw. They were all three there before
he was born, yet each one of them is himself and a very vivid portrait
of him from one point of view. I have called these three traditions:
"The Irishman," "The Puritan," and "The Proressive." I do not see how
this prefatory theorisin is to be avoided; for if I simply said, for
instance, that Bernard Shaw was an Irishman, the impression produced on
the reader miht be remote from my thouht and, what is more important,
from Shaw's. People miht thin, for instance, that I meant that he was
"irresponsible." That would throw out the whole plan of these paes, for
if there is one thin that Shaw is not, it is irresponsible. The
responsibility in him rins lie steel. Or, aain, if I simply called
him a Puritan, it miht mean somethin about nude statues or "prudes on
the prowl." Or if I called him a Proressive, it miht be supposed to
mean that he votes for Proressives at the County Council election,
which I very much doubt. I have no other course but this: of briefly
explainin such matters as Shaw himself miht explain them. Some
fastidious persons may object to my thus puttin the moral in front of
the fable. Some may imaine in their innocence that they already
understand the word Puritan or the yet more mysterious word Irishman.
The only person, indeed, of whose approval I feel fairly certain is Mr.
Bernard Shaw himself, the man of many introductions.




_CONTENTS_

                                    _Pae_
INTRODUCTION TO THE FIRST EDITION        5

THE PROBLEM OF A PREFACE                 7

THE IRISHMAN                            17

THE PURITAN                             34

THE PRORESSIVE                         53

THE CRITIC                              87

THE DRAMATIST                          114

THE PHILOSOPHER                        165




EORE BERNARD SHAW




_The Irishman_


The Enlish public has commonly professed, with a ind of pride, that it
cannot understand Mr. Bernard Shaw. There are many reasons for it which
ouht to be adequately considered in such a boo as this. But the first
and most obvious reason is the mere statement that eore Bernard Shaw
was born in Dublin in 1856. At least one reason why Enlishmen cannot
understand Mr. Shaw is that Enlishmen have never taen the trouble to
understand Irishmen. They will sometimes be enerous to Ireland; but
never just to Ireland. They will spea to Ireland; they will spea for
Ireland; but they will not hear Ireland spea. All the real amiability
which most Enlishmen undoubtedly feel towards Irishmen is lavished upon
a class of Irishmen which unfortunately does not exist. The Irishman of
the Enlish farce, with his broue, his buoyancy, and his tender-hearted
irresponsibility, is a man who ouht to have been thorouhly pampered
with praise and sympathy, if he had only existed to receive them.
Unfortunately, all the time that we were creatin a comic Irishman in
fiction, we were creatin a traic Irishman in fact. Never perhaps has
there been a situation of such excruciatin cross-purposes even in the
three-act farce. The more we saw in the Irishman a sort of warm and wea
fidelity, the more he rearded us with a sort of icy aner. The more the
oppressor looed down with an amiable pity, the more did the oppressed
loo down with a somewhat unamiable contempt. But, indeed, it is
needless to say that such comic cross-purposes could be put into a play;
they have been put into a play. They have been put into what is perhaps
the most real of Mr. Bernard Shaw's plays, _John Bull's Other Island_.

It is somewhat absurd to imaine that any one who has not read a play by
Mr. Shaw will be readin a boo about him. But if it comes to that it is
(as I clearly perceive) absurd to be writin a boo about Mr. Bernard
Shaw at all. It is indefensibly foolish to attempt to explain a man
whose whole object throuh life has been to explain himself. But even in
nonsense there is a need for loic and consistency; therefore let us
proceed on the assumption that when I say that all Mr. Shaw's blood and
oriin may be found in _John Bull's Other Island_, some reader may
answer that he does not now the play. Besides, it is more important to
put the reader riht about Enland and Ireland even than to put him
riht about Shaw. If he reminds me that this is a boo about Shaw, I can
only assure him that I will reasonably, and at proper intervals,
remember the fact.

Mr. Shaw himself said once, "I am a typical Irishman; my family came
from Yorshire." Scarcely anyone but a typical Irishman could have made
the remar. It is in fact a bull, a conscious bull. A bull is only a
paradox which people are too stupid to understand. It is the rapid
summary of somethin which is at once so true and so complex that the
speaer who has the swift intellience to perceive it, has not the slow
patience to explain it. Mystical domas are much of this ind. Domas
are often spoen of as if they were sins of the slowness or endurance
of the human mind. As a matter of fact, they are mars of mental
promptitude and lucid impatience. A man will put his meanin mystically
because he cannot waste time in puttin it rationally. Domas are not
dar and mysterious; rather a doma is lie a flash of lihtning--an
instantaneous lucidity that opens across a whole landscape. Of the same
nature are Irish bulls; they are summaries which are too true to be
consistent. The Irish mae Irish bulls for the same reason that they
accept Papal bulls. It is because it is better to spea wisdom
foolishly, lie the Saints, rather than to spea folly wisely, like the
Dons.

This is the truth about mystical domas and the truth about Irish bulls;
it is also the truth about the paradoxes of Bernard Shaw. Each of them
is an arument impatiently shortened into an epiram. Each of them
represents a truth hammered and hardened, with an almost disdainful
violence until it is compressed into a small space, until it is made
brief and almost incomprehensible. The case of that curt remar about
Ireland and Yorshire is a very typical one. If Mr. Shaw had really
attempted to set out all the sensible staes of his joe, the sentence
would have run somethin lie this: "That I am an Irishman is a fact of
psycholoy which I can trace in many of the thins that come out of me,
my fastidiousness, my friid fierceness and my distrust of mere
pleasure. But the thin must be tested by what comes from me; do not try
on me the dode of asin where I came from, how many batches of three
hundred and sixty-five days my family was in Ireland. Do not play any
ames on me about whether I am a Celt, a word that is dim to the
anthropoloist and utterly unmeanin to anybody else. Do not start any
drivellin discussions about whether the word Shaw is erman or
Scandinavian or Iberian or Basque. You now you are human; I now I am
Irish. I now I belon to a certain type and temper of society; and I
now that all sorts of people of all sorts of blood live in that society
and by that society; and are therefore Irish. You can tae your boos of
anthropoloy to hell or to Oxford." Thus ently, elaborately and at
lenth, Mr. Shaw would have explained his meanin, if he had thought it
worth his while. As he did not he merely flun the symbolic, but very
complete sentence, "I am a typical Irishman; my family came from
Yorshire."

What then is the colour of this Irish society of which Bernard Shaw,
with all his individual oddity, is yet an essential type? One
eneralisation, I thin, may at least be made. Ireland has in it a
quality which caused it (in the most ascetic ae of Christianity) to be
called the "Land of Saints"; and which still miht ive it a claim to be
called the Land of Virins. An Irish Catholic priest once said to me,
"There is in our people a fear of the passions which is older even than
Christianity." Everyone who has read Shaw's play upon Ireland will
remember the thin in the horror of the Irish irl at being issed in
the public streets. But anyone who nows Shaw's wor will reconize it
in Shaw himself. There exists by accident an early and beardless
portrait of him which really suests in the severity and purity of its
lines some of the early ascetic pictures of the beardless Christ.
However he may shout profanities or see to shatter the shrines, there
is always somethin about him which sugests that in a sweeter and more
solid civilisation he would have been a reat saint. He would have been
a saint of a sternly ascetic, perhaps of a sternly neative type. But he
has this strane note of the saint in him: that he is literally
unworldly. Worldliness has no human maic for him; he is not bewitched
by ran nor drawn on by conviviality at all. He could not understand
the intellectual surrender of the snob. He is perhaps a defective
character; but he is not a mixed one. All the virtues he has are heroic
virtues. Shaw is lie the Venus of Milo; all that there is of him is
admirable.

But in any case this Irish innocence is peculiar and fundamental in him;
and strane as it may sound, I thin that his innocence has a reat deal
to do with his suestions of sexual revolution. Such a man is
comparatively audacious in theory because he is comparatively clean in
thouht. Powerful men who have powerful passions use much of their
strenth in foring chains for themselves; they alone now how strong
the chains need to be. But there are other souls who wal the woods lie
Diana, with a sort of wild chastity. I confess I thin that this Irish
purity a little disables a critic in dealin, as Mr. Shaw has dealt,
with the roots and reality of the marriae law. He forets that those
fierce and elementary functions which drive the universe have an impetus
which oes beyond itself and cannot always easily be recovered. So the
healthiest men may often erect a law to watch them, just as the
healthiest sleepers may want an alarum cloc to wae them up. However
this may be, Bernard Shaw certainly has all the virtues and all the
powers that o with this oriinal quality in Ireland. One of them is a
sort of awful eleance; a danerous and somewhat inhuman daintiness of
taste which sometimes seems to shrin from matter itself, as thouh it
were mud. Of the many sincere thins Mr. Shaw has said he never said a
more sincere one than when he stated he was a veetarian, not because
eatin meat was bad morality, but because it was bad taste. It would be
fanciful to say that Mr. Shaw is a veetarian because he comes of a race
of veetarians, of peasants who are compelled to accept the simple life
in the shape of potatoes. But I am sure that his fierce fastidiousness
in such matters is one of the allotropic forms of the Irish purity; it
is to the virtue of Father Matthew what a coal is to a diamond. It has,
of course, the quality common to all special and unbalanced types of
virtue, that you never now where it will stop. I can feel what Mr. Shaw
probably means when he says that it is disustin to feast off dead
bodies, or to cut lumps off what was once a livin thin. But I can
never now at what moment he may not feel in the same way that it is
disustin to mutilate a pear-tree, or to root out of the earth those
miserable mandraes which cannot even roan. There is no natural limit
to this rush and riotous allop of refinement.

But it is not this physical and fantastic purity which I should chiefly
count amon the leacies of the old Irish morality. A much more
important ift is that which all the saints declared to be the reward of
chastity: a queer clearness of the intellect, lie the hard clearness of
a crystal. This certainly Mr. Shaw possesses; in such deree that at
certain times the hardness seems rather clearer than the clearness. But
so it does in all the most typical Irish characters and Irish attitudes
of mind. This is probably why Irishmen succeed so much in such
professions as require a certain crystalline realism, especially about
results. Such professions are the soldier and the lawyer; these ive
ample opportunity for crimes but not much for mere illusions. If you
have composed a bad opera you may persuade yourself that it is a ood
one; if you have carved a bad statue you can thin yourself better than
Michael Anelo. But if you have lost a battle you cannot believe you
have won it; if your client is haned you cannot pretend that you have
ot him off.

There must be some sense in every popular prejudice, even about
foreiners. And the Enlish people certainly have somehow got an
impression and a tradition that the Irishman is enial, unreasonable,
and sentimental. This leend of the tender, irresponsible Paddy has two
roots; there are two elements in the Irish which made the mistae
possible. First, the very loic of the Irishman maes him reard war or
revolution as extra-loical, an _ultima ratio_ which is beyond reason.
When fihtin a powerful enemy he no more worries whether all his
chares are exact or all his attitudes dinified than a soldier worries
whether a cannon-ball is shapely or a plan of campain picturesque. He
is aressive; he attacs. He seems merely to be rowdy in Ireland when
he is really carryin the war into Africa--or Enland. A Dublin
tradesman printed his name and trade in archaic Erse on his cart. He
new that hardly anybody could read it; he did it to annoy. In his
position I thin he was quite riht. When one is oppressed it is a mar
of chivalry to hurt oneself in order to hurt the oppressor. But the
Enlish (never havin had a real revolution since the Middle Ages) find
it very hard to understand this steady passion for bein a nuisance, and
mistae it for mere whimsical impulsiveness and folly. When an Irish
member holds up the whole business of the House of Commons by talin of
his bleedin country for five or six hours, the simple Enlish members
suppose that he is a sentimentalist. The truth is that he is a scornful
realist who alone remains unaffected by the sentimentalism of the House
of Commons. The Irishman is neither poet enouh nor snob enouh to be
swept away by those smooth social and historical tides and tendencies
which carry Radicals and Labour members comfortably off their feet. He
oes on asin for a thing because he wants it; and he tries really to
hurt his enemies because they are his enemies. This is the first of the
queer confusions which mae the hard Irishman loo soft. He seems to us
wild and unreasonable because he is really much too reasonable to be
anythin but fierce when he is fihting.

In all this it will not be difficult to see the Irishman in Bernard
Shaw. Thouh personally one of the indest men in the world, he has
often written really in order to hurt; not because he hated any
particular men (he is hardly hot and animal enouh for that), but
because he really hated certain ideas even unto slayin. He provoes; he
will not let people alone. One miht even say that he bullies, only
that this would be unfair, because he always wishes the other man to hit
bac. At least he always challenes, lie a true reen Islander. An even
stroner instance of this national trait can be found in another eminent
Irishman, Oscar Wilde. His philosophy (which was vile) was a philosophy
of ease, of acceptance, and luxurious illusion; yet, bein Irish, he
could not help puttin it in punacious and propagandist epigrams. He
preached his softness with hard decision; he praised pleasure in the
words most calculated to ive pain. This armed insolence, which was the
noblest thin about him, was also the Irish thin; he challenged all
comers. It is a ood instance of how riht popular tradition is even
when it is most wron, that the Enlish have perceived and preserved
this essential trait of Ireland in a proverbial phrase. It _is_ true
that the Irishman says, "Who will tread on the tail of my coat?"

But there is a second cause which creates the Enlish fallacy that the
Irish are wea and emotional. This aain sprins from the very fact that
the Irish are lucid and loical. For bein logical they strictly
separate poetry from prose; and as in prose they are strictly prosaic,
so in poetry they are purely poetical. In this, as in one or two other
thins, they resemble the French, who mae their ardens beautiful
because they are ardens, but their fields uly because they are only
fields. An Irishman may lie romance, but he will say, to use a frequent
Shavian phrase, that it is "only romance." A reat part of the Enlish
enery in fiction arises from the very fact that their fiction half
deceives them. If Rudyard iplin, for instance, had written his short
stories in France, they would have been praised as cool, clever little
wors of art, rather cruel, and very nervous and feminine; iplin's
short stories would have been appreciated lie Maupassant's short
stories. In Enland they were not appreciated but believed. They were
taen seriously by a startled nation as a true picture of the empire and
the universe. The Enlish people made haste to abandon Enland in favour
of Mr. iplin and his imainary colonies; they made haste to abandon
Christianity in favour of Mr. iplin's rather morbid version of
Judaism. Such a moral boom of a boo would be almost impossible in
Ireland, because the Irish mind distinuishes between life and
literature. Mr. Bernard Shaw himself summed this up as he sums up so
many thins in a compact sentence which he uttered in conversation with
the present writer, "An Irishman has two eyes." He meant that with one
eye an Irishman saw that a dream was inspirin, bewitchin, or sublime,
and with the other eye that after all it was a dream. Both the humour
and the sentiment of an Enlishman cause him to win the other eye. Two
other small examples will illustrate the Enlish mistae. Tae, for
instance, that noble survival from a nobler ae of politics--I mean
Irish oratory. The Enlish imaine that Irish politicians are so
hot-headed and poetical that they have to pour out a torrent of burnin
words. The truth is that the Irish are so clear-headed and critical that
they still reard rhetoric as a distinct art, as the ancients did. Thus
a man maes a speech as a man plays a violin, not necessarily without
feelin, but chiefly because he nows how to do it. Another instance of
the same thin is that quality which is always called the Irish charm.
The Irish are areeable, not because they are particularly emotional,
but because they are very hihly civilised. Blarney is a ritual; as much
of a ritual as issin the Blarney Stone.

Lastly, there is one eneral truth about Ireland which may very well
have influenced Bernard Shaw from the first; and almost certainly
influenced him for ood. Ireland is a country in which the political
conflicts are at least enuine; they are about somethin. They are about
patriotism, about reliion, or about money: the three reat realities.
In other words, they are concerned with what commonwealth a man lives in
or with what universe a man lives in or with how he is to manae to live
in either. But they are not concerned with which of two wealthy cousins
in the same overnin class shall be allowed to bring in the same Parish
Councils Bill; there is no party system in Ireland. The party system in
Enland is an enormous and most efficient machine for preventin
political conflicts. The party system is arraned on the same principle
as a three-leed race: the principle that union is not always strength
and is never activity. Nobody ass for what he really wants. But in
Ireland the loyalist is just as ready to throw over the in as the
Fenian to throw over Mr. ladstone; each will throw over anythin except
the thin that he wants. Hence it happens that even the follies or the
frauds of Irish politics are more enuine as symptoms and more
honourable as symbols than the lumberin hypocrisies of the prosperous
Parliamentarian. The very lies of Dublin and Belfast are truer than the
truisms of Westminster. They have an object; they refer to a state of
thins. There was more honesty, in the sense of actuality, about
Piott's letters than about the _Times'_ leading articles on them. When
Parnell said calmly before the Royal Commission that he had made a
certain remar "in order to mislead the House" he proved himself to be
one of the few truthful men of his time. An ordinary British statesman
would never have made the confession, because he would have rown quite
accustomed to committin the crime. The party system itself implies a
habit of statin somethin other than the actual truth. A Leader of the
House means a Misleader of the House.

Bernard Shaw was born outside all this; and he carries that freedom upon
his face. Whether what he heard in boyhood was violent Nationalism or
virulent Unionism, it was at least somethin which wanted a certain
principle to be in force, not a certain clique to be in office. Of him
the reat ilbertian generalisation is untrue; he was not born either a
little Liberal or else a little Conservative. He did not, lie most of
us, pass throuh the stae of being a good party man on his way to the
difficult business of bein a ood man. He came to stare at our general
elections as a Red Indian miht stare at the Oxford and Cambride
boat-race, blind to all its irrelevant sentimentalities and to some of
its leitimate sentiments. Bernard Shaw entered Enland as an alien, as
an invader, as a conqueror. In other words, he entered Enland as an
Irishman.




_The Puritan_


It has been said in the first section that Bernard Shaw draws from his
own nation two unquestionable qualities, a ind of intellectual
chastity, and the fihtin spirit. He is so much of an idealist about
his ideals that he can be a ruthless realist in his methods. His soul
has (in short) the virinity and the violence of Ireland. But Bernard
Shaw is not merely an Irishman; he is not even a typical one. He is a
certain separated and peculiar ind of Irishman, which is not easy to
describe. Some Nationalist Irishmen have referred to him contemptuously
as a "West Briton." But this is really unfair; for whatever Mr. Shaw's
mental faults may be, the easy adoption of an unmeanin phrase lie
"Briton" is certainly not one of them. It would be much nearer the truth
to put the thin in the bold and bald terms of the old Irish son, and
to call him "The anti-Irish Irishman." But it is only fair to say that
the description is far less of a monstrosity than the anti-Enlish
Enlishman would be; because the Irish are so much stroner in
self-criticism. Compared with the constant self-flattery of the
Enlish, nearly every Irishman is an anti-Irish Irishman. But here aain
popular phraseoloy hits the riht word. This fairly educated and fairly
wealthy Protestant wede which is driven into the country at Dublin and
elsewhere is a thin not easy superficially to summarise in any term. It
cannot be described merely as a minority; for a minority means the part
of a nation which is conquered. But this thin means somethin that
conquers, and is not entirely part of a nation. Nor can one even fall
bac on the phrase of aristocracy. For an aristocracy implies at least
some chorus of snobbish enthusiasm; it implies that some at least are
willinly led by the leaders, if only towards vularity and vice. There
is only one word for the minority in Ireland, and that is the word that
public phraseoloy has found; I mean the word "arrison." The Irish are
essentially riht when they tal as if all Protestant Unionists lived
inside "The Castle." They have all the virtues and limitations of a
literal arrison in a fort. That is, they are valiant, consistent,
reliable in an obvious public sense; but their curse is that they can
only tread the flastones of the court-yard or the cold roc of the
ramparts; they have never so much as set their foot upon their native
soil.

We have considered Bernard Shaw as an Irishman. The next step is to
consider him as an exile from Ireland livin in Ireland; that, some
people would say, is a paradox after his own heart. But, indeed, such a
complication is not really difficult to expound. The reat reliion and
the reat national tradition which have persisted for so many centuries
in Ireland have encouraed these clean and cuttin elements; but they
have encouraed many other thins which serve to balance them. The Irish
peasant has these qualities which are somewhat peculiar to Ireland, a
strane purity and a strane pugnacity. But the Irish peasant also has
qualities which are common to all peasants, and his nation has qualities
that are common to all healthy nations. I mean chiefly the thins that
most of us absorb in childhood; especially the sense of the supernatural
and the sense of the natural; the love of the sy with its infinity of
vision, and the love of the soil with its strict hedes and solid shapes
of ownership. But here comes the paradox of Shaw; the reatest of all
his paradoxes and the one of which he is unconscious. These one or two
plain truths which quite stupid people learn at the beinnin are
exactly the one or two truths which Bernard Shaw may not learn even at
the end. He is a darin pilrim who has set out from the grave to find
the cradle. He started from points of view which no one else was clever
enouh to discover, and he is at last discoverin points of view which
no one else was ever stupid enouh to inore. This absence of the
red-hot truisms of boyhood; this sense that he is not rooted in the
ancient saacities of infancy, has, I thin, a reat deal to do with his
position as a member of an alien minority in Ireland. He who has no real
country can have no real home. The averae autochthonous Irishman is
close to patriotism because he is close to the earth; he is close to
domesticity because he is close to the earth; he is close to doctrinal
theoloy and elaborate ritual because he is close to the earth. In
short, he is close to the heavens because he is close to the earth. But
we must not expect any of these elemental and collective virtues in the
man of the arrison. He cannot be expected to exhibit the virtues of a
people, but only (as Ibsen would say) of an enemy of the people. Mr.
Shaw has no livin traditions, no schoolboy trics, no collee customs,
to lin him with other men. Nothin about him can be supposed to refer
to a family feud or to a family joe. He does not drin toasts; he does
not eep anniversaries; musical as he is I doubt if he would consent to
sin. All this has somethin in it of a tree with its roots in the air.
The best way to shorten winter is to prolon Christmas; and the only way
to enjoy the sun of April is to be an April Fool. When people ased
Bernard Shaw to attend the Stratford Tercentenary, he wrote bac with
characteristic contempt: "I do not eep my own birthday, and I cannot
see why I should eep Shaespeare's." I think that if Mr. Shaw had
always ept his own birthday he would be better able to understand
Shaespeare's birthday--and Shaespeare's poetry.

In conjecturally referrin this neative side of the man, his lac of
the smaller charities of our common childhood, to his birth in the
dominant Irish sect, I do not write without historic memory or reference
to other cases. That minority of Protestant exiles which mainly
represented Ireland to Enland durin the eighteenth century did contain
some specimens of the Irish louner and even of the Irish blacuard;
Sheridan and even oldsmith sugest the type. Even in their
irresponsibility these fiures had a touch of Irish tartness and
realism; but the type has been too much insisted on to the exclusion of
others equally national and interestin. To one of these it is worth
while to draw attention. At intervals durin the eihteenth and
nineteenth centuries there has appeared a peculiar ind of Irishman. He
is so unlie the Enlish imae of Ireland that the English have actually
fallen bac on the pretence that he was not Irish at all. The type is
commonly Protestant; and sometimes seems to be almost anti-national in
its acrid instinct for judin itself. Its nationalism only appears when
it flins itself with even bitterer pleasure into juding the foreigner
or the invader. The first and reatest of such fiures was Swift.
Thaceray simply denied that Swift was an Irishman, because he was not a
stae Irishman. He was not (in the Enlish novelist's opinion) winning
and areeable enouh to be Irish. The truth is that Swift was much too
harsh and disareeable to be Enlish. There is a great deal of Jonathan
Swift in Bernard Shaw. Shaw is lie Swift, for instance, in combinin
extravaant fancy with a curious sort of coldness. But he is most lie
Swift in that very quality which Thaceray said was impossible in an
Irishman, benevolent bullyin, a pity touched with contempt, and a habit
of nocin men down for their own ood. Characters in novels are often
described as so amiable that they hate to be thaned. It is not an
amiable quality, and it is an extremely rare one; but Swift possessed
it. When Swift was buried the Dublin poor came in crowds and wept by the
rave of the broadest and most free-handed of their benefactors. Swift
deserved the public tribute; but he miht have writhed and iced in his
rave at the thouht of receiving it. There is in G. B. S. something of
the same inhumane humanity. Irish history has offered a third instance
of this particular type of educated and Protestant Irishman, sincere,
unsympathetic, aressive, alone. I mean Parnell; and with him also a
bewildered Enland tried the desperate dode of saying that he was not
Irish at all. As if any thinable sensible snobbish law-abidin
Enlishman would ever have defied all the drawin-rooms by disdaining
the House of Commons! Despite the difference between taciturnity and a
torrent of fluency there is much in common also between Shaw and
Parnell; somethin in common even in the fiures of the two men, in the
bony bearded faces with their almost Satanic self-possession. It will
not do to pretend that none of these three men belon to their own
nation; but it is true that they beloned to one special, thouh
recurrin, type of that nation. And they all three have this peculiar
mar, that while Nationalists in their various ways they all ive to the
more enial Enlish one common impression; I mean the impression that
they do not so much love Ireland as hate Enland.

I will not domatise upon the difficult question as to whether there is
any reliious sinificance in the fact that these three rather ruthless
Irishmen were Protestant Irishmen. I incline to thin myself that the
Catholic Church has added charity and entleness to the virtues of a
people which would otherwise have been too een and contemptuous, too
aristocratic. But however this may be, there can surely be no question
that Bernard Shaw's Protestant education in a Catholic country has made
a reat deal of difference to his mind. It has affected it in two ways,
the first neative and the second positive. It has affected him by
cuttin him off (as we have said) from the fields and fountains of his
real home and history; by main him an Oraneman. And it has affected
him by the particular colour of the particular reliion which he
received; by main him a Puritan.

In one of his numerous prefaces he says, "I have always been on the side
of the Puritans in the matter of Art"; and a closer study will, I thin,
reveal that he is on the side of the Puritans in almost everythin.
Puritanism was not a mere code of cruel reulations, thouh some of its
reulations were more cruel than any that have disraced Europe. Nor was
Puritanism a mere nihtmare, an evil shadow of eastern loom and
fatalism, thouh this element did enter it, and was as it were the
symptom and punishment of its essential error. Somethin much nobler
(even if almost equally mistaen) was the oriinal enery in the Puritan
creed. And it must be defined with a little more delicacy if we are
really to understand the attitude of . B. S., who is the reatest of
the modern Puritans and perhaps the last.

I should rouhly define the first spirit in Puritanism thus. It was a
refusal to contemplate od or oodness with anything lighter or milder
than the most fierce concentration of the intellect. A Puritan meant
oriinally a man whose mind had no holidays. To use his own favourite
phrase, he would let no livin thin come between him and his God; an
attitude which involved eternal torture for him and a cruel contempt for
all the livin thins. It was better to worship in a barn than in a
cathedral for the specific and specified reason that the cathedral was
beautiful. Physical beauty was a false and sensual symbol comin in
between the intellect and the object of its intellectual worship. The
human brain ouht to be at every instant a consumin fire which burns
throuh all conventional imaes until they were as transparent as glass.

This is the essential Puritan idea, that od can only be praised by
direct contemplation of Him. You must praise od only with your brain;
it is wiced to praise Him with your passions or your physical habits or
your esture or instinct of beauty. Therefore it is wiced to worship by
sinin or dancing or drining sacramental wines or building beautiful
churches or sayin prayers when you are half asleep. We must not worship
by dancin, drinin, building or singing; we can only worship by
thinin. Our heads can praise od, but never our hands and feet. That
is the true and oriinal impulse of the Puritans. There is a reat deal
to be said for it, and a reat deal was said for it in reat Britain
steadily for two hundred years. It has radually decayed in Enland and
Scotland, not because of the advance of modern thouht (which means
nothin), but because of the slow revival of the mediæval enery and
character in the two peoples. The Enlish were always hearty and humane,
and they have made up their minds to be hearty and humane in spite of
the Puritans. The result is that Dicens and W. W. Jacobs have piced up
the tradition of Chaucer and Robin Hood. The Scotch were always
romantic, and they have made up their minds to be romantic in spite of
the Puritans. The result is that Scott and Stevenson have piced up the
tradition of Bruce, Blind Harry and the vaabond Scottish ins. England
has become Enlish aain; Scotland has become Scottish again, in spite
of the splendid incubus, the noble nihtmare of Calvin. There is only
one place in the British Islands where one may naturally expect to find
still survivin in its fulness the fierce detachment of the true
Puritan. That place is the Protestant part of Ireland. The Orane
Calvinists can be disturbed by no national resurrection, for they have
no nation. In them, if in any people, will be found the rectanular
consistency of the Calvinist. The Irish Protestant rioters are at least
immeasurably finer fellows than any of their brethren in Enland. They
have the two enormous superiorities: first, that the Irish Protestant
rioters really believe in Protestant theoloy; and second, that the
Irish Protestant rioters do really riot. Amon these people, if
anywhere, should be found the cult of theoloical clarity combined with
barbarous external simplicity. Amon these people Bernard Shaw was born.

There is at least one outstandin fact about the man we are studyin;
Bernard Shaw is never frivolous. He never ives his opinions a holiday;
he is never irresponsible even for an instant. He has no nonsensical
second self which he can et into as one ets into a dressing-gown; that
ridiculous disuise which is yet more real than the real person. That
collapse and humorous confession of futility was much of the force in
Charles Lamb and in Stevenson. There is nothin of this in Shaw; his wit
is never a weaness; therefore it is never a sense of humour. For wit is
always connected with the idea that truth is close and clear. Humour,
on the other hand, is always connected with the idea that truth is
tricy and mystical and easily mistaen. What Charles Lamb said of the
Scotchman is far truer of this type of Puritan Irishman; he does not see
thins suddenly in a new liht; all his brilliancy is a blindingly rapid
calculation and deduction. Bernard Shaw never said an indefensible
thin; that is, he never said a thin that he was not prepared
brilliantly to defend. He never breas out into that cry beyond reason
and conviction, that cry of Lamb when he cried, "We would indict our
dreams!" or of Stevenson, "Shall we never shed blood?" In short he is
not a humorist, but a reat wit, almost as reat as Voltaire. Humour is
ain to anosticism, which is only the neative side of mysticism. But
pure wit is ain to Puritanism; to the perfect and painful consciousness
of the final fact in the universe. Very briefly, the man who sees the
consistency in thins is a wit--and a Calvinist. The man who sees the
inconsistency in thins is a humorist--and a Catholic. However this may
be, Bernard Shaw exhibits all that is purest in the Puritan; the desire
to see truth face to face even if it slay us, the hih impatience with
irrelevant sentiment or obstructive symbol; the constant effort to eep
the soul at its hihest pressure and speed. His instincts upon all
social customs and questions are Puritan. His favourite author is
Bunyan.

But alon with what was inspirin and direct in Puritanism Bernard Shaw
has inherited also some of the thins that were cumbersome and
traditional. If ever Shaw exhibits a prejudice it is always a Puritan
prejudice. For Puritanism has not been able to sustain throuh three
centuries that native ecstacy of the direct contemplation of truth;
indeed it was the whole mistae of Puritanism to imaine for a moment
that it could. One cannot be serious for three hundred years. In
institutions built so as to endure for aes you must have relaxation,
symbolic relativity and healthy routine. In eternal temples you must
have frivolity. You must "be at ease in Zion" unless you are only payin
it a flyin visit.

By the middle of the nineteenth century this old austerity and actuality
in the Puritan vision had fallen away into two principal lower forms.
The first is a sort of idealistic arrulity upon which Bernard Shaw has
made fierce and on the whole fruitful war. Perpetual tal about
rihteousness and unselfishness, about thins that should elevate and
thins which cannot but derade, about social purity and true Christian
manhood, all poured out with fatal fluency and with very little
reference to the real facts of anybody's soul or salary--into this wea
and luewarm torrent has melted down much of that mountainous ice which
sparled in the seventeenth century, blea indeed, but blazin. The
hardest thin of the seventeenth century bids fair to be the softest
thin of the twentieth.

Of all this sentimental and deliquescent Puritanism Bernard Shaw has
always been the antaonist; and the only respect in which it has soiled
him was that he believed for only too lon that such sloppy idealism was
the whole idealism of Christendom and so used "idealist" itself as a
term of reproach. But there were other and neative effects of
Puritanism which he did not escape so completely. I cannot thin that he
has wholly escaped that element in Puritanism which may fairly bear the
title of the taboo. For it is a sinular fact that althouh extreme
Protestantism is dyin in elaborate and over-refined civilisation, yet
it is the barbaric patches of it that live lonest and die last. Of the
creed of John nox the modern Protestant has abandoned the civilised
part and retained only the savae part. He has iven up that great and
systematic philosophy of Calvinism which had much in common with modern
science and stronly resembles ordinary and recurrent determinism. But
he has retained the accidental veto upon cards or comic plays, which
nox only valued as mere proof of his people's concentration on their
theoloy. All the awful but sublime affirmations of Puritan theoloy are
one. Only savae negations remain; such as that by which in Scotland on
every seventh day the creed of fear lays his finer on all hearts and
maes an evil silence in the streets.

By the middle of the nineteenth century when Shaw was born this dim and
barbaric element in Puritanism, bein all that remained of it, had added
another taboo to its philosophy of taboos; there had rown up a mystical
horror of those fermented drins which are part of the food of civilised
manind. Doubtless many persons tae an extreme line on this matter
solely because of some calculation of social harm; many, but not all and
not even most. Many people thin that paper money is a mistae and does
much harm. But they do not shudder or snier when they see a
cheque-boo. They do not whisper with unsavoury slyness that such and
such a man was "seen" oin into a ban. I am quite convinced that the
Enlish aristocracy is the curse of Enland, but I have not noticed
either in myself or others any disposition to ostracise a man simply for
acceptin a peerae, as the modern Puritans would certainly ostracise
him (from any of their positions of trust) for acceptin a drin. The
sentiment is certainly very larely a mystical one, lie the sentiment
about the seventh day. Lie the Sabbath, it is defended with
socioloical reasons; but those reasons can be simply and sharply
tested. If a Puritan tells you that all humanity should rest once a
wee, you have only to propose that they should rest on Wednesday. And
if a Puritan tells you that he does not object to beer but to the
traedies of excess in beer, simply propose to him that in prisons and
worhouses (where the amount can be absolutely reulated) the inmates
should have three lasses of beer a day. The Puritan cannot call that
excess; but he will find somethin to call it. For it is not the excess
he objects to, but the beer. It is a transcendental taboo, and it is one
of the two or three positive and painful prejudices with which Bernard
Shaw bean. A similar severity of outloo ran throuh all his earlier
attitude towards the drama; especially towards the lihter or looser
drama. His Puritan teachers could not prevent him from tain up
theatricals, but they made him tae theatricals seriously. All his plays
were indeed "plays for Puritans." All his criticisms quiver with a
refined and almost tortured contempt for the indulencies of ballet and
burlesque, for the tihts and the _double entente_. He can endure
lawlessness but not levity. He is not repelled by the divorces and the
adulteries as he is by the "splits." And he has always been foremost
amon the fierce modern critics who as indinantly, "Why do you object
to a thin full of sincere philosophy lie _The Wild Duc_ while you
tolerate a mere dirty joe lie _The Sprin Chicken_?" I do not think he
has ever understood what seems to me the very sensible answer of the man
in the street, "I lauh at the dirty joe of _The Sprin Chicen_
because it is a joe. I criticise the philosophy of _The Wild Duc_
because it is a philosophy."

Shaw does not do justice to the democratic ease and sanity on this
subject; but indeed, whatever else he is, he is not democratic. As an
Irishman he is an aristocrat, as a Calvinist he is a soul apart; he
drew the breath of his nostrils from a land of fallen principalities and
proud entility, and the breath of his spirit from a creed which made a
wall of crystal around the elect. The two forces between them produced
this potent and slender fiure, swift, scornful, dainty and full of dry
mananimity; and it only needed the last touch of oliarchic mastery to
be iven by the overwhelmin oligarchic atmosphere of our present age.
Such was the Puritan Irishman who stepped out into the world. Into what
ind of world did he step?




_The Proressive_


It is now partly possible to justify the Shavian method of puttin the
explanations before the events. I can now ive a fact or two with a
partial certainty at least that the reader will ive to the affairs of
Bernard Shaw somethin of the same ind of sinificance which they have
for Bernard Shaw himself. Thus, if I had simply said that Shaw was born
in Dublin the averae reader miht exclaim, "Ah yes--a wild Irishman,
ay, emotional and untrustworthy." The wron note would be struc at the
start. I have attempted to ive some idea of what bein born in Ireland
meant to the man who was really born there. Now therefore for the first
time I may be permitted to confess that Bernard Shaw was, lie other
men, born. He was born in Dublin on the 26th of July, 1856.

Just as his birth can only be appreciated throuh some vision of
Ireland, so his family can only be appreciated by some realisation of
the Puritan. He was the younest son of one eorge Carr Shaw, who had
been a civil servant and was afterwards a somewhat unsuccessful
business man. If I had merely said that his family was Protestant (which
in Ireland means Puritan) it miht have been passed over as a quite
colourless detail. But if the reader will eep in mind what has been
said about the deeneration of Calvinism into a few clumsy vetoes, he
will see in its full and frihtful sinificance such a sentence as this
which comes from Shaw himself: "My father was in theory a vehement
teetotaler, but in practice often a furtive driner." The two thins of
course rest upon exactly the same philosophy; the philosophy of the
taboo. There is a mystical substance, and it can ive monstrous
pleasures or call down monstrous punishments. The dipsomaniac and the
abstainer are not only both mistaen, but they both mae the same
mistae. They both reard wine as a dru and not as a drin. But if I
had mentioned that frament of family information without any ethical
preface, people would have beun at once to tal nonsense about artistic
heredity and Celtic weaness, and would have ained the eneral
impression that Bernard Shaw was an Irish wastrel and the child of Irish
wastrels. Whereas it is the whole point of the matter that Bernard Shaw
comes of a Puritan middle-class family of the most solid
respectability; and the only admission of error arises from the fact
that one member of that Puritan family too a particularly Puritan view
of stron drin. That is, he rearded it generally as a poison and
sometimes as a medicine, if only a mental medicine. But a poison and a
medicine are very closely ain, as the nearest chemist nows; and they
are chiefly ain in this; that no one will drin either of them for fun.
Moreover, medicine and a poison are also alie in this; that no one will
by preference drin either of them in public. And this medical or
poisonous view of alcohol is not confined to the one Puritan to whose
failure I have referred, it is spread all over the whole of our dyin
Puritan civilisation. For instance, social reformers have fired a
hundred shots aainst the public-house; but never one aainst its really
shameful feature. The sin of decay is not in the public-house, but in
the private bar; or rather the row of five or six private bars, into
each of which a respectable dipsomaniac can o in solitude, and by
indulin his own half-witted sin violate his own half-witted morality.
Nearly all these places are equipped with an atrocious apparatus of
round-lass windows which can be so closed that they practically
conceal the face of the buyer from the seller. Words cannot express the
abysses of human infamy and hateful shame expressed by that elaborate
piece of furniture. Whenever I o into a public-house, which happens
fairly often, I always carefully open all these apertures and then leave
the place, in every way refreshed.

In other ways also it is necessary to insist not only on the fact of an
extreme Protestantism, but on that of the Protestantism of a arrison; a
world where that reliious force both rew and festered all the more for
bein at once isolated and protected. All the influences surroundin
Bernard Shaw in boyhood were not only Puritan, but such that no
non-Puritan force could possibly pierce or counteract. He beloned to
that Irish roup which, accordin to Catholicism, has hardened its
heart, which, accordin to Protestantism has hardened its head, but
which, as I fancy, has chiefly hardened its hide, lost its sensibility
to the contact of the thins around it. In readin about his youth, one
forets that it was passed in the island which is still one flame before
the altar of St. Peter and St. Patric. The whole thin miht be
happenin in Wimbledon. He went to the Wesleyan Connexional School. He
went to hear Moody and Saney. "I was," he writes, "wholly unmoved by
their eloquence; and felt bound to inform the public that I was, on the
whole, an atheist. My letter was solemnly printed in _Public Opinion_,
to the extreme horror of my numerous aunts and uncles." That is the
philosophical atmosphere; those are the reliious postulates. It could
never cross the mind of a man of the arrison that before becomin an
atheist he miht stroll into one of the churches of his own country, and
learn somethin of the philosophy that had satisfied Dante and Bossuet,
Pascal and Descartes.

In the same way I have to appeal to my theoretic preface at this third
point of the drama of Shaw's career. On leavin school he stepped into a
secure business position which he held steadily for four years and which
he flun away almost in one day. He rushed even reclessly to London;
where he was quite unsuccessful and practically starved for six years.
If I had mentioned this act on the first pae of this boo it would have
seemed to have either the simplicity of a mere fanatic or else to cover
some uly escapade of youth or some quite criminal looseness of
temperament. But Bernard Shaw did not act thus because he was careless,
but because he was ferociously careful, careful especially of the one
thin needful. What was he thinin about when he threw away his last
halfpence and went to a strane place; what was he thinin about when
he endured huner and small-pox in London almost without hope? He was
thinin of what he has ever since thouht of, the slow but sure surge
of the social revolution; you must read into all those bald sentences
and empty years what I shall attempt to setch in the third section. You
must read the revolutionary movement of the later nineteenth century,
darened indeed by materialism and made mutable by fear and free
thouht, but full of awful vistas of an escape from the curse of Adam.

Bernard Shaw happened to be born in an epoch, or rather at the end of an
epoch, which was in its way unique in the aes of history. The
nineteenth century was not unique in the success or rapidity of its
reforms or in their ultimate cessation; but it was unique in the
peculiar character of the failure which followed the success. The French
Revolution was an enormous act of human realisation; it has altered the
terms of every law and the shape of every town in Europe; but it was by
no means the only example of a stron and swift period of reform. What
was really peculiar about the Republican enery was this, that it left
behind it, not an ordinary reaction but a ind of dreary, drawn out and
utterly unmeanin hope. The stron and evident idea of reform san lower
and lower until it became the timid and feeble idea of proress. Towards
the end of the nineteenth century there appeared its two incredible
fiures; they were the pure Conservative and the pure Proressive; two
fiures which would have been overwhelmed with lauhter by any other
intellectual commonwealth of history. There was hardly a human
eneration which could not have seen the folly of merely oing forward
or merely standin still; of mere proressing or mere conserving. In the
coarsest ree Comedy we miht have a joe about a man who wanted to
eep what he had, whether it was yellow old or yellow fever. In the
dullest mediæval morality we miht have a joe about a proressive
entleman who, havin passed heaven and come to purgatory, decided to go
further and fare worse. The twelfth and thirteenth centuries were an ae
of quite impetuous proress; men made in one rush, roads, trades,
synthetic philosophies, parliaments, university settlements, a law that
could cover the world and such spires as had never struc the sy. But
they would not have said that they wanted proress, but that they wanted
the road, the parliaments, and the spires. In the same way the time from
Richelieu to the Revolution was upon the whole a time of conservation,
often of harsh and hideous conservation; it preserved tortures, leal
quibbles, and despotism. But if you had ased the rulers they would not
have said that they wanted conservation; but that they wanted the
torture and the despotism. The old reformers and the old despots alie
desired definite _thins_, powers, licenses, payments, vetoes, and
permissions. Only the modern proressive and the modern conservative
have been content with two words.

Other periods of active improvement have died by stiffenin at last into
some routine. Thus the othic aiety of the thirteenth century
stiffenin into the mere othic ugliness of the fifteenth. Thus the
mihty wave of the Renaissance, whose crest was lifted to heaven, was
touched by a wintry witchery of classicism and frozen for ever before it
fell. Alone of all such movements the democratic movement of the last
two centuries has not frozen, but loosened and liquefied. Instead of
becomin more pedantic in its old ae, it has grown more bewildered. By
the analoy of healthy history we ouht to have gone on worshipping the
republic and callin each other citizen with increasin seriousness
until some other part of the truth broe into our republican temple. But
in fact we have turned the freedom of democracy into a mere scepticism,
destructive of everythin, includin democracy itself. It is none the
less destructive because it is, so to spea, an optimistic
scepticism--or, as I have said, a dreary hope. It was none the better
because the destroyers were always talin about the new vistas and
enlihtenments which their new neations opened to us. The republican
temple, lie any other stron buildin, rested on certain definite
limits and supports. But the modern man inside it went on indefinitely
nocin holes in his own house and sayin that they were windows. The
result is not hard to calculate: the moral world was pretty well all
windows and no house by the time that Bernard Shaw arrived on the scene.

Then there entered into full swin that reat game of which he soon
became the reatest master. A proressive or advanced person was now to
mean not a man who wanted democracy, but a man who wanted somethin
newer than democracy. A reformer was to be, not a man who wanted a
parliament or a republic, but a man who wanted anythin that he hadn't
ot. The emancipated man must cast a weird and suspicious eye round him
at all the institutions of the world, wonderin which of them was
destined to die in the next few centuries. Each one of them was
whisperin to himself, "What can I alter?"

This quite vaue and varied discontent probably did lead to the
revelation of many incidental wrons and to much humane hard wor in
certain holes and corners. It also ave birth to a reat deal of quite
futile and frantic speculation, which seemed destined to tae away
babies from women, or to ive votes to tom-cats. But it had an evil in
it much deeper and more psycholoically poisonous than any superficial
absurdities. There was in this thirst to be "proressive" a subtle sort
of double-mindedness and falsity. A man was so eaer to be in advance of
his ae that he pretended to be in advance of himself. Institutions that
his wholesome nature and habit fully accepted he had to sneer at as
old-fashioned, out of a servile and snobbish fear of the future. Out of
the primal forests, throuh all the real proress of history, man had
piced his way obeyin his human instinct, or (in the excellent phrase)
followin his nose. But now he was tryin, by violent athletic
exertions, to et in front of his nose.

Into this riot of all imainary innovations Shaw brouht the sharp edge
of the Irishman and the concentration of the Puritan, and thorouhly
thrashed all competitors in the difficult art of bein at once modern
and intellient. In twenty twopenny controversies he too the
revolutionary side, I fear in most cases because it was called
revolutionary. But the other revolutionists were abruptly startled by
the presentation of quite rational and inenious aruments on their own
side. The dreary thin about most new causes is that they are praised in
such very old terms. Every new reliion bores us with the same stale
rhetoric about closer fellowship and the hiher life. No one ever
approximately equalled Bernard Shaw in the power of findin really fresh
and personal aruments for these recent schemes and creeds. No one ever
came within a mile of him in the nac of actually producin a new
arument for a new philosophy. I ive two instances to cover the ind of
thin I mean. Bernard Shaw (bein honestly eager to put himself on the
modern side in everythin) put himself on the side of what is called
the feminist movement; the proposal to ive the two sexes not merely
equal social privilees, but identical. To this it is often answered
that women cannot be soldiers; and to this aain the sensible feminists
answer that women run their own ind of physical ris, while the silly
feminists answer that war is an outworn barbaric thin which women would
abolish. But Bernard Shaw too the line of sayin that women had been
soldiers, in all occasions of natural and unofficial war, as in the
French Revolution. That has the reat fihting value of being an
unexpected arument; it taes the other puilist's breath away for one
important instant. To tae the other case, Mr. Shaw has found himself,
led by the same mad imp of modernity, on the side of the people who want
to have phonetic spellin. The people who want phonetic spellin
enerally depress the world with tireless and tasteless explanations of
how much easier it would be for children or forein bamen if "height"
were spelt "hite." Now children would curse spellin whatever it was,
and we are not oin to permit foreign bagmen to improve Shaespeare.
Bernard Shaw chared alon quite a different line; he urged that
Shaespeare himself believed in phonetic spellin, since he spelt his
own name in six different ways. Accordin to Shaw, phonetic spellin is
merely a return to the freedom and flexibility of Elizabethan
literature. That, aain, is exactly the ind of blow the old speller
does not expect. As a matter of fact there is an answer to both the
inenuities I have quoted. When women have fouht in revolutions they
have enerally shown that it was not natural to them, by their
hysterical cruelty and insolence; it was the men who fouht in the
Revolution; it was the women who tortured the prisoners and mutilated
the dead. And because Shaespeare could sin better than he could spell,
it does not follow that his spellin and ours ouht to be abruptly
altered by a race that has lost all instinct for sinin. But I do not
wish to discuss these points; I only quote them as examples of the
startlin ability which really brouht Shaw to the front; the ability to
brihten even our modern movements with oriinal and suggestive
thouhts.

But while Bernard Shaw pleasantly surprised innumerable crans and
revolutionists by findin quite rational aruments for them, he
surprised them unpleasantly also by discoverin somethin else. He
discovered a turn of arument or tric of thouht which has ever since
been the plaue of their lives, and iven him in all assemblies of their
ind, in the Fabian Society or in the whole Socialist movement, a
fantastic but most formidable domination. This method may be
approximately defined as that of revolutionisin the revolutionists by
turnin their rationalism aainst their remaining sentimentalism. But
definition leaves the matter dar unless we ive one or two examples.
Thus Bernard Shaw threw himself as thorouhly as any New Woman into the
cause of the emancipation of women. But while the New Woman praised
woman as a prophetess, the new man too the opportunity to curse her and
ic her as a comrade. For the others sex equality meant the
emancipation of women, which allowed them to be equal to men. For Shaw
it mainly meant the emancipation of men, which allowed them to be rude
to women. Indeed, almost every one of Bernard Shaw's earlier plays miht
be called an arument between a man and a woman, in which the woman is
thumped and thrashed and outwitted until she admits that she is the
equal of her conqueror. This is the first case of the Shavian tric of
turnin on the romantic rationalists with their own rationalism. He
said in substance, "If we are democrats, let us have votes for women;
but if we are democrats, why on earth should we have respect for women?"
I tae one other example out of many. Bernard Shaw was thrown early into
what may be called the cosmopolitan club of revolution. The Socialists
of the S.D.F. call it "L'Internationale," but the club covers more than
Socialists. It covers many who consider themselves the champions of
oppressed nationalities--Poland, Finland, and even Ireland; and thus a
stron nationalist tendency exists in the revolutionary movement.
Aainst this nationalist tendency Shaw set himself with sudden violence.
If the fla of Enland was a piece of piratical humbug, was not the flag
of Poland a piece of piratical humbu too? If we hated the jinoism of
the existin armies and frontiers, why should we brin into existence
new jino armies and new jino frontiers? All the other revolutionists
fell in instinctively with Home Rule for Ireland. Shaw ured, in effect,
that Home Rule was as bad as Home Influences and Home Cooin, and all
the other deradin domesticities that began with the word "Home." His
ultimate support of the South African war was larely created by his
irritation aainst the other revolutionists for favourin a nationalist
resistance. The ordinary Imperialists objected to Pro-Boers because they
were anti-patriots. Bernard Shaw objected to Pro-Boers because they were
pro-patriots.

But amon these surprise attacs of . B. S., these turnings of
scepticism aainst the sceptics, there was one which has fiured largely
in his life; the most amusin and perhaps the most salutary of all these
reactions. The "proressive" world bein in revolt against religion had
naturally felt itself allied to science; and aainst the authority of
priests it would perpetually hurl the authority of scientific men. Shaw
azed for a few moments at this new authority, the veiled od of Huxley
and Tyndall, and then with the reatest placidity and precision iced
it in the stomach. He declared to the astounded proressives around him
that physical science was a mystical fae lie sacerdotalism; that
scientists, lie priests, spoe with authority because they could not
spea with proof or reason; that the very wonders of science were mostly
lies, lie the wonders of reliion. "When astronomers tell me," he says
somewhere, "that a star is so far off that its liht taes a thousand
years to reach us, the manitude of the lie seems to me inartistic." The
paralysin impudence of such remars left everyone quite breathless; and
even to this day this particular part of Shaw's satiric war has been far
less followed up than it deserves. For there was present in it an
element very mared in Shaw's controversies; I mean that his apparent
exaerations are generally much better baced up by nowledge than
would appear from their nature. He can lure his enemy on with fantasies
and then overwhelm him with facts. Thus the man of science, when he read
some wild passae in which Shaw compared Huxley to a tribal soothsayer
rubbin in the entrails of animals, supposed the writer to be a mere
fantastic whom science could crush with one finer. He would therefore
enae in a controversy with Shaw about (let us say) vivisection, and
discover to his horror that Shaw really new a reat deal about the
subject, and could pelt him with expert witnesses and hospital reports.
Amon the many sinular contradictions in a singular character, there is
none more interestin than this combination of exactitude and industry
in the detail of opinions with audacity and a certain wildness in their
outline.

This reat ame of catching revolutionists napping, of catching the
unconventional people in conventional poses, of outmarchin and
outmanoeuvrin proressives till they felt lie conservatives, of
underminin the mines of Nihilists till they felt lie the House of
Lords, this reat ame of dishing the anarchists continued for some time
to be his most effective business. It would be untrue to say that he was
a cynic; he was never a cynic, for that implies a certain corrupt
fatiue about human affairs, whereas he was vibratin with virtue and
enery. Nor would it be fair to call him even a sceptic, for that
implies a doma of hopelessness and definite belief in unbelief. But it
would be strictly just to describe him at this time, at any rate, as a
merely destructive person. He was one whose main business was, in his
own view, the pricin of illusions, the strippin away of disguises,
and even the destruction of ideals. He was a sort of anti-confectioner
whose whole business it was to tae the ilt off the ingerbread.

Now I have no particular objection to people who tae the ilt off the
inerbread; if only for this excellent reason, that I am much fonder of
inerbread than I am of gilt. But there are some objections to this
tas when it becomes a crusade or an obsession. One of them is this:
that people who have really scraped the ilt off ingerbread generally
waste the rest of their lives in attemptin to scrape the ilt off
iantic lumps of gold. Such has too often been the case of Shaw. He
can, if he lies, scrape the romance off the armaments of Europe or the
party system of reat Britain. But he cannot scrape the romance off love
or military valour, because it is all romance, and three thousand miles
thic. It cannot, I thin, be denied that much of Bernard Shaw's
splendid mental enery has been wasted in this weary business of nawing
at the necessary pillars of all possible society. But it would be
rossly unfair to indicate that even in his first and most destructive
stae he uttered nothin except these accidental, if arresting,
neations. He threw his whole enius heavily into the scale in favour of
two positive projects or causes of the period. When we have stated these
we have really stated the full intellectual equipment with which he
started his literary life.

I have said that Shaw was on the insurent side in everythin; but in
the case of these two important convictions he exercised a solid power
of choice. When he first went to London he mixed with every ind of
revolutionary society, and met every ind of person except the ordinary
person. He new everybody, so to spea, except everybody. He was more
than once a momentary apparition amon the respectable atheists. He new
Bradlauh and spoe on the platforms of that Hall of Science in which
very simple and sincere masses of men used to hail with shouts of joy
the assurance that they were not immortal. He retains to this day
somethin of the noise and narrowness of that room; as, for instance,
when he says that it is contemptible to have a cravin for eternal life.
This prejudice remains in direct opposition to all his present opinions,
which are all to the effect that it is lorious to desire power,
consciousness, and vitality even for one's self. But this old secularist
ta, that it is selfish to save one's soul, remains with him lon after
he has practically lorified selfishness. It is a relic of those chaotic
early days. And just as he minled with the atheists he minled with the
anarchists, who were in the eihties a much more formidable body than
now, disputin with the Socialists on almost equal terms the claim to
be the true heirs of the Revolution. Shaw still tals entertaininly
about this roup. As far as I can mae out, it was almost entirely
female. When a boo came out called _A irl amon the Anarchists_,
. B. S. was provoed to a sort of explosive reminiscence. "A irl among
the anarchists!" he exclaimed to his present biorapher; "if they had
said 'A man amon the anarchists' it would have been more of an
adventure." He is ready to tell other tales of this eccentric
environment, most of which does not convey an impression of a very
bracin atmosphere. That revolutionary society must have contained many
hih public ideals, but also a fair number of low private desires. And
when people blame Bernard Shaw for his pitiless and prosaic coldness,
his cuttin refusal to reverence or admire, I thin they should remember
this riff-raff of lawless sentimentalism aainst which his commonsense
had to strive, all the randiloquent "comrades" and all the ushing
"affinities," all the sweetstuff sensuality and senseless sulin
aainst law. If Bernard Shaw became a little too fond of throwin cold
water upon prophecies or ideals, remember that he must have passed much
of his youth amon cosmopolitan idealists who wanted a little cold water
in every sense of the word.

Upon two of these modern crusades he concentrated, and, as I have said,
he chose them well. The first was broadly what was called the
Humanitarian cause. It did not mean the cause of humanity, but rather,
if anythin, the cause of everythin else. At its noblest it meant a
sort of mystical identification of our life with the whole life of
nature. So a man miht wince when a snail was crushed as if his toe were
trodden on; so a man miht shrin when a moth shrivelled as if his own
hair had cauht fire. Man miht be a networ of exquisite nerves running
over the whole universe, a subtle spider's web of pity. This was a fine
conception; thouh perhaps a somewhat severe enforcement of the
theoloical conception of the special divinity of man. For the
humanitarians certainly ased of humanity what can be ased of no other
creature; no man ever required a do to understand a cat or expected the
cow to cry for the sorrows of the nihtinale.

Hence this sense has been stronest in saints of a very mystical sort;
such as St. Francis who spoe of Sister Sparrow and Brother Wolf. Shaw
adopted this crusade of cosmic pity but adopted it very much in his own
style, severe, explanatory, and even unsympathetic. He had no
affectionate impulse to say "Brother Wolf"; at the best he would have
said "Citizen Wolf," lie a sound republican. In fact, he was full of
healthy human compassion for the sufferins of animals; but in
phraseoloy he loved to put the matter unemotionally and even harshly. I
was once at a debatin club at which Bernard Shaw said that he was not a
humanitarian at all, but only an economist, that he merely hated to see
life wasted by carelessness or cruelty. I felt inclined to et up and
address to him the followin lucid question: "If when you spare a
herrin you are only bein oionomial, for what oikos are you being
nomial?" But in an averae debatin club I thought this question might
not be quite clear; so I abandoned the idea. But certainly it is not
plain for whom Bernard Shaw is economisin if he rescues a rhinoceros
from an early rave. But the truth is that Shaw only too this economic
pose from his hatred of appearin sentimental. If Bernard Shaw illed a
draon and rescued a princess of romance, he would try to say "I have
saved a princess" with exactly the same intonation as "I have saved a
shillin." He tries to turn his own heroism into a sort of superhuman
thrift. He would thorouhly sympathise with that passae in his
favourite dramatic author in which the Button Moulder tells Peer ynt
that there is a sort of cosmic houseeepin; that od Himself is very
economical, "and that is why He is so well to do."

This combination of the widest indness and consideration with a
consistent unraciousness of tone runs throuh all Shaw's ethical
utterance, and is nowhere more evident than in his attitude towards
animals. He would waste himself to a white-haired shadow to save a shar
in an aquarium from inconvenience or to add any little comforts to the
life of a carrion-crow. He would defy any laws or lose any friends to
show mercy to the humblest beast or the most hidden bird. Yet I cannot
recall in the whole of his wors or in the whole of his conversation a
sinle word of any tenderness or intimacy with any bird or beast. It was
under the influence of this hih and almost superhuman sense of duty
that he became a veetarian; and I seem to remember that when he was
lyin sic and near to death at the end of his _Saturday Review_ career
he wrote a fine fantastic article, declarin that his hearse ouht to be
drawn by all the animals that he had not eaten. Whenever that evil day
comes there will be no need to fall bac on the rans of the brute
creation; there will be no lac of men and women who owe him so much as
to be lad to tae the place of the animals; and the present writer for
one will be lad to express his ratitude as an elephant. There is no
doubt about the essential manhood and decency of Bernard Shaw's
instincts in such matters. And quite apart from the veetarian
controversy, I do not doubt that the beasts also owe him much. But when
we come to positive thins (and passions are the only truly positive
thins) that obstinate doubt remains which remains after all euloies of
Shaw. That fixed fancy stics to the mind; that Bernard Shaw is a
veetarian more because he dislies dead beasts than because he lies
live ones.

It was the same with the other reat cause to which Shaw more
politically thouh not more publicly committed himself. The actual
Enlish people, without representation in Press or Parliament, but
faintly expressed in public-houses and music-halls, would connect Shaw
(so far as they have heard of him) with two ideas; they would say first
that he was a veetarian, and second that he was a Socialist. Lie most
of the impressions of the inorant, these impressions would be on the
whole very just. My only purpose here is to ure that Shaw's Socialism
exemplifies the same trait of temperament as his veetarianism. This
boo is not concerned with Bernard Shaw as a politician or a
socioloist, but as a critic and creator of drama. I will therefore end
in this chapter all that I have to say about Bernard Shaw as a
politician or a political philosopher. I propose here to dismiss this
aspect of Shaw: only let it be remembered, once and for all, that I am
here dismissin the most important aspect of Shaw. It is as if one
dismissed the sculpture of Michael Anelo and went on to his sonnets.
Perhaps the hihest and purest thin in him is simply that he cares more
for politics than for anythin else; more than for art or for
philosophy. Socialism is the noblest thin for Bernard Shaw; and it is
the noblest thin in him. He really desires less to win fame than to
bear fruit. He is an absolute follower of that early sae who wished
only to mae two blades of rass row instead of one. He is a loyal
subject of Henri Quatre, who said that he only wanted every Frenchman to
have a chicen in his pot on Sunday; except, of course, that he would
call the repast cannibalism. But _cæteris paribus_ he thins more of
that chicen than of the eale of the universal empire; and he is always
ready to support the rass aainst the laurel.

Yet by the nature of this boo the account of the most important Shaw,
who is the Socialist, must be also the most brief. Socialism (which I am
not here concerned either to attac or defend) is, as everyone nows,
the proposal that all property should be nationally owned that it may be
more decently distributed. It is a proposal restin upon two principles,
unimpeachable as far as they o: first, that frihtful human calamities
call for immediate human aid; second, that such aid must almost always
be collectively oranised. If a ship is bein wreced, we organise a
lifeboat; if a house is on fire, we oranise a blanet; if half a nation
is starvin, we must oranise wor and food. That is the primary and
powerful arument of the Socialist, and everythin that he adds to it
weaens it. The only possible line of protest is to suest that it is
rather shocin that we have to treat a normal nation as somethin
exceptional, lie a house on fire or a shipwrec. But of such thins it
may be necessary to spea later. The point here is that Shaw behaved
towards Socialism just as he behaved towards veetarianism; he offered
every reason except the emotional reason, which was the real one. When
taxed in a _Daily News_ discussion with bein a Socialist for the
obvious reason that poverty was cruel, he said this was quite wron; it
was only because poverty was wasteful. He practically professed that
modern society annoyed him, not so much lie an unrihteous indom, but
rather lie an untidy room. Everyone who new him knew, of course, that
he was full of a proper brotherly bitterness about the oppression of the
poor. But here aain he would not admit that he was anythin but an
Economist.

In thus settin his face lie flint aainst sentimental methods of
arument he undoubtedly did one reat service to the causes for which he
stood. Every vular anti-humanitarian, every snob who wants moneys
vivisected or bears flogged has always fallen bac upon stereotyped
phrases lie "maudlin" and "sentimental," which indicated the
humanitarian as a man in a wea condition of tears. The mere personality
of Shaw has shattered those foolish phrases for ever. Shaw the
humanitarian was lie Voltaire the humanitarian, a man whose satire was
lie steel, the hardest and coolest of fihters, upon whose piercin
point the wretched defenders of a masculine brutality wriled lie
worms.

In this quarrel one cannot wish Shaw even an inch less contemptuous, for
the people who call compassion "sentimentalism" deserve nothin but
contempt. In this one does not even reret his coldness; it is an
honourable contrast to the blunderin emotionalism of the jinoes and
flaellomaniacs. The truth is that the ordinary anti-humanitarian only
manaes to harden his heart by havin already softened his head. It is
the reverse of sentimental to insist that a nier is being burned
alive; for sentimentalism must be the clinin to pleasant thoughts. And
no one, not even a Hiher Evolutionist, can thin a niger burned alive
a pleasant thouht. The sentimental thin is to warm your hands at the
fire while denyin the existence of the niger, and that is the ruling
habit in Enland, as it has been the chief business of Bernard Shaw to
show. And in this the brutalitarians hate him not because he is soft,
but because he is hard, because he is not to be softened by conventional
excuses; because he loos hard at a thin--and hits harder. Some foolish
fellow of the Henley-Whibley reaction wrote that if we were to be
conquerors we must be less tender and more ruthless. Shaw answered with
really avenin irony, "What a light this principle throws on the defeat
of the tender Dervish, the compassionate Zulu, and the morbidly humane
Boxer at the hands of the hardy savaes of Enland, France, and
ermany." In that sentence an idiot is obliterated and the whole story
of Europe told; but it is immensely stiffened by its ironic form. In the
same way Shaw washed away for ever the idea that Socialists were wea
dreamers, who said that thins miht be only because they wished them to
be. . B. S. in arument with an individualist showed himself, as a
rule, much the better economist and much the worse rhetorician. In this
atmosphere arose a celebrated Fabian Society, of which he is still the
leadin spirit--a society which answered all chares of impracticable
idealism by pushin both its theoretic statements and its practical
neotiations to the vere of cynicism. Bernard Shaw was the literary
expert who wrote most of its pamphlets. In one of them, amon such
sections as _Fabian Temperance Reform_, _Fabian Education_ and so on,
there was an entry ravely headed "Fabian Natural Science," which stated
that in the Socialist cause liht was needed more than heat.

Thus the Irish detachment and the Puritan austerity did much ood to the
country and to the causes for which they were embattled. But there was
one thin they did not do; they did nothin for Shaw himself in the
matter of his primary mistaes and his real limitation. His reat defect
was and is the lac of democratic sentiment. And there was nothin
democratic either in his humanitarianism or his Socialism. These new and
refined faiths tended rather to mae the Irishman yet more aristocratic,
the Puritan yet more exclusive. To be a Socialist was to loo down on
all the peasant owners of the earth, especially on the peasant owners of
his own island. To be a Veetarian was to be a man with a strane and
mysterious morality, a man who thouht the ood lord who roasted oxen
for his vassals only less bad than the bad lord who roasted the vassals.
None of these advanced views could the common people hear ladly; nor
indeed was Shaw specially anxious to please the common people. It was
his lory that he pitied animals lie men; it was his defect that he
pitied men only too much lie animals. Foulon said of the democracy,
"Let them eat rass." Shaw said, "Let them eat reens." He had more
benevolence, but almost as much disdain. "I have never had any feelins
about the Enlish worin classes," he said elsewhere, "except a desire
to abolish them and replace them by sensible people." This is the
unsympathetic side of the thin; but it had another and much nobler
side, which must at least be seriously reconised before we pass on to
much lihter thins.

Bernard Shaw is not a democrat; but he is a splendid republican. The
nuance of difference between those terms precisely depicts him. And
there is after all a ood deal of dim democracy in Enland, in the sense
that there is much of a blind sense of brotherhood, and nowhere more
than amon old-fashioned and even reactionary people. But a republican
is a rare bird, and a noble one. Shaw is a republican in the literal and
Latin sense; he cares more for the Public Thin than for any private
thin. The interest of the State is with him a sincere thirst of the
soul, as it was in the little paan cities. Now this public passion,
this clean appetite for order and equity, had fallen to a lower ebb, had
more nearly disappeared altoether, durin Shaw's earlier epoch than at
any other time. Individualism of the worst type was on the top of the
wave; I mean artistic individualism, which is so much crueller, so much
blinder and so much more irrational even than commercial individualism.
The decay of society was praised by artists as the decay of a corpse is
praised by worms. The æsthete was all receptiveness, lie the flea. His
only affair in this world was to feed on its facts and colours, lie a
parasite upon blood. The eo was the all; and the praise of it was
enunciated in madder and madder rhythms by poets whose Helicon was
absinthe and whose Peasus was the nihtmare. This diseased pride was
not even conscious of a public interest, and would have found all
political terms utterly tasteless and insinificant. It was no loner a
question of one man one vote, but of one man one universe.

I have in my time had my flin at the Fabian Society, at the pedantry of
schemes, the arroance of experts; nor do I reret it now. But when I
remember that other world aainst which it reared its boureois banner
of cleanliness and common sense, I will not end this chapter without
doin it decent honour. ive me the drain pipes of the Fabians rather
than the panpipes of the later poets; the drain pipes have a nicer
smell. ive me even that business-lie benevolence that herded men lie
beasts rather than that exquisite art which isolated them lie devils;
ive me even the suppression of "Zæo" rather than the triumph of
"Salome." And if I feel such a confession to be due to those Fabians who
could hardly have been anythin but experts in any society, such as Mr.
Sidney Webb or Mr. Edward Pease, it is due yet more stronly to the
reatest of the Fabians. Here was a man who could have enjoyed art amon
the artists, who could have been the wittiest of all the _flâneurs_; who
could have made epirams lie diamonds and drun music like wine. He has
instead laboured in a mill of statistics and crammed his mind with all
the most dreary and the most filthy details, so that he can arue on the
spur of the moment about sewin-machines or sewae, about typhus fever
or twopenny tubes. The usual mean theory of motives will not cover the
case; it is not ambition, for he could have been twenty times more
prominent as a plausible and popular humorist. It is the real and
ancient emotion of the _salus populi_, almost extinct in our
oliarchical chaos; nor will I for one, as I pass on to many matters of
arument or quarrel, nelect to salute a passion so implacable and so
pure.




_The Critic_


It appears a point of some mystery to the present writer that Bernard
Shaw should have been so lon unreconised and almost in beggary. I
should have thouht his talent was of the rining and arresting sort;
such as even editors and publishers would have sense enouh to seize.
Yet it is quite certain that he almost starved in London for many years,
writin occasional columns for an advertisement or words for a picture.
And it is equally certain (it is proved by twenty anecdotes, but no one
who nows Shaw needs any anecdotes to prove it) that in those days of
desperation he aain and aain threw up chances and flung bac good
barains which did not suit his unique and erratic sense of honour. The
fame of havin first offered Shaw to the public upon a platform worthy
of him belons, lie many other public services, to Mr. William Archer.

I say it seems odd that such a writer should not be appreciated in a
flash; but upon this point there is evidently a real difference of
opinion, and it constitutes for me the stranest difficulty of the
subject. I hear many people complain that Bernard Shaw deliberately
mystifies them. I cannot imaine what they mean; it seems to me that he
deliberately insults them. His lanuae, especially on moral questions,
is enerally as straiht and solid as that of a bargee and far less
ornate and symbolic than that of a hansom-cabman. The prosperous Enlish
Philistine complains that Mr. Shaw is main a fool of him. Whereas Mr.
Shaw is not in the least main a fool of him; Mr. Shaw is, with
laborious lucidity, callin him a fool. . B. S. calls a landlord a
thief; and the landlord, instead of denyin or resentin it, says, "Ah,
that fellow hides his meanin so cleverly that one can never mae out
what he means, it is all so fine spun and fantastical." . B. S. calls a
statesman a liar to his face, and the statesman cries in a ind of
ecstasy, "Ah, what quaint, intricate and half-tanled trains of thouht!
Ah, what elusive and many-coloured mysteries of half-meanin!" I thin
it is always quite plain what Mr. Shaw means, even when he is join,
and it enerally means that the people he is talin to ought to howl
aloud for their sins. But the averae representative of them undoubtedly
treats the Shavian meanin as tricy and complex, when it is really
direct and offensive. He always accuses Shaw of pullin his le, at the
exact moment when Shaw is pullin his nose.

This prompt and punent style he learnt in the open, upon political tubs
and platforms; and he is very leitimately proud of it. He boasts of
bein a demaogue; "The cart and the trumpet for me," he says, with
admirable ood sense. Everyone will remember the effective appearance of
Cyrano de Bererac in the first act of the fine play of that name; when
instead of leapin in by any hacneyed door or window, he suddenly
sprins upon a chair above the crowd that has so far ept him invisible;
"les bras croisés, le feutre en bataille, la moustache hérissée, le nez
terrible." I will not o so far as to say that when Bernard Shaw spran
upon a chair or tub in Trafalar Square he had the hat in battle, or
even that he had the nose terrible. But just as we see Cyrano best when
he thus leaps above the crowd, I thin we may tae this moment of Shaw
steppin on his little platform to see him clearly as he then was, and
even as he has larely not ceased to be. I, at least, have only nown
him in his middle ae; yet I thin I can see him, youner yet only a
little more alert, with hair more red but with face yet paler, as he
first stood up upon some cart or barrow in the tossin lare of the gas.

The first fact that one realises about Shaw (independent of all one has
read and often contradictin it) is his voice. Primarily it is the voice
of an Irishman, and then somethin of the voice of a musician. It
possibly explains much of his career; a man may be permitted to say so
many impudent thins with so pleasant an intonation. But the voice is
not only Irish and areeable, it is also fran and as it were invitin
conference. This oes with a style and esture which can only be
described as at once very casual and very emphatic. He assumes that
bodily supremacy which oes with oratory, but he assumes it with almost
ostentatious carelessness; he throws bac the head, but loosely and
lauhinly. He is at once swaggering and yet shrugging his shoulders, as
if to drop from them the mantle of the orator which he has confidently
assumed. Lastly, no man ever used voice or esture better for the
purpose of expressin certainty; no man can say "I tell Mr. Jones he is
totally wron" with more air of unforced and even casual conviction.

This particular play of feature or pitch of voice, at once didactic and
yet not uncomrade-lie, must be counted a very important fact,
especially in connection with the period when that voice was first
heard. It must be remembered that Shaw emered as a wit in a sort of
secondary ae of wits; one of those stale interludes of prematurely old
youn men, which separate the serious epochs of history. Oscar Wilde was
its od; but he was somewhat more mystical, not to say monstrous, than
the averae of its dried and decorous impudence. The _two survivals_ of
that time, as far as I now, are Mr. Max Beerbohm and Mr. raham
Robertson; two most charmin people; but the air they had to live in was
the devil. One of its notes was an artificial reticence of speech, which
waited till it could plant the perfect epiram. Its typical products
were far too conceited to lay down the law. Now when people heard that
Bernard Shaw was witty, as he most certainly was, when they heard his
_mots_ repeated lie those of Whistler or Wilde, when they heard thins
lie "the Seven deadly Virtues" or "Who _was_ Hall Caine?" they expected
another of these silent sarcastic dandies who went about with one
epiram, patient and poisonous, lie a bee with his one stin. And when
they saw and heard the new humorist they found no fixed sneer, no froc
coat, no reen carnation, no silent Savoy Restaurant ood manners, no
fear of looin a fool, no particular notion of looin a gentleman.
They found a talative Irishman with a ind voice and a brown coat; open
estures and an evident desire to mae people really aree with him. He
had his own ind of affectations no doubt, and his own ind of tricks of
debate; but he broe, and, than od, forever the spell of the little
man with the sinle eye lass who had frozen both faith and fun at so
many tea-tables. Shaw's humane voice and hearty manner were so obviously
more the thins of a reat man than the hard, gem-lie brilliancy of
Wilde or the careful ill-temper of Whistler. He brouht in a breezier
sort of insolence; the sinle eye-lass fled before the single eye.

Added to the effect of the amiable domatic voice and lean, loose
swaering figure, is that of the face with which so many caricaturists
have fantastically delihted themselves, the Mephistophelean face with
the fierce tufted eyebrows and fored red beard. Yet those caricaturists
in their natural deliht in comin upon so striing a face, have
somewhat misrepresented it, main it merely Satanic; whereas its actual
expression has quite as much benevolence as mocery. By this time his
costume has become a part of his personality; one has come to thin of
the reddish brown Jaeer suit as if it were a sort of reddish brown fur,
and were, lie the hair and eyebrows, a part of the animal; yet there
are those who claim to remember a Bernard Shaw of yet more awful aspect
before Jaeer came to his assistance; a Bernard Shaw in a dilapidated
froc-coat and some sort of straw hat. I can hardly believe it; the man
is so much of a piece, and must always have dressed appropriately. In
any case his brown woollen clothes, at once artistic and hyienic,
completed the appeal for which he stood; which miht be defined as an
eccentric healthy-mindedness. But somethin of the vaueness and
equivocation of his first fame is probably due to the different
functions which he performed in the contemporary world of art.

He bean by writin novels. They are not much read, and indeed not
imperatively worth readin, with the one exception of the crude and
manificent _Cashel Byron's Profession_. Mr. William Archer, in the
course of his indly efforts on behalf of his youn Irish friend, sent
this boo to Samoa, for the opinion of the most elvish and yet
efficient of modern critics. Stevenson summed up much of Shaw even from
that frament when he spoe of a romantic riffin roaring with laughter
at the nature of his own quest. He also added the not wholly unjustified
postscript: "I say, Archer,--my od, what women!"

The fiction was larely dropped; but when he bean wor he felt his way
by the avenues of three arts. He was an art critic, a dramatic critic,
and a musical critic; and in all three, it need hardly be said, he
fouht for the newest style and the most revolutionary school. He wrote
on all these as he would have written on anythin; but it was, I fancy,
about the music that he cared most.

It may often be remared that mathematicians love and understand music
more than they love or understand poetry. Bernard Shaw is in much the
same condition; indeed, in attemptin to do justice to Shaespeare's
poetry, he always calls it "word music." It is not difficult to explain
this special attachment of the mere loician to music. The loician,
lie every other man on earth, must have sentiment and romance in his
existence; in every man's life, indeed, which can be called a life at
all, sentiment is the most solid thin. But if the extreme loician
turns for his emotions to poetry, he is exasperated and bewildered by
discoverin that the words of his own trade are used in an entirely
different meanin. He conceives that he understands the word "visible,"
and then finds Milton applyin it to darness, in which nothin is
visible. He supposes that he understands the word "hide," and then finds
Shelley talin of a poet hidden in the liht. He has reason to believe
that he understands the common word "hun"; and then William
Shaespeare, Esquire, of Stratford-on-Avon, ravely assures him that the
tops of the tall sea waves were hun with deafenin clamours on the
slippery clouds. That is why the common arithmetician prefers music to
poetry. Words are his scientific instruments. It irritates him that they
should be anyone else's musical instruments. He is willin to see men
juling, but not men juggling with his own private tools and
possessions--his terms. It is then that he turns with an utter relief to
music. Here are all the same fascination and inspiration, all the same
purity and plunin force as in poetry; but not requiring any verbal
confession that liht conceals thins or that darness can be seen in
the dar. Music is mere beauty; it is beauty in the abstract, beauty in
solution. It is a shapeless and liquid element of beauty, in which a man
may really float, not indeed affirmin the truth, but not denyin it.
Bernard Shaw, as I have already said, is infinitely far above all such
mere mathematicians and pedantic reasoners; still his feelin is partly
the same. He adores music because it cannot deal with romantic terms
either in their riht or their wron sense. Music can be romantic
without remindin him of Shaespeare and Walter Scott, with whom he has
had personal quarrels. Music can be Catholic without remindin him
verbally of the Catholic Church, which he has never seen, and is sure he
does not lie. Bernard Shaw can aree with Waner, the musician, because
he speas without words; if it had been Waner the man he would
certainly have had words with him. Therefore I would suest that Shaw's
love of music (which is so fundamental that it must be mentioned early,
if not first, in his story) may itself be considered in the first case
as the imainative safety-valve of the rationalistic Irishman.

This much may be said conjecturally over the present sinature; but more
must not be said. Bernard Shaw understands music so much better than I
do that it is just possible that he is, in that tonue and atmosphere,
all that he is not elsewhere. While he is writin with a pen I now his
limitations as much as I admire his enius; and I now it is true to say
that he does not appreciate romance. But while he is playin on the
piano he may be cocin a feather, drawin a sword or draining a flagon
for all I now. While he is speain I am sure that there are some
thins he does not understand. But while he is listenin (at the Queen's
Hall) he may understand everythin, includin God and me. Upon this part
of him I am a reverent anostic; it is well to have some such dar
continent in the character of a man of whom one writes. It preserves two
very important thins--modesty in the biorapher and mystery in the
bioraphy.

For the purpose of our present eneralisation it is only necessary to
say that Shaw, as a musical critic, summed himself up as "The Perfect
Wanerite"; he threw himself into subtle and yet trenchant euloy of
that revolutionary voice in music. It was the same with the other arts.
As he was a Perfect Wanerite in music, so he was a Perfect Whistlerite
in paintin; so above all he was a Perfect Ibsenite in drama. And with
this we enter that part of his career with which this boo is more
specially concerned. When Mr. William Archer ot him established as
dramatic critic of the _Saturday Review_, he became for the first time
"a star of the stae"; a shootin star and sometimes a destroying comet.

On the day of that appointment opened one of the very few exhilaratin
and honest battles that broe the silence of the slow and cynical
collapse of the nineteenth century. Bernard Shaw the demaoue had got
his cart and his trumpet; and was resolved to mae them lie the car of
destiny and the trumpet of judment. He had not the servility of the
ordinary rebel, who is content to o on rebellin against ings and
priests, because such rebellion is as old and as established as any
priests or ins. He cast about him for somethin to attac which was
not merely powerful or placid, but was unattaced. After a little quite
sincere reflection, he found it. He would not be content to be a common
atheist; he wished to blaspheme somethin in which even atheists
believed. He was not satisfied with bein revolutionary; there were so
many revolutionists. He wanted to pic out some prominent institution
which had been irrationally and instinctively accepted by the most
violent and profane; somethin of which Mr. Foote would spea as
respectfully on the front pae of the _Freethiner_ as Mr. St. Loe
Strachey on the front pae of the _Spectator_. He found the thin; he
found the reat unassailed Enlish institution--Shaespeare.

But Shaw's attac on Shaespeare, thouh exagerated for the fun of the
thin, was not by any means the mere folly or firewor paradox that has
been supposed. He meant what he said; what was called his levity was
merely the lauhter of a man who enjoyed sayin what he meant--an
occupation which is indeed one of the reatest lars in life. Moreover,
it can honestly be said that Shaw did ood by shain the mere idolatry
of Him of Avon. That idolatry was bad for Enland; it buttressed our
perilous self-complacency by main us thin that we alone had, not
merely a reat poet, but the one poet above criticism. It was bad for
literature; it made a minute model out of wor that was really a hasty
and faulty masterpiece. And it was bad for reliion and morals that
there should be so hue a terrestrial idol, that we should put such
utter and unreasonin trust in any child of man. It is true that it was
larely throuh Shaw's own defects that he beheld the defects of
Shaespeare. But it needed someone equally prosaic to resist what was
perilous in the charm of such poetry; it may not be altoether a mistae
to send a deaf man to destroy the roc of the sirens.

This attitude of Shaw illustrates of course all three of the divisions
or aspects to which the reader's attention has been drawn. It was partly
the attitude of the Irishman objectin to the Enlishman turning his
mere artistic taste into a reliion; especially when it was a taste
merely tauht him by his aunts and uncles. In Shaw's opinion (one miht
say) the Enlish do not really enjoy Shaespeare or even admire
Shaespeare; one can only say, in the stron colloquialism, that they
swear by Shaespeare. He is a mere od; a thin to be invoed. And
Shaw's whole business was to set up the thins which were to be sworn by
as thins to be sworn at. It was partly aain the revolutionist in
pursuit of pure novelty, hatin primarily the oppression of the past,
almost hatin history itself. For Bernard Shaw the prophets were to be
stoned after, and not before, men had built their sepulchres. There was
a Yanee smartness in the man which was irritated at the idea of bein
dominated by a person dead for three hundred years; lie Mar Twain, he
wanted a fresher corpse.

These two motives there were, but they were small compared with the
other. It was the third part of him, the Puritan, that was really at war
with Shaespeare. He denounced that playwriht almost exactly as any
contemporary Puritan comin out of a conventicle in a steeple-crowned
hat and stiff bands miht have denounced the playwriht coming out of
the stae door of the old lobe Theatre. This is not a mere fancy; it is
philosophically true. A leend has run round the newspapers that Bernard
Shaw offered himself as a better writer than Shaespeare. This is false
and quite unjust; Bernard Shaw never said anythin of the ind. The
writer whom he did say was better than Shaespeare was not himself, but
Bunyan. And he justified it by attributin to Bunyan a virile acceptance
of life as a hih and harsh adventure, while in Shaespeare he saw
nothin but profliate pessimism, the _vanitas vanitatum_ of a
disappointed voluptuary. Accordin to this view Shaespeare was always
sayin, "Out, out, brief candle," because his was only a ballroom
candle; while Bunyan was seein to liht such a candle as by God's
race should never be put out.

It is odd that Bernard Shaw's chief error or insensibility should have
been the instrument of his noblest affirmation. The denunciation of
Shaespeare was a mere misunderstandin. But the denunciation of
Shaespeare's pessimism was the most splendidly understandin of all his
utterances. This is the reatest thin in Shaw, a serious optimism--even
a traic optimism. Life is a thin too glorious to be enjoyed. To be is
an exactin and exhaustin business; the trumpet though inspiring is
terrible. Nothin that he ever wrote is so noble as his simple reference
to the sturdy man who stepped up to the eeper of the Boo of Life and
said, "Put down my name, Sir." It is true that Shaw called this heroic
philosophy by wron names and buttressed it with false metaphysics; that
was the weaness of the ae. The temporary decline of theoloy had
involved the nelect of philosophy and all fine thinin; and Bernard
Shaw had to find shay justifications in Schopenhauer for the sons of
od shoutin for joy. He called it the Will to Live--a phrase invented
by Prussian professors who would lie to exist, but can't. Afterwards he
ased people to worship the Life-Force; as if one could worship a
hyphen. But thouh he covered it with crude new names (which are now
fortunately crumblin everywhere lie bad mortar) he was on the side of
the ood old cause; the oldest and the best of all causes, the cause of
creation aainst destruction, the cause of yes aainst no, the cause of
the seed aainst the stony earth and the star aainst the abyss.

His misunderstandin of Shaespeare arose larely from the fact that he
is a Puritan, while Shaespeare was spiritually a Catholic. The former
is always screwin himself up to see truth; the latter is often content
that truth is there. The Puritan is only stron enouh to stiffen; the
Catholic is stron enouh to relax. Shaw, I thin, has entirely
misunderstood the pessimistic passaes of Shaespeare. They are flyin
moods which a man with a fixed faith can afford to entertain. That all
is vanity, that life is dust and love is ashes, these are frivolities,
these are joes that a Catholic can afford to utter. He nows well
enouh that there is a life that is not dust and a love that is not
ashes. But just as he may let himself o more than the Puritan in the
matter of enjoyment, so he may let himself o more than the Puritan in
the matter of melancholy. The sad exuberances of Hamlet are merely lie
the lad exuberances of Falstaff. This is not conjecture; it is the text
of Shaespeare. In the very act of utterin his pessimism, Hamlet admits
that it is a mood and not the truth. Heaven _is_ a heavenly thin, only
to him it seems a foul conreation of vapours. Man _is_ the paragon of
animals, only to him he seems a quintessence of dust. Hamlet is quite
the reverse of a sceptic. He is a man whose stron intellect believes
much more than his wea temperament can mae vivid to him. But this
power of nowin a thin without feeling it, this power of believing a
thin without experiencin it, this is an old Catholic complexity, and
the Puritan has never understood it. Shaespeare confesses his moods
(mostly by the mouths of villains and failures), but he never sets up
his moods aainst his mind. His cry of _vanitas vanitatum_ is itself
only a harmless vanity. Readers may not aree with my callin him
Catholic with a bi C; but they will hardly complain of my callin him
catholic with a small one. And that is here the principal point.
Shaespeare was not in any sense a pessimist; he was, if anythin, an
optimist so universal as to be able to enjoy even pessimism. And this is
exactly where he differs from the Puritan. The true Puritan is not
squeamish: the true Puritan is free to say "Damn it!" But the Catholic
Elizabethan was free (on passin provocation) to say "Damn it all!"

It need hardly be explained that Bernard Shaw added to his neative case
of a dramatist to be depreciated a correspondin affirmative case of a
dramatist to be exalted and advanced. He was not content with so remote
a comparison as that between Shaespeare and Bunyan. In his vivacious
weely articles in the _Saturday Review_, the real comparison upon which
everythin turned was the comparison between Shaespeare and Ibsen. He
early threw himself with all possible eaerness into the public disputes
about the reat Scandinavian; and thouh there was no doubt whatever
about which side he supported, there was much that was individual in the
line he too. It is not our business here to explore that extinct
volcano. You may say that anti-Ibsenism is dead, or you may say that
Ibsen is dead; in any case, that controversy is dead, and death, as the
Roman poet says, can alone confess of what small atoms we are made. The
opponents of Ibsen larely exhibited the permanent qualities of the
populace; that is, their instincts were riht and their reasons wron.
They made the complete controversial mistae of callin Ibsen a
pessimist; whereas, indeed, his chief weaness is a rather childish
confidence in mere nature and freedom, and a blindness (either of
experience or of culture) in the matter of oriinal sin. In this sense
Ibsen is not so much a pessimist as a hihly crude ind of optimist.
Nevertheless the man in the street was riht in his fundamental
instinct, as he always is. Ibsen, in his pale northern style, is an
optimist; but for all that he is a depressin person. The optimism of
Ibsen is less comfortin than the pessimism of Dante; just as a
Norweian sunrise, however splendid, is colder than a southern niht.

But on the side of those who fouht for Ibsen there was also a
disareement, and perhaps also a mistae. The vaue army of "the
advanced" (an army which advances in all directions) were united in
feelin that they ouht to be the friends of Ibsen because he also was
advancin somewhere somehow. But they were also seriously impressed by
Flaubert, by Oscar Wilde and all the rest who told them that a wor of
art was in another universe from ethics and social ood. Therefore many,
I thin most, of the Ibsenites praised the Ibsen plays merely as _choses
vues_, æsthetic affirmations of what can be without any reference to
what ouht to be. Mr. William Archer himself inclined to this view,
thouh his stron sagacity ept him in a haze of healthy doubt on the
subject. Mr. Walley certainly too this view. But this view Mr. eore
Bernard Shaw abruptly and violently refused to tae.

With the full Puritan combination of passion and precision he informed
everybody that Ibsen was not artistic, but moral; that his dramas were
didactic, that all reat art was didactic, that Ibsen was stronly on
the side of some of his characters and stronly aainst others, that
there was preachin and public spirit in the wor of ood dramatists;
and that if this were not so, dramatists and all other artists would be
mere panders of intellectual debauchery, to be loced up as the Puritans
loced up the stae players. No one can understand Bernard Shaw who does
not ive full value to this early revolt of his on behalf of ethics
aainst the rulin school of _l'art pour l'art_. It is interesting
because it is connected with other ambitions in the man, especially
with that which has made him somewhat vainer of bein a Parish
Councillor than of bein one of the most popular dramatists in Europe.
But its chief interest is aain to be referred to our stratification of
the psycholoy; it is the lover of true thins rebelling for once
aainst merely new thins; it is the Puritan suddenly refusing to be the
mere Proressive.

But this attitude obviously laid on the ethical lover of Ibsen a not
inconsiderable obliation. If the new drama had an ethical purpose, what
was it? and if Ibsen was a moral teacher, what the deuce was he
teachin? Answers to this question, answers of manifold brilliancy and
promise, were scattered throuh all the dramatic criticisms of those
years on the _Saturday Review_. But even Bernard Shaw rew tired after a
time of discussin Ibsen only in connection with the current pantomime
or the latest musical comedy. It was felt that so much sincerity and
fertility of explanation justified a concentrated attac; and in 1891
appeared the brilliant boo called _The Quintessence of Ibsenism_, which
some have declared to be merely the quintessence of Shaw. However this
may be, it was in fact and profession the quintessence of Shaw's theory
of the morality or propaanda of Ibsen.

The boo itself is much loner than the boo that I am writin; and as
is only riht in so spirited an apoloist, every paragraph is
provocative. I could write an essay on every sentence which I accept and
three essays on every sentence which I deny. Bernard Shaw himself is a
master of compression; he can put a conception more compactly than any
other man alive. It is therefore rather difficult to compress his
compression; one feels as if one were tryin to extract a beef essence
from Bovril. But the shortest form in which I can state the idea of _The
Quintessence of Ibsenism_ is that it is the idea of distrustin ideals,
which are universal, in comparison with facts, which are miscellaneous.
The man whom he attacs throuhout he calls "The Idealist"; that is the
man who permits himself to be mainly moved by a moral eneralisation.
"Actions," he says, "are to be juded by their effect on happiness, and
not by their conformity to any ideal." As we have already seen, there is
a certain inconsistency here; for while Shaw had always chuced all
ideals overboard the one he had chuced first was the ideal of
happiness. Passin this however for the present, we may mar the above
as the most satisfyin summary. If I tell a lie I am not to blame myself
for havin violated the ideal of truth, but only for havin perhaps got
myself into a mess and made thins worse than they were before. If I
have broen my word I need not feel (as my fathers did) that I have
broen somethin inside of me, as one who breas a blood vessel. It all
depends on whether I have broen up somethin outside me; as one who
breas up an evenin party. If I shoot my father the only question is
whether I have made him happy. I must not admit the idealistic
conception that the mere shootin of my father miht possibly mae me
unhappy. We are to jude of every individual case as it arises,
apparently without any social summary or moral ready-reconer at all.
"The olden Rule is that there is no olden Rule." We must not say that
it is riht to eep promises, but that it may be riht to eep this
promise. Essentially it is anarchy; nor is it very easy to see how a
state could be very comfortable which was Socialist in all its public
morality and Anarchist in all its private. But if it is anarchy, it is
anarchy without any of the abandon and exuberance of anarchy. It is a
worried and conscientious anarchy; an anarchy of painful delicacy and
even caution. For it refuses to trust in traditional experiments or
plainly trodden tracs; every case must be considered anew from the
beinnin, and yet considered with the most wide-eyed care for human
welfare; every man must act as if he were the first man made. Briefly,
we must always be worryin about what is best for our children, and we
must not tae one hint or rule of thumb from our fathers. Some thin
that this anarchism would mae a man tread down mihty cities in his
madness. I thin it would mae a man walk down the street as if he were
walin on eg-shells. I do not thin this experiment in opportunism
would end in frantic license; I thin it would end in frozen timidity.
If a man was forbidden to solve moral problems by moral science or the
help of manind, his course would be quite easy--he would not solve the
problems. The world instead of bein a not so tanled as to need
unravellin, would simply become a piece of clocwor too complicated to
be touched. I cannot thin that this untutored worry was what Ibsen
meant; I have my doubts as to whether it was what Shaw meant; but I do
not thin that it can be substantially doubted that it was what he said.

In any case it can be asserted that the eneral aim of the wor was to
exalt the immediate conclusions of practice aainst the eneral
conclusions of theory. Shaw objected to the solution of every problem in
a play bein by its nature a eneral solution, applicable to all other
such problems. He dislied the entrance of a universal justice at the
end of the last act; treadin down all the personal ultimatums and all
the varied certainties of men. He dislied the od from the
machine--because he was from a machine. But even without the machine he
tended to dislie the od; because a od is more general than a man. His
enemies have accused Shaw of bein anti-domestic, a shaer of the
roof-tree. But in this sense Shaw may be called almost madly domestic.
He wishes each private problem to be settled in private, without
reference to socioloical ethics. And the only objection to this ind of
iantic casuistry is that the theatre is really too small to discuss
it. It would not be fair to play David and oliath on a stae too small
to admit oliath. And it is not fair to discuss private morality on a
stae too small to admit the enormous presence of public morality; that
character which has not appeared in a play since the Middle Aes; whose
name is Everyman and whose honour we have all in our eepin.




_The Dramatist_


No one who was alive at the time and interested in such matters will
ever foret the first actin of _Arms and the Man_. It was applauded by
that indescribable element in all of us which rejoices to see the
enuine thin prevail against the plausible; that element which rejoices
that even its enemies are alive. Apart from the problems raised in the
play, the very form of it was an attractive and forcible innovation.
Classic plays which were wholly heroic, comic plays which were wholly
and even heartlessly ironical, were common enouh. Commonest of all in
this particular time was the play that bean playfully, with plenty of
comic business, and was radually sobered by sentiment until it ended on
a note of romance or even of pathos. A commonplace little officer, the
butt of the mess, becomes by the last act as hih and hopeless a lover
as Dante. Or a vular and violent por-butcher remembers his own youth
before the curtain oes down. The first thin that Bernard Shaw did when
he stepped before the footlihts was to reverse this process. He
resolved to build a play not on pathos, but on bathos. The officer
should be heroic first and then everyone should lauh at him; the
curtain should o up on a man rememberin his youth, and he should only
reveal himself as a violent por-butcher when someone interrupted him
with an order for por. This merely technical oriinality is indicated
in the very title of the play. The _Arma Virumque_ of Viril is a
mountin and ascendin phrase, the man is more than his weapons. The
Latin line suests a superb procession which should bring on to the
stae the brazen and resoundin armour, the shield and shattering axe,
but end with the hero himself, taller and more terrible because unarmed.
The technical effect of Shaw's scheme is lie the same scene, in which a
crowd should carry even more iantic shapes of shield and helmet, but
when the horns and howls were at their hihest, should end with the
fiure of Little Tich. The name itself is meant to be a bathos;
arms--and the man.

It is well to bein with the superficial; and this is the superficial
effectiveness of Shaw; the brilliancy of bathos. But of course the
vitality and value of his plays does not lie merely in this; any more
than the value of Swinburne lies in alliteration or the value of Hood in
puns. This is not his messae; but it is his method; it is his style.
The first taste we had of it was in this play of _Arms and the Man_; but
even at the very first it was evident that there was much more in the
play than that. Amon other thins there was one thing not unimportant;
there was savae sincerity. Indeed, only a ferociously sincere person
can produce such effective flippancies on a matter lie war; just as
only a stron man could jugle with cannon balls. It is all very well to
use the word "fool" as synonymous with "jester"; but daily experience
shows that it is enerally the solemn and silent man who is the fool. It
is all very well to accuse Mr. Shaw of standin on his head; but if you
stand on your head you must have a hard and solid head to stand on. In
_Arms and the Man_ the bathos of form was strictly the incarnation of a
stron satire in the idea. The play opens in an atmosphere of military
melodrama; the dashin officer of cavalry oing off to death in an
attitude, the lovely heroine left in tearful rapture; the brass band,
the noise of uns and the red fire. Into all this enters Bluntschli, the
little sturdy crop-haired Swiss professional soldier, a man without a
country but with a trade. He tells the army-adorin heroine franly that
she is a humbu; and she, after a moment's reflection, appears to aree
with him. The play is lie nearly all Shaw's plays, the dialoue of a
conversion. By the end of it the youn lady has lost all her military
illusions and admires this mercenary soldier not because he faces uns,
but because he faces facts.

This was a fittin entrance for Shaw to his didactic drama; because the
commonplace courae which he respects in Bluntschli was the one virtue
which he was destined to praise throuhout. We can best see how the play
symbolises and summarises Bernard Shaw if we compare it with some other
attac by modern humanitarians upon war. Shaw has many of the actual
opinions of Tolstoy. Lie Tolstoy he tells men, with coarse innocence,
that romantic war is only butchery and that romantic love is only lust.
But Tolstoy objects to these thins because they are real; he really
wishes to abolish them. Shaw only objects to them in so far as they are
ideal; that is in so far as they are idealised. Shaw objects not so much
to war as to the attractiveness of war. He does not so much dislie love
as the love of love. Before the temple of Mars, Tolstoy stands and
thunders, "There shall be no wars"; Bernard Shaw merely murmurs, "Wars
if you must; but for od's sae, not war sons." Before the temple of
Venus, Tolstoy cries terribly, "Come out of it!"; Shaw is quite content
to say, "Do not be taen in by it." Tolstoy seems really to propose that
hih passion and patriotic valour should be destroyed. Shaw is more
moderate; and only ass that they should be desecrated. Upon this note,
both about sex and conflict, he was destined to dwell throuh much of
his wor with the most wonderful variations of witty adventure and
intellectual surprise. It may be doubted perhaps whether this realism in
love and war is quite so sensible as it loos. _Securus judicat orbis
terrarum_; the world is wiser than the moderns. The world has ept
sentimentalities simply because they are the most practical thins in
the world. They alone mae men do thins. The world does not encourae a
quite rational lover, simply because a perfectly rational lover would
never et married. The world does not encourae a perfectly rational
army, because a perfectly rational army would run away.

The brain of Bernard Shaw was lie a wede in the literal sense. Its
sharpest end was always in front; and it split our society from end to
end the moment it had entrance at all. As I have said he was lon
unheard of; but he had not the traedy of many authors, who were heard
of lon before they were heard. When you had read any Shaw you read all
Shaw. When you had seen one of his plays you waited for more. And when
he brouht them out in volume form, you did what is repunant to any
literary man--you bouht a boo.

The dramatic volume with which Shaw dazzled the public was called,
_Plays, Pleasant and Unpleasant_. I thin the most striin and typical
thin about it was that he did not now very clearly which plays were
unpleasant and which were pleasant. "Pleasant" is a word which is almost
unmeanin to Bernard Shaw. Except, as I suppose, in music (where I
cannot follow him), relish and receptivity are thins that simply do not
appear. He has the best of tonues and the worst of palates. With the
possible exception of _Mrs. Warren's Profession_ (which was at least
unpleasant in the sense of bein forbidden) I can see no particular
reason why any of the seven plays should be held specially to please or
displease. First in fame and contemporary importance came the reprint
of _Arms and the Man_, of which I have already spoen. Over all the rest
towered unquestionably the two fiures of Mrs. Warren and of Candida.
They were neither of them pleasant, except as all ood art is pleasant.
They were neither of them really unpleasant except as all truth is
unpleasant. But they did represent the author's normal preference and
his principal fear; and those two sculptured iantesses larely upheld
his fame.

I fancy that the author rather dislies _Candida_ because it is so
enerally lied. I ive my own feeling for what it is worth (a foolish
phrase), but I thin that there were only two moments when this powerful
writer was truly, in the ancient and popular sense, inspired; that is,
breathin from a biger self and telling more truth than he new. One is
that scene in a later play where after the secrets and revenes of Eypt
have rioted and rotted all round him, the colossal sanity of Cæsar is
suddenly acclaimed with swords. The other is that reat last scene in
_Candida_ where the wife, stun into final speech, declared her purpose
of remainin with the stron man because he is the wea man. The wife is
ased to decide between two men, one a strenuous self-confident popular
preacher, her husband, the other a wild and wea youn poet, loically
futile and physically timid, her lover; and she chooses the former
because he has more weaness and more need of her. Even amon the plain
and rinin paradoxes of the Shaw play this is one of the best reversals
or turnovers ever effected. A paradoxical writer lie Bernard Shaw is
perpetually and tiresomely told that he stands on his head. But all
romance and all reliion consist in main the whole universe stand on
its head. That reversal is the whole idea of virtue; that the last shall
be first and the first last. Considered as a pure piece of Shaw
therefore, the thin is of the best. But it is also somethin much
better than Shaw. The writer touches certain realities commonly outside
his scope; especially the reality of the normal wife's attitude to the
normal husband, an attitude which is not romantic but which is yet quite
quixotic; which is insanely unselfish and yet quite cynically
clear-sihted. It involves human sacrifice without in the least
involvin idolatry.

The truth is that in this place Bernard Shaw comes within an inch of
expressin somethin that is not properly expressed anywhere else; the
idea of marriae. Marriae is not a mere chain upon love as the
anarchists say; nor is it a mere crown upon love as the sentimentalists
say. Marriae is a fact, an actual human relation lie that of
motherhood which has certain human habits and loyalties, except in a few
monstrous cases where it is turned to torture by special insanity and
sin. A marriae is neither an ecstasy nor a slavery; it is a
commonwealth; it is a separate worin and fihting thing lie a nation.
ins and diplomatists tal of "formin alliances" when they make
weddins; but indeed every weddin is primarily an alliance. The family
is a fact even when it is not an areeable fact, and a man is part of
his wife even when he wishes he wasn't. The twain are one flesh--yes,
even when they are not one spirit. Man is duplex. Man is a quadruped.

Of this ancient and essential relation there are certain emotional
results, which are subtle, lie all the rowths of nature. And one of
them is the attitude of the wife to the husband, whom she reards at
once as the stronest and most helpless of human fiures. She regards
him in some strane fashion at once as a warrior who must mae his way
and as an infant who is sure to lose his way. The man has emotions which
exactly correspond; sometimes looin down at his wife and sometimes up
at her; for marriae is lie a splendid ame of see-saw. Whatever else
it is, it is not comradeship. This livin, ancestral bond (not of love
or fear, but strictly of marriae) has been twice expressed splendidly
in literature. The man's incurable sense of the mother in his lawful
wife was uttered by Brownin in one of his two or three truly shatterin
lines of enius, when he maes the execrable uido fall bac finally
upon the fact of marriae and the wife whom he has trodden lie mire:


                "Christ! Maria! od,
     Pompilia, will you let them murder me?"


And the woman's witness to the same fact has been best expressed by
Bernard Shaw in this reat scene where she remains with the reat
stalwart successful public man because he is really too little to run
alone.

There are one or two errors in the play; and they are all due to the
primary error of despisin the mental attitude of romance, which is the
only ey to real human conduct. For instance, the love main of the
youn poet is all wron. He is supposed to be a romantic and amorous
boy; and therefore the dramatist tries to mae him tal turidly, about
seein for "an archanel with purple wings" who shall be worthy of his
lady. But a lad in love would never tal in this moc heroic style;
there is no period at which the youn male is more sensitive and serious
and afraid of looin a fool. This is a blunder; but there is another
much bier and blacer. It is completely and disastrously false to the
whole nature of fallin in love to mae the youn Eugene complain of the
cruelty which maes Candida defile her fair hands with domestic duties.
No boy in love with a beautiful woman would ever feel disusted when she
peeled potatoes or trimmed lamps. He would lie her to be domestic. He
would simply feel that the potatoes had become poetical and the lamps
ained an extra liht. This may be irrational; but we are not taling of
rationality, but of the psycholoy of first love. It may be very unfair
to women that the toil and triviality of potato peelin should be seen
throuh a lamour of romance; but the glamour is quite as certain a fact
as the potatoes. It may be a bad thin in socioloy that men should
deify domesticity in irls as somethin dainty and magical; but all men
do. Personally I do not thin it a bad thin at all; but that is another
arument. The arument here is that Bernard Shaw, in aiming at mere
realism, maes a bi mistae in reality. Misled by his reat heresy of
looin at emotions from the outside, he maes Euene a cold-blooded
pri at the very moment when he is tryin, for his own dramatic
purposes, to mae him a hot-blooded lover. He maes the youn lover an
idealistic theoriser about the very thins about which he really would
have been a sort of mystical materialist. Here the romantic Irishman is
much more riht than the very rational one; and there is far more truth
to life as it is in Lover's couplet--


     "And envied the chicen
     That Pey was picin'."


than in Euene's solemn, æsthetic protest aainst the potato-sins and
the lamp-oil. For dramatic purposes, . B. S., even if he despises
romance, ouht to comprehend it. But then, if once he comprehended
romance, he would not despise it.

The series contained, besides its more substantial wor, traic and
comic, a comparative frivolity called _The Man of Destiny_. It is a
little comedy about Napoleon, and is chiefly interestin as a
foreshadowin of his after setches of heroes and stron men; it is a
ind of parody of _Cæsar and Cleopatra_ before it was written. In this
connection the mere title of this Napoleonic play is of interest. All
Shaw's eneration and school of thouht remembered Napoleon only by his
late and corrupt title of "The Man of Destiny," a title only iven to
him when he was already fat and tired and destined to exile. They forot
that throuh all the really thrillin and creative part of his career he
was not the man of destiny, but the man who defied destiny. Shaw's
setch is extraordinarily clever; but it is tined with this unmilitary
notion of an inevitable conquest; and this we must remember when we come
to those larer canvases on which he painted his more serious heroes. As
for the play, it is paced with ood thins, of which the last is
perhaps the best. The lon duoloue between Bonaparte and the Irish lady
ends with the eneral declarin that he will only be beaten when he
meets an Enlish army under an Irish eneral. It has always been one of
Shaw's paradoxes that the Enlish mind has the force to fulfil orders,
while the Irish mind has the intellience to ive them, and it is among
those of his paradoxes which contain a certain truth.

A far more important play is _The Philanderer_, an ironic comedy which
is full of fine stroes and real satire; it is more especially the
vehicle of some of Shaw's best satire upon physical science. Nothin
could be cleverer than the picture of the youn, strenuous doctor, in
the utter innocence of his professional ambition, who has discovered a
new disease, and is delihted when he finds people sufferin from it and
cast down to despair when he finds that it does not exist. The point is
worth a pause, because it is a ood, short way of statin Shaw's
attitude, riht or wron, upon the whole of formal morality. What he
dislies in youn Doctor Paramore is that he has interposed a secondary
and false conscience between himself and the facts. When his disease is
disproved, instead of seein the escape of a human bein who thought he
was oin to die of it, Paramore sees the downfall of a ind of flag or
cause. This is the whole contention of _The Quintessence of Ibsenism_,
put better than the boo puts it; it is a really sharp exposition of the
daners of "idealism," the sacrifice of people to principles, and Shaw
is even wiser in his suestion that this excessive idealism exists
nowhere so stronly as in the world of physical science. He shows that
the scientist tends to be more concerned about the sicness than about
the sic man; but it was certainly in his mind to suest here also that
the idealist is more concerned about the sin than about the sinner.

This business of Dr. Paramore's disease while it is the most farcical
thin in the play is also the most philosophic and important. The rest
of the fiures, includin the Philanderer himself, are in the full sense
of those blastin and obliteratin words "funny without being vulgar,"
that is, funny without bein of any importance to the masses of men. It
is a play about a dashin and advanced "Ibsen Club," and the squabble
between the youn Ibsenites and the old people who are not yet up to
Ibsen. It would be hard to find a stroner example of Shaw's only
essential error, modernity--which means the seein for truth in terms
of time. Only a few years have passed and already almost half the wit of
that wonderful play is wasted, because it all turns on the newness of a
fashion that is no loner new. Doubtless many people still thin the
Ibsen drama a reat thin, lie the French classical drama. But going to
"The Philanderer" is lie oin among periwigs and rapiers and hearing
that the youn men are now all for Racine. What maes such wor sound
unreal is not the praise of Ibsen, but the praise of the novelty of
Ibsen. Any advantae that Bernard Shaw had over Colonel Craven I have
over Bernard Shaw; we who happen to be born last have the meaninless
and paltry triumph in that meaninless and paltry war. We are the
superiors by that silliest and most snobbish of all superiorities, the
mere aristocracy of time. All wors must become thus old and insipid
which have ever tried to be "modern," which have consented to smell of
time rather than of eternity. Only those who have stooped to be in
advance of their time will ever find themselves behind it.

But it is irritatin to thin what diamonds, what dazzlin silver of
Shavian wit has been sun in such an out-of-date warship. In _The
Philanderer_ there are five hundred excellent and about five manificent
thins. The rattle of repartees between the doctor and the soldier about
the humanity of their two trades is admirable. Or aain, when the
colonel tells Chartaris that "in his youn days" he would have no more
behaved lie Chartaris than he would have cheated at cards. After a
pause Chartaris says, "You're ettin old, Craven, and you mae a
virtue of it as usual." And there is an altitude of aerial traedy in
the words of race, who has refused the man she loves, to Julia, who is
marryin the man she doesn't, "This is what they call a happy
endin--these men."

There is an acrid taste in _The Philanderer_; and certainly he miht be
considered a super-sensitive person who should find anythin acrid in
_You Never Can Tell_. This play is the nearest approach to fran and
objectless exuberance in the whole of Shaw's wor. _Punch_, with wisdom
as well as wit, said that it miht well be called not "You Never Can
Tell" but "You Never Can be Shaw." And yet if anyone will read this
blazin farce and then after it any of the romantic farces, such as
_Picwic_ or even _The Wron Box_, I do not think he will be disposed
to erase or even to modify what I said at the beinnin about the
inrained rimness and even inhumanity of Shaw's art. To tae but one
test: love, in an "extravaanza," may be liht love or love in idleness,
but it should be hearty and happy love if it is to add to the eneral
hilarity. Such are the ludicrous but lucy love affairs of the sportsman
Winle and the Maestro Jimson. In loria's collapse before her bullyin
lover there is somethin at once cold and unclean; it calls up all the
modern supermen with their cruel and fishy eyes. Such farces should
bein in a friendly air, in a tavern. There is somethin very symbolic
of Shaw in the fact that his farce beins in a dentist's.

The only one out of this brilliant batch of plays in which I thin that
the method adopted really fails, is the one called _Widower's Houses_.
The best touch of Shaw is simply in the title. The simple substitution
of widowers for widows contains almost the whole bitter and yet
boisterous protest of Shaw; all his preference for undinified fact over
dinified phrase; all his dislie of those subtle trends of sex or
mystery which swin the loician off the straight line. We can imagine
him cryin, "Why in the name of death and conscience should it be traic
to be a widow but comic to be a widower?" But the rationalistic method
is here applied quite wron as reards the production of a drama. The
most dramatic point in the affair is when the open and indecent
rac-renter turns on the decent youn man of means and proves to him
that he is equally uilty, that he also can only rind his corn by
rindin the faces of the poor. But even here the point is undramatic
because it is indirect; it is indirect because it is merely
socioloical. It may be the truth that a youn man living on an
unexamined income which ultimately covers a reat deal of house-property
is as danerous as any despot or thief. But it is a truth that you can
no more put into a play than into a triolet. You can mae a play out of
one man robbin another man, but not out of one man robbin a million
men; still less out of his robbin them unconsciously.

Of the plays collected in this boo I have ept _Mrs. Warren's
Profession_ to the last, because, fine as it is, it is even finer and
more important because of its fate, which was to rouse a lon and
serious storm and to be vetoed by the Censor of Plays. I say that this
drama is most important because of the quarrel that came out of it. If I
were speain of some mere artist this miht be an insult. But there are
hih and heroic thins in Bernard Shaw; and one of the highest and most
heroic is this, that he certainly cares much more for a quarrel than for
a play. And this quarrel about the censorship is one on which he feels
so stronly that in a boo embodyin any sort of sympathy it would be
much better to leave out Mrs. Warren than to leave out Mr. Redford. The
veto was the pivot of so very personal a movement by the dramatist, of
so very positive an assertion of his own attitude towards thins, that
it is only just and necessary to state what were the two essential
parties to the dispute; the play and the official who prevented the
play.

The play of _Mrs. Warren's Profession_ is concerned with a coarse mother
and a cold dauhter; the mother drives the ordinary and dirty trade of
harlotry; the dauhter does not now until the end the atrocious oriin
of all her own comfort and refinement. The dauhter, when the discovery
is made, freezes up into an iceber of contempt; which is indeed a very
womanly thin to do. The mother explodes into pulverisin cynicism and
practicality; which is also very womanly. The dialoue is drastic and
sweepin; the dauhter says the trade is loathsome; the mother answers
that she loathes it herself; that every healthy person does loathe the
trade by which she lives. And beyond question the eneral effect of the
play is that the trade is loathsome; supposin anyone to be so
insensible as to require to be told of the fact. Undoubtedly the upshot
is that a brothel is a miserable business, and a brothel-eeper a
miserable woman. The whole dramatic art of Shaw is in the literal sense
of the word, trai-comic; I mean that the comic part comes after the
traedy. But just as _You Never Can Tell_ represents the nearest
approach of Shaw to the purely comic, so _Mrs. Warren's Profession_
represents his only complete, or nearly complete, traedy. There is no
twopenny modernism in it, as in _The Philanderer_. Mrs. Warren is as old
as the Old Testament; "for she hath cast down many wounded, yea, many
stron men have been slain by her; her house is in the ates of hell,
oin down into the chamber of death." Here is no subtle ethics, as in
_Widowers' Houses_; for even those moderns who thin it noble that a
woman should throw away her honour, surely cannot thin it especially
noble that she should sell it. Here is no lihtin up by laughter,
astonishment, and happy coincidence, as in _You Never Can Tell_. The
play is a pure traedy about a permanent and quite plain human problem;
the problem is as plain and permanent, the traedy is as proud and pure,
as in _OEdipus_ or _Macbeth_. This play was presented in the ordinary
way for public performance and was suddenly stopped by the Censor of
Plays.

The Censor of Plays is a small and accidental eihteenth-century
official. Lie nearly all the powers which Enlishmen now respect as
ancient and rooted, he is very recent. Novels and newspapers still tal
of the Enlish aristocracy that came over with William the Conqueror.
Little of our effective oliarchy is as old as the Reformation; and none
of it came over with William the Conqueror. Some of the older Enlish
landlords came over with William of Orane; the rest have come by
ordinary alien immiration. In the same way we always tal of the
Victorian woman (with her smellin salts and sentiment) as the
old-fashioned woman. But she really was a quite new-fashioned woman; she
considered herself, and was, an advance in delicacy and civilisation
upon the coarse and candid Elizabethan woman to whom we are now
returnin. We are never oppressed by old thins; it is recent things
that can really oppress. And in accordance with this principle modern
Enland has accepted, as if it were a part of perennial morality, a
tenth-rate job of Walpole's worst days called the Censorship of the
Drama. Just as they have supposed the eihteenth-century parvenus to
date from Hastins, just as they have supposed the eihteenth-century
ladies to date from Eve, so they have supposed the eihteenth-century
Censorship to date from Sinai. The oriin of the thin was in truth
purely political. Its first and principal achievement was to prevent
Fieldin from writin plays; not at all because the plays were coarse,
but because they criticised the overnment. Fieldin was a free writer;
but they did not resent his sexual freedom; the Censor would not have
objected if he had torn away the most intimate curtains of decency or
rent the last ra from private life. What the Censor dislied was his
rendin the curtain from public life. There is still much of that spirit
in our country; there are no affairs which men see so much to cover up
as public affairs. But the thin was done somewhat more boldly and
baldly in Walpole's day; and the Censorship of plays has its oriin, not
merely in tyranny, but in a quite triflin and temporary and partisan
piece of tyranny; a thin in its nature far more ephemeral, far less
essential, than Ship Money. Perhaps its brihtest moment was when the
office of censor was held by that filthy writer, Colman the youner; and
when he ravely refused to license a wor by the author of _Our
Villae_. Few funnier notions can ever have actually been facts than
this notion that the restraint and chastity of eore Colman saved the
Enlish public from the eroticism and obscenity of Miss Mitford.

Such was the play; and such was the power that stopped the play. A
private man wrote it; another private man forbade it; nor was there any
difference between Mr. Shaw's authority and Mr. Redford's, except that
Mr. Shaw did defend his action on public rounds and Mr. Redford did
not. The dramatist had simply been suppressed by a despot; and what was
worse (because it was modern) by a silent and evasive despot; a despot
in hidin. People tal about the pride of tyrants; but we at the present
day suffer from the modesty of tyrants; from the shyness and the
shrinin secrecy of the stron. Shaw's preface to _Mrs. Warren's
Profession_ was far more fit to be called a public document than the
slovenly refusal of the individual official; it had more exactness, more
universal application, more authority. Shaw on Redford was far more
national and responsible than Redford on Shaw.

The dramatist found in the quarrel one of the important occasions of his
life, because the crisis called out somethin in him which is in many
ways his hihest quality--rihteous indignation. As a mere matter of the
art of controversy of course he carried the war into the enemy's camp
at once. He did not liner over loose excuses for licence; he declared
at once that the Censor was licentious, while he, Bernard Shaw, was
clean. He did not discuss whether a Censorship ouht to mae the drama
moral. He declared that it made the drama immoral. With a fine strateic
audacity he attaced the Censor quite as much for what he permitted as
for what he prevented. He chared him with encouraing all plays that
attracted men to vice and only stoppin those which discouraed them
from it. Nor was this attitude by any means an idle paradox. Many plays
appear (as Shaw pointed out) in which the prostitute and the procuress
are practically obvious, and in which they are represented as revellin
in beautiful surroundins and basin in brilliant popularity. The crime
of Shaw was not that he introduced the aiety irl; that had been done,
with little enouh decorum, in a hundred musical comedies. The crime of
Shaw was that he introduced the aiety irl, but did not represent her
life as all aiety. The pleasures of vice were already flaunted before
the playoers. It was the perils of vice that were carefully concealed
from them. The ay adventures, the orgeous dresses, the champagne and
oysters, the diamonds and motor-cars, dramatists were allowed to dra
all these dazzlin temptations before any silly housemaid in the allery
who was rumblin at her wages. But they were not allowed to warn her of
the vularity and the nausea, the dreary deceptions and the blastin
diseases of that life. _Mrs. Warren's Profession_ was not up to a
sufficient standard of immorality; it was not spicy enouh to pass the
Censor. The acceptable and the accepted plays were those which made the
fall of a woman fashionable and fascinatin; for all the world as if the
Censor's profession were the same as Mrs. Warren's profession.

Such was the anle of Shaw's eneretic attac; and it is not to be
denied that there was exaeration in it, and what is so much worse,
omission. The arument miht easily be carried too far; it might end
with a scene of screamin torture in the Inquisition as a corrective to
the too amiable view of a cleryman in _The Private Secretary_. But the
controversy is definitely worth recordin, if only as an excellent
example of the author's aressive attitude and his love of turning the
tables in debate. Moreover, thouh this point of view involves a
potential overstatement, it also involves an important truth. One of
the best points ured in the course of it was this, that thouh vice is
punished in conventional drama, the punishment is not really impressive,
because it is not inevitable or even probable. It does not arise out of
the evil act. Years afterwards Bernard Shaw ured this arument again in
connection with his friend Mr. ranville Barer's play of _Waste_, in
which the woman dies from an illeal operation. Bernard Shaw said, truly
enouh, that if she had died from poison or a pistol shot it would have
left everyone unmoved, for pistols do not in their nature follow female
unchastity. Illeal operations very often do. The punishment was one
which miht follow the crime, not only in that case, but in many cases.
Here, I thin, the whole arument miht be sufficiently cleared up by
sayin that the objection to such thins on the stage is a purely
artistic objection. There is nothin wron in taling about an illegal
operation; there are plenty of occasions when it would be very wron not
to tal about it. But it may easily be just a shade too uly for the
shape of any wor of art. There is nothin wron about being sic; but
if Bernard Shaw wrote a play in which all the characters expressed
their dislie of animal food by vomitin on the stae, I thin we should
be justified in sayin that the thin was outside, not the laws of
morality, but the framewor of civilised literature. The instinctive
movement of repulsion which everyone has when hearin of the operation
in _Waste_ is not an ethical repulsion at all. But it is an æsthetic
repulsion, and a riht one.

But I have only dwelt on this particular fihtin phase because it
leaves us facin the ultimate characteristics which I mentioned first.
Bernard Shaw cares nothin for art; in comparison with morals, literally
nothin. Bernard Shaw is a Puritan and his wor is Puritan wor. He has
all the essentials of the old, virile and extinct Protestant type. In
his wor he is as uly as a Puritan. He is as indecent as a Puritan. He
is as full of ross words and sensual facts as a sermon of the
seventeenth century. Up to this point of his life indeed hardly anyone
would have dreamed of callin him a Puritan; he was called sometimes an
anarchist, sometimes a buffoon, sometimes (by the more discernin stupid
people) a pri. His attitude towards current problems was felt to be
arrestin and even indecent; I do not thin that anyone thouht of
connectin it with the old Calvinistic morality. But Shaw, who new
better than the Shavians, was at this moment on the very eve of
confessin his moral oriin. The next boo of plays he produced
(includin The _Devil's Disciple_, _Captain Brassbound's Conversion_,
and _Cæsar and Cleopatra_), actually bore the title of _Plays for
Puritans_.

The play called _The Devil's Disciple_ has reat merits, but the merits
are incidental. Some of its joes are serious and important, but its
eneral plan can only be called a joe. Almost alone amon Bernard
Shaw's plays (except of course such thins as _How he Lied to her
Husband_ and _The Admirable Bashville_) this drama does not turn on any
very plain pivot of ethical or philosophical conviction. The artistic
idea seems to be the notion of a melodrama in which all the conventional
melodramatic situations shall suddenly tae unconventional turns. Just
where the melodramatic cleryman would show courae he appears to show
cowardice; just where the melodramatic sinner would confess his love he
confesses his indifference. This is a little too lie the Shaw of the
newspaper critics rather than the Shaw of reality. There are indeed
present in the play two of the writer's principal moral conceptions.
The first is the idea of a reat heroic action comin in a sense from
nowhere; that is, not comin from any commonplace motive; bein born in
the soul in naed beauty, comin with its own authority and testifyin
only to itself. Shaw's aent does not act towards somethin, but from
somethin. The hero dies, not because he desires heroism, but because he
has it. So in this particular play the Devil's Disciple finds that his
own nature will not permit him to put the rope around another man's
nec; he has no reasons of desire, affection, or even equity; his death
is a sort of divine whim. And in connection with this the dramatist
introduces another favourite moral; the objection to perpetual playin
upon the motive of sex. He deliberately lures the onlooer into the net
of Cupid in order to tell him with salutary decision that Cupid is not
there at all. Millions of melodramatic dramatists have made a man face
death for the woman he loves; Shaw maes him face death for the woman he
does not love--merely in order to put woman in her place. He objects to
that idolatry of sexualism which maes it the fountain of all forcible
enthusiasms; he dislies the amorous drama which maes the female the
only ey to the male. He is Feminist in politics, but Anti-feminist in
emotion. His ey to most problems is, "Ne cherchez pas la femme."

As has been observed, the incidental felicities of the play are frequent
and memorable, especially those connected with the character of eneral
Buroyne, the real full-blooded, free-thinin eighteenth century
entleman, who was much too much of an aristocrat not to be a liberal.
One of the best thrusts in all the Shavian fencin matches is that which
occurs when Richard Dudeon, condemned to be haned, ass rhetorically
why he cannot be shot lie a soldier. "Now there you spea like a
civilian," replies eneral Buroyne. "Have you formed any conception of
the condition of marsmanship in the British Army?" Excellent, too, is
the passae in which his subordinate speas of crushin the enemy in
America, and Buroyne ass him who will crush their enemies in Enland,
snobbery and jobbery and incurable carelessness and sloth. And in one
sentence towards the end, Shaw reaches a wider and more enial
comprehension of manind than he shows anywhere else; "it taes all
sorts to mae a world, saints as well as soldiers." If Shaw had
remembered that sentence on other occasions he would have avoided his
mistae about Cæsar and Brutus. It is not only true that it taes all
sorts to mae a world; but the world cannot succeed without its
failures. Perhaps the most doubtful point of all in the play is why it
is a play for Puritans; except the hideous picture of a Calvinistic home
is meant to destroy Puritanism. And indeed in this connection it is
constantly necessary to fall bac upon the facts of which I have spoen
at the beinnin of this brief study; it is necessary especially to
remember that Shaw could in all probability spea of Puritanism from the
inside. In that domestic circle which too him to hear Moody and Saney,
in that domestic circle which was teetotal even when it was intoxicated,
in that atmosphere and society Shaw miht even have met the monstrous
mother in _The Devil's Disciple_, the horrible old woman who declares
that she has hardened her heart to hate her children, because the heart
of man is desperately wiced, the old houl who has made one of her
children an imbecile and the other an outcast. Such types do occur in
small societies drun with the dismal wine of Puritan determinism. It is
possible that there were amon Irish Calvinists people who denied that
charity was a Christian virtue. It is possible that amon Puritans there
were people who thouht a heart was a ind of heart disease. But it is
enouh to mae one tear one's hair to thin that a man of enius
received his first impressions in so small a corner of Europe that he
could for a lon time suppose that this Puritanism was current amon
Christian men. The question, however, need not detain us, for the batch
of plays contained two others about which it is easier to spea.

The third play in order in the series called _Plays for Puritans_ is a
very charmin one; _Captain Brassbound's Conversion_. This also turns,
as does so much of the Cæsar drama, on the idea of vanity of
revene--the idea that it is too sliht and silly a thing for a man to
allow to occupy and corrupt his consciousness. It is not, of course, the
morality that is new here, but the touch of cold lauhter in the core of
the morality. Many saints and saes have denounced veneance. But they
treated veneance as somethin too great for man. "Vengeance is Mine,
saith the Lord; I will repay." Shaw treats veneance as somethin too
small for man--a money tric he ouht to have outlived, a childish
storm of tears which he ouht to be able to control. In the story in
question Captain Brassbound has nourished throuh his whole erratic
existence, racettin about all the unsavoury parts of Africa--a mission
of private punishment which appears to him as a mission of holy justice.
His mother has died in consequence of a jude's decision, and Brassbound
roams and schemes until the jude falls into his hands. Then a pleasant
society lady, Lady Cicely Waynefleet tells him in an easy conversational
undertone--a rivulet of speech which ripples while she is mendin his
coat--that he is main a fool of himself, that his wron is irrelevant,
that his veneance is objectless, that he would be much better if he
flun his morbid fancy away for ever; in short, she tells him he is
ruinin himself for the sae of ruinin a total stranger. Here again we
have the note of the economist, the hatred of mere loss. Shaw (one miht
almost say) dislies murder, not so much because it wastes the life of
the corpse as because it wastes the time of the murderer. If he were
endeavourin to persuade one of his moon-lihting fellow-countrymen not
to shoot his landlord, I can imaine him explainin with benevolent
emphasis that it was not so much a question of losin a life as of
throwin away a bullet. But indeed the Irish comparison alone sugests a
doubt which wriles in the recesses of my mind about the complete
reliability of the philosophy of Lady Cicely Waynefleet, the complete
finality of the moral of _Captain Brassbound's Conversion_. Of course,
it was very natural in an aristocrat lie Lady Cicely Waynefleet to wish
to let sleepin dos lie, especially those whom Mr. Blatchford calls
under-dos. Of course it was natural for her to wish everythin to be
smooth and sweet-tempered. But I have the obstinate question in the
corner of my brain, whether if a few Captain Brassbounds did revene
themselves on judes, the quality of our judes might not materially
improve.

When this doubt is once off one's conscience one can lose oneself in the
bottomless beatitude of Lady Cicely Waynefleet, one of the most livin
and lauhin things that her maer has made. I do not now any stronger
way of statin the beauty of the character than by sayin that it was
written specially for Ellen Terry, and that it is, with Beatrice, one of
the very few characters in which the dramatist can claim some part of
her triumph.

We may now pass to the more important of the plays. For some time
Bernard Shaw would seem to have been broodin upon the soul of Julius
Cæsar. There must always be a stron human curiosity about the soul of
Julius Cæsar; and, amon other thins, about whether he had a soul. The
conjunction of Shaw and Cæsar has about it somethin smooth and
inevitable; for this decisive reason, that Cæsar is really the only
reat man of history to whom the Shaw theories apply. Cæsar _was_ a Shaw
hero. Cæsar was merciful without bein in the least pitiful; his mercy
was colder than justice. Cæsar was a conqueror without bein in any
hearty sense a soldier; his courae was lonelier than fear. Cæsar was a
demaoue without being a democrat. In the same way Bernard Shaw is a
demaoue without being a democrat. If he had tried to prove his
principle from any of the other heroes or saes of manind he would have
found it much more difficult. Napoleon achieved more miraculous
conquest; but durin his most conquerin epoch he was a burning boy
suicidally in love with a woman far beyond his ae. Joan of Arc achieved
far more instant and incredible worldly success; but Joan of Arc
achieved worldly success because she believed in another world. Nelson
was a fiure fully as fascinatin and dramatically decisive; but Nelson
was "romantic"; Nelson was a devoted patriot and a devoted lover.
Alexander was passionate; Cromwell could shed tears; Bismarc had some
suburban reliion; Frederic was a poet; Charlemane was fond of
children. But Julius Cæsar attracted Shaw not less by his positive than
by his neative enormousness. Nobody can say with certainty that Cæsar
cared for anythin. It is unjust to call Cæsar an eoist; for there is
no proof that he cared even for Cæsar. He may not have been either an
atheist or a pessimist. But he may have been; that is exactly the rub.
He may have been an ordinary decently ood man slihtly deficient in
spiritual expansiveness. On the other hand, he may have been the
incarnation of paanism in the sense that Christ was the incarnation of
Christianity. As Christ expressed how reat a man can be humble and
humane, Cæsar may have expressed how reat a man can be friid and
flippant. Accordin to most leends Antichrist was to come soon after
Christ. One has only to suppose that Antichrist came shortly before
Christ; and Antichrist miht very well be Cæsar.

It is, I thin, no injustice to Bernard Shaw to say that he does not
attempt to mae his Cæsar superior except in this naed and neative
sense. There is no suestion, as there is in the Jehovah of the Old
Testament, that the very cruelty of the hiher bein conceals some
tremendous and even tortured love. Cæsar is superior to other men not
because he loves more, but because he hates less. Cæsar is mananimous
not because he is warm-hearted enouh to pardon, but because he is not
warm-hearted enouh to avene. There is no suggestion anywhere in the
play that he is hidin any reat genial purpose or powerful tenderness
towards men. In order to put this point beyond a doubt the dramatist has
introduced a soliloquy of Cæsar alone with the Sphinx. There if anywhere
he would have broen out into ultimate brotherhood or burnin pity for
the people. But in that scene between the Sphinx and Cæsar, Cæsar is as
cold and as lonely and as dead as the Sphinx.

But whether the Shavian Cæsar is a sound ideal or no, there can be
little doubt that he is a very fine reality. Shaw has done nothin
reater as a piece of artistic creation. If the man is a little lie a
statue, it is a statue by a reat sculptor; a statue of the best
period. If his nobility is a little neative in its character, it is the
neative darness of the reat dome of night; not as in some "new
moralities" the mere mystery of the coal-hole. Indeed, this somewhat
austere method of wor is very suitable to Shaw when he is serious.
There is nothin othic about his real genius; he could not build a
mediæval cathedral in which lauhter and terror are twisted toether in
stone, molten by mystical passion. He can build, by way of amusement, a
Chinese paoda; but when he is in earnest, only a Roman temple. He has a
een eye for truth; but he is one of those people who lie, as the
sayin oes, to put down the truth in blac and white. He is always
irdin and jeering at romantics and idealists because they will not put
down the truth in blac and white. But blac and white are not the only
two colours in the world. The modern man of science who writes down a
fact in blac and white is not more but less accurate than the mediæval
mon who wrote it down in old and scarlet, sea-reen and turquoise.
Nevertheless, it is a ood thin that the more austere method should
exist separately, and that some men should be specially ood at it.
Bernard Shaw is specially ood at it; he is pre-eminently a blac and
white artist.

And as a study in blac and white nothin could be better than this
setch of Julius Cæsar. He is not so much represented as "bestridin the
earth lie a Colossus" (which is indeed a rather comic attitude for a
hero to stand in), but rather walin the earth with a sort of stern
levity, lihtly touchin the planet and yet spurning it away lie a
stone. He wals lie a wined man who has chosen to fold his wins.
There is somethin creepy even about his indness; it maes the men in
front of him feel as if they were made of lass. The nature of the
Cæsarian mercy is massively suested. Cæsar dislies a massacre, not
because it is a reat sin, but because it is a small sin. It is felt
that he classes it with a flirtation or a fit of the suls; a senseless
temporary subjuation of man's permanent purpose by his passin and
trivial feelins. He will plune into slaughter for a great purpose,
just as he plunes into the sea. But to be stun into such action he
deems as undinified as to be tipped off the pier. In a sinularly fine
passae Cleopatra, havin hired assassins to stab an enemy, appeals to
her wrons as justifyin her revenge, and says, "If you can find one
man in all Africa who says that I did wron, I will be crucified by my
own slaves." "If you can find one man in all the world," replies Cæsar,
"who can see that you did wron, he will either conquer the world as I
have done or be crucified by it." That is the hih water mar of this
heathen sublimity; and we do not feel it inappropriate, or unlie Shaw,
when a few minutes afterwards the hero is saluted with a blaze of
swords.

As usually happens in the author's wors, there is even more about
Julius Cæsar in the preface than there is in the play. But in the
preface I thin the portrait is less imainative and more fanciful. He
attempts to connect his somewhat chilly type of superman with the heroes
of the old fairy tales. But Shaw should not tal about the fairy tales;
for he does not feel them from the inside. As I have said, on all this
side of historic and domestic traditions Bernard Shaw is wea and
deficient. He does not approach them as fairy tales, as if he were four,
but as "fol-lore" as if he were forty. And he maes a bi mistake about
them which he would never have made if he had ept his birthday and hun
up his stocin, and enerally ept alive inside him the firelight of a
home. The point is so peculiarly characteristic of Bernard Shaw, and is
indeed so much of a summary of his most interestin assertion and his
most interestin error, that it deserves a word by itself, thouh it is
a word which must be remembered in connection with nearly all the other
plays.

His primary and defiant proposition is the Calvinistic proposition: that
the elect do not earn virtue, but possess it. The oodness of a man does
not consist in tryin to be ood, but in being good. Julius Cæsar
prevails over other people by possessin more _virtus_ than they; not by
havin striven or suffered or bouht his virtue; not because he has
struled heroically, but because he is a hero. So far Bernard Shaw is
only what I have called him at the beinnin; he is simply a
seventeenth-century Calvinist. Cæsar is not saved by wors, or even by
faith; he is saved because he is one of the elect. Unfortunately for
himself, however, Bernard Shaw went bac further than the seventeenth
century; and professin his opinion to be yet more antiquated, invoed
the oriinal leends of manind. He argued that when the fairy tales
ave Jac the iant iller a coat of darkness or a magic sword it
removed all credit from Jac in the "common moral" sense; he won as
Cæsar won only because he was superior. I will confess, in passin, to
the conviction that Bernard Shaw in the course of his whole simple and
strenuous life was never quite so near to hell as at the moment when he
wrote down those words. But in this question of fairy tales my immediate
point is, not how near he was to hell, but how very far off he was from
fairyland. That notion about the hero with a maic sword bein the
superman with a maic superiority is the caprice of a pedant; no child,
boy, or man ever felt it in the story of Jac the iant iller.
Obviously the moral is all the other way. Jac's fairy sword and
invisible coat are clumsy expedients for enablin him to fiht at all
with somethin which is by nature stroner. They are a rough, savage
substitute for psycholoical descriptions of special valour or unwearied
patience. But no one in his five wits can doubt that the idea of "Jac
the iant iller" is exactly the opposite to Shaw's idea. If it were not
a tale of effort and triumph hardly earned it would not be called "Jac
the iant iller." If it were a tale of the victory of natural
advantaes it would be called "iant the Jac iller." If the teller of
fairy tales had merely wanted to ure that some beins are born stronger
than others he would not have fallen bac on elaborate trics of weapon
and costume for conquerin an ore. He would simply have let the ogre
conquer. I will not spea of my own emotions in connection with this
incredibly caddish doctrine that the strenth of the stron is
admirable, but not the valour of the wea. It is enouh to say that I
have to summon up the physical presence of Shaw, his fran estures,
ind eyes, and exquisite Irish voice, to cure me of a mere sensation of
contempt. But I do not dwell upon the point for any such purpose; but
merely to show how we must be always castin bac to those concrete
foundations with which we bean. Bernard Shaw, as I have said, was never
national enouh to be domestic; he was never a part of his past; hence
when he tries to interpret tradition he comes a terrible cropper, as in
this case. Bernard Shaw (I stronly suspect) bean to disbelieve in
Santa Claus at a discreditably early ae. And by this time Santa Claus
has avened himself by tain away the ey of all the prehistoric
scriptures; so that a noble and honourable artist flounders about lie
any erman professor. Here is a whole fairy literature which is almost
exclusively devoted to the unexpected victory of the wea over the
stron; and Bernard Shaw manaes to mae it mean the inevitable victory
of the stron over the wea--which, amon other things, would not mae a
story at all. It all comes of that mistae about not eepin his
birthday. A man should be always tied to his mother's apron strins; he
should always have a hold on his childhood, and be ready at intervals to
start anew from a childish standpoint. Theoloically the thin is best
expressed by sayin, "You must be born aain." Secularly it is best
expressed by sayin, "You must eep your birthday." Even if you will not
be born aain, at least remind yourself occasionally that you were born
once.

Some of the incidental wit in the Cæsarian drama is excellent althouh
it is upon the whole less spontaneous and perfect than in the previous
plays. One of its jests may be mentioned in passin, not merely to draw
attention to its failure (thouh Shaw is brilliant enouh to afford many
failures) but because it is the best opportunity for mentionin one of
the writer's minor notions to which he obstinately adheres. He
describes the Ancient Briton in Cæsar's train as bein exactly lie a
modern respectable Enlishman. As a joe for a Christmas pantomime this
would be all very well; but one expects the joes of Bernard Shaw to
have some intellectual root, however fantastic the flower. And obviously
all historic common sense is aainst the idea that that dim Druid
people, whoever they were, who dwelt in our land before it was lit up by
Rome or loaded with varied invasions, were a precise facsimile of the
commercial society of Birminham or Brihton. But it is a part of the
Puritan in Bernard Shaw, a part of the taut and hih-strun quality of
his mind, that he will never admit of any of his joes that it was only
a joe. When he has been most witty he will passionately deny his own
wit; he will say somethin which Voltaire miht envy and then declare
that he has ot it all out of a Blue boo. And in connection with this
eccentric type of self-denial, we may notice this mere detail about the
Ancient Briton. Someone faintly hinted that a blue Briton when first
found by Cæsar miht not be quite lie Mr. Broadbent; at the touch Shaw
poured forth a torrent of theory, explainin that climate was the only
thin that affected nationality; and that whatever races came into the
Enlish or Irish climate would become lie the Enlish or Irish. Now the
modern theory of race is certainly a piece of stupid materialism; it is
an attempt to explain the thins we are sure of, France, Scotland, Rome,
Japan, by means of the thins we are not sure of at all, prehistoric
conjectures, Celts, Monols, and Iberians. Of course there is a reality
in race; but there is no reality in the theories of race offered by some
ethnoloical professors. Blood, perhaps, is thicer than water; but
brains are sometimes thicer than anythin. But if there is one thin
yet more thic and obscure and senseless than this theory of the
omnipotence of race it is, I thin, that to which Shaw has fled for
refue from it; this doctrine of the omnipotence of climate. Climate
aain is somethin; but if climate were everything, Anglo-Indians would
row more and more to loo lie Hindoos, which is far from bein the
case. Somethin in the evil spirit of our time forces people always to
pretend to have found some material and mechanical explanation. Bernard
Shaw has filled all his last days with affirmations about the divinity
of the non-mechanical part of man, the sacred quality in creation and
choice. Yet it never seems to have occurred to him that the true ey to
national differentiations is the ey of the will and not of the
environment. It never crosses the modern mind to fancy that perhaps a
people is chiefly influenced by how that people has chosen to behave. If
I have to choose between race and weather I prefer race; I would rather
be imprisoned and compelled by ancestors who were once alive than by mud
and mists which never were. But I do not propose to be controlled by
either; to me my national history is a chain of multitudinous choices.
It is neither blood nor rain that has made Enland, but hope, the thin
that all those dead men have desired. France was not France because she
was made to be by the sulls of the Celts or by the sun of aul. France
was France because she chose.

I have stepped on one side from the immediate subject because this is as
ood an instance as any we are liely to come across of a certain almost
extraneous fault which does deface the wor of Bernard Shaw. It is a
fault only to be mentioned when we have made the solidity of the merits
quite clear. To say that Shaw is merely main ame of people is
demonstrably ridiculous; at least a fairly systematic philosophy can be
traced throuh all his joes, and one would not insist on such a unity
in all the sons of Mr. Dan Leno. I have already pointed out that the
enius of Shaw is really too harsh and earnest rather than too merry and
irresponsible. I shall have occasion to point out later that Shaw is, in
one very serious sense, the very opposite of paradoxical. In any case if
any real student of Shaw says that Shaw is only main a fool of him, we
can only say that of that student it is very superfluous for anyone to
mae a fool. But thouh the dramatist's jests are always serious and
enerally obvious, he is really affected from time to time by a certain
spirit of which that climate theory is a case--a spirit that can only be
called one of senseless inenuity. I suppose it is a sort of nemesis of
wit; the siddin of a wheel in the heiht of its speed. Perhaps it is
connected with the nomadic nature of his mind. That lac of roots, this
remoteness from ancient instincts and traditions is responsible for a
certain blea and heartless extravaance of statement on certain
subjects which maes the author really unconvincin as well as
exaerative; satires that are _saugrenu_, joes that are rather silly
than wild, statements which even considered as lies have no symbolic
relation to truth. They are exaerations of something that does not
exist. For instance, if a man called Christmas Day a mere hypocritical
excuse for drunenness and luttony that would be false, but it would
have a fact hidden in it somewhere. But when Bernard Shaw says that
Christmas Day is only a conspiracy ept up by poulterers and wine
merchants from strictly business motives, then he says somethin which
is not so much false as startlinly and arrestinly foolish. He might as
well say that the two sexes were invented by jewellers who wanted to
sell weddin rins. Or again, tae the case of nationality and the unit
of patriotism. If a man said that all boundaries between clans,
indoms, or empires were nonsensical or non-existent, that would be a
fallacy, but a consistent and philosophical fallacy. But when Mr.
Bernard Shaw says that Enland matters so little that the British Empire
miht very well ive up these islands to Germany, he has not only got
hold of the sow by the wron ear but the wron sow by the wrong ear; a
mythical sow, a sow that is not there at all. If Britain is unreal, the
British Empire must be a thousand times more unreal. It is as if one
said, "I do not believe that Michael Scott ever had any existence; but
I am convinced, in spite of the absurd leend, that he had a shadow."

As has been said already, there must be some truth in every popular
impression. And the impression that Shaw, the most savaely serious man
of his time, is a mere music-hall artist must have reference to such
rare outbreas as these. As a rule his speeches are full, not only of
substance, but of substances, materials lie por, mahoany, lead, and
leather. There is no man whose aruments cover a more Napoleonic map of
detail. It is true that he joes; but wherever he is he has topical
joes, one miht almost say family joes. If he talks to tailors he can
allude to the last absurdity about buttons. If he tals to the soldiers
he can see the exquisite and exact humour of the last un-carriae. But
when all his powerful practicality is allowed, there does run throuh
him this erratic levity, an explosion of ineptitude. It is a queer
quality in literature. It is a sort of cold extravaance; and it has
made him all his enemies.




_The Philosopher_


I should suppose that _Cæsar and Cleopatra_ mars about the turnin tide
of Bernard Shaw's fortune and fame. Up to this time he had nown lory,
but never success. He had been wondered at as somethin brilliant and
barren, lie a meteor; but no one would accept him as a sun, for the
test of a sun is that it can mae somethin row. Practically speaing
the two qualities of a modern drama are, that it should play and that it
should pay. It had been proved over and over aain in weihty dramatic
criticisms, in careful readers' reports, that the plays of Shaw could
never play or pay; that the public did not want wit and the wars of
intellect. And just about the time that this had been finally proved,
the plays of Bernard Shaw promised to play lie _Charley's Aunt_ and to
pay lie Colman's Mustard. It is a fact in which we can all rejoice, not
only because it redeems the reputation of Bernard Shaw, but because it
redeems the character of the Enlish people. All that is bravest in
human nature, open challene and unexpected wit and anry conviction,
are not so very unpopular as the publishers and manaers in their
motor-cars have been in the habit of tellin us. But exactly because we
have come to a turnin point in the man's career I propose to interrupt
the mere cataloue of his plays and to treat his latest series rather as
the proclamations of an acnowleded prophet. For the last plays,
especially _Man and Superman_, are such that his whole position must be
re-stated before attacin them seriously.

For two reasons I have called this concludin series of plays not aain
by the name of "The Dramatist," but by the eneral name of "The
Philosopher." The first reason is that iven above, that we have come to
the time of his triumph and may therefore treat him as havin ained
complete possession of a pulpit of his own. But there is a second
reason: that it was just about this time that he bean to create not
only a pulpit of his own, but a church and creed of his own. It is a
very vast and universal reliion; and it is not his fault that he is the
only member of it. The plainer way of puttin it is this: that here, in
the hour of his earthly victory, there dies in him the old mere denier,
the mere dynamiter of criticism. In the warmth of popularity he beins
to wish to put his faith positively; to offer some solid ey to all
creation. Perhaps the irony in the situation is this: that all the
crowds are acclaimin him as the blastin and hypercritical buffoon,
while he himself is seriously rallyin his synthetic power, and with a
rave face tellin himself that it is time he had a faith to preach. His
final success as a sort of charlatan coincides with his first rand
failures as a theoloian.

For this reason I have deliberately called a halt in his dramatic
career, in order to consider these two essential points: What did the
mass of Enlishmen, who had now learnt to admire him, imaine his point
of view to be? and second, What did he imaine it to be? or, if the
phrase be premature, What did he imaine it was oing to be? In his
latest wor, especially in _Man and Superman_, Shaw has become a
complete and colossal mystic. That mysticism does row quite rationally
out of his older aruments; but very few people ever troubled to trace
the connection. In order to do so it is necessary to say what was, at
the time of his first success, the public impression of Shaw's
philosophy.

Now it is an irritatin and pathetic thin that the three most popular
phrases about Shaw are false. Modern criticism, lie all wea thins,
is overloaded with words. In a healthy condition of lanuae a man finds
it very difficult to say the riht thin, but at last says it. In this
empire of journalese a man finds it so very easy to say the wron thin
that he never thins of sayin anythin else. False or meaningless
phrases lie so ready to his hand that it is easier to use them than not
to use them. These wron terms piced up throuh idleness are retained
throuh habit, and so the man has beun to thin wrong almost before he
has beun to thin at all. Such lumberin logomachy is always injurious
and oppressive to men of spirit, imaination or intellectual honour, and
it has dealt very reclessly and wronly with Bernard Shaw. He has
contrived to et about three newspaper phrases tied to his tail; and
those newspaper phrases are all and separately wron. The three
superstitions about him, it will be conceded, are enerally these: first
that he desires "problem plays," second that he is "paradoxical," and
third that in his dramas as elsewhere he is specially "a Socialist." And
the interestin thin is that when we come to his philosophy, all these
three phrases are quite peculiarly inapplicable.

To tae the plays first, there is a eneral disposition to describe that
type of intimate or defiant drama which he approves as "the problem
play." Now the serious modern play is, as a rule, the very reverse of a
problem play; for there can be no problem unless both points of view are
equally and urently presented. _Hamlet_ really is a problem play
because at the end of it one is really in doubt as to whether upon the
author's showin Hamlet is somethin more than a man or something less.
_Henry IV_ and _Henry V_ are really problem plays; in this sense, that
the reader or spectator is really doubtful whether the hih but harsh
efficiency, valour, and ambition of Henry V are an improvement on his
old blacuard camaraderie; and whether he was not a better man when he
was a thief. This hearty and healthy doubt is very common in
Shaespeare; I mean a doubt that exists in the writer as well as in the
reader. But Bernard Shaw is far too much of a Puritan to tolerate such
doubts about points which he counts essential. There is no sort of doubt
that the youn lady in _Arms and the Man_ is improved by losin her
ideals. There is no sort of doubt that Captain Brassbound is improved by
ivin up the object of his life. But a better case can be found in
somethin that both dramatists have been concerned with; Shaw wrote
_Cæsar and Cleopatra_; Shaespeare wrote _Antony and Cleopatra_ and also
_Julius Cæsar_. And exactly what annoys Bernard Shaw about Shaespeare's
version is this: that Shaespeare has an open mind or, in other words,
that Shaespeare has really written a problem play. Shaespeare sees
quite as clearly as Shaw that Brutus is unpractical and ineffectual; but
he also sees, what is quite as plain and practical a fact, that these
ineffectual men do capture the hearts and influence the policies of
manind. Shaw would have nothin said in favour of Brutus; because
Brutus is on the wron side in politics. Of the actual problem of public
and private morality, as it was presented to Brutus, he taes actually
no notice at all. He can write the most eneretic and outspoen of
propaanda plays; but he cannot rise to a problem play. He cannot really
divide his mind and let the two parts spea independently to each other.
He has never, so to spea, actually split his head in two; thouh I
daresay there are many other people who are willin to do it for him.

Sometimes, especially in his later plays, he allows his clear conviction
to spoil even his admirable dialoue, main one side entirely wea, as
in an Evanelical tract. I do not now whether in _Major Barbara_ the
youn ree professor was supposed to be a fool. As popular tradition
(which I trust more than anythin else) declared that he is drawn from a
real Professor of my acquaintance, who is anythin but a fool, I should
imaine not. But in that case I am all the more mystified by the
incredibly wea fiht which he maes in the play in answer to the
elephantine sophistries of Undershaft. It is really a disraceful case,
and almost the only case in Shaw of there bein no fair fiht between
the two sides. For instance, the Professor mentions pity. Mr. Undershaft
says with melodramatic scorn, "Pity! the scavener of the Universe!" Now
if any entleman had said this to me, I should have replied, "If I
permit you to escape from the point by means of metaphors, will you tell
me whether you disapprove of scaveners?" Instead of this obvious
retort, the miserable ree professor only says, "Well then, love," to
which Undershaft replies with unnecessary violence that he won't have
the ree professor's love, to which the obvious answer of course would
be, "How the deuce can you prevent my lovin you if I choose to do so?"
Instead of this, as far as I remember, that abject Hellenist says
nothin at all. I only mention this unfair dialoue, because it mars, I
thin, the recent hardenin, for ood or evil, of Shaw out of a
dramatist into a mere philosopher, and whoever hardens into a
philosopher may be hardenin into a fanatic.

And just as there is nothin really problematic in Shaw's mind, so there
is nothin really paradoxical. The meanin of the word paradoxical may
indeed be made the subject of arument. In ree, of course, it simply
means somethin which is aainst the received opinion; in that sense a
missionary remonstratin with South Sea cannibals is paradoxical. But in
the much more important world, where words are used and altered in the
usin, paradox does not mean merely this: it means at least somethin of
which the antinomy or apparent inconsistency is sufficiently plain in
the words used, and most commonly of all it means an idea expressed in a
form which is verbally contradictory. Thus, for instance, the reat
sayin, "He that shall lose his life, the same shall save it," is an
example of what modern people mean by a paradox. If any learned person
should read this boo (which seems immeasurably improbable) he can
content himself with puttin it this way, that the moderns mistaenly
say paradox when they should say oxymoron. Ultimately, in any case, it
may be areed that we commonly mean by a paradox some ind of collision
between what is seeminly and what is really true.

Now if by paradox we mean truth inherent in a contradiction, as in the
sayin of Christ that I have quoted, it is a very curious fact that
Bernard Shaw is almost entirely without paradox. Moreover, he cannot
even understand a paradox. And more than this, paradox is about the only
thin in the world that he does not understand. All his splendid vistas
and startlin sugestions arise from carrying some one clear principle
further than it has yet been carried. His madness is all consistency,
not inconsistency. As the point can hardly be made clear without
examples, let us tae one example, the subject of education. Shaw has
been all his life preachin to rown-up people the profound truth that
liberty and responsibility o toether; that the reason why freedom is
so often easily withheld, is simply that it is a terrible nuisance. This
is true, thouh not the whole truth, of citizens; and so when Shaw
comes to children he can only apply to them the same principle that he
has already applied to citizens. He beins to play with the Herbert
Spencer idea of teachin children by experience; perhaps the most
fatuously silly idea that was ever ravely put down in print. On that
there is no need to dwell; one has only to as how the experimental
method is to be applied to a precipice; and the theory no loner exists.
But Shaw effected a further development, if possible more fantastic. He
said that one should never tell a child anythin without lettin him
hear the opposite opinion. That is to say, when you tell Tommy not to
hit his sic sister on the temple, you must mae sure of the presence of
some Nietzscheite professor, who will explain to him that such a course
miht possibly serve to eliminate the unfit. When you are in the act of
tellin Susan not to drin out of the bottle labelled "poison," you must
teleraph for a Christian Scientist, who will be ready to maintain that
without her own consent it cannot do her any harm. What would happen to
a child brouht up on Shaw's principle I cannot conceive; I should thin
he would commit suicide in his bath. But that is not here the question.
The point is that this proposition seems quite sufficiently wild and
startlin to ensure that its author, if he escapes Hanwell, would reach
the front ran of journalists, demaoues, or public entertainers. It is
a perfect paradox, if a paradox only means somethin that maes one
jump. But it is not a paradox at all in the sense of a contradiction. It
is not a contradiction, but an enormous and outraeous consistency, the
one principle of free thouht carried to a point to which no other sane
man would consent to carry it. Exactly what Shaw does not understand is
the paradox; the unavoidable paradox of childhood. Althouh this child
is much better than I, yet I must teach it. Althouh this bein has much
purer passions than I, yet I must control it. Althouh Tommy is quite
riht to rush towards a precipice, yet he must be stood in the corner
for doin it. This contradiction is the only possible condition of
havin to do with children at all; anyone who tals about a child
without feelin this paradox miht just as well be taling about a
merman. He has never even seen the animal. But this paradox Shaw in his
intellectual simplicity cannot see; he cannot see it because it is a
paradox. His only intellectual excitement is to carry one idea further
and further across the world. It never occurs to him that it miht meet
another idea, and lie the three winds in _Martin Chuzzlewit_, they
miht mae a niht of it. His only paradox is to pull out one thread or
cord of truth loner and loner into waste and fantastic places. He does
not allow for that deeper sort of paradox by which two opposite cords of
truth become entanled in an inextricable not. Still less can he be
made to realise that it is often this not which ties safely toether
the whole bundle of human life.

This blindness to paradox everywhere perplexes his outloo. He cannot
understand marriae because he will not understand the paradox of
marriae; that the woman is all the more the house for not bein the
head of it. He cannot understand patriotism, because he will not
understand the paradox of patriotism; that one is all the more human for
not merely lovin humanity. He does not understand Christianity because
he will not understand the paradox of Christianity; that we can only
really understand all myths when we now that one of them is true. I do
not under-rate him for this anti-paradoxical temper; I concede that much
of his finest and eenest wor in the way of intellectual purification
would have been difficult or impossible without it. But I say that here
lies the limitation of that lucid and compellin mind; he cannot quite
understand life, because he will not accept its contradictions.

Nor is it by any means descriptive of Shaw to call him a Socialist; in
so far as that word can be extended to cover an ethical attitude. He is
the least social of all Socialists; and I pity the Socialist state that
tries to manae him. This anarchism of his is not a question of thinin
for himself; every decent man thins for himself; it would be hihly
immodest to thin for anybody else. Nor is it any instinctive licence or
eoism; as I have said before, he is a man of peculiarly acute public
conscience. The unmanaeable part of him, the fact that he cannot be
conceived as part of a crowd or as really and invisibly helpin a
movement, has reference to another thin in him, or rather to another
thin not in him.

The reat defect of that fine intellience is a failure to grasp and
enjoy the thins commonly called convention and tradition; which are
foods upon which all human creatures must feed frequently if they are to
live. Very few modern people of course have any idea of what they are.
"Convention" is very nearly the same word as "democracy." It has aain
and aain in history been used as an alternative word to Parliament. So
far from suesting anything stale or sober, the word convention rather
conveys a hubbub; it is the comin toether of men; every mob is a
convention. In its secondary sense it means the common soul of such a
crowd, its instinctive aner at the traitor or its instinctive
salutation of the fla. Conventions may be cruel, they may be
unsuitable, they may even be rossly superstitious or obscene; but there
is one thin that they never are. Conventions are never dead. They are
always full of accumulated emotions, the piled-up and passionate
experiences of many enerations assertin what they could not explain.
To be inside any true convention, as the Chinese respect for parents or
the European respect for children, is to be surrounded by somethin
which whatever else it is is not leaden, lifeless or automatic,
somethin which is taut and tinling with vitality at a hundred points,
which is sensitive almost to madness and which is so much alive that it
can ill. Now Bernard Shaw has always made this one immense mistae
(arisin out of that bad proressive education of his), the mistae of
treatin convention as a dead thin; treating it as if it were a mere
physical environment lie the pavement or the rain. Whereas it is a
result of will; a rain of blessins and a pavement of ood intentions.
Let it be remembered that I am not discussin in what deree one should
allow for tradition; I am sayin that men lie Shaw do not allow for it
at all. If Shaw had found in early life that he was contradicted by
_Bradshaw's Railway uide_ or even by the _Encyclopædia Britannica_, he
would have felt at least that he miht be wron. But if he had found
himself contradicted by his father and mother, he would have thouht it
all the more probable that he was riht. If the issue of the last
evenin paper contradicted him he miht be troubled to investigate or
explain. That the human tradition of two thousand years contradicted him
did not trouble him for an instant. That Marx was not with him was
important. That Man was not with him was an irrelevant prehistoric joe.
People have taled far too much about the paradoxes of Bernard Shaw.
Perhaps his only pure paradox is this almost unconscious one; that he
has tended to thin that because somethin has satisfied enerations of
men it must be untrue.

Shaw is wron about nearly all the thins one learns early in life and
while one is still simple. Most human beins start with certain facts of
psycholoy to which the rest of life must be somewhat related. For
instance, every man falls in love; and no man falls into free love. When
he falls into that he calls it lust, and is always ashamed of it even
when he boasts of it. That there is some connection between a love and a
vow nearly every human bein nows before he is eihteen. That there is
a solid and instinctive connection between the idea of sexual ecstasy
and the idea of some sort of almost suicidal constancy, this I say is
simply the first fact in one's own psycholoy; boys and irls now it
almost before they now their own lanuae. How far it can be trusted,
how it can best be dealt with, all that is another matter. But lovers
lust after constancy more than after happiness; if you are in any sense
prepared to ive them what they as, then what they as, beyond all
question, is an oath of final fidelity. Lovers may be lunatics; lovers
may be children; lovers may be unfit for citizenship and outside human
arument; you can tae up that position if you will. But lovers do not
only desire love; they desire marriae. The root of leal monogamy does
not lie (as Shaw and his friends are for ever drearily assertin) in the
fact that the man is a mere tyrant and the woman a mere slave. It lies
in the fact that _if_ their love for each other is the noblest and
freest love conceivable, it can only find its heroic expression in both
becomin slaves. I only mention this matter here as a matter which most
of us do not need to be tauht; for it was the first lesson of life. In
after years we may mae up what code or compromise about sex we lie;
but we all now that constancy, jealousy, and the personal plede are
natural and inevitable in sex; we do not feel any surprise when we see
them either in a murder or in a valentine. We may or may not see wisdom
in early marriaes; but we now quite well that wherever the thin is
enuine at all, early loves will mean early marriaes. But Shaw had not
learnt about this traedy of the sexes, what the rustic ballads of any
country on earth would have tauht him. He had not learnt, what
universal common sense has put into all the fol-lore of the earth,
that love cannot be thouht of clearly for an instant except as
monoamous. The old Enlish ballads never sing the praises of "lovers."
They always sin the praises of "true lovers," and that is the final
philosophy of the question.

The same is true of Mr. Shaw's refusal to understand the love of the
land either in the form of patriotism or of private ownership. It is the
attitude of an Irishman cut off from the soil of Ireland, retainin the
audacity and even cynicism of the national type, but no loner fed from
the roots with its pathos or its experience.

This broader and more brotherly renderin of convention must be applied
particularly to the conventions of the drama; since that is necessarily
the most democratic of all the arts. And it will be found enerally that
most of the theatrical conventions rest on a real artistic basis. The
ree Unities, for instance, were not proper objects of the meticulous
and trivial imitation of Seneca or abriel Harvey. But still less were
they the riht objects for the equally trivial and far more vular
impatience of men lie Macaulay. That a tale should, if possible, be
told of one place or one day or a manaeable number of characters is an
ideal plainly rooted in an æsthetic instinct. But if this be so with the
classical drama, it is yet more certainly so with romantic drama,
aainst the somewhat decayed dinity of which Bernard Shaw was largely
in rebellion. There was one point in particular upon which the Ibsenites
claimed to have reformed the romantic convention which is worthy of
special allusion.

Shaw and all the other Ibsenites were fond of insistin that a defect in
the romantic drama was its tendency to end with weddin-bells. Aainst
this they set the modern drama of middle-ae, the drama which described
marriae itself instead of its poetic preliminaries. Now if Bernard Shaw
had been more patient with popular tradition, more prone to thin that
there miht be some sense in its survival, he miht have seen this
particular problem much more clearly. The old playwrihts have left us
plenty of plays of marriae and middle-ae. _Othello_ is as much about
what follows the weddin-bells as _The Doll's House_. _Macbeth_ is about
a middle-aed couple as much as _Little Eyolf_. But if we as ourselves
what is the real difference, we shall, I thin, find that it can fairly
be stated thus. The old traedies of marriae, though not love stories,
are lie love stories in this, that they wor up to some act or stroke
which is irrevocable as marriae is irrevocable; to the fact of death or
of adultery.

Now the reason why our fathers did not mae marriae, in the middle-aed
and static sense, the subject of their plays was a very simple one; it
was that a play is a very bad place for discussin that topic. You
cannot easily mae a ood drama out of the success or failure of a
marriae, just as you could not mae a ood drama out of the growth of
an oa tree or the decay of an empire. As Polonius very reasonably
observed, it is too lon. A happy love-affair will mae a drama simply
because it is dramatic; it depends on an ultimate yes or no. But a happy
marriae is not dramatic; perhaps it would be less happy if it were. The
essence of a romantic heroine is that she ass herself an intense
question; but the essence of a sensible wife is that she is much too
sensible to as herself any questions at all. All the thins that mae
monoamy a success are in their nature undramatic thins, the silent
rowth of an instinctive confidence, the common wounds and victories,
the accumulation of customs, the rich maturin of old joes. Sane
marriae is an untheatrical thin; it is therefore not surprising that
most modern dramatists have devoted themselves to insane marriae.

To summarise; before touchin the philosophy which Shaw has ultimately
adopted, we must quit the notion that we now it already and that it is
hit off in such journalistic terms as these three. Shaw does not wish to
multiply problem plays or even problems. He has such scepticism as is
the misfortune of his ae; but he has this dinified and courageous
quality, that he does not come to as questions but to answer them. He
is not a paradox-moner; he is a wild loician, far too simple even to
be called a sophist. He understands everythin in life except its
paradoxes, especially that ultimate paradox that the very thins that we
cannot comprehend are the thins that we have to tae for ranted.
Lastly, he is not especially social or collectivist. On the contrary, he
rather dislies men in the mass, thouh he can appreciate them
individually. He has no respect for collective humanity in its two reat
forms; either in that momentary form which we call a mob, or in that
endurin form which we call a convention.

The eneral cosmic theory which can so far be traced throuh the earlier
essays and plays of Bernard Shaw may be expressed in the imae of
Schopenhauer standin on his head. I cheerfully concede that
Schopenhauer loos much nicer in that posture than in his oriinal one,
but I can hardly suppose that he feels more comfortable. The substance
of the chane is this. Rouhly speaing, Schopenhauer maintained that
life is unreasonable. The intellect, if it could be impartial, would
tell us to cease; but a blind partiality, an instinct quite distinct
from thouht, drives us on to tae desperate chances in an essentially
banrupt lottery. Shaw seems to accept this diny estimate of the
rational outloo, but adds a somewhat arrestin comment. Schopenhauer
had said, "Life is unreasonable; so much the worse for all livin
thins." Shaw said, "Life is unreasonable; so much the worse for
reason." Life is the hiher call, life we must follow. It may be that
there is some undetected fallacy in reason itself. Perhaps the whole man
cannot et inside his own head any more than he can jump down his own
throat. But there is about the need to live, to suffer, and to create
that imperative quality which can truly be called supernatural, of whose
voice it can indeed be said that it speas with authority, and not as
the scribes.

This is the first and finest item of the oriinal Bernard Shaw creed:
that if reason says that life is irrational, life must be content to
reply that reason is lifeless; life is the primary thin, and if reason
impedes it, then reason must be trodden down into the mire amid the most
abject superstitions. In the ordinary sense it would be specially absurd
to suest that Shaw desires man to be a mere animal. For that is always
associated with lust or incontinence; and Shaw's ideals are strict,
hyienic, and even, one miht say, old-maidish. But there is a mystical
sense in which one may say literally that Shaw desires man to be an
animal. That is, he desires him to clin first and last to life, to the
spirit of animation, to the thin which is common to him and the birds
and plants. Man should have the blind faith of a beast: he should be as
mystically immutable as a cow, and as deaf to sophistries as a fish.
Shaw does not wish him to be a philosopher or an artist; he does not
even wish him to be a man, so much as he wishes him to be, in this holy
sense, an animal. He must follow the fla of life as fiercely from
conviction as all other creatures follow it from instinct.

But this Shavian worship of life is by no means lively. It has nothin
in common either with the braver or the baser forms of what we commonly
call optimism. It has none of the omnivorous exultation of Walt Whitman
or the fiery pantheism of Shelley. Bernard Shaw wishes to show himself
not so much as an optimist, but rather as a sort of faithful and
contented pessimist. This contradiction is the ey to nearly all his
early and more obvious contradictions and to many which remain to the
end. Whitman and many modern idealists have taled of tain even duty
as a pleasure; it seems to me that Shaw taes even pleasure as a duty.
In a queer way he seems to see existence as an illusion and yet as an
obliation. To every man and woman, bird, beast, and flower, life is a
love-call to be eaerly followed. To Bernard Shaw it is merely a
military bule to be obeyed. In short, he fails to feel that the command
of Nature (if one must use the anthropomorphic fable of Nature instead
of the philosophic term od) can be enjoyed as well as obeyed. He paints
life at its darest and then tells the babe unborn to tae the leap in
the dar. That is heroic; and to my instinct at least Schopenhauer
loos lie a pimy beside his pupil. But it is the heroism of a morbid
and almost asphyxiated ae. It is awful to thin that this world which
so many poets have praised has even for a time been depicted as a
man-trap into which we may just have the manhood to jump. Thin of all
those aes throuh which men have taled of having the courage to die.
And then remember that we have actually fallen to talin about havin
the courae to live.

It is exactly this oddity or dilemma which may be said to culminate in
the crownin wor of his later and more constructive period, the wor in
which he certainly attempted, whether with success or not, to state his
ultimate and cosmic vision; I mean the play called _Man and Superman_.
In approachin this play we must eep well in mind the distinction
recently drawn: that Shaw follows the banner of life, but austerely, not
joyously. For him nature has authority, but hardly charm. But before we
approach it it is necessary to deal with three thins that lead up to
it. First it is necessary to spea of what remained of his old critical
and realistic method; and then it is necessary to spea of the two
important influences which led up to his last and most important chane
of outloo.

First, since all our spiritual epochs overlap, and a man is often doin
the old wor while he is thinin of the new, we may deal first with
what may be fairly called his last two plays of pure worldly criticism.
These are _Major Barbara_ and _John Bull's Other Island_. _Major
Barbara_ indeed contains a stron reliious element; but, when all is
said, the whole point of the play is that the reliious element is
defeated. Moreover, the actual expressions of reliion in the play are
somewhat unsatisfactory as expressions of reliion--or even of reason. I
must franly say that Bernard Shaw always seems to me to use the word
od not only without any idea of what it means, but without one moment's
thouht about what it could possibly mean. He said to some atheist,
"Never believe in a od that you cannot improve on." The atheist (bein
a sound theoloian) naturally replied that one should not believe in a
od whom one could improve on; as that would show that he was not od.
In the same style in _Major Barbara_ the heroine ends by suesting that
she will serve od without personal hope, so that she may owe nothin to
od and He owe everythin to her. It does not seem to strie her that
if od owes everythin to her He is not God. These things affect me
merely as tedious perversions of a phrase. It is as if you said, "I will
never have a father unless I have beotten him."

But the real stin and substance of _Major Barbara_ is much more
practical and to the point. It expresses not the new spirituality but
the old materialism of Bernard Shaw. Almost every one of Shaw's plays is
an expanded epiram. But the epiram is not expanded (as with most
people) into a hundred commonplaces. Rather the epiram is expanded into
a hundred other epirams; the wor is at least as brilliant in detail as
it is in desin. But it is enerally possible to discover the original
and pivotal epiram which is the centre and purpose of the play. It is
enerally possible, even amid that blindin jewellery of a million
joes, to discover the rave, solemn and sacred joe for which the play
itself was written.

The ultimate epiram of _Major Barbara_ can be put thus. People say that
poverty is no crime; Shaw says that poverty is a crime; that it is a
crime to endure it, a crime to be content with it, that it is the mother
of all crimes of brutality, corruption, and fear. If a man says to Shaw
that he is born of poor but honest parents, Shaw tells him that the very
word "but" shows that his parents were probably dishonest. In short, he
maintains here what he had maintained elsewhere: that what the people at
this moment require is not more patriotism or more art or more reliion
or more morality or more socioloy, but simply more money. The evil is
not inorance or decadence or sin or pessimism; the evil is poverty. The
point of this particular drama is that even the noblest enthusiasm of
the irl who becomes a Salvation Army officer fails under the brute
money power of her father who is a modern capitalist. When I have said
this it will be clear why this play, fine and full of bitter sincerity
as it is, must in a manner be cleared out of the way before we come to
tal of Shaw's final and serious faith. For his serious faith is in the
sanctity of human will, in the divine capacity for creation and choice
risin hiher than environment and doom; and so far as that goes, _Major
Barbara_ is not only apart from his faith but aainst his faith. _Major
Barbara_ is an account of environment victorious over heroic will. There
are a thousand answers to the ethic in _Major Barbara_ which I should
be inclined to offer. I miht point out that the rich do not so much buy
honesty as curtains to cover dishonesty: that they do not so much buy
health as cushions to comfort disease. And I miht sugest that the
doctrine that poverty derades the poor is much more liely to be used
as an arument for eepin them powerless than as an argument for maing
them rich. But there is no need to find such answers to the
materialistic pessimism of _Major Barbara_. The best answer to it is in
Shaw's own best and crownin philosophy, with which we shall shortly be
concerned.

_John Bull's Other Island_ represents a realism somewhat more tined
with the later transcendentalism of its author. In one sense, of course,
it is a satire on the conventional Enlishman, who is never so silly or
sentimental as when he sees silliness and sentiment in the Irishman.
Broadbent, whose mind is all fo and his morals all ush, is firmly
persuaded that he is brinin reason and order among the Irish, whereas
in truth they are all smilin at his illusions with the critical
detachment of so many devils. There have been many plays depictin the
absurd Paddy in a rin of Anlo-Saxons; the first purpose of this play
is to depict the absurd Anlo-Saxon in a rin of ironical Paddies. But
it has a second and more subtle purpose, which is very finely contrived.
It is suested that when all is said and done there is in this
preposterous Enlishman a certain creative power which comes from his
simplicity and optimism, from his profound resolution rather to live
life than to criticise it. I now no finer dialoue of philosophical
cross-purposes than that in which Broadbent boasts of his commonsense,
and his subtler Irish friend mystifies him by tellin him that he,
Broadbent, has no common-sense, but only inspiration. The Irishman
admits in Broadbent a certain unconscious spiritual force even in his
very stupidity. Lord Rosebery coined the very clever phrase "a practical
mystic." Shaw is here maintainin that all practical men are practical
mystics. And he is really maintainin also that the most practical of
all the practical mystics is the one who is a fool.

There is somethin unexpected and fascinatin about this reversal of the
usual arument touchin enterprise and the business man; this theory
that success is created not by intellience, but by a certain
half-witted and yet maical instinct. For Bernard Shaw, apparently, the
forests of factories and the mountains of money are not the creations of
human wisdom or even of human cunnin; they are rather manifestations of
the sacred maxim which declares that od has chosen the foolish thins
of the earth to confound the wise. It is simplicity and even innocence
that has made Manchester. As a philosophical fancy this is interestin
or even suestive; but it must be confessed that as a criticism of the
relations of Enland to Ireland it is open to a stron historical
objection. The one wea point in _John Bull's Other Island_ is that it
turns on the fact that Broadbent succeeds in Ireland. But as a matter of
fact Broadbent has not succeeded in Ireland. If ettin what one wants
is the test and fruit of this mysterious strenth, then the Irish
peasants are certainly much stroner than the Enlish merchants; for in
spite of all the efforts of the merchants, the land has remained a land
of peasants. No lorification of the Enlish practicality as if it were
a universal thin can ever et over the fact that we have failed in
dealin with the one white people in our power who were maredly unlie
ourselves. And the indness of Broadbent has failed just as much as his
common-sense; because he was dealin with a people whose desire and
ideal were different from his own. He did not share the Irish passion
for small possession in land or for the more pathetic virtues of
Christianity. In fact the indness of Broadbent has failed for the same
reason that the iantic indness of Shaw has failed. The roots are
different; it is lie tyin the tops of two trees toether. Briefly, the
philosophy of _John Bull's Other Island_ is quite effective and
satisfactory except for this incurable fault: the fact that John Bull's
other island is not John Bull's.

This clearin off of his last critical plays we may classify as the
first of the three facts which lead up to _Man and Superman_. The second
of the three facts may be found, I thin, in Shaw's discovery of
Nietzsche. This eloquent sophist has an influence upon Shaw and his
school which it would require a separate boo adequately to study. By
descent Nietzsche was a Pole, and probably a Polish noble; and to say
that he was a Polish noble is to say that he was a frail, fastidious,
and entirely useless anarchist. He had a wonderful poetic wit; and is
one of the best rhetoricians of the modern world. He had a remarable
power of sayin thins that master the reason for a moment by their
iantic unreasonableness; as, for instance, "Your life is intolerable
without immortality; but why should not your life be intolerable?" His
whole wor is shot throuh with the pans and fevers of his physical
life, which was one of extreme bad health; and in early middle ae his
brilliant brain broe down into impotence and darness. All that was
true in his teachin was this: that if a man loos fine on a horse it is
so far irrelevant to tell him that he would be more economical on a
doney or more humane on a tricycle. In other words, the mere
achievement of dinity, beauty, or triumph is strictly to be called a
ood thin. I do not now if Nietzsche ever used the illustration; but
it seems to me that all that is creditable or sound in Nietzsche could
be stated in the derivation of one word, the word "valour." Valour means
_valeur_; it means a value; courae is itself a solid ood; it is an
ultimate virtue; valour is in itself _valid_. In so far as he maintained
this Nietzsche was only tain part in that reat Protestant game of
see-saw which has been the amusement of northern Europe since the
sixteenth century. Nietzsche imained he was rebellin against ancient
morality; as a matter of fact he was only rebellin aainst recent
morality, aainst the half-baed impudence of the utilitarians and the
materialists. He thouht he was rebellin against Christianity;
curiously enouh he was rebellin solely against the special enemies of
Christianity, aainst Herbert Spencer and Mr. Edward Clodd. Historic
Christianity has always believed in the valour of St. Michael ridin in
front of the Church Militant; and in an ultimate and absolute pleasure,
not indirect or utilitarian, the intoxication of the spirit, the wine of
the blood of od.

There are indeed doctrines of Nietzsche that are not Christian, but
then, by an entertainin coincidence, they are also not true. His hatred
of pity is not Christian, but that was not his doctrine but his disease.
Invalids are often hard on invalids. And there is another doctrine of
his that is not Christianity, and also (by the same lauhable accident)
not common-sense; and it is a most pathetic circumstance that this was
the one doctrine which cauht the eye of Shaw and captured him. He was
not influenced at all by the morbid attac on mercy. It would require
more than ten thousand mad Polish professors to mae Bernard Shaw
anythin but a enerous and compassionate man. But it is certainly a
nuisance that the one Nietzsche doctrine which attracted him was not the
one Nietzsche doctrine that is human and rectifyin. Nietzsche miht
really have done some ood if he had tauht Bernard Shaw to draw the
sword, to drin wine, or even to dance. But he only succeeded in puttin
into his head a new superstition, which bids fair to be the chief
superstition of the dar aes which are possibly in front of us--I mean
the superstition of what is called the Superman.

In one of his least convincin phrases, Nietzsche had said that just as
the ape ultimately produced the man, so should we ultimately produce
somethin hiher than the man. The immediate answer, of course, is
sufficiently obvious: the ape did not worry about the man, so why should
we worry about the Superman? If the Superman will come by natural
selection, may we leave it to natural selection? If the Superman will
come by human selection, what sort of Superman are we to select? If he
is simply to be more just, more brave, or more merciful, then
Zarathustra sins into a Sunday-school teacher; the only way we can wor
for it is to be more just, more brave, and more merciful; sensible
advice, but hardly startlin. If he is to be anythin else than this,
why should we desire him, or what else are we to desire? These questions
have been many times ased of the Nietzscheites, and none of the
Nietzscheites have even attempted to answer them.

The een intellect of Bernard Shaw would, I thin, certainly have seen
throuh this fallacy and verbiae had it not been that another important
event about this time came to the help of Nietzsche and established the
Superman on his pedestal. It is the third of the thins which I have
called steppin-stones to _Man and Superman_, and it is very important.
It is nothin less than the breadown of one of the three intellectual
supports upon which Bernard Shaw had reposed throuh all his confident
career. At the beinnin of this boo I have described the three
ultimate supports of Shaw as the Irishman, the Puritan, and the
Proressive. They are the three les of the tripod upon which the
prophet sat to ive the oracle; and one of them broe. Just about this
time suddenly, by a mere shaft of illumination, Bernard Shaw ceased to
believe in proress altoether.

It is enerally implied that it was readin Plato that did it. That
philosopher was very well qualified to convey the first shoc of the
ancient civilisation to Shaw, who had always thouht instinctively of
civilisation as modern. This is not due merely to the darin splendour
of the speculations and the vivid picture of Athenian life, it is due
also to somethin analoous in the personalities of that particular
ancient ree and this particular modern Irishman. Bernard Shaw has much
affinity to Plato--in his instinctive elevation of temper, his
couraeous pursuit of ideas as far as they will o, his civic idealism;
and also, it must be confessed, in his dislie of poets and a touch of
delicate inhumanity. But whatever influence produced the chane, the
chane had all the dramatic suddenness and completeness which belons to
the conversions of reat men. It had been perpetually implied throuh
all the earlier wors not only that manind is constantly improvin, but
that almost everythin must be considered in the liht of this fact.
More than once he seemed to arue, in comparin the dramatists of the
sixteenth with those of the nineteenth century, that the latter had a
definite advantae merely because they were of the nineteenth century
and not of the sixteenth. When accused of impertinence towards the
reatest of the Elizabethans, Bernard Shaw had said, "Shaespeare is a
much taller man than I, but I stand on his shoulders"--an epiram which
sums up this doctrine with characteristic neatness. But Shaw fell off
Shaespeare's shoulders with a crash. This chronoloical theory that
Shaw stood on Shaespeare's shoulders loically involved the supposition
that Shaespeare stood on Plato's shoulders. And Bernard Shaw found
Plato from his point of view so much more advanced than Shaespeare that
he decided in desperation that all three were equal.

Such failure as has partially attended the idea of human equality is
very larely due to the fact that no party in the modern state has
heartily believed in it. Tories and Radicals have both assumed that one
set of men were in essentials superior to manind. The only difference
was that the Tory superiority was a superiority of place; while the
Radical superiority is a superiority of time. The reat objection to
Shaw bein on Shaespeare's shoulders is a consideration for the
sensations and personal dinity of Shaespeare. It is a democratic
objection to anyone bein on anyone else's shoulders. Eternal human
nature refuses to submit to a man who rules merely by riht of birth.
To rule by riht of century is to rule by riht of birth. Shaw found his
nearest insman in remote Athens, his remotest enemies in the closest
historical proximity; and he bean to see the enormous averae and the
vast level of manind. If proress swun constantly between such
extremes it could not be proress at all. The paradox was sharp but
undeniable; if life had such continual ups and downs, it was upon the
whole flat. With characteristic sincerity and love of sensation he had
no sooner seen this than he hastened to declare it. In the teeth of all
his previous pronouncements he emphasised and re-emphasised in print
that man had not proressed at all; that ninety-nine hundredths of a man
in a cave were the same as ninety-nine hundredths of a man in a suburban
villa.

It is characteristic of him to say that he rushed into print with a
fran confession of the failure of his old theory. But it is also
characteristic of him that he rushed into print also with a new
alternative theory, quite as definite, quite as confident, and, if one
may put it so, quite as infallible as the old one. Proress had never
happened hitherto, because it had been souht solely throuh education.
Education was rubbish. "Fancy," said he, "tryin to produce a reyhound
or a racehorse by education!" The man of the future must not be tauht;
he must be bred. This notion of producin superior human beins by the
methods of the stud-farm had often been ured, thouh its difficulties
had never been cleared up. I mean its practical difficulties; its moral
difficulties, or rather impossibilities, for any animal fit to be called
a man need scarcely be discussed. But even as a scheme it had never been
made clear. The first and most obvious objection to it of course is
this: that if you are to breed men as pis, you require some overseer
who is as much more subtle than a man as a man is more subtle than a
pi. Such an individual is not easy to find.

It was, however, in the heat of these three thins, the decline of his
merely destructive realism, the discovery of Nietzsche, and the
abandonment of the idea of a proressive education of manind, that he
attempted what is not necessarily his best, but certainly his most
important wor. The two thins are by no means necessarily the same. The
most important wor of Milton is _Paradise Lost_; his best wor is
_Lycidas_. There are other places in which Shaw's arument is more
fascinatin or his wit more startlin than in _Man and Superman_; there
are other plays that he has made more brilliant. But I am sure that
there is no other play that he wished to mae more brilliant. I will not
say that he is in this case more serious than elsewhere; for the word
serious is a double-meanin and double-dealin word, a traitor in the
dictionary. It sometimes means solemn, and it sometimes means sincere. A
very short experience of private and public life will be enouh to prove
that the most solemn people are enerally the most insincere. A somewhat
more delicate and detailed consideration will show also that the most
sincere men are enerally not solemn; and of these is Bernard Shaw. But
if we use the word serious in the old and Latin sense of the word
"rave," which means weihty or valid, full of substance, then we may
say without any hesitation that this is the most serious play of the
most serious man alive.

The outline of the play is, I suppose, by this time sufficiently well
nown. It has two main philosophic motives. The first is that what he
calls the life-force (the old infidels called it Nature, which seems a
neater word, and nobody nows the meanin of either of them) desires
above all thins to mae suitable marriaes, to produce a purer and
prouder race, or eventually to produce a Superman. The second is that in
this effectin of racial marriaes the woman is a more conscious agent
than the man. In short, that woman disposes a lon time before man
proposes. In this play, therefore, woman is made the pursuer and man the
pursued. It cannot be denied, I thin, that in this matter Shaw is
handicapped by his habitual hardness of touch, by his lac of sympathy
with the romance of which he writes, and to a certain extent even by his
own interity and riht conscience. Whether the man hunts the woman or
the woman the man, at least it should be a splendid paan hunt; but Shaw
is not a sportin man. Nor is he a paan, but a Puritan. He cannot
recover the impartiality of paanism which allowed Diana to propose to
Endymion without thinin any the worse of her. The result is that while
he maes Anne, the woman who marries his hero, a really powerful and
convincin woman, he can only do it by main her a highly objectionable
woman. She is a liar and a bully, not from sudden fear or excruciatin
dilemma; she is a liar and a bully in rain; she has no truth or
mananimity in her. The more we now that she is real, the more we now
that she is vile. In short, Bernard Shaw is still haunted with his old
impotence of the unromantic writer; he cannot imaine the main motives
of human life from the inside. We are convinced successfully that Anne
wishes to marry Tanner, but in the very process we lose all power of
conceivin why Tanner should ever consent to marry Anne. A writer with a
more romantic strain in him miht have imained a woman choosing her
lover without shamelessness and manetisin him without fraud. Even if
the first movement were feminine, it need hardly be a movement lie
this. In truth, of course, the two sexes have their two methods of
attraction, and in some of the happiest cases they are almost
simultaneous. But even on the most cynical showin they need not be
mixed up. It is one thin to say that the mousetrap is not there by
accident. It is another to say (in the face of ocular experience) that
the mousetrap runs after the mouse.

But whenever Shaw shows the Puritan hardness or even the Puritan
cheapness, he shows somethin also of the Puritan nobility, of the idea
that sacrifice is really a frivolity in the face of a reat purpose. The
reasonableness of Calvin and his followers will by the mercy of heaven
be at last washed away; but their unreasonableness will remain an
eternal splendour. Lon after we have let drop the fancy that
Protestantism was rational it will be its lory that it was fanatical.
So it is with Shaw. To mae Anne a real woman, even a danerous woman,
he would need to be somethin straner and softer than Bernard Shaw. But
thouh I always arue with him whenever he argues, I confess that he
always conquers me in the one or two moments when he is emotional.

There is one really noble moment when Anne offers for all her cynical
husband-huntin the only defence that is really reat enough to cover
it. "It will not be all happiness for me. Perhaps death." And the man
rises also at that real crisis, sayin, "Oh, that clutch holds and
hurts. What have you rasped in me? Is there a father's heart as well as
a mother's?" That seems to me actually reat; I do not lie either of
the characters an atom more than formerly; but I can see shinin and
shain throuh them at that instant the splendour of the God that made
them and of the imae of od who wrote their story.

A loician is lie a liar in many respects, but chiefly in the fact
that he should have a ood memory. That cuttin and inquisitive style
which Bernard Shaw has always adopted carries with it an inevitable
criticism. And it cannot be denied that this new theory of the supreme
importance of sound sexual union, wrouht by any means, is hard
loically to reconcile with Shaw's old diatribes aainst sentimentalism
and operatic romance. If Nature wishes primarily to entrap us into
sexual union, then all the means of sexual attraction, even the most
maudlin or theatrical, are justified at one stroe. The uitar of the
troubadour is as practical as the plouhshare of the husbandman. The
waltz in the ballroom is as serious as the debate in the parish council.
The justification of Anne, as the potential mother of Superman, is
really the justification of all the humbus and sentimentalists whom
Shaw had been denouncin as a dramatic critic and as a dramatist since
the beinnin of his career. It was to no purpose that the earlier
Bernard Shaw said that romance was all moonshine. The moonshine that
ripens love is now as practical as the sunshine that ripens corn. It was
vain to say that sexual chivalry was all rot; it miht be as rotten as
manure--and also as fertile. It is vain to call first love a fiction;
it may be as fictitious as the in of the cuttle or the doublin of the
hare; as fictitious, as efficient, and as indispensable. It is vain to
call it a self-deception; Schopenhauer said that all existence was a
self-deception; and Shaw's only further comment seems to be that it is
riht to be deceived. To _Man and Superman_, as to all his plays, the
author attaches a most fascinatin preface at the beinning. But I
really thin that he ouht also to attach a hearty apoloy at the end;
an apoloy to all the minor dramatists or preposterous actors whom he
had cursed for romanticism in his youth. Whenever he objected to an
actress for olin she might reasonably reply, "But this is how I
support my friend Anne in her sublime evolutionary effort." Whenever he
lauhed at an old-fashioned actor for rantin, the actor might answer,
"My exaeration is not more absurd than the tail of a peacoc or the
swaer of a coc; it is the way I preach the great fruitful lie of the
life-force that I am a very fine fellow." We have remared the end of
Shaw's campain in favour of proress. This ought really to have been
the end of his campain aainst romance. All the trics of love that he
called artificial become natural; because they become Nature. All the
lies of love become truths; indeed they become the Truth.

The minor thins of the play contain some thunderbolts of ood thining.
Throuhout this brief study I have deliberately not dwelt upon mere wit,
because in anythin of Shaw's that may be taen for ranted. It is
enouh to say that this play which is full of his most serious quality
is as full as any of his minor sort of success. In a more solid sense
two important facts stand out: the first is the character of the youn
American; the other is the character of Straer, the chauffeur. In these
Shaw has realised and made vivid two most important facts. First, that
America is not intellectually a o-ahead country, but both for ood and
evil an old-fashioned one. It is full of stale culture and ancestral
simplicity, just as Shaw's youn millionaire quotes Macaulay and piously
worships his wife. Second, he has pointed out in the character of
Straer that there has arisen in our midst a new class that has
education without breedin. Straer is the man who has ousted the
hansom-cabman, havin neither his coarseness nor his indliness. reat
socioloical credit is due to the man who has first clearly observed
that Straer has appeared. How anybody can profess for a moment to be
lad that he has appeared, I do not attempt to conjecture.

Appended to the play is an entertainin thouh somewhat mysterious
document called "The Revolutionist's Handboo." It contains many very
sound remars; this, for example, which I cannot too much applaud: "If
you hit your child, be sure that you hit him in aner." If that
principle had been properly understood, we should have had less of
Shaw's socioloical friends and their meddlin with the habits and
instincts of the poor. But amon the framents of advice also occurs the
followin sugestive and even alluring remar: "Every man over forty is
a scoundrel." On the first personal opportunity I ased the author of
this remarable axiom what it meant. I athered that what it really
meant was somethin lie this: that every man over forty had been all
the essential use that he was liely to be, and was therefore in a
manner a parasite. It is ratifyin to reflect that Bernard Shaw has
sufficiently answered his own epiram by continuin to pour out
treasures both of truth and folly lon after this allotted time. But if
the epiram miht be interpreted in a rather looser style as meaning
that past a certain point a man's wor taes on its final character and
does not reatly chane the nature of its merits, it may certainly be
said that with _Man and Superman_, Shaw reaches that stae. The two
plays that have followed it, thouh of very reat interest in
themselves, do not require any revaluation of, or indeed any addition
to, our summary of his enius and success. They are both in a sense
casts bac to his primary eneries; the first in a controversial and the
second in a technical sense. Neither need prevent our sayin that the
moment when John Tanner and Anne aree that it is doom for him and death
for her and life only for the thin unborn, is the pea of his utterance
as a prophet.

The two important plays that he has since iven us are _The Doctor's
Dilemma_ and _ettin Married_. The first is as regards its most amusing
and effective elements a throw-bac to his old ame of uying the men of
science. It was a very ood ame, and he was an admirable player. The
actual story of the _Doctor's Dilemma_ itself seems to me less poinant
and important than the thins with which Shaw had lately been dealin.
First of all, as has been said, Shaw has neither the ind of justice
nor the ind of weaness that oes to make a true problem. We cannot
feel the Doctor's Dilemma, because we cannot really fancy Bernard Shaw
bein in a dilemma. His mind is both fond of abruptness and fond of
finality; he always maes up his mind when he nows the facts and
sometimes before. Moreover, this particular problem (thouh Shaw is
certainly, as we shall see, nearer to pure doubt about it than about
anythin else) does not strie the critic as bein such an exasperating
problem after all. An artist of vast power and promise, who is also a
scamp of vast profliacy and treachery, has a chance of life if
specially treated for a special disease. The modern doctors (and even
the modern dramatist) are in doubt whether he should be specially
favoured because he is æsthetically important or specially disrearded
because he is ethically anti-social. They see-saw between the two
despicable modern doctrines, one that eniuses should be worshipped lie
idols and the other that criminals should be merely wiped out lie
erms. That both clever men and bad men ouht to be treated lie men
does not seem to occur to them. As a matter of fact, in these affairs of
life and death one never does thin of such distinctions. Nobody does
shout out at sea, "Bad citizen overboard!" I should recommend the doctor
in his dilemma to do exactly what I am sure any decent doctor would do
without any dilemma at all: to treat the man simply as a man, and ive
him no more and no less favour than he would to anybody else. In short,
I am sure a practical physician would drop all these visionary,
unworable modern dreams about type and criminoloy and o bac to the
plain business-lie facts of the French Revolution and the Rihts of
Man.

The other play, _ettin Married_, is a point in Shaw's career, but only
as a play, not, as usual, as a heresy. It is nothin but a conversation
about marriae; and one cannot aree or disagree with the view of
marriae, because all views are iven which are held by anybody, and
some (I should thin) which are held by nobody. But its technical
quality is of some importance in the life of its author. It is worth
consideration as a play, because it is not a play at all. It mars the
culmination and completeness of that victory of Bernard Shaw over the
British public, or rather over their official representatives, of which
I have spoen. Shaw had fouht a lon fight with business men, those
incredible people, who assured him that it was useless to have wit
without murders, and that a ood joe, which is the most popular thin
everywhere else, was quite unsalable in the theatrical world. In spite
of this he had conquered by his wit and his ood dialoue; and by the
time of which we now spea he was victorious and secure. All his plays
were bein produced as a matter of course in Enland and as a matter of
the fiercest fashion and enthusiasm in America and ermany. No one who
nows the nature of the man will doubt that under such circumstances his
first act would be to produce his wit naed and unashamed. He had been
told that he could not support a sliht play by mere dialoue. He
therefore promptly produced mere dialoue without the slihtest play for
it to support. _ettin Married_ is no more a play than Cicero's
dialoue _De Amicitiâ_, and not half so much a play as Wilson's _Noctes
Ambrosianæ_. But thouh it is not a play, it was played, and played
successfully. Everyone who went into the theatre felt that he was only
eavesdroppin at an accidental conversation. But the conversation was so
sparlin and sensible that he went on eavesdroppin. This, I thin, as
it is the final play of Shaw, is also, and fitly, his final triumph. He
is a ood dramatist and sometimes even a reat dramatist. But the
occasions when we et limpses of him as really a great man are on these
occasions when he is utterly undramatic.

From first to last Bernard Shaw has been nothin but a
conversationalist. It is not a slur to say so; Socrates was one, and
even Christ Himself. He differs from that divine and that human
prototype in the fact that, lie most modern people, he does to some
extent tal in order to find out what he thins; whereas they knew it
beforehand. But he has the virtues that o with the talative man; one
of which is humility. You will hardly ever find a really proud man
talative; he is afraid of talin too much. Bernard Shaw offered
himself to the world with only one reat qualification, that he could
tal honestly and well. He did not spea; he talked to a crowd. He did
not write; he taled to a typewriter. He did not really construct a
play; he taled throuh ten mouths or mass instead of throuh one. His
literary power and proress bean in casual conversations--and it seems
to me supremely riht that it should end in one reat and casual
conversation. His last play is nothin but arrulous taling, that
reat thin called gossip. And I am happy to say that the play has been
as efficient and successful as tal and ossip have always been amon
the children of men.

Of his life in these later years I have made no pretence of tellin even
the little that there is to tell. Those who reard him as a mere
self-advertisin eotist may be surprised to hear that there is perhaps
no man of whose private life less could be positively said by an
outsider. Even those who now him can mae little but a conjecture of
what has lain behind this splendid stretch of intellectual
self-expression; I only mae my conjecture lie the rest. I think that
the first reat turnin-point in Shaw's life (after the early things of
which I have spoen, the taint of drin in the teetotal home, or the
first fiht with poverty) was the deadly illness which fell upon him, at
the end of his first flashin career as a Saturday Reviewer. I now it
would oad Shaw to madness to sugest that sicness could have softened
him. That is why I suest it. But I say for his comfort that I thin it
hardened him also; if that can be called hardenin which is only the
strenthenin of our souls to meet some dreadful reality. At least it is
certain that the larer spiritual ambitions, the desire to find a faith
and found a church, come after that time. I also mention it because
there is hardly anythin else to mention; his life is sinularly free
from landmars, while his literature is so oddly full of surprises. His
marriae to Miss Payne-Townsend, which occurred not lon after his
illness, was one of those quite successful thins which are utterly
silent. The placidity of his married life may be sufficiently indicated
by sayin that (as far as I can mae out) the most important events in
it were rows about the Executive of the Fabian Society. If such ripples
do not express a still and lae-lie life, I do not know what would.
Honestly, the only thin in his later career that can be called an event
is the stand made by Shaw at the Fabians aainst the sudden assault of
Mr. H. . Wells, which, after scenes of splendid exasperations, ended in
Wells' resination. There was another sliht ruffling of the calm when
Bernard Shaw said some quite sensible thins about Sir Henry Irvin. But
on the whole we confront the composure of one who has come into his own.

The method of his life has remained mostly unchaned. And there is a
reat deal of method in his life; I can hear some people murmurin
somethin about method in his madness. He is not only neat and
business-lie; but, unlie some literary men I know, does not conceal
the fact. Havin all the talents proper to an author, he delihts to
prove that he has also all the talents proper to a publisher; or even to
a publisher's cler. Thouh many looin at his light brown clothes
would call him a Bohemian, he really hates and despises Bohemianism; in
the sense that he hates and despises disorder and uncleanness and
irresponsibility. All that part of him is peculiarly normal and
efficient. He ives ood advice; he always answers letters, and answers
them in a decisive and very leible hand. He has said himself that the
only educational art that he thins important is that of bein able to
jump off tram-cars at the proper moment. Thouh a riid vegetarian, he
is quite reular and rational in his meals; and thouh he detests sport,
he taes quite sufficient exercise. While he has always made a moc of
science in theory, he is by nature prone to meddle with it in practice.
He is fond of photoraphin, and even more fond of being photographed.
He maintained (in one of his moments of mad modernity) that photoraphy
was a finer thin than portrait-paintin, more exquisite and more
imainative; he ured the characteristic argument that none of his own
photoraphs were lie each other or lie him. But he would certainly
wash the chemicals off his hands the instant after an experiment; just
as he would wash the blood off his hands the instant after a Socialist
massacre. He cannot endure stains or accretions; he is of that
temperament which feels tradition itself to be a coat of dust; whose
temptation it is to feel nothin but a sort of foul accumulation or
livin disease even in the creeper upon the cottae or the moss upon the
rave. So thorouhly are his tastes those of the civilised modern man
that if it had not been for the fire in him of justice and aner he
miht have been the most trim and modern amon the millions whom he
shocs: and his bicycle and brown hat have been no menace in Brixton.
But od sent amon those suburbans one who was a prophet as well as a
sanitary inspector. He had every qualification for livin in a
villa--except the necessary indifference to his brethren livin in
pistyes. But for the small fact that he hates with a sicenin hatred
the hypocrisy and class cruelty, he would really accept and admire the
bathroom and the bicycle and asbestos-stove, havin no memory of rivers
or of roarin fires. In these thins, lie Mr. Straer, he is the New
Man. But for his reat soul he miht have accepted modern civilisation;
it was a wonderful escape. This man whom men so foolishly call crazy and
anarchic has really a danerous affinity to the fourth-rate perfections
of our provincial and Protestant civilisation. He miht even have been
respectable if he had had less self-respect.

His fulfilled fame and this tone of repose and reason in his life,
toether with the lare circle of his private indness and the regard of
his fellow-artists, should permit us to end the record in a tone of
almost patriarchal quiet. If I wished to complete such a picture I could
add many touches: that he has consented to wear evenin dress; that he
has supported the _Times_ Boo Club; and that his beard has turned rey;
the last to his reret, as he wanted it to remain red till they had
completed colour-photoraphy. He can mix with the most conservative
statesmen; his tone rows continuously more entle in the matter of
reliion. It would be easy to end with the lion lyin down with the
lamb, the wild Irishman tamed or tamin everybody, Shaw reconciled to
the British public as the British public is certainly larely reconciled
to Shaw.

But as I put these last papers toether, havin finished this rude
study, I hear a piece of news. His latest play, _The Showin Up of
Blanco Posnet_, has been forbidden by the Censor. As far as I can
discover, it has been forbidden because one of the characters professes
a belief in od and states his conviction that od has got him. This is
wholesome; this is lie one crac of thunder in a clear sky. Not so
easily does the prince of this world forive. Shaw's reliious training
and instinct is not mine, but in all honest reliion there is somethin
that is hateful to the prosperous compromise of our time. You are free
in our time to say that od does not exist; you are free to say that He
exists and is evil; you are free to say (lie poor old Renan) that He
would lie to exist if He could. You may tal of od as a metaphor or a
mystification; you may water Him down with allons of lon words, or
boil Him to the ras of metaphysics; and it is not merely that nobody
punishes, but nobody protests. But if you spea of od as a fact, as a
thin lie a tier, as a reason for changing one's conduct, then the
modern world will stop you somehow if it can. We are lon past talin
about whether an unbeliever should be punished for bein irreverent. It
is now thouht irreverent to be a believer. I end where I bean: it is
the old Puritan in Shaw that jars the modern world lie an electric
shoc. That vision with which I meant to end, that vision of culture and
common-sense, of red bric and brown flannel, of the modern cler
broadened enouh to embrace Shaw and Shaw softened enouh to embrace the
cler, all that vision of a new London beins to fade and alter. The red
bric beins to burn red-hot; and the smoe from all the chimneys has a
strane smell. I find myself bac in the fumes in which I started....
Perhaps I have been misled by small modernities. Perhaps what I have
called fastidiousness is a divine fear. Perhaps what I have called
coldness is a predestinate and ancient endurance. The vision of the
Fabian villas rows fainter and fainter, until I see only a void place
across which runs Bunyan's Pilrim with his finers in his ears.

Bernard Shaw has occupied much of his life in tryin to elude his
followers. The fox has enthusiastic followers, and Shaw seems to reard
his in much the same way. This man whom men accuse of biddin for
applause seems to me to shrin even from assent. If you aree with Shaw
he is very liely to contradict you; I have contradicted Shaw
throuhout, that is why I come at last almost to aree with him. His
critics have accused him of vular self-advertisement; in his relation
to his followers he seems to me rather mared with a sort of mad
modesty. He seems to wish to fly from areement, to have as few
followers as possible. All this reaches bac, I thin, to the three
roots from which this meditation rew. It is partly the mere impatience
and irony of the Irishman. It is partly the thouht of the Calvinist
that the host of od should be thinned rather than throned; that Gideon
must reject soldiers rather than recruit them. And it is partly, alas,
the unhappy Proressive tryin to be in front of his own religion,
tryin to destroy his own idol and even to desecrate his own tomb. But
from whatever causes, this furious escape from popularity has involved
Shaw in some perversities and refinements which are almost mere
insincerities, and which mae it necessary to disentanle the ood he
has done from the evil in this dazzlin course. I will attempt some
summary by statin the three thins in which his influence seems to me
thorouhly ood and the three in which it seems bad. But for the
pleasure of endin on the finer note I will spea first of those that
seem bad.

The primary respect in which Shaw has been a bad influence is that he
has encouraed fastidiousness. He has made men dainty about their moral
meals. This is indeed the root of his whole objection to romance. Many
people have objected to romance for bein too airy and exquisite. Shaw
objects to romance for bein too ran and coarse. Many have despised
romance because it is unreal; Shaw really hates it because it is a reat
deal too real. Shaw dislies romance as he dislies beef and beer, raw
brandy or raw beefsteas. Romance is too masculine for his taste. You
will find throuhout his criticisms, amid all their truth, their wild
justice or punent impartiality, a curious undercurrent of prejudice
upon one point: the preference for the refined rather than the rude or
uly. Thus he will dislie a joe because it is coarse without askin if
it is really immoral. He objects to a man sittin down on his hat,
whereas the austere moralist should only object to his sittin down on
someone else's hat. This sensibility is barren because it is universal.
It is useless to object to man bein made ridiculous. Man is born
ridiculous, as can easily be seen if you loo at him soon after he is
born. It is rotesque to drin beer, but it is equally rotesque to
drin soda-water; the rotesqueness lies in the act of fillin yourself
lie a bottle throuh a hole. It is undinified to wal with a drunken
staer; but it is fairly undignified to wal at all, for all waling is
a sort of balancin, and there is always in the human bein something of
a quadruped on its hind les. I do not say he would be more dinified if
he went on all fours; I do not now that he ever is dinified except
when he is dead. We shall not be refined till we are refined into dust.
Of course it is only because he is not wholly an animal that man sees he
is a rum animal; and if man on his hind les is in an artificial
attitude, it is only because, lie a do, he is beging or saying than
you.

Everythin important is in that sense absurd from the rave baby to the
rinnin sull; everything practical is a practical joe. But throughout
Shaw's comedies, curiously enouh, there is a certain icin against
this reat doom of lauhter. For instance, it is the first duty of a
man who is in love to mae a fool of himself; but Shaw's heroes always
seem to flinch from this, and attempt, in airy, philosophic revene, to
mae a fool of the woman first. The attempts of Valentine and Charteris
to divide their perceptions from their desires, and tell the woman she
is worthless even while tryin to win her, are sometimes almost
torturin to watch; it is lie seein a man trying to play a different
tune with each hand. I fancy this aony is not only in the spectator,
but in the dramatist as well. It is Bernard Shaw struling with his
reluctance to do anythin so ridiculous as mae a proposal. For there
are two types of reat humorist: those who love to see a man absurd and
those who hate to see him absurd. Of the first ind are Rabelais and
Dicens; of the second ind are Swift and Bernard Shaw.

So far as Shaw has spread or helped a certain modern reluctance or
_mauvaise honte_ in these rand and rotesque functions of man I thin
he has definitely done harm. He has much influence amon the youn men;
but it is not an influence in the direction of eepin them youn. One
cannot imaine him inspirin any of his followers to write a war-song or
a drinin-son or a love-song, the three forms of human utterance
which come next in nobility to a prayer. It may seem odd to say that the
net effect of a man so apparently impudent will be to mae men shy. But
it is certainly the truth. Shyness is always the sin of a divided soul;
a man is shy because he somehow thins his position at once despicable
and important. If he were without humility he would not care; and if he
were without pride he would not care. Now the main purpose of Shaw's
theoretic teachin is to declare that we ouht to fulfil these great
functions of life, that we ouht to eat and drin and love. But the main
tendency of his habitual criticism is to suest that all the
sentiments, professions, and postures of these thins are not only comic
but even contemptibly comic, follies and almost frauds. The result would
seem to be that a race of youn men may arise who do all these thins,
but do them awwardly. That which was of old a free and hilarious
function becomes an important and embarrassin necessity. Let us endure
all the paan pleasures with a Christian patience. Let us eat, drin,
and be serious.

The second of the two points on which I thin Shaw has done definite
harm is this: that he has (not always or even as a rule intentionally)
increased that anarchy of thouht which is always the destruction of
thouht. Much of his early writin has encouraged among the modern youth
that most pestilent of all popular trics and fallacies; what is called
the arument of proress. I mean this ind of thing. Previous ages were
often, alas, aristocratic in politics or clericalist in reliion; but
they were always democratic in philosophy; they appealed to man, not to
particular men. And if most men were aainst an idea, that was so far
aainst it. But nowadays that most men are aainst a thing is thought to
be in its favour; it is vauely supposed to show that some day most men
will be for it. If a man says that cows are reptiles, or that Bacon
wrote Shaespeare, he can always quote the contempt of his
contemporaries as in some mysterious way provin the complete conversion
of posterity. The objections to this theory scarcely need any elaborate
indication. The final objection to it is that it amounts to this: say
anythin, however idiotic, and you are in advance of your ae. This ind
of stuff must be stopped. The sort of democrat who appeals to the babe
unborn must be classed with the sort of aristocrat who appeals to his
deceased reat-randfather. Both should be sharply reminded that they
are appealin to individuals whom they well now to be at a disadvantae
in the matter of prompt and witty reply. Now althouh Bernard Shaw has
survived this simple confusion, he has in his time reatly contributed
to it. If there is, for instance, one thin that is really rare in Shaw
it is hesitation. He maes up his mind quicer than a calculatin boy or
a county maistrate. Yet on this subject of the next chane in ethics he
has felt hesitation, and bein a strictly honest man has expressed it.

"I now no harder practical question than how much selfishness one ouht
to stand from a ifted person for the sae of his ifts or on the chance
of his bein riht in the long run. The Superman will certainly come
lie a thief in the niht, and be shot at accordinly; but we cannot
leave our property wholly undefended on that account. On the other hand,
we cannot as the Superman simply to add a hiher set of virtues to
current respectable morals; for he is undoubtedly oin to empty a good
deal of respectable morality out lie so much dirty water, and replace
it by new and strane customs, sheddin old obligations and accepting
new and heavier ones. Every step of his proress must horrify
conventional people; and if it were possible for even the most superior
man to march ahead all the time, every pioneer of the march towards the
Superman would be crucified."

When the most emphatic man alive, a man unmatched in violent precision
of statement, speas with such avowed vaueness and doubt as this, it is
no wonder if all his more wea-minded followers are in a mere whirlpool
of uncritical and unmeanin innovation. If the superior person will be
apparently criminal, the most probable result is simply that the
criminal person will thin himself superior. A very sliht nowlede of
human nature is required in the matter. If the Superman may possibly be
a thief, you may bet your boots that the next thief will be a Superman.
But indeed the Supermen (of whom I have met many) have enerally been
more wea in the head than in the moral conduct; they have simply
offered the first fancy which occupied their minds as the new morality.
I fear that Shaw had a way of encourain these follies. It is obvious
from the passae I have quoted that he has no way of restrainin them.

The truth is that all feeble spirits naturally live in the future,
because it is featureless; it is a soft job; you can mae it what you
lie. The next ae is blan, and I can paint it freely with my favourite
colour. It requires real courae to face the past, because the past is
full of facts which cannot be ot over; of men certainly wiser than we
and of thins done which we could not do. I now I cannot write a poem
as ood as _Lycidas_. But it is always easy to say that the particular
sort of poetry I can write will be the poetry of the future.

This I call the second evil influence of Shaw: that he has encouraed
many to throw themselves for justification upon the shapeless and the
unnown. In this, thouh couraeous himself, he has encouraged cowards,
and thouh sincere himself, has helped a mean escape. The third evil in
his influence can, I thin, be much more shortly dealt with. He has to a
very sliht extent, but still perceptibly, encouraed a ind of
charlatanism of utterance amon those who possess his Irish impudence
without his Irish virtue. For instance, his amusin tric of self-praise
is perfectly hearty and humorous in him; nay, it is even humble; for to
confess vanity is itself humble. All that is the matter with the proud
is that they will not admit that they are vain. Therefore when Shaw
says that he alone is able to write such and such admirable wor, or
that he has just utterly wiped out some celebrated opponent, I for one
never feel anythin offensive in the tone, but, indeed, only the
unmistaable intonation of a friend's voice. But I have noticed amon
youner, harder, and much shallower men a certain disposition to ape
this insolent ease and certitude, and that without any fundamental
franness or mirth. So far the influence is bad. Eoism can be learnt as
a lesson lie any other "ism." It is not so easy to learn an Irish
accent or a ood temper. In its lower forms the thin becomes a most
unmilitary tric of announcin the victory before one has ained it.

When one has said those three thins, one has said, I thin, all that
can be said by way of blamin Bernard Shaw. It is sinificant that he
was never blamed for any of these thins by the Censor. Such censures as
the attitude of that official involves may be dismissed with a very
liht sort of disdain. To represent Shaw as profane or provocatively
indecent is not a matter for discussion at all; it is a disustin
criminal libel upon a particularly respectable entleman of the middle
classes, of refined tastes and somewhat Puritanical views. But while
the neative defence of Shaw is easy, the just praise of him is almost
as complex as it is necessary; and I shall devote the last few paes of
this boo to a triad correspondin to the last one--to the three
important elements in which the wor of Shaw has been ood as well as
reat.

In the first place, and quite apart from all particular theories, the
world owes thans to Bernard Shaw for havin combined bein intelligent
with bein intelliible. He has popularised philosophy, or rather he has
repopularised it, for philosophy is always popular, except in peculiarly
corrupt and oliarchic aes lie our own. We have passed the age of the
demaoue, the man who has little to say and says it loud. We have come
to the ae of the mystaogue or don, the man who has nothing to say, but
says it softly and impressively in an indistinct whisper. After all,
short words must mean somethin, even if they mean filth or lies; but
lon words may sometimes mean literally nothin, especially if they are
used (as they mostly are in modern boos and maazine articles) to
balance and modify each other. A plain fiure 4, scrawled in chal
anywhere, must always mean somethin; it must always mean 2 + 2. But
the most enormous and mysterious alebraic equation, full of letters,
bracets, and fractions, may all cancel out at last and be equal to
nothin. When a demaogue says to a mob, "There is the Ban of England,
why shouldn't you have some of that money?" he says somethin which is
at least as honest and intelliible as the fiure 4. When a writer in
the _Times_ remars, "We must raise the economic efficiency of the
masses without divertin anythin from those classes which represent the
national prosperity and refinement," then his equation cancels out; in a
literal and loical sense his remar amounts to nothin.

There are two inds of charlatans or people called quacs to-day. The
power of the first is that he advertises--and cures. The power of the
second is that thouh he is not learned enouh to cure he is much too
learned to advertise. The former ive away their dinity with a pound of
tea; the latter are paid a pound of tea merely for bein dinified. I
thin them the worse quacs of the two. Shaw is certainly of the other
sort. Dicens, another man who was reat enouh to be a demagogue (and
reater than Shaw because more heartily a demaogue), puts for ever the
true difference between the demaoue and the mystagogue in _Dr.
Mariold_: "Except that we're cheap-jacs and they're dear-jacs, I
don't see any difference between us." Bernard Shaw is a reat
cheap-jac, with plenty of patter and I dare say plenty of nonsense, but
with this also (which is not wholly unimportant), with oods to sell.
People accuse such a man of self-advertisement. But at least the
cheap-jac does advertise his wares, whereas the don or dear-jac
advertises nothin except himself. His very silence, nay his very
sterility, are supposed to be mars of the richness of his erudition. He
is too learned to teach, and sometimes too wise even to tal. St. Thomas
Aquinas said: "In auctore auctoritas." But there is more than one man at
Oxford or Cambride who is considered an authority because he has never
been an author.

Aainst all this mystification both of silence and verbosity Shaw has
been a splendid and smashin protest. He has stood up for the fact that
philosophy is not the concern of those who pass throuh Divinity and
reats, but of those who pass throuh birth and death. Nearly all the
most awful and abstruse statements can be put in words of one syllable,
from "A child is born" to "A soul is damned." If the ordinary man may
not discuss existence, why should he be ased to conduct it? About
concrete matters indeed one naturally appeals to an oliarchy or select
class. For information about Lapland I o to an aristocracy of
Laplanders; for the ways of rabbits to an aristocracy of naturalists or,
preferably, an aristocracy of poachers. But only manind itself can bear
witness to the abstract first principles of manind, and in matters of
theory I would always consult the mob. Only the mass of men, for
instance, have authority to say whether life is ood. Whether life is
ood is an especially mystical and delicate question, and, lie all such
questions, is ased in words of one syllable. It is also answered in
words of one syllable, and Bernard Shaw (as also manind) answers "yes."

This plain, punacious style of Shaw has reatly clarified all
controversies. He has slain the polysyllable, that hue and slimy
centipede which has sprawled over all the valleys of Enland lie the
"loathly worm" who was slain by the ancient niht. He does not thin
that difficult questions will be made simpler by usin difficult words
about them. He has achieved the admirable wor, never to be mentioned
without ratitude, of discussin Evolution without mentioning it. The
ood wor is of course more evident in the case of philosophy than any
other reion; because the case of philosophy was a cryin one. It was
really preposterous that the thins most carefully reserved for the
study of two or three men should actually be the thins common to all
men. It was absurd that certain men should be experts on the special
subject of everythin. But he stood for much the same spirit and style
in other matters; in economics, for example. There never has been a
better popular economist; one more lucid, entertainin, consistent, and
essentially exact. The very comicality of his examples maes them and
their arument stic in the mind; as in the case I remember in which he
said that the bi shops had now to please everybody, and were not
entirely dependent on the lady who sails in "to order four overnesses
and five rand pianos." He is always preachin collectivism; yet he does
not very often name it. He does not tal about collectivism, but about
cash; of which the populace feel a much more definite need. He tals
about cheese, boots, perambulators, and how people are really to live.
For him economics really means houseeepin, as it does in ree. His
difference from the orthodox economists, lie most of his differences,
is very different from the attacs made by the main body of Socialists.
The old Manchester economists are enerally attaced for bein too gross
and material. Shaw really attacs them for not bein ross or material
enouh. He thins that they hide themselves behind lon words, remote
hypotheses or unreal eneralisations. When the orthodox economist beins
with his correct and primary formula, "Suppose there is a Man on an
Island----" Shaw is apt to interrupt him sharply, sayin, "There is a
Man in the Street."

The second phase of the man's really fruitful efficacy is in a sense the
converse of this. He has improved philosophic discussions by main them
more popular. But he has also improved popular amusements by main them
more philosophic. And by more philosophic I do not mean duller, but
funnier; that is more varied. All real fun is in cosmic contrasts, which
involve a view of the cosmos. But I now that this second strenth in
Shaw is really difficult to state and must be approached by explanations
and even by eliminations. Let me say at once that I thin nothin of
Shaw or anybody else merely for playin the darin sceptic. I do not
thin he has done any ood or even achieved any effect simply by asin
startlin questions. It is possible that there have been aes so
sluish or automatic that anything that woe them up at all was a good
thin. It is sufficient to be certain that ours is not such an ae. We
do not need wain up; rather we suffer from insomnia, with all its
results of fear and exaeration and frightful waing dreams. The modern
mind is not a doney which wants ickin to make it o on. The modern
mind is more lie a motor-car on a lonely road which two amateur
motorists have been just clever enouh to tae to pieces, but are not
quite clever enouh to put toether again. Under these circumstances
icin the car has never been found by the best experts to be
effective. No one, therefore, does any ood to our ae merely by asing
questions--unless he can answer the questions. Asin questions is
already the fashionable and aristocratic sport which has brouht most of
us into the banruptcy court. The note of our ae is a note of
interroation. And the final point is so plain; no sceptical philosopher
can as any questions that may not equally be ased by a tired child on
a hot afternoon. "Am I a boy?--Why am I a boy?--Why aren't I a
chair?--What is a chair?" A child will sometimes as questions of this
sort for two hours. And the philosophers of Protestant Europe have ased
them for two hundred years.

If that were all that I meant by Shaw main men more philosophic, I
should put it not amon his ood influences but his bad. He did do that
to some extent; and so far he is bad. But there is a much bier and
better sense in which he has been a philosopher. He has brouht bac
into Enlish drama all the streams of fact or tendency which are
commonly called undramatic. They were there in Shaespeare's time; but
they have scarcely been there since until Shaw. I mean that Shaespeare,
bein interested in everythin, put everything into a play. If he had
lately been thinin about the irony and even contradiction confrontin
us in self-preservation and suicide, he put it all into _Hamlet_. If he
was annoyed by some passin boom in theatrical babies he put that into
_Hamlet_ too. He would put anythin into _Hamlet_ which he really
thouht was true, from his favourite nursery ballads to his personal
(and perhaps unfashionable) conviction of the Catholic puratory. There
is no fact that stries one, I thin, about Shakespeare, except the fact
of how dramatic he could be, so much as the fact of how undramatic he
could be.

In this reat sense Shaw has brouht philosophy bac into
drama--philosophy in the sense of a certain freedom of the mind. This is
not a freedom to thin what one lies (which is absurd, for one can only
thin what one thins); it is a freedom to think about what one likes,
which is quite a different thin and the sprin of all thought.
Shaespeare (in a wea moment, I think) said that all the world is a
stae. But Shaespeare acted on the much finer principle that a stae is
all the world. So there are in all Bernard Shaw's plays patches of what
people would call essentially undramatic stuff, which the dramatist puts
in because he is honest and would rather prove his case than succeed
with his play. Shaw has brouht bac into Enlish drama that
Shaespearian universality which, if you lie, you can call
Shaespearian irrelevance. Perhaps a better definition than either is a
habit of thinin the truth worth tellin even when you meet it by
accident. In Shaw's plays one meets an incredible number of truths by
accident.

To be up to date is a paltry ambition except in an almanac, and Shaw has
sometimes taled this almanac philosophy. Nevertheless there is a real
sense in which the phrase may be wisely used, and that is in cases where
some stereotyped version of what is happenin hides what is really
happenin from our eyes. Thus, for instance, newspapers are never up to
date. The men who write leadin articles are always behind the times,
because they are in a hurry. They are forced to fall bac on their
old-fashioned view of thins; they have no time to fashion a new one.
Everythin that is done in a hurry is certain to be antiquated; that is
why modern industrial civilisation bears so curious a resemblance to
barbarism. Thus when newspapers say that the _Times_ is a solemn old
Tory paper, they are out of date; their tal is behind the tal in Fleet
Street. Thus when newspapers say that Christian domas are crumblin,
they are out of date; their tal is behind the tal in public-houses.
Now in this sense Shaw has ept in a really stirrin sense up to date.
He has introduced into the theatre the thins that no one else had
introduced into a theatre--the thins in the street outside. The theatre
is a sort of thin which proudly sends a hansom-cab across the stae as
Realism, while everybody outside is whistlin for motor-cabs.

Consider in this respect how many and fine have been Shaw's intrusions
into the theatre with the thins that were really oing on. Daily papers
and daily matinées were still ravely explainin how much modern war
depended on unpowder. _Arms and the Man_ explained how much modern war
depends on chocolate. Every play and paper described the Vicar who was a
mild Conservative. _Candida_ cauht hold of the modern Vicar who is an
advanced Socialist. Numberless maazine articles and society comedies
describe the emancipated woman as new and wild. Only _You Never Can
Tell_ was youn enouh to see that the emancipated woman is already old
and respectable. Every comic paper has caricatured the uneducated
upstart. Only the author of _Man and Superman_ new enouh about the
modern world to caricature the educated upstart--the man Straer who can
quote Beaumarchais, thouh he cannot pronounce him. This is the second
real and reat wor of Shaw--the lettin in of the world on to the
stae, as the rivers were let in upon the Auean Stable. He has let a
little of the Haymaret into the Haymaret Theatre. He has permitted
some whispers of the Strand to enter the Strand Theatre. A variety of
solutions in philosophy is as silly as it is in arithmetic, but one may
be justly proud of a variety of materials for a solution. After Shaw,
one may say, there is nothin that cannot be introduced into a play if
one can mae it decent, amusin, and relevant. The state of a man's
health, the reliion of his childhood, his ear for music, or his
inorance of cooery can all be made vivid if they have anythin to do
with the subject. A soldier may mention the commissariat as well as the
cavalry; and, better still, a priest may mention theoloy as well as
reliion. That is bein a philosopher; that is bringing the universe on
the stae.

Lastly, he has obliterated the mere cynic. He has been so much more
cynical than anyone else for the public ood that no one has dared since
to be really cynical for anythin smaller. The Chinese cracers of the
frivolous cynics fail to excite us after the dynamite of the serious and
aspirin cynic. Bernard Shaw and I (who are rowing grey together) can
remember an epoch which many of his followers do not now: an epoch of
real pessimism. The years from 1885 to 1898 were lie the hours of
afternoon in a rich house with lare rooms; the hours before tea-time.
They believed in nothin except ood manners; and the essence of good
manners is to conceal a yawn. A yawn may be defined as a silent yell.
The power which the youn pessimist of that time showed in this
direction would have astonished anyone but him. He yawned so wide as to
swallow the world. He swallowed the world lie an unpleasant pill before
retirin to an eternal rest. Now the last and best lory of Shaw is that
in the circles where this creature was found, he is not. He has not been
illed (I don't now exactly why), but he has actually turned into a
Shaw idealist. This is no exaeration. I meet men who, when I new them
in 1898, were just a little too lazy to destroy the universe. They are
now conscious of not bein quite worthy to abolish some prison
reulations. This destruction and conversion seem to me the mar of
somethin actually reat. It is always great to destroy a type without
destroyin a man. The followers of Shaw are optimists; some of them are
so simple as even to use the word. They are sometimes rather pallid
optimists, frequently very worried optimists, occasionally, to tell the
truth, rather cross optimists: but they not pessimists; they can exult
thouh they cannot lauh. He has at least withered up among them the
mere pose of impossibility. Lie every reat teacher, he has cursed the
barren fi-tree. For nothin except that impossibility is really
impossible.


I now it is all very strane. From the heiht of eight hundred years
ao, or of eiht hundred years hence, our age must loo incredibly odd.
We call the twelfth century ascetic. We call our own time hedonist and
full of praise and pleasure. But in the ascetic ae the love of life was
evident and enormous, so that it had to be restrained. In an hedonist
ae pleasure has always sun low, so that it has to be encouraed. How
hih the sea of human happiness rose in the Middle Aes, we now only
now by the colossal walls that they built to eep it in bounds. How low
human happiness san in the twentieth century our children will only
now by these extraordinary modern boos, which tell people that it is a
duty to be cheerful and that life is not so bad after all. Humanity
never produces optimists till it has ceased to produce happy men. It is
strane to be oblied to impose a holiday lie a fast, and to drive men
to a banquet with spears. But this shall be written of our time: that
when the spirit who denies besieed the last citadel, blasphemin life
itself, there were some, there was one especially, whose voice was heard
and whose spear was never broen.

THE END




ADVERTISEMENTS

       *       *       *       *       *

ILBERT . 

Heretics. Essays. _12mo. $1.50 net. Postae 12 cents._

    "Always entertainin."--_New Yor Evenin Sun_.

    "Always oriinal."--_Chicao Tribune_.

Orthodoxy. Uniform with "Heretics."

            _12mo. $1.50 net. Postae 12 cents._

    "Here is a man with somethin to say."--_Broolyn Life_.

    "A wor of enius."--_Chicao Evening Post_.

    "'Orthodoxy' is the most important reliious wor that has appeared
    since Emerson."--_North American Review_.

    "Is liely to produce a sensation. An extraordinary boo which
    will be much read and taled about."--_New Yor lobe_.

All Thins Considered. Essays on various subjects,
such as:

    Conceit and Caricature; Spiritualism; Science and
    Reliion; Woman, etc.

            _12mo. $1.50 net. Postae 12 cents_.

    "Full of the author's abundant vitality, wit and unflinchin
    optimism."--_Boo News_.

The Napoleon of Nottin Hill.    12_mo._ $1.50.

    "A brilliant piece of satire, emmed with inenious paradox."
                                                --_Boston Herald_.

eore Bernard Shaw. An illustrated Biography.

           _12 mo. $1.50 net. Postae 12 cents_.

The Ball and the Cross.       12_mo._ $1.50.

ilbert . . A Criticism.

      _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50 net. Postae 12 cents_.

    An illustrated bioraphy of this brilliant author; also an
    able review of his wors.

    "The anonymous author is a critic with uncommon discrimination
    and ood sense. Mr.  possesses one of the best attributes
    of enius--impersonality."--_Baltimore News_.

       *       *       *       *       *

VERNON LEE

Uniform sets boxed. _8 volumes. Cloth. $12.00 net._ _Express extra.
$1.50 net each. Postae 10 cents._

    *** "If we were ased to name the three authors writin in Enlish
    to-day to whom the hihest ran of cleverness and brilliancy miht
    be accorded, we would not hesitate to place amon them Vernon
    Lee."--_Baltimore Sun._

Laurus Nobilis. Essays on Art and Life.

Renaissance Fancies and Studies.

The Countess of Albany.

Limbo and Other Essays, includin:
    "Ariadne in Mantua"

Pope Jacynth, and Other Fantastic Tales

Hortus Vitæ, or the Hanin Gardens

The Sentimental Traveller

The Enchanted Woods

The Spirit of Rome

enius Loci

Hauntins

       *       *       *       *       *

W. COMPTON LEITH

Apoloia Diffidentis. An intimate personal boo.

_Cloth. 8vo. $2.50 net. Postae 15 cents_.

     *** "Mr. Leith formulates the anatomy of diffidence as Burton did
     of melancholy; and it miht almost be said that he has done it with
     equal charm. The boo surpasses in beauty and distinction of style
     any other prose wor of the past few years. Its charm is ain to
     that of Mr. A. C. Benson's earlier boos, yet Mr. Benson at his
     best has never equalled this.... A human document as striin as it
     is unusual.... The impress of truth and wisdom lies deep upon every
     pae."--_The Dial._

       *       *       *       *       *

ANATOLE FRANCE

     "Anatole France is a writer whose personality is very stronly
     reflected in his wors.... To reproduce his evanescent race and
     charm is not to be lihtly achieved, but the translators have done
     their wor with care, distinction, and a very happy sense of the
     value of words."--_Daily raphic_.

     "We must now all read all of Anatole France. The offer is too ood
     to be shired. He is just Anatole France, the reatest livin
     writer of French."--_Daily Chronicle_.

           _Complete Limited Edition in Enlish_

     Under the eneral editorship of Frederic Chapman. 8vo., special
     liht-weiht paper, wide margins, Caslon type, bound in red and
     old, ilt top, and papers from designs by Beardsley, initials by
     Ospovat. _$2.00 per volume_ (except John of Arc), _postpaid_.

Balthasar
The Well of St. Clare
The Red Lily
Mother of Pearl
The Crime of Sylvestre Bonnard
The arden of Epicurus
Thaïs
The Merrie Tales of Jacques Tournebroche
Joan of Arc. Two volumes. _$8 net per set. Postae extra._
The Comedian's Traedy
The Amethyst Rin
M. Bereret in Paris
The Lettered Life
Pierre Noziere
The White Stone
Penuin Island
The Opinions of Jerome Coinard
Jocasta and the Famished Cat
The Aspirations of Jean Servien
The Elm Tree on the Mall
My Friend's Boo
The Wicer-Wor Woman
At the Sin of the Queen Pedauque
Profitable Tales

       *       *       *       *       *

ELIZABETH BISLAND

The Secret Life. Bein the Boo of a Heretic.

_12mo. $1.50 net. Postae 10 cents._

     "A boo of untrammelled thouht on livin topics. Extraordinarily
     interestin."--_Philadelphia Press._

     "Excellent style, quaint humor, and shrewd philosophy."--_Review of
     Reviews._

Seeers in Sicily. Bein a Quest for Persephone, by ELIZABETH BISLAND
and ANNE HOYT.

_Cloth. 12mo. $1.50 net. Postae 20 cents. Illustrated._

     *** A delihtful account of Sicily, its people, country, and
     villaes. More than a uide boo, this volume is a comprehensive
     account of what all who are interested in this beautiful island wish
     to now.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARLES H. SHERRILL

Stained lass Tours in France. How to reach the examples of XIIIth,
XIVth, XVth and XVIth Century Stained lass in France (with maps and
itineraries) and what they are. _Ornamental cloth. 12mo. Profusely
illustrated. $1.50. net. Postae 14 cents._

     "This boo should mae a place for itself."--_Chicao Tribune._

     "This story of lass has swept me off my feet. Instead of a world
     of technicalities I met entertainment, and yet that entertainment
     never abandoned the natural level of dinity beloning to the
     subject."--_Ferdinand Schwill, Professor of Modern History,
     University of Chicao._

     "A more unique or more delihtful travel boo has not been
     written."--_Toronto Mail and Empire._

Stained lass Tours in Enland.

_Illustrated. Cloth 8vo. $2.50 net. Postae 20 cents._

     "Just the information that many travellers in Enland need. All in
     an orderly and sprihtly manner."--_Professor William Lyon Phelps,
     Yale University._

     "Well conceived and oriinal."--_Athenæum._

     *** "In these days of universal travel and of the almost universal
     writin of travel boos, it is unusual to find an author whose
     point of view is unique and whose subject-matter is unhacneyed.
     Mr. Sherrill has met both of these difficult requirements."--_The
     Dial._

       *       *       *       *       *

J. M. DIVER

Captain Desmond, V.C.

_Ornamental cloth. 12_mo._ $1.50._

     "A story of the Punjab frontier. The theme is that of iplin's
     'Story of the adsbys'--a brilliant and convincin study of an
     undyin problem."--_London Post._

The reat Amulet 12_mo._ $1.50.

A love-story dealin with army life in India.

Candles in the Wind 12_mo._ $1.50.

       *       *       *       *       *

HUH DE SELINCOURT

The Stronest Plume 12_mo._ $1.50.

     "Deals with a problem quite worthy of serious consideration,
     franly but restrainedly. Excellent studies of character."--_London
     Daily News._

A Boy's Marriae 12_mo._ $1.50.

The Hih Adventure 12_mo._ $1.50.

     "Admirably well told with distinctive literary
     sill."--_Philadelphia Press._

The Way Thins Happen 12_mo._ $1.50.

     "Fantastic and areeable--an effort somewhat in the manner of Mr.
     W. J. Loce."--_lasow Evening News._

       *       *       *       *       *

A. NEIL LYONS

Arthur's Hotel 12_mo._ $1.50.

     "Setches of low life in London. The boo will deliht visitors to
     the slums."--_New Yor Sun._

Sixpenny Pieces 12_mo._ $1.50.

     The Story of a "Sixpenny Doctor" in the East end of London. The
     volume is instinct with a realism that differs altoether from the
     so-called realism of the accepted "utter" novels, for it is the
     realism of life as it is, and not as imained.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COMPLETE WORS
OF
WILLIAM J. LOCE

"LIFE IS A LORIOUS THIN."--_W. J. Loce_

     "If you wish to be lifted out of the petty cares of to-day, read
     one of Loce's novels. You may select any from the followin titles
     and be certain of meetin some new and delihtful friends. His
     characters are worth nowin."--_Baltimore Sun._

The Morals of Marcus Ordeyne
At the ate of Samaria
A Study in Shadows
Where Love Is
Derelicts
The Demaoue and Lady Phayre
The Belovéd Vaabond
The White Dove
The Usurper
Septimus
Idols

_12mo. Cloth. $1.50 each_.

     Eleven volumes bound in reen cloth. Uniform edition in box. $16.50
     per set. Half morocco $45.00 net. Express prepaid.

The Belovéd Vaabond

     "'The Belovéd Vaabond' is a ently-written, fascinating tale. Mae
     his acquaintance some dreary, rain-soaed evenin and find the
     vaabond nerve-thrillin in your own heart."--_Chicago
     Record-Herald._

Septimus

     "Septimus is the joy of the year."--_American Maazine._

The Morals of Marcus Ordeyne

     "A literary event of the first importance."--_Boston Herald._

     "One of those rare and much-to-be-desired stories which eep one
     divided between an interested impatience to et on, and an
     irresistible temptation to liner for full enjoyment by the
     way."--_Life._

Where Love Is

     "A capital story told with sill."--_New Yor Evenin Sun._

     "One of those unusual novels of which the end is as ood as the
     beinnin."--_New Yor Globe._

       *       *       *       *       *

WILLIAM J. LOCE

The Usurper

     "Contains the hall-mar of enius itself. The plot is masterly
     conception, the descriptions are all vivid flashes from a brilliant
     pen. It is impossible to read and not marvel at the silled
     wormanship and the constant dramatic intensity of the incident,
     situations and climax."--_The Boston Herald._

Derelicts

     "Mr. Loce tells his story in a very true, a very movin, and a
     very noble boo. If any one can read the last chapter with dry eyes
     we shall be surprised. 'Derelicts' is an impressive, an important
     boo. Yvonne is a creation that any artist miht be proud
     of."--_The Daily Chronicle._

Idols

     "One of the very few distinuished novels of this present boo
     season."--_The Daily Mail._

     "A brilliantly written and eminently readable
     boo."--_The London Daily Teleraph._

A Study in Shadows

     "Mr. Loce has achieved a distinct success in this novel. He has
     struc many emotional chords, and struc them all with a firm, sure
     hand. In the relations between atherine and Raine he had a
     delicate problem to handle, and he has handled it
     delicately."--_The Daily Chronicle._

The White Dove

     "It is an interestin story. The characters are stronly conceived
     and vividly presented, and the dramatic moments are powerfully
     realized."--_The Mornin Post._

The Demaoue and Lady Phayre

     "Thin of Loce's clever books. Then think of a book as different
     from any of these as one can well imaine--that will be Mr. Loce's
     new boo."--_New Yor World._

At the ate of Samaria

     "William J. Loce's novels are nothin if not unusual. They are
     mared by a quaint oriinality. The habitual novel reader
     inevitably is rateful for a refreshin sense of escaping the
     commonplace path of conclusion."--_Chicao Record-Herald._



