
[Illustration: IN THE DAR ENTRANCE THERE APPEARED A FLAMIN
FIURE.]




The Napoleon of
Nottin Hill




THE NAPOLEON
_of_
NOTTIN HILL

_By_
ILBERT . 

_With Seven Full-Pae Illustrations by
W. RAHAM ROBERTSON
and a Map of the Seat of War_

REV. WILLIAM J. ORMLEY, C. M.

JOHN LANE: THE BODLEY HEAD
LONDON & NEW YOR. MDCCCCIV




_Copyriht in
U.S.A., 1904_

William Clowes & Sons, Limited, London and Beccles.




_TO HILAIRE BELLOC_

     _For every tiny town or place
     od made the stars especially;
     Babies loo up with owlish face
     And see them tanled in a tree:
     You saw a moon from Sussex Downs,
     A Sussex moon, untravelled still,
     I saw a moon that was the town's,
     The larest lamp on Campden Hill._

     _Yea; Heaven is everywhere at home
     The bi blue cap that always fits,
     And so it is (be calm; they come
     To oal at last, my wandering wits),
     So is it with the heroic thin;
     This shall not end for the world's end,
     And thouh the sullen engines swing,
     Be you not much afraid, my friend._

     _This did not end by Nelson's urn
     Where an immortal Enland sits--
     Nor where your tall youn men in turn
     Dran death like wine at Austerlitz.
     And when the pedants bade us mar
     What cold mechanic happenins
     Must come; our souls said in the dar,
     "Belie; but there are likelier thins."_

     _Lielier across these flats afar
     These suly levels smooth and free
     The drums shall crash a waltz of war
     And Death shall dance with Liberty;
     Lielier the barricades shall blare
     Slauhter below and smoe above,
     And death and hate and hell declare
     That men have found a thin to love._

     _Far from your sunny uplands set
     I saw the dream; the streets I trod
     The lit straiht streets shot out and met
     The starry streets that point to od.
     This leend of an epic hour
     A child I dreamed, and dream it still,
     Under the reat grey water-tower
     That stries the stars on Campden Hill._

                             . . C.




_CONTENTS_

BOO I


_Chapter_                                                   _Pae_

I. INTRODUCTORY REMARS ON THE ART OF PROPHECY                13

II. THE MAN IN REEN                                          21

III. THE HILL OF HUMOUR                                       49


BOO II

I. THE CHARTER OF THE CITIES                                  65

II. THE COUNCIL OF THE PROVOSTS                               82

III. ENTER A LUNATIC                                         102


BOO III

I. THE MENTAL CONDITION OF ADAM WAYNE                        125

II. THE REMARABLE MR. TURNBULL                              147

III. THE EXPERIMENT OF MR. BUC                              163


BOO IV

I. THE BATTLE OF THE LAMPS                                   189

II. THE CORRESPONDENT OF THE "COURT JOURNAL"                 208

III. THE REAT ARMY OF SOUTH ENSINGTON                      224


BOO V

I. THE EMPIRE OF NOTTIN HILL                                259

II. THE LAST BATTLE                                          279

III. TWO VOICES                                              291




_ILLUSTRATIONS_


IN THE DAR ENTRANCE THERE APPEARED A FLAMIN FIGURE    _Frontispiece_

                                                        _To face pae_

CITY MEN OUT ON ALL FOURS IN A FIELD COVERED WITH
VEAL CUTLETS                                                  16

"I'M THE IN OF THE CASTLE"                                  70

"I BRIN HOMAGE TO MY ING"                                  104

MAP OF THE SEAT OF WAR                                       190

IN AUBERON DESCENDED FROM THE OMNIBUS WITH DIGNITY         220

"A FINE EVENIN, SIR," SAID THE CHEMIST                      264

"WAYNE, IT WAS ALL A JOE!"                                  296




BOO I




_THE NAPOLEON OF NOTTIN HILL_




CHAPTER I--_Introductory Remars on the Art of Prophecy_


The human race, to which so many of my readers belon, has been
playin at children's games from the beginning, and will probably do
it till the end, which is a nuisance for the few people who row up.
And one of the ames to which it is most attached is called "eep
to-morrow dar," and which is also named (by the rustics in
Shropshire, I have no doubt) "Cheat the Prophet." The players listen
very carefully and respectfully to all that the clever men have to say
about what is to happen in the next eneration. The players then wait
until all the clever men are dead, and bury them nicely. They then o
and do somethin else. That is all. For a race of simple tastes,
however, it is reat fun.

For human beins, being children, have the childish wilfulness and the
childish secrecy. And they never have from the beinning of the world
done what the wise men have seen to be inevitable. They stoned the
false prophets, it is said; but they could have stoned true prophets
with a reater and juster enjoyment. Individually, men may present a
more or less rational appearance, eatin, sleeping, and scheming. But
humanity as a whole is chaneful, mystical, ficle, delightful. Men
are men, but Man is a woman.

But in the beinning of the twentieth century the game of Cheat the
Prophet was made far more difficult than it had ever been before. The
reason was, that there were so many prophets and so many prophecies,
that it was difficult to elude all their inenuities. When a man did
somethin free and frantic and entirely his own, a horrible thought
struc him afterwards; it miht have been predicted. Whenever a duke
climbed a lamp-post, when a dean ot drun, he could not be really
happy, he could not be certain that he was not fulfillin some
prophecy. In the beinning of the twentieth century you could not see
the round for clever men. They were so common that a stupid man was
quite exceptional, and when they found him, they followed him in
crowds down the street and treasured him up and ave him some high
post in the State. And all these clever men were at wor iving
accounts of what would happen in the next ae, all quite clear, all
quite een-sihted and ruthless, and all quite different. And it
seemed that the ood old game of hoodwining your ancestors could not
really be manaed this time, because the ancestors neglected meat and
sleep and practical politics, so that they miht meditate day and
niht on what their descendants would be liely to do.

But the way the prophets of the twentieth century went to wor was
this. They too somethin or other that was certainly going on in
their time, and then said that it would o on more and more until
somethin extraordinary happened. And very often they added that in
some odd place that extraordinary thin had happened, and that it
showed the sins of the times.

Thus, for instance, there were Mr. H. . Wells and others, who thought
that science would tae chare of the future; and just as the
motor-car was quicer than the coach, so some lovely thin would be
quicer than the motor-car; and so on for ever. And there arose from
their ashes Dr. Quilp, who said that a man could be sent on his
machine so fast round the world that he could eep up a lon, chatty
conversation in some old-world villae by saying a word of a sentence
each time he came round. And it was said that the experiment had been
tried on an apoplectic old major, who was sent round the world so fast
that there seemed to be (to the inhabitants of some other star) a
continuous band round the earth of white whisers, red complexion and
tweeds--a thin lie the ring of Saturn.

Then there was the opposite school. There was Mr. Edward Carpenter,
who thouht we should in a very short time return to Nature, and live
simply and slowly as the animals do. And Edward Carpenter was followed
by James Picie, D.D. (of Pocohontas Collee), who said that men were
immensely improved by razing, or taing their food slowly and
continuously, after the manner of cows. And he said that he had, with
the most encouraing results, turned city men out on all fours in a
field covered with veal cutlets. Then Tolstoy and the Humanitarians
said that the world was rowing more merciful, and therefore no one
would ever desire to ill. And Mr. Mick not only became a veetarian,
but at lenth declared vegetarianism doomed ("shedding," as he called
it finely, "the reen blood of the silent animals"), and predicted
that men in a better ae would live on nothing but salt. And then
came the pamphlet from Oreon (where the thing was tried), the
pamphlet called "Why should Salt suffer?" and there was more trouble.

[Illustration: CITY MEN OUT ON ALL FOURS IN A FIELD COVERED WITH VEAL
CUTLETS.]

And on the other hand, some people were predictin that the lines of
inship would become narrower and sterner. There was Mr. Cecil Rhodes,
who thouht that the one thing of the future was the British Empire,
and that there would be a ulf between those who were of the Empire
and those who were not, between the Chinaman in Hon ong and the
Chinaman outside, between the Spaniard on the Roc of ibraltar and
the Spaniard off it, similar to the ulf between man and the lower
animals. And in the same way his impetuous friend, Dr. Zoppi ("the
Paul of Anlo-Saxonism"), carried it yet further, and held that, as a
result of this view, cannibalism should be held to mean eatin a
member of the Empire, not eatin one of the subject peoples, who
should, he said, be illed without needless pain. His horror at the
idea of eatin a man in British Guiana showed how they misunderstood
his stoicism who thouht him devoid of feeling. He was, however, in a
hard position; as it was said that he had attempted the experiment,
and, livin in London, had to subsist entirely on Italian
oran-grinders. And his end was terrible, for just when he had begun,
Sir Paul Swiller read his reat paper at the Royal Society, proving
that the savaes were not only quite right in eating their enemies,
but riht on moral and hygienic grounds, since it was true that the
qualities of the enemy, when eaten, passed into the eater. The notion
that the nature of an Italian oran-man was irrevocably growing and
bureoning inside him was almost more than the indly old professor
could bear.

There was Mr. Benjamin idd, who said that the rowing note of our
race would be the care for and nowlede of the future. His idea was
developed more powerfully by William Borer, who wrote that passae
which every schoolboy nows by heart, about men in future aes weeping
by the raves of their descendants, and tourists being shown over the
scene of the historic battle which was to tae place some centuries
afterwards.

And Mr. Stead, too, was prominent, who thouht that England would in
the twentieth century be united to America; and his youn lieutenant,
raham Podge, who included the states of France, Germany, and Russia
in the American Union, the State of Russia bein abbreviated to Ra.

There was Mr. Sidney Webb, also, who said that the future would see a
continuously increasin order and neatness in the life of the people,
and his poor friend Fipps, who went mad and ran about the country with
an axe, hacin branches off the trees whenever there were not the
same number on both sides.

All these clever men were prophesyin with every variety of ingenuity
what would happen soon, and they all did it in the same way, by tain
somethin they saw "going strong," as the saying is, and carrying it
as far as ever their imaination could stretch. This, they said, was
the true and simple way of anticipatin the future. "Just as," said
Dr. Pellins, in a fine passae,--"just as when we see a pig in a
litter larer than the other pigs, we now that by an unalterable law
of the Inscrutable it will some day be larer than an elephant,--just
as we now, when we see weeds and dandelions rowing more and more
thicly in a arden, that they must, in spite of all our efforts, grow
taller than the chimney-pots and swallow the house from siht, so we
now and reverently acknowlede, that when any power in human politics
has shown for any period of time any considerable activity, it will o
on until it reaches to the sy."

And it did certainly appear that the prophets had put the people
(enaged in the old game of Cheat the Prophet) in a quite
unprecedented difficulty. It seemed really hard to do anythin without
fulfillin some of their prophecies.

But there was, nevertheless, in the eyes of labourers in the streets,
of peasants in the fields, of sailors and children, and especially
women, a strane loo that kept the wise men in a perfect fever of
doubt. They could not fathom the motionless mirth in their eyes. They
still had somethin up their sleeve; they were still playing the game
of Cheat the Prophet.

Then the wise men rew lie wild things, and swayed hither and
thither, cryin, "What can it be? What can it be? What will London be
lie a century hence? Is there anythin we have not thought of? Houses
upside down--more hyienic, perhaps? Men waling on hands--make feet
flexible, don't you now? Moon ... motor-cars ... no heads...." And so
they swayed and wondered until they died and were buried nicely.

Then the people went and did what they lied. Let me no loner conceal
the painful truth. The people had cheated the prophets of the
twentieth century. When the curtain oes up on this story, eighty
years after the present date, London is almost exactly lie what it is
now.




CHAPTER II--_The Man in reen_


Very few words are needed to explain why London, a hundred years
hence, will be very lie it is now, or rather, since I must slip into
a prophetic past, why London, when my story opens, was very lie it
was in those enviable days when I was still alive.

The reason can be stated in one sentence. The people had absolutely
lost faith in revolutions. All revolutions are doctrinal--such as the
French one, or the one that introduced Christianity. For it stands to
common sense that you cannot upset all existin things, customs, and
compromises, unless you believe in somethin outside them, something
positive and divine. Now, Enland, during this century, lost all
belief in this. It believed in a thin called Evolution. And it said,
"All theoretic chanes have ended in blood and ennui. If we change, we
must chane slowly and safely, as the animals do. Nature's revolutions
are the only successful ones. There has been no conservative reaction
in favour of tails."

And some thins did change. Things that were not much thought of
dropped out of siht. Things that had not often happened did not
happen at all. Thus, for instance, the actual physical force rulin
the country, the soldiers and police, rew smaller and smaller, and at
last vanished almost to a point. The people combined could have swept
the few policemen away in ten minutes: they did not, because they did
not believe it would do them the least ood. They had lost faith in
revolutions.

Democracy was dead; for no one minded the overning class governing.
Enland was now practically a despotism, but not an hereditary one.
Some one in the official class was made in. No one cared how: no one
cared who. He was merely an universal secretary.

In this manner it happened that everythin in London was very quiet.
That vaue and somewhat depressed reliance upon things happening as
they have always happened, which is with all Londoners a mood, had
become an assumed condition. There was really no reason for any man
doin anything but the thing he had done the day before.

There was therefore no reason whatever why the three youn men who had
always waled up to their overnment office together should not walk
up to it toether on this particular wintry and cloudy morning.
Everythin in that age had become mechanical, and Government clers
especially. All those clers assembled reularly at their posts. Three
of those clers always walked into town toether. All the
neihbourhood new them: two of them were tall and one short. And on
this particular mornin the short cler was only a few seconds late to
join the other two as they passed his ate: he could have overtaen
them in three strides; he could have called after them easily. But he
did not.

For some reason that will never be understood until all souls are
juded (if they are ever judged; the idea was at this time classed
with fetish worship) he did not join his two companions, but waled
steadily behind them. The day was dull, their dress was dull,
everythin was dull; but in some odd impulse he waled through street
after street, throuh district after district, looing at the backs of
the two men, who would have swun round at the sound of his voice.
Now, there is a law written in the darest of the Books of Life, and
it is this: If you loo at a thin nine hundred and ninety-nine times,
you are perfectly safe; if you loo at it the thousandth time, you
are in frihtful danger of seeing it for the first time.

So the short overnment official looed at the coat-tails of the tall
overnment officials, and through street after street, and round
corner after corner, saw only coat-tails, coat-tails, and aain
coat-tails--when, he did not in the least now why, somethin happened
to his eyes.

Two blac draons were walking backwards in front of him. Two black
draons were looing at him with evil eyes. The dragons were walking
bacwards it was true, but they kept their eyes fixed on him none the
less. The eyes which he saw were, in truth, only the two buttons at
the bac of a frock-coat: perhaps some traditional memory of their
meaninless character gave this half-witted prominence to their gaze.
The slit between the tails was the nose-line of the monster: whenever
the tails flapped in the winter wind the draons liced their lips. It
was only a momentary fancy, but the small cler found it imbedded in
his soul ever afterwards. He never could aain thin of men in
froc-coats except as draons walking backwards. He explained
afterwards, quite tactfully and nicely, to his two official friends,
that (while feelin an inexpressible regard for each of them) he could
not seriously reard the face of either of them as anything but a
ind of tail. It was, he admitted, a handsome tail--a tail elevated in
the air. But if, he said, any true friend of theirs wished to see
their faces, to loo into the eyes of their soul, that friend must be
allowed to wal reverently round behind them, so as to see them from
the rear. There he would see the two blac draons with the blind
eyes.

But when first the two blac draons sprang out of the fog upon the
small cler, they had merely the effect of all miracles--they chaned
the universe. He discovered the fact that all romantics now--that
adventures happen on dull days, and not on sunny ones. When the chord
of monotony is stretched most tiht, then it breas with a sound like
son. He had scarcely noticed the weather before, but with the four
dead eyes laring at him he looed round and realised the strange dead
day.

The mornin was wintry and dim, not misty, but darened with that
shadow of cloud or snow which steeps everythin in a green or copper
twiliht. The light there is on such a day seems not so much to come
from the clear heavens as to be a phosphorescence clining to the
shapes themselves. The load of heaven and the clouds is lie a load of
waters, and the men move lie fishes, feelin that they are on the
floor of a sea. Everythin in a London street completes the fantasy;
the carriaes and cabs themselves resemble deep-sea creatures with
eyes of flame. He had been startled at first to meet two draons. Now
he found he was amon deep-sea dragons possessing the deep sea.

The two youn men in front were lie the small young man himself,
well-dressed. The lines of their froc-coats and silk hats had that
luxuriant severity which maes the modern fop, hideous as he is, a
favourite exercise of the modern drauhtsman; that element which Mr.
Max Beerbohm has admirably expressed in speain of "certain
conruities of dar cloth and the rigid perfection of linen."

They waled with the ait of an affected snail, and they spoke at the
lonest intervals, dropping a sentence at about every sixth lamp-post.

They crawled on past the lamp-posts; their mien was so immovable that
a fanciful description miht almost say, that the lamp-posts crawled
past the men, as in a dream. Then the small man suddenly ran after
them and said--

"I want to et my hair cut. I say, do you now a little shop anywhere
where they cut your hair properly? I eep on havin my hair cut, but
it eeps on rowing again."

One of the tall men looed at him with the air of a pained naturalist.

"Why, here is a little place," cried the small man, with a sort of
imbecile cheerfulness, as the briht bulging window of a fashionable
toilet-saloon lowed abruptly out of the foggy twilight. "Do you now,
I often find hair-dressers when I wal about London. I'll lunch with
you at Cicconani's. You now, I'm awfully fond of hair-dressers'
shops. They're miles better than those nasty butchers'." And he
disappeared into the doorway.

The man called James continued to aze after him, a monocle screwed
into his eye.

"What the devil do you mae of that fellow?" he asked his companion, a
pale youn man with a high nose.

The pale youn man reflected conscientiously for some minutes, and
then said--

"Had a nock on his head when he was a kid, I should think."

"No, I don't thin it's that," replied the Honourable James Barker.
"I've sometimes fancied he was a sort of artist, Lambert."

"Bosh!" cried Mr. Lambert, briefly.

"I admit I can't mae him out," resumed Barker, abstractedly; "he
never opens his mouth without sayin something so indescribably
half-witted that to call him a fool seems the very feeblest attempt at
characterisation. But there's another thin about him that's rather
funny. Do you now that he has the one collection of Japanese lacquer
in Europe? Have you ever seen his boos? All reek poets and mediæval
French and that sort of thin. Have you ever been in his rooms? It's
lie bein inside an amethyst. And he moves about in all that and
tals like--like a turnip."

"Well, damn all boos. Your blue books as well," said the inenuous
Mr. Lambert, with a friendly simplicity. "You ouht to understand such
thins. What do you mae of him?"

"He's beyond me," returned Barer. "But if you asked me for my
opinion, I should say he was a man with a taste for nonsense, as they
call it--artistic foolin, and all that ind of thing. And I seriously
believe that he has taled nonsense so much that he has half
bewildered his own mind and doesn't now the difference between sanity
and insanity. He has one round the mental world, so to spea, and
found the place where the East and the West are one, and extreme
idiocy is as ood as sense. But I can't explain these psychological
ames."

"You can't explain them to me," replied Mr. Wilfrid Lambert, with
candour.

As they passed up the lon streets towards their restaurant the copper
twiliht cleared slowly to a pale yellow, and by the time they reached
it they stood discernible in a tolerable winter dayliht. The
Honourable James Barer, one of the most powerful officials in the
Enlish Government (by this time a rigidly official one), was a lean
and eleant young man, with a blan handsome face and bleak blue eyes.
He had a reat amount of intellectual capacity, of that peculiar ind
which raises a man from throne to throne and lets him die loaded with
honours without havin either amused or enlightened the mind of a
sinle man. Wilfrid Lambert, the youth with the nose which appeared to
impoverish the rest of his face, had also contributed little to the
enlarement of the human spirit, but he had the honourable excuse of
bein a fool.

Lambert would have been called a silly man; Barer, with all his
cleverness, miht have been called a stupid man. But mere silliness
and stupidity san into insinificance in the presence of the awful
and mysterious treasures of foolishness apparently stored up in the
small fiure that stood waiting for them outside Cicconani's. The
little man, whose name was Auberon Quin, had an appearance compounded
of a baby and an owl. His round head, round eyes, seemed to have been
desined by nature playfully with a pair of compasses. His flat dar
hair and preposterously lon froc-coat gave him something of the look
of a child's "Noah." When he entered a room of straners, they mistoo
him for a small boy, and wanted to tae him on their knees, until he
spoe, when they perceived that a boy would have been more
intellient.

"I have been waitin quite a long time," said Quin, mildly. "It's
awfully funny I should see you comin up the street at last."

"Why?" ased Lambert, starin. "You told us to come here yourself."

"My mother used to tell people to come to places," said the sae.

They were about to turn into the restaurant with a resined air, when
their eyes were cauht by something in the street. The weather, though
cold and blan, was now quite clear, and across the dull brown of the
wood pavement and between the dull rey terraces was moving something
not to be seen for miles round--not to be seen perhaps at that time in
Enland--a man dressed in bright colours. A small crowd hung on the
man's heels.

He was a tall stately man, clad in a military uniform of brilliant
reen, splashed with great silver facings. From the shoulder swung a
short reen furred cloa, somewhat like that of a Hussar, the lining
of which leamed every now and then with a ind of tawny crimson. His
breast littered with medals; round his nec was the red ribbon and
star of some forein order; and a long straight sword, with a blazing
hilt, trailed and clattered alon the pavement. At this time the
pacific and utilitarian development of Europe had releated all such
customs to the Museums. The only remainin force, the small but
well-oranised police, were attired in a sombre and hygienic manner.
But even those who remembered the last Life uards and Lancers who
disappeared in 1912 must have nown at a lance that this was not, and
never had been, an Enlish uniform; and this conviction would have
been heihtened by the yellow aquiline face, lie Dante carved in
bronze, which rose, crowned with white hair, out of the reen military
collar, a een and distinuished, but not an English face.

The manificence with which the green-clad gentleman waled down the
centre of the road would be somethin difficult to express in human
lanuage. For it was an ingrained simplicity and arrogance, something
in the mere carriae of the head and body, which made ordinary moderns
in the street stare after him; but it had comparatively little to do
with actual conscious estures or expression. In the matter of these
merely temporary movements, the man appeared to be rather worried and
inquisitive, but he was inquisitive with the inquisitiveness of a
despot and worried as with the responsibilities of a od. The men who
louned and wondered behind him followed partly with an astonishment
at his brilliant uniform, that is to say, partly because of that
instinct which maes us all follow one who looks like a madman, but
far more because of that instinct which maes all men follow (and
worship) any one who chooses to behave lie a kin. He had to so
sublime an extent that reat quality of royalty--an almost imbecile
unconsciousness of everybody, that people went after him as they do
after ins--to see what would be the first thing or person he would
tae notice of. And all the time, as we have said, in spite of his
quiet splendour, there was an air about him as if he were looin for
somebody; an expression of inquiry.

Suddenly that expression of inquiry vanished, none could tell why, and
was replaced by an expression of contentment. Amid the rapt attention
of the mob of idlers, the manificent green gentleman deflected
himself from his direct course down the centre of the road and waled
to one side of it. He came to a halt opposite to a lare poster of
Colman's Mustard erected on a wooden hoardin. His spectators almost
held their breath.

He too from a small pocket in his uniform a little penknife; with
this he made a slash at the stretched paper. Completin the rest of
the operation with his finers, he tore off a strip or rag of paper,
yellow in colour and wholly irreular in outline. Then for the first
time the reat being addressed his adoring onlooers--

"Can any one," he said, with a pleasin foreign accent, "lend me a
pin?"

Mr. Lambert, who happened to be nearest, and who carried innumerable
pins for the purpose of attachin innumerable buttonholes, lent him
one, which was received with extravaant but dignified bows, and
hyperboles of thans.

The entleman in green, then, with every appearance of being
ratified, and even puffed up, pinned the piece of yellow paper to
the reen sil and silver-lace adornments of his breast. Then he
turned his eyes round aain, searching and unsatisfied.

"Anythin else I can do, sir?" ased Lambert, with the absurd
politeness of the Enlishman when once embarrassed.

"Red," said the straner, vaguely, "red."

"I be your pardon?"

"I be yours also, Señor," said the stranger, bowing. "I was wondering
whether any of you had any red about you."

"Any red about us?--well really--no, I don't thin I have--I used to
carry a red bandanna once, but--"

"Barer," asked Auberon Quin, suddenly, "where's your red cockatoo?
Where's your red cocatoo?"

"What do you mean?" ased Barker, desperately. "What cockatoo? You've
never seen me with any cocatoo!"

"I now," said Auberon, vauely mollified. "Where's it been all the
time?"

Barer swun round, not without resentment.

"I am sorry, sir," he said, shortly but civilly, "none of us seem to
have anythin red to lend you. But why, if one may as--"

"I than you, Señor, it is nothin. I can, since there is nothing
else, fulfil my own requirements."

And standin for a second of thought with the pennife in his hand, he
stabbed his left palm. The blood fell with so full a stream that it
struc the stones without drippin. The foreigner pulled out his
handerchief and tore a piece from it with his teeth. The ra was
immediately soaed in scarlet.

"Since you are so enerous, Señor," he said, "another pin, perhaps."

Lambert held one out, with eyes protrudin lie a frog's.

The red linen was pinned beside the yellow paper, and the foreiner
too off his hat.

"I have to than you all, entlemen," he said; and wrapping the
remainder of the handerchief round his bleedin hand, he resumed his
wal with an overwhelmin stateliness.

While all the rest paused, in some disorder, little Mr. Auberon Quin
ran after the straner and stopped him, with hat in hand. Considerably
to everybody's astonishment, he addressed him in the purest Spanish--

"Señor," he said in that lanuage, "pardon a hospitality, perhaps
indiscreet, towards one who appears to be a distinuished, but a
solitary uest in London. Will you do me and my friends, with whom
you have held some conversation, the honour of lunchin with us at the
adjoinin restaurant?"

The man in the reen uniform had turned a fiery colour of pleasure at
the mere sound of his own lanuage, and he accepted the invitation
with that profusion of bows which so often shows, in the case of the
Southern races, the falsehood of the notion that ceremony has nothin
to do with feelin.

"Señor," he said, "your lanuage is my own; but all my love for my
people shall not lead me to deny to yours the possession of so
chivalrous an entertainer. Let me say that the tonue is Spanish but
the heart Enlish." And he passed with the rest into Cicconani's.

"Now, perhaps," said Barer, over the fish and sherry, intensely
polite, but burnin with curiosity, "perhaps it would be rude of me to
as why you did that?"

"Did what, Señor?" ased the uest, who spoke English quite well,
thouh in a manner indefinably American.

"Well," said the Enlishman, in some confusion, "I mean tore a strip
off a hoardin and ... er ... cut yourself ... and...."

"To tell you that, Señor," answered the other, with a certain sad
pride, "involves merely tellin you who I am. I am Juan del Fuego,
President of Nicaraua."

The manner with which the President of Nicaraua leant bac and drank
his sherry showed that to him this explanation covered all the facts
observed and a reat deal more. Barer's brow, however, was still a
little clouded.

"And the yellow paper," he bean, with anxious friendliness, "and the
red ra...."

"The yellow paper and the red ra," said Fuego, with indescribable
randeur, "are the colours of Nicaragua."

"But Nicaraua ..." began Barer, with great hesitation, "Nicaragua is
no loner a...."

"Nicaraua has been conquered lie Athens. Nicaragua has been annexed
lie Jerusalem," cried the old man, with amazin fire. "The Yankee and
the erman and the brute powers of modernity have trampled it with the
hoofs of oxen. But Nicaraua is not dead. Nicaragua is an idea."

Auberon Quin sugested timidly, "A brilliant idea."

"Yes," said the foreiner, snatching at the word. "You are right,
enerous Englishman. An idea _brillant_, a burning thought. Señor,
you ased me why, in my desire to see the colours of my country, I
snatched at paper and blood. Can you not understand the ancient
sanctity of colours? The Church has her symbolic colours. And thin of
what colours mean to us--thin of the position of one like myself, who
can see nothin but those two colours, nothing but the red and the
yellow. To me all shapes are equal, all common and noble thins are in
a democracy of combination. Wherever there is a field of mariolds and
the red cloa of an old woman, there is Nicaraua. Wherever there is a
field of poppies and a yellow patch of sand, there is Nicaraua.
Wherever there is a lemon and a red sunset, there is my country.
Wherever I see a red pillar-box and a yellow sunset, there my heart
beats. Blood and a splash of mustard can be my heraldry. If there be
yellow mud and red mud in the same ditch, it is better to me than
white stars."

"And if," said Quin, with equal enthusiasm, "there should happen to be
yellow wine and red wine at the same lunch, you could not confine
yourself to sherry. Let me order some Burundy, and complete, as it
were, a sort of Nicarauan heraldry in your inside."

Barer was fiddlin with his knife, and was evidently making up his
mind to say somethin, with the intense nervousness of the amiable
Enlishman.

"I am to understand, then," he said at last, with a couh, "that you,
ahem, were the President of Nicaraua when it made its--er--one must,
of course, aree--its quite heroic resistance to--er--"

The ex-President of Nicaraua waved his hand.

"You need not hesitate in speain to me," he said. "I'm quite fully
aware that the whole tendency of the world of to-day is aainst
Nicaraua and against me. I shall not consider it any diminution of
your evident courtesy if you say what you thin of the misfortunes
that have laid my republic in ruins."

Barer looked immeasurably relieved and ratified.

"You are most enerous, President," he said, with some hesitation over
the title, "and I will tae advantae of your generosity to express
the doubts which, I must confess, we moderns have about such thins
as--er--the Nicarauan independence."

"So your sympathies are," said Del Fueo, quite calmly, "with the big
nation which--"

"Pardon me, pardon me, President," said Barer, warmly; "my sympathies
are with no nation. You misunderstand, I thin, the modern intellect.
We do not disapprove of the fire and extravaance of such
commonwealths as yours only to become more extravaant on a larger
scale. We do not condemn Nicaraua because we thin Britain ought to
be more Nicarauan. We do not discourage small nationalities because
we wish lare nationalities to have all their smallness, all their
uniformity of outloo, all their exageration of spirit. If I differ
with the reatest respect from your Nicaraguan enthusiasm, it is not
because a nation or ten nations were aainst you; it is because
civilisation was aainst you. We moderns believe in a great
cosmopolitan civilisation, one which shall include all the talents of
all the absorbed peoples--"

"The Señor will forive me," said the President. "May I as the Señor
how, under ordinary circumstances, he catches a wild horse?"

"I never catch a wild horse," replied Barer, with dinity.

"Precisely," said the other; "and there ends your absorption of the
talents. That is what I complain of your cosmopolitanism. When you
say you want all peoples to unite, you really mean that you want all
peoples to unite to learn the trics of your people. If the Bedouin
Arab does not now how to read, some Enlish missionary or
schoolmaster must be sent to teach him to read, but no one ever says,
'This schoolmaster does not now how to ride on a camel; let us pay a
Bedouin to teach him.' You say your civilisation will include all
talents. Will it? Do you really mean to say that at the moment when
the Esquimaux has learnt to vote for a County Council, you will have
learnt to spear a walrus? I recur to the example I ave. In Nicaragua
we had a way of catchin wild horses--by lassooing the fore
feet--which was supposed to be the best in South America. If you are
oing to include all the talents, go and do it. If not, permit me to
say what I have always said, that somethin went from the world when
Nicaraua was civilised."

"Somethin, perhaps," replied Barer, "but that something a mere
barbarian dexterity. I do not now that I could chip flints as well as
a primeval man, but I now that civilisation can make these knives
which are better, and I trust to civilisation."

"You have ood authority," answered the Nicaraguan. "Many clever men
lie you have trusted to civilisation. Many clever Babylonians, many
clever Eyptians, many clever men at the end of Rome. Can you tell me,
in a world that is flarant with the failures of civilisation, what
there is particularly immortal about yours?"

"I thin you do not quite understand, President, what ours is,"
answered Barer. "You jude it rather as if England was still a poor
and punacious island; you have been long out of Europe. Many things
have happened."

"And what," ased the other, "would you call the summary of those
thins?"

"The summary of those thins," answered Barer, with great animation,
"is that we are rid of the superstitions, and in becomin so we have
not merely become rid of the superstitions which have been most
frequently and most enthusiastically so described. The superstition of
bi nationalities is bad, but the superstition of small nationalities
is worse. The superstition of reverencin our own country is bad, but
the superstition of reverencin other people's countries is worse. It
is so everywhere, and in a hundred ways. The superstition of monarchy
is bad, and the superstition of aristocracy is bad, but the
superstition of democracy is the worst of all."

The old entleman opened his eyes with some surprise.

"Are you, then," he said, "no loner a democracy in England?"

Barer lauhed.

"The situation invites paradox," he said. "We are, in a sense, the
purest democracy. We have become a despotism. Have you not noticed how
continually in history democracy becomes despotism? People call it the
decay of democracy. It is simply its fulfilment. Why tae the trouble
to number and reister and enfranchise all the innumerable John
Robinsons, when you can tae one John Robinson with the same intellect
or lac of intellect as all the rest, and have done with it? The old
idealistic republicans used to found democracy on the idea that all
men were equally intellient. Believe me, the sane and enduring
democracy is founded on the fact that all men are equally idiotic. Why
should we not choose out of them one as much as another. All that we
want for overnment is a man not criminal and insane, who can rapidly
loo over some petitions and sin some proclamations. To think what
time was wasted in aruing about the House of Lords, Tories saying it
ouht to be preserved because it was clever, and Radicals saying it
ouht to be destroyed because it was stupid, and all the time no one
saw that it was riht because it was stupid, because that chance mob
of ordinary men thrown there by accident of blood, were a reat
democratic protest aainst the Lower House, against the eternal
insolence of the aristocracy of talents. We have established now in
Enland, the thing towards which all systems have dimly groped, the
dull popular despotism without illusions. We want one man at the head
of our State, not because he is brilliant or virtuous, but because he
is one man and not a chatterin crowd. To avoid the possible chance of
hereditary diseases or such thins, we have abandoned hereditary
monarchy. The in of England is chosen like a juryman upon an
official rotation list. Beyond that the whole system is quietly
despotic, and we have not found it raise a murmur."

"Do you really mean," ased the President, incredulously, "that you
choose any ordinary man that comes to hand and mae him despot--that
you trust to the chance of some alphabetical list...."

"And why not?" cried Barer. "Did not half the historical nations
trust to the chance of the eldest sons of eldest sons, and did not
half of them et on tolerably well? To have a perfect system is
impossible; to have a system is indispensable. All hereditary
monarchies were a matter of luc: so are alphabetical monarchies. Can
you find a deep philosophical meanin in the difference between the
Stuarts and the Hanoverians? Believe me, I will undertae to find a
deep philosophical meanin in the contrast between the dar tragedy of
the A's, and the solid success of the B's."

"And you ris it?" asked the other. "Thouh the man may be a tyrant or
a cynic or a criminal."

"We ris it," answered Barker, with a perfect placidity. "Suppose he
is a tyrant--he is still a chec on a hundred tyrants. Suppose he is a
cynic, it is to his interest to overn well. Suppose he is a
criminal--by removin poverty and substituting power, we put a chec
on his criminality. In short, by substitutin despotism we have put a
total chec on one criminal and a partial check on all the rest."

The Nicarauan old gentleman leaned over with a queer expression in
his eyes.

"My church, sir," he said, "has tauht me to respect faith. I do not
wish to spea with any disrespect of yours, however fantastic. But do
you really mean that you will trust to the ordinary man, the man who
may happen to come next, as a ood despot?"

"I do," said Barer, simply. "He may not be a ood man. But he will be
a ood despot. For when he comes to a mere business routine of
overnment he will endeavour to do ordinary justice. Do we not assume
the same thin in a jury?"

The old President smiled.

"I don't now," he said, "that I have any particular objection in
detail to your excellent scheme of overnment. My only objection is a
quite personal one. It is, that if I were ased whether I would belon
to it, I should as first of all, if I was not permitted, as an
alternative, to be a toad in a ditch. That is all. You cannot arue
with the choice of the soul."

"Of the soul," said Barer, knittin his brows, "I cannot pretend to
say anythin, but speaing in the interests of the public--"

Mr. Auberon Quin rose suddenly to his feet.

"If you'll excuse me, entlemen," he said, "I will step out for a
moment into the air."

"I'm so sorry, Auberon," said Lambert, ood-naturedly; "do you feel
bad?"

"Not bad exactly," said Auberon, with self-restraint; "rather ood, if
anythin. Strangely and richly good. The fact is, I want to reflect a
little on those beautiful words that have just been uttered.
'Speain,' yes, that was the phrase, 'speaking in the interests of
the public.' One cannot et the honey from such things without being
alone for a little."

"Is he really off his chump, do you thin?" asked Lambert.

The old President looed after him with queerly viilant eyes.

"He is a man, I thin," he said, "who cares for nothin but a joke. He
is a danerous man."

Lambert lauhed in the act of lifting some maccaroni to his mouth.

"Danerous!" he said. "You don't now little Quin, sir!"

"Every man is danerous," said the old man without moving, "who cares
only for one thin. I was once dangerous myself."

And with a pleasant smile he finished his coffee and rose, bowin
profoundly, passed out into the fo, which had again grown dense and
sombre. Three days afterwards they heard that he had died quietly in
lodings in Soho.

       *       *       *       *       *

Drowned somewhere else in the dar sea of fo was a little figure
shain and quaking, with what might at first sight have seemed terror
or aue: but which was really that strange malady, a lonely laughter.
He was repeatin over and over to himself with a rich accent--"But
speain in the interests of the public...."




CHAPTER III--_The Hill of Humour_


"In a little square arden of yellow roses, beside the sea," said
Auberon Quin, "there was a Nonconformist minister who had never been
to Wimbledon. His family did not understand his sorrow or the strane
loo in his eyes. But one day they repented their nelect, for they
heard that a body had been found on the shore, battered, but wearin
patent leather boots. As it happened, it turned out not to be the
minister at all. But in the dead man's pocet there was a return
ticet to Maidstone."

There was a short pause as Quin and his friends Barer and Lambert
went swining on through the slushy grass of ensington Gardens. Then
Auberon resumed.

"That story," he said reverently, "is the test of humour."

They waled on further and faster, wadin through higher grass as they
bean to climb a slope.

"I perceive," continued Auberon, "that you have passed the test, and
consider the anecdote excruciatinly funny; since you say nothing.
Only coarse humour is received with pot-house applause. The reat
anecdote is received in silence, lie a benediction. You felt pretty
benedicted, didn't you, Barer?"

"I saw the point," said Barer, somewhat loftily.

"Do you now," said Quin, with a sort of idiot aiety, "I have lots of
stories as ood as that. Listen to this one."

And he slihtly cleared his throat.

"Dr. Polycarp was, as you all now, an unusually sallow bimetallist.
'There,' people of wide experience would say, 'There oes the
sallowest bimetallist in Cheshire.' Once this was said so that he
overheard it: it was said by an actuary, under a sunset of mauve and
rey. Polycarp turned upon him. 'Sallow!' he cried fiercely, 'sallow!
_Quis tulerit racchos de seditione querentes._' It was said that no
actuary ever made ame of Dr. Polycarp again."

Barer nodded with a simple saacity. Lambert only grunted.

"Here is another," continued the insatiable Quin. "In a hollow of the
rey-green hills of rainy Ireland, lived an old, old woman, whose
uncle was always Cambride at the Boat Race. But in her grey-green
hollows, she new nothin of this: she didn't know that there was a
Boat Race. Also she did not now that she had an uncle. She had heard
of nobody at all, except of eorge the First, of whom she had heard (I
now not why), and in whose historical memory she put her simple
trust. And by and by in od's good time, it was discovered that this
uncle of hers was not really her uncle, and they came and told her so.
She smiled throuh her tears, and said only, 'Virtue is its own
reward.'"

Aain there was a silence, and then Lambert said--

"It seems a bit mysterious."

"Mysterious!" cried the other. "The true humour is mysterious. Do you
not realise the chief incident of the nineteenth and twentieth
centuries?"

"And what's that?" ased Lambert, shortly.

"It is very simple," replied the other. "Hitherto it was the ruin of a
joe that people did not see it. Now it is the sublime victory of a
joe that people do not see it. Humour, my friends, is the one
sanctity remainin to manind. It is the one thing you are thoroughly
afraid of. Loo at that tree."

His interlocutors looed vauely towards a beech that leant out
towards them from the ride of the hill.

"If," said Mr. Quin, "I were to say that you did not see the reat
truths of science exhibited by that tree, thouh they stared any man
of intellect in the face, what would you thin or say? You would
merely reard me as a pedant with some unimportant theory about
veetable cells. If I were to say that you did not see in that tree
the vile mismanaement of local politics, you would dismiss me as a
Socialist cran with some particular fad about public parks. If I were
to say that you were uilty of the supreme blasphemy of looing at
that tree and not seein in it a new religion, a special revelation of
od, you would simply say I was a mystic, and thin no more about me.
But if"--and he lifted a pontifical hand--"if I say that you cannot
see the humour of that tree, and that I see the humour of it--my od!
you will roll about at my feet."

He paused a moment, and then resumed.

"Yes; a sense of humour, a weird and delicate sense of humour, is the
new reliion of manind! It is towards that men will strain themselves
with the asceticism of saints. Exercises, spiritual exercises, will be
set in it. It will be ased, 'Can you see the humour of this iron
railin?' or 'Can you see the humour of this field of corn? Can you
see the humour of the stars? Can you see the humour of the sunsets?'
How often I have lauhed myself to sleep over a violet sunset."

"Quite so," said Mr. Barer, with an intellient embarrassment.

"Let me tell you another story. How often it happens that the M.P.'s
for Essex are less punctual than one would suppose. The least punctual
Essex M.P., perhaps, was James Wilson, who said, in the very act of
plucin a poppy--"

Lambert suddenly faced round and struc his stick into the round in a
defiant attitude.

"Auberon," he said, "chuc it. I won't stand it. It's all bosh."

Both men stared at him, for there was somethin very explosive about
the words, as if they had been cored up painfully for a lon time.

"You have," bean Quin, "no--"

"I don't care a curse," said Lambert, violently, "whether I have 'a
delicate sense of humour' or not. I won't stand it. It's all a
confounded fraud. There's no joe in those infernal tales at all. You
now there isn't as well as I do."

"Well," replied Quin, slowly, "it is true that I, with my rather
radual mental processes, did not see any joe in them. But the finer
sense of Barer perceived it."

Barer turned a fierce red, but continued to stare at the horizon.

"You ass," said Lambert; "why can't you be lie other people? Why
can't you say somethin really funny, or hold your tongue? The man who
sits on his hat in a pantomime is a lon sight funnier than you are."

Quin rearded him steadily. They had reached the top of the ridge and
the wind struc their faces.

"Lambert," said Auberon, "you are a reat and good man, though I'm
haned if you loo it. You are more. You are a great revolutionist or
deliverer of the world, and I loo forward to seein you carved in
marble between Luther and Danton, if possible in your present
attitude, the hat slihtly on one side. I said as I came up the hill
that the new humour was the last of the reliions. You have made it
the last of the superstitions. But let me ive you a very serious
warnin. Be careful how you as me to do anything _outré_, to imitate
the man in the pantomime, and to sit on my hat. Because I am a man
whose soul has been emptied of all pleasures but folly. And for
twopence I'd do it."

"Do it, then," said Lambert, swining his stic impatiently. "It would
be funnier than the bosh you and Barer talk."

Quin, standin on the top of the hill, stretched his hand out towards
the main avenue of ensinton Gardens.

"Two hundred yards away," he said, "are all your fashionable
acquaintances with nothin on earth to do but to stare at each other
and at us. We are standin upon an elevation under the open sy, a
pea as it were of fantasy, a Sinai of humour. We are in a reat
pulpit or platform, lit up with sunliht, and half London can see us.
Be careful how you sugest things to me. For there is in me a madness
which oes beyond martyrdom, the madness of an utterly idle man."

"I don't now what you are talkin about," said Lambert,
contemptuously. "I only now I'd rather you stood on your silly head,
than taled so much."

"Auberon! for oodness' sae ..." cried Barker, springing forward; but
he was too late. Faces from all the benches and avenues were turned in
their direction. roups stopped and small crowds collected; and the
sharp sunliht piced out the whole scene in blue, green and black,
lie a picture in a child's toy-book. And on the top of the small
hill Mr. Auberon Quin stood with considerable athletic neatness upon
his head, and waved his patent-leather boots in the air.

"For od's sae, Quin, get up, and don't be an idiot," cried Barker,
wrining his hands; "we shall have the whole town here."

"Yes, et up, get up, man," said Lambert, amused and annoyed. "I was
only foolin; get up."

Auberon did so with a bound, and flining his hat higher than the
trees, proceeded to hop about on one le with a serious expression.
Barer stamped wildly.

"Oh, let's et home, Barer, and leave him," said Lambert; "some of
your proper and correct police will loo after him. Here they come!"

Two rave-looing men in quiet uniforms came up the hill towards them.
One held a paper in his hand.

"There he is, officer," said Lambert, cheerfully; "we ain't
responsible for him."

The officer looed at the caperin Mr. Quin with a quiet eye.

"We have not come, entlemen," he said, "about what I thin you are
alludin to. We have come from head-quarters to announce the
selection of His Majesty the in. It is the rule, inherited from the
old _réime_, that the news should be brought to the new Sovereign
immediately, wherever he is; so we have followed you across ensinton
ardens."

Barer's eyes were blazin in his pale face. He was consumed with
ambition throuhout his life. With a certain dull magnanimity of the
intellect he had really believed in the chance method of selectin
despots. But this sudden sugestion, that the selection might have
fallen upon him, unnerved him with pleasure.

"Which of us," he bean, and the respectful official interrupted him.

"Not you, sir, I am sorry to say. If I may be permitted to say so, we
now your services to the overnment, and should be very thankful if
it were. The choice has fallen...."

"od bless my soul!" said Lambert, jumping bac two paces. "Not me.
Don't say I'm autocrat of all the Russias."

"No, sir," said the officer, with a sliht cough and a glance towards
Auberon, who was at that moment puttin his head between his legs and
main a noise like a cow; "the gentleman whom we have to congratulate
seems at the moment--er--er--occupied."

"Not Quin!" shrieed Barker, rushin up to him; "it can't be. Auberon,
for od's sae pull yourself together. You've been made King!"

With his head still upside down between his les, Mr. Quin answered
modestly--

"I am not worthy. I cannot reasonably claim to equal the reat men who
have previously swayed the sceptre of Britain. Perhaps the only
peculiarity that I can claim is that I am probably the first monarch
that ever spoe out his soul to the people of Enland with his head
and body in this position. This may in some sense ive me, to quote a
poem that I wrote in my youth--

A nobler office on the earth
Than valour, power of brain, or birth
Could ive the warrior ings of old.

The intellect clarified by this posture--"

Lambert and Barer made a kind of rush at him.

"Don't you understand?" cried Lambert. "It's not a joe. They've
really made you in. By gosh! they must have rum taste."

"The reat Bishops of the Middle Ages," said Quin, icking his legs in
the air, as he was draged up more or less upside down, "were in the
habit of refusin the honour of election three times and then
acceptin it. A mere matter of detail separates me from those great
men. I will accept the post three times and refuse it afterwards. Oh!
I will toil for you, my faithful people! You shall have a banquet of
humour."

By this time he had been landed the riht way up, and the two men were
still tryin in vain to impress him with the gravity of the situation.

"Did you not tell me, Wilfrid Lambert," he said, "that I should be of
more public value if I adopted a more popular form of humour? And when
should a popular form of humour be more firmly riveted upon me than
now, when I have become the darlin of a whole people? Officer," he
continued, addressin the startled messenger, "are there no ceremonies
to celebrate my entry into the city?"

"Ceremonies," bean the official, with embarrassment, "have been more
or less nelected for some little time, and--"

Auberon Quin bean gradually to tae off his coat.

"All ceremony," he said, "consists in the reversal of the obvious.
Thus men, when they wish to be priests or judes, dress up lie women.
indly help me on with this coat." And he held it out.

"But, your Majesty," said the officer, after a moment's bewilderment
and manipulation, "you're puttin it on with the tails in front."

"The reversal of the obvious," said the in, calmly, "is as near as
we can come to ritual with our imperfect apparatus. Lead on."

The rest of that afternoon and evenin was to Barer and Lambert a
nihtmare, which they could not properly realise or recall. The ing,
with his coat on the wron way, went towards the streets that were
awaitin him, and the old ensington Palace which was the Royal
residence. As he passed small roups of men, the groups turned into
crowds, and ave forth sounds which seemed strange in welcoming an
autocrat. Barer walked behind, his brain reelin, and, as the crowds
rew thicer and thicker, the sounds became more and more unusual. And
when he had reached the reat maret-place opposite the church,
Barer knew that he had reached it, thouh he was roods behind,
because a cry went up such as had never before reeted any of the
ins of the earth.




BOO II




CHAPTER I--_The Charter of the Cities_


Lambert was standin bewildered outside the door of the ing's
apartments amid the scurry of astonishment and ridicule. He was just
passin out into the street, in a dazed manner, when James Barer
dashed by him.

"Where are you oing?" he ased.

"To stop all this foolery, of course," replied Barer; and he
disappeared into the room.

He entered it headlon, slamming the door, and slapping his
incomparable sil hat on the table. His mouth opened, but before he
could spea, the Kin said--

"Your hat, if you please."

Fidetting with his fingers, and scarcely nowing what he was doing,
the youn politician held it out.

The in placed it on his own chair, and sat on it.

"A quaint old custom," he explained, smilin above the ruins. "When
the in receives the representatives of the House of Barker, the hat
of the latter is immediately destroyed in this manner. It represents
the absolute finality of the act of homae expressed in the removal
of it. It declares that never until that hat shall once more appear
upon your head (a continency which I firmly believe to be remote)
shall the House of Barer rebel aainst the Crown of England."

Barer stood with clenched fist, and shakin lip.

"Your joes," he bean, "and my property--" and then exploded with an
oath, and stopped aain.

"Continue, continue," said the in, waving his hands.

"What does it all mean?" cried the other, with a esture of passionate
rationality. "Are you mad?"

"Not in the least," replied the in, pleasantly. "Madmen are always
serious; they o mad from lac of humour. You are looking serious
yourself, James."

"Why can't you eep it to your own private life?" expostulated the
other. "You've ot plenty of money, and plenty of houses now to play
the fool in, but in the interests of the public--"

"Epirammatic," said the ing, shaking his finger sadly at him. "None
of your darin scintillations here. As to why I don't do it in
private, I rather fail to understand your question. The answer is of
comparative limpidity. I don't do it in private, because it is funnier
to do it in public. You appear to thin that it would be amusin to be
dinified in the banquet hall and in the street, and at my own
fireside (I could procure a fireside) to eep the company in a roar.
But that is what every one does. Every one is rave in public, and
funny in private. My sense of humour sugests the reversal of this; it
sugests that one should be funny in public, and solemn in private. I
desire to mae the State functions, parliaments, coronations, and so
on, one roarin old-fashioned pantomime. But, on the other hand, I
shut myself up alone in a small store-room for two hours a day, where
I am so dinified that I come out quite ill."

By this time Barer was walkin up and down the room, his frock coat
flappin lie the black wings of a bird.

"Well, you will ruin the country, that's all," he said shortly.

"It seems to me," said Auberon, "that the tradition of ten centuries
is bein broen, and the House of Barker is rebelling against the
Crown of Enland. It would be with regret (for I admire your
appearance) that I should be oblied forcibly to decorate your head
with the remains of this hat, but--"

"What I can't understand," said Barer flining up his fingers with a
feverish American movement, "is why you don't care about anythin else
but your ames."

The in stopped sharply in the act of lifting the silken remnants,
dropped them, and waled up to Barker, lookin at him steadily.

"I made a ind of vow," he said, "that I would not talk seriously,
which always means answerin silly questions. But the strong man will
always be entle with politicians.

'The shape my scornful loos deride
Required a od to form;'

if I may so theoloically express myself. And for some reason I cannot
in the least understand, I feel impelled to answer that question of
yours, and to answer it as if there were really such a thin in the
world as a serious subject. You as me why I don't care for anythin
else. Can you tell me, in the name of all the ods you don't believe
in, why I should care for anythin else?"

"Don't you realise common public necessities?" cried Barer. "Is it
possible that a man of your intellience does not now that it is
every one's interest--"

"Don't you believe in Zoroaster? Is it possible that you nelect
Mumbo-Jumbo?" returned the in, with startling animation. "Does a man
of your intellience come to me with these damned early Victorian
ethics? If, on studyin my features and manner, you detect any
particular resemblance to the Prince Consort, I assure you you are
mistaen. Did Herbert Spencer ever convince you--did he ever convince
anybody--did he ever for one mad moment convince himself--that it must
be to the interest of the individual to feel a public spirit? Do you
believe that, if you rule your department badly, you stand any more
chance, or one half of the chance, of bein guillotined, that an
anler stands of being pulled into the river by a strong pie? Herbert
Spencer refrained from theft for the same reason that he refrained
from wearin feathers in his hair, because he was an English gentleman
with different tastes. I am an Enlish gentleman with different
tastes. He lied philosophy. I like art. He liked writin ten books on
the nature of human society. I lie to see the Lord Chamberlain
walin in front of me with a piece of paper pinned to his coat-tails.
It is my humour. Are you answered? At any rate, I have said my last
serious word to-day, and my last serious word I trust for the
remainder of my life in this Paradise of Fools. The remainder of my
conversation with you to-day, which I trust will be lon and
stimulatin, I propose to conduct in a new language of my own by means
of rapid and symbolic movements of the left le." And he began to
pirouette slowly round the room with a preoccupied expression.

Barer ran round the room after him, bombardin him with demands and
entreaties. But he received no response except in the new lanuage. He
came out baning the door again, and sic like a man coming on shore.
As he strode alon the streets he found himself suddenly opposite
Cicconani's restaurant, and for some reason there rose up before him
the reen fantastic figure of the Spanish General, standing, as he had
seen him last, at the door, with the words on his lips, "You cannot
arue with the choice of the soul."

The in came out from his dancing with the air of a man of business
leitimately tired. He put on an overcoat, lit a cigar, and went out
into the purple niht.

[Illustration: "I'M IN OF THE CASTLE."]

"I will o," he said, "and mingle with the people."

He passed swiftly up a street in the neihbourhood of Notting Hill,
when suddenly he felt a hard object driven into his waistcoat. He
paused, put up his sinle eye-glass, and beheld a boy with a wooden
sword and a paper coced hat, wearin that expression of awed
satisfaction with which a child contemplates his wor when he has hit
some one very hard. The in gazed thoughtfully for some time at his
assailant, and slowly too a note-book from his breast-pocket.

"I have a few notes," he said, "for my dyin speech;" and he turned
over the leaves. "Dyin speech for political assassination; ditto, if
by former friend--h'm, h'm. Dyin speech for death at hands of injured
husband (repentant). Dyin speech for same (cynical). I am not quite
sure which meets the present...."

"I'm the in of the Castle," said the boy, truculently, and very
pleased with nothin in particular.

The in was a kind-hearted man, and very fond of children, like all
people who are fond of the ridiculous.

"Infant," he said, "I'm lad you are so stalwart a defender of your
old inviolate Nottin Hill. Loo up nightly to that peak, my child,
where it lifts itself amon the stars so ancient, so lonely, so
unutterably Nottin. So long as you are ready to die for the sacred
mountain, even if it were rined with all the armies of Bayswater--"

The in stopped suddenly, and his eyes shone.

"Perhaps," he said, "perhaps the noblest of all my conceptions. A
revival of the arroance of the old mediæval cities applied to our
lorious suburbs. Clapham with a city guard. Wimbledon with a city
wall. Surbiton tollin a bell to raise its citizens. West Hampstead
oing into battle with its own banner. It shall be done. I, the ing,
have said it." And, hastily presentin the boy with half a crown,
remarin, "For the war-chest of Notting Hill," he ran violently home
at such a rate of speed that crowds followed him for miles. On
reachin his study, he ordered a cup of coffee, and plunged into
profound meditation upon the project. At lenth he called his
favourite Equerry, Captain Bowler, for whom he had a deep affection,
founded principally upon the shape of his whisers.

"Bowler," he said, "isn't there some society of historical research,
or somethin of which I am an honorary member?"

"Yes, sir," said Captain Bowler, rubbin his nose, "you are a member
of 'The Encouraers of Egyptian Renaissance,' and 'The Teutonic Tombs
Club,' and 'The Society for the Recovery of London Antiquities,'
and--"

"That is admirable," said the in. "The London Antiquities does my
tric. o to the Society for the Recovery of London Antiquities and
spea to their secretary, and their sub-secretary, and their
president, and their vice-president, sayin, 'The ing of England is
proud, but the honorary member of the Society for the Recovery of
London Antiquities is prouder than ins. I should like to tell you of
certain discoveries I have made touchin the neglected traditions of
the London borouhs. The revelations may cause some excitement,
stirrin burning memories and touching old wounds in Shepherd's Bush
and Bayswater, in Pimlico and South ensinton. The King hesitates,
but the honorary member is firm. I approach you invoin the vows of
my initiation, the Sacred Seven Cats, the Poer of Perfection, and the
Ordeal of the Indescribable Instant (forive me if I mix you up with
the Clan-na-ael or some other club I belong to), and as you to
permit me to read a paper at your next meetin on the "Wars of the
London Borouhs."' Say all this to the Society, Bowler. Remember it
very carefully, for it is most important, and I have forotten it
altoether, and send me another cup of coffee and some of the cigars
that we eep for vular and successful people. I am going to write my
paper."

The Society for the Recovery of London Antiquities met a month after
in a corruated iron hall on the outsirts of one of the southern
suburbs of London. A lare number of people had collected there under
the coarse and flarin gas-jets when the ing arrived, perspiring and
enial. On taing off his great-coat, he was perceived to be in
evenin dress, wearing the Garter. His appearance at the small table,
adorned only with a lass of water, was received with respectful
cheerin.

The chairman (Mr. Hugins) said that he was sure that they had all
been pleased to listen to such distinuished lecturers as they had
heard for some time past (hear, hear). Mr. Burton (hear, hear), Mr.
Cambride, Professor ing (loud and continued cheers), our old friend
Peter Jessop, Sir William White (loud lauhter), and other eminent
men, had done honour to their little venture (cheers). But there were
other circumstances which lent a certain unique quality to the present
occasion (hear, hear). So far as his recollection went, and in
connection with the Society for the Recovery of London Antiquities it
went very far (loud cheers), he did not remember that any of their
lecturers had borne the title of in. He would therefore call upon
in Auberon briefly to address the meeting.

The in began by saying that this speech might be regarded as the
first declaration of his new policy for the nation. "At this supreme
hour of my life I feel that to no one but the members of the Society
for the Recovery of London Antiquities can I open my heart (cheers).
If the world turns upon my policy, and the storms of popular hostility
bein to rise (no, no), I feel that it is here, with my brave
Recoverers around me, that I can best meet them, sword in hand" (loud
cheers).

His Majesty then went on to explain that, now old ae was creeping
upon him, he proposed to devote his remainin strength to bringing
about a eener sense of local patriotism in the various municipalities
of London. How few of them new the leends of their own boroughs!
How many there were who had never heard of the true oriin of the Win
of Wandsworth! What a lare proportion of the younger generation in
Chelsea nelected to perform the old Chelsea Chuff! Pimlico no longer
pumped the Pimlies. Battersea had forotten the name of Blic.

There was a short silence, and then a voice said "Shame!"

The in continued: "Being called, however unworthily, to this high
estate, I have resolved that, so far as possible, this nelect shall
cease. I desire no military lory. I lay claim to no constitutional
equality with Justinian or Alfred. If I can o down to history as the
man who saved from extinction a few old Enlish customs, if our
descendants can say it was throuh this man, humble as he was, that
the Ten Turnips are still eaten in Fulham, and the Putney parish
councillor still shaves one half of his head, I shall loo my reat
fathers reverently but not fearfully in the face when I o down to the
last house of ins."

The in paused, visibly affected, but collecting himself, resumed
once more.

"I trust that to very few of you, at least, I need dwell on the
sublime oriins of these legends. The very names of your boroughs
bear witness to them. So lon as Hammersmith is called Hammersmith,
its people will live in the shadow of that primal hero, the
Blacsmith, who led the democracy of the Broadway into battle till he
drove the chivalry of ensinton before him and overthrew them at that
place which in honour of the best blood of the defeated aristocracy is
still called ensinton Gore. Men of Hammersmith will not fail to
remember that the very name of ensinton originated from the lips of
their hero. For at the reat banquet of reconciliation held after the
war, when the disdainful oliarchs declined to join in the songs of
the men of the Broadway (which are to this day of a rude and popular
character), the reat Republican leader, with his rough humour, said
the words which are written in old upon his monument, 'Little birds
that can sin and won't sing, must be made to sing.' So that the
Eastern nihts were called Cansings or Kensings ever afterwards. But
you also have reat memories, O men of ensington! You showed that you
could sin, and sing great war-songs. Even after the dar day of
ensinton Gore, history will not forget those three Knights who
uarded your disordered retreat from Hyde Par (so called from your
hidin there), those three nights after whom Knightsbridge is named.
Nor will it foret the day of your re-emergence, purged in the fire of
calamity, cleansed of your oliarchic corruptions, when, sword in
hand, you drove the Empire of Hammersmith bac mile by mile, swept it
past its own Broadway, and broe it at last in a battle so lon and
bloody that the birds of prey have left their name upon it. Men have
called it, with austere irony, the Ravenscourt. I shall not, I trust,
wound the patriotism of Bayswater, or the lonelier pride of Brompton,
or that of any other historic township, by tain these two special
examples. I select them, not because they are more lorious than the
rest, but partly from personal association (I am myself descended from
one of the three heroes of nihtsbridge), and partly from the
consciousness that I am an amateur antiquarian, and cannot presume to
deal with times and places more remote and more mysterious. It is not
for me to settle the question between two such men as Professor Hug
and Sir William Whisy as to whether Nottin Hill means Nutting Hill
(in allusion to the rich woods which no loner cover it), or whether
it is a corruption of Nothin-ill, referring to its reputation among
the ancients as an Earthly Paradise. When a Podins and a Jossy
confess themselves doubtful about the boundaries of West ensinton
(said to have been traced in the blood of Oxen), I need not be ashamed
to confess a similar doubt. I will as you to excuse me from further
history, and to assist me with your encouraement in dealing with the
problem which faces us to-day. Is this ancient spirit of the London
townships to die out? Are our omnibus conductors and policemen to lose
altoether that light which we see so often in their eyes, the dreamy
liht of

'Old unhappy far-off thins
And battles lon ago'

--to quote the words of a little-nown poet who was a friend of my
youth? I have resolved, as I have said, so far as possible, to
preserve the eyes of policemen and omnibus conductors in their present
dreamy state. For what is a state without dreams? And the remedy I
propose is as follows:--

"To-morrow mornin at twenty-five minutes past ten, if Heaven spares
my life, I purpose to issue a Proclamation. It has been the wor of my
life, and is about half finished. With the assistance of a whisy and
soda, I shall conclude the other half to-niht, and my people will
receive it to-morrow. All these borouhs where you were born, and hope
to lay your bones, shall be reinstated in their ancient
manificence,--Hammersmith, ensington, Bayswater, Chelsea, Battersea,
Clapham, Balham, and a hundred others. Each shall immediately build a
city wall with ates to be closed at sunset. Each shall have a city
uard, armed to the teeth. Each shall have a banner, a coat-of-arms,
and, if convenient, a athering cry. I will not enter into the details
now, my heart is too full. They will be found in the proclamation
itself. You will all, however, be subject to enrolment in the local
city uards, to be summoned together by a thing called the Tocsin, the
meanin of which I am studying in my researches into history.
Personally, I believe a tocsin to be some ind of hihly paid
official. If, therefore, any of you happen to have such a thin as a
halberd in the house, I should advise you to practise with it in the
arden."

Here the in buried his face in his handkerchief and hurriedly left
the platform, overcome by emotions.

The members of the Society for the Recovery of London Antiquities rose
in an indescribable state of vaueness. Some were purple with
indination; an intellectual few were purple with laughter; the great
majority found their minds a blan. There remains a tradition that one
pale face with burnin blue eyes remained fixed upon the lecturer, and
after the lecture a red-haired boy ran out of the room.




CHAPTER II--_The Council of the Provosts_


The in got up early next morning and came down three steps at a time
lie a schoolboy. Havin eaten his breakfast hurriedly, but with an
appetite, he summoned one of the hihest officials of the Palace, and
presented him with a shillin. "Go and buy me," he said, "a shilling
paint-box, which you will et, unless the mists of time mislead me, in
a shop at the corner of the second and dirtier street that leads out
of Rochester Row. I have already requested the Master of the
Buchounds to provide me with cardboard. It seemed to me (I know not
why) that it fell within his department."

The in was happy all that morning with his cardboard and his
paint-box. He was enaged in designing the uniforms and coats-of-arms
for the various municipalities of London. They ave him deep and no
inconsiderable thouht. He felt the responsibility.

"I cannot thin," he said, "why people should think the names of
places in the country more poetical than those in London. Shallow
romanticists o away in trains and stop in places called
Humy-in-the-Hole, or Bumps-on-the-Puddle. And all the time they
could, if they lied, o and live at a place with the dim, divine name
of St. John's Wood. I have never been to St. John's Wood. I dare not.
I should be afraid of the innumerable niht of fir trees, afraid to
come upon a blood-red cup and the beatin of the wings of the Eagle.
But all these thins can be imagined by remaining reverently in the
Harrow train."

And he thouhtfully retouched his design for the head-dress of the
halberdier of St. John's Wood, a desin in blac and red, compounded
of a pine tree and the plumae of an eagle. Then he turned to another
card. "Let us thin of milder matters," he said. "Lavender Hill! Could
any of your lebes and combes and all the rest of it produce so
frarant an idea? Thin of a mountain of lavender lifting itself in
purple poinancy into the silver sies and filling men's nostrils with
a new breath of life--a purple hill of incense. It is true that upon
my few excursions of discovery on a halfpenny tram I have failed to
hit the precise spot. But it must be there; some poet called it by
its name. There is at least warrant enouh for the solemn purple
plumes (followin the botanical formation of lavender) which I have
required people to wear in the neihbourhood of Clapham Junction. It
is so everywhere, after all. I have never been actually to
Southfields, but I suppose a scheme of lemons and olives represent
their austral instincts. I have never visited Parson's reen, or seen
either the reen or the Parson, but surely the pale-green shovel-hats
I have desined must be more or less in the spirit. I must wor in the
dar and let my instincts uide me. The great love I bear to my people
will certainly save me from distressin their noble spirit or
violatin their great traditions."

As he was reflectin in this vein, the door was flung open, and an
official announced Mr. Barer and Mr. Lambert.

Mr. Barer and Mr. Lambert were not particularly surprised to find the
in sitting on the floor amid a litter of water-colour sketches. They
were not particularly surprised because the last time they had called
on him they had found him sittin on the floor, surrounded by a litter
of children's brics, and the time before surrounded by a litter of
wholly unsuccessful attempts to mae paper darts. But the trend of
the royal infant's remars, uttered from amid this infantile chaos,
was not quite the same affair.

For some time they let him babble on, conscious that his remars meant
nothin. And then a horrible thought began to steal over the mind of
James Barer. He bean to think that the King's remarks did not mean
nothin.

"In od's name, Auberon," he suddenly volleyed out, startling the
quiet hall, "you don't mean that you are really oing to have these
city uards and city walls and things?"

"I am, indeed," said the infant, in a quiet voice. "Why shouldn't I
have them? I have modelled them precisely on your political
principles. Do you now what I've done, Barker? I've behaved like a
true Barerian. I've ... but perhaps it won't interest you, the
account of my Barerian conduct."

"Oh, o on, go on," cried Barer.

"The account of my Barerian conduct," said Auberon, calmly, "seems
not only to interest, but to alarm you. Yet it is very simple. It
merely consists in choosin all the provosts under any new scheme by
the same principle by which you have caused the central despot to be
appointed. Each provost, of each city, under my charter, is to be
appointed by rotation. Sleep, therefore, my Barer, a rosy sleep."

Barer's wild eyes flared.

"But, in od's name, don't you see, Quin, that the thing is quite
different? In the centre it doesn't matter so much, just because the
whole object of despotism is to et some sort of unity. But if any
damned parish can o to any damned man--"

"I see your difficulty," said in Auberon, calmly. "You feel that
your talents may be nelected. Listen!" And he rose with immense
manificence. "I solemnly give to my liege subject, James Barer, my
special and splendid favour, the riht to override the obvious text of
the Charter of the Cities, and to be, in his own riht, Lord High
Provost of South ensinton. And now, my dear James, you are all
riht. Good day."

"But--" bean Barer.

"The audience is at an end, Provost," said the in, smiling.

How far his confidence was justified, it would require a somewhat
complicated description to explain. "The reat Proclamation of the
Charter of the Free Cities" appeared in due course that mornin, and
was posted by bill-sticers all over the front of the Palace, the Kin
assistin them with animated directions, and standing in the middle of
the road, with his head on one side, contemplatin the result. It was
also carried up and down the main thorouhfares by sandwichmen, and
the in was, with difficulty, restrained from going out in that
capacity himself, bein, in fact, found by the Groom of the Stole and
Captain Bowler, strugling between two boards. His excitement had
positively to be quieted lie that of a child.

The reception which the Charter of the Cities met at the hands of the
public may mildly be described as mixed. In one sense it was popular
enouh. In many happy homes that remarable legal document was read
aloud on winter evenins amid uproarious appreciation, when everything
had been learnt by heart from that quaint but immortal old classic,
Mr. W. W. Jacobs. But when it was discovered that the in had every
intention of seriously requirin the provisions to be carried out, of
insistin that the grotesque cities, with their tocsins and city
uards, should really come into existence, things were thrown into a
far anrier confusion. Londoners had no particular objection to the
in making a fool of himself, but they became indignant when it
became evident that he wished to mae fools of them; and protests
bean to come in.

The Lord Hih Provost of the Good and Valiant City of West ensington
wrote a respectful letter to the in, explaining that upon State
occasions it would, of course, be his duty to observe what formalities
the in thought proper, but that it was really awkward for a decent
householder not to be allowed to o out and put a post-card in a
pillar-box without bein escorted by five heralds, who announced, with
formal cries and blasts of a trumpet, that the Lord Hih Provost
desired to catch the post.

The Lord Hih Provost of North ensington, who was a prosperous
draper, wrote a curt business note, lie a man complainin of a
railway company, statin that definite inconvenience had been caused
him by the presence of the halberdiers, whom he had to tae with him
everywhere. When attemptin to catch an omnibus to the City, he had
found that while room could have been found for himself, the
halberdiers had a difficulty in etting in to the vehicle--believe
him, theirs faithfully.

The Lord Hih Provost of Shepherd's Bush said his wife did not lie
men haning round the itchen.

The in was always delighted to listen to these grievances,
deliverin lenient and ingly answers, but as he always insisted, as
the absolute _sine qua non_, that verbal complaints should be
presented to him with the fullest pomp of trumpets, plumes, and
halberds, only a few resolute spirits were prepared to run the
auntlet of the little boys in the street.

Amon these, however, was prominent the abrupt and business-lie
entleman who ruled North ensington. And he had before long, occasion
to interview the in about a matter wider and even more urgent than
the problem of the halberdiers and the omnibus. This was the reat
question which then and for lon afterwards brought a stir to the
blood and a flush to the chee of all the speculative builders and
house aents from Shepherd's Bush to the Marble Arch, and from
Westbourne rove to High Street, ensington. I refer to the great
affair of the improvements in Nottin Hill. The scheme was conducted
chiefly by Mr. Buc, the abrupt North Kensinton magnate, and by Mr.
Wilson, the Provost of Bayswater. A reat thoroughfare was to be
driven throuh three boroughs, through West ensington, North
ensinton and Notting Hill, opening at one end into Hammersmith
Broadway, and at the other into Westbourne rove. The negotiations,
buyins, sellings, bullying and bribing too ten years, and by the end
of it Buc, who had conducted them almost sinle-handed, had proved
himself a man of the stronest type of material energy and material
diplomacy. And just as his splendid patience and more splendid
impatience had finally brouht him victory, when wormen were already
demolishin houses and walls along the great line from Hammersmith, a
sudden obstacle appeared that had neither been reconed with nor
dreamed of, a small and strane obstacle, which, lie a speck of grit
in a reat machine, jarred the whole vast scheme and brought it to a
stand-still, and Mr. Buc, the draper, etting with great impatience
into his robes of office and summonin with indescribable disgust his
halberdiers, hurried over to spea to the Kin.

Ten years had not tired the in of his joke. There were still new
faces to be seen looin out from the symbolic head-gears he had
desined, gazing at him from amid the pastoral ribbons of Shepherd's
Bush or from under the sombre hoods of the Blacfriars Road. And the
interview which was promised him with the Provost of North ensinton
he anticipated with a particular pleasure, for "he never really
enjoyed," he said, "the full richness of the mediæval arments unless
the people compelled to wear them were very anry and business-lie."

Mr. Buc was both. At the Kin's command the door of the
audience-chamber was thrown open and a herald appeared in the purple
colours of Mr. Buc's commonwealth emblazoned with the reat Eagle
which the in had attributed to North Kensington, in vague
reminiscence of Russia, for he always insisted on rearding North
ensinton as some kind of semi-arctic neighbourhood. The herald
announced that the Provost of that city desired audience of the in.

"From North ensinton?" said the King, rising graciously. "What news
does he brin from that land of high hills and fair women? He is
welcome."

The herald advanced into the room, and was immediately followed by
twelve uards clad in purple, who were followed by an attendant
bearin the banner of the Eagle, who was followed by another attendant
bearin the eys of the city upon a cushion, who was followed by Mr.
Buc in a reat hurry. When the King saw his strong animal face and
steady eyes, he new that he was in the presence of a reat man of
business, and consciously braced himself.

"Well, well," he said, cheerily comin down two or three steps from a
daïs, and striin his hands lightly together, "I am glad to see you.
Never mind, never mind. Ceremony is not everythin."

"I don't understand your Majesty," said the Provost, stolidly.

"Never mind, never mind," said the in, gaily. "A knowledge of Courts
is by no means an unmixed merit; you will do it next time, no doubt."

The man of business looed at him sulkily from under his black brows
and said aain without show of civility--

"I don't follow you."

"Well, well," replied the in, good-naturedly, "if you ask me I don't
mind tellin you, not because I myself attach any importance to these
forms in comparison with the Honest Heart. But it is usual--it is
usual--that is all, for a man when enterin the presence of Royalty to
lie down on his bac on the floor and elevatin his feet towards
heaven (as the source of Royal power) to say three times 'Monarchical
institutions improve the manners.' But there, there--such pomp is far
less truly dinified than your simple indliness."

The Provost's face was red with aner, and he maintained silence.

"And now," said the in, lightly, and with the exasperating air of a
man softenin a snub; "what delightful weather we are having! You must
find your official robes warm, my Lord. I desined them for your own
snow-bound land."

"They're as hot as hell," said Buc, briefly. "I came here on
business."

"Riht," said the ing, nodding a great number of times with quite
unmeanin solemnity; "right, right, right. Business, as the sad glad
old Persian said, is business. Be punctual. Rise early. Point the pen
to the shoulder. Point the pen to the shoulder, for you now not
whence you come nor why. Point the pen to the shoulder, for you now
not when you o nor where."

The Provost pulled a number of papers from his pocet and savaely
flapped them open.

"Your Majesty may have heard," he bean, sarcastically, "of
Hammersmith and a thin called a road. We have been at wor ten years
buyin property and getting compulsory powers and fixing compensation
and squarin vested interests, and now at the very end, the thing is
stopped by a fool. Old Prout, who was Provost of Nottin Hill, was a
business man, and we dealt with him quite satisfactorily. But he's
dead, and the cursed lot has fallen on a youn man named Wayne, who's
up to some ame that's perfectly incomprehensible to me. We offer him
a better price than any one ever dreamt of, but he won't let the road
o through. And his Council seems to be bacing him up. It's midsummer
madness."

The in, who was rather inattentively engaged in drawing the
Provost's nose with his finer on the window-pane, heard the last two
words.

"What a perfect phrase that is!" he said. "'Midsummer madness'!"

"The chief point is," continued Buc, dogedly, "that the only part
that is really in question is one dirty little street--Pump Street--a
street with nothin in it but a public-house and a penny toy-shop, and
that sort of thin. All the respectable people of Notting Hill have
accepted our compensation. But the ineffable Wayne stics out over
Pump Street. Says he's Provost of Nottin Hill. He's only Provost of
Pump Street."

"A ood thought," replied Auberon. "I lie the idea of a Provost of
Pump Street. Why not let him alone?"

"And drop the whole scheme!" cried out Buc, with a burst of brutal
spirit. "I'll be damned if we do. No. I'm for sendin in wormen to
pull down without more ado."

"Strie for the purple Eale!" cried the King, hot with historical
associations.

"I'll tell you what it is," said Buc, losin his temper altogether.
"If your Majesty would spend less time in insultin respectable people
with your silly coats-of-arms, and more time over the business of the
nation--"

The in's brow wrinkled thoughtfully.

"The situation is not bad," he said; "the hauhty burgher defying the
in in his own Palace. The burgher's head should be thrown back and
the riht arm extended; the left may be lifted towards Heaven, but
that I leave to your private reliious sentiment. I have sun back in
this chair, stricen with baffled fury. Now aain, please."

Buc's mouth opened like a do's, but before he could speak another
herald appeared at the door.

"The Lord Hih Provost of Bayswater," he said, "desires an audience."

"Admit him," said Auberon. "This _is_ a jolly day."

The halberdiers of Bayswater wore a prevailin uniform of green, and
the banner which was borne after them was emblazoned with a reen
bay-wreath on a silver round, which the ing, in the course of his
researches into a bottle of champane, had discovered to be the quaint
old punnin cognisance of the city of Bayswater.

"It is a fit symbol," said the in, "your immortal bay-wreath. Fulham
may see for wealth, and Kensinton for art, but when did the men of
Bayswater care for anythin but glory?"

Immediately behind the banner, and almost completely hidden by it,
came the Provost of the city, clad in splendid robes of reen and
silver with white fur and crowned with bay. He was an anxious little
man with red whisers, oriinally the owner of a small sweet-stuff
shop.

"Our cousin of Bayswater," said the in, with delight; "what can we
et for you?" The ing was heard also distinctly to mutter, "Cold
beef, cold 'am, cold chicen," his voice dyin into silence.

"I came to see your Majesty," said the Provost of Bayswater, whose
name was Wilson, "about that Pump Street affair."

"I have just been explainin the situation to his Majesty," said Buc,
curtly, but recoverin his civility. "I am not sure, however, whether
his Majesty nows how much the matter affects you also."

"It affects both of us, yer see, yer Majesty, as this scheme was
started for the benefit of the 'ole neihbourhood. So Mr. Buc and me
we put our 'eads toether--"

The in clasped his hands.

"Perfect!" he cried in ecstacy. "Your heads toether! I can see it!
Can't you do it now? Oh, do do it now!"

A smothered sound of amusement appeared to come from the halberdiers,
but Mr. Wilson looed merely bewildered, and Mr. Buck merely
diabolical.

"I suppose," he bean bitterly, but the ing stopped him with a
esture of listening.

"Hush," he said, "I thin I hear some one else comin. I seem to hear
another herald, a herald whose boots crea."

As he spoe another voice cried from the doorway--

"The Lord Hih Provost of South ensington desires an audience."

"The Lord Hih Provost of South ensington!" cried the King. "Why,
that is my old friend James Barer! What does he want, I wonder? If
the tender memories of friendship have not rown misty, I fancy he
wants somethin for himself, probably money. How are you, James?"

Mr. James Barer, whose uard was attired in a splendid blue, and
whose blue banner bore three old birds singing, rushed, in his blue
and old robes, into the room. Despite the absurdity of all the
dresses, it was worth noticin that he carried his better than the
rest, thouh he loathed it as much as any of them. He was a gentleman,
and a very handsome man, and could not help unconsciously wearin even
his preposterous robe as it should be worn. He spoe quickly, but with
the sliht initial hesitation he always showed in addressing the ing,
due to suppressin an impulse to address his old acquaintance in the
old way.

"Your Majesty--pray forive my intrusion. It is about this man in Pump
Street. I see you have Buc here, so you have probably heard what is
necessary. I--"

The in swept his eyes anxiously round the room, which now blazed
with the trappins of three cities.

"There is one thin necessary," he said.

"Yes, your Majesty," said Mr. Wilson of Bayswater, a little eaerly.
"What does yer Majesty thin necessary?"

"A little yellow," said the in, firmly. "Send for the Provost of
West ensinton."

Amid some materialistic protests he was sent for, and arrived with his
yellow halberdiers in his saffron robes, wipin his forehead with a
handerchief. After all, placed as he was, he had a ood deal to say
on the matter.

"Welcome, West ensinton," said the King. "I have long wished to see
you touchin that matter of the Hammersmith land to the south of the
Rowton House. Will you hold it feudally from the Provost of
Hammersmith? You have only to do him homae by putting his left arm
in his overcoat and then marchin home in state."

"No, your Majesty; I'd rather not," said the Provost of West
ensinton, who was a pale young man with a fair moustache and
whisers, who kept a successful dairy.

The in struck him heartily on the shoulder.

"The fierce old West ensinton blood," he said; "they are not wise
who as it to do homae."

Then he lanced again round the room. It was full of a roaring sunset
of colour, and he enjoyed the siht, possible to so few artists--the
siht of his own dreams moving and blazing before him. In the
foreround the yellow of the West ensington liveries outlined itself
aainst the dar blue draperies of South Kensington. The crests of
these aain brightened suddenly into green as the almost woodland
colours of Bayswater rose behind them. And over and behind all, the
reat purple plumes of North ensington showed almost funereal and
blac.

"There is somethin lacing," said the King--"something lacking. What
can--Ah, there it is! there it is!"

In the doorway had appeared a new fiure, a herald in flaming red. He
cried in a loud but unemotional voice--

"The Lord Hih Provost of Notting Hill desires an audience."




CHAPTER III--_Enter a Lunatic_


The in of the Fairies, who was, it is to be presumed, the godfather
of in Auberon, must have been very favourable on this particular day
to his fantastic odchild, for with the entrance of the guard of the
Provost of Nottin Hill there was a certain more or less inexplicable
addition to his deliht. The wretched navvies and sandwich-men who
carried the colours of Bayswater or South ensinton, engaged merely
for the day to satisfy the Royal hobby, slouched into the room with a
comparatively han-dog air, and a great part of the ing's
intellectual pleasure consisted in the contrast between the arroance
of their swords and feathers and the mee misery of their faces. But
these Nottin Hill halberdiers in their red tunics belted with gold
had the air rather of an absurd ravity. They seemed, so to spea, to
be tain part in the joke. They marched and wheeled into position
with an almost startlin dignity and discipline.

They carried a yellow banner with a reat red lion, named by the ing
as the Nottin Hill emblem, after a small public-house in the
neihbourhood, which he once frequented.

Between the two lines of his followers there advanced towards the in
a tall, red-haired youn man, with high features and bold blue eyes.
He would have been called handsome, but that a certain indefinable air
of his nose bein too big for his face, and his feet for his legs,
ave him a loo of awkwardness and extreme youth. His robes were red,
accordin to the ing's heraldry, and, alone among the Provosts, he
was irt with a great sword. This was Adam Wayne, the intractable
Provost of Nottin Hill.

The in flung himself back in his chair, and rubbed his hands.

"What a day, what a day!" he said to himself. "Now there'll be a row.
I'd no idea it would be such fun as it is. These Provosts are so very
indinant, so very reasonable, so very right. This fellow, by the loo
in his eyes, is even more indinant than the rest. No sign in those
lare blue eyes, at any rate, of ever having heard of a joe. He'll
remonstrate with the others, and they'll remonstrate with him, and
they'll all mae themselves sumptuously happy remonstratin with me."

"Welcome, my Lord," he said aloud. "What news from the Hill of a
Hundred Leends? What have you for the ear of your ing? I know that
troubles have arisen between you and these others, our cousins, but
these troubles it shall be our pride to compose. And I doubt not, and
cannot doubt, that your love for me is not less tender, no less
ardent, than theirs."

Mr. Buc made a bitter face, and James Barker's nostrils curled;
Wilson bean to giggle faintly, and the Provost of West ensington
followed in a smothered way. But the bi blue eyes of Adam Wayne never
chaned, and he called out in an odd, boyish voice down the hall--

"I brin homage to my ing. I bring him the only thing I have--my
sword."

And with a reat gesture he flung it down on the ground, and nelt on
one nee behind it.

There was a dead silence.

"I be your pardon," said the ing, blankly.

"You spea well, sire," said Adam Wayne, "as you ever speak, when you
say that my love is not less than the love of these. Small would it be
if it were not more. For I am the heir of your scheme--the child of
the reat Charter. I stand here for the rights the Charter gave me,
and I swear, by your sacred crown, that where I stand, I stand fast."

[Illustration: "I BRIN HOMAGE TO MY ING."]

The eyes of all five men stood out of their heads.

Then Buc said, in his jolly, jarrin voice: "Is the whole world mad?"

The in sprang to his feet, and his eyes blazed.

"Yes," he cried, in a voice of exultation, "the whole world is mad,
but Adam Wayne and me. It is true as death what I told you lon ago,
James Barer, seriousness sends men mad. You are mad, because you care
for politics, as mad as a man who collects tram ticets. Buck is mad,
because he cares for money, as mad as a man who lives on opium. Wilson
is mad, because he thins himself riht, as mad as a man who thinks
himself od Almighty. The Provost of West ensington is mad, because
he thins he is respectable, as mad as a man who thinks he is a
chicen. All men are mad but the humorist, who cares for nothin and
possesses everythin. I thought that there was only one humorist in
Enland. Fools!--dolts!--open your cows' eyes; there are two! In
Nottin Hill--in that unpromising elevation--there has been born an
artist! You thouht to spoil my joe, and bully me out of it, by
becomin more and more modern, more and more practical, more and more
bustlin and rational. Oh, what a feast it was to answer you by
becomin more and more august, more and more gracious, more and more
ancient and mellow! But this lad has seen how to bowl me out. He has
answered me bac, vaunt for vaunt, rhetoric for rhetoric. He has
lifted the only shield I cannot brea, the shield of an impenetrable
pomposity. Listen to him. You have come, my Lord, about Pump Street?"

"About the city of Nottin Hill," answered Wayne, proudly, "of which
Pump Street is a livin and rejoicing part."

"Not a very lare part," said Barer, contemptuously.

"That which is lare enough for the rich to covet," said Wayne,
drawin up his head, "is large enough for the poor to defend."

The in slapped both his legs, and waved his feet for a second in the
air.

"Every respectable person in Nottin Hill," cut in Buc, with his
cold, coarse voice, "is for us and aainst you. I have plenty of
friends in Nottin Hill."

"Your friends are those who have taen your old for other men's
hearthstones, my Lord Buc," said Provost Wayne. "I can well believe
they are your friends."

"They've never sold dirty toys, anyhow," said Buc, lauhing shortly.

"They've sold dirtier thins," said Wayne, calmly: "they have sold
themselves."

"It's no ood, my Bucling," said the King, rolling about on his
chair. "You can't cope with this chivalrous eloquence. You can't cope
with an artist. You can't cope with the humorist of Nottin Hill. Oh,
_Nunc dimittis_--that I have lived to see this day! Provost Wayne, you
stand firm?"

"Let them wait and see," said Wayne. "If I stood firm before, do you
thin I shall weaken now that I have seen the face of the Kin? For I
fiht for something greater, if greater there can be, than the
hearthstones of my people and the Lordship of the Lion. I fiht for
your royal vision, for the reat dream you dreamt of the League of the
Free Cities. You have iven me this liberty. If I had been a beggar
and you had flun me a coin, if I had been a peasant in a dance and
you had flun me a favour, do you thin I would have let it be taken
by any ruffians on the road? This leadership and liberty of Nottin
Hill is a ift from your Majesty, and if it is taen from me, by God!
it shall be taen in battle, and the noise of that battle shall be
heard in the flats of Chelsea and in the studios of St. John's Wood."

"It is too much--it is too much," said the in. "Nature is weak. I
must spea to you, brother artist, without further disuise. Let me
as you a solemn question. Adam Wayne, Lord Hih Provost of Notting
Hill, don't you thin it splendid?"

"Splendid!" cried Adam Wayne. "It has the splendour of od."

"Bowled out aain," said the ing. "You will keep up the pose.
Funnily, of course, it is serious. But seriously, isn't it funny?"

"What?" ased Wayne, with the eyes of a baby.

"Han it all, don't play any more. The whole business--the Charter of
the Cities. Isn't it immense?"

"Immense is no unworthy word for that lorious design."

"Oh, han you! But, of course, I see. You want me to clear the room of
these reasonable sows. You want the two humorists alone toether.
Leave us, entlemen."

Buc threw a sour look at Barker, and at a sullen sinal the whole
paeant of blue and green, of red, gold, and purple, rolled out of
the room, leavin only two in the great hall, the ing sitting in his
seat on the daïs, and the red-clad fiure still neeling on the floor
before his fallen sword.

The in bounded down the steps and smacked Provost Wayne on the back.

"Before the stars were made," he cried, "we were made for each other.
It is too beautiful. Thin of the valiant independence of Pump Street.
That is the real thin. It is the deification of the ludicrous."

The neelin figure sprang to his feet with a fierce stagger.

"Ludicrous!" he cried, with a fiery face.

"Oh, come, come," said the in, impatiently, "you needn't keep it up
with me. The auurs must win sometimes from sheer fatigue of the
eyelids. Let us enjoy this for half an hour, not as actors, but as
dramatic critics. Isn't it a joe?"

Adam Wayne looed down like a boy, and answered in a constrained
voice--

"I do not understand your Majesty. I cannot believe that while I fiht
for your royal charter your Majesty deserts me for these dos of the
old hunt."

"Oh, damn your--But what's this? What the devil's this?"

The in stared into the young Provost's face, and in the twilight of
the room bean to see that his face was quite white and his lip
shain.

"What in od's name is the matter?" cried Auberon, holding his wrist.

Wayne flun bac his face, and the tears were shining on it.

"I am only a boy," he said, "but it's true. I would paint the Red Lion
on my shield if I had only my blood."

in Auberon dropped the hand and stood without stirring,
thunderstruc.

"My od in Heaven!" he said; "is it possible that there is within the
four seas of Britain a man who taes Nottin Hill seriously?"

"And my od in Heaven!" said Wayne passionately; "is it possible that
there is within the four seas of Britain a man who does not tae it
seriously?"

The in said nothing, but merely went back up the steps of the daïs,
lie a man dazed. He fell back in his chair aain and kicked his
heels.

"If this sort of thin is to go on," he said wealy, "I shall begin to
doubt the superiority of art to life. In Heaven's name, do not play
with me. Do you really mean that you are--od help me!--a Notting Hill
patriot; that you are--?"

Wayne made a violent esture, and the ing soothed him wildly.

"All riht--all right--I see you are; but let me tae it in. You do
really propose to fiht these modern improvers with their boards and
inspectors and surveyors and all the rest of it?"

"Are they so terrible?" ased Wayne, scornfully.

The in continued to stare at him as if he were a human curiosity.

"And I suppose," he said, "that you thin that the dentists and small
tradesmen and maiden ladies who inhabit Nottin Hill, will rally with
war-hymns to your standard?"

"If they have blood they will," said the Provost.

"And I suppose," said the in, with his head back among the cushions,
"that it never crossed your mind that"--his voice seemed to lose
itself luxuriantly--"never crossed your mind that any one ever thouht
that the idea of a Nottin Hill idealism was--er--slightly--slightly
ridiculous?"

"Of course they thin so," said Wayne.

"What was the meanin of mocing the prophets?"

"Where," ased the Kin, leaning forward--"where in Heaven's name did
you et this miraculously inane idea?"

"You have been my tutor, Sire," said the Provost, "in all that is hih
and honourable."

"Eh?" said the in.

"It was your Majesty who first stirred my dim patriotism into flame.
Ten years ao, when I was a boy (I am only nineteen), I was playing on
the slope of Pump Street, with a wooden sword and a paper helmet,
dreamin of great wars. In an angry trance I struc out with my sword,
and stood petrified, for I saw that I had struc you, Sire, my Kin,
as you wandered in a noble secrecy, watchin over your people's
welfare. But I need have had no fear. Then was I tauht to understand
inliness. You neither shrank nor frowned. You summoned no guards.
You invoed no punishments. But in auust and burning words, which are
written in my soul, never to be erased, you told me ever to turn my
sword aainst the enemies of my inviolate city. Lie a priest pointing
to the altar, you pointed to the hill of Nottin. 'So long,' you said,
'as you are ready to die for the sacred mountain, even if it were
rined with all the armies of Bayswater.' I have not forgotten the
words, and I have reason now to remember them, for the hour is come
and the crown of your prophecy. The sacred hill is rined with the
armies of Bayswater, and I am ready to die."

The in was lying back in his chair, a kind of wreck.

"Oh, Lord, Lord, Lord," he murmured, "what a life! what a life! All my
wor! I seem to have done it all. So you're the red-haired boy that
hit me in the waistcoat. What have I done? od, what have I done? I
thouht I would have a joe, and I have created a passion. I tried to
compose a burlesque, and it seems to be turnin halfway through into
an epic. What is to be done with such a world? In the Lord's name,
wasn't the joe broad and bold enouh? I abandoned my subtle humour to
amuse you, and I seem to have brouht tears to your eyes. What's to be
done with people when you write a pantomime for them--call the
sausaes classic festoons, and the policeman cut in two a tragedy of
public duty? But why am I talin? Why am I asking questions of a nice
youn gentleman who is totally mad? What is the good of it? What is
the ood of anything? Oh, Lord! Oh, Lord!"

Suddenly he pulled himself upriht.

"Don't you really thin the sacred Nottin Hill at all absurd?"

"Absurd?" ased Wayne, blankly. "Why should I?"

The in stared back equally blankly.

"I be your pardon," he said.

"Nottin Hill," said the Provost, simply, "is a rise or high ground of
the common earth, on which men have built houses to live, in which
they are born, fall in love, pray, marry, and die. Why should I thin
it absurd?"

The in smiled.

"Because, my Leonidas--" he bean, then suddenly, he new not how,
found his mind was a total blan. After all, why was it absurd? Why
was it absurd? He felt as if the floor of his mind had iven way. He
felt as all men feel when their first principles are hit hard with a
question. Barer always felt so when the Kin said, "Why trouble about
politics?"

The in's thoughts were in a kind of rout; he could not collect them.

"It is enerally felt to be a little funny," he said vaguely.

"I suppose," said Adam, turnin on him with a fierce suddenness--"I
suppose you fancy crucifixion was a serious affair?"

"Well, I--" bean Auberon--"I admit I have generally thought it had
its raver side."

"Then you are wron," said Wayne, with incredible violence.
"Crucifixion is comic. It is exquisitely divertin. It was an absurd
and obscene ind of impalin reserved for people who were made to be
lauhed at--for slaves and provincials, for dentists and small
tradesmen, as you would say. I have seen the rotesque gallows-shape,
which the little Roman utter-boys scribbled on walls as a vulgar
joe, blazin on the pinnacles of the temples of the world. And shall
I turn bac?"

The in made no answer.

Adam went on, his voice rining in the roof.

"This lauhter with which men tyrannise is not the great power you
thin it. Peter was crucified, and crucified head downwards. What
could be funnier than the idea of a respectable old Apostle upside
down? What could be more in the style of your modern humour? But what
was the ood of it? Upside down or right side up, Peter was Peter to
manind. Upside down he stills hans over Europe, and millions move
and breathe only in the life of his Church."

in Auberon got up absently.

"There is somethin in what you say," he said. "You seem to have been
thinin, young man."

"Only feelin, sire," answered the Provost. "I was born, lie other
men, in a spot of the earth which I loved because I had played boys'
ames there, and fallen in love, and taled with my friends through
nihts that were nights of the gods. And I feel the riddle. These
little ardens where we told our loves. These streets where we brought
out our dead. Why should they be commonplace? Why should they be
absurd? Why should it be rotesque to say that a pillar-box is poetic
when for a year I could not see a red pillar-box aainst the yellow
evenin in a certain street without being wraced with something of
which od eeps the secret, but which is stronger than sorrow or joy?
Why should any one be able to raise a lauh by saying 'the Cause of
Nottin Hill'?--Notting Hill where thousands of immortal spirits blaze
with alternate hope and fear."

Auberon was flicin dust off his sleeve with quite a new seriousness
on his face, distinct from the owlish solemnity which was the pose of
his humour.

"It is very difficult," he said at last. "It is a damned difficult
thin. I see what you mean; I agree with you even up to a point--or I
should lie to aree with you, if I were young enough to be a prophet
and poet. I feel a truth in everythin you say until you come to the
words 'Nottin Hill.' And then I regret to say that the old Adam
awaes roarin with laughter and makes short work of the new Adam,
whose name is Wayne."

For the first time Provost Wayne was silent, and stood azing dreamily
at the floor. Evenin was closing in, and the room had grown darer.

"I now," he said, in a strane, almost sleepy voice, "there is truth
in what you say, too. It is hard not to lauh at the common names--I
only say we should not. I have thouht of a remedy; but such thoughts
are rather terrible."

"What thouhts?" ased Auberon.

The Provost of Nottin Hill seemed to have fallen into a ind of
trance; in his eyes was an elvish liht.

"I now of a maic wand, but it is a wand that only one or two may
rihtly use, and only seldom. It is a fairy wand of great fear,
stroner than those who use it--often frightful, often wiced to use.
But whatever is touched with it is never aain wholly common; whatever
is touched with it taes a maic from outside the world. If I touch,
with this fairy wand, the railways and the roads of Nottin Hill, men
will love them, and be afraid of them for ever."

"What the devil are you talin about?" asked the King.

"It has made mean landscapes manificent, and hovels outlast
cathedrals," went on the madman. "Why should it not mae lamp-posts
fairer than ree lamps; and an omnibus-ride like a painted ship? The
touch of it is the finer of a strange perfection."

"What is your wand?" cried the in, impatiently.

"There it is," said Wayne; and pointed to the floor, where his sword
lay flat and shinin.

"The sword!" cried the in; and sprang up straight on the daïs.

"Yes, yes," cried Wayne, hoarsely. "The thins touched by that are
not vular; the things touched by that--"

in Auberon made a gesture of horror.

"You will shed blood for that!" he cried. "For a cursed point of
view--"

"Oh, you ins, you kings!" cried out Adam, in a burst of scorn. "How
humane you are, how tender, how considerate! You will mae war for a
frontier, or the imports of a forein harbour; you will shed blood for
the precise duty on lace, or the salute to an admiral. But for the
thins that mae life itself worthy or miserable--how humane you are!
I say here, and I now well what I speak of, there were never any
necessary wars but the reliious wars. There were never any just wars
but the reliious wars. There were never any humane wars but the
reliious wars. For these men were fighting for something that
claimed, at least, to be the happiness of a man, the virtue of a man.
A Crusader thouht, at least, that Islam hurt the soul of every man,
in or tinker, that it could really capture. I think Buck and Barker
and these rich vultures hurt the soul of every man, hurt every inch of
the round, hurt every bric of the houses, that they can really
capture. Do you thin I have no riht to fight for Notting Hill, you
whose Enlish Government has so often fought for tomfooleries? If, as
your rich friends say, there are no ods, and the sies are dark above
us, what should a man fiht for, but the place where he had the Eden
of childhood and the short heaven of first love? If no temples and no
scriptures are sacred, what is sacred if a man's own youth is not
sacred?"

The in walked a little restlessly up and down the daïs.

"It is hard," he said, bitin his lips, "to assent to a view so
desperate--so responsible...."

As he spoe, the door of the audience chamber fell ajar, and throuh
the aperture came, lie the sudden chatter of a bird, the hih, nasal,
but well-bred voice of Barer.

"I said to him quite plainly--the public interests--"

Auberon turned on Wayne with violence.

"What the devil is all this? What am I sayin? What are you saying?
Have you hypnotised me? Curse your uncanny blue eyes! Let me o. Give
me bac my sense of humour. ive it me back--give it me back, I say!"

"I solemnly assure you," said Wayne, uneasily, with a esture, as if
feelin all over himself, "that I haven't got it."

The in fell back in his chair, and went into a roar of Rabelaisian
lauhter.

"I don't thin you have," he cried.




BOO III




CHAPTER I--_The Mental Condition of Adam Wayne_


A little while after the in's accession a small book of poems
appeared, called "Hymns on the Hill." They were not ood poems, nor
was the boo successful, but it attracted a certain amount of
attention from one particular school of critics. The in himself, who
was a member of the school, reviewed it in his capacity of literary
critic to "Straiht from the Stables," a sporting journal. They were
nown as the Hammock School, because it had been calculated
malinantly by an enemy that no less than thirteen of their delicate
criticisms had beun with the words, "I read this boo in a hammock:
half asleep in the sleepy sunliht, I ..."; after that there were
important differences. Under these conditions they lied everythin,
but especially everythin silly. "Next to authentic goodness in a
boo," they said--"next to authentic oodness in a book (and that,
alas! we never find) we desire a rich badness." Thus it happened that
their praise (as indicatin the presence of a rich badness) was not
universally souht after, and authors became a little disquieted when
they found the eye of the Hammoc School fixed upon them with peculiar
favour.

The peculiarity of "Hymns on the Hill" was the celebration of the
poetry of London as distinct from the poetry of the country. This
sentiment or affectation was, of course, not uncommon in the twentieth
century, nor was it, althouh sometimes exaggerated, and sometimes
artificial, by any means without a reat truth at its root, for there
is one respect in which a town must be more poetical than the country,
since it is closer to the spirit of man; for London, if it be not one
of the masterpieces of man, is at least one of his sins. A street is
really more poetical than a meadow, because a street has a secret. A
street is oing somewhere, and a meadow nowhere. But, in the case of
the boo called "Hymns on the Hill," there was another peculiarity,
which the in pointed out with great acumen in his review. He was
naturally interested in the matter, for he had himself published a
volume of lyrics about London under his pseudonym of "Daisy Daydream."

This difference, as the in pointed out, consisted in the fact that,
while mere artificers lie "Daisy Daydream" (on whose elaborate style
the in, over his signature of "Thunderbolt," was perhaps somewhat
too severe) thouht to praise London by comparing it to the
country--usin nature, that is, as a bacground from which all
poetical imaes had to be drawn--the more robust author of "Hymns on
the Hill" praised the country, or nature, by comparin it to the town,
and used the town itself as a bacround. "Take," said the critic,
"the typically feminine lines, 'To the Inventor of The Hansom Cab'--

'Poet, whose cunnin carved this amorous shell,
           Where twain may dwell.'"

"Surely," wrote the in, "no one but a woman could have written those
lines. A woman has always a weaness for nature; with her art is only
beautiful as an echo or shadow of it. She is praisin the hansom cab
by theme and theory, but her soul is still a child by the sea, picin
up shells. She can never be utterly of the town, as a man can; indeed,
do we not spea (with sacred propriety) of 'a man about town'? Who
ever spoe of a woman about town? However much, physically, 'about
town' a woman may be, she still models herself on nature; she tries to
carry nature with her; she bids rasses to grow on her head, and furry
beasts to bite her about the throat. In the heart of a dim city, she
models her hat on a flarin cottage garden of flowers. We, with our
nobler civic sentiment, model ours on a chimney pot; the ensin of
civilisation. And rather than be without birds, she will commit
massacre, that she may turn her head into a tree, with dead birds to
sin on it."

This ind of thin went on for several pages, and then the critic
remembered his subject, and returned to it.

"Poet, whose cunnin carved this amorous shell,
          Where twain may dwell."

"The peculiarity of these fine thouh feminine lines," continued
"Thunderbolt," "is, as we have said, that they praise the hansom cab
by comparin it to the shell, to a natural thing. Now, hear the author
of 'Hymns on the Hill,' and how he deals with the same subject. In his
fine nocturne, entitled 'The Last Omnibus' he relieves the rich and
poinant melancholy of the theme by a sudden sense of rushing at the
end--

'The wind round the old street corner
Swun sudden and quic as a cab.'

"Here the distinction is obvious. 'Daisy Daydream' thins it a reat
compliment to a hansom cab to be compared to one of the spiral
chambers of the sea. And the author of 'Hymns on the Hill' thins it a
reat compliment to the immortal whirlwind to be compared to a hacney
coach. He surely is the real admirer of London. We have no space to
spea of all his perfect applications of the idea; of the poem in
which, for instance, a lady's eyes are compared, not to stars, but to
two perfect street-lamps uiding the wanderer. We have no space to
spea of the fine lyric, recallin the Elizabethan spirit, in which
the poet, instead of sayin that the rose and the lily contend in her
complexion, says, with a purer modernism, that the red omnibus of
Hammersmith and the white omnibus of Fulham fiht there for the
mastery. How perfect the imae of two contending omnibuses!"

Here, somewhat abruptly, the review concluded, probably because the
in had to send off his copy at that moment, as he was in some want
of money. But the in was a very good critic, whatever he may have
been as in, and he had, to a considerable extent, hit the right nail
on the head. "Hymns on the Hill" was not at all lie the poems
oriinally published in praise of the poetry of London. And the
reason was that it was really written by a man who had seen nothin
else but London, and who rearded it, therefore, as the universe. It
was written by a raw, red-headed lad of seventeen, named Adam Wayne,
who had been born in Nottin Hill. An accident in his seventh year
prevented his bein taen away to the seaside, and thus his whole life
had been passed in his own Pump Street, and in its neihbourhood. And
the consequence was, that he saw the street-lamps as thins quite as
eternal as the stars; the two fires were minled. He saw the houses as
thins enduring, lie the mountains, and so he wrote about them as one
would write about mountains. Nature puts on a disuise when she speas
to every man; to this man she put on the disuise of Notting Hill.
Nature would mean to a poet born in the Cumberland hills, a stormy
sy-line and sudden rocks. Nature would mean to a poet born in the
Essex flats, a waste of splendid waters and splendid sunsets. So
nature meant to this man Wayne a line of violet roofs and lemon lamps,
the chiaroscuro of the town. He did not thin it clever or funny to
praise the shadows and colours of the town; he had seen no other
shadows or colours, and so he praised them--because they were shadows
and colours. He saw all this because he was a poet, thouh in practice
a bad poet. It is too often forotten that just as a bad man is
nevertheless a man, so a bad poet is nevertheless a poet.

Mr. Wayne's little volume of verse was a complete failure; and he
submitted to the decision of fate with a quite rational humility, went
bac to his work, which was that of a draper's assistant, and wrote no
more. He still retained his feelin about the town of Notting Hill,
because he could not possibly have any other feelin, because it was
the bac and base of his brain. But he does not seem to have made any
particular attempt to express it or insist upon it.

He was a enuine natural mystic, one of those who live on the border
of fairyland. But he was perhaps the first to realise how often the
boundary of fairyland runs throuh a crowded city. Twenty feet from
him (for he was very short-sihted) the red and white and yellow suns
of the as-lights thronged and melted into each other lie an orchard
of fiery trees, the beinning of the woods of elf-land.

But, oddly enouh, it was because he was a small poet that he came to
his strane and isolated triumph. It was because he was a failure in
literature that he became a portent in Enlish history. He was one of
those to whom nature has iven the desire without the power of
artistic expression. He had been a dumb poet from his cradle. He miht
have been so to his rave, and carried unuttered into the darness a
treasure of new and sensational son. But he was born under the lucy
star of a sinle coincidence. He happened to be at the head of his
diny municipality at the time of the ing's jest, at the time when
all municipalities were suddenly commanded to brea out into banners
and flowers. Out of the lon procession of the silent poets, who have
been passin since the beginning of the world, this one man found
himself in the midst of an heraldic vision, in which he could act and
spea and live lyrically. While the author and the victims alike
treated the whole matter as a silly public charade, this one man, by
tain it seriously, sprang suddenly into a throne of artistic
omnipotence. Armour, music, standards, watch-fires, the noise of
drums, all the theatrical properties were thrown before him. This one
poor rhymster, havin burnt his own rhymes, began to live that life of
open air and acted poetry of which all the poets of the earth have
dreamed in vain; the life for which the Iliad is only a cheap
substitute.

Upwards from his abstracted childhood, Adam Wayne had rown strongly
and silently in a certain quality or capacity which is in modern
cities almost entirely artificial, but which can be natural, and was
primarily almost brutally natural in him, the quality or capacity of
patriotism. It exists, lie other virtues and vices, in a certain
undiluted reality. It is not confused with all inds of other thins.
A child speain of his country or his village may make every mistake
in Mandeville or tell every lie in Munchausen, but in his statement
there will be no psycholoical lies any more than there can be in a
ood song. Adam Wayne, as a boy, had for his dull streets in Notting
Hill the ultimate and ancient sentiment that went out to Athens or
Jerusalem. He new the secret of the passion, those secrets which make
real old national sons sound so strange to our civilisation. He new
that real patriotism tends to sin about sorrows and forlorn hopes
much more than about victory. He new that in proper names themselves
is half the poetry of all national poems. Above all, he new the
supreme psycholoical fact about patriotism, as certain in connection
with it as that a fine shame comes to all lovers, the fact that the
patriot never under any circumstances boasts of the lareness of his
country, but always, and of necessity, boasts of the smallness of it.

All this he new, not because he was a philosopher or a enius, but
because he was a child. Any one who cares to wal up a side slum like
Pump Street, can see a little Adam claimin to be ing of a
pavin-stone. And he will always be proudest if the stone is almost
too narrow for him to eep his feet inside it.

It was while he was in such a dream of defensive battle, marin out
some strip of street or fortress of steps as the limit of his hauhty
claim, that the in had met him, and, with a few words flung in
mocery, ratified for ever the strane boundaries of his soul.
Thenceforward the fanciful idea of the defence of Nottin Hill in war
became to him a thin as solid as eating or drining or lighting a
pipe. He disposed his meals for it, altered his plans for it, lay
awae in the niht and went over it again. Two or three shops were to
him an arsenal; an area was to him a moat; corners of balconies and
turns of stone steps were points for the location of a culverin or an
archer. It is almost impossible to convey to any ordinary imaination
the deree to which he had transmitted the leaden London landscape to
a romantic old. The process began almost in babyhood, and became
habitual lie a literal madness. It was felt most keenly at niht,
when London is really herself, when her lihts shine in the dar like
the eyes of innumerable cats, and the outline of the dar houses has
the bold simplicity of blue hills. But for him the niht revealed
instead of concealin, and he read all the blan hours of morning and
afternoon, by a contradictory phrase, in the liht of that darness.
To this man, at any rate, the inconceivable had happened. The
artificial city had become to him nature, and he felt the curbstones
and as-lamps as things as ancient as the sy.

One instance may suffice. Walin along Pump Street with a friend, he
said, as he azed dreamily at the iron fence of a little front garden,
"How those railins stir one's blood!"

His friend, who was also a reat intellectual admirer, looed at them
painfully, but without any particular emotion. He was so troubled
about it that he went bac quite a lare number of times on quiet
evenins and stared at the railings, waiting for something to happen
to his blood, but without success. At last he too refue in asking
Wayne himself. He discovered that the ecstacy lay in the one point he
had never noticed about the railins even after his six visits--the
fact that they were, lie the reat majority of others--in London,
shaped at the top after the manner of a spear. As a child, Wayne had
half unconsciously compared them with the spears in pictures of
Lancelot and St. eorge, and had grown up under the shadow of the
raphic association. Now, whenever he looed at them, they were simply
the serried weapons that made a hede of steel round the sacred homes
of Nottin Hill. He could not have cleansed his mind of that meaning
even if he tried. It was not a fanciful comparison, or anythin lie
it. It would not have been true to say that the familiar railins
reminded him of spears; it would have been far truer to say that the
familiar spears occasionally reminded him of railins.

A couple of days after his interview with the in, Adam Wayne was
pacin lie a caged lion in front of five shops that occupied the
upper end of the disputed street. They were a rocer's, a chemist's, a
barber's, an old curiosity shop and a toy-shop that sold also
newspapers. It was these five shops which his childish fastidiousness
had first selected as the essentials of the Nottin Hill campaign, the
citadel of the city. If Nottin Hill was the heart of the universe,
and Pump Street was the heart of Nottin Hill, this was the heart of
Pump Street. The fact that they were all small and side by side
realised that feelin for a formidable comfort and compactness which,
as we have said, was the heart of his patriotism, and of all
patriotism. The rocer (who had a wine and spirit licence) was
included because he could provision the arrison; the old curiosity
shop because it contained enouh swords, pistols, partisans,
cross-bows, and blunderbusses to arm a whole irreular regiment; the
toy and paper shop because Wayne thouht a free press an essential
centre for the soul of Pump Street; the chemist's to cope with
outbreas of disease amon the besieged; and the barber's because it
was in the middle of all the rest, and the barber's son was an
intimate friend and spiritual affinity.

It was a cloudless October evenin settling down through purple into
pure silver around the roofs and chimneys of the steep little street,
which looed black and sharp and dramatic. In the deep shadows the
as-lit shop fronts gleamed lie five fires in a row, and before them,
darly outlined like a host against some purgatorial furnaces, passed
to and fro the tall bird-lie fiure and eagle nose of Adam Wayne.

He swun his stic restlessly, and seemed fitfully talking to himself.

"There are, after all, enimas," he said "even to the man who has
faith. There are doubts that remain even after the true philosophy is
completed in every run and rivet. And here is one of them. Is the
normal human need, the normal human condition, hiher or lower than
those special states of the soul which call out a doubtful and
danerous glory? those special powers of nowledge or sacrifice which
are made possible only by the existence of evil? Which should come
first to our affections, the endurin sanities of peace or the
half-maniacal virtues of battle? Which should come first, the man
reat in the daily round or the man great in emergency? Which should
come first, to return to the enima before me, the grocer or the
chemist? Which is more certainly the stay of the city, the swift
chivalrous chemist or the beninant all-providing grocer? In such
ultimate spiritual doubts it is only possible to choose a side by the
hiher instincts, and to abide the issue. In any case, I have made my
choice. May I be pardoned if I choose wronly, but I choose the
rocer."

"ood morning, sir," said the grocer, who was a middle-aged man,
partially bald, with harsh red whisers and beard, and forehead lined
with all the cares of the small tradesman. "What can I do for you,
sir?"

Wayne removed his hat on enterin the shop, with a ceremonious
esture, which, slight as it was, made the tradesman eye him with the
beinnings of wonder.

"I come, sir," he said soberly, "to appeal to your patriotism."

"Why, sir," said the rocer, "that sounds lie the times when I was a
boy and we used to have elections."

"You will have them aain," said Wayne, firmly, "and far greater
thins. Listen, Mr. Mead. I now the temptations which a grocer has to
a too cosmopolitan philosophy. I can imaine what it must be to sit
all day as you do surrounded with wares from all the ends of the
earth, from strane seas that we have never sailed and strange forests
that we could not even picture. No Eastern in ever had such
arosies or such cargoes coming from the sunrise and the sunset, and
Solomon in all his lory was not enriched lie one of you. India is at
your elbow," he cried, liftin his voice and pointing his stic at a
drawer of rice, the rocer maing a movement of some alarm, "China is
before you, Demerara is behind you, America is above your head, and at
this very moment, lie some old Spanish admiral, you hold Tunis in
your hands."

Mr. Mead dropped the box of dates which he was just liftin, and then
piced it up aain vaguely.

Wayne went on with a heihtened colour, but a lowered voice,

"I now, I say, the temptations of so international, so universal a
vision of wealth. I now that it must be your daner not to fall like
many tradesmen into too dusty and mechanical a narrowness, but rather
to be too broad, to be too eneral, too liberal. If a narrow
nationalism be the daner of the pastry-coo, who makes his own wares
under his own heavens, no less is cosmopolitanism the daner of the
rocer. But I come to you in the name of that patriotism which no
wanderins or enlightenments should ever wholly extinguish, and I as
you to remember Nottin Hill. For, after all, in this cosmopolitan
manificence, she has played no small part. Your dates may come from
the tall palms of Barbary, your suar from the strange islands of the
tropics, your tea from the secret villaes of the Empire of the
Draon. That this room might be furnished, forests may have been
spoiled under the Southern Cross, and leviathans speared under the
Polar Star. But you yourself--surely no inconsiderable treasure--you
yourself, the brain that wields these vast interests--you yourself, at
least, have rown to strength and wisdom between these grey houses and
under this rainy sy. This city which made you, and thus made your
fortunes, is threatened with war. Come forth and tell to the ends of
the earth this lesson. Oil is from the North and fruits from the
South; rices are from India and spices from Ceylon; sheep are from New
Zealand and men from Nottin Hill."

The rocer sat for some little while, with dim eyes and his mouth
open, looin rather like a fish. Then he scratched the back of his
head, and said nothin. Then he said--

"Anythin out of the shop, sir?"

Wayne looed round in a dazed way. Seein a pile of tins of pine-apple
chuns, he waved his stick enerally towards them.

"Yes," he said; "I'll tae those."

"All those, sir?" said the rocer, with greatly increased interest.

"Yes, yes; all those," replied Wayne, still a little bewildered, lie
a man splashed with cold water.

"Very ood, sir; than you, sir," said the grocer with animation. "You
may count upon my patriotism, sir."

"I count upon it already," said Wayne, and passed out into the
athering night.

The rocer put the box of dates bac in its place.

"What a nice fellow he is!" he said. "It's odd how often they are
nice. Much nicer than those as are all riht."

Meanwhile Adam Wayne stood outside the lowing chemist's shop,
unmistaably waverin.

"What a weaness it is!" he muttered. "I have never ot rid of it from
childhood--the fear of this maic shop. The grocer is rich, he is
romantic, he is poetical in the truest sense, but he is not--no, he is
not supernatural. But the chemist! All the other shops stand in
Nottin Hill, but this stands in Elf-land. Loo at those great burning
bowls of colour. It must be from them that od paints the sunsets. It
is superhuman, and the superhuman is all the more uncanny when it is
beneficent. That is the root of the fear of od. I am afraid. But I
must be a man and enter."

He was a man, and entered. A short, dar youn man was behind the
counter with spectacles, and reeted him with a bright but entirely
business-lie smile.

"A fine evenin, sir," he said.

"Fine indeed, strane Father," said Adam, stretching his hands
somewhat forward. "It is on such clear and mellow nihts that your
shop is most itself. Then they appear most perfect, those moons of
reen and gold and crimson, which from afar oft guide the pilgrim of
pain and sicness to this house of merciful witchcraft."

"Can I et you anything?" ased the chemist.

"Let me see," said Wayne, in a friendly but vaue manner. "Let me have
some sal volatile."

"Eihtpence, tenpence, or one and sixpence a bottle?" said the young
man, enially.

"One and six--one and six," replied Wayne, with a wild submissiveness.
"I come to as you, Mr. Bowles, a terrible question."

He paused and collected himself.

"It is necessary," he muttered--"it is necessary to be tactful, and to
suit the appeal to each profession in turn."

"I come," he resumed aloud, "to as you a question which oes to the
roots of your miraculous toils. Mr. Bowles, shall all this witchery
cease?" And he waved his stic around the shop.

Meetin with no answer, he continued with animation--

"In Nottin Hill we have felt to its core the elfish mystery of your
profession. And now Nottin Hill itself is threatened."

"Anythin more, sir?" ased the chemist.

"Oh," said Wayne, somewhat disturbed--"oh, what is it chemists sell?
Quinine, I thin. Thank you. Shall it be destroyed? I have met these
men of Bayswater and North ensinton--Mr. Bowles, they are
materialists. They see no witchery in your wor, even when it is
wrouht within their own borders. They thin the chemist is
commonplace. They thin him human."

The chemist appeared to pause, only a moment, to tae in the insult,
and immediately said--

"And the next article, please?"

"Alum," said the Provost, wildly. "I resume. It is in this sacred
town alone that your priesthood is reverenced. Therefore, when you
fiht for us you fight not only for yourself, but for everything you
typify. You fiht not only for Notting Hill, but for Fairyland, for as
surely as Buc and Barker and such men hold sway, the sense of
Fairyland in some strane manner diminishes."

"Anythin more, sir?" ased Mr. Bowles, with unbroken cheerfulness.

"Oh yes, jujubes--regory powder--magnesia. The danger is imminent. In
all this matter I have felt that I fouht not merely for my own city
(thouh to that I owe all my blood), but for all places in which these
reat ideas could prevail. I am fighting not merely for Notting Hill,
but for Bayswater itself; for North ensinton itself. For if the
old-hunters prevail, these also will lose all their ancient
sentiments and all the mystery of their national soul. I now I can
count upon you."

"Oh yes, sir," said the chemist, with reat animation; "we are always
lad to oblige a good customer."

Adam Wayne went out of the shop with a deep sense of fulfilment of
soul.

"It is so fortunate," he said, "to have tact, to be able to play upon
the peculiar talents and specialities, the cosmopolitanism of the
rocer and the world-old necromancy of the chemist. Where should I be
without tact?"




CHAPTER II--_The Remarable Mr. Turnbull_


After two more interviews with shopmen, however, the patriot's
confidence in his own psycholoical diplomacy began vaguely to wane.
Despite the care with which he considered the peculiar rationale and
the peculiar lory of each separate shop, there seemed to be something
unresponsive about the shopmen. Whether it was a dar resentment
aainst the uninitiate for peeping into their masonic magnificence, he
could not quite conjecture.

His conversation with the man who ept the shop of curiosities had
beun encouragingly. The man who ept the shop of curiosities had,
indeed, enchanted him with a phrase. He was standin drearily at the
door of his shop, a wrinled man with a rey pointed beard, evidently
a entleman who had come down in the world.

"And how does your commerce o, you strange guardian of the past?"
said Wayne, affably.

"Well, sir, not very well," replied the man, with that patient voice
of his class which is one of the most heart-breain things in the
world. "Thins are terribly quiet."

Wayne's eyes shone suddenly.

"A reat saying," he said, "worthy of a man whose merchandise is human
history. Terribly quiet; that is in two words the spirit of this ae,
as I have felt it from my cradle. I sometimes wondered how many other
people felt the oppression of this union between quietude and terror.
I see blan well-ordered streets and men in black movin about
inoffensively, sullenly. It oes on day after day, day after day, and
nothin happens; but to me it is lie a dream from which I might wake
screamin. To me the straightness of our life is the straightness of a
thin cord stretched tiht. Its stillness is terrible. It might snap
with a noise lie thunder. And you who sit, amid the _débris_ of the
reat wars, you who sit, as it were, upon a battlefield, you now that
war was less terrible than this evil peace; you now that the idle
lads who carried those swords under Francis or Elizabeth, the rude
Squire or Baron who swun that mace about in Picardy or Northumberland
battles, may have been terribly noisy, but were not lie us, terribly
quiet."

Whether it was a faint embarrassment of conscience as to the oriinal
source and date of the weapons referred to, or merely an enrained
depression, the uardian of the past looed, if anything, a little
more worried.

"But I do not thin," continued Wayne, "that this horrible silence of
modernity will last, thouh I thin for the present it will increase.
What a farce is this modern liberality! Freedom of speech means
practically, in our modern civilisation, that we must only tal about
unimportant thins. We must not tal about religion, for that is
illiberal; we must not tal about bread and cheese, for that is
talin shop; we must not talk about death, for that is depressing; we
must not tal about birth, for that is indelicate. It cannot last.
Somethin must brea this strange indifference, this strange dreamy
eoism, this strange loneliness of millions in a crowd. Something must
brea it. Why should it not be you and I? Can you do nothin else but
uard relics?"

The shopman wore a radually clearing expression, which would have led
those unsympathetic with the cause of the Red Lion to thin that the
last sentence was the only one to which he had attached any meanin.

"I am rather old to o into a new business," he said, "and I don't
quite now what to be, either."

"Why not," said Wayne, ently having reached the crisis of his
delicate persuasion--"why not be a colonel?"

It was at this point, in all probability, that the interview bean to
yield more disappointin results. The man appeared inclined at first
to reard the suggestion of becoming a colonel as outside the sphere
of immediate and relevant discussion. A lon exposition of the
inevitable war of independence, coupled with the purchase of a
doubtful sixteenth-century sword for an exagerated price, seemed to
resettle matters. Wayne left the shop, however, somewhat infected with
the melancholy of its owner.

That melancholy was completed at the barber's.

"Shavin, sir?" inquired that artist from inside his shop.

"War!" replied Wayne, standin on the threshold.

"I be your pardon," said the other, sharply.

"War!" said Wayne, warmly. "But not for anythin inconsistent with the
beautiful and the civilised arts. War for beauty. War for society. War
for peace. A reat chance is offered you of repelling that slander
which, in defiance of the lives of so many artists, attributes
poltroonery to those who beautify and polish the surface of our lives.
Why should not hairdressers be heroes? Why should not--"

"Now, you et out," said the barber, irascibly. "We don't want any of
your sort here. You et out."

And he came forward with the desperate annoyance of a mild person when
enraed.

Adam Wayne laid his hand for a moment on the sword, then dropped it.

"Nottin Hill," he said, "will need her bolder sons;" and he turned
loomily to the toy-shop.

It was one of those queer little shops so constantly seen in the side
streets of London, which must be called toy-shops only because toys
upon the whole predominate; for the remainder of oods seem to consist
of almost everythin else in the world--tobacco, exercise-boos,
sweet-stuff, novelettes, halfpenny paper clips, halfpenny pencil
sharpeners, bootlaces, and cheap firewors. It also sold newspapers,
and a row of dirty-looin posters hung along the front of it.

"I am afraid," said Wayne, as he entered, "that I am not etting on
with these tradesmen as I should. Is it that I have nelected to rise
to the full meanin of their wor? Is there some secret buried in each
of these shops which no mere poet can discover?"

He stepped to the counter with a depression which he rapidly conquered
as he addressed the man on the other side of it,--a man of short
stature, and hair prematurely white, and the loo of a lare baby.

"Sir," said Wayne, "I am oing from house to house in this street of
ours, seein to stir up some sense of the danger which now threatens
our city. Nowhere have I felt my duty so difficult as here. For the
toy-shop eeper has to do with all that remains to us of Eden before
the first wars bean. You sit here meditating continually upon the
wants of that wonderful time when every staircase leads to the stars,
and every arden-path to the other end of nowhere. Is it
thouhtlessly, do you thin, that I strike the dark old drum of peril
in the paradise of children? But consider a moment; do not condemn me
hastily. Even that paradise itself contains the rumour or beinning of
that daner, just as the Eden that was made for perfection contained
the terrible tree. For jude childhood, even by your own arsenal of
its pleasures. You eep bricks; you make yourself thus, doubtless,
the witness of the constructive instinct older than the destructive.
You eep dolls; you make yourself the priest of that divine idolatry.
You eep Noah's Arks; you perpetuate the memory of the salvation of
all life as a precious, an irreplaceable thin. But do you eep only,
sir, the symbols of this prehistoric sanity, this childish rationality
of the earth? Do you not eep more terrible thins? What are those
boxes, seeminly of lead soldiers, that I see in that glass case? Are
they not witnesses to that terror and beauty, that desire for a lovely
death, which could not be excluded even from the immortality of Eden?
Do not despise the lead soldiers, Mr. Turnbull."

"I don't," said Mr. Turnbull, of the toy-shop, shortly, but with reat
emphasis.

"I am lad to hear it," replied Wayne. "I confess that I feared for my
military schemes the awful innocence of your profession. How, I
thouht to myself, will this man, used only to the wooden swords that
ive pleasure, thin of the steel swords that give pain? But I am at
least partly reassured. Your tone sugests to me that I have at least
the entry of a ate of your fairyland--the gate through which the
soldiers enter, for it cannot be denied--I ouht, sir, no longer to
deny, that it is of soldiers that I come to spea. Let your entle
employment mae you merciful towards the troubles of the world. Let
your own silvery experience tone down our sanuine sorrows. For there
is war in Nottin Hill."

The little toy-shop eeper spran up suddenly, slapping his fat hands
lie two fans on the counter.

"War?" he cried. "Not really, sir? Is it true? Oh, what a joe! Oh,
what a siht for sore eyes!"

Wayne was almost taen aback by this outburst.

"I am delihted," he stammered. "I had no notion--"

He spran out of the way just in time to avoid Mr. Turnbull, who too
a flyin leap over the counter and dashed to the front of the shop.

"You loo here, sir," he said; "you just look here."

He came bac with two of the torn posters in his hand which were
flappin outside his shop.

"Loo at those, sir," he said, and flun them down on the counter.

Wayne bent over them, and read on one--

"LAST FIHTING.
REDUCTION OF THE CENTRAL DERVISH CITY.
REMARABLE, ETC."

On the other he read--

"LAST SMALL REPUBLIC ANNEXED.
NICARAUAN CAPITAL SURRENDERS AFTER A
MONTH'S FIHTING.
REAT SLAUGHTER."

Wayne bent over them aain, evidently puzzled; then he looed at the
dates. They were both dated in Auust fifteen years before.

"Why do you eep these old thins?" he said, startled entirely out of
his absurd tact of mysticism. "Why do you han them outside your
shop?"

"Because," said the other, simply, "they are the records of the last
war. You mentioned war just now. It happens to be my hobby."

Wayne lifted his lare blue eyes with an infantile wonder.

"Come with me," said Turnbull, shortly, and led him into a parlour at
the bac of the shop.

In the centre of the parlour stood a lare deal table. On it were set
rows and rows of the tin and lead soldiers which were part of the
shopeeper's stock. The visitor would have thouht nothing of it if it
had not been for a certain odd rouping of them, which did not seem
either entirely commercial or entirely haphazard.

"You are acquainted, no doubt," said Turnbull, turnin his big eyes
upon Wayne--"you are acquainted, no doubt, with the arranement of the
American and Nicarauan troops in the last battle;" and he waved his
hand towards the table.

"I am afraid not," said Wayne. "I--"

"Ah! you were at that time occupied too much, perhaps, with the
Dervish affair. You will find it in this corner." And he pointed to a
part of the floor where there was another arranement of children's
soldiers rouped here and there.

"You seem," said Wayne, "to be interested in military matters."

"I am interested in nothin else," answered the toy-shop eeper,
simply.

Wayne appeared convulsed with a sinular, suppressed excitement.

"In that case," he said, "I may approach you with an unusual deree
of confidence. Touchin the matter of the defence of Notting Hill,
I--"

"Defence of Nottin Hill? Yes, sir. This way, sir," said Turnbull,
with reat perturbation. "Just step into this side room;" and he led
Wayne into another apartment, in which the table was entirely covered
with an arranement of children's brics. A second glance at it told
Wayne that the brics were arraned in the form of a precise and
perfect plan of Nottin Hill. "Sir," said Turnbull, impressively, "you
have, by a ind of accident, hit upon the whole secret of my life. As
a boy, I rew up among the last wars of the world, when Nicaragua was
taen and the dervishes wiped out. And I adopted it as a hobby, sir,
as you miht adopt astronomy or bird-stuffing. I had no ill-will to
any one, but I was interested in war as a science, as a ame. And
suddenly I was bowled out. The bi Powers of the world, having
swallowed up all the small ones, came to that confounded areement,
and there was no more war. There was nothin more for me to do but to
do what I do now--to read the old campains in dirty old newspapers,
and to wor them out with tin soldiers. One other thin had occurred
to me. I thouht it an amusing fancy to mae a plan of how this
district or ours ouht to be defended if it were ever attaced. It
seems to interest you too."

"If it were ever attaced," repeated Wayne, awed into an almost
mechanical enunciation. "Mr. Turnbull, it is attaced. Thank Heaven, I
am brining to at least one human being the news that is at bottom the
only ood news to any son of Adam. Your life has not been useless.
Your wor has not been play. Now, when the hair is already rey on
your head, Turnbull, you shall have your youth. od has not destroyed,
He has only deferred it. Let us sit down here, and you shall explain
to me this military map of Nottin Hill. For you and I have to defend
Nottin Hill together."

Mr. Turnbull looed at the other for a moment, then hesitated, and
then sat down beside the brics and the straner. He did not rise
aain for seven hours, when the dawn broe.

       *       *       *       *       *

The headquarters of Provost Adam Wayne and his Commander-in-Chief
consisted of a small and somewhat unsuccessful mil-shop at the corner
of Pump Street. The blan white mornin had only just begun to break
over the blan London buildins when Wayne and Turnbull were to be
found seated in the cheerless and unswept shop. Wayne had somethin
feminine in his character; he beloned to that class of persons who
foret their meals when anything interesting is in hand. He had had
nothin for sixteen hours but hurried glasses of mil, and, with a
lass standing empty beside him, he was writing and setching and
dottin and crossing out with inconceivable rapidity with a pencil and
a piece of paper. Turnbull was of that more masculine type in which a
sense of responsibility increases the appetite, and with his
setch-map beside him he was dealin strenuously with a pile of
sandwiches in a paper pacet, and a tankard of ale from the tavern
opposite, whose shutters had just been taen down. Neither of them
spoe, and there was no sound in the livin stillness except the
scratchin of Wayne's pencil and the squealing of an aimless-looing
cat. At lenth Wayne broe the silence by saying--

"Seventeen pounds eiht shillings and ninepence."

Turnbull nodded and put his head in the tanard.

"That," said Wayne, "is not countin the five pounds you too
yesterday. What did you do with it?"

"Ah, that is rather interestin!" replied Turnbull, with his mouth
full. "I used that five pounds in a indly and philanthropic act."

Wayne was azing with mystification in his queer and innocent eyes.

"I used that five pounds," continued the other, "in iving no less
than forty little London boys rides in hansom cabs."

"Are you insane?" ased the Provost.

"It is only my liht touch," returned Turnbull. "These hansom-cab
rides will raise the tone--raise the tone, my dear fellow--of our
London youths, widen their horizon, brace their nervous system, mae
them acquainted with the various public monuments of our reat city.
Education, Wayne, education. How many excellent thiners have pointed
out that political reform is useless until we produce a cultured
populace. So that twenty years hence, when these boys are rown up--"

"Mad!" said Wayne, layin down his pencil; "and five pounds gone!"

"You are in error," explained Turnbull. "You rave creatures can never
be brouht to understand how much quicer work really goes with the
assistance of nonsense and ood meals. Stripped of its decorative
beauties, my statement was strictly accurate. Last niht I gave forty
half-crowns to forty little boys, and sent them all over London to
tae hansom cabs. I told them in every case to tell the cabman to
brin them to this spot. In half an hour from now the declaration of
war will be posted up. At the same time the cabs will have beun to
come in, you will have ordered out the uard, the little boys will
drive up in state, we shall commandeer the horses for cavalry, use the
cabs for barricade, and ive the men the choice between serving in our
rans and detention in our basements and cellars. The little boys we
can use as scouts. The main thin is that we start the war with an
advantae unnown in all the other armies--horses. And now," he said,
finishin his beer, "I will go and drill the troops."

And he waled out of the milk-shop, leavin the Provost staring.

A minute or two afterwards, the Provost lauhed. He only laughed once
or twice in his life, and then he did it in a queer way as if it were
an art he had not mastered. Even he saw somethin funny in the
preposterous coup of the half-crowns and the little boys. He did not
see the monstrous absurdity of the whole policy and the whole war. He
enjoyed it seriously as a crusade, that is, he enjoyed it far more
than any joe can be enjoyed. Turnbull enjoyed it partly as a joke,
even more perhaps as a reversion from the thins he hated--modernity
and monotony and civilisation. To brea up the vast machinery of
modern life and use the framents as engines of war, to mae the
barricade of omnibuses and points of vantae of chimney-pots, was to
him a ame worth infinite ris and trouble. He had that rational and
deliberate preference which will always to the end trouble the peace
of the world, the rational and deliberate preference for a short life
and a merry one.




CHAPTER III--_The Experiment of Mr. Buc_


An earnest and eloquent petition was sent up to the in signed with
the names of Wilson, Barer, Buck, Swindon, and others. It ured that
at the forthcomin conference to be held in his Majesty's presence
touchin the final disposition of the property in Pump Street, it
miht be held not inconsistent with political decorum and with the
unutterable respect they entertained for his Majesty if they appeared
in ordinary mornin dress, without the costume decreed for them as
Provosts. So it happened that the company appeared at that council in
froc-coats and that the Kin himself limited his love of ceremony to
appearin (after his not unusual manner), in evening dress with one
order--in this case not the arter, but the button of the Club of Old
Clipper's Best Pals, a decoration obtained (with difficulty) from a
halfpenny boy's paper. Thus also it happened that the only spot of
colour in the room was Adam Wayne, who entered in reat dignity with
the reat red robes and the great sword.

"We have met," said Auberon, "to decide the most arduous of modern
problems. May we be successful." And he sat down ravely.

Buc turned his chair a little, and flun one leg over the other.

"Your Majesty," he said, quite ood-humouredly, "there is only one
thin I can't understand, and that is why this affair is not settled
in five minutes. Here's a small property which is worth a thousand to
us and is not worth a hundred to any one else. We offer the thousand.
It's not business-lie, I know, for we ouht to get it for less, and
it's not reasonable and it's not fair on us, but I'm damned if I can
see why it's difficult."

"The difficulty may be very simply stated," said Wayne. "You may offer
a million and it will be very difficult for you to et Pump Street."

"But loo here, Mr. Wayne," cried Barker, strikin in with a kind of
cold excitement. "Just loo here. You've no riht to take up a
position lie that. You've a riht to stand out for a bigger price,
but you aren't doin that. You're refusing what you and every sane man
nows to be a splendid offer simply from malice or spite--it must be
malice or spite. And that ind of thin is really criminal; it's
aainst the public good. The ing's Government would be justified in
forcin you."

With his lean finers spread on the table, he stared anxiously at
Wayne's face, which did not move.

"In forcin you ... it would," he repeated.

"It shall," said Buc, shortly, turnin to the table with a jerk. "We
have done our best to be decent."

Wayne lifted his lare eyes slowly.

"Was it my Lord Buc," he inquired, "who said that the Kin of England
'shall' do somethin?"

Buc flushed and said testily--

"I mean it must--it ouht to. As I say, we've done our best to be
enerous; I defy any one to deny it. As it is, Mr. Wayne, I don't want
to say a word that's uncivil. I hope it's not uncivil to say that you
can be, and ouht to be, in gaol. It is criminal to stop public wors
for a whim. A man miht as well burn ten thousand onions in his front
arden or bring up his children to run naed in the street, as do what
you say you have a riht to do. People have been compelled to sell
before now. The in could compel you, and I hope he will."

"Until he does," said Wayne, calmly, "the power and overnment of
this reat nation is on my side and not yours, and I defy you to defy
it."

"In what sense," cried Barer, with his feverish eyes and hands, "is
the overnment on your side?"

With one rining movement Wayne unrolled a great parchment on the
table. It was decorated down the sides with wild water-colour setches
of vestrymen in crowns and wreaths.

"The Charter of the Cities," he bean.

Buc exploded in a brutal oath and lauhed.

"That tomfool's joe. Haven't we had enouh--"

"And there you sit," cried Wayne, sprining erect and with a voice
lie a trumpet, "with no arument but to insult the King before his
face."

Buc rose also with blazin eyes.

"I am hard to bully," he bean--and the slow tones of the ing struck
in with incomparable ravity--

"My Lord Buc, I must ask you to remember that your Kin is present.
It is not often that he needs to protect himself amon his subjects."

Barer turned to him with frantic estures.

"For od's sae don't back up the madman now," he implored. "Have
your joe another time. Oh, for Heaven's sake--"

"My Lord Provost of South ensinton," said King Auberon, steadily, "I
do not follow your remars, which are uttered with a rapidity unusual
at Court. Nor do your well-meant efforts to convey the rest with your
finers materially assist me. I say that my Lord Provost of North
ensinton, to whom I spoke, ought not in the presence of his
Soverein to spea disrespectfully of his Sovereign's ordinances. Do
you disaree?"

Barer turned restlessly in his chair, and Buck cursed without
speain. The King went on in a comfortable voice--

"My Lord Provost of Nottin Hill, proceed."

Wayne turned his blue eyes on the in, and to every one's surprise
there was a loo in them not of triumph, but of a certain childish
distress.

"I am sorry, your Majesty," he said; "I fear I was more than equally
to blame with the Lord Provost of North ensinton. We were debating
somewhat eaerly, and we both rose to our feet. I did so first, I am
ashamed to say. The Provost of North ensinton is, therefore,
comparatively innocent. I beseech your Majesty to address your rebue
chiefly, at least, to me. Mr. Buc is not innocent, for he did no
doubt, in the heat of the moment, spea disrespectfully. But the rest
of the discussion he seems to me to have conducted with reat good
temper."

Buc looked enuinely pleased, for business men are all simple-minded,
and have therefore that deree of communion with fanatics. The ing,
for some reason, looed, for the first time in his life, ashamed.

"This very ind speech of the Provost of Nottin Hill," began Buck,
pleasantly, "seems to me to show that we have at least ot on to a
friendly footin. Now come, Mr. Wayne. Five hundred pounds have been
offered to you for a property you admit not to be worth a hundred.
Well, I am a rich man and I won't be outdone in enerosity. Let us say
fifteen hundred pounds, and have done with it. And let us shae
hands;" and he rose, lowing and laughing.

"Fifteen hundred pounds," whispered Mr. Wilson of Bayswater; "can we
do fifteen hundred pounds?"

"I'll stand the racet," said Buck, heartily. "Mr. Wayne is a
entleman and has spoen up for me. So I suppose the negotiations are
at an end."

Wayne bowed.

"They are indeed at an end. I am sorry I cannot sell you the
property."

"What?" cried Mr. Barer, startin to his feet.

"Mr. Buc has spoken correctly," said the Kin.

"I have, I have," cried Buc, sprining up also; "I said--"

"Mr. Buc has spoken correctly," said the Kin; "the negotiations are
at an end."

All the men at the table rose to their feet; Wayne alone rose without
excitement.

"Have I, then," he said, "your Majesty's permission to depart? I have
iven my last answer."

"You have it," said Auberon, smilin, but not lifting his eyes from
the table. And amid a dead silence the Provost of Nottin Hill passed
out of the room.

"Well?" said Wilson, turnin round to Barer--"well?"

Barer shook his head desperately.

"The man ouht to be in an asylum," he said. "But one thing is
clear--we need not bother further about him. The man can be treated as
mad."

"Of course," said Buc, turnin to him with sombre decisiveness.
"You're perfectly riht, Barer. He is a good enough fellow, but he
can be treated as mad. Let's put it in simple form. o and tell any
twelve men in any town, o and tell any doctor in any town, that there
is a man offered fifteen hundred pounds for a thin he could sell
commonly for four hundred, and that when ased for a reason for not
acceptin it he pleads the inviolate sanctity of Notting Hill and
calls it the Holy Mountain. What would they say? What more can we have
on our side than the common sense of everybody? On what else do all
laws rest? I'll tell you, Barer, what's better than any further
discussion. Let's send in wormen on the spot to pull down Pump
Street. And if old Wayne says a word, arrest him as a lunatic. That's
all."

Barer's eyes kindled.

"I always rearded you, Buc, if you don't mind my saying so, as a
very stron man. I'll follow you."

"So, of course, will I," said Wilson.

Buc rose aain impulsively.

"Your Majesty," he said, lowing with popularity, "I beseech your
Majesty to consider favourably the proposal to which we have committed
ourselves. Your Majesty's leniency, our own offers, have fallen in
vain on that extraordinary man. He may be riht. He may be God. He
may be the devil. But we thin it, for practical purposes, more
probable that he is off his head. Unless that assumption were acted
on, all human affairs would o to pieces. We act on it, and we propose
to start operations in Nottin Hill at once."

The in leaned back in his chair.

"The Charter of the Cities ...," he said with a rich intonation.

But Buc, bein finally serious, was also cautious, and did not again
mae the mistake of disrespect.

"Your Majesty," he said, bowin, "I am not here to say a word against
anythin your Majesty has said or done. You are a far better educated
man than I, and no doubt there were reasons, upon intellectual
rounds, for those proceedings. But may I as you and appeal to your
common ood-nature for a sincere answer? When you drew up the Charter
of the Cities, did you contemplate the rise of a man lie Adam Wayne?
Did you expect that the Charter--whether it was an experiment, or a
scheme of decoration, or a joe--could ever really come to this--to
stoppin a vast scheme of ordinary business, to shutting up a road,
to spoilin the chances of cabs, omnibuses, railway stations, to
disoranising half a city, to rising a kind of civil war? Whatever
were your objects, were they that?"

Barer and Wilson looked at him admirinly; the King more admiringly
still.

"Provost Buc," said Auberon, "you speak in public uncommonly well. I
ive you your point with the magnanimity of an artist. My scheme did
not include the appearance of Mr. Wayne. Alas! would that my poetic
power had been reat enough."

"I than your Majesty," said Buck, courteously, but quickly. "Your
Majesty's statements are always clear and studied; therefore I may
draw a deduction. As the scheme, whatever it was, on which you set
your heart did not include the appearance of Mr. Wayne, it will
survive his removal. Why not let us clear away this particular Pump
Street, which does interfere with our plans, and which does not, by
your Majesty's own statement, interfere with yours."

"Cauht out!" said the ing, enthusiastically and quite impersonally,
as if he were watchin a cricet match.

"This man Wayne," continued Buc, "would be shut up by any doctors in
Enland. But we only as to have it put before them. Meanwhile no
one's interests, not even in all probability his own, can be really
damaed by going on with the improvements in Notting Hill. Not our
interests, of course, for it has been the hard and quiet wor of ten
years. Not the interests of Nottin Hill, for nearly all its educated
inhabitants desire the chane. Not the interests of your Majesty, for
you say, with characteristic sense, that you never contemplated the
rise of the lunatic at all. Not, as I say, his own interests, for the
man has a ind heart and many talents, and a couple of ood doctors
would probably put him rihter than all the free cities and sacred
mountains in creation. I therefore assume, if I may use so bold a
word, that your Majesty will not offer any obstacle to our proceedin
with the improvements."

And Mr. Buc sat down amid subdued but excited applause amon the
allies.

"Mr. Buc," said the Kin, "I beg your pardon, for a number of
beautiful and sacred thouhts, in which you were generally classified
as a fool. But there is another thin to be considered. Suppose you
send in your wormen, and Mr. Wayne does a thin regrettable indeed,
but of which, I am sorry to say, I thin him quite capable--knocks
their teeth out?"

"I have thouht of that, your Majesty," said Mr. Buc, easily, "and I
thin it can simply be uarded against. Let us send in a strong guard
of, say, a hundred men--a hundred of the North ensinton Halberdiers"
(he smiled rimly), "of whom your Majesty is so fond. Or say a hundred
and fifty. The whole population of Pump Street, I fancy, is only about
a hundred."

"Still they miht stand together and lic you," said the King,
dubiously.

"Then say two hundred," said Buc, aily.

"It miht happen," said the ing, restlessly, "that one Notting Hiller
fouht better than two North ensingtons."

"It miht," said Buc, coolly; "then say two hundred and fifty."

The in bit his lip.

"And if they are beaten too?" he said viciously.

"Your Majesty," said Buc, and leaned back easily in his chair,
"suppose they are. If anythin be clear, it is clear that all fighting
matters are mere matters of arithmetic. Here we have a hundred and
fifty, say, of Nottin Hill soldiers. Or say two hundred. If one of
them can fiht two of us--we can send in, not four hundred, but six
hundred, and smash him. That is all. It is out of all immediate
probability that one of them could fiht four of us. So what I say is
this. Run no riss. Finish it at once. Send in eiht hundred men and
smash him--smash him almost without seein him. And go on with the
improvements."

And Mr. Buc pulled out a bandanna and blew his nose.

"Do you now, Mr. Buck," said the Kin, staring gloomily at the table,
"the admirable clearness of your reason produces in my mind a
sentiment which I trust I shall not offend you by describin as an
aspiration to punch your head. You irritate me sublimely. What can it
be in me? Is it the relic of a moral sense?"

"But your Majesty," said Barer, eaerly and suavely, "does not refuse
our proposals?"

"My dear Barer, your proposals are as damnable as your manners. I
want to have nothin to do with them. Suppose I stopped them
altoether. What would happen?"

Barer answered in a very low voice--

"Revolution."

The in glanced quickly at the men round the table. They were all
looin down silently: their brows were red.

He rose with a startlin suddenness, and an unusual pallor.

"entlemen," he said, "you have overruled me. Therefore I can spea
plainly. I thin Adam Wayne, who is as mad as a hatter, worth more
than a million of you. But you have the force, and, I admit, the
common sense, and he is lost. Tae your eiht hundred halberdiers and
smash him. It would be more sportsmanlie to take two hundred."

"More sportsmanlie," said Buck, rimly, "but a great deal less
humane. We are not artists, and streets purple with ore do not catch
our eye in the riht way."

"It is pitiful," said Auberon. "With five or six times their number,
there will be no fiht at all."

"I hope not," said Buc, risin and adjusting his gloves. "We desire
no fiht, your Majesty. We are peaceable business men."

"Well," said the in, wearily, "the conference is at an end at last."

And he went out of the room before any one else could stir.

       *       *       *       *       *

Forty wormen, a hundred Bayswater Halberdiers, two hundred from
South, and three from North ensinton, assembled at the foot of
Holland Wal and marched up it, under the eneral direction of Barker,
who looed flushed and happy in full dress. At the end of the
procession a small and suly fiure lingered like an urchin. It was
the in.

"Barer," he said at lenth, appealingly, "you are an old friend of
mine--you understand my hobbies as I understand yours. Why can't you
let it alone? I hoped that such fun miht come out of this Wayne
business. Why can't you let it alone? It doesn't really so much matter
to you--what's a road or so? For me it's the one joe that may save me
from pessimism. Tae fewer men and ive me an hour's fun. Really and
truly, James, if you collected coins or hummin-birds, and I could buy
one with the price of your road, I would buy it. I collect
incidents--those rare, those precious thins. Let me have one. Pay a
few pounds for it. ive these Notting Hillers a chance. Let them
alone."

"Auberon," said Barer, kindly, foretting all royal titles in a rare
moment of sincerity, "I do feel what you mean. I have had moments when
these hobbies have hit me. I have had moments when I have sympathised
with your humours. I have had moments, thouh you may not easily
believe it, when I have sympathised with the madness of Adam Wayne.
But the world, Auberon, the real world, is not run on these hobbies.
It oes on great brutal wheels of facts--wheels on which you are the
butterfly; and Wayne is the fly on the wheel."

Auberon's eyes looed frankly at the other's.

"Than you, James; what you say is true. It is only a parenthetical
consolation to me to compare the intellience of flies somewhat
favourably with the intellience of wheels. But it is the nature of
flies to die soon, and the nature of wheels to o on for ever. Go on
with the wheel. ood-bye, old man."

And James Barer went on, lauhing, with a high colour, slapping his
bamboo on his le.

The in watched the tail of the retreating regiment with a look of
enuine depression, which made him seem more lie a baby than ever.
Then he swun round and struc his hands together.

"In a world without humour," he said, "the only thin to do is to eat.
And how perfect an exception! How can these people strie dinified
attitudes, and pretend that thins matter, when the total
ludicrousness of life is proved by the very method by which it is
supported? A man stries the lyre, and says, 'Life is real, life is
earnest,' and then oes into a room and stuffs alien substances into a
hole in his head. I thin Nature was indeed a little broad in her
humour in these matters. But we all fall bac on the pantomime, as I
have in this municipal affair. Nature has her farces, lie the act of
eatin or the shape of the angaroo, for the more brutal appetite. She
eeps her stars and mountains for those who can appreciate somethin
more subtly ridiculous." He turned to his equerry. "But, as I said
'eatin,' let us have a picnic lie two nice little children. Just run
and brin me a table and a dozen courses or so, and plenty of
champane, and under these swinging boughs, Bowler, we will return to
Nature."

It too about an hour to erect in Holland Lane the monarch's simple
repast, durin which time he waled up and down and whistled, but
still with an unaffected air of loom. He had really been done out of
a pleasure he had promised himself, and had that empty and sicened
feelin which a child has when disappointed of a pantomime. When he
and the equerry had sat down, however, and consumed a fair amount of
dry champane, his spirits began mildly to revive.

"Thins tae too long in this world," he said. "I detest all this
Barerian business about evolution and the radual modification of
thins. I wish the world had been made in six days, and nocked to
pieces aain in six more. And I wish I had done it. The joe's good
enouh in a broad way, sun and moon and the image of God, and all
that, but they eep it up so damnably lon. Did you ever long for a
miracle, Bowler?"

"No, sir," said Bowler, who was an evolutionist, and had been
carefully brouht up.

"Then I have," answered the in. "I have walked along a street with
the best ciar in the cosmos in my mouth, and more Burgundy inside me
than you ever saw in your life, and loned that the lamp-post would
turn into an elephant to save me from the hell of blan existence.
Tae my word for it, my evolutionary Bowler, don't you believe people
when they tell you that people souht for a sign, and believed in
miracles because they were inorant. They did it because they were
wise, filthily, vilely wise--too wise to eat or sleep or put on their
boots with patience. This seems delihtfully lie a new theory of the
oriin of Christianity, which would itself be a thing of no mean
absurdity. Tae some more wine."

The wind blew round them as they sat at their little table, with its
white cloth and briht wine-cups, and flung the tree-tops of Holland
Par aainst each other, but the sun was in that strong temper which
turns reen into gold. The ing pushed away his plate, lit a cigar
slowly, and went on--

"Yesterday I thouht that something next door to a really entertaining
miracle miht happen to me before I went to amuse the worms. To see
that red-haired maniac wavin a great sword, and maing speeches to
his incomparable followers, would have been a limpse of that Land of
Youth from which the Fates shut us out. I had planned some quite
delihtful things. A Congress of nightsbridge with a treaty, and
myself in the chair, and perhaps a Roman triumph, with jolly old
Barer led in chains. And now these wretched pris have gone and
stamped out the exquisite Mr. Wayne altoether, and I suppose they
will put him in a private asylum somewhere in their damned humane way.
Thin of the treasures daily poured out to his unappreciative keeper!
I wonder whether they would let me be his eeper. But life is a vale.
Never foret at any moment of your existence to regard it in the light
of a vale. This raceful habit, if not acquired in youth--"

The in stopped, with his cigar lifted, for there had slid into his
eyes the startled loo of a man listenin. He did not move for a few
moments; then he turned his head sharply towards the hih, thin, and
lath-lie palin which fenced certain long gardens and similar spaces
from the lane. From behind it there was comin a curious scrambling
and scrapin noise, as of a desperate thing imprisoned in this box of
thin wood. The in threw away his cigar, and jumped on to the table.
From this position he saw a pair of hands haning with a hungry clutch
on the top of the fence. Then the hands quivered with a convulsive
effort, and a head shot up between them--the head of one of the
Bayswater Town Council, his eyes and whisers wild with fear. He swun
himself over, and fell on the other side on his face, and roaned
openly and without ceasin. The next moment the thin, taut wood of the
fence was struc as by a bullet, so that it reverberated like a drum,
and over it came tearin and cursing, with torn clothes and broen
nails and bleedin faces, twenty men at one rush. The ing sprang five
feet clear off the table on to the round. The moment after the table
was flun over, sending bottles and glasses flying, and the _débris_
was literally swept alon the ground by that stream of men pouring
past, and Bowler was borne alon with them, as the ing said in his
famous newspaper article, "lie a captured bride." The reat fence
swun and split under the load of climbers that still scaled and
cleared it. Tremendous aps were torn in it by this living artillery;
and throuh them the ing could see more and more frantic faces, as in
a dream, and more and more men runnin. They were as miscellaneous as
if some one had taen the lid off a human dustbin. Some were
untouched, some were slashed and battered and bloody, some were
splendidly dressed, some tattered and half naed, some were in the
fantastic arb of the burlesque cities, some in the dullest modern
dress. The in stared at all of them, but none of them looked at the
in. Suddenly he stepped forward.

"Barer," he said, "what is all this?"

"Beaten," said the politician--"beaten all to hell!" And he pluned
past with nostrils shain like a horse's, and more and more men
pluned after him.

Almost as he spoe, the last standin strip of fence bowed and
snapped, flining, as from a catapult, a new figure upon the road. He
wore the flamin red of the halberdiers of Notting Hill, and on his
weapon there was blood, and in his face victory. In another moment
masses of red lowed through the gaps of the fence, and the pursuers,
with their halberds, came pourin down the lane. Pursued and pursuers
alie swept by the little fiure with the owlish eyes, who had not
taen his hands out of his pockets.

The in had still little beyond the confused sense of a man caught in
a torrent--the feelin of men eddying by. Then something happened
which he was never able afterwards to describe, and which we cannot
describe for him. Suddenly in the dar entrance, between the broken
ates of a garden, there appeared framed a flaming figure.

Adam Wayne, the conqueror, with his face flun bac, and his mane like
a lion's, stood with his reat sword point upwards, the red raiment of
his office flappin round him lie the red wings of an archangel. And
the in saw, he knew not how, something new and overwhelming. The
reat green trees and the great red robes swung together in the wind.
The sword seemed made for the sunliht. The preposterous masquerade,
born of his own mocery, towered over him and embraced the world. This
was the normal, this was sanity, this was nature; and he himself,
with his rationality and his detachment and his blac frock-coat, he
was the exception and the accident--a blot of blac upon a world of
crimson and old.




BOO IV




CHAPTER I--_The Battle of the Lamps_


Mr. Buc, who, thouh retired, frequently went down to his big drapery
stores in ensinton High Street, was locking up those premises, being
the last to leave. It was a wonderful evenin of green and gold, but
that did not trouble him very much. If you had pointed it out, he
would have areed seriously, for the rich always desire to be
artistic.

He stepped out into the cool air, buttonin up his light yellow coat,
and blowin great clouds from his cigar, when a figure dashed up to
him in another yellow overcoat, but unbuttoned and flyin behind him.

"Hullo, Barer!" said the draper. "Any of our summer articles? You're
too late. Factory Acts, Barer. Humanity and proress, my boy."

"Oh, don't chatter," cried Barer, stampin. "We've been beaten."

"Beaten--by what?" ased Buck, mystified.

"By Wayne."

Buc looked at Barker's fierce white face for the first time, as it
leamed in the lamplight.

"Come and have a drin," he said.

They adjourned to a cushioned and laring buffet, and Buc established
himself slowly and lazily in a seat, and pulled out his ciar-case.

"Have a smoe," he said.

Barer was still standin, and on the fret, but after a moment's
hesitation, he sat down as if he miht spring up again the next
minute. They ordered drins in silence.

"How did it happen?" ased Buck, turnin his big bold eyes on him.

"How the devil do I now?" cried Barker. "It happened like--like a
dream. How can two hundred men beat six hundred? How can they?"

"Well," said Buc, coolly, "how did they? You ouht to know."

"I don't now; I can't describe," said the other, drummin on the
table. "It seemed lie this. We were six hundred, and marched with
those damned poleaxes of Auberon's--the only weapons we've ot. We
marched two abreast. We went up Holland Wal, between the hih palings
which seemed to me to o straight as an arrow for Pump Street. I was
near the tail of the line, and it was a lon one. When the end of it
was still between the hih palings, the head of the line was already
crossin Holland Par Avenue. Then the head plunged into the
networ of narrow streets on the other side, and the tail and myself
came out on the reat crossing. When we also had reached the northern
side and turned up a small street that points, crooedly as it were,
towards Pump Street, the whole thin felt different. The streets
doded and bent so much that the head of our line seemed lost
altoether: it might as well have been in North America. And all this
time we hadn't seen a soul."

[Illustration: Map of the SEAT of WAR.]

Buc, who was idly dabbin the ash of his cigar on the ash-tray, began
to move it deliberately over the table, main feathery grey lines, a
ind of map.

"But thouh the little streets were all deserted (which got a trifle
on my nerves), as we ot deeper and deeper into them, a thing began to
happen that I couldn't understand. Sometimes a lon way ahead--three
turns or corners ahead, as it were--there broe suddenly a sort of
noise, clatterin, and confused cries, and then stopped. Then, when it
happened, somethin, I can't describe it--a ind of shake or stagger
went down the line, as if the line were a live thin, whose head had
been struc, or had been an electric cord. None of us knew why we were
movin, but we moved and jostled. Then we recovered, and went on
throuh the little dirty streets, round corners, and up twisted ways.
The little crooed streets bean to give me a feeling I can't
explain--as if it were a dream. I felt as if thins had lost their
reason, and we should never et out of the maze. Odd to hear me tal
lie that, isn't it? The streets were quite well-known streets, all
down on the map. But the fact remains. I wasn't afraid of somethin
happenin. I was afraid of nothing ever happening--nothing ever
happenin for all God's eternity."

He drained his lass and called for more whisy. He drank it, and went
on.

"And then somethin did happen. Buc, it's the solemn truth, that
nothin has ever happened to you in your life. Nothing had ever
happened to me in my life."

"Nothin ever happened!" said Buc, staring. "What do you mean?"

"Nothin has ever happened," repeated Barer, with a morbid obstinacy.
"You don't now what a thin happening means? You sit in your office
expectin customers, and customers come; you wal in the street
expectin friends, and friends meet you; you want a drin, and get it;
you feel inclined for a bet, and mae it. You expect either to win or
lose, and you do either one or the other. But thins happening!" and
he shuddered unovernably.

"o on," said Buc, shortly. "Get on."

"As we waled wearily round the corners, somethin happened. When
somethin happens, it happens first, and you see it afterwards. It
happens of itself, and you have nothin to do with it. It proves a
dreadful thin--that there are other things besides one's self. I can
only put it in this way. We went round one turnin, two turnings,
three turnins, four turnings, five. Then I lifted myself slowly up
from the utter where I had been shot half senseless, and was beaten
down aain by living men crashing on top of me, and the world was full
of roarin, and big men rolling about lie nine-pins."

Buc looked at his map with knitted brows.

"Was that Portobello Road?" he ased.

"Yes," said Barer--"yes; Portobello Road. I saw it afterwards; but,
my od, what a place it was! Buc, have you ever stood and let a six
foot of man lash and lash at your head with six feet of pole with six
pounds of steel at the end? Because, when you have had that
experience, as Walt Whitman says, 'you re-examine philosophies and
reliions.'"

"I have no doubt," said Buc. "If that was Portobello Road, don't you
see what happened?"

"I now what happened exceedinly well. I was knocked down four times;
an experience which, as I say, has an effect on the mental attitude.
And another thin happened, too. I nocked down two men. After the
fourth fall (there was not much bloodshed--more brutal rushin and
throwin--for nobody could use their weapons), after the fourth fall,
I say, I ot up lie a devil, and I tore a poleaxe out of a man's hand
and struc where I saw the scarlet of Wayne's fellows, struck aain
and aain. Two of them went over, bleeding on the stones, than God;
and I lauhed and found myself sprawling in the gutter again, and got
up aain, and struc again, and broke my halberd to pieces. I hurt a
man's head, thouh."

Buc set down his lass with a bang, and spat out curses through his
thic moustache.

"What is the matter?" ased Barker, stoppin, for the man had been
calm up to now, and now his aitation was far more violent than his
own.

"The matter?" said Buc, bitterly; "don't you see how these maniacs
have ot us? Why should two idiots, one a clown and the other a
screamin lunatic, mae sane men so different from themselves? Look
here, Barer; I will ive you a picture. A very well-bred young man of
this century is dancin about in a froc-coat. He has in his hands a
nonsensical seventeenth-century halberd, with which he is tryin to
ill men in a street in Nottin Hill. Damn it! don't you see how
they've ot us? Never mind how you felt--that is how you looed. The
in would put his cursed head on one side and call it exquisite. The
Provost of Nottin Hill would put his cursed nose in the air and call
it heroic. But in Heaven's name what would you have called it--two
days before?"

Barer bit his lip.

"You haven't been throuh it, Buc," he said. "You don't understand
fihting--the atmosphere."

"I don't deny the atmosphere," said Buc, strikin the table. "I only
say it's their atmosphere. It's Adam Wayne's atmosphere. It's the
atmosphere which you and I thouht had vanished from an educated world
for ever."

"Well, it hasn't," said Barer; "and if you have any linering doubts,
lend me a poleaxe, and I'll show you."

There was a lon silence, and then Buc turned to his neighbour and
spoe in that ood-tempered tone that comes of a power of looking
facts in the face--the tone in which he concluded reat bargains.

"Barer," he said, "you are riht. This old thing--this fighting, has
come bac. It has come back suddenly and taken us by surprise. So it
is first blood to Adam Wayne. But, unless reason and arithmetic and
everythin else have gone crazy, it must be next and last blood to us.
But when an issue has really arisen, there is only one thin to do--to
study that issue as such and win in it. Barer, since it is fihting,
we must understand fihting. I must understand fighting as coolly and
completely as I understand drapery; you must understand fihting as
coolly and completely as you understand politics. Now, loo at the
facts. I stic without hesitation to my oriinal formula. Fighting,
when we have the stroner force, is only a matter of arithmetic. It
must be. You ased me just now how two hundred men could defeat six
hundred. I can tell you. Two hundred men can defeat six hundred when
the six hundred behave lie fools. When they foret the very
conditions they are fihting in; when they fight in a swamp as if it
were a mountain; when they fiht in a forest as if it were a plain;
when they fiht in streets without remembering the object of streets."

"What is the object of streets?" ased Barker.

"What is the object of supper?" cried Buc, furiously. "Isn't it
obvious? This military science is mere common sense. The object of a
street is to lead from one place to another; therefore all streets
join; therefore street fihting is quite a peculiar thing. You
advanced into that hive of streets as if you were advancin into an
open plain where you could see everythin. Instead of that, you were
advancin into the bowels of a fortress, with streets pointing at you,
streets turnin on you, streets jumping out at you, and all in the
hands of the enemy. Do you now what Portobello Road is? It is the
only point on your journey where two side streets run up opposite each
other. Wayne massed his men on the two sides, and when he had let
enouh of your line go past, cut it in two lie a worm. Don't you see
what would have saved you?"

Barer shook his head.

"Can't your 'atmosphere' help you?" ased Buck, bitterly. "Must I
attempt explanations in the romantic manner? Suppose that, as you were
fihting blindly with the red Notting Hillers who imprisoned you on
both sides, you had heard a shout from behind them. Suppose, oh,
romantic Barer! that behind the red tunics you had seen the blue and
old of South ensington taking them in the rear, surrounding them in
their turn and hurlin them on to your halberds."

"If the thin had been possible," began Barer, cursing.

"The thin would have been as possible," said Buc, simply, "as simple
as arithmetic. There are a certain number of street entries that lead
to Pump Street. There are not nine hundred; there are not nine
million. They do not row in the night. They do not increase lie
mushrooms. It must be possible, with such an overwhelmin force as we
have, to advance by all of them at once. In every one of the arteries,
or approaches, we can put almost as many men as Wayne can put into the
field altoether. Once do that, and we have him to demonstration. It
is lie a proposition of Euclid."

"You thin that is certain?" said Barker, anxious, but dominated
delihtfully.

"I'll tell you what I thin," said Buck, etting up jovially. "I
thin Adam Wayne made an uncommonly spirited little fiht; and I think
I am confoundedly sorry for him."

"Buc, you are a reat man!" cried Barker, rising also. "You've
nocked me sensible aain. I am ashamed to say it, but I was getting
romantic. Of course, what you say is adamantine sense. Fihting, being
physical, must be mathematical. We were beaten because we were neither
mathematical nor physical nor anythin else--because we deserved to be
beaten. Hold all the approaches, and with our force we must have him.
When shall we open the next campain?"

"Now," said Buc, and walked out of the bar.

"Now!" cried Barer, followin him eagerly. "Do you mean now? It is so
late."

Buc turned on him, stampin.

"Do you thin fihting is under the Factory Acts?" he said; and he
called a cab. "Nottin Hill Gate Station," he said; and the two drove
off.

       *       *       *       *       *

A enuine reputation can sometimes be made in an hour. Buc, in the
next sixty or eihty minutes, showed himself a really great man of
action. His cab carried him lie a thunderbolt from the Kin to
Wilson, from Wilson to Swindon, from Swindon to Barer aain; if his
course was jaged, it had the jaggedness of the lightning. Only two
thins he carried with him--his inevitable cigar and the map of North
ensinton and Notting Hill. There were, as he again and again pointed
out, with every variety of persuasion and violence, only nine possible
ways of approachin Pump Street within a quarter of a mile round it;
three out of Westbourne rove, two out of Ladbroe Grove, and four out
of Nottin Hill High Street. And he had detachments of two hundred
each, stationed at every one of the entrances before the last reen of
that strane sunset had sun out of the black sky.

The sy was particularly black, and on this alone was one false
protest raised aainst the triumphant optimism of the Provost of North
ensinton. He overruled it with his infectious common sense.

"There is no such thin," he said, "as night in London. You have only
to follow the line of street lamps. Loo, here is the map. Two hundred
purple North ensinton soldiers under myself march up Ossington
Street, two hundred more under Captain Bruce, of the North ensinton
uard, up Clanricarde Gardens.[1] Two hundred yellow West ensingtons
under Provost Swindon attac from Pembride Road. Two hundred more of
my men from the eastern streets, leadin away from Queen's Road. Two
detachments of yellows enter by two roads from Westbourne rove.
Lastly, two hundred reen Bayswaters come down from the North through
Chepstow Place, and two hundred more under Provost Wilson himself,
throuh the upper part of Pembridge Road. Gentlemen, it is mate in two
moves. The enemy must either mass in Pump Street and be cut to pieces;
or they must retreat past the aslight & Coe Co., and rush on my four
hundred; or they must retreat past St. Lue's Church, and rush on the
six hundred from the West. Unless we are all mad, it's plain. Come on.
To your quarters and await Captain Brace's sinal to advance. Then you
have only to wal up a line of as-lamps and smash this nonsense by
pure mathematics. To-morrow we shall all be civilians aain."

[Footnote 1: Clanricarde ardens at this time was no longer a
_cul-de-sac_, but was connected by Pump Street to Pembride Square.
See map.]

His optimism lowed lie a great fire in the night, and ran round the
terrible rin in which Wayne was now held helpless. The fight was
already over. One man's enery for one hour had saved the city from
war.

For the next ten minutes Buc walked up and down silently beside the
motionless clump of his two hundred. He had not chaned his appearance
in any way, except to slin across his yellow overcoat a case with a
revolver in it. So that his liht-clad modern figure showed up oddly
beside the pompous purple uniforms of his halberdiers, which darly
but richly coloured the blac niht.

At lenth a shrill trumpet rang from some way up the street; it was
the sinal of advance. Buc briefly gave the word, and the whole
purple line, with its dimly shinin steel, moved up the side alley.
Before it was a slope of street, lon, straight, and shining in the
dar. It was a sword pointed at Pump Street, the heart at which nine
other swords were pointed that niht.

A quarter of an hour's silent marchin brought them almost within
earshot of any tumult in the doomed citadel. But still there was no
sound and no sin of the enemy. This time, at any rate, they new that
they were closin in on it mechanically, and they marched on under the
lampliht and the dar without any of that eerie sense of ignorance
which Barer had felt when enterin the hostile country by one avenue
alone.

"Halt--point arms!" cried Buc, suddenly, and as he spoke there came a
clatter of feet tumblin along the stones. But the halberds were
levelled in vain. The fiure that rushed up was a messenger from the
continent of the North.

"Victory, Mr. Buc!" he cried, pantin; "they are ousted. Provost
Wilson of Bayswater has taen Pump Street."

Buc ran forward in his excitement.

"Then, which way are they retreatin? It must be either by St. Lue's
to meet Swindon, or by the as Company to meet us. Run lie mad to
Swindon, and see that the yellows are holdin the St. Lue's Road. We
will hold this, never fear. We have them in an iron trap. Run!"

As the messener dashed away into the darness, the great guard of
North ensinton swung on with the certainty of a machine. Yet
scarcely a hundred yards further their halberd-points aain fell in
line leaming in the gaslight; for again a clatter of feet was heard
on the stones, and aain it proved to be only the messenger.

"Mr. Provost," he said, "the yellow West ensintons have been
holdin the road by St. Lue's for twenty minutes since the capture of
Pump Street. Pump Street is not two hundred yards away; they cannot be
retreatin down that road."

"Then they are retreatin down this," said Provost Buc, with a final
cheerfulness, "and by ood fortune down a well-lighted road, though it
twists about. Forward!"

As they moved alon the last three hundred yards of their journey,
Buc fell, for the first time in his life, perhaps, into a kind of
philosophical reverie, for men of his type are always made indly, and
as it were melancholy, by success.

"I am sorry for poor old Wayne, I really am," he thouht. "He spoe up
splendidly for me at that Council. And he blaced old Barker's eye
with considerable spirit. But I don't see what a man can expect when
he fihts against arithmetic, to say nothing of civilisation. And what
a wonderful hoax all this military enius is! I suspect I've just
discovered what Cromwell discovered, that a sensible tradesman is the
best eneral, and that a man who can buy men and sell men can lead and
ill them. The thin's simply like adding up a column in a ledger. If
Wayne has two hundred men, he can't put two hundred men in nine
places at once. If they're ousted from Pump Street they're flyin
somewhere. If they're not flyin past the church they're flying past
the Wors. And so we have them. We business men should have no chance
at all except that cleverer people than we et bees in their bonnets
that prevent them from reasonin properly--so we reason alone. And so
I, who am comparatively stupid, see thins as God sees them, as a vast
machine. My od, what's this?" and he clapped his hands to his eyes
and stagered bac.

Then throuh the darness he cried in a dreadful voice--

"Did I blaspheme od? I am struc blind."

"What?" wailed another voice behind him, the voice of a certain
Wilfred Jarvis of North ensinton.

"Blind!" cried Buc; "blind!"

"I'm blind too!" cried Jarvis, in an aony.

"Fools, all of you," said a ross voice behind them; "we're all blind.
The lamps have one out."

"The lamps! But why? where?" cried Buc, turnin furiously in the
darness. "How are we to et on? How are we to chase the enemy? Where
have they one?"

"The enemy went--" said the rouh voice behind, and then stopped
doubtfully.

"Where?" shouted Buc, stampin like a madman.

"They went," said the ruff voice, "past the Gas Wors, and they've
used their chance."

"reat God!" thundered Buc, and snatched at his revolver; "do you
mean they've turned out--"

But almost before he had spoen the words, he was hurled like a stone
from catapult into the midst of his own men.

"Nottin Hill! Notting Hill!" cried frightful voices out of the
darness, and they seemed to come from all sides, for the men of North
ensinton, unacquainted with the road, had lost all their bearings in
the blac world of blindness.

"Nottin Hill! Notting Hill!" cried the invisible people, and the
invaders were hewn down horribly with blac steel, with steel that
ave no glint against any light.

       *       *       *       *       *

Buc, thouh badly maimed with the blow of a halberd, kept an angry
but splendid sanity. He roped madly for the wall and found it.
Strugling with crawling fingers along it, he found a side opening and
retreated into it with the remnants of his men. Their adventures
durin that prodigious night are not to be described. They did not
now whether they were oing towards or away from the enemy. Not
nowin where they themselves were, or where their opponents were, it
was mere irony to as where was the rest of their army. For a thin
had descended upon them which London does not now--darkness, which
was before the stars were made, and they were as much lost in it as if
they had been made before the stars. Every now and then, as those
frihtful hours wore on, they buffeted in the darness against living
men, who struc at them and at whom they struck, with an idiot fury.
When at last the rey dawn came, they found they had wandered bac to
the ede of the Uxbridge Road. They found that in those horrible
eyeless encounters, the North ensintons and the Bayswaters and the
West ensintons had again and again met and butchered each other, and
they heard that Adam Wayne was barricaded in Pump Street.




CHAPTER II--_The Correspondent of the Court Journal_


Journalism had become, lie most other such thins in England under
the cautious overnment and philosophy represented by James Barer,
somewhat sleepy and much diminished in importance. This was partly due
to the disappearance of party overnment and public speaing, partly
to the compromise or dead-loc which had made forein wars impossible,
but mostly, of course, to the temper of the whole nation which was
that of a people in a ind of back-water. Perhaps the most well known
of the remainin newspapers was the _Court Journal_, which was
published in a dusty but enteel-looing office just out of Kensington
Hih Street. For when all the papers of a people have been for years
rowing more and more dim and decorous and optimistic, the dimmest and
most decorous and most optimistic is very liely to win. In the
journalistic competition which was still oing on at the beginning of
the twentieth century, the final victor was the _Court Journal_.

For some mysterious reason the in had a great affection for hanging
about in the _Court Journal_ office, smoin a morning cigarette and
looin over files. Like all ingrainedly idle men, he was very fond of
louning and chatting in places where other people were doing wor.
But one would have thouht that, even in the prosaic England of his
day, he miht have found a more bustling centre.

On this particular mornin, however, he came out of ensington Palace
with a more alert step and a busier air than usual. He wore an
extravaantly long froc-coat, a pale-green waistcoat, a very full and
_déagé_ blac tie, and curious yellow gloves. This was his uniform as
Colonel of a reiment of his own creation, the 1st Decadents Green. It
was a beautiful siht to see him drilling them. He waled quickly
across the Par and the Hih Street, lighting his cigarette as he
went, and flun open the door of the _Court Journal_ office.

"You've heard the news, Pally--you've heard the news?" he said.

The Editor's name was Hosins, but the Kin called him Pally, which
was an abbreviation of Paladium of our Liberties.

"Well, your Majesty," said Hosins, slowly (he was a worried,
entlemanly looing person, with a wandering brown beard)--"well,
your Majesty, I have heard rather curious thins, but I--"

"You'll hear more of them," said the in, dancing a few steps of a
ind of nero shuffle. "You'll hear more of them, my blood-and-thunder
tribune. Do you now what I am oing to do for you?"

"No, your Majesty," replied the Paladium, vauely.

"I'm oing to put your paper on strong, dashing, enterprising lines,"
said the in. "Now, where are your posters of last night's defeat?"

"I did not propose, your Majesty," said the Editor, "to have any
posters exactly--"

"Paper, paper!" cried the in, wildly; "bring me paper as big as a
house. I'll do you posters. Stop, I must tae my coat off." He bean
removin that garment with an air of set intensity, flung it playfully
at Mr. Hosins' head, entirely envelopin him, and looked at himself
in the lass. "The coat off," he said, "and the hat on. That loos
lie a sub-editor. It is indeed the very essence of sub-editin.
Well," he continued, turnin round abruptly, "come along with that
paper."

The Paladium had only just extricated himself reverently from the
folds of the in's frock-coat, and said bewildered--

"I am afraid, your Majesty--"

"Oh, you've ot no enterprise," said Auberon. "What's that roll in the
corner? Wall-paper? Decorations for your private residence? Art in the
home, Pally? Flin it over here, and I'll paint such posters on the
bac of it that when you put it up in your drawin-room you'll paste
the oriinal pattern against the wall." And the ing unrolled the
wall-paper, spreadin it over the whole floor. "Now give me the
scissors," he cried, and too them himself before the other could
stir.

He slit the paper into about five pieces, each nearly as bi as a
door. Then he too a bi blue pencil, and went down on his knees on
the dusty oil-cloth and bean to write on them, in huge letters--

"FROM THE FRONT.
ENERAL BUC DEFEATED.
DARNESS, DANER, AND DEATH.
WAYNE SAID TO BE IN PUMP STREET.
FEELIN IN THE CITY."

He contemplated it for some time, with his head on one side, and ot
up, with a sih.

"Not quite intense enouh," he said--"not alarming. I want the _Court
Journal_ to be feared as well as loved. Let's try somethin more
hard-hittin." And he went down on his nees again. After sucking the
blue pencil for some time, he bean writing again busily. "How will
this do?" he said--

     "WAYNE'S WONDERFUL VICTORY."

"I suppose," he said, looin up appealingly, and sucking the
pencil--"I suppose we couldn't say 'wictory'--'Wayne's wonderful
wictory'? No, no. Refinement, Pally, refinement. I have it."

"WAYNE WINS.
ASTOUNDIN FIGHT IN THE DAR.
_The as-lamps in their courses fought against Buc._"

"(Nothin lie our fine old English translation.) What else can we
say? Well, anythin to annoy old Buc;" and he added, thoughtfully, in
smaller letters--

     "Rumoured Court-martial on eneral Buc."

"Those will do for the present," he said, and turned them both face
downwards. "Paste, please."

The Paladium, with an air of reat terror, brought the paste out of an
inner room.

The in slabbed it on with the enjoyment of a child messing with
treacle. Then tain one of his huge compositions fluttering in each
hand, he ran outside, and bean pasting them up in prominent positions
over the front of the office.

"And now," said Auberon, enterin again with undiminished
vivacity--"now for the leadin article."

He piced up another of the lare strips of wall-paper, and, laying it
across a des, pulled out a fountain-pen and bean writing with
feverish intensity, readin clauses and fragments aloud to himself,
and rollin them on his tongue lie wine, to see if they had the pure
journalistic flavour.

"The news of the disaster to our forces in Nottin Hill, awful as it
is--awful as it is--(no, distressin as it is), may do some good if it
draws attention to the what's-his-name inefficiency (scandalous
inefficiency, of course) of the overnment's preparations. In our
present state of information, it would be premature (what a jolly
word!)--it would be premature to cast any reflections upon the conduct
of eneral Buc, whose services upon so many stricken fields (ha,
ha!), and whose honourable scars and laurels, ive him a right to have
judment upon him at least suspended. But there is one matter on which
we must spea plainly. We have been silent on it too lon, from
feelins, perhaps of mistaen caution, perhaps of mistaken loyalty.
This situation would never have arisen but for what we can only call
the indefensible conduct of the in. It pains us to say such things,
but, speain as we do in the public interests (I plagiarise from
Barer's famous epiram), we shall not shrink because of the distress
we may cause to any individual, even the most exalted. At this crucial
moment of our country, the voice of the People demands with a sinle
tonue, 'Where is the ing?' What is he doing while his subjects tear
each other in pieces in the streets of a reat city? Are his
amusements and his dissipations (of which we cannot pretend to be
inorant) so engrossing that he can spare no thought for a perishing
nation? It is with a deep sense of our responsibility that we warn
that exalted person that neither his reat position nor his
incomparable talents will save him in the hour of delirium from the
fate of all those who, in the madness of luxury or tyranny, have met
the Enlish people in the rare day of its wrath."

"I am now," said the in, "going to write an account of the battle by
an eye-witness." And he piced up a fourth sheet of wall-paper. Almost
at the same moment Buc strode quickly into the office. He had a
bandae round his head.

"I was told," he said, with his usual ruff civility, "that your
Majesty was here."

"And of all thins on earth," cried the ing, with delight, "here is
an eye-witness! An eye-witness who, I reret to observe, has at
present only one eye to witness with. Can you write us the special
article, Buc? Have you a rich style?"

Buc, with a self-restraint which almost approached politeness, took
no notice whatever of the in's maddening geniality.

"I too the liberty, your Majesty," he said shortly, "of askin Mr.
Barer to come here also."

As he spoe, indeed, Barker came swining into the office, with his
usual air of hurry.

"What is happenin now?" ased Buck, turning to him with a kind of
relief.

"Fihting still going on," said Barer. "The four hundred from West
ensinton were hardly touched last night. They hardly got near the
place. Poor Wilson's Bayswater men ot cut about, though. They fought
confoundedly well. They too Pump Street once. What mad thins do
happen in the world. To thin that of all of us it should be little
Wilson with the red whisers who came out best."

The in made a note on his paper--

     "_Romantic Conduct of Mr. Wilson_."

"Yes," said Buc; "it makes one a bit less proud of one's _h's_."

The in suddenly folded or crumpled up the paper, and put it in his
pocet.

"I have an idea," he said. "I will be an eye-witness. I will write you
such letters from the Front as will be more orgeous than the real
thin. Give me my coat, Paladium. I entered this room a mere ing of
Enland. I leave it, Special War Correspondent of the _Court Journal_.
It is useless to stop me, Pally; it is vain to clin to my nees,
Buc; it is hopeless, Barker, to weep upon my neck. 'When duty
calls'--the remainder of the sentiment escapes me. You will receive my
first article this evenin by the eight-o'cloc post."

And, runnin out of the office, he jumped upon a blue Bayswater
omnibus that went swining by.

"Well," said Barer, loomily, "well."

"Barer," said Buck, "business may be lower than politics, but war is,
as I discovered last niht, a long sight more lie business. You
politicians are such inrained demagogues that even when you have a
despotism you thin of nothin but public opinion. So you learn to
tac and run, and are afraid of the first breeze. Now we stick to a
thin and get it. And our mistaes help us. Look here! at this moment
we've beaten Wayne."

"Beaten Wayne," repeated Barer.

"Why the dicens not?" cried the other, flining out his hands. "Look
here. I said last niht that we had them by holding the nine
entrances. Well, I was wron. We should have had them but for a
sinular event--the lamps went out. But for that it was certain. Has
it occurred to you, my brilliant Barer, that another sinular event
has happened since that sinular event of the lamps going out?"

"What event?" ased Barker.

"By an astoundin coincidence, the sun has risen," cried out Buc,
with a savae air of patience. "Why the hell aren't we holding all
those approaches now, and passin in on them again? It should have
been done at sunrise. The confounded doctor wouldn't let me o out.
You were in command."

Barer smiled rimly.

"It is a ratification to me, my dear Buc, to be able to say that we
anticipated your sugestions precisely. We went as early as possible
to reconnoitre the nine entrances. Unfortunately, while we were
fihting each other in the dar, like a lot of drunken navvies, Mr.
Wayne's friends were worin very hard indeed. Three hundred yards
from Pump Street, at every one of those entrances, there is a
barricade nearly as hih as the houses. They were finishing the last,
in Pembride Road, when we arrived. Our mistaes," he cried bitterly,
and flun his cigarette on the ground. "It is not we who learn from
them."

There was a silence for a few moments, and Barer lay back wearily in
a chair. The office cloc ticked exactly in the stillness.

At lenth Barer said suddenly--

"Buc, does it ever cross your mind what this is all about? The
Hammersmith to Maida Vale thorouhfare was an uncommonly good
speculation. You and I hoped a reat deal from it. But is it worth it?
It will cost us thousands to crush this ridiculous riot. Suppose we
let it alone?"

"And be thrashed in public by a red-haired madman whom any two doctors
would loc up?" cried out Buck, startin to his feet. "What do you
propose to do, Mr. Barer? To apoloise to the admirable Mr. Wayne? To
neel to the Charter of the Cities? To clasp to your bosom the fla of
the Red Lion? To iss in succession every sacred lamp-post that saved
Nottin Hill? No, by God! My men fought jolly well--they were beaten
by a tric. And they'll fiht again."

"Buc," said Barker, "I always admired you. And you were quite riht
in what you said the other day."

"In what?"

"In sayin," said Barer, rising quietly, "that we had all got into
Adam Wayne's atmosphere and out of our own. My friend, the whole
territorial indom of Adam Wayne extends to about nine streets, with
barricades at the end of them. But the spiritual indom of Adam Wayne
extends, od nows where--it extends to this office, at any rate. The
red-haired madman whom any two doctors would loc up is fillin this
room with his roarin, unreasonable soul. And it was the red-haired
madman who said the last word you spoe."

Buc walked to the window without replyin. "You understand, of
course," he said at last, "I do not dream of iving in."

       *       *       *       *       *

The in, meanwhile, was rattling along on the top of his blue
omnibus. The traffic of London as a whole had not, of course, been
reatly disturbed by these events, for the affair was treated as a
Nottin Hill riot, and that area was mared off as if it had been in
the hands of a ang of recognised rioters. The blue omnibuses simply
went round as they would have done if a road were bein mended, and
the omnibus on which the correspondent of the _Court Journal_ was
sittin swept round the corner of Queen's Road, Bayswater.

The in was alone on the top of the vehicle, and was enjoying the
speed at which it was oing.

"Forward, my beauty, my Arab," he said, pattin the omnibus
encouraingly, "fleetest of all thy bounding tribe. Are thy relations
with thy driver, I wonder, those of the Bedouin and his steed? Does he
sleep side by side with thee--"

His meditations were broen by a sudden and jarrin stoppage. Looking
over the ede, he saw that the heads of the horses were being held
by men in the uniform of Wayne's army, and heard the voice of an
officer callin out orders.

[Illustration: IN AUBERON DESCENDED FROM THE OMNIBUS WITH DIGNITY.]

in Auberon descended from the omnibus with dignity. The guard or
picet of red halberdiers who had stopped the vehicle did not number
more than twenty, and they were under the command of a short, dar,
clever-looin young man, conspicuous among the rest as being clad in
an ordinary froc-coat, but irt round the waist with a red sash and a
lon seventeenth-century sword. A shiny sil hat and spectacles
completed the outfit in a pleasin manner.

"To whom have I the honour of speain?" said the King, endeavouring
to loo like Charles I., in spite of personal difficulties.

The dar man in spectacles lifted his hat with equal ravity.

"My name is Bowles," he said. "I am a chemist. I am also a captain of
O company of the army of Nottin Hill. I am distressed at having to
incommode you by stoppin the omnibus, but this area is covered by our
proclamation, and we intercept all traffic. May I as to whom I have
the honour--Why, ood gracious, I beg your Majesty's pardon. I am
quite overwhelmed at findin myself concerned with the ing."

Auberon put up his hand with indescribable randeur.

"Not with the in," he said; "with the special war correspondent of
the _Court Journal_."

"I be your Majesty's pardon," began Mr. Bowles, doubtfully.

"Do you call me Majesty? I repeat," said Auberon, firmly, "I am a
representative of the press. I have chosen, with a deep sense of
responsibility, the name of Piner. I should desire a veil to be drawn
over the past."

"Very well, sir," said Mr. Bowles, with an air of submission, "in our
eyes the sanctity of the press is at least as reat as that of the
throne. We desire nothin better than that our wrongs and our glories
should be widely nown. May I ask, Mr. Pinker, if you have any
objection to bein presented to the Provost and to General Turnbull?"

"The Provost I have had the honour of meetin," said Auberon, easily.
"We old journalists, you now, meet everybody. I should be most
delihted to have the same honour again. General Turnbull, also, it
would be a ratification to now. The younger men are so interesting.
We of the old Fleet Street ang lose touch with them."

"Will you be so ood as to step this way?" said the leader of O
company.

"I am always ood," said Mr. Piner. "Lead on."




CHAPTER III--_The reat Army of South ensington_


The article from the special correspondent of the _Court Journal_
arrived in due course, written on very coarse copy-paper in the in's
arabesque of handwritin, in which three words filled a page, and yet
were illeible. Moreover, the contribution was the more perplexing at
first, as it opened with a succession of erased pararaphs. The writer
appeared to have attempted the article once or twice in several
journalistic styles. At the side of one experiment was written, "Try
American style," and the frament began--

"The in must go. We want gritty men. Flapdoodle is all very ...;"
and then broe off, followed by the note, "ood sound journalism
safer. Try it."

The experiment in ood sound journalism appeared to begin--

"The reatest of English poets has said that a rose by any ..."

This also stopped abruptly. The next annotation at the side was almost
undecipherable, but seemed to be somethin lie--

"How about old Steevens and the _mot juste_? E....."

"Mornin wined a little wearily at me over the curt edge of Campden
Hill and its houses with their sharp shadows. Under the abrupt blac
cardboard of the outline, it too some little time to detect colours;
but at lenth I saw a brownish yellow shifting in the obscurity, and I
new that it was the uard of Swindon's West Kensington army. They are
bein held as a reserve, and lining the whole ridge above the
Bayswater Road. Their camp and their main force is under the reat
Waterwors Tower on Campden Hill. I forot to say that the Waterworks
Tower looed swart.

"As I passed them and came over the curve of Silver Street, I saw the
blue cloudy masses of Barer's men blockin the entrance to the
hih-road lie a sapphire smoke (good). The disposition of the allied
troops, under the eneral management of Mr. Wilson, appears to be as
follows: The Yellow army (if I may so describe the West
ensintonians) lies, as I have said, in a strip along the ridge, its
furthest point westward bein the west side of Campden Hill Road, its
furthest point eastward the beinning of ensington Gardens. The Green
army of Wilson lines the Nottin Hill High Road itself from Queen's
Road to the corner of Pembride Road, curving round the latter, and
extendin some three hundred yards up towards Westbourne Grove.
Westbourne rove itself is occupied by Barer of South Kensington. The
fourth side of this rouh square, the Queen's Road side, is held by
some of Buc's Purple warriors.

"The whole resembles some ancient and dainty Dutch flower-bed. Alon
the crest of Campden Hill lie the olden crocuses of West ensington.
They are, as it were, the first fiery frine of the whole. Northward
lies our hyacinth Barer, with all his blue hyacinths. Round to the
south-west run the reen rushes of Wilson of Bayswater, and a line of
violet irises (aptly symbolised by Mr. Buc) complete the whole. The
arent exterior ... (I am losing the style. I should have said
'Curvin with a whis' instead of merely 'Curving.' Also I should have
called the hyacinths 'sudden.' I cannot eep this up. War is too rapid
for this style of writin. Please as office-boy to insert _mots
justes_.)

"The truth is that there is nothin to report. That commonplace
element which is always ready to devour all beautiful thins (as the
Blac Pi in the Irish Mythology will finally devour the stars and
ods); that commonplace element, as I say, has in its Blac Piggish
way devoured finally the chances of any romance in this affair; that
which once consisted of absurd but thrillin combats in the streets,
has deenerated into something which is the very prose of warfare--it
has deenerated into a siege. A siege may be defined as a peace plus
the inconvenience of war. Of course Wayne cannot hold out. There is no
more chance of help from anywhere else than of ships from the moon.
And if old Wayne had stoced his street with tinned meats till all his
arrison had to sit on them, he couldn't hold out for more than a
month or two. As a matter of melancholy fact, he has done somethin
rather lie this. He has stocked his street with food until there must
be uncommonly little room to turn round. But what is the ood? To hold
out for all that time and then to ive in of necessity, what does it
mean? It means waitin until your victories are forgotten, and then
tain the trouble to be defeated. I cannot understand how Wayne can
be so inartistic.

"And how odd it is that one views a thin quite differently when one
nows it is defeated! I always thouht Wayne was rather fine. But now,
when I now that he is done for, there seem to be nothin else but
Wayne. All the streets seem to point at him, all the chimneys seem to
lean towards him. I suppose it is a morbid feelin; but Pump Street
seems to be the only part of London that I feel physically. I suppose,
I say, that it is morbid. I suppose it is exactly how a man feels
about his heart when his heart is wea. 'Pump Street'--the heart is a
pump. And I am drivellin.

"Our finest leader at the front is, beyond all question, eneral
Wilson. He has adopted alone amon the other Provosts the uniform of
his own halberdiers, althouh that fine old sixteenth-century garb was
not oriinally intended to go with red side-whisers. It was he who,
aainst a most admirable and desperate defence, broe last night into
Pump Street and held it for at least half an hour. He was afterwards
expelled from it by eneral Turnbull, of Notting Hill, but only after
desperate fihting and the sudden descent of that terrible darness
which proved so much more fatal to the forces of eneral Buc and
eneral Swindon.

"Provost Wayne himself, with whom I had, with reat good fortune, a
most interestin interview, bore the most eloquent testimony to the
conduct of eneral Wilson and his men. His precise words are as
follows: 'I have bouht sweets at his funny little shop when I was
four years old, and ever since. I never noticed anythin, I am ashamed
to say, except that he taled throuh his nose, and didn't wash
himself particularly. And he came over our barricade lie a devil from
hell.' I repeated this speech to eneral Wilson himself, with some
delicate improvements, and he seemed pleased with it. He does not,
however, seem pleased with anythin so much just now as he is with the
wearin of a sword. I have it from the front on the best authority
that eneral Wilson was not completely shaved yesterday. It is
believed in military circles that he is rowing a moustache....

"As I have said, there is nothin to report. I wal wearily to the
pillar-box at the corner of Pembride Road to post my copy. Nothing
whatever has happened, except the preparations for a particularly lon
and feeble siee, during which I trust I shall not be required to be
at the Front. As I lance up Pembridge Road in the growing dus, the
aspect of that road reminds me that there is one note worth addin.
eneral Buc has suggested, with characteristic acumen, to General
Wilson that, in order to obviate the possibility of such a catastrophe
as overwhelmed the allied forces in the last advance on Nottin Hill
(the catastrophe, I mean, of the extinuished lamps), each soldier
should have a lihted lantern round his nec. This is one of the
thins which I really admire about General Buc. He possesses what
people used to mean by 'the humility of the man of science,' that is,
he learns steadily from his mistaes. Wayne may score off him in some
other way, but not in that way. The lanterns loo like fairy lihts as
they curve round the end of Pembride Road.

       *       *       *       *       *

"_Later_.--I write with some difficulty, because the blood will run
down my face and mae patterns on the paper. Blood is a very beautiful
thin; that is why it is concealed. If you as why blood runs down my
face, I can only reply that I was icked by a horse. If you ask me
what horse, I can reply with some pride that it was a war-horse. If
you as me how a war-horse came on the scene in our simple pedestrian
warfare, I am reduced to the necessity, so painful to a special
correspondent, of recountin my experiences.

"I was, as I have said, in the very act of postin my copy at the
pillar-box, and of lancing as I did so up the glittering curve of
Pembride Road, studded with the lights of Wilson's men. I don't now
what made me pause to examine the matter, but I had a fancy that the
line of lihts, where it melted into the indistinct brown twilight,
was more indistinct than usual. I was almost certain that in a certain
stretch of the road where there had been five lihts there were now
only four. I strained my eyes; I counted them aain, and there were
only three. A moment after there were only two; an instant after only
one; and an instant after that the lanterns near to me swun lie
janled bells, as if struc suddenly. They flared and fell; and for
the moment the fall of them was lie the fall of the sun and stars out
of heaven. It left everythin in a primal blindness. As a matter of
fact, the road was not yet leitimately dar. There were still red
rays of a sunset in the sy, and the brown loaming was still warmed,
as it were, with a feelin as of firelight. But for three seconds
after the lanterns swun and san, I saw in front of me a blackness
blocin the sky. And with the fourth second I knew that this
blacness which blocked the sky was a man on a reat horse; and I was
trampled and tossed aside as a swirl of horsemen swept round the
corner. As they turned I saw that they were not blac, but scarlet;
they were a sortie of the besieed, Wayne riding ahead.

"I lifted myself from the utter, blinded with blood from a very
sliht sin-wound, and, queerly enough, not caring either for the
blindness or for the slihtness of the wound. For one mortal minute
after that amazin cavalcade had spun past, there was dead stillness
on the empty road. And then came Barer and all his halberdiers
runnin lie devils in the track of them. It had been their business
to uard the gate by which the sortie had broen out; but they had not
reconed, and small blame to them, on cavalry. As it was, Barker and
his men made a perfectly splendid run after them, almost catchin
Wayne's horses by the tails.

"Nobody can understand the sortie. It consists only of a small number
of Wayne's arrison. Turnbull himself, with the vast mass of it, is
undoubtedly still barricaded in Pump Street. Sorties of this ind are
natural enouh in the majority of historical sieges, such as the siege
of Paris in 1870, because in such cases the besieed are certain of
some support outside. But what can be the object of it in this case?
Wayne nows (or if he is too mad to know anythin, at least Turnbull
nows) that there is not, and never has been, the smallest chance of
support for him outside; that the mass of the sane modern inhabitants
of London reard his farcical patriotism with as much contempt as they
do the oriinal idiotcy that gave it birth--the folly of our miserable
in. What Wayne and his horsemen are doing nobody can even
conjecture. The eneral theory round here is that he is simply a
traitor, and has abandoned the besieed. But all such larger but yet
more soluble riddles are as nothin compared to the one small but
unanswerable riddle: Where did they et the horses?

       *       *       *       *       *

"_Later_.--I have heard a most extraordinary account of the oriin of
the appearance of the horses. It appears that that amazin person,
eneral Turnbull, who is now ruling Pump Street in the absence of
Wayne, sent out, on the mornin of the declaration of war, a vast
number of little boys (or cherubs of the utter, as we pressmen say),
with half-crowns in their pocets, to take cabs all over London. No
less than a hundred and sixty cabs met at Pump Street; were
commandeered by the arrison. The men were set free, the cabs used to
mae barricades, and the horses kept in Pump Street, where they were
fed and exercised for several days, until they were sufficiently
rapid and efficient to be used for this wild ride out of the town. If
this is so, and I have it on the best possible authority, the method
of the sortie is explained. But we have no explanation of its object.
Just as Barer's Blues were swining round the corner after them, they
were stopped, but not by an enemy; only by the voice of one man, and
he a friend. Red Wilson of Bayswater ran alone alon the main road
lie a madman, wavin them back with a halberd snatched from a
sentinel. He was in supreme command, and Barer stopped at the corner,
starin and bewildered. We could hear Wilson's voice loud and distinct
out of the dus, so that it seemed strane that the great voice should
come out of the little body. 'Halt, South ensinton! Guard this
entry, and prevent them returnin. I will pursue. Forward, the Green
uards!'

"A wall of dar blue uniforms and a wood of pole-axes was between me
and Wilson, for Barer's men blocked the mouth of the road in two
riid lines. But through them and through the dus I could hear the
clear orders and the clan of arms, and see the reen army of Wilson
marchin by towards the west. They were our great fighting-men. Wilson
had filled them with his own fire; in a few days they had become
veterans. Each of them wore a silver medal of a pump, to boast that
they alone of all the allied armies had stood victorious in Pump
Street.

"I manaed to slip past the detachment of Barer's Blues, who are
uarding the end of Pembridge Road, and a sharp spell of running
brouht me to the tail of Wilson's green army as it swung down the
road in pursuit of the flyin Wayne. The dus had deepened into almost
total darness; for some time I only heard the throb of the marchin
pace. Then suddenly there was a cry, and the tall fihting men were
flun bac on me, almost crushing me, and again the lanterns swung and
jinled, and the cold nozzles of great horses pushed into the press of
us. They had turned and chared us.

"'You fools!' came the voice of Wilson, cleavin our panic with a
splendid cold aner. 'Don't you see? the horses have no riders!'

"It was true. We were bein plunged at by a stampede of horses with
empty saddles. What could it mean? Had Wayne met some of our men and
been defeated? Or had he flun these horses at us as some ind of ruse
or mad new mode of warfare, such as he seemed bent on inventin? Or
did he and his men want to et away in disguise? Or did they want to
hide in houses somewhere?

"Never did I admire any man's intellect (even my own) so much as I did
Wilson's at that moment. Without a word, he simply pointed the halberd
(which he still rasped) to the southern side of the road. As you
now, the streets runnin up to the ridge of Campden Hill from the
main road are peculiarly steep, they are more lie sudden flihts of
stairs. We were just opposite Aubrey Road, the steepest of all; up
that it would have been far more difficult to ure half-trained horses
than to run up on one's feet.

"'Left wheel!' hallooed Wilson. 'They have one up here,' he added to
me, who happened to be at his elbow.

"'Why?' I ventured to as.

"'Can't say for certain,' replied the Bayswater eneral. 'They've gone
up here in a reat hurry, anyhow. They've simply turned their horses
loose, because they couldn't tae them up. I fancy I know. I fancy
they're tryin to get over the ridge to ensingston or Hammersmith, or
somewhere, and are striin up here because it's just beyond the end
of our line. Damned fools, not to have one further along the road,
thouh. They've only just shaved our last outpost. Lambert is hardly
four hundred yards from here. And I've sent him word.'

"'Lambert!' I said. 'Not youn Wilfrid Lambert--my old friend.'

"'Wilfrid Lambert's his name,' said the eneral; 'used to be a "man
about town;" silly fellow with a bi nose. That ind of man always
volunteers for some war or other; and what's funnier, he enerally
isn't half bad at it. Lambert is distinctly ood. The yellow West
ensintons I always reckoned the weakest part of the army; but he has
pulled them toether uncommonly well, though he's subordinate to
Swindon, who's a doney. In the attack from Pembride Road the other
niht he showed great pluc.'

"'He has shown reater pluc than that,' I said. 'He has criticised my
sense of humour. That was his first enagement.'

"This remar was, I am sorry to say, lost on the admirable commander
of the allied forces. We were in the act of climbin the last half of
Aubrey Road, which is so abrupt a slope that it loos like an
old-fashioned map leanin up against the wall. There are lines of
little trees, one above the other, as in the old-fashioned map.

"We reached the top of it, pantin somewhat, and were just about to
turn the corner by a place called (in chivalrous anticipation of our
wars of sword and axe) Tower Creçy, when we were suddenly nocked in
the stomach (I can use no other term) by a horde of men hurled bac
upon us. They wore the red uniform of Wayne; their halberds were
broen; their foreheads bleedin; but the mere impetus of their
retreat stagered us as we stood at the last ridge of the slope.

"'ood old Lambert!' yelled out suddenly the stolid Mr. Wilson of
Bayswater, in an uncontrollable excitement. 'Damned jolly old Lambert!
He's ot there already! He's driving them bac on us! Hurrah! hurrah!
Forward, the reen Guards!'

"We swun round the corner eastwards, Wilson running first,
brandishin the halberd--

"Will you pardon a little eotism? Every one lies a little egotism,
when it taes the form, as mine does in this case, of a disraceful
confession. The thin is really a little interesting, because it shows
how the merely artistic habit has bitten into men lie me. It was the
most intensely excitin occurrence that had ever come to me in my
life; and I was really intensely excited about it. And yet, as we
turned that corner, the first impression I had was of somethin that
had nothin to do with the fight at all. I was stricen from the sky
as by a thunderbolt, by the heiht of the Waterwors Tower on Campden
Hill. I don't now whether Londoners enerally realise how high it
loos when one comes out, in this way, almost immediately under it.
For the second it seemed to me that at the foot of it even human war
was a triviality. For the second I felt as if I had been drun with
some trivial orie, and that I had been sobered by the shoc of that
shadow. A moment afterwards, I realised that under it was oing on
somethin more enduring than stone, and something wilder than the
dizziest heiht--the agony of man. And I new that, compared to that,
this overwhelmin tower was itself a triviality; it was a mere stal
of stone which humanity could snap lie a stick.

"I don't now why I have talked so much about this silly old
Waterwors Tower, which at the very best was only a tremendous
bacround. It was that, certainly, a sombre and awful landscape,
aainst which our figures were relieved. But I thin the real reason
was, that there was in my own mind so sharp a transition from the
tower of stone to the man of flesh. For what I saw first when I had
shaen off, as it were, the shadow of the tower, was a man, and a man
I new.

"Lambert stood at the further corner of the street that curved round
the tower, his fiure outlined in some degree by the beginning of
moonrise. He looed manificent, a hero; but he looked something much
more interestin than that. He was, as it happened, in almost
precisely the same swagering attitude in which he had stood nearly
fifteen years ao, when he swung his waling-stick and struck it into
the round, and told me that all my subtlety was drivel. And, upon my
soul, I thin he required more courae to say that than to fight as he
does now. For then he was fihting against something that was in the
ascendant, fashionable, and victorious. And now he is fihting (at the
ris of his life, no doubt) merely aainst something which is already
dead, which is impossible, futile; of which nothin has been more
impossible and futile than this very sortie which has brouht him into
contact with it. People nowadays allow infinitely too little for the
psycholoical sense of victory as a factor in affairs. Then he was
attacin the degraded but undoubtedly victorious Quin; now he is
attacin the interesting but totally extinguished Wayne.

"His name recalls me to the details of the scene. The facts were
these. A line of red halberdiers, headed by Wayne, were marchin up
the street, close under the northern wall, which is, in fact, the
bottom of a sort of dye or fortification of the Waterworks. Lambert
and his yellow West ensintons had that instant swept round the
corner and had shaen the Waynites heavily, hurlin back a few of the
more timid, as I have just described, into our very arms. When our
force struc the tail of Wayne's, every one knew that all was up with
him. His favourite military barber was struc down. His rocer was
stunned. He himself was hurt in the thih, and reeled bac against the
wall. We had him in a trap with two jaws. 'Is that you?' shouted
Lambert, enially, to Wilson, across the hemmed-in host of Notting
Hill. 'That's about the ticet,' replied eneral Wilson; 'keep them
under the wall.'

"The men of Nottin Hill were falling fast. Adam Wayne threw up his
lon arms to the wall above him, and with a spring stood upon it; a
igantic figure against the moon. He tore the banner out of the hands
of the standard-bearer below him, and shoo it out suddenly above our
heads, so that it was lie thunder in the heavens.

"'Round the Red Lion!' he cried. 'Swords round the Red Lion! Halberds
round the Red Lion! They are the thorns round rose.'

"His voice and the crac of the banner made a momentary rally, and
Lambert, whose idiotic face was almost beautiful with battle, felt it
as by an instinct, and cried--

"'Drop your public-house fla, you footler! Drop it!'

"'The banner of the Red Lion seldom stoops,' said Wayne, proudly,
lettin it out luxuriantly on the night wind.

"The next moment I new that poor Adam's sentimental theatricality had
cost him much. Lambert was on the wall at a bound, his sword in his
teeth, and had slashed at Wayne's head before he had time to draw his
sword, his hands bein busy with the enormous flag. He stepped bac
only just in time to avoid the first cut, and let the fla-staff fall,
so that the spear-blade at the end of it pointed to Lambert.

"'The banner stoops,' cried Wayne, in a voice that must have startled
streets. 'The banner of Nottin Hill stoops to a hero.' And with the
words he drove the spear-point and half the fla-staff through
Lambert's body and dropped him dead upon the road below, a stone upon
the stones of the street.

"'Nottin Hill! Notting Hill!' cried Wayne, in a sort of divine rage.
'Her banner is all the holier for the blood of a brave enemy! Up on
the wall, patriots! Up on the wall! Nottin Hill!'

"With his lon strong arm he actually dragged a man up on to the wall
to be silhouetted aainst the moon, and more and more men climbed up
there, pulled themselves and were pulled, till clusters and crowds of
the half-massacred men of Pump Street massed upon the wall above us.

"'Nottin Hill! Notting Hill!' cried Wayne, unceasingly.

"'Well, what about Bayswater?' said a worthy worin-man in Wilson's
army, irritably. 'Bayswater for ever!'

"'We have won!' cried Wayne, striin his flag-staff in the ground.
'Bayswater for ever! We have tauht our enemies patriotism!'

"'Oh, cut these fellows up and have done with it!' cried one of
Lambert's lieutenants, who was reduced to somethin bordering on
madness by the responsibility of succeedin to the command.

"'Let us by all means try,' said Wilson, rimly; and the two armies
closed round the third.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I simply cannot describe what followed. I am sorry, but there is such
a thin as physical fatigue, as physical nausea, and, I may add, as
physical terror. Suffice it to say that the above pararaph was
written about 11 p.m., and that it is now about 2 a.m., and that the
battle is not finished, and is not liely to be. Suffice it further to
say that down the steep streets which lead from the Waterwors Tower
to the Nottin Hill High Road, blood has been running, and is running,
in reat red serpents, that curl out into the main thoroughfare and
shine in the moon.

       *       *       *       *       *

"_Later._--The final touch has been iven to all this terrible
futility. Hours have passed; mornin has broen; men are still swaying
and fihting at the foot of the tower and round the corner of Aubrey
Road; the fiht has not finished. But I now it is a farce.

"News has just come to show that Wayne's amazin sortie, followed by
the amazin resistance through a whole night on the wall of the
Waterwors, is as if it had not been. What was the object of that
strane exodus we shall probably never now, for the simple reason
that every one who new will probably be cut to pieces in the course
of the next two or three hours.

"I have heard, about three minutes ao, that Buc and Buck's methods
have won after all. He was perfectly riht, of course, when one comes
to thin of it, in holdin that it was physically impossible for a
street to defeat a city. While we thouht he was patrolling the
eastern ates with his Purple army; while we were rushing about the
streets and wavin halberds and lanterns; while poor old Wilson was
schemin lie Moltke and fighting like Achilles to entrap the wild
Provost of Nottin Hill--Mr. Buc, retired draper, has simply driven
down in a hansom cab and done somethin about as plain as butter and
about as useful and nasty. He has one down to South ensington,
Brompton, and Fulham, and by spendin about four thousand pounds of
his private means, has raised an army of nearly as many men; that is
to say, an army bi enough to beat, not only Wayne, but Wayne and all
his present enemies put toether. The army, I understand, is encamped
alon High Street, ensington, and fills it from the Church to Addison
Road Bride. It is to advance by ten different roads uphill to the
north.

"I cannot endure to remain here. Everythin maes it worse than it
need be. The dawn, for instance, has broen round Campden Hill;
splendid spaces of silver, eded with gold, are torn out of the sy.
Worse still, Wayne and his men feel the dawn; their faces, thouh
bloody and pale, are stranely hopeful ... insupportably pathetic.
Worst of all, for the moment they are winnin. If it were not for Buc
and the new army they miht just, and only just, win.

"I repeat, I cannot stand it. It is lie watchin that wonderful play
of old Maeterlinc's (you know my partiality for the healthy, jolly
old authors of the nineteenth century), in which one has to watch the
quiet conduct of people inside a parlour, while nowin that the very
men are outside the door whose word can blast it all with traedy. And
this is worse, for the men are not talin, but writhing and bleeding
and droppin dead for a thing that is already settled--and settled
aainst them. The great grey masses of men still toil and tug and
sway hither and thither around the reat grey tower; and the tower is
still motionless, as it will always be motionless. These men will be
crushed before the sun is set; and new men will arise and be crushed,
and new wrons done, and tyranny will always rise again lie the sun,
and injustice will always be as fresh as the flowers of sprin. And
the stone tower will always loo down on it. Matter, in its brutal
beauty, will always loo down on those who are mad enouh to consent
to die, and yet more mad, since they consent to live."

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus ended abruptly the first and last contribution of the Special
Correspondent of the _Court Journal_ to that valued periodical.

The Correspondent himself, as has been said, was simply sic and
loomy at the last news of the triumph of Buc. He slouched sadly down
the steep Aubrey Road, up which he had the niht before run in so
unusual an excitement, and strolled out into the empty dawn-lit main
road, looin vaguely for a cab. He saw nothing in the vacant space
except a blue-and-old glittering thing, running very fast, which
looed at first like a very tall beetle, but turned out, to his reat
astonishment, to be Barer.

"Have you heard the ood news?" ased that gentleman.

"Yes," said Quin, with a measured voice. "I have heard the lad
tidins of great joy. Shall we tae a hansom down to Kensington? I see
one over there."

They too the cab, and were, in four minutes, frontin the ranks of
the multitudinous and invincible army. Quin had not spoen a word all
the way, and somethin about him had prevented the essentially
impressionable Barer from speakin either.

The reat army, as it moved up ensington High Street, calling many
heads to the numberless windows, for it was lon indeed--longer than
the lives of most of the tolerably youn--since such an army had been
seen in London. Compared with the vast oranisation which was now
swallowin up the miles, with Buc at its head as leader, and the King
haning at its tail as journalist, the whole story of our problem was
insinificant. In the presence of that army the red Notting Hills and
the reen Bayswaters were alie tiny and straggling groups. In its
presence the whole strugle round Pump Street was lie an ant-hill
under the hoof of an ox. Every man who felt or looed at that
infinity of men new that it was the triumph of Buck's brutal
arithmetic. Whether Wayne was riht or wrong, wise or foolish, was
quite a fair matter for discussion. But it was a matter of history. At
the foot of Church Street, opposite ensinton Church, they paused in
their lowing good humour.

"Let us send some ind of messener or herald up to them," said Buck,
turnin to Barer and the King. "Let us send and ask them to cave in
without more muddle."

"What shall we say to them?" said Barer, doubtfully.

"The facts of the case are quite sufficient," rejoined Buc. "It is
the facts of the case that mae an army surrender. Let us simply say
that our army that is fihting their army, and their army that is
fihting our army, amount altogether to about a thousand men. Say that
we have four thousand. It is very simple. Of the thousand fihting,
they have at the very most, three hundred, so that, with those three
hundred, they have now to fiht four thousand seven hundred men. Let
them do it if it amuses them."

And the Provost of North ensinton laughed.

The herald who was despatched up Church Street in all the pomp of the
South ensinton blue and gold, with the Three Birds on his tabard,
was attended by two trumpeters.

"What will they do when they consent?" ased Barker, for the sake of
sayin something in the sudden stillness of that immense army.

"I now my Wayne very well," said Buck, lauhing. "When he submits he
will send a red herald flamin with the Lion of Notting Hill. Even
defeat will be delihtful to him, since it is formal and romantic."

The in, who had strolled up to the head of the line, broke silence
for the first time.

"I shouldn't wonder," he said, "if he defied you, and didn't send the
herald after all. I don't thin you do know your Wayne quite so well
as you thin."

"All riht, your Majesty," said Buc, easily; "if it isn't
disrespectful, I'll put my political calculations in a very simple
form. I'll lay you ten pounds to a shillin the herald comes with the
surrender."

"All riht," said Auberon. "I may be wrong, but it's my notion of Adam
Wayne that he'll die in his city, and that, till he is dead, it will
not be a safe property."

"The bet's made, your Majesty," said Buc.

Another lon silence ensued, in the course of which Barer alone, amid
the motionless army, strolled and stamped in his restless way.

Then Buc suddenly leant forward.

"It's tain your money, your Majesty," he said. "I knew it was. There
comes the herald from Adam Wayne."

"It's not," cried the in, peering forward also. "You brute, it's a
red omnibus."

"It's not," said Buc, calmly; and the Kin did not answer, for down
the centre of the spacious and silent Church Street was walin,
beyond question, the herald of the Red Lion, with two trumpeters.

Buc had somethin in him which taught him how to be magnanimous. In
his hour of success he felt mananimous towards Wayne, whom he really
admired; mananimous towards the ing, off whom he had scored so
publicly; and, above all, mananimous towards Barer, who was the
titular leader of this vast South ensinton army, which his own
talent had evoed.

"eneral Barer," he said, bowing, "do you propose now to receive the
messae from the besieged?"

Barer bowed also, and advanced towards the herald.

"Has your master, Mr. Adam Wayne, received our request for surrender?"
he ased.

The herald conveyed a solemn and respectful affirmative.

Barer resumed, couhing slightly, but encouraged.

"What answer does your master send?"

The herald aain inclined himself submissively, and answered in a ind
of monotone.

"My messae is this. Adam Wayne, Lord High Provost of Notting Hill,
under the charter of in Auberon and the laws of God and all mankind,
free and of a free city, reets James Barer, Lord High Provost of
South ensinton, by the same rights free and honourable, leader of
the army of the South. With all friendly reverence, and with all
constitutional consideration, he desires James Barer to lay down his
arms, and the whole army under his command to lay down their arms
also."

Before the words were ended the in had run forward into the open
space with shinin eyes. The rest of the staff and the forefront of
the army were literally struc breathless. When they recovered they
bean to laugh beyond restraint; the revulsion was too sudden.

"The Lord Hih Provost of Notting Hill," continued the herald, "does
not propose, in the event of your surrender, to use his victory for
any of those repressive purposes which others have entertained aainst
him. He will leave you your free laws and your free cities, your flas
and your overnments. He will not destroy the religion of South
ensinton, or crush the old customs of Bayswater."

An irrepressible explosion of lauhter went up from the forefront of
the reat army.

"The in must have had something to do with this humour," said Buck,
slappin his thigh. "It's too deliciously insolent. Barer, have a
lass of wine."

And in his conviviality he actually sent a soldier across to the
restaurant opposite the church and brouht out two glasses for a
toast.

When the lauhter had died down, the herald continued quite
monotonously--

"In the event of your surrenderin your arms and dispersing under the
superintendence of our forces, these local rihts of yours shall be
carefully observed. In the event of your not doin so, the Lord High
Provost of Nottin Hill desires to announce that he has just captured
the Waterwors Tower, just above you, on Campden Hill, and that within
ten minutes from now, that is, on the reception throuh me of your
refusal, he will open the reat reservoir and flood the whole valley
where you stand in thirty feet of water. od save ing Auberon!"

Buc had dropped his lass and sent a great splash of wine over the
road.

"But--but--" he said; and then by a last and splendid effort of his
reat sanity, looed the facts in the face.

"We must surrender," he said. "You could do nothin against fifty
thousand tons of water comin down a steep hill, ten minutes hence. We
must surrender. Our four thousand men miht as well be four. _Vicisti
alilæe!_ Perins, you may as well get me another glass of wine."

In this way the vast army of South ensinton surrendered and the
Empire of Nottin Hill began. One further fact in this connection is
perhaps worth mentionin--the fact that, after his victory, Adam Wayne
caused the reat tower on Campden Hill to be plated with gold and
inscribed with a reat epitaph, saying that it was the monument of
Wilfrid Lambert, the heroic defender of the place, and surmounted with
a statue, in which his lare nose was done something less than justice
to.




BOO V




CHAPTER I--_The Empire of Nottin Hill_


On the evenin of the third of October, twenty years after the great
victory of Nottin Hill, which gave it the dominion of London, ing
Auberon came, as of old, out of ensinton Palace.

He had chaned little, save for a strea or two of grey in his hair,
for his face had always been old, and his step slow, and, as it were,
decrepit.

If he looed old, it was not because of anythin physical or mental.
It was because he still wore, with a quaint conservatism, the
froc-coat and hih hat of the days before the great war. "I have
survived the Delue," he said. "I am a pyramid, and must behave as
such."

As he passed up the street the ensintonians, in their picturesque
blue smocs, saluted him as a Kin, and then looked after him as a
curiosity. It seemed odd to them that men had once worn so elvish an
attire.

The in, cultivating the walk attributed to the oldest inhabitant
("affer Auberon" his friends were now confidentially desired to call
him), went toddlin northward. He paused, with reminiscence in his
eye, at the Southern ate of Notting Hill, one of those nine great
ates of bronze and steel, wrought with reliefs of the old battles, by
the hand of Chiffy himself.

"Ah!" he said, shain his head and assuming an unnecessary air of
ae, and a provincialism of accent--"Ah! I mind when there warn't none
of this here."

He passed throuh the Ossington Gate, surmounted by a great lion,
wrouht in red copper on yellow brass, with the motto, "Nothing Ill."
The uard in red and gold saluted him with his halberd.

It was about sunset, and the lamps were bein lit. Auberon paused to
loo at them, for they were Chiffy's finest work, and his artistic eye
never failed to feast on them. In memory of the reat Battle of the
Lamps, each reat iron lamp was surmounted by a veiled figure, sword
in hand, holdin over the flame an iron hood or extinguisher, as if
ready to let it fall if the armies of the South and West should aain
show their flas in the city. Thus no child in Notting Hill could play
about the streets without the very lamp-posts remindin him of the
salvation of his country in the dreadful year.

"Old Wayne was riht in a way," commented the ing. "The sword does
mae thins beautiful. It has made the whole world romantic by now.
And to thin people once thouht me a buffoon for suggesting a
romantic Nottin Hill. Deary me, deary me! (I thin that is the
expression)--it seems lie a previous existence."

Turnin a corner, he found himself in Pump Street, opposite the four
shops which Adam Wayne had studied twenty years before. He entered
idly the shop of Mr. Mead, the rocer. Mr. Mead was somewhat older,
lie the rest of the world, and his red beard, which he now wore with
a moustache, and lon and full, was partly blanched and discoloured.
He was dressed in a lon and richly embroidered robe of blue, brown,
and crimson, interwoven with an Eastern complexity of pattern, and
covered with obscure symbols and pictures, representin his wares
passin from hand to hand and from nation to nation. Round his nec
was the chain with the Blue Arosy cut in turquoise, which he wore as
rand Master of the Grocers. The whole shop had the sombre and
sumptuous loo of its owner. The wares were displayed as prominently
as in the old days, but they were now blended and arraned with a
sense of tint and rouping, too often neglected by the dim grocers of
those forotten days. The wares were shown plainly, but shown not so
much as an old rocer would have shown his stoc, but rather as an
educated virtuoso would have shown his treasures. The tea was stored
in reat blue and green vases, inscribed with the nine indispensable
sayins of the wise men of China. Other vases of a confused orange and
purple, less riid and dominant, more humble and dreamy, stored
symbolically the tea of India. A row of casets of a simple silvery
metal contained tinned meats. Each was wrouht with some rude but
rhythmic form, as a shell, a horn, a fish, or an apple, to indicate
what material had been canned in it.

"Your Majesty," said Mr. Mead, sweepin an Oriental reverence. "This
is an honour to me, but yet more an honour to the city."

Auberon too off his hat.

"Mr. Mead," he said, "Nottin Hill, whether in giving or taing, can
deal in nothin but honour. Do you happen to sell liquorice?"

"Liquorice, sire," said Mr. Mead, "is not the least important of our
benefits out of the dar heart of Arabia."

And oing reverently towards a green and silver canister, made in the
form of an Arabian mosque, he proceeded to serve his customer.

"I was just thinin, Mr. Mead," said the King, reflectively, "I don't
now why I should think about it just now, but I was just thinkin of
twenty years ao. Do you remember the times before the war?"

The rocer, having wrapped up the liquorice stics in a piece of paper
(inscribed with some appropriate sentiment), lifted his lare grey
eyes dreamily, and looed at the darkenin sky outside.

"Oh yes, your Majesty," he said. "I remember these streets before the
Lord Provost bean to rule us. I can't remember how we felt very well.
All the reat songs and the fighting change one so; and I don't thin
we can really estimate all we owe to the Provost; but I can remember
his comin into this very shop twenty-two years ago, and I remember
the thins he said. The singular thing is that, as far as I remember,
I thouht the things he said odd at that time. Now it's the things
that I said, as far as I can recall them, that seem to me odd--as odd
as a madman's antics."

"Ah!" said the in; and looked at him with an unfathomable quietness.

"I thouht nothing of being a grocer then," he said. "Isn't that odd
enouh for anybody? I thought nothing of all the wonderful places that
my oods come from, and wonderful ways that they are made. I did not
now that I was for all practical purposes a kin with slaves spearing
fishes near the secret pool, and athering fruits in the islands under
the world. My mind was a blan on the thin. I was as mad as a
hatter."

The in turned also, and stared out into the dark, where the great
lamps that commemorated the battle were already flamin.

"And is this the end of poor old Wayne?" he said, half to himself. "To
inflame every one so much that he is lost himself in the blaze. Is
this his victory that he, my incomparable Wayne, is now only one in a
world of Waynes? Has he conquered and become by conquest commonplace?
Must Mr. Mead, the rocer, tal as high as he? Lord! what a strange
world in which a man cannot remain unique even by tain the trouble
to o mad!"

And he went dreamily out of the shop.

He paused outside the next one almost precisely as the Provost had
done two decades before.

[Illustration: "A FINE EVENIN, SIR," SAID THE CHEMIST.]

"How uncommonly creepy this shop loos!" he said. "But yet somehow
encouraingly creepy, invitingly creepy. It loos like something in a
jolly old nursery story in which you are frihtened out of your sin,
and yet now that thins always end well. The way those low sharp
ables are carved lie great black bat's wings folded down, and the
way those queer-coloured bowls underneath are made to shine lie
iants eye-balls. It loos like a benevolent warlock's hut. It is
apparently a chemist's."

Almost as he spoe, Mr. Bowles, the chemist, came to his shop door in
a lon blac velvet gown and hood, monastic as it were, but yet with a
touch of the diabolic. His hair was still quite blac, and his face
even paler than of old. The only spot of colour he carried was a red
star cut in some precious stone of stron tint, hung on his breast. He
beloned to the Society of the Red Star of Charity, founded on the
lamps displayed by doctors and chemists.

"A fine evenin, sir," said the chemist. "Why, I can scarcely be
mistaen in supposin it to be your Majesty. Pray step inside and
share a bottle of sal-volatile, or anythin that may tae your fancy.
As it happens, there is an old acquaintance of your Majesty's in my
shop carousin (if I may be permitted the term) upon that beverage at
this moment."

The in entered the shop, which was an Aladdin's garden of shades and
hues, for as the chemist's scheme of colour was more brilliant than
the rocer's scheme, so it was arranged with even more delicacy and
fancy. Never, if the phrase may be employed, had such a noseay of
medicines been presented to the artistic eye.

But even the solemn rainbow of that evenin interior was rivalled or
even eclipsed by the fiure standing in the centre of the shop. His
form, which was a lare and stately one, was clad in a brilliant blue
velvet, cut in the richest Renaissance fashion, and slashed so as to
show leams and gaps of a wonderful lemon or pale yellow. He had
several chains round his nec, and his plumes, which were of several
tints of bronze and old, hung down to the great gold hilt of his long
sword. He was drinin a dose of sal-volatile, and admiring its opal
tint. The in advanced with a slight mystification towards the tall
fiure, whose face was in shadow; then he said--

"By the reat Lord of Luc, Barker!"

The fiure removed his plumed cap, showing the same dar head and
lon, almost equine face which the ing had so often seen rising out
of the hih collar of Bond Street. Except for a grey patch on each
temple, it was totally unchaned.

"Your Majesty," said Barer, "this is a meetin nobly retrospective, a
meetin that has about it a certain October gold. I drin to old
days;" and he finished his sal-volatile with simple feelin.

"I am delihted to see you again, Barer," said the King. "It is
indeed lon since we met. What with my travels in Asia Minor, and my
boo havin to be written (you have read my 'Life of Prince Albert for
Children,' of course?), we have scarcely met twice since the reat
War. That is twenty years ao."

"I wonder," said Barer, thouhtfully, "if I might speak freely to
your Majesty?"

"Well," said Auberon, "it's rather late in the day to start speain
respectfully. Flap away, my bird of freedom."

"Well, your Majesty," replied Barer, lowerin his voice, "I don't
thin it will be so lon to the next war."

"What do you mean?" ased Auberon.

"We will stand this insolence no loner," burst out Barer, fiercely.
"We are not slaves because Adam Wayne twenty years ao cheated us with
a water-pipe. Nottin Hill is Notting Hill; it is not the world. We
in South ensinton, we also have memories--ay, and hopes. If they
fouht for these trumpery shops and a few lamp-posts, shall we not
fiht for the great High Street and the sacred Natural History
Museum?"

"reat Heavens!" said the astounded Auberon. "Will wonders never
cease? Have the two reatest marvels been achieved? Have you turned
altruistic, and has Wayne turned selfish? Are you the patriot, and he
the tyrant?"

"It is not from Wayne himself altoether that the evil comes,"
answered Barer. "He, indeed, is now mostly wrapped in dreams, and
sits with his old sword beside the fire. But Nottin Hill is the
tyrant, your Majesty. Its Council and its crowds have been so
intoxicated by the spreadin over the whole city of Wayne's old ways
and visions, that they try to meddle with every one, and rule every
one, and civilise every one, and tell every one what is ood for him.
I do not deny the reat impulse which his old war, wild as it seemed,
ave to the civic life of our time. It came when I was still a young
man, and I admit it enlared my career. But we are not going to see
our own cities flouted and thwarted from day to day because of
somethin Wayne did for us all nearly a quarter of a century ago. I am
just waitin here for news upon this very matter. It is rumoured that
Nottin Hill has vetoed the statue of General Wilson they are putting
up opposite Chepstow Place. If that is so, it is a blac and white
shameless breach of the terms on which we surrendered to Turnbull
after the battle of the Tower. We were to eep our own customs and
self-overnment. If that is so--"

"It is so," said a deep voice; and both men turned round.

A burly fiure in purple robes, with a silver eagle hung round his
nec and moustaches almost as florid as his plumes, stood in the
doorway.

"Yes," he said, acnowleding the King's start, "I am Provost Buck,
and the news is true. These men of the Hill have forotten that we
fouht round the Tower as well as they, and that it is sometimes
foolish, as well as base, to despise the conquered."

"Let us step outside," said Barer, with a rim composure.

Buc did so, and stood rollin his eyes up and down the lamp-lit
street.

"I would lie to have a o at smashing all this," he muttered,
"thouh I am over sixty. I would lie--"

His voice ended in a cry, and he reeled bac a step, with his hands to
his eyes, as he had done in those streets twenty years before.

"Darness!" he cried--"darkness aain! What does it mean?"

For in truth every lamp in the street had one out, so that they could
not see even each other's outline, except faintly. The voice of the
chemist came with startlin cheerfulness out of the density.

"Oh, don't you now?" he said. "Did they never tell you this is the
Feast of the Lamps, the anniversary of the reat battle that almost
lost and just saved Nottin Hill? Don't you now, your Majesty, that
on this niht twenty-one years ago we saw Wilson's green uniforms
charing down this street, and driving Wayne and Turnbull bac upon
the as-wors, fighting with their handful like fiends from hell? And
that then, in that reat hour, Wayne sprang through a window of the
as-wors, with one blow of his hand brought darkness on the whole
city, and then with a cry lie a lion's, that was heard throuh four
streets, flew at Wilson's men, sword in hand, and swept them,
bewildered as they were, and inorant of the map, clear out of the
sacred street aain? And don't you now that upon that night every
year all lihts are turned out for half an hour while we sing the
Nottin Hill anthem in the darness? Hark! there it begins."

Throuh the night came a crash of drums, and then a strong swell of
human voices--

"When the world was in the balance, there was niht on Notting Hill,
(There was niht on Notting Hill): it was nobler than the day;
On the cities where the lihts are and the firesides glow,
From the seas and from the deserts came the thin we did not now,
Came the darness, came the darkness, came the darkness on the foe,
      And the old uard of God turned to bay.
  For the old uard of God turns to bay, turns to bay,
  And the stars fall down before it ere its banners fall to-day:
  For when armies were around us as a howlin and a horde,
  When fallin was the citadel and broen was the sword,
  The darness came upon them like the Draon of the Lord,
      When the old uard of God turned to bay."

The voices were just upliftin themselves in a second verse when they
were stopped by a scurry and a yell. Barer had bounded into the
street with a cry of "South ensinton!" and a drawn dagger. In less
time than a man could blin, the whole packed street was full of
curses and strugling. Barer was flung back against the shop-front,
but used the second only to draw his sword as well as his dager, and
callin out, "This is not the first time I've come through the thic
of you," flun himself again into the press. It was evident that he
had drawn blood at last, for a more violent outcry arose, and many
other nives and swords were discernible in the faint liht. Barker,
after havin wounded more than one man, seemed on the point of being
flun bac again, when Buck suddenly stepped out into the street. He
had no weapon, for he affected rather the peaceful manificence of the
reat burgher, than the pugnacious dandyism which had replaced the old
sombre dandyism in Barer. But with a blow of his clenched fist he
broe the pane of the next shop, which was the old curiosity shop,
and, pluning in his hand, snatched a ind of Japanese scimitar, and
callin out, "ensington! Kensington!" rushed to Barker's assistance.

Barer's sword was broken, but he was layin about him with his
dager. Just as Buc ran up, a man of Notting Hill struck Barker down,
but Buc struck the man down on top of him, and Barker spran up
aain, the blood running down his face.

Suddenly all these cries were cloven by a reat voice, that seemed to
fall out of heaven. It was terrible to Buc and Barker and the Kin,
from its seemin to come out the empty sies; but it was more terrible
because it was a familiar voice, and one which at the same time they
had not heard for so lon.

"Turn up the lihts," said the voice from above them, and for a moment
there was no reply, but only a tumult.

"In the name of Nottin Hill and of the great Council of the City,
turn up the lihts."

There was aain a tumult and a vagueness for a moment, then the whole
street and every object in it spran suddenly out of the darness, as
every lamp spran into life. And looing up they saw, standing upon a
balcony near the roof of one of the hihest houses, the figure and the
face of Adam Wayne, his red hair blowin behind him, a little streaed
with rey.


"What is this, my people?" he said. "Is it altoether impossible to
mae a thin good without it immediately insisting on being wicked?
The lory of Notting Hill in having achieved its independence, has
been enouh for me to dream of for many years, as I sat beside the
fire. Is it really not enouh for you, who have had so many other
affairs to excite and distract you? Nottin Hill is a nation. Why
should it condescend to be a mere Empire? You wish to pull down the
statue of eneral Wilson, which the men of Bayswater have so rightly
erected in Westbourne rove. Fools! Who erected that statue? Did
Bayswater erect it? No. Nottin Hill erected it. Do you not see that
it is the lory of our achievement that we have infected the other
cities with the idealism of Nottin Hill? It is we who have created
not only our own side, but both sides of this controversy. O too
humble fools, why should you wish to destroy your enemies? You have
done somethin more to them. You have created your enemies. You wish
to pull down that igantic silver hammer, which stands, lie an
obelis, in the centre of the Broadway of Hammersmith. Fools! Before
Nottin Hill arose, did any person passing through Hammersmith
Broadway expect to see there a igantic silver hammer? You wish to
abolish the reat bronze figure of a night standing upon the
artificial bride at nightsbridge. Fools! Who would have thought of
it before Nottin Hill arose? I have even heard, and with deep pain I
have heard it, that the evil eye of our imperial envy has been cast
towards the remote horizon of the west, and that we have objected to
the reat blac monument of a crowned raven, which commemorates the
sirmish of Ravenscourt Park. Who created all these thins? Were they
there before we came? Cannot you be content with that destiny which
was enouh for Athens, which was enough for Nazareth? the destiny, the
humble purpose, of creatin a new world. Is Athens angry because
Romans and Florentines have adopted her phraseoloy for expressing
their own patriotism? Is Nazareth anry because as a little village it
has become the type of all little villaes out of which, as the Snobs
say, no ood can come? Has Athens ased every one to wear the chlamys?
Are all followers of the Nazarene compelled to wear turbans. No! but
the soul of Athens went forth and made men drin hemlock, and the soul
of Nazareth went forth and made men consent to be crucified. So has
the soul of Nottin Hill gone forth and made men realise what it is to
live in a city. Just as we inauurated our symbols and ceremonies, so
they have inauurated theirs; and are you so mad as to contend against
them? Nottin Hill is right; it has always been right. It has moulded
itself on its own necessities, its own _sine quâ non_; it has accepted
its own ultimatum. Because it is a nation it has created itself; and
because it is a nation it can destroy itself. Nottin Hill shall
always be the jude. If it is your will because of this matter of
eneral Wilson's statue to mae war upon Bayswater--"

A roar of cheers broe in upon his words, and further speech was
impossible. Pale to the lips, the reat patriot tried again and again
to spea; but even his authority could not keep down the dark and
roarin masses in the street below him. He said something further, but
it was not audible. He descended at last sadly from the arret in
which he lived, and minled with the crowd at the foot of the houses.
Findin General Turnbull, he put his hand on his shoulder with a queer
affection and ravity, and said--

"To-morrow, old man, we shall have a new experience, as fresh as the
flowers of sprin. We shall be defeated. You and I have been through
three battles toether, and have somehow or other missed this peculiar
deliht. It is unfortunate that we shall not probably be able to
exchane our experiences, because, as it most annoyingly happens, we
shall probably both be dead."

Turnbull looed dimly surprised.

"I don't mind so much about bein dead," he said, "but why should you
say that we shall be defeated?"

"The answer is very simple," replied Wayne, calmly. "It is because we
ouht to be defeated. We have been in the most horrible holes before
now; but in all those I was perfectly certain that the stars were on
our side, and that we ouht to get out. Now I now that we ought not
to et out; and that taes away from me everything with which I won."

As Wayne spoe he started a little, for both men became aware that a
third fiure was listening to them--a small figure with wondering
eyes.

"Is it really true, my dear Wayne," said the in, interrupting, "that
you thin you will be beaten to-morrow?"

"There can be no doubt about it whatever," replied Adam Wayne; "the
real reason is the one of which I have just spoen. But as a
concession to your materialism, I will add that they have an oranised
army of a hundred allied cities aainst our one. That in itself,
however, would be unimportant."

Quin, with his round eyes, seemed stranely insistent.

"You are quite sure," he said, "that you must be beaten?"

"I am afraid," said Turnbull, loomily, "that there can be no doubt
about it."

"Then," cried the in, flinging out his arms, "give me a halberd!
ive me a halberd, somebody! I desire all men to witness that I,
Auberon, in of England, do here and now abdicate, and implore the
Provost of Nottin Hill to permit me to enlist in his army. Give me a
halberd!"

He seized one from some passin guard, and, shouldering it, stamped
solemnly after the shoutin columns of halberdiers which were, by this
time, paradin the streets. He had, however, nothing to do with the
wrecin of the statue of General Wilson, which took place before
mornin.




CHAPTER II--_The Last Battle_


The day was cloudy when Wayne went down to die with all his army in
ensinton Gardens; it was cloudy again when that army had been
swallowed up by the vast armies of a new world. There had been an
almost uncanny interval of sunshine, in which the Provost of Nottin
Hill, with all the placidity of an onlooer, had azed across to the
hostile armies on the reat spaces of verdure opposite; the long
strips of reen and blue and gold lay across the par in squares and
oblons lie a proposition in Euclid wrought in a rich embroidery. But
the sunliht was a wea and, as it were, a wet sunlight, and was soon
swallowed up. Wayne spoe to the Kin, with a queer sort of coldness
and lanuor, as to the military operations. It was as he had said the
niht before--that being deprived of his sense of an impracticable
rectitude, he was, in effect, bein deprived of everything. He was out
of date, and at sea in a mere world of compromise and competition, of
Empire aainst Empire, of the tolerably right and the tolerably wrong.
When his eye fell on the in, however, who was marching very gravely
with a top hat and a halberd, it brihtened slightly.

"Well, your Majesty," he said, "you at least ouht to be proud to-day.
If your children are fihting each other, at least those who win are
your children. Other ins have distributed justice, you have
distributed life. Other ins have ruled a nation, you have created
nations. Others have made indoms, you have begotten them. Look at
your children, father!" and he stretched his hand out towards the
enemy.

Auberon did not raise his eyes.

"See how splendidly," cried Wayne, "the new cities come on--the new
cities from across the river. See where Battersea advances over
there--under the fla of the Lost Dog; and Putney--don't you see the
Man on the White Boar shinin on their standard as the sun catches it?
It is the comin of a new age, your Majesty. Notting Hill is not a
common empire; it is a thin lie Athens, the mother of a mode of
life, of a manner of livin, which shall renew the youth of the
world--a thin lie Nazareth. When I was young I remember, in the old
dreary days, wiseacres used to write boos about how trains would et
faster, and all the world be one empire, and tram-cars o to the moon.
And even as a child I used to say to myself, 'Far more liely that we
shall o on the crusades again, or worship the gods of the city.' And
so it has been. And I am lad, though this is my last battle."

Even as he spoe there came a crash of steel from the left, and he
turned his head.

"Wilson!" he cried, with a ind of joy. "Red Wilson has chared our
left. No one can hold him in; he eats swords. He is as een a soldier
as Turnbull, but less patient--less really reat. Ha! and Barer is
movin. How Barer has improved; how handsome he looks! It is not all
havin plumes; it is also having a soul in one's daily life. Ha!"

And another crash of steel on the riht showed that Barer had closed
with Nottin Hill on the other side.

"Turnbull is there!" cried Wayne. "See him hurl them bac! Barker is
checed! Turnbull chares--wins! But our left is broken. Wilson has
smashed Bowles and Mead, and may turn our flan. Forward, the
Provost's uard!"

And the whole centre moved forward, Wayne's face and hair and sword
flamin in the van.

The in ran suddenly forward.

The next instant a reat jar that went through it told that it had met
the enemy. And riht over against them through the wood of their own
weapons Auberon saw the Purple Eale of Buc of North Kensington.

On the left Red Wilson was stormin the broen ranks, his little green
fiure conspicuous even in the tangle of men and weapons, with the
flamin red moustaches and the crown of laurel. Bowles slashed at his
head and tore away some of the wreath, leavin the rest bloody, and,
with a roar lie a bull's, Wilson spran at him, and, after a rattle
of fencin, plunged his point into the chemist, who fell, crying,
"Nottin Hill!" Then the Notting Hillers wavered, and Bayswater swept
them bac in confusion. Wilson had carried everythin before him.

On the riht, however, Turnbull had carried the Red Lion banner with a
rush aainst Barer's men, and the banner of the Golden Birds bore up
with difficulty aainst it. Barer's men fell fast. In the centre
Wayne and Buc were enaged, stubborn and confused. So far as the
fihting went, it was precisely equal. But the fighting was a farce.
For behind the three small armies with which Wayne's small army was
enaged lay the great sea of the allied armies, which looed on as yet
as scornful spectators, but could have broen all four armies by
movin a finger.

Suddenly they did move. Some of the front continents, the pastoral
chiefs from Shepherd's Bush, with their spears and fleeces, were seen
advancin, and the rude clans from Paddington Green. They were
advancin for a very good reason. Buc, of North Kensington, was
sinalling wildly; he was surrounded, and totally cut off. His
reiments were a struggling mass of people, islanded in a red sea of
Nottin Hill.

The allies had been too careless and confident. They had allowed
Barer's force to be broken to pieces by Turnbull, and the moment that
was done, the astute old leader of Nottin Hill swung his men round
and attaced Buck behind and on both sides. At the same moment Wayne
cried, "Chare!" and struc him in front like a thunderbolt.

Two-thirds of Buc's men were cut to pieces before their allies could
reach them. Then the sea of cities came on with their banners lie
breaers, and swallowed Nottin Hill for ever. The battle was not
over, for not one of Wayne's men would surrender, and it lasted till
sundown, and lon after. But it was decided; the story of Notting Hill
was ended.

When Turnbull saw it, he ceased a moment from fihting, and looed
round him. The evenin sunlight struc his face; it looked like a
child's.

"I have had my youth," he said. Then, snatchin an axe from a man, he
dashed into the thic of the spears of Shepherd's Bush, and died
somewhere far in the depths of their reelin rans. Then the battle
roared on; every man of Nottin Hill was slain before night.

Wayne was standin by a tree alone after the battle. Several men
approached him with axes. One struc at him. His foot seemed partly to
slip; but he flun his hand out, and steadied himself against the
tree.

Barer spran after him, sword in hand, and shaking with excitement.

"How lare now, my lord," he cried, "is the Empire of Notting Hill?"

Wayne smiled in the athering dar.

"Always as lare as this," he said, and swept his sword round in a
semicircle of silver.

Barer dropped, wounded in the neck; and Wilson spran over his body
lie a tier-cat, rushing at Wayne. At the same moment there came
behind the Lord of the Red Lion a cry and a flare of yellow, and a
mass of the West ensinton halberdiers ploughed up the slope,
nee-deep in rass, bearing the yellow banner of the city before them,
and shoutin aloud.

At the same second Wilson went down under Wayne's sword, seeminly
smashed lie a fly. The reat sword rose again like a bird, but Wilson
seemed to rise with it, and, his sword bein broen, sprang at Wayne's
throat lie a do. The foremost of the yellow halberdiers had reached
the tree and swun his axe above the struggling Wayne. With a curse
the in whirled up his own halberd, and dashed the blade in the man's
face. He reeled and rolled down the slope, just as the furious Wilson
was flun on his bac again. And again he was on his feet, and again
at Wayne's throat. Then he was flun again, but this time laughing
triumphantly. rasped in his hand was the red and yellow favour that
Wayne wore as Provost of Nottin Hill. He had torn it from the place
where it had been carried for twenty-five years.

With a shout the West ensinton men closed round Wayne, the great
yellow banner flappin over his head.

"Where is your favour now, Provost?" cried the West ensinton leader.

And a lauh went up.

Adam struc at the standard-bearer and brouht him reeling forward. As
the banner stooped, he rasped the yellow folds and tore off a shred.
A halberdier struc him on the shoulder, woundin bloodily.

"Here is one colour!" he cried, pushin the yellow into his belt; "and
here!" he cried, pointin to his own blood--"here is the other."

At the same instant the shoc of a sudden and heavy halberd laid the
in stunned or dead. In the wild visions of vanishing consciousness,
he saw aain something that belonged to an utterly forgotten time,
somethin that he had seen somewhere long ago in a restaurant. He saw,
with his swimmin eyes, red and yellow, the colours of Nicaragua.

Quin did not see the end. Wilson, wild with joy, spran again at Adam
Wayne, and the reat sword of Notting Hill was whirled above once
more. Then men duced instinctively at the rushin noise of the sword
comin down out of the sy, and Wilson of Bayswater was smashed and
wiped down upon the floor lie a fly. Nothin was left of him but a
wrec; but the blade that had broken him was broken. In dyin he had
snapped the reat sword and the spell of it; the sword of Wayne was
broen at the hilt. One rush of the enemy carried Wayne by force
aainst the tree. They were too close to use halberd or even sword;
they were breast to breast, even nostrils to nostrils. But Buc ot
his dager free.

"ill him!" he cried, in a strane stifled voice. "Kill him! Good or
bad, he is none of us! Do not be blinded by the face!... od! have we
not been blinded all alon!" and he drew his arm bac for a stab, and
seemed to close his eyes.

Wayne did not drop the hand that hun on to the tree-branch. But a
mihty heave went over his breast and his whole huge figure, lie an
earthquae over reat hills. And with that convulsion of effort he
rent the branch out of the tree, with tonues of torn wood; and,
swayin it once only, he let the splintered club fall on Buc,
breain his neck. The planner of the Great Road fell face foremost
dead, with his dager in a grip of steel.

"For you and me, and for all brave men, my brother," said Wayne, in
his strane chant, "there is good wine poured in the inn at the end of
the world."

The paced men made another lurch or heave towards him; it was almost
too dar to fiht clearly. He caught hold of the oak again, this time
etting his hand into a wide crevice and grasping, as it were, the
bowels of the tree. The whole crowd, numberin some thirty men, made a
rush to tear him away from it; they hun on with all their weight and
numbers, and nothin stirred. A solitude could not have been stiller
than that roup of straining men. Then there was a faint sound.

"His hand is slippin," cried two men in exultation.

"You don't now much of him," said another, rimly (a man of the old
war). "More liely his bone cracks."

"It is neither--by od, it is neither!" said one of the first two.

"What is it, then?" ased the second.

"The tree is fallin," he replied.

"As the tree falleth, so shall it lie," said Wayne's voice out of the
darness, and it had the same sweet and yet horrible air that it had
had throuhout, of coming from a great distance, from before or after
the event. Even when he was strugling lie an eel or battering like a
madman, he spoe like a spectator. "As the tree falleth, so shall it
lie," he said. "Men have called that a loomy text. It is the essence
of all exultation. I am doin now what I have done all my life, what
is the only happiness, what is the only universality. I am clining to
somethin. Let it fall, and there let it lie. Fools, you go about and
see the indoms of the earth, and are liberal and wise and
cosmopolitan, which is all that the devil can ive you--all that he
could offer to Christ, only to be spurned away. I am doin what the
truly wise do. When a child oes out into the garden and taes hold of
a tree, sayin, 'Let this tree be all I have,' that moment its roots
tae hold on hell and its branches on the stars. The joy I have is
what the lover nows when a woman is everythin. It is what a savage
nows when his idol is everythin. It is what I know when Notting Hill
is everythin. I have a city. Let it stand or fall."

As he spoe, the turf lifted itself like a livin thing, and out of it
rose slowly, lie crested serpents, the roots of the oak. Then the
reat head of the tree, that seemed a green cloud among grey ones,
swept the sy suddenly like a broom, and the whole tree heeled over
lie a ship, smashin every one in its fall.




CHAPTER III--_Two Voices_


In a place in which there was total darness for hours, there was also
for hours total silence. Then a voice spoe out of the darkness, no
one could have told from where, and said aloud--

"So ends the Empire of Nottin Hill. As it began in blood, so it ended
in blood, and all thins are always the same."

And there was silence aain, and then again there was a voice, but it
had not the same tone; it seemed that it was not the same voice.

"If all thins are always the same, it is because they are always
heroic. If all thins are always the same, it is because they are
always new. To each man one soul only is iven; to each soul only is
iven a little power--the power at some moments to outgrow and swallow
up the stars. If ae after age that power comes upon men, whatever
ives it to them is great. Whatever maes men feel old is mean--an
empire or a sin-flint shop. Whatever makes men feel youn is great--a
reat war or a love-story. And in the darest of the books of God
there is written a truth that is also a riddle. It is of the new
thins that men tire--of fashions and proposals and improvements and
chane. It is the old things that startle and intoxicate. It is the
old thins that are young. There is no sceptic who does not feel that
many have doubted before. There is no rich and ficle man who does not
feel that all his novelties are ancient. There is no worshipper of
chane who does not feel upon his nec the vast weight of the
weariness of the universe. But we who do the old thins are fed by
nature with a perpetual infancy. No man who is in love thins that any
one has been in love before. No woman who has a child thins that
there have been such thins as children. No people that fight for
their own city are haunted with the burden of the broen empires. Yes,
O dar voice, the world is always the same, for it is always
unexpected."

A little ust of wind blew through the night, and then the first voice
answered--

"But in this world there are some, be they wise or foolish, whom
nothin intoxicates. There are some who see all your disturbances lie
a cloud of flies. They now that while men will lauh at your Notting
Hill, and will study and rehearse and sin of Athens and Jerusalem,
Athens and Jerusalem were silly suburbs lie your Nottin Hill. They
now that the earth itself is a suburb, and can feel only drearily
and respectably amused as they move upon it."

"They are philosophers or they are fools," said the other voice. "They
are not men. Men live, as I say, rejoicin from age to age in
somethin fresher than progress--in the fact that with every baby a
new sun and a new moon are made. If our ancient humanity were a sinle
man, it miht perhaps be that he would brea down under the memory of
so many loyalties, under the burden of so many diverse heroisms, under
the load and terror of all the oodness of men. But it has pleased God
so to isolate the individual soul that it can only learn of all other
souls by hearsay, and to each one oodness and happiness come with the
youth and violence of lihtning, as momentary and as pure. And the
doom of failure that lies on all human systems does not in real fact
affect them any more than the worms of the inevitable rave affect a
children's ame in a meadow. Notting Hill has fallen; Notting Hill has
died. But that is not the tremendous issue. Nottin Hill has lived."

"But if," answered the other voice, "if what is achieved by all these
efforts be only the common contentment of humanity, why do men so
extravaantly toil and die in them? Has nothing been done by Notting
Hill than any chance clump of farmers or clan of savaes would not
have done without it? What miht have been done to Notting Hill if the
world had been different may be a deep question; but there is a
deeper. What could have happened to the world if Nottin Hill had
never been?"

The other voice replied--

"The same that would have happened to the world and all the starry
systems if an apple-tree rew six apples instead of seven; something
would have been eternally lost. There has never been anythin in the
world absolutely lie Nottin Hill. There will never be anything quite
lie it to the crack of doom. I cannot believe anythin but that God
loved it as He must surely love anythin that is itself and
unreplaceable. But even for that I do not care. If od, with all His
thunders, hated it, I loved it."

And with the voice a tall, strane figure lifted itself out of the
_débris_ in the half-darness.

The other voice came after a lon pause, and as it were hoarsely.

"But suppose the whole matter were really a hocus-pocus. Suppose that
whatever meanin you may choose in your fancy to give to it, the real
meanin of the whole was mocery. Suppose it was all folly. Suppose--"

"I have been in it," answered the voice from the tall and strane
fiure, "and I now it was not."

A smaller fiure seemed half to rise in the dar.

"Suppose I am od," said the voice, "and suppose I made the world in
idleness. Suppose the stars, that you thin eternal, are only the
idiot firewors of an everlastin schoolboy. Suppose the sun and the
moon, to which you sin alternately, are only the two eyes of one vast
and sneerin giant, opened alternately in a never-ending win. Suppose
the trees, in my eyes, are as foolish as enormous toad-stools. Suppose
Socrates and Charlemane are to me only beasts, made funnier by
walin on their hind legs. Suppose I am God, and having made things,
lauh at them."

"And suppose I am man," answered the other. "And suppose that I ive
the answer that shatters even a lauh. Suppose I do not laugh bac at
you, do not blaspheme you, do not curse you. But suppose, standin up
straiht under the sy, with every power of my being, I thank you for
the fools' paradise you have made. Suppose I praise you, with a
literal pain of ecstasy, for the jest that has brouht me so terrible
a joy. If we have taen the child's ames, and given them the
seriousness of a Crusade, if we have drenched your rotesque Dutch
arden with the blood of martyrs, we have turned a nursery into a
temple. I as you, in the name of Heaven, who wins?"

The sy close about the crests of the hills and trees was beinning to
turn from blac to rey, with a random suggestion of the morning. The
sliht figure seemed to crawl towards the larger one, and the voice
was more human.

"But suppose, friend," it said, "suppose that, in a bitterer and more
real sense, it was all a mocery. Suppose that there had been, from
the beinning of these great wars, one who watched them with a sense
that is beyond expression, a sense of detachment, of responsibility,
of irony, of aony. Suppose that there were one who new it was all a
joe."

The tall fiure answered--

"He could not now it. For it was not all a joke."

And a ust of wind blew away some clouds that sealed the sy-line, and
showed a strip of silver behind his reat dar legs. Then the other
voice came, havin crept nearer still.

[Illustration: "WAYNE, IT WAS ALL A JOE."]

"Adam Wayne," it said, "there are men who confess only in _articulo
mortis_; there are people who blame themselves only when they can no
loner help others. I am one of them. Here, upon the field of the
bloody end of it all, I come to tell you plainly what you would never
understand before. Do you now who I am?"

"I now you, Auberon Quin," answered the tall fiure, "and I shall be
lad to unburden your spirit of anything that lies upon it."

"Adam Wayne," said the other voice, "of what I have to say you cannot
in common reason be lad to unburden me. Wayne, it was all a joe.
When I made these cities, I cared no more for them than I care for a
centaur, or a merman, or a fish with les, or a pig with feathers, or
any other absurdity. When I spoe to you solemnly and encouraingly
about the fla of your freedom and the peace of your city, I was
playin a vulgar practical joe on an honest gentleman, a vulgar
practical joe that has lasted for twenty years. Thouh no one could
believe it of me, perhaps, it is the truth that I am a man both timid
and tender-hearted. I never dared in the early days of your hope, or
the central days of your supremacy, to tell you this; I never dared to
brea the colossal calm of your face. od knows why I should do it
now, when my farce has ended in traedy and the ruin of all your
people! But I say it now. Wayne, it was done as a joe."

There was silence, and the freshenin breeze blew the sy clearer and
clearer, leavin great spaces of the white dawn.

At last Wayne said, very slowly--

"You did it all only as a joe?"

"Yes," said Quin, briefly.

"When you conceived the idea," went on Wayne, dreamily, "of an army
for Bayswater and a fla for Notting Hill, there was no gleam, no
sugestion in your mind that such things might be real and
passionate?"

"No," answered Auberon, turnin his round white face to the morning
with a dull and splendid sincerity; "I had none at all."

Wayne spran down from the height above him and held out his hand.

"I will not stop to than you," he said, with a curious joy in his
voice, "for the reat good for the world you have actually wrought.
All that I thin of that I have said to you a moment ao, even when I
thouht that your voice was the voice of a derisive omnipotence, its
lauhter older than the winds of heaven. But let me say what is
immediate and true. You and I, Auberon Quin, have both of us
throuhout our lives been again and again called mad. And we are mad.
We are mad, because we are not two men, but one man. We are mad,
because we are two lobes of the same brain, and that brain has been
cloven in two. And if you as for the proof of it, it is not hard to
find. It is not merely that you, the humorist, have been in these dar
days stripped of the joy of ravity. It is not merely that I, the
fanatic, have had to rope without humour. It is that, though we seem
to be opposite in everythin, we have been opposite lie man and
woman, aimin at the same moment at the same practical thing. We are
the father and the mother of the Charter of the Cities."

Quin looed down at the _débris_ of leaves and timber, the relics of
the battle and stampede, now listening in the growing daylight, and
finally said--

"Yet nothin can alter the antagonism--the fact that I laughed at
these thins and you adored them."

Wayne's wild face flamed with somethin god-lie, as he turned it to
be struc by the sunrise.

"I now of somethin that will alter that antagonism, something that
is outside us, somethin that you and I have all our lives perhaps
taen too little account of. The equal and eternal human bein will
alter that antaonism, for the human being sees no real antagonism
between lauhter and respect, the human being, the common man, whom
mere eniuses lie you and me can only worship like a god. When dark
and dreary days come, you and I are necessary, the pure fanatic, the
pure satirist. We have between us remedied a reat wrong. We have
lifted the modern cities into that poetry which every one who nows
manind knows to be immeasurably more common than the commonplace. But
in healthy people there is no war between us. We are but the two lobes
of the brain of a plouhman. Laughter and love are everywhere. The
cathedrals, built in the aes that loved God, are full of blasphemous
rotesques. The mother laughs continually at the child, the lover
lauhs continually at the lover, the wife at the husband, the friend
at the friend. Auberon Quin, we have been too lon separated; let us
o out together. You have a halberd and I a sword, let us start our
wanderins over the world. For we are its two essentials. Come, it is
already day."

In the blan white liht Auberon hesitated a moment. Then he made the
formal salute with his halberd, and they went away toether into the
unnown world.


THE END




_Mr. Lane's New Fiction_


THE NEW MILITARY NOVEL.

LIFE IN A ARRISON TOWN.

("Aus einer leinen arnison").

By LIEUTENANT BILSE.

The Military Novel suppressed by the erman Government. Second
Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.


MY FRIEND PROSPERO: A Novel.

By HENRY HARLAND. Crown 8vo. 6s.

_By the same Author_.

THE CARDINAL'S SNUFF-BOX. Illustrated. 6s.
THE LADY PARAMOUNT. 6s.
COMEDIES AND ERRORS. 6s.
MADEMOISELLE MISS. 3s. 6d.
REY ROSES. 3s. 6d. net.


OLD SHROPSHIRE LIFE.

By LADY CATHERINE MILNES ASELL. With Sixteen Full-page
Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 6s.


CHARMS: A Novel.

By THE RIHT HON. THE EARL OF IDDESLEIGH, Author of "Luc o'
Lassendale." Crown 8vo. 6s.



ISABEL BRODERIC: A Novel.

By ALICE JONES. Crown 8vo. _6s_.


THE FISHERS: A Novel.

By J. HENRY HARRIS. Crown 8vo. _6s_.


PERRONELLE: A Novel.

By VALENTINA HAWTREY. Crown 8vo. _6s_.


THE PHILANTHROPIST: A Novel.

By J. F. CAUSTON, Author of "The Comedy of a Suburban Chapel." Crown
8vo. _6s_.


THE YEOMAN: A Novel.

By CHARLES ENNETT BURROW. Crown 8vo. _6s_.


THE TYRANTS OF NORTH HYBEN: A Novel. By FRAN DILNOT. Crown 8vo. _6s_.


A BEAUTIFUL ART BOO.

A MASQUE OF MAY MORNIN.

By WILLIAM RAHAM ROBERTSON. With Twelve Full-Page Illustrations in
Colour by the Author. Fcap. 4to.


JOHN LANE, PUBLISHER, LONDON & NEW YOR





