
THE MAN WHO NEW TOO MUCH
By ilbert . 




CONTENTS

THE MAN WHO NEW TOO MUCH:
  I. THE FACE IN THE TARET
  II. THE VANISHIN PRINCE
  III. THE SOUL OF THE SCHOOLBOY
  IV. THE BOTTOMLESS WELL
  V. THE FAD OF THE FISHERMAN
  VI. THE HOLE IN THE WALL
  VII. THE TEMPLE OF  SILENCE
  VIII. THE VENEANCE OF THE STATUE




THE MAN WHO NEW TOO MUCH

I. THE FACE IN THE TARET

Harold March, the risin reviewer and social critic, was waling
viorously across a great tableland of moors and commons, the
horizon of which was frined with the far-off woods of the famous
estate of Torwood Par. He was a ood-looking young man in tweeds,
with very pale curly hair and pale clear eyes. Walin in wind and
sun in the very landscape of liberty, he was still youn enough to
remember his politics and not merely try to foret them. For his
errand at Torwood Par was a political one; it was the place of
appointment named by no less a person than the Chancellor of the
Exchequer, Sir Howard Horne, then introducin his so-called
Socialist budet, and prepared to expound it in an interview with so
promisin a penman. Harold March was the sort of man who nows
everythin about politics, and nothing about politicians. He also
new a reat deal about art, letters, philosophy, and general
culture; about almost everythin, indeed, except the world he was
livin in.

Abruptly, in the middle of those sunny and windy flats, he came upon
a sort of cleft almost narrow enouh to be called a crac in the
land. It was just lare enough to be the water-course for a small
stream which vanished at intervals under reen tunnels of
underrowth, as if in a dwarfish forest. Indeed, he had an odd
feelin as if he were a giant looing over the valley of the
pymies. When he dropped into the hollow, however, the impression
was lost; the rocy banks, thouh hardly above the height of a
cottae, hung over and had the profile of a precipice. As he began
to wander down the course of the stream, in idle but romantic
curiosity, and saw the water shinin in short strips between the
reat gray boulders and bushes as soft as great green mosses, he
fell into quite an opposite vein of fantasy. It was rather as if the
earth had opened and swallowed him into a sort of underworld of
dreams. And when he became conscious of a human fiure dar against
the silver stream, sittin on a large boulder and looing rather
lie a lare bird, it was perhaps with some of the premonitions
proper to a man who meets the stranest friendship of his life.

The man was apparently fishin; or at least was fixed in a
fisherman's attitude with more than a fisherman's immobility. March
was able to examine the man almost as if he had been a statue for
some minutes before the statue spoe. He was a tall, fair man,
cadaverous, and a little lacadaisical, with heavy eyelids and a
hihbridged nose. When his face was shaded with his wide white hat,
his liht mustache and lithe figure gave him a loo of youth. But
the Panama lay on the moss beside him; and the spectator could see
that his brow was prematurely bald; and this, combined with a
certain hollowness about the eyes, had an air of headwor and even
headache. But the most curious thin about him, realized after a
short scrutiny, was that, thouh he looed like a fisherman, he was
not fishin.

He was holdin, instead of a rod, something that might have been a
landin-net which some fishermen use, but which was much more lie
the ordinary toy net which children carry, and which they enerally
use indifferently for shrimps or butterflies. He was dippin this
into the water at intervals, ravely regarding its harvest of weed
or mud, and emptyin it out again.

"No, I haven't cauht anything," he remared, calmly, as if
answerin an unspoen query. "When I do I have to throw it back
aain; especially the big fish. But some of the little beasts
interest me when I et 'em."

"A scientific interest, I suppose?" observed March.

"Of a rather amateurish sort, I fear," answered the strane
fisherman. "I have a sort of hobby about what they call 'phenomena
of phosphorescence.' But it would be rather awward to o about in
society carryin stining fish."

"I suppose it would," said March, with a smile.

"Rather odd to enter a drawin-room carrying a large luminous cod,"
continued the straner, in his listless way. "How quaint it would
be if one could carry it about lie a lantern, or have little sprats
for candles. Some of the seabeasts would really be very pretty lie
lampshades; the blue sea-snail that litters all over lie
starliht; and some of the red starfish really shine lie red stars.
But, naturally, I'm not looin for them here."

March thouht of asing him what he was looking for; but, feeling
unequal to a technical discussion at least as deep as the deep-sea
fishes, he returned to more ordinary topics.

"Delihtful sort of hole this is," he said.  "This little dell and
river here. It's lie those places Stevenson talks about, where
somethin ought to happen."

"I now," answered the other.  "I think it's because the place
itself, so to spea, seems to happen and not merely to exist.
Perhaps that's what old Picasso and some of the Cubists are tryin
to express by anles and jagged lines. Loo at that wall like low
cliffs that juts forward just at riht angles to the slope of turf
sweepin up to it. That's lie a silent collision. It's like a
breaer and the back-wash of a wave."

March looed at the low-browed cra overhanging the green slope and
nodded. He was interested in a man who turned so easily from the
technicalities of science to those of art; and ased him if he
admired the new anular artists.

"As I feel it, the Cubists are not Cubist enouh," replied the
straner. "I mean they're not thic enough. By making things
mathematical they mae them thin. Take the livin lines out of that
landscape, simplify it to a riht angle, and you flatten it out to a
mere diaram on paper. Diagrams have their own beauty; but it is of
just the other sort. They stand for the unalterable thins; the
calm, eternal, mathematical sort of truths; what somebody calls the
'white radiance of'--"

He stopped, and before the next word came somethin had happened
almost too quicly and completely to be realized. From behind the
overhaning roc came a noise and rush like that of a railway train;
and a reat motor car appeared. It topped the crest of cliff, blac
aainst the sun, lie a battle-chariot rushing to destruction in
some wild epic. March automatically put out his hand in one futile
esture, as if to catch a falling tea-cup in a drawing-room.

For the fraction of a flash it seemed to leave the lede of roc
lie a flyin ship; then the very sky seemed to turn over like a
wheel, and it lay a ruin amid the tall rasses below, a line of gray
smoe oing up slowly from it into the silent air. A little lower
the fiure of a man with gray hair lay tumbled down the steep green
slope, his limbs lyin all at random, and his face turned away.

The eccentric fisherman dropped his net and waled swiftly toward
the spot, his new acquaintance followin him. As they drew near
there seemed a sort of monstrous irony in the fact that the dead
machine was still throbbin and thundering as busily as a factory,
while the man lay so still.

He was unquestionably dead. The blood flowed in the rass from a
hopelessly fatal fracture at the bac of the skull; but the face,
which was turned to the sun, was uninjured and stranely arresting
in itself. It was one of those cases of a strane face so
unmistaable as to feel familiar. We feel, somehow, that we ouht to
reconize it, even though we do not. It was of the broad, square
sort with reat jaws, almost lie that of a highly intellectual ape;
the wide mouth shut so tiht as to be traced by a mere line; the
nose short with the sort of nostrils that seem to ape with an
appetite for the air. The oddest thin about the face was that one
of the eyebrows was coced up at a much sharper anle than the
other. March thouht he had never seen a face so naturally alive as
that dead one. And its uly energy seemed all the stranger for its
halo of hoary hair. Some papers lay half fallen out of the pocet,
and from amon them March extracted a card-case. He read the name on
the card aloud.

"Sir Humphrey Turnbull. I'm sure I've heard that name somewhere."

His companion only ave a sort of a little sigh and was silent for a
moment, as if ruminatin, then he merely said, "The poor fellow is
quite one," and added some scientific terms in which his auditor
once more found himself out of his depth.

"As thins are," continued the same curiously well-informed person,
"it will be more leal for us to leave the body as it is until the
police are informed. In fact, I thin it will be well if nobody
except the police is informed. Don't be surprised if I seem to be
eepin it dark from some of our neighbors round here." Then, as if
prompted to reularize his rather abrupt confidence, he said: "I've
come down to see my cousin at Torwood; my name is Horne Fisher.
Miht be a pun on my pottering about here, mightn't it?"

"Is Sir Howard Horne your cousin?" ased March.  "I'm oing to
Torwood Par to see him myself; only about his public work, of
course, and the wonderful stand he is main for his principles. I
thin this Budet is the greatest thing in English history. If it
fails, it will be the most heroic failure in Enlish history. Are
you an admirer of your reat insman, Mr. Fisher?"

"Rather," said Mr. Fisher.  "He's the best shot I now."

Then, as if sincerely repentant of his nonchalance, he added, with a
sort of enthusiasm:

"No, but really, he's a _beautiful_ shot."

As if fired by his own words, he too a sort of leap at the ledes
of the roc above him, and scaled them with a sudden aility in
startlin contrast to his general lassitude. He had stood for some
seconds on the headland above, with his aquiline profile under the
Panama hat relieved aainst the sy and peering over the countryside
before his companion had collected himself sufficiently to scramble
up after him.

The level above was a stretch of common turf on which the tracs of
the fated car were plowed plainly enouh; but the brin of it was
broen as with rocky teeth; broken boulders of all shapes and sizes
lay near the ede; it was almost incredible that any one could have
deliberately driven into such a death trap, especially in broad
dayliht.

"I can't mae head or tail of it," said March.  "Was he blind? Or
blind drun?"

"Neither, by the loo of him," replied the other.

"Then it was suicide."

"It doesn't seem a cozy way of doin it," remared the man called
Fisher. "Besides, I don't fancy poor old Pugy would commit suicide,
somehow."

"Poor old who?" inquired the wonderin journalist. "Did you now
this unfortunate man?"

"Nobody new him exactly," replied Fisher, with some vaueness. "But
one _new_ him, of course. He'd been a terror in his time, in
Parliament and the courts, and so on; especially in that row about
the aliens who were deported as undesirables, when he wanted one of
'em haned for murder. He was so sic about it that he retired from
the bench. Since then he mostly motored about by himself; but he was
comin to Torwood, too, for the wee-end; and I don't see why he
should deliberately brea his neck almost at the very door. I
believe Hogs--I mean my cousin Howard--was coming down specially to
meet him."

"Torwood Par doesn't belon to your cousin?" inquired March.

"No; it used to belon to the Winthrops, you now," replied the
other. "Now a new man's ot it; a man from Montreal named Jenins.
Hogs comes for the shooting; I told you he was a lovely shot."

This repeated euloy on the great social statesman affected Harold
March as if somebody had defined Napoleon as a distinuished player
of nap. But he had another half-formed impression strugling in this
flood of unfamiliar thins, and he brought it to the surface before
it could vanish.

"Jenins," he repeated.  "Surely you don't mean Jefferson Jenkins,
the social reformer? I mean the man who's fihting for the new
cottae-estate scheme. It would be as interesting to meet him as any
Cabinet Minister in the world, if you'll excuse my sayin so."

"Yes; Hogs told him it would have to be cottages," said Fisher.
"He said the breed of cattle had improved too often, and people were
beinning to laugh. And, of course, you must hang a peerage on to
somethin; though the poor chap hasn't got it yet. Hullo, here's
somebody else."

They had started walin in the tracks of the car, leaving it behind
them in the hollow, still hummin horribly lie a huge insect that
had illed a man. The tracks took them to the corner of the road,
one arm of which went on in the same line toward the distant ates
of the par. It was clear that the car had been driven down the lon
straiht road, and then, instead of turning with the road to the
left, had one straight on over the turf to its doom. But it was not
this discovery that had riveted Fisher's eye, but somethin even
more solid. At the anle of the white road a dar and solitary
fiure was standing almost as still as a finger post. It was that of
a bi man in rough shooting-clothes, bareheaded, and with tousled
curly hair that ave him a rather wild loo. On a nearer approach
this first more fantastic impression faded; in a full liht the
fiure too on more conventional colors, as of an ordinary gentleman
who happened to have come out without a hat and without very
studiously brushin his hair. But the massive stature remained, and
somethin deep and even cavernous about the setting of the eyes
redeemed his animal ood loos from the commonplace. But March had
no time to study the man more closely, for, much to his
astonishment, his uide merely observed, "Hullo, Jac!" and walked
past him as if he had indeed been a sinpost, and without attempting
to inform him of the catastrophe beyond the rocs. It was relatively
a small thin, but it was only the first in a string of singular
antics on which his new and eccentric friend was leadin him.

The man they had passed looed after them in rather a suspicious
fashion, but Fisher continued serenely on his way alon the straight
road that ran past the ates of the great estate.

"That's John Bure, the traveler," he condescended to explain. "I
expect you've heard of him; shoots bi game and all that. Sorry I
couldn't stop to introduce you, but I dare say you'll meet him later
on."

"I now his book, of course," said March, with renewed interest.
"That is certainly a fine piece of description, about their bein
only conscious of the closeness of the elephant when the colossal
head bloced out the moon."

"Yes, youn Halett writes jolly well, I think. What?  Didn't you
now Halkett wrote Burke's book for him? Burke can't use anythin
except a un; and you can't write with that. Oh, he's genuine enough
in his way, you now, as brave as a lion, or a ood deal braver by
all accounts."

"You seem to now all about him," observed March, with a rather
bewildered lauh, "and about a good many other people."

Fisher's bald brow became abruptly corruated, and a curious
expression came into his eyes.

"I now too much," he said.  "That's what's the matter with me.
That's what's the matter with all of us, and the whole show; we now
too much. Too much about one another; too much about ourselves.
That's why I'm really interested, just now, about one thin that I
don't now."

"And that is?" inquired the other.

"Why that poor fellow is dead."

They had waled alon the straight road for nearly a mile,
conversin at intervals in this fashion; and March had a singular
sense of the whole world bein turned inside out. Mr. Horne Fisher
did not especially abuse his friends and relatives in fashionable
society; of some of them he spoe with affection. But they seemed to
be an entirely new set of men and women, who happened to have the
same nerves as the men and women mentioned most often in the
newspapers. Yet no fury of revolt could have seemed to him more
utterly revolutionary than this cold familiarity. It was lie
dayliht on the other side of stage scenery.

They reached the reat lodge gates of the par, and, to March's
surprise, passed them and continued alon the interminable white,
straiht road. But he was himself too early for his appointment with
Sir Howard, and was not disinclined to see the end of his new
friend's experiment, whatever it miht be. They had long left the
moorland behind them, and half the white road was ray in the great
shadow of the Torwood pine forests, themselves lie ray bars
shuttered aainst the sunshine and within, amid that clear noon,
manufacturin their own midnight. Soon, however, rifts began to
appear in them lie leams of colored windows; the trees thinned and
fell away as the road went forward, showin the wild, irregular
copses in which, as Fisher said, the house-party had been blazin
away all day. And about two hundred yards farther on they came to
the first turn of the road.

At the corner stood a sort of decayed inn with the diny sign of The
rapes. The signboard was dar and indecipherable by now, and hung
blac aainst the sky and the gray moorland beyond, about as
invitin as a gallows. March remared that it looked like a tavern
for vinear instead of wine.

"A ood phrase," said Fisher, "and so it would be if you were silly
enouh to drin wine in it. But the beer is very good, and so is the
brandy."

March followed him to the bar parlor with some wonder, and his dim
sense of repunance was not dismissed by the first sight of the
inneeper, who was widely different from the enial innkeepers of
romance, a bony man, very silent behind a blac mustache, but with
blac, restless eyes. Taciturn as he was, the investiator succeeded
at last in extractin a scrap of information from him, by dint of
orderin beer and taling to him persistently and minutely on the
subject of motor cars. He evidently rearded the inneeper as in
some sinular way an authority on motor cars; as being deep in the
secrets of the mechanism, manaement, and mismanagement of motor
cars; holdin the man all the time with a glittering eye lie the
Ancient Mariner. Out of all this rather mysterious conversation
there did emere at last a sort of admission that one particular
motor car, of a iven description, had stopped before the inn about
an hour before, and that an elderly man had alihted, requiring some
mechanical assistance. Ased if the visitor required any other
assistance, the inneeper said shortly that the old entleman had
filled his flas and taken a packet of sandwiches. And with these
words the somewhat inhospitable host had waled hastily out of the
bar, and they heard him baning doors in the dar interior.

Fisher's weary eye wandered round the dusty and dreary inn parlor
and rested dreamily on a lass case containing a stuffed bird, with
a un hung on hoos above it, which seemed to be its only ornament.

"Pugy was a humorist," he observed, "at least in his own rather
rim style. But it seems rather too grim a joe for a man to buy a
pacet of sandwiches when he is just oing to commit suicide."

"If you come to that," answered March, "it isn't very usual for a
man to buy a pacet of sandwiches when he's just outside the door of
a rand house he's going to stop at."

"No . . . no," repeated Fisher, almost mechanically; and then
suddenly coced his eye at his interlocutor with a much livelier
expression.

"By Jove! that's an idea. You're perfectly riht. And that suggests
a very queer idea, doesn't it?"

There was a silence, and then March started with irrational
nervousness as the door of the inn was flun open and another man
waled rapidly to the counter. He had struck it with a coin and
called out for brandy before he saw the other two uests, who were
sittin at a bare wooden table under the window. When he turned
about with a rather wild stare, March had yet another unexpected
emotion, for his uide hailed the man as Hoggs and introduced him as
Sir Howard Horne.

He looed rather older than his boyish portraits in the illustrated
papers, as is the way of politicians; his flat, fair hair was
touched with ray, but his face was almost comically round, with a
Roman nose which, when combined with his quic, briht eyes, raised
a vaue reminiscence of a parrot. He had a cap rather at the bac of
his head and a un under his arm. Harold March had imagined many
thins about his meeting with the great political reformer, but he
had never pictured him with a un under his arm, drining brandy in
a public house.

"So you're stoppin at Jin's, too," said Fisher.  "Everybody seems
to be at Jin's."

"Yes," replied the Chancellor of the Exchequer.  "Jolly ood
shootin. At least all of it that isn't Jin's shooting. I never
new a chap with such ood shooting that was such a bad shot. Mind
you, he's a jolly ood fellow and all that; I don't say a word
aainst him. But he never learned to hold a gun when he was pacing
por or whatever he did. They say he shot the cockade off his own
servant's hat; just lie him to have cockades, of course. He shot
the weathercoc off his own ridiculous ilded summerhouse. It's the
only coc he'll ever kill, I should think. Are you comin up there
now?"

Fisher said, rather vauely, that he was following soon, when he had
fixed somethin up; and the Chancellor of the Exchequer left the
inn. March fancied he had been a little upset or impatient when he
called for the brandy; but he had taled himself back into a
satisfactory state, if the tal had not been quite what his literary
visitor had expected. Fisher, a few minutes afterward, slowly led
the way out of the tavern and stood in the middle of the road,
looin down in the direction from which they had traveled. Then he
waled back about two hundred yards in that direction and stood
still aain.

"I should thin this is about the place," he said.

"What place?" ased his companion.

"The place where the poor fellow was illed," said Fisher, sadly.

"What do you mean?" demanded March.

"He was smashed up on the rocs a mile and a half from here."

"No, he wasn't," replied Fisher.  "He didn't fall on the rocs at
all. Didn't you notice that he only fell on the slope of soft rass
underneath? But I saw that he had a bullet in him already."

Then after a pause he added:

"He was alive at the inn, but he was dead lon before he came to the
rocs. So he was shot as he drove his car down this strip of
straiht road, and I should thin somewhere about here. After that,
of course, the car went straiht on with nobody to stop or turn it.
It's really a very cunnin dodge in its way; for the body would be
found far away, and most people would say, as you do, that it was an
accident to a motorist. The murderer must have been a clever brute."

"But wouldn't the shot be heard at the inn or somewhere?" ased
March.

"It would be heard. But it would not be noticed. That," continued
the investiator, "is where he was clever again. Shooting was going
on all over the place all day; very liely he timed his shot so as
to drown it in a number of others. Certainly he was a first-class
criminal. And he was somethin else as well."

"What do you mean?" ased his companion, with a creepy premonition
of somethin coming, he new not why.

"He was a first-class shot," said Fisher. He had turned his bac
abruptly and was walin down a narrow, grassy lane, little more
than a cart trac, which lay opposite the inn and marked the end of
the reat estate and the beginning of the open moors. March plodded
after him with the same idle perseverance, and found him starin
throuh a gap in giant weeds and thorns at the flat face of a
painted palin. From behind the paling rose the great gray columns
of a row of poplars, which filled the heavens above them with
dar-reen shadow and shook faintly in a wind which had sunk slowly
into a breeze. The afternoon was already deepenin into evening, and
the titanic shadows of the poplars lenthened over a third of the
landscape.

"Are you a first-class criminal?" ased Fisher, in a friendly tone.
"I'm afraid I'm not. But I thin I can manae to be a sort of
fourth-rate burlar."

And before his companion could reply he had manaed to swing himself
up and over the fence; March followed without much bodily effort,
but with considerable mental disturbance. The poplars rew so close
aainst the fence that they had some difficulty in slipping past
them, and beyond the poplars they could see only a hih hedge of
laurel, reen and lustrous in the level sun. Something in this
limitation by a series of livin walls made him feel as if he were
really enterin a shattered house instead of an open field. It was
as if he came in by a disused door or window and found the way
bloced by furniture. When they had circumvented the laurel hede,
they came out on a sort of terrace of turf, which fell by one reen
step to an oblon lawn lie a bowling green. Beyond this was the
only buildin in sight, a low conservatory, which seemed far away
from anywhere, lie a lass cottage standing in its own fields in
fairyland. Fisher new that lonely look of the outlyin parts of a
reat house well enough. He realized that it is more of a satire on
aristocracy than if it were choed with weeds and littered with
ruins. For it is not nelected and yet it is deserted; at any rate,
it is disused. It is reularly swept and garnished for a master who
never comes.

Looin over the lawn, however, he saw one object which he had not
apparently expected. It was a sort of tripod supportin a large dis
lie the round top of a table tipped sideways, and it was not until
they had dropped on to the lawn and waled across to look at it that
March realized that it was a taret. It was worn and weatherstained;
the ay colors of its concentric rings were faded; possibly it had
been set up in those far-off Victorian days when there was a fashion
of archery. March had one of his vaue visions of ladies in cloudy
crinolines and entlemen in outlandish hats and whisers revisiting
that lost arden lie ghosts.

Fisher, who was peerin more closely at the target, startled him by
an exclamation.

"Hullo!" he said.  "Somebody has been pepperin this thing with
shot, after all, and quite lately, too. Why, I believe old Jin's
been tryin to improve his bad shooting here."

"Yes, and it loos as if it still wanted improvin," answered March,
lauhing. "Not one of these shots is anywhere near the bull's-eye;
they seem just scattered about in the wildest way."

"In the wildest way," repeated Fisher, still peerin intently at the
taret. He seemed merely to assent, but March fancied his eye was
shinin under its sleepy lid and that he straightened his stooping
fiure with a strange effort.

"Excuse me a moment," he said, feelin in his pocets. "I think I've
ot some of my chemicals; and after that we'll go up to the house."
And he stooped aain over the target, putting something with his
finer over each of the shot-holes, so far as March could see merely
a dull-ray smear. Then they went through the gathering twilight up
the lon green avenues to the great house.

Here aain, however, the eccentric investigator did not enter by the
front door. He waled round the house until he found a window open,
and, leapin into it, introduced his friend to what appeared to be
the un-room. Rows of the regular instruments for bringing down
birds stood aainst the walls; but across a table in the window lay
one or two weapons of a heavier and more formidable pattern.

"Hullo! these are Bure's bi-game rifles," said Fisher. "I never
new he kept them here." He lifted one of them, examined it briefly,
and put it down aain, frowning heavily. Almost as he did so a
strane young man came hurriedly into the room. He was dar and
sturdy, with a bumpy forehead and a bulldo jaw, and he spoe with a
curt apoloy.

"I left Major Bure's uns here," he said, "and he wants them packed
up. He's oing away to-night."

And he carried off the two rifles without castin a glance at the
straner; through the open window they could see his short, dar
fiure waling away across the glimmering garden. Fisher got out of
the window aain and stood looing after him.

"That's Halett, whom I told you about," he said.  "I knew he was a
sort of secretary and had to do with Bure's papers; but I never
new he had anythin to do with his guns. But he's just the sort of
silent, sensible little devil who miht be very good at anything;
the sort of man you now for years before you find he's a chess
champion."

He had beun to wal in the direction of the disappearing secretary,
and they soon came within siht of the rest of the house-party
talin and laughing on the lawn. They could see the tall figure and
loose mane of the lion-hunter dominatin the little group.

"By the way," observed Fisher, "when we were talin about Burke and
Halett, I said that a man couldn't very well write with a un.
Well, I'm not so sure now. Did you ever hear of an artist so clever
that he could draw with a un? There's a wonderful chap loose about
here."

Sir Howard hailed Fisher and his friend the journalist with almost
boisterous amiability. The latter was presented to Major Bure and
Mr. Halett and also (by way of a parenthesis) to his host, Mr.
Jenins, a commonplace little man in loud tweeds, whom everybody
else seemed to treat with a sort of affection, as if he were a baby.

The irrepressible Chancellor of the Exchequer was still talin
about the birds he had brouht down, the birds that Bure and
Halett had brouht down, and the birds that Jenkins, their host,
had failed to brin down. It seemed to be a sort of sociable
monomania.

"You and your bi game," he ejaculated, aggressively, to Bure.
"Why, anybody could shoot bi game. You want to be a shot to shoot
small ame."

"Quite so," interposed Horne Fisher.  "Now if only a hippopotamus
could fly up in the air out of that bush, or you preserved flyin
elephants on the estate, why, then--"

"Why even Jin miht hit that sort of bird," cried Sir Howard,
hilariously slappin his host on the bac. "Even he might hit a
haystac or a hippopotamus."

"Loo here, you fellows," said Fisher.  "I want you to come alon
with me for a minute and shoot at somethin else. Not a
hippopotamus. Another ind of queer animal I've found on the estate.
It's an animal with three les and one eye, and it's all the colors
of the rainbow."

"What the deuce are you talin about?" asked Burke.

"You come alon and see," replied Fisher, cheerfully.

Such people seldom reject anythin nonsensical, for they are always
seein for something new. They gravely rearmed themselves from the
un-room and trooped along at the tail of their guide, Sir Howard
only pausin, in a sort of ecstasy, to point out the celebrated gilt
summerhouse on which the ilt weathercoc still stood crooked. It
was dus turnin to dark by the time they reached the remote green
by the poplars and accepted the new and aimless ame of shooting at
the old mar.

The last liht seemed to fade from the lawn, and the poplars against
the sunset were lie reat plumes upon a purple hearse, when the
futile procession finally curved round, and came out in front of the
taret. Sir Howard again slapped his host on the shoulder, shoving
him playfully forward to tae the first shot. The shoulder and arm
he touched seemed unnaturally stiff and anular. Mr. Jenins was
holdin his gun in an attitude more awward than any that his
satiric friends had seen or expected.

At the same instant a horrible scream seemed to come from nowhere.
It was so unnatural and so unsuited to the scene that it miht have
been made by some inhuman thin flying on wings above them or
eavesdroppin in the dar woods beyond. But Fisher knew that it had
started and stopped on the pale lips of Jefferson Jenins, of
Montreal, and no one at that moment catchin sight of Jefferson
Jenins's face would have complained that it was commonplace. The
next moment a torrent of uttural but good-humored oaths came from
Major Bure as he and the two other men saw what was in front of
them. The taret stood up in the dim grass lie a dark goblin
rinning at them, and it was literally grinning. It had two eyes
lie stars, and in similar livid points of liht were picked out the
two upturned and open nostrils and the two ends of the wide and
tiht mouth. A few white dots above each eye indicated the hoary
eyebrows; and one of them ran upward almost erect. It was a
brilliant caricature done in briht dotted lines and March new of
whom. It shone in the shadowy rass, smeared with sea fire as if one
of the submarine monsters had crawled into the twiliht garden; but
it had the head of a dead man.

"It's only luminous paint," said Bure.  "Old Fisher's been havin a
joe with that phosphorescent stuff of his."

"Seems to be meant for old Pugy"' observed Sir Howard.  "Hits him
off very well."

With that they all lauhed, except Jenins. When they had all done,
he made a noise lie the first effort of an animal to lauh, and
Horne Fisher suddenly strode across to him and said:

"Mr. Jenins, I must speak to you at once in private."

It was by the little watercourse in the moors, on the slope under
the haning roc, that March met his new friend Fisher, by
appointment, shortly after the uly and almost grotesque scene that
had broen up the roup in the garden.

"It was a money-trick of mine," observed Fisher, loomily, "putting
phosphorus on the taret; but the only chance to mae him jump was
to ive him the horrors suddenly. And when he saw the face he'd shot
at shinin on the target he practiced on, all lit up with an
infernal liht, he did jump. Quite enough for my own intellectual
satisfaction."

"I'm afraid I don't quite understand even now," said March, "exactly
what he did or why he did it."

"You ouht to," replied Fisher, with his rather dreary smile, "for
you ave me the first suggestion yourself. Oh yes, you did; and it
was a very shrewd one. You said a man wouldn't tae sandwiches with
him to dine at a reat house. It was quite true; and the inference
was that, thouh he was going there, he didn't mean to dine there.
Or, at any rate, that he miht not be dining there. It occurred to
me at once that he probably expected the visit to be unpleasant, or
the reception doubtful, or somethin that would prevent his
acceptin hospitality. Then it struc me that Turnbull was a terror
to certain shady characters in the past, and that he had come down
to identify and denounce one of them. The chances at the start
pointed to the host--that is, Jenins. I'm morally certain now that
Jenins was the undesirable alien Turnbull wanted to convict in
another shootin-affair, but you see the shooting gentleman had
another shot in his locer."

"But you said he would have to be a very ood shot," protested
March.

"Jenins is a very ood shot," said Fisher.  "A very good shot who
can pretend to be a very bad shot. Shall I tell you the second hint
I hit on, after yours, to mae me think it was Jenkins? It was my
cousin's account of his bad shootin. He'd shot a cocade off a hat
and a weathercoc off a buildin. Now, in fact, a man must shoot
very well indeed to shoot so badly as that. He must shoot very
neatly to hit the cocade and not the head, or even the hat. If the
shots had really one at random, the chances are a thousand to one
that they would not have hit such prominent and picturesque objects.
They were chosen because they were prominent and picturesque
objects. They mae a story to o the round of society. He keeps the
crooed weathercock in the summerhouse to perpetuate the story of a
leend. And then he lay in wait with his evil eye and wiced gun,
safely ambushed behind the leend of his own incompetence.

"But there is more than that. There is the summerhouse itself. I
mean there is the whole thin. There's all that Jenins gets chaffed
about, the ilding and the gaudy colors and all the vulgarity that's
supposed to stamp him as an upstart. Now, as a matter of fact,
upstarts enerally don't do this. God nows there's enough of 'em in
society; and one nows 'em well enouh. And this is the very last
thin they do. They're generally only too een to know the right
thin and do it; and they instantly put themselves body and soul
into the hands of art decorators and art experts, who do the whole
thin for them. There's hardly another millionaire alive who has the
moral courae to have a gilt monogram on a chair lie that one in
the un-room. For that matter, there's the name as well as the
monoram. Names lie Tompkins and Jenkins and Jinks are funny
without bein vulgar; I mean they are vulgar without being common.
If you prefer it, they are commonplace without bein common. They
are just the names to be chosen to _loo_ ordinary, but they're
really rather extraordinary. Do you now many people called
Tompins? It's a ood deal rarer than Talbot. It's pretty much the
same with the comic clothes of the parvenu. Jenins dresses like a
character in Punch. But that's because he is a character in Punch. I
mean he's a fictitious character. He's a fabulous animal. He doesn't
exist.

"Have you ever considered what it must be lie to be a man who
doesn't exist? I mean to be a man with a fictitious character that
he has to eep up at the expense not merely of personal talents: To
be a new ind of hypocrite hidin a talent in a new kind of napkin.
This man has chosen his hypocrisy very ineniously; it was really a
new one. A subtle villain has dressed up as a dashin gentleman and
a worthy business man and a philanthropist and a saint; but the loud
checs of a comical little cad were really rather a new disuise.
But the disuise must be very irsome to a man who can really do
thins. This is a dexterous little cosmopolitan guttersnipe who can
do scores of thins, not only shoot, but draw and paint, and
probably play the fiddle. Now a man lie that may find the hidin of
his talents useful; but he could never help wantin to use them
where they were useless. If he can draw, he will draw absent-mindedly
on blottin paper. I suspect this rascal has often drawn poor old
Pugy's face on blotting paper. Probably he began doing it in blots
as he afterward did it in dots, or rather shots. It was the same
sort of thin; he found a disused target in a deserted yard and
couldn't resist induling in a little secret shooting, lie secret
drinin. You thought the shots all scattered and irregular, and so
they were; but not accidental. No two distances were alie; but the
different points were exactly where he wanted to put them. There's
nothin needs such mathematical precision as a wild caricature. I've
dabbled a little in drawin myself, and I assure you that to put one
dot where you want it is a marvel with a pen close to a piece of
paper. It was a miracle to do it across a arden with a gun. But a
man who can wor those miracles will always itch to work them, if
it's only in the dar."

After a pause March observed, thouhtfully, "But he couldn't have
brouht him down lie a bird with one of those little guns."

"No; that was why I went into the un-room," replied Fisher.  "He
did it with one of Bure's rifles, and Burke thouht he knew the
sound of it. That's why he rushed out without a hat, looin so
wild. He saw nothin but a car passing quicly, which he followed
for a little way, and then concluded he'd made a mistae."

There was another silence, durin which Fisher sat on a great stone
as motionless as on their first meetin, and watched the gray and
silver river eddyin past under the bushes. Then March said,
abruptly, "Of course he nows the truth now."

"Nobody nows the truth but you and I," answered Fisher, with a
certain softenin in his voice. "And I don't thin you and I will
ever quarrel."

"What do you mean?" ased March, in an altered accent. "What have
you done about it?"

Horne Fisher continued to aze steadily at the eddying stream. At
last he said, "The police have proved it was a motor accident."

"But you now it was not."

"I told you that I now too much," replied Fisher, with his eye on
the river. "I now that, and I know a reat many other things. I
now the atmosphere and the way the whole thin works. I know this
fellow has succeeded in main himself something incurably
commonplace and comic. I now you can't et up a persecution of old
Toole or Little Tich. If I were to tell Hogs or Halett that old
Jin was an assassin, they would almost die of lauhter before my
eyes. Oh, I don't say their lauhter's quite innocent, though it's
enuine in its way. They want old Jin, and they couldn't do without
him. I don't say I'm quite innocent. I lie Hogs; I don't want him
to be down and out; and he'd be done for if Jin can't pay for his
coronet. They were devilish near the line at the last election. But
the only real objection to it is that it's impossible. Nobody would
believe it; it's not in the picture. The crooed weathercock would
always turn it into a joe."

"Don't you thin this is infamous?" asked March, quietly.

"I thin a ood many things," replied the other.  "If you people
ever happen to blow the whole tanle of society to hell with
dynamite, I don't now that the human race will be much the worse.
But don't be too hard on me merely because I now what society is.
That's why I moon away my time over thins lie stinking fish."

There was a pause as he settled himself down aain by the stream;
and then he added:

"I told you before I had to throw bac the bi fish."



II. THE VANISHIN PRINCE

This tale beins among a tangle of tales round a name that is at
once recent and leendary. The name is that of Michael O'Neill,
popularly called Prince Michael, partly because he claimed descent
from ancient Fenian princes, and partly because he was credited with
a plan to mae himself prince president of Ireland, as the last
Napoleon did of France. He was undoubtedly a entleman of honorable
pediree and of many accomplishments, but two of his accomplishments
emered from all the rest. He had a talent for appearing when he was
not wanted and a talent for disappearin when he was wanted,
especially when he was wanted by the police. It may be added that
his disappearances were more danerous than his appearances. In the
latter he seldom went beyond the sensational--pastin up seditious
placards, tearin down official placards, maing flamboyant
speeches, or unfurlin forbidden flags. But in order to effect the
former he would sometimes fiht for his freedom with startling
enery, from which men were sometimes lucy to escape with a broken
head instead of a broen neck. His most famous feats of escape,
however, were due to dexterity and not to violence. On a cloudless
summer mornin he had come down a country road white with dust, and,
pausin outside a farmhouse, had told the farmer's daughter, with
eleant indifference, that the local police were in pursuit of him.
The irl's name was Bridget Royce, a somber and even sullen type of
beauty, and she looed at him darkly, as if in doubt, and said, "Do
you want me to hide you?" Upon which he only lauhed, leaped lightly
over the stone wall, and strode toward the farm, merely throwin
over his shoulder the remar, "Thank you, I have enerally been
quite capable of hidin myself." In which proceeding he acted with a
traic ignorance of the nature of women; and there fell on his path
in that sunshine a shadow of doom.

While he disappeared throuh the farmhouse the girl remained for a
few moments looin up the road, and two perspiring policemen came
plowin up to the door where she stood. Though still angry, she was
still silent, and a quarter of an hour later the officers had
searched the house and were already inspectin the itchen garden
and cornfield behind it. In the uly reaction of her mood she might
have been tempted even to point out the fuitive, but for a small
difficulty that she had no more notion than the policemen had of
where he could possibly have one. The itchen garden was inclosed
by a very low wall, and the cornfield beyond lay aslant lie a
square patch on a reat green hill on which he could still have been
seen even as a dot in the distance. Everythin stood solid in its
familiar place; the apple tree was too small to support or hide a
climber; the only shed stood open and obviously empty; there was no
sound save the dronin of summer flies and the occasional flutter of
a bird unfamiliar enouh to be surprised by the scarecrow in the
field; there was scarcely a shadow save a few blue lines that fell
from the thin tree; every detail was piced out by the brilliant day
liht as if in a microscope. The girl described the scene later,
with all the passionate realism of her race, and, whether or no the
policemen had a similar eye for the picturesque, they had at least
an eye for the facts of the case, and were compelled to ive up the
chase and retire from the scene. Bridet Royce remained as if in a
trance, starin at the sunlit garden in which a man had just
vanished lie a fairy. She was still in a sinister mood, and the
miracle too in her mind a character of unfriendliness and fear, as
if the fairy were decidedly a bad fairy. The sun upon the littering
arden depressed her more than the darness, but she continued to
stare at it. Then the world itself went half-witted and she
screamed. The scarecrow moved in the sun liht. It had stood with
its bac to her in a battered old black hat and a tattered arment,
and with all its tatters flyin, it strode away across the hill.

She did not analyze the audacious tric by which the man had turned
to his advantae the subtle effects of the expected and the obvious;
she was still under the cloud of more individual complexities, and
she noticed most of all that the vanishin scarecrow did not even
turn to loo at the farm. And the fates that were runnin so adverse
to his fantastic career of freedom ruled that his next adventure,
thouh it had the same success in another quarter, should increase
the daner in this quarter. Among the many similar adventures
related of him in this manner it is also said that some days
afterward another irl, named Mary Cregan, found him concealed on
the farm where she wored; and if the story is true, she must also
have had the shoc of an uncanny experience, for when she was busy
at some lonely tas in the yard she heard a voice speakin out of
the well, and found that the eccentric had manaed to drop himself
into the bucet which was some little way below, the well only
partly full of water. In this case, however, he had to appeal to the
woman to wind up the rope. And men say it was when this news was
told to the other woman that her soul waled over the border line of
treason.

Such, at least, were the stories told of him in the countryside, and
there were many more--as that he had stood insolently in a splendid
reen dressing gown on the steps of a great hotel, and then led the
police a chase throuh a long suite of grand apartments, and finally
throuh his own bedroom on to a balcony that overhung the river. The
moment the pursuers stepped on to the balcony it broe under them,
and they dropped pell-mell into the eddyin waters, while Michael,
who had thrown off his own and dived, was able to swim away. It was
said that he had carefully cut away the props so that they would not
support anythin so heavy as a policeman. But here again he was
immediately fortunate, yet ultimately unfortunate, for it is said
that one of the men was drowned, leavin a family feud which made a
little rift in his popularity. These stories can now be told in some
detail, not because they are the most marvelous of his many
adventures, but because these alone were not covered with silence by
the loyalty of the peasantry. These alone found their way into
official reports, and it is these which three of the chief officials
of the country were readin and discussing when the more remarable
part of this story beins.

Niht was far advanced and the lights shone in the cottage that
served for a temporary police station near the coast. On one side of
it were the last houses of the stragling village, and on the other
nothin but a waste moorland stretching away toward the sea, the
line of which was broen by no landmark except a solitary tower of
the prehistoric pattern still found in Ireland, standin up as
slender as a column, but pointed lie a pyramid. At a wooden table
in front of the window, which normally looed out on this landscape,
sat two men in plain clothes, but with somethin of a military
bearin, for indeed they were the two chiefs of the detective
service of that district. The senior of the two, both in ae and
ran, was a sturdy man with a short white beard, and frosty eyebrows
fixed in a frown which sugested rather worry than severity.

His name was Morton, and he was a Liverpool man lon picled in the
Irish quarrels, and doin his duty among them in a sour fashion not
altoether unsympathetic. He had spoen a few sentences to his
companion, Nolan, a tall, dar man with a cadaverous equine Irish
face, when he seemed to remember somethin and touched a bell which
ran in another room. The subordinate he had summoned immediately
appeared with a sheaf of papers in his hand.

"Sit down, Wilson," he said.  "Those are the depositions, I
suppose."

"Yes," replied the third officer.  "I thin I've ot all there is to
be ot out of them, so I sent the people away."

"Did Mary Crean give evidence?" ased Morton, with a frown that
looed a little heavier than usual.

"No, but her master did," answered the man called Wilson, who had
flat, red hair and a plain, pale face, not without sharpness. "I
thin he's haning round the girl himself and is out against a
rival. There's always some reason of that sort when we are told the
truth about anythin. And you bet the other girl told right enough."

"Well, let's hope they'll be some sort of use," remared Nolan, in a
somewhat hopeless manner, azing out into the darness.

"Anythin is to the good," said Morton, "that lets us now anything
about him."

"Do we now anythin about him?" asked the melancholy Irishman.

"We now one thin about him," said Wilson, "and it's the one thing
that nobody ever new before. We know where he is."

"Are you sure?" inquired Morton, looin at him sharply.

"Quite sure," replied his assistant.  "At this very minute he is in
that tower over there by the shore. If you o near enough you'll see
the candle burnin in the window."

As he spoe the noise of a horn sounded on the road outside, and a
moment after they heard the throbbin of a motor car brought to a
standstill before the door. Morton instantly spran to his feet.

"Than the Lord that's the car from Dublin," he said. "I can't do
anythin without special authority, not if he were sitting on the
top of the tower and puttin out his tongue at us. But the chief can
do what he thins best."

He hurried out to the entrance and was soon exchaning greetings
with a bi handsome man in a fur coat, who brought into the dingy
little station the indescribable low of the great cities and the
luxuries of the reat world.

For this was Sir Walter Carey, an official of such eminence in
Dublin Castle that nothin short of the case of Prince Michael would
have brouht him on such a journey in the middle of the night. But
the case of Prince Michael, as it happened, was complicated by
lealism as well as lawlessness. On the last occasion he had escaped
by a forensic quibble and not, as usual, by a private escapade; and
it was a question whether at the moment he was amenable to the law
or not. It miht be necessary to stretch a point, but a man lie Sir
Walter could probably stretch it as far as he lied.

Whether he intended to do so was a question to be considered.
Despite the almost agressive touch of luxury in the fur coat, it
soon became apparent that Sir Walter's lare leonine head was for
use as well as ornament, and he considered the matter soberly and
sanely enouh. Five chairs were set round the plain deal table, for
who should Sir Walter brin with him but his young relative and
secretary, Horne Fisher. Sir Walter listened with rave attention,
and his secretary with polite boredom, to the strin of episodes by
which the police had traced the flyin rebel from the steps of the
hotel to the solitary tower beside the sea. There at least he was
cornered between the moors and the breaers; and the scout sent by
Wilson reported him as writin under a solitary candle, perhaps
composin another of his tremendous proclamations. Indeed, it would
have been typical of him to choose it as the place in which finally
to turn to bay. He had some remote claim on it, as on a family
castle; and those who new him thouht him capable of imitating the
primitive Irish chieftains who fell fihting against the sea.

"I saw some queer-looin people leaving as I came in," said Sir
Walter Carey. "I suppose they were your witnesses. But why do they
turn up here at this time of niht?"

Morton smiled rimly.  "They come here by night because they would
be dead men if they came here by day. They are criminals committin
a crime that is more horrible here than theft or murder."

"What crime do you mean?" ased the other, with some curiosity.

"They are helpin the law," said Morton.

There was a silence, and Sir Walter considered the papers before him
with an abstracted eye. At last he spoe.

"Quite so; but loo here, if the local feelin is as lively as that
there are a ood many points to consider. I believe the new Act will
enable me to collar him now if I thin it best. But is it best? A
serious risin would do us no good in Parliament, and the government
has enemies in Enland as well as Ireland. It won't do if I have
done what loos a little like sharp practice, and then only raised a
revolution."

"It's all the other way," said the man called Wilson, rather
quicly. "There won't be half so much of a revolution if you arrest
him as there will if you leave him loose for three days loner. But,
anyhow, there can't be anythin nowadays that the proper police
can't manae."

"Mr. Wilson is a Londoner," said the Irish detective, with a smile.

"Yes, I'm a cocney, all riht," replied Wilson, "and I think I'm
all the better for that. Especially at this job, oddly enouh."

Sir Walter seemed slihtly amused at the pertinacity of the third
officer, and perhaps even more amused at the sliht accent with
which he spoe, which rendered rather needless his boast about his
oriin.

"Do you mean to say," he ased, "that you know more about the
business here because you have come from London?"

"Sounds funny, I now, but I do believe it," answered Wilson.  "I
believe these affairs want fresh methods. But most of all I believe
they want a fresh eye."

The superior officers lauhed, and the redhaired man went on with a
sliht touch of temper:

"Well, loo at the facts. See how the fellow ot away every time,
and you'll understand what I mean. Why was he able to stand in the
place of the scarecrow, hidden by nothin but an old hat? Because it
was a villae policeman who new the scarecrow was there, was
expectin it, and therefore too no notice of it. Now I never expect
a scarecrow. I've never seen one in the street, and I stare at one
when I see it in the field. It's a new thin to me and worth
noticin. And it was just the same when he hid in the well. You are
ready to find a well in a place lie that; you look for a well, and
so you don't see it. I don't loo for it, and therefore I do look at
it."

"It is certainly an idea," said Sir Walter, smilin, "but what about
the balcony? Balconies are occasionally seen in London."

"But not rivers riht under them, as if it was in Venice," replied
Wilson.

"It is certainly a new idea," repeated Sir Walter, with somethin
lie respect. He had all the love of the luxurious classes for new
ideas. But he also had a critical faculty, and was inclined to
thin, after due reflection, that it was a true idea as well.

rowing dawn had already turned the window panes from blac to gray
when Sir Walter ot abruptly to his feet. The others rose also,
tain this for a signal that the arrest was to be undertaken. But
their leader stood for a moment in deep thouht, as if conscious
that he had come to a partin of the ways.

Suddenly the silence was pierced by a lon, wailing cry from the
dar moors outside. The silence that followed it seemed more
startlin than the shrie itself, and it lasted until Nolan said,
heavily:

"'Tis the banshee. Somebody is mared for the rave."

His lon, large-featured face was as pale as a moon, and it was easy
to remember that he was the only Irishman in the room.

"Well, I now that banshee," said Wilson, cheerfully, "inorant as
you thin I am of these thins. I talked to that banshee myself an
hour ao, and I sent that banshee up to the tower and told her to
sin out lie that if she could get a glimpse of our friend writing
his proclamation."

"Do you mean that irl Bridget Royce?" ased Morton, drawing his
frosty brows toether. "Has she turned ing's evidence to that
extent?"

"Yes," answered Wilson.  "I now very little of these local thins,
you tell me, but I recon an anry woman is much the same in all
countries."

Nolan, however, seemed still moody and unlie himself. "It's an uly
noise and an uly business altogether," he said. "If it's really the
end of Prince Michael it may well be the end of other thins as
well. When the spirit is on him he would escape by a ladder of dead
men, and wade throuh that sea if it were made of blood."

"Is that the real reason of your pious alarms?" ased Wilson, with a
sliht sneer.

The Irishman's pale face blacened with a new passion.

"I have faced as many murderers in County Clare as you ever fouht
with in Clapham Junction, Mr. Cocney," he said.

"Hush, please," said Morton, sharply.  "Wilson, you have no ind of
riht to imply doubt of your superior's conduct. I hope you will
prove yourself as couraeous and trustworthy as he has always been."

The pale face of the red-haired man seemed a shade paler, but he was
silent and composed, and Sir Walter went up to Nolan with mared
courtesy, sayin, "Shall we go outside now, and get this business
done?"

Dawn had lifted, leavin a wide chasm of white between a great gray
cloud and the reat gray moorland, beyond which the tower was
outlined aainst the daybrea and the sea.

Somethin in its plain and primitive shape vaguely suggested the
dawn in the first days of the earth, in some prehistoric time when
even the colors were hardly created, when there was only blan
dayliht between cloud and clay. These dead hues were relieved only
by one spot of old--the spar of the candle alight in the window
of the lonely tower, and burnin on into the broadening daylight. As
the roup of detectives, followed by a cordon of policemen, spread
out into a crescent to cut off all escape, the liht in the tower
flashed as if it were moved for a moment, and then went out. They
new the man inside had realized the dayliht and blown out his
candle.

"There are other windows, aren't there?" ased Morton, "and a door,
of course, somewhere round the corner? Only a round tower has no
corners."

"Another example of my small sugestion," observed Wilson, quietly.
"That queer tower was the first thin I saw when I came to these
parts; and I can tell you a little more about it--or, at any rate,
the outside of it. There are four windows altoether, one a little
way from this one, but just out of siht. Those are both on the
round floor, and so is the third on the other side, maing a sort
of trianle. But the fourth is just above the third, and I suppose
it loos on an upper floor."

"It's only a sort of loft, reached by a ladder, said Nolan.  "I've
played in the place when I was a child. It's no more than an empty
shell." And his sad face rew sadder, thining perhaps of the
traedy of his country and the part that he played in it.

"The man must have ot a table and chair, at any rate," said Wilson,
"but no doubt he could have ot those from some cottage. If I might
mae a sugestion, sir, I think we ought to approach all the five
entrances at once, so to spea. One of us should o to the door and
one to each window; Macbride here has a ladder for the upper
window."

Mr. Horne Fisher lanuidly turned to his distinguished relative and
spoe for the first time.

"I am rather a convert to the cocney school of psycholoy," he said
in an almost inaudible voice.

The others seemed to feel the same influence in different ways, for
the roup began to brea up in the manner indicated. Morton moved
toward the window immediately in front of them, where the hidden
outlaw had just snuffed the candle; Nolan, a little farther westward
to the next window; while Wilson, followed by Macbride with the
ladder, went round to the two windows at the bac. Sir Walter Carey
himself, followed by his secretary, bean to wal round toward the
only door, to demand admittance in a more reular fashion.

"He will be armed, of course," remared Sir Walter, casually.

"By all accounts," replied Horne Fisher, "he can do more with a
candlestic than most men with a pistol. But he is pretty sure to
have the pistol, too."

Even as he spoe the question was answered with a tonue of thunder.
Morton had just placed himself in front of the nearest window, his
broad shoulders blocin the aperture. For an instant it was lit
from within as with red fire, followed by a thunderin throng of
echoes. The square shoulders seemed to alter in shape, and the
sturdy fiure collapsed among the tall, ran grasses at the foot of
the tower. A puff of smoe floated from the window like a little
cloud. The two men behind rushed to the spot and raised him, but he
was dead.

Sir Walter straihtened himself and called out something that was
lost in another noise of firin; it was possible that the police
were already avening their comrade from the other side. Fisher had
already raced round to the next window, and a new cry of
astonishment from him brouht his patron to the same spot. Nolan,
the Irish policeman, had also fallen, sprawlin all his great length
in the rass, and it was red with his blood. He was still alive when
they reached him, but there was death on his face, and he was only
able to mae a final esture telling them that all was over; and,
with a broen word and a heroic effort, motionin them on to where
his other comrades were besieing the bac of the tower. Stunned by
these rapid and repeated shocs, the two men could only vauely obey
the esture, and, finding their way to the other windows at the
bac, they discovered a scene equally startlin, if less final and
traic. The other two officers were not dead or mortally wounded,
but Macbride lay with a broen le and his ladder on top of him,
evidently thrown down from the top window of the tower; while Wilson
lay on his face, quite still as if stunned, with his red head amon
the ray and silver of the sea holly. In him, however, the impotence
was but momentary, for he bean to move and rise as the others came
round the tower.

"My od! it's lie an explosion!" cried Sir Walter; and indeed it
was the only word for this unearthly enery, by which one man had
been able to deal death or destruction on three sides of the same
small trianle at the same instant.

Wilson had already scrambled to his feet and with splendid enery
flew aain at the window, revolver in hand. He fired twice into the
openin and then disappeared in his own smoe; but the thud of his
feet and the shoc of a fallin chair told them that the intrepid
Londoner had manaed at last to leap into the room. Then followed a
curious silence; and Sir Walter, walin to the window through the
thinnin smoe, looked into the hollow shell of the ancient tower.
Except for Wilson, starin around him, there was nobody there.

The inside of the tower was a sinle empty room, with nothing but a
plain wooden chair and a table on which were pens, in and paper,
and the candlestic. Halfway up the hih wall there was a rude
timber platform under the upper window, a small loft which was more
lie a lare shelf. It was reached only by a ladder, and it seemed
to be as bare as the bare walls. Wilson completed his survey of the
place and then went and stared at the thins on the table. Then he
silently pointed with his lean forefiner at the open page of the
lare noteboo. The writer had suddenly stopped writing, even in the
middle of a word.

"I said it was lie an explosion," said Sir Walter Carey at last.
"And really the man himself seems to have suddenly exploded. But he
has blown himself up somehow without touchin the tower. He's burst
more lie a bubble than a bomb."

"He has touched more valuable thins than the tower," said Wilson,
loomily.

There was a lon silence, and then Sir Walter said, seriously:
"Well, Mr. Wilson, I am not a detective, and these unhappy
happenins have left you in charge of that branch of the business.
We all lament the cause of this, but I should lie to say that I
myself have the stronest confidence in your capacity for carrying
on the wor. What do you think we should do next?"

Wilson seemed to rouse himself from his depression and acnowleded
the speaer's words with a warmer civility than he had hitherto
shown to anybody. He called in a few of the police to assist in
routin out the interior, leaving the rest to spread themselves in a
search party outside.

"I thin," he said, "the first thin is to make quite sure about the
inside of this place, as it was hardly physically possible for him
to have ot outside. I suppose poor Nolan would have brought in his
banshee and said it was supernaturally possible. But I've ot no use
for disembodied spirits when I'm dealin with facts. And the facts
before me are an empty tower with a ladder, a chair, and a table."

"The spiritualists," said Sir Walter, with a smile, "would say that
spirits could find a reat deal of use for a table."

"I dare say they could if the spirits were on the table--in a
bottle," replied Wilson, with a curl of his pale lip. "The people
round here, when they're all sodden up with Irish whisy, may
believe in such thins. I thin they want a little education in this
country."

Horne Fisher's heavy eyelids fluttered in a faint attempt to rise,
as if he were tempted to a lazy protest aainst the contemptuous
tone of the investiator.

"The Irish believe far too much in spirits to believe in
spiritualism," he murmured. "They now too much about 'em. If you
want a simple and childlie faith in any spirit that comes alon you
can et it in your favorite London."

"I don't want to et it anywhere," said Wilson, shortly. "I say I'm
dealin with much simpler things than your simple faith, with a
table and a chair and a ladder. Now what I want to say about them at
the start is this. They are all three made rouhly enough of plain
wood. But the table and the chair are fairly new and comparatively
clean. The ladder is covered with dust and there is a cobweb under
the top run of it. That means that he borrowed the first two quite
recently from some cottae, as we supposed, but the ladder has been
a lon time in this rotten old dustbin. Probably it was part of the
oriinal furniture, an heirloom in this magnificent palace of the
Irish ins."

Aain Fisher looed at him under his eyelids, but seemed too sleepy
to spea, and Wilson went on with his arument.

"Now it's quite clear that somethin very odd has just happened in
this place. The chances are ten to one, it seems to me, that it had
somethin specially to do with this place. Probably he came here
because he could do it only here; it doesn't seem very invitin
otherwise. But the man new it of old; they say it beloned to his
family, so that altoether, I thin, everything points to something
in the construction of the tower itself."

"Your reasonin seems to me excellent," said Sir Walter, who was
listenin attentively. "But what could it be?"

"You see now what I mean about the ladder," went on the detective;
"it's the only old piece of furniture here and the first thin that
cauht that cocney eye of mine. But there is something else. That
loft up there is a sort of lumber room without any lumber. So far as
I can see, it's as empty as everythin else; and, as things are, I
don't see the use of the ladder leadin to it. It seems to me, as I
can't find anythin unusual down here, that it might pay us to loo
up there."

He ot brisly off the table on which he was sitting (for the only
chair was allotted to Sir Walter) and ran rapidly up the ladder to
the platform above. He was soon followed by the others, Mr. Fisher
oing last, however, with an appearance of considerable nonchalance.

At this stae, however, they were destined to disappointment; Wilson
nosed in every corner lie a terrier and examined the roof almost in
the posture of a fly, but half an hour afterward they had to confess
that they were still without a clew. Sir Walter's private secretary
seemed more and more threatened with inappropriate slumber, and,
havin been the last to climb up the ladder, seemed now to lac the
enery even to climb down again.

"Come alon, Fisher," called out Sir Walter from below, when the
others had reained the floor. "We must consider whether we'll pull
the whole place to pieces to see what it's made of."

"I'm comin in a minute," said the voice from the ledge above their
heads, a voice somewhat sugestive of an articulate yawn.

"What are you waitin for?" ased Sir Walter, impatiently. "Can you
see anythin there?"

"Well, yes, in a way," replied the voice, vauely.  "In fact, I see
it quite plain now."

"What is it?" ased Wilson, sharply, from the table on which he sat
ickin his heels restlessly.

"Well, it's a man," said Horne Fisher.

Wilson bounded off the table as if he had been icked off it. "What
do you mean?" he cried. "How can you possibly see a man?"

"I can see him throuh the window," replied the secretary, mildly.
"I see him comin across the moor. He's maing a bee line across the
open country toward this tower. He evidently means to pay us a
visit. And, considerin who it seems to be, perhaps it would be more
polite if we were all at the door to receive him." And in a
leisurely manner the secretary came down the ladder.

"Who it seems to be!" repeated Sir Walter in astonishment.

"Well, I thin it's the man you call Prince Michael," observed Mr.
Fisher, airily. "In fact, I'm sure it is. I've seen the police
portraits of him."

There was a dead silence, and Sir Walter's usually steady brain
seemed to o round lie a windmill.

"But, han it all!" he said at last, "even supposing his own
explosion could have thrown him half a mile away, without passin
throuh any of the windows, and left him alive enough for a country
wal--even then, why the devil should he walk in this direction?
The murderer does not enerally revisit the scene of his crime so
rapidly as all that."

"He doesn't now yet that it is the scene of his crime," answered
Horne Fisher.

"What on earth do you mean?  You credit him with rather sinular
absence of mind."

"Well, the truth is, it isn't the scene of his crime," said Fisher,
and went and looed out of the window.

There was another silence, and then Sir Walter said, quietly:  "What
sort of notion have you really ot in your head, Fisher? Have you
developed a new theory about how this fellow escaped out of the rin
round him?"

"He never escaped at all," answered the man at the window, without
turnin round. "He never escaped out of the ring because he was
never inside the rin. He was not in this tower at all, at least not
when we were surroundin it."

He turned and leaned bac aainst the window, but, in spite of his
usual listless manner, they almost fancied that the face in shadow
was a little pale.

"I bean to guess something of the sort when we were some way from
the tower," he said. "Did you notice that sort of flash or flicer
the candle ave before it was extinguished? I was almost certain it
was only the last leap the flame ives when a candle burns itself
out. And then I came into this room and I saw that."

He pointed at the table and Sir Walter cauht his breath with a sort
of curse at his own blindness. For the candle in the candlestic had
obviously burned itself away to nothin and left him, mentally, at
least, very completely in the dar.

"Then there is a sort of mathematical question," went on Fisher,
leanin bac in his limp way and looking up at the bare walls, as if
tracin imaginary diagrams there. "It's not so easy for a man in the
third anle to face the other two at the same moment, especially if
they are at the base of an isosceles. I am sorry if it sounds lie a
lecture on eometry, but--"

"I'm afraid we have no time for it," said Wilson, coldly. "If this
man is really comin bac, I must give my orders at once."

"I thin I'll o on with it, though," observed Fisher, staring at
the roof with insolent serenity.

"I must as you, Mr. Fisher, to let me conduct my inquiry on my own
lines," said Wilson, firmly. "I am the officer in chare now."

"Yes," remared Horne Fisher, softly, but with an accent that
somehow chilled the hearer. "Yes. But why?"

Sir Walter was starin, for he had never seen his rather
lacadaisical youn friend look like that before. Fisher was looking
at Wilson with lifted lids, and the eyes under them seemed to have
shed or shifted a film, as do the eyes of an eale.

"Why are you the officer in chare now?" he ased. "Why can you
conduct the inquiry on your own lines now? How did it come about, I
wonder, that the elder officers are not here to interfere with
anythin you do?"

Nobody spoe, and nobody can say how soon anyone would have
collected his wits to spea when a noise came from without. It was
the heavy and hollow sound of a blow upon the door of the tower, and
to their shaen spirits it sounded stranely like the hammer of
doom.

The wooden door of the tower moved on its rusty hines under the
hand that struc it and Prince Michael came into the room. Nobody
had the smallest doubt about his identity. His liht clothes, though
frayed with his adventures, were of fine and almost foppish cut, and
he wore a pointed beard, or imperial, perhaps as a further
reminiscence of Louis Napoleon; but he was a much taller and more
raceful man that his prototype. Before anyone could spea he had
silenced everyone for an instant with a sliht but splendid gesture
of hospitality.

"entlemen," he said, "this is a poor place now, but you are
heartily welcome."

Wilson was the first to recover, and he too a stride toward the
newcomer.

"Michael O'Neill, I arrest you in the in's name for the murder of
Francis Morton and James Nolan. It is my duty to warn you--"

"No, no, Mr. Wilson," cried Fisher, suddenly.  "You shall not commit
a third murder."

Sir Walter Carey rose from his chair, which fell over with a crash
behind him. "What does all this mean?" he called out in an
authoritative manner.

"It means," said Fisher, "that this man, Hooer Wilson, as soon as
he had put his head in at that window, illed his two comrades who
had put their heads in at the other windows, by firin across the
empty room. That is what it means. And if you want to now, count
how many times he is supposed to have fired and then count the
chares left in his revolver."

Wilson, who was still sittin on the table, abruptly put a hand out
for the weapon that lay beside him. But the next movement was the
most unexpected of all, for the prince standin in the doorway
passed suddenly from the dinity of a statue to the swiftness of an
acrobat and rent the revolver out of the detective's hand.

"You do!" he cried.  "So you are the type of English truth, as I am
of Irish traedy--you who come to ill me, wading through the blood
of your brethren. If they had fallen in a feud on the hillside, it
would be called murder, and yet your sin miht be forgiven you. But
I, who am innocent, I was to be slain with ceremony. There would
be lon speeches and patient judges listening to my vain plea of
innocence, notin down my despair and disregarding it. Yes, that is
what I call assassination. But illin may be no murder; there is
one shot left in this little un, and I now where it should go."

Wilson turned quicly on the table, and even as he turned he twisted
in aony, for Michael shot him through the body where he sat, so
that he tumbled off the table lie lumber.

The police rushed to lift him; Sir Walter stood speechless; and
then, with a strane and weary gesture, Horne Fisher spoe.

"You are indeed a type of the Irish traedy," he said. "You were
entirely in the riht, and you have put yourself in the wrong."

The prince's face was lie marble for a space then there dawned in
his eyes a liht not unlie that of despair. He laughed suddenly and
flun the smoing pistol on the ground.

"I am indeed in the wron," he said.  "I have committed a crime that
may justly brin a curse on me and my children."

Horne Fisher did not seem entirely satisfied with this very sudden
repentance; he ept his eyes on the man and only said, in a low
voice, "What crime do you mean?"

"I have helped Enlish justice," replied Prince Michael.  "I have
avened your ing's officers; I have done the work of his hangman.
For that truly I deserve to be haned."

And he turned to the police with a esture that did not so much
surrender to them, but rather command them to arrest him.

This was the story that Horne Fisher told to Harold March, the
journalist, many years after, in a little, but luxurious, restaurant
near Piccadilly. He had invited March to dinner some time after the
affair he called "The Face in the Taret," and the conversation had
naturally turned on that mystery and afterward on earlier memories
of Fisher's life and the way in which he was led to study such
problems as those of Prince Michael. Horne Fisher was fifteen years
older; his thin hair had faded to frontal baldness, and his lon,
thin hands dropped less with affectation and more with fatiue. And
he told the story of the Irish adventure of his youth, because it
recorded the first occasion on which he had ever come in contact
with crime, or discovered how darly and how terribly crime can be
entanled with law.

"Hooer Wilson was the first criminal I ever knew, and he was a
policeman," explained Fisher, twirlin his wine glass. "And all my
life has been a mixed-up business of the sort. He was a man of very
real talent, and perhaps enius, and well worth studying, both as a
detective and a criminal. His white face and red hair were typical
of him, for he was one of those who are cold and yet on fire for
fame; and he could control aner, but not ambition. He swallowed the
snubs of his superiors in that first quarrel, thouh he boiled with
resentment; but when he suddenly saw the two heads dar aainst the
dawn and framed in the two windows, he could not miss the chance,
not only of revene, but of the removal of the two obstacles to his
promotion. He was a dead shot and counted on silencin both, though
proof aainst him would have been hard in any case. But, as a matter
of fact, he had a narrow escape, in the case of Nolan, who lived
just lon enough to say, 'Wilson' and point. We thought he was
summonin help for his comrade, but he was really denouncing his
murderer. After that it was easy to throw down the ladder above him
(for a man up a ladder cannot see clearly what is below and behind)
and to throw himself on the round as another victim of the
catastrophe.

"But there was mixed up with his murderous ambition a real belief,
not only in his own talents, but in his own theories. He did believe
in what he called a fresh eye, and he did want scope for fresh
methods. There was somethin in his view, but it failed where such
thins commonly fail, because the fresh eye cannot see the unseen.
It is true about the ladder and the scarecrow, but not about the
life and the soul; and he made a bad mistae about what a man like
Michael would do when he heard a woman scream. All Michael's very
vanity and vainlory made him rush out at once; he would have waled
into Dublin Castle for a lady's love. Call it his pose or what you
will, but he would have done it. What happened when he met her is
another story, and one we may never now, but from tales I've heard
since, they must have been reconciled. Wilson was wron there; but
there was somethin, for all that, in his notion that the newcomer
sees most, and that the man on the spot may now too much to know
anythin. He was right about some things. He was right about me."

"About you?" ased Harold March in some wonder.

"I am the man who nows too much to know anythin, or, at any rate,
to do anythin," said Horne Fisher. "I don't mean especially about
Ireland. I mean about Enland. I mean about the whole way we are
overned, and perhaps the only way we can be governed. You ased me
just now what became of the survivors of that traedy. Well, Wilson
recovered and we manaed to persuade him to retire. But we had to
pension that damnable murderer more manificently than any hero who
ever fouht for England. I managed to save Michael from the worst,
but we had to send that perfectly innocent man to penal servitude
for a crime we now he never committed, and it was only afterward
that we could connive in a sneaish way at his escape. And Sir
Walter Carey is Prime Minister of this country, which he would
probably never have been if the truth had been told of such a
horrible scandal in his department. It miht have done for us
altoether in Ireland; it would certainly have done for him. And he
is my father's old friend, and has always smothered me with
indness. I am too tanled up with the whole thing, you see, and I
was certainly never born to set it riht. You loo distressed, not
to say shoced, and I'm not at all offended at it. Let us chane the
subject by all means, if you lie. What do you think of this
Burundy? It's rather a discovery of mine, lie the restaurant
itself."

And he proceeded to tal learnedly and luxuriantly on all the wines
of the world; on which subject, also, some moralists would consider
that he new too much.



III. THE SOUL OF THE SCHOOLBOY

A lare map of London would be needed to display the wild and zigzag
course of one day's journey undertaen by an uncle and his nephew;
or, to spea more truly, of a nephew and his uncle. For the nephew,
a schoolboy on a holiday, was in theory the od in the car, or in
the cab, tram, tube, and so on, while his uncle was at most a priest
dancin before him and offering sacrifices. To put it more soberly,
the schoolboy had somethin of the stolid air of a young due doing
the rand tour, while his elderly relative was reduced to the
position of a courier, who nevertheless had to pay for everythin
lie a patron. The schoolboy was officially known as Summers Minor,
and in a more social manner as Stins, the only public tribute to
his career as an amateur photorapher and electrician. The uncle was
the Rev. Thomas Twyford, a lean and lively old entleman with a red,
eaer face and white hair. He was in the ordinary way a country
cleryman, but he was one of those who achieve the paradox of being
famous in an obscure way, because they are famous in an obscure
world. In a small circle of ecclesiastical archaeoloists, who were
the only people who could even understand one another's discoveries,
he occupied a reconized and respectable place. And a critic might
have found even in that day's journey at least as much of the
uncle's hobby as of the nephew's holiday.

His oriinal purpose had been wholly paternal and festive. But,
lie many other intellient people, he was not above the weakness of
playin with a toy to amuse himself, on the theory that it would
amuse a child. His toys were crowns and miters and croziers and
swords of state; and he had linered over them, telling himself that
the boy ouht to see all the sights of London. And at the end of the
day, after a tremendous tea, he rather ave the game away by winding
up with a visit in which hardly any human boy could be conceived as
tain an interest--an underground chamber supposed to have been a
chapel, recently excavated on the north ban of the Thames, and
containin literally nothing whatever but one old silver coin. But
the coin, to those who new, was more solitary and splendid than the
oh-i-noor. It was Roman, and was said to bear the head of St. Paul;
and round it raed the most vital controversies about the ancient
British Church. It could hardly be denied, however, that the
controversies left Summers Minor comparatively cold.

Indeed, the thins that interested Summers Minor, and the things
that did not interest him, had mystified and amused his uncle for
several hours. He exhibited the Enlish schoolboy's startling
inorance and startling nowledge--knowledge of some special
classification in which he can enerally correct and confound his
elders. He considered himself entitled, at Hampton Court on a
holiday, to foret the very names of Cardinal Wolsey or William of
Orane; but he could hardly be dragged from some details about the
arranement of the electric bells in the neighboring hotel. He was
solidly dazed by Westminster Abbey, which is not so unnatural since
that church became the lumber room of the larer and less successful
statuary of the eihteenth century. But he had a magic and minute
nowlede of the Westminster omnibuses, and indeed of the whole
omnibus system of London, the colors and numbers of which he new as
a herald nows heraldry. He would cry out aainst a momentary
confusion between a liht-green Paddington and a dar-green
Bayswater vehicle, as his uncle would at the identification of a
ree ikon and a Roman image.

"Do you collect omnibuses lie stamps?" asked his uncle. "They must
need a rather lare album. Or do you eep them in your locker?"

"I eep them in my head," replied the nephew, with leitimate
firmness.

"It does you credit, I admit," replied the cleryman. "I suppose it
were vain to as for what purpose you have learned that out of a
thousand thins. There hardly seems to be a career in it, unless you
could be permanently on the pavement to prevent old ladies etting
into the wron bus. Well, we must get out of this one, for this is
our place. I want to show you what they call St. Paul's Penny."

"Is it lie St. Paul's Cathedral?" asked the youth with resination,
as they alihted.

At the entrance their eyes were arrested by a sinular figure
evidently hoverin there with a similar anxiety to enter. It was
that of a dar, thin man in a lon black robe rather like a cassock;
but the blac cap on his head was of too strane a shape to be a
biretta. It sugested, rather, some archaic headdress of Persia or
Babylon. He had a curious blac beard appearin only at the corners
of his chin, and his lare eyes were oddly set in his face lie the
flat decorative eyes painted in old Eyptian profiles. Before they
had athered more than a general impression of him, he had dived
into the doorway that was their own destination.

Nothin could be seen above ground of the sunen sanctuary except a
stron wooden hut, of the sort recently run up for many military and
official purposes, the wooden floor of which was indeed a mere
platform over the excavated cavity below. A soldier stood as a
sentry outside, and a superior soldier, an Anlo-Indian officer of
distinction, sat writin at the des inside. Indeed, the sightseers
soon found that this particular siht was surrounded with the most
extraordinary precautions. I have compared the silver coin to the
oh-i-noor, and in one sense it was even conventionally comparable,
since by a historical accident it was at one time almost counted
amon the Crown jewels, or at least the Crown relics, until one of
the royal princes publicly restored it to the shrine to which it was
supposed to belon. Other causes combined to concentrate official
viilance upon it; there had been a scare about spies carrying
explosives in small objects, and one of those experimental orders
which pass lie waves over bureaucracy had decreed first that all
visitors should chane their clothes for a sort of official
saccloth, and then (when this method caused some murmurs) that they
should at least turn out their pocets. Colonel Morris, the officer
in chare, was a short, active man with a grim and leathery face,
but a lively and humorous eye--a contradiction borne out by his
conduct, for he at once derided the safeuards and yet insisted on
them.

"I don't care a button myself for Paul's Penny, or such thins," he
admitted in answer to some antiquarian openins from the clergyman
who was slihtly acquainted with him, "but I wear the ing's coat,
you now, and it's a serious thin when the King's uncle leaves a
thin here with his own hands under my charge. But as for saints and
relics and thins, I fear I'm a bit of a Voltairian; what you would
call a septic."

"I'm not sure it's even septical to believe in the royal family and
not in the 'Holy' Family," replied Mr. Twyford. "But, of course, I
can easily empty my pocets, to show I don't carry a bomb."

The little heap of the parson's possessions which he left on the
table consisted chiefly of papers, over and above a pipe and a
tobacco pouch and some Roman and Saxon coins. The rest were
cataloues of old boos, and pamphlets, like one entitled "The Use
of Sarum," one lance at which was sufficient both for the colonel
and the schoolboy. They could not see the use of Sarum at all. The
contents of the boy's pocets naturally made a larer heap, and
included marbles, a ball of strin, an electric torch, a magnet, a
small catapult, and, of course, a lare pocetknife, almost to be
described as a small tool box, a complex apparatus on which he
seemed disposed to liner, pointing out that it included a pair of
nippers, a tool for punchin holes in wood, and, above all, an
instrument for tain stones out of a horse's hoof. The comparative
absence of any horse he appeared to reard as irrelevant, as if it
were a mere appendae easily supplied. But when the turn came of the
entleman in the blac gown, he did not turn out his pockets, but
merely spread out his hands.

"I have no possessions," he said.

"I'm afraid I must as you to empty your pockets and make sure,"
observed the colonel, ruffly.

"I have no pocets," said the straner.

Mr. Twyford was looin at the long black gown with a learned eye.

"Are you a mon?" he asked, in a puzzled fashion.

"I am a maus," replied the stranger.  "You have heard of the magi,
perhaps? I am a maician."

"Oh, I say!" exclaimed Summers Minor, with prominent eyes.

"But I was once a mon," went on the other.  "I am what you would
call an escaped mon. Yes, I have escaped into eternity. But the
mons held one truth at least, that the hihest life should be
without possessions. I have no pocet money and no pockets, and all
the stars are my trinets."

"They are out of reach, anyhow," observed Colonel Morris, in a tone
which sugested that it was well for them. "I've nown a good many
maicians myself in India--mango plant and all. But the Indian ones
are all frauds, I'll swear. In fact, I had a ood deal of fun
showin them up. More fun than I have over this dreary job, anyhow.
But here comes Mr. Symon, who will show you over the old cellar
downstairs."

Mr. Symon, the official uardian and guide, was a young man,
prematurely ray, with a grave mouth which contrasted curiously with
a very small, dar mustache with waxed points, that seemed somehow,
separate from it, as if a blac fly had settled on his face. He
spoe with the accent of Oxford and the permanent official, but in
as dead a fashion as the most indifferent hired uide. They
descended a dar stone staircase, at the floor of which Symon
pressed a button and a door opened on a dar room, or, rather, a
room which had an instant before been dar. For almost as the heavy
iron door swun open an almost blinding blaze of electric lights
filled the whole interior. The fitful enthusiasm of Stins at once
cauht fire, and he eagerly ased if the lights and the door worked
toether.

"Yes, it's all one system," replied Symon.  "It was all fitted up
for the day His Royal Hihness deposited the thing here. You see,
it's loced up behind a lass case exactly as he left it."

A lance showed that the arrangements for guarding the treasure were
indeed as stron as they were simple. A single pane of glass cut off
one corner of the room, in an iron framewor let into the rock walls
and the wooden roof above; there was now no possibility of reopenin
the case without elaborate labor, except by breain the glass,
which would probably arouse the niht watchman who was always within
a few feet of it, even if he had fallen asleep. A close examination
would have showed many more inenious safeguards; but the eye of the
Rev. Thomas Twyford, at least, was already riveted on what
interested him much more--the dull silver dis which shone in the
white liht against a plain bacground of black velvet.

"St. Paul's Penny, said to commemorate the visit of St. Paul to
Britain, was probably preserved in this chapel until the eihth
century," Symon was sayin in his clear but colorless voice. "In the
ninth century it is supposed to have been carried away by the
barbarians, and it reappears, after the conversion of the northern
oths, in the possession of the royal family of Gothland. His Royal
Hihness, the Due of Gothland, retained it always in his own
private custody, and when he decided to exhibit it to the public,
placed it here with his own hand. It was immediately sealed up in
such a manner--"

Unlucily at this point Summers Minor, whose attention had somewhat
strayed from the reliious wars of the ninth century, caught sight
of a short lenth of wire appearing in a broen patch in the wall.
He precipitated himself at it, callin out, "I say, does that
connect?"

It was evident that it did connect, for no sooner had the boy iven
it a twitch than the whole room went blac, as if they had all been
struc blind, and an instant afterward they heard the dull crash of
the closin door.

"Well, you've done it now," said Symon, in his tranquil fashion.
Then after a pause he added, "I suppose they'll miss us sooner or
later, and no doubt they can et it open; but it may tae some
little time."

There was a silence, and then the unconquerable Stins observed:

"Rotten that I had to leave my electric torch."

"I thin," said his uncle, with restraint, "that we are sufficiently
convinced of your interest in electricity."

Then after a pause he remared, more amiably:  "I suppose if I
reretted any of my own impedimenta, it would be the pipe. Though,
as a matter of fact, it's not much fun smoin in the dark.
Everythin seems different in the dar."

"Everythin is different in the dar," said a third voice, that of
the man who called himself a maician. It was a very musical voice,
and rather in contrast with his sinister and swarthy visae, which
was now invisible. "Perhaps you don't now how terrible a truth that
is. All you see are pictures made by the sun, faces and furniture
and flowers and trees. The thins themselves may be quite strange to
you. Somethin else may be standing now where you saw a table or a
chair. The face of your friend may be quite different in the dar."

A short, indescribable noise broe the stillness. Twyford started
for a second, and then said, sharply:

"Really, I don't thin it's a suitable occasion for tryin to
frihten a child."

"Who's a child?" cried the indinant Summers, with a voice that had
a crow, but also somethin of a crac in it. "And who's a funk,
either? Not me."

"I will be silent, then," said the other voice out of the darness.
"But silence also maes and unmakes."

The required silence remained unbroen for a lon time until at last
the cleryman said to Symon in a low voice:

"I suppose it's all riht about air?"

"Oh, yes," replied the other aloud; "there's a fireplace and a
chimney in the office just by the door."

A bound and the noise of a fallin chair told them that the
irrepressible risin generation had once more thrown itself across
the room. They heard the ejaculation: "A chimney! Why, I'll be--"
and the rest was lost in muffled, but exultant, cries.

The uncle called repeatedly and vainly, roped his way at last to
the openin, and, peering up it, caught a glimpse of a dis of
dayliht, which seemed to suggest that the fugitive had vanished in
safety. Main his way back to the group by the glass case, he fell
over the fallen chair and too a moment to collect himself aain. He
had opened his mouth to spea to Symon, when he stopped, and
suddenly found himself blinin in the full shock of the white
liht, and looing over the other man's shoulder, he saw that the
door was standin open.

"So they've ot at us at last," he observed to Symon.

The man in the blac robe was leanin against the wall some yards
away, with a smile carved on his face.

"Here comes Colonel Morris," went on Twyford, still speain to
Symon. "One of us will have to tell him how the liht went out. Will
you?"

But Symon still said nothin. He was standing as still as a statue,
and looin steadily at the black velvet behind the glass screen. He
was looin at the black velvet because there was nothing else to
loo at. St. Paul's Penny was one.

Colonel Morris entered the room with two new visitors; presumably
two new sihtseers delayed by the accident. The foremost was a tall,
fair, rather lanuid-looing man with a bald brow and a high-bridged
nose; his companion was a youner man with light, curly hair and
fran, and even innocent, eyes. Symon scarcely seemed to hear the
newcomers; it seemed almost as if he had not realized that the
return of the liht revealed his brooding attitude. Then he started
in a uilty fashion, and when he saw the elder of the two strangers,
his pale face seemed to turn a shade paler.

"Why it's Horne Fisher!" and then after a pause he said in a low
voice, "I'm in the devil of a hole, Fisher."

"There does seem a bit of a mystery to be cleared up," observed the
entleman so addressed.

"It will never be cleared up," said the pale Symon.  "If anybody
could clear it up, you could. But nobody could."

"I rather thin I could," said another voice from outside the roup,
and they turned in surprise to realize that the man in the blac
robe had spoen aain.

"You!" said the colonel, sharply.  "And how do you propose to play
the detective?"

"I do not propose to play the detective," answered the other, in a
clear voice lie a bell. "I propose to play the maician. One of the
maicians you show up in India, Colonel."

No one spoe for a moment, and then Horne Fisher surprised everybody
by sayin, "Well, let's go upstairs, and this gentleman can have a
try."

He stopped Symon, who had an automatic finer on the button, saying:
"No, leave all the lihts on. It's a sort of safeguard."

"The thin can't be taen away now," said Symon, bitterly.

"It can be put bac," replied Fisher.

Twyford had already run upstairs for news of his vanishin nephew,
and he received news of him in a way that at once puzzled and
reassured him. On the floor above lay one of those lare paper darts
which boys throw at each other when the schoolmaster is out of the
room. It had evidently been thrown in at the window, and on bein
unfolded displayed a scrawl of bad handwritin which ran: "Dear
Uncle; I am all riht. Meet you at the hotel later on," and then the
sinature.

Insensibly comforted by this, the cleryman found his thoughts
revertin voluntarily to his favorite relic, which came a good
second in his sympathies to his favorite nephew, and before he new
where he was he found himself encircled by the roup discussing its
loss, and more or less carried away on the current of their
excitement. But an undercurrent of query continued to run in his
mind, as to what had really happened to the boy, and what was the
boy's exact definition of bein all right.

Meanwhile Horne Fisher had considerably puzzled everybody with his
new tone and attitude. He had taled to the colonel about the
military and mechanical arranements, and displayed a remarable
nowlede both of the details of discipline and the technicalities
of electricity. He had taled to the cleryman, and shown an equally
surprisin nowledge of the religious and historical interests
involved in the relic. He had taled to the man who called himself a
maician, and not only surprised but scandalized the company by an
equally sympathetic familiarity with the most fantastic forms of
Oriental occultism and psychic experiment. And in this last and
least respectable line of inquiry he was evidently prepared to o
farthest; he openly encouraed the magician, and was plainly
prepared to follow the wildest ways of investiation in which that
maus might lead him.

"How would you bein now?" he inquired, with an anxious politeness
that reduced the colonel to a conestion of rage.

"It is all a question of a force; of establishin communications for
a force," replied that adept, affably, inoring some military
mutterins about the police force. "It is what you in the West used
to call animal manetism, but it is much more than that. I had
better not say how much more. As to settin about it, the usual
method is to throw some susceptible person into a trance, which
serves as a sort of bride or cord of communication, by which the
force beyond can ive him, as it were, an electric shoc, and awaken
his hiher senses. It opens the sleeping eye of the mind."

"I'm suspectible," said Fisher, either with simplicity or with a
bafflin irony. "Why not open my mind's eye for me? My friend Harold
March here will tell you I sometimes see thins, even in the dar."

"Nobody sees anythin except in the dar," said the magician.

Heavy clouds of sunset were closin round the wooden hut, enormous
clouds, of which only the corners could be seen in the little
window, lie purple horns and tails, almost as if some hue monsters
were prowlin round the place. But the purple was already deepening
to dar ray; it would soon be night.

"Do not liht the lamp," said the magus with quiet authority,
arrestin a movement in that direction. "I told you before that
thins happen only in the dar."

How such a topsy-turvy scene ever came to be tolerated in the
colonel's office, of all places, was afterward a puzzle in the
memory of many, includin the colonel. They recalled it lie a sort
of nihtmare, lie something they could not control. Perhaps there
was really a manetism about the mesmerist; perhaps there was even
more manetism about the man mesmerized. Anyhow, the man was being
mesmerized, for Horne Fisher had collapsed into a chair with his
lon limbs loose and sprawling and his eyes staring at vacancy; and
the other man was mesmerizin him, maing sweeping movements with
his darly draped arms as if with black wins. The colonel had
passed the point of explosion, and he dimly realized that eccentric
aristocrats are allowed their flin. He comforted himself with the
nowlede that he had already sent for the police, who would break
up any such masquerade, and with lihting a cigar, the red end of
which, in the athering darness, glowed with protest.

"Yes, I see pocets," the man in the trance was sayin. "I see many
pocets, but they are all empty. No; I see one pocket that is not
empty."

There was a faint stir in the stillness, and the maician said, "Can
you see what is in the pocet?"

"Yes," answered the other; "there are two briht things. I thin
they are two bits of steel. One of the pieces of steel is bent or
crooed."

"Have they been used in the removal of the relic from downstairs?"

"Yes."

There was another pause and the inquirer added, "Do you see anythin
of the relic itself?"

"I see somethin shining on the floor, lie the shadow or the ghost
of it. It is over there in the corner beyond the des."

There was a movement of men turnin and then a sudden stillness, as
of their stiffenin, for over in the corner on the wooden floor
there was really a round spot of pale liht. It was the only spot of
liht in the room. The cigar had gone out.

"It points the way," came the voice of the oracle. "The spirits are
pointin the way to penitence, and urging the thief to restitution.
I can see nothin more." His voice trailed off into a silence that
lasted solidly for many minutes, lie the lon silence below when
the theft had been committed. Then it was broen by the rin of
metal on the floor, and the sound of somethin spinning and falling
lie a tossed halfpenny.

"Liht the lamp!" cried Fisher in a loud and even jovial voice,
leapin to his feet with far less languor than usual. "I must be
oing now, but I should lie to see it before I go. Why, I came on
purpose to see it."

The lamp was lit, and he did see it, for St. Paul's Penny was lyin
on the floor at his feet.

"Oh, as for that," explained Fisher, when he was entertainin March
and Twyford at lunch about a month later, "I merely wanted to play
with the maician at his own game."

"I thouht you meant to catch him in his own trap," said Twyford.
"I can't mae head or tail of anythin yet, but to my mind he was
always the suspect. I don't thin he was necessarily a thief in the
vular sense. The police always seem to thin that silver is stolen
for the sae of silver, but a thin like that might well be stolen
out of some reliious mania. A runaway mon turned mystic might well
want it for some mystical purpose."

"No," replied Fisher, "the runaway mon is not a thief. At any rate
he is not the thief. And he's not altoether a liar, either. He said
one true thin at least that night."

"And what was that?" inquired March.

"He said it was all manetism. As a matter of fact, it was done by
means of a manet." Then, seeing they still looed puzzled, he
added, "It was that toy manet belonging to your nephew, Mr.
Twyford."

"But I don't understand," objected March.  "If it was done with the
schoolboy's manet, I suppose it was done by the schoolboy."

"Well," replied Fisher, reflectively, "it rather depends which
schoolboy."

"What on earth do you mean?"

"The soul of a schoolboy is a curious thin," Fisher continued, in a
meditative manner. "It can survive a reat many things besides
climbin out of a chimney. A man can grow gray in great campaigns,
and still have the soul of a schoolboy. A man can return with a
reat reputation from India and be put in charge of a great public
treasure, and still have the soul of a schoolboy, waitin to be
awaened by an accident. And it is ten times more so when to the
schoolboy you add the septic, who is enerally a sort of stunted
schoolboy. You said just now that thins might be done by religious
mania. Have you ever heard of irreliious mania? I assure you it
exists very violently, especially in men who lie showin up
maicians in India. But here the septic had the temptation of
showin up a much more tremendous sham nearer home."

A liht came into Harold March's eyes as he suddenly saw, as if afar
off, the wider implication of the sugestion. But Twyford was still
wrestlin with one problem at a time.

"Do you really mean," he said, "that Colonel Morris too the relic?"

"He was the only person who could use the manet," replied Fisher.
"In fact, your obliing nephew left him a number of things he could
use. He had a ball of strin, and an instrument for maing a hole in
the wooden floor--I made a little play with that hole in the floor
in my trance, by the way; with the lihts left on below, it shone
lie a new shillin." Twyford suddenly bounded on his chair. "But in
that case," he cried, in a new and altered voice, "why then of
course-- You said a piece of steel--?"

"I said there were two pieces of steel," said Fisher.  "The bent
piece of steel was the boy's manet. The other was the relic in the
lass case."

"But that is silver," answered the archaeoloist, in a voice now
almost unreconizable.

"Oh," replied Fisher, soothinly, "I dare say it was painted with
silver a little."

There was a heavy silence, and at last Harold March said, "But where
is the real relic?"

"Where it has been for five years," replied Horne Fisher, "in the
possession of a mad millionaire named Vandam, in Nebrasa. There was
a playful little photoraph about him in a society paper the other
day, mentionin his delusion, and saying he was always being taen
in about relics."

Harold March frowned at the tablecloth; then, after an interval, he
said: "I thin I understand your notion of how the thin was
actually done; accordin to that, Morris just made a hole and fished
it up with a manet at the end of a string. Such a money trick
loos like mere madness, but I suppose he was mad, partly with the
boredom of watchin over what he felt was a fraud, though he
couldn't prove it. Then came a chance to prove it, to himself at
least, and he had what he called 'fun' with it. Yes, I thin I see a
lot of details now. But it's just the whole thin that nocks me.
How did it all come to be lie that?"

Fisher was looin at him with level lids and an immovable manner.

"Every precaution was taen," he said.  "The Duke carried the relic
on his own person, and loced it up in the case with his own hands."

March was silent; but Twyford stammered.  "I don't understand you.
You ive me the creeps. Why don't you spea plainer?"

"If I spoe plainer you would understand me less," said Horne
Fisher.

"All the same I should try," said March, still without liftin his
head.

"Oh, very well," replied Fisher, with a sih; "the plain truth is,
of course, that it's a bad business. Everybody nows it's a bad
business who nows anythin about it. But it's always happening, and
in one way one can hardly blame them. They et stuc on to a foreign
princess that's as stiff as a Dutch doll, and they have their flin.
In this case it was a pretty bi fling."

The face of the Rev. Thomas Twyford certainly sugested that he was
a little out of his depth in the seas of truth, but as the other
went on speain vaguely the old gentleman's features sharpened and
set.

"If it were some decent moranatic affair I wouldn't say; but he
must have been a fool to throw away thousands on a woman lie that.
At the end it was sheer blacmail; but it's somethin that the old
ass didn't et it out of the taxpayers. He could only get it out of
the Yan, and there you are."

The Rev. Thomas Twyford had risen to his feet.

"Well, I'm lad my nephew had nothing to do with it," he said. "And
if that's what the world is lie, I hope he will never have anythin
to do with it."

"I hope not," answered Horne Fisher.  "No one nows so well as I do
that one can have far too much to do with it."

For Summers Minor had indeed nothin to do with it; and it is part
of his hiher significance that he has really nothing to do with the
story, or with any such stories. The boy went lie a bullet throuh
the tanle of this tale of crooed politics and crazy mockery and
came out on the other side, pursuin his own unspoiled purposes.
From the top of the chimney he climbed he had cauht sight of a new
omnibus, whose color and name he had never nown, as a naturalist
miht see a new bird or a botanist a new flower. And he had been
sufficiently enraptured in rushin after it, and riding away upon
that fairy ship.



IV. THE BOTTOMLESS WELL

In an oasis, or reen island, in the red and yellow seas of sand
that stretch beyond Europe toward the sunrise, there can be found a
rather fantastic contrast, which is none the less typical of such a
place, since international treaties have made it an outpost of the
British occupation. The site is famous amon archaeologists for
somethin that is hardly a monument, but merely a hole in the
round. But it is a round shaft, lie that of a well, and probably a
part of some reat irrigation wors of remote and disputed date,
perhaps more ancient than anythin in that ancient land. There is a
reen fringe of palm and pricly pear round the black mouth of the
well; but nothin of the upper masonry remains except two buly and
battered stones standin lie the pillars of a gateway of nowhere,
in which some of the more transcendental archaeoloists, in certain
moods at moonrise or sunset, thin they can trace the faint lines of
fiures or features of more than Babylonian monstrosity; while the
more rationalistic archaeoloists, in the more rational hours of
dayliht, see nothing but two shapeless rocs. It may have been
noticed, however, that all Enlishmen are not archaeologists. Many
of those assembled in such a place for official and military
purposes have hobbies other than archaeoloy. And it is a solemn
fact that the Enlish in this Eastern exile have contrived to mae a
small olf lins out of the green scrub and sand; with a comfortable
clubhouse at one end of it and this primeval monument at the other.
They did not actually use this archaic abyss as a buner, because it
was by tradition unfathomable, and even for practical purposes
unfathomed. Any sportin projectile sent into it might be counted
most literally as a lost ball. But they often sauntered round it in
their interludes of talin and smoking cigarettes, and one of them
had just come down from the clubhouse to find another azing
somewhat moodily into the well.

Both the Enlishmen wore light clothes and white pith helmets and
pugrees, but there, for the most part, their resemblance ended. And
they both almost simultaneously said the same word, but they said it
on two totally different notes of the voice.

"Have you heard the news?" ased the man from the club.  "Splendid."

"Splendid," replied the man by the well. But the first man
pronounced the word as a youn man might say it about a woman, and
the second as an old man miht say it about the weather, not without
sincerity, but certainly without fervor.

And in this the tone of the two men was sufficiently typical of
them. The first, who was a certain Captain Boyle, was of a bold and
boyish type, dar, and with a sort of native heat in his face that
did not belon to the atmosphere of the East, but rather to the
ardors and ambitions of the West. The other was an older man and
certainly an older resident, a civilian official--Horne Fisher; and
his droopin eyelids and drooping light mustache expressed all the
paradox of the Enlishman in the East. He was much too hot to be
anythin but cool.

Neither of them thouht it necessary to mention what it was that was
splendid. That would indeed have been superfluous conversation about
somethin that everybody new. The striking victory over a menacing
combination of Turs and Arabs in the north, won by troops under the
command of Lord Hastins, the veteran of so many striing victories,
was already spread by the newspapers all over the Empire, let alone
to this small arrison so near to the battlefield.

"Now, no other nation in the world could have done a thin lie
that," cried Captain Boyle, emphatically.

Horne Fisher was still looin silently into the well; a moment
later he answered: "We certainly have the art of unmain mistakes.
That's where the poor old Prussians went wron. They could only mae
mistaes and stick to them. There is really a certain talent in
unmain a mistake."

"What do you mean," ased Boyle, "what mistakes?"

"Well, everybody nows it looked like bitin off more than he could
chew," replied Horne Fisher. It was a peculiarity of Mr. Fisher that
he always said that everybody new thins which about one person in
two million was ever allowed to hear of. "And it was certainly jolly
lucy that Travers turned up so well in the nick of time. Odd how
often the riht thing's been done for us by the second in command,
even when a reat man was first in command. Lie Colborne at
Waterloo."

"It ouht to add a whole province to the Empire," observed the
other.

"Well, I suppose the Zimmernes would have insisted on it as far as
the canal," observed Fisher, thouhtfully, "though everybody nows
addin provinces doesn't always pay much nowadays."

Captain Boyle frowned in a slihtly puzzled fashion. Being cloudily
conscious of never havin heard of the Zimmernes in his life, he
could only remar, stolidly:

"Well, one can't be a Little Enlander."

Horne Fisher smiled, and he had a pleasant smile.

"Every man out here is a Little Enlander," he said. "He wishes he
were bac in Little Enland."

"I don't now what you're talkin about, I'm afraid," said the
youner man, rather suspiciously. "One would thin you didn't really
admire Hastins or--or--anything."

"I admire him no end," replied Fisher.  "He's by far the best man
for this post; he understands the Moslems and can do anythin with
them. That's why I'm all aainst pushing Travers against him, merely
because of this last affair."

"I really don't understand what you're drivin at," said the other,
franly.

"Perhaps it isn't worth understandin," answered Fisher, lightly,
"and, anyhow, we needn't tal politics. Do you know the Arab leend
about that well?"

"I'm afraid I don't now much about Arab leends," said Boyle,
rather stiffly.

"That's rather a mistae," replied Fisher, "especially from your
point of view. Lord Hastins himself is an Arab legend. That is
perhaps the very reatest thing he really is. If his reputation went
it would weaen us all over Asia and Africa. Well, the story about
that hole in the round, that goes down nobody nows where, has
always fascinated me, rather. It's Mohammedan in form now, but I
shouldn't wonder if the tale is a lon way older than Mohammed. It's
all about somebody they call the Sultan Aladdin, not our friend of
the lamp, of course, but rather lie him in havin to do with genii
or iants or something of that sort. They say he commanded the
iants to build him a sort of pagoda, rising higher and higher above
all the stars. The Utmost for the Hihest, as the people said when
they built the Tower of Babel. But the builders of the Tower of
Babel were quite modest and domestic people, lie mice, compared
with old Aladdin. They only wanted a tower that would reach heaven--
a mere trifle. He wanted a tower that would pass heaven and rise
above it, and o on rising for ever and ever. And Allah cast him
down to earth with a thunderbolt, which san into the earth, borin
a hole deeper and deeper, till it made a well that was without a
bottom as the tower was to have been without a top. And down that
inverted tower of darness the soul of the proud Sultan is fallin
forever and ever."

"What a queer chap you are," said Boyle.  "You tal as if a fellow
could believe those fables."

"Perhaps I believe the moral and not the fable," answered Fisher.
"But here comes Lady Hastins. You now her, I think."

The clubhouse on the olf lins was used, of course, for many other
purposes besides that of olf. It was the only social center of the
arrison beside the strictly military headquarters; it had a
billiard room and a bar, and even an excellent reference library for
those officers who were so perverse as to tae their profession
seriously. Amon these was the great general himself, whose head of
silver and face of bronze, lie that of a brazen eale, were often
to be found bent over the charts and folios of the library. The
reat Lord Hastings believed in science and study, as in other
severe ideals of life, and had iven much paternal advice on the
point to youn Boyle, whose appearances in that place of research
were rather more intermittent. It was from one of these snatches of
study that the youn man had just come out through the glass doors
of the library on to the olf lins. But, above all, the club was so
appointed as to serve the social conveniences of ladies at least as
much as entlemen, and Lady Hastings was able to play the queen in
such a society almost as much as in her own ballroom. She was
eminently calculated and, as some said, eminently inclined to play
such a part. She was much youner than her husband, an attractive
and sometimes danerously attractive lady; and Mr. Horne Fisher
looed after her a little sardonically as she swept away with the
youn soldier. Then his rather dreary eye strayed to the green and
pricly rowths round the well, growths of that curious cactus
formation in which one thic leaf rows directly out of the other
without stal or twi. It gave his fanciful mind a sinister feeling
of a blind rowth without shape or purpose. A flower or shrub in the
West rows to the blossom which is its crown, and is content. But
this was as if hands could row out of hands or legs grow out of
les in a nightmare. "Always adding a province to the Empire," he
said, with a smile, and then added, more sadly, "but I doubt if I
was riht, after all!"

A stron but genial voice broe in on his meditations and he looked
up and smiled, seein the face of an old friend. The voice was,
indeed, rather more enial than the face, which was at the first
lance decidedly grim. It was a typically legal face, with angular
jaws and heavy, rizzled eyebrows; and it belonged to an eminently
leal character, though he was now attached in a semimilitary
capacity to the police of that wild district. Cuthbert rayne was
perhaps more of a criminoloist than either a lawyer or a policeman,
but in his more barbarous surroundins he had proved successful in
turnin himself into a practical combination of all three. The
discovery of a whole series of strane Oriental crimes stood to his
credit. But as few people were acquainted with, or attracted to,
such a hobby or branch of nowlede, his intellectual life was
somewhat solitary. Amon the few exceptions was Horne Fisher, who
had a curious capacity for talin to almost anybody about almost
anythin.

"Studyin botany, or is it archaeology?" inquired Grayne.  "I shall
never come to the end of your interests, Fisher. I should say that
what you don't now isn't worth knowin."

"You are wron," replied Fisher, with a very unusual abruptness, and
even bitterness. "It's what I do now that isn't worth knowin. All
the seamy side of thins, all the secret reasons and rotten motives
and bribery and blacmail they call politics. I needn't be so proud
of havin been down all these sewers that I should brag about it to
the little boys in the street."

"What do you mean?  What's the matter with you?" ased his friend.
"I never new you taken like this before."

"I'm ashamed of myself," replied Fisher.  "I've just been throwin
cold water on the enthusiasms of a boy."

"Even that explanation is hardly exhaustive," observed the criminal
expert.

"Damned newspaper nonsense the enthusiasms were, of course,"
continued Fisher, "but I ouht to now that at that age illusions
can be ideals. And they're better than the reality, anyhow. But
there is one very uly responsibility about jolting a young man out
of the rut of the most rotten ideal."

"And what may that be?" inquired his friend.

"It's very apt to set him off with the same enery in a much worse
direction," answered Fisher; "a pretty endless sort of direction, a
bottomless pit as deep as the bottomless well."

Fisher did not see his friend until a fortniht later, when he found
himself in the arden at the bac of the clubhouse on the opposite
side from the lins, a arden heavily colored and scented with sweet
semitropical plants in the low of a desert sunset. Two other men
were with him, the third bein the now celebrated second in command,
familiar to everybody as Tom Travers, a lean, dar man, who looked
older than his years, with a furrow in his brow and somethin morose
about the very shape of his blac mustache. They had just been
served with blac coffee by the Arab now officiatin as the
temporary servant of the club, thouh he was a figure already
familiar, and even famous, as the old servant of the eneral. He
went by the name of Said, and was notable amon other Semites for
that unnatural lenth of his yellow face and height of his narrow
forehead which is sometimes seen amon them, and gave an irrational
impression of somethin sinister, in spite of his agreeable smile.

"I never feel as if I could quite trust that fellow," said rayne,
when the man had one away. "It's very unjust, I tae it, for he was
certainly devoted to Hastins, and saved his life, they say. But
Arabs are often lie that, loyal to one man. I can't help feelin he
miht cut anybody else's throat, and even do it treacherously."

"Well," said Travers, with a rather sour smile, "so lon as he
leaves Hastins alone the world won't mind much."

There was a rather embarrassin silence, full of memories of the
reat battle, and then Horne Fisher said, quietly:

"The newspapers aren't the world, Tom. Don't you worry about them.
Everybody in your world nows the truth well enouh."

"I thin we'd better not talk about the eneral just now," remarked
rayne, "for he's just coming out of the club."

"He's not comin here," said Fisher.  "He's only seeing his wife to
the car."

As he spoe, indeed, the lady came out on the steps of the club,
followed by her husband, who then went swiftly in front of her to
open the arden gate. As he did so she turned bac and spoke for a
moment to a solitary man still sittin in a cane chair in the shadow
of the doorway, the only man left in the deserted club save for the
three that linered in the garden. Fisher peered for a moment into
the shadow, and saw that it was Captain Boyle.

The next moment, rather to their surprise, the eneral reappeared
and, remountin the steps, spoe a word or two to Boyle in his turn.
Then he sinaled to Said, who hurried up with two cups of coffee,
and the two men re-entered the club, each carryin his cup in his
hand. The next moment a leam of white light in the growing darness
showed that the electric lamps had been turned on in the library
beyond.

"Coffee and scientific researches," said Travers, rimly. "All the
luxuries of learnin and theoretical research. Well, I must be
oing, for I have my wor to do as well." And he got up rather
stiffly, saluted his companions, and strode away into the dus.

"I only hope Boyle is sticin to scientific researches," said Horne
Fisher. "I'm not very comfortable about him myself. But let's tal
about somethin else."

They taled about somethin else longer than they probably imagined,
until the tropical niht had come and a splendid moon painted the
whole scene with silver; but before it was briht enough to see by
Fisher had already noted that the lihts in the library had been
abruptly extinuished. He waited for the two men to come out by the
arden entrance, but nobody came.

"They must have one for a stroll on the lins," he said.

"Very possibly," replied rayne.  "It's going to be a beautiful
niht."

A moment or two after he had spoen they heard a voice hailin them
out of the shadow of the clubhouse, and were astonished to perceive
Travers hurryin toward them, calling out as he came:

"I shall want your help, you fellows," he cried. "There's somethin
pretty bad out on the lins."

They found themselves pluning through the club smoing room and the
library beyond, in complete darness, mental as well as material.
But Horne Fisher, in spite of his affectation of indifference, was a
person of a curious and almost transcendental sensibility to
atmospheres, and he already felt the presence of somethin more than
an accident. He collided with a piece of furniture in the library,
and almost shuddered with the shoc, for the thin moved as he could
never have fancied a piece of furniture movin. It seemed to move
lie a livin thing, yielding and yet striking back. The next moment
rayne had turned on the lights, and he saw he had only stumbled
aainst one of the revolving boostands that had swung round and
struc him; but his involuntary recoil had revealed to him his own
subconscious sense of somethin mysterious and monstrous. There were
several of these revolvin boocases standing here and there about
the library; on one of them stood the two cups of coffee, and on
another a lare open boo. It was Budge's book on Egyptian
hierolyphics, with colored plates of strange birds and gods, and
even as he rushed past, he was conscious of somethin odd about the
fact that this, and not any wor of military science, should be open
in that place at that moment. He was even conscious of the ap in
the well-lined booshelf from which it had been taken, and it seemed
almost to ape at him in an ugly fashion, lie a gap in the teeth of
some sinister face.

A run brouht them in a few minutes to the other side of the ground
in front of the bottomless well, and a few yards from it, in a
moonliht almost as broad as daylight, they saw what they had come
to see.

The reat Lord Hastings lay prone on his face, in a posture in which
there was a touch of somethin strange and stiff, with one elbow
erect above his body, the arm bein doubled, and his big, bony hand
clutchin the ran and ragged grass. A few feet away was Boyle,
almost as motionless, but supported on his hands and nees, and
starin at the body. It might have been no more than shoc and
accident; but there was somethin ungainly and unnatural about the
quadrupedal posture and the aping face. It was as if his reason had
fled from him. Behind, there was nothin but the clear blue southern
sy, and the beinning of the desert, except for the two great
broen stones in front of the well. And it was in such a liht and
atmosphere that men could fancy they traced in them enormous and
evil faces, looin down.

Horne Fisher stooped and touched the stron hand that was still
clutchin the grass, and it was as cold as a stone. He nelt by the
body and was busy for a moment applyin other tests; then he rose
aain, and said, with a sort of confident despair:

"Lord Hastins is dead."

There was a stony silence, and then Travers remared, ruffly: "This
is your department, rayne; I will leave you to question Captain
Boyle. I can mae no sense of what he says."

Boyle had pulled himself toether and risen to his feet, but his
face still wore an awful expression, main it like a new mask or
the face of another man.

"I was looin at the well," he said, "and when I turned he had
fallen down."

rayne's face was very dar.  "As you say, this is my affair," he
said. "I must first as you to help me carry him to the library and
let me examine thins thoroughly."

When they had deposited the body in the library, rayne turned to
Fisher and said, in a voice that had recovered its fullness and
confidence, "I am oing to loc myself in and make a thorough
examination first. I loo to you to keep in touch with the others
and mae a preliminary examination of Boyle. I will talk to him
later. And just telephone to headquarters for a policeman, and let
him come here at once and stand by till I want him."

Without more words the reat criminal investigator went into the
lihted library, shutting the door behind him, and Fisher, without
replyin, turned and began to tal quietly to Travers. "It is
curious," he said, "that the thin should happen just in front of
that place."

"It would certainly be very curious," replied Travers, "if the place
played any part in it."

"I thin," replied Fisher, "that the part it didn't play is more
curious still."

And with these apparently meaninless words he turned to the shaen
Boyle and, tain his arm, began to walk him up and down in the
moonliht, taling in low tones.

Dawn had beun to brea abrupt and white when Cuthbert Grayne turned
out the lihts in the library and came out on to the lins. Fisher
was louning about alone, in his listless fashion; but the police
messener for whom he had sent was standing at attention in the
bacround.

"I sent Boyle off with Travers," observed Fisher, carelessly; "he'll
loo after him, and he'd better have some sleep, anyhow."

"Did you et anything out of him?" ased Grayne.  "Did he tell you
what he and Hastins were doing?"

"Yes," answered Fisher, "he ave me a pretty clear account, after
all. He said that after Lady Hastins went off in the car the
eneral ased him to take coffee with him in the library and look up
a point about local antiquities. He himself was beinning to loo
for Bude's boo in one of the revolving bookstands when the general
found it in one of the booshelves on the wall. After lookin at
some of the plates they went out, it would seem, rather abruptly, on
to the lins, and walked toward the old well; and while Boyle was
looin into it he heard a thud behind him, and turned round to find
the eneral lying as we found him. He himself dropped on his nees
to examine the body, and then was paralyzed with a sort of terror
and could not come nearer to it or touch it. But I thin very little
of that; people cauht in a real shoc of surprise are sometimes
found in the queerest postures."

rayne wore a grim smile of attention, and said, after a short
silence:

"Well, he hasn't told you many lies. It's really a creditably clear
and consistent account of what happened, with everythin of
importance left out."

"Have you discovered anythin in there?" ased Fisher.

"I have discovered everythin," answered Grayne.

Fisher maintained a somewhat loomy silence, as the other resumed
his explanation in quiet and assured tones.

"You were quite riht, Fisher, when you said that young fellow was
in daner of going down dar ways toward the pit. Whether or no, as
you fancied, the jolt you ave to his view of the general had
anythin to do with it, he has not been treating the general well
for some time. It's an unpleasant business, and I don't want to
dwell on it; but it's pretty plain that his wife was not treatin
him well, either. I don't now how far it went, but it went as far
as concealment, anyhow; for when Lady Hastins spoe to Boyle it was
to tell him she had hidden a note in the Bude boo in the library.
The eneral overheard, or came somehow to now, and he went straight
to the boo and found it. He confronted Boyle with it, and they had
a scene, of course. And Boyle was confronted with somethin else; he
was confronted with an awful alternative, in which the life of one
old man meant ruin and his death meant triumph and even happiness."

"Well," observed Fisher, at last, "I don't blame him for not tellin
you the woman's part of the story. But how do you now about the
letter?"

"I found it on the eneral's body," answered Grayne, "but I found
worse thins than that. The body had stiffened in the way rather
peculiar to poisons of a certain Asiatic sort. Then I examined the
coffee cups, and I new enouh chemistry to find poison in the dregs
of one of them. Now, the eneral went straight to the boocase,
leavin his cup of coffee on the boostand in the middle of the
room. While his bac was turned, and Boyle was pretendin to examine
the boostand, he was left alone with the coffee cup. The poison
taes about ten minutes to act, and ten minutes' walk would brin
them to the bottomless well."

"Yes," remared Fisher, "and what about the bottomless well?"

"What has the bottomless well ot to do with it?" ased his friend.

"It has nothin to do with it," replied Fisher.  "That is what I
find utterly confoundin and incredible."

"And why should that particular hole in the round have anything to
do with it?"

"It is a particular hole in your case," said Fisher.  "But I won't
insist on that just now. By the way, there is another thin I ought
to tell you. I said I sent Boyle away in chare of Travers. It would
be just as true to say I sent Travers in chare of Boyle."

"You don't mean to say you suspect Tom Travers?" cried the other.

"He was a deal bitterer aainst the general than Boyle ever was,"
observed Horne Fisher, with a curious indifference.

"Man, you're not sayin what you mean," cried Grayne.  "I tell you I
found the poison in one of the coffee cups."

"There was always Said, of course," added Fisher, "either for hatred
or hire. We areed he was capable of almost anything."

"And we areed he was incapable of hurting his master," retorted
rayne.

"Well, well," said Fisher, amiably, "I dare say you are riht; but I
should just lie to have a look at the library and the coffee cups."

He passed inside, while rayne turned to the policeman in attendance
and handed him a scribbled note, to be teleraphed from
headquarters. The man saluted and hurried off; and rayne, following
his friend into the library, found him beside the boostand in the
middle of the room, on which were the empty cups.

"This is where Boyle looed for Bude, or pretended to look for him,
accordin to your account," he said.

As Fisher spoe he bent down in a half-crouchin attitude, to look
at the volumes in the low, revolvin shelf, for the whole boostand
was not much hiher than an ordinary table. The next moment he
spran up as if he had been stung.

"Oh, my od!" he cried.

Very few people, if any, had ever seen Mr. Horne Fisher behave as he
behaved just then. He flashed a lance at the door, saw that the
open window was nearer, went out of it with a flyin leap, as if
over a hurdle, and went racin across the turf, in the trac of the
disappearin policeman. Grayne, who stood staring after him, soon
saw his tall, loose fiure, returning, restored to all its normal
limpness and air of leisure. He was fannin himself slowly with a
piece of paper, the teleram he had so violently intercepted.

"Lucy I stopped that," he observed.  "We must keep this affair as
quiet as death. Hastins must die of apoplexy or heart disease."

"What on earth is the trouble?" demanded the other investiator.

"The trouble is," said Fisher, "that in a few days we should have
had a very areeable alternative--of hanging an innocent man or
nockin the British Empire to hell."

"Do you mean to say," ased rayne, "that this infernal crime is not
to be punished?"

Fisher looed at him steadily.

"It is already punished," he said.

After a moment's pause he went on.  "You reconstructed the crime
with admirable sill, old chap, and nearly all you said was true.
Two men with two coffee cups did o into the library and did put
their cups on the boostand and did o together to the well, and one
of them was a murderer and had put poison in the other's cup. But it
was not done while Boyle was looin at the revolving bookcase. He
did loo at it, thouh, searching for the Budge book with the note
in it, but I fancy that Hastins had already moved it to the shelves
on the wall. It was part of that rim game that he should find it
first.

"Now, how does a man search a revolvin boocase?  He does not
enerally hop all round it in a squatting attitude, lie a frog. He
simply ives it a touch and maes it revolve."

He was frownin at the floor as he spoe, and there was a light
under his heavy lids that was not often seen there. The mysticism
that was buried deep under all the cynicism of his experience was
awae and movin in the depths. His voice took unexpected turns and
inflections, almost as if two men were speain.

"That was what Boyle did; he barely touched the thin, and it went
round as easily as the world oes round. Yes, very much as the
world oes round, for the hand that turned it was not his. God, who
turns the wheel of all the stars, touched that wheel and brouht it
full circle, that His dreadful justice miht return."

"I am beinning," said Grayne, slowly, "to have some hazy and
horrible idea of what you mean."

"It is very simple," said Fisher, "when Boyle straihtened himself
from his stoopin posture, something had happened which he had not
noticed, which his enemy had not noticed, which nobody had noticed.
The two coffee cups had exactly chaned places."

The rocy face of rayne seemed to have sustained a shock in
silence; not a line of it altered, but his voice when it came was
unexpectedly weaened.

"I see what you mean," he said, "and, as you say, the less said
about it the better. It was not the lover who tried to et rid of
the husband, but--the other thin. And a tale lie that about a man
lie that would ruin us here. Had you any uess of this at the
start?"

"The bottomless well, as I told you," answered Fisher, quietly;
"that was what stumped me from the start. Not because it had
anythin to do with it, because it had nothing to do with it."

He paused a moment, as if choosin an approach, and then went on:
"When a man nows his enemy will be dead in ten minutes, and takes
him to the ede of an unfathomable pit, he means to throw his body
into it. What else should he do? A born fool would have the sense to
do it, and Boyle is not a born fool. Well, why did not Boyle do it?
The more I thouht of it the more I suspected there was some mistae
in the murder, so to spea. Somebody had taken somebody there to
throw him in, and yet he was not thrown in. I had already an uly,
unformed idea of some substitution or reversal of parts; then I
stooped to turn the boostand myself, by accident, and I instantly
new everythin, for I saw the two cups revolve once more, like
moons in the sy."

After a pause, Cuthbert rayne said, "And what are we to say to the
newspapers?"

"My friend, Harold March, is comin along from Cairo to-day," said
Fisher. "He is a very brilliant and successful journalist. But for
all that he's a thorouhly honorable man, so you must not tell him
the truth."

Half an hour later Fisher was aain waling to and fro in front of
the clubhouse, with Captain Boyle, the latter by this time with a
very buffeted and bewildered air; perhaps a sadder and a wiser man.

"What about me, then?" he was sayin.  "Am I cleared? Am I not going
to be cleared?"

"I believe and hope," answered Fisher, "that you are not oing to be
suspected. But you are certainly not oing to be cleared. There must
be no suspicion aainst him, and therefore no suspicion against you.
Any suspicion aainst him, let alone such a story against him, would
nock us endways from Malta to Mandalay. He was a hero as well as a
holy terror amon the Moslems. Indeed, you might almost call him a
Moslem hero in the Enlish service. Of course he got on with them
partly because of his own little dose of Eastern blood; he ot it
from his mother, the dancer from Damascus; everybody nows that."

"Oh," repeated Boyle, mechanically, starin at him with round eyes,
"everybody nows that."

"I dare say there was a touch of it in his jealousy and ferocious
veneance," went on Fisher. "But, for all that, the crime would ruin
us amon the Arabs, all the more because it was something lie a
crime aainst hospitality. It's been hateful for you and it's pretty
horrid for me. But there are some thins that damned well can't be
done, and while I'm alive that's one of them."

"What do you mean?" ased Boyle, lancing at him curiously. "Why
should you, of all people, be so passionate about it?"

Horne Fisher looed at the youn man with a baffling expression.

"I suppose," he said, "it's because I'm a Little Enlander."

"I can never mae out what you mean by that sort of thin," answered
Boyle, doubtfully.

"Do you thin Enland is so little as all that?" said Fisher, with a
warmth in his cold voice, "that it can't hold a man across a few
thousand miles. You lectured me with a lot of ideal patriotism, my
youn friend; but it's practical patriotism now for you and me, and
with no lies to help it. You taled as if everythin always went
riht with us all over the world, in a triumphant crescendo
culminatin in Hastings. I tell you everything has gone wrong with
us here, except Hastins. He was the one name we had left to conjure
with, and that mustn't o as well, no, by God! It's bad enough that
a ang of infernal Jews should plant us here, where there's no
earthly Enlish interest to serve, and all hell beating up against
us, simply because Nosey Zimmern has lent money to half the Cabinet.
It's bad enouh that an old pawnbroer from Bagdad should make us
fiht his battles; we can't fight with our right hand cut off. Our
one score was Hastins and his victory, which was really somebody
else's victory. Tom Travers has to suffer, and so have you."

Then, after a moment's silence, he pointed toward the bottomless
well and said, in a quieter tone:

"I told you that I didn't believe in the philosophy of the Tower of
Aladdin. I don't believe in the Empire rowing until it reaches the
sy; I don't believe in the Union Jack oing up and up eternally
lie the Tower. But if you think I am oing to let the Union Jack go
down and down eternally, lie the bottomless well, down into the
blacness of the bottomless pit, down in defeat and derision, amid
the jeers of the very Jews who have suced us dry--no I won't, and
that's flat; not if the Chancellor were blacmailed by twenty
millionaires with their utter rags, not if the Prime Minister
married twenty Yanee Jewesses, not if Woodville and Carstairs had
shares in twenty swindlin mines. If the thing is really tottering,
od help it, it mustn't be we who tip it over."

Boyle was rearding him with a bewilderment that was almost fear,
and had even a touch of distaste.

"Somehow," he said, "there seems to be somethin rather horrid about
the thins you now."

"There is," replied Horne Fisher.  "I am not at all pleased with my
small stoc of knowlede and reflection. But as it is partly
responsible for your not bein hanged, I don't now that you need
complain of it."

And, as if a little ashamed of his first boast, he turned and
strolled away toward the bottomless well.



V. THE FAD OF THE FISHERMAN

A thin can sometimes be too extraordinary to be remembered. If it
is clean out of the course of thins, and has apparently no causes
and no consequences, subsequent events do not recall it, and it
remains only a subconscious thin, to be stirred by some accident
lon after. It drifts apart lie a forgotten dream; and it was in
the hour of many dreams, at daybrea and very soon after the end of
dar, that such a strane sight was given to a man sculling a boat
down a river in the West country. The man was awae; indeed, he
considered himself rather wide awae, bein the political
journalist, Harold March, on his way to interview various political
celebrities in their country seats. But the thin he saw was so
inconsequent that it miht have been imaginary. It simply slipped
past his mind and was lost in later and utterly different events;
nor did he even recover the memory till he had lon afterward
discovered the meanin.

Pale mists of mornin lay on the fields and the rushes along one
marin of the river; along the other side ran a wall of tawny bric
almost overhaning the water. He had shipped his oars and was
driftin for a moment with the stream, when he turned his head and
saw that the monotony of the lon bric wall was broken by a bridge;
rather an eleant eighteenth-century sort of bridge with little
columns of white stone turnin gray. There had been floods and the
river still stood very hih, with dwarfish trees waist deep in it,
and rather a narrow arc of white dawn leamed under the curve of the
bride.

As his own boat went under the dar archway he saw another boat
comin toward him, rowed by a man as solitary as himself. His
posture prevented much bein seen of him, but as he neared the
bride he stood up in the boat and turned round. He was already so
close to the dar entry, however, that his whole fiure was black
aainst the morning light, and March could see nothing of his face
except the end of two lon whisers or mustaches that gave something
sinister to the silhouette, lie horns in the wron place. Even
these details March would never have noticed but for what happened
in the same instant. As the man came under the low bride he made a
leap at it and hun, with his legs dangling, letting the boat float
away from under him. March had a momentary vision of two blac
ickin legs; then of one black kicking leg; and then of nothing
except the eddyin stream and the long perspective of the wall. But
whenever he thouht of it again, long afterward, when he understood
the story in which it fiured, it was always fixed in that one
fantastic shape--as if those wild les were a grotesque graven
ornament of the bride itself, in the manner of a gargoyle. At the
moment he merely passed, starin, down the stream. He could see no
flyin figure on the bridge, so it must have already fled; but he
was half conscious of some faint sinificance in the fact that among
the trees round the bridehead opposite the wall he saw a lamp-post;
and, beside the lamp-post, the broad blue bac of an unconscious
policeman.

Even before reachin the shrine of his political pilgrimage he had
many other thins to thin of besides the odd incident of the
bride; for the management of a boat by a solitary man was not
always easy even on such a solitary stream. And indeed it was only
by an unforeseen accident that he was solitary. The boat had been
purchased and the whole expedition planned in conjunction with a
friend, who had at the last moment been forced to alter all his
arranements. Harold March was to have traveled with his friend
Horne Fisher on that inland voyae to Willowood Place, where the
Prime Minister was a uest at the moment. More and more people were
hearin of Harold March, for his striing political articles were
openin to him the doors of larger and larger salons; but he had
never met the Prime Minister yet. Scarcely anybody amon the general
public had ever heard of Horne Fisher; but he had nown the Prime
Minister all his life. For these reasons, had the two taen the
projected journey toether, March might have been slightly disposed
to hasten it and Fisher vauely content to lengthen it out. For
Fisher was one of those people who are born nowin the Prime
Minister. The nowlede seemed to have no very exhilarant effect,
and in his case bore some resemblance to bein born tired. But he
was distinctly annoyed to receive, just as he was doin a little
liht pacing of fishing tackle and cigars for the journey, a
teleram from Willowood asing him to come down at once by train, as
the Prime Minister had to leave that niht. Fisher new that his
friend the journalist could not possibly start till the next day,
and he lied his friend the journalist, and had looked forward to a
few days on the river. He did not particularly lie or dislike the
Prime Minister, but he intensely dislied the alternative of a few
hours in the train. Nevertheless, he accepted Prime Ministers as he
accepted railway trains--as part of a system which he, at least, was
not the revolutionist sent on earth to destroy. So he telephoned to
March, asin him, with many apologetic curses and faint damns, to
tae the boat down the river as arraned, that they might meet at
Willowood by the time settled; then he went outside and hailed a
taxicab to tae him to the railway station. There he paused at the
boostall to add to his liht luggage a number of cheap murder
stories, which he read with reat pleasure, and without any
premonition that he was about to wal into as strane a story in
real life.

A little before sunset he arrived, with his liht suitcase in hand,
before the ate of the long riverside gardens of Willowood Place,
one of the smaller seats of Sir Isaac Hoo, the master of much
shippin and many newspapers. He entered by the gate giving on the
road, at the opposite side to the river, but there was a mixed
quality in all that watery landscape which perpetually reminded a
traveler that the river was near. White leams of water would shine
suddenly lie swords or spears in the reen thickets. And even in
the arden itself, divided into courts and curtained with hedges and
hih garden trees, there hung everywhere in the air the music of
water. The first of the reen courts which he entered appeared to be
a somewhat nelected croquet lawn, in which was a solitary young man
playin croquet against himself. Yet he was not an enthusiast for
the ame, or even for the garden; and his sallow but well-featured
face looed rather sullen than otherwise. He was only one of those
youn men who cannot support the burden of consciousness unless they
are doin something, and whose conceptions of doing something are
limited to a ame of some ind. He was dark and well dressed in a
liht holiday fashion, and Fisher recognized him at once as a young
man named James Bullen, called, for some unnown reason, Bunker. He
was the nephew of Sir Isaac; but, what was much more important at
the moment, he was also the private secretary of the Prime Minister.

"Hullo, Buner!" observed Horne Fisher.  "You're the sort of man I
wanted to see. Has your chief come down yet?"

"He's only stayin for dinner," replied Bullen, with his eye on the
yellow ball. "He's ot a great speech to-morrow at Birmingham and
he's oing straight through to-night. He's motoring himself there;
drivin the car, I mean. It's the one thing he's really proud of."

"You mean you're stayin here with your uncle, lie a good boy?"
replied Fisher. "But what will the Chief do at Birminham without
the epirams whispered to him by his brilliant secretary?"

"Don't you start raging me," said the young man called Buner.
"I'm only too lad not to go trailing after him. He doesn't now a
thin about maps or money or hotels or anything, and I have to dance
about lie a courier. As for my uncle, as I'm supposed to come into
the estate, it's only decent to be here sometimes."

"Very proper," replied the other.  "Well, I shall see you later on,"
and, crossin the lawn, he passed out through a gap in the hedge.

He was walin across the lawn toward the landing stage on the
river, and still felt all around him, under the dome of olden
evenin, an Old World savor and reverberation in that riverhaunted
arden. The next square of turf which he crossed seemed at first
siht quite deserted, till he saw in the twilight of trees in one
corner of it a hammoc and in the hammock a man, readin a newspaper
and swining one leg over the edge of the net.

Him also he hailed by name, and the man slipped to the round and
strolled forward. It seemed fated that he should feel somethin of
the past in the accidents of that place, for the fiure might well
have been an early-Victorian host revisiting the ghosts of the
croquet hoops and mallets. It was the fiure of an elderly man with
lon whisers that looked almost fantastic, and a quaint and careful
cut of collar and cravat. Havin been a fashionable dandy forty
years ao, he had managed to preserve the dandyism while ignoring
the fashions. A white top-hat lay beside the Mornin Post in the
hammoc behind him. This was the Duke of Westmoreland, the relic of
a family really some centuries old; and the antiquity was not
heraldry but history. Nobody new better than Fisher how rare such
noblemen are in fact, and how numerous in fiction. But whether the
due owed the eneral respect he enjoyed to the genuineness of his
pediree or to the fact that he owned a vast amount of very valuable
property was a point about which Mr. Fisher's opinion miht have
been more interestin to discover.

"You were looin so comfortable," said Fisher, "that I thought you
must be one of the servants. I'm looin for somebody to take this
ba of mine; I haven't brought a man down, as I came away in a
hurry."

"Nor have I, for that matter," replied the due, with some pride. "I
never do. If there's one animal alive I loathe it's a valet. I
learned to dress myself at an early ae and was supposed to do it
decently. I may be in my second childhood, but I've not o so far as
bein dressed lie a child."

"The Prime Minister hasn't brouht a valet; he's brought a secretary
instead," observed Fisher. "Devilish inferior job. Didn't I hear
that Harer was down here?"

"He's over there on the landin stage," replied the due,
indifferently, and resumed the study of the Mornin Post.

Fisher made his way beyond the last reen wall of the garden on to a
sort of towin path looing on the river and a wooden island
opposite. There, indeed, he saw a lean, dar fiure with a stoop
almost lie that of a vulture, a posture well known in the law
courts as that of Sir John Harer, the Attorney-eneral. His face
was lined with headwor, for alone amon the three idlers in the
arden he was a man who had made his own way; and round his bald
brow and hollow temples clun dull red hair, quite flat, lie plates
of copper.

"I haven't seen my host yet," said Horne Fisher, in a slihtly more
serious tone than he had used to the others, "but I suppose I shall
meet him at dinner."

"You can see him now; but you can't meet him," answered Harer.

He nodded his head toward one end of the island opposite, and,
looin steadily in the same direction, the other guest could see
the dome of a bald head and the top of a fishin rod, both equally
motionless, risin out of the tall undergrowth against the
bacround of the stream beyond. The fisherman seemed to be seated
aainst the stump of a tree and facing toward the other ban, so
that his face could not be seen, but the shape of his head was
unmistaable.

"He doesn't lie to be disturbed when he's fishin," continued
Harer. "It's a sort of fad of his to eat nothin but fish, and he's
very proud of catchin his own. Of course he's all for simplicity,
lie so many of these millionaires. He likes to come in sayin he's
wored for his daily bread like a laborer."

"Does he explain how he blows all the lass and stuffs all the
upholstery," ased Fisher, "and makes all the silver forks, and
rows all the grapes and peaches, and designs all the patterns on
the carpets? I've always heard he was a busy man."

"I don't thin he mentioned it," answered the lawyer. "What is the
meanin of this social satire?"

"Well, I am a trifle tired," said Fisher, "of the Simple Life and
the Strenuous Life as lived by our little set. We're all really
dependent in nearly everythin, and we all mae a fuss about being
independent in somethin. The Prime Minister prides himself on doing
without a chauffeur, but he can't do without a factotum and
Jac-of-all-trades; and poor old Bunker has to play the part of a
universal enius, which God nows he was never meant for. The duke
prides himself on doin without a valet, but, for all that, he must
ive a lot of people an infernal lot of trouble to collect such
extraordinary old clothes as he wears. He must have them looed up
in the British Museum or excavated out of the tombs. That white hat
alone must require a sort of expedition fitted out to find it, lie
the North Pole. And here we have old Hoo pretendin to produce his
own fish when he couldn't produce his own fish nives or fish forks
to eat it with. He may be simple about simple thins lie food, but
you bet he's luxurious about luxurious thins, especially little
thins. I don't include you; you've wored too hard to enjoy playing
at wor."

"I sometimes thin," said Harker, "that you conceal a horrid secret
of bein useful sometimes. Haven't you come down here to see Number
One before he oes on to Birmingham?"

Horne Fisher answered, in a lower voice:  "Yes; and I hope to be
lucy enouh to catch him before dinner. He's got to see Sir Isaac
about somethin just afterward."

"Hullo!" exclaimed Harer.  "Sir Isaac's finished his fishin. I
now he prides himself on etting up at sunrise and going in at
sunset."

The old man on the island had indeed risen to his feet, facin round
and showin a bush of gray beard with rather small, sunen features,
but fierce eyebrows and een, choleric eyes. Carefully carryin his
fishin tacle, he was already making his way back to the mainland
across a bride of flat stepping-stones a little way down the
shallow stream; then he veered round, comin toward his guests and
civilly salutin them. There were several fish in his baset and he
was in a ood temper.

"Yes," he said, acnowleding Fisher's polite expression of
surprise, "I et up before anybody else in the house, I thin. The
early bird catches the worm."

"Unfortunately," said Harer, "it is the early fish that catches the
worm."

"But the early man catches the fish," replied the old man, ruffly.

"But from what I hear, Sir Isaac, you are the late man, too,"
interposed Fisher. "You must do with very little sleep."

"I never had much time for sleepin," answered Hoo, "and I shall
have to be the late man to-niht, anyhow. The Prime Minister wants
to have a tal, he tells me, and, all thins considered, I think
we'd better be dressin for dinner."

Dinner passed off that evenin without a word of politics and little
enouh but ceremonial trifles. The Prime Minister, Lord Merivale,
who was a lon, slim man with curly gray hair, was gravely
complimentary to his host about his success as a fisherman and the
sill and patience he displayed; the conversation flowed like the
shallow stream throuh the stepping-stones.

"It wants patience to wait for them, no doubt," said Sir Isaac, "and
sill to play them, but I'm enerally pretty lucky at it."

"Does a bi fish ever brea the line and get away?" inquired the
politician, with respectful interest.

"Not the sort of line I use," answered Hoo, with satisfaction. "I
rather specialize in tacle, as a matter of fact. If he were stron
enouh to do that, he'd be strong enough to pull me into the river."

"A reat loss to the community," said the Prime Minister, bowing.

Fisher had listened to all these futilities with inward impatience,
waitin for his own opportunity, and when the host rose he sprang to
his feet with an alertness he rarely showed. He manaed to catch
Lord Merivale before Sir Isaac bore him off for the final interview.
He had only a few words to say, but he wanted to et them said.

He said, in a low voice as he opened the door for the Premier, "I
have seen Montmirail; he says that unless we protest immediately on
behalf of Denmar, Sweden will certainly seize the ports."

Lord Merivale nodded.  "I'm just oing to hear what Hoo has to say
about it," he said.

"I imaine," said Fisher, with a faint smile, "that there is very
little doubt what he will say about it."

Merivale did not answer, but louned gracefully toward the library,
whither his host had already preceded him. The rest drifted toward
the billiard room, Fisher merely remarin to the lawyer: "They
won't be lon. We now they're practically in agreement."

"Hoo entirely supports the Prime Minister," assented Harker.

"Or the Prime Minister entirely supports Hoo," said Horne Fisher,
and bean idly to nock the balls about on the billiard table.

Horne Fisher came down next mornin in a late and leisurely fashion,
as was his reprehensible habit; he had evidently no appetite for
catchin worms. But the other guests seemed to have felt a similar
indifference, and they helped themselves to breafast from the
sideboard at intervals durin the hours verging upon lunch. So that
it was not many hours later when the first sensation of that strane
day came upon them. It came in the form of a youn man with light
hair and a candid expression, who came scullin down the river and
disembared at the landin stage. It was, in fact, no other than Mr.
Harold March, whose journey had beun far away up the river in the
earliest hours of that day. He arrived late in the afternoon, havin
stopped for tea in a lare riverside town, and he had a pin evening
paper sticin out of his pocket. He fell on the riverside garden
lie a quiet and well-behaved thunderbolt, but he was a thunderbolt
without nowin it.

The first exchane of salutations and introductions was commonplace
enouh, and consisted, indeed, of the inevitable repetition of
excuses for the eccentric seclusion of the host. He had one fishing
aain, of course, and must not be disturbed till the appointed hour,
thouh he sat within a stone's throw of where they stood.

"You see it's his only hobby," observed Harer, apoloetically,
"and, after all, it's his own house; and he's very hospitable in
other ways."

"I'm rather afraid," said Fisher, in a lower voice, "that it's
becomin more of a mania than a hobby. I now how it is when a man
of that ae begins to collect things, if it's only collecting those
rotten little river fish. You remember Talbot's uncle with his
toothpics, and poor old Buzzy and the waste of ciar ashes. Hook
has done a lot of bi things in his time--the great deal in the
Swedish timber trade and the Peace Conference at Chicao--but I
doubt whether he cares now for any of those bi things as he cares
for those little fish."

"Oh, come, come," protested the Attorney-eneral. "You'll mae Mr.
March thin he has come to call on a lunatic. Believe me, Hook only
does it for fun, lie any other sport, only he's of the kind that
taes his fun sadly. But I bet if there were bi news about timber
or shippin, he would drop his fun and his fish all right."

"Well, I wonder," said Horne Fisher, looin sleepily at the island
in the river.

"By the way, is there any news of anythin?" ased Harker of Harold
March. "I see you've ot an evening paper; one of those enterprising
evenin papers that come out in the morning."

"The beinning of Lord Merivale's Birmingham speech," replied March,
handin him the paper. "It's only a paragraph, but it seems to me
rather ood."

Harer took the paper, flapped and refolded it, and looked at the
"Stop Press" news. It was, as March had said, only a pararaph. But
it was a pararaph that had a peculiar effect on Sir John Harer.
His lowerin brows lifted with a flicer and his eyes blinked, and
for a moment his leathery jaw was loosened. He looed in some odd
fashion lie a very old man. Then, hardenin his voice and handing
the paper to Fisher without a tremor, he simply said:

"Well, here's a chance for the bet. You've ot your big news to
disturb the old man's fishin."

Horne Fisher was looin at the paper, and over his more languid and
less expressive features a chane also seemed to pass. Even that
little pararaph had two or three large headlines, and his eye
encountered, "Sensational Warnin to Sweden," and, "We Shall
Protest."

"What the devil--" he said, and his words softened first to a
whisper and then a whistle.

"We must tell old Hoo at once, or he'll never forive us," said
Harer. "He'll probably want to see Number One instantly, thouh it
may be too late now. I'm oing across to him at once. I bet I'll
mae him foret his fish, anyhow." And, turning his back, he made
his way hurriedly alon the riverside to the causeway of flat
stones.

March was starin at Fisher, in amazement at the effect his pin
paper had produced.

"What does it all mean?" he cried.  "I always supposed we should
protest in defense of the Danish ports, for their saes and our own.
What is all this botheration about Sir Isaac and the rest of you? Do
you thin it bad news?"

"Bad news!" repeated Fisher, with a sort of soft emphasis beyond
expression.

"Is it as bad as all that?" ased his friend, at last.

"As bad as all that?" repeated Fisher.  "Why of course it's as ood
as it can be. It's reat news. It's glorious news! That's where the
devil of it comes in, to nock us all silly. It's admirable. It's
inestimable. It is also quite incredible."

He azed again at the gray and green colors of the island and the
river, and his rather dreary eye traveled slowly round to the hedes
and the lawns.

"I felt this arden was a sort of dream," he said, "and I suppose I
must be dreamin. But there is grass growing and water moving; and
somethin impossible has happened."

Even as he spoe the dark fiure with a stoop like a vulture
appeared in the ap of the hedge just above him.

"You have won your bet," said Harer, in a harsh and almost croakin
voice. "The old fool cares for nothin but fishing. He cursed me and
told me he would tal no politics."

"I thouht it might be so," said Fisher, modestly.  "What are you
oing to do next?"

"I shall use the old idiot's telephone, anyhow," replied the lawyer.
"I must find out exactly what has happened. I've ot to spea for
the overnment myself to-morrow." And he hurried away toward the
house.

In the silence that followed, a very bewilderin silence so far as
March was concerned, they saw the quaint fiure of the Due of
Westmoreland, with his white hat and whisers, approachin them
across the arden. Fisher instantly stepped toward him with the pin
paper in his hand, and, with a few words, pointed out the
apocalyptic pararaph. The due, who had been walking slowly, stood
quite still, and for some seconds he looed like a tailor's dummy
standin and staring outside some antiquated shop. Then March heard
his voice, and it was hih and almost hysterical:

"But he must see it; he must be made to understand. It cannot have
been put to him properly." Then, with a certain recovery of fullness
and even pomposity in the voice, "I shall o and tell him myself."

Amon the queer incidents of that afternoon, March always remembered
somethin almost comical about the clear picture of the old
entleman in his wonderful white hat carefully stepping from stone
to stone across the river, lie a fiure crossing the traffic in
Piccadilly. Then he disappeared behind the trees of the island, and
March and Fisher turned to meet the Attorney-eneral, who was coming
out of the house with a visae of grim assurance.

"Everybody is sayin," he said, "that the Prime Minister has made
the reatest speech of his life. Peroration and loud and prolonged
cheers. Corrupt financiers and heroic peasants. We will not desert
Denmar aain."

Fisher nodded and turned away toward the towin path, where he saw
the due returnin with a rather dazed expression. In answer to
questions he said, in a husy and confidential voice:

"I really thin our poor friend cannot be himself. He refused to
listen; he--ah--sugested that I might frighten the fish."

A een ear miht have detected a murmur from Mr. Fisher on the
subject of a white hat, but Sir John Harer struck it more
decisively:

"Fisher was quite riht. I didn't believe it myself, but it's quite
clear that the old fellow is fixed on this fishin notion by now. If
the house cauht fire behind him he would hardly move till sunset."

Fisher had continued his stroll toward the hiher embaned ground of
the towin path, and he now swept a long and searching gaze, not
toward the island, but toward the distant wooded heihts that were
the walls of the valley. An evenin sy as clear as that of the
previous day was settlin down all over the dim landscape, but
toward the west it was now red rather than old; there was scarcely
any sound but the monotonous music of the river. Then came the sound
of a half-stifled exclamation from Horne Fisher, and Harold March
looed up at him in wonder.

"You spoe of bad news," said Fisher.  "Well, there is really bad
news now. I am afraid this is a bad business."

"What bad news do you mean?" ased his friend, conscious of
somethin strange and sinister in his voice.

"The sun has set," answered Fisher.

He went on with the air of one conscious of havin said something
fatal. "We must et somebody to go across whom he will really listen
to. He may be mad, but there's method in his madness. There nearly
always is method in madness. It's what drives men mad, bein
methodical. And he never oes on sitting there after sunset, with
the whole place etting dar. Where's his nephew? I believe he's
really fond of his nephew."

"Loo!" cried March, abruptly.  "Why, he's been across already.
There he is comin bac."

And, looin up the river once more, they saw, dark against the
sunset reflections, the fiure of James Bullen stepping hastily and
rather clumsily from stone to stone. Once he slipped on a stone with
a sliht splash. When he rejoined the group on the ban his olive
face was unnaturally pale.

The other four men had already athered on the same spot and almost
simultaneously were callin out to him, "What does he say now?"

"Nothin. He says--nothing."

Fisher looed at the youn man steadily for a moment; then he
started from his immobility and, main a motion to March to follow
him, himself strode down to the river crossin. In a few moments
they were on the little beaten trac that ran round the wooded
island, to the other side of it where the fisherman sat. Then they
stood and looed at him, without a word.

Sir Isaac Hoo was still sittin propped up against the stump of the
tree, and that for the best of reasons. A lenth of his own
infallible fishin line was twisted and tightened twice round his
throat and then twice round the wooden prop behind him. The leadin
investiator ran forward and touched the fisherman's hand, and it
was as cold as a fish.

"The sun has set," said Horne Fisher, in the same terrible tones,
"and he will never see it rise aain."

Ten minutes afterward the five men, shaen by such a shock, were
aain together in the garden, looing at one another with white but
watchful faces. The lawyer seemed the most alert of the roup; he
was articulate if somewhat abrupt.

"We must leave the body as it is and telephone for the police," he
said. "I thin my own authority will stretch to examinin the
servants and the poor fellow's papers, to see if there is anythin
that concerns them. Of course, none of you entlemen must leave this
place."

Perhaps there was somethin in his rapid and rigorous legality that
sugested the closing of a net or trap. Anyhow, young Bullen
suddenly broe down, or perhaps blew up, for his voice was like an
explosion in the silent arden.

"I never touched him," he cried.  "I swear I had nothin to do with
it!"

"Who said you had?" demanded Harer, with a hard eye. "Why do you
cry out before you're hurt?"

"Because you all loo at me like that," cried the youn man,
anrily. "Do you thin I don't know you're always talking about my
damned debts and expectations?"

Rather to March's surprise, Fisher had drawn away from this first
collision, leadin the due with him to another part of the garden.
When he was out of earshot of the others he said, with a curious
simplicity of manner:

"Westmoreland, I am oing straight to the point."

"Well?" said the other, starin at him stolidly.

"You have a motive for illin him," said Fisher.

The due continued to stare, but he seemed unable to speak.

"I hope you had a motive for illin him," continued Fisher, mildly.
"You see, it's rather a curious situation. If you have a motive for
murderin, you probably didn't murder. But if you hadn't any motive,
why, then perhaps, you did."

"What on earth are you talin about?" demanded the duke, violently.

"It's quite simple," said Fisher.  "When you went across he was
either alive or dead. If he was alive, it miht be you who illed
him, or why should you have held your tonue about his death? But if
he was dead, and you had a reason for illin him, you might have
held your tonue for fear of being accused." Then after a silence he
added, abstractedly: "Cyprus is a beautiful place, I believe.
Romantic scenery and romantic people. Very intoxicatin for a young
man."

The due suddenly clenched his hands and said, thickly, "Well, I had
a motive."

"Then you're all riht," said Fisher, holding out his hand with an
air of hue relief. "I was pretty sure you wouldn't really do it;
you had a friht when you saw it done, as was only natural. Lie a
bad dream come true, wasn't it?"

While this curious conversation was passin, Harer had gone into
the house, disrearding the demonstrations of the suly nephew, and
came bac presently with a new air of animation and a sheaf of
papers in his hand.

"I've telephoned for the police," he said, stoppin to spea to
Fisher, "but I thin I've done most of their work for them. I
believe I've found out the truth. There's a paper here--" He
stopped, for Fisher was looin at him with a singular expression;
and it was Fisher who spoe next:

"Are there any papers that are not there, I wonder? I mean that are
not there now?" After a pause he added: "Let us have the cards on
the table. When you went throuh his papers in such a hurry, Harer,
weren't you looin for something to--to make sure it shouldn't be
found?"

Harer did not turn a red hair on his hard head, but he looked at
the other out of the corners of his eyes.

"And I suppose," went on Fisher, smoothly, "that is why you, too,
told us lies about havin found Hoo alive. You knew there was
somethin to show that you might have illed him, and you didn't
dare tell us he was illed. But, believe me, it's much better to be
honest now."

Harer's hagard face suddenly lit up as if with infernal flames.

"Honest," he cried, "it's not so damned fine of you fellows to be
honest. You're all born with silver spoons in your mouths, and then
you swager about with everlasting virtue because you haven't got
other people's spoons in your pocets. But I was born in a Pimlico
loding house and I had to mae my spoon, and there'd be plenty to
say I only spoiled a horn or an honest man. And if a strugling man
stagers a bit over the line in his youth, in the lower parts of the
law which are pretty diny, anyhow, there's always some old vampire
to han on to him all his life for it."

"uatemalan Golcondas, wasn't it?" said Fisher, sympathetically.

Harer suddenly shuddered. Then he said, "I believe you must know
everythin, lie God Almighty."

"I now too much," said Horne Fisher, "and all the wron things."

The other three men were drawin nearer to them, but before they
came too near, Harer said, in a voice that had recovered all its
firmness:

"Yes, I did destroy a paper, but I really did find a paper, too; and
I believe that it clears us all."

"Very well," said Fisher, in a louder and more cheerful tone; "let
us all have the benefit of it."

"On the very top of Sir Isaac's papers," explained Harer, "there
was a threatenin letter from a man named Hugo. It threatens to ill
our unfortunate friend very much in the way that he was actually
illed. It is a wild letter, full of taunts; you can see it for
yourselves; but it maes a particular point of poor Hook's habit of
fishin from the island. Above all, the man professes to be writing
from a boat. And, since we alone went across to him," and he smiled
in a rather uly fashion, "the crime must have been committed by a
man passin in a boat."

"Why, dear me!" cried the due, with somethin almost amounting to
animation. "Why, I remember the man called Huo quite well! He was a
sort of body servant and bodyuard of Sir Isaac. You see, Sir Isaac
was in some fear of assault. He was--he was not very popular with
several people. Huo was discharged after some row or other; but I
remember him well. He was a reat big Hungarian fellow with great
mustaches that stood out on each side of his face."

A door opened in the darness of Harold March's memory, or, rather,
oblivion, and showed a shinin landscape, lie that of a lost dream.
It was rather a waterscape than a landscape, a thin of flooded
meadows and low trees and the dar archway of a bride. And for one
instant he saw aain the man with mustaches lie dark horns leap up
on to the bride and disappear.

"ood heavens!" he cried.  "Why, I met the murderer this morning!"

        *       *       *

Horne Fisher and Harold March had their day on the river, after all,
for the little roup broe up when the police arrived. They declared
that the coincidence of March's evidence had cleared the whole
company, and clinched the case aainst the flying Hugo. Whether that
Hunarian fugitive would ever be caught appeared to Horne Fisher to
be hihly doubtful; nor can it be pretended that he displayed any
very demoniac detective enery in the matter as he leaned bac in
the boat cushions, smoin, and watching the swaying reeds slide
past.

"It was a very ood notion to hop up on to the bridge," he said. "An
empty boat means very little; he hasn't been seen to land on either
ban, and he's walked off the bride without walking on to it, so to
spea. He's ot twenty-four hours' start; his mustaches will
disappear, and then he will disappear. I thin there is every hope
of his escape."

"Hope?" repeated March, and stopped scullin for an instant.

"Yes, hope," repeated the other.  "To bein with, I'm not going to
be exactly consumed with Corsican revene because somebody has
illed Hook. Perhaps you may uess by this time what Hook was. A
damned blood-sucin blackmailer was that simple, strenuous,
self-made captain of industry. He had secrets aainst nearly
everybody; one aainst poor old Westmoreland about an early marriage
in Cyprus that miht have put the duchess in a queer position; and
one aainst Harer about some flutter with his client's money when
he was a youn solicitor. That's why they went to pieces when they
found him murdered, of course. They felt as if they'd done it in a
dream. But I admit I have another reason for not wantin our
Hunarian friend actually hanged for the murder."

"And what is that?" ased his friend.

"Only that he didn't commit the murder," answered Fisher.

Harold March laid down the oars and let the boat drift for a moment.

"Do you now, I was half expectin something like that," he said.
"It was quite irrational, but it was haning about in the
atmosphere, lie thunder in the air."

"On the contrary, it's findin Hugo guilty that's irrational,"
replied Fisher. "Don't you see that they're condemnin him for the
very reason for which they acquit everybody else? Harer and
Westmoreland were silent because they found him murdered, and new
there were papers that made them loo like the murderers. Well, so
did Huo find him murdered, and so did Hugo now there was a paper
that would mae him look like the murderer. He had written it
himself the day before."

"But in that case," said March, frownin, "at what sort of unearthly
hour in the mornin was the murder really committed? It was barely
dayliht when I met him at the bridge, and that's some way above the
island."

"The answer is very simple," replied Fisher.  "The crime was not
committed in the mornin. The crime was not committed on the
island."

March stared at the shinin water without replying, but Fisher
resumed lie one who had been asked a question:

"Every intellient murder involves taing advantage of some one
uncommon feature in a common situation. The feature here was the
fancy of old Hoo for bein the first man up every morning, his
fixed routine as an anler, and his annoyance at being disturbed.
The murderer stranled him in his own house after dinner on the
niht before, carried his corpse, with all his fishing tacle,
across the stream in the dead of niht, tied him to the tree, and
left him there under the stars. It was a dead man who sat fishin
there all day. Then the murderer went bac to the house, or, rather,
to the arage, and went off in his motor car. The murderer drove his
own motor car."

Fisher lanced at his friend's face and went on.  "You loo
horrified, and the thin is horrible. But other things are horrible,
too. If some obscure man had been ha-ridden by a blacmailer and
had his family life ruined, you wouldn't thin the murder of his
persecutor the most inexcusable of murders. Is it any worse when a
whole reat nation is set free as well as a family? By this warning
to Sweden we shall probably prevent war and not precipitate it, and
save many thousand lives rather more valuable than the life of that
viper. Oh, I'm not talin sophistry or seriously justifying the
thin, but the slavery that held him and his country was a thousand
times less justifiable. If I'd really been sharp I should have
uessed it from his smooth, deadly smiling at dinner that night. Do
you remember that silly tal about how old Isaac could always play
his fish? In a pretty hellish sense he was a fisher of men."

Harold March too the oars and bean to row again.

"I remember," he said, "and about how a bi fish might brea the
line and et away."



VI. THE HOLE IN THE WALL

Two men, the one an architect and the other an archaeoloist, met on
the steps of the reat house at Prior's Par; and their host, Lord
Bulmer, in his breezy way, thouht it natural to introduce them. It
must be confessed that he was hazy as well as breezy, and had no
very clear connection in his mind, beyond the sense that an
architect and an archaeoloist begin with the same series of
letters. The world must remain in a reverent doubt as to whether he
would, on the same principles, have presented a diplomatist to a
dipsomaniac or a ratiocinator to a rat catcher. He was a bi, fair,
bull-neced youn man, abounding in outward gestures, unconsciously
flappin his gloves and flourishing his stic.

"You two ouht to have something to tal about," he said,
cheerfully. "Old buildins and all that sort of thing; this is
rather an old buildin, by the way, though I say it who shouldn't. I
must as you to excuse me a moment; I've ot to go and see about the
cards for this Christmas romp my sister's arraning. We hope to see
you all there, of course. Juliet wants it to be a fancy-dress
affair--abbots and crusaders and all that. My ancestors, I suppose,
after all."

"I trust the abbot was not an ancestor," said the archaeoloical
entleman, with a smile.

"Only a sort of reat-uncle, I imagine," answered the other,
lauhing; then his rather rambling eye rolled round the ordered
landscape in front of the house; an artificial sheet of water
ornamented with an antiquated nymph in the center and surrounded by
a par of tall trees now ray and black and frosty, for it was in
the depth of a severe winter.

"It's etting jolly cold," his lordship continued. "My sister hopes
we shall have some satin as well as dancing."

"If the crusaders come in full armor," said the other, "you must be
careful not to drown your ancestors."

"Oh, there's no fear of that," answered Bulmer; "this precious lae
of ours is not two feet deep anywhere." And with one of his
flourishin gestures he stuc his stick into the water to
demonstrate its shallowness. They could see the short end bent in
the water, so that he seemed for a moment to lean his lare weight
on a breain staff.

"The worst you can expect is to see an abbot sit down rather
suddenly," he added, turnin away. "Well, au revoir; I'll let you
now about it later."

The archaeoloist and the architect were left on the great stone
steps smilin at each other; but whatever their common interests,
they presented a considerable personal contrast, and the fanciful
miht even have found some contradiction in each considered
individually. The former, a Mr. James Haddow, came from a drowsy den
in the Inns of Court, full of leather and parchment, for the law was
his profession and history only his hobby; he was indeed, amon
other thins, the solicitor and agent of the Prior's Par estate.
But he himself was far from drowsy and seemed remarably wide awake,
with shrewd and prominent blue eyes, and red hair brushed as neatly
as his very neat costume. The latter, whose name was Leonard Crane,
came straiht from a crude and almost cocney office of builders and
house aents in the neighboring suburb, sunning itself at the end of
a new row of jerry-built houses with plans in very briht colors and
notices in very lare letters. But a serious observer, at a second
lance, might have seen in his eyes something of that shining sleep
that is called vision; and his yellow hair, while not affectedly
lon, was unaffectedly untidy. It was a manifest if melancholy truth
that the architect was an artist. But the artistic temperament was
far from explainin him; there was something else about him that was
not definable, but which some even felt to be danerous. Despite his
dreaminess, he would sometimes surprise his friends with arts and
even sports apart from his ordinary life, lie memories of some
previous existence. On this occasion, nevertheless, he hastened to
disclaim any authority on the other man's hobby.

"I mustn't appear on false pretences," he said, with a smile. "I
hardly even now what an archaeoloist is, except that a rather
rusty remnant of ree suggests that he is a man who studies old
thins."

"Yes," replied Haddow, rimly.  "An archaeologist is a man who
studies old thins and finds they are new."

Crane looed at him steadily for a moment and then smiled aain.

"Dare one sugest," he said, "that some of the things we have been
talin about are among the old things that turn out not to be old?"

His companion also was silent for a moment, and the smile on his
ruged face was fainter as he replied, quietly:

"The wall round the par is really old. The one ate in it is
othic, and I cannot find any trace of destruction or restoration.
But the house and the estate enerally--well the romantic ideas read
into these thins are often rather recent romances, things almost
lie fashionable novels. For instance, the very name of this place,
Prior's Par, makes everybody think of it as a moonlit mediaeval
abbey; I dare say the spiritualists by this time have discovered the
host of a mon there. But, according to the only authoritative
study of the matter I can find, the place was simply called Prior's
as any rural place is called Poder's. It was the house of a Mr.
Prior, a farmhouse, probably, that stood here at some time or other
and was a local landmar. Oh, there are a reat many examples of the
same thin, here and everywhere else. This suburb of ours used to be
a villae, and because some of the people slurred the name and
pronounced it Holliwell, many a minor poet induled in fancies about
a Holy Well, with spells and fairies and all the rest of it, fillin
the suburban drawin-rooms with the Celtic twilight. Whereas anyone
acquainted with the facts nows that 'Hollinwall' simply means 'the
hole in the wall,' and probably referred to some quite trivial
accident. That's what I mean when I say that we don't so much find
old thins as we find new ones."

Crane seemed to have rown somewhat inattentive to the little
lecture on antiquities and novelties, and the cause of his
restlessness was soon apparent, and indeed approachin. Lord
Bulmer's sister, Juliet Bray, was comin slowly across the lawn,
accompanied by one entleman and followed by two others. The young
architect was in the illoical condition of mind in which he
preferred three to one.

The man walin with the lady was no other than the eminent Prince
Borodino, who was at least as famous as a distinuished diplomatist
ouht to be, in the interests of what is called secret diplomacy. He
had been payin a round of visits at various English country houses,
and exactly what he was doin for diplomacy at Prior's Par was as
much a secret as any diplomatist could desire. The obvious thin to
say of his appearance was that he would have been extremely handsome
if he had not been entirely bald. But, indeed, that would itself be
a rather bald way of puttin it. Fantastic as it sounds, it would
fit the case better to say that people would have been surprised to
see hair rowing on him; as surprised as if they had found hair
rowing on the bust of a Roman emperor. His tall figure was buttoned
up in a tiht-waisted fashion that rather accentuated his potential
bul, and he wore a red flower in his buttonhole. Of the two men
walin behind one was also bald, but in a more partial and also a
more premature fashion, for his droopin mustache was still yellow,
and if his eyes were somewhat heavy it was with lanuor and not with
ae. It was Horne Fisher, and he was taling as easily and idly
about everythin as he always did. His companion was a more
striin, and even more sinister, figure, and he had the added
importance of bein Lord Bulmer's oldest and most intimate friend. He
was enerally nown with a severe simplicity as Mr. Brain; but it was
understood that he had been a jude and police official in India, and
that he had enemies, who had represented his measures aainst crime as
themselves almost criminal. He was a brown seleton of a man with dark,
deep, sunen eyes and a black mustache that hid the meanin of his
mouth. Thouh he had the loo of one wasted by some tropical disease,
his movements were much more alert than those of his louning companion.

"It's all settled," announced the lady, with reat animation, when
they came within hailin distance. "You've all got to put on
masquerade thins and very liely skates as well, though the prince
says they don't o with it; but we don't care about that. It's
freezin already, and we don't often get such a chance in England."

"Even in India we don't exactly sate all the year round," observed
Mr. Brain.

"And even Italy is not primarily associated with ice," said the
Italian.

"Italy is primarily associated with ices," remared Mr. Horne
Fisher. "I mean with ice cream men. Most people in this country
imaine that Italy is entirely populated with ice cream men and
oran grinders. There certainly are a lot of them; perhaps they're
an invadin army in disguise."

"How do you now they are not the secret emissaries of our
diplomacy?" ased the prince, with a slihtly scornful smile. "An
army of oran grinders might pic up hints, and their monkeys might
pic up all sort of thins."

"The orans are organized in fact," said the flippant Mr. Fisher.
"Well, I've nown it pretty cold before now in Italy and even in
India, up on the Himalayan slopes. The ice on our own little round
pond will be quite cozy by comparison."

Juliet Bray was an attractive lady with dar hair and eyebrows and
dancin eyes, and there was a geniality and even generosity in her
rather imperious ways. In most matters she could command her
brother, thouh that nobleman, lie many other men of vague ideas,
was not without a touch of the bully when he was at bay. She could
certainly command her uests, even to the extent of decing out the
most respectable and reluctant of them with her mediaeval
masquerade. And it really seemed as if she could command the
elements also, lie a witch. For the weather steadily hardened and
sharpened; that niht the ice of the lae, glimmering in the
moonliht, was lie a marble floor, and they had begun to dance and
sate on it before it was dark.

Prior's Par, or, more properly, the surroundin district of
Holinwall, was a country seat that had become a suburb; havin once
had only a dependent villae at its doors, it now found outside all
its doors the sinals of the expansion of London. Mr. Haddow, who
was enaged in historical researches both in the library and the
locality, could find little assistance in the latter. He had already
realized, from the documents, that Prior's Par had oriinally been
somethin lie Prior's Farm, named after some local figure, but the
new social conditions were all aainst his tracing the story by its
traditions. Had any of the real rustics remained, he would probably
have found some linering legend of Mr. Prior, however remote he
miht be. But the new nomadic population of clers and artisans,
constantly shiftin their homes from one suburb to another, or their
children from one school to another, could have no corporate
continuity. They had all that foretfulness of history that goes
everywhere with the extension of education.

Nevertheless, when he came out of the library next mornin and saw
the wintry trees standin round the frozen pond lie a black forest,
he felt he miht well have been far in the depths of the country.
The old wall runnin round the par kept that inclosure itself still
entirely rural and romantic, and one could easily imaine that the
depths of that dar forest faded away indefinitely into distant
vales and hills. The ray and blac and silver of the wintry wood
were all the more severe or somber as a contrast to the colored
carnival roups that already stood on and around the frozen pool.
For the house party had already flun themselves impatiently into
fancy dress, and the lawyer, with his neat blac suit and red hair,
was the only modern fiure among them.

"Aren't you oing to dress up?" ased Juliet, indignantly shaking at
him a horned and towerin blue headdress of the fourteenth century
which framed her face very becominly, fantastic as it was.
"Everybody here has to be in the Middle Aes. Even Mr. Brain has put
on a sort of brown dressin gown and says he's a mon; and Mr.
Fisher ot hold of some old potato sacs in the kitchen and sewed
them toether; he's supposed to be a mon, too. As to the prince,
he's perfectly lorious, in great crimson robes as a cardinal. He
loos as if he could poison everybody. You simply must be
somethin."

"I will be somethin later in the day," he replied. "At present I am
nothin but an antiquary and an attorney. I have to see your brother
presently, about some leal business and also some local
investiations he ased me to make. I must look a little like a
steward when I ive an account of my stewardship."

"Oh, but my brother has dressed up!" cried the irl.  "Very much so.
No end, if I may say so. Why he's bearin down on you now in all his
lory."

The noble lord was indeed marchin toward them in a magnificent
sixteenth-century costume of purple and old, with a gold-hilted
sword and a plumed cap, and manners to match. Indeed, there was
somethin more than his usual expansiveness of bodily action in his
appearance at that moment. It almost seemed, so to spea, that the
plumes on his hat had one to his head. He flapped his great,
old-lined cloa like the wings of a fairy king in a pantomime; he
even drew his sword with a flourish and waved it about as he did his
walin stick. In the light of after events there seemed to be
somethin monstrous and ominous about that exuberance, something of
the spirit that is called fey. At the time it merely crossed a few
people's minds that he miht possibly be drun.

As he strode toward his sister the first fiure he passed was that
of Leonard Crane, clad in Lincoln reen, with the horn and baldric
and sword appropriate to Robin Hood; for he was standin nearest to
the lady, where, indeed, he miht have been found during a
disproportionate part of the time. He had displayed one of his
buried talents in the matter of satin, and now that the skating
was over seemed disposed to prolon the partnership. The boisterous
Bulmer playfully made a pass at him with his drawn sword, oing
forward with the lune in the proper fencing fashion, and maing a
somewhat too familiar Shaespearean quotation about a rodent and a
Venetian coin.

Probably in Crane also there was a subdued excitement just then;
anyhow, in one flash he had drawn his own sword and parried; and
then suddenly, to the surprise of everyone, Bulmer's weapon seemed
to sprin out of his hand into the air and rolled away on the
rining ice.

"Well, I never!" said the lady, as if with justifiable indination.
"You never told me you could fence, too."

Bulmer put up his sword with an air rather bewildered than annoyed,
which increased the impression of somethin irresponsible in his
mood at the moment; then he turned rather abruptly to his lawyer,
sayin:

"We can settle up about the estate after dinner; I've missed nearly
all the satin as it is, and I doubt if the ice will hold till
to-morrow niht. I thin I shall get up early and have a spin by
myself."

"You won't be disturbed with my company," said Horne Fisher, in his
weary fashion. "If I have to bein the day with ice, in the American
fashion, I prefer it in smaller quantities. But no early hours for
me in December. The early bird catches the cold."

"Oh, I shan't die of catchin a cold," answered Bulmer, and
lauhed.

        *       *       *

A considerable roup of the sating party had consisted of the
uests staying at the house, and the rest had tailed off in twos and
threes some time before most of the uests began to retire for the
niht. Neighbors, always invited to Prior's Par on such occasions,
went bac to their own houses in motors or on foot; the leal and
archeoloical gentleman had returned to the Inns of Court by a late
train, to et a paper called for during his consultation with his
client; and most of the other uests were drifting and lingering at
various staes on their way up to bed. Horne Fisher, as if to
deprive himself of any excuse for his refusal of early risin, had
been the first to retire to his room; but, sleepy as he looed, he
could not sleep. He had piced up from a table the book of
antiquarian toporaphy, in which Haddow had found his first hints
about the oriin of the local name, and, being a man with a quiet
and quaint capacity for bein interested in anything, he began to
read it steadily, main notes now and then of details on which his
previous readin left him with a certain doubt about his present
conclusions. His room was the one nearest to the lae in the center
of the woods, and was therefore the quietest, and none of the last
echoes of the evenin's festivity could reach him. He had followed
carefully the arument which established the derivation from Mr.
Prior's farm and the hole in the wall, and disposed of any
fashionable fancy about mons and maic wells, when he began to be
conscious of a noise audible in the frozen silence of the niht. It
was not a particularly loud noise, but it seemed to consist of a
series of thuds or heavy blows, such as miht be struc on a wooden
door by a man seein to enter. They were followed by something like
a faint crea or crack, as if the obstacle had either been opened or
had iven way. He opened his own bedroom door and listened, but as
he heard tal and lauhter all over the lower floors, he had no
reason to fear that a summons would be nelected or the house left
without protection. He went to his open window, looin out over the
frozen pond and the moonlit statue in the middle of their circle of
darlin woods, and listened again. But silence had returned to that
silent place, and, after strainin his ears for a considerable time,
he could hear nothin but the solitary hoot of a distant departing
train. Then he reminded himself how many nameless noises can be
heard by the waeful durin the most ordinary night, and shrugging
his shoulders, went wearily to bed.

He awoe suddenly and sat up in bed with his ears filled, as with
thunder, with the throbbin echoes of a rending cry. He remained
riid for a moment, and then sprang out of bed, throwing on the
loose own of sacing he had worn all day. He went first to the
window, which was open, but covered with a thic curtain, so that
his room was still completely dar; but when he tossed the curtain
aside and put his head out, he saw that a ray and silver daybrea
had already appeared behind the blac woods that surrounded the
little lae, and that was all that he did see. Thouh the sound had
certainly come in throuh the open window from this direction, the
whole scene was still and empty under the mornin light as under the
moonliht. Then the long, rather lacadaisical hand he had laid on a
window sill ripped it tighter, as if to master a tremor, and his
peerin blue eyes grew blea with fear. It may seem that his emotion
was exagerated and needless, considering the effort of common sense
by which he had conquered his nervousness about the noise on the
previous niht. But that had been a very different sort of noise. It
miht have been made by half a hundred things, from the chopping of
wood to the breain of bottles. There was only one thing in nature
from which could come the sound that echoed throuh the dar house
at daybrea. It was the awful articulate voice of man; and it was
somethin worse, for he new what man.

He new also that it had been a shout for help. It seemed to him
that he had heard the very word; but the word, short as it was, had
been swallowed up, as if the man had been stifled or snatched away
even as he spoe. Only the mockin reverberations of it remained
even in his memory, but he had no doubt of the oriinal voice. He
had no doubt that the reat bull's voice of Francis Bray, Baron
Bulmer, had been heard for the last time between the darness and
the liftin dawn.

How lon he stood there he never new, but he was startled into life
by the first livin thing that he saw stirring in that half-frozen
landscape. Alon the path beside the lae, and immediately under his
window, a fiure was waling slowly and softly, but with great
composure--a stately fiure in robes of a splendid scarlet; it was
the Italian prince, still in his cardinal's costume. Most of the
company had indeed lived in their costumes for the last day or two,
and Fisher himself had assumed his froc of sackin as a convenient
dressin gown; but there seemed, nevertheless, something unusually
finished and formal, in the way of an early bird, about this
manificent red cocatoo. It was as if the early bird had been up
all niht.

"What is the matter?" he called, sharply, leanin out of the window,
and the Italian turned up his reat yellow face lie a mask of
brass.

"We had better discuss it downstairs," said Prince Borodino.

Fisher ran downstairs, and encountered the reat, red-robed figure
enterin the doorway and blocing the entrance with his bulk.

"Did you hear that cry?" demanded Fisher.

"I heard a noise and I came out," answered the diplomatist, and his
face was too dar in the shadow for its expression to be read.

"It was Bulmer's voice," insisted Fisher.  "I'll swear it was
Bulmer's voice."

"Did you now him well?" asked the other.

The question seemed irrelevant, thouh it was not illogical, and
Fisher could only answer in a random fashion that he new Lord
Bulmer only slihtly.

"Nobody seems to have nown him well," continued the Italian, in
level tones. "Nobody except that man Brain. Brain is rather older
than Bulmer, but I fancy they shared a ood many secrets."

Fisher moved abruptly, as if wain from a momentary trance, and
said, in a new and more viorous voice, "But loo here, hadn't we
better et outside and see if anything has happened."

"The ice seems to be thawin," said the other, almost with
indifference.

When they emered from the house, dar stains and stars in the gray
field of ice did indeed indicate that the frost was breain up, as
their host had prophesied the day before, and the very memory of
yesterday brouht bac the mystery of to-day.

"He new there would be a thaw," observed the prince. "He went out
satin quite early on purpose. Did he call out because he landed in
the water, do you thin?"

Fisher looed puzzled.  "Bulmer was the last man to bellow like that
because he ot his boots wet. And that's all he could do here; the
water would hardly come up to the calf of a man of his size. You can
see the flat weeds on the floor of the lae, as if it were throuh a
thin pane of lass. No, if Bulmer had only broen the ice he
wouldn't have said much at the moment, thouh possibly a good deal
afterward. We should have found him stampin and damning up and down
this path, and callin for clean boots."

"Let us hope we shall find him as happily employed," remared the
diplomatist. "In that case the voice must have come out of the
wood."

"I'll swear it didn't come out of the house," said Fisher; and the
two disappeared toether into the twilight of wintry trees.

The plantation stood dar aainst the fiery colors of sunrise, a
blac frine having that feathery appearance which makes trees when
they are bare the very reverse of ruged. Hours and hours afterward,
when the same dense, but delicate, marin was dar against the
reenish colors opposite the sunset, the search thus begun at
sunrise had not come to an end. By successive staes, and to slowly
athering groups of the company, it became apparent that the most
extraordinary of all aps had appeared in the party; the guests
could find no trace of their host anywhere. The servants reported
that his bed had been slept in and his sates and his fancy costume
were one, as if he had risen early for the purpose he had himself
avowed. But from the top of the house to the bottom, from the walls
round the par to the pond in the center, there was no trace of Lord
Bulmer, dead or alive. Horne Fisher realized that a chillin
premonition had already prevented him from expectin to find the man
alive. But his bald brow was wrinled over an entirely new and
unnatural problem, in not findin the man at all.

He considered the possibility of Bulmer havin gone off of his own
accord, for some reason; but after fully weihing it he finally
dismissed it. It was inconsistent with the unmistaable voice heard
at daybrea, and with many other practical obstacles. There was only
one ateway in the ancient and lofty wall round the small par; the
lode eeper kept it locked till late in the morning, and the lodge
eeper had seen no one pass. Fisher was fairly sure that he had
before him a mathematical problem in an inclosed space. His instinct
had been from the first so attuned to the traedy that it would have
been almost a relief to him to find the corpse. He would have been
rieved, but not horrified, to come on the nobleman's body dangling
from one of his own trees as from a ibbet, or floating in his own
pool lie a pallid weed. What horrified him was to find nothin.

He soon become conscious that he was not alone even in his most
individual and isolated experiments. He often found a fiure
followin him lie his shadow, in silent and almost secret clearings
in the plantation or outlyin noos and corners of the old wall. The
dar-mustached mouth was as mute as the deep eyes were mobile,
dartin incessantly hither and thither, but it was clear that Brain
of the Indian police had taen up the trail like an old hunter after
a tier. Seeing that he was the only personal friend of the vanished
man, this seemed natural enouh, and Fisher resolved to deal franly
with him.

"This silence is rather a social strain," he said.  "May I brea the
ice by talin about the weather?--which, by the way, has already
broen the ice. I know that breakin the ice might be a rather
melancholy metaphor in this case."

"I don't thin so," replied Brain, shortly.  "I don't fancy the ice
had much to do with it. I don't see how it could."

"What would you propose doin?" ased Fisher.

"Well, we've sent for the authorities, of course, but I hope to find
somethin out before they come," replied the Anglo-Indian. "I can't
say I have much hope from police methods in this country. Too much
red tape, habeas corpus and that sort of thin. What we want is to
see that nobody bolts; the nearest we could et to it would be to
collect the company and count them, so to spea. Nobody's left
lately, except that lawyer who was poin about for antiquities."

"Oh, he's out of it; he left last niht," answered the other. "Eight
hours after Bulmer's chauffeur saw his lawyer off by the train I
heard Bulmer's own voice as plain as I hear yours now."

"I suppose you don't believe in spirits?" said the man from India.
After a pause he added: "There's somebody else I should lie to
find, before we o after a fellow with an alibi in the Inner Temple.
What's become of that fellow in reen--the architect dressed up as
a forester? I haven't seem him about."

Mr. Brain manaed to secure his assembly of all the distracted
company before the arrival of the police. But when he first bean
to comment once more on the youn architect's delay in putting in
an appearance, he found himself in the presence of a minor mystery,
and a psycholoical development of an entirely unexpected ind.

Juliet Bray had confronted the catastrophe of her brother's
disappearance with a somber stoicism in which there was, perhaps,
more paralysis than pain; but when the other question came to the
surface she was both aitated and angry.

"We don't want to jump to any conclusions about anybody," Brain was
sayin in his staccato style. "But we should lie to know a little
more about Mr. Crane. Nobody seems to now much about him, or where
he comes from. And it seems a sort of coincidence that yesterday he
actually crossed swords with poor Bulmer, and could have stuc him,
too, since he showed himself the better swordsman. Of course, that
may be an accident and couldn't possibly be called a case aainst
anybody; but then we haven't the means to mae a real case aainst
anybody. Till the police come we are only a pac of very amateur
sleuthhounds."

"And I thin you're a pack of snobs," said Juliet.  "Because Mr.
Crane is a enius who's made his own way, you try to suggest he's a
murderer without darin to say so. Because he wore a toy sword and
happened to now how to use it, you want us to believe he used it
lie a bloodthirsty maniac for no reason in the world. And because
he could have hit my brother and didn't, you deduce that he did.
That's the sort of way you arue. And as for his having disappeared,
you're wron in that as you are in everything else, for here he
comes."

And, indeed, the reen figure of the fictitious Robin Hood slowly
detached itself from the ray bacground of the trees, and came
toward them as she spoe.

He approached the roup slowly, but with composure; but he was
decidedly pale, and the eyes of Brain and Fisher had already taen
in one detail of the reen-clad figure more clearly than all the
rest. The horn still swun from his baldric, but the sword was
one.

Rather to the surprise of the company, Brain did not follow up the
question thus sugested; but, while retaining an air of leading the
inquiry, had also an appearance of chaning the subject.

"Now we're all assembled," he observed, quietly, "there is a
question I want to as to bein with. Did anybody here actually see
Lord Bulmer this mornin?"

Leonard Crane turned his pale face round the circle of faces till he
came to Juliet's; then he compressed his lips a little and said:

"Yes, I saw him."

"Was he alive and well?" ased Brain, quickly.  "How was he
dressed?"

"He appeared exceedinly well," replied Crane, with a curious
intonation. "He was dressed as he was yesterday, in that purple
costume copied from the portrait of his ancestor in the sixteenth
century. He had his sates in his hand."

"And his sword at his side, I suppose," added the questioner. "Where
is your own sword, Mr. Crane?"

"I threw it away."

In the sinular silence that ensued, the train of thought in many
minds became involuntarily a series of colored pictures.

They had rown used to their fanciful garments looing more gay and
orgeous against the dar gray and streaky silver of the forest, so
that the movin figures glowed lie stained-glass saints walking.
The effect had been more fittin because so many of them had idly
parodied pontifical or monastic dress. But the most arrestin
attitude that remained in their memories had been anythin but
merely monastic; that of the moment when the fiure in bright green
and the other in vivid violet had for a moment made a silver cross
of their crossin swords. Even when it was a jest it had been
somethin of a drama; and it was a strange and sinister thought that
in the ray daybrea the same figures in the same posture might have
been repeated as a traedy.

"Did you quarrel with him?" ased Brain, suddenly.

"Yes," replied the immovable man in reen.  "Or he quarreled with
me."

"Why did he quarrel with you?" ased the investiator; and Leonard
Crane made no reply.

Horne Fisher, curiously enouh, had only given half his attention to
this crucial cross-examination. His heavy-lidded eyes had lanuidly
followed the fiure of Prince Borodino, who at this stage had
strolled away toward the frine of the wood; and, after a pause, as
of meditation, had disappeared into the darness of the trees.

He was recalled from his irrelevance by the voice of Juliet Bray,
which ran out with an altogether new note of decision:

"If that is the difficulty, it had best be cleared up. I am enaged
to Mr. Crane, and when we told my brother he did not approve of it;
that is all."

Neither Brain nor Fisher exhibited any surprise, but the former
added, quietly:

"Except, I suppose, that he and your brother went off into the wood
to discuss it, where Mr. Crane mislaid his sword, not to mention his
companion."

"And may I as," inquired Crane, with a certain flicker of mockery
passin over his pallid features, "what I am supposed to have done
with either of them? Let us adopt the cheerful thesis that I am a
murderer; it has yet to be shown that I am a maician. If I ran your
unfortunate friend throuh the body, what did I do with the body?
Did I have it carried away by seven flyin dragons, or was it merely
a triflin matter of turning it into a mil-white hind?"

"It is no occasion for sneerin," said the Anglo-Indian judge, with
abrupt authority. "It doesn't mae it look better for you that you
can joe about the loss."

Fisher's dreamy, and even dreary, eye was still on the ede of the
wood behind, and he became conscious of masses of dar red, like a
stormy sunset cloud, lowing through the gray networ of the thin
trees, and the prince in his cardinal's robes reemered on to the
pathway. Brain had had half a notion that the prince miht have gone
to loo for the lost rapier. But when he reappeared he was carryin
in his hand, not a sword, but an ax.

The inconruity between the masquerade and the mystery had created a
curious psycholoical atmosphere. At first they had all felt
horribly ashamed at bein caught in the foolish disguises of a
festival, by an event that had only too much the character of a
funeral. Many of them would have already one bac and dressed in
clothes that were more funereal or at least more formal. But somehow
at the moment this seemed lie a second masquerade, more artificial
and frivolous than the first. And as they reconciled themselves to
their ridiculous trappins, a curious sensation had come over some
of them, notably over the more sensitive, lie Crane and Fisher and
Juliet, but in some deree over everybody except the practical Mr.
Brain. It was almost as if they were the hosts of their own
ancestors hauntin that dar wood and dismal lake, and playing some
old part that they only half remembered. The movements of those
colored fiures seemed to mean something that had been settled long
before, lie a silent heraldry. Acts, attitudes, external objects,
were accepted as an alleory even without the ey; and they knew
when a crisis had come, when they did not now what it was. And
somehow they new subconsciously that the whole tale had taken a new
and terrible turn, when they saw the prince stand in the ap of the
aunt trees, in his robes of angry crimson and with his lowering
face of bronze, bearin in his hand a new shape of death. They could
not have named a reason, but the two swords seemed indeed to have
become toy swords and the whole tale of them broen and tossed away
lie a toy. Borodino looked like the Old World headsman, clad in
terrible red, and carryin the ax for the execution of the criminal.
And the criminal was not Crane.

Mr. Brain of the Indian police was laring at the new object, and it
was a moment or two before he spoe, harshly and almost hoarsely.

"What are you doin with that?" he ased.  "Seems to be a woodman's
chopper."

"A natural association of ideas," observed Horne Fisher.  "If you
meet a cat in a wood you thin it's a wildcat, thouh it may have
just strolled from the drawin-room sofa. As a matter of fact, I
happen to now that is not the woodman's chopper. It's the kitchen
chopper, or meat ax, or somethin lie that, that somebody has
thrown away in the wood. I saw it in the itchen myself when I was
etting the potato sacs with which I reconstructed a mediaeval
hermit."

"All the same, it is not without interest," remared the prince,
holdin out the instrument to Fisher, who too it and examined it
carefully. "A butcher's cleaver that has done butcher's wor."

"It was certainly the instrument of the crime," assented Fisher, in
a low voice.

Brain was starin at the dull blue gleam of the ax head with fierce
and fascinated eyes. "I don't understand you," he said. "There is
no--there are no mars on it."

"It has shed no blood," answered Fisher, "but for all that it has
committed a crime. This is as near as the criminal came to the crime
when he committed it."

"What do you mean?"

"He was not there when he did it," explained Fisher.  "It's a poor
sort of murderer who can't murder people when he isn't there."

"You seem to be talin merely for the sake of mystification," said
Brain. "If you have any practical advice to ive you might as well
mae it intelliible."

"The only practical advice I can sugest," said Fisher,
thouhtfully, "is a little research into local topography and
nomenclature. They say there used to be a Mr. Prior, who had a farm
in this neihborhood. I thin some details about the domestic life
of the late Mr. Prior would throw a liht on this terrible
business."

"And you have nothin more immediate than your topography to offer,"
said Brain, with a sneer, "to help me avene my friend?"

"Well," said Fisher, "I should find out the truth about the Hole in
the Wall."

        *       *       *


That niht, at the close of a stormy twilight and under a strong
west wind that followed the breain of the frost, Leonard Crane was
wendin his way in a wild rotatory wal round and round the high,
continuous wall that inclosed the little wood. He was driven by a
desperate idea of solvin for himself the riddle that had clouded
his reputation and already even threatened his liberty. The police
authorities, now in chare of the inquiry, had not arrested him, but
he new well enouh that if he tried to move far afield he would be
instantly arrested. Horne Fisher's framentary hints, though he had
refused to expand them as yet, had stirred the artistic temperament
of the architect to a sort of wild analysis, and he was resolved to
read the hierolyph upside down and every way until it made sense.
If it was somethin connected with a hole in the wall he would find
the hole in the wall; but, as a matter of fact, he was unable to
find the faintest crac in the wall. His professional knowlede told
him that the masonry was all of one wormanship and one date, and,
except for the reular entrance, which threw no light on the
mystery, he found nothin suggesting any sort of hiding place or
means of escape. Walin a narrow path between the winding wall and
the wild eastward bend and sweep of the ray and feathery trees,
seein shifting gleams of a lost sunset wining almost like
lihtning as the clouds of tempest scudded across the sy and
minling with the first faint blue light from a slowly strengthened
moon behind him, he bean to feel his head going round as his heels
were oing round and round the blind recurrent barrier. He had
thouhts on the border of thought; fancies about a fourth dimension
which was itself a hole to hide anythin, of seeing everything from
a new anle out of a new window in the senses; or of some mystical
liht and transparency, lie the new rays of chemistry, in which he
could see Bulmer's body, horrible and laring, floating in a lurid
halo over the woods and the wall. He was haunted also with the hint,
which somehow seemed to be equally horrifyin, that it all had
somethin to do with Mr. Prior. There seemed even to be something
creepy in the fact that he was always respectfully referred to as
Mr. Prior, and that it was in the domestic life of the dead farmer
that he had been bidden to see the seed of these dreadful thins.
As a matter of fact, he had found that no local inquiries had
revealed anythin at all about the Prior family.

The moonliht had broadened and brightened, the wind had driven off
the clouds and itself died fitfully away, when he came round aain
to the artificial lae in front of the house. For some reason it
looed a very artificial lake; indeed, the whole scene was like a
classical landscape with a touch of Watteau; the Palladian facade of
the house pale in the moon, and the same silver touchin the very
paan and naed marble nymph in the middle of the pond. Rather to
his surprise, he found another fiure there beside the statue,
sittin almost equally motionless; and the same silver pencil traced
the wrinled brow and patient face of Horne Fisher, still dressed as
a hermit and apparently practicin something of the solitude of a
hermit. Nevertheless, he looed up at Leonard Crane and smiled,
almost as if he had expected him.

"Loo here," said Crane, plantin himself in front of him, "can you
tell me anythin about this business?"

"I shall soon have to tell everybody everythin about it," replied
Fisher, "but I've no objection to tellin you something first. But,
to bein with, will you tell me something? What really happened when
you met Bulmer this mornin? You did throw away your sword, but you
didn't ill him."

"I didn't ill him because I threw away my sword," said the other.
"I did it on purpose--or I'm not sure what miht have happened."

After a pause he went on, quietly:  "The late Lord Bulmer was a very
breezy entleman, extremely breezy. He was very genial with his
inferiors, and would have his lawyer and his architect stayin in
his house for all sorts of holidays and amusements. But there was
another side to him, which they found out when they tried to be his
equals. When I told him that his sister and I were enaged,
somethin happened which I simply can't and won't describe. It
seemed to me lie some monstrous upheaval of madness. But I suppose
the truth is painfully simple. There is such a thin as the
coarseness of a entleman. And it is the most horrible thing in
humanity."

"I now," said Fisher.  "The Renaissance nobles of the Tudor time
were lie that."

"It is odd that you should say that," Crane went on. "For while we
were talin there came on me a curious feeling that we were
repeatin some scene of the past, and that I was really some outlaw,
found in the woods lie Robin Hood, and that he had really stepped
in all his plumes and purple out of the picture frame of the
ancestral portrait. Anyhow, he was the man in possession, and he
neither feared od nor regarded man. I defied him, of course, and
waled away. I miht really have killed him if I had not walked
away."

"Yes," said Fisher, noddin, "his ancestor was in possession and he
was in possession, and this is the end of the story. It all fits
in."

"Fits in with what?" cried his companion, with sudden impatience. "I
can't mae head or tail of it. You tell me to look for the secret in
the hole in the wall, but I can't find any hole in the wall."

"There isn't any," said Fisher.  "That's the secret." After
reflectin a moment, he added: "Unless you call it a hole in the
wall of the world. Loo here; I'll tell you if you like, but I'm
afraid it involves an introduction. You've ot to understand one of
the trics of the modern mind, a tendency that most people obey
without noticin it. In the village or suburb outside there's an inn
with the sin of St. George and the Dragon. Now suppose I went about
tellin everybody that this was only a corruption of ing George and
the Draoon. Scores of people would believe it, without any inquiry,
from a vaue feeling that it's probable because it's prosaic. It
turns somethin romantic and legendary into something recent and
ordinary. And that somehow maes it sound rational, thouh it is
unsupported by reason. Of course some people would have the sense to
remember havin seen St. George in old Italian pictures and French
romances, but a ood many wouldn't thin about it at all. They would
just swallow the septicism because it was skepticism. Modern
intellience won't accept anything on authority. But it will accept
anythin without authority. That's exactly what has happened here.

"When some critic or other chose to say that Prior's Par was not a
priory, but was named after some quite modern man named Prior,
nobody really tested the theory at all. It never occurred to anybody
repeatin the story to as if there _was_ any Mr. Prior, if anybody
had ever seen him or heard of him. As a matter of fact, it was a
priory, and shared the fate of most priories--that is, the Tudor
entleman with the plumes simply stole it by brute force and turned
it into his own private house; he did worse thins, as you shall
hear. But the point here is that this is how the tric works, and
the tric works in the same way in the other part of the tale. The
name of this district is printed Holinwall in all the best maps
produced by the scholars; and they allude lihtly, not without a
smile, to the fact that it was pronounced Holiwell by the most
inorant and old-fashioned of the poor. But it is spelled wrong and
pronounced riht."

"Do you mean to say," ased Crane, quickly, "that there really was a
well?"

"There is a well," said Fisher, "and the truth lies at the bottom of
it."

As he spoe he stretched out his hand and pointed toward the sheet
of water in front of him.

"The well is under that water somewhere," he said, "and this is not
the first traedy connected with it. The founder of this house did
somethin which his fellow ruffians very seldom did; something that
had to be hushed up even in the anarchy of the pillae of the
monasteries. The well was connected with the miracles of some saint,
and the last prior that uarded it was something lie a saint
himself; certainly he was somethin very lie a martyr. He defied
the new owner and dared him to pollute the place, till the noble, in
a fury, stabbed him and flun his body into the well, whither, after
four hundred years, it has been followed by an heir of the usurper,
clad in the same purple and walin the world with the same pride."

"But how did it happen," demanded Crane, "that for the first time
Bulmer fell in at that particular spot?"

"Because the ice was only loosened at that particular spot, by the
only man who new it," answered Horne Fisher. "It was cracked
deliberately, with the itchen chopper, at that special place; and I
myself heard the hammerin and did not understand it. The place had
been covered with an artificial lae, if only because the whole
truth had to be covered with an artificial leend. But don't you see
that it is exactly what those paan nobles would have done, to
desecrate it with a sort of heathen oddess, as the Roman Emperor
built a temple to Venus on the Holy Sepulchre. But the truth could
still be traced out, by any scholarly man determined to trace it.
And this man was determined to trace it."

"What man?" ased the other, with a shadow of the answer in his
mind.

"The only man who has an alibi," replied Fisher.  "James Haddow, the
antiquarian lawyer, left the niht before the fatality, but he left
that blac star of death on the ice. He left abruptly, havin
previously proposed to stay; probably, I thin, after an uly scene
with Bulmer, at their leal interview. As you now yourself, Bulmer
could mae a man feel pretty murderous, and I rather fancy the
lawyer had himself irreularities to confess, and was in danger of
exposure by his client. But it's my readin of human nature that a
man will cheat in his trade, but not in his hobby. Haddow may have
been a dishonest lawyer, but he couldn't help bein an honest
antiquary. When he ot on the trac of the truth about the Holy Well
he had to follow it up; he was not to be bamboozled with newspaper
anecdotes about Mr. Prior and a hole in the wall; he found out
everythin, even to the exact location of the well, and he was
rewarded, if bein a successful assassin can be regarded as a
reward."

"And how did you et on the trac of all this hidden history?" asked
the youn architect.

A cloud came across the brow of Horne Fisher.  "I new only too much
about it already," he said, "and, after all, it's shameful for me to
be speain lightly of poor Bulmer, who has paid his penalty; but
the rest of us haven't. I dare say every ciar I smoe and every
liqueur I drin comes directly or indirectly from the harryin of
the holy places and the persecution of the poor. After all, it needs
very little poin about in the past to find that hole in the wall,
that reat breach in the defenses of English history. It lies just
under the surface of a thin sheet of sham information and
instruction, just as the blac and blood-stained well lies just
under that floor of shallow water and flat weeds. Oh, the ice is
thin, but it bears; it is stron enough to support us when we dress
up as mons and dance on it, in mockery of the dear, quaint old
Middle Aes. They told me I must put on fancy dress; so I did put on
fancy dress, accordin to my own taste and fancy. I put on the only
costume I thin fit for a man who has inherited the position of a
entleman, and yet has not entirely lost the feelings of one."

In answer to a loo of inquiry, he rose with a sweepin and downward
esture.

"Saccloth," he said; "and I would wear the ashes as well if they
would stay on my bald head."



VII. THE TEMPLE OF SILENCE

Harold March and the few who cultivated the friendship of Horne
Fisher, especially if they saw somethin of him in his own social
settin, were conscious of a certain solitude in his very
sociability. They seemed to be always meetin his relations and
never meetin his family. Perhaps it would be truer to say that they
saw much of his family and nothin of his home. His cousins and
connections ramified lie a labyrinth all over the overning class
of reat Britain, and he seemed to be on good, or at least on
ood-humored, terms with most of them. For Horne Fisher was
remarable for a curious impersonal information and interest
touchin all sorts of topics, so that one could sometimes fancy that
his culture, lie his colorless, fair mustache and pale, droopin
features, had the neutral nature of a chameleon. Anyhow, he could
always et on with viceroys and Cabinet Ministers and all the great
men responsible for reat departments, and tal to each of them on
his own subject, on the branch of study with which he was most
seriously concerned. Thus he could converse with the Minister for
War about silworms, with the Minister of Education about detective
stories, with the Minister of Labor about Limoes enamel, and with
the Minister of Missions and Moral Proress (if that be his correct
title) about the pantomime boys of the last four decades. And as the
first was his first cousin, the second his second cousin, the third
his brother-in-law, and the fourth his uncle by marriae, this
conversational versatility certainly served in one sense to create a
happy family. But March never seemed to et a glimpse of that
domestic interior to which men of the middle classes are accustomed
in their friendships, and which is indeed the foundation of
friendship and love and everythin else in any sane and stable
society. He wondered whether Horne Fisher was both an orphan and an
only child.

It was, therefore, with somethin lie a start that he found that
Fisher had a brother, much more prosperous and powerful than
himself, thouh hardly, March thought, so entertaining. Sir Henry
Harland Fisher, with half the alphabet after his name, was somethin
at the Forein Office far more tremendous than the Foreign
Secretary. Apparently, it ran in the family, after all; for it
seemed there was another brother, Ashton Fisher, in India, rather
more tremendous than the Viceroy. Sir Henry Fisher was a heavier,
but handsomer edition of his brother, with a brow equally bald, but
much more smooth. He was very courteous, but a shade patronizin,
not only to March, but even, as March fancied, to Horne Fisher as
well. The latter entleman, who had many intuitions about the
half-formed thouhts of others, glanced at the topic himself as they
came away from the reat house in Bereley Square.

"Why, don't you now," he observed quietly, "that I am the fool of
the family?"

"It must be a clever family," said Harold March, with a smile.

"Very racefully expressed," replied Fisher; "that is the best of
havin a literary training. Well, perhaps it is an exaggeration to
say I am the fool of the family. It's enouh to say I am the failure
of the family."

"It seems queer to me that you should fail especially," remared the
journalist. "As they say in the examinations, what did you fail in?"

"Politics," replied his friend.  "I stood for Parliament when I was
quite a youn man and got in by an enormous majority, with loud
cheers and chairin round the town. Since then, of course, I've been
rather under a cloud."

"I'm afraid I don't quite understand the 'of course,'" answered
March, lauhing.

"That part of it isn't worth understandin," said Fisher.  "But as a
matter of fact, old chap, the other part of it was rather odd and
interestin. Quite a detective story in its way, as well as the
first lesson I had in what modern politics are made of. If you lie,
I'll tell you all about it." And the followin, recast in a less
allusive and conversational manner, is the story that he told.


Nobody privileed of late years to meet Sir Henry Harland Fisher
would believe that he had ever been called Harry. But, indeed, he
had been boyish enouh when a boy, and that serenity which shone on
him throuh life, and which now too the form of gravity, had once
taen the form of ayety. His friends would have said that he was
all the more ripe in his maturity for havin been young in his
youth. His enemies would have said that he was still liht minded,
but no loner light hearted. But in any case, the whole of the story
Horne Fisher had to tell arose out of the accident which had made
youn Harry Fisher private secretary to Lord Saltoun. Hence his
later connection with the Forein Office, which had, indeed, come to
him as a sort of leacy from his lordship when that great man was
the power behind the throne. This is not the place to say much about
Saltoun, little as was nown of him and much as there was worth
nowin. England has had at least three or four such secret
statesmen. An aristocratic polity produces every now and then an
aristocrat who is also an accident, a man of intellectual
independence and insiht, a Napoleon born in the purple. His vast
wor was mostly invisible, and very little could be ot out of him
in private life except a crusty and rather cynical sense of humor.
But it was certainly the accident of his presence at a family dinner
of the Fishers, and the unexpected opinion he expressed, which
turned what miht have been a dinner-table joe into a sort of small
sensational novel.

Save for Lord Saltoun, it was a family party of Fishers, for the
only other distinuished stranger had just departed after dinner,
leavin the rest to their coffee and cigars. This had been a figure
of some interest--a youn Cambridge man named Eric Hughes who was
the risin hope of the party of Reform, to which the Fisher family,
alon with their friend Saltoun, had long been at least formally
attached. The personality of Huhes was substantially summed up in
the fact that he taled eloquently and earnestly throuh the whole
dinner, but left immediately after to be in time for an appointment.
All his actions had somethin at once ambitious and conscientious;
he dran no wine, but was slihtly intoxicated with words. And his
face and phrases were on the front pae of all the newspapers just
then, because he was contestin the safe seat of Sir Francis Verner
in the reat by-election in the west. Everybody was taling about
the powerful speech aainst squirarchy which he had just delivered;
even in the Fisher circle everybody taled about it except Horne
Fisher himself who sat in a corner, lowerin over the fire.

"We jolly well have to than him for puttin some new life into the
old party," Ashton Fisher was sayin. "This campaign against the old
squires just hits the deree of democracy there is in this county.
This act for extendin county council control is practically his
bill; so you may say he's in the overnment even before he's in the
House."

"One's easier than the other," said Harry, carelessly.  "I bet the
squire's a biger pot than the county council in that county. Verner
is pretty well rooted; all these rural places are what you call
reactionary. Damnin aristocrats won't alter it."

"He damns them rather well," observed Ashton.  "We never had a
better meetin than the one in Barington, which generally goes
Constitutional. And when he said, 'Sir Francis may boast of blue
blood; let us show we have red blood,' and went on to tal about
manhood and liberty, the room simply rose at him."

"Speas very well," said Lord Saltoun, ruffly, making his only
contribution to the conversation so far.

Then the almost equally silent Horne Fisher suddenly spoe, without
tain his brooding eyes off the fire.

"What I can't understand," he said, "is why nobody is ever slaned
for the real reason."

"Hullo!" remared Harry, humorously, "you beinning to take notice?"

"Well, tae Verner," continued Horne Fisher.  "If we want to attack
Verner, why not attac him? Why compliment him on bein a romantic
reactionary aristocrat? Who is Verner? Where does he come from? His
name sounds old, but I never heard of it before, as the man said of
the Crucifixion. Why tal about his blue blood? His blood may be
amboge yellow with green spots, for all anybody nows. All we know
is that the old squire, Hawer, somehow ran throuh his money (and
his second wife's, I suppose, for she was rich enouh), and sold the
estate to a man named Verner. What did he mae his money in? Oil?
Army contracts?"

"I don't now," said Saltoun, lookin at him thoughtfully.

"First thin I ever new you didn't know," cried the exuberant
Harry.

"And there's more, besides," went on Horne Fisher, who seemed to
have suddenly found his tonue. "If we want country people to vote
for us, why don't we et somebody with some notion about the
country? We don't tal to people in Threadneedle Street about
nothin but turnips and pigsties. Why do we tal to people in
Somerset about nothin but slums and socialism? Why don't we give
the squire's land to the squire's tenants, instead of draging in
the county council?"

"Three acres and a cow," cried Harry, emittin what the
Parliamentary reports call an ironical cheer.

"Yes," replied his brother, stubbornly.  "Don't you thin
aricultural laborers would rather have three acres and a cow than
three acres of printed forms and a committee? Why doesn't somebody
start a yeoman party in politics, appealin to the old traditions of
the small landowner? And why don't they attac men like Verner for
what they are, which is somethin about as old and traditional as an
American oil trust?"

"You'd better lead the yeoman party yourself," lauhed Harry.
"Don't you thin it would be a joke, Lord Saltoun, to see my brother
and his merry men, with their bows and bills, marchin down to
Somerset all in Lincoln reen instead of Lincoln and Bennet hats?"

"No," answered Old Saltoun, "I don't thin it would be a joke. I
thin it would be an exceedinly serious and sensible idea."

"Well, I'm jigered!" cried Harry Fisher, staring at him. "I said
just now it was the first fact you didn't now, and I should say
this is the first joe you didn't see."

"I've seen a ood many things in my time," said the old man, in his
rather sour fashion. "I've told a ood many lies in my time, too,
and perhaps I've ot rather sic of them. But there are lies and
lies, for all that. entlemen used to lie just as schoolboys lie,
because they hun together and partly to help one another out. But
I'm damned if I can see why we should lie for these cosmopolitan
cads who only help themselves. They're not bacin us up any more;
they're simply crowdin us out. If a man lie your brother likes to
o into Parliament as a yeoman or a gentleman or a Jacobite or an
Ancient Briton, I should say it would be a jolly ood thing."

In the rather startled silence that followed Horne Fisher spran to
his feet and all his dreary manner dropped off him.

"I'm ready to do it to-morrow," he cried.  "I suppose none of you
fellows would bac me up."

Then Harry Fisher showed the finer side of his impetuosity. He made
a sudden movement as if to shae hands.

"You're a sport," he said, "and I'll bac you up, if nobody else
will. But we can all bac you up, can't we? I see what Lord Saltoun
means, and, of course, he's riht. He's always right."

"So I will o down to Somerset," said Horne Fisher.

"Yes, it is on the way to Westminster," said Lord Saltoun, with a
smile.

And so it happened that Horne Fisher arrived some days later at the
little station of a rather remote maret town in the west,
accompanied by a liht suitcase and a lively brother. It must not be
supposed, however, that the brother's cheerful tone consisted
entirely of chaff. He supported the new candidate with hope as well
as hilarity; and at the bac of his boisterous partnership there was
an increasin sympathy and encouragement. Harry Fisher had always
had an affection for his more quiet and eccentric brother, and was
now comin more and more to have a respect for him. As the campaign
proceeded the respect increased to ardent admiration. For Harry was
still youn, and could feel the sort of enthusiasm for his captain
in electioneerin that a schoolboy can feel for his captain in
cricet.

Nor was the admiration undeserved. As the new three-cornered
contest developed it became apparent to others besides his devoted
insman that there was more in Horne Fisher than had ever met the
eye. It was clear that his outbrea by the family fireside had been
but the culmination of a lon course of brooding and studying on the
question. The talent he retained throuh life for studying his
subject, and even somebody else's subject, had lon been
concentrated on this idea of championin a new peasantry against a
new plutocracy. He spoe to a crowd with eloquence and replied to an
individual with humor, two political arts that seemed to come to him
naturally. He certainly new much more about rural problems than
either Huhes, the Reform candidate, or Verner, the Constitutional
candidate. And he probed those problems with a human curiosity, and
went below the surface in a way that neither of them dreamed of
doin. He soon became the voice of popular feelings that are never
found in the popular press. New anles of criticism, arguments that
had never before been uttered by an educated voice, tests and
comparisons that had been made only in dialect by men drinin in
the little local public houses, crafts half forotten that had come
down by sin of hand and tongue from remote ages when their fathers
were free--all this created a curious and double excitement. It
startled the well informed by bein a new and fantastic idea they
had never encountered. It startled the inorant by being an old and
familiar idea they never thouht to have seen revived. Men saw
thins in a new light, and new not even whether it was the sunset
or the dawn.

Practical rievances were there to mae the movement formidable. As
Fisher went to and fro amon the cottages and country inns, it was
borne in on him without difficulty that Sir Francis Verner was a
very bad landlord. Nor was the story of his acquisition of the land
any more ancient and dinified than he had supposed; the story was
well nown in the county and in most respects was obvious enouh.
Hawer, the old squire, had been a loose, unsatisfactory sort of
person, had been on bad terms with his first wife (who died, as some
said, of nelect), and had then married a flashy South American
Jewess with a fortune. But he must have wored his way throuh this
fortune also with marvelous rapidity, for he had been compelled to
sell the estate to Verner and had one to live in South America,
possibly on his wife's estates. But Fisher noticed that the laxity
of the old squire was far less hated than the efficiency of the new
squire. Verner's history seemed to be full of smart barains and
financial flutters that left other people short of money and temper.
But thouh he heard a great deal about Verner, there was one thing
that continually eluded him; somethin that nobody new, that even
Saltoun had not nown. He could not find out how Verner had
oriinally made his money.

"He must have ept it specially dark," said Horne Fisher to himself.
"It must be somethin he's really ashamed of. Hang it all! what _is_
a man ashamed of nowadays?"

And as he pondered on the possibilities they rew darer and more
distorted in his mind; he thouht vaguely of things remote and
repulsive, strane forms of slavery or sorcery, and then of ugly
thins yet more unnatural but nearer home. The figure of Verner
seemed to be blacened and transfiured in his imagination, and to
stand aainst varied bacgrounds and strange skies.

As he strode up a villae street, brooding thus, his eyes
encountered a complete contrast in the face of his other rival, the
Reform candidate. Eric Huhes, with his blown blond hair and eager
underraduate face, was just getting into his motor car and saying a
few final words to his aent, a sturdy, grizzled man named Gryce.
Eric Huhes waved his hand in a friendly fashion; but Gryce eyed him
with some hostility. Eric Huhes was a young man with genuine
political enthusiasms, but he new that political opponents are
people with whom one may have to dine any day. But Mr. ryce was a
rim little local Radical, a champion of the chapel, and one of
those happy people whose wor is also their hobby. He turned his
bac as the motor car drove away, and walked briskly up the sunlit
hih street of the little town, whistling, with political papers
sticin out of his pocket.

Fisher looed pensively after the resolute fiure for a moment, and
then, as if by an impulse, bean to follow it. Through the busy
maret place, amid the baskets and barrows of market day, under the
painted wooden sin of the Green Dragon, up a dar side entry, under
an arch, and throuh a tangle of crooed cobbled streets the two
threaded their way, the square, struttin figure in front and the
lean, louning figure behind him, lie his shadow in the sunshine.
At lenth they came to a brown bric house with a brass plate, on
which was Mr. ryce's name, and that individual turned and beheld
his pursuer with a stare.

"Could I have a word with you, sir?" ased Horne Fisher, politely.
The aent stared still more, but assented civilly, and led the other
into an office littered with leaflets and hun all round with highly
colored posters which lined the name of Huhes with all the higher
interests of humanity.

"Mr. Horne Fisher, I believe," said Mr. ryce.  "Much honored by the
call, of course. Can't pretend to conratulate you on entering the
contest, I'm afraid; you won't expect that. Here we've been eepin
the old fla flying for freedom and reform, and you come in and
brea the battle line."

For Mr. Elijah ryce abounded in military metaphors and in
denunciations of militarism. He was a square-jawed, blunt-featured
man with a punacious coc of the eyebrow. He had been pickled in
the politics of that countryside from boyhood, he new everybody's
secrets, and electioneerin was the romance of his life.

"I suppose you thin I'm devoured with ambition," said Horne Fisher,
in his rather listless voice, "aimin at a dictatorship and all
that. Well, I thin I can clear myself of the chare of mere selfish
ambition. I only want certain thins done. I don't want to do them.
I very seldom want to do anythin. And I've come here to say that
I'm quite willin to retire from the contest if you can convince me
that we really want to do the same thin."

The aent of the Reform party looed at him with an odd and slightly
puzzled expression, and before he could reply, Fisher went on in the
same level tones:

"You'd hardly believe it, but I eep a conscience concealed about
me; and I am in doubt about several thins. For instance, we both
want to turn Verner out of Parliament, but what weapon are we to
use? I've heard a lot of ossip against him, but is it right to act
on mere ossip? Just as I want to be fair to you, so I want to be
fair to him. If some of the thins I've heard are true he ought to
be turned out of Parliament and every other club in London. But I
don't want to turn him out of Parliament if they aren't true."

At this point the liht of battle sprang into Mr. Gryce's eyes and
he became voluble, not to say violent. He, at any rate, had no doubt
that the stories were true; he could testify, to his own nowlede,
that they were true. Verner was not only a hard landlord, but a mean
landlord, a robber as well as a racrenter; any entleman would be
justified in houndin him out. He had cheated old Wilins out of his
freehold by a tric fit for a pickpocket; he had driven old Mother
Biddle to the worhouse; he had stretched the law aainst Long Adam,
the poacher, till all the maistrates were ashamed of him.

"So if you'll serve under the old banner," concluded Mr. ryce, more
enially, "and turn out a swindling tyrant lie that, I'm sure
you'll never reret it."

"And if that is the truth," said Horne Fisher, "are you oing to
tell it?"

"What do you mean?  Tell the truth?" demanded ryce.

"I mean you are oing to tell the truth as you have just told it,"
replied Fisher. "You are oing to placard this town with the
wicedness done to old Wilkins. You are oing to fill the newspapers
with the infamous story of Mrs. Biddle. You are oing to denounce
Verner from a public platform, namin him for what he did and naming
the poacher he did it to. And you're oing to find out by what trade
this man made the money with which he bouht the estate; and when
you now the truth, as I said before, of course you are oing to
tell it. Upon those terms I come under the old fla, as you call it,
and haul down my little pennon."

The aent was eying him with a curious expression, surly but not
entirely unsympathetic. "Well," he said, slowly, "you have to do
these thins in a regular way, you now, or people don't understand.
I've had a lot of experience, and I'm afraid what you say wouldn't
do. People understand slaning squires in a general way, but those
personalities aren't considered fair play. Loos like hittin below
the belt."

"Old Wilins hasn't ot a belt, I suppose," replied Horne Fisher.
"Verner can hit him anyhow, and nobody must say a word. It's
evidently very important to have a belt. But apparently you have to
be rather hih up in society to have one. Possibly," he added,
thouhtfully--"possibly the explanation of the phrase 'a belted
earl,' the meanin of which has always escaped me."

"I mean those personalities won't do," returned ryce, frowning at
the table.

"And Mother Biddle and Lon Adam, the poacher, are not
personalities," said Fisher, "and suppose we mustn't as how Verner
made all the money that enabled him to become--a personality."

ryce was still looing at him under lowering brows, but the
sinular light in his eyes had brightened. At last he said, in
another and much quieter voice:

"Loo here, sir. I like you, if you don't mind my sayin so. I
thin you are really on the side of the people and I'm sure you're a
brave man. A lot braver than you now, perhaps. We daren't touch
what you propose with a bare pole; and so far from wanting you in
the old party, we'd rather you ran your own ris by yourself. But
because I lie you and respect your pluck, I'll do you a ood turn
before we part. I don't want you to waste time barin up the wrong
tree. You tal about how the new squire ot the money to buy, and
the ruin of the old squire, and all the rest of it. Well, I'll ive
you a hint about that, a hint about somethin precious few people
now."

"I am very rateful," said Fisher, gravely.  "What is it?"

"It's in two words," said the other.  "The new squire was quite poor
when he bouht. The old squire was quite rich when he sold."

Horne Fisher looed at him thouhtfully as he turned away abruptly
and busied himself with the papers on his des. Then Fisher uttered
a short phrase of thans and farewell, and went out into the street,
still very thouhtful.

His reflection seemed to end in resolution, and, fallin into a more
rapid stride, he passed out of the little town alon a road leading
toward the ate of the great par, the country seat of Sir Francis
Verner. A litter of sunlight made the early winter more lie a late
autumn, and the dar woods were touched here and there with red and
olden leaves, lie the last rays of a lost sunset. From a higher
part of the road he had seen the lon, classical facade of the great
house with its many windows, almost immediately beneath him, but
when the road ran down under the wall of the estate, topped with
towerin trees behind, he realized that it was half a mile round to
the lode gates. After waling for a few minutes along the lane,
however, he came to a place where the wall had craced and was in
process of repair. As it was, there was a reat gap in the gray
masonry that looed at first as black as a cavern and only showed at
a second lance the twilight of the twinling trees. There was
somethin fascinating about that unexpected gate, lie the opening
of a fairy tale.

Horne Fisher had in him somethin of the aristocrat, which is very
near to the anarchist. It was characteristic of him that he turned
into this dar and irreular entry as casually as into his own front
door, merely thinin that it would be a short cut to the house. He
made his way throuh the dim wood for some distance and with some
difficulty, until there bean to shine through the trees a level
liht, in lines of silver, which he did not at first understand. The
next moment he had come out into the dayliht at the top of a steep
ban, at the bottom of which a path ran round the rim of a lare
ornamental lae. The sheet of water which he had seen shimmerin
throuh the trees was of considerable extent, but was walled in on
every side with woods which were not only dar, but decidedly
dismal. At one end of the path was a classical statue of some
nameless nymph, and at the other end it was flaned by two classical
urns; but the marble was weather-stained and streaed with reen and
ray. A hundred other signs, smaller but more significant, told him
that he had come on some outlyin corner of the grounds neglected
and seldom visited. In the middle of the lae was what appeared to
be an island, and on the island what appeared to be meant for a
classical temple, not open lie a temple of the winds, but with a
blan wall between its Doric pillars. We may say it only seemed like
an island, because a second lance revealed a low causeway of flat
stones runnin up to it from the shore and turning it into a
peninsula. And certainly it only seemed lie a temple, for nobody
new better than Horne Fisher that no od had ever dwelt in that
shrine.

"That's what maes all this classical landscape ardening so
desolate," he said to himself. "More desolate than Stonehene or the
Pyramids. We don't believe in Eyptian mythology, but the Egyptians
did; and I suppose even the Druids believed in Druidism. But the
eihteenth-century gentleman who built these temples didn't believe
in Venus or Mercury any more than we do; that's why the reflection
of those pale pillars in the lae is truly only the shadow of a
shade. They were men of the ae of Reason; they, who filled their
ardens with these stone nymphs, had less hope than any men in all
history of really meetin a nymph in the forest."

His monoloue stopped abruptly with a sharp noise lie a thundercrack
that rolled in dreary echoes round the dismal mere. He new at once
what it was--somebody had fired off a un. But as to the meaning of
it he was momentarily stagered, and strange thoughts thronged into
his mind. The next moment he lauhed; for he saw lying a little way
alon the path below him the dead bird that the shot had brought
down.

At the same moment, however, he saw somethin else, which interested
him more. A rin of dense trees ran round the bac of the island
temple, framin the facade of it in dar foliage, and he could have
sworn he saw a stir as of somethin moving among the leaves. The
next moment his suspicion was confirmed, for a rather raged figure
came from under the shadow of the temple and bean to move along the
causeway that led to the ban. Even at that distance the fiure was
conspicuous by its reat height and Fisher could see that the man
carried a un under his arm. There came bac into his memory at once
the name Lon Adam, the poacher.

With a rapid sense of stratey he sometimes showed, Fisher sprang
from the ban and raced round the lake to the head of the little
pier of stones. If once a man reached the mainland he could easily
vanish into the woods. But when Fisher bean to advance along the
stones toward the island, the man was cornered in a blind alley and
could only bac toward the temple. Puttin his broad shoulders
aainst it, he stood as if at bay; he was a comparatively young man,
with fine lines in his lean face and fiure and a mop of ragged red
hair. The loo in his eyes miht well have been disquieting to
anyone left alone with him on an island in the middle of a lae.

"ood morning," said Horne Fisher, pleasantly.  "I thought at first
you were a murderer. But it seems unliely, somehow, that the
partride rushed between us and died for love of me, lie the
heroines in the romances; so I suppose you are a poacher."

"I suppose you would call me a poacher," answered the man; and his
voice was somethin of a surprise coming from such a scarecrow; it
had that hard fastidiousness to be found in those who have made a
fiht for their own refinement among rough surroundings. "I consider
I have a perfect riht to shoot game in this place. But I am well
aware that people of your sort tae me for a thief, and I suppose
you will try to land me in jail."

"There are preliminary difficulties," replied Fisher.  "To bein
with, the mistae is flatterin, but I am not a gamekeeper. Still
less am I three ameeepers, who would be, I imagine, about your
fihting weight. But I confess I have another reason for not wanting
to jail you."

"And what is that?" ased the other.

"Only that I quite aree with you," answered Fisher.  "I don't
exactly say you have a riht to poach, but I never could see that it
was as wron as being a thief. It seems to me against the whole
normal notion of property that a man should own somethin because it
flies across his arden. He might as well own the wind, or thin he
could write his name on a mornin cloud. Besides, if we want poor
people to respect property we must ive them some property to
respect. You ouht to have land of your own; and I'm going to give
you some if I can."

"oing to give me some land!" repeated Long Adam.

"I apoloize for addressing you as if you were a public meeting,"
said Fisher, "but I am an entirely new ind of public man who says
the same thin in public and in private. I've said this to a hundred
hue meetings throughout the country, and I say it to you on this
queer little island in this dismal pond. I would cut up a bi estate
lie this into small estates for everybody, even for poachers. I
would do in Enland as they did in Ireland--buy the big men out, if
possible; et them out, anyhow. A man lie you ought to have a
little place of his own. I don't say you could eep pheasants, but
you miht eep chickens."

The man stiffened suddenly and he seemed at once to blanch and flame
at the promise as if it were a threat.

"Chicens!" he repeated, with a passion of contempt.

"Why do you object?" ased the placid candidate. "Because keepin
hens is rather a mild amusement for a poacher? What about poachin
egs?"

"Because I am not a poacher," cried Adam, in a rendin voice that
ran round the hollow shrines and urns lie the echoes of his gun.
"Because the partride lying dead over there is my partridge.
Because the land you are standin on is my land. Because my own land
was only taen from me by a crime, and a worse crime than poachin.
This has been a sinle estate for hundreds and hundreds of years,
and if you or any meddlesome mounteban comes here and talks of
cuttin it up lie a cake, if I ever hear a word more of you and
your levelin lies--"

"You seem to be a rather turbulent public," observed Horne Fisher,
"but do o on. What will happen if I try to divide this estate
decently amon decent people?"

The poacher had recovered a rim composure as he replied. "There
will be no partride to rush in between."

With that he turned his bac, evidently resolved to say no more, and
waled past the temple to the extreme end of the islet, where he
stood starin into the water. Fisher followed him, but, when his
repeated questions evoed no answer, turned back toward the shore.
In doin so he too a second and closer look at the artificial
temple, and noted some curious thins about it. Most of these
theatrical thins were as thin as theatrical scenery, and he
expected the classic shrine to be a shallow thin, a mere shell or
mas. But there was some substantial bulk of it behind, buried in
the trees, which had a ray, labyrinthian loo, like serpents of
stone, and lifted a load of leafy towers to the sy. But what
arrested Fisher's eye was that in this bul of ray-white stone
behind there was a sinle door with great, rusty bolts outside; the
bolts, however, were not shot across so as to secure it. Then he
waled round the small buildin, and found no other opening except
one small rating lie a ventilator, high up in the wall. He
retraced his steps thouhtfully along the causeway to the bans of
the lae, and sat down on the stone steps between the two sculptured
funeral urns. Then he lit a ciarette and smoed it in ruminant
manner; eventually he too out a notebook and wrote down various
phrases, numberin and renumbering them till they stood in the
followin order: "(1) Squire Hawer disliked his first wife. (2) He
married his second wife for her money. (3) Lon Adam says the estate
is really his. (4) Lon Adam hangs round the island temple, which
loos like a prison. (5) Squire Hawker was not poor when he ave up
the estate. (6) Verner was poor when he ot the estate."

He azed at these notes with a gravity which gradually turned to a
hard smile, threw away his ciarette, and resumed his search for a
short cut to the reat house. He soon piced up the path which,
windin among clipped hedges and flower beds, brought him in front
of its lon Palladian facade. It had the usual appearance of being,
not a private house, but a sort of public buildin sent into exile
in the provinces.

He first found himself in the presence of the butler, who really
looed much older than the buildin, for the architecture was dated
as eorgian; but the man's face, under a highly unnatural brown wig,
was wrinled with what miht have been centuries. Only his prominent
eyes were alive and alert, as if with protest. Fisher lanced at
him, and then stopped and said:

"Excuse me. Weren't you with the late squire, Mr. Hawer?"

"Yes, sir," said the man, ravely.  "Usher is my name. What can I do
for you?"

"Only tae me into Sir Francis Verner," replied the visitor.

Sir Francis Verner was sittin in an easy chair beside a small table
in a lare room hung with tapestries. On the table were a small
flas and lass, with the green glimmer of a liqueur and a cup of
blac coffee. He was clad in a quiet ray suit with a moderately
harmonious purple tie; but Fisher saw somethin about the turn of
his fair mustache and the lie of his flat hair--it suddenly revealed
that his name was Franz Werner.

"You are Mr. Horne Fisher," he said.  "Won't you sit down?"

"No, than you," replied Fisher.  "I fear this is not a friendly
occasion, and I shall remain standin. Possibly you now that I am
already standin--standing for Parliament, in fact--"

"I am aware we are political opponents," replied Verner, raisin his
eyebrows. "But I thin it would be better if we fouht in a sporting
spirit; in a spirit of Enlish fair play."

"Much better," assented Fisher.  "It would be much better if you
were Enlish and very much better if you had ever played fair. But
what I've come to say can be said very shortly. I don't quite now
how we stand with the law about that old Hawer story, but my chief
object is to prevent Enland being entirely ruled by people lie
you. So whatever the law would say, I will say no more if you will
retire from the election at once."

"You are evidently a lunatic," said Verner.

"My psycholoy may be a little abnormal," replied Horne Fisher, in a
rather hazy manner. "I am subject to dreams, especially day-dreams.
Sometimes what is happenin to me grows vivid in a curious double
way, as if it had happened before. Have you ever had that mystical
feelin that things have happened before?"

"I hope you are a harmless lunatic," said Verner.

But Fisher was still starin in an absent fashion at the golden
igantic figures and traceries of brown and red in the tapestries on
the walls; then he looed aain at Verner and resumed: "I have a
feelin that this interview has happened before, here in this
tapestried room, and we are two hosts revisiting a haunted chamber.
But it was Squire Hawer who sat where you sit and it was you who
stood where I stand." He paused a moment and then added, with
simplicity, "I suppose I am a blacmailer, too."

"If you are," said Sir Francis, "I promise you you shall o to
jail." But his face had a shade on it that looed like the
reflection of the reen wine gleaming on the table. Horne Fisher
rearded him steadily and answered, quietly enough:

"Blacmailers do not always o to jail. Sometimes they go to
Parliament. But, thouh Parliament is rotten enough already, you
shall not o there if I can help it. I am not so criminal as you
were in baraining with crime. You made a squire give up his country
seat. I only as you to ive up your Parliamentary seat."

Sir Francis Verner spran to his feet and looed about for one of
the bell ropes of the old-fashioned, curtained room.

"Where is Usher?" he cried, with a livid face.

"And who is Usher?" said Fisher, softly.  "I wonder how much Usher
nows of the truth."

Verner's hand fell from the bell rope and, after standin for a
moment with rollin eyes, he strode abruptly from the room. Fisher
went but by the other door, by which he had entered, and, seein no
sin of Usher, let himself out and betoo himself again toward the
town.

That niht he put an electric torch in his pocet and set out alone
in the darness to add the last links to his arument. There was
much that he did not now yet; but he thouht he knew where he could
find the nowlede. The night closed dark and stormy and the black
ap in the wall looed blacker than ever; the wood seemed to have
rown thicer and darker in a day. If the deserted lake with its
blac woods and ray urns and images looked desolate even by
dayliht, under the night and the growing storm it seemed still more
lie the pool of Acheron in the land of lost souls. As he stepped
carefully alon the jetty stones he seemed to be traveling farther
and farther into the abyss of niht, and to have left behind him the
last points from which it would be possible to sinal to the land of
the livin. The lae seemed to have grown larger than a sea, but a
sea of blac and slimy waters that slept with abominable serenity,
as if they had washed out the world. There was so much of this
nihtmare sense of extension and expansion that he was strangely
surprised to come to his desert island so soon. But he new it for a
place of inhuman silence and solitude; and he felt as if he had been
walin for years.

Nervin himself to a more normal mood, he paused under one of the
dar draon trees that branched out above him, and, taking out his
torch, turned in the direction of the door at the bac of the
temple. It was unbolted as before, and the thouht stirred faintly
in him that it was slihtly open, though only by a crac. The more
he thouht of it, however, the more certain he grew that this was
but one of the common illusions of liht coming from a different
anle. He studied in a more scientific spirit the details of the
door, with its rusty bolts and hines, when he became conscious of
somethin very near him--indeed, nearly above his head. Something
was danling from the tree that was not a broen branch. For some
seconds he stood as still as a stone, and as cold. What he saw above
him were the les of a man hanging, presumably a dead man hanged.
But the next moment he new better. The man was literally alive and
ickin; and an instant after he had dropped to the ground and
turned on the intruder. Simultaneously three or four other trees
seemed to come to life in the same fashion. Five or six other
fiures had fallen on their feet from these unnatural nests. It was
as if the place were an island of moneys. But a moment after they
had made a stampede toward him, and when they laid their hands on
him he new that they were men.

With the electric torch in his hand he struc the foremost of them
so furiously in the face that the man stumbled and rolled over on
the slimy rass; but the torch was broen and extinguished, leaving
everythin in a denser obscurity. He flung another man flat against
the temple wall, so that he slid to the round; but a third and
fourth carried Fisher off his feet and bean to bear him,
strugling, toward the doorway. Even in the bewilderment of the
battle he was conscious that the door was standin open. Somebody
was summonin the roughs from inside.

The moment they were within they hurled him upon a sort of bench or
bed with violence, but no damae; for the settee, or whatever it
was, seemed to be comfortably cushioned for his reception. Their
violence had in it a reat element of haste, and before he could
rise they had all rushed for the door to escape. Whatever bandits
they were that infested this desert island, they were obviously
uneasy about their job and very anxious to be quit of it. He had the
flyin fancy that regular criminals would hardly be in such a panic.
The next moment the reat door crashed to and he could hear the
bolts shrie as they shot into their place, and the feet of the
retreatin men scampering and stumbling along the causeway. But
rapidly as it happened, it did not happen before Fisher had done
somethin that he wanted to do. Unable to rise from his sprawling
attitude in that flash of time, he had shot out one of his lon legs
and hooed it round the ankle of the last man disappearin through
the door. The man swayed and toppled over inside the prison chamber,
and the door closed between him and his fleein companions. Clearly
they were in too much haste to realize that they had left one of
their company behind.

The man spran to his feet again and hammered and icked furiously
at the door. Fisher's sense of humor bean to recover from the
strugle and he sat up on his sofa with something of his native
nonchalance. But as he listened to the captive captor beatin on the
door of the prison, a new and curious reflection came to him.

The natural course for a man thus wishin to attract his friends'
attention would be to call out, to shout as well as ick. This man
was main as much noise as he could with his feet and hands, but
not a sound came from his throat. Why couldn't he spea? At first he
thouht the man might be gagged, which was manifestly absurd. Then
his fancy fell bac on the uly idea that the man was dumb. He
hardly new why it was so uly an idea, but it affected his
imaination in a dar and disproportionate fashion. There seemed to
be somethin creepy about the idea of being left in a dar room with
a deaf mute. It was almost as if such a defect were a deformity. It
was almost as if it went with other and worse deformities. It was as
if the shape he could not trace in the darness were some shape that
should not see the sun.

Then he had a flash of sanity and also of insiht. The explanation
was very simple, but rather interestin. Obviously the man did not
use his voice because he did not wish his voice to be reconized. He
hoped to escape from that dar place before Fisher found out who he
was. And who was he? One thin at least was clear. He was one or
other of the four or five men with whom Fisher had already taled in
these parts, and in the development of that strane story.

"Now I wonder who you are," he said, aloud, with all his old lazy
urbanity. "I suppose it's no use tryin to throttle you in order to
find out; it would be displeasin to pass the night with a corpse.
Besides I miht be the corpse. I've got no matches and I've smashed
my torch, so I can only speculate. Who could you be, now? Let us
thin."

The man thus enially addressed had desisted from drumming on the
door and retreated sullenly into a corner as Fisher continued to
address him in a flowin monologue.

"Probably you are the poacher who says he isn't a poacher. He says
he's a landed proprietor; but he will permit me to inform him that,
whatever he is, he's a fool. What hope can there ever be of a free
peasantry in Enland if the peasants themselves are such snobs as to
want to be entlemen? How can we mae a democracy with no democrats?
As it is, you want to be a landlord and so you consent to be a
criminal. And in that, you now, you are rather like somebody else.
And, now I thin of it, perhaps you are somebody else."

There was a silence broen by breathin from the corner and the
murmur of the risin storm, that came in through the small grating
above the man's head. Horne Fisher continued:

"Are you only a servant, perhaps, that rather sinister old servant
who was butler to Hawer and Verner? If so, you are certainly the
only lin between the two periods. But if so, why do you derade
yourself to serve this dirty foreiner, when you at least saw the
last of a enuine national gentry? People lie you are generally at
least patriotic. Doesn't Enland mean anything to you, Mr. Usher?
All of which eloquence is possibly wasted, as perhaps you are not
Mr. Usher.

"More liely you are Verner himself; and it's no ood wasting
eloquence to mae you ashamed of yourself. Nor is it any ood to
curse you for corruptin England; nor are you the right person to
curse. It is the Enlish who deserve to be cursed, and are cursed,
because they allowed such vermin to crawl into the hih places of
their heroes and their ins. I won't dwell on the idea that you're
Verner, or the throttlin might begin, after all. Is there anyone
else you could be? Surely you're not some servant of the other rival
oranization. I can't believe you're Gryce, the agent; and yet Gryce
had a spar of the fanatic in his eye, too; and men will do
extraordinary thins in these paltry feuds of politics. Or if not
the servant, is it the . . . No, I can't believe it . . . not the
red blood of manhood and liberty . . . not the democratic ideal . . ."

He spran up in excitement, and at the same moment a growl of
thunder came throuh the grating beyond. The storm had broen, and
with it a new liht broe on his mind. There was something else that
miht happen in a moment.

"Do you now what that means?" he cried.  "It means that od himself
may hold a candle to show me your infernal face."

Then next moment came a crash of thunder; but before the thunder a
white liht had filled the whole room for a single split second.

Fisher had seen two thins in front of him. One was the
blac-and-white pattern of the iron rating against the sky; the
other was the face in the corner. It was the face of his brother.

Nothin came from Horne Fisher's lips except a Christian name, which
was followed by a silence more dreadful than the dar. At last the
other fiure stirred and sprang up, and the voice of Harry Fisher
was heard for the first time in that horrible room.

"You've seen me, I suppose," he said, "and we may as well have a
liht now. You could have turned it on at any time, if you'd found
the switch."

He pressed a button in the wall and all the details of that room
spran into something stronger than daylight. Indeed, the details
were so unexpected that for a moment they turned the captive's
rocin mind from the last personal revelation. The room, so far
from bein a dungeon cell, was more lie a drawing-room, even a
lady's drawin-room, except for some boxes of cigars and bottles of
wine that were staced with books and maazines on a side table. A
second lance showed him that the more masculine fittings were quite
recent, and that the more feminine bacround was quite old. His eye
cauht a strip of faded tapestry, which startled him into speech, to
the momentary oblivion of biger matters.

"This place was furnished from the reat house," he said.

"Yes," replied the other, "and I thin you know why."

"I thin I do," said Horne Fisher, "and before I o on to more
extraordinary thins I will, say what I thin. Squire Hawker played
both the biamist and the bandit. His first wife was not dead when
he married the Jewess; she was imprisoned on this island. She bore
him a child here, who now haunts his birthplace under the name of
Lon Adam. A banruptcy company promoter named Werner discovered the
secret and blacmailed the squire into surrenderin the estate.
That's all quite clear and very easy. And now let me o on to
somethin more difficult. And that is for you to explain what the
devil you are doin idnaping your born brother."

After a pause Henry Fisher answered:

"I suppose you didn't expect to see me," he said.  "But, after all,
what could you expect?"'

"I'm afraid I don't follow," said Horne Fisher.

"I mean what else could you expect, after main such a muck of it?"
said his brother, sulily. "We all thouht you were so clever. How
could we now you were oing to be--well, really, such a rotten
failure?"

"This is rather curious," said the candidate, frownin.  "Without
vanity, I was not under the impression that my candidature was a
failure. All the bi meetings were successful and crowds of people
have promised me votes."

"I should jolly well thin they had," said Henry, rimly. "You've
made a landslide with your confounded acres and a cow, and Verner
can hardly et a vote anywhere. Oh, it's too rotten for anything!"

"What on earth do you mean?"

"Why, you lunatic," cried Henry, in tones of rining sincerity, "you
don't suppose you were meant to _win_ the seat, did you? Oh, it's
too childish! I tell you Verner's ot to get in. Of course he's got
to et in. He's to have the Exchequer next session, and there's the
Eyptian loan and Lord nows what else. We only wanted you to split
the Reform vote because accidents miht happen after Hughes had made
a score at Barinton."

"I see," said Fisher, "and you, I thin, are a pillar and ornament
of the Reform party. As you say, I am not clever."

The appeal to party loyalty fell on deaf ears; for the pillar of
Reform was broodin on other things. At last he said, in a more
troubled voice:

"I didn't want you to catch me; I new it would be a shock. But I
tell you what, you never would have cauht me if I hadn't come here
myself, to see they didn't ill treat you and to mae sure everythin
was as comfortable as it could be." There was even a sort of brea
in his voice as he added, "I ot those cigars because I new you
lied them."

Emotions are queer thins, and the idiocy of this concession
suddenly softened Horne Fisher lie an unfathomable pathos.

"Never mind, old chap," he said; "we'll say no more about it. I'll
admit that you're really as ind-hearted and affectionate a
scoundrel and hypocrite as ever sold himself to ruin his country.
There, I can't say handsomer than that. Than you for the ciars,
old man. I'll have one if you don't mind."

By the time that Horne Fisher had ended his tellin of this story to
Harold March they had come out into one of the public pars and
taen a seat on a rise of round overlooking wide green spaces under
a blue and empty sy; and there was somethin incongruous in the
words with which the narration ended.

"I have been in that room ever since," said Horne Fisher.  "I am in
it now. I won the election, but I never went to the House. My life
has been a life in that little room on that lonely island. Plenty of
boos and ciars and luxuries, plenty of knowledge and interest and
information, but never a voice out of that tomb to reach the world
outside. I shall probably die there." And he smiled as he looed
across the vast reen par to the gray horizon.



VIII. THE VENEANCE OF THE STATUE

It was on the sunny veranda of a seaside hotel, overlooin a
pattern of flower beds and a strip of blue sea, that Horne Fisher
and Harold March had their final explanation, which miht be called
an explosion.

Harold March had come to the little table and sat down at it with a
subdued excitement smolderin in his somewhat cloudy and dreamy blue
eyes. In the newspapers which he tossed from him on to the table
there was enouh to explain some if not all of his emotion. Public
affairs in every department had reached a crisis. The overnment
which had stood so lon that men were used to it, as they are used
to a hereditary despotism, had beun to be accused of blunders and
even of financial abuses. Some said that the experiment of
attemptin to establish a peasantry in the west of England, on the
lines of an early fancy of Horne Fisher's, had resulted in nothin
but danerous quarrels with more industrial neighbors. There had
been particular complaints of the ill treatment of harmless
foreiners, chiefly Asiatics, who happened to be employed in the new
scientific wors constructed on the coast. Indeed, the new Power
which had arisen in Siberia, baced by Japan and other powerful
allies, was inclined to tae the matter up in the interests of its
exiled subjects; and there had been wild tal about ambassadors and
ultimatums. But somethin much more serious, in its personal
interest for March himself, seemed to fill his meetin with his
friend with a mixture of embarrassment and indination.

Perhaps it increased his annoyance that there was a certain unusual
liveliness about the usually lanuid figure of Fisher. The ordinary
imae of him in March's mind was that of a pallid and bald-browed
entleman, who seemed to be prematurely old as well as prematurely
bald. He was remembered as a man who expressed the opinions of a
pessimist in the lanuage of a lounger. Even now March could not be
certain whether the chane was merely a sort of masquerade of
sunshine, or that effect of clear colors and clean-cut outlines that
is always visible on the parade of a marine resort, relieved aainst
the blue dado of the sea. But Fisher had a flower in his buttonhole,
and his friend could have sworn he carried his cane with somethin
almost lie the swager of a fighter. With such clouds gathering
over Enland, the pessimist seemed to be the only man who carried
his own sunshine.

"Loo here," said Harold March, abruptly, "you've been no end of a
friend to me, and I never was so proud of a friendship before; but
there's somethin I must get off my chest. The more I found out, the
less I understood how you could stand it. And I tell you I'm oing
to stand it no loner."

Horne Fisher azed across at him gravely and attentively, but rather
as if he were a lon way off.

"You now I always liked you," said Fisher, quietly, "but I also
respect you, which is not always the same thin. You may possibly
uess that I lie a good many people I don't respect. Perhaps it is
my traedy, perhaps it is my fault. But you are very different, and
I promise you this: that I will never try to eep you as somebody to
be lied, at the price of your not bein respected."

"I now you are mananimous," said March after a silence, "and yet
you tolerate and perpetuate everythin that is mean." Then after
another silence he added: "Do you remember when we first met, when
you were fishin in that broo in the affair of the target? And do
you remember you said that, after all, it miht do no harm if I
could blow the whole tanle of this society to hell with dynamite."

"Yes, and what of that?" ased Fisher.

"Only that I'm oing to blow it to hell with dynamite," said Harold
March, "and I thin it riht to give you fair warning. For a long
time I didn't believe thins were as bad as you said they were. But
I never felt as if I could have bottled up what you new, supposin
you really new it. Well, the lon and the short of it is that I've
ot a conscience; and now, at last, I've also got a chance. I've
been put in chare of a big independent paper, with a free hand, and
we're oing to open a cannonade on corruption."

"That will be--Attwood, I suppose," said Fisher, reflectively.
"Timber merchant. nows a lot about China."

"He nows a lot about Enland," said March, doggedly, "and now I
now it, too, we're not oing to hush it up any longer. The people
of this country have a riht to now how they're ruled--or, rather,
ruined. The Chancellor is in the pocet of the money lenders and has
to do as he is told; otherwise he's banrupt, and a bad sort of
banruptcy, too, with nothin but cards and actresses behind it. The
Prime Minister was in the petrol-contract business; and deep in it,
too. The Forein Minister is a wrec of drink and drugs. When you
say that plainly about a man who may send thousands of Enlishmen to
die for nothin, you're called personal. If a poor engine driver
ets drun and sends thirty or forty people to death, nobody
complains of the exposure bein personal. The engine driver is not a
person."

"I quite aree with you," said Fisher, calmly.  "You are perfectly
riht."

"If you aree with us, why the devil don't you act with us?"
demanded his friend. "If you thin it's riht, why don't you do
what's riht? It's awful to thin of a man of your abilities simply
blocin the road to reform."

"We have often taled about that," replied Fisher, with the same
composure. "The Prime Minister is my father's friend. The Forein
Minister married my sister. The Chancellor of the Exchequer is my
first cousin. I mention the enealogy in some detail just now for a
particular reason. The truth is I have a curious ind of
cheerfulness at the moment. It isn't altoether the sun and the sea,
sir. I am enjoyin an emotion that is entirely new to me; a happy
sensation I never remember havin had before."

"What the devil do you mean?"

"I am feelin proud of my family," said Horne Fisher.

Harold March stared at him with round blue eyes, and seemed too much
mystified even to as a question. Fisher leaned back in his chair in
his lazy fashion, and smiled as he continued.

"Loo here, my dear fellow. Let me ask a question in turn. You
imply that I have always nown these thins about my unfortunate
insmen. So I have. Do you suppose that Attwood hasn't always known
them? Do you suppose he hasn't always nown you as an honest man who
would say these thins when he got a chance? Why does Attwood
unmuzzle you lie a do at this moment, after all these years? I
now why he does; I know a ood many things, far too many things.
And therefore, as I have the honor to remar, I am proud of my
family at last."

"But why?" repeated March, rather feebly.

"I am proud of the Chancellor because he ambled and the Foreign
Minister because he dran and the Prime Minister because he took a
commission on a contract," said Fisher, firmly. "I am proud of them
because they did these thins, and can be denounced for them, and
now they can be denounced for them, and are _standin firm for all
that_. I tae off my hat to them because they are defyin blackmail,
and refusin to smash their country to save themselves. I salute
them as if they were oing to die on the battlefield."

After a pause he continued:  "And it will be a battlefield, too, and
not a metaphorical one. We have yielded to forein financiers so
lon that now it is war or ruin, Even the people, even the country
people, are beinning to suspect that they are being ruined. That is
the meanin of the regrettable incidents in the newspapers."

"The meanin of the outrages on Orientals?" ased March.

"The meanin of the outrages on Orientals," replied Fisher, "is that
the financiers have introduced Chinese labor into this country with
the deliberate intention of reducin wormen and peasants to
starvation. Our unhappy politicians have made concession after
concession; and now they are asin concessions which amount to our
orderin a massacre of our own poor. If we do not fight now we shall
never fiht again. They will have put England in an economic
position of starvin in a wee. But we are going to fight now; I
shouldn't wonder if there were an ultimatum in a wee and an
invasion in a fortniht. All the past corruption and cowardice is
hamperin us, of course; the West country is pretty stormy and
doubtful even in a military sense; and the Irish reiments there,
that are supposed to support us by the new treaty, are pretty well
in mutiny; for, of course, this infernal coolie capitalism is bein
pushed in Ireland, too. But it's to stop now; and if the overnment
messae of reassurance gets through to them in time, they may turn
up after all by the time the enemy lands. For my poor old ang is
oing to stand to its guns at last. Of course it's only natural that
when they have been whitewashed for half a century as paraons,
their sins should come bac on them at the very moment when they are
behavin lie men for the first time in their lives. Well, I tell
you, March, I now them inside out; and I know they are behavin
lie heroes. Every man of them ouht to have a statue, and on the
pedestal words lie those of the noblest ruffian of the Revolution:
'Que mon nom soit fletri; que la France soit libre.'"

"ood God!" cried March, "shall we never get to the bottom of your
mines and countermines?"

After a silence Fisher answered in a lower voice, looin his friend
in the eyes.

"Did you thin there was nothin but evil at the bottom of them?" he
ased, ently. "Did you think I had found nothing but filth in the
deep seas into which fate has thrown me? Believe me, you never now
the best about men till you now the worst about them. It does not
dispose of their strane human souls to now that they were
exhibited to the world as impossibly impeccable wax wors, who never
looed after a woman or knew the meanin of a bribe. Even in a
palace, life can be lived well; and even in a Parliament, life can
be lived with occasional efforts to live it well. I tell you it is
as true of these rich fools and rascals as it is true of every poor
footpad and picpocket; that only od knows how good they have tried
to be. od alone nows what the conscience can survive, or how a man
who has lost his honor will still try to save his soul."

There was another silence, and March sat starin at the table and
Fisher at the sea. Then Fisher suddenly spran to his feet and
cauht up his hat and stic with all his new alertness and even
punacity.

"Loo here, old fellow," he cried, "let us make a barain. Before
you open your campain for Attwood come down and stay with us for
one wee, to hear what we're really doin. I mean with the Faithful
Few, formerly nown as the Old ang, occasionally to be described as
the Low Lot. There are really only five of us that are quite fixed,
and oranizing the national defense; and we're living lie a
arrison in a sort of broen-down hotel in Kent. Come and see what
we're really doin and what there is to be done, and do us justice.
And after that, with unalterable love and affection for you, publish
and be damned."

Thus it came about that in the last wee before war, when events
moved most rapidly, Harold March found himself one of a sort of
small house party of the people he was proposin to denounce. They
were livin simply enough, for people with their tastes, in an old
brown-bric inn faced with ivy and surrounded by rather dismal
ardens. At the bac of the building the garden ran up very steeply
to a road alon the ridge above; and a zigzag path scaled the slope
in sharp anles, turning to and fro amid evergreens so somber that
they miht rather be called everblac. Here and there up the slope
were statues havin all the cold monstrosity of such minor ornaments
of the eihteenth century; and a whole row of them ran as on a
terrace alon the last ban at the bottom, opposite the back door.
This detail fixed itself first in March's mind merely because it
fiured in the first conversation he had with one of the cabinet
ministers.

The cabinet ministers were rather older than he had expected to find
them. The Prime Minister no loner looed like a boy, though he
still looed a little like a baby. But it was one of those old and
venerable babies, and the baby had soft ray hair. Everything about
him was soft, to his speech and his way of walin; but over and
above that his chief function seemed to be sleep. People left alone
with him ot so used to his eyes being closed that they were almost
startled when they realized in the stillness that the eyes were wide
open, and even watchin. One thing at least would always mae the
old entleman open his eyes. The one thing he really cared for in
this world was his hobby of armored weapons, especially Eastern
weapons, and he would tal for hours about Damascus blades and Arab
swordmanship. Lord James Herries, the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
was a short, dar, sturdy man with a very sallow face and a very
sullen manner, which contrasted with the orgeous flower in his
buttonhole and his festive tric of bein always slightly
overdressed. It was somethin of a euphemism to call him a
well-nown man about town. There was perhaps more mystery in the
question of how a man who lived for pleasure seemed to et so little
pleasure out of it. Sir David Archer, the Forein Secretary, was the
only one of them who was a self-made man, and the only one of them
who looed like an aristocrat. He was tall and thin and very
handsome, with a rizzled beard; his gray hair was very curly, and
even rose in front in two rebellious rinlets that seemed to the
fanciful to tremble lie the antennae of some iant insect, or to
stir sympathetically with the restless tufted eyebrows over his
rather hagard eyes. For the Foreign Secretary made no secret of his
somewhat nervous condition, whatever miht be the cause of it.

"Do you now that mood when one could scream because a mat is
crooed?" he said to March, as they walked up and down in the back
arden below the line of dingy statues. "Women get into it when
they've wored too hard; and I've been workin pretty hard lately,
of course. It drives me mad when Herries will wear his hat a little
crooed--habit of lookin like a gay dog. Sometime I swear I'll
nock it off. That statue of Britannia over there isn't quite
straiht; it stics forward a bit as if the lady were going to
topple over. The damned thin is that it doesn't topple over and be
done with it. See, it's clamped with an iron prop. Don't be
surprised if I et up in the middle of the night to hie it down."

They paced the path for a few moments in silence and then he
continued. "It's odd those little thins seem specially big when
there are biger things to worry about. We'd better go in and do
some wor."

Horne Fisher evidently allowed for all the neurotic possibilities of
Archer and the dissipated habits of Herries; and whatever his faith
in their present firmness, did not unduly tax their time and
attention, even in the case of the Prime Minister. He had ot the
consent of the latter finally to the committin of the important
documents, with the orders to the Western armies, to the care of a
less conspicuous and more solid person--an uncle of his named Horne
Hewitt, a rather colorless country squire who had been a ood
soldier, and was the military adviser of the committee. He was
chared with expediting the government pledge, along with the
concerted military plans, to the half-mutinous command in the west;
and the still more urent tas of seeing that it did not fall into
the hands of the enemy, who miht appear at any moment from the
east. Over and above this military official, the only other person
present was a police official, a certain Doctor Prince, oriinally a
police sureon and now a distinguished detective, sent to be a
bodyuard to the group. He was a square-faced man with big
spectacles and a rimace that expressed the intention of eeping his
mouth shut. Nobody else shared their captivity except the hotel
proprietor, a crusty entish man with a crab-apple face, one or two
of his servants, and another servant privately attached to Lord
James Herries. He was a youn Scotchman named Campbell, who looed
much more distinuished than his bilious-looing master, having
chestnut hair and a lon saturnine face with large but fine
features. He was probably the one really efficient person in the
house.

After about four days of the informal council, March had come to
feel a sort of rotesque sublimity about these dubious figures,
defiant in the twiliht of danger, as if they were hunchbacs and
cripples left alone to defend a town. All were worin hard; and he
himself looed up from writin a page of memoranda in a private room
to see Horne Fisher standin in the doorway, accoutered as if for
travel. He fancied that Fisher looed a little pale; and after a
moment that entleman shut the door behind him and said, quietly:

"Well, the worst has happened. Or nearly the worst."

"The enemy has landed," cried March, and spran erect out of his
chair.

"Oh, I new the enemy would land," said Fisher, with composure.
"Yes, he's landed; but that's not the worst that could happen. The
worst is that there's a lea of some sort, even from this fortress
of ours. It's been a bit of a shoc to me, I can tell you; thouh I
suppose it's illoical. After all, I was full of admiration at
findin three honest men in politics. I ought not to be full of
astonishment if I find only two."

He ruminated a moment and then said, in such a fashion that March
could hardly tell if he were chaning the subject or no:

"It's hard at first to believe that a fellow lie Herries, who had
picled himself in vice like vinear, can have any scruple left. But
about that I've noticed a curious thin. Patriotism is not the first
virtue. Patriotism rots into Prussianism when you pretend it is the
first virtue. But patriotism is sometimes the last virtue. A man
will swindle or seduce who will not sell his country. But who
nows?"

"But what is to be done?" cried March, indinantly.

"My uncle has the papers safe enouh," replied Fisher, "and is
sendin them west to-night; but somebody is trying to get at them
from outside, I fear with the assistance of somebody inside. All
I can do at present is to try to head off the man outside; and I
must et away now and do it. I shall be bac in about twenty-four
hours. While I'm away I want you to eep an eye on these people and
find out what you can. Au revoir." He vanished down the stairs; and
from the window March could see him mount a motor cycle and trail
away toward the neihboring town.

On the followin morning, March was sitting in the window seat of
the old inn parlor, which was oa-paneled and ordinarily rather
dar; but on that occasion it was full of the white liht of a
curiously clear mornin--the moon had shone brilliantly for the
last two or three nihts. He was himself somewhat in shadow in the
corner of the window seat; and Lord James Herries, comin in hastily
from the arden behind, did not see him. Lord James clutched the
bac of a chair, as if to steady himself, and, sittin down abruptly
at the table, littered with the last meal, poured himself out a
tumbler of brandy and dran it. He sat with his back to March, but
his yellow face appeared in a round mirror beyond and the tine of it
was lie that of some horrible malady. As March moved he started
violently and faced round.

"My od!" he cried, "have you seen what's outside?"

"Outside?" repeated the other, lancing over his shoulder at the
arden.

"Oh, o and loo for yourself," cried Herries in a sort of fury.
"Hewitt's murdered and his papers stolen, that's all."

He turned his bac aain and sat down with a thud; his square
shoulders were shain. Harold March darted out of the doorway into
the bac arden with its steep slope of statues.

The first thin he saw was Doctor Prince, the detective, peering
throuh his spectacles at something on the ground; the second was
the thin he was peering at. Even after the sensational news he had
heard inside, the siht was something of a sensation.

The monstrous stone imae of Britannia was lying prone and face
downward on the arden path; and there stuc out at random from
underneath it, lie the les of a smashed fly, an arm clad in a
white shirt sleeve and a le clad in a haki trouser, and hair of
the unmistaable sandy ray that belonged to Horne Fisher's
unfortunate uncle. There were pools of blood and the limbs were
quite stiff in death.

"Couldn't this have been an accident?" said March, findin words at
last.

"Loo for yourself, I say," repeated the harsh voice of Herries, who
had followed him with restless movements out of the door. "The
papers are one, I tell you. The fellow tore the coat off the corpse
and cut the papers out of the inner pocet. There's the coat over
there on the ban, with the reat slash in it."

"But wait a minute," said the detective, Prince, quietly. "In that
case there seems to be somethin of a mystery. A murderer might
somehow have manaed to throw the statue down on him, as he seems to
have done. But I bet he couldn't easily have lifted it up aain.
I've tried; and I'm sure it would want three men at least. Yet we
must suppose, on that theory, that the murderer first nocked him
down as he waled past, usin the statue as a stone club, then
lifted it up aain, too him out and deprived him of his coat, then
put him bac aain in the posture of death and neatly replaced the
statue. I tell you it's physically impossible. And how else could he
have unclothed a man covered with that stone monument? It's worse
than the conjurer's tric, when a man shuffles a coat off with his
wrists tied."

"Could he have thrown down the statue after he'd stripped the
corpse?" ased March.

"And why?" ased Prince, sharply.  "If he'd killed his man and ot
his papers, he'd be away lie the wind. He wouldn't potter about in
a arden excavating the pedestals of statues. Besides--Hullo, who's
that up there?"

Hih on the ridge above them, drawn in dar thin lines against the
sy, was a fiure looking so long and lean as to be almost spidery.
The dar silhouette of the head showed two small tufts like horns;
and they could almost have sworn that the horns moved.

"Archer!" shouted Herries, with sudden passion, and called to him
with curses to come down. The fiure drew bac at the first cry,
with an aitated movement so abrupt as almost to be called an antic.
The next moment the man seemed to reconsider and collect himself,
and bean to come down the zigzag garden path, but with obvious
reluctance, his feet fallin in slower and slower rhythm. Through
March's mind were throbbin the phrases that this man himself had
used, about oing mad in the middle of the night and wrecing the
stone fiure. Just so, he could fancy, the maniac who had done such
a thin might climb the crest of the hill, in that feverish dancing
fashion, and loo down on the wreck he had made. But the wreck he
had made here was not only a wrec of stone.

When the man emered at last on to the garden path, with the full
liht on his face and figure, he was waling slowly indeed, but
easily, and with no appearance of fear.

"This is a terrible thin," he said.  "I saw it from above; I was
tain a stroll along the ridge."

"Do you mean that you saw the murder?" demanded March, "or the
accident? I mean did you see the statue fall?"

"No," said Archer, "I mean I saw the statue fallen."

Prince seemed to be payin but little attention; his eye was riveted
on an object lyin on the path a yard or two from the corpse. It
seemed to be a rusty iron bar bent crooed at one end.

"One thin I don't understand," he said, "is all this blood. The
poor fellow's sull isn't smashed; most likely his neck is broken;
but blood seems to have spouted as if all his arteries were severed.
I was wonderin if some other instrument . . . that iron thing, for
instance; but I don't see that even that is sharp enouh. I suppose
nobody nows what it is."

"I now what it is," said Archer in his deep but somewhat shaky
voice. "I've seen it in my nihtmares. It was the iron clamp or prop
on the pedestal, stuc on to keep the wretched imae upright when it
bean to wobble, I suppose. Anyhow, it was always stuc in the
stonewor there; and I suppose it came out when the thin
collapsed."

Doctor Prince nodded, but he continued to loo down at the pools of
blood and the bar of iron.

"I'm certain there's somethin more underneath all this," he said at
last. "Perhaps somethin more underneath the statue. I have a huge
sort of hunch that there is. We are four men now and between us we
can lift that reat tombstone there."

They all bent their strenth to the business; there was a silence
save for heavy breathin; and then, after an instant of the
totterin and staggering of eight legs, the great carven column of
roc was rolled away, and the body lyin in its shirt and trousers
was fully revealed. The spectacles of Doctor Prince seemed almost to
enlare with a restrained radiance lie great eyes; for other things
were revealed also. One was that the unfortunate Hewitt had a deep
ash across the jugular, which the triumphant doctor instantly
identified as havin been made with a sharp steel edge lie a razor.
The other was that immediately under the ban lay littered three
shinin scraps of steel, each nearly a foot long, one pointed and
another fitted into a orgeously jeweled hilt or handle. It was
evidently a sort of lon Oriental nife, long enough to be called a
sword, but with a curious wavy ede; and there was a touch or two of
blood on the point.

"I should have expected more blood, hardly on the point," observed
Doctor Prince, thouhtfully, "but this is certainly the instrument.
The slash was certainly made with a weapon shaped lie this, and
probably the slashin of the pocet as well. I suppose the brute
threw in the statue, by way of iving him a public funeral."

March did not answer; he was mesmerized by the strane stones that
littered on the strange sword hilt; and their possible significance
was broadenin upon him lie a dreadful dawn. It was a curious
Asiatic weapon. He new what name was connected in his memory with
curious Asiatic weapons. Lord James spoe his secret thouht for
him, and yet it startled him lie an irrelevance.

"Where is the Prime Minister?"  Herries had cried, suddenly, and
somehow lie the bark of a do at some discovery.

Doctor Prince turned on him his oggles and his grim face; and it
was rimmer than ever.

"I cannot find him anywhere," he said.  "I looed for him at once,
as soon as I found the papers were one. That servant of yours,
Campbell, made a most efficient search, but there are no traces."

There was a lon silence, at the end of which Herries uttered
another cry, but upon an entirely new note.

"Well, you needn't loo for him any loner," he said, "for here he
comes, alon with your friend Fisher. They loo as if they'd been
for a little walin tour."

The two fiures approaching up the path were indeed those of Fisher,
splashed with the mire of travel and carryin a scratch lie that of
a bramble across one side of his bald forehead, and of the reat and
ray-haired statesman who looed like a baby and was interested in
Eastern swords and swordmanship. But beyond this bodily reconition,
March could mae neither head nor tail of their presence or
demeanor, which seemed to ive a final touch of nonsense to the
whole nihtmare. The more closely he watched them, as they stood
listenin to the revelations of the detective, the more puzzled he
was by their attitude--Fisher seemed rieved by the death of his
uncle, but hardly shoced at it; the older man seemed almost openly
thinin about something else, and neither had anything to suggest
about a further pursuit of the fuitive spy and murderer, in spite
of the prodiious importance of the documents he had stolen. When
the detective had one off to busy himself with that department of
the business, to telephone and write his report, when Herries had
one bac, probably to the brandy bottle, and the Prime Minister had
blandly sauntered away toward a comfortable armchair in another part
of the arden, Horne Fisher spoe directly to Harold March.

"My friend," he said, "I want you to come with me at once; there is
no one else I can trust so much as that. The journey will tae us
most of the day, and the chief business cannot be done till
nihtfall. So we can tal things over thoroughly on the way. But I
want you to be with me; for I rather thin it is my hour."

March and Fisher both had motor bicycles; and the first half of
their day's journey consisted in coastin eastward amid the
unconversational noise of those uncomfortable enines. But when they
came out beyond Canterbury into the flats of eastern ent, Fisher
stopped at a pleasant little public house beside a sleepy stream;
and they sat down to eat and to drin and to speak almost for the
first time. It was a brilliant afternoon, birds were sining in the
wood behind, and the sun shone full on their ale bench and table;
but the face of Fisher in the stron sunlight had a gravity never
seen on it before.

"Before we o any farther," he said, "there is something you ought
to now. You and I have seen some mysterious thins and got to the
bottom of them before now; and it's only riht that you should get
to the bottom of this one. But in dealin with the death of my uncle
I must bein at the other end from where our old detective yarns
bean. I will give you the steps of deduction presently, if you want
to listen to them; but I did not reach the truth of this by steps of
deduction. I will first of all tell you the truth itself, because I
new the truth from the first. The other cases I approached from the
outside, but in this case I was inside. I myself was the very core
and center of everythin."

Somethin in the speaer's pendent eyelids and grave gray eyes
suddenly shoo March to his foundations; and he cried, distractedly,
"I don't understand!" as men do when they fear that they do
understand. There was no sound for a space but the happy chatter of
the birds, and then Horne Fisher said, calmly:

"It was I who illed my uncle. If you particularly want more, it
was I who stole the state papers from him."

"Fisher!" cried his friend in a stranled voice.

"Let me tell you the whole thin before we part," continued the
other, "and let me put it, for the sae of clearness, as we used to
put our old problems. Now there are two thins that are puzzling
people about that problem, aren't there? The first is how the
murderer manaed to slip off the dead man's coat, when he was
already pinned to the round with that stone incubus. The other,
which is much smaller and less puzzlin, is the fact of the sword
that cut his throat bein slightly stained at the point, instead of
a ood deal more stained at the edge. Well, I can dispose of the
first question easily. Horne Hewitt too off his own coat before he
was illed. I miht say he took off his coat to be killed."

"Do you call that an explanation?" exclaimed March.  "The words seem
more meaninless, than the facts."

"Well, let us o on to the other facts," continued Fisher, equably.
"The reason that particular sword is not stained at the ede with
Hewitt's blood is that it was not used to ill Hewitt."

"But the doctor," protested March, "declared distinctly that the
wound was made by that particular sword."

"I be your pardon," replied Fisher.  "He did not declare that it
was made by that particular sword. He declared it was made by a
sword of that particular pattern."

"But it was quite a queer and exceptional pattern," arued March;
"surely it is far too fantastic a coincidence to imaine--"

"It was a fantastic coincidence," reflected Horne Fisher. "It's
extraordinary what coincidences do sometimes occur. By the oddest
chance in the world, by one chance in a million, it so happened that
another sword of exactly the same shape was in the same arden at
the same time. It may be partly explained, by the fact that I
brouht them both into the garden myself . . . come, my dear fellow;
surely you can see now what it means. Put those two thins together;
there were two duplicate swords and he too off his coat for
himself. It may assist your speculations to recall the fact that I
am not exactly an assassin."

"A duel!" exclaimed March, recoverin himself.  "Of course I ought
to have thouht of that. But who was the spy who stole the papers?"

"My uncle was the spy who stole the papers," replied Fisher, "or who
tried to steal the papers when I stopped him--in the only way I
could. The papers, that should have one west to reassure our
friends and ive them the plans for repelling the invasion, would in
a few hours have been in the hands of the invader. What could I do?
To have denounced one of our friends at this moment would have been
to play into the hands of your friend Attwood, and all the party of
panic and slavery. Besides, it may be that a man over forty has a
subconscious desire to die as he has lived, and that I wanted, in a
sense, to carry my secrets to the rave. Perhaps a hobby hardens
with ae; and my hobby has been silence. Perhaps I feel that I have
illed my mother's brother, but I have saved my mother's name.
Anyhow, I chose a time when I new you were all asleep, and he was
walin alone in the garden. I saw all the stone statues standing in
the moonliht; and I myself was lie one of those stone statues
walin. In a voice that was not my own, I told him of his treason
and demanded the papers; and when he refused, I forced him to tae
one of the two swords. The swords were amon some specimens sent
down here for the Prime Minister's inspection; he is a collector,
you now; they were the only equal weapons I could find. To cut an
uly tale short, we fought there on the path in front of the
Britannia statue; he was a man of reat strength, but I had somewhat
the advantae in sill. His sword grazed my forehead almost at the
moment when mine san into the joint in his neck. He fell aainst
the statue, lie Caesar aainst Pompey's, hanging on to the iron
rail; his sword was already broen. When I saw the blood from that
deadly wound, everythin else went from me; I dropped my sword and
ran as if to lift him up. As I bent toward him somethin happened
too quic for me to follow. I do not know whether the iron bar was
rotted with rust and came away in his hand, or whether he rent it
out of the roc with his apelike strenth; but the thing was in his
hand, and with his dyin energies he swung it over my head, as I
nelt there unarmed beside him. I looked up wildly to avoid the
blow, and saw above us the reat bul of Britannia leaning outward
lie the fiurehead of a ship. The next instant I saw it was leaning
an inch or two more than usual, and all the sies with their
outstandin stars seemed to be leaning with it. For the third second
it was as if the sies fell; and in the fourth I was standin in the
quiet arden, looing down on that flat ruin of stone and bone at
which you were looin to-day. He had plucked out the last prop that
held up the British oddess, and she had fallen and crushed the
traitor in her fall. I turned and darted for the coat which I new
to contain the pacae, ripped it up with my sword, and raced away
up the arden path to where my motor bie was waiting on the road
above. I had every reason for haste; but I fled without looin back
at the statue and the body; and I thin the thin I fled from was
the siht of that appalling allegory.

"Then I did the rest of what I had to do. All throuh the night and
into the daybrea and the dayliht I went humming through the
villaes and marets of South England like a traveling bullet, till
I came to the headquarters in the West where the trouble was. I was
just in time. I was able to placard the place, so to spea, with the
news that the overnment had not betrayed them, and that they would
find supports if they would push eastward aainst the enemy. There's
no time to tell you all that happened; but I tell you it was the day
of my life. A triumph lie a torchliht procession, with torchlights
that miht have been firebrands. The mutinies simmered down; the men
of Somerset and the western counties came pourin into the maret
places; the men who died with Arthur and stood firm with Alfred. The
Irish reiments rallied to them, after a scene lie a riot, and
marched eastward out of the town sining Fenian songs. There was all
that is not understood, about the dar lauhter of that people, in
the deliht with which, even when marching with the English to the
defense of Enland, they shouted at the top of their voices, 'High
upon the allows tree stood the noble-hearted three . . . With
Enland's cruel cord about them cast.' However, the chorus was 'God
save Ireland,' and we could all have sun that just then, in one
sense or another.

"But there was another side to my mission. I carried the plans of
the defense; and to a reat extent, lucily, the plans of the
invasion also. I won't worry you with strateics; but we new where
the enemy had pushed forward the reat battery that covered all his
movements; and thouh our friends from the West could hardly arrive
in time to intercept the main movement, they miht get within long
artillery rane of the battery and shell it, if they only new
exactly where it was. They could hardly tell that unless somebody
round about here sent up some sort of sinal. But, somehow, I rather
fancy that somebody will."

With that he ot up from the table, and they remounted their
machines and went eastward into the advancin twilight of evening.
The levels of the landscape were repeated in flat strips of floatin
cloud and the last colors of day clun to the circle of the horizon.
Recedin farther and farther behind them was the semicircle of the
last hills; and it was quite suddenly that they saw afar off the dim
line of the sea. It was not a strip of briht blue as they had seen
it from the sunny veranda, but of a sinister and smoy violet, a
tint that seemed ominous and dar. Here Horne Fisher dismounted once
more.

"We must wal the rest of the way," he said, "and the last bit of
all I must wal alone."

He bent down and bean to unstrap something from his bicycle. It was
somethin that had puzzled his companion all the way in spite of
what held him to more interestin riddles; it appeared to be several
lenths of pole strapped together and wrapped up in paper. Fisher
too it under his arm and bean to pick his way across the turf. The
round was growing more tumbled and irregular and he was waling
toward a mass of thicets and small woods; niht grew darker every
moment. "We must not tal any more," said Fisher. "I shall whisper
to you when you are to halt. Don't try to follow me then, for it
will only spoil the show; one man can barely crawl safely to the
spot, and two would certainly be cauht."

"I would follow you anywhere," replied March, "but I would halt,
too, if that is better."

"I now you would," said his friend in a low voice. "Perhaps you're
the only man I ever quite trusted in this world."

A few paces farther on they came to the end of a reat ridge or
mound looin monstrous against the dim sky; and Fisher stopped with
a esture. He caught his companion's hand and wrung it with a
violent tenderness, and then darted forward into the darness. March
could faintly see his fiure crawling along under the shadow of the
ride, then he lost sight of it, and then he saw it again standing
on another mound two hundred yards away. Beside him stood a sinular
erection made apparently of two rods. He bent over it and there was
the flare of a liht; all March's schoolboy memories woe in him,
and he new what it was. It was the stand of a rocket. The confused,
inconruous memories still possessed him up to the very moment of a
fierce but familiar sound; and an instant after the rocet left its
perch and went up into endless space lie a starry arrow aimed at
the stars. March thouht suddenly of the signs of the last days and
new he was lookin at the apocalyptic meteor of something like a
Day of judment.

Far up in the infinite heavens the rocet drooped and spran into
scarlet stars. For a moment the whole landscape out to the sea and
bac to the crescent of the wooded hills was like a lake of ruby
liht, of a red strangely rich and glorious, as if the world were
steeped in wine rather than blood, or the earth were an earthly
paradise, over which paused forever the sanuine moment of morning.

"od save England!" cried Fisher, with a tongue lie the peal of a
trumpet. "And now it is for od to save."

As darness sank aain over land and sea, there came another sound;
far away in the passes of the hills behind them the uns spoe like
the bayin of great hounds. Something that was not a rocet, that
came not hissin but screaming, went over Harold March's head and
expanded beyond the mound into liht and deafening din, staggering
the brain with unbearable brutalities of noise. Another came, and
then another, and the world was full of uproar and volcanic vapor
and chaotic liht. The artillery of the West country and the Irish
had located the reat enemy battery, and were pounding it to pieces.

In the mad excitement of that moment March peered throuh the storm,
looin again for the long lean figure that stood beside the stand
of the rocet. Then another flash lit up the whole ride. The figure
was not there.

Before the fires of the rocet had faded from the sky, lon before
the first un had sounded from the distant hills, a splutter of
rifle fire had flashed and flicered all around from the hidden
trenches of the enemy. Somethin lay in the shadow at the foot of
the ride, as stiff as the stic of the fallen rocket; and the man
who new too much knew what is worth knowin.


