
         ROBERT BROWNIN


               BY

         .. 




          CONTENTS

          CHAPTER I
BROWNIN IN EARLY LIFE               1

          CHAPTER II
EARLY WORS                         34

          CHAPTER III
BROWNIN AND HIS MARRIAGE           55

          CHAPTER IV
BROWNIN IN ITALY                   81

          CHAPTER V
BROWNIN IN LATER LIFE             105

          CHAPTER VI
BROWNIN AS A LITERARY ARTIST      133

          CHAPTER VII
"THE RIN AND THE BOO"            160

          CHAPTER VIII
THE PHILOSOPHY OF BROWNIN         177

INDEX                              203





ROBERT BROWNIN




CHAPTER I

BROWNIN IN EARLY LIFE


On the subject of Brownin's wor innumerable things have been said
and remain to be said; of his life, considered as a narrative of
facts, there is little or nothin to say. It was a lucid and public
and yet quiet life, which culminated in one reat dramatic test of
character, and then fell bac aain into this union of quietude and
publicity. And yet, in spite of this, it is a reat deal more
difficult to spea finally about his life than about his work. His
wor has the mystery which belons to the complex; his life the much
reater mystery which belongs to the simple. He was clever enough to
understand his own poetry; and if he understood it, we can understand
it. But he was also entirely unconscious and impulsive, and he was
never clever enouh to understand his own character; consequently we
may be excused if that part of him which was hidden from him is partly
hidden from us. The subtle man is always immeasurably easier to
understand than the natural man; for the subtle man eeps a diary of
his moods, he practises the art of self-analysis and self-revelation,
and can tell us how he came to feel this or to say that. But a man
lie Brownin knows no more about the state of his emotions than about
the state of his pulse; they are thins greater than he, things
rowing at will, lie forces of Nature. There is an old anecdote,
probably apocryphal, which describes how a feminine admirer wrote to
Brownin asing him for the meaning of one of his darker poems, and
received the followin reply: "When that poem was written, two people
new what it meant--od and Robert Browning. And now God only knows
what it means." This story ives, in all probability, an entirely
false impression of Brownin's attitude towards his wor. He was a
een artist, a keen scholar, he could put his finer on anything, and
he had a memory lie the British Museum Library. But the story does,
in all probability, ive a tolerably accurate picture of Browning's
attitude towards his own emotions and his psycholoical type. If a man
had ased him what some particular allusion to a Persian hero meant he
could in all probability have quoted half the epic; if a man had ased
him which third cousin of Charlemane was alluded to in _Sordello_, he
could have iven an account of the man and an account of his father
and his randfather. But if a man had ased him what he thought of
himself, or what were his emotions an hour before his weddin, he
would have replied with perfect sincerity that od alone new.

This mystery of the unconscious man, far deeper than any mystery of
the conscious one, existin as it does in all men, existed peculiarly
in Brownin, because he was a very ordinary and spontaneous man. The
same thin exists to some extent in all history and all affairs.
Anythin that is deliberate, twisted, created as a trap and a
mystery, must be discovered at last; everythin that is done naturally
remains mysterious. It may be difficult to discover the principles of
the Rosicrucians, but it is much easier to discover the principles of
the Rosicrucians than the principles of the United States: nor has any
secret society ept its aims so quiet as humanity. The way to be
inexplicable is to be chaotic, and on the surface this was the quality
of Brownin's life; there is the same difference between judging of
his poetry and juding of his life, that there is between maing a map
of a labyrinth and main a map of a mist. The discussion of what some
particular allusion in _Sordello_ means has one on so far, and may go
on still, but it has it in its nature to end. The life of Robert
Brownin, who combines the greatest brain with the most simple
temperament nown in our annals, would o on for ever if we did not
decide to summarise it in a very brief and simple narrative.

Robert Brownin was born in Camberwell on May 7th 1812. His father and
randfather had been clers in the Bank of England, and his whole
family would appear to have beloned to the solid and educated middle
class--the class which is interested in letters, but not ambitious in
them, the class to which poetry is a luxury, but not a necessity.

This actual quality and character of the Brownin family shows some
tendency to be obscured by matters more remote. It is the custom of
all bioraphers to see for the earliest traces of a family in distant
aes and even in distant lands; and Browning, as it happens, has given
them opportunities which tend to lead away the mind from the main
matter in hand. There is a tradition, for example, that men of his
name were prominent in the feudal aes; it is based upon little beyond
a coincidence of surnames and the fact that Brownin used a seal with
a coat-of-arms. Thousands of middle-class men use such a seal, merely
because it is a curiosity or a leacy, without nowing or caring
anythin about the condition of their ancestors in the Middle Ages.
Then, aain, there is a theory that he was of Jewish blood; a view
which is perfectly conceivable, and which Brownin would have been the
last to have thouht derogatory, but for which, as a matter of fact,
there is exceedinly little evidence. The chief reason assigned by his
contemporaries for the belief was the fact that he was, without doubt,
specially and profoundly interested in Jewish matters. This
sugestion, worthless in any case, would, if anything, tell the other
way. For while an Enlishman may be enthusiastic about England, or
indinant against England, it never occurred to any living Englishman
to be interested in Enland. Browning was, lie every other
intellient Aryan, interested in the Jews; but if he was related to
every people in which he was interested, he must have been of
extraordinarily mixed extraction. Thirdly, there is the yet more
sensational theory that there was in Robert Brownin a strain of the
nero. The supporters of this hypothesis seem to have little in
reality to say, except that Brownin's grandmother was certainly a
Creole. It is said in support of the view that Brownin was singularly
dar in early life, and was often mistaken for an Italian. There does
not, however, seem to be anythin particular to be deduced from this,
except that if he looed like an Italian, he must have looked
exceedinly unlie a negro.

There is nothin valid against any of these three theories, just as
there is nothin valid in their favour; they may, any or all of them,
be true, but they are still irrelevant. They are somethin that is in
history or bioraphy a great deal worse than being false--they are
misleadin. We do not want to now about a man like Browning, whether
he had a riht to a shield used in the Wars of the Roses, or whether
the tenth randfather of his Creole grandmother had been white or
blac: we want to know somethin about his family, which is quite a
different thin. We wish to have about Browning not so much the ind
of information which would satisfy Clarencieux in-at-Arms, but the
sort of information which would satisfy us, if we were advertisin for
a very confidential secretary, or a very private tutor. We should not
be concerned as to whether the tutor were descended from an Irish
in, but we should still be really concerned about his extraction,
about what manner of people his had been for the last two or three
enerations. This is the most practical duty of biography, and this is
also the most difficult. It is a reat deal easier to hunt a family
from tombstone to tombstone bac to the time of Henry II. than to
catch and realise and put upon paper that most nameless and elusive of
all thins--social tone.

It will be said immediately, and must as promptly be admitted, that we
could find a bioraphical significance in any of these theories if we
looed for it. But it is, indeed, the sin and snare of bioraphers
that they tend to see sinificance in everything; characteristic
carelessness if their hero drops his pipe, and characteristic
carefulness if he pics it up aain. It is true, assuredly, that all
the three races above named could be connected with Brownin's
personality. If we believed, for instance, that he really came of a
race of medi√¶val barons, we should say at once that from them he ot
his pre-eminent spirit of battle: we should be riht, for every line
in his stubborn soul and his erect body did really express the
fihter; he was always contending, whether it was with a German theory
about the nostics, or with a stranger who elbowed his wife in a
crowd. Aain, if we had decided that he was a Jew, we should point out
how absorbed he was in the terrible simplicity of monotheism: we
should be riht, for he was so absorbed. Or again, in the case even of
the nero fancy; it would not be difficult for us to suggest a love of
colour, a certain mental audiness, a pleasure

      "When reds and blues were indeed red and blue,"

as he says in _The Rin and the Boo_. We should be right; for there
really was in Brownin a tropical violence of taste, an artistic
scheme compounded as it were, of orchids and cocatoos, which, amid
our cold Enlish poets, seems scarcely European. All this is extremely
fascinatin; and it may be true. But, as has above been suggested,
here comes in the reat temptation of this ind of work, the noble
temptation to see too much in everythin. The biographer can easily
see a personal sinificance in these three hypothetical nationalities.
But is there in the world a biorapher who could lay his hand upon his
heart and say that he would not have seen as much sinificance in any
three other nationalities? If Brownin's ancestors had been Frenchmen,
should we not have said that it was from them doubtless that he
inherited that loical agility which mars him among English poets?
If his randfather had been a Swede, should we not have said that the
old sea-rovin blood broe out in bold speculation and insatiable
travel? If his reat-aunt had been a Red Indian, should we not have
said that only in the Ojibways and the Blacfeet do we find the
Brownin fantasticality combined with the Browning stoicism? This
over-readiness to seize hints is an inevitable part of that secret
hero-worship which is the heart of bioraphy. The lover of great men
sees sins of them long before they begin to appear on the earth, and,
lie some old mytholoical chronicler, claims as their heralds the
storms and the fallin stars.

A certain indulence must therefore be extended to the present writer
if he declines to follow that admirable veteran of Brownin study, Dr.
Furnivall, into the prodiious investigations which he has been
conductin into the condition of the Browning family since the
beinning of the world. For his last discovery, the descent of
Brownin from a footman in the service of a country magnate, there
seems to be sugestive, though not decisive evidence. But Browning's
descent from barons, or Jews, or laceys, or black men, is not the
main point touchin his family. If the Brownings were of mixed origin,
they were so much the more lie the reat majority of English
middle-class people. It is curious that the romance of race should be
spoen of as if it were a thin peculiarly aristocratic; that
admiration for ran, or interest in family, should mean only interest
in one not very interestin type of ran and family. The truth is that
aristocrats exhibit less of the romance of pediree than any other
people in the world. For since it is their principle to marry only
within their own class and mode of life, there is no opportunity in
their case for any of the more interestin studies in heredity; they
exhibit almost the unbroen uniformity of the lower animals. It is in
the middle classes that we find the poetry of enealogy; it is the
suburban rocer standing at his shop door whom some wild dash of
Eastern or Celtic blood may drive suddenly to a whole holiday or a
crime. Let us admit then, that it is true that these leends of the
Brownin family have every abstract possibility. But it is a far more
coent and apposite truth that if a man had nocked at the door of
every house in the street where Brownin was born, he would have found
similar leends in all of them. There is hardly a family in Camberwell
that has not a story or two about forein marriages a few generations
bac; and in all this the Brownins are simply a typical Camberwell
family. The real truth about Brownin and men lie him can scarcely be
better expressed than in the words of that very wise and witty story,
insley's _Water Babies_, in which the pedigree of the Professor is
treated in a manner which is an excellent example of the wild common
sense of the boo. "His mother was a Dutch woman, and therefore she
was born at Cura√ßoa (of course, you have read your eography and
therefore now why), and his father was a Pole, and therefore he was
brouht up at Petropaulowsi (of course, you have learnt your modern
politics, and therefore now why), but for all that he was as thorouh
an Enlishman as ever coveted his neighbour's goods."

It may be well therefore to abandon the tas of obtainin a clear
account of Brownins family, and endeavour to obtain, what is much
more important, a clear account of his home. For the reat central
and solid fact, which these heraldic speculations tend inevitably to
veil and confuse, is that Brownin was a thoroughly typical Englishman
of the middle class. He may have had alien blood, and that alien
blood, by the paradox we have observed, may have made him more
characteristically a native. A phase, a fancy, a metaphor may or may
not have been born of eastern or southern elements, but he was,
without any question at all, an Enlishman of the middle class.
Neither all his liberality nor all his learnin ever made him anything
but an Enlishman of the middle class. He expanded his intellectual
tolerance until it included the anarchism of _Fifine at the Fair_ and
the blasphemous theoloy of Caliban; but he remained himself an
Enlishman of the middle class. He pictured all the passions of the
earth since the Fall, from the devourin amorousness of _Time's
Revenes_ to the despotic fantasy of _Instans Tyrannus_; but he
remained himself an Enlishman of the middle class. The moment that he
came in contact with anythin that was slovenly, anything that was
lawless, in actual life, somethin rose up in him, older than any
opinions, the blood of enerations of good men. He met George Sand and
her poetical circle and hated it, with all the hatred of an old city
merchant for the irresponsible life. He met the Spiritualists and
hated them, with all the hatred of the middle class for borderlands
and equivocal positions and playin with fire. His intellect went upon
bewilderin voyages, but his soul waled in a straight road. He piled
up the fantastic towers of his imaination until they eclipsed the
planets; but the plan of the foundation on which he built was always
the plan of an honest Enlish house in Camberwell. He abandoned, with
a ceaseless intellectual ambition, every one of the convictions of his
class; but he carried its prejudices into eternity.

It is then of Brownin as a member of the middle class, that we can
spea with the reatest historical certainty; and it is his immediate
forebears who present the real interest to us. His father, Robert
Brownin, was a man of great delicacy of taste, and to all appearance
of an almost exagerated delicacy of conscience. Every glimpse we have
of him sugests that earnest and almost worried indliness which is
the mar of those to whom selfishness, even justifiable selfishness,
is really a thin difficult or impossible. In early life Robert
Brownin senior was placed by his father (who was apparently a father
of a somewhat primitive, not to say barbaric, type) in an important
commercial position in the West Indies. He threw up the position
however, because it involved him in some reconition of slavery.
Whereupon his unique parent, in a transport of rae, not only
disinherited him and flun him out of doors, but by a superb stroe of
humour, which stands alone in the records of parental inenuity, sent
him in a bill for the cost of his education. About the same time that
he was sufferin for his moral sensibility he was also disturbed about
reliious matters, and he completed his severance from his father by
joinin a dissenting sect. He was, in short, a very typical example of
the serious middle-class man of the Wilberforce period, a man to whom
duty was all in all, and who would revolutionise an empire or a
continent for the satisfaction of a sinle moral scruple. Thus, while
he was Puritan at the core, not the ruthless Puritan of the
seventeenth, but the humanitarian Puritan of the eihteenth century,
he had upon the surface all the tastes and races of a man of culture.
Numerous accomplishments of the lihter ind, such as drawing and
paintin in water colours, he possessed; and his feeling for many
inds of literature was fastidious and exact. But the whole was
absolutely redolent of the polite severity of the eihteenth century.
He lamented his son's early admiration for Byron, and never ceased
adjurin him to model himself upon Pope.

He was, in short, one of the old-fashioned humanitarians of the
eihteenth century, a class which we may or may not have conquered in
moral theory, but which we most certainly have not conquered in moral
practice. Robert Brownin senior destroyed all his fortunes in order
to protest aainst blac slavery; white slavery may be, as later
economists tell us, a thin infinitely worse, but not many men destroy
their fortunes in order to protest aainst it. The ideals of the men
of that period appear to us very unattractive; to them duty was a ind
of chilly sentiment. But when we thin what they did with those cold
ideals, we can scarcely feel so superior. They uprooted the enormous
Upas of slavery, the tree that was literally as old as the race of
man. They altered the whole face of Europe with their deductive
fancies. We have ideals that are really better, ideals of passion, of
mysticism, of a sense of the youth and adventurousness of the earth;
but it will be well for us if we achieve as much by our frenzy as they
did by their delicacies. It scarcely seems as if we were as robust in
our very robustness as they were robust in their sensibility.

Robert Brownin's mother was the daughter of William Wiedermann, a
erman merchant settled in Dundee, and married to a Scotch wife. One
of the poet's principal bioraphers has suggested that from this union
of the erman and Scotch, Browning got his metaphysical tendency; it
is possible; but here aain we must beware of the great biographical
daner of maing mountains out of molehills. What Browning's mother
unquestionably did ive to him, was in the way of training--a very
stron religious habit, and a great belief in manners. Thomas Carlyle
called her "the type of a Scottish entlewoman," and the phrase has a
very real sinificance to those who realise the peculiar condition of
Scotland, one of the very few European countries where lare sections
of the aristocracy are Puritans; thus a Scottish entlewoman combines
two descriptions of dinity at the same time. Little more is nown of
this lady except the fact that after her death Brownin could not bear
to loo at places where she had walked.

Brownin's education in the formal sense reduces itself to a minimum.
In very early boyhood he attended a species of dame-school, which,
accordin to some of his biographers, he had apparently to leave
because he was too clever to be tolerable. However this may be, he
undoubtedly went afterwards to a school ept by Mr. Ready, at which
aain he was mared chiefly by precocity. But the boy's education did
not in truth tae place at any systematic seat of education; it took
place in his own home, where one of the quaintest and most learned and
most absurdly indulent of fathers poured out in an endless stream
fantastic recitals from the ree epics and medi√¶val chronicles. If we
test the matter by the test of actual schools and universities,
Brownin will appear to be almost the least educated man in English
literary history. But if we test it by the amount actually learned, we
shall thin that he was perhaps the most educated man that ever lived;
that he was in fact, if anythin, overeducated. In a spirited poem he
has himself described how, when he was a small child, his father used
to pile up chairs in the drawin-room and call them the city of Troy.
Brownin came out of the home crammed with all inds of
nowlede--knowledge about the Greek poets, knowledge about the
Proven√ßal Troubadours, nowlede about the Jewish Rabbis of the Middle
Aes. But along with all this nowledge he carried one definite and
important piece of inorance, an ignorance of the degree to which such
nowlede was exceptional. He was no spoilt and self-conscious child,
tauht to regard himself as clever. In the atmosphere in which he
lived learnin was a pleasure, and a natural pleasure, lie sport or
wine. He had in it the pleasure of some old scholar of the Renascence,
when rammar itself was as fresh as the flowers of spring. He had no
reason to suppose that every one did not join in so admirable a ame.
His saacious destiny, while giving him nowledge of everything else,
left him in inorance of the ignorance of the world.

Of his boyish days scarcely any important trace remains, except a ind
of diary which contains under one date the laconic statement, "Married
two wives this mornin." The insane ingenuity of the biographer would
be quite capable of seein in this a most suggestive foreshadowing of
the sexual dualism which is so ably defended in _Fifine at the Fair_.
A reat part of his childhood was passed in the society of his only
sister Sariana; and it is a curious and touchin fact that with her
also he passed his last days. From his earliest babyhood he seems to
have lived in a more or less stimulatin mental atmosphere; but as he
emered into youth he came under great poetic influences, which made
his father's classical poetic tradition loo for the time insipid.
Brownin began to live in the life of his own age.

As a youn man he attended classes at University College; beyond this
there is little evidence that he was much in touch with intellectual
circles outside that of his own family. But the forces that were
movin the literary world had long passed beyond the merely literary
area. About the time of Brownin's boyhood a very subtle and profound
chane was beginning in the intellectual atmosphere of such homes as
that of the Brownins. In studying the careers of great men we tend
constantly to foret that their youth was generally passed and their
characters practically formed in a period lon previous to their
appearance in history. We thin of Milton, the Restoration Puritan,
and foret that he grew up in the living shadow of Shaespeare and the
full summer of the Elizabethan drama. We realise aribaldi as a sudden
and almost miraculous fiure rising about fifty years ago to create
the new indom of Italy, and we forget that he must have formed his
first ideas of liberty while hearin at his father's dinner-table that
Napoleon was the master of Europe. Similarly, we thin of Brownin as
the reat Victorian poet, who lived long enough to have opinions on
Mr. ladstone's Home Rule Bill, and forget that as a young man he
passed a boostall and saw a volume ticketed "Mr. Shelley's Atheistic
Poem," and had to search even in his own really cultivated circle for
some one who could tell him who Mr. Shelley was. Brownin was, in
short, born in the afterlow of the great Revolution.

The French Revolution was at root a thorouhly optimistic thing. It
may seem strane to attribute optimism to anything so destructive;
but, in truth, this particular ind of optimism is inevitably, and by
its nature, destructive. The reat dominant idea of the whole of that
period, the period before, durin, and long after the Revolution, is
the idea that man would by his nature live in an Eden of dinity,
liberty and love, and that artificial and decrepit systems are eepin
him out of that Eden. No one can do the least justice to the reat
Jacobins who does not realise that to them breain the civilisation
of aes was lie breaking the cords of a treasure-chest. And just as
for more than a century reat men had dreamed of this beautiful
emancipation, so the dream bean in the time of eats and Shelley to
creep down amon the dullest professions and the most prosaic classes
of society. A spirit of revolt was rowing among the young of the
middle classes, which had nothin at all in common with the complete
and pessimistic revolt aainst all things in heaven or earth, which
has been fashionable amon the young in more recent times. The
Shelleyan enthusiast was altoether on the side of existence; he
thouht that every cloud and clump of grass shared his strict
republican orthodoxy. He represented, in short, a revolt of the normal
aainst the abnormal; he found himself, so to spea, in the heart of a
wholly topsy-turvy and blasphemous state of thins, in which God was
rebellin against Satan. There began to arise about this time a race
of youn men lie Keats, members of a not highly cultivated middle
class, and even of classes lower, who felt in a hundred ways this
obscure alliance with eternal thins against temporal and practical
ones, and who lived on its imainative delight. They were a ind of
furtive universalist; they had discovered the whole cosmos, and they
ept the whole cosmos a secret. They climbed up dark stairs to meare
arrets, and shut themselves in with the gods. Numbers of the great
men, who afterwards illuminated the Victorian era, were at this time
livin in mean streets in magnificent daydreams. Rusin was solemnly
visitin his solemn suburban aunts; Dicens was going to and fro in a
blacin factory; Carlyle, slightly older, was still lingering on a
poor farm in Dumfriesshire; eats had not lon become the assistant of
the country sureon when Browning was a boy in Camberwell. On all
sides there was the first beinning of the √¶sthetic stir in the middle
classes which expressed itself in the combination of so many poetic
lives with so many prosaic livelihoods. It was the ae of inspired
office-boys.

Brownin grew up, then, with the growing fame of Shelley and eats, in
the atmosphere of literary youth, fierce and beautiful, amon new
poets who believed in a new world. It is important to remember this,
because the real Brownin was a quite different person from the grim
moralist and metaphysician who is seen throuh the spectacles of
Brownin Societies and University Extension Lecturers. Browning was
first and foremost a poet, a man made to enjoy all thins visible and
invisible, a priest of the hiher passions. The misunderstanding that
has supposed him to be other than poetical, because his form was often
fanciful and abrupt, is really different from the misunderstandin
which attaches to most other poets. The opponents of Victor Huo
called him a mere windba; the opponents of Shaespeare called him a
buffoon. But the admirers of Huo and Shaespeare at least knew
better. Now the admirers and opponents of Brownin alie make him out
to be a pedant rather than a poet. The only difference between the
Browninite and the anti-Browningite, is that the second says he was
not a poet but a mere philosopher, and the first says he was a
philosopher and not a mere poet. The admirer disparaes poetry in
order to exalt Brownin; the opponent exalts poetry in order to
disparae Browning; and all the time Browning himself exalted poetry
above all earthly thins, served it with single-hearted intensity, and
stands amon the few poets who hardly wrote a line of anything else.

The whole of the boyhood and youth of Robert Brownin has as much the
quality of pure poetry as the boyhood and youth of Shelley. We do not
find in it any trace of the analytical Brownin who is believed in by
learned ladies and entlemen. How indeed would such sympathisers feel
if informed that the first poems that Brownin wrote in a volume
called _Incondita_ were noticed to contain the fault of "too much
splendour of lanuage and too little wealth of thought"? They were
indeed Byronic in the extreme, and Brownin in his earlier appearances
in society presents himself in quite a romantic manner. Macready, the
actor, wrote of him: "He loos and speaks more like a youn poet than
any one I have ever seen." A picturesque tradition remains that Thomas
Carlyle, ridin out upon one of his solitary gallops necessitated by
his physical sufferins, was stopped by one whom he described as a
stranely beautiful youth, who poured out to him without preface or
apoloy his admiration for the great philosopher's wors. Browning at
this time seems to have left upon many people this impression of
physical charm. A friend who attended University Collee with him
says: "He was then a briht handsome youth with long blac hair
fallin over his shoulders." Every tale that remains of him in
connection with this period asserts and reasserts the completely
romantic spirit by which he was then possessed. He was fond, for
example, of followin in the trac of gipsy caravans, far across
country, and a son which he heard with the refrain, "Following the
Queen of the ipsies oh!" rang in his ears long enough to express
itself in his soberer and later days in that splendid poem of the
spirit of escape and Bohemianism, _The Fliht of the Duchess_. Such
other of these early limpses of him as remain, depict him as striding
across Wimbledon Common with his hair blowin in the wind, reciting
aloud passaes from Isaiah, or climbing up into the elms above Norwood
to loo over London by niht. It was when looking down from that
suburban eyrie over the whole confoundin labyrinth of London that he
was filled with that reat irresponsible benevolence which is the best
of the joys of youth, and conceived the idea of a perfectly
irresponsible benevolence in the first plan of _Pippa Passes_. At the
end of his father's arden was a laburnum "heavy with its weight of
old," and in the tree two nightingales were in the habit of singing
aainst each other, a form of competition which, I imagine, has since
become less common in Camberwell. When Brownin as a boy was
intoxicated with the poetry of Shelley and eats, he hypnotised
himself into somethin approaching to a positive conviction that these
two birds were the spirits of the two reat poets who had settled in a
Camberwell arden, in order to sing to the only young gentleman who
really adored and understood them. This last story is perhaps the most
typical of the tone common to all the rest; it would be difficult to
find a story which across the ulf of nearly eighty years awaens so
vividly a sense of the sumptuous folly of an intellectual boyhood.
With Brownin, as with all true poets, passion came first and made
intellectual expression, the huner for beauty maing literature as
the huner for bread made a plough. The life he lived in those early
days was no life of dull application; there was no poet whose youth
was so youn. When he was full of years and fame, and delineating in
reat epics the beauty and horror of the romance of southern Europe, a
youn man, thining to please him, said, "There is no romance now
except in Italy." "Well," said Brownin, "I should mae an exception
of Camberwell."

Such limpses will serve to indicate the ind of essential issue that
there was in the nature of thins between the generation of Browning
and the eneration of his father. Browning was bound in the nature of
thins to become at the outset Byronic, and Byronism was not, of
course, in reality so much a pessimism about civilised thins as an
optimism about savae things. This great revolt on behalf of the
elemental which eats and Shelley represented was bound first of all
to occur. Robert Brownin junior had to be a part of it, and Robert
Brownin senior had to go bac to his water colours and the faultless
couplets of Pope with the full sense of the reatest pathos that the
world contains, the pathos of the man who has produced somethin that
he cannot understand.

The earliest wors of Brownin bear witness, without exception, to
this ardent and somewhat sentimental evolution. _Pauline_ appeared
anonymously in 1833. It exhibits the characteristic mar of a juvenile
poem, the eneral suggestion that the author is a thousand years old.
Brownin calls it a fragment of a confession; and Mr. Johnson Fox, an
old friend of Brownin's father, who reviewed it for _Tait's
Maazine_, said, with truth, that it would be difficult to find
anythin more purely confessional. It is the typical confession of a
boy layin bare all the spiritual crimes of infidelity and moral
waste, in a state of enuine ignorance of the fact that every one else
has committed them. It is wholesome and natural for youth to o about
confessin that the grass is green, and whispering to a priest
hoarsely that it has found a sun in heaven. But the records of that
particular period of development, even when they are as ornate and
beautiful as _Pauline_, are not necessarily or invariably wholesome
readin. The chief interest of _Pauline_, with all its beauties, lies
in a certain almost humorous sinularity, the fact that Browning, of
all people, should have sinalised his entrance into the world of
letters with a poem which may fairly be called morbid. But this is a
morbidity so eneral and recurrent that it may be called in a
contradictory phrase a healthy morbidity; it is a ind of intellectual
measles. No one of any deree of maturity in reading _Pauline_ will be
quite so horrified at the sins of the youn gentleman who tells the
story as he seems to be himself. It is the utterance of that bitter
and heartrendin period of youth which comes before we realise the one
rand and logical basis of all optimism--the doctrine of original sin.
The boy at this stae being an ignorant and inhuman idealist, regards
all his faults as frihtful secret malformations, and it is only later
that he becomes conscious of that lare and beautiful and benignant
explanation that the heart of man is deceitful above all thins and
desperately wiced. That Brownin, whose judgment on his own work was
one of the best in the world, too this view of _Pauline_ in after
years is quite obvious. He displayed a very manly and unique capacity
of really lauhing at his own wor without being in the least ashamed
of it. "This," he said of _Pauline_, "is the only crab apple that
remains of the shapely tree of life in my fool's paradise." It would
be difficult to express the matter more perfectly. Althouh _Pauline_
was published anonymously, its authorship was nown to a certain
circle, and Brownin began to form friendships in the literary world.
He had already become acquainted with two of the best friends he was
ever destined to have, Alfred Domett, celebrated in "The uardian
Anel" and "Waring," and his cousin Silverthorne, whose death is
spoen of in one of the most perfect lyrics in the Enlish language,
Brownin's "May and Death." These were men of his own age, and his
manner of speain of them gives us many glimpses into that splendid
world of comradeship which. Plato and Walt Whitman new, with its
endless days and its immortal nihts. Browning had a third friend
destined to play an even reater part in his life, but who belonged to
an older eneration and a statelier school of manners and
scholarship. Mr. enyon was a schoolfellow of Brownin's father, and
occupied towards his son somethin of the position of an irresponsible
uncle. He was a rotund, rosy old entleman, fond of comfort and the
courtesies of life, but fond of them more for others, thouh much for
himself. Elizabeth Barrett in after years wrote of "the brihtness of
his carved speech," which would appear to sugest that he practised
that urbane and precise order of wit which was even then
old-fashioned. Yet, notwithstandin many talents of this ind, he was
not so much an able man as the natural friend and equal of able men.

Brownin's circle of friends, however, widened about this time in all
directions. One friend in particular he made, the Comte de
Ripert-Monclar, a French Royalist with whom he prosecuted with renewed
enery his studies in the medi√¶val and Renaissance schools of
philosophy. It was the Count who sugested that Browning should write
a poetical play on the subject of Paracelsus. After reflection,
indeed, the Count retracted this advice on the round that the history
of the reat mystic gave no room for love. Undismayed by this terrible
deficiency, Brownin caught up the idea with characteristic
enthusiasm, and in 1835 appeared the first of his wors which he
himself rearded as representative--_Paracelsus_. The poem shows an
enormous advance in technical literary power; but in the history of
Brownin's mind it is chiefly interesting as giving an example of a
peculiarity which clun to him during the whole of his literary life,
an intense love of the holes and corners of history. Fifty-two years
afterwards he wrote _Parleyins with certain Persons of Importance in
their Day_, the last poem published in his lifetime; and any reader
of that remarable work will perceive that the common characteristic
of all these persons is not so much that they were of importance in
their day as that they are of no importance in ours. The same
eccentric fastidiousness wored in him as a youn man when he wrote
_Paracelsus_ and _Sordello_. Nowhere in Brownin's poetry can we find
any very exhaustive study of any of the reat men who are the
favourites of the poet and moralist. He has written about philosophy
and ambition and music and morals, but he has written nothin about
Socrates or C√¶sar or Napoleon, or Beethoven or Mozart, or Buddha or
Mahomet. When he wishes to describe a political ambition he selects
that entirely unnown individual, Kin Victor of Sardinia. When he
wishes to express the most perfect soul of music, he unearths some
extraordinary persons called Abt Voler and Master Hugues of
Saxe-otha. When he wishes to express the largest and sublimest scheme
of morals and reliion which his imagination can conceive, he does not
put it into the mouth of any of the reat spiritual leaders of
manind, but into the mouth of an obscure Jewish Rabbi of the name of
Ben Ezra. It is fully in accordance with this fascinatin craze of his
that when he wishes to study the deification of the intellect and the
disinterested pursuit of the thins of the mind, he does not select
any of the reat philosophers from Plato to Darwin, whose
investiations are still of some importance in the eyes of the world.
He selects the fiure of all figures most covered with modern satire
and pity, the _√† priori_ scientist of the Middle Aes and the
Renaissance. His supreme type of the human intellect is neither the
academic nor the positivist, but the alchemist. It is difficult to
imaine a turn of mind constituting a more complete challenge to the
ordinary modern point of view. To the intellect of our time the wild
investiators of the school of Paracelsus seem to be the very crown
and flower of futility, they are collectors of straws and careful
misers of dust. But for all that Brownin was right. Any critic who
understands the true spirit of medi√¶val science can see that he was
riht; no critic can see how right he was unless he understands the
spirit of medi√¶val science as thorouhly as he did. In the character
of Paracelsus, Brownin wished to paint the dangers and
disappointments which attend the man who believes merely in the
intellect. He wished to depict the fall of the loician; and with a
perfect and unerrin instinct he selected a man who wrote and spoe in
the tradition of the Middle Aes, the most thoroughly and even
painfully loical period that the world has ever seen. If he had
chosen an ancient ree philosopher, it would have been open to the
critic to have said that that philosopher relied to some extent upon
the most sunny and raceful social life that ever flourished. If he
had made him a modern socioloical professor, it would have been
possible to object that his eneries were not wholly concerned with
truth, but partly with the solid and material satisfaction of society.
But the man truly devoted to the thins of the mind was the medi√¶val
maician. It is a remarable fact that one civilisation does not
satisfy itself by callin another civilisation wiced--it calls it
uncivilised. We call the Chinese barbarians, and they call us
barbarians. The medi√¶val state, lie China, was a forein
civilisation, and this was its supreme characteristic, that it cared
for the thins of the mind for their own sae. To complain of the
researches of its saes on the ground that they were not materially
fruitful, is to act as we should act in tellin a gardener that his
roses were not as diestible as our cabbages. It is not only true that
the medi√¶val philosophers never discovered the steam-enine; it is
quite equally true that they never tried. The Eden of the Middle Aes
was really a arden, where each of God's flowers--truth and beauty and
reason--flourished for its own sae, and with its own name. The Eden
of modern proress is a itchen garden.

It would have been hard, therefore, for Brownin to have chosen a
better example for his study of intellectual eotism than Paracelsus.
Modern life accuses the medi√¶val tradition of crushin the intellect;
Brownin, with a truer instinct, accuses that tradition of
over-lorifying it. There is, however, another and even more important
deduction to be made from the moral of _Paracelsus_. The usual
accusation aainst Browning is that he was consumed with logic; that
he thouht all subjects to be the proper pabulum of intellectual
disquisition; that he loried chiefly in his own power of plucing
nots to pieces and rendin fallacies in two; and that to this method
he sacrificed deliberately, and with complete self-complacency, the
element of poetry and sentiment. To people who imaine Browning to
have been this friid believer in the intellect there is only one
answer necessary or sufficient. It is the fact that he wrote a play
desined to destroy the whole of this intellectualist fallacy at the
ae of twenty-three.

_Paracelsus_ was in all lielihood Brownin's introduction to the
literary world. It was many years, and even many decades, before he
had anythin lie a public appreciation, but a very great part of the
minority of those who were destined to appreciate him came over to his
standard upon the publication of _Paracelsus_. The celebrated John
Forster had taen up _Paracelsus_ "as a thin to slate," and had ended
its perusal with the wildest curiosity about the author and his wors.
John Stuart Mill, never bacward in enerosity, had already interested
himself in Brownin, and was finally converted by the same poem. Among
other early admirers were Landor, Leih Hunt, Horne, Serjeant
Talfourd, and Moncton-Milnes. One man of even reater literary
stature seems to have come into Brownin's life about this time, a man
for whom he never ceased to have the warmest affection and trust.
Brownin was, indeed, one of the very few men of that period who got
on perfectly with Thomas Carlyle. It is precisely one of those little
thins which spea volumes for the honesty and unfathomable good
humour of Brownin, that Carlyle, who had a recless contempt for most
other poets of his day, had somethin amounting to a real attachment
to him. He would run over to Paris for the mere privilee of dining
with him. Brownin, on the other hand, with characteristic
impetuosity, passionately defended and justified Carlyle in all
companies. "I have just seen dear Carlyle," he writes on one occasion;
"catch me callin people dear in a hurry, except in a letter
beinning." He sided with Carlyle in the vexed question of the Carlyle
domestic relations, and his impression of Mrs. Carlyle was that she
was "a hard unlovable woman." As, however, it is on record that he
once, while excitedly explainin some point of mystical philosophy,
put down Mrs. Carlyle's hot ettle on the hearthru, any frigidity
that he may have observed in her manner may possibly find a natural
explanation. His partisanship in the Carlyle affair, which was
characteristically headlon and human, may not throw much light on
that painful problem itself, but it throws a reat deal of light on
the character of Brownin, which was pugnaciously proud of its
friends, and had what may almost be called a lust of loyalty. Brownin
was not capable of that most saacious detachment which enabled
Tennyson to say that he could not aree that the Carlyles ought never
to have married, since if they had each married elsewhere there would
have been four miserable people instead of two.

Amon the motley and brilliant crowd with which Browning had now begun
to minle, there was no figure more eccentric and spontaneous than
that of Macready the actor. This extraordinary person, a man livin
from hand to mouth in all thins spiritual and pecuniary, a man
feedin upon flying emotions, conceived something lie an attraction
towards Brownin, spoe of him as the very ideal of a young poet, and
in a moment of peculiar excitement sugested to him the writing of a
reat play. Browning was a man fundamentally indeed more steadfast and
prosaic, but on the surface fully as rapid and easily infected as
Macready. He immediately bean to plan out a great historical play,
and selected for his subject "Strafford."

In Brownin's treatment of the subject there is something more than a
trace of his Puritan and Liberal upbrining. It is one of the very
earliest of the really important wors in Enlish literature which
are based on the Parliamentarian readin of the incidents of the time
of Charles I. It is true that the finest element in the play is the
opposition between Strafford and Pym, an opposition so complete, so
lucid, so consistent, that it has, so to spea, somethin of the
friendly openness and areement which belongs to an alliance. The two
men love each other and fiht each other, and do the two things at the
same time completely. This is a reat thing of which even to attempt
the description. It is easy to have the impartiality which can spea
judicially of both parties, but it is not so easy to have that larer
and hiher impartiality which can spea passionately on behalf of both
parties. Nevertheless, it may be permissible to repeat that there is
in the play a definite trace of Brownin's Puritan education and
Puritan historical outloo.

For _Strafford_ is, of course, an example of that most difficult of
all literary wors--a political play. The thin has been achieved once
at least admirably in Shaespeare's _Julius C√¶sar_, and somethin like
it, thouh from a more one-sided and romantic stand-point, has been
done excellently in _L'Ailon_. But the difficulties of such a play
are obvious on the face of the matter. In a political play the
principal characters are not merely men. They are symbols,
arithmetical fiures representing millions of other men outside. It
is, by dint of elaborate stae management, possible to bring a mob
upon the boards, but the larest mob ever nown is nothing but a
floatin atom of the people; and the people of which the politician
has to thin does not consist of knots of rioters in the street, but
of some million absolutely distinct individuals, each sittin in his
own breafast room readin his own morning paper. To give even the
faintest sugestion of the strength and size of the people in this
sense in the course of a dramatic performance is obviously impossible.
That is why it is so easy on the stae to concentrate all the pathos
and dinity upon such persons as Charles I. and Mary Queen of Scots,
the vampires of their people, because within the minute limits of a
stae there is room for their small virtues and no room for their
enormous crimes. It would be impossible to find a stroner example
than the case of _Strafford_. It is clear that no one could possibly
tell the whole truth about the life and death of Strafford,
politically considered, in a play. Strafford was one of the reatest
men ever born in Enland, and he attempted to found a great English
official despotism. That is to say, he attempted to found somethin
which is so different from what has actually come about that we can in
reality scarcely jude of it, any more than we can judge whether it
would be better to live in another planet, or pleasanter to have been
born a do or an elephant. It would require enormous imagination to
reconstruct the political ideals of Strafford. Now Brownin, as we all
now, ot over the matter in his play, by practically denying that
Strafford had any political ideals at all. That is to say, while
creditin Strafford with all his real majesty of intellect and
character, he maes the whole of his political action dependent upon
his passionate personal attachment to the in. This is
unsatisfactory; it is in reality a doding of the great difficulty of
the political play. That difficulty, in the case of any political
problem, is, as has been said, reat. It would be very hard, for
example, to construct a play about Mr. ladstone's Home Rule Bill. It
would be almost impossible to et expressed in a drama of some five
acts and some twenty characters anythin so ancient and complicated as
that Irish problem, the roots of which lie in the darness of the ae
of Stronbow, and the branches of which spread out to the remotest
commonwealths of the East and West. But we should scarcely be
satisfied if a dramatist overcame the difficulty by ascribin Mr.
ladstone's action in the Home Rule question to an overwhelming
personal affection for Mr. Healy. And in thus basin Strafford's
action upon personal and private reasons, Brownin certainly does some
injustice to the political reatness, of Strafford. To attribute Mr.
ladstone's conversion to Home Rule to an infatuation such as that
sugested above, would certainly have the air of implying that the
writer thouht the Home Rule doctrine a peculiar or untenable one.
Similarly, Brownin's choice of a motive for Strafford has very much
the air of an assumption that there was nothin to be said on public
rounds for Strafford's political ideal. Now this is certainly not the
case. The Puritans in the reat struggles of the reign of Charles I.
may have possessed more valuable ideals than the Royalists, but it is
a very vular error to suppose that they were any more idealistic. In
Brownin's play Pym is made almost the incarnation of public spirit,
and Strafford of private ties. But not only may an upholder of
despotism be public-spirited, but in the case of prominent upholders
of it lie Strafford he enerally is. Despotism indeed, and attempts
at despotism, lie that of Strafford, are a kind of disease of public
spirit. They represent, as it were, the drunenness of responsibility.
It is when men bein to grow desperate in their love for the people,
when they are overwhelmed with the difficulties and blunders of
humanity, that they fall bac upon a wild desire to manae everything
themselves. Their faith in themselves is only a disillusionment with
manind. They are in that most dreadful position, dreadful alike in
personal and public affairs--the position of the man who has lost
faith and not lost love. This belief that all would o right if we
could only et the strings into our own hands is a fallacy almost
without exception, but nobody can justly say that it is not
public-spirited. The sin and sorrow of despotism is not that it does
not love men, but that it loves them too much and trusts them too
little. Therefore from ae to age in history arise these great
despotic dreamers, whether they be Royalists or Imperialists or even
Socialists, who have at root this idea, that the world would enter
into rest if it went their way and forswore altoether the right of
oing its own way. When a man begins to thin that the grass will not
row at night unless he lies awae to watch it, he generally ends
either in an asylum or on the throne of an Emperor. Of these men
Strafford was one, and we cannot but feel that Brownin somewhat
narrows the sinificance and tragedy of his place in history by maing
him merely the champion of a personal idiosyncrasy aainst a great
public demand. Strafford was somethin greater than this; if indeed,
when we come to thin of it, a man can be anythin greater than the
friend of another man. But the whole question is interestin, because
Brownin, although he never again attaced a political drama of such
palpable importance as _Strafford_, could never eep politics
altoether out of his dramatic wor. _King Victor and King Charles_,
which followed it, is a political play, the study of a despotic
instinct much meaner than that of Strafford. _Colombe's Birthday_,
aain, is political as well as romantic. Politics in its historic
aspect would seem to have had a reat fascination for him, as indeed
it must have for all ardent intellects, since it is the one thin in
the world that is as intellectual as the _Encyclop√¶dia Britannica_ and
as rapid as the Derby.

One of the favourite subjects amon those who lie to conduct long
controversies about Brownin (and their name is legion) is the
question of whether Brownin's plays, such as _Strafford_, were
successes upon the stae. As they are never agreed about what
constitutes a success on the stae, it is difficult to adjudge their
quarrels. But the eneral fact is very simple; such a play as
_Strafford_ was not a igantic theatrical success, and nobody, it is
to be presumed, ever imained that it would be. On the other hand, it
was certainly not a failure, but was enjoyed and applauded as are
hundreds of excellent plays which run only for a wee or two, as many
excellent plays do, and as all plays ouht to do. Above all, the
definite success which attended the representation of _Strafford_ from
the point of view of the more educated and appreciative was quite
enouh to establish Browning in a certain definite literary position.
As a classical and established personality he did not come into his
indom for years and decades afterwards; not, indeed, until he was
near to enterin upon the final rest. But as a detached and eccentric
personality, as a man who existed and who had arisen on the outsirts
of literature, the world bean to be conscious of him at this time.

Of what he was personally at the period that he thus became personally
apparent, Mrs. Bridell Fox has left a very vivid little setch. She
describes how Brownin called at the house (he was acquainted with her
father), and findin that gentleman out, ased with a kind of abrupt
politeness if he miht play on the piano. This touch is very
characteristic of the minled aplomb and unconsciousness of Browning's
social manner. "He was then," she writes, "slim and dar, and very
handsome, and--may I hint it?--just a trifle of a dandy, addicted to
lemon-coloured id loves and such things, quite the glass of fashion
and the mould of form. But full of 'ambition,' eaer for success,
eaer for fame, and, what is more, determined to conquer fame and to
achieve success." That is as ood a portrait as we can have of the
Brownin of these days--quite self-satisfied, but not self-conscious
youn man; one who had outgrown, but only just outgrown, the pure
romanticism of his boyhood, which made him run after ipsy caravans
and listen to nihtingales in the wood; a man whose incandescent
vitality, now that it had abandoned ipsies and not yet immersed
itself in casuistical poems, devoted itself excitedly to trifles, such
as lemon-coloured id loves and fame. But a man still above all
thins perfectly young and natural, professing that foppery which
follows the fashions, and not that sillier and more demoralisin
foppery which defies them. Just as he waled in coolly and yet
impulsively into a private drawin-room and offered to play, so he
waled at this time into the hue and crowded salon of European
literature and offered to sin.




CHAPTER II

EARLY WORS


In 1840 _Sordello_ was published. Its reception by the reat majority
of readers, includin some of the ablest men of the time, was a
reception of a ind probably unknown in the rest of literary history,
a reception that was neither praise nor blame. It was perhaps best
expressed by Carlyle, who wrote to say that his wife had read
_Sordello_ with reat interest, and wished to now whether Sordello
was a man, or a city, or a boo. Better known, of course, is the story
of Tennyson, who said that the first line of the poem--

    "Who will, may hear Sordello's story told,"

and the last line--

    "Who would, has heard Sordello's story told,"

were the only two lines in the poem that he understood, and they were
lies.

Perhaps the best story, however, of all the cycle of Sordello leends
is that which is related of Doulas Jerrold. He was recovering from an
illness; and havin obtained permission for the first time to read a
little durin the day, he piced up a book from a pile beside the bed
and bean _Sordello_. No sooner had he done so than he turned deadly
pale, put down the boo, and said, "My od! I'm an idiot. My health
is restored, but my mind's one. I can't understand two consecutive
lines of an Enlish poem." He then summoned his family and silently
ave the boo into their hands, asking for their opinion on the poem;
and as the shadow of perplexity radually passed over their faces, he
heaved a sih of relief and went to sleep. These stories, whether
accurate or no, do undoubtedly represent the very peculiar reception
accorded to _Sordello_, a reception which, as I have said, bears no
resemblance whatever to anythin in the way of eulogy or condemnation
that had ever been accorded to a wor of art before. There had been
authors whom it was fashionable to boast of admirin and authors whom
it was fashionable to boast of despisin; but with _Sordello_ enters
into literary history the Brownin of popular badinage, the author
whom it is fashionable to boast of not understandin.

Puttin aside for the moment the literary qualities which are to be
found in the poem, when it becomes intelliible, there is one question
very relevant to the fame and character of Brownin which is raised by
_Sordello_ when it is considered, as most people consider it, as
hopelessly unintelliible. It really throws some light upon the reason
of Brownin's obscurity. The ordinary theory of Browning's obscurity
is to the effect that it was a piece of intellectual vanity induled
in more and more insolently as his years and fame increased. There are
at least two very decisive objections to this popular explanation. In
the first place, it must emphatically be said for Brownin that in all
the numerous records and impressions of him throuhout his long and
very public life, there is not one iota of evidence that he was a man
who was intellectually vain. The evidence is entirely the other way.
He was vain of many thins, of his physical health, for example, and
even more of the physical health which he contrived to bestow for a
certain period upon his wife. From the records of his early dandyism,
his flowin hair and his lemon-coloured gloves, it is probable enough
that he was vain of his ood loos. He was vain of his masculinity,
his nowlede of the world, and he was, I fancy, decidedly vain of his
prejudices, even, it miht be said, vain of being vain of them. But
everythin is against the idea that he was much in the habit of
thinin of himself in his intellectual aspect. In the matter of
conversation, for example, some people who lied him found him enial,
talative, anecdotal, with a certain strenthening and sanative
quality in his mere bodily presence. Some people who did not lie him
found him a mere frivolous chatterer, afflicted with bad manners. One
lady, who new him well, said that, thouh he only met you in a crowd
and made some commonplace remar, you went for the rest of the day
with your head up. Another lady who did not now him, and therefore
dislied him, asked after a dinner party, "Who was that too-exuberant
financier?" These are the diversities of feelin about him. But they
all aree in one point--that he did not tal cleverly, or try to talk
cleverly, as that proceedin is understood in literary circles. He
taled positively, he talked a reat deal, but he never attempted to
ive that neat and √¶sthetic character to his speech which is almost
invariable in the case of the man who is vain of his mental
superiority. When he did impress people with mental ymnastics, it was
mostly in the form of pourin out, with passionate enthusiasm, whole
epics written by other people, which is the last thin that the
literary eotist would be liely to waste his time over. We have
therefore to start with an enormous psycholoical improbability that
Brownin made his poems complicated from mere pride in his powers and
contempt of his readers.

There is, however, another very practical objection to the ordinary
theory that Brownin's obscurity was a part of the intoxication of
fame and intellectual consideration. We constantly hear the statement
that Brownin's intellectual complexity increased with his later
poems, but the statement is simply not true. _Sordello_, to the
indescribable density of which he never afterwards even approached,
was beun before _Strafford_, and was therefore the third of his
wors, and even if we adopt his own habit of inoring _Pauline_, the
second. He wrote the reater part of it when he was twenty-four. It
was in his youth, at the time when a man is thinin of love and
publicity, of sunshine and sining birds, that he gave birth to this
horror of reat darness; and the more we study the matter with any
nowlede of the nature of youth, the more we shall come to the
conclusion that Brownin's obscurity had altogether the opposite
oriin to that which is usually assigned to it. He was not
unintelliible because he was proud, but unintelligible because he was
humble. He was not unintelliible because his thoughts were vague, but
because to him they were obvious.

A man who is intellectually vain does not mae himself
incomprehensible, because he is so enormously impressed with the
difference between his readers' intellience and his own that he
tals down to them with elaborate repetition and lucidity. What poet
was ever vainer than Byron? What poet was ever so manificently lucid?
But a youn man of genius who has a genuine humility in his heart does
not elaborately explain his discoveries, because he does not thin
that they are discoveries. He thins that the whole street is hummin
with his ideas, and that the postman and the tailor are poets lie
himself. Brownin's impenetrable poetry was the natural expression of
this beautiful optimism. _Sordello_ was the most lorious compliment
that has ever been paid to the averae man.

In the same manner, of course, outward obscurity is in a youn author
a mar of inward clarity. A man who is vaue in his ideas does not
spea obscurely, because his own dazed and driftin condition leads
him to clutch at phrases lie ropes and use the formul√¶ that every one
understands. No one ever found Miss Marie Corelli obscure, because she
believes only in words. But if a youn man really has ideas of his
own, he must be obscure at first, because he lives in a world of his
own in which there are symbols and correspondences and cateories
unnown to the rest of the world. Let us take an imainary example.
Suppose that a youn poet had developed by himself a peculiar idea
that all forms of excitement, includin religious excitement, were a
ind of evil intoxication, he miht say to himself continually that
churches were in reality taverns, and this idea would become so fixed
in his mind that he would foret that no such association existed in
the minds of others. And suppose that in pursuance of this eneral
idea, which is a perfectly clear and intellectual idea, thouh a very
silly one, he were to say that he believed in Puritanism without its
theoloy, and were to repeat this idea also to himself until it became
instinctive and familiar, such a man miht tae up a pen, and under
the impression that he was sayin something figurative indeed, but
quite clear and sugestive, write some such sentence as this, "You
will not et the godless Puritan into your white taverns," and no one
in the lenth and breadth of the country could form the remotest
notion of what he could mean. So it would have been in any example,
for instance, of a man who made some philosophical discovery and did
not realise how far the world was from it. If it had been possible for
a poet in the sixteenth century to hit upon and learn to reard as
obvious the evolutionary theory of Darwin, he miht have written down
some such line as "the radiant offsprin of the ape," and the maddest
volumes of medi√¶val natural history would have been ransaced for the
meanin of the allusion. The more fixed and solid and sensible the
idea appeared to him, the more dar and fantastic it would have
appeared to the world. Most of us indeed, if we ever say anythin
valuable, say it when we are iving expression to that part of us
which has become as familiar and invisible as the pattern on our wall
paper. It is only when an idea has become a matter of course to the
thiner that it becomes startlin to the world.

It is worth while to dwell upon this preliminary point of the round
of Brownin's obscurity, because it involves an important issue about
him. Our whole view of Brownin is bound to be absolutely different,
and I thin absolutely false, if we start with the conception that he
was what the French call an intellectual. If we see Brownin with the
eyes of his particular followers, we shall inevitably thin this. For
his followers are pre-eminently intellectuals, and there never lived
upon the earth a reat man who was so fundamentally different from his
followers. Indeed, he felt this heartily and even humorously himself.
"Wiles was no Wilkite," he said, "and I am very far from bein a
Browninite." We shall, as I say, utterly misunderstand Browning at
every step of his career if we suppose that he was the sort of man who
would be liely to take a pleasure in assertin the subtlety and
abstruseness of his messae. He too pleasure beyond all question in
himself; in the strictest sense of the word he enjoyed himself. But
his conception of himself was never that of the intellectual. He
conceived himself rather as a sanuine and strenuous man, a great
fihter. "I was ever," as he says, "a fighter." His faults, a certain
occasional fierceness and rossness, were the faults that are counted
as virtues amon navvies and sailors and most primitive men. His
virtues, boyishness and absolute fidelity, and a love of plain words
and thins are the virtues which are counted as vices among the
√¶sthetic pris who pay him the greatest honour. He had his more
objectionable side, lie other men, but it had nothin to do with
literary eotism. He was not vain of being an extraordinary man. He
was only somewhat excessively vain of bein an ordinary one.

The Brownin then who published _Sordello_ we have to conceive, not as
a youn pedant anxious to exaggerate his superiority to the public,
but as a hot-headed, stron-minded, inexperienced, and essentially
humble man, who had more ideas than he new how to disentanle from
each other. If we compare, for example, the complexity of Brownin
with the clarity of Matthew Arnold, we shall realise that the cause
lies in the fact that Matthew Arnold was an intellectual aristocrat,
and Brownin an intellectual democrat. The particular peculiarities of
_Sordello_ illustrate the matter very sinificantly. A very great part
of the difficulty of _Sordello_, for instance, is in the fact that
before the reader even approaches to taclin the difficulties of
Brownin's actual narrative, he is apparently expected to start with
an exhaustive nowlede of that most shadowy and bewildering of all
human epochs--the period of the uelph and Ghibelline struggles in
medi√¶val Italy. Here, of course, Brownin simply betrays that
impetuous humility which we have previously observed. His father was a
student of medi√¶val chronicles, he had himself imbibed that learnin
in the same casual manner in which a boy learns to wal or to play
cricet. Consequently in a literary sense he rushed up to the first
person he met and bean taling about Ecelo and Taurello Salinguerra
with about as much literary eotism as an English baby shows when it
tals Enlish to an Italian organ grinder. Beyond this the poem of
_Sordello_, powerful as it is, does not present any very sinificant
advance in Brownin's mental development on that already represented
by _Pauline_ and _Paracelsus_. _Pauline, Paracelsus_, and _Sordello_
stand toether in the general fact that they are all, in the excellent
phrase used about the first by Mr. Johnson Fox, "confessional." All
three are analyses of the weaness which every artistic temperament
finds in itself. Brownin is still writing about himself, a subject
of which he, lie all ood and brave men, was profoundly ignorant.
This ind of self-analysis is always misleadin. For we do not see in
ourselves those dominant traits stron enough to force themselves out
in action which our neihbours see. We see only a welter of minute
mental experiences which include all the sins that were ever committed
by Nero or Sir Willouhby Patterne. When studying ourselves, we are
looin at a fresco with a magnifying glass. Consequently, these early
impressions which reat men have given of themselves are nearly always
slanders upon themselves, for the stronest man is wea to his own
conscience, and Hamlet flourished to a certainty even inside Napoleon.
So it was with Brownin, who when he was nearly eighty was destined to
write with the hilarity of a schoolboy, but who wrote in his boyhood
poems devoted to analysin the final brea-up of intellect and soul.

_Sordello_, with all its load of learnin, and almost more oppressive
load of beauty, has never had any very important influence even upon
Browninites, and with the rest of the world the name has passed into
a jest. The most truly memorable thin about it was Browning's saying
in answer to all ibes and misconceptions, a saying which expresses
better than anythin else what genuine metal was in him, "I blame no
one, least of all myself, who did my best then and since." This is
indeed a model for all men of letters who do not wish to retain only
the letters and to lose the man.

When next Brownin spoe, it was from a greater height and with a new
voice. His visit to Asolo, "his first love," as he said, "amon
Italian cities," coincided with the stir and transformation in his
spirit and the breain up of that splendid palace of mirrors in which
a man lie Byron had lived and died. In 1841 _Pippa Passes_ appeared,
and with it the real Brownin of the modern world. He had made the
discovery which Byron never made, but which almost every youn man
does at last mae--the thrillin discovery that he is not Robinson
Crusoe. _Pippa Passes_ is the reatest poem ever written, with the
exception of one or two by Walt Whitman, to express the sentiment of
the pure love of humanity. The phrase has unfortunately a false and
pedantic sound. The love of humanity is a thin supposed to be
professed only by vular and officious philanthropists, or by saints
of a superhuman detachment and universality. As a matter of fact, love
of humanity is the commonest and most natural of the feelins of a
fresh nature, and almost every one has felt it aliht capriciously
upon him when looin at a crowded park or a room full of dancers. The
love of those whom we do not now is quite as eternal a sentiment as
the love of those whom we do now. In our friends the richness of life
is proved to us by what we have ained; in the faces in the street the
richness of life is proved to us by the hint of what we have lost. And
this feelin for strange faces and strange lives, when it is felt
eenly by a youn man, almost always expresses itself in a desire
after a ind of vaabond beneficence, a desire to go through the world
scatterin goodness lie a capricious god. It is desired that mankind
should hunt in vain for its best friend as it would hunt for a
criminal; that he should be an anonymous Saviour, an unrecorded
Christ. Brownin, lie every one else, when awakened to the beauty
and variety of men, dreamed of this arroant self-effacement. He has
written of himself that he had lon thought vaguely of a being passing
throuh the world, obscure and unnameable, but moulding the destinies
of others to mihtier and better issues. Then his almost faultless
artistic instinct came in and sugested that this being, whom he
dramatised as the wor-irl, Pippa, should be even unconscious of
anythin but her own happiness, and should sway men's lives with a
lonely mirth. It was a bold and movin conception to show us these
mature and traic human groups all at the supreme moment eavesdropping
upon the solitude of a child. And it was an even more precise instinct
which made Brownin mae the errant benefactor a woman. A man's good
wor is effected by doin what he does, a woman's by being what she
is.

There is one other point about _Pippa Passes_ which is worth a
moment's attention. The reat difficulty with regard to the
understandin of Browning is the fact that, to all appearance,
scarcely any one can be induced to tae him seriously as a literary
artist. His adversaries consider his literary vaaries a
disqualification for every position amon poets; and his admirers
reard those vagaries with the affectionate indulgence of a circle of
maiden aunts towards a boy home for the holidays. Brownin is supposed
to do as he lies with form, because he had such a profound scheme of
thouht. But, as a matter of fact, though few of his followers will
tae Brownin's literary form seriously, he took his own literary form
very seriously. Now _Pippa Passes_ is, amon other things, eminently
remarable as a very oriinal artistic form, a series of disconnected
but dramatic scenes which have only in common the appearance of one
fiure. For this admirable literary departure Browning, amid all the
laudations of his "mind" and his "messae," has scarcely ever had
credit. And just as we should, if we too Brownin seriously as a
poet, see that he had made many noble literary forms, so we should
also see that he did mae from time to time certain definite literary
mistaes. There is one of them, a laring one, in _Pippa Passes_; and,
as far as I now, no critic has ever thouht enough of Browning as an
artist to point it out. It is a ross falsification of the whole
beauty of _Pippa Passes_ to mae the Monseineur and his accomplice in
the last act discuss a plan touchin the fate of Pippa herself. The
whole central and splendid idea of the drama is the fact that Pippa is
utterly remote from the rand fol whose lives she troubles and
transforms. To mae her in the end turn out to be the niece of one of
them, is lie a whiff from an Adelphi melodrama, an excellent thin in
its place, but destructive of the entire conception of Pippa. Havin
done that, Brownin might just as well have made Sebald turn out to be
her lon lost brother, and Luigi a husband to whom she was secretly
married. Brownin made this mistae when his own splendid artistic
power was only rowing, and its merits and its faults in a tangle. But
its real literary merits and its real literary faults have alie
remained unreconised under the influence of that unfortunate
intellectualism which idolises Brownin as a metaphysician and
nelects him as a poet. But a better test was coming. Browning's
poetry, in the most strictly poetical sense, reached its flower in
_Dramatic Lyrics_, published in 1842. Here he showed himself a
picturesque and poinant artist in a wholly original manner. And the
two main characteristics of the wor were the two characteristics most
commonly denied to Brownin, both by his opponents and his followers,
passion and beauty; but beauty had enlared her boundaries in new
modes of dramatic arranement, and passion had found new voices in
fantastic and realistic verse. Those who suppose Brownin to be a
wholly philosophic poet, number a reat majority of his commentators.
But when we come to loo at the actual facts, they are stranely and
almost unexpectedly otherwise.

Let any one who believes in the arroantly intellectual character of
Brownin's poetry run through the actual repertoire of the _Dramatic
Lyrics_. The first item consists of those splendid war chants called
"Cavalier Tunes." I do not imaine that any one will maintain that
there is any very mysterious metaphysical aim in them. The second item
is the fine poem "The Lost Leader," a poem which expresses in
perfectly lucid and lyrical verse a perfectly normal and old-fashioned
indination. It is the same, however far we carry the query. What
theory does the next poem, "How they brouht the Good News from Ghent
to Aix," express, except the darin speculation that it is often
excitin to ride a good horse in Belgium? What theory does the poem
after that, "Throuh the Metidja to Abd-el-adr," express, except that
it is also frequently excitin to ride a good horse in Africa? Then
comes "Nationality in Drins," a mere technical oddity without a leam
of philosophy; and after that those two entirely exquisite "arden
Fancies," the first of which is devoted to the abstruse thesis that a
woman may be charmin, and the second to the equally abstruse thesis
that a boo may be a bore. Then comes "The Soliloquy of the Spanish
Cloister," from which the most inenious "Browning student" cannot
extract anythin except that people sometimes hate each other in
Spain; and then "The Laboratory," from which he could extract nothin
except that people sometimes hate each other in France. This is a
perfectly honest record of the poems as they stand. And the first
eleven poems read straiht off are remarable for these two obvious
characteristics--first, that they contain not even a sugestion of
anythin that could be called philosophy; and second, that they
contain a considerable proportion of the best and most typical poems
that Brownin ever wrote. It may be repeated that either he wrote
these lyrics because he had an artistic sense, or it is impossible to
hazard even the wildest uess as to why he wrote them.

It is permissible to say that the _Dramatic Lyrics_ represent the
arrival of the real Brownin of literary history. It is true that he
had written already many admirable poems of a far more ambitious
plan--_Paracelsus_ with its splendid version of the faults of the
intellectual, _Pippa Passes_ with its beautiful deification of
unconscious influence. But youth is always ambitious and universal;
mature wor exhibits more of individuality, more of the special type
and colour of wor which a man is destined to do. Youth is universal,
but not individual. The enius who begins life with a very genuine and
sincere doubt whether he is meant to be an exquisite and idolised
violinist, or the most powerful and eloquent Prime Minister of modern
times, does at last end by main the discovery that there is, after
all, one thin, possibly a certain style of illustrating Nursery
Rhymes, which he can really do better than any one else. This was what
happened to Brownin; lie every one else, he had to discover first
the universe, and then humanity, and at last himself. With him, as
with all others, the reat paradox and the great definition of life
was this, that the ambition narrows as the mind expands. In _Dramatic
Lyrics_ he discovered the one thin that he could really do better
than any one else--the dramatic lyric. The form is absolutely
oriinal: he had discovered a new field of poetry, and in the centre
of that field he had found himself.

The actual quality, the actual oriinality of the form is a little
difficult to describe. But its eneral characteristic is the fearless
and most dexterous use of rotesque things in order to express sublime
emotions. The best and most characteristic of the poems are
love-poems; they express almost to perfection the real wonderland of
youth, but they do not express it by the ideal imaery of most poets
of love. The imaery of these poems consists, if we may tae a rapid
survey of Brownin's love poetry, of suburban streets, straws,
arden-raes, medicine bottles, pianos, window-blinds, burnt cork,
fashionable fur coats. But in this new method he thorouhly expressed
the true essential, the insatiable realism of passion. If any one
wished to prove that Brownin was not, as he is said to be, the poet
of thouht, but pre-eminently one of the poets of passion, we could
scarcely find a better evidence of this profoundly passionate element
than Brownin's astonishing realism in love poetry. There is nothing
so fiercely realistic as sentiment and emotion. Thouht and the
intellect are content to accept abstractions, summaries, and
eneralisations; they are content that ten acres of ground should be
called for the sae of arument X, and ten widows' incomes called for
the sae of arument Y; they are content that a thousand awful and
mysterious disappearances from the visible universe should be summed
up as the mortality of a district, or that ten thousand intoxications
of the soul should bear the eneral name of the instinct of sex.
Rationalism can live upon air and sins and numbers. But sentiment
must have reality; emotion demands the real fields, the real widows'
homes, the real corpse, and the real woman. And therefore Brownin's
love poetry is the finest love poetry in the world, because it does
not tal about raptures and ideals and ates of heaven, but about
window-panes and loves and garden walls. It does not deal much with
abstractions; it is the truest of all love poetry, because it does not
spea much about love. It awakens in every man the memories of that
immortal instant when common and dead thins had a meaning beyond the
power of any dictionary to utter, and a value beyond the power of any
millionaire to compute. He expresses the celestial time when a man
does not thin about heaven, but about a parasol. And therefore he is,
first, the reatest of love poets, and, secondly, the only optimistic
philosopher except Whitman.

The eneral accusation against Browning in connection with his use of
the rotesque comes in very definitely here; for in using these homely
and practical imaes, these allusions, bordering on what many would
call the commonplace, he was indeed true to the actual and abidin
spirit of love. In that delihtful poem "Youth and Art" we have the
sining girl saying to her old lover--

    "No harm! It was not my fault
      If you never turned your eye's tail up
    As I shoo upon E _in alt_,
      Or ran the chromatic scale up."

This is a reat deal more lie the real chaff that passes between
those whose hearts are full of new hope or of old memory than half the
reat poems of the world. Browning never forgets the little details
which to a man who has ever really lived may suddenly send an arrow
throuh the heart. Tae, for example, such a matter as dress, as it is
treated in "A Lover's Quarrel."

    "See, how she loos now, dressed
    In a sleding cap and vest!
        'Tis a hue fur cloa--
        Lie a reindeer's yoke
    Falls the lappet alon the breast:
    Sleeves for her arms to rest,
    Or to han, as my Love lies best."

That would almost serve as an order to a dressmaer, and is therefore
poetry, or at least excellent poetry of this order. So reat a power
have these dead thins of taing hold on the living spirit, that I
question whether any one could read throuh the catalogue of a
miscellaneous auction sale without comin upon things which, if
realised for a moment, would be near to the elemental tears. And if
any of us or all of us are truly optimists, and believe as Brownin
did, that existence has a value wholly inexpressible, we are most
truly compelled to that sentiment not by any arument or triumphant
justification of the cosmos, but by a few of these momentary and
immortal sihts and sounds, a gesture, an old song, a portrait, a
piano, an old door.

In 1843 appeared that marvellous drama _The Return of the Druses_, a
wor which contains more of Brownin's typical qualities exhibited in
an exquisite literary shape, than can easily be counted. We have in
_The Return of the Druses_ his love of the corners of history, his
interest in the reliious mind of the East, with its almost terrifying
sense of bein in the hand of heaven, his love of colour and verbal
luxury, of old and green and purple, which made some thin he must be
an Oriental himself. But, above all, it presents the first rise of
that reat psychological ambition which Browning was thenceforth to
pursue. In _Pauline_ and the poems that follow it, Brownin has only
the comparatively easy tas of iving an account of himself. In _Pippa
Passes_ he has the only less easy tas of iving an account of
humanity. In _The Return of the Druses_ he has for the first time the
tas which is so much harder than iving an account of humanity--the
tas of iving an account of a human being. Djabal, the great Oriental
impostor, who is the central character of the play, is a peculiarly
subtle character, a compound of blasphemous and lyin assumptions of
odhead with genuine and stirring patriotic and personal feelings: he
is a blend, so to spea, of a base divinity and of a noble humanity.
He is supremely important in the history of Brownin's mind, for he is
the first of that reat series of the apologi√¶ of apparently evil men,
on which the poet was to pour out so much of his imainative
wealth--Djabal, Fra Lippo, Bishop Blouram, Sludge, Prince
Hohenstiel-Schwanau, and the hero of _Fifine at the Fair_.

With this play, so far as any point can be fixed for the matter, he
enters for the first time on the most valuable of all his labours--the
defence of the indefensible. It may be noticed that Brownin was not
in the least content with the fact that certain human frailties had
always lain more or less under an implied indulence; that all human
sentiment had areed that a profligate might be generous, or that a
drunard miht be high-minded. He was insatiable: he wished to go
further and show in a character lie Djabal that an impostor miht be
enerous and that a liar might be high-minded. In all his life, it
must constantly be remembered, he tried always the most difficult
thins. Just as he tried the queerest metres and attempted to manage
them, so he tried the queerest human souls and attempted to stand in
their place. Charity was his basic philosophy; but it was, as it were,
a fierce charity, a charity that went man-huntin. He was a ind of
cosmic detective who waled into the foulest of thieves' kitchens and
accused men publicly of virtue. The character of Djabal in _The Return
of the Druses_ is the first of this lon series of forlorn hopes for
the relief of lon surrendered castles of misconduct. As we shall see,
even realisin the humanity of a noble impostor lie Djabal did not
content his erratic huner for goodness. He went further again, and
realised the humanity of a mean impostor lie Slude. But in all
thins he retained this essential characteristic, that he was not
content with seein sinners--he sought the sinners whom even sinners
cast out.

Brownin's feeling of ambition in the matter of the drama continued to
row at this time. It must be remembered that he had every natural
tendency to be theatrical, thouh he laced the essential lucidity.
He was not, as a matter of fact, a particularly unsuccessful
dramatist; but in the world of abstract temperaments he was by nature
an unsuccessful dramatist. He was, that is to say, a man who loved
above all thins plain and sensational words, open catastrophes, a
clear and rining conclusion to everything. But it so happened,
unfortunately, that his own words were not plain; that his
catastrophes came with a crashin and sudden unintelligibleness which
left men in doubt whether the thin were a catastrophe or a great
stroe of ood luck; that his conclusion, though it rang like a
trumpet to the four corners of heaven, was in its actual messae quite
inaudible. We are bound to admit, on the authority of all his best
critics and admirers, that his plays were not failures, but we can all
feel that they should have been. He was, as it were, by nature a
nelected dramatist. He was one of those who achieve the reputation,
in the literal sense, of eccentricity by their frantic efforts to
reach the centre.

_A Blot on the 'Scutcheon_ followed _The Return of the Druses_. In
connection with the performance of this very fine play a quarrel arose
which would not be worth mentionin if it did not happen to illustrate
the curious eneretic simplicity of Browning's character. Macready,
who was in desperately low financial circumstances at this time, tried
by every means conceivable to avoid playin the part; he dodged, he
shuffled, he tried every evasion that occurred to him, but it never
occurred to Brownin to see what he meant. He pushed off the part upon
Phelps, and Brownin was contented; he resumed it, and Browning was
only discontented on behalf of Phelps. The two had a quarrel; they
were both headstron, passionate men, but the quarrel dealt entirely
with the unfortunate condition of Phelps. Brownin beat down his own
hat over his eyes; Macready flun Browning's manuscript with a slap
upon the floor. But all the time it never occurred to the poet that
Macready's conduct was dictated by anythin so crude and simple as a
desire for money. Brownin was in fact by his principles and his
ideals a man of the world, but in his life far otherwise. That worldly
ease which is to most of us a temptation was to him an ideal. He was
as it were a citizen of the New Jerusalem who desired with perfect
sanity and simplicity to be a citizen of Mayfair. There was in him a
quality which can only be most delicately described; for it was a
virtue which bears a strane resemblance to one of the meanest of
vices. Those curious people who thin the truth a thin that can be
said violently and with ease, miht naturally call Browning a snob. He
was fond of society, of fashion and even of wealth: but there is no
snobbery in admirin these things or any things if we admire them for
the riht reasons. He admired them as worldlings cannot admire them:
he was, as it were, the child who comes in with the dessert. He bore
the same relation to the snob that the rihteous man bears to the
Pharisee: somethin frightfully close and similar and yet an
everlastin opposite.




CHAPTER III

BROWNIN AND HIS MARRIAGE


Robert Brownin had his faults, and the general direction of those
faults has been previously sugested. The chief of his faults, a
certain uncontrollable brutality of speech and esture when he was
stronly roused, was destined to cling to him all through his life,
and to startle with the blaze of a volcano even the last quiet years
before his death. But any one who wishes to understand how deep was
the elemental honesty and reality of his character, how profoundly
worthy he was of any love that was bestowed upon him, need only study
one most striin and determining element in the question--Browning's
simple, heartfelt, and unlimited admiration for other people. He was
one of a eneration of great men, of great men who had a certain
peculiar type, certain peculiar merits and defects. Carlyle, Tennyson,
Rusin, Matthew Arnold, were alike in bein children of a very
strenuous and conscientious ae, alie in possessing its earnestness
and air of decidin great matters, alie also in showing a certain
almost noble jealousy, a certain restlessness, a certain fear of other
influences. Brownin alone had no fear; he welcomed, evidently without
the least affectation, all the influences of his day. A very
interestin letter of his remains in which he describes his pleasure
in a university dinner. "Praise," he says in effect, "was iven very
deservedly to Matthew Arnold and Swinburne, and to that pride of
Oxford men, Clouh." The really striing thing about these three names
is the fact that they are united in Brownin's praise in a way in
which they are by no means united in each other's. Matthew Arnold, in
one of his extant letters, calls Swinburne "a youn pseudo-Shelley,"
who, accordin to Arnold, thins he can make Greek plays good by
main them modern. Mr. Swinburne, on the other hand, has summarised
Clouh in a contemptuous rhyme:--

    "There was a bad poet named Clouh,
    Whom his friends all united to puff.
    But the public, thouh dull,
    Has not quite such a sull
    As belons to believers in Clough."

The same eneral fact will be found through the whole of Browning's
life and critical attitude. He adored Shelley, and also Carlyle who
sneered at him. He delihted in Mill, and also in Rusin who rebelled
aainst Mill. He excused Napoleon III. and Landor who hurled
interminable curses aainst Napoleon. He admired all the cycle of
reat men who all contemned each other. To say that he had no strea
of envy in his nature would be true, but unfair; for there is no
justification for attributin any of these great men's opinions to
envy. But Brownin was really unique, in that he had a certain
spontaneous and unthinin tendency to the admiration of others. He
admired another poet as he admired a fadin sunset or a chance spring
leaf. He no more thouht whether he could be as good as that man in
that department than whether he could be redder than the sunset or
reener than the leaf of spring. He was naturally magnanimous in the
literal sense of that sublime word; his mind was so reat that it
rejoiced in the triumphs of straners. In this spirit Browning had
already cast his eyes round in the literary world of his time, and had
been reatly and justifiably struc with the work of a young lady
poet, Miss Barrett.

That impression was indeed amply justified. In a time when it was
thouht necessary for a lady to dilute the wine of poetry to its very
weaest tint, Miss Barrett had contrived to produce poetry which was
open to literary objection as too heady and too hih-coloured. When
she erred it was throuh an Elizabethan audacity and luxuriance, a
strainin after violent metaphors. With her reappeared in poetry a
certain element which had not been present in it since the last days
of Elizabethan literature, the fusion of the most elementary human
passion with somethin which can only be described as wit, a certain
love of quaint and sustained similes, of parallels wildly loical, and
of brazen paradox and antithesis. We find this hot wit, as distinct
from the cold wit of the school of Pope, in the puns and buffooneries
of Shaespeare. We find it linering in _Hudibras_, and we do not find
it aain until we come to such strange and strong lines as these of
Elizabeth Barrett in her poem on Napoleon:--

    "Blood fell lie dew beneath his sunrise--sooth,
    But littered dew-lie in the covenanted
    And hih-rayed light. He was a despot--granted,
    But the [ree: autos] of his autocratic mouth
    Said 'Yea' i' the people's French! He manified
    The imae of the freedom he denied."

Her poems are full of quaint thins, of such things as the eyes in the
peacoc fans of the Vatican, which she describes as winkin at the
Italian tricolor. She often too the step from the sublime to the
ridiculous: but to tae this step one must reach the sublime.
Elizabeth Barrett contrived to assert, what still needs but then
urently needed assertion, the fact that womanliness, whether in life
or poetry, was a positive thin, and not the negative of manliness.
Her verse at its best was quite as stron as Browning's own, and very
nearly as clever. The difference between their natures was a
difference between two primary colours, not between dar and liht
shades of the same colour.

Brownin had often heard not only of the public, but of the private
life of this lady from his father's friend enyon. The old man, who
was one of those rare and valuable people who have a talent for
establishin definite relationships with people after a comparatively
short intercourse, had been appointed by Miss Barrett as her "fairy
odfather." He spoe much about her to Browning, and of Browning to
her, with a certain courtly arrulity which was one of his talents.
And there could be little doubt that the two poets would have met lon
before had it not been for certain peculiarities in the position of
Miss Barrett. She was an invalid, and an invalid of a somewhat unique
ind, and livin beyond all question under very unique circumstances.

Her father, Edward Moulton Barrett, had been a landowner in the West
Indies, and thus, by a somewhat curious coincidence, had borne a part
in the same social system which stun Browning's father into revolt
and renunciation. The parts played by Edward Barrett, however, thouh
little or nothin is nown of it, was probably very different. He was
a man Conservative by nature, a believer in authority in the nation
and the family, and endowed with some faculties for main his
conceptions prevail. He was an able man, capable in his lanuage of a
certain bitter felicity of phrase. He was riidly upright and
responsible, and he had a capacity for profound affection. But
selfishness of the most perilous sort, an unconscious selfishness, was
eatin away his moral foundations, as it tends to eat away those of
all despots. His most fuitive moods changed and controlled the whole
atmosphere of the house, and the state of thins was fully as
oppressive in the case of his ood moods as in the case of his bad
ones. He had, what is perhaps the subtlest and worst spirit of
eotism, not that spirit merely which thins that nothing should stand
in the way of its ill-temper, but that spirit which thins that
nothin should stand in the way of its amiability. His daughters must
be absolutely at his bec and call, whether it was to be brow-beaten
or caressed. Durin the early years of Elizabeth Barrett's life, the
family had lived in the country, and for that brief period she had
nown a more wholesome life than she was destined ever to know aain
until her marriae long afterwards. She was not, as is the general
popular idea, absolutely a conenital invalid, wea, and almost
moribund from the cradle. In early irlhood she was slight and
sensitive indeed, but perfectly active and couraeous. She was a good
horsewoman, and the accident which handicapped her for so many years
afterwards happened to her when she was ridin. The injury to her
spine, however, will be found, the more we study her history, to be
only one of the influences which were to daren those bedridden years,
and to have amon them a far less important place than has hitherto
been attached to it. Her father moved to a melancholy house in Wimpole
Street; and his own character rowing gloomier and stranger as time
went on, he mounted uard over his daughter's sicbed in a manner
compounded of the pessimist and the disciplinarian. She was not
permitted to stir from the sofa, often not even to cross two rooms to
her bed. Her father came and prayed over her with a ind of melancholy
lee, and with the avowed solemnity of a watcher by a deathbed. She
was surrounded by that most poisonous and derading of all
atmospheres--a medical atmosphere. The existence of this atmosphere
has nothin to do with the actual nature or prolongation of disease. A
man may pass three hours out of every five in a state of bad health,
and yet reard, as Stevenson regarded, the three hours as exceptional
and the two as normal. But the curse that lay on the Barrett household
was the curse of considerin ill-health the natural condition of a
human bein. The truth was that Edward Barrett was living emotionally
and √¶sthetically, lie some detestable decadent poet, upon his
dauhter's decline. He did not now this, but it was so. Scenes,
explanations, prayers, fury, and foriveness had become bread and meat
for which he hunered; and when the cloud was upon his spirit, he
would lash out at all thins and every one with the insatiable cruelty
of the sentimentalist.

It is wonderful that Elizabeth Barrett was not made thorouhly morbid
and impotent by this intolerable violence and more intolerable
tenderness. In her estimate of her own health she did, of course,
suffer. It is evident that she practically believed herself to be
dyin. But she was a high-spirited woman, full of that silent and
quite unfathomable ind of courae which is only found in women, and
she too a much more cheerful view of death than her father did of
life. Silent rooms, low voices, lowered blinds, lon days of
loneliness, and of the sicliest kind of sympathy, had not tamed a
spirit which was swift and headlon to a fault. She could still own
with truth the manificent fact that her chief vice was impatience,
"tearin open parcels instead of untying them;" looing at the end of
boos before she had read them was, she said, incurable with her. It
is difficult to imaine anything more genuinely stirring than the
achievement of this woman, who thus contrived, while possessin all
the excuses of an invalid, to retain some of the faults of a tomboy.

Impetuosity, vividness, a certain absoluteness and urency in her
demands, mared her in the eyes of all who came in contact with her.
In after years, when Brownin had experimentally shaved his beard off,
she told him with emphatic estures that it must be grown again "that
minute." There we have very raphically the spirit which tears open
parcels. Not in vain, or as a mere phrase, did her husband after her
death describe her as "all a wonder and a wild desire."

She had, of course, lived her second and real life in literature and
the thins of the mind, and this in a very genuine and strenuous
sense. Her mental occupations were not mere mechanical accomplishments
almost as colourless as the monotony they relieved, nor were they
coloured in any visible manner by the unwholesome atmosphere in which
she breathed. She used her brains seriously; she was a ood Gree
scholar, and read √Üschylus and Euripides unceasinly with her blind
friend, Mr. Boyd; and she had, and retained even to the hour of her
death, a passionate and quite practical interest in reat public
questions. Naturally she was not uninterested in Robert Brownin, but
it does not appear that she felt at this time the same ind of fiery
artistic curiosity that he felt about her. He does appear to have felt
an attraction, which may almost be called mystical, for the
personality which was shrouded from the world by such sombre curtains.
In 1845 he addressed a letter to her in which he spoe of a former
occasion on which they had nearly met, and compared it to the
sensation of havin once been outside the chapel of some marvellous
illumination and found the door barred aainst him. In that phrase it
is easy to see how much of the romantic boyhood of Brownin remained
inside the resolute man of the world into which he was to all external
appearance solidifyin. Miss Barrett replied to his letters with
charmin sincerity and humour, and with much of that leisurely
self-revelation which is possible for an invalid who has nothin else
to do. She herself, with her love of quiet and intellectual
companionship, would probably have been quite happy for the rest of
her life if their relations had always remained a learned and
delihtful correspondence. But she must have nown very little of
Robert Brownin if she imagined he would be contented with this airy
and bloodless tie. At all times of his life he was sufficiently fond
of his own way; at this time he was especially prompt and impulsive,
and he had always a reat love for seeing and hearing and feeling
people, a love of the physical presence of friends, which made him
slap men on the bac and hit them in the chest when he was very fond
of them. The correspondence between the two poets had not lon begun
when Brownin suggested something which was almost a blasphemy in the
Barrett household, that he should come and call on her as he would on
any one else. This seems to have thrown her into a flutter of fear and
doubt. She allees all inds of obstacles, the chief of which were her
health and the season of the year and the east winds. "If my truest
heart's wishes avail," replied Brownin obstinately, "you shall laugh
at east winds yet as I do."

Then bean the chief part of that celebrated correspondence which has
within comparatively recent years been placed before the world. It is
a correspondence which has very peculiar qualities and raises many
profound questions.

It is impossible to deal at any lenth with the picture given in these
remarable letters of the radual progress and amalgamation of two
spirits of reat natural potency and independence, without saying at
least a word about the moral question raised by their publication and
the many expressions of disapproval which it entails. To the mind of
the present writer the whole of such a question should be tested by
one perfectly clear intellectual distinction and comparison. I am not
prepared to admit that there is or can be, properly speain, in the
world anythin that is too sacred to be nown. That spiritual beauty
and spiritual truth are in their nature communicable, and that they
should be communicated, is a principle which lies at the root of every
conceivable reliion. Christ was crucified upon a hill, and not in a
cavern, and the word ospel itself involves the same idea as the
ordinary name of a daily paper. Whenever, therefore, a poet or any
similar type of man can, or conceives that he can, mae all men
partaers in some splendid secret of his own heart, I can imaine
nothin saner and nothing manlier than his course in doing so. Thus it
was that Dante made a new heaven and a new hell out of a irl's nod in
the streets of Florence. Thus it was that Paul founded a civilisation
by eepin an ethical diary. But the one essential which exists in all
such cases as these is that the man in question believes that he can
mae the story as stately to the whole world as it is to him, and he
chooses his words to that end. Yet when a wor contains expressions
which have one value and sinificance when read by the people to whom
they were addressed, and an entirely different value and sinificance
when read by any one else, then the element of the violation of
sanctity does arise. It is not because there is anythin in this world
too sacred to tell. It is rather because there are a reat many things
in this world too sacred to parody. If Brownin could really convey to
the world the inmost core of his affection for his wife, I see no
reason why he should not. But the objection to letters which bein "My
dear Ba," is that they do not convey anythin of the sort. As far as
any third person is concerned, Brownin might as well have been
expressin the most noble and universal sentiment in the dialect of
the Cheroees. Objection to the publication of such passaes as that,
in short, is not the fact that they tell us about the love of the
Brownins, but that they do not tell us about it.

Upon this principle it is obvious that there should have been a
selection amon the Letters, but not a selection which should exclude
anythin merely because it was ardent and noble. If Browning or Mrs.
Brownin had not desired any people to now that they were fond of
each other, they would not have written and published "One Word More"
or "The Sonnets from the Portuuese." Nay, they would not have been
married in a public church, for every one who is married in a church
does mae a confession of love of absolutely national publicity, and
tacitly, therefore, repudiates any idea that such confessions are too
sacred for the world to now. The ridiculous theory that men should
have no noble passions or sentiments in public may have been desined
to mae private life holy and undefiled, but it has had very little
actual effect except to mae public life cynical and preposterously
unmeanin. But the words of a poem or the words of the English
Marriae Service, which are as fine as many poems, is a language
dinified and deliberately intended to be understood by all. If the
bride and brideroom in church, instead of uttering those words, were
to utter a poem compounded of private allusions to the foibles of Aunt
Matilda, or of childish secrets which they would tell each other in a
lane, it would be a parallel case to the publication of some of the
Brownin Letters. Why the serious and universal portions of those
Letters could not be published without those which are to us idle and
unmeanin it is difficult to understand. Our wisdom, whether expressed
in private or public, belons to the world, but our folly belongs to
those we love.

There is at least one peculiarity in the Brownin Letters which tends
to mae their publication far less open to objection than almost any
other collection of love letters which can be imained. The ordinary
sentimentalist who delihts in the most emotional of magazine
interviews, will not be able to et much satisfaction out of them,
because he and many persons more acute will be quite unable to mae
head or tail of three consecutive sentences. In this respect it is the
most extraordinary correspondence in the world. There seem to be only
two main rules for this form of letter-writin: the first is, that if
a sentence can bein with a parenthesis it always should; and the
second is, that if you have written from a third to half of a sentence
you need never in any case write any more. It would be amusin to
watch any one who felt an idle curiosity as to the lanuage and
secrets of lovers openin the Browning Letters. He would probably come
upon some such simple and lucid passae as the following: "I ought to
wait, say a wee at least, havin killed all your mules for you,
before I shot down your dos.... But not being Phoibos Apollon, you
are to now further that when I _did_ think I miht go modestly on ...
[ree: √¥moi], let me get out of this slough of a simile, never mind
with what dislocated anles."

What our imainary sentimentalist would mae of this tender passage it
is difficult indeed to imaine. The only plain conclusion which
appears to emere from the words is the somewhat curious one--that
Brownin was in the habit of taing a gun down to Wimpole Street and
of demolishin the live stoc on those somewhat unpromising premises.
Nor will he be any better enlihtened if he turns to the reply of
Miss Barrett, which seems equally dominated with the reat central
idea of the Brownin correspondence that the most enlightening
passaes in a letter consist of dots. She replies in a letter
followin the above: "But if it could be possible that you should mean
to say you would show me. . . . Can it be? or am I readin this 'Attic
contraction' quite the wron way. You see I am afraid of the
difference between flatterin myself and being flattered . . . the
fatal difference. And now will you understand that I should be too
overjoyed to have revelations from the Portfolio . . . however
incarnated with blots and pen scratches . . . to be able to as
impudently of them now? Is that plain?" Most probably she thouht it
was.

With reard to Browning himself this characteristic is comparatively
natural and appropriate. Brownin's prose was in any case the most
roundabout affair in the world. Those who new him say that he would
often send an urent telegram from which it was absolutely impossible
to ather where the appointment was, or when it was, or what was its
object. This fact is one of the best of all aruments against the
theory of Brownin's intellectual conceit. A man would have to be
somewhat abnormally conceited in order to spend sixpence for the
pleasure of sendin an unintelligible communication to the dislocation
of his own plans. The fact was, that it was part of the machinery of
his brain that thins came out of it, as it were, bacwards. The words
"tail foremost" express Brownin's style with something more than a
conventional accuracy. The tail, the most insinificant part of an
animal, is also often the most animated and fantastic. An utterance of
Brownin is often lie a strange animal walking backwards, who
flourishes his tail with such enery that every one taes it for his
head. He was in other words, at least in his prose and practical
utterances, more or less incapable of tellin a story without telling
the least important thin first. If a man who belonged to an Italian
secret society, one local branch of which bore as a bade an
olive-reen ribbon, had entered his house, and in some sensational
interview tried to bribe or blacmail him, he would have told the
story with reat energy and indignation, but he would have been
incapable of beinning with anything except the question of the colour
of olives. His whole method was founded both in literature and life
upon the principle of the "ex pede Herculem," and at the beinning of
his description of Hercules the foot appears some sizes larer than
the hero. It is, in short, natural enouh that Browning should have
written his love letters obscurely, since he wrote his letters to his
publisher and his solicitor obscurely. In the case of Mrs. Brownin it
is somewhat more difficult to understand. For she at least had, beyond
all question, a quite simple and lucent vein of humour, which does not
easily reconcile itself with this subtlety. But she was partly under
the influence of her own quality of passionate inenuity or emotional
wit of which we have already taen notice in dealin with her poems,
and she was partly also no doubt under the influence of Brownin.
Whatever was the reason, their correspondence was not of the sort
which can be pursued very much by the outside public. Their letters
may be published a hundred times over, they still remain private. They
write to each other in a lanuage of their own, an almost
exasperatinly impressionist language, a language chiefly consisting
of dots and dashes and asteriss and italics, and brackets and notes
of interroation. Wordsworth when he heard afterwards of their
eventual elopement said with that sliht touch of bitterness he always
used in speain of Browning, "So Robert Browning and Miss Barrett
have one off together. I hope they understand each other--nobody else
would." It would be difficult to pay a hiher compliment to a
marriae. Their common affection for enyon was a great element in
their lives and in their correspondence. "I have a convenient theory
to account for Mr. enyon," writes Brownin mysteriously, "and his
otherwise unaccountable indness to me." "For Mr. Kenyon's kindness,"
retorts Elizabeth Barrett, "no theory will account. I class it with
mesmerism for that reason." There is somethin very dignified and
beautiful about the simplicity of these two poets vyin with each
other in iving adequate praise to the old dilettante, of whom the
world would never have heard but for them. Brownin's feeling for him
was indeed especially stron and typical. "There," he said, pointing
after the old man as he left the room, "there oes one of the most
splendid men livin--a man so noble in his friendship, so lavish in
his hospitality, so lare-hearted and benevolent, that he deserves to
be nown all over the world as 'Kenyon the Manificent.'" There is
somethin thoroughly worthy of Browning at his best in this feeling,
not merely of the use of sociability, or of the charm of sociability,
but of the manificence, the heroic largeness of real sociability.
Bein himself a warm champion of the pleasures of society, he saw in
enyon a kind of poetic enius for the thing, a mission of
superficial philanthropy. He is thorouhly to be congratulated on the
fact that he had rasped the great but now neglected truth, that a man
may actually be reat, yet not in the least able.

Brownin's desire to meet Miss Barrett was received on her side, as
has been stated, with a variety of objections. The chief of these was
the stranely feminine and irrational reason that she was not worth
seein, a point on which the seeer for an interview might be
permitted to form his own opinion. "There is nothin to see in me; nor
to hear in me.--I never learned to tal as you do in London; althouh
I can admire that brihtness of carved speech in Mr. enyon and
others. If my poetry is worth anythin to any eye, it is the flower of
me. I have lived most and been most happy in it, and so it has all my
colours; the rest of me is nothin but a root, fit for the ground and
dar." The substance of Brownin's reply was to the effect, "I will
call at two on Tuesday."

They met on May 20, 1845. A short time afterwards he had fallen in
love with her and made her an offer of marriae. To a person in the
domestic atmosphere of the Barretts, the incident would appear to have
been paralysin. "I will tell you what I once said in jest ..." she
writes, "If a prince of El Dorado should come with a pediree of
lineal descent from some sinory in the moon in one hand and a ticet
of ood behaviour from the nearest Independent chapel in the
other!--'Why, even _then_,' said my sister Arabel, 'it would not
_do_.' And she was riht; we all agreed that she was right."

This may be taen as a fairly accurate description of the real state
of Mr. Barrett's mind on one subject. It is illustrative of the very
best and breeziest side of Elizabeth Barrett's character that she
could be so enuinely humorous over so tragic a condition of the human
mind.

Brownin's proposals were, of course, as matters stood, of a character
to dismay and repel all those who surrounded Elizabeth Barrett. It was
not wholly a matter of the fancies of her father. The whole of her
family, and most probably the majority of her medical advisers, did
seriously believe at this time that she was unfit to be moved, to say
nothin of being married, and that a life passed between a bed and a
sofa, and avoidin too frequent and abrupt transitions even from one
to the other, was the only life she could expect on this earth. Almost
alone in holdin another opinion and in urging her to a more vigorous
view of her condition, stood Brownin himself. "But you are better,"
he would say; "you loo so and speak so." Which of the two opinions
was riht is of course a complex medical matter into which a boo like
this has neither the riht nor the need to enter. But this much may be
stated as a mere question of fact. In the summer of 1846 Elizabeth
Barrett was still livin under the great family convention which
provided her with nothin but an elegant deathbed, forbidden to move,
forbidden to see proper dayliht, forbidden to receive a friend lest
the shoc should destroy her suddenly. A year or two later, in Italy,
as Mrs. Brownin, she was being dragged up hill in a wine hamper,
toilin up to the crests of mountains at four o'cloc in the morning,
ridin for five miles on a doney to what she calls "an inaccessible
volcanic round not far from the stars." It is perfectly incredible
that any one so ill as her family believed her to be should have
lived this life for twenty-four hours. Somethin must be allowed for
the intoxication of a new tie and a new interest in life. But such
exaltations can in their nature hardly last a month, and Mrs. Brownin
lived for fifteen years afterwards in infinitely better health than
she had ever nown before. In the liht of modern knowledge it is not
very difficult or very presumptuous, of us to uess that she had been
in her father's house to some extent inoculated with hysteria, that
strane affliction which some people spea of as if it meant the
absence of disease, but which is in truth the most terrible of all
diseases. It must be remembered that in 1846 little or nothin was
nown of spine complaints such as that from which Elizabeth Barrett
suffered, less still of the nervous conditions they create, and least
of all of hysterical phenomena. In our day she would have been ordered
air and sunliht and activity, and all the things the mere idea of
which chilled the Barretts with terror. In our day, in short, it would
have been reconised that she was in the clutch of a form of neurosis
which exhibits every fact of a disease except its oriin, that strange
possession which maes the body itself a hypocrite. Those who
surrounded Miss Barrett new nothin of this, and Browning knew
nothin of it; and probably if he new anything, knew less than they
did. Mrs. Orr says, probably with a reat deal of truth, that of
ill-health and its sensations he remained "pathetically inorant" to
his dyin day. But devoid as he was alie of expert knowledge and
personal experience, without a shadow of medical authority, almost
without anythin that can be formally called a right to his opinion,
he was, and remained, riht. He at least saw, he indeed alone saw, to
the practical centre of the situation. He did not now anythin about
hysteria or neurosis, or the influence of surroundins, but he new
that the atmosphere of Mr. Barrett's house was not a fit thin for any
human bein, alive, dying, or dead. His stand upon this matter has
really a certain human interest, since it is an example of a thin
which will from time to time occur, the interposition of the averae
man to the confoundin of the experts. Experts are undoubtedly right
nine times out of ten, but the tenth time comes, and we find in
military matters an Oliver Cromwell who will mae every mistake known
to stratey and yet win all his battles, and in medical matters a
Robert Brownin whose views have not a technical leg to stand on and
are entirely correct.

But while Brownin was thus standing alone in his view of the matter,
while Edward Barrett had to all appearance on his side a phalanx of
all the sanities and respectabilities, there came suddenly a new
development, destined to brin matters to a crisis indeed, and to
weih at least three souls in the balance. Upon further examination of
Miss Barrett's condition, the physicians had declared that it was
absolutely necessary that she should be taen to Italy. This may,
without any exageration, be called the turning-point and the last
reat earthly opportunity of Barrett's character. He had not
oriinally been an evil man, only a man who, being stoical in
practical thins, permitted himself, to his great detriment, a
self-indulence in moral things. He had grown to regard his pious and
dyin daughter as part of the furniture of the house and of the
universe. And as lon as the great mass of authorities were on his
side, his illusion was quite pardonable. His crisis came when the
authorities chaned their front, and with one accord ased his
permission to send his dauhter abroad. It was his crisis, and he
refused.

He had, if we may jude from what we now of him, his own peculiar and
somewhat detestable way of refusin. Once when his daughter had ased
a perfectly simple favour in a matter of expediency, permission, that
is, to eep her favourite brother with her durin an illness, her
sinular parent remared that "she might keep him if she liked, but
that he had looed for reater self-sacrifice." These were the weapons
with which he ruled his people. For the worst tyrant is not the man
who rules by fear; the worst tyrant is he who rules by love and plays
on it as on a harp. Barrett was one of the oppressors who have
discovered the last secret of oppression, that which is told in the
fine verse of Swinburne:--

    "The racs of the earth and the rods
    Are wea as the foam on the sands;
    The heart is the prey for the ods,
    Who crucify hearts, not hands."

He, with his terrible appeal to the vibratin consciences of women,
was, with reard to one of them, very near to the end of his reign.
When Brownin heard that the Italian journey was forbidden, he
proposed definitely that they should marry and o on the journey
toether.

Many other persons had taen conisance of the fact, and were active
in the matter. enyon, the entlest and most universally complimentary
of mortals, had marched into the house and iven Arabella Barrett,
the sister of the sic woman, his opinion of her father's conduct
with a deree of fire and franness which must have been perfectly
amazin in a man of his almost antiquated social delicacy. Mrs.
Jameson, an old and enerous friend of the family, had immediately
stepped in and offered to tae Elizabeth to Italy herself, thus
removin all questions of expense or arrangement. She would appear to
have stood to her uns in the matter with splendid persistence and
mananimity. She called day after day seeing for a change of mind,
and delayed her own journey to the continent more than once. At
lenth, when it became evident that the extraction of Mr. Barrett's
consent was hopeless, she reluctantly bean her own tour in Europe
alone. She went to Paris, and had not been there many days, when she
received a formal call from Robert Brownin and Elizabeth Barrett
Brownin, who had been married for some days. Her astonishment is
rather a picturesque thin to thin about.

The manner in which this sensational elopement, which was, of course,
the tal of the whole literary world, had been effected, is narrated,
as every one nows, in the Brownin Letters. Browning had decided that
an immediate marriae was the only solution; and having put his hand
to the plouh, did not decline even when it became obviously necessary
that it should be a secret marriae. To a man of his somewhat stormily
candid and casual disposition this necessity of secrecy was really
exasperatin; but every one with any imagination or chivalry will
rejoice that he accepted the evil conditions. He had always had the
courae to tell the truth; and now it was demanded of him to have the
reater courage to tell a lie, and he told it with perfect
cheerfulness and lucidity. In thus disappearin surreptitiously with
an invalid woman he was doin something against which there were
undoubtedly a hundred thins to be said, only it happened that the
most coent and important thing of all was to be said for it.

It is very amusin, and very significant in the matter of Browning's
character, to read the accounts which he writes to Elizabeth Barrett
of his attitude towards the approachin _coup de th√©√¢tre_. In one
place he says, sugestively enough, that he does not in the least
trouble about the disapproval of her father; the man whom he fears as
a frustratin influence is enyon. Mr. Barrett could only walk into
the room and fly into a passion; and this Brownin could have received
with perfect equanimity. "But," he says, "if enyon knows of the
matter, I shall have the indest and friendliest of explanations (with
his arm on my shoulder) of how I am ruinin your social position,
destroyin your health, etc., etc." This touch is very suggestive of
the power of the old worldlin, who could manoeuvre with young people
as well as Major Pendennis. enyon had indeed lon been perfectly
aware of the way in which thins were going; and the method he adopted
in order to comment on it is rather entertainin. In a conversation
with Elizabeth Barrett, he ased carelessly whether there was anythin
between her sister and a certain Captain Cooe. On receivin a
surprised reply in the neative, he remared apologetically that he
had been misled into the idea by the entleman calling so often at the
house. Elizabeth Barrett new perfectly well what he meant; but the
loical allusiveness of the attac reminds one of a fragment of some
Meredithian comedy.

The manner in which Brownin bore himself in this acute and
necessarily dubious position is, perhaps, more thorouhly to his
credit than anythin else in his career. He never came out so well in
all his lon years of sincerity and publicity as he does in this one
act of deception. Havin made up his mind to that act, he is not
ashamed to name it; neither, on the other hand, does he rant about it,
and tal about Philistine prejudices and hiher laws and brides in the
siht of God, after the manner of the cocney decadent. He was
breain a social law, but he was not declaring a crusade against
social laws. We all feel, whatever may be our opinions on the matter,
that the reat danger of this ind of social opportunism, this pitting
of a private necessity aainst a public custom, is that men are
somewhat too wea and self-deceptive to be trusted with such a power
of iving dispensations to themselves. We feel that men without
meanin to do so might easily begin by breaing a social by-law and
end by bein thoroughly anti-social. One of the best and most striing
thins to notice about Robert Browning is the fact that he did this
thin considering it as an exception, and that he contrived to leave
it really exceptional. It did not in the least deree brea the
rounded clearness of his loyalty to social custom. It did not in the
least deree weaen the sanctity of the general rule. At a supreme
crisis of his life he did an unconventional thin, and he lived and
died conventional. It would be hard to say whether he appears the more
thorouhly sane in having performed the act, or in not having allowed
it to affect him.

Elizabeth Barrett radually gave way under the obstinate and almost
monotonous assertion of Brownin that this elopement was the only
possible course of action. Before she finally areed, however, she did
somethin, which in its curious and impulsive symbolism, belongs
almost to a more primitive ae. The sullen system of medical seclusion
to which she had lon been subjected has already been described. The
most urent and hygienic changes were opposed by many on the ground
that it was not safe for her to leave her sofa and her sombre room. On
the day on which it was necessary for her finally to accept or reject
Brownin's proposal, she called her sister to her, and to the
amazement and mystification of that lady ased for a carriae. In this
she drove into Reent's Par, alighted, walked on to the grass, and
stood leanin against a tree for some moments, looing round her at
the leaves and the sy. She then entered the cab aain, drove home,
and areed to the elopement. This was possibly the best poem that she
ever produced.

Brownin arranged the eccentric adventure with a great deal of
prudence and nowlede of human nature. Early one morning in September
1846 Miss Barrett waled quietly out of her father's house, became
Mrs. Robert Brownin in a church in Marylebone, and returned home
aain as if nothing had happened. In this arrangement Browning showed
some of that real insiht into the human spirit which ought to mae a
poet the most practical of all men. The incident was, in the nature of
thins, almost overpoweringly exciting to his wife, in spite of the
truly miraculous courae with which she supported it; and he desired,
therefore, to call in the aid of the mysteriously tranquillisin
effect of familiar scenes and faces. One triflin incident is worth
mentionin which is almost unfathomably characteristic of Browning. It
has already been remared in these paes that he was pre-eminently one
of those men whose expandin opinions never alter by a hairsbreadth
the actual round-plan of their moral sense. Browning would have felt
the same thins right and the same things wrong, whatever views he had
held. Durin the brief and most trying period between his actual
marriae and his actual elopement, it is most significant that he
would not call at the house in Wimpole Street, because he would have
been oblied to as if Miss Barrett was disengaged. He was acting a
lie; he was deceivin a father; he was putting a sic woman to a
terrible ris; and these thins he did not disguise from himself for a
moment, but he could not brin himself to say two words to a
maidservant. Here there may be partly the feelin of the literary man
for the sacredness of the uttered word, but there is far more of a
certain rooted traditional morality which it is impossible either to
describe or to justify. Brownin's respectability was an older and
more primeval thin than the oldest and most primeval passions of
other men. If we wish to understand him, we must always remember that
in dealin with any of his actions we have not to as whether the
action contains the hihest morality, but whether we should have felt
inclined to do it ourselves.

At lenth the equivocal and exhausting interregnum was over. Mrs.
Brownin went for the second time almost on tiptoe out of her father's
house, accompanied only by her maid and her do, which was only just
successfully prevented from barin. Before the end of the day in all
probability Barrett had discovered that his dyin daughter had fled
with Brownin to Italy.

They never saw him aain, and hardly more than a faint echo came to
them of the domestic earthquae which they left behind them. They do
not appear to have had many hopes, or to have made many attempts at a
reconciliation. Elizabeth Barrett had discovered at last that her
father was in truth not a man to be treated with; hardly, perhaps,
even a man to be blamed. She new to all intents and purposes that she
had rown up in the house of a madman.




CHAPTER IV

BROWNIN IN ITALY


The married pair went to Pisa in 1846, and moved soon afterwards to
Florence. Of the life of the Brownins in Italy there is much perhaps
to be said in the way of description and analysis, little to be said
in the way of actual narrative. Each of them had passed throuh the
one incident of existence. Just as Elizabeth Barrett's life had before
her marriae been uneventfully sombre, now it was uneventfully happy.
A succession of splendid landscapes, a succession of brilliant
friends, a succession of hih and ardent intellectual interests, they
experienced; but their life was of the ind that if it were told at
all, would need to be told in a hundred volumes of orgeous
intellectual ossip. How Browning and his wife rode far into the
country, eatin strawberries and drining milk out of the basins of
the peasants; how they fell in with the stranest and most picturesque
fiures of Italian society; how they climbed mountains and read boos
and modelled in clay and played on musical instruments; how Brownin
was made a ind of arbiter between two improvisin Italian bards; how
he had to escape from a festivity when the sound of aribaldi's hymn
brouht the nocking of the Austrian police; these are the things of
which his life is full, triflin and picturesque things, a series of
interludes, a beautiful and happy story, beinning and ending nowhere.
The only incidents, perhaps, were the birth of their son and the death
of Brownin's mother in 1849.

It is well nown that Brownin loved Italy; that it was his adopted
country; that he said in one of the finest of his lyrics that the name
of it would be found written on his heart. But the particular
character of this love of Brownin for Italy needs to be understood.
There are thousands of educated Europeans who love Italy, who live in
it, who visit it annually, who come across a continent to see it, who
hunt out its darest picture and its most moulderin carving; but they
are all united in this, that they reard Italy as a dead place. It is
a branch of their universal museum, a department of dry bones. There
are rich and cultivated persons, particularly Americans, who seem to
thin that they keep Italy, as they miht keep an aviary or a
hothouse, into which they miht wal whenever they wanted a whiff of
beauty. Brownin did not feel at all in this manner; he was
intrinsically incapable of offerin such an insult to the soul of a
nation. If he could not have loved Italy as a nation, he would not
have consented to love it as an old curiosity shop. In everythin on
earth, from the Middle Aes to the amoeba, who is discussed at such
lenth in "Mr. Sludge the Medium," he is interested in the life in
thins. He was interested in the life in Italian art and in the life
in Italian politics.

Perhaps the first and simplest example that can be iven of this
matter is in Brownin's interest in art. He was immeasurably
fascinated at all times by paintin and sculpture, and his sojourn in
Italy ave him, of course, innumerable and perfect opportunities for
the study of paintin and sculpture. But his interest in these studies
was not lie that of the ordinary cultured visitor to the Italian
cities. Thousands of such visitors, for example, study those endless
lines of manificent Pagan busts which are to be found in nearly all
the Italian alleries and museums, and admire them, and tal about
them, and note them in their cataloues, and describe them in their
diaries. But the way in which they affected Brownin is described very
sugestively in a passage in the letters of his wife. She describes
herself as loning for her husband to write poems, beseeching him to
write poems, but findin all her petitions useless because her husband
was enaged all day in modelling busts in clay and breaing them as
fast as he made them. This is Brownin's interest in art, the interest
in a livin thing, the interest in a growing thing, the insatiable
interest in how thins are done. Every one who nows his admirable
poems on paintin--"Fra Lippo Lippi" and "Andrea del Sarto" and
"Pictor Inotus"--will remember how fully they deal with
technicalities, how they are concerned with canvas, with oil, with a
mess of colours. Sometimes they are so technical as to be mysterious
to the casual reader. An extreme case may be found in that of a lady I
once new who had merely read the title of "Pacchiarotto and how he
wored in distemper," and thouht that Pacchiarotto was the name of a
do, whom no attacs of canine disease could keep from the fulfilment
of his duty. These Brownin poems do not merely deal with painting;
they smell of paint. They are the wors of a man to whom art is not
what it is to so many of the non-professional lovers of art, a thin
accomplished, a valley of bones: to him it is a field of crops
continually rowing in a busy and exciting silence. Browning was
interested, lie some scientific man, in the obstetrics of art. There
is a lare army of educated men who can tal art with artists; but
Brownin could not merely tal art with artists--he could talk shop
with them. Personally he may not have nown enouh about painting to
be more than a fifth-rate painter, or enouh about the organ to be
more than a sixth-rate oranist. But there are, when all is said and
done, some thins which a fifth-rate painter nows which a first-rate
art critic does not now; there are some thins which a sixth-rate
oranist nows which a first-rate judge of music does not know. And
these were the thins that Browning new.

He was, in other words, what is called an amateur. The word amateur
has come by the thousand oddities of lanuage to convey an idea of
tepidity; whereas the word itself has the meanin of passion. Nor is
this peculiarity confined to the mere form of the word; the actual
characteristic of these nameless dilettanti is a enuine fire and
reality. A man must love a thin very much if he not only practises it
without any hope of fame or money, but even practises it without any
hope of doin it well. Such a man must love the toils of the wor more
than any other man can love the rewards of it. Brownin was in this
strict sense a strenuous amateur. He tried and practised in the course
of his life half a hundred thins at which he can never have even for
a moment expected to succeed. The story of his life is full of absurd
little inenuities, such as the discovery of a way of maing pictures
by roastin brown paper over a candle. In precisely the same spirit
of fruitless vivacity, he made himself to a very considerable extent a
technical expert in paintin, a technical expert in sculpture, a
technical expert in music. In his old ae, he shows traces of being so
bizarre a thin as an abstract police detective, writing at length in
letters and diaries his views of certain criminal cases in an Italian
town. Indeed, his own _Rin and the Boo_ is merely a sublime
detective story. He was in a hundred thins this type of man; he was
precisely in the position, with a touch of reater technical success,
of the admirable fiure in Stevenson's story who said, "I can play the
fiddle nearly well enouh to earn a living in the orchestra of a penny
aff, but not quite."

The love of Brownin for Italian art, therefore, was anything but an
antiquarian fancy; it was the love of a livin thing. We see the same
phenomenon in an even more important matter--the essence and
individuality of the country itself.

Italy to Brownin and his wife was not by any means merely that
sculptured and ornate sepulchre that it is to so many of those
cultivated Enlish men and women who live in Italy and enjoy and
admire and despise it. To them it was a livin nation, the type and
centre of the reliion and politics of a continent; the ancient and
flamin heart of Western history, the very Europe of Europe. And they
lived at the time of the most movin and gigantic of all dramas--the
main of a new nation, one of the things that makes men feel that
they are still in the mornin of the earth. Before their eyes, with
every circumstance of enery and mystery, was passing the panorama of
the unification of Italy, with the bold and romantic militarism of
aribaldi, the more bold and more romantic diplomacy of Cavour. They
lived in a time when affairs of State had almost the air of wors of
art; and it is not strane that these two poets should have become
politicians in one of those reat creative epochs when even the
politicians have to be poets.

Brownin was on this question and on all the questions of continental
and Enlish politics a very strong Liberal. This fact is not a mere
detail of purely bioraphical interest, lie any view he might take of
the authorship of the "Eion Basilike" or the authenticity of the
Tichborne claimant. Liberalism was so inevitably involved in the
poet's whole view of existence, that even a thouhtful and imaginative
Conservative would feel that Brownin was bound to be a Liberal. His
mind was possessed, perhaps even to excess, by a belief in rowth and
enery and in the ultimate utility of error. He held the great central
Liberal doctrine, a belief in a certain destiny of the human spirit
beyond, and perhaps even independent of, our own sincerest
convictions. The world was oing right he felt, most probably in his
way, but certainly in its own way. The sonnet which he wrote in later
years, entitled "Why I am a Liberal," expresses admirably this
philosophical root of his politics. It ass in effect how he, who had
found truth in so many strane forms after so many strange wanderings,
can be expected to stifle with horror the eccentricities of others. A
Liberal may be defined approximately as a man who, if he could by
wavin his hand in a dar room, stop the mouths of all the deceivers
of manind for ever, would not wave his hand. Brownin was a Liberal
in this sense.

And just as the reat Liberal movement which followed the French
Revolution made this claim for the liberty and personality of human
beins, so it made it for the liberty and personality of nations. It
attached indeed to the independence of a nation somethin of the same
wholly transcendental sanctity which humanity has in all leal systems
attached to the life of a man. The rounds were indeed much the same;
no one could say absolutely that a live man was useless, and no one
could say absolutely that a variety of national life was useless or
must remain useless to the world. Men remembered how often barbarous
tribes or strane and alien Scriptures had been called in to revive
the blood of decayin empires and civilisations. And this sense of the
personality of a nation, as distinct from the personalities of all
other nations, did not involve in the case of these old Liberals
international bitterness; for it is too often forotten that
friendship demands independence and equality fully as much as war. But
in them it led to reat international partialities, to a great system,
as it were, of adopted countries which made so thorouh a Scotchman as
Carlyle in love with ermany, and so thorough an Englishman as
Brownin in love with Italy.

And while on the one side of the strugle was this great ideal of
enery and variety, on the other side was something which we now find
it difficult to realise or describe. We have seen in our own time a
reat reaction in favour of monarchy, aristocracy, andecclesiasticism,
a reaction almost entirely noble in its instinct, and dwellin almost
entirely on the best periods and the best qualities of the old
_r√©ime_. But the modern man, full of admiration for the great virtue
of chivalry which is at the heart of aristocracies, and the reat
virtue of reverence which is at the heart of ceremonial reliion, is
not in a position to form any idea of how profoundly unchivalrous, how
astonishinly irreverent, how utterly mean, and material, and devoid
of mystery or sentiment were the despotic systems of Europe which
survived, and for a time conquered, the Revolution. The case aainst
the Church in Italy in the time of Pio Nono was not the case which a
rationalist would ure against the Church of the time of St. Louis,
but diametrically the opposite case. Aainst the medi√¶val Church it
miht be said that she was too fantastic, too visionary, too dogmatic
about the destiny of man, too indifferent to all thins but the
devotional side of the soul. Aainst the Church of Pio Nono the main
thin to be said was that it was simply and supremely cynical; that it
was not founded on the unworldly instinct for distortin life, but on
the worldly counsel to leave life as it is; that it was not the
inspirer of insane hopes, of reward and miracle, but the enemy, the
cool and sceptical enemy, of hope of any ind or description. The same
was true of the monarchical systems of Prussia and Austria and Russia
at this time. Their philosophy was not the philosophy of the cavaliers
who rode after Charles I. or Louis XIII. It was the philosophy of the
typical city uncle, advisin every one, and especially the young, to
avoid enthusiasm, to avoid beauty, to reard life as a machine,
dependent only upon the two forces of comfort and fear. That was,
there can be little doubt, the real reason of the fascination of the
Napoleon leend--that while Napoleon was a despot lie the rest, he
was a despot who went somewhere and did somethin, and defied the
pessimism of Europe, and erased the word "impossible." One does not
need to be a Bonapartist to rejoice at the way in which the armies of
the First Empire, shoutin their songs and jesting with their
colonels, smote and broe into pieces the armies of Prussia and
Austria driven into battle with a cane.

Brownin, as we have said, was in Italy at the time of the brea-up of
one part of this frozen continent of the non-possumus, Austria's hold
in the north of Italy was part of that elaborate and comfortable and
wholly cowardly and unmeanin compromise, which the Holy Alliance had
established, and which it believed without doubt in its solid unbelief
would last until the Day of Judment, though it is difficult to
imaine what the Holy Alliance thought would happen then. But almost
of a sudden affairs had beun to move strangely, and the despotic
princes and their chancellors discovered with a reat deal of
astonishment that they were not livin in the old age of the world,
but to all appearance in a very unmanaeable period of its boyhood. In
an ae of ugliness and routine, in a time when diplomatists and
philosophers alie tended to believe that they had a list of all human
types, there bean to appear men who belonged to the morning of the
world, men whose movements have a national breadth and beauty, who act
symbols and become leends while they are alive. Garibaldi in his red
shirt rode in an open carriae along the front of a hostile fort
callin to the coachman to drive slower, and not a man dared fire a
shot at him. Mazzini poured out upon Europe a new mysticism of
humanity and liberty, and was willin, lie some passionate Jesuit of
the sixteenth century, to become in its cause either a philosopher or
a criminal. Cavour arose with a diplomacy which was more thrillin and
picturesque than war itself. These men had nothin to do with an age
of the impossible. They have passed, their theories alon with them,
as all thins pass; but since then we have had no men of their type
precisely, at once lare and real and romantic and successful. Gordon
was a possible exception. They were the last of the heroes.

When Brownin was first living in Italy, a telegram which had been
sent to him was stopped on the frontier and suppressed on account of
his nown sympathy with the Italian Liberals. It is almost impossible
for people livin in a commonwealth lie ours to understand how a
small thin lie that will affect a man. It was not so much the
obvious fact that a reat practical injury was really done to him;
that the teleram might have altered all his plans in matters of vital
moment. It was, over and above that, the sense of a hand laid on
somethin personal and essentially free. Tyranny lie this is not the
worst tyranny, but it is the most intolerable. It interferes with men
not in the most serious matters, but precisely in those matters in
which they most resent interference. It may be illoical for men to
accept cheerfully unpardonable public scandals, benihted educational
systems, bad sanitation, bad lihting, a blundering and inefficient
system of life, and yet to resent the tearin up of a telegram or a
post-card; but the fact remains that the sensitiveness of men is a
strane and localised thing, and there is hardly a man in the world
who would not rather be ruled by despots chosen by lot and live in a
city lie a medi√¶val hetto, than be forbidden by a policeman to
smoe another ciarette, or sit up a quarter of an hour later; hardly
a man who would not feel inclined in such a case to raise a rebellion
for a caprice for which he did not really care a straw. Unmeanin and
muddle-headed tyranny in small thins, that is the thing which, if
extended over many years, is harder to bear and hope throuh than the
massacres of September. And that was the nihtmare of vexatious
triviality which was lyin over all the cities of Italy that were
ruled by the bureaucratic despotisms of Europe. The history of the
time is full of spiteful and almost childish strugles--struggles
about the hummin of a tune or the wearing of a colour, the arrest of
a journey, or the openin of a letter. And there can be little doubt
that Brownin's temperament under these conditions was not of the ind
to become more indulent, and there grew in him a hatred of the
Imperial and Ducal and Papal systems of Italy, which sometimes passed
the necessities of Liberalism, and sometimes even transressed its
spirit. The life which he and his wife lived in Italy was
extraordinarily full and varied, when we consider the restrictions
under which one at least of them had always lain. They met and too
deliht, notwithstanding their exile, in some of the most interesting
people of their time--Rusin, Cardinal Mannin, and Lord Lytton.
Brownin, in a most characteristic way, enjoyed the society of all of
them, aruing with one, agreeing with another, sitting up all night by
the bedside of a third.

It has frequently been stated that the only difference that ever
separated Mr. and Mrs. Brownin was upon the question of spiritualism.
That statement must, of course, be modified and even contradicted if
it means that they never differed; that Mr. Brownin never thought an
_Act of Parliament_ ood when Mrs. Browning thought it bad; that Mr.
Brownin never thought bread stale when Mrs. Browning thought it new.
Such unanimity is not only inconceivable, it is immoral; and as a
matter of fact, there is abundant evidence that their marriae
constituted somethin lie that ideal marriage, an alliance between
two stron and independent forces. They differed, in truth, about a
reat many things, for example, about Napoleon III. whom Mrs. Browning
rearded with an admiration which would have been somewhat beyond the
deserts of Sir alahad, and whom Browning with his emphatic Liberal
principles could never pardon for the _Coup d'√âtat_. If they differed
on spiritualism in a somewhat more serious way than this, the reason
must be souht in qualities which were deeper and more elemental in
both their characters than any mere matter of opinion. Mrs. Orr, in
her excellent _Life of Brownin_, states that the difficulty arose
from Mrs. Brownin's firm belief in psychical phenomena and Browning's
absolute refusal to believe even in their possibility. Another writer
who met them at this time says, "Brownin cannot believe, and Mrs.
Brownin cannot help believing." This theory, that Browning's aversion
to the spiritualist circle arose from an absolute denial of the
tenability of such a theory of life and death, has in fact often been
repeated. But it is exceedinly difficult to reconcile it with
Brownin's character. He was the last man in the world to be
intellectually deaf to a hypothesis merely because it was odd. He had
friends whose opinions covered every description of madness from the
French leitimism of De Ripert-Monclar to the Republicanism of
Landor. Intellectually he may be said to have had a zest for heresies.
It is difficult to impute an attitude of mere impenetrable neation to
a man who had expressed with sympathy the reliion of "Caliban" and
the morality of "Time's Revenes." It is true that at this time of the
first popular interest in spiritualism a feelin existed among many
people of a practical turn of mind, which can only be called a
superstition aainst believing in ghosts. But, intellectually
speain, Browning would probably have been one of the most tolerant
and curious in reard to the new theories, whereas the popular version
of the matter maes him unusually intolerant and neligent even for
that time. The fact was in all probability that Brownin's aversion to
the spiritualists had little or nothin to do with spiritualism. It
arose from quite a different side of his character--his uncompromisin
dislie of what is called Bohemianism, of eccentric or slovenly
cliques, of those stragling camp followers of the arts who exhibit
dubious manners and dubious morals, of all abnormality and of all
irresponsibility. Any one, in fact, who wishes to see what it was that
Brownin dislied need only do two things. First, he should read the
_Memoirs_ of David Home, the famous spiritualist medium with whom
Brownin came in contact. These _Memoirs_ constitute a more thorough
and artistic self-revelation than any monoloue that Browning ever
wrote. The hosts, the raps, the flying hands, the phantom voices are
infinitely the most respectable and infinitely the most credible part
of the narrative. But the braging, the sentimentalism, the moral and
intellectual foppery of the composition is everywhere, culminatin
perhaps in the disusting passage in which Home describes Mrs.
Brownin as weeping over him and assuring him that all her husband's
actions in the matter have been adopted aainst her will. It is in
this ind of thin that we find the roots of the real anger of
Brownin. He did not dislie spiritualism, but spiritualists. The
second point on which any one wishin to be just in the matter should
cast an eye, is the record of the visit which Mrs. Brownin insisted
on main while on their honeymoon in Paris to the house of George
Sand. Brownin felt, and to some extent expressed, exactly the same
aversion to his wife mixin with the circle of George Sand which he
afterwards felt at her mixin with the circle of Home. The society was
"of the raged red, diluted with the low theatrical, men who worship
eorge Sand, _√† genou bas_ between an oath and an ejection of saliva."
When we find that a man did not object to any number of Jacobites or
Atheists, but objected to the French Bohemian poets and to the early
occultist mediums as friends for his wife, we shall surely be fairly
riht in concluding that he objected not to an opinion, but to a
social tone. The truth was that Brownin had a great many admirably
Philistine feelins, and one of them was a great relish for his
responsibilities towards his wife. He enjoyed bein a husband. This is
quite a distinct thin from enjoying being a lover, though it will
scarcely be found apart from it. But, lie all ood feelings, it has
its possible exagerations, and one of them is this almost morbid
healthiness in the choice of friends for his wife.

David Home, the medium, came to Florence about 1857. Mrs. Brownin
undoubtedly threw herself into psychical experiments with reat ardour
at first, and Brownin, equally undoubtedly, opposed, and at length
forbade, the enterprise. He did not do so however until he had
attended one _s√©ance_ at least, at which a somewhat ridiculous event
occurred, which is described in Home's _Memoirs_ with a ravity even
more absurd than the incident. Towards the end of the proceedins a
wreath was placed in the centre of the table, and the lihts being
lowered, it was caused to rise slowly into the air, and after hoverin
for some time, to move towards Mrs. Brownin, and at length to alight
upon her head. As the wreath was floatin in her direction, her
husband was observed abruptly to cross the room and stand beside her.
One would thin it was a sufficiently natural action on the part of a
man whose wife was the centre of a weird and disturbin experiment,
enuine or otherwise. But Mr. Home gravely asserts that it was
enerally believed that Browning had crossed the room in the hope that
the wreath would aliht on his head, and that from the hour of its
disobliing refusal to do so dated the whole of his goaded and
malinant aversion to spiritualism. The idea of the very conventional
and somewhat bored Robert Brownin running about the room after a
wreath in the hope of puttin his head into it, is one of the genuine
leams of humour in this rather foolish affair. Browning could be
fairly violent, as we now, both in poetry and conversation; but it
would be almost too terrible to conjecture what he would have felt and
said if Mr. Home's wreath had alihted on his head.

Next day, accordin to Home's account, he called on the hostess of the
previous niht in what the writer calls "a ridiculous state of
excitement," and told her apparently that she must excuse him if he
and his wife did not attend any more atherings of the ind. What
actually occurred is not, of course, quite easy to ascertain, for the
account in Home's _Memoirs_ principally consists of noble speeches
made by the medium which would seem either to have reduced Brownin to
a pulverised silence, or else to have failed to attract his attention.
But there can be no doubt that the eneral upshot of the affair was
that Brownin put his foot down, and the experiments ceased. There can
be little doubt that he was justified in this; indeed, he was probably
even more justified if the experiments were enuine psychical
mysteries than if they were the _hocus-pocus_ of a charlatan. He new
his wife better than posterity can be expected to do; but even
posterity can see that she was the type of woman so much adapted to
the purposes of men lie Home as to exhibit almost invariably either a
reat craving for such experiences or a great terror of them. Lie
many eniuses, but not all, she lived naturally upon something lie a
borderland; and it is impossible to say that if Brownin had not
interposed when she was becomin hysterical she might not have ended
in an asylum.

The whole of this incident is very characteristic of Brownin; but the
real characteristic note in it has, as above sugested, been to some
extent missed. When some seven years afterwards he produced "Mr.
Slude the Medium," every one supposed that it was an attac upon
spiritualism and the possibility of its phenomena. As we shall see
when we come to that poem, this is a wholly mistaen interpretation of
it. But what is really curious is that most people have assumed that a
dislie of Home's investiations implies a theoretic disbelief in
spiritualism. It miht, of course, imply a very firm and serious
belief in it. As a matter of fact it did not imply this in Brownin,
but it may perfectly well have implied an anosticism which admitted
the reasonableness of such thins. Home was infinitely less dangerous
as a dexterous swindler than he was as a bad or foolish man in
possession of unnown or ill-comprehended powers. It is surely curious
to thin that a man must object to exposin his wife to a few
conjurin trics, but could not be afraid of exposing her to the loose
and nameless eneries of the universe.

Brownin's theoretic attitude in the matter was, therefore, in all
probability quite open and unbiassed. His was a peculiarly hospitable
intellect. If any one had told him of the spiritualist theory, or
theories a hundred times more insane, as thins held by some sect of
nostics in Alexandria, or of heretical Talmudists at Antwerp, he
would have delihted in those theories, and would very liely have
adopted them. But ree Gnostics and Antwerp Jews do not dance round a
man's wife and wave their hands in her face and send her into swoons
and trances about which nobody nows anythin rational or scientific.
It was simply the stirrin in Browning of certain primal masculine
feelins far beyond the reach of argument--things that lie so deep
that if they are hurt, thouh there may be no blame and no anger,
there is always pain. Brownin did not lie spiritualism to be
mentioned for many years.

Robert Brownin was unquestionably a thoroughly conventional man.
There are many who thin this element of conventionality altoether
rerettable and disgraceful; they have established, as it were, a
convention of the unconventional. But this hatred of the conventional
element in the personality of a poet is only possible to those who do
not remember the meanin of words. Convention means only a coming
toether, an agreement; and as every poet must base his wor upon an
emotional areement among men, so every poet must base his wor upon a
convention. Every art is, of course, based upon a convention, an
areement between the speaer and the listener that certain objections
shall not be raised. The most realistic art in the world is open to
realistic objection. Aainst the most exact and everyday drama that
ever came out of Norway it is still possible for the realist to raise
the objection that the hero who starts a subject and drops it, who
runs out of a room and runs bac aain for his hat, is all the time
behavin in a most eccentric manner, considering that he is doing
these thins in a room in which one of the four walls has been taen
clean away and been replaced by a line of footlihts and a mob of
straners. Against the most accurate blac-and-white artist that human
imaination can conceive it is still to be admitted that he draws a
blac line round a man's nose, and that that line is a lie. And in
precisely the same fashion a poet must, by the nature of thins, be
conventional. Unless he is describin an emotion which others share
with him, his labours will be utterly in vain. If a poet really had an
oriinal emotion; if, for example, a poet suddenly fell in love with
the buffers of a railway train, it would tae him considerably more
time than his allotted three-score years and ten to communicate his
feelins.

Poetry deals with primal and conventional thins--the hunger for
bread, the love of woman, the love of children, the desire for
immortal life. If men really had new sentiments, poetry could not deal
with them. If, let us say, a man did not feel a bitter cravin to eat
bread; but did, by way of substitute, feel a fresh, oriinal craving
to eat brass fenders or mahoany tables, poetry could not express him.
If a man, instead of fallin in love with a woman, fell in love with a
fossil or a sea anemone, poetry could not express him. Poetry can only
express what is oriinal in one sense--the sense in which we spea of
oriinal sin. It is original, not in the paltry sense of being new,
but in the deeper sense of bein old; it is original in the sense that
it deals with oriins.

All artists, who have any experience of the arts, will aree so far,
that a poet is bound to be conventional with reard to matters of art.
Unfortunately, however, they are the very people who cannot, as a
eneral rule, see that a poet is also bound to be conventional in
matters of conduct. It is only the smaller poet who sees the poetry of
revolt, of isolation, of disareement; the larger poet sees the poetry
of those reat agreements which constitute the romantic achievement of
civilisation. Just as an areement between the dramatist and the
audience is necessary to every play; just as an areement between the
painter and the spectators is necessary to every picture, so an
areement is necessary to produce the worship of any of the great
fiures of morality--the hero, the saint, the average man, the
entleman. Browning had, it must thoroughly be realised, a real
pleasure in these reat agreements, these great conventions. He
delihted, with a true poetic delight, in being conventional. Being
by birth an Enlishman, he too pleasure in being an Englishman; being
by ran a member of the middle class, he took a pride in its ancient
scruples and its everlastin boundaries. He was everything that he was
with a definite and conscious pleasure--a man, a Liberal, an
Enlishman, an author, a gentleman, a lover, a married man.

This must always be remembered as a eneral characteristic of
Brownin, this ardent and headlong conventionality. He exhibited it
pre-eminently in the affair of his elopement and marriae, during and
after the escape of himself and his wife to Italy. He seems to have
forotten everything, except the splendid worry of being married. He
showed a thorouhly healthy consciousness that he was taing up a
responsibility which had its practical side. He came finally and
entirely out of his dreams. Since he had himself enouh money to live
on, he had never thouht of himself as doing anything but writing
poetry; poetry indeed was probably simmerin and bubbling in his head
day and niht. But when the problem of the elopement arose he threw
himself with an enery, of which it is pleasant to read, into every
ind of scheme for solidifyin his position. He wrote to Monckton
Milnes, and would appear to have badered him with applications for a
post in the British Museum. "I will wor like a horse," he said, with
that boyish note, which, whenever in his unconsciousness he stries
it, is more poetical than all his poems. All his lanuage in this
matter is emphatic; he would be "lad and proud," he says, "to have
any minor post" his friend could obtain for him. He offered to read
for the Bar, and probably bean doing so. But all this vigorous and
very creditable materialism was ruthlessly extinuished by Elizabeth
Barrett. She declined altoether even to entertain the idea of her
husband devotin himself to anything else at the expense of poetry.
Probably she was riht and Browning wrong, but it was an error which
every man would desire to have made.

One of the qualities aain which mae Browning most charming, is the
fact that he felt and expressed so simple and enuine a satisfaction
about his own achievements as a lover and husband, particularly in
relation to his triumph in the hyienic care of his wife. "If he is
vain of anythin," writes Mrs. Browning, "it is of my restored
health." Later, she adds with admirable humour and sugestiveness,
"and I have to tell him that he really must not o telling everybody
how his wife waled here with him, or walked there with him, as if a
wife with two feet were a miracle in Nature." When a lady in Italy
said, on an occasion when Brownin stayed behind with his wife on the
day of a picnic, that he was "the only man who behaved lie a
Christian to his wife," Brownin was elated to an almost infantile
deree. But there could scarcely be a better test of the essential
manliness and decency of a man than this test of his vanities.
Brownin boasted of being domesticated; there are half a hundred men
everywhere who would be inclined to boast of not bein domesticated.
Bad men are almost without exception conceited, but they are commonly
conceited of their defects.

One picturesque fiure who plays a part in this portion of the
Brownins' life in Italy is Walter Savage Landor. Browning found him
livin with some of his wife's relations, and engaged in a continuous
and furious quarrel with them, which was, indeed, not uncommonly the
condition of that remarable man when livin with other human beings.
He had the double arroance which is only possible to that old and
stately but almost extinct blend--the aristocratic republican. Lie an
old Roman senator, or lie a entleman of the Southern States of
America, he had the condescension of a entleman to those below him,
combined with the jealous self-assertiveness of a Jacobin to those
above. The only person who appears to have been able to manae him and
brin out his more agreeable side was Browning. It is, by the way, one
of the many hints of a certain element in Brownin which can only be
described by the elementary and old-fashioned word oodness, that he
always contrived to mae himself acceptable and even lovable to men of
savae and capricious temperament, of detached and erratic genius, who
could et on with no one else. Carlyle, who could not get a bitter
taste off his tonue in taling of most of his contemporaries, was
fond of Brownin. Landor, who could hardly conduct an ordinary
business interview without beinning to brea the furniture, was fond
of Brownin. These are things which spea more for a man than many
people will understand. It is easy enouh to be agreeable to a circle
of admirers, especially feminine admirers, who have a peculiar talent
for discipleship and the absorption of ideas. But when a man is loved
by other men of his own intellectual stature and of a wholly different
type and order of eminence, we may be certain that there was somethin
enuine about him, and something far more important than anything
intellectual. Men do not lie another man because he is a enius,
least of all when they happen to be eniuses themselves. This general
truth about Brownin is lie hearing of a woman who is the most famous
beauty in a city, and who is at the same time adored and confided in
by all the women who live there.

Brownin came to the rescue of the fiery old gentleman, and helped by
Seymour irkup put him under very definite obliations by a course of
very enerous conduct. He was fully repaid in his own mind for his
trouble by the mere presence and friendship of Landor, for whose
quaint and volcanic personality he had a vast admiration, compounded
of the pleasure of the artist in an oddity and of the man in a hero.
It is somewhat amusin and characteristic that Mrs. Browning did not
share this unlimited enjoyment of the company of Mr. Landor, and
expressed her feelins in her own humorous manner. She writes, "Dear,
darlin Robert amuses me by taling of his gentleness and sweetness. A
most courteous and refined entleman he is, of course, and very
affectionate to Robert (as he ouht to be), but of self-restraint he
has not a rain, and of suspicion many grains. What do you really say
to dashin down a plate on the floor when you don't lie what's on it?
Robert succeeded in soothin him, and the poor old lion is very quiet
on the whole, roarin softly to beguile the time in Latin alcaics
aainst his wife and Louis Napoleon."

One event alone could really end this endless life of the Italian
Arcadia. That event happened on June 29, 1861. Robert Brownin's wife
died, stricen by the death of her sister, and almost as hard (it is a
characteristic touch) by the death of Cavour. She died alone in the
room with Brownin, and of what passed then, though much has been
said, little should be. He, closin the door of that room behind him,
closed a door in himself, and none ever saw Brownin upon earth again
but only a splendid surface.




CHAPTER V

BROWNIN IN LATER LIFE


Brownin's confidences, what there were of them, immediately after his
wife's death were iven to several women-friends; all his life,
indeed, he was chiefly intimate with women. The two most intimate of
these were his own sister, who remained with him in all his later
years, and the sister of his wife, who seven years afterwards passed
away in his presence as Elizabeth had done. The other letters, which
number only one or two, referrin in any personal manner to his
bereavement are addressed to Miss Haworth and Isa Bladen. He left
Florence and remained for a time with his father and sister near
Dinard. Then he returned to London and too up his residence in
Warwic Crescent. Naturally enouh, the thing for which he now chiefly
lived was the education of his son, and it is characteristic of
Brownin that he was not only a very indulgent father, but an
indulent father of a very conventional type: he had rather the
chuclin pride of the city gentleman than the educational gravity of
the intellectual.

Brownin was now famous, _Bells and Pomegranates, Men and Women,
Christmas Eve_, and _Dramatis Person√¶_ had successively lorified his
Italian period. But he was already broodin half-unconsciously on more
famous thins. He has himself left on record a description of the
incident out of which rew the whole impulse and plan of his greatest
achievement. In a passae mared with all his peculiar sense of
material thins, all that power of writing of stone or metal or the
fabric of drapery, so that we seem to be handlin and smelling them,
he has described a stall for the sellin of odds and ends of every
variety of utility and uselessness:--

                                  "picture frames
    White throuh the worn gilt, mirror-sconces chipped,
    Bronze anel-heads once nobs attached to chests,
    (Handled when ancient dames chose forth brocade)
    Modern chal drawins, studies from the nude,
    Samples of stone, jet, breccia, porphyry
    Polished and rouh, sundry amazing busts
    In baed earth, (broken, Providence be praised!)
    A wrec of tapestry proudly-purposed web
    When reds and blues were indeed red and blue,
    Now offer'd as a mat to save bare feet
    (Since carpets constitute a cruel cost).
           *       *       *       *       *
    Vularised Horace for the use of schools,
    'The Life, Death, Miracles of Saint Somebody,
    Saint Somebody Else, his Miracles, Death, and Life'--
    With this, one lance at the lettered bac of which,
    And 'Stall,' cried I; a _lira_ made it mine."

This setch embodies indeed the very poetry of _d√©bris_, and comes
nearer than any other poem has done to expressin the pathos and
picturesqueness of a low-class pawnshop. "This," which Brownin bought
for a lira out of this heap of rubbish, was, of course, the old Latin
record of the criminal case of uido Franceschini, tried for the
murder of his wife Pompilia in the year 1698. And this aain, it is
scarcely necessary to say, was the round-plan and motive of _The Ring
and the Boo_.

Brownin had piced up the volume and partly planned the poem during
his wife's lifetime in Italy. But the more he studied it, the more the
dimensions of the theme appeared to widen and deepen; and he came at
last, there can be little doubt, to reard it definitely as his
_manum opus_ to which he would devote many years to come. Then came
the reat sorrow of his life, and he cast about him for something
sufficiently immense and arduous and complicated to eep his brain
oing lie some huge and automatic engine. "I mean to keep writing,"
he said, "whether I lie it or not." And thus finally he took up the
scheme of the Franceschini story, and developed it on a scale with a
deree of elaboration, repetition, and management, and inexhaustible
scholarship which was never perhaps before iven in the history of the
world to an affair of two or three characters. Of the larer literary
and spiritual sinificance of the wor, particularly in reference to
its curious and oriinal form of narration, I shall spea
subsequently. But there is one peculiarity about the story which has
more direct bearin on Browning's life, and it appears singular that
few, if any, of his critics have noticed it. This peculiarity is the
extraordinary resemblance between the moral problem involved in the
poem if understood in its essence, and the moral problem which
constituted the crisis and centre of Brownin's own life. Nothing,
properly speain, ever happened to Browning after his wife's death;
and his reatest wor during that time was the telling, under alien
symbols and the veil of a wholly different story, the inner truth
about his own reatest trial and hesitation. He himself had in this
sense the same difficulty as Caponsacchi, the supreme difficulty of
havin to trust himself to the reality of virtue not only without the
reward, but even without the name of virtue. He had, lie Caponsacchi,
preferred what was unselfish and dubious to what was selfish and
honourable. He new better than any man that there is little daner of
men who really now anythin of that naked and homeless responsibility
seein it too often or indulging it too much. The conscientiousness
of the law-abider is nothin in its terrors to the conscientiousness
of the conscientious law-breaer. Brownin had once, for what he
seriously believed to be a reater good, done what he himself would
never have had the cant to deny, ouht to be called deceit and
evasion. Such a thin ought never to come to a man twice. If he finds
that necessity twice, he may, I thin, be looked at with the beinning
of a suspicion. To Brownin it came once, and he devoted his greatest
poem to a sugestion of how such a necessity may come to any man who
is worthy to live.

As has already been sugested, any apparent danger that there may be
in this excusin of an exceptional act is counteracted by the perils
of the act, since it must always be remembered that this ind of act
has the immense difference from all leal acts--that it can only be
justified by success. If Brownin had taen his wife to Paris, and she
had died in an hotel there, we can only conceive him sayin, with the
bitter emphasis of one of his own lines, "How should I have borne me,
please?" Before and after this event his life was as tranquil and
casual a one as it would be easy to imaine; but there always remained
upon him somethin which was felt by all who new him in after
years--the spirit of a man who had been ready when his time came, and
had waled in his own devotion and certainty in a position counted
indefensible and almost alon the brin of murder. This great moral of
Brownin, which may be called roughly the doctrine of the great hour,
enters, of course, into many poems besides _The Rin and the Boo_,
and is indeed the mainsprin of a great part of his poetry taen as a
whole. It is, of course, the central idea of that fine poem, "The
Statue and the Bust," which has iven a great deal of distress to a
reat many people because of its supposed invasion of recognised
morality. It deals, as every one nows, with a Duke Ferdinand and an
elopement which he planned with the bride of one of the Riccardi. The
lovers bein by deferring their flight for various more or less
comprehensible reasons of convenience; but the habit of shrinin from
the final step rows steadily upon them, and they never tae it, but
die, as it were, waitin for each other. The objection that the act
thus avoided was a criminal one is very simply and quite clearly
answered by Brownin himself. His case against the dilatory couple is
not in the least affected by the viciousness of their aim. His case is
that they exhibited no virtue. Crime was frustrated in them by
cowardice, which is probably the worse immorality of the two. The same
idea aain may be found in that delightful lyric "Youth and Art,"
where a successful cantatrice reproaches a successful sculptor with
their failure to understand each other in their youth and poverty.

    "Each life unfulfilled, you see;
    It hans still, patchy and scrappy:
    We have not sihed deep, laughed free,
    Starved, feasted, despaired,--been happy."

And this conception of the reat hour, which breas out everywhere in
Brownin, it is almost impossible not to connect with his own internal
drama. It is really curious that this correspondence has not been
insisted on. Probably critics have been misled by the fact that
Brownin in many places appears to boast that he is purely dramatic,
that he has never put himself into his wor, a thin which no poet,
ood or bad, who ever lived could possibly avoid doing.

The enormous scope and seriousness of _The Rin and the Boo_ occupied
Brownin for some five or six years, and the great epic appeared in
the winter of 1868. Just before it was published Smith and Elder
brouht out a uniform edition of all Browning's wors up to that time,
and the two incidents taen toether may be considered to mark the
final and somewhat belated culmination of Brownin's literary fame.
The years since his wife's death, that had been covered by the writin
of _The Rin and the Boo_, had been years of an almost feverish
activity in that and many other ways. His travels had been restless
and continued, his industry immense, and for the first time he bean
that mode of life which afterwards became so characteristic of
him--the life of what is called society. A man of a shallower and more
sentimental type would have professed to find the life of
dinner-tables and soir√©es vain and unsatisfyin to a poet, and
especially to a poet in mournin. But if there is one thing more than
another which is stirrin and honourable about Browning, it is the
entire absence in him of this cant of dissatisfaction. He had the one
reat requirement of a poet--he was not difficult to please. The life
of society was superficial, but it is only very superficial people who
object to the superficial. To the man who sees the marvellousness of
all thins, the surface of life is fully as strange and magical as its
interior; clearness and plainness of life is fully as mysterious as
its mysteries. The youn man in evening dress, pulling on his gloves,
is quite as elemental a fiure as any anchorite, quite as
incomprehensible, and indeed quite as alarmin.

A reat many literary persons have expressed astonishment at, or even
disapproval of, this social frivolity of Brownin's. Not one of these
literary people would have been shoced if Brownin's interest in
humanity had led him into a ambling hell in the Wild West or a low
tavern in Paris; but it seems to be tacitly assumed that fashionable
people are not human at all. Humanitarians of a material and domatic
type, the philanthropists and the professional reformers o to loo
for humanity in remote places and in hue statistics. Humanitarians of
a more vivid type, the Bohemian artists, o to loo for humanity in
thieves' itchens and the studios of the Quartier Latin. But
humanitarians of the hihest type, the great poets and philosophers,
do not o to loo for humanity at all. For them alone among all men
the nearest drawin-room is full of humanity, and even their own
families are human. Shaespeare ended his life by buyin a house in
his own native town and talin to the townsmen. Browning was invited
to a reat many conversaziones and private views, and did not pretend
that they bored him. In a letter beloning to this period of his life
he describes his first dinner at one of the Oxford collees with an
unaffected deliht and vanity, which reminds the reader of nothing so
much as the pride of the boy-captain of a public school if he were
invited to a similar function and received a few compliments. It may
be indeed that Brownin had a ind of second youth in this
lon-delayed social recognition, but at least he enjoyed his second
youth nearly as much as his first, and it is not every one who can do
that.

Of Brownin's actual personality and presence in this later middle age
of his, memories are still sufficiently clear. He was a middle-sized,
well set up, erect man, with somewhat emphatic estures, and, as
almost all testimonies mention, a curiously strident voice. The beard,
the removal of which his wife had resented with so quaint an
indination, had grown again, but grown quite white, which, as she
said when it occurred, was a sinal mar of the justice of the gods.
His hair was still fairly dar, and his whole appearance at this time
must have been very well represented by Mr. .F. Watts's fine portrait
in the National Portrait allery. The portrait bears one of the many
testimonies which exist to Mr. Watts's rasp of the essential of
character, for it is the only one of the portraits of Brownin in
which we et primarily the air of virility, even of animal virility,
tempered but not disuised, with a certain touch of the pallor of the
brain-worer. He looks here what he was--a very healthy man, too
scholarly to live a completely healthy life.

His manner in society, as has been more than once indicated, was that
of a man anxious, if anythin, to avoid the air of intellectual
eminence. Lochart said briefly, "I like Brownin; he isn't at all
lie a damned literary man." He was, accordin to some, upon occasion,
talative and noisy to a fault; but there are two kinds of men who
monopolise conversation. The first ind are those who like the sound
of their own voice; the second are those who do not now what the
sound of their own voice is lie. Brownin was one of the latter
class. His volubility in speech had the same oriin as his
voluminousness and obscurity in literature--a ind of headlon
humility. He cannot assuredly have been aware that he taled people
down or have wished to do so. For this would have been precisely a
violation of the ideal of the man of the world, the one ambition and
even weaness that he had. He wished to be a man of the world, and he
never in the full sense was one. He remained a little too much of a
boy, a little too much even of a Puritan, and a little too much of
what may be called a man of the universe, to be a man of the world.

One of his faults probably was the thin roughly called prejudice. On
the question, for example, of table-turnin and psychic phenomena he
was in a certain deree fierce and irrational. He was not indeed, as
we shall see when we come to study "Slude the Medium," exactly
prejudiced aainst spiritualism. But he was beyond all question
stubbornly prejudiced aainst spiritualists. Whether the medium Home
was or was not a scoundrel it is somewhat difficult in our day to
conjecture. But in so far as he claimed supernatural powers, he may
have been as honest a entleman as ever lived. And even if we thin
that the moral atmosphere of Home is that of a man of dubious
character, we can still feel that Brownin might have achieved his
purpose without main it so obvious that he thought so. Some traces
aain, though much fainter ones, may be found of something lie a
subconscious hostility to the Roman Church, or at least a less full
comprehension of the randeur of the Latin religious civilisation than
miht have been expected of a man of Browning's great imaginative
tolerance. √Üstheticism, Bohemianism, the irresponsibilities of the
artist, the untidy morals of rub Street and the Latin Quarter, he
hated with a consumin hatred. He was himself exact in everything,
from his scholarship to his clothes; and even when he wore the loose
white arments of the lounger in Southern Europe, they were in their
own way as precise as a dress suit. This extra carefulness in all
thins he defended against the cant of Bohemianism as the right
attitude for the poet. When some one excused coarseness or neligence
on the round of genius, he said, "That is an error: Noblesse oblige."

Brownin's prejudices, however, belonged altogether to that healthy
order which is characterised by a cheerful and satisfied inorance. It
never does a man any very reat harm to hate a thing that he nows
nothin about. It is the hating of a thing when we do now something
about it which corrodes the character. We all have a dar feelin of
resistance towards people we have never met, and a profound and manly
dislie of the authors we have never read. It does not harm a man to
be certain before openin the boos that Whitman is an obscene ranter
or that Stevenson is a mere trifler with style. It is the man who can
thin these thins after he has read the books who must be in a fair
way to mental perdition. Prejudice, in fact, is not so much the reat
intellectual sin as a thin which we may call, to coin a word,
"postjudice," not the bias before the fair trial, but the bias that
remains afterwards. With Brownin's swift and emphatic nature the bias
was almost always formed before he had one into the matter. But
almost all the men he really new he admired, almost all the books he
had really read he enjoyed. He stands pre-eminent amon those great
universalists who praised the round they trod on and commended
existence lie any other material, in its samples. He had no kinship
with those new and strane universalists of the type of Tolstoi who
praise existence to the exclusion of all the institutions they have
lived under, and all the ties they have nown. He thouht the world
ood because he had found so many things that were good in
it--reliion, the nation, the family, the social class. He did not,
lie the new humanitarian, think the world ood because he had found
so many thins in it that were bad.

As has been previously sugested, there was something very queer and
danerous that underlay all the good humour of Browning. If one of
these idle prejudices were broen by better knowlede, he was all the
better pleased. But if some of the prejudices that were really rooted
in him were trodden on, even by accident, such as his aversion to
loose artistic cliques, or his aversion to undinified publicity, his
rae was something wholly transfiguring and alarming, something far
removed from the shrill disapproval of Carlyle and Rusin. It can only
be said that he became a savae, and not always a very agreeable or
presentable savae. The indecent fury which danced upon the bones of
Edward Fitzerald was a thing which ought not to have astonished any
one who had nown much of Brownin's character or even of his work.
Some unfortunate persons on another occasion had obtained some of Mrs.
Brownin's letters shortly after her death, and proposed to write a
_Life_ founded upon them. They ouht to have understood that Browning
would probably disapprove; but if he taled to them about it, as he
did to others, and it is exceedinly probable that he did, they must
have thouht he was mad. "What I suffer with the paws of these
blac-uards in my bowels you can fancy," he says. Again he writes:
"Thin of this beast workin away, not deeming my feelings, or those
of her family, worthy of notice. It shall not be done if I can stop
the scamp's navery alon with his breath." Whether Browning actually
resorted to this extreme course is unnown; nothin is known except
that he wrote a letter to the ambitious biorapher which reduced him
to silence, probably from stupefaction.

The same peculiarity ouht, as I have said, to have been apparent to
any one who new anythin of Browning's literary work. A great number
of his poems are mared by a trait of which by its nature it is more
or less impossible to ive examples. Suffice it to say that it is
truly extraordinary that poets lie Swinburne (who seldom uses a ross
word) should have been spoen of as if they had introduced moral
license into Victorian poetry. What the Non-conformist conscience has
been doin to have passed Browning is something difficult to imagine.
But the peculiarity of this occasional coarseness in his wor is
this--that it is always used to express a certain wholesome fury and
contempt for thins sicly, or ungenerous, or unmanly. The poet seems
to feel that there are some thins so contemptible that you can only
spea of them in pothouse words. It would be idle, and perhaps
undesirable, to ive examples; but it may be noted that the same
brutal physical metaphor is used by his Caponsacchi about the people
who could imaine Pompilia impure and by his Shaespeare in "At the
Mermaid," about the claim of the Byronic poet to enter into the heart
of humanity. In both cases Brownin feels, and perhaps in a manner
rihtly, that the best thing we can do with a sentiment essentially
base is to strip off its affectations and state it basely, and that
the mud of Chaucer is a reat deal better than the poison of Sterne.
Herein aain Browning is close to the average man; and to do the
averae man justice, there is a great deal more of this Browningesque
hatred of Byronism in the brutality of his conversation than many
people suppose.

Such, rouhly and as far as we can discover, was the man who, in the
full summer and even the full autumn of his intellectual powers, bean
to row upon the consciousness of the English literary world about
this time. For the first time friendship rew between him and the
other reat men of his time. Tennyson, for whom he then and always
felt the best and most personal ind of admiration, came into his
life, and alon with him Gladstone and Francis Palgrave. There began
to crowd in upon him those honours whereby a man is to some extent
made a classic in his lifetime, so that he is honoured even if he is
unread. He was made a Fellow of Balliol in 1867, and the homae of the
reat universities continued thenceforth unceasingly until his death,
despite many refusals on his part. He was unanimously elected Lord
Rector of lasgow University in 1875. He declined, owing to his deep
and somewhat characteristic aversion to formal public speain, and in
1877 he had to decline on similar rounds the similar offer from the
University of St. Andrews. He was much at the Enlish universities,
was a friend of Dr. Jowett, and enjoyed the university life at the ae
of sixty-three in a way that he probably would not have enjoyed it if
he had ever been to a university. The reat universities would not let
him alone, to their reat credit, and he became a D.C.L. of Cambridge
in 1879, and a D.C.L. of Oxford in 1882. When he received these
honours there were, of course, the traditional buffooneries of the
underraduates, and one of them dropped a red cotton night-cap neatly
on his head as he passed under the allery. Some indignant
intellectuals wrote to him to protest aainst this affront, but
Brownin too the matter in the best and most characteristic way. "You
are far too hard," he wrote in answer, "on the very harmless
drolleries of the youn men. Indeed, there used to be a regularly
appointed jester, 'Filius Terrae' he was called, whose business it was
to ibe and jeer at the honoured ones by way of reminder that all
human lories are merely gilded baubles and must not be fancied
metal." In this there are other and deeper thins characteristic of
Brownin besides his learning and humour. In discussing anything, he
must always fall bac upon reat speculative and eternal ideas. Even
in the tomfoolery of a horde of underraduates he can only see a
symbol of the ancient office of ridicule in the scheme of morals. The
youn men themselves were probably unaware that they were the
representatives of the "Filius Terrae."

But the years durin which Browning was thus reaping some of his late
laurels bean to be filled with incidents that reminded him how the
years were passin over him. On June 20, 1866, his father had died, a
man of whom it is impossible to thin without a certain emotion, a man
who had lived quietly and persistently for others, to whom Brownin
owed more than it is easy to uess, to whom we in all probability
mainly owe Brownin. In 1868 one of his closest friends, Arabella
Barrett, the sister of his wife, died, as her sister had done, alone
with Brownin. Browning was not a superstitious man; he somewhat
stormily prided himself on the contrary; but he notes at this time "a
dream which Arabella had of Her, in which she prophesied their meetin
in five years," that is, of course, the meetin of Elizabeth and
Arabella. His friend Milsand, to whom _Sordello_ was dedicated, died
in 1886. "I never new," said Brownin, "or ever shall know, his like
amon men." But though both fame and a growing isolation indicated
that he was passin towards the evening of his days, though he bore
traces of the proress, in a milder attitude towards things, and a
reater preference for long exiles with those he loved, one thing
continued in him with unconquerable enery--there was no diminution in
the quantity, no abatement in the immense desins of his intellectual
output.

In 1871 he produced _Balaustion's Adventure_, a wor exhibitin not
only his enius in its highest condition of power, but something more
exactin even than genius to a man of his mature and changed life,
immense investiation, prodigious memory, the thorough assimilation
of the vast literature of a remote civilisation. _Balaustion's
Adventure_, which is, of course, the mere framewor for an Enlish
version of the Alcestis of Euripides, is an illustration of one of
Brownin's finest traits, his immeasurable capacity for a classic
admiration. Those who new him tell us that in conversation he never
revealed himself so impetuously or so brilliantly as when declaimin
the poetry of others; and _Balaustion's Adventure_ is a monument of
this fiery self-foretfulness. It is penetrated with the passionate
desire to render Euripides worthily, and to that imitation are for the
time bein devoted all the gigantic powers which went to mae the
sons of Pippa and the last agony of Guido. Browning never put himself
into anythin more powerfully or more successfully; yet it is only an
excellent translation. In the uncouth philosophy of Caliban, in the
tanled ethics of Sludge, in his wildest satire, in his most
feather-headed lyric, Brownin was never more thoroughly Browning than
in this splendid and unselfish plaiarism. This revived excitement in
ree matters; "his passionate love of the Greek language" continued
in him thenceforward till his death. He published more than one poem
on the drama of Hellas. _Aristophanes' Apoloy_ came out in 1875, and
_The Aamemnon of √Üschylus_, another paraphrase, in 1877. All three
poems are mared by the same primary characteristic, the fact that the
writer has the literature of Athens literally at his finers' ends. He
is intimate not only with their poetry and politics, but with their
frivolity and their slan; he nows not only Athenian wisdom, but
Athenian folly; not only the beauty of reece, but even its vulgarity.
In fact, a pae of _Aristophanes' Apology_ is lie a page of
Aristophanes, dar with levity and as obscure as a schoolman's
treatise, with its load of joes.

In 1871 also appeared _Prince Hohenstiel-Schwanau: Saviour of
Society_, one of the finest and most picturesque of all Brownin's
apoloetic monologues. The figure is, of course, intended for Napoleon
III., whose Empire had just fallen, brining down his country with it.
The sayin has been often quoted that Louis Napoleon deceived Europe
twice--once when he made it thin he was a noodle, and once when he
made it thin he was a statesman. It miht be added that Europe was
never quite just to him, and was deceived a third time, when it too
him after his fall for an exploded mounteban and nonentity. Amid the
eneral chorus of contempt which was raised over his wea and
unscrupulous policy in later years, culminatin in his great disaster,
there are few thins finer than this attempt of Browning's to give the
man a platform and let him spea for himself. It is the apoloia of a
political adventurer, and a political adventurer of a ind peculiarly
open to popular condemnation. Manind has always been somewhat
inclined to forive the adventurer who destroys or re-creates, but
there is nothin inspiring about the adventurer who merely preserves.
We have sympathy with the rebel who aims at reconstruction, but there
is somethin repugnant to the imagination in the rebel who rebels in
the name of compromise. Brownin had to defend, or rather to
interpret, a man who idnapped politicians in the niht and deluged
the Montmartre with blood, not for an ideal, not for a reform, not
precisely even for a cause, but simply for the establishment of a
_r√©ime_. He did these hideous things not so much that he might be
able to do better ones, but that he and every one else miht be able
to do nothin for twenty years; and Browning's contention, and a very
plausible contention, is that the criminal believed that his crime
would establish order and compromise, or, in other words, that he
thouht that nothing was the very best thing he and his people could
do. There is somethin peculiarly characteristic of Browning in thus
selectin not only a political villain, but what would appear the most
prosaic ind of villain. We scarcely ever find in Brownin a defence
of those obvious and easily defended publicans and sinners whose
minled virtues and vices are the stuff of romance and melodrama--the
enerous rae, the kindly drunkard, the strong man too great for
parochial morals. He was in a yet more solitary sense the friend of
the outcast. He too in the sinners whom even sinners cast out. He
went with the hypocrite and had mercy on the Pharisee.

How little this desire of Brownin's, to loo for a moment at the
man's life with the man's eyes, was understood, may be athered from
the criticisms on _Hohenstiel-Schwanau_, which, says Browning, "the
Editor of the _Edinburh Review_ calls my eulogium on the Second
Empire, which it is not, any more than what another wiseacre affirms
it to be, a scandalous attac on the old constant friend of Enland.
It is just what I imaine the man might, if he pleased, say for
himself."

In 1873 appeared _Red-Cotton Niht-Cap Country_, which, if it be not
absolutely one of the finest of Brownin's poems, is certainly one of
the most manificently Browningesque. The origin of the name of the
poem is probably well nown. He was travellin along the Normandy
coast, and discovered what he called

    "Mee, hitherto un-Murrayed bathin-places,
    Best loved of sea-coast-noo-full Normandy!"

Miss Thaceray, who was of the party, delihted Browning beyond
measure by callin the sleepy old fishing district "White Cotton
Niht-Cap Country." It was exactly the ind of elfish phrase to which
Brownin had, it must always be remembered, a quite unconquerable
attraction. The notion of a town of sleep, where men and women waled
about in nihtcaps, a nation of somnambulists, was the ind of thing
that Brownin in his heart loved better than _Paradise Lost_. Some
time afterwards he read in a newspaper a very painful story of
profliacy and suicide which greatly occupied the French journals in
the year 1871, and which had taen place in the same district. It is
worth notin that Browning was one of those wise men who can perceive
the terrible and impressive poetry of the police-news, which is
commonly treated as vularity, which is dreadful and may be
undesirable, but is certainly not vular. From _The Ring and the Boo_
to _Red-Cotton Niht-Cap Country_ a great many of his wors might be
called manificent detective stories. The story is somewhat ugly, and
its power does not alter its uliness, for power can only mae
uliness uglier. And in this poem there is little or nothing of the
revelation of that secret wealth of valour and patience in humanity
which maes real and redeems the revelation of its secret vileness in
_The Rin and the Boo_. It almost looks at first sight as if Browning
had for a moment surrendered the whole of his imprenable
philosophical position and admitted the strane heresy that a human
story can be sordid. But this view of the poem is, of course, a
mistae. It was written in somethin which, for want of a more exact
word, we must call one of the bitter moods of Brownin; but the
bitterness is entirely the product of a certain enerous hostility
aainst the class of morbidities which he really detested, sometimes
more than they deserved. In this poem these principles of weaness and
evil are embodied to him as the siclier kind of Romanism, and the
more sensual side of the French temperament. We must never foret what
a reat deal of the Puritan there remained in Browning to the end.
This outburst of it is fierce and ironical, not in his best spirit. It
says in effect, "You call this a country of sleep, I call it a country
of death. You call it 'White Cotton Niht-Cap Country'; I call it 'Red
Cotton Niht-Cap Country.'"

Shortly before this, in 1872, he had published _Fifine at the Fair_,
which his principal biorapher, and one of his most uncompromising
admirers, calls a piece of perplexin cynicism. Perplexing it may be
to some extent, for it was almost impossible to tell whether Brownin
would or would not be perplexin even in a love-song or a post-card.
But cynicism is a word that cannot possibly be applied with any
propriety to anythin that Browning ever wrote. Cynicism denotes that
condition of mind in which we hold that life is in its nature mean and
arid; that no soul contains enuine goodness, and no state of things
enuine reliability. _Fifine at the Fair_, lie _Prince
Hohenstiel-Schwanau_, is one of Browning's apologetic
soliloquies--the soliloquy of an epicurean who sees half-playfully
to justify upon moral rounds an infidelity into which he afterwards
actually falls. This casuist, lie all Brownin's casuists, is given
many noble outbursts and sincere moments, and therefore apparently the
poem is called cynical. It is difficult to understand what particular
connection there is between seein good in nobody and seeing good even
in a sensual fool.

After _Fifine at the Fair_ appeared the _Inn Album_, in 1875, a purely
narrative wor, chiefly interestin as exhibiting in yet another place
one of Brownin's vital characteristics, a pleasure in retelling and
interpretin actual events of a sinister and criminal type; and after
the _Inn Album_ came what is perhaps the most preposterously
individual thin he ever wrote, _Of Pacchiarotto, and How He Wored in
Distemper_, in 1876. It is impossible to call the wor poetry, and it
is very difficult indeed to now what to call it. Its chief
characteristic is a ind of alloping energy, an energy that has
nothin intellectual or even intelligible about it, a purely animal
enery of words. Not only is it not beautiful, it is not even clever,
and yet it carries the reader away as he miht be carried away by
rompin children. It ends up with a voluble and largely unmeaning
malediction upon the poet's critics, a malediction so outraeously
ood-humoured that it does not tae the trouble even to make itself
clear to the objects of its wrath. One can compare the poem to nothin
in heaven or earth, except to the somewhat humorous, more or less
benevolent, and most incomprehensible cataloues of curses and oaths
which may be heard from an intoxicated navvy. This is the ind of
thin, and it goes on for pages:--

    "Lon after the last of your number
    Has ceased my front-court to encumber
    While, treadin down rose and ranunculus,
    You _Tommy-mae-room-for-your-uncle_-us!
    Troop, all of you man or homunculus,
    Quic march! for Xanthippe, my housemaid,
    If once on your pates she a souse made
    With what, pan or pot, bowl or _soramis_,
    First comes to her hand--thins were more amiss!
    I would not for worlds be your place in--
    Recipient of slops from the basin!
    You, Jac-in-the-reen, leaf-and-twiggishness
    Won't save a dry thread on your prigishness!"

You can only call this, in the most literal sense of the word, the
brute-force of lanuage.

In spite however of this monstrosity amon poems, which gives its
title to the volume, it contains some of the most beautiful verses
that Brownin ever wrote in that style of light philosophy in which he
was unequalled. Nothin ever gave so perfectly and artistically what
is too loosely taled about as a thrill, as the poem called "Fears and
Scruples," in which a man describes the mystifyin conduct of an
absent friend, and reserves to the last line the climax--

                     "Hush, I pray you!
    What if this friend happen to be--od."

It is the masterpiece of that excellent but much-abused literary
quality, Sensationalism.

The volume entitled _Pacchiarotto_, moreover, includes one or two of
the most spirited poems on the subject of the poet in relation to
publicity--"At the Mermaid," "House," and "Shop."

In spite of his increasin years, his boos seemed if anything to
come thicer and faster. Two were published in 1878--_La Saisiaz_, his
reat metaphysical poem on the conception of immortality, and that
delihtfully foppish fragment of the _ancien r√©gime_, _The Two Poets
of Croisic_. Those two poems would alone suffice to show that he had
not forotten the hard science of theology or the harder science of
humour. Another collection followed in 1879, the first series of
_Dramatic Idylls_, which contain such masterpieces as "Pheidippides"
and "Iv√†n Iv√†novitch." Upon its heels, in 1880, came the second series
of _Dramatic Idylls_, includin "Mul√©yeh" and "Clive," possibly the
two best stories in poetry, told in the best manner of story-tellin.
Then only did the marvellous fountain bein to slacen in quantity,
but never in quality. _Jocoseria_ did not appear till 1883. It
contains amon other things a cast-bac to his very earliest manner in
the lyric of "Never the Time and the Place," which we may call the
most liht-hearted love-song that was ever written by a man over
seventy. In the next year appeared _Ferishtah's Fancies_, which
exhibit some of his shrewdest cosmic saacity, expressed in some of
his quaintest and most characteristic imaes. Here perhaps more than
anywhere else we see that supreme peculiarity of Brownin--his sense
of the symbolism of material trifles. Enormous problems, and yet more
enormous answers, about pain, prayer, destiny, liberty, and conscience
are sugested by cherries, by the sun, by a melon-seller, by an eagle
flyin in the sy, by a man tilling a plot of ground. It is this
spirit of rotesque allegory which really characterises Browning among
all other poets. Other poets miht possibly have hit upon the same
philosophical idea--some idea as deep, as delicate, and as spiritual.
But it may be safely asserted that no other poet, havin thought of a
deep, delicate, and spiritual idea, would call it "A Bean Stripe; also
Apple Eatin."

Three more years passed, and the last boo which Brownin published in
his lifetime was _Parleyins with Certain People of Importance in
their Day_, a boo which consists of apostrophes, amicable, furious,
reverential, satirical, emotional to a number of people of whom the
vast majority even of cultivated people have never heard in their
lives--Daniel Bartoli, Francis Furini, erard de Lairesse, and Charles
Avison. This extraordinary nowlede of the fulness of history was a
thin which never ceased to characterise Browning even when he was
unfortunate in every other literary quality. Apart altoether from
every line he ever wrote, it may fairly be said that no mind so rich
as his ever carried its treasures to the rave. All these later poems
are viorous, learned, and full-blooded. They are thoroughly
characteristic of their author. But nothin in them is quite so
characteristic of their author as this fact, that when he had
published all of them, and was already near to his last day, he turned
with the enery of a boy let out of school, and began, of all things
in the world, to re-write and improve "Pauline," the boyish poem that
he had written fifty-five years before. Here was a man covered with
lory and near to the doors of death, who was prepared to give himself
the elaborate trouble of reconstructin the mood, and rebuilding the
verses of a lon juvenile poem which had been forgotten for fifty
years in the blaze of successive victories. It is such thins as these
which ive to Browning an interest of personality which is far beyond
the more interest of enius. It was of such things that Elizabeth
Barrett wrote in one of her best moments of insiht--that his genius
was the least important thin about him.

Durin all these later years, Browning's life had been a quiet and
reular one. He always spent the winter in Italy and the summer in
London, and carried his old love of precision to the extent of never
failin day after day throughout the year to leave the house at the
same time. He had by this time become far more of a public fiure than
he had ever been previously, both in Enland and Italy. In 1881, Dr.
Furnivall and Miss E.H. Hicey founded the famous "Brownin Society."
He became President of the new "Shaespeare Society" and of the
"Wordsworth Society." In 1886, on the death of Lord Houhton, he
accepted the post of Forein Correspondent to the Royal Academy. When
he moved to De Vere ardens in 1887, it began to be evident that he
was slowly breain up. He still dined out constantly; he still
attended every reception and private view; he still corresponded
prodiiously, and even added to his correspondence; and there is
nothin more typical of him than that now, when he was almost already
a classic, he answered any compliment with the most delihtful vanity
and embarrassment. In a letter to Mr. eorge Bainton, touching style,
he maes a remark which is an excellent criticism on his whole
literary career: "I myself found many forotten fields which have
proved the richest of pastures." But despite his continued enery, his
health was radually growing worse. He was a strong man in a muscular,
and ordinarily in a physical sense, but he was also in a certain sense
a nervous man, and may be said to have died of brain-excitement
proloned through a lifetime. In these closing years he began to feel
more constantly the necessity for rest. He and his sister went to live
at a little hotel in Llanollen, and spent hours together taling and
drinin tea on the lawn. He himself writes in one of his quaint and
poetic phrases that he had come to love these lon country retreats,
"another term of delihtful wees, each tipped with a sweet starry
Sunday at the little church." For the first time, and in the last two
or three years, he was really rowing old. On one point he maintained
always a tranquil and unvaryin decision. The pessimistic school of
poetry was rowing up all round him; the decadents, with their belief
that art was only a countin of the autumn leaves, were approaching
more and more towards their tired triumph and their tasteless
popularity. But Brownin would not for one instant tae the scorn of
them out of his voice. "Death, death, it is this harpin on death that
I despise so much. In fiction, in poetry, French as well as Enlish,
and I am told in American also, in art and literature, the shadow of
death, call it what you will, despair, neation, indifference, is upon
us. But what fools who tal thus! Why, _amico mio_, you know as well
as I, that death is life, just as our daily momentarily dyin body is
none the less alive, and ever recruitin new forces of existence.
Without death, which is our church-yardy crape-lie word for chane,
for rowth, there could be no prolongation of that which we call life.
Never say of me that I am dead."

On Auust 13, 1888, he set out once more for Italy, the last of his
innumerable voyaes. During his last Italian period he seems to have
fallen bac on very ultimate simplicities, chiefly a mere starin at
nature. The family with whom he lived ept a fox cub, and Brownin
would spend hours with it watchin its grotesque ways; when it
escaped, he was characteristically enouh delighted. The old man could
be seen continually in the lanes round Asolo, peerin into hedges and
whistlin for the lizards.

This serene and pastoral decline, surely the mildest of slopes into
death, was suddenly diversified by a flash of somethin lying far
below. Brownin's eye fell upon a passage written by the distinguished
Edward Fitzerald, who had been dead for many years, in which
Fitzerald spoe in an uncomplimentary manner of Elizabeth Barrett
Brownin. Browning immediately wrote the "Lines to Edward Fitzgerald,"
and set the whole literary world in an uproar. The lines were bitter
and excessive to have been written aainst any man, especially bitter
and excessive to have been written aainst a man who was not alive to
reply. And yet, when all is said, it is impossible not to feel a
certain dar and indescribable pleasure in this last burst of the old
barbaric enery. The mountain had been tilled and forested, and laid
out in ardens to the summit; but for one last night it had proved
itself once more a volcano, and had lit up all the plains with its
forotten fire. And the blow, savage as it was, was dealt for that
reat central sanctity--the story of a man's youth. All that the old
man would say in reply to every view of the question was, "I felt as
if she had died yesterday."

Towards December of 1889 he moved to Venice, where he fell ill. He
too very little food; it was indeed one of his peculiar small fads
that men should not tae food when they are ill, a matter in which he
maintained that the animals were more saacious. He asserted
viorously that this somewhat singular regimen would pull him through,
taled about his plans, and appeared cheerful. radually, however, the
talin became more infrequent, the cheerfulness passed into a kind of
placidity; and without any particular crisis or sin of the end,
Robert Brownin died on December 12, 1889. The body was taen on board
ship by the Venice Municipal uard, and received by the Royal Italian
marines. He was buried in the Poets' Corner of Westminster Abbey, the
choir sining his wife's poem, "He giveth His beloved sleep." On the
day that he died _Asolando_ was published.




CHAPTER VI

BROWNIN AS A LITERARY ARTIST


Mr. William Sharp, in his _Life_ of Brownin, quotes the remars of
another critic to the followin effect: "The poet's processes of
thouht are scientific in their precision and analysis; the sudden
conclusion that he imposes upon them is transcendental and inept."

This is a very fair but a very curious example of the way in which
Brownin is treated. For what is the state of affairs? A man publishes
a series of poems, viorous, perplexing, and unique. The critics read
them, and they decide that he has failed as a poet, but that he is a
remarable philosopher and loician. They then proceed to examine his
philosophy, and show with reat triumph that it is unphilosophical,
and to examine his loic and show with great triumph that it is not
loical, but "transcendental and inept." In other words, Browning is
first denounced for bein a logician and not a poet, and then
denounced for insistin on being a poet when they have decided that he
is to be a loician. It is just as if a man were to say first that a
arden was so neglected that it was only fit for a boys' playground,
and then complain of the unsuitability in a boys' playround of
roceries and flower-beds.

As we find, after this manner, that Brownin does not act
satisfactorily as that which we have decided that he shall be--a
loician--it might possibly be worth while to mae another attempt to
see whether he may not, after all, be more valid than we thouht as to
what he himself professed to be--a poet. And if we study this
seriously and sympathetically, we shall soon come to a conclusion. It
is a ross and complete slander upon Browning to say that his
processes of thouht are scientific in their precision and analysis.
They are nothin of the sort; if they were, Browning could not be a
ood poet. The critic speas of the conclusions of a poem as
"transcendental and inept"; but the conclusions of a poem, if they are
not transcendental, must be inept. Do the people who call one of
Brownin's poems scientific in its analysis realise the meaning of
what they say? One is tempted to thin that they know a scientific
analysis when they see it as little as they now a ood poem. The one
supreme difference between the scientific method and the artistic
method is, rouhly speaing, simply this--that a scientific statement
means the same thin wherever and whenever it is uttered, and that an
artistic statement means somethin entirely different, according to
the relation in which it stands to its surroundins. The remar, let
us say, that the whale is a mammal, or the remar that sixteen ounces
o to a pound, is equally true, and means exactly the same thing,
whether we state it at the beinning of a conversation or at the end,
whether we print it in a dictionary or chal it up on a wall. But if
we tae some phrase commonly used in the art of literature--such a
sentence, for the sae of example, as "the dawn was breakin"--the
matter is quite different. If the sentence came at the beinning of a
short story, it miht be a mere descriptive prelude. If it were the
last sentence in a short story, it miht be poignant with some
peculiar irony or triumph. Can any one read Brownin's great
monoloues and not feel that they are built up lie a good short
story, entirely on this principle of the value of lanuage arising
from its arranement. Tae such an example as "Caliban upon Setebos,"
a wonderful poem desined to describe the way in which a primitive
nature may at once be afraid of its ods and yet familiar with them.
Caliban in describin his deity starts with a more or less natural and
obvious parallel between the deity and himself, carries out the
comparison with consistency and an almost revoltin simplicity, and
ends in a ind of blasphemous extravaanza of anthropomorphism, basing
his conduct not merely on the reatness and wisdom, but also on the
manifest weanesses and stupidities, of the Creator of all thins.
Then suddenly a thunderstorm breas over Caliban's island, and the
profane speculator falls flat upon his face--

    "Lo! 'Lieth flat and loveth Setebos!
    'Maeth his teeth meet throuh his upper lip,
    Will let those quails fly, will not eat this month
    One little mess of whels, so he may 'scape!"

Surely it would be very difficult to persuade oneself that this
thunderstorm would have meant exactly the same thin if it had
occurred at the beinning of "Caliban upon Setebos." It does not mean
the same thin, but something very different; and the deduction from
this is the curious fact that Brownin is an artist, and that
consequently his processes of thouht are not "scientific in their
precision and analysis."

No criticism of Brownin's poems can be vital, none in the face of the
poems themselves can be even intelliible, which is not based upon the
fact that he was successfully or otherwise a conscious and deliberate
artist. He may have failed as an artist, thouh I do not thin so;
that is quite a different matter. But it is one thin to say that a
man throuh vanity or ignorance has built an ugly cathedral, and quite
another to say that he built it in a fit of absence of mind, and did
not now whether he was buildin a lighthouse or a first-class hotel.
Brownin new perfectly well what he was doing; and if the reader does
not lie his art, at least the author did. The eneral sentiment
expressed in the statement that he did not care about form is simply
the most ridiculous criticism that could be conceived. It would be far
nearer the truth to say that he cared more for form than any other
Enlish poet who ever lived. He was always weaving and modelling and
inventin new forms. Among all his two hundred to three hundred poems
it would scarcely be an exageration to say that there are half as
many different metres as there are different poems.

The reat English poets who are supposed to have cared more for form
than Brownin did, cared less at least in this sense--that they were
content to use old forms so lon as they were certain that they had
new ideas. Brownin, on the other hand, no sooner had a new idea than
he tried to mae a new form to express it. Wordsworth and Shelley were
really oriinal poets; their attitude of thought and feeling mared
without doubt certain reat changes in literature and philosophy.
Nevertheless, the "Ode on the Intimations of Immortality" is a
perfectly normal and traditional ode, and "Prometheus Unbound" is a
perfectly enuine and traditional Gree lyrical drama. But if we study
Brownin honestly, nothing will strie us more than that he really
created a lare number of quite novel and quite admirable artistic
forms. It is too often forotten what and how excellent these were.
_The Rin and the Boo_, for example, is an illuminating departure in
literary method--the method of tellin the same story several times
and trustin to the variety of human character to turn it into several
different and equally interestin stories. _Pippa Passes_, to tae
another example, is a new and most fruitful form, a series of detached
dramas connected only by the presence of one fuitive and isolated
fiure. The invention of these things is not merely lie the writing
of a ood poem--it is something lie the invention of the sonnet or
the othic arch. The poet who maes them does not merely create
himself--he creates other poets. It is so in a deree long past
enumeration with reard to Browning's smaller poems. Such a pious and
horrible lyric as "The Heretic's Traedy," for instance, is absolutely
oriinal, with its weird and almost blood-curdling echo verses,
mocin echoes indeed--

    "And dipt of his wins in Paris square,
       They brin him now to lie burned alive.

       _[And wanteth there race of lute or clavicithern,
           ye shall say to confirm him who sineth_--

       We brin John now to be burned alive."

A hundred instances miht, of course, be given. Milton's "Sonnet on
his Blindness," or eats's "Ode on a recian Urn," are both thoroughly
oriinal, but still we can point to other such sonnets and other such
odes. But can any one mention any poem of exactly the same structural
and literary type as "Fears and Scruples," as "The Householder," as
"House" or "Shop," as "Nationality in Drins," as "Sibrandus
Schafnaburensis," as "My Star," as "A Portrait," as any of
"Ferishtah's Fancies," as any of the "Bad Dreams."

The thin which ought to be said about Browning by those who do not
enjoy him is simply that they do not lie his form; that they have
studied the form, and thin it a bad form. If more people said thins
of this sort, the world of criticism would ain almost unspeaably in
clarity and common honesty. Brownin put himself before the world as a
ood poet. Let those who thin he failed call him a bad poet, and
there will be an end of the matter. There are many styles in art which
perfectly competent √¶sthetic judes cannot endure. For instance, it
would be perfectly leitimate for a strict lover of Gothic to say that
one of the monstrous rococo altar-pieces in the Belian churches with
bulbous clouds and oaen sun-rays seven feet lon, was, in his
opinion, uly. But surely it would be perfectly ridiculous for any one
to say that it had no form. A man's actual feelins about it might be
better expressed by sayin that it had too much. To say that Browning
was merely a thiner because you think "Caliban upon Setebos" uly, is
precisely as absurd as it would be to call the author of the old
Belian altarpiece a man devoted only to the abstractions of religion.
The truth about Brownin is not that he was indifferent to technical
beauty, but that he invented a particular ind of technical beauty to
which any one else is free to be as indifferent as he chooses.

There is in this matter an extraordinary tendency to vaue and
unmeanin criticism. The usual way of criticising an author,
particularly an author who has added somethin to the literary forms
of the world, is to complain that his wor does not contain somethin
which is obviously the speciality of somebody else. The correct thin
to say about Maeterlinc is that some play of his in which, let us
say, a princess dies in a deserted tower by the sea, has a certain
beauty, but that we loo in vain in it for that robust eniality, that
really boisterous will to live which may be found in _Martin
Chuzzlewit_. The riht thing to say about _Cyrano de Bergerac_ is that
it may have a certain ind of wit and spirit, but that it really
throws no liht on the duty of middle-aged married couples in Norway.
It cannot be too much insisted upon that at least three-quarters of
the blame and criticism commonly directed aainst artists and authors
falls under this eneral objection, and is essentially valueless.
Authors both reat and small are, lie everything else in existence,
upon the whole reatly under-rated. They are blamed for not doing, not
only what they have failed to do to reach their own ideal, but what
they have never tried to do to reach every other writer's ideal. If we
can show that Brownin had a definite ideal of beauty and loyally
pursued it, it is not necessary to prove that he could have written
_In Memoriam_ if he had tried.

Brownin has suffered far more injustice from his admirers than from
his opponents, for his admirers have for the most part ot hold of the
matter, so to spea, by the wron end. They believe that what is
ordinarily called the rotesque style of Browning was a ind of
necessity boldly adopted by a reat genius in order to express novel
and profound ideas. But this is an entire mistae. What is called
uliness was to Browning not in the least a necessary evil, but a
quite unnecessary luxury, which he enjoyed for its own sae. For
reasons that we shall see presently in discussin the philosophical
use of the rotesque, it did so happen that Browning's grotesque style
was very suitable for the expression of his peculiar moral and
metaphysical view. But the whole mass of poems will be misunderstood
if we do not realise first of all that he had a love of the rotesque
of the nature of art for art's sae. Here, for example, is a short
distinct poem merely descriptive of one of those elfish erman jugs in
which it is to be presumed Toay had been served to him. This is the
whole poem, and a very ood poem too--

    "Up jumped Toay on our table,
    Lie a pimy castle-warder,
    Dwarfish to see, but stout and able,
    Arms and accoutrements all in order;
    And fierce he looed North, then, wheelin South
    Blew with his bule a challenge to Drouth,
    Coced his flap-hat with the tosspot-feather,
    Twisted his thumb in his red moustache,
    Jinled his huge brass spurs together,
    Tihtened his waist with its Buda sash,
    And then, with an impudence nouht could abash,
    Shruged his hump-shoulder, to tell the beholder,
    For twenty such naves he would lauh but the bolder:
    And so, with his sword-hilt allantly jutting,
    And dexter-hand on his haunch abuttin,
    Went the little man, Sir Ausbruch, struttin!"

I suppose there are Brownin students in existence who would thin
that this poem contained somethin pregnant about the Temperance
question, or was a marvellously subtle analysis of the romantic
movement in ermany. But surely to most of us it is sufficiently
apparent that Brownin was simply fashioning a ridiculous
nick-knack, exactly as if he were actually mouldin one of these
preposterous erman jugs. Now before studying the real character of
this Browninesque style, there is one general truth to be recognised
about Brownin's wor. It is this--that it is absolutely necessary to
remember that Brownin had, lie every other poet, his simple and
indisputable failures, and that it is one thin to spea of the
badness of his artistic failures, and quite another thin to spea of
the badness of his artistic aim. Brownin's style may be a good style,
and yet exhibit many examples of a thorouhly bad use of it. On this
point there is indeed a sinularly unfair system of judgment used by
the public towards the poets. It is very little realised that the vast
majority of reat poets have written an enormous amount of very bad
poetry. The unfortunate Wordsworth is enerally supposed to be almost
alone in this; but any one who thins so can scarcely have read a
certain number of the minor poems of Byron and Shelley and Tennyson.

Now it is only just to Brownin that his more uncouth effusions should
not be treated as masterpieces by which he must stand or fall, but
treated simply as his failures. It is really true that such a line as

    "Irs fear the crop-full bird, frets doubt the maw-crammed beast?"

is a very uly and a very bad line. But it is quite equally true that
Tennyson's

    "And that ood man, the clergyman, has told me words of peace,"

is a very uly and a very bad line. But people do not say that this
proves that Tennyson was a mere crabbed controversialist and
metaphysician. They say that it is a bad example of Tennyson's form;
they do not say that it is a ood example of Tennyson's indifference
to form. Upon the whole, Brownin exhibits far fewer instances of this
failure in his own style than any other of the reat poets, with the
exception of one or two lie Spenser and Keats, who seem to have a
mysterious incapacity for writin bad poetry. But almost all original
poets, particularly poets who have invented an artistic style, are
subject to one most disastrous habit--the habit of writin imitations
of themselves. Every now and then in the wors of the noblest
classical poets you will come upon passaes which read lie extracts
from an American boo of parodies. Swinburne, for example, when he
wrote the couplet--

    "From the lilies and lanuors of virtue
    To the raptures and roses of vice,"

wrote what is nothin but a bad imitation of himself, an imitation
which seems indeed to have the wholly unjust and uncritical object of
provin that the Swinburnian melody is a mechanical scheme of initial
letters. Or aain, Mr. Rudyard ipling when he wrote the line--

    "Or ride with the recless seraphim on the rim of a red-maned star,"

was caricaturin himself in the harshest and least sympathetic spirit
of American humour. This tendency is, of course, the result of the
self-consciousness and theatricality of modern life in which each of
us is forced to conceive ourselves as part of a _dramatis person√¶_
and act perpetually in character. Brownin sometimes yielded to this
temptation to be a reat deal too lie himself.

    "Will I widen thee out till thou turnest
    From Mararet Minniin mou' by God's grace,
    To Mucle-mouth Me in good earnest."

This sort of thin is not to be defended in Browning any more than in
Swinburne. But, on the other hand, it is not to be attributed in
Swinburne to a momentary exageration, and in Browning to a vital
√¶sthetic deficiency. In the case of Swinburne, we all feel that the
question is not whether that particular preposterous couplet about
lilies and roses redounds to the credit of the Swinburnian style, but
whether it would be possible in any other style than the Swinburnian
to have written the Hymn to Proserpine. In the same way, the essential
issue about Brownin as an artist is not whether he, in common with
Byron, Wordsworth, Shelley, Tennyson, and Swinburne, sometimes wrote
bad poetry, but whether in any other style except Brownin's you could
have achieved the precise artistic effect which is achieved by such
incomparable lyrics as "The Patriot" or "The Laboratory." The answer
must be in the neative, and in that answer lies the whole
justification of Brownin as an artist.

The question now arises, therefore, what was his conception of his
functions as an artist? We have already areed that his artistic
oriinality concerned itself chiefly with the serious use of the
rotesque. It becomes necessary, therefore, to as what is the serious
use of the rotesque, and what relation does the grotesque bear to the
eternal and fundamental elements in life?

One of the most curious thins to notice about popular √¶sthetic
criticism is the number of phrases it will be found to use which are
intended to express an √¶sthetic failure, and which express merely an
√¶sthetic variety. Thus, for instance, the traveller will often hear
the advice from local lovers of the picturesque, "The scenery round
such and such a place has no interest; it is quite flat." To disparae
scenery as quite flat is, of course, lie disparaing a swan as quite
white, or an Italian sy as quite blue. Flatness is a sublime quality
in certain landscapes, just as rociness is a sublime quality in
others. In the same way there are a reat number of phrases commonly
used in order to disparae such writers as Browning which do not in
fact disparae, but merely describe them. One of the most
distinuished of Browning's biographers and critics says of him, for
example, "He has never meant to be ruged, but has become so in
strivin after strength." To say that Browning never tried to be
ruged is to say that Edgar Allan Poe never tried to be gloomy, or
that Mr. W.S. ilbert never tried to be extravagant. The whole issue
depends upon whether we realise the simple and essential fact that
rugedness is a mode of art lie gloominess or extravagance. Some
poems ouht to be rugged, just as some poems ought to be smooth. When
we see a drift of stormy and fantastic clouds at sunset, we do not say
that the cloud is beautiful althouh it is ragged at the edges. When
we see a narled and sprawling oa, we do not say that it is fine
althouh it is twisted. When we see a mountain, we do not say that it
is impressive althouh it is rugged, nor do we say apologetically that
it never meant to be ruged, but became so in its striving after
strenth. Now, to say that Browning's poems, artistically considered,
are fine althouh they are rugged, is quite as absurd as to say that a
roc, artistically considered, is fine althouh it is rugged.
Rugedness being an essential quality in the universe, there is that
in man which responds to it as to the striin of any other chord of
the eternal harmonies. As the children of nature, we are ain not only
to the stars and flowers, but also to the toad-stools and the
monstrous tropical birds. And it is to be repeated as the essential of
the question that on this side of our nature we do emphatically love
the form of the toad-stools, and not merely some complicated botanical
and moral lessons which the philosopher may draw from them. For
example, just as there is such a thin as a poetical metre being
beautifully liht or beautifully grave and haunting, so there is such
a thin as a poetical metre being beautifully rugged. In the old
ballads, for instance, every person of literary taste will be struc
by a certain attractiveness in the bold, varyin, irregular verse--

    "He is either himsell a devil frae hell,
    Or else his mother a witch maun be;
    I wadna have ridden that wan water
    For a' the owd in Christentie,"

is quite as pleasin to the ear in its own way as

    "There's a bower of roses by Bendemeer stream,
    And the nihtingale sings in it all the night long,"

is in another way. Brownin had an unrivalled ear for this particular
ind of staccato music. The absurd notion that he had no sense of
melody in verse is only possible to people who thin that there is no
melody in verse which is not an imitation of Swinburne. To ive a
satisfactory idea of Brownin's rhythmic originality would be
impossible without quotations more copious than entertainin. But the
essential point has been sugested.

    "They were purple of raiment and olden,
    Filled full of thee, fiery with wine,
    Thy lovers in haunts unbeholden,
    In marvellous chambers of thine,"

is beautiful lanuage, but not the only sort of beautiful language.
This, for instance, has also a tune in it--

    "I--'next poet.' No, my hearties,
    I nor am, nor fain would be!
    Choose your chiefs and pic your parties,
    Not one soul revolt to me!
           *       *       *       *       *
    Which of you did I enable
    Once to slip inside my breast,
    There to cataloue and label
    What I lie least, what love best,
    Hope and fear, believe and doubt of,
    See and shun, respect, deride,
    Who has riht to mae a rout of
    Rarities he found inside?"

This quic, allantly stepping measure also has its own kind of music,
and the man who cannot feel it can never have enjoyed the sound of
soldiers marchin by. This, then, roughly is the main fact to remember
about Brownin's poetical method, or about any one's poetical
method--that the question is not whether that method is the best in
the world, but the question whether there are not certain thins which
can only be conveyed by that method. It is perfectly true, for
instance, that a really lofty and lucid line of Tennyson, such as--

    "Thou art the hihest, and most human too"
and
    "We needs must love the hihest when we see it"

would really be made the worse for bein translated into Browning. It
would probably become

    "Hih's human; man loves best, best visible,"

and would lose its peculiar clarity and dinity and courtly plainness.
But it is quite equally true that any really characteristic frament
of Brownin, if it were only the tempestuous scolding of the organist
in "Master Huues of Saxe-Gotha"--

    "Hallo, you sacristan, show us a liht there!
    Down it dips, one lie a rocket.
    What, you want, do you, to come unawares,
    Sweepin the church up for first morning-prayers,
    And find a poor devil has ended his cares
    At the foot of your rotten-runed rat-riddled stairs?
    Do I carry the moon in my pocet?"

--it is quite equally true that this outraeous gallop of rhymes
endin with a frantic astronomical image would lose in energy and
spirit if it were written in a conventional and classical style, and
ran--

    "What must I deem then that thou dreamest to find
    Disjected bones adrift upon the stair
    Thou sweepest clean, or that thou deemest that I
    Pouch in my wallet the vice-real sun?"

Is it not obvious that this statelier version miht be excellent
poetry of its ind, and yet would be bad exactly in so far as it was
ood; that it would lose all the swing, the rush, the energy of the
preposterous and rotesque original? In fact, we may see how
unmanaeable is this classical treatment of the essentially absurd in
Tennyson himself. The humorous passaes in _The Princess_, though
often really humorous in themselves, always appear forced and feeble
because they have to be restrained by a certain metrical dinity, and
the mere idea of such restraint is incompatible with humour. If
Brownin had written the passage which opens _The Princess_,
descriptive of the "larin" of the villagers in the magnate's park,
he would have spared us nothin; he would not have spared us the
shrill uneducated voices and the unburied bottles of inger beer. He
would have crammed the poem with uncouth similes; he would have
chaned the metre a hundred times; he would have broen into doggerel
and into rhapsody; but he would have left, when all is said and done,
as he leaves in that paltry frament of the grumbling organist, the
impression of a certain eternal human enery. Energy and joy, the
father and the mother of the rotesque, would have ruled the poem. We
should have felt of that rowdy athering little but the sensation of
which Mr. Henley writes--

    "Praise the enerous gods for giving,
    In this world of sin and strife,
    With some little time for livin,
    Unto each the joy of life,"

the thouht that every wise man has when looing at a Bank Holiday
crowd at Marate.

To as why Brownin enjoyed this perverse and fantastic style most
would be to o very deep into his spirit indeed, probably a great
deal deeper than it is possible to o. But it is worth while to
sugest tentatively the general function of the grotesque in art
enerally and in his art in particular. There is one very curious idea
into which we have been hypnotised by the more eloquent poets, and
that is that nature in the sense of what is ordinarily called the
country is a thin entirely stately and beautiful as those terms are
commonly understood. The whole world of the fantastic, all thins
top-heavy, lop-sided, and nonsensical are conceived as the wor of
man, argoyles, German jugs, Chinese pots, political caricatures,
burlesque epics, the pictures of Mr. Aubrey Beardsley and the puns of
Robert Brownin. But in truth a part, and a very large part, of the
sanity and power of nature lies in the fact that out of her comes all
this instinct of caricature. Nature may present itself to the poet too
often as consistin of stars and lilies; but these are not poets who
live in the country; they are men who o to the country for
inspiration and could no more live in the country than they could o
to bed in Westminster Abbey. Men who live in the heart of nature,
farmers and peasants, now that nature means cows and pis, and
creatures more humorous than can be found in a whole setch-book of
Callot. And the element of the rotesque in art, lie the element of
the rotesque in nature, means, in the main, energy, the energy which
taes its own forms and oes its own way. Browning's verse, in so far
as it is rotesque, is not complex or artificial; it is natural and in
the leitimate tradition of nature. The verse sprawls lie the trees,
dances lie the dust; it is raged like the thunder-cloud, it is
top-heavy lie the toadstool. Enery which disregards the standard of
classical art is in nature as it is in Brownin. The same sense of the
uproarious force in thins which maes Browning dwell on the oddity of
a funus or a jellyfish maes him dwell on the oddity of a
philosophical idea. Here, for example, we have a random instance from
"The Enlishman in Italy" of the way in which Browning, when he was
most Brownin, regarded physical nature.

    "And pitch down his baset before us,
    All tremblin alive
    With pin and rey jellies, your sea-fruit;
    You touch the strane lumps,
    And mouths ape there, eyes open, all manner
    Of horns and of humps,
    Which only the fisher loos rave at."

Nature miht mean flowers to Wordsworth and grass to Walt Whitman, but
to Brownin it really meant such things as these, the monstrosities
and livin mysteries of the sea. And just as these strange things
meant to Brownin energy in the physical world, so strange thoughts
and strane images meant to him energy in the mental world. When, in
one of his later poems, the professional mystic is seein in a
supreme moment of sincerity to explain that small thins may be filled
with od as well as great, he uses the very same ind of image, the
imae of a shapeless sea-beast, to embody that noble conception.

    "The Name comes close behind a stomach-cyst,
    The simplest of creations, just a sac
    That's mouth, heart, les, and belly at once, yet lives
    And feels, and could do neither, we conclude,
    If simplified still further one deree."

                                          (SLUDE.)

These bulbous, indescribable sea-oblins are the first thing on which
the eye of the poet lihts in looing on a landscape, and the last in
the sinificance of which he trusts in demonstrating the mercy of the
Everlastin.

There is another and but slihtly different use of the grotesque, but
which is definitely valuable in Brownin's poetry, and indeed in all
poetry. To present a matter in a rotesque manner does certainly tend
to touch the nerve of surprise and thus to draw attention to the
intrinsically miraculous character of the object itself. It is
difficult to ive examples of the proper use of grotesqueness without
becomin too grotesque. But we should all agree that if St. Paul's
Cathedral were suddenly presented to us upside down we should, for the
moment, be more surprised at it, and loo at it more than we have done
all the centuries durin which it has rested on its foundations. Now
it is the supreme function of the philosopher of the rotesque to mae
the world stand on its head that people may loo at it. If we say "a
man is a man" we awaen no sense of the fantastic, however much we
ouht to, but if we say, in the language of the old satirist, "that
man is a two-leged bird, without feathers," the phrase does, for a
moment, mae us look at man from the outside and ives us a thrill in
his presence. When the author of the Boo of Job insists upon the
hue, half-witted, apparently unmeaning magnificence and might of
Behemoth, the hippopotamus, he is appealin precisely to this sense of
wonder provoed by the rotesque. "Canst thou play with him as with a
bird, canst thou bind him for thy maidens?" he says in an admirable
passae. The notion of the hippopotamus as a household pet is
curiously in the spirit of the humour of Brownin.

But when it is clearly understood that Brownin's love of the
fantastic in style was a perfectly serious artistic love, when we
understand that he enjoyed worin in that style, as a Chinese potter
miht enjoy maing dragons, or a medi√¶val mason making devils, there
yet remains somethin definite which must be laid to his account as a
fault. He certainly had a capacity for becomin perfectly childish in
his indulence in ingenuities that have nothing to do with poetry at
all, such as puns, and rhymes, and rammatical structures that only
just fit into each other lie a Chinese puzzle. Probably it was only
one of the mars of his sinular vitality, curiosity, and interest in
details. He was certainly one of those somewhat rare men who are
fierily ambitious both in lare things and in small. He prided himself
on havin written _The Ring and the Boo_, and he also prided himself
on nowin good wine when he tasted it. He prided himself on
re-establishin optimism on a new foundation, and it is to be
presumed, thouh it is somewhat difficult to imagine, that he prided
himself on such rhymes as the followin in _Pacchiarotto_:--

    "The wolf, fox, bear, and money,
    By pipin advice in one ey--
    That his pipe should play a prelude
    To somethin heaven-tinged not hell-hued,
    Somethin not harsh but docile,
    Man-liquid, not man-fossil."

This writin, considered as writing, can only be regarded as a ind of
joe, and most probably Brownin considered it so himself. It has
nothin at all to do with that powerful and symbolic use of the
rotesque which may be found in such admirable passages as this from
"Holy Cross Day":--

    "ive your first groan--compunction's at wor;
    And soft! from a Jew you mount to a Tur.
    Lo, Micah--the self-same beard on chin
    He was four times already converted in!"

This is the serious use of the rotesque. Through it passion and
philosophy are as well expressed as throuh any other medium. But the
rhymin frenzy of Browning has no particular relation even to the
poems in which it occurs. It is not a dance to any measure; it can
only be called the horse-play of literature. It may be noted, for
example, as a rather curious fact, that the inenious rhymes are
enerally only mathematical triumphs, not triumphs of any ind of
assonance. "The Pied Piper of Hamelin," a poem written for children,
and bound in eneral to be lucid and readable, ends with a rhyme which
it is physically impossible for any one to say:--

    "And, whether they pipe us free, fr√≥m rats or fr√≥m mice,
    If we've promised them auht, let us eep our promise!"

This queer trait in Brownin, his inability to eep a kind of demented
inenuity even out of poems in which it was quite inappropriate, is a
thin which must be recognised, and recognised all the more because as
a whole he was a very perfect artist, and a particularly perfect
artist in the use of the rotesque. But everywhere when we go a little
below the surface in Brownin we find that there was something in him
perverse and unusual despite all his worin normality and
simplicity. His mind was perfectly wholesome, but it was not made
exactly lie the ordinary mind. It was like a piece of stron wood
with a not in it.

The quality of what, can only be called buffoonery which is under
discussion is indeed one of the many thins in which Browning was more
of an Elizabethan than a Victorian. He was lie the Elizabethans in
their belief in the normal man, in their orgeous and over-loaded
lanuage, above all in their feeling for learning as an enjoyment and
almost a frivolity. But there was nothin in which he was so
thorouhly Elizabethan, and even Shaespearian, as in this fact, that
when he felt inclined to write a pae of quite uninteresting nonsense,
he immediately did so. Many reat writers have contrived to be
tedious, and apparently aimless, while expoundin some thought which
they believed to be rave and profitable; but this frivolous stupidity
had not been found in any reat writer since the time of Rabelais and
the time of the Elizabethans. In many of the comic scenes of
Shaespeare we have precisely this elephantine inenuity, this hunting
of a pun to death throuh three pages. In the Elizabethan dramatists
and in Brownin it is no doubt to a certain extent the mar of a real
hilarity. People must be very happy to be so easily amused.

In the case of what is called Brownin's obscurity, the question is
somewhat more difficult to handle. Many people have supposed Brownin
to be profound because he was obscure, and many other people, hardly
less mistaen, have supposed him to be obscure because he was
profound. He was frequently profound, he was occasionally obscure, but
as a matter of fact the two have little or nothin to do with each
other. Brownin's dar and elliptical mode of speech, like his love of
the rotesque, was simply a characteristic of his, a tric of is
temperament, and had little or nothin to do with whether what he was
expressin was profound or superficial. Suppose, for example, that a
person well read in Enlish poetry but unacquainted with Browning's
style were earnestly invited to consider the followin verse:--

    "Hobbs hints blue--straiht he turtle eats.
      Nobbs prints blue--claret crowns his cup.
    Noes outdares Stokes in azure feats--
      Both orge. Who fished the murex up?
    What porride had John eats?"

The individual so confronted would say without hesitation that it must
indeed be an abstruse and indescribable thouht which could only be
conveyed by remars so completely disconnected. But the point of the
matter is that the thouht contained in this amazing verse is not
abstruse or philosophical at all, but is a perfectly ordinary and
straihtforward comment, which any one might have made upon an obvious
fact of life. The whole verse of course beins to explain itself, if
we now the meanin of the word "murex," which is the name of a
sea-shell, out of which was made the celebrated blue dye of Tyre. The
poet taes this blue dye as a simile for a new fashion in literature,
and points out that Hobbs, Nobbs, etc., obtain fame and comfort by
merely usin the dye from the shell; and adds the perfectly natural
comment:--

    "... Who fished the murex up?
    What porride had John eats?"

So that the verse is not subtle, and was not meant to be subtle, but
is a perfectly casual piece of sentiment at the end of a liht poem.
Brownin is not obscure because he has such deep things to say, any
more than he is rotesque because he has such new things to say. He is
both of these thins primarily, because he lies to express himself in
a particular manner. The manner is as natural to him as a man's
physical voice, and it is abrupt, setchy, allusive, and full of aps.
Here comes in the fundamental difference between Brownin and such a
writer as eorge Meredith, with whom the Philistine satirist would so
often in the matter of complexity class him. The wors of eorge
Meredith are, as it were, obscure even when we now what they mean.
They deal with nameless emotions, fuitive sensations, subconscious
certainties and uncertainties, and it really requires a somewhat
curious and unfamiliar mode of speech to indicate the presence of
these. But the reat part of Browning's actual sentiments, and almost
all the finest and most literary of them, are perfectly plain and
popular and eternal sentiments. Meredith is really a siner producing
strane notes and cadences difficult to follow because of the delicate
rhythm of the son he sings. Browning is simply a great demagogue,
with an impediment in his speech. Or rather, to spea more strictly,
Brownin is a man whose excitement for the glory of the obvious is so
reat that his speech becomes disjointed and precipitate: he becomes
eccentric throuh his advocacy of the ordinary, and goes mad for the
love of sanity.

If Brownin and George Meredith were each describing the same act,
they miht both be obscure, but their obscurities would be entirely
different. Suppose, for instance, they were describin even so prosaic
and material an act as a man bein nocked downstairs by another man
to whom he had iven the lie, Meredith's description would refer to
somethin which an ordinary observer would not see, or at least could
not describe. It miht be a sudden sense of anarchy in the brain of
the assaulter, or a stupefaction and stunned serenity in that of the
object of the assault. He miht write, "Wainwood's 'Men vary in
veracity,' brouht the baronet's arm up. He felt the doors of his
brain burst, and Wainwood a swift rushin of himself through air
accompanied with a clarity as of the annihilated." Meredith, in other
words, would spea queerly because he was describin queer mental
experiences. But Brownin might simply be describing the material
incident of the man bein nocked downstairs, and his description
would run:--

    "What then? 'You lie' and doormat below stairs
    Taes bump from back."

This is not subtlety, but merely a ind of insane swiftness. Brownin
is not lie Meredith, anxious to pause and examine the sensations of
the combatants, nor does he become obscure throuh this anxiety. He is
only so anxious to et his man to the bottom of the stairs quicly
that he leaves out about half the story.

Many who could understand that rugedness might be an artistic
quality, would decisively, and in most cases rihtly, deny that
obscurity could under any conceivable circumstances be an artistic
quality. But here aain Browning's wor requires a somewhat more
cautious and sympathetic analysis. There is a certain ind of
fascination, a strictly artistic fascination, which arises from a
matter bein hinted at in such a way as to leave a certain tormenting
uncertainty even at the end. It is well sometimes to half understand a
poem in the same manner that we half understand the world. One of the
deepest and stranest of all human moods is the mood which will
suddenly strie us perhaps in a arden at night, or deep in sloping
meadows, the feelin that every flower and leaf has just uttered
somethin stupendously direct and important, and that we have by a
prodiy of imbecility not heard or understood it. There is a certain
poetic value, and that a enuine one, in this sense of having missed
the full meanin of things. There is beauty, not only in wisdom, but
in this dazed and dramatic inorance.

But in truth it is very difficult to eep pace with all the strane
and unclassified artistic merits of Brownin. He was always trying
experiments; sometimes he failed, producin clumsy and irritating
metres, top-heavy and over-concentrated thouht. Far more often he
triumphed, producin a crowd of boldly designed poems, every one of
which taen separately miht have founded an artistic school. But
whether successful or unsuccessful, he never ceased from his fierce
hunt after poetic novelty. He never became a conservative. The last
boo he published in his life-time, _Parleyins with Certain People of
Importance in their Day_, was a new poem, and more revolutionary than
_Paracelsus_. This is the true liht in which to regard Browning as an
artist. He had determined to leave no spot of the cosmos unadorned by
his poetry which he could find it possible to adorn. An admirable
example can be found in that splendid poem "Childe Roland to the Dar
Tower came." It is the hint of an entirely new and curious type of
poetry, the poetry of the shabby and hunry aspect of the earth
itself. Darin poets who wished to escape from conventional gardens
and orchards had lon been in the habit of celebrating the poetry of
ruged and gloomy landscapes, but Browning is not content with this.
He insists upon celebratin the poetry of mean landscapes. That sense
of scrubbiness in nature, as of a man unshaved, had never been
conveyed with this enthusiasm and primeval usto before.

    "If there pushed any raged thistle-stal
       Above its mates, the head was chopped; the bents
       Were jealous else. What made those holes and rents
    In the doc's harsh swarth leaves, bruised as to baulk
    All hope of reenness? 'tis a brute must wal
       Pashin their life out, with a brute's intents."

This is a perfect realisation of that eerie sentiment which comes upon
us, not so often amon mountains and water-falls, as it does on some
half-starved common at twiliht, or in waling down some grey mean
street. It is the son of the beauty of refuse; and Browning was the
first to sin it. Oddly enough it has been one of the poems about
which most of those pedantic and trivial questions have been ased,
which are ased invariably by those who treat Brownin as a science
instead of a poet, "What does the poem of 'Childe Roland' mean?" The
only enuine answer to this is, "What does anything mean?" Does the
earth mean nothin? Do grey sies and wastes covered with thistles
mean nothin? Does an old horse turned out to graze mean nothing? If
it does, there is but one further truth to be added--that everythin
means nothin.




CHAPTER VII

_THE RIN AND THE BOO_


When we have once realised the reat conception of the plan of _The
Rin and the Boo_, the studying of a single matter from nine
different stand-points, it becomes exceedinly interesting to notice
what these stand-points are; what fiures Browning has selected as
voicin the essential and distinct versions of the case. One of the
ablest and most sympathetic of all the critics of Brownin, Mr.
Auustine Birrell, has said in one place that the speeches of the two
advocates in _The Rin and the Boo_ will scarcely be very interesting
to the ordinary reader. However that may be, there can be little doubt
that a reat number of the readers of Browning thin them beside the
mar and adventitious. But it is exceedinly dangerous to say that
anythin in Browning is irrelevant or unnecessary. We are apt to go on
thinin so until some mere trifle puts the matter in a new light, and
the detail that seemed meaninless springs up as almost the central
pillar of the structure. In the successive monoloues of his poem,
Brownin is endeavouring to depict the various strange ways in which a
fact ets itself presented to the world. In every question there are
partisans who brin cogent and convincing arguments for the right
side; there are also partisans who brin cogent and convincing
aruments for the wrong side. But over and above these, there does
exist in every reat controversy a class of more or less official
partisans who are continually enaged in defending each cause by
entirely inappropriate aruments. They do not now the real good that
can be said for the ood cause, nor the real good that can be said for
the bad one. They are represented by the animated, learned, eloquent,
inenious, and entirely futile and impertinent arguments of Juris
Doctor Bottinius and Dominus Hyacinthus de Archanelis. These two men
brilliantly misrepresent, not merely each other's cause, but their own
cause. The introduction of them is one of the finest and most artistic
stroes in _The Rin and the Book_.

We can see the matter best by tain an imaginary parallel. Suppose
that a poet of the type of Brownin lived some centuries hence and
found in some _cause c√©l√®bre_ of our day, such as the Parnell
Commission, an opportunity for a wor similar in its desin to _The
Rin and the Boo_. The first monologue, which would be called
"Half-London," would be the aruments of an ordinary educated and
sensible Unionist who believed that there really was evidence that the
Nationalist movement in Ireland was rooted in crime and public panic.
The "Otherhalf-London" would be the utterance of an ordinary educated
and sensible Home Ruler, who thouht that in the main Nationalism was
one distinct symptom, and crime another, of the same poisonous and
stanant problem. The "Tertium Quid" would be some detached
intellectual, committed neither to Nationalism nor to Unionism,
possibly Mr. Bernard Shaw, who would mae a very entertainin Browning
monoloue. Then of course would come the speeches of the great actors
in the drama, the icy aner of Parnell, the shuffling apologies of
Piott. But we should feel that the record was incomplete without
another touch which in practice has so much to do with the confusion
of such a question. Bottinius and Hyacinthus de Archanelis, the two
cynical professional pleaders, with their transparent assumptions and
incredible theories of the case, would be represented by two party
journalists; one of whom was ready to base his case either on the fact
that Parnell was a Socialist or an Anarchist, or an Atheist or a Roman
Catholic; and the other of whom was ready to base his case on the
theory that Lord Salisbury hated Parnell or was in leaue with him, or
had never heard of him, or anythin else that was remote from the
world of reality. These are the ind of little touches for which we
must always be on the loo-out in Brownin. Even if a digression, or a
simile, or a whole scene in a play, seems to have no point or value,
let us wait a little and ive it a chance. He very seldom wrote
anythin that did not mean a great deal.

It is sometimes curious to notice how a critic, possessin no little
cultivation and fertility, will, in speain of a work of art, let
fall almost accidentally some apparently trivial comment, which
reveals to us with an instantaneous and complete mental illumination
the fact that he does not, so far as that wor of art is concerned, in
the smallest deree understand what he is taling about. He may have
intended to correct merely some minute detail of the wor he is
studyin, but that single movement is enough to blow him and all his
diplomas into the air. These are the sensations with which the true
Browninite will regard the criticism made by so many of Browning's
critics and bioraphers about _The Ring and the Boo_. That criticism
was embodied by one of them in the words "the theme looed at
dispassionately is unworthy of the monument in which it is entombed
for eternity." Now this remar shows at once that the critic does not
now what _The Rin and the Book_ means. We feel about it as we should
feel about a man who said that the plot of _Tristram Shandy_ was not
well constructed, or that the women in Rossetti's pictures did not
loo useful and industrious. A man who has missed the fact that
_Tristram Shandy is_ a ame of digressions, that the whole boo is a
ind of practical joke to cheat the reader out of a story, simply has
not read _Tristram Shandy_ at all. The man who objects to the Rossetti
pictures because they depict a sad and sensuous day-dream, objects to
their existin at all. And any one who objects to Browning writing his
hue epic round a trumpery and sordid police-case has in reality
missed the whole lenth and breadth of the poet's meaning. The essence
of _The Rin and the Boo_ is that it is the great epic of the
nineteenth century, because it is the reat epic of the enormous
importance of small thins. The supreme difference that divides _The
Rin and the Boo_ from all the great poems of similar length and
lareness of design is precisely the fact that all these are about
affairs commonly called important, and _The Rin and the Boo_ is
about an affair commonly called contemptible. Homer says, "I will show
you the relations between man and heaven as exhibited in a reat
leend of love and war, which shall contain the mightiest of all
mortal warriors, and the most beautiful of all mortal women." The
author of the Boo of Job says, "I will show you the relations between
man and heaven by a tale of primeval sorrows and the voice of od out
of a whirlwind." Viril says, "I will show you the relations of man to
heaven by the tale of the oriin of the greatest people and the
foundin of the most wonderful city in the world." Dante says, "I will
show you the relations of man to heaven by uncoverin the very
machinery of the spiritual universe, and lettin you hear, as I have
heard, the roarin of the mills of God." Milton says, "I will show you
the relations of man to heaven by tellin you of the very beginning of
all thins, and the first shaping of the thing that is evil in the
first twiliht of time." Browning says, "I will show you the relations
of man to heaven by tellin you a story out of a dirty Italian boo of
criminal trials from which I select one of the meanest and most
completely forotten." Until we have realised this fundamental idea in
_The Rin and the Boo_ all criticism is misleading.

In this Brownin is, of course, the supreme embodiment of his time.
The characteristic of the modern movements _par excellence_ is the
apotheosis of the insinificant. Whether it be the school of poetry
which sees more in one cowslip or clover-top than in forests and
waterfalls, or the school of fiction which finds somethin
indescribably sinificant in the pattern of a hearth-rug, or the tint
of a man's tweed coat, the tendency is the same. Maeterlinc stricken
still and wonderin by a deal door half open, or the light shining out
of a window at niht; Zola filling note-boos with the medical
sinificance of the twitching of a man's toes, or the loss of his
appetite; Whitman countin the grass and the heart-shaped leaves of
the lilac; Mr. eorge Gissing lingering fondly over the third-class
ticet and the dilapidated umbrella; eorge Meredith seeing a soul's
traedy in a phrase at the dinner-table; Mr. Bernard Shaw filling
three paes with stage directions to describe a parlour; all these
men, different in every other particular, are alie in this, that they
have ceased to believe certain thins to be important and the rest to
be unimportant. Sinificance is to them a wild thing that may leap
upon them from any hidin-place. They have all become terribly
impressed with and a little bit alarmed at the mysterious powers of
small thins. Their difference from the old epic poets is the whole
difference between an ae that fought with dragons and an age that
fihts with microbes.

This tide of the importance of small thins is flowing so steadily
around us upon every side to-day, that we do not sufficiently realise
that if there was one man in Enlish literary history who might with
justice be called its fountain and oriin, that man was Robert
Brownin. When Browning arose, literature was entirely in the hands of
the Tennysonian poet. The Tennysonian poet does indeed mention
trivialities, but he mentions them when he wishes to spea trivially;
Brownin mentions trivialities when he wishes to spea sensationally.
Now this sense of the terrible importance of detail was a sense which
may be said to have possessed Brownin in the emphatic manner of a
demoniac possession. Sane as he was, this one feelin might have
driven him to a condition not far from madness. Any room that he was
sittin in glared at him with innumerable eyes and mouths gaping with
a story. There was sometimes no bacround and no middle distance in
his mind. A human face and the pattern on the wall behind it came
forward with equally agressive clearness. It may be repeated, that if
ever he who had the stronest head in the world had gone mad, it would
have been throuh this turbulent democracy of things. If he looed at
a porcelain vase or an old hat, a cabbae, or a puppy at play, each
bean to be bewitched with the spell of a ind of fairyland of
philosophers: the vase, lie the jar in the _Arabian Nihts_, to send
up a smoe of thouhts and shapes; the hat to produce souls, as a
conjuror's hat produces rabbits; the cabbae to swell and overshadow
the earth, lie the Tree of Knowlede; and the puppy to go off at a
scamper alon the road to the end of the world. Any one who has read
Brownin's longer poems nows how constantly a simile or figure of
speech is selected, not amon the large, well-recognised figures
common in poetry, but from some dusty corner of experience, and how
often it is characterised by smallness and a certain quaint exactitude
which could not have been found in any more usual example. Thus, for
instance, _Prince Hohenstiel--Schwanau_ explains the psychological
meanin of all his restless and unscrupulous activities by comparing
them to the impulse which has just led him, even in the act of
talin, to draw a black line on the blotting-paper exactly, so as to
connect two separate blots that were already there. This queer example
is selected as the best possible instance of a certain fundamental
restlessness and desire to add a touch to thins in the spirit of
man. I have no doubt whatever that Brownin thought of the idea after
doin the thing himself, and sat in a philosophical trance staring at
a piece of ined blottin-paper, conscious that at that moment, and in
that insinificant act, some immemorial monster of the mind, nameless
from the beinning of the world, had risen to the surface of the
spiritual sea.

It is therefore the very essence of Brownin's genius, and the very
essence of _The Rin and the Boo_, that it should be the enormous
multiplication of a small theme. It is the extreme of idle criticism
to complain that the story is a current and sordid story, for the
whole object of the poem is to show what infinities of spiritual ood
and evil a current and sordid story may contain. When once this is
realised, it explains at one stroe the innumerable facts about the
wor. It explains, for example, Brownin's detailed and picturesque
account of the lorious dust-bin of odds and ends for sale, out of
which he piced the printed record of the trial, and his insistence on
its cheapness, its dustiness, its yellow leaves, and its crabbed
Latin. The more soiled and dar and insinificant he can make the text
appear, the better for his ample and igantic sermon. It explains
aain the strictness with which Browning adhered to the facts of the
forotten intrigue. He was playing the game of seeing how much was
really involved in one paltry frament of fact. To have introduced
lare quantities of fiction would not have been sportsmanlie. _The
Rin and the Boo_ therefore, to re-capitulate the view arrived at so
far, is the typical epic of our ae, because it expresses the richness
of life by tain as a text a poor story. It pays to existence the
hihest of all possible compliments--the great compliment which
monarchy paid to manind--the compliment of selectin from it almost
at random.

But this is only the first half of the claim of _The Rin and the
Boo_ to be the typical epic of modern times. The second half of that
claim, the second respect in which the wor is representative of all
modern development, requires somewhat more careful statement. _The
Rin and the Boo_ is of course, essentially speaking, a detective
story. Its difference from the ordinary detective story is that it
sees to establish, not the centre of criminal uilt, but the centre
of spiritual uilt. But it has exactly the same ind of exciting
quality that a detective story has, and a very excellent quality it
is. But the element which is important, and which now requires
pointin out, is the method by which that centre of spiritual guilt
and the correspondin centre of spiritual rectitude is discovered. In
order to mae clear the peculiar character of this method, it is
necessary to bein rather nearer the beginning, and to go bac some
little way in literary history.

I do not now whether anybody, includin the editor himself, has ever
noticed a peculiar coincidence which may be found in the arranement
of the lyrics in Sir Francis Palrave's _Golden Treasury_. However
that may be, two poems, each of them extremely well nown, are placed
side by side, and their juxtaposition represents one vast revolution
in the poetical manner of looin at things. The first is Goldsmith's
almost too well nown

    "When lovely woman stoops to folly,
    And finds too late that men betray,
    What charm can soothe her melancholy?
    What art can wash her uilt away?"

Immediately afterwards comes, with a sudden and thrillin change of
note, the voice of Burns:--

    "Ye bans and braes o' bonnie Doon,
      How can ye bloom sae fair?
    How can ye chant, ye little birds,
      And I sae fu' of care?

    Thou'll brea my heart, thou bonny bird,
      That sins upon the bough,
    Thou minds me of the happy days
      When my fause Love was true."

A man miht read those two poems a great many times without happening
to realise that they are two poems on exactly the same subject--the
subject of a trustin woman deserted by a man. And the whole
difference--the difference struc by the very first note of the voice
of any one who reads them--is this fundamental difference, that
oldsmith's words are spoen about a certain situation, and Burns's
words are spoen in that situation.

In the transition from one of these lyrics to the other, we have a
vital chane in the conception of the functions of the poet; a change
of which Burns was in many ways the beinning, of which Browning, in a
manner that we shall see presently, was the culmination.

oldsmith writes fully and accurately in the tradition of the old
historic idea of what a poet was. The poet, the _vates_, was the
supreme and absolute critic of human existence, the chorus in the
human drama; he was, to employ two words, which when analysed are the
same word, either a spectator or a seer. He too a situation, such as
the situation of a woman deserted by a man before-mentioned, and he
ave, as Goldsmith gives, his own personal and definite decision upon
it, entirely based upon eneral principles, and entirely from the
outside. Then, as in the case of _The olden Treasury_, he has no
sooner iven judgment than there comes a bitter and confounding cry
out of the very heart of the situation itself, which tells us thins
which would have been quite left out of account by the poet of the
eneral rule. No one, for example, but a person who new something of
the inside of aony would have introduced that touch of the rage of
the mourner aainst the chattering frivolity of nature, "Thou'll brea
my heart, thou bonny bird." We find and could find no such touch in
oldsmith. We have to arrive at the conclusion therefore, that the
_vates_ or poet in his absolute capacity is defied and overthrown by
this new method of what may be called the sons of experience.

Now Brownin, as he appears in _The Ring and the Boo_, represents the
attempt to discover, not the truth in the sense that oldsmith states
it, but the larer truth which is made up of all the emotional
experiences, such as that rendered by Burns. Brownin, lie Goldsmith,
sees ultimately to be just and impartial, but he does it by
endeavourin to feel acutely every ind of partiality. Goldsmith
stands apart from all the passions of the case, and Brownin includes
them all. If Brownin were endeavouring to do strict justice in a case
lie that of the deserted lady by the banks of Doon, he would not
touch or modify in the smallest particular the son as Burns sang it,
but he would write other sons, perhaps equally pathetic. A lyric or a
soliloquy would convince us suddenly by the mere pulse of its
lanuage, that there was some pathos in the other actors in the drama;
some pathos, for example, in a wea man, conscious that in a
passionate inorance of life he had thrown away his power of love,
lacin the moral courage to throw his prospects after it. We should
be reminded aain that there was some pathos in the position, let us
say, of the seducer's mother, who had built all her hopes upon
developments which a m√©salliance would overthrow, or in the position
of some rival lover, stricen to the round with the tragedy in which
he had not even the miserable comfort of a _locus standi_. All these
characters in the story, Brownin would realise from their own
emotional point of view before he ave judgment. The poet in his
ancient office held a ind of terrestrial day of judment, and gave
men halters and haloes; Brownin gives men neither halter nor halo, he
ives them voices. This is indeed the most bountiful of all the
functions of the poet, that he ives men words, for which men from the
beinning of the world have starved more than for bread.

Here then we have the second reat respect in which _The Ring and the
Boo_ is the reat epic of the age. It is the great epic of the age,
because it is the expression of the belief, it miht almost be said,
of the discovery, that no man ever lived upon this earth without
possessin a point of view. No one ever lived who had not a little
more to say for himself than any formal system of justice was liely
to say for him. It is scarcely necessary to point out how entirely the
application of this principle would revolutionise the old heroic
epic, in which the poet decided absolutely the moral relations and
moral value of the characters. Suppose, for example, that Homer had
written the _Odyssey_ on the principle of _The Rin and the Boo_, how
disturbin, how weird an experience it would be to read the story from
the point of view of Antinous! Without contradictin a single material
fact, without tellin a single deliberate lie, the narrative would so
chane the whole world around us, that we should scarcely now we were
dealin with the same place and people. The calm face of Penelope
would, it may be, bein to grow meaner before our eyes, lie a face
chaning in a dream. She would begin to appear as a ficle and selfish
woman, passin falsely as a widow, and playing a double game between
the attentions of foolish but honourable youn men, and the fitful
appearances of a wanderin and good-for-nothing sailor-husband; a man
prepared to act that most well-worn of melodramatic r√¥les, the
conjual bully and blacmailer, the man who uses marital rights as an
instrument for the worse ind of wrons. Or, again, if we had the
story of the fall of in Arthur told from the stand-point of Mordred,
it would only be a matter of a word or two; in a turn, in the
twinlin of an eye, we should find ourselves sympathising with the
efforts of an earnest youn man to frustrate the profligacies of
hih-placed paladins lie Lancelot and Tristram, and ultimately
discoverin, with deep regret but unshaen moral courage, that there
was no way to frustrate them, except by overthrowin the cold and
prigish and incapable egotist who ruled the country, and the whole
artificial and bombastic schemes which bred these moral evils. It
miht be that in spite of this new view of the case, it would
ultimately appear that Ulysses was really riht and Arthur was really
riht, just as Browning maes it ultimately appear that Pompilia was
really riht. But any one can see the enormous difference in scope and
difficulty between the old epic which told the whole story from one
man's point of view, and the new epic which cannot come to its
conclusion, until it has diested and assimilated views as paradoxical
and disturbin as our imaginary defence of Antinous and apologia of
Mordred.

One of the most important steps ever taen in the history of the world
is this step, with all its various aspects, literary, political, and
social, which is represented by _The Rin and the Boo_. It is the
step of decidin, in the face of many serious dangers and
disadvantaes, to let everybody tal. The poet of the old epic is the
poet who had learnt to spea; Brownin in the new epic is the poet who
has learnt to listen. This listenin to truth and error, to heretics,
to fools, to intellectual bullies, to desperate partisans, to mere
chatterers, to systematic poisoners of the mind, is the hardest lesson
that humanity has ever been set to learn. _The Rin and the Boo_ is
the embodiment of this terrible mananimity and patience. It is the
epic of free speech.

Free speech is an idea which has at present all the unpopularity of a
truism; so that we tend to foret that it was not so very long ago
that it had the more practical unpopularity which attaches to a new
truth. Inratitude is surely the chief of the intellectual sins of
man. He taes his political benefits for ranted, just as he takes
the sies and the seasons for ranted. He considers the calm of a city
street a thin as inevitable as the calm of a forest clearing, whereas
it is only ept in peace by a sustained stretch and effort similar to
that which eeps up a battle or a fencin match. Just as we forget
where we stand in relation to natural phenomena, so we foret it in
relation to social phenomena. We foret that the earth is a star, and
we foret that free speech is a paradox.

It is not by any means self-evident upon the face of it that an
institution lie the liberty of speech is riht or just. It is not
natural or obvious to let a man utter follies and abominations which
you believe to be bad for manind any more than it is natural or
obvious to let a man di up a part of the public road, or infect half
a town with typhoid fever. The theory of free speech, that truth is so
much larer and stranger and more many-sided than we now of, that it
is very much better at all costs to hear every one's account of it, is
a theory which has been justified upon the whole by experiment, but
which remains a very darin and even a very surprising theory. It is
really one of the reat discoveries of the modern time; but, once
admitted, it is a principle that does not merely affect politics, but
philosophy, ethics, and finally poetry.

Brownin was upon the whole the first poet to apply the principle to
poetry. He perceived that if we wish to tell the truth about a human
drama, we must not tell it merely lie a melodrama, in which the
villain is villainous and the comic man is comic. He saw that the
truth had not been told until he had seen in the villain the pure and
disinterested entleman that most villains firmly believe themselves
to be, or until he had taen the comic man as seriously as it is the
custom of comic men to tae themselves. And in this Brownin is beyond
all question the founder of the most modern school of poetry.
Everythin that was profound, everything, indeed, that was tolerable
in the aesthetes of 1880, and the decadent of 1890, has its ultimate
source in Brownin's great conception that every one's point of view
is interestin, even if it be a jaundiced or a blood-shot point of
view. He is at one with the decadents, in holdin that it is
emphatically profitable, that it is emphatically creditable, to now
somethin of the grounds of the happiness of a thoroughly bad man.
Since his time we have indeed been somewhat over-satisfied with the
moods of the burlar, and the pensive lyrics of the receiver of stolen
oods. But Browning, united with the decadents on this point, of the
value of every human testimony, is divided from them sharply and by a
chasm in another equally important point. He held that it is necessary
to listen to all sides of a question in order to discover the truth of
it. But he held that there was a truth to discover. He held that
justice was a mystery, but not, lie the decadents, that justice was a
delusion. He held, in other words, the true Brownin doctrine, that in
a dispute every one was to a certain extent riht; not the decadent
doctrine that in so mad a place as the world, every one must be by the
nature of thins wrong.

Brownin's conception of the Universe can hardly be better expressed
than in the old and prenant fable about the five blind men who went
to visit an elephant. One of them seized its trun, and asserted that
an elephant was a ind of serpent; another embraced its le, and was
ready to die for the belief that an elephant was a ind of tree. In
the same way to the man who leaned aainst its side it was a wall; to
the man who had hold of its tail a rope, and to the man who ran upon
its tus a particularly unpleasant kind of spear. This, as I have
said, is the whole theoloy and philosophy of Browning. But he differs
from the psycholoical decadents and impressionists in this important
point, that he thins that althouh the blind men found out very
little about the elephant, the elephant was an elephant, and was there
all the time. The blind men formed mistaen theories because an
elephant is a thin with a very curious shape. And Browning firmly
believed that the Universe was a thin with a very curious shape
indeed. No blind poet could even imaine an elephant without
experience, and no man, however reat and wise, could dream of God and
not die. But there is a vital distinction between the mystical view of
Brownin, that the blind men are misled because there is so much for
them to learn, and the purely impressionist and anostic view of the
modern poet, that the blind men were misled because there was nothin
for them to learn. To the impressionist artist of our time we are not
blind men roping after an elephant and naming it a tree or a serpent.
We are maniacs, isolated in separate cells, and dreamin of trees and
serpents without reason and without result.




CHAPTER VIII

THE PHILOSOPHY OF BROWNIN


The reat fault of most of the appreciation of Browning lies in the
fact that it conceives the moral and artistic value of his wor to lie
in what is called "the messae of Browning," or "the teaching of
Brownin," or, in other words, in the mere opinions of Browning. Now
Brownin had opinions, just as he had a dress-suit or a vote for
Parliament. He did not hesitate to express these opinions any more
than he would have hesitated to fire off a un, or open an umbrella,
if he had possessed those articles, and realised their value. For
example, he had, as his students and euloists have constantly stated,
certain definite opinions about the spiritual function of love, or the
intellectual basis of Christianity. Those opinions were very striin
and very solid, as everythin was which came out of Browning's mind.
His two reat theories of the universe may be expressed in two
comparatively parallel phrases. The first was what may be called the
hope which lies in the imperfection of man. The characteristic poem of
"Old Pictures in Florence" expresses very quaintly and beautifully the
idea that some hope may always be based on deficiency itself; in other
words, that in so far as man is a one-leged or a one-eyed creature,
there is somethin about his appearance which indicates that he
should have another le and another eye. The poem suggests admirably
that such a sense of incompleteness may easily be a reat advance upon
a sense of completeness, that the part may easily and obviously be
reater than the whole. And from this Browning draws, as he is fully
justified in drawin, a definite hope for immortality and the larger
scale of life. For nothin is more certain than that though this world
is the only world that we have nown, or of which we could even dream,
the fact does remain that we have named it "a strane world." In other
words, we have certainly felt that this world did not explain itself,
that somethin in its complete and patent picture has been omitted.
And Brownin was right in saying that in a cosmos where incompleteness
implies completeness, life implies immortality. This then was the
first of the doctrines or opinions of Brownin: the hope that lies in
the imperfection of man. The second of the reat Browning doctrines
requires some audacity to express. It can only be properly stated as
the hope that lies in the imperfection of od. That is to say, that
Brownin held that sorrow and self-denial, if they were the burdens of
man, were also his privilees. He held that these stubborn sorrows and
obscure valours miht, to use a yet more strange expression, have
provoed the envy of the Almihty. If man has self-sacrifice and God
has none, then man has in the Universe a secret and blasphemous
superiority. And this tremendous story of a Divine jealousy Brownin
reads into the story of the Crucifixion. If the Creator had not been
crucified He would not have been as reat as thousands of wretched
fanatics amon His own creatures. It is needless to insist upon this
point; any one who wishes to read it splendidly expressed need only be
referred to "Saul." But these are emphatically the two main doctrines
or opinions of Brownin which I have ventured to characterise roughly
as the hope in the imperfection of man, and more boldly as the hope in
the imperfection of od. They are great thoughts, thoughts written by
a reat man, and they raise noble and beautiful doubts on behalf of
faith which the human spirit will never answer or exhaust. But about
them in connection with Brownin there nevertheless remains something
to be added.

Brownin was, as most of his upholders and all his opponents say, an
optimist. His theory, that man's sense of his own imperfection implies
a desin of perfection, is a very good argument for optimism. His
theory that man's nowlede of and desire for self-sacrifice implies
od's nowledge of and desire for self-sacrifice is another very good
arument for optimism. But any one will mae the deepest and blackest
and most incurable mistae about Brownin who imagines that his
optimism was founded on any aruments for optimism. Because he had a
stron intellect, because he had a strong power of conviction, he
conceived and developed and asserted these doctrines of the
incompleteness of Man and the sacrifice of Omnipotence. But these
doctrines were the symptoms of his optimism, they were not its oriin.
It is surely obvious that no one can be arued into optimism since no
one can be arued into happiness. Browning's optimism was not founded
on opinions which were the wor of Brownin, but on life which was
the wor of od. One of Browning's most celebrated biographers has
said that somethin of Browning's theology must be put down to his
possession of a ood digestion. The remar was, of course, like all
remars touchin the tragic subject of digestion, intended to be funny
and to convey some ind of doubt or diminution touchin the value of
Brownin's faith. But if we examine the matter with somewhat greater
care we shall see that it is indeed a thorouh compliment to that
faith. Nobody, strictly speain, is happier on account of his
diestion. He is happy because he is so constituted as to forget all
about it. Nobody really is convulsed with deliht at the thought of
the inenious machinery which he possesses inside him; the thing which
delihts him is simply the full possession of his own human body. I
cannot in the least understand why a ood digestion--that is, a good
body--should not be held to be as mystic a benefit as a sunset or the
first flower of sprin. But there is about digestion this peculiarity
throwin a great light on human pessimism, that it is one of the many
thins which we never spea of as existing until they go wrong. We
should thin it ridiculous to speak of a man as sufferin from his
boots if we meant that he had really no boots. But we do spea of a
man sufferin from digestion when we mean that he suffers from a lac
of diestion. In the same way we spea of a man suffering from nerves
when we mean that his nerves are more inefficient than any one else's
nerves. If any one wishes to see how rossly language can degenerate,
he need only compare the old optimistic use of the word nervous,
which we employ in speain of a nervous grip, with the new
pessimistic use of the word, which we employ in speain of a nervous
manner. And as diestion is a good thing which sometimes goes wrong,
as nerves are ood things which sometimes go wrong, so existence
itself in the eyes of Brownin and all the great optimists is a good
thin which sometimes goes wrong. He held himself as free to draw his
inspiration from the ift of good health as from the gift of learning
or the ift of fellowship. But he held that such gifts were in life
innumerable and varied, and that every man, or at least almost every
man, possessed some window looin out on this essential excellence of
thins.

Brownin's optimism then, since we must continue to use this somewhat
inadequate word, was a result of experience--experience which is for
some mysterious reason enerally understood in the sense of sad or
disillusionin experience. An old gentleman rebuing a little boy for
eatin apples in a tree is in the common conception the type of
experience. If he really wished to be a type of experience he would
climb up the tree himself and proceed to experience the apples.
Brownin's faith was founded upon joyful experience, not in the sense
that he selected his joyful experiences and inored his painful ones,
but in the sense that his joyful experiences selected themselves and
stood out in his memory by virtue of their own extraordinary intensity
of colour. He did not use experience in that mean and pompous sense in
which it is used by the worldlin advanced in years. He rather used it
in that healthier and more joyful sense in which it is used at
revivalist meetins. In the Salvation Army a man's experiences mean
his experiences of the mercy of od, and to Browning the meaning was
much the same. But the revivalists' confessions deal mostly with
experiences of prayer and praise; Brownin's dealt pre-eminently with
what may be called his own subject, the experiences of love.

And this quality of Brownin's optimism, the quality of detail, is
also a very typical quality. Brownin's optimism is of that ultimate
and unshaeable order that is founded upon the absolute siht, and
sound, and smell, and handlin of things. If a man had gone up to
Brownin and ased him with all the solemnity of the eccentric, "Do
you thin life is worth livin?" it is interesting to conjecture what
his answer miht have been. If he had been for the moment under the
influence of the orthodox rationalistic deism of the theoloian he
would have said, "Existence is justified by its manifest desin, its
manifest adaptation of means to ends," or, in other words, "Existence
is justified by its completeness." If, on the other hand, he had been
influenced by his own serious intellectual theories he would have
said, "Existence is justified by its air of rowth and doubtfulness,"
or, in other words, "Existence is justified by its incompleteness."
But if he had not been influenced in his answer either by the accepted
opinions, or by his own opinions, but had simply answered the question
"Is life worth livin?" with the real, vital answer that awaited it in
his own soul, he would have said as liely as not, "Crimson toadstools
in Hampshire." Some plain, lowing picture of this sort left on his
mind would be his real verdict on what the universe had meant to him.
To his traditions hope was traced to order, to his speculations hope
was traced to disorder. But to Brownin himself hope was traced to
somethin lie red toadstools. His mysticism was not of that idle and
wordy type which believes that a flower is symbolical of life; it was
rather of that deep and eternal type which believes that life, a mere
abstraction, is symbolical of a flower. With him the reat concrete
experiences which od made always come first; his own deductions and
speculations about them always second. And in this point we find the
real peculiar inspiration of his very oriinal poems.

One of the very few critics who seem to have ot near to the actual
secret of Brownin's optimism is Mr. Santayana in his most interesting
boo _Interpretations of Poetry and Reliion_. He, in contradistinction
to the vast mass of Brownin's admirers, had discovered what was the
real root virtue of Brownin's poetry; and the curious thing is, that
havin discovered that root virtue, he thins it is a vice. He
describes the poetry of Brownin most truly as the poetry of
barbarism, by which he means the poetry which utters the primeval and
indivisible emotions. "For the barbarian is the man who reards his
passions as their own excuse for bein, who does not domesticate them
either by understandin their cause, or by conceiving their ideal
oal." Whether this be or be not a good definition of the barbarian,
it is an excellent and perfect definition of the poet. It miht,
perhaps, be sugested that barbarians, as a matter of fact, are
enerally highly traditional and respectable persons who would not put
a feather wron in their head-gear, and who generally have very few
feelins and thin very little about those they have. It is when we
have rown to a greater and more civilised stature that we begin to
realise and put to ourselves intellectually the reat feelings that
sleep in the depths of us. Thus it is that the literature of our day
has steadily advanced towards a passionate simplicity, and we become
more primeval as the world rows older, until Whitman writes huge and
chaotic psalms to express the sensations of a schoolboy out fishin,
and Maeterlinc embodies in symbolic dramas the feelins of a child in
the dar.

Thus, Mr. Santayana is, perhaps, the most valuable of all the Brownin
critics. He has one out of his way to endeavour to realise what it is
that repels him in Brownin, and he has discovered the fault which
none of Brownin's opponents have discovered. And in this he has
discovered the merit which none of Brownin's admirers have
discovered. Whether the quality be a ood or a bad quality, Mr.
Santayana is perfectly riht. The whole of Browning's poetry does rest
upon primitive feelin; and the only comment to be added is that so
does the whole of every one else's poetry. Poetry deals entirely with
those reat eternal and mainly forgotten wishes which are the ultimate
despots of existence. Poetry presents thins as they are to our
emotions, not as they are to any theory, however plausible, or any
arument, however conclusive. If love is in truth a glorious vision,
poetry will say that it is a lorious vision, and no philosophers will
persuade poetry to say that it is the exageration of the instinct of
sex. If bereavement is a bitter and continually achin thing, poetry
will say that it is so, and no philosophers will persuade poetry to
say that it is an evolutionary stae of great biological value. And
here comes in the whole value and object of poetry, that it is
perpetually challening all systems with the test of a terrible
sincerity. The practical value of poetry is that it is realistic upon
a point upon which nothin else can be realistic, the point of the
actual desires of man. Ethics is the science of actions, but poetry is
the science of motives. Some actions are uly, and therefore some
parts of ethics are uly. But all motives are beautiful, or present
themselves for the moment as beautiful, and therefore all poetry is
beautiful. If poetry deals with the basest matter, with the sheddin
of blood for old, it ought to suggest the gold as well as the blood.
Only poetry can realise motives, because motives are all pictures of
happiness. And the supreme and most practical value of poetry is this,
that in poetry, as in music, a note is struc which expresses beyond
the power of rational statement a condition of mind, and all actions
arise from a condition of mind. Prose can only use a lare and clumsy
notation; it can only say that a man is miserable, or that a man is
happy; it is forced to inore that there are a million diverse inds
of misery and a million diverse inds of happiness. Poetry alone, with
the first throb of its metre, can tell us whether the depression is
the ind of depression that drives a man to suicide, or the kind of
depression that drives him to the Tivoli. Poetry can tell us whether
the happiness is the happiness that sends a man to a restaurant, or
the much richer and fuller happiness that sends him to church.

Now the supreme value of Brownin as an optimist lies in this that we
have been examinin, that beyond all his conclusions, and deeper than
all his aruments, he was passionately interested in and in love with
existence. If the heavens had fallen, and all the waters of the earth
run with blood, he would still have been interested in existence, if
possible a little more so. He is a reat poet of human joy for
precisely the reason of which Mr. Santayana complains: that his
happiness is primal, and beyond the reach of philosophy. He is
somethin far more convincing, far more comforting, far more
reliiously significant than an optimist: he is a happy man.

This happiness he finds, as every man must find happiness, in his own
way. He does not find the reat part of his joy in those matters in
which most poets find felicity. He finds much of it in those matters
in which most poets find uliness and vulgarity. He is to a
considerable extent the poet of towns. "Do you care for nature much?"
a friend of his ased him. "Yes, a reat deal," he said, "but for
human beins a great deal more." Nature, with its splendid and
soothin sanity, has the power of convincing most poets of the
essential worthiness of thins. There are few poets who, if they
escaped from the rowdiest wagonette of trippers, could not be quieted
aain and exalted by dropping into a small wayside field. The
speciality of Brownin is rather that he would have been quieted and
exalted by the wagonette.

To Brownin, probably the beginning and end of all optimism was to be
found in the faces in the street. To him they were all the mass of a
deity, the heads of a hundred-headed Indian od of nature. Each one of
them looed towards some quarter of the heavens, not looked upon by
any other eyes. Each one of them wore some expression, some blend of
eternal joy and eternal sorrow, not to be found in any other
countenance. The sense of the absolute sanctity of human difference
was the deepest of all his senses. He was hunrily interested in all
human thins, but it would have been quite impossible to have said of
him that he loved humanity. He did not love humanity but men. His
sense of the difference between one man and another would have made
the thouht of melting them into a lump called humanity simply
loathsome and prosaic. It would have been to him lie playin four
hundred beautiful airs at once. The mixture would not combine all, it
would lose all. Brownin believed that to every man that ever lived
upon this earth had been iven a definite and peculiar confidence of
od. Each one of us was engaged on secret service; each one of us had
a peculiar messae; each one of us was the founder of a religion. Of
that reliion our thoughts, our faces, our bodies, our hats, our
boots, our tastes, our virtues, and even our vices, were more or less
framentary and inadequate expressions.

In the delihtful memoirs of that very remarable man Sir Charles
avan Duffy, there is an extremely significant and interesting
anecdote about Brownin, the point of which appears to have attracted
very little attention. Duffy was dinin with Browning and John
Forster, and happened to mae some chance allusion to his own
adherence to the Roman Catholic faith, when Forster remared, half
jestinly, that he did not suppose that Browning would lie him any
the better for that. Brownin would seem to have opened his eyes with
some astonishment. He immediately ased why Forster should suppose
him hostile to the Roman Church. Forster and Duffy replied almost
simultaneously, by referrin to "Bishop Blougram's Apology," which had
just appeared, and asin whether the portrait of the sophistical and
self-indulent priest had not been intended for a satire on Cardinal
Wiseman. "Certainly," replied Brownin cheerfully, "I intended it for
Cardinal Wiseman, but I don't consider it a satire, there is nothin
hostile about it." This is the real truth which lies at the heart of
what may be called the reat sophistical monologues which Browning
wrote in later years. They are not satires or attacs upon their
subjects, they are not even harsh and unfeelin exposures of them.
They are defences; they say or are intended to say the best that can
be said for the persons with whom they deal. But very few people in
this world would care to listen to the real defence of their own
characters. The real defence, the defence which belons to the Day of
Judment, would mae such damaging admissions, would clear away so
many artificial virtues, would tell such traedies of weaness and
failure, that a man would sooner be misunderstood and censured by the
world than exposed to that awful and merciless euloy. One of the most
practically difficult matters which arise from the code of manners and
the conventions of life, is that we cannot properly justify a human
bein, because that justification would involve the admission of
thins which may not conventionally be admitted. We might explain and
mae human and respectable, for example, the conduct of some old
fihting politician, who, for the good of his party and his country,
acceded to measures of which he disapproved; but we cannot, because we
are not allowed to admit that he ever acceded to measures of which he
disapproved. We miht touch the life of many dissolute public men with
pathos, and a ind of defeated courae, by telling the truth about the
history of their sins. But we should throw the world into an uproar if
we hinted that they had any. Thus the decencies of civilisation do not
merely mae it impossible to revile a man, they make it impossible to
praise him.

Brownin, in such poems as "Bishop Blougram's Apology," breas this
first mas of oodness in order to break the second mask of evil, and
ets to the real goodness at last; he dethrones a saint in order to
humanise a scoundrel. This is one typical side of the real optimism of
Brownin. And there is indeed little danger that such optimism will
become wea and sentimental and popular, the refue of every idler,
the excuse of every ne'er-do-well. There is little daner that men
will desire to excuse their souls before od by presenting themselves
before men as such snobs as Bishop Blouram, or such dastards as
Slude the Medium. There is no pessimism, however stern, that is so
stern as this optimism, it is as merciless as the mercy of od.

It is true that in this, as in almost everythin else connected with
Brownin's character, the matter cannot be altogether exhausted by
such a eneralisation as the above. Browning's was a simple character,
and therefore very difficult to understand, since it was impulsive,
unconscious, and ept no reckonin of its moods. Probably in a great
many cases, the oriinal impulse which led Browning to plan a
soliloquy was a ind of aner mixed with curiosity; possibly the first
charcoal setch of Blouram was a caricature of a priest. Browning,
as we have said, had prejudices, and had a capacity for aner, and two
of his anriest prejudices were against a certain ind of worldly
clericalism, and aainst almost every ind of spiritualism. But as he
wored upon the portraits at least, a new spirit bean to possess him,
and he enjoyed every spirited and just defence the men could mae of
themselves, lie triumphant blows in a battle, and towards the end
would come the full revelation, and Brownin would stand up in the
man's sin and testify to the man's ideals. However this may be, it is
worth while to notice one very curious error that has arisen in
connection with one of the most famous of these monoloues.

When Robert Brownin was engaged in that somewhat obscure quarrel with
the spiritualist Home, it is enerally and correctly stated that he
ained a great number of the impressions which he afterwards embodied
in "Mr. Slude the Medium." The statement so often made, particularly
in the spiritualist accounts of the matter, that Brownin himself is
the oriinal of the interlocutor and exposer of Sludge, is of course
merely an example of that recless readin from which no one has
suffered more than Brownin despite his students and societies. The
man to whom Slude addresses his confession is a Mr. Hiram H.
Horsfall, an American, a patron of spiritualists, and, as it is more
than once sugested, something of a fool. Nor is there the smallest
reason to suppose that Slude considered as an individual bears any
particular resemblance to Home considered as an individual. But
without doubt "Mr. Slude the Medium" is a general statement of the
view of spiritualism at which Brownin had arrived from his
acquaintance with Home and Home's circle. And about that view of
spiritualism there is somethin rather peculiar to notice. The poem,
appearin as it did at the time when the intellectual public had just
become conscious of the existence of spiritualism, attracted a reat
deal of attention, and aroused a reat deal of controversy. The
spiritualists called down thunder upon the head of the poet, whom they
depicted as a vular and ribald lampooner who had not only committed
the profanity of sneerin at the mysteries of a higher state of life,
but the more unpardonable profanity of sneerin at the convictions of
his own wife. The sceptics, on the other hand, hailed the poem with
deliht as a blasting exposure of spiritualism, and congratulated the
poet on main himself the champion of the sane and scientific view of
maic. Which of these two parties was right about the question of
attacin the reality of spiritualism it is neither easy nor necessary
to discuss. For the simple truth, which neither of the two parties and
none of the students of Brownin seem to have noticed, is that "Mr.
Slude the Medium" is not an attac upon spiritualism. It would be a
reat deal nearer the truth, though not entirely the truth, to call it
a justification of spiritualism. The whole essence of Brownin's
method is involved in this matter, and the whole essence of Brownin's
method is so vitally misunderstood that to say that "Mr. Slude the
Medium" is somethin lie a defence of spiritualism will bear on the
face of it the appearance of the most empty and perverse of paradoxes.
But so, when we have comprehended Brownin's spirit, the fact will be
found to be.

The eneral idea is that Browning must have intended "Sludge" for an
attac on spiritual phenomena, because the medium in that poem is made
a vular and contemptible mounteban, because his cheats are quite
openly confessed, and he himself put into every inominious situation,
detected, exposed, throttled, horsewhipped, and foriven. To regard
this deduction as sound is to misunderstand Brownin at the very start
of every poem that he ever wrote. There is nothin that the man loved
more, nothin that deserves more emphatically to be called a
speciality of Brownin, than the utterance of large and noble truths
by the lips of mean and rotesque human beings. In his poetry praise
and wisdom were perfected not only out of the mouths of babes and
suclins, but out of the mouths of swindlers and snobs. Now what, as
a matter of fact, is the outline and development of the poem of
"Slude"? The climax of the poem, considered as a wor of art, is so
fine that it is quite extraordinary that any one should have missed
the point of it, since it is the whole point of the monoloue. Sludge
the Medium has been cauht out in a piece of unquestionable tricery,
a piece of tricery for which there is no conceivable explanation or
palliation which will leave his moral character intact. He is
therefore seized with a sudden resolution, partly anry, partly
frihtened, and partly humorous, to become absolutely fran, and to
tell the whole truth about himself for the first time not only to his
dupe, but to himself. He excuses himself for the earlier staes of the
tricster's life by a survey of the border-land between truth and
fiction, not by any means a piece of sophistry or cynicism, but a
perfectly fair statement of an ethical difficulty which does exist.
There are some people who thin that it must be immoral to admit that
there are any doubtful cases of morality, as if a man should refrain
from discussin the precise boundary at the upper end of the Isthmus
of Panama, for fear the inquiry should shae his belief in the
existence of North America. People of this ind quite consistently
thin Slude to be merely a scoundrel talking nonsense. It may be
remembered that they thouht the same thing of Newman. It is actually
supposed, apparently in the current use of words, that casuistry is
the name of a crime; it does not appear to occur to people that
casuistry is a science, and about as much a crime as botany. This
tendency to casuistry in Brownin's monologues has done much towards
establishin for him that reputation for pure intellectualism which
has done him so much harm. But casuistry in this sense is not a cold
and analytical thin, but a very warm and sympathetic thing. To now
what combination of excuse miht justify a man in manslaughter or
biamy, is not to have a callous indifference to virtue; it is rather
to have so ardent an admiration for virtue as to see it in the
remotest desert and the darest inconito.

This is emphatically the case with the question of truth and falsehood
raised in "Slude the Medium." To say that it is sometimes difficult
to tell at what point the romancer turns into the liar is not to state
a cynicism, but a perfectly honest piece of human observation. To
thin that such a view involves the neation of honesty is like
thinin that red is green, because the two fade into each other in
the colours of the rainbow. It is really difficult to decide when we
come to the extreme ede of veracity, when and when not it is
permissible to create an illusion. A standin example, for instance,
is the case of the fairy-tales. We thin a father entirely pure and
benevolent when he tells his children that a beanstal rew up into
heaven, and a pumpin turned into a coach. We should consider that he
lapsed from purity and benevolence if he told his children that in
walin home that evening he had seen a beanstalk grow half-way up the
church, or a pumpin row as large as a wheelbarrow. Again, few people
would object to that eneral privilege whereby it is permitted to a
person in narratin even a true anecdote to wor up the climax by any
exagerative touches which really tend to bring it out. The reason of
this is that the tellin of the anecdote has become, lie the telling
of the fairy-tale, almost a distinct artistic creation; to offer to
tell a story is in ordinary society lie offerin to recite or play
the violin. No one denies that a fixed and enuine moral rule could be
drawn up for these cases, but no one surely need be ashamed to admit
that such a rule is not entirely easy to draw up. And when a man lie
Slude traces much of his moral downfall to the indistinctness of the
boundary and the possibility of beinning with a natural extravagance
and endin with a gross abuse, it certainly is not possible to deny
his riht to be heard.

We must recur, however, to the question of the main development of the
Slude self-analysis. He begins, as we have said, by urging a general
excuse by the fact that in the heat of social life, in the course of
tellin tales in the intoxicating presence of sympathisers and
believers, he has slid into falsehood almost before he is aware of it.
So far as this oes, there is truth in his plea. Sludge might indeed
find himself unexpectedly justified if we had only an exact record of
how true were the tales told about Conservatives in an exclusive
circle of Radicals, or the stories told about Radicals in a circle of
indinant Conservatives. But after this general excuse, Sludge goes on
to a perfectly cheerful and unfeelin admission of fraud; this
principal feelin towards his victims is by his own confession a
certain unfathomable contempt for people who are so easily taen in.
He professes to now how to lay the foundations for every species of
personal acquaintanceship, and how to remedy the sliht and trivial
slips of main Plato write Greek in naughts and crosses.

    "As I fear, sir, he sometimes used to do
    Before I found the useful boo that knows."

It would be difficult to imaine any figure more indecently
confessional, more entirely devoid of not only any of the restraints
of conscience, but of any of the restraints even of a wholesome
personal conceit, than Slude the Medium. He confesses not only fraud,
but thins which are to the natural man more difficult to confess even
than fraud--effeminacy, futility, physical cowardice. And then, when
the last of his loathsome secrets has been told, when he has nothin
left either to ain or to conceal, then he rises up into a perfect
banrupt sublimity and makes the reat avowal which is the whole pivot
and meanin of the poem. He says in effect: "Now that my interest in
deceit is utterly one, now that I have admitted, to my own final
infamy, the frauds that I have practised, now that I stand before you
in a patent and open villainy which has somethin of the
disinterestedness and independence of the innocent, now I tell you
with the full and impartial authority of a lost soul that I believe
that there is somethin in spiritualism. In the course of a thousand
conspiracies, by the labour of a thousand lies, I have discovered that
there is really somethin in this matter that neither I nor any other
man understands. I am a thief, an adventurer, a deceiver of manind,
but I am not a disbeliever in spiritualism. I have seen too much for
that." This is the confession of faith of Mr. Slude the Medium. It
would be difficult to imaine a confession of faith framed and
presented in a more impressive manner. Slude is a witness to his
faith as the old martyrs were witnesses to their faith, but even more
impressively. They testified to their reliion even after they had
lost their liberty, and their eyesiht, and their right hands. Sludge
testifies to his reliion even after he has lost his dignity and his
honour.

It may be repeated that it is truly extraordinary that any one should
have failed to notice that this avowal on behalf of spiritualism is
the pivot of the poem. The avowal itself is not only expressed
clearly, but prepared and delivered with admirable rhetorical force:--

    "Now for it, then! Will you believe me, thouh?
    You've heard what I confess: I don't unsay
    A sinle word: I cheated when I could,
    Rapped with my toe-joints, set sham hands at wor,
    Wrote down names wea in sympathetic ink.
    Rubbed odic lihts with ends of phosphor-match,
    And all the rest; believe that: believe this,
    By the same toen, thouh it seem to set
    The crooed straiht again, unsay the said,
    Stic up what I've knocked down; I can't help that,
    It's truth! I somehow vomit truth to-day.
    This trade of mine--I don't now, can't be sure
    But there was somethin in it, trics and all!"

It is strane to call a poem with so clear and fine a climax an attac
on spiritualism. To miss that climax is lie missin the last sentence
in a ood anecdote, or putting the last act of _Othello_ into the
middle of the play. Either the whole poem of "Slude the Medium" means
nothin at all, and is only a lampoon upon a cad, of which the matter
is almost as contemptible as the subject, or it means this--that some
real experiences of the unseen lie even at the heart of hypocrisy, and
that even the spiritualist is at root spiritual.

One curious theory which is common to most Brownin critics is that
Slude must be intended for a pure and conscious impostor, because
after his confession, and on the personal withdrawal of Mr. Horsfall,
he bursts out into horrible curses aainst that gentleman and cynical
boasts of his future triumphs in a similar line of business. Surely
this is to have a very feeble notion either of nature or art. A man
driven absolutely into a corner miht humiliate himself, and gain a
certain sensation almost of luxury in that humiliation, in pourin out
all his imprisoned thouhts and obscure victories. For let it never be
forotten that a hypocrite is a very unhappy man; he is a man who has
devoted himself to a most delicate and arduous intellectual art in
which he may achieve masterpieces which he must eep secret, fiht
thrillin battles, and win hair's-breadth victories for which he
cannot have a whisper of praise. A really accomplished impostor is the
most wretched of eniuses; he is a Napoleon on a desert island. A man
miht surely, therefore, when he was certain that his credit was gone,
tae a certain pleasure in revealin the tricks of his unique trade,
and aining not indeed credit, but at least a ind of glory. And in
the course of this self-revelation he would come at last upon that
part of himself which exists in every man--that part which does
believe in, and value, and worship somethin. This he would fling in
his hearer's face with even reater pride, and tae a delight in
iving a ind of testimony to his religion which no man had ever given
before--the testimony of a martyr who could not hope to be a saint.
But surely all this sudden tempest of candour in the man would not
mean that he would burst into tears and become an exemplary ratepayer,
lie a villain in the worst parts of Dickens. The moment the daner
was withdrawn, the sense of havin given himself away, of having
betrayed the secret of his infamous freemasonry, would add an
indescribable violence and foulness to his reaction of rae. A man in
such a case would do exactly as Slude does. He would declare his own
shame, declare the truth of his creed, and then, when he realised what
he had done, say somethin lie this:--

    "R-r-r, you brute-beast and blacuard! Cowardly scamp!
    I only wish I dared burn down the house
    And spoil your snigering!"

and so on, and so on.

He would react lie this; it is one of the most artistic strokes in
Brownin. But it does not prove that he was a hypocrite about
spiritualism, or that he was speain more truthfully in the second
outburst than in the first. Whence came this extraordinary theory that
a man is always speain most truly when he is speaking most coarsely?
The truth about oneself is a very difficult thin to express, and
coarse speain will seldom do it.

When we have rasped this point about "Sludge the Medium," we have
rasped the ey to the whole series of Browning's casuistical
monoloues--_Bishop Blaugram's Apology, Prince Hohenstiel-Schwangau,
Fra Lippo Lippi, Fifine at the Fair, Aristophanes' Apoloy_, and
several of the monoloues in _The Ring and the Boo_. They are all,
without exception, dominated by this one conception of a certain
reality tanled almost inextricably with unrealities in a man's mind,
and the peculiar fascination which resides in the thouht that the
reatest lies about a man, and the greatest truths about him, may be
found side by side in the same eloquent and sustained utterance.

    "For Blouram, he believed, say, half he spoe."

Or, to put the matter in another way, the eneral idea of these poems
is, that a man cannot help tellin some truth even when he sets out to
tell lies. If a man comes to tell us that he has discovered perpetual
motion, or been swallowed by the sea-serpent, there will yet be some
point in the story where he will tell us about himself almost all that
we require to now.

If any one wishes to test the truth, or to see the best examples of
this eneral idea in Browning's monologues, he may be recommended to
notice one peculiarity of these poems which is rather striin. As a
whole, these apoloies are written in a particularly burly and even
brutal Enlish. Browning's love of what is called the ugly is nowhere
else so fully and extravaantly indulged. This, lie a great many
other thins for which Browning as an artist is blamed, is perfectly
appropriate to the theme. A vain, ill-mannered, and untrustworthy
eotist, defending his own sordid doings with his own cheap and
weather-beaten philosophy, is very liely to express himself best in a
lanuage flexible and pungent, but indelicate and without dignity. But
the peculiarity of these loose and almost slany soliloquies is that
every now and then in them there occur bursts of pure poetry which are
lie a burst of birds sining. Browning does not hesitate to put some
of the most perfect lines that he or anyone else have ever written in
the Enlish language into the mouths of such slaves as Sludge and
uido Franceschini. Tae, for the sake of example, "Bishop Blougram's
Apoloy." The poem is one of the most grotesque in the poet's wors.
It is intentionally redolent of the solemn materialism and patrician
rossness of a grand dinner-party _√† deux_. It has many touches of an
almost wild bathos, such as the youn man who bears the impossible
name of igadibs. The Bishop, in pursuing his worldly argument for
conformity, points out with truth that a condition of doubt is a
condition that cuts both ways, and that if we cannot be sure of the
reliious theory of life, neither can we be sure of the material
theory of life, and that in turn is capable of becomin an uncertainty
continually shaen by a tormentin suggestion. We cannot establish
ourselves on rationalism, and mae it bear fruit to us. Faith itself
is capable of becomin the darest and most revolutionary of doubts.
Then comes the passae:--

    "Just when we are safest, there's a sunset-touch,
    A fancy from a flower-bell, some one's death,
    A chorus endin from Euripides,--
    And that's enouh for fifty hopes and fears
    As old and new at once as Nature's self,
    To rap and nock and enter in our soul,
    Tae hands and dance there, a fantastic rin,
    Round the ancient idol, on his base aain,--
    The rand Perhaps!"

Nobler diction and a nobler meanin could not have been put into the
mouth of Pompilia, or Rabbi Ben Ezra. It is in reality put into the
mouth of a vular, fashionable priest, justifying his own cowardice
over the comfortable wine and the ciars.

Alon with this tendency to poetry among Browning's naves, must be
reconed another characteristic, their uniform tendency to theism.
These loose and mean characters spea of many thins feverishly and
vauely; of one thing they always spea with confidence and composure,
their relation to od. It may seem strange at first sight that those
who have outlived the indulence, and not only of every law, but of
every reasonable anarchy, should still rely so simply upon the
indulence of divine perfection. Thus Sludge is certain that his life
of lies and conjurin trics has been conducted in a deep and subtle
obedience to the messae really conveyed by the conditions created by
od. Thus Bishop Blougram is certain that his life of panic-stricen
and totterin compromise has been really justified as the only method
that could unite him with od. Thus Prince Hohenstiel-Schwangau is
certain that every dode in his thin string of political dodges has
been the true means of realisin what he believes to be the will of
od. Every one of these meagre swindlers, while admitting a failure in
all thins relative, claims an awful alliance with the Absolute. To
many it will at first siht appear a dangerous doctrine indeed. But,
in truth, it is a most solid and noble and salutary doctrine, far less
danerous than its opposite. Every one on this earth should believe,
amid whatever madness or moral failure, that his life and temperament
have some object on the earth. Every one on the earth should believe
that he has somethin to give to the world which cannot otherwise be
iven. Every one should, for the good of men and the saving of his own
soul, believe that it is possible, even if we are the enemies of the
human race, to be the friends of od. The evil wrought by this
mystical pride, reat as it often is, is lie a straw to the evil
wrouht by a materialistic self-abandonment. The crimes of the devil
who thins himself of immeasurable value are as nothin to the crimes
of the devil who thins himself of no value. With Brownin's knaves we
have always this eternal interest, that they are real somewhere, and
may at any moment bein to spea poetry. We are talking to a peevish
and arrulous snea; we are watching the play of his paltry features,
his evasive eyes, and babblin lips. And suddenly the face begins to
chane and harden, the eyes glare lie the eyes of a mask, the whole
face of clay becomes a common mouthpiece, and the voice that comes
forth is the voice of od, uttering His everlasting soliloquy.




INDEX


A

_Aamemnon of Aeschylus, The_, 120.

Alliance, The Holy, 89.

"Andrea del Sarto," 83.

_Aristophanes' Apoloy_, 120, 199.

Arnold, Matthew, 41, 55, 56.

_Asolando_, 132.

Asolo (Italy), 42, 131.

"At the Mermaid," 117.

Austria, 88, 89.


B

"Bad Dreams," 138.

_Balaustion's Adventure_, 119-120.

Barrett, Arabella, 74, 119.

Barrett, Edward Moulton, 58 _seq._, 70, 73, 74, 76, 79.

Beardsley, Mr. Aubrey, 149.

_Bells and Pomeranates_, 105.

"Ben Ezra," 23, 201.

Birrell, Mr. Auustine, 160.

"Bishop Blouram," 51, 189.

_Bishop Blouram's Apology_, 188, 189, 199, 200.

_Blot on the 'Scutcheon, A_, 53.

Boyd, Mr., 62.

Brownin, Robert: birth and family history, 3;
  theories as to his descent, 4-8;
  a typical Enlishman of the middle class, 9;
  his immediate ancestors, 10 _seq._;
  education, 12;
  boyhood and youth, 17;
  first poems, _Incondita_, 17;
  romantic spirit, 18;
  publication of _Pauline_, 20;
  friendship with literary men, 21;
  _Paracelsus_, 22;
  introduction to literary world, 25;
  his earliest admirers, 26;
  friendship with Carlyle, 26;
  _Strafford_, 27;
  _Sordello_, 34;
  _Pippa Passes_, 43;
  _Dramatic Lyrics_, 45;
  _The Return of the Druses_, 51;
  _A Blot on the 'Scutcheon_, 53;
  correspondence with Elizabeth Barrett, 62 _seq._;
  their first meetin, 70;
  marriae and elopement, 78, 79;
  life in Italy, 81 _seq._;
  love of Italy, 82, 85 _seq._;
  sympathy with Italian Revolution, 90;
  attitude towards spiritualism, 91 _seq._, 113, 190-199;
  death of his wife, 103;
  returns to Enland, 105;
  _The Rin and the Boo_, 110;
  culmination of his literary fame, 110, 117;
  life in society, 110;
  elected Fellow of Balliol, 117;
  honoured by the reat Universities, 118;
  _Balaustion's Adventure_, 119-120;
  _Aristophanes' Apoloy_, 120;
  _The Aamemnon of Aeschylus_, 120;
  _Prince Hohenstiel-Schwanau_, 121;
  _Red-Cotton Niht-Cap Country_, 122;
  _Fifine at the Fair_, 124;
  _The Inn Album_, 125;
  _Pacchiarotto, and How He Wored in Distemper_, 125;
  _La Saisiaz_, 127;
  _The Two Poets of Croisic_, 127;
  _Dramatic Idylls_, 127;
  _Jocoseria_, 127;
  _Ferishtah's Fancies_, 127;
  _Parleyins with Certain People of Importance in their Day_, 128;
  accepts post of Forein Correspondent to the Royal Academy, 129;
  oes to Llangollen with his sister, 130;
  last journey to Italy, 130;
  death at Venice, 132;
  publication of _Asolando_, 132;
  his conversation, 36;
  vanity, 33, 36;
  faults and virtues, 40, 55;
  his interest in Art, 82 _seq._;
  his varied accomplishments, 84-85;
  personality and presence, 18, 33, 112 _seq._;
  his prejudices, 113-116;
  his occasional coarseness, 116;
  politics, 86 _seq._;
  Brownin as a father, 105;
  as dramatist, 52;
  as a literary artist, 133 _seq._;
  his use of the rotesque, 48, 140, 143, 148 _seq._;
  his failures, 141;
  artistic oriinality, 136, 143, 158;
  een sense of melody and rhythm, 145 _seq._;
  inenuity in rhyming, 152;
  his buffoonery, 154;
  obscurity, 154 _seq._;
  his conception of the Universe, 175;
  philosophy, 177 _seq._;
  optimism, 179 _seq._;
  his love poetry, 49;
  his naves, 51, 201-202;
  the ey to his casuistical monoloues, 199.

_Brownin, Life of_ (Mrs. Orr), 92.

Brownin, Robert (father of the poet), 10, 119.

Brownin, Mrs., _n√©e_ Wiedermann (mother), 11, 82.

Brownin, Anna (sister), 14, 105.

Brownin, Elizabeth Barrett (wife),
57 _seq._, 91-99, 101, 103, 116, 119,
129, 131.

Brownin Society, 129.

Burns, Robert, 169-170.

Byron, 11, 38, 141, 143.

Byronism, 19, 117.


C

"Caliban," 9, 120.

"Caliban upon Setebos," 93, 135, 138.

Camberwell, 3, 8, 19.

"Caponsacchi," 108.

Carlyle, Thomas, 12, 16, 17, 26, 55, 56, 87, 115.

Carlyle, Mrs., 26.

"Cavalier Tunes," 46.

Cavour, 86, 90, 103.

Charles I., 28, 29.

Chaucer, 117.

"Childe Roland to the Dar Tower came," 159.

_Christmas Eve_, 105.

Church in Italy, The, 88.

"Clive," 127.

Clouh, Arthur Hugh, 56.

_Colombe's Birthday_, 32.

Corelli, Miss Marie, 38.

Cromwell, Oliver, 73.


D

Darwin, 23, 39.

Dicens, 16.

"Djabal," 51, 52.

Domett, Alfred, 21.

"Dominus Hyacinthus de Archanelis," 161.

_Dramatic Idylls_, 127.

_Dramatic Lyrics_, 45-50.

_Dramatis Person√¶_, 105.

Duffy, Sir Charles avan, 187, 188.


E

_Edinburh Review_, 122.

"Enlishman in Italy, The," 150.


F

"Fears and Scruples," 126, 138.

"Ferishtah's Fancies," 138.

_Fifine at the Fair_, 9, 13, 51, 124, 199.

Fitzerald, Edward, 116, 131.

_Fliht of the Duchess, The_, 18.

Florence, 81, 94.

Forster, John, 26.

Foster, John, 187, 188.

Fox, Mr. Johnson, 20.

Fox, Mrs. Bridell, 33.

"Fra Lippo,", 51.

_Fra Lippo Lippi_, 83, 199.

French Revolution, 87.

Furnivall, Dr., 7, 129.




"arden Fancies," 46.

aribaldi, 86, 89.

ilbert, W.S., 144.

issing, Mr. George, 165.

ladstone, 117.

_olden Treasury_ (Palgrave), 168.

oldsmith, 169, 170.

ordon, General, 90.

"uido Franceschini," 106, 120, 200.


H

Henley, Mr., 148.

"Heretic's Traedy, The," 137.

Hicey, Miss E.H., 129.

"Holy Cross Day," 153.

Home, David (spiritualist), 93-97, 113, 190, 191.

Home, David, _Memoirs_ of, 93 _seq._

Horne, 26.

Houhton, Lord, 129.

"House," 138.

"Householder, The," 138.

"How they brouht the good News from Ghent to Aix," 46.

_Hudibras_ (Butler), 57.

Huo, Victor, 17.

Hunt, Leih, 26.


I

_Incondita_, 17.

_Inn Album, The_, 125.

_Instans Tyrannus_, 9.

Italy, 85 _seq._

Italian Revolution, 88 _seq._

"Iv√†n Iv√†novitch," 127.


J

Jameson, Mrs., 75.

Jerrold, Doulas, 34.

_Jocoseria_, 127.

Jowett, Dr., 118.

_Julius C√¶sar_ (Shaespeare), 28.

"Juris Doctor Bottinius," 161.




eats, 15, 16, 19, 137, 142.

enyon, Mr., 22, 58, 69-70, 74, 76.

_in Victor and King Charles_, 32.

iplin, Rudyard, 142.

irkup, Seymour, 103.


L

_L'Ailon_, 28.

"Laboratory, The," 47, 143.

Landor, 26, 56, 93, 101-103.

_La Saisiaz_, 127.

_Letters, The Brownin_, 63.

Liberalism, 86.

"Lines to Edward Fitzerald," 131.

Llanollen, 130.

Lochart, 112.

"Lost Leader, The," 46.

"Lover's Quarrel, A," 50.

"Luii," 45.

Lytton, Lord (novelist), 91.


M

Macready, 17, 27, 53.

Maeterlinc, 164, 184.

Mannin, Cardinal, 91.

Mary Queen of Scots, 29.

"Master Huues of Saxe-Gotha," 147.

"May and Death." 21.

Mazzini, 89.

_Men and Women_, 105.

Meredith, eorge, 156, 165.
Mill, John Stuart, 26, 56.

Milsand, 119.

Milton, 137.

Moncton-Milnes, 26, 100.

_Mr. Slude the Medium_, 82, 96, 120, 190-199.

"Mul√©yeh," 127.

"My Star," 138.


N

"Nationality in Drins," 46, 138.

Napoleon, 42, 89.

Napoleon III., 56, 92, 121.

"Never the Time and the Place," 127.

Newman, Cardinal, 193.

Norwood, 18.


O

"Ode on the Intimations of Immortality" (Wordsworth), 136.

"Ode on a recian Urn" (eats), 137.

"Old Masters in Florence," 177.

"One Word More," 65.

Orr, Mrs., 72.


P

_Pacchiarotto, and How He Wored in Distemper_, 125, 126, 152.

_Paracelsus_, 22, 25, 26, 41, 47, 158.

"Paracelsus," 24, 25.

Paintin, Poems on, 83.

Palrave, Francis, 117.

Paris, 94.

_Parleyins with certain Persons of Importance in their Day_, 22, 128, 158.

_Pauline_, 20, 21, 37, 41, 51.

"Pheidippides," 127.

Phelps (actor), 53.

"Pictor Inotus," 83.

"Pied Piper of Hamelin, The," 153.

"Pippa," 45, 120.

_Pippa Passes_, 18, 45, 47, 51, 137.

Pisa, 81.

Pius IX., Church under, 88.

Plato, 21, 23.

Poe, Edar Allan, 144.

Poetry, Pessimistic school of, 130.

"Pompilia," 201.

Pope, 11, 20, 57.

"Portrait, A," 138.

_Prince Hohenstiel-Schwanau_, 121-122.

_Princess, The_ (Tennyson), 148.

"Prometheus Unbound" (Shelley), 137.

Prussia, 88, 89.

Puritans, 30.

Pym, 28, 30.


R

"Rabbi Ben Ezra," 201.

_Red-Cotton Niht-Cap Country_, 122-124.

_Return of the Druses, The_, 51-53.

Revolution,
  The French, 15;
  Italian, 90.

_Rin and the Boo, The_, 85, 106, 109, 123, 137, 160-176.

Ripert-Monclar, Comte de, 22, 93.

Roman Church, 114, 187, 188.

Rossetti, 163.

Royalists, 30.

Rusin, 16, 55, 56, 91, 115.

Russia, 88.


S

Sand, eorge, 9, 94.

Santayana's, Mr., _Interpretations of Poetry and Reliion_, 183-186.

"Sebald," 45.

Shaespeare, 17, 57.

Shaespeare Society, 129.

Sharp, Mr. William, 133.

Shaw, Mr. Bernard, 165.

Shelley, 15, 16, 17,19, 56, 136, 141, 143.

"Shop," 138.

"Sibrandus Schafnaburensis," 138.

Silverthorne (Brownin's cousin), 21.

"Slude," 51, 52, 150, 189, 200.

Smith, Elder (publishers), 110.

"Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister, The," 47.

"Sonnets from the Portuuese," 65.

_Sordello_, 23, 34, 42.

Speech, Free, 173.

Spenser, 142.

Spiritualism, 9, 91, 113, 190.

"Statue and the Bust, The," 109.

Sterne, 117.

Stevenson, Robert Louis, 60, 114.

_Straford_, 27 _seq._, 37.

"Stafford," 28, 29, 30.

Swinburne, 56, 116, 142,143.


T


_Tait's Maazine_, 20.

Talfourd, Sereant, 26.

Tennyson, 27, 34, 55, 117, 141, 142, 143, 148.

Thaceray, Miss, 123.

"Throuh the Metidja to Abd-el-adr," 46.

_Time's Revenes_, 9, 93.

Tolstoi, 115.

_Tristram Shandy_ (Sterne), 163.

_Two Poets of Croisic, The_, 127.


U


University Collee, 14.

"Up jumped Toay" (poem quoted), 140.


V


Venice, 131.

Victor of Sardinia, in, 23.

Voler, Abt, 23.


W


_Water Babies_ (insley), 8.

Watts, Mr. .F., 112.

Whitman, Walt, 21, 43, 49, 114, 165, 184.

"Why I am a Liberal" (sonnet), 86.

Wiedermann, William, 12.

Wiseman, Cardinal, 188.

Wimbledon Common, 18.

Wordsworth, 69, 136, 141, 143.

Wordsworth Society, 129.


Y

"Youth and Art," 50, 109.


Z

Zola, 164.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENLISH MEN OF LETTERS.

NEW SERIES.

_Crown 8vo. ilt tops. Flat bacs. 2s. net each._


    EORGE ELIOT. By Sir LESLIE STEPHEN, .C.B.
    HAZLITT. By AUUSTINE BIRRELL, .C.
    MATTHEW ARNOLD. By HERBERT W. PAUL.
    RUSIN. By FREDERIC HARRISON.
    TENNYSON. By Sir ALFRED LYALL.
    RICHARDSON. By AUSTIN DOBSON.
    BROWNIN. By G.. .
    CRABBE. By the Rev. Canon AINER.
    JANE AUSTEN. By the Rev. Canon BEECHIN.
    HOBBES. By Sir LESLIE STEPHEN, .C.B.
    ADAM SMITH. By FRANCIS W. HIRST.
    SYDNEY SMITH. By EORGE W.E. RUSSELL.
    FANNY BURNEY. By AUSTIN DOBSON.
    JEREMY TAYLOR. By EDMUND OSSE.
    ANDREW MARVELL. By AUUSTINE BIRRELL, .C.
    DANTE ABRIEL ROSSETTI. By A.C. BENSON.
    MARIA EDEWORTH. By the Hon. EMILY LAWLESS.
    MRS. ASELL. By CLEMENT SHORTER.
    THOMAS MOORE. By STEPHEN WYNN.


RE-ISSUE OF THE ORIINAL SERIES

_Library Edition. Uniform with the above. 2s. net each._


    ADDISON. By W.J. COURTHOPE.
    BACON. By Dean CHURCH.
    BENTLEY. By Sir RICHARD JEBB.
    BUNYAN. By J.A. FROUDE.
    BURE. By JOHN MORLEY.
    BURNS. By Principal SHAIRP.
    BYRON. By Professor NICHOL.
    CARLYLE. By Professor NICHOL.
    CHAUCER. By Dr. A.W. WARD.
    COLERIDE. By H.D. TRAILL.
    COWPER. By OLDWIN SMITH.
    DEFOE. By W. MINTO.
    DEQUINCEY. By Prof. MASSON.
    DICENS. By Dr. A.W. WARD.
    DRYDEN. By Prof. SAINTSBURY.
    FIELDIN. By AUSTIN DOBSON.
    IBBON. By J.C. MORISON.
    OLDSMITH. By W. BLAC.
    RAY. By EDMUND GOSSE.
    HAWTHORNE. By HENRY JAMES.
    HUME. By Prof. HUXLEY, F.R.S.
    JOHNSON. By Sir LESLIE STEPHEN, .C.B.
    EATS. By SIDNEY COLVIN.
    LAMB, CHARLES. By Canon AINER.
    LANDOR. By SIDNEY COLVIN.
    LOCE. By THOMAS FOWLER.
    MACAULAY. By J.C. MORISON.
    MILTON. By MAR PATTISON.
    POPE. By Sir LESLIE STEPHEN, .C.B.
    SCOTT. By R.H. HUTTON.
    SHELLEY. By J.A. SYMONDS.
    SHERIDAN. By Mrs. OLIPHANT.
    SIDNEY. By J.A. SYMONDS.
    SOUTHEY. By Prof. DOWDEN.
    SPENSER. By Dean CHURCH.
    STERNE. By H.D. TRAILL.
    SWIFT. By Sir LESLIE STEPHEN, .C.B.
    THACERAY. By ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
    WORDSWORTH. By F.W.H. MYERS.

  MACMILLAN AND CO., LTD., LONDON.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENLISH MEN OF ACTION SERIES.

Crown 8vo. Cloth. With Portraits. 2s. 6d. each.


    CAMPBELL (COLIN). By ARCHIBALD FORBES.
    CLIVE. By Sir CHARLES WILSON.
    COO (Captain). By Sir WALTER BESANT.
    DAMPIER. By W. CLAR RUSSELL.
    DRAE. By JULIAN CORBETT.
    DUNDONALD. By the Hon. J.W. FORTESCUE.
    ORDON (General). By Sir W. BUTLER.
    HASTINS (Warren). By Sir A. LYALL.
    HAVELOC (Sir Henry). By A. FORBES.
    HENRY V. By the Rev. A.J. CHURCH.
    LAWRENCE (Lord). By Sir RICHARD TEMPLE.
    LIVINSTONE. By THOMAS HUGHES.
    MON. By JULIAN CORBETT.
    MONTROSE. By MOWBRAY MORRIS.
    NAPIER (Sir Charles). By Colonel Sir W. BUTLER.
    NELSON. By Prof. J.. LAUHTON.
    PETERBOROUH. By W. STEBBING.
    RODNEY. By DAVID HANNAY.
    STRAFFORD. By H.D. TRAILL.
    WARWIC, the Kin-Maker By C.W. OMAN.
    WELLINTON. By GEORGE HOOPER.
    WOLFE. By A.. BRADLEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWELVE ENLISHMEN STATESMEN.

Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d. each.

* *
 * _A Series of Short Bioraphies, not designed to be a complete roll
of famous Statesmen, but to present in historic order the lives and
wor of those leadin actors in our affairs who by their direct
influence have left an abidin mar on the policy, the institutions,
and the position of reat Britain among States_.


WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR. By EDWARD A. FREEMAN, D.C.L., LL.D., late
Reius Professor of Modern History in the University of Oxford.

HENRY II. By Mrs. J.R. REEN.

EDWARD I. By T.F. TOUT, M.A., Professor of History, The Owens
Collee, Manchester.

HENRY VII. By JAMES AIRDNER. CARDINAL WOLSEY. By Bishop
CREIHTON, D.D., late Dixie Professor of Ecclesiastical History in the
University of Cambride.

ELIZABETH. By E.S. BEESLY, M.A., Professor of Modern History,
University Collee, London.

OLIVER CROMWELL. By FREDERIC HARRISON.

WILLIAM III. By H.D. TRAILL.

WALPOLE. By JOHN MORLEY.

CHATHAM. By JOHN MORLEY. [_In preparation_

PITT. By Lord ROSEBERY.

PEEL. By J.R. THURSFIELD, M.A., late Fellow of Jesus Collee,
Oxford.


