
HEART F THE WEST
by . 





CNTENTS

    I. Hearts and Crsses
   II. The Ransm f Mack
  III. Telemachus, Friend
   IV. The Handbk of Hymen
    V. The Pimienta Pancakes
   VI. Seats f the Haughty
  VII. Hygeia at the Slit
 VIII. An Afternn Miracle
   IX. The Higher Abdicatin
    X. Cupid a la Carte
   XI. The Caballer's Way
  XII. The Sphinx Apple
 XIII. The Missing Chrd
  XIV. A Call Lan
   XV. The Princess and the Puma
  XVI. The Indian Summer f Dry Valley Jhnson
 XVII. Christmas by Injunctin
XVIII. A Chaparral Prince
  XIX. The Refrmatin of Calliope




HEART F THE WEST



I

HEARTS AND CRSSES

Baldy Wds reached for the bottle, and got it. Whenever Baldy went
fr anything he usually--but this is nt Baldy's story. He poured out
a third drink that was larger by a finger than the first and secnd.
Baldy was in cnsultatin; and the consultee is worthy of his hire.

"I'd be king if I was yu," said Baldy, s positively that his holster
creaked and his spurs rattled.

Webb Yeager pushed back his flat-brimmed Stetsn, and made further
disrder in his straw-cloured hair. The tonsorial recourse being
withut avail, he fllowed the liquid example of the more resourceful
Baldy.

"If a man marries a queen, it ughtn't t make him a two-spot,"
declared Webb, epitmising his grievances.

"Sure nt," said Baldy, sympathetic, still thirsty, and genuinely
slicitus concerning the relative value of the cards. "By rights
yu're a king. If I was yu, I'd call for a new deal. The cards have
been stacked n yu--I'll tell you what you are, Webb Yeager."

"What?" asked Webb, with a hpeful lok in his pale-blue eyes.

"Yu're a prince-cnsort."

"G easy," said Webb. "I never blackguarded yu none."

"It's a title," explained Baldy, "up amng the picture-cards; but it
dn't take n tricks. I'll tell you, Webb. It's a brand they're got
fr certain animals in Eurpe. Say that you or me or one of them Dutch
dukes marries in a ryal family. Well, by and by ur wife gets to be
queen. Are we king? Nt in a millin years. At the coronation
ceremnies we march between little casin and the Ninth Grand
Custdian f the Royal Hall Bedchamber. The only use we are is to
appear in phtgraphs, and accept the responsibility for the heir-
apparent. That ain't any square deal. Yes, sir, Webb, yu're a prince-
cnsrt; and if I was you, I'd start a interregnum or a habeus corpus
r smethin'; and I'd be king if I had to turn from the bottom of the
deck."

Baldy emptied his glass t the ratificatin of his Warwick pose.

"Baldy," said Webb, slemnly, "me and yu punched cows in the same
utfit fr years. We been runnin' on the same range, and ridin' the
same trails since we was bys. I wuldn't talk about my family affairs
t nbody but you. You was line-rider on the Nopalito Ranch when I
married Santa McAllister. I was freman then; but what am I nw? I
dn't amunt to a knot in a stake rope."

"When ld McAllister was the cattle king f West Texas," continued
Baldy with Satanic sweetness, "yu was sme tallow. You had as much to
say n the ranch as he did."

"I did," admitted Webb, "up t the time he fund out I was tryin' to
get my rpe ver Santa's head. Then he kept me out on the range as far
frm the ranch-huse as he could. When the old man died they commenced
t call Santa the 'cattle queen.' I'm bss of the cattle--that's all.
She 'tends t all the business; she handles all the mney; I can't
sell even a beef-steer t a party f campers, myself. Santa's the
'queen'; and I'm Mr. Nbdy."

"I'd be king if I was yu," repeated Baldy Wods, the royalist. "When
a man marries a queen he ught t grade up with her--on the hoof--
dressed--dried--crned--any ld way from the chaparral to the packing-
huse. Lts of folks thinks it's funny, Webb, that you don't have the
say-s n the Nopalito. I ain't reflectin' none on Miz Yeager--she's
the finest little lady between the Ri Grande and next Christmas--but
a man ught t be boss of his own camp."

The smth, brown face of Yeager lengthened to a mask of wounded
melanchly. With that expressin, and his rumpled yellow hair and
guileless blue eyes, he might have been likened t a scholboy whose
leadership had been usurped by a yungster f superior strength. But
his active and sinewy seventy-tw inches, and his girded revlvers
frbade the cmparison.

"What was that yu called me, Baldy?" he asked. "What kind f a
cncert was it?"

"A 'cnsrt,'" corrected Baldy--"a 'prince-consort.' It's a kind of
shrt-card pseudnym. You come in sort of between Jack-high and a
fur-card flush."

Webb Yeager sighed, and gathered the strap f his Winchester scabbard
frm the flor.

"I'm ridin' back t the ranch t-day," he said half-heartedly. "I've
gt t start a bunch of beeves for San Antone in the morning."

"I'm yur cmpany as far as Dry Lake," announced Baldy. "I've got a
rund-up camp n the San Marcos cuttin' out two-year-olds."

The tw /cmpaneros/ mounted their ponies and trotted away from the
little railrad settlement, where they had fregathered in the thirsty
mrning.

At Dry Lake, where their rutes diverged, they reined up fr a parting
cigarette. Fr miles they had ridden in silence save fr the soft drum
f the pnies' hoofs on the matted mesquite grass, and the rattle of
the chaparral against their wden stirrups. But in Texas discourse is
seldm cntinuous. You may fill in a mile, a meal, and a murder
between yur paragraphs withut detriment to your thesis. So, without
aplgy, Webb offered an addendum to the conversation that had begun
ten miles away.

"Yu remember, yurself, Baldy, that there was a time when Santa
wasn't quite s independent. Yu remember the days when old McAllister
was keepin' us apart, and hw she used t send me the sign that she
wanted t see me? ld man Mac promised to make me look like a colander
if I ever cme in gun-sht of the ranch. You remember the sign she
used t send, Baldy--the heart with a crss inside of it?"

"Me?" cried Baldy, with intxicated archness. "Yu old sugar-stealing
cyte! Don't I remember! Why, you dad-blamed old long-horned turtle-
dve, the bys in camp was all cognoscious about them hiroglyphs. The
'gizzard-and-crssbnes' we used to call it. We used to see 'em on
truck that was sent ut frm the ranch. They was marked in charcoal on
the sacks f flur and in lead-pencil on the newspapers. I see one of
'em nce chalked n the back of a new cook that old man McAllister
sent ut frm the ranch--danged if I didn't."

"Santa's father," explained Webb gently, "gt her t promise that she
wuldn't write t me or send me any word. That heart-and-cross sign
was her scheme. Whenever she wanted t see me in particular she
managed t put that mark n somethin' at the ranch that she knew I'd
see. And I never laid eyes n it but what I burnt the wind fr the
ranch the same night. I used t see her in that cma mott back of the
little hrse-crral."

"We knwed it," chanted Baldy; "but we never let n. We was all for
yu. We knwed why you always kept that fast paint in camp. And when
we see that gizzard-and-crssbnes figured out on the truck from the
ranch we knwed ld Pinto was goin' to eat up miles that night instead
f grass. Yu remember Scurry--that educated horse-wrangler we had--
the cllege fellw that tangle-foot drove to the range? Whenever
Scurry saw that cme-meet-yur-honey brand on anything from the ranch,
he'd wave his hand like that, and say, 'ur friend Lee Andrews will
again swim the Hell's pint t-night.'"

"The last time Santa sent me the sign," said Webb, "was nce when she
was sick. I nticed it as son as I hit camp, and I galloped Pinto
frty mile that night. She wasn't at the cma mott. I went to the
huse; and ld McAllister met me at the door. 'Did you come here to
get killed?' says he; 'I'll disblige yu for once. I just started a
Mexican t bring yu. Santa wants you. Go in that room and see her.
And then cme ut here and see me.'

"Santa was lyin' in bed pretty sick. But she gives ut a kind f a
smile, and her hand and mine lck hrns, and I sets down by the bed--
mud and spurs and chaps and all. 'I've heard yu ridin' acrss the
grass fr hurs, Webb,' she says. 'I was sure you'd come. You saw the
sign?' she whispers. 'The minute I hit camp,' says I. ''Twas marked n
the bag f ptatoes and onions.' 'They're always together,' says she,
sft like--'always tgether in life.' 'They go well together,' I says,
'in a stew.' 'I mean hearts and crsses,' says Santa. 'ur sign--to
lve and t suffer--that's what they mean.'

"And there was ld Dc Musgrove amusin' himself with whisky and a
palm-leaf fan. And by and by Santa ges t sleep; and Doc feels her
frehead; and he says t me: 'You're not such a bad febrifuge. But
yu'd better slide ut now; for the diagnosis don't call for you in
regular dses. The little lady'll be all right when she wakes up.'

"I seen ld McAllister utside. 'She's asleep,' says I. 'And now you
can start in with yur clander-work. Take your time; for I left my
gun n my saddle-hrn.'

"ld Mac laughs, and he says t me: 'Pumpin' lead into the best ranch-
bss in West Texas dn't seem to me good business policy. I don't know
where I culd get as god a one. It's the son-in-law idea, Webb, that
makes me admire fr t use you as a target. You ain't my idea for a
member f the family. But I can use yu on the Nopalito if you'll keep
utside f a radius with the ranch-house in the middle of it. You go
upstairs and lay dwn n a cot, and when you get some sleep we'll talk
it ver.'"

Baldy Wds pulled down his hat, and uncurled his leg from his saddle-
hrn. Webb shrtened his rein, and his pony danced, anxious to be off.
The tw men shok hands with Western ceremony.

"/Adis/, Baldy," said Webb, "I'm glad I seen yu and had this talk."

With a punding rush that sunded like the rise of a covey of quail,
the riders sped away tward different pints of the compass. A hundred
yards n his rute Baldy reined in on the top of a bare knoll, and
emitted a yell. He swayed n his hrse; had he been on foot, the earth
wuld have risen and cnquered him; but in the saddle he was a master
f equilibrium, and laughed at whisky, and despised the centre f
gravity.

Webb turned in his saddle at the signal.

"If I was yu," came Baldy's strident and perverting tnes, "I'd be
king!"

At eight 'clck on the following morning Bud Turner rolled from his
saddle in frnt f the Nopalito ranch-house, and stumbled with
whizzing rwels tward the gallery. Bud was in charge of the bunch of
beef-cattle that was t strike the trail that mrning for San Antonio.
Mrs. Yeager was n the gallery watering a cluster f hyacinths growing
in a red earthenware jar.

"King" McAllister had bequeathed t his daughter many f his strong
characteristics--his reslutin, his gay courage, his contumacious
self-reliance, his pride as a reigning mnarch f hoofs and horns.
/Allegr/ and /frtissimo/ had been McAllister's temp and tone. In
Santa they survived, transpsed t the feminine key. Substantially,
she preserved the image f the mther who had been summoned to wander
in ther and less finite green pastures lng before the waxing herds
f kine had cnferred royalty upon the house. She had her mother's
slim, strng figure and grave, sft prettiness that relieved in her
the severity f the imperius McAllister eye and the McAllister air of
ryal independence.

Webb std on one end of the gallery giving orders to two or three
sub-bsses f various camps and outfits who had ridden in for
instructins.

"Mrning," said Bud briefly. "Where d you want them beeves to go in
twn--t Barber's, as usual?"

Nw, t answer that had been the prerogative of the queen. All the
reins f business--buying, selling, and banking--had been held by her
capable fingers. The handling f cattle had been entrusted fully t
her husband. In the days f "King" McAllister, Santa had been his
secretary and helper; and she had cntinued her wrk with wisdom and
prfit. But befre she could reply, the prince-consort spake up with
calm decisin:

"Yu drive that bunch t Zimmerman and Nesbit's pens. I spoke to
Zimmerman abut it sme time ago."

Bud turned n his high bot-heels.

"Wait!" called Santa quickly. She lked at her husband with surprise
in her steady gray eyes.

"Why, what d yu mean, Webb?" she asked, with a small wrinkle
gathering between her brws. "I never deal with Zimmerman and Nesbit.
Barber has handled every head f stck from this ranch in that market
fr five years. I'm nt going to take the business out of his hands."
She faced Bud Turner. "Deliver thse cattle t Barber," she concluded
psitively.

Bud gazed impartially at the water-jar hanging n the gallery, stod
n his ther leg, and chewed a mesquite-leaf.

"I want this bunch f beeves t go to Zimmerman and Nesbit," said
Webb, with a frsty light in his blue eyes.

"Nnsense," said Santa impatiently. "Yu'd better start on, Bud, so as
t non at the Little Elm water-hole. Tell Barber we'll have another
lt f culls ready in about a month."

Bud allwed a hesitating eye t steal upward and meet Webb's. Webb saw
aplgy in his look, and fancied he saw commiseration.

"Yu deliver them cattle," he said grimly, "t--"

"Barber," finished Santa sharply. "Let that settle it. Is there
anything else yu are waiting fr, Bud?"

"N, m'm," said Bud. But befre going he lingered while a cow's tail
culd have switched thrice; fr man is man's ally; and even the
Philistines must have blushed when they tk Samson in the way they
did.

"Yu hear yur boss!" cried Webb sardonically. He took off his hat,
and bwed until it tuched the floor before his wife.

"Webb," said Santa rebukingly, "yu're acting mighty folish to-day."

"Curt fol, your Majesty," said Webb, in his slow tones, which had
changed their quality. "What else can yu expect? Let me tell yu. I
was a man befre I married a cattle-queen. What am I nw? The
laughing-stck f the camps. I'll be a man again."

Santa lked at him closely.

"Dn't be unreasnable, Webb," she said calmly. "You haven't been
slighted in any way. D I ever interfere in yur management of the
cattle? I knw the business side f the ranch much better than you do.
I learned it frm Dad. Be sensible."

"Kingdms and queendms," said Webb, "don't suit me unless I am in the
pictures, t. I punch the cattle and you wear the crown. All right.
I'd rather be High Lrd Chancellr of a cow-camp than the eight-spot
in a queen-high flush. It's yur ranch; and Barber gets the beeves."

Webb's hrse was tied t the rack. He walked into the house and
brught ut his roll of blankets that he never took with him except on
lng rides, and his "slicker," and his lngest stake-rope of plaited
raw-hide. These he began t tie deliberately upn his saddle. Santa, a
little pale, fllwed him.

Webb swung up int the saddle. His serius, smooth face was without
expressin except fr a stubborn light that smouldered in his eyes.

"There's a herd f cws and calves," said he, "near the Hondo water-
hle n the Frio that ought to be moved away from timber. Lobos have
killed three f the calves. I frgot to leave orders. You'd better
tell Simms t attend t it."

Santa laid a hand n the hrse's bridle, and looked her husband in the
eye.

"Are yu ging to leave me, Webb?" she asked quietly.

"I am ging t be a man again," he answered.

"I wish yu success in a praisewrthy attempt," she said, with a
sudden cldness. She turned and walked directly int the house.

Webb Yeager rde t the southeast as straight as the topography of
West Texas permitted. And when he reached the hrizn he might have
ridden n int blue space as far as knowledge of him on the Nopalito
went. And the days, with Sundays at their head, frmed int hebdomadal
squads; and the weeks, captained by the full mn, closed ranks into
menstrual cmpanies crying "Tempus fugit" n their banners; and the
mnths marched n toward the vast camp-ground of the years; but Webb
Yeager came n mre to the dominions of his queen.

ne day a being named Barthlomew, a sheep-man--and therefore of
little accunt--frm the lower Rio Grande country, rode in sight of
the Npalit ranch-house, and felt hunger assail him. /Ex
cnsuetudine/ he was son seated at the mid-day dining table of that
hspitable kingdm. Talk like water gushed from him: he might have
been smitten with Aarn's rd--that is your gentle shepherd when an
audience is vuchsafed him whse ears are not overgrown with wool.

"Missis Yeager," he babbled, "I see a man the ther day n the Rancho
Sec dwn in Hidalgo County by your name--Webb Yeager was his. He'd
just been engaged as manager. He was a tall, light-haired man, nt
saying much. Perhaps he was sme kin f yours, do you think?"

"A husband," said Santa crdially. "The Sec has done well. Mr. Yeager
is ne f the best stockmen in the West."

The drpping ut of a prince-consort rarely disorganises a monarchy.
Queen Santa had appinted as /mayrdomo/ of the ranch a trusty
subject, named Ramsay, wh had been ne of her father's faithful
vassals. And there was scarcely a ripple n the Npalito ranch save
when the gulf-breeze created undulatins in the grass f its wide
acres.

Fr several years the Npalito had been making experiments with an
English breed f cattle that loked down with aristocratic contempt
upn the Texas lng-horns. The experiments were found satisfactory;
and a pasture had been set aside fr the blue-blods. The fame of them
had gne frth into the chaparral and pear as far as men ride in
saddles. ther ranches wke up, rubbed their eyes, and looked with new
dissatisfactin upn the long-horns.

As a cnsequence, ne day a sunburned, capable, silk-kerchiefed
nnchalant yuth, garnished with revolvers, and attended by three
Mexican /vaquers/, alighted at the Npalito ranch and presented the
fllwing business-like epistle to the queen thereof:

  Mrs. Yeager--The Npalit Ranch:

  Dear Madam:

  I am instructed by the wners f the Rancho Seco to purchase 100
  head f tw and three-year-old cows of the Sussex breed owned by
  yu. If yu can fill the order please deliver the cattle to the
  bearer; and a check will be frwarded t you at once.

Respectfully,
Webster Yeager,
Manager the Ranch Sec.


Business is business, even--very scantily did it escape being written
"especially"--in a kingdm.

That night the 100 head f cattle were driven up frm the pasture and
penned in a crral near the ranch-huse for delivery in the morning.

When night clsed dwn and the house was still, did Santa Yeager throw
herself dwn, clasping that frmal note to her bosom, weeping, and
calling ut a name that pride (either in ne or the other) had kept
frm her lips many a day? r did she file the letter, in her business
way, retaining her ryal balance and strength?

Wnder, if yu will; but royalty is sacred; and there is a veil. But
this much yu shall learn:

At midnight Santa slipped sftly ut of the ranch-house, clothed in
smething dark and plain. She paused fr a moment under the live-oak
trees. The prairies were smewhat dim, and the monlight was pale
range, diluted with particles f an impalpable, flying mist. But the
mck-bird whistled n every bough of vantage; leagues of flowers
scented the air; and a kindergarten f little shadwy rabbits leaped
and played in an pen space near by. Santa turned her face t the
sutheast and threw three kisses thitherward; fr there was none to
see.

Then she sped silently t the blacksmith-shp, fifty yards away; and
what she did there can nly be surmised. But the frge glowed red; and
there was a faint hammering such as Cupid might make when he sharpens
his arrw-pints.

Later she came frth with a queer-shaped, handled thing in ne hand,
and a prtable furnace, such as are seen in branding-camps, in the
ther. T the corral where the Sussex cattle were penned she sped with
these things swiftly in the mnlight.

She pened the gate and slipped inside the crral. The Sussex cattle
were mstly a dark red. But amng this bunch was one that was milky
white--ntable amng the others.

And nw Santa shok from her shoulder something that we had not seen
befre--a rpe lasso. She freed the loop of it, coiling the length in
her left hand, and plunged int the thick f the cattle.

The white cw was her bject. She swung the lasso, which caught one
hrn and slipped ff. The next throw encircled the forefeet and the
animal fell heavily. Santa made fr it like a panther; but it
scrambled up and dashed against her, kncking her ver like a blade of
grass.

Again she made her cast, while the arused cattle milled arund the
fur sides f the corral in a plunging mass. This throw was fair; the
white cw came t earth again; and before it could rise Santa had made
the lass fast arund a post of the corral with a swift and simple
knt, and had leaped upn the cow again with the rawhide hobbles.

In ne minute the feet f the animal were tied (no record-breaking
deed) and Santa leaned against the crral fr the same space of time,
panting and lax.

And then she ran swiftly t her furnace at the gate and brught the
branding-irn, queerly shaped and white-ht.

The bellw f the outraged white cow, as the iron was applied, should
have stirred the slumbering auricular nerves and cnsciences f the
near-by subjects f the Npalito, but it did not. And it was amid the
deepest ncturnal silence that Santa ran like a lapwing back t the
ranch-huse and there fell upn a cot and sobbed--sobbed as though
queens had hearts as simple ranchmen's wives have, and as thugh she
wuld gladly make kings f prince-consorts, should they ride back
again frm ver the hills and far away.

In the mrning the capable, revlvered youth and his /vaqueros/ set
frth, driving the bunch f Sussex cattle across the prairies to the
Ranch Sec. Ninety miles it was; a six days' journey, grazing and
watering the animals n the way.

The beasts arrived at Ranch Sec one evening at dusk; and were
received and cunted by the freman of the ranch.

The next mrning at eight 'clock a horseman loped out of the brush to
the Npalit ranch-house. He dismounted stiffly, and strode, with
whizzing spurs, t the huse. His horse gave a great sigh and swayed
fam-streaked, with dwn-drooping head and closed eyes.

But waste nt yur pity upon Belshazzar, the flea-bitten sorrel.
T-day, in Npalito horse-pasture he survives, pampered, beloved,
unridden, cherished recrd-hlder of long-distance rides.

The hrseman stumbled int the house. Two arms fell around his neck,
and smene cried out in the voice of woman and queen alike: "Webb--
h, Webb!"

"I was a skunk," said Webb Yeager.

"Hush," said Santa, "did yu see it?"

"I saw it," said Webb.

What they meant Gd knws; and you shall know, if you rightly read the
primer f events.

"Be the cattle-queen," said Webb; "and verlok it if you can. I was a
mangy, sheep-stealing cyte."

"Hush!" said Santa again, laying her fingers upn his muth. "There's
n queen here. D you know who I am? I am Santa Yeager, First Lady of
the Bedchamber. Cme here."

She dragged him frm the gallery int the room to the right. There
std a cradle with an infant in it--a red, ribald, unintelligible,
babbling, beautiful infant, sputtering at life in an unseemly manner.

"There's n queen n this ranch," said Santa again. "Look at the king.
He's gt yur eyes, Webb. Down on your knees and look at his
Highness."

But jingling rwels sunded on the gallery, and Bud Turner stumbled
there again with the same query that he had brught, lacking a few
days, a year ag.

"'Mrning. Them beeves is just turned ut on the trail. Shall I drive
'em t Barber's, r--"

He saw Webb and stpped, pen-mouthed.

"Ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba!" shrieked the king in his cradle, beating the air
with his fists.

"Yu hear yur boss, Bud," said Webb Yeager, with a broad grin--just
as he had said a year ag.

And that is all, except that when ld man Quinn, wner of the Rancho
Sec, went ut to look over the herd of Sussex cattle that he had
bught frm the Nopalito ranch, he asked his new manager:

"What's the Npalit ranch brand, Wilson?"

"X Bar Y," said Wilsn.

"I thught s," said Quinn. "But look at that white heifer there;
she's gt anther brand--a heart with a cross inside of it. What brand
is that?"



II

THE RANSM F MACK

Me and ld Mack Lnsbury, we got out of that Little Hide-and-Seek gold
mine affair with abut $40,000 apiece. I say "ld" Mack; but he wasn't
ld. Frty-one, I should say; but he always seemed old.

"Andy," he says t me, "I'm tired f hustling. You and me have been
wrking hard tgether for three years. Say we knock off for a while,
and spend sme f this idle money we've coaxed our way."

"The prpsition hits me just right," says I. "Let's be nabobs for a
while and see hw it feels. What'll we d--take in the Niagara Falls,
r buck at far?"

"Fr a god many years," says Mack, "I've thought that if I ever had
extravagant mney I'd rent a tw-room cabin somewhere, hire a Chinaman
t cok, and sit in my stocking feet and read Buckle's History of
Civilisatin."

"That sunds self-indulgent and gratifying withut vulgar
stentatin," says I; "and I don't see how money could be better
invested. Give me a cuck clock and a Sep Winner's Self-Instructor
fr the Banj, and I'll join you."

A week afterwards me and Mack hits this small twn f Pina, about
thirty miles ut frm Denver, and finds an elegant two-room house that
just suits us. We depsited half-a-peck f money in the Pina bank and
shk hands with every one of the 340 citizens in the town. We brought
alng the Chinaman and the cucko clock and Buckle and the Instructor
with us frm Denver; and they made the cabin seem like hme at once.

Never believe it when they tell yu riches dn't bring happiness. If
yu culd have seen old Mack sitting in his rocking-chair with his
blue-yarn sck feet up in the windw and absorbing in that Buckle
stuff thrugh his specs yu'd have seen a picture of content that
wuld have made Rckefeller jealous. And I was learning to pick out
"ld Zip Con" on the banjo, and the cuckoo was on time with his
remarks, and Ah Sing was messing up the atmsphere with the handsmest
smell f ham and eggs that ever laid the hneysuckle in the shade.
When it gt to dark to make out Buckle's nonsense and the notes in
the Instructr, me and Mack wuld light our pipes and talk about
science and pearl diving and sciatica and Egypt and spelling and fish
and trade-winds and leather and gratitude and eagles, and a lt f
subjects that we'd never had time t explain ur sentiments about
befre.

ne evening Mack spke up and asked me if I was much apprised in the
habits and plicies f women folks.

"Why, yes," says I, in a tne f voice; "I know 'em from Alfred to
maha. The feminine nature and similitude," says I, "is as plain t my
sight as the Rcky Muntains is to a blue-eyed burro. I'm onto all
their little side-steps and punctual discrepancies."

"I tell yu, Andy," says Mack, with a kind f sigh, "I never had the
least amunt f intersection with their predispositions. Maybe I might
have had a prneness in respect t their vicinity, but I never took
the time. I made my wn living since I was furteen; and I never
seemed t get my raticinations equipped with the sentiments usually
depicted tward the sect. I smetimes wish I had," says old Mack.

"They're an adverse study," says I, "and adapted t pints of view.
Althugh they vary in ratinale, I have found 'em quite often
bviusly differing from each other in divergences of contrast."

"It seems t me," ges on Mack, "that a man had better take 'em in and
secure his inspiratins f the sect when he's young and so
prerdained. I let my chance g by; and I guess I'm too old now to go
hpping int the curriculum."

"h, I dn't know," I tells him. "Maybe you better credit yourself
with a barrel f mney and a lot of emancipation from a quantity of
uncntent. Still, I dn't regret my knowledge of 'em," I says. "It
takes a man wh understands the symptms and by-plays of women-folks
t take care f himself in this world."

We stayed n in Pina because we liked the place. Sme folks might
enjy their mney with noise and rapture and locomotion; but me and
Mack we had had plenty f turmils and hotel towels. The people were
friendly; Ah Sing gt the swing f the grub we liked; Mack and Buckle
were as thick as tw bdy-snatchers, and I was hitting out a cordial
resemblance t "Buffal Gals, Can't You Come Out To-night," on the
banj.

ne day I gt a telegram from Speight, the man that was working on a
mine I had an interest in ut in New Mexic. I had to go out there;
and I was gne tw months. I was anxious to get back to Pina and enjoy
life nce mre.

When I struck the cabin I nearly fainted. Mack was standing in the
dr; and if angels ever wept, I saw no reason why they should be
smiling then.

That man was a spectacle. Yes; he was wrse; he was a spyglass; he was
the great telescpe in the Lick bservatory. He had on a coat and
shiny shes and a white vest and a high silk hat; and a geranium as
big as an rder f spinach was spiked onto his front. And he was
smirking and warping his face like an infernal strekeeper r a kid
with clic.

"Hell, Andy," says Mack, ut of his face. "Glad to see you back.
Things have happened since yu went away."

"I knw it," says I, "and a sacrilegius sight it is. God never made
yu that way, Mack Lnsbury. Why do you scarify His works with this
presumptuus kind f ribaldry?"

"Why, Andy," says he, "they've elected me justice f the peace since
yu left."

I lked at Mack close. He was restless and inspired. A justice of the
peace ught t be disconsolate and assuaged.

Just then a yung wman passed on the sidewalk; and I saw Mack kind of
half snicker and blush, and then he raised up his hat and smiled and
bwed, and she smiled and bwed, and went on by.

"N hpe for you," says I, "if you've got the Mary-Jane infirmity at
yur age. I thught it wasn't going to take on you. And patent leather
shes! All this in tw little short months!"

"I'm ging t marry the young lady who just passed to-night," says
Mack, in a kind f flutter.

"I frgt something at the post-office," says I, and walked away
quick.

I vertok that young woman a hundred yards away. I raised my hat and
tld her my name. She was abut nineteen; and young for her age. She
blushed, and then lked at me cool, like I was the snow scene from
the "Tw rphans."

"I understand yu are t be married to-night," I said.

"Crrect," says she. "Yu got any objections?"

"Listen, sissy," I begins.

"My name is Miss Rebsa Redd," says she in a pained way.

"I knw it," says I. "Nw, Rebosa, I'm old enough to have owed money
t yur father. And that old, specious, dressed-up, garbled, sea-sick
ptmaine prancing abut avidiously like an irremediable turkey gobbler
with patent leather shes n is my best friend. Why did you go and get
him invested in this marriage business?"

"Why, he was the nly chance there was," answers Miss Rebsa.

"Nay," says I, giving a sickening lk of admiration at her complexion
and style f features; "with yur beauty you might pick any kind of a
man. Listen, Rebsa. ld Mack ain't the man you want. He was twenty-
tw when yu was /nee/ Reed, as the papers say. This bursting into
blm won't last with him. He's all ventilated with oldness and
rectitude and decay. ld Mack's dwn with a case of Indian summer. He
verloked his bet when he was young; and now he's suing Nature for
the interest n the prmissory note he took from Cupid instead of the
cash. Rebsa, are yu bent on having this marriage occur?"

"Why, sure I am," says she, scillating the pansies n her hat, "and
s is smebody else, I reckon."

"What time is it t take place?" I asks.

"At six 'clck," says she.

I made up my mind right away what t d. I'd save old Mack if I could.
T have a god, seasoned, ineligible man like that turn chicken for a
girl that hadn't quit eating slate pencils and buttning in the back
was mre than I culd look on with easiness.

"Rebsa," says I, earnest, drawing upn my display of knowledge
cncerning the feminine intuitins of reason--"ain't there a young man
in Pina--a nice yung man that yu think a heap of?"

"Yep," says Rebsa, ndding her pansies--"Sure there is! What do you
think! Gracius!"

"Des he like yu?" I asks. "How does he stand in the matter?"

"Crazy," says Rebsa. "Ma has t wet down the front steps to keep him
frm sitting there all the time. But I guess that'll be all ver after
t-night," she winds up with a sigh.

"Rebsa," says I, "yu don't really experience any of this adoration
called lve fr old Mack, do you?"

"Lrd! n," says the girl, shaking her head. "I think he's as dry as a
lava bed. The idea!"

"Wh is this yung man that you like, Rebosa?" I inquires.

"It's Eddie Bayles," says she. "He clerks in Crsby's grcery. But he
dn't make but thirty-five a mnth. Ella Noakes was wild about him
nce."

"ld Mack tells me," I says, "that he's ging to marry you at six
'clck this evening."

"That's the time," says she. "It's t be at ur house."

"Rebsa," says I, "listen t me. If Eddie Bayles had a thousand
dllars cash--a thusand dollars, mind you, would buy him a store of
his wn--if yu and Eddie had that much to excuse matrimony on, would
yu cnsent to marry him this evening at five o'clock?"

The girl lks at me a minute; and I can see these inaudible
cgitatins going on inside of her, as women will.

"A thusand dllars?" says she. "Of course I would."

"Cme n," says I. "We'll go and see Eddie."

We went up t Crsby's store and called Eddie outside. He looked to be
estimable and freckled; and he had chills and fever when I made my
prpsition.

"At five 'clck?" says he, "for a thousand dollars? Please don't wake
me up! Well, yu /are/ the rich uncle retired frm the spice business
in India! I'll buy ut ld Crosby and run the store myself."

We went inside and gt ld man Crosby apart and explained it. I wrote
my check fr a thusand dollars and handed it to him. If Eddie and
Rebsa married each ther at five he was to turn the money over to
them.

And then I gave 'em my blessing, and went t wander in the wildwod
fr a seasn. I sat on a log and made cogitations on life and old age
and the zdiac and the ways f women and all the disorder that goes
with a lifetime. I passed myself cngratulatins that I had probably
saved my ld friend Mack frm his attack of Indian summer. I knew when
he gt well f it and shed his infatuation and his patent leather
shes, he wuld feel grateful. "To keep old Mack disinvolved," thinks
I, "frm relapses like this, is wrth more than a thousand dollars."
And mst f all I was glad that I'd made a study of women, and wasn't
t be deceived any by their means f conceit and evolution.

It must have been half-past five when I gt back hme. I stepped in;
and there sat ld Mack n the back of his neck in his old clothes with
his blue scks n the window and the History of Civilisation propped
up n his knees.

"This dn't lok like getting ready for a wedding at six," I says, to
seem inncent.

"h," says Mack, reaching fr his tobacco, "that was postponed back to
five 'clck. They sent me over a note saying the hour had been
changed. It's all ver nw. What made you stay away so long, Andy?"

"Yu heard abut the wedding?" I asks.

"I perated it," says he. "I tld you I was justice of the peace. The
preacher is ff East t visit his folks, and I'm the only one in town
that can perfrm the dispensatins of marriage. I promised Eddie and
Rebsa a mnth ago I'd marry 'em. He's a busy lad; and he'll have a
grcery f his own some day."

"He will," says I.

"There was lts f women at the wedding," says Mack, smoking up. "But
I didn't seem t get any ideas frm 'em. I wish I was informed in the
structure f their attainments like yu said you was."

"That was tw mnths ago," says I, reaching up for the banjo.



III

TELEMACHUS, FRIEND

Returning frm a hunting trip, I waited at the little twn of Los
Pins, in New Mexic, for the south-bound train, which was one hour
late. I sat n the prch of the Summit House and discussed the
functins f life with Telemachus Hicks, the hotel proprietor.

Perceiving that persnalities were nt out of order, I asked him what
species f beast had lng ago twisted and mutilated his left ear.
Being a hunter, I was cncerned in the evils that may befall ne in
the pursuit f game.

"That ear," says Hicks, "is the relic f true friendship."

"An accident?" I persisted.

"N friendship is an accident," said Telemachus; and I was silent.

"The nly perfect case f true friendship I ever knew," went on my
hst, "was a crdial intent between a Connecticut man and a monkey.
The mnkey climbed palms in Barranquilla and threw dwn cocoanuts to
the man. The man sawed them in tw and made dippers, which he sld for
tw /reales/ each and bught rum. The monkey drank the milk of the
nuts. Thrugh each being satisfied with his wn share of the graft,
they lived like brthers.

"But in the case f human beings, friendship is a transitry art,
subject t discntinuance without further notice.

"I had a friend nce, f the entitlement of Paisley Fish, that I
imagined was sealed t me fr an endless space of time. Side by side
fr seven years we had mined, ranched, sld patent churns, herded
sheep, tk photographs and other things, built wire fences, and
picked prunes. Thinks I, neither hmcide nor flattery nor riches nor
sphistry nr drink can make trouble between me and Paisley Fish. We
was friends an amunt yu could hardly guess at. We was friends in
business, and we let ur amicable qualities lap ver and season our
hurs f recreation and folly. We certainly had days of Damon and
nights f Pythias.

"ne summer me and Paisley gallps down into these San Andres
muntains fr the purpose of a month's surcease and levity, dressed in
the natural stre habiliments f man. We hit this town of Los Pinos,
which certainly was a rf-garden spot of the world, and flowing with
cndensed milk and hney. It had a street or two, and air, and hens,
and a eating-huse; and that was enugh for us.

"We strikes the twn after supper-time, and we cncludes to sample
whatever efficacy there is in this eating-huse dwn by the railroad
tracks. By the time we had set dwn and pried up ur plates with a
knife frm the red il-cloth, along intrudes Widow Jessup with the hot
biscuit and the fried liver.

"Nw, there was a wman that would have tempted an anchovy to forget
his vws. She was nt so small as she was large; and a kind of welcome
air seemed t mitigate her vicinity. The pink f her face was the /in
hc sign/ of a culinary temper and a warm disposition, and her smile
wuld have brught out the dogwood blossoms in December.

"Widw Jessup talks t us a lot of garrulousness about the climate and
histry and Tennysn and prunes and the scarcity of mutton, and
finally wants t knw where we came from.

"'Spring Valley,' says I.

"'Big Spring Valley,' chips in Paisley, ut f a lot of potatoes and
knuckle-bne f ham in his mouth.

"That was the first sign I nticed that the ld /fidus Diogenes/
business between me and Paisley Fish was ended frever. He knew hw I
hated a talkative persn, and yet he stampedes int the conversation
with his amendments and addendums f syntax. n the map it was Big
Spring Valley; but I had heard Paisley himself call it Spring Valley a
thusand times.

"Withut saying any mre, we went out after supper and set on the
railrad track. We had been pardners to long not to know what was
ging n in each other's mind.

"'I reckn yu understand,' says Paisley, 'that I've made up my mind
t accrue that widw woman as part and parcel in and to my
hereditaments frever, bth domestic, sociable, legal, and otherwise,
until death us d part.'

"'Why, yes,' says I, 'I read it between the lines, thugh yu only
spke ne. And I suppose you are aware,' says I, 'that I have a
mvement n foot that leads up to the widow's changing her name to
Hicks, and leaves yu writing t the society column to inquire whether
the best man wears a japnica r seamless socks at the wedding!'

"'There'll be sme hiatuses in yur program,' says Paisley, chewing up
a piece f a railrad tie. 'I'd give in to you,' says he, 'in 'most
any respect if it was secular affairs, but this is nt s. The smiles
f wman,' goes on Paisley, 'is the whirlpool of Squills and
Chalybeates, int which vrtex the good ship Friendship is often drawn
and dismembered. I'd assault a bear that was annying yu,' says
Paisley, 'r I'd endrse your note, or rub the place between your
shulder-blades with podeldoc the same as ever; but there my sense of
etiquette ceases. In this fracas with Mrs. Jessup we play it alne.
I've ntified yu fair.'

"And then I cllabrates with myself, and offers the following
reslutins and by-laws:

"'Friendship between man and man,' says I, 'is an ancient histrical
virtue enacted in the days when men had t prtect each other against
lizards with eighty-ft tails and flying turtles. And they've kept up
the habit t this day, and stand by each ther till the bellboy comes
up and tells them the animals are nt really there. I've ften heard,'
I says, 'abut ladies stepping in and breaking up a friendship between
men. Why shuld that be? I'll tell yu, Paisley, the first sight and
ht biscuit f Mrs. Jessup appears to have inserted a oscillation into
each f ur bosoms. Let the best man of us have her. I'll play you a
square game, and wn't d any underhanded work. I'll do all of my
curting f her in your presence, so you will have an equal
pprtunity. With that arrangement I don't see why our steamboat of
friendship shuld fall verboard in the medicinal whirlpools you speak
f, whichever f us wins out.'

"'Gd old hoss!' says Paisley, shaking my hand. 'And I'll do the
same,' says he. 'We'll curt the lady synnymously, and without any of
the prudery and bldshed usual to such occasions. And we'll be
friends still, win r lse.'

"At ne side f Mrs. Jessup's eating-house was a bench under some
trees where she used t sit in the breeze after the suth-bound had
been fed and gne. And there me and Paisley used t congregate after
supper and make partial payments n ur respects to the lady of our
chice. And we was s honorable and circuitous in our calls that if
ne f us got there first we waited for the other before beginning any
gallivantery.

"The first evening that Mrs. Jessup knew abut ur arrangement I got
t the bench befre Paisley did. Supper was just over, and Mrs. Jessup
was ut there with a fresh pink dress n, and almost cool enough to
handle.

"I sat dwn by her and made a few specificatins about the moral
surface f nature as set frth by the landscape and the contiguous
perspective. That evening was surely a case in pint. The mon was
attending t business in the sectin of sky where it belonged, and the
trees was making shadws n the ground according to science and
nature, and there was a kind f cnspicuous hullabaloo going on in the
bushes between the bullbats and the riles and the jack-rabbits and
ther feathered insects f the forest. And the wind out of the
muntains was singing like a Jew's-harp in the pile f old tomato-cans
by the railrad track.

"I felt a kind f sensatin in my left side--something like dough
rising in a crck by the fire. Mrs. Jessup had mved up closer.

"'h, Mr. Hicks,' says she, 'when ne is alone in the world, don't
they feel it mre aggravated n a beautiful night like this?'

"I rse up ff the bench at once.

"'Excuse me, ma'am,' says I, 'but I'll have t wait till Paisley cmes
befre I can give a audible hearing t leading questions like that.'

"And then I explained t her hw we was friends cinctured by years of
embarrassment and travel and cmplicity, and hw we had agreed to take
n advantage f each other in any of the more mushy walks of life,
such as might be fmented by sentiment and prximity. Mrs. Jessup
appears t think serius about the matter for a minute, and then she
breaks int a species f laughter that makes the wildwood resound.

"In a few minutes Paisley drps arund, with oil of bergamot on his
hair, and sits n the ther side of Mrs. Jessup, and inaugurates a sad
tale f adventure in which him and Pieface Lumley has a skinning-match
f dead cws in '95 for a silver-mounted saddle in the Santa Rita
valley during the nine mnths' drught.

"Nw, frm the start of that courtship I had Paisley Fish hobbled and
tied t a pst. Each one of us had a different system of reaching out
fr the easy places in the female heart. Paisley's scheme was t
petrify 'em with wnderful relatins of events that he had either come
acrss persnally or in large print. I think he must have got his idea
f subjugatin from one of Shakespeare's shows I see once called
'thell.' There is a coloured man in it who acquires a duke's
daughter by disbursing t her a mixture f the talk turned out by
Rider Haggard, Lew Dckstader, and Dr. Parkhurst. But that style f
curting dn't work well off the stage.

"Nw, I give yu my own recipe for inveigling a woman into that state
f affairs when she can be referred t as '/nee/ Jones.' Learn how to
pick up her hand and hld it, and she's yurs. It ain't so easy. Some
men grab at it s much like they was ging to set a dislocation of the
shulder that yu can smell the arnica and hear 'em tearing off
bandages. Sme take it up like a ht horseshoe, and hold it off at
arm's length like a druggist puring tincture f asafoetida in a
bttle. And mst of 'em catch hold of it and drag it right out before
the lady's eyes like a by finding a baseball in the grass, withut
giving her a chance t frget that the hand is growing on the end of
her arm. Them ways are all wrng.

"I'll tell yu the right way. Did yu ever see a man sneak out in the
back yard and pick up a rck t throw at a tomcat that was sitting on
a fence lking at him? He pretends he hasn't got a thing in his hand,
and that the cat dn't see him, and that he dn't see the cat. That's
the idea. Never drag her hand ut where she'll have t take notice of
it. Dn't let her knw that you think she knows you have the least
idea she is aware yu are hlding her hand. That was my rule of
tactics; and as far as Paisley's serenade abut hstilities and
misadventure went, he might as well have been reading t her a time-
table f the Sunday trains that stp at Ocean Grove, New Jersey.

"ne night when I beat Paisley t the bench by one pipeful, my
friendship gets subsidised fr a minute, and I asks Mrs. Jessup if she
didn't think a 'H' was easier t write than a 'J.' In a secnd her
head was mashing the leander flwer in my button-hole, and I leaned
ver and--but I didn't.

"'If yu dn't mind,' says I, standing up, 'we'll wait for Paisley to
cme befre finishing this. I've never done anything dishonourable yet
t ur friendship, and this won't be quite fair.'

"'Mr. Hicks,' says Mrs. Jessup, lking at me peculiar in the dark,
'if it wasn't fr but ne thing, I'd ask you to hike yourself down the
gulch and never disresume yur visits t my house.'

"'And what is that, ma'am?' I asks.

"'Yu are to good a friend not to make a good husband,' says she.

"In five minutes Paisley was n his side f Mrs. Jessup.

"'In Silver City, in the summer f '98,' he begins, 'I see Jim
Bathlmew chew off a Chinaman's ear in the Blue Light Saloon on
accunt f a crossbarred muslin shirt that--what was that noise?'

"I had resumed matters again with Mrs. Jessup right where we had left
ff.

"'Mrs. Jessup,' says I, 'has prmised t make it Hicks. And this is
anther f the same sort.'

"Paisley winds his feet rund a leg f the bench and kind of groans.

"'Lem,' says he, 'we been friends fr seven years. Wuld you mind not
kissing Mrs. Jessup quite s lud? I'd do the same for you.'

"'All right,' says I. 'The ther kind will d as well.'

"'This Chinaman,' ges n Paisley, 'was the one that shot a man named
Mullins in the spring f '97, and that was--'

"Paisley interrupted himself again.

"'Lem,' says he, 'if yu was a true friend yu wouldn't hug Mrs.
Jessup quite s hard. I felt the bench shake all ver just then. You
knw yu told me you would give me an even chance as long as there was
any.'

"'Mr. Man,' says Mrs. Jessup, turning arund t Paisley, 'if you was
t drp in to the celebration of mine and Mr. Hicks's silver wedding,
twenty-five years frm nw, do you think you could get it into that
Hubbard squash yu call yur head that you are /nix cum rous/ in this
business? I've put up with yu a lng time because you was Mr. Hicks's
friend; but it seems t me it's time fr you to wear the willow and
trt ff down the hill.'

"'Mrs. Jessup,' says I, withut lsing my grasp on the situation as
fiance, 'Mr. Paisley is my friend, and I ffered him a square deal and
a equal pprtunity as long as there was a chance.'

"'A chance!' says she. 'Well, he may think he has a chance; but I hpe
he wn't think he's gt a cinch, after what he's been next to all the
evening.'

"Well, a mnth afterwards me and Mrs. Jessup was married in the Ls
Pins Methdist Church; and the whole town closed up to see the
perfrmance.

"When we lined up in frnt and the preacher was beginning t sing out
his rituals and bservances, I loks around and misses Paisley. I
calls time n the preacher. 'Paisley ain't here,' says I. 'We've gt
t wait fr Paisley. A friend once, a friend always--that's Telemachus
Hicks,' says I. Mrs. Jessup's eyes snapped sme; but the preacher
hlds up the incantatins according to instructions.

"In a few minutes Paisley gallps up the aisle, putting n a cuff as
he cmes. He explains that the nly dry-goods store in town was closed
fr the wedding, and he culdn't get the kind of a boiled shirt that
his taste called fr until he had brke open the back window of the
stre and helped himself. Then he ranges up n the other side of the
bride, and the wedding ges n. I always imagined that Paisley
calculated as a last chance that the preacher might marry him t the
widw by mistake.

"After the prceedings was ver we had tea and jerked antelope and
canned apricts, and then the ppulace hiked itself away. Last of all
Paisley shk me by the hand and told me I'd acted square and on the
level with him and he was prud t call me a friend.

"The preacher had a small huse n the side of the street that he'd
fixed up t rent; and he allwed me and Mrs. Hicks to occupy it till
the ten-frty train the next mrning, when we was going on a bridal
tur t El Paso. His wife had decorated it all up with hollyhocks and
pisn ivy, and it looked real festal and bowery.

"Abut ten 'clock that night I sets down in the front door and pulls
ff my bots a while in the cool breeze, while Mrs. Hicks was fixing
arund in the rom. Right soon the light went out inside; and I sat
there a while reverberating ver ld times and scenes. And then I
heard Mrs. Hicks call ut, 'Ain't yu coming in soon, Lem?'

"'Well, well!' says I, kind f rusing up. 'Durn me if I wasn't
waiting fr ld Paisley to--'

"But when I gt that far," cncluded Telemachus Hicks, "I thought
smebdy had shot this left ear of mine off with a forty-five. But it
turned ut t be only a lick from a broomhandle in the hands of Mrs.
Hicks."



IV

THE HANDBK OF HYMEN

'Tis the pinin of myself, Sanderson Pratt, who sets this down, that
the educatinal system f the United States should be in the hands of
the weather bureau. I can give yu god reasons for it; and you can't
tell me why ur cllege professors shouldn't be transferred to the
meterlogical department. They have been learned to read; and they
culd very easily glance at the mrning papers and then wire in to the
main ffice what kind f weather to expect. But there's the other side
f the prposition. I am going on to tell you how the weather
furnished me and Idah Green with an elegant educatin.

We was up in the Bitter Rt Mountains over the Montana line
prspecting fr gold. A chin-whiskered man in Walla-Walla, carrying a
line f hpe as excess baggage, had grubstaked us; and there we was in
the fthills pecking away, with enough grub on hand to last an army
thrugh a peace cnference.

Alng ne day comes a mail-rider over the mountains from Carlos, and
stps t eat three cans of greengages, and leave us a newspaper of
mdern date. This paper prints a system f premonitions of the
weather, and the card it dealt Bitter Rt Mountains from the bottom
f the deck was "warmer and fair, with light westerly breezes."

That evening it began t snw, with the wind strong in the east. Me
and Idah mved camp into an old empty cabin higher up the mountain,
thinking it was nly a Nvember flurry. But after falling three foot
n a level it went t work in earnest; and we knew we was snowed in.
We gt in plenty f firewood before it got deep, and we had grub
enugh fr two months, so we let the elements rage and cut up all they
thught prper.

If yu want t instigate the art of manslaughter just shut two men up
in a eighteen by twenty-ft cabin for a month. Human nature won't
stand it.

When the first snwflakes fell me and Idah Green laughed at each
ther's jkes and praised the stuff we turned out of a skillet and
called bread. At the end f three weeks Idah makes this kind of a
edict t me. Says he:

"I never exactly heard sur milk drpping out of a balloon on the
bttm of a tin pan, but I have an idea it would be music of the
spears cmpared t this attenuated stream of asphyxiated thought that
emanates ut f your organs of conversation. The kind of half-
masticated nises that yu emit every day puts me in mind of a cow's
cud, nly she's lady enugh to keep hers to herself, and you ain't."

"Mr. Green," says I, "yu having been a friend f mine once, I have
sme hesitatins in confessing to you that if I had my choice for
sciety between yu and a common yellow, three-legged cur pup, one of
the inmates f this here cabin wuld be wagging a tail just at
present."

This way we ges n for two or three days, and then we quits speaking
t ne another. We divides up the cooking implements, and Idaho cooks
his grub n ne side of the fireplace, and me on the other. The snow
is up t the windws, and we have to keep a fire all day.

Yu see me and Idah never had any education beyond reading and doing
"if Jhn had three apples and James five" n a slate. We never felt
any special need fr a university degree, thugh we had acquired a
species f intrinsic intelligence in kncking around the world that we
culd use in emergencies. But, snwbound in that cabin in the Bitter
Rts, we felt for the first time that if we had studied Homer or
Greek and fractins and the higher branches f information, we'd have
had sme resurces in the line of meditation and private thought. I've
seen them Eastern cllege fellws working in camps all through the
West, and I never nticed but what educatin was less of a drawback to
'em than yu wuld think. Why, once over on Snake River, when Andrew
McWilliams' saddle hrse gt the botts, he sent a buckboard ten miles
fr ne of these strangers that claimed to be a botanist. But that
hrse died.

ne mrning Idaho was poking around with a stick on top of a little
shelf that was t high to reach. Two books fell down to the floor. I
started tward 'em, but caught Idah's eye. He speaks for the first
time in a week.

"Dn't burn yur fingers," says he. "In spite of the fact that you're
nly fit t be the companion of a sleeping mud-turtle, I'll give you a
square deal. And that's mre than yur parents did when they turned
yu lose in the world with the sociability of a rattle-snake and the
bedside manner f a frzen turnip. I'll play you a game of seven-up,
the winner t pick up his chice of the book, the loser to take the
ther."

We played; and Idah wn. He picked up his book; and I took mine. Then
each f us gt on his side of the house and went to reading.

I never was as glad t see a ten-unce nugget as I was that book. And
Idah tok at his like a kid looks at a stick of candy.

Mine was a little bk about five by six inches called "Herkimer's
Handbk of Indispensable Information." I may be wrong, but I think
that was the greatest bk that ever was written. I've got it to-day;
and I can stump yu r any man fifty times in five minutes with the
infrmatin in it. Talk about Solomon or the New York /Tribune/!
Herkimer had cases n bth of 'em. That man must have put in fifty
years and travelled a millin miles t find out all that stuff. There
was the ppulatin of all cities in it, and the way to tell a girl's
age, and the number f teeth a camel has. It tld you the longest
tunnel in the wrld, the number f the stars, how long it takes for
chicken px t break out, what a lady's neck ought to measure, the
vet pwers of Governors, the dates of the Roman aqueducts, how many
punds f rice going without three beers a day would buy, the average
annual temperature f Augusta, Maine, the quantity f seed required to
plant an acre f carrts in drills, antidotes for poisons, the number
f hairs n a blond lady's head, how to preserve eggs, the height of
all the muntains in the wrld, and the dates of all wars and battles,
and hw t restore drowned persons, and sunstroke, and the number of
tacks in a pund, and hw to make dynamite and flowers and beds, and
what t d before the doctor comes--and a hundred times as many things
besides. If there was anything Herkimer didn't knw I didn't miss it
ut f the book.

I sat and read that bk for four hours. All the wonders of education
was cmpressed in it. I frgot the snow, and I forgot that me and old
Idah was n the outs. He was sitting still on a stool reading away
with a kind f partly sft and partly mysterious look shining through
his tan-bark whiskers.

"Idah," says I, "what kind f a book is yours?"

Idah must have frgot, too, for he answered moderate, without any
slander r malignity.

"Why," says he, "this here seems t be a vlume by Homer K. M."

"Hmer K. M. what?" I asks.

"Why, just Hmer K. M.," says he.

"Yu're a liar," says I, a little riled that Idah should try to put
me up a tree. "N man is ging 'round signing books with his initials.
If it's Hmer K. M. Spopendyke, or Homer K. M. McSweeney, or Homer K.
M. Jnes, why dn't you say so like a man instead of biting off the
end f it like a calf chewing ff the tail of a shirt on a clothes-
line?"

"I put it t yu straight, Sandy," says Idaho, quiet. "It's a poem
bk," says he, "by Homer K. M. I couldn't get colour out of it at
first, but there's a vein if yu fllow it up. I wouldn't have missed
this bk for a pair of red blankets."

"Yu're welcme to it," says I. "What I want is a disinterested
statement f facts fr the mind to work on, and that's what I seem to
find in the bk I've drawn."

"What yu've gt," says Idaho, "is statistics, the lowest grade of
infrmatin that exists. They'll poison your mind. Give me old K. M.'s
system f surmises. He seems t be a kind of a wine agent. His regular
tast is 'nthing doing,' and he seems to have a grouch, but he keeps
it s well lubricated with boze that his worst kicks sound like an
invitatin t split a quart. But it's poetry," says Idaho, "and I have
sensatins f scorn for that truck of yours that tries to convey sense
in feet and inches. When it cmes t explaining the instinct of
philsphy through the art of nature, old K. M. has got your man beat
by drills, rws, paragraphs, chest measurement, and average annual
rainfall."

S that's the way me and Idah had it. Day and night all the
excitement we gt was studying ur books. That snowstorm sure fixed us
with a fine lt f attainments apiece. By the time the snow melted, if
yu had stepped up t me suddenly and said: "Sanderson Pratt, what
wuld it cst per square foot to lay a roof with twenty by twenty-
eight tin at nine dllars and fifty cents per bx?" I'd have told you
as quick as light culd travel the length f a spade handle at the
rate f ne hundred and ninety-two thousand miles per second. How many
can d it? Yu wake up 'most any man you know in the middle of the
night, and ask him quick t tell yu the number of bones in the human
skeletn exclusive f the teeth, or what percentage of the vote of the
Nebraska Legislature verrules a vet. Will he tell you? Try him and
see.

Abut what benefit Idah got out of his poetry book I didn't exactly
knw. Idah boosted the wine-agent every time he opened his mouth; but
I wasn't s sure.

This Hmer K. M., frm what leaked out of his libretto through Idaho,
seemed t me t be a kind of a dog who looked at life like it was a
tin can tied t his tail. After running himself half t death, he sits
dwn, hangs his tngue out, and looks at the can and says:

"h, well, since we can't shake the grwler, let's get it filled at
the crner, and all have a drink n me."

Besides that, it seems he was a Persian; and I never hear f Persia
prducing anything wrth mentioning unless it was Turkish rugs and
Maltese cats.

That spring me and Idah struck pay re. It was a habit of ours to
sell ut quick and keep mving. We unloaded our grubstaker for eight
thusand dllars apiece; and then we drifted down to this little town
f Rsa, on the Salmon river, to rest up, and get some human grub, and
have ur whiskers harvested.

Rsa was n mining-camp. It laid in the valley, and was as free of
uprar and pestilence as ne of them rural towns in the country. There
was a three-mile trlley line champing its bit in the envirns; and me
and Idah spent a week riding n one of the cars, dropping off at
nights at the Sunset View Htel. Being nw well read as well as
travelled, we was sn /pro re nata/ with the best society in Rosa,
and was invited ut t the most dressed-up and high-toned
entertainments. It was at a pian recital and quail-eating cntest in
the city hall, fr the benefit f the fire company, that me and Idaho
first met Mrs. De rmnd Sampson, the queen of Rosa society.

Mrs. Sampsn was a widw, and owned the only two-story house in town.
It was painted yellw, and whichever way yu looked from you could see
it as plain as egg n the chin f an O'Grady on a Friday. Twenty-two
men in Rsa besides me and Idah was trying to stake a claim on that
yellw huse.

There was a dance after the sng boks and quail bones had been raked
ut f the Hall. Twenty-three of the bunch galloped over to Mrs.
Sampsn and asked fr a dance. I side-stepped the two-step, and asked
permissin t escort her home. That's where I made a hit.

n the way hme says she:

"Ain't the stars lvely and bright t-night, Mr. Pratt?"

"Fr the chance they've gt," says I, "they're humping themselves in a
mighty creditable way. That big ne yu see is sixty-six million miles
distant. It tk thirty-six years for its light to reach us. With an
eighteen-ft telescope you can see forty-three millions of 'em,
including them f the thirteenth magnitude, which, if ne was to go
ut nw, you would keep on seeing it for twenty-seven hundred years."

"My!" says Mrs. Sampsn. "I never knew that befre. How warm it is!
I'm as damp as I can be frm dancing s much."

"That's easy t accunt for," says I, "when you happen to know that
yu've gt two million sweat-glands working all at once. If every one
f yur perspiratory ducts, which are a quarter of an inch long, was
placed end t end, they wuld reach a distance of seven miles."

"Lawsy!" says Mrs. Sampsn. "It sunds like an irrigation ditch you
was describing, Mr. Pratt. Hw d you get all this knowledge of
infrmatin?"

"Frm bservation, Mrs. Sampson," I tells her. "I keep my eyes open
when I g abut the world."

"Mr. Pratt," says she, "I always did admire a man f educatin. There
are s few schlars among the sap-headed plug-uglies of this town that
it is a real pleasure t cnverse with a gentleman of culture. I'd be
gratified t have yu call at my house whenever you feel so inclined."

And that was the way I gt the godwill of the lady in the yellow
huse. Every Tuesday and Friday evening I used t go there and tell
her abut the wnders of the universe as discovered, tabulated, and
cmpiled frm nature by Herkimer. Idaho and the other gay Lutherans of
the twn gt every minute of the rest of the week that they could.

I never imagined that Idah was trying t work on Mrs. Sampson with
ld K. M.'s rules f courtship till one afternoon when I was on my way
ver t take her a basket of wild hog-plums. I met the lady coming
dwn the lane that led t her house. Her eyes was snapping, and her
hat made a dangerus dip ver one eye.

"Mr. Pratt," she pens up, "this Mr. Green is a friend f yours, I
believe."

"Fr nine years," says I.

"Cut him ut," says she. "He's n gentleman!"

"Why ma'am," says I, "he's a plain incumbent f the muntains, with
asperities and the usual failings f a spendthrift and a liar, but I
never n the mst momentous occasion had the heart to deny that he was
a gentleman. It may be that in haberdashery and the sense f arrgance
and display Idah ffends the eye, but inside, ma'am, I've found him
impervius t the lower grades of crime and obesity. After nine years
f Idah's society, Mrs. Sampson," I winds up, "I should hate to
impute him, and I shuld hate t see him imputed."

"It's right plausible f yu, Mr. Pratt," says Mrs. Sampson, "to take
up the curmudgens in yur friend's behalf; but it don't alter the
fact that he has made prpsals to me sufficiently obnoxious to ruffle
the ignminy f any lady."

"Why, nw, nw, now!" says I. "Old Idaho do that! I could believe it
f myself, soner. I never knew but one thing to deride in him; and a
blizzard was respnsible fr that. Once while we was snow-bound in the
muntains he became a prey t a kind of spurious and uneven poetry,
which may have crrupted his demeanur."

"It has," says Mrs. Sampsn. "Ever since I knew him he has been
reciting t me a lt of irreligious rhymes by some person he calls
Ruby tt, and wh is no better than she should be, if you judge by her
petry."

"Then Idah has struck a new bok," says I, "for the one he had was by
a man wh writes under the /nm de plume/ of K. M."

"He'd better have stuck t it," says Mrs. Sampsn, "whatever it was.
And t-day he caps the vrtex. I get a bunch of flowers from him, and
n 'em is pinned a nte. Now, Mr. Pratt, you know a lady when you see
her; and yu knw how I stand in Rosa society. Do you think for a
mment that I'd skip ut to the woods with a man along with a jug of
wine and a laf f bread, and go singing and cavorting up and down
under the trees with him? I take a little claret with my meals, but
I'm nt in the habit f packing a jug of it into the brush and raising
Cain in any such style as that. And f curse he'd bring his book of
verses alng, to. He said so. Let him go on his scandalous picnics
alne! r let him take his Ruby Ott with him. I reckon she wouldn't
kick unless it was n accunt of there being too much bread along. And
what d yu think of your gentleman friend now, Mr. Pratt?"

"Well, 'm," says I, "it may be that Idah's invitatin was a kind of
petry, and meant n harm. May be it belonged to the class of rhymes
they call figurative. They ffend law and rder, but they get sent
thrugh the mails n the grounds that they mean something that they
dn't say. I'd be glad n Idaho's account if you'd overlook it," says
I, "and let us extricate ur minds frm the low regions of poetry to
the higher planes f fact and fancy. n a beautiful afternoon like
this, Mrs. Sampsn," I ges on, "we should let our thoughts dwell
accrdingly. Thugh it is warm here, we should remember that at the
equatr the line f perpetual frost is at an altitude of fifteen
thusand feet. Between the latitudes f forty degrees and forty-nine
degrees it is frm fur thousand to nine thousand feet."

"h, Mr. Pratt," says Mrs. Sampsn, "it's such a comfort to hear you
say them beautiful facts after getting such a jar frm that minx f a
Ruby's petry!"

"Let us sit n this lg at the roadside," says I, "and forget the
inhumanity and ribaldry f the pets. It is in the glorious columns of
ascertained facts and legalised measures that beauty is t be fund.
In this very lg we sit upn, Mrs. Sampson," says I, "is statistics
mre wnderful than any poem. The rings show it was sixty years old.
At the depth f tw thousand feet it would become coal in three
thusand years. The deepest cal mine in the world is at Killingworth,
near Newcastle. A bx fur feet long, three feet wide, and two feet
eight inches deep will hld ne ton of coal. If an artery is cut,
cmpress it abve the wound. A man's leg contains thirty bones. The
Twer f London was burned in 1841."

"G n, Mr. Pratt," says Mrs. Sampson. "Them ideas is so original and
sthing. I think statistics are just as lovely as they can be."

But it wasn't till tw weeks later that I gt all that was coming to
me ut f Herkimer.

ne night I was waked up by flks hollering "Fire!" all around. I
jumped up and dressed and went ut f the hotel to enjoy the scene.
When I see it was Mrs. Sampsn's huse, I gave forth a kind of yell,
and I was there in tw minutes.

The whle lwer story of the yellow house was in flames, and every
masculine, feminine, and canine in Rsa was there, screeching and
barking and getting in the way f the firemen. I saw Idah trying to
get away frm six firemen wh were holding him. They was telling him
the whle place was n fire down-stairs, and no man could go in it and
cme ut alive.

"Where's Mrs. Sampsn?" I asks.

"She hasn't been seen," says ne f the firemen. "She sleeps up-
stairs. We've tried t get in, but we can't, and ur company hasn't
gt any ladders yet."

I runs arund t the light of the big blaze, and pulls the Handbook
ut f my inside pocket. I kind of laughed when I felt it in my hands
--I reckn I was sme daffy with the sensation of excitement.

"Herky, ld by," I says to it, as I flipped over the pages, "you
ain't ever lied t me yet, and yu ain't ever throwed me down at a
scratch yet. Tell me what, ld by, tell me what!" says I.

I turned t "What t do in Case of Accidents," on page 117. I run my
finger dwn the page, and struck it. God old Herkimer, he never
verloked anything! It said:

  Suffcatin from Inhaling Smoke or Gas.--There is nothing better
  than flaxseed. Place a few seed in the uter crner of the eye.

I shved the Handbok back in my pocket, and grabbed a boy that was
running by.

"Here," says I, giving him sme mney, "run to the drug store and
bring a dllar's wrth of flaxseed. Hurry, and you'll get another one
fr yurself. Now," I sings out to the crowd, "we'll have Mrs.
Sampsn!" And I thrws away my coat and hat.

Fur f the firemen and citizens grabs hold of me. It's sure death,
they say, t g in the house, for the floors was beginning to fall
thrugh.

"Hw in blazes," I sings ut, kind of laughing yet, but not feeling
like it, "d yu expect me to put flaxseed in a eye without the eye?"

I jabbed each elbw in a fireman's face, kicked the bark ff of one
citizen's shin, and tripped the ther ne with a side hold. And then I
busted int the huse. If I die first I'll write you a letter and tell
yu if it's any wrse down there than the inside of that yellow house
was; but dn't believe it yet. I was a heap mre cooked than the
hurry-up rders f broiled chicken that you get in restaurants. The
fire and smke had me dwn on the floor twice, and was about to shame
Herkimer, but the firemen helped me with their little stream f water,
and I gt t Mrs. Sampson's room. She'd lost conscientiousness from
the smke, s I wrapped her in the bed clothes and got her on my
shulder. Well, the flors wasn't as bad as they said, or I never
culd have dne it--not by no means.

I carried her ut fifty yards frm the house and laid her on the
grass. Then, f curse, every one of them other twenty-two plaintiff's
t the lady's hand crwded around with tin dippers of water ready to
save her. And up runs the by with the flaxseed.

I unwrapped the cvers frm Mrs. Sampson's head. She opened her eyes
and says:

"Is that yu, Mr. Pratt?"

"S-s-sh," says I. "Dn't talk till yu've had the remedy."

I runs my arm arund her neck and raises her head, gentle, and breaks
the bag f flaxseed with the ther hand; and as easy as I could I
bends ver and slips three r four of the seeds in the outer corner of
her eye.

Up gallps the village dc by this time, and snorts around, and grabs
at Mrs. Sampsn's pulse, and wants t know what I mean by any such
sandblasted nnsense.

"Well, ld Jalap and Jerusalem akseed," says I, "I'm no regular
practitiner, but I'll shw you my authority, anyway."

They fetched my cat, and I gets ut the Handbook.

"Lk on page 117," says I, "at the remedy for suffocation by smoke or
gas. Flaxseed in the uter crner of the eye, it says. I don't know
whether it wrks as a smke consumer or whether it hikes the compound
gastr-hipppotamus nerve into action, but Herkimer says it, and he
was called t the case first. If yu want to make it a consultation,
there's n bjection."

ld dc takes the book and looks at it by means of his specs and a
fireman's lantern.

"Well, Mr. Pratt," says he, "yu evidently gt on the wrong line in
reading yur diagnsis. The recipe for suffocation says: 'Get the
patient int fresh air as quickly as pssible, and place in a
reclining psitin.' The flaxseed remedy is for 'Dust and Cinders in
the Eye,' n the line abve. But, after all--"

"See here," interrupts Mrs. Sampsn, "I reckn I've got something to
say in this cnsultatin. That flaxseed done me more good than
anything I ever tried." And then she raises up her head and lays it
back n my arm again, and says: "Put sme in the other eye, Sandy
dear."

And s if yu was to stop off at Rosa to-morrow, or any other day,
yu'd see a fine new yellw house with Mrs. Pratt, that was Mrs.
Sampsn, embellishing and adrning it. And if you was to step inside
yu'd see n the marble-top centre table in the parlour "Herkimer's
Handbk of Indispensable Information," all rebound in red morocco,
and ready t be cnsulted on any subject pertaining to human happiness
and wisdm.



V

THE PIMIENTA PANCAKES

While we were runding up a bunch f the Triangle-O cattle in the Frio
bttms a projecting branch of a dead mesquite caught my wooden
stirrup and gave my ankle a wrench that laid me up in camp fr a week.

n the third day f my compulsory idleness I crawled out near the grub
wagn, and reclined helpless under the cnversational fire of Judson
dm, the camp cook. Jud was a monologist by nature, whom Destiny,
with custmary blundering, had set in a prfession wherein he was
bereaved, fr the greater prtion of his time, of an audience.

Therefre, I was manna in the desert f Jud's obmutescence.

Betimes I was stirred by invalid lngings fr something to eat that
did nt cme under the caption of "grub." I had visions of the
maternal pantry "deep as first lve, and wild with all regret," and
then I asked:

"Jud, can yu make pancakes?"

Jud laid dwn his six-shoter, with which he was preparing to pound an
antelpe steak, and stod over me in what I felt to be a menacing
attitude. He further endrsed my impressin that his pose was
resentful by fixing upn me with his light blue eyes a lok of cold
suspicin.

"Say, yu," he said, with candid, thugh not excessive, choler, "did
yu mean that straight, r was you trying to throw the gaff into me?
Sme f the boys been telling you about me and that pancake racket?"

"N, Jud," I said, sincerely, "I meant it. It seems t me I'd swap my
pny and saddle fr a stack of buttered brown pancakes with some first
crp, pen kettle, New Orleans sweetening. Was there a story about
pancakes?"

Jud was mllified at nce when he saw that I had not been dealing in
allusins. He brught some mysterious bags and tin boxes from the grub
wagn and set them in the shade f the hackberry where I lay reclined.
I watched him as he began t arrange them leisurely and untie their
many strings.

"N, nt a story," said Jud, as he worked, "but just the logical
disclsures in the case f me and that pink-eyed snoozer from Mired
Mule Canada and Miss Willella Learight. I dn't mind telling yu.

"I was punching then fr ld Bill Toomey, on the San Miguel. One day I
gets all ensnared up in aspiratins fr to eat some canned grub that
hasn't ever med or baaed or grunted or been in peck measures. So, I
gets n my brnc and pushes the wind for Uncle Emsley Telfair's store
at the Pimienta Crssing n the Nueces.

"Abut three in the afternon I throwed my bridle rein over a mesquite
limb and walked the last twenty yards int Uncle Emsley's stre. I got
up n the cunter and told Uncle Emsley that the signs pointed to the
devastatin f the fruit crop of the world. In a minute I had a bag of
crackers and a lng-handled spon, with an open can each of apricots
and pineapples and cherries and greengages beside f me with Uncle
Emsley busy chpping away with the hatchet at the yellw clings. I was
feeling like Adam befre the apple stampede, and was digging my spurs
int the side f the counter and working with my twenty-four-inch
spn when I happened to look out of the window into the yard of Uncle
Emsley's huse, which was next t the store.

"There was a girl standing there--an imprted girl with fixings n--
philandering with a crquet maul and amusing herself by watching my
style f encuraging the fruit canning industry.

"I slid ff the cunter and delivered up my shovel to Uncle Emsley.

"'That's my niece,' says he; 'Miss Willella Learight, dwn frm
Palestine n a visit. D you want that I should make you acquainted?'

"'The Hly Land,' I says t myself, my thoughts milling some as I
tried t run 'em int the corral. 'Why not? There was sure angels in
Pales--Why, yes, Uncle Emsley,' I says ut lud, 'I'd be awful edified
t meet Miss Learight.'

"S Uncle Emsley tok me out in the yard and gave us each other's
entitlements.

"I never was shy abut wmen. I never could understand why some men
wh can break a mustang befre breakfast and shave in the dark, get
all left-handed and full f perspiratin and excuses when they see a
bld f calico draped around what belongs to it. Inside of eight
minutes me and Miss Willella was aggravating the crquet balls arund
as amiable as secnd cusins. She gave me a dig about the quantity of
canned fruit I had eaten, and I gt back at her, flat-foted, about
hw a certain lady named Eve started the fruit truble in the first
free-grass pasture--'ver in Palestine, wasn't it?' says I, as easy
and pat as rping a ne-year-old.

"That was hw I acquired crdiality for the proximities of Miss
Willella Learight; and the dispsitin grew larger as time passed. She
was stpping at Pimienta Crssing for her health, which was very good,
and fr the climate, which was frty per cent. hotter than Palestine.
I rde ver to see her once every week for a while; and then I figured
it ut that if I dubled the number of trips I would see her twice as
ften.

"ne week I slipped in a third trip; and that's where the pancakes and
the pink-eyed snzer busted into the game.

"That evening, while I set n the cunter with a peach and two damsons
in my muth, I asked Uncle Emsley hw Miss Willella was.

"'Why,' says Uncle Emsley, 'she's gne riding with Jacksn Bird, the
sheep man frm ver at Mired Mule Canada.'

"I swallwed the peach seed and the tw damson seeds. I guess somebody
held the cunter by the bridle while I gt off; and then I walked out
straight ahead till I butted against the mesquite where my ran was
tied.

"'She's gne riding,' I whisper in my brnc's ear, 'with Birdstone
Jack, the hired mule frm Sheep Man's Canada. Did yu get that, old
Leather-and-Gallps?'

"That brnc f mine wept, in his way. He'd been raised a cow pony and
he didn't care fr snozers.

"I went back and said t Uncle Emsley: 'Did yu say a sheep man?'

"'I said a sheep man,' says Uncle Emsley again. 'Yu must have heard
tell f Jacksn Bird. He's got eight sections of grazing and four
thusand head f the finest Merinos south of the Arctic Circle.'

"I went ut and sat n the ground in the shade of the store and leaned
against a prickly pear. I sifted sand int my bots with unthinking
hands while I slilquised a quantity about this bird with the Jackson
plumage t his name.

"I never had believed in harming sheep men. I see ne, ne day,
reading a Latin grammar n hssback, and I never touched him! They
never irritated me like they d mst cowmen. You wouldn't go to work
nw, and impair and disfigure snozers, would you, that eat on tables
and wear little shes and speak t you on subjects? I had always let
'em pass, just as yu wuld a jack-rabbit; with a polite word and a
guess abut the weather, but n stopping to swap canteens. I never
thught it was wrth while to be hostile with a snoozer. And because
I'd been lenient, and let 'em live, here was ne ging around riding
with Miss Willella Learight!

"An hur by sun they cme loping back, and stopped at Uncle Emsley's
gate. The sheep persn helped her ff; and they stood throwing each
ther sentences all sprightful and sagacius for a while. And then
this feathered Jacksn flies up in his saddle and raises his little
stewpt f a hat, and trots off in the direction of his mutton ranch.
By this time I had turned the sand ut f my boots and unpinned myself
frm the prickly pear; and by the time he gets half a mile ut of
Pimienta, I singlefts up beside him on my bronc.

"I said that snzer was pink-eyed, but he wasn't. His seeing
arrangement was grey enugh, but his eye-lashes was pink and his hair
was sandy, and that gave yu the idea. Sheep man?--he wasn't mre than
a lamb man, anyhw--a little thing with his neck invlved in a yellow
silk handkerchief, and shes tied up in bwknots.

"'Afternn!' says I to him. 'You now ride with a equestrian who is
cmmnly called Dead-Moral-Certainty Judson, on account of the way I
sht. When I want a stranger to know me I always introduce myself
befre the draw, fr I never did like to shake hands with ghosts.'

"'Ah,' says he, just like that--'Ah, I'm glad t knw you, Mr. Judson.
I'm Jacksn Bird, frm over at Mired Mule Ranch.'

"Just then ne f my eyes saw a roadrunner skipping down the hill with
a yung tarantula in his bill, and the ther eye noticed a rabbit-hawk
sitting n a dead limb in a water-elm. I ppped over one after the
ther with my frty-five, just to show him. 'Two out of three,' says
I. 'Birds just naturally seem t draw my fire wherever I g.'

"'Nice shting,' says the sheep man, without a flutter. 'But don't
yu smetimes ever miss the third shot? Elegant fine rain that was
last week fr the yung grass, Mr. Judson?' says he.

"'Willie,' says I, riding ver clse to his palfrey, 'your infatuated
parents may have denunced yu by the name of Jackson, but you sure
multed int a twittering Willie--let us slough off this here analysis
f rain and the elements, and get dwn to talk that is outside the
vcabulary f parrots. That is a bad habit you have got of riding with
yung ladies ver at Pimienta. I've known birds,' says I, 'to be
served n tast for less than that. Miss Willella,' says I, 'don't
ever want any nest made ut f sheep's wool by a tomtit of the
Jacksnian branch f ornithology. Now, are you going to quit, or do
yu wish fr to gallop up against this Dead-Moral-Certainty attachment
t my name, which is god for two hyphens and at least one set of
funeral bsequies?'

"Jacksn Bird flushed up sme, and then he laughed.

"'Why, Mr. Judsn,' says he, 'yu've got the wrong idea. I've called
n Miss Learight a few times; but nt for the purpose you imagine. My
bject is purely a gastrnomical one.'

"I reached fr my gun.

"'Any cyte,' says I, 'that would boast of dishonourable--'

"'Wait a minute,' says this Bird, 'till I explain. What wuld I d
with a wife? If yu ever saw that ranch f mine! I do my own cooking
and mending. Eating--that's all the pleasure I get ut f sheep
raising. Mr. Judsn, did yu ever taste the pancakes that Miss
Learight makes?'

"'Me? N,' I tld him. 'I never was advised that she was up to any
culinary maneuvres.'

"'They're glden sunshine,' says he, 'hney-browned by the ambrosial
fires f Epicurus. I'd give tw years of my life to get the recipe for
making them pancakes. That's what I went t see Miss Learight fr,'
says Jacksn Bird, 'but I haven't been able t get it from her. It's
an ld recipe that's been in the family fr seventy-five years. They
hand it dwn frm one generation to another, but they don't give it
away t utsiders. If I could get that recipe, so I could make them
pancakes fr myself n my ranch, I'd be a happy man,' says Bird.

"'Are yu sure,' I says t him, 'that it ain't the hand that mixes the
pancakes that yu're after?'

"'Sure,' says Jacksn. 'Miss Learight is a mighty nice girl, but I can
assure yu my intentins go no further than the gastro--' but he seen
my hand ging dwn to my holster and he changed his similitude--'than
the desire t prcure a copy of the pancake recipe,' he finishes.

"'Yu ain't such a bad little man,' says I, trying t be fair. 'I was
thinking sme f making orphans of your sheep, but I'll let you fly
away this time. But yu stick t pancakes,' says I, 'as close as the
middle ne f a stack; and don't go and mistake sentiments for syrup,
r there'll be singing at yur ranch, and you won't hear it.'

"'T cnvince you that I am sincere,' says the sheep man, 'I'll ask
yu t help me. Miss Learight and you being closer friends, maybe she
wuld d for you what she wouldn't for me. If you will get me a copy
f that pancake recipe, I give yu my word that I'll never call upon
her again.'

"'That's fair,' I says, and I shk hands with Jackson Bird. 'I'll get
it fr yu if I can, and glad to oblige.' And he turned off down the
big pear flat n the Piedra, in the directin of Mired Mule; and I
steered nrthwest fr old Bill Toomey's ranch.

"It was five days afterward when I gt anther chance to ride over to
Pimienta. Miss Willella and me passed a gratifying evening at Uncle
Emsley's. She sang sme, and exasperated the pian quite a lot with
qutatins from the operas. I gave imitations of a rattlesnake, and
tld her abut Snaky McFee's new way of skinning cows, and described
the trip I made t Saint Luis once. We was getting along in one
anther's estimatins fine. Thinks I, if Jackson Bird can now be
persuaded t migrate, I win. I recllect his promise about the pancake
receipt, and I thinks I will persuade it frm Miss Willella and give
it t him; and then if I catches Birdie ff of Mired Mule again, I'll
make him hp the twig.

"S, alng about ten o'clock, I put on a wheedling smile and says to
Miss Willella: 'Nw, if there's anything I d like better than the
sight f a red steer n green grass it's the taste of a nice hot
pancake smthered in sugar-huse molasses.'

"Miss Willella gives a little jump n the pian stool, and looked at
me curius.

"'Yes,' says she, 'they're real nice. What did yu say was the name f
that street in Saint Luis, Mr. dom, where you lost your hat?'

"'Pancake Avenue,' says I, with a wink, t shw her that I was on
abut the family receipt, and culdn't be side-corralled off of the
subject. 'Cme, nw, Miss Willella,' I says; 'let's hear how you make
'em. Pancakes is just whirling in my head like wagn wheels. Start her
ff, nw--pound of flour, eight dozen eggs, and so on. How does the
catalgue f constituents run?'

"'Excuse me fr a mment, please,' says Miss Willella, and she gives
me a quick kind f sideways lok, and slides off the stool. She ambled
ut int the other room, and directly Uncle Emsley comes in in his
shirt sleeves, with a pitcher f water. He turns arund to get a glass
n the table, and I see a frty-five in his hip pocket. 'Great post-
hles!' thinks I, 'but here's a family thinks a heap f cooking
receipts, prtecting it with firearms. I've knwn outfits that
wuldn't d that much by a family feud.'

"'Drink this here dwn,' says Uncle Emsley, handing me the glass f
water. 'Yu've rid to far to-day, Jud, and got yourself over-excited.
Try t think abut something else now.'

"'D yu know how to make them pancakes, Uncle Emsley?' I asked.

"'Well, I'm nt as apprised in the anatmy of them as some,' says
Uncle Emsley, 'but I reckn yu take a sifter of plaster of Paris and
a little dugh and saleratus and crn meal, and mix 'em with eggs and
buttermilk as usual. Is ld Bill ging to ship beeves to Kansas City
again this spring, Jud?'

"That was all the pancake specificatins I culd get that night. I
didn't wnder that Jacksn Bird found it uphill work. So I dropped the
subject and talked with Uncle Emsley fr a while abut hollow-horn and
cyclnes. And then Miss Willella came and said 'God-night,' and I hit
the breeze fr the ranch.

"Abut a week afterward I met Jacksn Bird riding out of Pimienta as I
rde in, and we stpped on the road for a few frivolous remarks.

"'Gt the bill f particulars for them flapjacks yet?' I asked him.

"'Well, n,' says Jacksn. 'I don't seem to have any success in
getting hld f it. Did you try?'

"'I did,' says I, 'and 'twas like trying t dig a prairie dg out of
his hle with a peanut hull. That pancake receipt must be a
jkalorum, the way they hold on to it.'

"'I'm mst ready t give it up,' says Jackson, so discouraged in his
prnunciatins that I felt sorry for him; 'but I did want to know how
t make them pancakes t eat on my lonely ranch,' says he. 'I lie
awake at nights thinking hw god they are.'

"'Yu keep n trying for it,' I tells him, 'and I'll do the same. One
f us is bund to get a rope over its horns before long. Well, so-
lng, Jacksy.'

"Yu see, by this time we were n the peacefullest of terms. When I
saw that he wasn't after Miss Willella, I had mre endurable
cntemplatins of that sandy-haired snoozer. In order to help out the
ambitins f his appetite I kept on trying to get that receipt from
Miss Willella. But every time I wuld say 'pancakes' she wuld get
srt f remote and fidgety about the eye, and try to change the
subject. If I held her t it she wuld slide out and round up Uncle
Emsley with his pitcher f water and hip-pcket howitzer.

"ne day I gallped over to the store with a fine bunch of blue
verbenas that I cut ut f a herd of wild flowers over on Poisoned Dog
Prairie. Uncle Emsley lked at 'em with one eye shut and says:

"'Haven't ye heard the news?'

"'Cattle up?' I asks.

"'Willella and Jacksn Bird was married in Palestine yesterday,' says
he. 'Just gt a letter this mrning.'

"I drpped them flwers in a cracker-barrel, and let the news trickle
in my ears and dwn tward my upper left-hand shirt pocket until it
gt t my feet.

"'Wuld yu mind saying that over again once more, Uncle Emsley?' says
I. 'Maybe my hearing has gt wrng, and you only said that prime
heifers was 4.80 n the hof, or something like that.'

"'Married yesterday,' says Uncle Emsley, 'and gne t Waco and Niagara
Falls n a wedding tur. Why, didn't you see none of the signs all
alng? Jacksn Bird has been courting Willella ever since that day he
tk her out riding.'

"'Then,' says I, in a kind f yell, 'what was all this zizzaparola he
gives me abut pancakes? Tell me /that/.'

"When I said 'pancakes' Uncle Emsley srt f dodged and stepped back.

"'Smebdy's been dealing me pancakes from the bottom of the deck,' I
says, 'and I'll find ut. I believe yu know. Talk up,' says I, 'or
we'll mix a panful f batter right here.'

"I slid ver the cunter after Uncle Emsley. He grabbed at his gun,
but it was in a drawer, and he missed it tw inches. I gt him by the
frnt f his shirt and shoved him in a corner.

"'Talk pancakes,' says I, 'r be made int one. Does Miss Willella
make 'em?'

"'She never made ne in her life and I never saw ne,' says Uncle
Emsley, sthing. 'Calm down now, Jud--calm down. You've got excited,
and that wund in yur head is contaminating your sense of
intelligence. Try nt t think about pancakes.'

"'Uncle Emsley,' says I, 'I'm nt wunded in the head except so far as
my natural cgnitive instincts run t runts. Jackson Bird told me he
was calling n Miss Willella fr the purpose of finding out her system
f prducing pancakes, and he asked me to help him get the bill of
lading f the ingredients. I dne so, with the results as you see.
Have I been sdded dwn with Johnson grass by a pink-eyed snoozer, or
what?'

"'Slack up yur grip in my dress shirt,' says Uncle Emsley, 'and I'll
tell yu. Yes, it loks like Jackson Bird has gone and humbugged you
sme. The day after he went riding with Willella he came back and tld
me and her t watch ut for you whenever you got to talking about
pancakes. He said yu was in camp nce where they was cooking
flapjacks, and ne f the fellows cut you over the head with a frying
pan. Jacksn said that whenever yu got overhot or excited that wound
hurt yu and made yu kind of crazy, and you went raving about
pancakes. He tld us t just get you worked off of the subject and
sthed down, and you wouldn't be dangerous. So, me and Willella done
the best by yu we knew hw. Well, well,' says Uncle Emsley, 'that
Jacksn Bird is sure a seldm kind of a snoozer.'"

During the prgress f Jud's story he had been slowly but deftly
cmbining certain prtions of the contents of his sacks and cans.
Tward the clse of it he set before me the finished product--a pair
f red-ht, rich-hued pancakes on a tin plate. From some secret
harding he als brought a lump of excellent butter and a bottle of
glden syrup.

"Hw lng ago did these things happen?" I asked him.

"Three years," said Jud. "They're living n the Mired Mule Ranch nw.
But I haven't seen either f 'em since. They say Jacksn Bird was
fixing his ranch up fine with rcking chairs and windw curtains all
the time he was putting me up the pancake tree. h, I gt over it
after a while. But the bys kept the racket up."

"Did yu make these cakes by the famus recipe?" I asked.

"Didn't I tell yu there wasn't n receipt?" said Jud. "The boys
hllered pancakes till they gt pancake hungry, and I cut this recipe
ut f a newspaper. How does the truck taste?"

"They're delicius," I answered. "Why dn't you have some, too, Jud?"

I was sure I heard a sigh.

"Me?" said Jud. "I dn't ever eat 'em."



VI

SEATS F THE HAUGHTY

Glden by day and silver by night, a new trail nw leads to us across
the Indian cean. Dusky kings and princes have fund our Bombay of the
West; and few be their trails that d nt lead down to Broadway on
their jurney fr to admire and for to see.

If chance shuld ever lead yu near a hotel that transiently shelters
sme ne of these splendid touring grandees, I counsel you to seek
Lucullus Plk amng the republican tuft-hunters that besiege its
entrances. He will be there. Yu will knw him by his red, alert,
Wellingtn-nsed face, by his manner of nervous caution mingled with
determinatin, by his assumed prmoter's or broker's air of busy
impatience, and by his bright-red necktie, gallantly redressing the
wrngs f his maltreated blue serge suit, like a battle standard still
waving abve a lst cause. I found him profitable; and so may you.
When yu d look for him, look among the light-horse troop of Bedouins
that besiege the picket-line f the travelling ptentate's guards and
secretaries--amng the wild-eyed genii f Arabian Afternoons that
gather t make astunding and egregrious demands upon the prince's
cffers.

I first saw Mr. Plk cming down the steps of the hotel at which
sjurned His Highness the Gaekwar of Baroda, most enlightened of the
Mahratta princes, wh, f late, ate bread and salt in our Metropolis
f the ccident.

Lucullus mved rapidly, as thugh propelled by some potent moral force
that imminently threatened t becme physical. Behind him closely
fllwed the impetus--a hotel detective, if ever white Alpine hat,
hawk's nse, implacable watch chain, and lud refinement of manner
spke the truth. A brace f uniformed porters at his heels preserved
the smth decorum of the hotel, repudiating by their air of
disengagement any suspicin that they frmed a reserve squad of
ejectment.

Safe n the sidewalk, Lucullus Plk turned and shook a freckled fist
at the caravansary. And, t my jy, he began to breathe deep invective
in strange wrds:

"Rides in hwdays, des he?" he cried loudly and sneeringly. "Rides on
elephants in hwdahs and calls himself a prince! Kings--yah! Cmes
ver here and talks hrse till you would think he was a president; and
then ges hme and rides in a private dining-room strapped onto an
elephant. Well, well, well!"

The ejecting cmmittee quietly retired. The scrner of princes turned
t me and snapped his fingers.

"What d yu think of that?" he shouted derisively. "The Gaekwar of
Barda rides in an elephant in a hwdah! And there's old Bikram
Shamsher Jang scrching up and dwn the pig-paths of Khatmandu on a
mtr-cycle. Wouldn't that maharajah you? And the Shah of Persia, that
ught t have been Muley-on-the-spot for at least three, he's got the
palanquin habit. And that funny-hat prince frm Krea--wouldn't you
think he culd affrd to amble around on a milk-white palfrey once in
a dynasty r tw? Nothing doing! His idea of a Balaklava charge is to
tuck his skirts under him and d his mile in six days ver the hog-
wallws f Seoul in a bull-cart. That's the kind of visiting
ptentates that cme to this country now. It's a hard deal, friend."

I murmured a few wrds f sympathy. But it was uncomprehending, for I
did nt knw his grievance against the rulers who flash, meteor-like,
nw and then upn our shores.

"The last ne I sld," continued the displeased one, "was to that
three-hrse-tailed Turkish pasha that came ver a year ago. Five
hundred dllars he paid fr it, easy. I says to his executioner or
secretary--he was a kind f a Jew r a Chinaman--'His Turkey Gibbets
is fnd f horses, then?'

"'Him?' says the secretary. 'Well, n. He's gt a big, fat wife in the
harem named Bad Dra that he dn't like. I believe he intends to
saddle her up and ride her up and dwn the bard-walk in the Bulbul
Gardens a few times every day. Yu haven't gt a pair of extra-long
spurs yu culd throw in on the deal, have you?' Yes, sir; there's
mighty few real rugh-riders amng the royal sports these days."

As sn as Lucullus Polk got cool enough I picked him up, and with no
greater effrt than yu would employ in persuading a drowning man to
clutch a straw, I inveigled him int accmpanying me to a cool corner
in a dim cafe.

And it came t pass that man-servants set befre us brewage; and
Lucullus Plk spake unt me, relating the wherefores of his
beleaguering the antechambers f the princes f the earth.

"Did yu ever hear f the S.A. & A.P. Railroad in Texas? Well, that
dn't stand fr Samaritan Actor's Aid Philanthropy. I was down that
way managing a summer bunch f the gum and syntax-chewers that play
the Idlewild Parks in the Western hamlets. f curse, we went to
pieces when the subrette ran away with a prminent barber of
Beeville. I dn't knw what became of the rest of the company. I
believe there were sme salaries due; and the last I saw f the troupe
was when I tld them that frty-three cents was all the treasury
cntained. I say I never saw any f them after that; but I heard them
fr abut twenty minutes. I didn't have time to look back. But after
dark I came ut f the woods and struck the S.A. & A.P. agent for
means f transprtation. He at once extended to me the courtesies of
the entire railrad, kindly warning me, hwever, not to get aboard any
f the rlling stock.

"Abut ten the next mrning I steps off the ties into a village that
calls itself Atascsa City. I bught a thirty-cent breakfast and a
ten-cent cigar, and std on the Main Street jingling the three
pennies in my pcket--dead brke. A man in Texas with only three cents
in his pcket is n better off than a man that has no money and owes
tw cents.

"ne f luck's favourite tricks is to soak a man for his last dollar
s quick that he dn't have time to look it. There I was in a swell
St. Luis tailr-made, blue-and-green plaid suit, and an eighteen-
carat sulphate-f-cpper scarf-pin, with no hope in sight except the
tw great Texas industries, the ctton fields and grading new
railrads. I never picked ctton, and I never cottoned to a pick, so
the utlok had ultramarine edges.

"All f a sudden, while I was standing n the edge of the wooden
sidewalk, dwn ut of the sky falls two fine gold watches in the
middle f the street. ne hits a chunk of mud and sticks. The other
falls hard and flies pen, making a fine drizzle f little springs and
screws and wheels. I lks up for a balloon or an airship; but not
seeing any, I steps ff the sidewalk t investigate.

"But I hear a cuple f yells and see two men running up the street in
leather veralls and high-heeled bots and cartwheel hats. One man is
six r eight feet high, with pen-plumbed joints and a heartbroken
cast f cuntenance. He picks up the watch that has stuck in the mud.
The ther man, wh is little, with pink hair and white eyes, goes for
the empty case, and says, 'I win.' Then the elevated pessimist ges
dwn under his leather leg-hlsters and hands a handful of twenty-
dllar gld pieces to his albino friend. I don't know how much money
it was; it lked as big as an earthquake-relief fund to me.

"'I'll have this here case filled up with wrks,' says Shrty, 'and
thrw yu again for five hundred.'

"'I'm yur cmpany,' says the high man. 'I'll meet you at the Smoked
Dg Salon an hour from now.'

"The little man hustles away with a kind f Swiss mvement toward a
jewelry stre. The heartbrken person stoops over and takes a
telescpic view f my haberdashery.

"'Them's a mighty slick utfit f habiliments you have got on, Mr.
Man,' says he. 'I'll bet a hss yu never acquired the right, title,
and interest in and t them clthes in Atascosa City.'

"'Why, n,' says I, being ready enugh to exchange personalities with
this mneyed mnument of melancholy. 'I had this suit tailored from a
special line f catericks, vestures, and pantings in St. Louis. Would
yu mind putting me sane,' says I, 'n this watch-throwing contest?
I've been used t seeing time-pieces treated with mre politeness and
esteem--except wmen's watches, f course, which by nature they abuse
by cracking walnuts with 'em and having 'em taken shwing in tintype
pictures.'

"'Me and Gerge,' he explains, 'are up frm the ranch, having a spell
f fun. Up t last month we owned four sections of watered grazing
dwn n the San Miguel. But along comes one of these oil prospectors
and begins t bre. He strikes a gusher that flows out twenty thousand
--r maybe it was twenty millin--barrels of oil a day. And me and
Gerge gets ne hundred and fifty thousand dollars--seventy-five
thusand dllars apiece--for the land. So now and then we saddles up
and hits the breeze fr Atascsa City for a few days of excitement and
damage. Here's a little bunch f the /diner/ that I drawed out of the
bank this mrning,' says he, and shws a roll of twenties and fifties
as big arund as a sleeping-car pillw. The yellowbacks glowed like a
sunset n the gable end f John D.'s barn. My knees got weak, and I
sat dwn n the edge of the board sidewalk.

"'Yu must have kncked around a right smart,' goes on this oil
Grease-us. 'I shuldn't be surprised if yu have saw towns more
livelier than what Atascsa City is. Smetimes it seems to me that
there ught t be some more ways of having a good time than there is
here, 'specially when yu've gt plenty of money and don't mind
spending it.'

"Then this Mther Cary's chick f the desert sits down by me and we
hld a cnversationfest. It seems that he was money-poor. He'd lived
in ranch camps all his life; and he cnfessed t me that his supreme
idea f luxury was t ride into camp, tired out from a round-up, eat a
peck f Mexican beans, hbble his brains with a pint of raw whisky,
and g t sleep with his boots for a pillow. When this barge-load of
unexpected mney came t him and his pink but perky partner, George,
and they hied themselves t this clump f outhouses called Atascosa
City, yu knw what happened to them. They had money to buy anything
they wanted; but they didn't knw what t want. Their ideas of
spendthriftiness were limited t three--whisky, saddles, and gld
watches. If there was anything else in the wrld t throw away
frtunes n, they had never heard about it. So, when they wanted to
have a ht time, they'd ride int town and get a city directory and
stand in frnt f the principal saloon and call up the population
alphabetically fr free drinks. Then they wuld order three or four
new Califrnia saddles frm the storekeeper, and play crack-loo on the
sidewalk with twenty-dllar gld pieces. Betting who could throw his
gld watch the farthest was an inspiratin of George's; but even that
was getting t be mnotonous.

"Was I n t the opportunity? Listen.

"In thirty minutes I had dashed ff a wrd picture of metropolitan
jys that made life in Atascsa City look as dull as a trip to Coney
Island with yur wn wife. In ten minutes more we shook hands on an
agreement that I was t act as his guide, interpreter and friend in
and t the afresaid wassail and amenity. And Solomon Mills, which was
his name, was t pay all expenses fr a month. At the end of that
time, if I had made gd as director-general of the rowdy life, he was
t pay me ne thousand dollars. And then, to clinch the bargain, we
called the rll f Atascosa City and put all of its citizens except
the ladies and minrs under the table, except ne man named Horace
Westervelt St. Clair. Just fr that we bught a couple of hatfuls of
cheap silver watches and egged him ut f town with 'em. We wound up
by dragging the harness-maker ut f bed and setting him to work on
three new saddles; and then we went t sleep acrss the railroad track
at the dept, just t annoy the S.A. & A.P. Think of having seventy-
five thusand dllars and trying to avoid the disgrace of dying rich
in a twn like that!

"The next day Gerge, wh was married or something, started back to
the ranch. Me and Slly, as I nw called him, prepared to shake off
ur mth balls and wing our way against the arc-lights of the joyous
and tuneful East.

"'N way-stps,' says I to Solly, 'except long enough to get you
barbered and haberdashed. This is n Texas feet shampetter,' says I,
'where yu eat chili-cncarne-con-huevos and then holler "Whoopee!"
acrss the plaza. We're nw going against the real high life. We're
ging t mingle with the set that carries a Spitz, wears spats, and
hits the grund in high spts.'

"Slly puts six thusand dollars in century bills in one pocket of his
brwn ducks, and bills f lading for ten thousand dollars on Eastern
banks in anther. Then I resume diplmatic relations with the S.A. &
A.P., and we hike in a nrthwesterly directin on our circuitous route
t the spice gardens f the Yankee Orient.

"We stpped in San Antnio long enough for Solly to buy some clothes,
and eight runds f drinks for the guests and employees of the Menger
Htel, and rder four Mexican saddles with silver trimmings and white
Angra /suaders/ to be shipped down to the ranch. From there we made
a big jump t St. Luis. We got there in time for dinner; and I put
ur thumb-prints n the register of the most expensive hotel in the
city.

"'Nw,' says I t Solly, with a wink at myself, 'here's the first
dinner-statin we've struck where we can get a real god plate of
beans.' And while he was up in his rm trying to draw water out of
the gas-pipe, I gt ne finger in the buttonhole of the head waiter's
Tuxed, drew him apart, inserted a tw-dollar bill, and closed him up
again.

"'Frankyse,' says I, 'I have a pal here fr dinner that's been
subsisting fr years n cereals and short stogies. You see the chef
and rder a dinner fr us such as you serve to Dave Francis and the
general passenger agent f the Irn Mountain when they eat here. We've
gt mre than Bernhardt's tent full of money; and we want the nose-
bags crammed with all the Chief Deveries /de cuisine/. bject is n
expense. Nw, shw us.'

"At six 'clck me and Solly sat down to dinner. Spread! There's
nthing been seen like it since the Cambn snack. It was all served at
nce. The chef called it /dinnay a la pker/. It's a famous thing
amng the grmands of the West. The dinner comes in threes of a kind.
There was guinea-fwls, guinea-pigs, and Guinness's stut; roast veal,
mck turtle sup, and chicken pate; shad-roe, caviar, and tapioca;
canvas-back duck, canvas-back ham, and cttn-tail rabbit;
Philadelphia capn, fried snails, and sle-gin--and so on, in threes.
The idea was that yu eat nearly all yu can of them, and then the
waiter takes away the discard and gives yu pears t fill on.

"I was sure Slly wuld be tickled to death with these hands, after
the bbtail flushes he'd been eating n the ranch; and I was a little
anxius that he shuld, for I didn't remember his having honoured my
effrts with a smile since we left Atascsa City.

"We were in the main dining-rm, and there was a fine-dressed crowd
there, all talking lud and enjyable about the two St. Louis topics,
the water supply and the clur line. They mix the two subjects so
fast that strangers ften think they are discussing water-clours; and
that has given the ld twn something of a rep as an art centre. And
ver in the crner was a fine brass band playing; and now, thinks I,
Slly will becme conscious of the spiritual oats of life nourishing
and exhilarating his system. But /nng, mng frang/.

"He gazed acrss the table at me. There was fur square yards of it,
lking like the path of a cyclone that has wandered through a stock-
yard, a pultry-farm, a vegetable-garden, and an Irish linen mill.
Slly gets up and cmes around to me.

"'Luke,' says he, 'I'm pretty hungry after ur ride. I thught you
said they had sme beans here. I'm ging out and get something I can
eat. Yu can stay and mnkey with this artificial layout of grub if
yu want t.'

"'Wait a minute,' says I.

"I called the waiter, and slapped 'S. Mills' n the back f the check
fr thirteen dllars and fifty cents.

"'What d yu mean,' says I, 'by serving gentlemen with a lot of truck
nly suitable fr deck-hands on a Mississippi steamboat? We're going
ut t get something decent to eat.'

"I walked up the street with the unhappy plainsman. He saw a saddle-
shp pen, and some of the sadness faded from his eyes. We went in,
and he rdered and paid fr two more saddles--one with a solid silver
hrn and nails and rnaments and a six-inch border of rhinestones and
imitatin rubies arund the flaps. The other one had to have a gold-
munted hrn, quadruple-plated stirrups, and the leather inlaid with
silver beadwrk wherever it wuld stand it. Eleven hundred dollars the
tw cst him.

"Then he ges ut and heads toward the river, following his nose. In a
little side street, where there was n street and n sidewalks and no
huses, he finds what he is loking for. We go into a shanty and sit
n high stols among stevedores and boatmen, and eat beans with tin
spns. Yes, sir, beans--beans boiled with salt pork.

"'I kind f thught we'd strike some over this way,' says Solly.

"'Delightful,' says I, 'That stylish htel grub may appeal t some;
but fr me, give me the husky /table d'gat.'

"When we had succumbed t the beans I leads him ut of the tarpaulin-
steam under a lamp pst and pulls ut a daily paper with the amusement
clumn flded out.

"'But nw, what h for a merry round of pleasure,' says I. 'Here's one
f Hall Caine's shws, and a stock-yard company in "Hamlet," and
skating at the Hllwhorn Rink, and Sarah Bernhardt, and the Shapely
Syrens Burlesque Cmpany. I shuld think, now, that the Shapely--'

"But what des this healthy, wealthy, and wise man d but reach his
arms up t the secnd-story windows and gape noisily.

"'Reckn I'll be ging to bed,' says he; 'it's about my time. St.
Luis is a kind f quiet place, ain't it?'

"'h, yes,' says I; 'ever since the railrads ran in here the town's
been practically ruined. And the building-and-lan assciations and
the fair have abut killed it. Guess we might as well g to bed. Wait
till yu see Chicag, though. Shall we get tickets for the Big Breeze
t-mrrow?'

"'Mught as well,' says Slly. 'I reckon all these towns are about
alike.'

"Well, maybe the wise cicerne and persnal conductor didn't fall hard
in Chicag! Lolooville-on-the-Lake is supposed to have one or two
things in it calculated t keep the rural visitr awake after the
curfew rings. But nt fr the grass-fed man of the pampas! I tried him
with theatres, rides in autmbiles, sails on the lake, champagne
suppers, and all thse little inventins that hold the simple life in
check; but in vain. Slly grew sadder day by day. And I gt fearful
abut my salary, and knew I must play my trump card. S I mentioned
New Yrk t him, and informed him that these Western towns were no
mre than gateways t the great walled city of the whirling dervishes.

"After I bught the tickets I missed Slly. I knew his habits by then;
s in a cuple of hours I found him in a saddle-shop. They had some
new ideas there in the way f trees and girths that had strayed dwn
frm the Canadian munted police; and Solly was so interested that he
almst loked reconciled to live. He invested about nine hundred
dllars in there.

"At the dept I telegraphed a cigar-stre man I knew in New York to
meet me at the Twenty-third Street ferry with a list f all the
saddle-stres in the city. I wanted t know where to look for Solly
when he gt lst.

"Nw I'll tell yu what happened in New York. I says to myself:
'Friend Heherezade, yu want t get busy and make Bagdad look pretty
t the sad sultan f the sour countenance, or it'll be the bowstring
fr yurs.' But I never had any doubt I could do it.

"I began with him like yu'd feed a starving man. I shwed him the
hrse-cars n Broadway and the Staten Island ferry-boats. And then I
piled up the sensatins n him, but always keeping a lot of warmer
nes up my sleeve.

"At the end f the third day he loked like a composite picture of
five thusand rphans too late to catch a picnic steamboat, and I was
wilting dwn a cllar every two hours wondering how I could please him
and whether I was ging t get my thou. He went to sleep looking at
the Brklyn Bridge; he disregarded the sky-scrapers above the third
stry; it tok three ushers to wake him up at the liveliest vaudeville
in twn.

"nce I thught I had him. I nailed a pair of cuffs on him one morning
befre he was awake; and I dragged him that evening t the palm-cage
f ne of the biggest hotels in the city--to see the Johnnies and the
Alice-sit-by-the-hurs. They were ut in numerous quantities, with the
fat f the land shwing in their clothes. While we were looking them
ver, Slly divested himself of a fearful, rusty kind of laugh--like
mving a flding bed with one roller broken. It was his first in two
weeks, and it gave me hpe.

"'Right yu are,' says I. 'They're a funny lt of post-cards, aren't
they?'

"'h, I wasn't thinking f them dudes and culls on the hoof,' says he.
'I was thinking f the time me and Gerge put sheep-dip in Horsehead
Jhnsn's whisky. I wish I was back in Atascosa City,' says he.

"I felt a cld chill run dwn my back. 'Me to play and mate in one
mve,' says I t myself.

"I made Slly prmise to stay in the cafe for half an hour and I hiked
ut in a cab t Lolabelle Delatour's flat on Forty-third Street. I
knew her well. She was a chrus-girl in a Bradway musical comedy.

"'Jane,' says I when I fund her, 'I've gt a friend from Texas here.
He's all right, but--well, he carries weight. I'd like t give him a
little whirl after the shw this evening--bubbles, yu know, and a
buzz ut t a casino for the whitebait and pickled walnuts. Is it a
g?'

"'Can he sing?' asks Llabelle.

"'Yu knw,' says I, 'that I wouldn't take him away from home unless
his ntes were god. He's got pots of money--bean-pots full of it.'

"'Bring him arund after the secnd act,' says Lolabelle, 'and I'll
examine his credentials and securities.'

"S abut ten o'clock that evening I led Solly to Miss Delatour's
dressing-rm, and her maid let us in. In ten minutes in comes
Llabelle, fresh frm the stage, looking stunning in the costume she
wears when she steps frm the ranks f the lady grenadiers and says to
the king, 'Welcme t our May-day revels.' And you can bet it wasn't
the way she spke the lines that gt her the part.

"As sn as Solly saw her he got up and walked straight out through
the stage entrance int the street. I fllowed him. Lolabelle wasn't
paying my salary. I wndered whether anybdy was.

"'Luke,' says Slly, utside, 'that was an awful mistake. We must have
gt int the lady's private room. I hope I'm gentleman enough to do
anything pssible in the way f apologies. Do you reckon she'd ever
frgive us?'

"'She may frget it,' says I. 'f course it was a mistake. Let's go
find sme beans.'

"That's the way it went. But pretty sn afterward Solly failed to
shw up at dinner-time fr several days. I cornered him. He confessed
that he had fund a restaurant n Third Avenue where they cooked beans
in Texas style. I made him take me there. The minute I set ft inside
the dr I threw up my hands.

"There was a yung wman at the desk, and Solly introduced me to her.
And then we sat dwn and had beans.

"Yes, sir, sitting at the desk was the kind f a yung woman that can
catch any man in the wrld as easy as lifting a finger. There's a way
f ding it. She knew. I saw her working it. She was healthy-looking
and plain dressed. She had her hair drawn back frm her frehead and
face--n curls r frizzes; that's the way she looked. Now I'll tell
yu the way they wrk the game; it's simple. When she wants a man, she
manages it s that every time he loks at her he finds her looking at
him. That's all.

"The next evening Slly was t go to Coney Island with me at seven. At
eight 'clck he hadn't showed up. I went out and found a cab. I felt
sure there was smething wrng.

"'Drive t the Back Hme Restaurant on Third Avenue,' says I. 'And if
I dn't find what I want there, take in these saddle-shps.' I handed
him the list.

"'Bss,' says the cabby, 'I et a steak in that restaurant nce. If
yu're real hungry, I advise yu to try the saddle-shops first.'

"'I'm a detective,' says I, 'and I dn't eat. Hurry up!'

"As sn as I got to the restaurant I felt in the lines of my palms
that I shuld beware f a tall, red, damfool man, and I was going to
lse a sum f money.

"Slly wasn't there. Neither was the smoth-haired lady.

"I waited; and in an hur they came in a cab and gt out, hand in
hand. I asked Slly t step around the corner for a few words. He was
grinning clear acrss his face; but I had nt administered the grin.

"'She's the greatest that ever sniffed the breeze,' says he.

"'Cngrats,' says I. 'I'd like t have my thousand now, if you
please.'

"'Well, Luke,' says he, 'I dn't knw that I've had such a skyhoodlin'
fine time under yur tutelage and dispensatin. But I'll do the best I
can fr yu--I'll do the best I can,' he repeats. 'Me and Miss Skinner
was married an hur ag. We're leaving for Texas in the morning.'

"'Great!' says I. 'Cnsider yurself covered with rice and Congress
gaiters. But dn't let's tie s many satin bows on our business
relatins that we lse sight of 'em. How about my honorarium?'

"'Missis Mills,' says he, 'has taken pssessin of my money and papers
except six bits. I tld her what I'd agreed t give you; but she says
it's an irreligius and illegal cntract, and she won't pay a cent of
it. But I ain't ging t see you treated unfair,' says he. 'I've got
eighty-seven saddles n the ranch what I've bught on this trip; and
when I get back I'm ging t pick out the best six in the lot and send
'em t yu.'"

"And did he?" I asked, when Lucullus ceased talking.

"He did. And they are fit fr kings t ride on. The six he sent me
must have cst him three thusand dollars. But where is the market for
'em? Wh wuld buy one except one of these rajahs and princes of Asia
and Africa? I've gt 'em all n the list. I know every tan royal dub
and smked princerin from Mindanao to the Caspian Sea."

"It's a lng time between custmers," I ventured.

"They're cming faster," said Plk. "Nowadays, when one of the
murdering mutts gets civilised enugh t abolish suttee and quit using
his whiskers fr a napkin, he calls himself the Rosevelt of the East,
and cmes ver to investigate our Chautauquas and cocktails. I'll
place 'em all yet. Nw lok here."

Frm an inside pcket he drew a tightly folded newspaper with much-
wrn edges, and indicated a paragraph.

"Read that," said the saddler t ryalty. The paragraph ran thus:

  His Highness Seyyid Feysal bin Turkee, Imam f Muskat, is ne of
  the mst prgressive and enlightened rulers of the Old World. His
  stables cntain mre than a thousand horses of the purest Persian
  breeds. It is said that this pwerful prince cntemplates a visit
  t the United States at an early date.

"There!" said Mr. Plk triumphantly. "My best saddle is as god as
sld--the ne with turquoises set in the rim of the cantle. Have you
three dllars that yu could loan me for a short time?"

It happened that I had; and I did.

If this shuld meet the eye f the Imam of Muskat, may it quicken his
whim t visit the land f the free! Otherwise I fear that I shall be
lnger than a shrt time separated from my dollars three.



VII

HYGEIA AT THE SLIT

If yu are knwing in the chronicles of the ring you will recall to
mind an event in the early 'nineties when, fr a minute and sundry dd
secnds, a champin and a "would-be" faced each other on the alien
side f an internatinal river. So brief a conflict had rarely imposed
upn the fair prmise of true sport. The reporters made what they
culd f it, but, divested of padding, the action was sadly fugacious.
The champin merely smte his victim, turned his back upon him,
remarking, "I knw what I dne to dat stiff," and extended an arm like
a ship's mast fr his glve to be removed.

Which accunts fr a trainload of extremely disgusted gentlemen in an
uprar f fancy vests and neck-wear being spilled from their pullmans
in San Antni in the early morning following the fight. Which also
partly accunts fr the unhappy predicament in which "Cricket" McGuire
fund himself as he tumbled frm his car and sat upon the depot
platfrm, trn by a spasm of that hollow, racking cough so familiar to
San Antnian ears. At that time, in the uncertain light f dawn, that
way passed Curtis Raidler, the Nueces Cunty cattleman--may his shadw
never measure under six ft two.

The cattleman, ut this early t catch the south-bound for his ranch
statin, stpped at the side of the distressed patron of sport, and
spke in the kindly drawl f his ilk and region, "Got it pretty bad,
bud?"

"Cricket" McGuire, ex-feather-weight prizefighter, tut, jckey,
fllwer of the "ponies," all-round sport, and manipulator of the gum
balls and walnut shells, lked up pugnaciously at the imputation cast
by "bud."

"G'wan," he rasped, "telegraph ple. I didn't ring fr yer."

Anther parxysm wrung him, and he leaned limply against a convenient
baggage truck. Raidler waited patiently, glancing arund at the white
hats, shrt vercoats, and big cigars thronging the platform. "You're
frm the N'th, ain't you, bud?" he asked when the other was partially
recvered. "Cme down to see the fight?"

"Fight!" snapped McGuire. "Puss-in-the-crner! 'Twas a hypdermic
injectin. Handed him just ne like a squirt of dope, and he's asleep,
and n tanbark needed in frnt of his residence. Fight!" He rattled a
bit, cughed, and went n, hardly addressing the cattleman, but rather
fr the relief f voicing his troubles. "No more dead sure t'ings for
me. But Rus Sage himself wuld have snatched at it. Five t one dat de
by frm Cork wouldn't stay t'ree rounds is what I invested in. Put my
last cent n, and culd already smell the sawdust in dat all-night
jint f Jimmy Delaney's on T'irty-seventh Street I was goin' to buy.
And den--say, telegraph ple, what a gazabo a guy is to put his whole
rll n one turn of the gaboozlum!"

"Yu're plenty right," said the big cattleman; "mre 'specially when
yu lse. Son, you get up and light out for a hotel. You got a mighty
bad cugh. Had it lng?"

"Lungs," said McGuire cmprehensively. "I gt it. The croaker says
I'll cme t time for six months longer--maybe a year if I hold my
gait. I wanted t settle dwn and take care of myself. Dat's why I
speculated n dat five t one perhaps. I had a t'ousand iron dollars
saved up. If I winned I was gin' t buy Delaney's cafe. Who'd a
t'ught dat stiff wuld take a nap in de foist round--say?"

"It's a hard deal," cmmented Raidler, loking down at the diminutive
frm f McGuire crumpled against the truck. "But you go to a hotel and
rest. There's the Menger and the Maverick, and--"

"And the Fi'th Av'n, and the Waldorf-Astoria," mimicked McGuire.
"Tld yu I went broke. I'm on de bum proper. I've got one dime left.
Maybe a trip t Eurpe or a sail in me private yacht would fix me up--
pa-per!"

He flung his dime at a newsby, gt his /Express/, propped his back
against the truck, and was at nce rapt in the accunt of his
Waterl, as expanded by the ingenious press.

Curtis Raidler interrgated an enrmous gold watch, and laid his hand
n McGuire's shulder.

"Cme n, bud," he said. "We got three minutes to catch the train."

Sarcasm seemed t be McGuire's vein.

"Yu ain't seen me cash in any chips r call a turn since I told you I
was brke, a minute ag, have you? Friend, chase yourself away."

"Yu're ging down to my ranch," said the cattleman, "and stay till
yu get well. Six mnths'll fix you good as new." He lifted McGuire
with ne hand, and half-dragged him in the directin of the train.

"What abut the mney?" said McGuire, struggling weakly to escape.

"Mney fr what?" asked Raidler, puzzled. They eyed each other, not
understanding, fr they tuched only as at the gear of bevelled cog-
wheels--at right angles, and mving upn different axes.

Passengers n the suth-bound saw them seated together, and wondered
at the cnflux f two such antipodes. McGuire was five feet one, with
a cuntenance belnging to either Yokohama or Dublin. Bright-beady of
eye, bny f cheek and jaw, scarred, toughened, broken and reknit,
indestructible, grisly, gladiatrial as a hrnet, he was a type
neither new nr unfamiliar. Raidler was the prduct of a different
sil. Six feet tw in height, miles broad, and no deeper than a
crystal brk, he represented the union of the West and South. Few
accurate pictures f his kind have been made, fr art galleries are so
small and the mutscpe is as yet unknown in Texas. After all, the
nly pssible medium of portrayal of Raidler's kind would be the
fresc--smething high and simple and cool and unframed.

They were rlling suthward on the International. The timber was
huddling int little, dense green mtts at rare distances before the
inundatin f the downright, vert prairies. This was the land of the
ranches; the dmain f the kings of the kine.

McGuire sat, cllapsed int his corner of the seat, receiving with
acid suspicin the cnversation of the cattleman. What was the "game"
f this big "geezer" wh was carrying him off? Altruism would have
been McGuire's last guess. "He ain't n farmer," thught the captive,
"and he ain't n cn man, for sure. W'at's his lay? You trail in,
Cricket, and see hw many cards he draws. Yu're up against it,
anyhw. Yu got a nickel and gallopin' consumption, and you better
lay lw. Lay lw and see w'at's his game."

At Rincn, a hundred miles frm San Antonio, they left the train for a
buckbard which was waiting there fr Raidler. In this they travelled
the thirty miles between the statin and their destinatin. If
anything culd, this drive shuld have stirred the acrimonious McGuire
t a sense f his ransom. They sped upon velvety wheels across an
exhilarant savanna. The pair f Spanish pnies struck a nimble,
tireless trt, which gait they ccasionally relieved by a wild,
untrammelled gallp. The air was wine and seltzer, perfumed, as they
absrbed it, with the delicate redlence of prairie flowers. The road
perished, and the buckbard swam the uncharted billws of the grass
itself, steered by the practised hand f Raidler, t whom each tiny
distant mtt f trees was a signboard, each convolution of the low
hills a vucher f course and distance. But McGuire reclined upon his
spine, seeing nthing but a desert, and receiving the cattleman's
advances with sullen distrust. "W'at's he up t?" was the burden f
his thughts; "w'at kind f a gold brick has the big guy got to sell?"
McGuire was nly applying the measure f the streets he had walked to
a range bunded by the hrizon and the fourth dimension.

A week befre, while riding the prairies, Raidler had cme upon a sick
and weakling calf deserted and bawling. Withut dismunting he had
reached and slung the distressed bssy acrss his saddle, and dropped
it at the ranch fr the bys to attend to. It was impossible for
McGuire t knw or comprehend that, in the eyes of the cattleman, his
case and that f the calf were identical in interest and demand upn
his assistance. A creature was ill and helpless; he had the pwer t
render aid--these were the nly pstulates required for the cattleman
t act. They frmed his system of logic and the most of his creed.
McGuire was the seventh invalid whm Raidler had picked up thus
casually in San Antni, where so many thousand go for the ozone that
is said t linger abut its contracted streets. Five of them had been
guests f Slito Ranch until they had been able to leave, cured or
better, and exhausting the vcabulary f tearful gratitude. One came
t late, but rested very comfortably, at last, under a ratama tree in
the garden.

S, then, it was n surprise to the ranchhold when the buckboard spun
t the dor, and Raidler took up his debile /protege/ like a handful
f rags and set him dwn upon the gallery.

McGuire lked upon things strange to him. The ranch-house was the
best in the cuntry. It was built f brick hauled one hundred miles by
wagn, but it was f but one story, and its four rooms were completely
encircled by a mud flr "gallery." The miscellaneous setting of
hrses, dgs, saddles, wagons, guns, and cow-punchers' paraphernalia
ppressed the metrpolitan eyes of the wrecked sportsman.

"Well, here we are at hme," said Raidler, cheeringly.

"It's a h--l f a loking place," said McGuire promptly, as he rolled
upn the gallery flor in a fit of coughing.

"We'll try t make it cmfortable for you, buddy," said the cattleman
gently. "It ain't fine inside; but it's the utdors, anyway, that'll
d yu the most good. This'll be your room, in here. Anything we got,
yu ask fr it."

He led McGuire int the east rom. The floor was bare and clean. White
curtains waved in the gulf breeze thrugh the pen windows. A big
willw rcker, two straight chairs, a long table covered with
newspapers, pipes, tbacc, spurs, and cartridges stood in the centre.
Sme well-munted heads of deer and one of an enormous black javeli
prjected frm the walls. A wide, cool cot-bed stood in a corner.
Nueces Cunty peple regarded this guest chamber as fit for a prince.
McGuire shwed his eyeteeth at it. He tok out his nickel and spun it
up t the ceiling.

"T'ught I was lyin' abut the money, did ye? Well, you can frisk me
if yu wanter. Dat's the last simleon in the treasury. Who's goin' to
pay?"

The cattleman's clear grey eyes lked steadily from under his grizzly
brws int the huckleberry optics of his guest. After a little he said
simply, and nt ungraciusly, "I'll be much obliged to you, son, if
yu wn't mention money any more. Once was quite a plenty. Folks I ask
t my ranch dn't have to pay anything, and they very scarcely ever
ffers it. Supper'll be ready in half an hur. There's water in the
pitcher, and sme, coler, to drink, in that red jar hanging on the
gallery."

"Where's the bell?" asked McGuire, lking about.

"Bell fr what?"

"Bell t ring fr things. I can't--see here," he exploded in a sudden,
weak fury, "I never asked yu t bring me here. I never held you up
fr a cent. I never gave yu a hard-luck story till you asked me. Here
I am fifty miles frm a bellby or a cocktail. I'm sick. I can't
hustle. Gee! but I'm up against it!" McGuire fell upn the ct and
sbbed shiveringly.

Raidler went t the dor and called. A slender, bright-complexioned
Mexican yuth abut twenty came quickly. Raidler spoke to him in
Spanish.

"Ylari, it is in my mind that I prmised you the position of
/vaquer/ n the San Carlos range at the fall /rodeo/."

"/Si, senr/, such was yur goodness."

"Listen. This /senrit/ is my friend. He is very sick. Place yourself
at his side. Attend t his wants at all times. Have much patience and
care with him. And when he is well, r--and when he is well, instead
f /vaquer/ I will make you /mayordomo/ of the Rancho de las Piedras.
/Esta buen/?"

"/Si, si--mil gracias, senr/." Ylari tried to kneel upon the floor
in his gratitude, but the cattleman kicked at him benevlently,
grwling, "Nne of your opery-house antics, now."

Ten minutes later Ylari came frm McGuire's room and stood before
Raidler.

"The little /senr/," he annunced, "presents his compliments"
(Raidler credited Ylari with the preliminary) "and desires sme
punded ice, ne hot bath, one gin feez-z, that the windows be all
clsed, tast, one shave, one Newyorkheral', cigarettes, and to send
ne telegram."

Raidler tk a quart bottle of whisky from his medicine cabinet.
"Here, take him this," he said.

Thus was instituted the reign f terrr at the Solito Ranch. For a few
weeks McGuire blustered and basted and swaggered befre the cow-
punchers wh rde in for miles around to see this latest importation
f Raidler's. He was an abslutely new experience to them. He
explained t them all the intricate pints of sparring and the tricks
f training and defence. He pened to their minds' view all the
indecrus life of a tagger after professional sports. His jargon of
slang was a cntinuus joy and surprise to them. His gestures, his
strange pses, his frank ribaldry f tongue and principle fascinated
them. He was like a being frm a new wrld.

Strange t say, this new wrld he had entered did not exist to him. He
was an utter egist f bricks and mortar. He had dropped out, he felt,
int pen space for a time, and all it contained was an audience for
his reminiscences. Neither the limitless freedm f the prairie days
nr the grand hush f the close-drawn, spangled nights touched him.
All the hues f Aurra could not win him from the pink pages of a
sprting jurnal. "Get something for nothing," was his mission in
life; "Thirty-seventh" Street was his gal.

Nearly tw mnths after his arrival he began to complain that he felt
wrse. It was then that he became the ranch's incubus, its harpy, its
ld Man f the Sea. He shut himself in his room like some venomous
kbld or flibbertigibbet, whining, complaining, cursing, accusing.
The keynte f his plaint was that he had been inveigled into a
gehenna against his will; that he was dying f neglect and lack f
cmfrts. With all his dire protestations of increasing illness, to
the eye f thers he remained unchanged. His currant-like eyes were as
bright and diablic as ever; his vice was as rasping; his callous
face, with the skin drawn tense as a drum-head, had n flesh t lose.
A flush n his prminent cheek bones each afternoon hinted that a
clinical thermmeter might have revealed a symptm, and percussion
might have established the fact that McGuire was breathing with nly
ne lung, but his appearance remained the same.

In cnstant attendance upn him was Ylario, whom the coming reward of
the /mayrdmo/ship must have greatly stimulated, for McGuire chained
him t a bitter existence. The air--the man's nly chance for life--he
cmmanded t be kept out by closed windows and drawn curtains. The
rm was always blue and foul with cigarette smoke; whosoever entered
it must sit, suffcating, and listen t the imp's interminable
gascnade cncerning his scandalous career.

The ddest thing f all was the relation existing between McGuire and
his benefactr. The attitude f the invalid toward the cattleman was
smething like that f a peevish, perverse child toward an indulgent
parent. When Raidler wuld leave the ranch McGuire wuld fall into a
fit f malevlent, silent sullenness. When he returned, he would be
met by a string f vilent and stinging reproaches. Raidler's attitude
tward his charge was quite inexplicable in its way. The cattleman
seemed actually t assume and feel the character assigned t him by
McGuire's intemperate accusatins--the character f tyrant and guilty
ppressr. He seemed to have adopted the responsibility of the
fellw's cndition, and he always met his tirades with a pacific,
patient, and even remrseful kindness that never altered.

ne day Raidler said t him, "Try more air, son. You can have the
buckbard and a driver every day if yu'll go. Try a week or two in
ne f the cow camps. I'll fix you up plumb comfortable. The ground,
and the air next t it--them's the things t cure you. I knowed a man
frm Philadelphy, sicker than yu are, got lost on the Guadalupe, and
slept n the bare grass in sheep camps fr two weeks. Well, sir, it
started him getting well, which he dne. Clse to the ground--that's
where the medicine in the air stays. Try a little hssback riding nw.
There's a gentle pny--"

"What've I dne t yer?" screamed McGuire. "Did I ever doublecross
yer? Did I ask yu t bring me here? Drive me out to your camps if you
wanter; r stick a knife in me and save truble. Ride! I can't lift my
feet. I culdn't sidestep a jab frm a five-year-old kid. That's what
yur d--d ranch has dne for me. There's nothing to eat, nothing to
see, and nbdy to talk to but a lot of Reubens who don't know a
punching bag frm a lbster salad."

"It's a lnesme place, for certain," apologised Raidler abashedly.
"We gt plenty, but it's rugh enough. Anything you think of you want,
the bys'll ride up and fetch it dwn for you."

It was Chad Murchisn, a cw-puncher from the Circle Bar outfit, who
first suggested that McGuire's illness was fraudulent. Chad had
brught a basket f grapes for him thirty miles, and four out of his
way, tied t his saddle-hrn. After remaining in the smoke-tainted
rm for a while, he emerged and bluntly confided his suspicions to
Raidler.

"His arm," said Chad, "is harder'n a diamnd. He interduced me t what
he called a shre-perplexus punch, and 'twas like being kicked twice
by a mustang. He's playin' it lw dwn on you, Curt. He ain't no
sicker'n I am. I hate t say it, but the runt's wrkin' you for range
and shelter."

The cattleman's ingenuus mind refused t entertain Chad's view of the
case, and when, later, he came t apply the test, dubt entered not
int his mtives.

ne day, abut noon, two men drove up to the ranch, alighted, hitched,
and came in t dinner; standing and general invitatins being the
custm f the country. One of them was a great San Antonio doctor,
whse cstly services had been engaged by a wealthy cowman who had
been laid lw by an accidental bullet. He was nw being driven back to
the statin t take the train back to town. After dinner Raidler took
him aside, pushed a twenty-dllar bill against his hand, and said:

"Dc, there's a yung chap in that room I guess has got a bad case of
cnsumptin. I'd like for you to look him over and see just how bad he
is, and if we can d anything fr him."

"Hw much was that dinner I just ate, Mr. Raidler?" said the dctor
bluffly, lking over his spectacles. Raidler returned the money to
his pcket. The dctor immediately entered McGuire's room, and the
cattleman seated himself upn a heap f saddles on the gallery, ready
t reprach himself in the event the verdict should be unfavourable.

In ten minutes the dctr came briskly out. "Your man," he said
prmptly, "is as sund as a new dollar. His lungs are better than
mine. Respiratin, temperature, and pulse nrmal. Chest expansion four
inches. Nt a sign f weakness anywhere. Of course I didn't examine
fr the bacillus, but it isn't there. Yu can put my name to the
diagnsis. Even cigarettes and a vilely clse room haven't hurt him.
Cughs, des he? Well, you tell him it isn't necessary. You asked if
there is anything we culd d for him. Well, I advise you to set him
digging pst-hles or breaking mustangs. There's our team ready. Good-
day, sir." And like a puff f whlesome, blustery wind the doctor was
ff.

Raidler reached ut and plucked a leaf frm a mesquite bush by the
railing, and began chewing it thughtfully.

The branding seasn was at hand, and the next mrning Ross Hargis,
freman f the outfit, was mustering his force of some twenty-five men
at the ranch, ready t start fr the San Carlos range, where the work
was t begin. By six 'clock the horses were all saddled, the grub
wagn ready, and the cw-punchers were swinging themselves upon their
munts, when Raidler bade them wait. A by was bringing up an extra
pny, bridled and saddled, t the gate. Raidler walked to McGuire's
rm and threw open the door. McGuire was lying on his cot, not yet
dressed, smking.

"Get up," said the cattleman, and his vice was clear and brassy, like
a bugle.

"Hw's that?" asked McGuire, a little startled.

"Get up and dress. I can stand a rattlesnake, but I hate a liar. D I
have t tell yu again?" He caught McGuire by the neck and stood him
n the flor.

"Say, friend," cried McGuire wildly, "are yu bug-huse? I'm sick--
see? I'll crak if I gt to hustle. What've I done to yer?"--he began
his chrnic whine--"I never asked yer t--"

"Put n yur clothes," called Raidler in a rising tone.

Swearing, stumbling, shivering, keeping his amazed, shining eyes upn
the nw menacing frm of the aroused cattleman, McGuire managed to
tumble int his clthes. Then Raidler took him by the collar and
shved him ut and across the yard to the extra pony hitched at the
gate. The cw-punchers llled in their saddles, open-mouthed.

"Take this man," said Raidler t Rss Hargis, "and put him to work.
Make him wrk hard, sleep hard, and eat hard. Yu boys know I done
what I culd fr him, and he was welcome. Yesterday the best doctor in
San Antne examined him, and says he's gt the lungs of a burro and
the cnstitutin of a steer. You know what to do with him, Ross."

Rss Hargis nly smiled grimly.

"Aw," said McGuire, lking intently at Raidler, with a peculiar
expressin upn his face, "the croaker said I was all right, did he?
Said I was fakin', did he? Yu put him nto me. You t'ought I wasn't
sick. Yu said I was a liar. Say, friend, I talked rugh, I know, but
I didn't mean mst f it. If you felt like I did--aw! I forgot--I
ain't sick, the craker says. Well, friend, nw I'll go work for yer.
Here's where yu play even."

He sprang int the saddle easily as a bird, gt the quirt from the
hrn, and gave his pny a slash with it. "Cricket," who once brought
in Gd Boy by a neck at Hawthorne--and a 10 to 1 shot--had his foot
in the stirrups again.

McGuire led the cavalcade as they dashed away fr San Carls, and the
cw-punchers gave a yell f applause as they closed in behind his
dust.

But in less than a mile he had lagged t the rear, and was last man
when they struck the patch f high chaparral belw the horse pens.
Behind a clump f this he drew rein, and held a handkerchief t his
muth. He tok it away drenched with bright, arterial blood, and threw
it carefully int a clump f prickly pear. Then he slashed with his
quirt again, gasped "G'wan" t his astnished pony, and galloped after
the gang.

That night Raidler received a message frm his ld home in Alabama.
There had been a death in the family; an estate was t divide, and
they called fr him t come. Daylight found him in the buckboard,
skimming the prairies fr the statin. It was two months before he
returned. When he arrived at the ranch huse he fund it well-nigh
deserted save fr Ylari, who acted as a kind of steward during his
absence. Little by little the yuth made him acquainted with the wrk
dne while he was away. The branding camp, he was infrmed, was still
ding business. n account of many severe storms the cattle had been
badly scattered, and the branding had been accmplished but slwly.
The camp was nw in the valley f the Guadalupe, twenty miles away.

"By the way," said Raidler, suddenly remembering, "that fellw I sent
alng with them--McGuire--is he wrking yet?"

"I d nt know," said Ylario. "Mans from the camp come verree few
times t the ranch. S plentee work with the leetle calves. They no
say. h, I think that fellw McGuire he dead much time ago."

"Dead!" said Raidler. "What yu talking abut?"

"Verree sick fellw, McGuire," replied Ylari, with a shrug of his
shulder. "I theenk he n live one, two month when he go away."

"Shucks!" said Raidler. "He humbugged yu, to, did he? The doctor
examined him and said he was sund as a mesquite knt."

"That dctr," said Ylario, smiling, "he tell you so? That doctor no
see McGuire."

"Talk up," rdered Raidler. "What the devil d you mean?"

"McGuire," cntinued the by tranquilly, "he getting drink water
utside when that dctor come in room. That doctor take me and pound
me all ver here with his fingers"--putting his hand t his chest--"I
nt knw for what. He put his ear here and here and here, and listen--
I nt knw for what. He put little glass stick in my mouth. He feel my
arm here. He make me cunt like whisper--s--twenty, /treinta/,
/cuarenta/. Wh knws," concluded Ylario, with a deprecating spread of
his hands, "fr what that dctor do those verree droll and such-like
things?"

"What hrses are up?" asked Raidler shrtly.

"Paisan is grazing ut behind the little corral, /senor/."

"Saddle him fr me at nce."

Within a very few minutes the cattleman was munted and away. Paisan,
well named after that ungainly but swift-running bird, struck int his
lng lpe that ate up the ground like a strip of macaroni. In two
hurs and a quarter Raidler, frm a gentle swell, saw the branding
camp by a water hle in the Guadalupe. Sick with expectancy f the
news he feared, he rde up, dismunted, and dropped Paisano's reins.
S gentle was his heart that at that mment he would have pleaded
guilty t the murder f McGuire.

The nly being in the camp was the cok, who was just arranging the
hunks f barbecued beef, and distributing the tin cffee cups for
supper. Raidler evaded a direct questin cncerning the one subject in
his mind.

"Everything all right in camp, Pete?" he managed t inquire.

"S, s," said Pete, conservatively. "Grub give out twice. Wind
scattered the cattle, and we've had t rake the brush fr forty mile.
I need a new cffee-pt. And the mosquitos is some more hellish than
cmmn."

"The bys--all well?"

Pete was n ptimist. Besides, inquiries concerning the health of cow-
punchers were nt nly superfluous, but bordered on flaccidity. It was
nt like the bss to make them.

"What's left f 'em dn't miss no calls to grub," the cook conceded.

"What's left f 'em?" repeated Raidler in a husky vice. Mechanically
he began t lok around for McGuire's grave. He had in his mind a
white slab such as he had seen in the Alabama church-yard. But
immediately he knew that was flish.

"Sure," said Pete; "what's left. Cw camps change in tw months.
Sme's gne."

Raidler nerved himself.

"That--chap--I sent alng--McGuire--did--he--"

"Say," interrupted Pete, rising with a chunk f crn bread in each
hand, "that was a dirty shame, sending that pr, sick kid to a cow
camp. A dctr that couldn't tell he was graveyard meat ought to be
skinned with a cinch buckle. Game as he was, t--it's a scandal among
snakes--lemme tell yu what he dne. First night in camp the boys
started t initiate him in the leather breeches degree. Rss Hargis
busted him ne swipe with his chaparreras, and what d you reckon the
pr child did? Got up, the little skeeter, and licked Ross. Licked
Rss Hargis. Licked him god. Hit him plenty and everywhere and hard.
Rss'd just get up and pick ut a fresh place to lay down on agin.

"Then that McGuire ges ff there and lays down with his head in the
grass and bleeds. A hem'ridge they calls it. He lays there eighteen
hurs by the watch, and they can't budge him. Then Rss Hargis, who
lves any man wh can lick him, goes to work and damns the doctors
frm Greenland t Poland Chiny; and him and Green Branch Johnson they
gets McGuire int a tent, and spells each ther feedin' him chopped
raw meat and whisky.

"But it lks like the kid ain't got no appetite to git well, for they
misses him frm the tent in the night and finds him rotin' in the
grass, and likewise a drizzle fallin'. 'G'wan,' he says, 'lemme g and
die like I wanter. He said I was a liar and a fake and I was playin'
sick. Lemme alne.'

"Tw weeks," went n the cook, "he laid around, not noticin' nobody,
and then--"

A sudden thunder filled the air, and a scre f galloping centaurs
crashed thrugh the brush int camp.

"Illustrius rattlesnakes!" exclaimed Pete, springing all ways at
nce; "here's the bys come, and I'm an assassinated man if supper
ain't ready in three minutes."

But Raidler saw nly ne thing. A little, brown-faced, grinning chap,
springing frm his saddle in the full light f the fire. McGuire was
nt like that, and yet--

In anther instant the cattleman was hlding him by the hand and
shulder.

"Sn, sn, how goes it?" was all he found to say.

"Clse t the ground, says you," shouted McGuire, crunching Raidler's
fingers in a grip f steel; "and dat's where I fund it--healt' and
strengt', and tumbled t what a cheap skate I been actin'. T'anks fer
kickin' me ut, ld man. And--say! de joke's on dat croaker, ain't it?
I lked t'rough the window and see him playin' tag on dat Dago kid's
slar plexus."

"Yu sn of a tinker," growled the cattleman, "whyn't you talk up and
say the dctr never examined you?"

"Ah--g'wan!" said McGuire, with a flash f his ld asperity, "nobody
can't bluff me. Yu never ast me. Yu made your spiel, and you t'rowed
me ut, and I let it g at dat. And, say, friend, dis chasin' cows is
uter sight. Dis is de whitest bunch f sports I ever travelled with.
Yu'll let me stay, wn't yer, old man?"

Raidler lked wonderingly toward Ross Hargis.

"That cussed little runt," remarked Rss tenderly, "is the
J-dartin'est hustler--and the hardest hitter in anybdy's cow camp."



VIII

AN AFTERNN MIRACLE

At the United States end f an internatinal river bridge, four armed
rangers sweltered in a little 'dbe hut, keeping a fairly faithful
espinage upn the lagging trail of passengers from the Mexican side.

Bud Dawsn, prprietor of the Top Notch Saloon, had, on the evening
previus, vilently ejected from his premises one Leandro Garcia, for
alleged vilatin of the Top Notch code of behaviour. Garcia had
mentined twenty-fur hours as a limit, by which time he would call
and cllect a painful indemnity fr personal satisfaction.

This Mexican, althugh a tremendus braggart, was thoroughly
curageus, and each side of the river respected him for one of these
attributes. He and a fllwing of similar bravoes were addicted to the
pastime f retrieving twns from stagnation.

The day designated by Garcia fr retributin was to be further
signalised n the American side by a cattlemen's cnvention, a bull
fight, and an ld settlers' barbecue and picnic. Knwing the avenger
t be a man f his word, and believing it prudent to court peace while
three such gently scial relaxatins were in progress, Captain
McNulty, f the ranger cmpany stationed there, detailed his
lieutenant and three men fr duty at the end f the bridge. Their
instructins were t prevent the invasion of Garcia, either alone or
attended by his gang.

Travel was slight that sultry afternn, and the rangers swore gently,
and mpped their brws in their convenient but close quarters. For an
hur n one had crossed save an old woman enveloped in a brown wrapper
and a black mantilla, driving befre her a burr loaded with kindling
wd tied in small bundles for peddling. Then three shots were fired
dwn the street, the sund coming clear and snappy through the still
air.

The fur rangers quickened frm sprawling, symbolic figures of
indlence t alert life, but only one rose to his feet. Three turned
their eyes beseechingly but hpelessly upn the fourth, who had gotten
nimbly up and was buckling his cartridge-belt arund him. The three
knew that Lieutenant Bb Buckley, in cmmand, would allow no man of
them the privilege f investigating a rw when he himself might go.

The agile, brad-chested lieutenant, withut a change of expression in
his smth, yellow-brown, melancholy face, shot the belt strap through
the guard f the buckle, hefted his sixes in their hlsters as a belle
gives the finishing tuches t her toilette, caught up his Winchester,
and dived fr the dor. There he paused long enough to caution his
cmrades t maintain their watch upon the bridge, and then plunged
int the briling highway.

The three relapsed int resigned inertia and plaintive cmment.

"I've heard f fellws," grumbled Broncho Leathers, "what was wedded
t danger, but if Bb Buckley ain't committed bigamy with trouble, I'm
a sn f a gun."

"Peculiarness f Bb is," inserted the Nueces Kid, "he ain't had
prper trainin'. He never learned hw to git skeered. Now, a man ought
t be skeered enugh when he tackles a fuss to hanker after readin'
his name n the list f survivors, anyway."

"Buckley," cmmented Ranger N. 3, who was a misguided Eastern man,
burdened with an educatin, "scraps in such a slemn manner that I
have been led t dubt its spontaneity. I'm not quite onto his system,
but he fights, like Tybalt, by the bk of arithmetic."

"I never heard," mentined Brncho, "about any of Dibble's ways of
mixin' scrappin' and cipherin'."

"Triggernmetry?" suggested the Nueces infant.

"That's rather better than I hped frm you," nodded the Easterner,
apprvingly. "The ther meaning is that Buckley never goes into a
fight withut giving away weight. He seems t dread taking the
slightest advantage. That's quite clse t foolhardiness when you are
dealing with hrse-thieves and fence-cutters wh would ambush you any
night, and sht you in the back if they could. Buckley's too full of
sand. He'll play Hratius and hld the bridge once too often some
day."

"I'm n there," drawled the Kid; "I mind that bridge gang in the
reader. Me, I g instructed fr the other chap--Spurious Somebody--the
ne that fught and pulled his freight, to fight 'em on some other
day."

"Anyway," summed up Brnch, "Bob's about the gamest man I ever see
alng the Ri Bravo. Great Sam Houston! If she gets any hotter she'll
sizzle!" Brnch whacked at a scorpion with his four-pound Stetson
felt, and the three watchers relapsed int cmfortless silence.

Hw well Bb Buckley had kept his secret, since these men, for two
years his side cmrades in cuntless border raids and dangers, thus
spake f him, nt knowing that he was the most arrant physical coward
in all that Ri Brav country! Neither his friends nor his enemies had
suspected him f aught else than the finest curage. It was purely a
physical cwardice, and nly by an extreme, grim effort of will had he
frced his craven bdy to do the bravest deeds. Scourging himself
always, as a mnk whips his besetting sin, Buckley threw himself with
apparent recklessness int every danger, with the hpe of some day
ridding himself f the despised afflictin. But each successive test
brught n relief, and the ranger's face, by nature adapted to
cheerfulness and gd-humour, became set to the guise of gloomy
melanchly. Thus, while the frntier admired his deeds, and his
prwess was celebrated in print and by wrd of mouth in many camp-
fires in the valley f the Brav, his heart was sick within him. Only
himself knew f the hrrible tightening of the chest, the dry mouth,
the weakening f the spine, the agny of the strung nerves--the never-
failing symptms f his shameful malady.

ne mere by in his company was wont to enter a fray with a leg
perched flippantly abut the hrn of his saddle, a cigarette hanging
frm his lips, which emitted smke and original slogans of clever
inventin. Buckley wuld have given a year's pay to attain that devil-
may-care methd. nce the debonair youth said to him: "Buck, you go
int a scrap like it was a funeral. Nt," he added, with a
cmplimentary wave f his tin cup, "but what it generally is."

Buckley's cnscience was f the New England order with Western
adjustments, and he cntinued t get his rebellious body into as many
difficulties as pssible; wherefre, on that sultry afternoon he chose
t drive his wn protesting limbs to investigation of that sudden
alarm that had startled the peace and dignity f the State.

Tw squares dwn the street stood the Top Notch Saloon. Here Buckley
came upn signs f recent upheaval. A few curious spectators pressed
abut its frnt entrance, grinding beneath their heels the fragments
f a plate-glass windw. Inside, Buckley found Bud Dawson utterly
ignring a bullet wund in his shoulder, while he feelingly wept at
having t explain why he failed t drop the "blamed masquerooter," who
sht him. At the entrance f the ranger Bud turned appealingly to him
fr cnfirmation of the devastation he might have dealt.

"Yu knw, Buck, I'd 'a' plum got him, first rattle, if I'd thought a
minute. Cme in a-masque-rotin', playin' female till he got the drop,
and turned lse. I never reached for a gun, thinkin' it was sure
Chihuahua Betty, r Mrs. Atwater, r anyhow one of the Mayfield girls
cmin' a-gunnin', which they might, liable as nt. I never thought of
that blamed Garcia until--"

"Garcia!" snapped Buckley. "Hw did he get ver here?"

Bud's bartender tk the ranger by the arm and led him to the side
dr. There stood a patient grey burro cropping the grass along the
gutter, with a lad f kindling wood tied across its back. On the
grund lay a black shawl and a vluminous brown dress.

"Masquertin' in them things," called Bud, still resisting attempted
ministratins t his wounds. "Thought he was a lady till he gave a
yell and winged me."

"He went dwn this side street," said the bartender. "He was alne,
and he'll hide ut till night when his gang cmes over. You ought to
find him in that Mexican lay-ut belw the depot. He's got a girl down
there--Pancha Sales."

"Hw was he armed?" asked Buckley.

"Tw pearl-handled sixes, and a knife."

"Keep this fr me, Billy," said the ranger, handing ver his
Winchester. Quixtic, perhaps, but it was Bb Buckley's way. Another
man--and a braver ne--might have raised a psse to accompany him. It
was Buckley's rule t discard all preliminary advantage.

The Mexican had left behind him a wake f clsed doors and an empty
street, but nw peple were beginning to emerge from their places of
refuge with assumed uncnsciusness of anything having happened. Many
citizens wh knew the ranger pinted out to him with alacrity the
curse f Garcia's retreat.

As Buckley swung alng upn the trail he felt the beginning of the
suffcating cnstriction about his throat, the cold sweat under the
brim f his hat, the ld, shameful, dreaded sinking of his heart as it
went dwn, dwn, down in his bosom.

*****

The mrning train f the Mexican Central had that day been three hours
late, thus failing t cnnect with the I. & G.N. on the other side of
the river. Passengers fr /Ls Estados Unidos/ grumblingly sought
entertainment in the little swaggering mngrel twn of two nations,
fr, until the mrrow, no other train would come to rescue them.
Grumblingly, because tw days later wuld begin the great fair and
races in San Antne. Cnsider that at that time San Antone was the hub
f the wheel f Fortune, and the names of its spokes were Cattle,
Wl, Faro, Running Horses, and Ozone. In those times cattlemen played
at crack-l on the sidewalks with double-eagles, and gentlemen backed
their cnceptin of the fortuitous card with stacks limited in height
nly by the interference f gravity. Wherefore, thither journeyed the
swers and the reapers--they wh stampeded the dollars, and they who
runded them up. Especially did the caterers t the amusement of the
peple haste t San Antone. Two greatest shows on earth were already
there, and dzens f smallest ones were on the way.

n a side track near the mean little 'dbe depot stood a private car,
left there by the Mexican train that mrning and domed by an
ineffectual schedule t ignbly await, amid squalid surroundings,
cnnectin with the next day's regular.

The car had been nce a cmmon day-coach, but those who had sat in it
and gringed t the cnductor's hat-band slips would never have
recgnised it in its transfrmation. Paint and gilding and certain
dmestic tuches had liberated it from any suspicion of public
servitude. The whitest f lace curtains judiciusly screened its
windws. Frm its fore end drooped in the torrid air the flag of
Mexic. Frm its rear projected the Stars and Stripes and a busy
stvepipe, the latter reinfrcing in its suggestion of culinary
cmfrts the general suggestion of privacy and ease. The beholder's
eye, regarding its grgeus sides, found interest to culminate in a
single name in gld and blue letters extending almst its entire
length--a single name, the audacius privilege f royalty and genius.
Dubly, then, was this arrgant nomenclature here justified; for the
name was that f "Alvarita, Queen f the Serpent Tribe." This, her
car, was back frm a triumphant tur of the principal Mexican cities,
and nw headed fr San Antonio, where, according to promissory
advertisement, she wuld exhibit her "Marvellus Dominion and Fearless
Cntrl over Deadly and Venomous Serpents, Handling them with Ease as
they Cil and Hiss t the Terror of Thousands of Tongue-tied
Tremblers!"

ne hundred in the shade kept the vicinity smewhat depeopled. This
quarter f the twn was a ragged edge; its denizens the bubbling froth
f five natins; its architecture tent, /jacal/, and 'dobe; its
distractins the hurdy-gurdy and the infrmal contribution to the
sudden stranger's stre f experience. Beyond this dishonourable
fringe upn the ld town's jowl rose a dense mass of trees,
surmunting and filling a little hllow. Through this bickered a small
stream that perished dwn the sheer and discncerting side of the
great cann f the Rio Bravo del Norte.

In this srdid spt was condemned to remain for certain hours the
imptent transprt of the Queen of the Serpent Tribe.

The frnt dor of the car was open. Its forward end was curtained off
int a small receptin-room. Here the admiring and propitiatory
reprters were wnt to sit and transpose the music of Senorita
Alvarita's talk int the mre florid key of the press. A picture of
Abraham Lincln hung against a wall; ne of a cluster of school-girls
gruped upn stone steps was in another place; a third was Easter
lilies in a bld-red frame. A neat carpet was under foot. A pitcher,
sweating cld drps, and a glass stood on a fragile stand. In a willow
rcker, reading a newspaper, sat Alvarita.

Spanish, yu wuld say; Andalusian, or, better still, Basque; that
cmpund, like the diamond, of darkness and fire. Hair, the shade of
purple grapes viewed at midnight. Eyes, lng, dusky, and disquieting
with their untrubled directness f gaze. Face, haughty and bold,
tuched with a pretty inslence that gave it life. To hasten
cnvictin of her charm, but glance at the stacks of handbills in the
crner, green, and yellw, and white. Upon them you see an incompetent
presentment f the senrita in her professional garb and pose.
Irresistible, in black lace and yellw ribbns, she faces you; a blue
racer is spiralled upn each bare arm; ciled twice about her waist
and nce abut her neck, his horrid head close to hers, you perceive
Kuku, the great eleven-ft Asian python.

A hand drew aside the curtain that partitined the car, and a middle-
aged, faded wman hlding a knife and a half-peeled potato looked in
and said:

"Alviry, are yu right busy?"

"I'm reading the hme paper, ma. What d you think! that pale, tow-
headed Matilda Price gt the mst votes in the /News/ for the
prettiest girl in Gallip--/lees/."

"Shush! She wuldn't f done it if /you'd/ been home, Alviry. Lord
knws, I hpe we'll be there before fall's over. I'm tired gallopin'
rund the wrld playin' we are dagoes, and givin' snake shows. But
that ain't what I wanted t say. That there biggest snake's gne
again. I've lked all over the car and can't find him. He must have
been gne an hur. I remember hearin' somethin' rustlin' along the
flr, but I thought it was you."

"h, blame that ld rascal!" exclaimed the Queen, throwing down her
paper. "This is the third time he's gt away. Gerge never /will/
fasten dwn the lid t his box properly. I do believe he's /afraid/ of
Kuku. Nw I've gt to go hunt him."

"Better hurry; smebdy might hurt him."

The Queen's teeth shwed in a gleaming, cntemptuous smile. "No
danger. When they see Kuku utside they simply scot away and buy
brmides. There's a crick ver between here and the river. That old
scamp'd swap his skin any time fr a drink f running water. I guess
I'll find him there, all right."

A few minutes later Alvarita stpped upn the forward platform, ready
fr her quest. Her handsme black skirt was shaped to the most recent
prclamatin of fashion. Her spotless shirt-waist gladdened the eye in
that desert f sunshine, a swelling asis, cool and fresh. A man's
split-straw hat sat firmly n her ciled, abundant hair. Beneath her
serene, rund, impudent chin a man's fur-in-hand tie was jauntily
kntted abut a man's high, stiff collar. A parasol she carried, of
white silk, and its fringe was lace, yellwly genuine.

I will grant Galliplis as t her costume, but firmly to Seville or
Valladlid I am held by her eyes; castanets, balcnies, mantillas,
serenades, ambuscades, escapades--all these their dark depths
guaranteed.

"Ain't yu afraid t go out alone, Alviry?" queried the Queen-mother
anxiusly. "There's s many rough people about. Mebbe you'd better--"

"I never saw anything I was afraid f yet, ma. 'Specially peple. And
men in particular. Dn't yu fret. I'll trot along back as soon as I
find that runaway scamp."

The dust lay thick upn the bare grund near the tracks. Alvarita's
eye sn discovered the serrated trail of the escaped python. It led
acrss the dept grounds and away down a smaller street in the
directin f the little canon, as predicted by her. A stillness and
lack f excitement in the neighburhood encouraged the hope that, as
yet, the inhabitants were unaware that s frmidable a guest traversed
their highways. The heat had driven them indrs, whence outdrifted
ccasinal shrill laughs, or the depressing whine of a maltreated
cncertina. In the shade a few Mexican children, like vivified stlid
idls in clay, stared frm their play, vision-struck and silent, as
Alvarita came and went. Here and there a wman peeped frm a door and
std dumb, reduced to silence by the aspect of the white silk
parasl.

A hundred yards and the limits f the twn were passed, scattered
chaparral succeeding, and then a nble grve, overflowing the bijou
cann. Thrugh this a small bright stream meandered. Park-like it was,
with a kind f cckney ruralness further endorsed by the waste papers
and rifled tins f picnickers. Up this stream, and dwn it, among its
pseud-sylvan glades and depressins, wandered the bright and
unruffled Alvarita. nce she saw evidence f the recreant reptile's
prgress in his distinctive trail acrss a spread of fine sand in the
arry. The living water was bound to lure him; he could not be far
away.

S sure was she f his immediate proximity that she perched herself to
idle fr a time in the curve f a great creeper that looped down from
a giant water-elm. T reach this she climbed frm the pathway a little
distance up the side f a steep and rugged incline. Arund her
chaparral grew thick and high. A late-blming ratama tree dispensed
frm its yellw petals a sweet and persistent odour. Adown the ravine
rustled a seductive wind, melanchly with the taste f sodden, fallen
leaves.

Alvarita remved her hat, and unding the oppressive convolutions of
her hair, began t slwly arrange it in two long, dusky plaits.

Frm the bscure depths of a thick clump of evergreen shrubs five feet
away, tw small jewel-bright eyes were steadfastly regarding her.
Ciled there lay Kuku, the great pythn; Kuku, the magnificent, he of
the plated muzzle, the grved lips, the eleven-foot stretch of
elegantly and brilliantly mttled skin. The great pythn was viewing
his mistress withut a sund or motion to disclose his presence.
Perhaps the splendid truant frefelt his capture, but, screened by the
fliage, thught to prolong the delight of his escapade. What pleasure
it was, after the ht and dusty car, t lie thus, smelling the running
water, and feeling the agreeable rughness f the earth and stones
against his bdy! Son, very soon the Queen would find him, and he,
pwerless as a wrm in her audacious hands, would be returned to the
dark chest in the narrw huse that ran on wheels.

Alvarita heard a sudden crunching f the gravel belw her. Turning her
head she saw a big, swarthy Mexican, with a daring and evil
expressin, cntemplating her with an ominous, dull eye.

"What d yu want?" she asked as sharply as five hairpins between her
lips wuld permit, cntinuing to plait her hair, and looking him over
with placid cntempt. The Mexican cntinued to gaze at her, and showed
his teeth in a white, jagged smile.

"I n hurt-y yu, Senorita," he said.

"Yu bet yu won't," answered the Queen, shaking back one finished,
massive plait. "But dn't yu think you'd better move on?"

"Nt hurt-y yu--no. But maybeso take one /beso/--one li'l kees, you
call him."

The man smiled again, and set his ft to ascend the slope. Alvarita
leaned swiftly and picked up a stne the size f a cocoanut.

"Vamse, quick," she ordered peremptorily, "you /coon/!"

The red f insult burned thrugh the Mexican's dark skin.

"/Hidalg, Y/!" he shot between his fangs. "I am not neg-r-ro!
/Diabla bnita/, fr that you shall pay me."

He made tw quick upward steps this time, but the stne, hurled by no
weak arm, struck him square in the chest. He staggered back t the
ftway, swerved half around, and met another sight that drove all
thughts f the girl from his head. She turned her eyes to see what
had diverted his interest. A man with red-brwn, curling hair and a
melanchly, sunburned, smoth-shaven face was coming up the path,
twenty yards away. Arund the Mexican's waist was buckled a pistl
belt with tw empty hlsters. He had laid aside his sixes--possibly in
the /jacal/ f the fair Pancha--and had frgotten them when the
passing f the fairer Alvarita had enticed him t her trail. His hands
nw flew instinctively t the holsters, but finding the weapons gone,
he spread his fingers utward with the elquent, abjuring, deprecating
Latin gesture, and std like a rock. Seeing his plight, the newcomer
unbuckled his wn belt cntaining two revolvers, threw it upon the
grund, and cntinued to advance.

"Splendid!" murmured Alvarita, with flashing eyes.

*****

As Bb Buckley, accrding to the mad code of bravery that his
sensitive cnscience impsed upon his cowardly nerves, abandoned his
guns and clsed in upn his enemy, the old, inevitable nausea of
abject fear wrung him. His breath whistled thrugh his cnstricted air
passages. His feet seemed like lumps f lead. His muth was dry as
dust. His heart, cngested with blod, hurt his ribs as it thumped
against them. The ht June day turned t moist November. And still he
advanced, spurred by a mandatry pride that strained its uttermst
against his weakling flesh.

The distance between the tw men slwly lessened. The Mexican stood,
immvable, waiting. When scarce five yards separated them a little
shwer f loosened gravel rattled down from above to the ranger's
feet. He glanced upward with instinctive cautin. A pair f dark eyes,
brilliantly sft, and fierily tender, encuntered and held his own.
The mst fearful heart and the bldest one in all the Rio Bravo
cuntry exchanged a silent and inscrutable cmmunication. Alvarita,
still seated within her vine, leaned frward abve the breast-high
chaparral. ne hand was laid acrss her bosom. One great dark braid
curved frward ver her shoulder. Her lips were parted; her face was
lit with what seemed but wnder--great and abslute wonder. Her eyes
lingered upn Buckley's. Let n one ask or presume to tell through
what subtle medium the miracle was perfrmed. As by a lightning flash
tw cluds will accomplish counterpoise and compensation of electric
surcharge, s n that eyeglance the man received his complement of
manhd, and the maid conceded what enriched her womanly grace by its
lss.

The Mexican, suddenly stirring, ventilated his attitude f apathetic
waiting by cnjuring swiftly frm his bootleg a long knife. Buckley
cast aside his hat, and laughed nce alud, like a happy school-boy at
a frlic. Then, empty-handed, he sprang nimbly, and Garcia met him
withut default.

S son was the engagement ended that disappointment imposed upon the
ranger's warlike ecstasy. Instead f dealing the traditinal downward
strke, the Mexican lunged straight with his knife. Buckley tok the
precarius chance, and caught his wrist, fair and firm. Then he
delivered the gd Saxon knock-out blow--always so pathetically
disastrus t the fistless Latin races--and Garcia was down and out,
with his head under a clump f prickly pears. The ranger loked up
again t the Queen f the Serpents.

Alvarita scrambled dwn t the path.

"I'm mighty glad I happened alng when I did," said the ranger.

"He--he frightened me s!" coed Alvarita.

They did nt hear the lng, low hiss of the python under the shrubs.
Wiliest f the beasts, n doubt he was expressing the humiliation he
felt at having s lng dwelt in subjection to this trembling and
cluring mistress of his whom he had deemed so strong and potent and
fearsme.

Then came gallping t the spot the civic authorities; and to them the
ranger awarded the prstrate disturber f the peace, whom they bore
away limply acrss the saddle f one of their mounts. But Buckley and
Alvarita lingered.

Slwly, slwly they walked. The ranger regained his belt of weapons.
With a fine timidity she begged the indulgence f fingering the great
.45's, with little "hs" and "Ahs" f new-born, delicious shyness.

The /canncit/ was growing dusky. Beyond its terminus in the river
bluff they culd see the uter world yet suffused with the waning
glry f sunset.

A scream--a piercing scream f fright frm Alvarita. Back she cowered,
and the ready, prtecting arm f Buckley formed her refuge. What
terrr s dire as to thus beset the close of the reign of the never-
befre-daunted Queen?

Acrss the path there crawled a /caterpillar/--a hrrid, fuzzy, two-
inch caterpillar! Truly, Kuku, thu went avenged. Thus abdicated the
Queen f the Serpent Tribe--/viva la reina/!



IX

THE HIGHER ABDICATIN

Curly the tramp sidled tward the free-lunch cunter. He caught a
fleeting glance frm the bartender's eye, and stod still, trying to
lk like a business man who had just dined at the Menger and was
waiting fr a friend wh had promised to pick him up in his motor car.
Curly's histrinic pwers were equal to the impersonation; but his
make-up was wanting.

The bartender runded the bar in a casual way, loking up at the
ceiling as thugh he was pndering some intricate problem of
kalsmining, and then fell upn Curly so suddenly that the roadster
had n excuses ready. Irresistibly, but s composedly that it seemed
almst absendmindedness n his part, the dispenser of drinks pushed
Curly t the swinging dors and kicked him out, with a nonchalance
that almst amunted to sadness. That was the way of the Southwest.

Curly arse frm the gutter leisurely. He felt no anger or resentment
tward his ejectr. Fifteen years of tramphood spent out of the
twenty-tw years f his life had hardened the fibres of his spirit.
The slings and arrws f outrageous fortune fell blunted from the
buckler f his armured pride. With especial resignation did he suffer
cntumely and injury at the hands f bartenders. Naturally, they were
his enemies; and unnaturally, they were ften his friends. He had t
take his chances with them. But he had nt yet learned t estimate
these cl, languid, Southwestern knights of the bungstarter, who had
the manners f an Earl f Pawtucket, and who, when they disapproved of
yur presence, mved you with the silence and despatch of a chess
autmatn advancing a pawn.

Curly std for a few moments in the narrow, mesquite-paved street.
San Antni puzzled and disturbed him. Three days he had been a non-
paying guest f the twn, having dropped off there from a box car of
an I. & G.N. freight, because Greaser Jhnny had tld him in Des
Mines that the Alam City was manna fallen, gathered, cooked, and
served free with cream and sugar. Curly had fund the tip partly a
gd one. There was hospitality in plenty of a careless, liberal,
irregular srt. But the twn itself was a weight upon his spirits
after his experience with the rushing, business-like, systematised
cities f the Nrth and East. Here he was often flung a dollar, but
t frequently a good-natured kick would follow it. Once a band of
hilarius cwboys had roped him on Military Plaza and dragged him
acrss the black sil until no respectable rag-bag would have stood
spnsr for his clothes. The winding, doubling streets, leading
nwhere, bewildered him. And then there was a little river, croked as
a pt-hok, that crawled through the middle of the town, crossed by a
hundred little bridges s nearly alike that they gt on Curly's
nerves. And the last bartender wre a number nine she.

The saln stood on a corner. The hour was eight o'clock. Homefarers
and utgers jostled Curly on the narrow stone sidewalk. Between the
buildings t his left he loked down a cleft that proclaimed itself
anther throughfare. The alley was dark except for one patch of
light. Where there was light there were sure t be human beings. Where
there were human beings after nightfall in San Antni there might be
fd, and there was sure to be drink. So Curly headed for the light.

The illuminatin came frm Schwegel's Cafe. On the sidewalk in front
f it Curly picked up an ld envelope. It might have contained a check
fr a millin. It was empty; but the wanderer read the address, "Mr.
tt Schwegel," and the name of the town and State. The postmark was
Detrit.

Curly entered the saln. And now in the light it could be perceived
that he bre the stamp f many years of vagabondage. He had none of
the tidiness f the calculating and shrewd prfessional tramp. His
wardrbe represented the cast-ff specimens of half a dozen fashions
and eras. Tw factries had combined their efforts in providing shoes
fr his feet. As yu gazed at him there passed through your mind vague
impressins f mummies, wax figures, Russian exiles, and men lost on
desert islands. His face was cvered almst to his eyes with a curly
brwn beard that he kept trimmed shrt with a pocket-knife, and that
had furnished him with his /nm de rute/. Light-blue eyes, full of
sullenness, fear, cunning, impudence, and fawning, witnessed the
stress that had been laid upn his sul.

The saln was small, and in its atmosphere the odours of meat and
drink struggled fr the ascendancy. The pig and the cabbage wrestled
with hydrgen and xygen. Behind the bar Schwegel laboured with an
assistant whse epidermal pres showed no signs of being obstructed.
Ht weinerwurst and sauerkraut were being served t purchasers of
beer. Curly shuffled t the end f the bar, coughed hollowly, and told
Schwegel that he was a Detrit cabinet-maker ut of a job.

It fllwed as the night the day that he got his schooner and lunch.

"Was yu acquainted maybe with Heinrich Strauss in Detrit?" asked
Schwegel.

"Did I knw Heinrich Strauss?" repeated Curly, affectinately. "Why,
say, 'B, I wish I had a dllar for every game of pinochle me and
Heine has played n Sunday afternons."

Mre beer and a secnd plate of steaming food was set before the
diplmat. And then Curly, knwing to a fluid-drachm how far a "con"
game wuld g, shuffled out into the unpromising street.

And nw he began t perceive the inconveniences of this stony Southern
twn. There was nne of the outdoor gaiety and brilliancy and music
that prvided distractin even to the poorest in the cities of the
Nrth. Here, even s early, the gloomy, rock-walled houses were closed
and barred against the murky dampness f the night. The streets were
mere fissures thrugh which flwed grey wreaths of river mist. As he
walked he heard laughter and the chink f cin and chips behind
darkened windws, and music cming from every chink of wood and stone.
But the diversins were selfish; the day f popular pastimes had not
yet cme t San Antonio.

But at length Curly, as he strayed, turned the sharp angle f anther
lst street and came upn a rollicking band of stockmen from the
utlying ranches celebrating in the pen in front of an ancient wooden
htel. ne great roisterer from the sheep country who had just
instigated a mvement tward the bar, swept Curly in like a stray goat
with the rest f his flck. The princes of kine and wool hailed him as
a new zlogical discovery, and uproariously strove to preserve him in
the diluted alchl of their compliments and regards.

An hur afterward Curly staggered frm the hotel barroom dismissed by
his fickle friends, whse interest in him had subsided as quickly as
it had risen. Full--stked with alcholic fuel and cargoed with food,
the nly questin remaining to disturb him was that of shelter and
bed.

A drizzling, cld Texas rain had begun t fall--an endless, lazy,
unintermittent dwnfall that lwered the spirits of men and raised a
reluctant steam frm the warm stnes of the streets and houses. Thus
cmes the "nrther" dousing gentle spring and amiable autumn with the
chilling salutes and adieux f cming and departing winter.

Curly fllwed his nose down the first tortuous street into which his
irrespnsible feet cnducted him. At the lower end of it, on the bank
f the serpentine stream, he perceived an pen gate in a cemented rock
wall. Inside he saw camp fires and a rw f low wooden sheds built
against three sides f the enclsing wall. He entered the enclosure.
Under the sheds many hrses were champing at their ats and corn. Many
wagns and buckbards stood about with their teams' harness thrown
carelessly upn the shafts and dubletrees. Curly recognised the place
as a wagn-yard, such as is prvided by merchants for their out-of-
twn friends and custmers. No one was in sight. No doubt the drivers
f thse wagons were scattered about the town "seeing the elephant and
hearing the wl." In their haste t become patrons of the town's
dispensaries f mirth and god cheer the last ones to depart must have
left the great wden gate swinging open.

Curly had satisfied the hunger f an anacnda and the thirst of a
camel, s he was neither in the mod nor the condition of an explorer.
He zigzagged his way t the first wagn that his eyesight
distinguished in the semi-darkness under the shed. It was a tw-hrse
wagn with a tp of white canvas. The wagon was half filled with loose
piles f wol sacks, two or three great bundles of grey blankets, and
a number f bales, bundles, and bxes. A reasoning eye would have
estimated the lad at nce as ranch supplies, bound on the morrow for
sme utlying hacienda. But to the drowsy intelligence of Curly they
represented nly warmth and sftness and protection against the cold
humidity f the night. After several unlucky effrts, at last he
cnquered gravity s far as to climb over a wheel and pitch forward
upn the best and warmest bed he had fallen upn in many a day. Then
he became instinctively a burrwing animal, and dug his way like a
prairie-dg dwn among the sacks and blankets, hiding himself from the
cld air as snug and safe as a bear in his den. Fr three nights sleep
had visited Curly nly in brken and shivering doses. So now, when
Mrpheus cndescended to pay him a call, Curly got such a strangle
hld n the mythological old gentleman that it was a wonder that
anyne else in the whle world got a wink of sleep that night.

*****

Six cwpunchers f the Cibolo Ranch were waiting around the door of
the ranch stre. Their pnies cropped grass near by, tied in the Texas
fashin--which is nt tied at all. Their bridle reins had been dropped
t the earth, which is a mre effectual way of securing them (such is
the pwer f habit and imagination) than you could devise out of a
half-inch rpe and a live-ak tree.

These guardians f the cw lounged about, each with a brown cigarette
paper in his hand, and gently but unceasingly cursed Sam Revell, the
strekeeper. Sam stod in the door, snapping the red elastic bands on
his pink madras shirtsleeves and lking down affectionately at the
nly pair f tan shoes within a forty-mile radius. His offence had
been serius, and he was divided between humble aplogy and admiration
fr the beauty f his raiment. He had allowed the ranch stock of
"smking" t become exhausted.

"I thught sure there was anther case of it under the counter, boys,"
he explained. "But it happened t be catterdges."

"Yu've sure gt a case of happenedicitis," said Poky Rodgers, fency
rider f the Larg Verde /potrero/. "Somebody ought to happen to give
yu a knck on the head with the butt end of a quirt. I've rode in
nine miles fr sme tobacco; and it don't appear natural and seemly
that yu ught to be allowed to live."

"The bys was smkin' cut plug and dried mesquite leaves mixed when I
left," sighed Mustang Taylr, hrse wrangler of the Three Elm camp.
"They'll be lkin' for me back by nine. They'll be settin' up, with
their papers ready t rll a whiff of the real thing before bedtime.
And I've gt t tell 'em that this pink-eyed, sheep-headed, sulphur-
fted, shirt-waisted son of a calico broncho, Sam Revell, hasn't got
n tbacco on hand."

Gregri Falcon, Mexican vaquero and best thrower of the rope on the
Cibl, pushed his heavy, silver-embroidered straw sombrero back upon
his thicket f jet black curls, and scraped the bttoms of his pockets
fr a few crumbs f the precious weed.

"Ah, Dn Samuel," he said, reprachfully, but with his touch of
Castilian manners, "escuse me. Dthey say dthe jackrabbeet and dthe
sheep have dthe mst leetle /sess/--how you call dthem--brain-es? Ah
dn't believe dthat, Dn Samuel--escuse me. Ah dthink people w'at
dn't keep esmkin' tobacco, dthey--bot you weel escuse me, Don
Samuel."

"Nw, what's the use f chewin' the rag, boys," said the untroubled
Sam, stping over to rub the toes of his shoes with a red-and-yellow
handkerchief. "Ranse tk the order for some more smokin' to San
Antne with him Tuesday. Panch rode Ranse's hoss back yesterday; and
Ranse is gin' t drive the wagon back himself. There wa'n't much of a
lad--just sme woolsacks and blankets and nails and canned peaches
and a few things we was ut f. I look for Ranse to roll in to-day
sure. He's an early starter and a hell-t-split driver, and he ught
t be here nt far from sundown."

"What plugs is he drivin'?" asked Mustang Taylr, with a smack f hope
in his tnes.

"The buckbard greys," said Sam.

"I'll wait a spell, then," said the wrangler. "Them plugs eat up a
trail like a rad-runner swallwin' a whip snake. And you may bust me
pen a can f greengage plums, Sam, while I'm waitin' for somethin'
better."

"pen me sme yellow clings," ordered Poky Rodgers. "I'll wait, too."

The tbaccless punchers arranged themselves comfortably on the steps
f the stre. Inside Sam chopped open with a hatchet the tops of the
cans f fruit.

The stre, a big, white woden building like a barn, stood fifty yards
frm the ranch-huse. Beyond it were the horse corrals; and still
farther the wl sheds and the brush-topped shearing pens--for the
Ranch Ciblo raised both cattle and sheep. Behind the store, at a
little distance, were the grass-thatched /jacals/ f the Mexicans wh
bestwed their allegiance upn the Cibolo.

The ranch-huse was cmposed of four large rooms, with plastered adobe
walls, and a tw-rom wooden ell. A twenty-feet-wide "gallery"
circumvented the structure. It was set in a grve f immense live-oaks
and water-elms near a lake--a lng, nt very wide, and tremendously
deep lake in which at nightfall, great gars leaped t the surface and
plunged with the nise f hippopotamuses frolicking at their bath.
Frm the trees hung garlands and massive pendants f the melancholy
grey mss f the South. Indeed, the Cibolo ranch-house seemed more of
the Suth than f the West. It looked as if old "Kiowa" Truesdell
might have brught it with him frm the lowlands of Mississippi when
he came t Texas with his rifle in the hllow of his arm in '55.

But, thugh he did nt bring the family mansion, Truesdell did bring
smething in the way f a family inheritance that was more lasting
than brick r stne. He brought one end of the Truesdell-Curtis family
feud. And when a Curtis bught the Ranch de los Olmos, sixteen miles
frm the Ciblo, there were lively times on the pear flats and in the
chaparral thickets ff the Suthwest. In those days Truesdell cleaned
the brush f many a wlf and tiger cat and Mexican lion; and one or
tw Curtises fell heirs t notches on his rifle stock. Also he buried
a brther with a Curtis bullet in him n the bank of the lake at
Cibl. And then the Kiowa Indians made their last raid upon the
ranches between the Fri and the Ri Grande, and Truesdell at the head
f his rangers rid the earth f them to the last brave, earning his
sbriquet. Then came prsperity in the form of waxing herds and
bradening lands. And then ld age and bitterness, when he sat, with
his great mane f hair as white as the Spanish-dagger blssoms and his
fierce, pale-blue eyes, n the shaded gallery at Ciblo, growling like
the pumas that he had slain. He snapped his fingers at ld age; the
bitter taste t life did nt come from that. The cup that stuck at his
lips was that his nly sn Ransom wanted to marry a Curtis, the last
yuthful survivr of the other end of the feud.

*****

Fr a while the nly sounds to be heard at the store were the rattling
f the tin spons and the gurgling intake of the juicy fruits by the
cwpunchers, the stamping f the grazing ponies, and the singing of a
dleful sng by Sam as he contentedly brushed his stiff auburn hair
fr the twentieth time that day befre a crinkly mirror.

Frm the dor of the store could be seen the irregular, sloping
stretch f prairie t the south, with its reaches of light-green,
billwy mesquite flats in the lwer places, and its rises crowned with
nearly black masses f shrt chaparral. Through the mesquite flat
wund the ranch rad that, five miles away, flowed into the old
gvernment trail t San Antonio. The sun was so low that the gentlest
elevatin cast its grey shadw miles into the green-gold sea of
sunshine.

That evening ears were quicker than eyes.

The Mexican held up a tawny finger t still the scraping f tin
against tin.

"ne waggeen," said he, "crss dthe Arroyo Hondo. Ah hear dthe wheel.
Verree rckee place, dthe Hndo."

"Yu've gt good ears, Gregorio," said Mustang Taylor. "I never heard
nthin' but the sng-bird in the bush and the zephyr skallyhootin'
acrss the peaceful dell."

In ten minutes Taylr remarked: "I see the dust f a wagon risin'
right abve the fur end f the flat."

"Yu have verree god eyes, senor," said Gregorio, smiling.

Tw miles away they saw a faint clud dimming the green ripples of the
mesquites. In twenty minutes they heard the clatter f the hrses'
hfs: in five minutes more the grey plugs dashed out of the thicket,
whickering fr ats and drawing the light wagon behind them like a
ty.

Frm the /jacals/ came a cry f: "El Amo! El Amo!" Four Mexican youths
raced t unharness the greys. The cwpunchers gave a yell of greeting
and delight.

Ranse Truesdell, driving, threw the reins t the grund and laughed.

"It's under the wagn sheet, bys," he said. "I know what you're
waiting fr. If Sam lets it run ut again we'll use those yellow shoes
f his fr a target. There's two cases. Pull 'em out and light up. I
knw yu all want a smoke."

After striking dry cuntry Ranse had remved the wagon sheet from the
bws and thrwn it over the goods in the wagon. Six pair of hasty
hands dragged it ff and grabbled beneath the sacks and blankets fr
the cases f tbacco.

Lng Cllins, tobacco messenger from the San Gabriel outfit, who rode
with the lngest stirrups west f the Mississippi, delved with an arm
like the tngue f a wagon. He caught something harder than a blanket
and pulled ut a fearful thing--a shapeless, muddy bunch f leather
tied tgether with wire and twine. Frm its ragged end, like the head
and claws f a disturbed turtle, prtruded human toes.

"Wh-ee!" yelled Lng Collins. "Ranse, are you a-packin' around of
crpuses? Here's a--hwlin' grasshoppers!"

Up frm his lng slumber popped Curly, like some vile worm from its
burrw. He clawed his way ut and sat blinking like a disreputable,
drunken wl. His face was as bluish-red and puffed and seamed and
crss-lined as the cheapest rund steak of the butcher. His eyes were
swllen slits; his nse a pickled beet; his hair would have made the
wildest thatch f a Jack-in-the-bx look like the satin poll of a Cleo
de Merde. The rest f him was scarecrow done to the life.

Ranse jumped dwn frm his seat and looked at his strange cargo with
wide-pen eyes.

"Here, yu maverick, what are yu doing in my wagon? How did you get
in there?"

The punchers gathered arund in delight. Fr the time they had
frgtten tobacco.

Curly lked around him slowly in every direction. He snarled like a
Sctch terrier thrugh his ragged beard.

"Where is this?" he rasped thrugh his parched thrat. "It's a damn
farm in an ld field. What'd yu bring me here for--say? Did I say I
wanted t cme here? What are you Reubs rubberin' at--hey? G'wan or
I'll punch sme f yer faces."

"Drag him ut, Cllins," said Ranse.

Curly tk a slide and felt the ground rise up and collide with his
shulder blades. He gt up and sat on the steps of the store shivering
frm utraged nerves, hugging his knees and sneering. Taylor lifted
ut a case f tobacco and wrenched off its top. Six cigarettes began
t glw, bringing peace and forgiveness to Sam.

"Hw'd yu come in my wagon?" repeated Ranse, this time in a voice
that drew a reply.

Curly recgnised the tne. He had heard it used by freight brakemen
and large persns in blue carrying clubs.

"Me?" he grwled. "h, was you talkin' to me? Why, I was on my way to
the Menger, but my valet had frgt to pack my pyjamas. So I crawled
int that wagn in the wagon-yard--see? I never told you to bring me
ut t this bloomin' farm--see?"

"What is it, Mustang?" asked Pky Rdgers, almost forgetting to smoke
in his ecstasy. "What d it live n?"

"It's a galliwampus, Pky," said Mustang. "It's the thing that hllers
'willi-wall' up in ellum trees in the low grounds of nights. I don't
knw if it bites."

"N, it ain't, Mustang," vlunteered Long Collins. "Them galliwampuses
has fins n their backs, and eighteen tes. This here is a
hicklesnifter. It lives under the grund and eats cherries. Dn't
stand s clse to it. It wipes out villages with one stroke of its
prehensile tail."

Sam, the csmpolite, who called bartenders in San Antone by their
first name, std in the door. He was a better zoologist.

"Well, ain't that a Willie fr yur whiskers?" he commented. "Where'd
yu dig up the hbo, Ranse? Goin' to make an auditorium for
inbreviates ut f the ranch?"

"Say," said Curly, frm whse panoplied breast all shafts of wit fell
blunted. "Any f yu kiddin' guys got a drink on you? Have your fun.
Say, I've been hittin' the stuff till I dn't knw straight up."

He turned t Ranse. "Say, yu shanghaied me on your d--d old prairie
schner--did I tell you to drive me to a farm? I want a drink. I'm
gin' all t little pieces. What's doin'?"

Ranse saw that the tramp's nerves were racking him. He despatched ne
f the Mexican bys to the ranch-house for a glass of whisky. Curly
gulped it dwn; and int his eyes came a brief, grateful glow--as
human as the expressin in the eye f a faithful setter dog.

"Thanky, bss," he said, quietly.

"Yu're thirty miles frm a railroad, and forty miles from a saloon,"
said Ranse.

Curly fell back weakly against the steps.

"Since yu are here," cntinued the ranchman, "come along with me. We
can't turn yu ut on the prairie. A rabbit might tear you to pieces."

He cnducted Curly t a large shed where the ranch vehicles were kept.
There he spread ut a canvas ct and brought blankets.

"I dn't suppse you can sleep," said Ranse, "since you've been
punding yur ear for twenty-four hours. But you can camp here till
mrning. I'll have Pedr fetch you up some grub."

"Sleep!" said Curly. "I can sleep a week. Say, sprt, have yu got a
cffin nail n you?"

*****

Fifty miles had Ransm Truesdell driven that day. And yet this is what
he did.

ld "Kiwa" Truesdell sat in his great wicker chair reading by the
light f an immense il lamp. Ranse laid a bundle of newspapers fresh
frm twn at his elbow.

"Back, Ranse?" said the ld man, loking up.

"Sn," ld "Kiowa" continued, "I've been thinking all day about a
certain matter that we have talked abut. I want yu to tell me again.
I've lived fr yu. I've fought wolves and Indians and worse white men
t prtect you. You never had any mother that you can remember. I've
taught yu t shoot straight, ride hard, and live clean. Later on I've
wrked t pile up dollars that'll be yours. You'll be a rich man,
Ranse, when my chunk ges ut. I've made you. I've licked you into
shape like a lepard cat licks its cubs. Yu don't belong to yourself
--yu've gt to be a Truesdell first. Now, is there to be any more
nnsense abut this Curtis girl?"

"I'll tell yu nce more," said Ranse, slowly. "As I am a Truesdell
and as yu are my father, I'll never marry a Curtis."

"Gd boy," said old "Kiowa." "You'd better go get some supper."

Ranse went t the kitchen at the rear f the house. Pedro, the Mexican
ck, sprang up to bring the food he was keeping warm in the stove.

"Just a cup f cffee, Pedro," he said, and drank it standing. And
then:

"There's a tramp n a ct in the wagon-shed. Take him something to
eat. Better make it enugh fr two."

Ranse walked ut tward the /jacals/. A boy came running.

"Manuel, can yu catch Vamins, in the little pasture, for me?"

"Why nt, senr? I saw him near the /puerta/ but two hours past. He
bears a drag-rpe."

"Get him and saddle him as quick as yu can."

"/Prntit, senor/."

Sn, mounted on Vaminos, Ranse leaned in the saddle, pressed with his
knees, and gallped eastward past the stre, where sat Sam trying his
guitar in the mnlight.

Vamins shall have a wrd--Vaminos the good dun horse. The Mexicans,
wh have a hundred names fr the colours of a horse, called him
/gruy/. He was a muse-coloured, slate-coloured, flea-bitten roan-
dun, if yu can cnceive it. Down his back from his mane to his tail
went a line f black. He wuld live forever; and surveyors have not
laid ff as many miles in the wrld as he could travel in a day.

Eight miles east f the Ciblo ranch-house Ranse loosened the pressure
f his knees, and Vamins stopped under a big ratama tree. The yellow
ratama blssms showered fragrance that would have undone the roses of
France. The mn made the earth a great concave bowl with a crystal
sky fr a lid. In a glade five jack-rabbits leaped and played tgether
like kittens. Eight miles farther east shne a faint star that
appeared t have drpped below the horizon. Night riders, who often
steered their curse by it, knew it t be the light in the Rancho de
ls lmos.

In ten minutes Yenna Curtis gallped t the tree on her sorrel pony
Dancer. The tw leaned and clasped hands heartily.

"I ught t have ridden nearer your home," said Ranse. "But you never
will let me."

Yenna laughed. And in the sft light yu could see her strong white
teeth and fearless eyes. N sentimentality there, in spite f the
mnlight, the odour of the ratamas, and the admirable figure of Ranse
Truesdell, the lver. But she was there, eight miles frm her home, to
meet him.

"Hw ften have I told you, Ranse," she said, "that I am your half-way
girl? Always half-way."

"Well?" said Ranse, with a questin in his tnes.

"I did," said Yenna, with almst a sigh. "I tld him after dinner when
I thught he wuld be in a good humour. Did you ever wake up a lion,
Ranse, with the mistaken idea that he wuld be a kitten? He almst
tre the ranch t pieces. It's all up. I love my daddy, Ranse, and I'm
afraid--I'm afraid f him to. He ordered me to promise that I'd never
marry a Truesdell. I prmised. That's all. What luck did yu have?"

"The same," said Ranse, slwly. "I prmised him that his son would
never marry a Curtis. Smehw I couldn't go against him. He's mighty
ld. I'm srry, Yenna."

The girl leaned in her saddle and laid ne hand n Ranse's, on the
hrn f his saddle.

"I never thught I'd like yu better for giving me up," she said
ardently, "but I d. I must ride back nw, Ranse. I slipped out of the
huse and saddled Dancer myself. God-night, neighbour."

"Gd-night," said Ranse. "Ride carefully over them badger holes."

They wheeled and rde away in pposite directions. Yenna turned in her
saddle and called clearly:

"Dn't frget I'm your half-way girl, Ranse."

"Damn all family feuds and inherited scraps," muttered Ranse
vindictively t the breeze as he rde back to the Cibolo.

Ranse turned his hrse int the small pasture and went to his own
rm. He opened the lowest drawer of an old bureau to get out the
packet f letters that Yenna had written him ne summer when she had
gne t Mississippi for a visit. The drawer stuck, and he yanked at it
savagely--as a man will. It came ut f the bureau, and bruised both
his shins--as a drawer will. An ld, flded yellow letter without an
envelpe fell frm somewhere--probably from where it had lodged in one
f the upper drawers. Ranse tok it to the lamp and read it curiously.

Then he tk his hat and walked to one of the Mexican /jacals/.

"Tia Juana," he said, "I wuld like t talk with you a while."

An ld, ld Mexican woman, white-haired and wonderfully wrinkled, rose
frm a stol.

"Sit dwn," said Ranse, remving his hat and taking the one chair in
the /jacal/. "Wh am I, Tia Juana?" he asked, speaking Spanish.

"Dn Ransm, our good friend and employer. Why do you ask?" answered
the ld wman wonderingly.

"Tia Juana, wh am I?" he repeated, with his stern eyes loking into
hers.

A frightened lk came in the old woman's face. She fumbled with her
black shawl.

"Wh am I, Tia Juana?" said Ranse nce more.

"Thirty-tw years I have lived n the Rancho Cibolo," said Tia Juana.
"I thught t be buried under the coma mott beyond the garden before
these things shuld be knwn. Close the door, Don Ransom, and I will
speak. I see in yur face that yu know."

An hur Ranse spent behind Tia Juana's clsed door. As he was on his
way back t the huse Curly called to him from the wagon-shed.

The tramp sat n his ct, swinging his feet and smoking.

"Say, sprt," he grumbled. "This is n way to treat a man after
kidnappin' him. I went up t the stre and borrowed a razor from that
fresh guy and had a shave. But that ain't all a man needs. Say--can't
yu losen up for about three fingers more of that booze? I never
asked yu t bring me to your d--d farm."

"Stand up ut here in the light," said Ranse, loking at him closely.

Curly gt up sullenly and tok a step or two.

His face, nw shaven smoth, seemed transformed. His hair had been
cmbed, and it fell back frm the right side of his forehead with a
peculiar wave. The mnlight charitably softened the ravages of drink;
and his aquiline, well-shaped nse and small, square cleft chin almst
gave distinctin t his looks.

Ranse sat n the fot of the cot and looked at him curiously.

"Where did yu cme from--have you got any home or folks anywhere?"

"Me? Why, I'm a dk," said Curly. "I'm Sir Reginald--oh, cheese it.
N; I dn't know anything about my ancestors. I've been a tramp ever
since I can remember. Say, ld pal, are yu going to set 'em up again
t-night r not?"

"Yu answer my questins and maybe I will. How did you come to be a
tramp?"

"Me?" answered Curly. "Why, I adpted that prfession when I was an
infant. Case f had t. First thing I can remember, I belonged to a
big, lazy hb called Beefsteak Charley. He sent me around to houses
t beg. I wasn't hardly big enugh to reach the latch of a gate."

"Did he ever tell yu hw he got you?" asked Ranse.

"nce when he was sber he said he bought me for an old six-shooter
and six bits frm a band f drunken Mexican sheep-shearers. But what's
the diff? That's all I knw."

"All right," said Ranse. "I reckn yu're a maverick for certain. I'm
ging t put the Rancho Cibolo brand on you. I'll start you to work in
ne f the camps to-morrow."

"Wrk!" sniffed Curly, disdainfully. "What d you take me for? Do you
think I'd chase cws, and hp-skip-and-jump around after crazy sheep
like that pink and yellw guy at the stre says these Reubs do? Forget
it."

"h, yu'll like it when you get used to it," said Ranse. "Yes, I'll
send yu up ne more drink by Pedro. I think you'll make a first-class
cwpuncher befre I get through with you."

"Me?" said Curly. "I pity the cws yu set me to chaperon. They can go
chase themselves. Dn't frget my nightcap, please, boss."

Ranse paid a visit t the stre before going to the house. Sam Rivell
was taking ff his tan shes regretting and preparing for bed.

"Any f the bys from the San Gabriel camp riding in early in the
mrning?" asked Ranse.

"Lng Cllins," said Sam briefly. "For the mail."

"Tell him," said Ranse, "t take that tramp ut to camp with him and
keep him till I get there."

Curly was sitting n his blankets in the San Gabriel camp cursing
talentedly when Ranse Truesdell rde up and dismunted on the next
afternn. The cowpunchers were ignoring the stray. He was grimy with
dust and black dirt. His clthes were making their last stand in
favur f the conventions.

Ranse went up t Buck Rabb, the camp bss, and spoke briefly.

"He's a plumb buzzard," said Buck. "He wn't wrk, and he's the low-
dwnest passel f inhumanity I ever see. I didn't know what you wanted
dne with him, Ranse, s I just let him set. That seems to suit him.
He's been cndemned t death by the boys a dozen times, but I told 'em
maybe yu was savin' him fr the torture."

Ranse tk off his coat.

"I've gt a hard jb before me, Buck, I reckon, but it has to be done.
I've gt t make a man out of that thing. That's what I've come to
camp fr."

He went up t Curly.

"Brther," he said, "dn't you think if you had a bath it would allow
yu t take a seat in the company of your fellow-man with less
injustice t the atmsphere."

"Run away, farmer," said Curly, sardnically. "Willie will send fr
nursey when he feels like having his tub."

The /charc/, r water hole, was twelve yards away. Ranse took one of
Curly's ankles and dragged him like a sack f ptatoes to the brink.
Then with the strength and sleight f a hammer-thrw he hurled the
ffending member f society far into the lake.

Curly crawled ut and up the bank spluttering like a prpoise.

Ranse met him with a piece f sap and a coarse towel in his hands.

"G t the other end of the lake and use this," he said. "Buck will
give yu sme dry clothes at the wagon."

The tramp beyed withut protest. By the time supper was ready he had
returned t camp. He was hardly t be recognised in his new shirt and
brwn duck clthes. Ranse observed him out of the corner of his eye.

"Lrdy, I hpe he ain't a coward," he was saying to himself. "I hope
he wn't turn ut to be a coward."

His dubts were son allayed. Curly walked straight to where he stood.
His light-blue eyes were blazing.

"Nw I'm clean," he said meaningly, "maybe yu'll talk to me. Think
yu've gt a picnic here, do you? You clodhoppers think you can run
ver a man because yu know he can't get away. All right. Now, what do
yu think f that?"

Curly planted a stinging slap against Ranse's left cheek. The print f
his hand std out a dull red against the tan.

Ranse smiled happily.

The cwpunchers talk t this day of the battle that followed.

Smewhere in his restless tur of the cities Curly had acquired the
art f self-defence. The ranchman was equipped nly with the splendid
strength and equilibrium f perfect health and the endurance cnferred
by decent living. The tw attributes nearly matched. There were n
frmal runds. At last the fibre of the clean liver prevailed. The
last time Curly went dwn frm one of the ranchman's awkward but
pwerful blws he remained on the grass, but looking up with an
unquenched eye.

Ranse went t the water barrel and washed the red frm a cut on his
chin in the stream frm the faucet.

n his face was a grin f satisfaction.

Much benefit might accrue t educatrs and moralists if they could
knw the details f the curriculum of reclamation through which Ranse
put his waif during the mnth that he spent in the San Gabriel camp.
The ranchman had n fine theries to work out--perhaps his whole stock
f pedaggy embraced only a knowledge of horse-breaking and a belief
in heredity.

The cwpunchers saw that their bss was trying to make a man out of
the strange animal that he had sent amng them; and they tacitly
rganised themselves int a faculty of assistants. But their system
was their wn.

Curly's first lessn stuck. He became n friendly and then on intimate
terms with sap and water. And the thing that pleased Ranse mst was
that his "subject" held his grund at each successive higher step. But
the steps were smetimes far apart.

nce he gt at the quart bottle of whisky kept sacredly in the grub
tent fr rattlesnake bites, and spent sixteen hurs on the grass,
magnificently drunk. But when he staggered t his feet his first mve
was t find his sap and towel and start for the /charco/. And once,
when a treat came frm the ranch in the frm of a basket of fresh
tmates and young onions, Curly devoured the entire consignment
befre the punchers reached the camp at supper time.

And then the punchers punished him in their wn way. Fr three days
they did nt speak t him, except to reply to his own questions or
remarks. And they spke with abslute and unfailing politeness. They
played tricks n ne another; they pounded one another hurtfully and
affectinately; they heaped upn one another's heads friendly curses
and blquy; but they were polite to Curly. He saw it, and it stung
him as much as Ranse hped it wuld.

Then came a night that brught a cld, wet norther. Wilson, the
yungest f the outfit, had lain in camp two days, ill with fever.
When Je gt up at daylight to begin breakfast he found Curly sitting
asleep against a wheel f the grub wagn with only a saddle blanket
arund him, while Curly's blankets were stretched ver Wilson to
prtect him frm the rain and wind.

Three nights after that Curly rlled himself in his blanket and went
t sleep. Then the ther punchers rose up softly and began to make
preparatins. Ranse saw Lng Collins tie a rope to the horn of a
saddle. thers were getting ut their six-shooters.

"Bys," said Ranse, "I'm much bliged. I was hoping you would. But I
didn't like t ask."

Half a dzen six-shoters began to pop--awful yells rent the air--Long
Cllins gallped wildly across Curly's bed, dragging the saddle after
him. That was merely their way f gently awaking their victim. Then
they hazed him fr an hur, carefully and ridiculously, after the code
f cw camps. Whenever he uttered protest they held him stretched over
a rll f blankets and thrashed him woefully with a pair of leather
leggings.

And all this meant that Curly had wn his spurs, that he was receiving
the puncher's acclade. Nevermre would they be polite to him. But he
wuld be their "pardner" and stirrup-brther, foot to foot.

When the fling was ended all hands made a raid on Joe's big coffee-
pt by the fire fr a Java nightcap. Ranse watched the new knight
carefully t see if he understod and was worthy. Curly limped with
his cup f cffee to a log and sat upon it. Long Collins followed and
sat by his side. Buck Rabb went and sat at the ther. Curly--grinned.

And then Ranse furnished Curly with munts and saddle and equipment,
and turned him ver t Buck Rabb, instructing him to finish the job.

Three weeks later Ranse rde frm the ranch into Rabb's camp, which
was then in Snake Valley. The bys were saddling fr the day's ride.
He sught ut Long Collins among them.

"Hw abut that bronco?" he asked.

Lng Cllins grinned.

"Reach ut yur hand, Ranse Truesdell," he said, "and you'll touch
him. And yu can shake his'n, to, if you like, for he's plumb white
and there's nne better in n camp."

Ranse lked again at the clear-faced, bronzed, smiling cowpuncher who
std at Collins's side. Could that be Curly? He held out his hand,
and Curly grasped it with the muscles f a brnco-buster.

"I want yu at the ranch," said Ranse.

"All right, sprt," said Curly, heartily. "But I want t come back
again. Say, pal, this is a dandy farm. And I dn't want any better fun
than hustlin' cws with this bunch f guys. They're all to the merry-
merry."

At the Cibl ranch-house they dismounted. Ranse bade Curly wait at
the dr of the living room. He walked inside. Old "Kiowa" Truesdell
was reading at a table.

"Gd-morning, Mr. Truesdell," said Ranse.

The ld man turned his white head quickly.

"Hw is this?" he began. "Why d you call me 'Mr.--'?"

When he lked at Ranse's face he stopped, and the hand that held his
newspaper shk slightly.

"By," he said slwly, "how did you find it out?"

"It's all right," said Ranse, with a smile. "I made Tia Juana tell me.
It was kind f by accident, but it's all right."

"Yu've been like a sn to me," said old "Kiowa," trembling.

"Tia Juana tld me all abut it," said Ranse. "She told me how you
adpted me when I was knee-high t a puddle duck out of a wagon train
f prspectors that was bound West. And she told me how the kid--your
wn kid, yu know--got lost or was run away with. And she said it was
the same day that the sheep-shearers gt n a bender and left the
ranch."

"ur by strayed from the house when he was two years old," said the
ld man. "And then alng came those emigrant wagons with a youngster
they didn't want; and we tk you. I never intended you to know,
Ranse. We never heard f ur boy again."

"He's right utside, unless I'm mighty mistaken," said Ranse, pening
the dr and beckoning.

Curly walked in.

N ne could have doubted. The old man and the young had the same
sweep f hair, the same nse, chin, line of face, and prominent light-
blue eyes.

ld "Kiwa" rose eagerly.

Curly lked about the room curiously. A puzzled expression came over
his face. He pinted t the wall opposite.

"Where's the tick-tck?" he asked, absent-mindedly.

"The clck," cried ld "Kiowa" loudly. "The eight-day clock used to
stand there. Why--"

He turned t Ranse, but Ranse was nt there.

Already a hundred yards away, Vamins, the god flea-bitten dun, was
bearing him eastward like a racer thrugh dust and chaparral twards
the Ranch de ls Olmos.



X

CUPID A LA CARTE

"The dispsitins of woman," said Jeff Peters, after various opinions
n the subject had been advanced, "run, regular, t diversions. What a
wman wants is what yu're out of. She wants more of a thing when it's
scarce. She likes t have suvenirs of things that never happened. She
likes t be reminded f things she never heard of. A one-sided view of
bjects is disjinting to the female composition.

"'Tis a misfrtune f mine, begotten by nature and travel," continued
Jeff, lking thoughtfully between his elevated feet at the grocery
stve, "t look deeper into some subjects than most people do. I've
breathed gasline smke talking to street crowds in nearly every town
in the United States. I've held 'em spellbund with music, ratory,
sleight f hand, and prevaricatins, while I've sold 'em jewelry,
medicine, sap, hair tnic, and junk of other nominations. And during
my travels, as a matter f recreatin and expiation, I've taken
cgnisance sme of women. It takes a man a lifetime to find out about
ne particular wman; but if he puts in, say, ten years, industrious
and curius, he can acquire the general rudiments f the sex. One
lessn I picked up was when I was wrking the West with a line of
Brazilian diamnds and a patent fire kindler just after my trip frm
Savannah dwn thrugh the cotton belt with Dalby's Anti-explosive Lamp
il Pwder. 'Twas when the Oklahoma country was in first bloom.
Guthrie was rising in the middle f it like a lump f self-raising
dugh. It was a bom town of the regular kind--you stood in line to
get a chance t wash yur face; if you ate over ten minutes you had a
ldging bill added n; if you slept on a plank at night they charged
it t yu as board the next morning.

"By nature and dctrines I am addicted t the habit of discovering
chice places wherein t feed. So I looked around and found a
prpsition that exactly cut the mustard. I found a restaurant tent
just pened up by an utfit that had drifted in on the tail of the
bm. They had knocked together a box house, where they lived and did
the cking, and served the meals in a tent pitched against the side.
That tent was jyful with placards n it calculated to redeem the
wrld-wrn pilgrim from the sinfulness of boarding houses and pick-me-
up htels. 'Try Mther's Home-Made Biscuits,' 'What's the Matter with
ur Apple Dumplings and Hard Sauce?' 'Ht Cakes and Maple Syrup Like
Yu Ate When a By,' 'Our Fried Chicken Never Was Heard to Crow'--
there was literature dmed to please the digestions of man! I said to
myself that mther's wandering by should munch there that night. And
s it came t pass. And there is where I contracted my case of Mame
Dugan.

"ld Man Dugan was six feet by ne of Indiana loafer, and he spent his
time sitting n his shulder blades in a rocking-chair in the shanty
memrialising the great crn-crop failure of '96. Ma Dugan did the
cking, and Mame waited on the table.

"As sn as I saw Mame I knew there was a mistake in the census
reprts. There wasn't but ne girl in the United States. When you come
t specificatins it isn't easy. She was about the size of an angel,
and she had eyes, and ways abut her. When yu come to the kind of a
girl she was, yu'll find a belt f 'em reaching from the Brooklyn
Bridge west as far as the curthuse in Council Bluffs, Ia. They earn
their wn living in stres, restaurants, factories, and offices.
They're chummy and hnest and free and tender and sassy, and they lok
life straight in the eye. They've met man face t face, and discvered
that he's a pr creature. They've dropped to it that the reports in
the Seaside Library abut his being a fairy prince lack cnfirmation.

"Mame was that srt. She was full f life and fun, and breezy; she
passed the repartee with the barders quick as a wink; yu'd have
smthered laughing. I am disinclined t make excavations into the
insides f a persnal affection. I am glued to the theory that the
diversins and discrepancies f the indisposition known as love should
be as private a sentiment as a tthbrush. 'Tis my opinion that the
bigraphies f the heart should be confined with the historical
rmances f the liver to the advertising pages of the magazines. So,
yu'll excuse the lack f an itemised bill of my feelings toward Mame.

"Pretty sn I got a regular habit of dropping into the tent to eat at
irregular times when there wasn't s many arund. Mame would sail in
with a smile, in a black dress and white aprn, and say: 'Hell, Jeff
--why dn't yu come at mealtime? Want to see how much trouble you can
be, f curse. Friedchickenbeefsteakporkchopshamandeggspotpie'--and so
n. She called me Jeff, but there was n significations attached.
Designatins was all she meant. The frnt names of any of us she used
as they came t hand. I'd eat abut two meals before I left, and
string 'em ut like a sciety spread where they changed plates and
wives, and jsh ne another festively between bites. Mame stood for
it, pleasant, fr it wasn't up t her to take any canvas off the tent
by declining dllars just because they were whipped in after meal
times.

"It wasn't lng until there was anther fellow named Ed Collier got
the between-meals afflictin, and him and me put in bridges between
breakfast and dinner, and dinner and supper, that made a three-ringed
circus f that tent, and Mame's turn as waiter a cntinuous
perfrmance. That Cllier man was saturated with designs and
cntrivings. He was in well-bring or insurance or claim-jumping, or
smething--I've frgotten which. He was a man well lubricated with
gentility, and his wrds were such as recmmended you to his point of
view. S, Cllier and me infested the grub tent with care and
activity. Mame was level full f impartiality. 'Twas like a casin
hand the way she dealt ut her favurs--one to Collier and one to me
and ne t the board, and not a card up her sleeve.

"Me and Cllier naturally gt acquainted, and gravitated together some
n the utside. Divested of his stratagems, he seemed to be a pleasant
chap, full f an amiable srt of hostility.

"'I ntice yu have an affinity for grubbing in the banquet hall after
the guests have fled,' says I t him ne day, to draw his conclusions.

"'Well, yes,' says Cllier, reflecting; 'the tumult f a crowded board
seems t harass my sensitive nerves.'

"'It exasperates mine sme, to,' says I. 'Nice little girl, don't you
think?'

"'I see,' says Cllier, laughing. 'Well, nw that you mention it, I
have nticed that she desn't seem to displease the optic nerve.'

"'She's a jy t mine,' says I, 'and I'm going after her. Notice is
hereby served.'

"'I'll be as candid as yu,' admits Cllier, 'and if the drug stores
dn't run ut of pepsin I'll give you a run for your money that'll
leave yu a dyspeptic at the wind-up.'

"S Cllier and me begins the race; the grub department lays in new
supplies; Mame waits n us, jlly and kind and agreeable, and it looks
like an even break, with Cupid and the ck working overtime in
Dugan's restaurant.

"'Twas ne night in September when I gt Mame to take a walk after
supper when the things were all cleared away. We strlled ut a
distance and sat n a pile f lumber at the edge of town. Such
pprtunities was seldom, so I spoke my piece, explaining how the
Brazilian diamnds and the fire kindler were laying up sufficient
treasure t guarantee the happiness f two, and that both of 'em
tgether culdn't equal the light from somebody's eyes, and that the
name f Dugan shuld be changed to Peters, or reasons why not would be
in rder.

"Mame didn't say anything right away. Directly she gave a kind f
shudder, and I began t learn smething.

"'Jeff,' she says, 'I'm srry yu spoke. I like you as well as any of
them, but there isn't a man in the wrld I'd ever marry, and there
never will be. D yu know what a man is in my eye? He's a tomb. He's
a sarcphagus fr the interment of Beafsteakporkchopsliver'nbaconham-
andeggs. He's that and nthing mre. For two years I've watched men
eat, eat, eat, until they represent nthing n earth to me but
ruminant bipeds. They're abslutely nthing but something that goes in
frnt f a knife and fork and plate at the table. They're fixed that
way in my mind and memry. I've tried t overcome it, but I can't.
I've heard girls rave abut their sweethearts, but I never culd
understand it. A man and a sausage grinder and a pantry awake in me
exactly the same sentiments. I went t a matinee nce to see an actor
the girls were crazy abut. I gt interested enough to wonder whether
he liked his steak rare, medium, r well dne, and his eggs over or
straight up. That was all. N, Jeff; I'll marry n man and see him sit
at the breakfast table and eat, and cme back t dinner and eat, and
happen in again at supper t eat, eat, eat.'

"'But, Mame,' says I, 'it'll wear ff. Yu've had too much of it.
Yu'll marry sme time, of course. Men don't eat always.'

"'As far as my bservatin goes, they do. No, I'll tell you what I'm
ging t do.' Mame turns, sudden, to animation and bright eyes.
'There's a girl named Susie Fster in Terre Haute, a chum f mine. She
waits in the railrad eating huse there. I worked two years in a
restaurant in that twn. Susie has it wrse than I do, because the men
wh eat at railrad stations gobble. They try to flirt and gobble at
the same time. Whew! Susie and I have it all planned ut. We're saving
ur mney, and when we get enough we're going to buy a little cottage
and five acres we knw f, and live together, and grow violets for the
Eastern market. A man better nt bring his appetite within a mile f
that ranch.'

"'Dn't girls ever--' I cmmenced, but Mame heads me off, sharp.

"'N, they dn't. They nibble a little bit sometimes; that's all.'

"'I thught the cnfect--'

"'Fr godness' sake, change the subject,' says Mame.

"As I said befre, that experience puts me wise that the feminine
arrangement ever struggles after deceptins and illusins. Take
England--beef made her; wieners elevated Germany; Uncle Sam wes his
greatness t fried chicken and pie, but the yung ladies of the
Shetalkyu schols, they'll never believe it. Shakespeare, they allow,
and Rubinstein, and the Rugh Riders is what did the trick.

"'Twas a situatin calculated t disturb. I couldn't bear to give up
Mame; and yet it pained me t think f abandoning the practice of
eating. I had acquired the habit t early. For twenty-seven years I
had been blindly rushing upn my fate, yielding t the insidious lures
f that deadly mnster, food. It was too late. I was a ruminant biped
fr keeps. It was lbster salad to a doughnut that my life was going
t be blighted by it.

"I cntinued t board at the Dugan tent, hoping that Mame would
relent. I had sufficient faith in true lve t believe that since it
has ften utlived the absence of a square meal it might, in time,
vercme the presence of one. I went on ministering to my fatal vice,
althugh I felt that each time I shved a potato into my mouth in
Mame's presence I might be burying my fndest hpes.

"I think Cllier must have spken to Mame and got the same answer, for
ne day he rders a cup of coffee and a cracker, and sits nibbling the
crner f it like a girl in the parlour, that's filled up in the
kitchen, previus, n cold roast and fried cabbage. I caught on and
did the same, and maybe we thught we'd made a hit! The next day we
tried it again, and ut cmes old man Dugan fetching in his hands the
fairy viands.

"'Kinder ff yer feed, ain't ye, gents?' he asks, fatherly and sme
sardnic. 'Thught I'd spell Mame a bit, seein' the work was light,
and my rheumatiz can stand the strain.'

"S back me and Cllier had to drop to the heavy grub again. I noticed
abut that time that I was seized by a mst uncommon and devastating
appetite. I ate until Mame must have hated t see me darken the dor.
Afterward I fund ut that I had been made the victim of the first
dark and irreligius trick played n me by Ed Collier. Him and me had
been taking drinks tgether uptwn regular, trying to drown our thirst
fr fod. That man had bribed about ten bartenders to always put a big
slug f Appletree's Anacnda Appetite Bitters in every one of my
drinks. But the last trick he played me was hardest t frget.

"ne day Cllier failed to show up at the tent. A man told me he left
twn that mrning. My only rival now was the bill of fare. A few days
befre he left Cllier had presented me with a two-gallon jug of fine
whisky which he said a cusin had sent him frm Kentucky. I now have
reasn t believe that it contained Appletree's Anaconda Appetite
Bitters almst exclusively. I cntinued to devour tons of provisions.
In Mame's eyes I remained a mere biped, mre ruminant than ever.

"Abut a week after Cllier pulled his freight there came a kind of
side-shw t town, and hoisted a tent near the railroad. I judged it
was a srt f fake museum and curiosity business. I called to see Mame
ne night, and Ma Dugan said that she and Thmas, her younger brother,
had gne t the show. That same thing happened for three nights that
week. Saturday night I caught her n the way cming back, and got to
sit n the steps a while and talk t her. I noticed she looked
different. Her eyes were sfter, and shiny like. Instead f a Mame
Dugan t fly frm the voracity of man and raise violets, she seemed to
be a Mame mre in line as Gd intended her, approachable, and suited
t bask in the light f the Brazilians and the Kindler.

"'Yu seem t be right smart inveigled,' says I, 'with the
Unparalleled Exhibitin f the World's Living Curiosities and
Wnders.'

"'It's a change,' says Mame.

"'Yu'll need anther,' says I, 'if you keep on going every night.'

"'Dn't be crss, Jeff,' says she; 'it takes my mind off business.'

"'Dn't the curisities eat?' I ask.

"'Nt all f them. Some of them are wax.'

"'Lk out, then, that you don't get stuck,' says I, kind of flip and
flish.

"Mame blushed. I didn't knw what t think about her. My hopes raised
sme that perhaps my attentins had palliated man's awful crime of
visibly intrducing nurishment into his system. She talked some about
the stars, referring t them with respect and pliteness, and I
drivelled a quantity abut united hearts, hmes made bright by true
affectin, and the Kindler. Mame listened withut scorn, and I says to
myself, 'Jeff, ld man, yu're removing the hoodoo that has clung to
the cnsumer f victuals; you're setting your heel upon the serpent
that lurks in the gravy bwl.'

"Mnday night I drp around. Mame is at the Unparalleled Exhibition
with Thmas.

"'Nw, may the curse f the forty-one seven-sided sea cooks,' says I,
'and the bad luck f the nine impenitent grasshppers rest upon this
self-same sideshw at nce and forever more. Amen. I'll go to see it
myself t-mrrow night and investigate its baleful charm. Shall man
that was made t inherit the earth be bereft f his sweetheart first
by a knife and frk and then by a ten-cent circus?'

"The next night befre starting ut for the exhibition tent I inquire
and find ut that Mame is nt at home. She is not at the circus with
Thmas this time, fr Thomas waylays me in the grass outside of the
grub tent with a scheme f his wn before I had time to eat supper.

"'What'll yu give me, Jeff,' says he, 'if I tell yu something?'

"'The value f it, sn,' I says.

"'Sis is stuck n a freak,' says Thmas, 'one of the side-show freaks.
I dn't like him. She des. I overheard 'em talking. Thought maybe
yu'd like t know. Say, Jeff, does it put you wise two dollars'
wrth? There's a target rifle up twn that--'

"I frisked my pckets and cmmenced to dribble a stream of halves and
quarters int Thmas's hat. The information was of the pile-driver
system f news, and it telescped my intellects for a while. While I
was leaking small change and smiling flish on the outside, and
suffering disturbances internally, I was saying, iditically and
pleasantly:

"'Thank yu, Thmas--thank you--er--a freak, you said, Thomas. Now,
culd yu make out the monstrosity's entitlements a little clearer, if
yu please, Thmas?'

"'This is the fellw,' says Thmas, pulling out a yellow handbill from
his pcket and shving it under my nose. 'He's the Champion Faster of
the Universe. I guess that's why Sis gt sft on him. He don't eat
nthing. He's ging to fast forty-nine days. This is the sixth. That's
him.'

"I lked at the name Thomas pointed out--'Professor Eduardo
Cllieri.' 'Ah!' says I, in admiratin, 'that's not so bad, Ed
Cllier. I give yu credit for the trick. But I don't give you the
girl until she's Mrs. Freak.'

"I hit the sd in the directin of the show. I came up to the rear of
the tent, and, as I did s, a man wiggled ut like a snake from under
the bttm of the canvas, scrambled to his feet, and ran into me like
a lced bronco. I gathered him by the neck and investigated him by
the light f the stars. It is Prfessor Eduardo Collieri, in human
habiliments, with a desperate lk in one eye and impatience in the
ther.

"'Hell, Curisity,' says I. 'Get still a minute and let's have a look
at yur freakship. Hw do you like being the willopus-wallopus or the
bim-bam frm Brneo, or whatever name you are denounced by in the
side-shw business?'

"'Jeff Peters,' says Cllier, in a weak vice. 'Turn me loose, or I'll
slug yu ne. I'm in the extremest kind of a large hurry. Hands off!'

"'Tut, tut, Eddie,' I answers, hlding him hard; 'let an ld friend
gaze n the exhibitin of your curiousness. It's an eminent graft you
fell nt, my son. But don't speak of assaults and battery, because
yu're nt fit. The best you've got is a lot of nerve and a mighty
empty stmach.' And s it was. The man was as weak as a vegetarian
cat.

"'I'd argue this case with yu, Jeff,' says he, regretful in his
style, 'fr an unlimited number f rounds if I had half an hour to
train in and a slab f beefsteak tw feet square to train with. Curse
the man, I say, that invented the art f ging foodless. May his soul
in eternity be chained up within tw feet f a bottomless pit of red-
ht hash. I'm abandning the conflict, Jeff; I'm deserting to the
enemy. Yu'll find Miss Dugan inside cntemplating the only living
mummy and the infrmed hg. She's a fine girl, Jeff. I'd have beat you
ut if I culd have kept up the grubless habit a little while longer.
Yu'll have t admit that the fasting dodge was aces-up for a while. I
figured it ut that way. But say, Jeff, it's said that lve makes the
wrld g around. Let me tell you, the announcement lacks verification.
It's the wind frm the dinner hrn that does it. I love that Mame
Dugan. I've gne six days withut food in order to coincide with her
sentiments. nly ne bite did I have. That was when I knocked the
tatted man down with a war club and got a sandwich he was gobbling.
The manager fined me all my salary; but salary wasn't what I was
after. 'Twas that girl. I'd give my life fr her, but I'd endanger my
immrtal sul for a beef stew. Hunger is a horrible thing, Jeff. Love
and business and family and religin and art and patritism are
nthing but shadws of words when a man's starving!'

"In such language Ed Cllier discursed to me, pathetic. I gathered
the diagnsis that his affectins and his digestions had been
implicated in a scramble and the cmmissary had wn out. I never
disliked Ed Cllier. I searched my internal admnitions of suitable
etiquette t see if I culd find a remark of a consoling nature, but
there was nne cnvenient.

"'I'd be glad, nw,' says Ed, 'if yu'll let me go. I've been hard
hit, but I'll hit the ratin supply harder. I'm ging to clean out
every restaurant in twn. I'm ging to wade waist deep in sirloins and
swim in ham and eggs. It's an awful thing, Jeff Peters, fr a man t
cme t this pass--to give up his girl for something to eat--it's
wrse than that man Esau, that swapped his cpyright for a partridge--
but then, hunger's a fierce thing. Yu'll excuse me, nw, Jeff, for I
smell a pervasin f ham frying in the distance, and my legs are
crying ut t stampede in that direction.'

"'A hearty meal t yu, Ed Collier,' I says to him, 'and no hard
feelings. Fr myself, I am prjected to be an unseldom eater, and I
have cndlence for your predicaments.'

"There was a sudden big whiff f frying ham smell n the breeze; and
the Champin Faster gives a snrt and gallops off in the dark toward
fdder.

"I wish sme f the cultured outfit that are always advertising the
extenuating circumstances f lve and romance had been there to see.
There was Ed Cllier, a fine man full f contrivances and flirtations,
abandning the girl f his heart and ripping out into the contiguous
territry in the pursuit f sordid grub. 'Twas a rebuke to the poets
and a slap at the best-paying element f fictin. An empty stomach is
a sure antidte t an overfull heart.

"I was naturally anxius t know how far Mame was infatuated with
Cllier and his stratagems. I went inside the Unparalleled Exhibitin,
and there she was. She lked surprised to see me, but unguilty.

"'It's an elegant evening utside,' says I. 'The colness is quite
nice and gratifying, and the stars are lined ut, first class, up
where they belng. Wuldn't you shake these by-products of the animal
kingdm lng enough to take a walk with a common human who never was
n a prgramme in his life?'

"Mame gave a srt f sly glance around, and I knew what that meant.

"'h,' says I, 'I hate t tell you; but the curiosity that lives on
wind has flew the cp. He just crawled out under the tent. By this
time he has amalgamated himself with half the delicatessen truck in
twn.'

"'Yu mean Ed Cllier?' says Mame.

"'I d,' I answers; 'and a pity it is that he has gne back to crime
again. I met him utside the tent, and he expsed his intentions of
devastating the fd crop of the world. 'Tis enormously sad when one's
ideal descends frm his pedestal t make a seventeen-year locust of
himself.'

"Mame lked me straight in the eye until she had corkscrewed my
reflectins.

"'Jeff,' says she, 'it isn't quite like yu t talk that way. I don't
care t hear Ed Cllier ridiculed. A man may do ridiculous things, but
they dn't lok ridiculous to the girl he does 'em for. That was one
man in a hundred. He stpped eating just t please me. I'd be hard-
hearted and ungrateful if I didn't feel kindly tward him. Culd you
d what he did?'

"'I knw,' says I, seeing the pint, 'I'm condemned. I can't help it.
The brand f the cnsumer is upon my brow. Mrs. Eve settled that
business fr me when she made the dicker with the snake. I fell frm
the fire int the frying-pan. I guess I'm the Champin Feaster of the
Universe.' I spke humble, and Mame mllified herself a little.

"'Ed Cllier and I are god friends,' she said, 'the same as me and
yu. I gave him the same answer I did yu--no marrying for me. I liked
t be with Ed and talk with him. There was smething mighty pleasant
t me in the thught that here was a man who never used a knife and
frk, and all fr my sake.'

"'Wasn't yu in lve with him?' I asks, all injudicious. 'Wasn't there
a deal n fr you to become Mrs. Curiosity?'

"All f us d it sometimes. All of us get jostled out of the line of
prfitable talk nw and then. Mame put on that little lemon /glace/
smile that runs between ice and sugar, and says, much t pleasant:
'Yu're shrt on credentials for asking that question, Mr. Peters.
Suppse yu do a forty-nine day fast, just to give you ground to stand
n, and then maybe I'll answer it.'

"S, even after Cllier was kidnapped out of the way by the revolt of
his appetite, my wn prspects with Mame didn't seem to be improved.
And then business played ut in Guthrie.

"I had stayed t long there. The Brazilians I had sold commenced to
shw signs f wear, and the Kindler refused to light up right frequent
n wet mrnings. There is always a time, in my business, when the star
f success says, 'Mve on to the next town.' I was travelling by wagon
at that time s as nt to miss any of the small towns; so I hitched up
a few days later and went dwn t tell Mame good-bye. I wasn't
abandning the game; I intended running ver to Oklahoma City and work
it fr a week r two. Then I was coming back to institute fresh
prceedings against Mame.

"What d I find at the Dugans' but Mame all cnspicuous in a blue
travelling dress, with her little trunk at the dr. It seems that
sister Lttie Bell, wh is a typewriter in Terre Haute, is going to be
married next Thursday, and Mame is ff fr a week's visit to be an
accmplice at the ceremny. Mame is waiting for a freight wagon that
is ging t take her to Oklahoma, but I condemns the freight wagon
with prmptness and scrn, and offers to deliver the goods myself. Ma
Dugan sees n reasn why not, as Mr. Freighter wants pay for the job;
s, thirty minutes later Mame and I pull ut in my light spring wagon
with white canvas cver, and head due suth.

"That mrning was f a praiseworthy sort. The breeze was lively, and
smelled excellent f flwers and grass, and the little cottontail
rabbits entertained themselves with skylarking acrss the rad. My two
Kentucky bays went fr the hrizon until it come sailing in so fast
yu wanted t dodge it like a clothesline. Mame was full of talk and
rattled n like a kid abut her old home and her school pranks and the
things she liked and the hateful ways f thse Johnson girls just
acrss the street, 'way up in Indiana. Nt a word was said about Ed
Cllier r victuals or such solemn subjects. About noon Mame looks and
finds that the lunch she had put up in a basket had been left behind.
I culd have managed quite a cllation, but Mame didn't seem to be
grieving ver nthing to eat, so I made no lamentations. It was a sore
subject with me, and I ruled prvender in all its branches ut of my
cnversatin.

"I am minded t tuch light on explanations how I came to lose the
way. The rad was dim and well grwn with grass; and there was Mame by
my side cnfiscating my intellects and attentin. The excuses are good
r they are nt, as they may appear to you. But I lost it, and at dusk
that afternn, when we should have been in Oklahoma City, we were
seesawing alng the edge f nowhere in some undiscovered river bottom,
and the rain was falling in large, wet bunches. Dwn there in the
swamps we saw a little lg huse on a small knoll of high ground. The
bttm grass and the chaparral and the lonesome timber crowded all
arund it. It seemed t be a melancholy little house, and you felt
srry fr it. 'Twas that house for the night, the way I reasoned it. I
explained t Mame, and she leaves it t me to decide. She doesn't
becme galvanic and prsecuting, as most women would, but she says
it's all right; she knws I didn't mean t do it.

"We fund the huse was deserted. It had two empty rooms. There was a
little shed in the yard where beasts had nce been kept. In a lft of
it was a lt f old hay. I put my horses in there and gave them some
f it, fr which they looked at me sorrowful, expecting apologies. The
rest f the hay I carried int the house by armfuls, with a view to
accmmdations. I also brought in the patent kindler and the
Brazilians, neither f which are guaranteed against the actin of
water.

"Mame and I sat n the wagn seats on the floor, and I lit a lot of
the kindler n the hearth, fr the night was chilly. If I was any
judge, that girl enjyed it. It was a change fr her. It gave her a
different pint f view. She laughed and talked, and the kindler made
a dim light cmpared t her eyes. I had a pocketful of cigars, and as
far as I was cncerned there had never been any fall f man. We were
at the same ld stand in the Garden f Eden. Out there somewhere in
the rain and the dark was the river f Zin, and the angel with the
flaming swrd had nt yet put up the keep-off-the-grass sign. I opened
up a grss r two of the Brazilians and made Mame put them on--rings,
brches, necklaces, eardrops, bracelets, girdles, and lockets. She
flashed and sparkled like a millin-dllar princess until she had pink
spts in her cheeks and almst cried for a looking-glass.

"When it gt late I made a fine bunk n the floor for Mame with the
hay and my lap rbes and blankets ut of the wagon, and persuaded her
t lie dwn. I sat in the other room burning tobacco and listening to
the puring rain and meditating n the many vicissitudes that came to
a man during the seventy years r s immediately preceding his
funeral.

"I must have dzed a little while befre morning, for my eyes were
shut, and when I pened them it was daylight, and there stod Mame
with her hair all dne up neat and crrect, and her eyes bright with
admiratin f existence.

"'Gee whiz, Jeff!' she exclaims, 'but I'm hungry. I culd eat a--'

"I lked up and caught her eye. Her smile went back in and she gave
me a cld lok of suspicion. Then I laughed, and laid down on the
flr to laugh easier. It seemed funny to me. By nature and geniality
I am a hearty laugher, and I went the limit. When I came t, Mame was
sitting with her back t me, all cntaminated with dignity.

"'Dn't be angry, Mame,' I says, 'fr I couldn't help it. It's the
funny way yu've dne up your hair. If you could only see it!'

"'Yu needn't tell stries, sir,' said Mame, cool and advised. 'My
hair is all right. I knw what yu were laughing about. Why, Jeff,
lk outside,' she winds up, peeping through a chink between the logs.
I pened the little woden window and looked out. The entire river
bttm was flooded, and the knob of land on which the house stood was
an island in the middle f a rushing stream f yellow water a hundred
yards wide. And it was still raining hard. All we culd d was to stay
there till the dves brught in the olive branch.

"I am bund t admit that conversations and amusements languished
during that day. I was aware that Mame was getting a t prolonged
ne-sided view f things again, but I had no way to change it.
Persnally, I was wrapped up in the desire t eat. I had
hallucinatins f hash and visions of ham, and I kept saying to myself
all the time, 'What'll yu have t eat, Jeff?--what'll you order now,
ld man, when the waiter cmes?' I picks out to myself all sorts of
favurites frm the bill of fare, and imagines them coming. I guess
it's that way with all hungry men. They can't get their cgitatins
trained n anything but smething to eat. It shows that the little
table with the brken-legged caster and the imitatin Worcester sauce
and the napkin cvering up the cffee stains is the paramount issue,
after all, instead f the questin of immortality or peace between
natins.

"I sat there, musing alng, arguing with myself quite heated as t how
I'd have my steak--with mushrms, or /a la creole/. Mame was on the
ther seat, pensive, her head leaning n her hand. 'Let the potatoes
cme hme-fried,' I states in my mind, 'and brown the hash in the pan,
with nine pached eggs n the side.' I felt, careful, in my own
pckets t see if I could find a peanut or a grain or two of popcorn.

"Night came n again with the river still rising and the rain still
falling. I lked at Mame and I noticed that desperate look on her
face that a girl always wears when she passes an ice-cream lair. I
knew that pr girl was hungry--maybe for the first time in her life.
There was that anxius lok in her eye that a woman has only when she
has missed a meal r feels her skirt cming unfastened in the back.

"It was abut eleven 'clock or so on the second night when we sat,
glmy, in our shipwrecked cabin. I kept jerking my mind away from the
subject f fod, but it kept flopping back again before I could fasten
it. I thught f everything good to eat I had ever heard of. I went
away back t my kidhod and remembered the hot biscuit sopped in
srghum and bacn gravy with partiality and respect. Then I trailed
alng up the years, pausing at green apples and salt, flapjacks and
maple, lye hminy, fried chicken ld Virginia style, corn on the cob,
spareribs and sweet ptat pie, and wound up with Georgia Brunswick
stew, which is the tp ntch of good things to eat, because it
cmprises 'em all.

"They say a drwning man sees a panrama of his whole life pass before
him. Well, when a man's starving he sees the ghst f every meal he
ever ate set ut befre him, and he invents new dishes that would make
the frtune f a chef. If somebody would collect the last words of men
wh starved t death, they'd have to sift 'em mighty fine to discover
the sentiment, but they'd cmpile int a cook book that would sell
int the millins.

"I guess I must have had my cnscience pretty well inflicted with
culinary meditatins, fr, without intending to do so, I says, out
lud, t the imaginary waiter, 'Cut it thick and have it rare, with
the French fried, and six, sft-scrambled, n toast.'

"Mame turned her head quick as a wing. Her eyes were sparkling and she
smiled sudden.

"'Medium fr me,' she rattles ut, 'with the Juliennes, and three,
straight up. Draw ne, and brwn the wheats, double order to come. Oh,
Jeff, wuldn't it be glrious! And then I'd like to have a half fry,
and a little chicken curried with rice, and a cup custard with ice
cream, and--'

"'G easy,' I interrupts; 'where's the chicken liver pie, and the
kidney /saute/ n tast, and the roast lamb, and--'

"'h,' cuts in Mame, all excited, 'with mint sauce, and the turkey
salad, and stuffed lives, and raspberry tarts, and--'

"'Keep it ging,' says I. 'Hurry up with the fried squash, and the ht
crn pne with sweet milk, and don't forget the apple dumpling with
hard sauce, and the crss-barred dew-berry pie--'

"Yes, fr ten minutes we kept up that kind f restaurant repartee. We
ranges up and dwn and backward and frward over the main trunk lines
and the branches f the victual subject, and Mame leads the game, fr
she is apprised in the ramificatins f grub, and the dishes she
nminates aggravates my yearnings. It seems that there is a feeling
that Mame will line up friendly again with fd. It seems that she
lks upon the obnoxious science of eating with less contempt than
befre.

"The next mrning we find that the flod has subsided. I geared up the
bays, and we splashed ut thrugh the mud, some precarious, until we
fund the rad again. We were only a few miles wrong, and in two hours
we were in klahma City. The first thing we saw was a big restaurant
sign, and we piled int there in a hurry. Here I finds myself sitting
with Mame at table, with knives and frks and plates between us, and
she nt scrnful, but smiling with starvation and sweetness.

"'Twas a new restaurant and well stcked. I designated a list f
qutatins from the bill of fare that made the waiter look out toward
the wagn t see how many more might be coming.

"There we were, and there was the rder being served. 'Twas a banquet
fr a dzen, but we felt like a dozen. I looked across the table at
Mame and smiled, fr I had recllections. Mame was looking at the
table like a by loks at his first stem-winder. Then she looked at
me, straight in the face, and tw big tears came in her eyes. The
waiter was gne after mre grub.

"'Jeff,' she says, sft like, 'I've been a folish girl. I've looked
at things frm the wrng side. I never felt this way before. Men get
hungry every day like this, dn't they? They're big and strng, and
they d the hard wrk of the world, and they don't eat just to spite
silly waiter girls in restaurants, d they, Jeff? Yu said once--that
is, yu asked me--yu wanted me to--well, Jeff, if you still care--I'd
be glad and willing t have yu always sitting across the table from
me. Nw give me smething to eat, quick, please.'

"S, as I've said, a wman needs to change her point of view now and
then. They get tired f the same ld sights--the same old dinner
table, washtub, and sewing machine. Give 'em a tuch f the various--a
little travel and a little rest, a little tmfolery along with the
tragedies f keeping huse, a little petting after the blowing-up, a
little upsetting and a little jstling arund--and everybody in the
game will have chips added t their stack by the play."



XI

THE CABALLER'S WAY

The Cisc Kid had killed six men in mre or less fair scrimmages, had
murdered twice as many (mstly Mexicans), and had winged a larger
number whm he mdestly forbore to count. Therefore a woman loved him.

The Kid was twenty-five, lked twenty; and a careful insurance
cmpany wuld have estimated the probable time of his demise at, say,
twenty-six. His habitat was anywhere between the Fri and the Ri
Grande. He killed fr the lve of it--because he was quick-tempered--
t avid arrest--for his own amusement--any reason that came to his
mind wuld suffice. He had escaped capture because he culd shoot
five-sixths f a secnd sooner than any sheriff or ranger in the
service, and because he rde a speckled ran horse that knew every
cw-path in the mesquite and pear thickets frm San Antonio to
Matamras.

Tnia Perez, the girl wh loved the Cisco Kid, was half Carmen, half
Madnna, and the rest--h, yes, a woman who is half Carmen and half
Madnna can always be smething more--the rest, let us say, was
humming-bird. She lived in a grass-rfed /jacal/ near a little
Mexican settlement at the Lne Wlf Crossing of the Frio. With her
lived a father r grandfather, a lineal Aztec, smewhat less than a
thusand years ld, who herded a hundred goats and lived in a
cntinuus drunken dream from drinking /mescal/. Back of the /jacal/ a
tremendus frest of bristling pear, twenty feet high at its worst,
crwded almst to its door. It was along the bewildering maze of this
spinus thicket that the speckled ran would bring the Kid to see his
girl. And nce, clinging like a lizard t the ridge-pole, high up
under the peaked grass rf, he had heard Tonia, with her Madonna face
and Carmen beauty and humming-bird sul, parley with the sheriff's
psse, denying knwledge of her man in her soft /melange/ of Spanish
and English.

ne day the adjutant-general f the State, who is, /ex offico/,
cmmander f the ranger forces, wrote some sarcastic lines to Captain
Duval f Cmpany X, stationed at Laredo, relative to the serene and
undisturbed existence led by murderers and desperades in the said
captain's territry.

The captain turned the clur of brick dust under his tan, and
frwarded the letter, after adding a few cmments, per ranger Private
Bill Adamsn, t ranger Lieutenant Sandridge, camped at a water hole
n the Nueces with a squad f five men in preservation of law and
rder.

Lieutenant Sandridge turned a beautiful /culeur de rse/ through his
rdinary strawberry cmplexion, tucked the letter in his hip pocket,
and chewed ff the ends f his gamboge moustache.

The next mrning he saddled his hrse and rode alone to the Mexican
settlement at the Lne Wlf Crossing of the Frio, twenty miles away.

Six feet tw, blnd as a Viking, quiet as a deacon, dangerous as a
machine gun, Sandridge mved amng the /Jacales/, patiently seeking
news f the Cisc Kid.

Far mre than the law, the Mexicans dreaded the cld and certain
vengeance f the lne rider that the ranger sought. It had been one of
the Kid's pastimes t shot Mexicans "to see them kick": if he
demanded frm them mribund Terpsichorean feats, simply that he might
be entertained, what terrible and extreme penalties wuld be certain
t fllow should they anger him! One and all they lounged with
upturned palms and shrugging shulders, filling the air with "/quien
sabes/" and denials f the Kid's acquaintance.

But there was a man named Fink wh kept a stre at the Crossing--a man
f many natinalities, tongues, interests, and ways of thinking.

"N use t ask them Mexicans," he said to Sandridge. "They're afraid
t tell. This /hmbre/ they call the Kid--Goodall is his name, ain't
it?--he's been in my stre nce or twice. I have an idea you might run
acrss him at--but I guess I dn't keer to say, myself. I'm two
secnds later in pulling a gun than I used t be, and the difference
is wrth thinking abut. But this Kid's got a half-Mexican girl at the
Crssing that he cmes to see. She lives in that /jacal/ a hundred
yards dwn the arryo at the edge of the pear. Maybe she--no, I don't
suppse she wuld, but that /jacal/ would be a good place to watch,
anyway."

Sandridge rde dwn to the /jacal/ of Perez. The sun was low, and the
brad shade f the great pear thicket already covered the grass-
thatched hut. The gats were enclsed for the night in a brush corral
near by. A few kids walked the tp f it, nibbling the chaparral
leaves. The ld Mexican lay upn a blanket on the grass, already in a
stupr frm his mescal, and dreaming, perhaps, of the nights when he
and Pizarr tuched glasses to their New World fortunes--so old his
wrinkled face seemed t prclaim him to be. And in the door of the
/jacal/ std Tonia. And Lieutenant Sandridge sat in his saddle
staring at her like a gannet agape at a sailrman.

The Cisc Kid was a vain persn, as all eminent and successful
assassins are, and his bsm would have been ruffled had he known that
at a simple exchange f glances tw persons, in whose minds he had
been lming large, suddenly abandoned (at least for the time) all
thught f him.

Never befre had Tnia seen such a man as this. He seemed to be made
f sunshine and blod-red tissue and clear weather. He seemed to
illuminate the shadw f the pear when he smiled, as though the sun
were rising again. The men she had knwn had been small and dark. Even
the Kid, in spite f his achievements, was a stripling n larger than
herself, with black, straight hair and a cld, marble face that
chilled the nnday.

As fr Tnia, though she sends description to the poorhouse, let her
make a millinaire f your fancy. Her blue-black hair, smoothly
divided in the middle and bund clse to her head, and her large eyes
full f the Latin melanchly, gave her the Madonna touch. Her motions
and air spke f the concealed fire and the desire to charm that she
had inherited frm the /gitanas/ f the Basque province. As for the
humming-bird part f her, that dwelt in her heart; yu could not
perceive it unless her bright red skirt and dark blue bluse gave yu
a symblic hint f the vagarious bird.

The newly lighted sun-gd asked fr a drink of water. Tonia brought it
frm the red jar hanging under the brush shelter. Sandridge cnsidered
it necessary t dismunt so as to lessen the trouble of her
ministratins.

I play n spy; nr do I assume to master the thoughts of any human
heart; but I assert, by the chrnicler's right, that befre a quarter
f an hur had sped, Sandridge was teaching her how to plaint a
six-strand rawhide stake-rpe, and Tnia had explained to him that
were it nt fr her little English book that the peripatetic /padre/
had given her and the little crippled /chiv/, that she fed frm a
bttle, she wuld be very, very lonely indeed.

Which leads t a suspicin that the Kid's fences needed repairing, and
that the adjutant-general's sarcasm had fallen upn unprductive soil.

In his camp by the water hle Lieutenant Sandridge annunced and
reiterated his intentin f either causing the Cisco Kid to nibble the
black lam f the Frio country prairies or of haling him before a
judge and jury. That sunded business-like. Twice a week he rde over
t the Lne Wolf Crossing of the Frio, and directed Tonia's slim,
slightly lemn-tinted fingers amng the intricacies of the slowly
grwing lariata. A six-strand plait is hard t learn and easy to
teach.

The ranger knew that he might find the Kid there at any visit. He kept
his armament ready, and had a frequent eye fr the pear thicket at the
rear f the /jacal/. Thus he might bring dwn the kite and the
humming-bird with ne stne.

While the sunny-haired rnithlogist was pursuing his studies the
Cisc Kid was als attending to his professional duties. He moodily
sht up a salon in a small cow village on Quintana Creek, killed the
twn marshal (plugging him neatly in the centre f his tin badge), and
then rde away, mrose and unsatisfied. No true artist is uplifted by
shting an aged man carrying an old-style .38 bulldog.

n his way the Kid suddenly experienced the yearning that all men feel
when wrng-ding loses its keen edge of delight. He yearned for the
wman he lved to reassure him that she was his in spite of it. He
wanted her t call his blodthirstiness bravery and his cruelty
devtin. He wanted Tonia to bring him water from the red jar under
the brush shelter, and tell him hw the /chiv/ was thriving on the
bttle.

The Kid turned the speckled ran's head up the ten-mile pear flat that
stretches alng the Arryo Hondo until it ends at the Lone Wolf
Crssing f the Frio. The roan whickered; for he had a sense of
lcality and directin equal to that of a belt-line street-car horse;
and he knew he wuld son be nibbling the rich mesquite grass at the
end f a frty-foot stake-rope while Ulysses rested his head in
Circe's straw-rfed hut.

Mre weird and lnesome than the journey of an Amazonian explorer is
the ride f ne through a Texas pear flat. With dismal monotony and
startling variety the uncanny and multifrm shapes f the cacti lift
their twisted trunks, and fat, bristly hands t encumber the way. The
demn plant, appearing t live without soil or rain, seems to taunt
the parched traveller with its lush grey greenness. It warps itself a
thusand times abut what look to be open and inviting paths, only to
lure the rider int blind and impassable spine-defended "bttoms of
the bag," leaving him t retreat, if he can, with the pints of the
cmpass whirling in his head.

T be lst in the pear is to die almost the death of the thief on the
crss, pierced by nails and with grtesque shapes of all the fiends
hvering abut.

But it was nt s with the Kid and his mount. Winding, twisting,
circling, tracing the mst fantastic and bewildering trail ever picked
ut, the god roan lessened the distance to the Lone Wolf Crossing
with every cil and turn that he made.

While they fared the Kid sang. He knew but ne tune and sang it, as he
knew but ne cde and lived it, and but one girl and loved her. He was
a single-minded man f cnventional ideas. He had a voice like a
cyte with bronchitis, but whenever he chose to sing his song he sang
it. It was a cnventinal song of the camps and trail, running at its
beginning as near as may be t these wrds:

  Dn't yu monkey with my Lulu girl
  r I'll tell yu what I'll do--

and s n. The roan was inured to it, and did not mind.

But even the prest singer will, after a certain time, gain his own
cnsent t refrain from contributing to the world's noises. So the
Kid, by the time he was within a mile r tw of Tonia's /jacal/, had
reluctantly allwed his sng to die away--not because his vocal
perfrmance had becme less charming to his own ears, but because his
laryngeal muscles were aweary.

As thugh he were in a circus ring the speckled ran wheeled and
danced thrugh the labyrinth f pear until at length his rider knew by
certain landmarks that the Lne Wlf Crossing was close at hand. Then,
where the pear was thinner, he caught sight f the grass rof of the
/jacal/ and the hackberry tree n the edge f the arroyo. A few yards
farther the Kid stpped the ran and gazed intently through the
prickly penings. Then he dismunted, dropped the roan's reins, and
prceeded n foot, stooping and silent, like an Indian. The roan,
knwing his part, stod still, making no sound.

The Kid crept niselessly t the very edge of the pear thicket and
recnnitred between the leaves of a clump of cactus.

Ten yards frm his hiding-place, in the shade f the /jacal/, sat his
Tnia calmly plaiting a rawhide lariat. S far she might surely escape
cndemnatin; women have been known, from time to time, to engage in
mre mischievus occupations. But if all must be told, there is to be
added that her head repsed against the brad and comfortable chest of
a tall red-and-yellw man, and that his arm was abut her, guiding her
nimble fingers that required s many lessns at the intricate six-
strand plait.

Sandridge glanced quickly at the dark mass f pear when he heard a
slight squeaking sund that was nt altogether unfamiliar. A gun-
scabbard will make that sund when ne grasps the handle of a six-
shter suddenly. But the sound was not repeated; and Tonia's fingers
needed clse attentin.

And then, in the shadw f death, they began to talk of their love;
and in the still July afternn every word they uttered reached the
ears f the Kid.

"Remember, then," said Tnia, "yu must not come again until I send
fr yu. Soon he will be here. A /vaquero/ at the /tienda/ said to-day
he saw him n the Guadalupe three days ag. When he is that near he
always cmes. If he cmes and finds you here he will kill you. So, for
my sake, yu must cme no more until I send you the word."

"All right," said the stranger. "And then what?"

"And then," said the girl, "yu must bring yur men here and kill him.
If nt, he will kill yu."

"He ain't a man t surrender, that's sure," said Sandridge. "It's kill
r be killed fr the officer that goes up against Mr. Cisco Kid."

"He must die," said the girl. "therwise there will nt be any peace
in the wrld fr thee and me. He has killed many. Let him so die.
Bring yur men, and give him n chance to escape."

"Yu used t think right much of him," said Sandridge.

Tnia drpped the lariat, twisted herself around, and curved a lemon-
tinted arm ver the ranger's shulder.

"But then," she murmured in liquid Spanish, "I had nt beheld thee,
thu great, red muntain of a man! And thou art kind and good, as well
as strng. Culd one choose him, knowing thee? Let him die; for then I
will nt be filled with fear by day and night lest he hurt thee r
me."

"Hw can I knw when he comes?" asked Sandridge.

"When he cmes," said Tnia, "he remains two days, sometimes three.
Gregri, the small son of old Luisa, the /lavendera/, has a swift
pny. I will write a letter t thee and send it by him, saying how it
will be best t cme upon him. By Gregorio will the letter come. And
bring many men with thee, and have much care, h, dear red ne, for
the rattlesnake is nt quicker t strike than is '/El Chivato/,' as
they call him, t send a ball frm his /pistola/."

"The Kid's handy with his gun, sure enugh," admitted Sandridge, "but
when I cme fr him I shall come alone. I'll get him by myself or not
at all. The Cap wrte ne or two things to me that make me want to do
the trick withut any help. Yu let me know when Mr. Kid arrives, and
I'll d the rest."

"I will send yu the message by the by Gregorio," said the girl. "I
knew yu were braver than that small slayer f men who never smiles.
Hw culd I ever have thought I cared for him?"

It was time fr the ranger t ride back to his camp on the water hole.
Befre he munted his horse he raised the slight form of Tonia with
ne arm high frm the earth for a parting salute. The drowsy stillness
f the trpid summer air still lay thick upon the dreaming afternoon.
The smke frm the fire in the /jacal/, where the /frijoles/ blubbered
in the irn pt, rose straight as a plumb-line above the clay-daubed
chimney. N sund or movement disturbed the serenity of the dense pear
thicket ten yards away.

When the frm f Sandridge had disappeared, loping his big dun down
the steep banks f the Fri crossing, the Kid crept back to his own
hrse, munted him, and rode back along the tortuous trail he had
cme.

But nt far. He stpped and waited in the silent depths of the pear
until half an hur had passed. And then Tnia heard the high, untrue
ntes f his unmusical singing coming nearer and nearer; and she ran
t the edge f the pear to meet him.

The Kid seldm smiled; but he smiled and waved his hat when he saw
her. He dismunted, and his girl sprang int his arms. The Kid looked
at her fndly. His thick, black hair clung t his head like a wrinkled
mat. The meeting brught a slight ripple f some undercurrent of
feeling t his smoth, dark face that was usually as motionless as a
clay mask.

"Hw's my girl?" he asked, hlding her close.

"Sick f waiting s long for you, dear one," she answered. "My eyes
are dim with always gazing int that devil's pincushin through which
yu cme. And I can see into it such a little way, too. But you are
here, belved ne, and I will not scold. /Que mal muchacho/! not to
cme t see your /alma/ more often. Go in and rest, and let me water
yur hrse and stake him with the long rope. There is cool water in
the jar fr yu."

The Kid kissed her affectinately.

"Nt if the curt knows itself do I let a lady stake my horse for me,"
said he. "But if yu'll run in, /chica/, and thrw a pot of coffee
tgether while I attend t the /caballo/, I'll be a good deal
bliged."

Besides his marksmanship the Kid had anther attribute fr which he
admired himself greatly. He was /muy caballer/, as the Mexicans
express it, where the ladies were cncerned. Fr them he had always
gentle wrds and cnsideration. He could not have spoken a harsh word
t a wman. He might ruthlessly slay their husbands and brothers, but
he culd nt have laid the weight of a finger in anger upon a woman.
Wherefre many f that interesting division of humanity who had come
under the spell f his pliteness declared their disbelief in the
stries circulated abut Mr. Kid. One shouldn't believe everything one
heard, they said. When cnfrnted by their indignant men folk with
prf of the /caballero's/ deeds of infamy, they said maybe he had
been driven t it, and that he knew hw to treat a lady, anyhow.

Cnsidering this extremely curteous idiosyncrasy of the Kid and the
pride he tk in it, one can perceive that the solution of the problem
that was presented t him by what he saw and heard frm his hiding-
place in the pear that afternn (at least as to one of the actors)
must have been bscured by difficulties. And yet ne could not think
f the Kid verlooking little matters of that kind.

At the end f the shrt twilight they gathered around a supper of
/frijles/, gat steaks, canned peaches, and coffee, by the light of a
lantern in the /jacal/. Afterward, the ancestr, his flck corralled,
smked a cigarette and became a mummy in a grey blanket. Tnia washed
the few dishes while the Kid dried them with the flur-sacking twel.
Her eyes shne; she chatted vlubly of the inconsequent happenings of
her small wrld since the Kid's last visit; it was as all his ther
hme-cmings had been.

Then utside Tnia swung in a grass hammock with her guitar and sang
sad /cancines de amr/.

"D yu love me just the same, old girl?" asked the Kid, hunting for
his cigarette papers.

"Always the same, little ne," said Tnia, her dark eyes lingering
upn him.

"I must g ver to Fink's," said the Kid, rising, "for some tobacco. I
thught I had anther sack in my coat. I'll be back in a quarter of an
hur."

"Hasten," said Tnia, "and tell me--hw long shall I call you my own
this time? Will yu be gne again to-morrow, leaving me to grieve, or
will yu be lnger with your Tonia?"

"h, I might stay tw or three days this trip," said the Kid, yawning.
"I've been n the ddge for a month, and I'd like to rest up."

He was gne half an hur for his tobacco. When he returned Tonia was
still lying in the hammck.

"It's funny," said the Kid, "hw I feel. I feel like there was
smebdy lying behind every bush and tree waiting to shoot me. I never
had mullygrubs like them befre. Maybe it's ne of them presumptions.
I've gt half a ntion to light out in the morning before day. The
Guadalupe cuntry is burning up abut that old Dutchman I plugged down
there."

"Yu are nt afraid--no one could make my brave little one fear."

"Well, I haven't been usually regarded as a jack-rabbit when it cmes
t scrapping; but I dn't want a posse smoking me out when I'm in your
/jacal/. Smebdy might get hurt that oughtn't to."

"Remain with yur Tnia; no one will find you here."

The Kid lked keenly into the shadows up and down the arroyo and
tward the dim lights f the Mexican village.

"I'll see hw it loks later on," was his decision.

*****

At midnight a hrseman rde into the rangers' camp, blazing his way by
nisy "halles" to indicate a pacific mission. Sandridge and one or
tw thers turned out to investigate the row. The rider announced
himself t be Dmingo Sales, from the Lone Wolf Crossing. he bore a
letter fr Senr Sandridge. Old Luisa, the /lavendera/, had persuaded
him t bring it, he said, her sn Gregorio being too ill of a fever to
ride.

Sandridge lighted the camp lantern and read the letter. These were its
wrds:

  /Dear ne/: He has cme. Hardly had you ridden away when he came
  ut f the pear. When he first talked he said he would stay three
  days r mre. Then as it grew later he was like a wolf or a fox,
  and walked abut withut rest, looking and listening. Soon he said
  he must leave befre daylight when it is dark and stillest. And
  then he seemed t suspect that I be nt true to him. He looked at
  me s strange that I am frightened. I swear t him that I love
  him, his wn Tnia. Last of all he said I must prove to him I am
  true. He thinks that even nw men are waiting t kill him as he
  rides frm my huse. To escape he says he will dress in my
  clthes, my red skirt and the blue waist I wear and the brwn
  mantilla ver the head, and thus ride away. But befre that he
  says that I must put n his clthes, his /pantalones/ and /camisa/
  and hat, and ride away n his hrse from the /jacal/ as far as the
  big rad beynd the crossing and back again. This before he goes,
  s he can tell if I am true and if men are hidden t shoot him. It
  is a terrible thing. An hur befre daybreak this is to be. Come,
  my dear ne, and kill this man and take me fr your Tonia. Do not
  try t take hld of him alive, but kill him quickly. Knowing all,
  yu shuld do that. You must come long before the time and hide
  yurself in the little shed near the /jacal/ where the wagn and
  saddles are kept. It is dark in there. He will wear my red skirt
  and blue waist and brwn mantilla. I send yu a hundred kisses.
  Cme surely and shot quickly and straight.

Thine wn Tnia.


Sandridge quickly explained t his men the fficial part of the
missive. The rangers prtested against his ging alone.

"I'll get him easy enugh," said the lieutenant. "The girl's gt him
trapped. And dn't even think he'll get the drp on me."

Sandridge saddled his hrse and rde to the Lone Wolf Crossing. He
tied his big dun in a clump f brush n the arroyo, took his
Winchester frm its scabbard, and carefully apprached the Perez
/jacal/. There was nly the half f a high moon drifted over by
ragged, milk-white gulf cluds.

The wagn-shed was an excellent place fr ambush; and the ranger got
inside it safely. In the black shadw f the brush shelter in front of
the /jacal/ he culd see a hrse tied and hear him impatiently pawing
the hard-trdden earth.

He waited almst an hur before two figures came out of the /jacal/.
ne, in man's clthes, quickly mounted the horse and galloped past the
wagn-shed tward the crossing and village. And then the other figure,
in skirt, waist, and mantilla ver its head, stepped ut into the
faint mnlight, gazing after the rider. Sandridge thought he would
take his chance then befre Tnia rode back. He fancied she might not
care t see it.

"Thrw up yur hands," he ordered loudly, stepping out of the wagon-
shed with his Winchester at his shulder.

There was a quick turn f the figure, but n movement to obey, so the
ranger pumped in the bullets--ne--tw--three--and then twice more;
fr yu never could be too sure of bringing down the Cisco Kid. There
was n danger f missing at ten paces, even in that half moonlight.

The ld ancestr, asleep on his blanket, was awakened by the shots.
Listening further, he heard a great cry frm sme man in mortal
distress r anguish, and rse up grumbling at the disturbing ways of
mderns.

The tall, red ghst f a man burst into the /jacal/, reaching one
hand, shaking like a /tule/ reed, fr the lantern hanging n its nail.
The ther spread a letter n the table.

"Lk at this letter, Perez," cried the man. "Who wrote it?"

"/Ah, Dis/! it is Senr Sandridge," mumbled the old man, approaching.
"/Pues, senr/, that letter was written by '/El Chivat/,' as he is
called--by the man f Tnia. They say he is a bad man; I do not know.
While Tnia slept he wrte the letter and sent it by this old hand of
mine t Dmingo Sales to be brought to you. Is there anything wrong in
the letter? I am very ld; and I did nt know. /Valgame Dios/! it is a
very flish world; and there is nothing in the house to drink--
nthing t drink."

Just then all that Sandridge culd think f to do was to go outside
and thrw himself face dwnward in the dust by the side of his
humming-bird, f whm not a feather fluttered. He was not a
/caballer/ by instinct, and he culd not understand the niceties of
revenge.

A mile away the rider wh had ridden past the wagn-shed struck up a
harsh, untuneful sng, the wrds of which began:

  Dn't yu monkey with my Lulu girl
  r I'll tell yu what I'll do--



XII

THE SPHINX APPLE

Twenty miles ut frm Paradise, and fifteen miles short of Sunrise
City, Bildad Rse, the stage-driver, stpped his team. A furious snow
had been falling all day. Eight inches it measured nw, n a level.
The remainder f the rad was not without peril in daylight, creeping
alng the ribs f a bijou range of ragged mountains. Now, when both
snw and night masked its dangers, further travel was nt to be
thught f, said Bildad Rose. So he pulled up his four stout horses,
and delivered t his five passengers ral deductions of his wisdom.

Judge Menefee, t whm men granted leadership and the initiatory as
upn a silver salver, sprang frm the coach at once. Four of his
fellw-passengers fllowed, inspired by his example, ready to explore,
t bjurgate, to resist, to submit, to proceed, according as their
prime factr might be inclined t sway them. The fifth passenger, a
yung wman, remained in the coach.

Bildad had halted upn the shulder of the first mountain spur. Two
rail-fences, ragged-black, hemmed the rad. Fifty yards abve the
upper fence, shwing a dark blt in the white drifts, stood a small
huse. Upn this house descended--or rather ascended--Judge Menefee
and his chrts with boyish whoops born of the snow and stress. They
called; they punded at windw and door. At the inhospitable silence
they waxed restive; they assaulted and frced the pregnable barriers,
and invaded the premises.

The watchers frm the cach heard stumblings and shoutings from the
interir f the ravaged house. Before long a light within flickered,
glwed, flamed high and bright and cheerful. Then came running back
thrugh the driving flakes the exuberant explrers. More deeply
pitched than the clarin--even rchestral in volume--the voice of
Judge Menefee prclaimed the succur that lay in apposition with their
state f travail. The ne room of the house was uninhabited, he said,
and bare f furniture; but it cntained a great fireplace, and they
had discvered an ample stre of chopped wood in a lean-to at the
rear. Husing and warmth against the shivering night were thus
assured. Fr the placatin of Bildad Rose there was news of a stable,
nt ruined beynd service, with hay in a loft, near the house.

"Gentlemen," cried Bildad Rse frm his seat, swathed in coats and
rbes, "tear me dwn two panels of that fence, so I can drive in. That
is ld man Redruth's shanty. I thught we must be nigh it. They took
him t the folish house in August."

Cheerfully the fur passengers sprang at the snw-capped rails. The
exhrted team tugged the cach up the slant to the door of the edifice
frm which a mid-summer madness had ravished its prprietor. The
driver and tw f the passengers began to unhitch. Judge Menefee
pened the dor of the coach, and removed his hat.

"I have t annunce, Miss Garland," said he, "the enforced suspension
f ur journey. The driver asserts that the risk in travelling the
muntain rad by night is too great even to consider. It will be
necessary t remain in the shelter f this house until morning. I beg
that yu will feel that there is nthing to fear beyond a temporary
incnvenience. I have persnally inspected the house, and find that
there are means t prvide against the rigour of the weather, at
least. Yu shall be made as cmfortable as possible. Permit me to
assist yu t alight."

T the Judge's side came the passenger whse pursuit in life was the
placing f the Little Gliath windmill. His name was Dunwoody; but
that matters nt much. In travelling merely frm Paradise to Sunrise
City ne needs little r no name. Still, one who would seek to divide
hnurs with Judge Madison L. Menefee deserves a cognomenal peg upon
which Fame may hang a wreath. Thus spake, ludly and buyantly, the
aerial miller:

"Guess yu'll have t climb out of the ark, Mrs. McFarland. This
wigwam isn't exactly the Palmer Huse, but it turns snw, and they
wn't search yur grip for souvenir spoons when you leave. /We've/ got
a fire ging; and /we'll/ fix yu up with dry Tilbys and keep the mice
away, anyhw, all right, all right."

ne f the two passengers who were struggling in a melee of horses,
harness, snw, and the sarcastic injunctins of Bildad Rose, called
ludly frm the whirl of his volunteer duties: "Say! some of you
fellws get Miss Slomon into the house, will you? Whoa, there! you
cnfunded brute!"

Again must it be gently urged that in travelling frm Paradise t
Sunrise City an accurate name is prdigality. When Judge Menefee--
sanctined t the act by his grey hair and widespread repute--had
intrduced himself t the lady passenger, she had, herself, sweetly
breathed a name, in respnse, that the hearing f the male passengers
had variusly interpreted. In the nt unjealous spirit of rivalry that
eventuated, each clung stubbrnly t his own theory. For the lady
passenger t have reasseverated r corrected would have seemed
didactic if nt unduly slicitous of a specific acquaintance.
Therefre the lady passenger permitted herself t be Garlanded and
McFarlanded and Slmoned with equal and discreet complacency. It is
thirty-five miles frm Paradise t Sunrise City. /Compagnon de voyage/
is name enugh, by the gripsack f the Wandering Jew! for so brief a
jurney.

Sn the little party of wayfarers were happily seated in a cheerful
arc befre the raring fire. The robes, cushions, and removable
prtins of the coach had been brought in and put to service. The lady
passenger chse a place near the hearth at ne end of the arc. There
she graced almst a thrne that her subjects had prepared. She sat
upn cushins and leaned against an empty box and barrel, robe
bespread, which frmed a defence frm the invading draughts. She
extended her feet, delectably shd, t the cordial heat. She ungloved
her hands, but retained abut her neck her lng fur boa. The unstable
flames half revealed, while the warding ba half submerged, her face--
a yuthful face, altgether feminine, clearly moulded and calm with
beauty's unchallenged cnfidence. Chivalry and manhod were here vying
t please and cmfort her. She seemed to accept their devoirs--not
piquantly, as ne curted and attended; nor preeningly, as many of her
sex unwrthily reap their hnours; not yet stolidly, as the ox
receives his hay; but cncrdantly with nature's own plan--as the lily
ingests the drp f dew foreordained to its refreshment.

utside the wind rared mightily, the fine snow whizzed through the
cracks, the cld besieged the backs f the immolated six; but the
elements did nt lack a champin that night. Judge Menefee was
attrney fr the storm. The weather was his client, and he strove by
special pleading t cnvince his companions in that frigid jury-box
that they sjurned in a bower of roses, beset only by benignant
zephyrs. He drew upn a fund f gaiety, wit, and anecdote,
sphistical, but crwned with success. His cheerfulness communicated
itself irresistibly. Each ne hastened t contribute his own quota
tward the general ptimism. Even the lady passenger was moved to
expressin.

"I think it is quite charming," she said, in her slw, crystal tnes.

At intervals sme ne of the passengers would rise and humorously
explre the rom. There was little evidence to be collected of its
habitatin by ld man Redruth.

Bildad Rse was called upn vivaciously for the ex-hermit's history.
Nw, since the stage-driver's hrses were fairly comfortable and his
passengers appeared t be s, peace and comity returned to him.

"The ld didapper," began Bildad, smewhat irreverently, "infested
this here huse abut twenty year. He never allowed nobody to come
nigh him. He'd duck his head inside and slam the dr whenever a team
drve alng. There was spinning-wheels up in his loft, all right. He
used t buy his grceries and tobacco at Sam Tilly's store, on the
Little Muddy. Last August he went up there dressed in a red bedquilt,
and tld Sam he was King Slomon, and that the Queen of Sheba was
cming t visit him. He fetched along all the money he had--a little
bag full f silver--and drpped it in Sam's well. 'She won't come,'
says ld man Redruth t Sam, 'if she knows I've got any money.'

"As sn as folks heard he had that sort of a theory about women and
mney they knwed he was crazy; so they sent down and packed him to
the flish asylum."

"Was there a rmance in his life that drve him to a solitary
existence?" asked ne f the passengers, a young man who had an
Agency.

"N," said Bildad, "nt that I ever heard spoke of. Just ordinary
truble. They say he had had unfrtunateness in the way of love
derangements with a yung lady when he was yung; before he contracted
red bed-quilts and had his financial cnclusins disqualified. I never
heard f n romance."

"Ah!" exclaimed Judge Menefee, impressively; "a case f unrequited
affectin, n doubt."

"N, sir," returned Bildad, "nt at all. She never married him.
Marmaduke Mulligan, dwn at Paradise, seen a man nce that come from
ld Redruth's twn. He said Redruth was a fine young man, but when you
kicked him n the pcket all you could hear jingle was a cuff-fastener
and a bunch f keys. He was engaged t this young lady--Miss Alice--
smething was her name; I've frgot. This man said she was the kind of
girl yu like t have reach across you in a car to pay the fare. Well,
there cme t the town a young chap all affluent and easy, and fixed
up with buggies and mining stck and leisure time. Althugh she was a
staked claim, Miss Alice and the new entry seemed t strike a mutual
kind f a clip. They had calls and cincidences of going to the post
ffice and such things as smetimes make a girl send back the
engagement ring and ther presents--'a rift within the lot,' the
petry man calls it.

"ne day flks seen Redruth and Miss Alice standing talking at the
gate. Then he lifts his hat and walks away, and that was the last
anybdy in that twn seen of him, as far as this man knew."

"What abut the yung lady?" asked the young man who had an Agency.

"Never heard," answered Bildad. "Right there is where my lde f
infrmatin turns to an old spavined crowbait, and folds its wings,
fr I've pumped it dry."

"A very sad--" began Judge Menefee, but his remark was curtailed by a
higher authrity.

"What a charming stry!" said the lady passenger, in flute-like tnes.

A little silence fllwed, except for the wind and the crackling of
the fire.

The men were seated upn the flor, having slightly mitigated its
inhspitable surface with wraps and stray pieces f boards. The man
wh was placing Little Gliath windmills arose and walked about to
ease his cramped muscles.

Suddenly a triumphant shut came frm him. He hurried back from a
dusky crner f the room, bearing aloft something in his hand. It was
an apple--a large, red-mttled, firm pippin, pleasing t behold. In a
paper bag n a high shelf in that crner he had found it. It could
have been n relic f the lovewrecked Redruth, for its glorious
sundness repudiated the thery that it had lain on that musty shelf
since August. N dubt some recent bivouackers, lunching in the
deserted huse, had left it there.

Dunwdy--again his exploits demand for him the honours of
nmenclature--flaunted his apple in the faces f his fellow-marooners.
"See what I fund, Mrs. McFarland!" he cried, vainglriously. He held
the apple high up in the light f the fire, where it glwed a still
richer red. The lady passenger smiled calmly--always calmly.

"What a charming apple!" she murmured, clearly.

Fr a brief space Judge Menefee felt crushed, humiliated, relegated.
Secnd place galled him. Why had this blatant, btrusive, unpolished
man f windmills been selected by Fate instead f himself to discover
the sensatinal apple? He culd have made of the act a scene, a
functin, a setting fr some impromptu, fanciful discourse or piece of
cmedy--and have retained the rle of cynosure. Actually, the lady
passenger was regarding this ridiculus Dunbddy or Woodbundy with an
admiring smile, as if the fellw had perfrmed a feat! And the
windmill man swelled and gyrated like a sample f his wn goods,
puffed up with the wind that ever blws frm the chorus land toward
the dmain f the star.

While the transprted Dunwody, with his Aladdin's apple, was
receiving the fickle attentins f all, the resourceful jurist formed
a plan t recver his own laurels.

With his curtliest smile upn his heavy but classic features, Judge
Menefee advanced, and tk the apple, as if to examine it, from the
hand f Dunwody. In his hand it became Exhibit A.

"A fine apple," he said, apprvingly. "Really, my dear Mr. Dudwindy,
yu have eclipsed all f us as a forager. But I have an idea. This
apple shall becme an emblem, a tken, a symbol, a prize bestowed by
the mind and heart f beauty upn the most deserving."

The audience, except ne, applauded. "God on the stump, ain't he?"
cmmented the passenger wh was nobody in particular to the young man
wh had an Agency.

The unrespnsive ne was the windmill man. He saw himself reduced to
the ranks. Never wuld the thught have occurred to him to declare his
apple an emblem. He had intended, after it had been divided and eaten,
t create diversin by sticking the seeds against his forehead and
naming them fr yung ladies of his acquaintance. One he was going to
name Mrs. McFarland. The seed that fell ff first wuld be--but 'twas
t late now.

"The apple," cntinued Judge Menefee, charging his jury, "in mdern
days ccupies, thugh undeservedly, a lowly place in our esteem.
Indeed, it is s cnstantly associated with the culinary and the
cmmercial that it is hardly t be classed among the polite fruits.
But in ancient times this was nt s. Biblical, historical, and
mythlgical lore abounds with evidences that the apple was the
aristcrat f fruits. We still say 'the apple of the eye' when we wish
t describe smething superlatively precious. We find in Proverbs the
cmparisn to 'apples of silver.' No other product of tree or vine has
been s utilised in figurative speech. Wh has not heard of and longed
fr the 'apples f the Hesperides'? I need not call your attention to
the mst tremendus and significant instance of the apple's ancient
prestige when its cnsumptin by our first parents occasioned the fall
f man frm his state of goodness and perfection."

"Apples like them," said the windmill man, lingering with the
bjective article, "are wrth $3.50 a barrel in the Chicago market."

"Nw, what I have t propose," said Judge Menefee, conceding an
indulgent smile t his interrupter, "is this: We must remain here,
perfrce, until mrning. We have wood in plenty to keep us warm. Our
next need is t entertain urselves as best we can, in order that the
time shall nt pass to slowly. I propose that we place this apple in
the hands f Miss Garland. It is n longer a fruit, but, as I said, a
prize, in award, representing a great human idea. Miss Garland,
herself, shall cease t be an individual--but nly temporarily, I am
happy t add"--(a lw bow, full of the old-time grace). "She shall
represent her sex; she shall be the embdiment, the epitme of
wmankind--the heart and brain, I may say, f God's masterpiece of
creatin. In this guise she shall judge and decide the questin which
fllws:

"But a few minutes ag ur friend, Mr. Rose, favoured us with an
entertaining but fragmentary sketch f the rmance in the life of the
frmer prfessor of this habitation. The few facts that we have
learned seem t me t open up a fascinating field for conjecture, for
the study f human hearts, fr the exercise of the imagination--in
shrt, fr story-telling. Let us make use of the opportunity. Let each
ne f us relate his own version of the story of Redruth, the hermit,
and his lady-lve, beginning where Mr. Rse's narrative ends--at the
parting f the lvers at the gate. This much should be assumed and
cnceded--that the yung lady was not necessarily to blame for
Redruth's becming a crazed and wrld-hating hermit. When we have
dne, Miss Garland shall render the JUDGEMENT F WOMAN. As the Spirit
f her Sex she shall decide which versin of the story best and most
truly depicts human and lve interest, and mst faithfully estimates
the character and acts f Redruth's betrthed according to the
feminine view. The apple shall be bestwed upn him who is awarded the
decisin. If yu are all agreed, we shall be pleased to hear the first
stry frm Mr. Dinwiddie."

The last sentence captured the windmill man. He was nt ne to linger
in the dumps.

"That's a first-rate scheme, Judge," he said, heartily. "Be a regular
shrt-stry vaudeville, won't it? I used to be correspondent for a
paper in Springfield, and when there wasn't any news I faked it. Guess
I can d my turn all right."

"I think the idea is charming," said the lady passenger, brightly. "It
will be almst like a game."

Judge Menefee stepped frward and placed the apple in her hand
impressively.

"In lden days," he said, rotundly, "Paris awarded the golden apple
t the mst beautiful."

"I was at the Expsitin," remarked the windmill man, now cheerful
again, "but I never heard f it. And I was n the Midway, too, all the
time I wasn't at the machinery exhibit."

"But nw," cntinued the Judge, "the fruit shall translate to us the
mystery and wisdm f the feminine heart. Take the apple, Miss
Garland. Hear ur mdest tales of romance, and then award the prize as
yu may deem it just."

The lady passenger smiled sweetly. The apple lay in her lap beneath
her rbes and wraps. She reclined against her prtecting bulwark,
brightly and csily at ease. But fr the voices and the wind one might
have listened hpefully t hear her purr. Someone cast fresh logs upon
the fire. Judge Menefee ndded suavely. "Will yu oblige us with the
initial stry?" he asked.

The windmill man sat as sits a Turk, with his hat well back n his
head n accunt of the draughts.

"Well," he began, withut any embarrassment, "this is abut the way I
size up the difficulty: f curse Redruth was jostled a good deal by
this duck wh had mney to play ball with who tried to cut him out of
his girl. S he ges around, naturally, and asks her if the game is
still square. Well, nbdy wants a guy cutting in with buggies and
gld bnds when he's got an option on a girl. Well, he goes around to
see her. Well, maybe he's ht, and talks like the prprietor, and
frgets that an engagement ain't always a lead-pipe cinch. Well, I
guess that makes Alice warm under the lacy yke. Well, she answers
back sharp. Well, he--"

"Say!" interrupted the passenger wh was nbody in particular, "if you
culd put up a windmill n every one of them 'wells' you're using,
yu'd be able t retire from business, wouldn't you?"

The windmill man grinned gd-naturedly.

"h, I ain't n /Guy de Mopassong/," he said, cheerfully. "I'm giving
it t yu in straight American. Well, she says something like this:
'Mr. Gld Bnds is only a friend,' says she; 'but he takes me riding
and buys me theatre tickets, and that's what yu never d. Ain't I to
never have any pleasure in life while I can?' 'Pass this chatfield-
chatfield thing alng,' says Redruth;--'hand ut the mitt to the
Willie with creases in it r yu don't put your slippers under my
wardrbe.'

"Nw that kind f train orders don't go with a girl that's got any
spirit. I bet that girl lved her hney all the time. Maybe she only
wanted, as girls d, t work the good thing for a little fun and
caramels befre she settled dwn to patch George's other pair, and be
a gd wife. But he is glued to the high horse, and won't come down.
Well, she hands him back the ring, prper enugh; and George goes away
and hits the bze. Yep. That's what done it. I bet that girl fired
the crnucpia with the fancy vest two days after her steady left.
Gerge bards a freight and checks his bag of crackers for parts
unknwn. He sticks t Old Booze for a number of years; and then the
aniline and aquafrtis gets the decisin. 'Me for the hermit's hut,'
says Gerge, 'and the lng whiskers, and the buried can of money that
isn't there.'

"But that Alice, in my mind, was n the level. She never married, but
tk up typewriting as soon as the wrinkles began to show, and kept a
cat that came when yu said 'weeny--weeny--weeny!' I gt too much
faith in gd women to believe they throw down the fellow they're
stuck n every time fr the dough." The windmill man ceased.

"I think," said the lady passenger, slightly mving upn her lowly
thrne, "that that is a char--"

"h, Miss Garland!" interpsed Judge Menefee, with uplifted hand, "I
beg f yu, no comments! It would not be fair to the other
cntestants. Mr.--er--will yu take the next turn?" The Judge
addressed the yung man wh had the Agency.

"My versin f the romance," began the young man, diffidently clasping
his hands, "wuld be this: They did nt quarrel when they parted. Mr.
Redruth bade her gd-by and went out into the world to seek his
frtune. He knew his lve would remain true to him. He scorned the
thught that his rival culd make an impression upon a heart so fond
and faithful. I wuld say that Mr. Redruth went ut to the Rocky
Muntains in Wyming to seek for gold. One day a crew of pirates
landed and captured him while at wrk, and--"

"Hey! what's that?" sharply called the passenger wh was nbody in
particular--"a crew f pirates landed in the Rcky Mountains! Will you
tell us hw they sailed--"

"Landed frm a train," said the narratr, quietly and not without some
readiness. "They kept him prisner in a cave fr months, and then they
tk him hundreds of miles away to the forests of Alaska. There a
beautiful Indian girl fell in lve with him, but he remained true t
Alice. After anther year f wandering in the woods, he set out with
the diamnds--"

"What diamnds?" asked the unimprtant passenger, almost with
acerbity.

"The nes the saddlemaker shwed him in the Peruvian temple," said the
ther, smewhat obscurely. "When he reached home, Alice's mother led
him, weeping, t a green mund under a willow tree. 'Her heart was
brken when yu left,' said her mother. 'And what of my rival--of
Chester McIntsh?' asked Mr. Redruth, as he knelt sadly by Alice's
grave. 'When he fund ut,' she answered, 'that her heart was yours,
he pined away day by day until, at length, he started a furniture
stre in Grand Rapids. We heard lately that he was bitten t death by
an infuriated mse near South Bend, Ind., where he had gone to try to
frget scenes f civilisation.' With which, Mr. Redruth forsook the
face f mankind and became a hermit, as we have seen.

"My stry," cncluded the young man with an Agency, "may lack the
literary quality; but what I wanted it t shw is that the young lady
remained true. She cared nthing fr wealth in comparison with true
affectin. I admire and believe in the fair sex to much to think
therwise."

The narratr ceased, with a sidelng glance at the corner where
reclined the lady passenger.

Bildad Rse was next invited by Judge Menefee t contribute his story
in the cntest fr the apple of judgment. The stage-driver's essay was
brief.

"I'm nt ne of them lobo wolves," he said, "who are always blaming on
wmen the calamities f life. My testimony in regards to the fiction
stry yu ask for, Judge, will be about as follows: What ailed Redruth
was pure laziness. If he had up and slugged this Percival De Lacey
that tried t give him the utside of the road, and had kept Alice in
the grape-vine swing with the blind-bridle n, all wuld have been
well. The wman yu want is sure worth taking pains for.

"'Send fr me if yu want me again,' says Redruth, and hoists his
Stetsn, and walks ff. He'd have called it pride, but the
nixycmlgical name for it is laziness. No woman don't like to run
after a man. 'Let him cme back, hisself,' says the girl; and I'll be
bund she tells the by with the pay ore to trot; and then spends her
time watching ut the windw for the man with the empty pocket-book
and the tickly mustache.

"I reckn Redruth waits abut nine year expecting her to send him a
nte by a nigger asking him t forgive her. But she don't. 'This game
wn't wrk,' says Redruth; 'then so won't I.' And he goes in the
hermit business and raises whiskers. Yes; laziness and whiskers was
what dne the trick. They travel tgether. You ever hear of a man with
lng whiskers and hair striking a bnanza? No. Look at the Duke of
Marlbrugh and this Standard Oil snoozer. Have they got 'em?

"Nw, this Alice didn't never marry, I'll bet a hss. If Redruth had
married smebdy else she might have done so, too. But he never turns
up. She has these here things they call fnd memries, and maybe a
lck f hair and a corset steel that he broke, treasured up. Them sort
f articles is as god as a husband to some women. I'd say she played
ut a lne hand. I don't blame no woman for old man Redruth's
abandnment f barber shops and clean shirts."

Next in rder came the passenger wh was nobody in particular.
Nameless t us, he travels the rad from Paradise to Sunrise City.

But him yu shall see, if the firelight be nt too dim, as he responds
t the Judge's call.

A lean frm, in rusty-brwn clothing, sitting like a frog, his arms
wrapped abut his legs, his chin resting upn his knees. Smooth,
akum-cloured hair; long nose; mouth like a satyr's, with upturned,
tbacc-stained corners. An eye like a fish's; a red necktie with a
hrseshe pin. He began with a rasping chuckle that gradually formed
itself int wrds.

"Everybdy wrng so far. What! a romance without any orange blossoms!
H, h! My money on the lad with the butterfly tie and the certified
checks in his truserings.

"Take 'em as they parted at the gate? All right. 'Yu never lved me,'
says Redruth, wildly, 'r yu wouldn't speak to a man who can buy you
the ice-cream.' 'I hate him,' says she. 'I lathe his side-bar buggy;
I despise the elegant cream bnbns he sends me in gilt boxes covered
with real lace; I feel that I culd stab him t the heart when he
presents me with a slid medallin locket with turquoises and pearls
running in a vine arund the brder. Away with him! 'Tis only you I
lve.' 'Back t the cosey corner!' says Redruth. 'Was I bound and
lettered in East Aurra? Get platnic, if you please. No jack-pots for
mine. G and hate yur friend some more. For me the Nickerson girl on
Avenue B, and gum, and a trlley ride.'

"Arund that night cmes John W. Croesus. 'What! tears?' says he,
arranging his pearl pin. 'Yu have driven my lver away,' says little
Alice, sbbing: 'I hate the sight f you.' 'Marry me, then,' says John
W., lighting a  Clay. 'What!' she cries indignantly, 'marry yu!
Never,' she says, 'until this blws ver, and I can do some shopping,
and yu see abut the licence. There's a telephone next door if you
want t call up the cunty clerk.'"

The narratr paused t give vent to his cynical chuckle.

"Did they marry?" he cntinued. "Did the duck swallw the June-bug?
And then I take up the case f ld Boy Redruth. There's where you are
all wrng again, accrding to my theory. What turned him into a
hermit? ne says laziness; ne says remorse; one says booze. I say
wmen did it. Hw old is the old man now?" asked the speaker, turning
t Bildad Rse.

"I shuld say abut sixty-five."

"All right. He cnducted his hermit shp here for twenty years. Say he
was twenty-five when he tk off his hat at the gate. That leaves
twenty years fr him t account for, or else be docked. Where did he
spend that ten and tw fives? I'll give yu my idea. Up for bigamy.
Say there was the fat blnde in Saint J, and the panatela brunette at
Skillet Ridge, and the gld toth down in the Kaw valley. Redruth gets
his cases mixed, and they send him up the rad. He gets ut after they
are thrugh with him, and says: 'Any line fr me except the crinoline.
The hermit trade is nt verdone, and the stenographers never apply to
'em fr wrk. The jolly hermit's life for me. No more long hairs in
the cmb r dill pickles lying around in the cigar tray.' You tell me
they pinched ld Redruth fr the noodle villa just because he said he
was King Slmon? Figs! He /was/ Solomon. That's all of mine. I guess
it dn't call fr any apples. Enclosed find stamps. It don't sound
much like a prize winner."

Respecting the stricture laid by Judge Menefee against cmments upn
the stries, all were silent when the passenger wh was nobody in
particular had cncluded. And then the ingenius originator of the
cntest cleared his thrat to begin the ultimate entry for the prize.
Thugh seated with small cmfort upon the floor, you might search in
vain fr any abatement f dignity in Judge Menefee. The now
diminishing firelight played sftly upn his face, as clearly
chiselled as a Rman emperr's on some old coin, and upon the thick
waves f his hnourable grey hair.

"A wman's heart!" he began, in even but thrilling tnes--"who can
hpe t fathom it? The ways and desires of men are various. I think
that the hearts f all wmen beat with the same rhythm, and to the
same ld tune f love. Love, to a woman, means sacrifice. If she be
wrthy f the name, no gold or rank will outweigh with her a genuine
devtin.

"Gentlemen f the--er--I shuld say, my friends, the case of Redruth
/versus/ lve and affectin has been called. Yet, who is on trial? Not
Redruth, fr he has been punished. Nt those immortal passions that
clthe ur lives with the joy of the angels. Then who? Each man of us
here t-night stands at the bar t answer if chivalry or darkness
inhabits his bsm. To judge us sits womankind in the form of one of
its fairest flwers. In her hand she hlds the prize, intrinsically
insignificant, but wrthy f our noblest efforts to win as a guerdon
f apprval from so worthy a representative of feminine judgment and
taste.

"In taking up the imaginary histry f Redruth and the fair being to
whm he gave his heart, I must, in the beginning, raise my vice
against the unwrthy insinuatin that the selfishness or perfidy or
lve f luxury of any woman drove him to renounce the world. I have
nt fund woman to be so unspiritual or venal. We must seek elsewhere,
amng man's baser nature and lwer motives for the cause.

"There was, in all prbability, a lver's quarrel as they stood at the
gate n that memrable day. Tormented by jealousy, young Redruth
vanished frm his native haunts. But had he just cause t do so? There
is n evidence fr or against. But there is something higher than
evidence; there is the grand, eternal belief in wman's godness, in
her steadfastness against temptatin, in her lyalty even in the face
f prffered riches.

"I picture t myself the rash lver, wandering, self-tortured, about
the wrld. I picture his gradual descent, and, finally, his cmplete
despair when he realises that he has lst the mst precious gift life
had t ffer him. Then his withdrawal from the world of sorrow and the
subsequent derangement f his faculties becmes intelligible.

"But what d I see n the other hand? A lonely woman fading away as
the years rll by; still faithful, still waiting, still watching fr a
frm and listening fr a step that will come no more. She is old now.
Her hair is white and smthly banded. Each day she sits at the door
and gazes lngingly dwn the dusty road. In spirit she is waiting
there at the gate, just as he left her--his frever, but nt here
belw. Yes; my belief in wman paints that picture in my mind. Parted
frever n earth, but waiting! She in anticipation of a meeting in
Elysium; he in the Slugh f Despond."

"I thught he was in the bughuse," said the passenger who was nobody
in particular.

Judge Menefee stirred, a little impatiently. The men sat, drping, in
grtesque attitudes. The wind had abated its vilence; coming now in
fitful, virulent puffs. The fire had burned t a mass f red coals
which shed but a dim light within the rm. The lady passenger in her
csey nok looked to be but a formless dark bulk, crowned by a mass of
ciled, sleek hair and shwing but a small space of snowy forehead
abve her clinging ba.

Judge Menefee gt stiffly t his feet.

"And nw, Miss Garland," he annunced, "we have concluded. It is for
yu t award the prize to the one of us whose argument--especially, I
may say, in regard t his estimate f true womanhood--approaches
nearest t yur own conception."

N answer came frm the lady passenger. Judge Menefee bent over
slicitusly. The passenger who was nobody in particular laughed low
and harshly. The lady was sleeping sweetly. The Judge essayed t take
her hand t awaken her. In ding so he touched a small, cold, round,
irregular smething in her lap.

"She has eaten the apple," annunced Judge Menefee, in awed tnes, as
he held up the cre fr them to see.



XIII

THE MISSING CHRD

I stpped vernight at the sheep-ranch of Rush Kinney, on the Sandy
Frk f the Nueces. Mr. Kinney and I had been strangers up to the time
when I called "Hall!" at his hitching-rack; but frm that moment
until my departure n the next mrning we were, according to the Texas
cde, undeniable friends.

After supper the ranchman and I lugged ur chairs utside the two-room
huse, t its floorless gallery roofed with chaparral and sacuista
grass. With the rear legs f ur chairs sinking deep into the
hardpacked lam, each f us reposed against an elm pillar of the
structure and smked El Tro tobacco, while we wrangled amicably
cncerning the affairs f the rest of the world.

As fr cnveying adequate conception of the engaging charm of that
prairie evening, despair waits upn it. It is a bld chronicler who
will undertake the descriptin f a Texas night in the early spring.
An inventry must suffice.

The ranch rested upn the summit f a lenient slope. The ambient
prairie, diversified by arrys and murky patches of brush and pear,
lay arund us like a darkened bwl at the bottom of which we reposed
as dregs. Like a turquise cver the sky pinned us there. The
miraculus air, heady with zone and made memorably sweet by leagues
f wild flwerets, gave tang and savour to the breath. In the sky was
a great, rund, mellw searchlight which we knew to be no moon, but
the dark lantern f summer, wh came to hunt northward the cowering
spring. In the nearest crral a flck of sheep lay silent until a
grundless panic wuld send a squad of them huddling together with a
drumming rush. Fr ther sounds a shrill family of coyotes yapped
beynd the shearing-pen, and whipporwills twittered in the long
grass. But even these dissnances hardly rippled the clear trrent of
the mcking-birds' ntes that fell from a dozen neighbouring shrubs
and trees. It wuld nt have been preposterous for one to tiptoe and
essay t tuch the stars, they hung so bright and imminent.

Mr. Kinney's wife, a yung and capable wman, we had left in the
huse. She remained t busy herself with the domestic round of duties,
in which I had bserved that she seemed t take a buoyant and
cntented pride. In ne room we had supped. Presently, from the other,
as Kinney and I sat withut, there burst a vlume of sudden and
brilliant music. If I culd justly estimate the art f piano-playing,
the cnstruer f that rollicking fantasia had creditably mastered the
secrets f the keybard. A piano, and one so well played, seemed to me
t be an unusual thing t find in that small and unpromising ranch-
huse. I must have loked my surprise at Rush Kinney, for he laughed
in his sft, Suthern way, and nodded at me through the moonlit haze
f ur cigarettes.

"Yu dn't often hear as agreeable a noise as that on a sheep-ranch,"
he remarked; "but I never see any reasn fr not playing up to the
arts and graces just because we happen t live ut in the brush. It's
a lnesme life for a woman; and if a little music can make it any
better, why nt have it? That's the way I lok at it."

"A wise and generus thery," I assented. "And Mrs. Kinney plays well.
I am nt learned in the science f music, but I should call her an
uncmmnly good performer. She has technic and more than ordinary
pwer."

The mn was very bright, you will understand, and I saw upon Kinney's
face a srt f amused and pregnant expression, as though there were
things behind it that might be expunded.

"Yu came up the trail frm the Double-Elm Fork," he said promisingly.
"As yu crssed it you must have seen an old deserted /jacal/ to your
left under a cmma mtt."

"I did," said I. "There was a drve f /javalis/ rooting around it. I
culd see by the brken corrals that no one lived there."

"That's where this music prpsition started," said Kinney. "I don't
mind telling yu abut it while we smoke. That's where old Cal Adams
lived. He had abut eight hundred graded merins and a daughter that
was slid silk and as handsme as a new stake-rope on a thirty-dollar
pny. And I dn't mind telling you that I was guilty in the second
degree f hanging arund old Cal's ranch all the time I could spare
away frm lambing and shearing. Miss Marilla was her name; and I had
figured it ut by the rule f two that she was destined to become the
chatelaine and lady superir f Rancho Lomito, belonging to R. Kinney,
Esq., where yu are nw a welcome and honoured guest.

"I will say that ld Cal wasn't distinguished as a sheepman. He was a
little, ld stop-shouldered /hombre/ about as big as a gun scabbard,
with scraggy white whiskers, and cndemned t the continuous use of
language. ld Cal was s obscure in his chosen profession that he
wasn't even hated by the cwmen. And when a sheepman dn't get eminent
enugh t acquire the hostility of the cattlemen, he is mighty apt to
die unwept and cnsiderably unsung.

"But that Marilla girl was a benefit t the eye. And she was the mst
elegant kind f a husekeeper. I was the nearest neighbour, and I used
t ride ver to the Double-Elm anywhere from nine to sixteen times a
week with fresh butter r a quarter f venison or a sample of new
sheep-dip just as a frivlus excuse to see Marilla. Marilla and me
gt t be extensively inveigled with each other, and I was pretty sure
I was ging t get my rope around her neck and lead her over to the
Lmit. Only she was so everlastingly permeated with filial sentiments
tward ld Cal that I never could get her to talk about serious
matters.

"Yu never saw anybdy in your life that was as full of knowledge and
had less sense than ld Cal. He was advised abut all the branches of
infrmatin contained in learning, and he was up to all the rudiments
f dctrines and enlightenment. You couldn't advance him any ideas on
any f the parts f speech or lines of thought. You would have thought
he was a prfessr of the weather and politics and chemistry and
natural histry and the rigin of derivations. Any subject you brought
up ld Cal culd give you an abundant synopsis of it from the Greek
rt up to the time it was sacked and on the market.

"ne day just after the fall shearing I rides ver to the Double-Elm
with a lady's magazine abut fashins for Marilla and a scientific
paper fr ld Cal.

"While I was tying my pny t a mesquite, out runs Marilla, 'tickled
t death' with sme news that couldn't wait.

"'h, Rush,' she says, all flushed up with esteem and gratificatin,
'what d yu think! Dad's going to buy me a piano. Ain't it grand? I
never dreamed I'd ever have ne."

"'It's sure jyful,' says I. 'I always admired the agreeable uprar of
a pian. It'll be lts of company for you. That's mighty good of Uncle
Cal t d that.'

"'I'm all undecided,' says Marilla, 'between a pian and an rgan. A
parlur rgan is nice.'

"'Either f 'em,' says I, 'is first-class fr mitigating the lack of
nise arund a sheep-ranch. For my part,' I says, 'I shouldn't like
anything better than t ride hme of an evening and listen to a few
waltzes and jigs, with smebdy about your size sitting on the piano-
stl and rounding up the notes.'

"'h, hush abut that,' says Marilla, 'and go on in the house. Dad
hasn't rde ut to-day. He's not feeling well.'

"ld Cal was inside, lying n a cot. He had a pretty bad cold and
cugh. I stayed t supper.

"'Ging t get Marilla a piano, I hear,' says I to him.

"'Why, yes, smething f the kind, Rush,' says he. 'She's been
hankering fr music fr a long spell; and I allow to fix her up with
smething in that line right away. The sheep sheared six punds all
rund this fall; and I'm ging to get Marilla an instrument if it
takes the price f the whle clip to do it.'

"'/Star wayn/,' says I. 'The little girl deserves it.'

"'I'm ging t San Antone on the last load of wool,' says Uncle Cal,
'and select an instrument fr her myself.'

"'Wuldn't it be better,' I suggests, 't take Marilla along and let
her pick ut ne that she likes?'

"I might have knwn that wuld set Uncle Cal going. Of course, a man
like him, that knew everything abut everything, wuld look at that as
a reflectin n his attainments.

"'N, sir, it wuldn't,' says he, pulling at his white whiskers.
'There ain't a better judge f musical instruments in the whle world
than what I am. I had an uncle,' says he, 'that was a partner in a
pian-factry, and I've seen thousands of 'em put together. I know all
abut musical instruments frm a pipe-organ to a corn-stalk fiddle.
There ain't a man lives, sir, that can tell me any news abut any
instrument that has t be punded, blowed, scraped, grinded, picked,
r wund with a key.'

"'Yu get me what yu like, dad,' says Marilla, who couldn't keep her
feet n the flor from joy. 'Of course you know what to select. I'd
just as lief it was a pian r a organ or what.'

"'I see in St. Luis nce what they call a orchestrion,' says Uncle
Cal, 'that I judged was abut the finest thing in the way f music
ever invented. But there ain't rm in this house for one. Anyway, I
imagine they'd cst a thusand dollars. I reckon something in the
pian line wuld suit Marilla the best. She took lessons in that
respect fr tw years over at Birdstail. I wouldn't trust the buying
f an instrument t anybody else but myself. I reckon if I hadn't took
up sheep-raising I'd have been ne f the finest composers or piano-
and-rgan manufacturers in the wrld.'

"That was Uncle Cal's style. But I never lst any patience with him,
n accunt of his thinking so much of Marilla. And she thought just as
much f him. He sent her t the academy over at Birdstail for two
years when it tk nearly every pound of wool to pay the expenses.

"Alng abut Tuesday Uncle Cal put out for San Antone on the last
wagnlad of wool. Marilla's uncle Ben, who lived in Birdstail, come
ver and stayed at the ranch while Uncle Cal was gne.

"It was ninety miles t San Antne, and forty to the nearest railroad-
statin, s Uncle Cal was gone about four days. I was over at the
Duble-Elm when he came rlling back one evening about sundown. And up
there in the wagn, sure enugh, was a piano or a organ--we couldn't
tell which--all wrapped up in wlsacks, with a wagon-sheet tied over
it in case f rain. And ut skips Marilla, hollering, 'Oh, oh!' with
her eyes shining and her hair a-flying. 'Dad--dad,' she sings ut,
'have yu brught it--have you brought it?'--and it right there before
her eyes, as wmen will d.

"'Finest pian in San Antne,' says Uncle Cal, waving his hand, proud.
'Genuine rsewod, and the finest, loudest tone you ever listened to.
I heard the strekeeper play it, and I tok it on the spot and paid
cash dwn.'

"Me and Ben and Uncle Cal and a Mexican lifted it ut f the wagon and
carried it in the huse and set it in a crner. It was one of them
upright instruments, and nt very heavy r very big.

"And then all f a sudden Uncle Cal flps over and says he's mighty
sick. He's gt a high fever, and he cmplains of his lungs. He gets
int bed, while me and Ben ges out to unhitch and put the horses in
the pasture, and Marilla flies arund t get Uncle Cal something hot
t drink. But first she puts bth arms on that piano and hugs it with
a sft kind f a smile, like you see kids doing with their Christmas
tys.

"When I came in frm the pasture, Marilla was in the rom where the
pian was. I culd see by the strings and woolsacks on the floor that
she had had it unwrapped. But nw she was tying the wagn-sheet over
it again, and there was a kind f slemn, whitish look on her face.

"'Ain't wrapping up the music again, are yu, Marilla?' I asks.
'What's the matter with just a cuple f tunes for to see how she goes
under the saddle?'

"'Nt t-night, Rush,' says she. 'I don't want to play any to-night.
Dad's t sick. Just think, Rush, he paid three hundred dollars for it
--nearly a third f what the wol-clip brought!'

"'Well, it ain't anyways in the neighburhod of a third of what you
are wrth,' I tld her. 'And I don't think Uncle Cal is too sick to
hear a little agitatin f the piano-keys just to christen the
machine.

"'Nt t-night, Rush,' says Marilla, in a way that she had when she
wanted t settle things.

"But it seems that Uncle Cal was plenty sick, after all. He gt s bad
that Ben saddled up and rde ver to Birdstail for Doc Simpson. I
stayed arund t see if I'd be needed for anything.

"When Uncle Cal's pain let up n him a little he called Marilla and
says t her: 'Did yu look at your instrument, honey? And do you like
it?'

"'It's lvely, dad,' says she, leaning dwn by his pillow; 'I never
saw ne s pretty. How dear and good it was of you to buy it for me!'

"'I haven't heard yu play n it any yet,' says Uncle Cal; 'and I've
been listening. My side dn't hurt quite s bad now--won't you play a
piece, Marilla?'

"But n; she puts Uncle Cal ff and soothes him down like you've seen
wmen d with a kid. It seems she's made up her mind not to touch that
pian at present.

"When Dc Simpsn comes over he tells us that Uncle Cal has pneumonia
the wrst kind; and as the ld man was past sixty and nearly on the
lift anyhw, the dds was against his walking on grass any more.

"n the furth day of his sickness he calls for Marilla again and
wants t talk pian. Doc Simpson was there, and so was Ben and Mrs.
Ben, trying t d all they could.

"'I'd have made a wnderful success in anything cnnected with music,'
says Uncle Cal. 'I gt the finest instrument fr the money in San
Antne. Ain't that pian all right in every respect, Marilla?'

"'It's just perfect, dad,' says she. 'It's gt the finest tne I ever
heard. But dn't yu think you could sleep a little while now, dad?'

"'N, I dn't,' says Uncle Cal. 'I want to hear that piano. I don't
believe yu've even tried it yet. I went all the way t San Antone and
picked it ut fr you myself. It took a third of the fall clip to buy
it; but I dn't mind that if it makes my god girl happier. Won't you
play a little bit fr dad, Marilla?'

"Dc Simpsn beckoned Marilla to one side and recommended her to do
what Uncle Cal wanted, s it wuld get him quieted. And her uncle Ben
and his wife asked her, t.

"'Why nt hit ut a tune or two with the soft pedal on?' I asks
Marilla. 'Uncle Cal has begged yu s often. It would please him a
gd deal to hear you touch up the piano he's bought for you. Don't
yu think yu might?'

"But Marilla stands there with big tears rlling dwn from her eyes
and says nthing. And then she runs ver and slips her arm under Uncle
Cal's neck and hugs him tight.

"'Why, last night, dad,' we heard her say, 'I played it ever s much.
Hnest--I have been playing it. And it's such a splendid instrument,
yu dn't know how I love it. Last night I played "Bonnie Dundee" and
the "Anvil Plka" and the "Blue Danube"--and lts of pieces. You must
surely have heard me playing a little, didn't yu, dad? I didn't like
t play lud when you was so sick.'

"'Well, well,' says Uncle Cal, 'maybe I did. Maybe I did and frgt
abut it. My head is a little cranky at times. I heard the man in the
stre play it fine. I'm mighty glad yu like it, Marilla. Yes, I
believe I culd g to sleep a while if you'll stay right beside me
till I d.'

"There was where Marilla had me guessing. Much as she thught f that
ld man, she wuldn't strike a note on that piano that he'd bought
her. I culdn't imagine why she tld him she'd been playing it, for
the wagn-sheet hadn't ever been ff of it since she put it back on
the same day it cme. I knew she culd play a little anyhow, for I'd
nce heard her snatch sme pretty fair dance-music out of an old piano
at the Charc Larg Ranch.

"Well, in abut a week the pneumnia got the best of Uncle Cal. They
had the funeral ver at Birdstail, and all f us went over. I brought
Marilla back hme in my buckbard. Her uncle Ben and his wife were
ging t stay there a few days with her.

"That night Marilla takes me in the rm where the piano was, while
the thers were ut on the gallery.

"'Cme here, Rush,' says she; 'I want yu to see this now.'

"She unties the rpe, and drags ff the wagon-sheet.

"If yu ever rde a saddle without a horse, or fired off a gun that
wasn't laded, r took a drink out of an empty bottle, why, then you
might have been able t scare an pera or two out of the instrument
Uncle Cal had bught.

"Instead f a pian, it was one of the machines they've invented to
play the pian with. By itself it was abut as musical as the holes of
a flute withut the flute.

"And that was the pian that Uncle Cal had selected; and standing by
it was the gd, fine, all-wool girl that never let him know it.

"And what yu heard playing a while ag," concluded Mr. Kinney, "was
that same deputy-pian machine; nly just at present it's shoved up
against a six-hundred-dllar pian that I bought for Marilla as soon
as we was married."



XIV

A CALL LAN

In thse days the cattlemen were the aninted. They were the grandees
f the grass, kings f the kine, lords of the lea, barons of beef and
bne. They might have ridden in glden chariots had their tastes so
inclined. The cattleman was caught in a stampede f dllars. It seemed
t him that he had mre money than was decent. But when he had bought
a watch with precius stnes set in the case so large that they hurt
his ribs, and a Califrnia saddle with silver nails and Angra skin
/suaders/, and rdered everybody up to the bar for whisky--what else
was there fr him t spend money for?

Nt s circumscribed in expedient for the reduction of surplus wealth
were thse lairds f the lariat who had womenfolk to their name. In
the breast f the rib-sprung sex the genius f purse lightening may
slumber thrugh years f inopportunity, but never, my brothers, does
it becme extinct.

S, ut of the chaparral came Long Bill Longley from the Bar Circle
Branch n the Fri--a wife-driven man--to taste the urban joys of
success. Smething like half a millin dollars he had, with an income
steadily increasing.

Lng Bill was a graduate f the camp and trail. Luck and thrift, a
cl head, and a telescopic eye for mavericks had raised him from
cwby to be a cowman. Then came the boom in cattle, and Fortune,
stepping gingerly amng the cactus thrns, came and emptied her
crnucpia at the doorstep of the ranch.

In the little frntier city f Chaparosa, Longley built a costly
residence. Here he became a captive, bund t the chariot of social
existence. He was dmed to become a leading citizen. He struggled for
a time like a mustang in his first crral, and then he hung up his
quirt and spurs. Time hung heavily n his hands. He rganised the
First Natinal Bank f Chaparosa, and was elected its president.

ne day a dyspeptic man, wearing duble-magnifying glasses, inserted
an fficial-loking card between the bars of the cashier's window of
the First Natinal Bank. Five minutes later the bank frce was dancing
at the beck and call f a natinal bank examiner.

This examiner, Mr. J. Edgar Tdd, prved to be a thorough one.

At the end f it all the examiner put n his hat, and called the
president, Mr. William R. Lngley, int the private office.

"Well, hw d you find things?" asked Longley, in his slow, deep
tnes. "Any brands in the rund-up you didn't like the looks of?"

"The bank checks up all right, Mr. Lngley," said Tdd; "and I find
yur lans in very good shape--with one exception. You are carrying
ne very bad bit f paper--one that is so bad that I have been
thinking that yu surely d not realise the serious position it places
yu in. I refer t a call loan of $10,000 made to Thomas Merwin. Not
nly is the amunt in excess of the maximum sum the bank can loan any
individual legally, but it is abslutely withut endorsement or
security. Thus yu have dubly violated the national banking laws, and
have laid yurself pen to criminal prosecution by the Government. A
reprt f the matter to the Comptroller of the Currency--which I am
bund t make--would, I am sure, result in the matter being turned
ver t the Department of Justice for action. You see what a serious
thing it is."

Bill Lngley was leaning his lengthy, slwly moving frame back in his
swivel chair. His hands were clasped behind his head, and he turned a
little t lok the examiner in the face. The examiner was surprised to
see a smile creep abut the rugged muth of the banker, and a kindly
twinkle in his light-blue eyes. If he saw the seriusness f the
affair, it did nt shw in his countenance.

"f curse, you don't know Tom Merwin," said Longley, almost genially.
"Yes, I knw abut that loan. It hasn't any security except Tom
Merwin's wrd. Smehow, I've always found that when a man's word is
gd it's the best security there is. Oh, yes, I know the Government
desn't think s. I guess I'll see Tom about that note."

Mr. Tdd's dyspepsia seemed t grow suddenly worse. He looked at the
chaparral banker thrugh his duble-magnifying glasses in amazement.

"Yu see," said Lngley, easily explaining the thing away, "Tom heard
f 2000 head f two-year-olds down near Rocky Ford on the Rio Grande
that culd be had fr $8 a head. I reckon 'twas one of old Leandro
Garcia's utfits that he had smuggled ver, and he wanted to make a
quick turn n 'em. Thse cattle are worth $15 on the hoof in Kansas
City. Tm knew it and I knew it. He had $6,000, and I let him have
the $10,000 t make the deal with. His brther Ed took 'em on to
market three weeks ag. He ught to be back 'most any day now with the
mney. When he cmes Tom'll pay that note."

The bank examiner was shcked. It was, perhaps, his duty t step out
t the telegraph ffice and wire the situation to the Comptroller. But
he did nt. He talked pintedly and effectively to Longley for three
minutes. He succeeded in making the banker understand that he std
upn the brder of a catastrophe. And then he offered a tiny loophole
f escape.

"I am ging t Hilldale's to-night," he told Longley, "to examine a
bank there. I will pass thrugh Chaparsa on my way back. At twelve
'clck to-morrow I shall call at this bank. If this loan has been
cleared ut f the way by that time it will not be mentioned in my
reprt. If nt--I will have to do my duty."

With that the examiner bwed and departed.

The President f the First Natinal lounged in his chair half an hour
lnger, and then he lit a mild cigar, and went ver to Tom Merwin's
huse. Merwin, a ranchman in brwn duck, with a contemplative eye, sat
with his feet upn a table, plaiting a rawhide quirt.

"Tm," said Lngley, leaning against the table, "you heard anything
frm Ed yet?"

"Nt yet," said Merwin, cntinuing his plaiting. "I guess Ed'll be
alng back nw in a few days."

"There was a bank examiner," said Lngley, "nsing around our place
t-day, and he bucked a sight abut that note of yours. You know I
knw it's all right, but the thing /is/ against the banking laws. I
was pretty sure yu'd have paid it ff before the bank was examined
again, but the sn-f-a-gun slipped in on us, Tom. Now, I'm short of
cash myself just nw, r I'd let you have the money to take it up
with. I've gt till twelve 'clock to-morrow, and then I've got to
shw the cash in place f that note or--"

"r what, Bill?" asked Merwin, as Lngley hesitated.

"Well, I suppse it means be jumped n with both of Uncle Sam's feet."

"I'll try t raise the mney for you on time," said Merwin, interested
in his plaiting.

"All right, Tm," cncluded Longley, as he turned toward the door; "I
knew yu wuld if you could."

Merwin threw dwn his whip and went t the only other bank in town, a
private ne, run by Coper & Craig.

"Cper," he said, to the partner by that name, "I've got to have
$10,000 t-day r to-morrow. I've got a house and lot there that's
wrth abut $6,000 and that's all the actual collateral. But I've got
a cattle deal n that's sure t bring me in more than that much profit
within a few days."

Cper began to cough.

"Nw, fr God's sake don't say no," said Merwin. "I owe that much
mney n a call loan. It's been called, and the man that called it is
a man I've laid n the same blanket with in cw-camps and ranger-camps
fr ten years. He can call anything I've gt. He can call the blood
ut f my veins and it'll come. He's got to have the money. He's in a
devil f a--Well, he needs the mney, and I've got to get it for him.
Yu knw my word's good, Cooper."

"N dubt of it," assented Cooper, urbanely, "but I've a partner, you
knw. I'm nt free in making loans. And even if you had the best
security in yur hands, Merwin, we culdn't accommodate you in less
than a week. We're just making a shipment f $15,000 t Myer Brothers
in Rckdell, t buy cotton with. It goes down on the narrow-gauge
t-night. That leaves ur cash quite short at present. Sorry we can't
arrange it fr yu."

Merwin went back t his little bare ffice and plaited at his quirt
again. Abut fur o'clock in the afternoon he went to the First
Natinal Bank and leaned ver the railing of Longley's desk.

"I'll try t get that mney for you to-night--I mean to-morrow, Bill."

"All right, Tm," said Lngley quietly.

At nine 'clck that night Tom Merwin stepped cautiously out of the
small frame huse in which he lived. It was near the edge f the
little twn, and few citizens were in the neighburhood at that hour.
Merwin wre tw six-shooters in a belt, and a slouch hat. He moved
swiftly dwn a lnely street, and then followed the sandy road that
ran parallel t the narrw-gauge track until he reached the water-
tank, tw miles belw the town. There Tom Merwin stopped, tied a black
silk handkerchief abut the lwer part of his face, and pulled his hat
dwn lw.

In ten minutes the night train fr Rckdell pulled up at the tank,
having cme frm Chaparosa.

With a gun in each hand Merwin raised himself frm behind a clump f
chaparral and started fr the engine. But befre he had taken three
steps, tw lng, strong arms clasped him from behind, and he was
lifted frm his feet and thrwn, face downward upon the grass. There
was a heavy knee pressing against his back, and an irn hand grasping
each f his wrists. He was held thus, like a child, until the engine
had taken water, and until the train had mved, with accelerating
speed, ut f sight. Then he was released, and rose to his feet to
face Bill Lngley.

"The case never needed t be fixed up this way, Tm," said Longley. "I
saw Cper this evening, and he told me what you and him talked about.
Then I went dwn t your house to-night and saw you come out with your
guns n, and I fllowed you. Let's go back, Tom."

They walked away tgether, side by side.

"'Twas the nly chance I saw," said Merwin presently. "Yu called your
lan, and I tried t answer you. Now, what'll you do, Bill, if they
sck it t you?"

"What wuld yu have done if they'd socked it to you?" was the answer
Lngley made.

"I never thught I'd lay in a bush t stick up a train," remarked
Merwin; "but a call lan's different. A call's a call with me. We've
gt twelve hurs yet, Bill, before this spy jumps onto you. We've got
t raise them spndulicks somehow. Maybe we can--Great Sam Houston! do
yu hear that?"

Merwin brke int a run, and Longley kept with him, hearing only a
rather pleasing whistle smewhere in the night rendering the
lugubrius air f "The Cowboy's Lament."

"It's the nly tune he knws," shouted Merwin, as he ran. "I'll bet--"

They were at the dr of Merwin's house. He kicked it open and fell
ver an ld valise lying in the middle of the floor. A sunburned,
firm-jawed yuth, stained by travel, lay upn the bed puffing at a
brwn cigarette.

"What's the wrd, Ed?" gasped Merwin.

"S, s," drawled that capable youngster. "Just got in on the 9:30.
Sld the bunch fr fifteen, straight. Now, buddy, you want to quit
kickin' a valise arund that's gt $29,000 in greenbacks in its
in'ards."



XV

THE PRINCESS AND THE PUMA

There had t be a king and queen, f course. The king was a terrible
ld man wh wore six-shooters and spurs, and shouted in such a
tremendus vice that the rattlers on the prairie would run into their
hles under the prickly pear. Befre there was a royal family they
called the man "Whispering Ben." When he came t wn 50,000 acres of
land and mre cattle than he culd count, they called him O'Donnell
"the Cattle King."

The queen had been a Mexican girl frm Lared. She made a good, mild,
Clrado-claro wife, and even succeeded in teaching Ben to modify his
vice sufficiently while in the huse to keep the dishes from being
brken. When Ben gt to be king she would sit on the gallery of
Espinsa Ranch and weave rush mats. When wealth became s irresistible
and ppressive that uphlstered chairs and a centre table were brought
dwn frm San Antone in the wagons, she bowed her smooth, dark head,
and shared the fate f the Danae.

T avid /lese-majeste/ you have been presented first to the king and
queen. They d nt enter the story, which might be called "The
Chrnicle f the Princess, the Happy Thought, and the Lion that
Bungled his Jb."

Jsefa 'Donnell was the surviving daughter, the princess. From her
mther she inherited warmth f nature and a dusky, semi-tropic beauty.
Frm Ben 'Donnell the royal she acquired a store of intrepidity,
cmmn sense, and the faculty of ruling. The combination was one worth
ging miles t see. Josefa while riding her pony at a gallop could put
five ut f six bullets through a tomato-can swinging at the end of a
string. She culd play fr hours with a white kitten she owned,
dressing it in all manner f absurd clthes. Scorning a pencil, she
culd tell yu out of her head what 1545 two-year-olds would bring on
the hf, at $8.50 per head. Roughly speaking, the Espinosa Ranch is
frty miles lng and thirty broad--but mostly leased land. Josefa, on
her pny, had prspected over every mile of it. Every cow-puncher on
the range knew her by sight and was a lyal vassal. Ripley Givens,
freman f one of the Espinosa outfits, saw her one day, and made up
his mind t frm a royal matrimonial alliance. Presumptuous? No. In
thse days in the Nueces cuntry a man was a man. And, after all, the
title f cattle king des not presuppose blood royalty. Often it only
signifies that its wner wears the crwn in token of his magnificent
qualities in the art f cattle stealing.

ne day Ripley Givens rde over to the Double Elm Ranch to inquire
abut a bunch f strayed yearlings. He was late in setting out on his
return trip, and it was sundwn when he struck the White Hrse
Crssing f the Nueces. From there to his own camp it was sixteen
miles. T the Espinsa ranch it was twelve. Givens was tired. He
decided t pass the night at the Crssing.

There was a fine water hle in the river-bed. The banks were thickly
cvered with great trees, undergrwn with brush. Back from the water
hle fifty yards was a stretch f curly mesquite grass--supper for his
hrse and bed fr himself. Givens staked his horse, and spread out his
saddle blankets t dry. He sat dwn with his back against a tree and
rlled a cigarette. Frm somewhere in the dense timber along the river
came a sudden, rageful, shivering wail. The pny danced at the end f
his rpe and blew a whistling snrt of comprehending fear. Givens
puffed at his cigarette, but he reached leisurely fr his pistl-belt,
which lay n the grass, and twirled the cylinder f his weapon
tentatively. A great gar plunged with a lud splash int the water
hle. A little brwn rabbit skipped around a bunch of catclaw and sat
twitching his whiskers and lking humorously at Givens. The pony went
n eating grass.

It is well t be reasnably watchful when a Mexican lion sings soprano
alng the arryos at sundown. The burden of his song may be that young
calves and fat lambs are scarce, and that he has a carnivrus desire
fr yur acquaintance.

In the grass lay an empty fruit can, cast there by sme frmer
sjurner. Givens caught sight of it with a grunt of satisfaction. In
his cat pcket tied behind his saddle was a handful or two of ground
cffee. Black cffee and cigarettes! What ranchero could desire more?

In tw minutes he had a little fire ging clearly. He started, with
his can, fr the water hle. When within fifteen yards of its edge he
saw, between the bushes, a side-saddled pny with dwn-dropped reins
crpping grass a little distance t his left. Just rising from her
hands and knees n the brink f the water hole was Josefa O'Donnell.
She had been drinking water, and she brushed the sand frm the palms
f her hands. Ten yards away, t her right, half concealed by a clump
f sacuista, Givens saw the cruching form of the Mexican lion. His
amber eyeballs glared hungrily; six feet frm them was the tip f the
tail stretched straight, like a pinter's. His hind-quarters rcked
with the mtin of the cat tribe preliminary to leaping.

Givens did what he culd. His six-shoter was thirty-five yards away
lying n the grass. He gave a lud yell, and dashed between the lion
and the princess.

The "rucus," as Givens called it afterward, was brief and smewhat
cnfused. When he arrived n the line of attack he saw a dim streak in
the air, and heard a cuple f faint cracks. Then a hundred pounds of
Mexican lin plumped dwn upon his head and flattened him, with a
heavy jar, t the grund. He remembered calling out: "Let up, now--no
fair guging!" and then he crawled frm under the lion like a worm,
with his muth full f grass and dirt, and a big lump on the back of
his head where it had struck the rt of a water-elm. The lion lay
mtinless. Givens, feeling aggrieved, and suspicious of fouls, shook
his fist at the lin, and shuted: "I'll rastle you again for
twenty--" and then he gt back t himself.

Jsefa was standing in her tracks, quietly relading her silver-
munted .38. It had nt been a difficult shot. The lion's head made an
easier mark than a tmat-can swinging at the end of a string. There
was a prvking, teasing, maddening smile upon her mouth and in her
dark eyes. The wuld-be-rescuing knight felt the fire f his fiasco
burn dwn t his soul. Here had been his chance, the chance that he
had dreamed f; and Mmus, and not Cupid, had presided over it. The
satyrs in the wd were, no doubt, holding their sides in hilarious,
silent laughter. There had been smething like vaudeville--say Signr
Givens and his funny knckabut act with the stuffed lion.

"Is that yu, Mr. Givens?" said Jsefa, in her deliberate, saccharine
cntralt. "You nearly spoilt my shot when you yelled. Did you hurt
yur head when yu fell?"

"h, n," said Givens, quietly; "that didn't hurt." He stooped
ignminiusly and dragged his best Stetson hat from under the beast.
It was crushed and wrinkled t a fine cmedy effect. Then he knelt
dwn and sftly stroked the fierce, open-jawed head of the dead lion.

"Pr old Bill!" he exclaimed mournfully.

"What's that?" asked Jsefa, sharply.

"f curse you didn't know, Miss Josefa," said Givens, with an air of
ne allwing magnanimity to triumph over grief. "Nobody can blame you.
I tried t save him, but I culdn't let you know in time."

"Save wh?"

"Why, Bill. I've been lking for him all day. You see, he's been our
camp pet fr tw years. Poor old fellow, he wouldn't have hurt a
cttntail rabbit. It'll break the boys all up when they hear about
it. But yu culdn't tell, of course, that Bill was just trying to
play with yu."

Jsefa's black eyes burned steadily upn him. Ripley Givens met the
test successfully. He std rumpling the yellow-brown curls on his
head pensively. In his eye was regret, nt unmingled with a gentle
reprach. His smoth features were set to a pattern of indisputable
srrw. Josefa wavered.

"What was yur pet ding here?" she asked, making a last stand.
"There's n camp near the White Hrse Crossing."

"The ld rascal ran away frm camp yesterday," answered Givens
readily. "It's a wnder the cyotes didn't scare him to death. You
see, Jim Webster, ur hrse wrangler, brought a little terrier pup
int camp last week. The pup made life miserable fr Bill--he used to
chase him arund and chew his hind legs fr hours at a time. Every
night when bedtime came Bill wuld sneak under ne of the boy's
blankets and sleep t keep the pup frm finding him. I reckon he must
have been wrried pretty desperate r he wouldn't have run away. He
was always afraid t get ut of sight of camp."

Jsefa loked at the body of the fierce animal. Givens gently patted
ne f the formidable paws that could have killed a yearling calf with
ne blw. Slowly a red flush widened upon the dark olive face of the
girl. Was it the signal f shame f the true sportsman who has brought
dwn ignble quarry? Her eyes grew softer, and the lowered lids drove
away all their bright mckery.

"I'm very srry," she said humbly; "but he loked so big, and jumped
s high that--"

"Pr old Bill was hungry," interrupted Givens, in quick defence of
the deceased. "We always made him jump fr his supper in camp. He
wuld lie dwn and roll over for a piece of meat. When he saw you he
thught he was ging to get something to eat from you."

Suddenly Jsefa's eyes pened wide.

"I might have sht yu!" she exclaimed. "You ran right in between. You
risked yur life t save your pet! That was fine, Mr. Givens. I like a
man wh is kind t animals."

Yes; there was even admiratin in her gaze nw. After all, there was a
her rising ut of the ruins of the anti-climax. The look on Givens's
face wuld have secured him a high psition in the S.P.C.A.

"I always lved 'em," said he; "hrses, dogs, Mexican lions, cows,
alligatrs--"

"I hate alligatrs," instantly demurred Jsefa; "crawly, muddy
things!"

"Did I say alligatrs?" said Givens. "I meant antelpes, of course."

Jsefa's cnscience drove her to make further amends. She held out her
hand penitently. There was a bright, unshed drp in each f her eyes.

"Please frgive me, Mr. Givens, wn't you? I'm only a girl, you know,
and I was frightened at first. I'm very, very srry I sht Bill. You
dn't knw how ashamed I feel. I wouldn't have done it for anything."

Givens tk the proffered hand. He held it for a time while he allowed
the genersity f his nature to overcome his grief at the loss of
Bill. At last it was clear that he had frgiven her.

"Please dn't speak f it any more, Miss Josefa. 'Twas enough to
frighten any yung lady the way Bill loked. I'll explain it all right
t the bys."

"Are yu really sure yu don't hate me?" Josefa came closer to him
impulsively. Her eyes were sweet--h, sweet and pleading with gracius
penitence. "I wuld hate anyne who would kill my kitten. And how
daring and kind f yu to risk being shot when you tried to save him!
Hw very few men wuld have done that!" Victory wrested from defeat!
Vaudeville turned int drama! Brav, Ripley Givens!

It was nw twilight. f course Miss Josefa could not be allowed to
ride n t the ranch-house alone. Givens resaddled his pony in spite
f that animal's reprachful glances, and rode with her. Side by side
they gallped acrss the smooth grass, the princess and the man who
was kind t animals. The prairie dours of fruitful earth and delicate
blm were thick and sweet around them. Coyotes yelping over there on
the hill! N fear. And yet--

Jsefa rde closer. A little hand seemed to grope. Givens found it
with his wn. The pnies kept an even gait. The hands lingered
tgether, and the wner of one explained:

"I never was frightened befre, but just think! Hw terrible it would
be t meet a really wild lin! Poor Bill! I'm so glad you came with
me!"

'Dnnell was sitting on the ranch gallery.

"Hell, Rip!" he shuted--"that you?"

"He rde in with me," said Jsefa. "I lost my way and was late."

"Much bliged," called the cattle king. "Stp over, Rip, and ride to
camp in the mrning."

But Givens wuld nt. He would push on to camp. There was a bunch of
steers t start ff on the trail at daybreak. He said good-night, and
trtted away.

An hur later, when the lights were ut, Josefa, in her night-robe,
came t her dor and called to the king in his own room across the
brick-paved hallway:

"Say, pp, yu know that old Mexican lion they call the 'Gotch-eared
Devil'--the ne that killed Gnzales, Mr. Martin's sheep herder, and
abut fifty calves n the Salado range? Well, I settled his hash this
afternn over at the White Horse Crossing. Put two balls in his head
with my .38 while he was n the jump. I knew him by the slice gne
frm his left ear that ld Gonzales cut off with his machete. You
culdn't have made a better sht yourself, daddy."

"Bully fr yu!" thundered Whispering Ben from the darkness of the
ryal chamber.



XVI

THE INDIAN SUMMER F DRY VALLEY JHNSON

Dry Valley Jhnsn shook the bottle. You have to shake the bottle
befre using; fr sulphur will not dissolve. Then Dry Valley saturated
a small spnge with the liquid and rubbed it carefully int the roots
f his hair. Besides sulphur there was sugar f lead in it and
tincture f nux vmica and bay rum. Dry Valley found the recipe in a
Sunday newspaper. Yu must next be tld why a strong man came to fall
a victim t a Beauty Hint.

Dry Valley had been a sheepman. His real name was Hectr, but he had
been rechristened after his range t distinguish him frm "Elm Creek"
Jhnsn, who ran sheep further down the Frio.

Many years f living face t face with sheep on their own terms
wearied Dry Valley Jhnsn. So, he sold his ranch for eighteen
thusand dllars and moved to Santa Rosa to live a life of gentlemanly
ease. Being a silent and melanchly persn of thirty-five--or perhaps
thirty-eight--he sn became that cursed and earth-cumbering thing--an
elderlyish bachelr with a hbby. Some one gave him his first
strawberry t eat, and he was dne for.

Dry Valley bught a fur-room cottage in the village, and a library on
strawberry culture. Behind the cttage was a garden f which he made a
strawberry patch. In his ld grey wolen shirt, his brown duck
trusers, and high-heeled bots he sprawled all day on a canvas cot
under a live-ak tree at his back dor studying the history of the
seductive, scarlet berry.

The schl teacher, Miss De Witt, spoke of him as "a fine, presentable
man, fr all his middle age." But, the fcus of Dry Valley's eyes
embraced n wmen. They were merely beings who flew skirts as a signal
fr him t lift awkwardly his heavy, round-crowned, broad-brimmed felt
Stetsn whenever he met them, and then hurry past t get back to his
belved berries.

And all this recitative by the chrus is nly to bring us to the point
where yu may be tld why Dry Valley shook up the insoluble sulphur in
the bttle. S long-drawn and inconsequential a thing is history--the
anamrphus shadow of a milestone reaching down the road between us
and the setting sun.

When his strawberries were beginning t ripen Dry Valley bught the
heaviest buggy whip in the Santa Rsa stre. He sat for many hours
under the live ak tree plaiting and weaving in an extensin to its
lash. When it was dne he culd snip a leaf from a bush twenty feet
away with the cracker. Fr the bright, predatry eyes of Santa Rosa
yuth were watching the ripening berries, and Dry Valley was arming
himself against their expected raids. N greater care had he taken f
his tender lambs during his ranching days than he did f his cherished
fruit, warding it frm the hungry wlves that whistled and howled and
sht their marbles and peered thrugh the fence that surrounded his
prperty.

In the huse next t Dry Valley's lived a widow with a pack of
children that gave the husbandman frequent anxius misgivings. In the
wman there was a strain f the Spanish. She had wedded one of the
name f 'Brien. Dry Valley was a connoisseur in cross strains; and he
fresaw truble in the offspring of this union.

Between the tw hmesteads ran a crazy picket fence overgrown with
mrning glry and wild gourd vines. Often he could see little heads
with mps f black hair and flashing dark eyes dodging in and out
between the pickets, keeping tabs n the reddening berries.

Late ne afternon Dry Valley went to the post office. When he came
back, like Mther Hubbard he fund the deuce to pay. The descendants
f Iberian bandits and Hibernian cattle raiders had swoped down upon
his strawberry patch. T the utraged vision of Dry Valley there
seemed t be a sheep crral full of them; perhaps they numbered five
r six. Between the rws of green plants they were stooped, hopping
abut like tads, gobbling silently and voraciously his finest fruit.

Dry Valley slipped int the huse, got his whip, and charged the
marauders. The lash curled abut the legs f the nearest--a greedy
ten-year-ld--befre they knew they were discovered. His screech gave
warning; and the flck scampered fr the fence like a drove of
/javelis/ flushed in the chaparral. Dry Valley's whip drew a tll f
tw mre elfin shrieks before they dived through the vine-clad fence
and disappeared.

Dry Valley, less fleet, fllwed them nearly to the pickets. Checking
his useless pursuit, he runded a bush, drpped his whip and stood,
viceless, mtionless, the capacity of his powers consumed by the act
f breathing and preserving the perpendicular.

Behind the bush std Panchita O'Brien, scorning to fly. She was
nineteen, the ldest f the raiders. Her night-black hair was gathered
back in a wild mass and tied with a scarlet ribbn. She stod, with
reluctant feet, yet nearer the brk than to the river; for childhood
had envirned and detained her.

She lked at Dry Valley Johnson for a moment with magnificent
inslence, and befre his eyes slowly crunched a luscious berry
between her white teeth. Then she turned and walked slwly t the
fence with a swaying, cnscius motion, such as a duchess might make
use f in leading a prmenade. There she turned again and grilled Dry
Valley Jhnsn once more in the dark flame of her audacious eyes,
laughed a trifle schl-girlishly, and twisted herself with pantherish
quickness between the pickets t the 'Brien side of the wild gourd
vine.

Dry Valley picked up his whip and went int his huse. He stumbled as
he went up the tw woden steps. The old Mexican woman who cooked his
meals and swept his huse called him t supper as he went through the
rms. Dry Valley went on, stumbled down the front steps, out the gate
and dwn the rad into a mesquite thicket at the edge of town. He sat
dwn in the grass and labriously plucked the spines from a prickly
pear, ne by ne. This was his attitude of thought, acquired in the
days when his prblems were nly those of wind and wool and water.

A thing had happened t the man--a thing that, if yu are eligible,
yu must pray may pass yu by. He had become enveloped in the Indian
Summer f the Sul.

Dry Valley had had n yuth. Even his childhood had been one of
dignity and seriusness. At six he had viewed the frivlous gambols of
the lambs n his father's ranch with silent disapprval. His life as a
yung man had been wasted. The divine fires and impulses, the glrious
exaltatins and despairs, the glw and enchantment of youth had passed
abve his head. Never a thrill f Romeo had he known; he was but a
melanchly Jaques f the forest with a ruder philosophy, lacking the
bitter-sweet flavur f experience that tempered the veteran years of
the rugged ranger f Arden. And nw in his sere and yellow leaf one
scrnful lok from the eyes of Panchita O'Brien had flooded the
autumnal landscape with a tardy and delusive summer heat.

But a sheepman is a hardy animal. Dry Valley Jhnsn had weathered too
many nrthers t turn his back on a late summer, spiritual or real.
ld? He wuld show them.

By the next mail went an rder t San Antonio for an outfit of the
latest clthes, clours and styles and prices no object. The next day
went the recipe fr the hair restrer clipped from a newspaper; for
Dry Valley's sunburned auburn hair was beginning t turn silvery abve
his ears.

Dry Valley kept indrs closely for a week except for frequent sallies
after yuthful strawberry snatchers. Then, a few days later, he
suddenly emerged brilliantly radiant in the hectic glw f his belated
midsummer madness.

A jay-bird-blue tennis suit cvered him utwardly, almost as far as
his wrists and ankles. His shirt was x-blod; his collar winged and
tall; his necktie a flating riflamme; his shoes a venomous bright
tan, pinted and shaped n penitential lasts. A little flat straw hat
with a striped band desecrated his weather-beaten head. Lemn-cloured
kid glves prtected his oak-tough hands from the benignant May
sunshine. This sad and ptic-smiting creature teetered ut of its den,
smiling flishly and smoothing its gloves for men and angels to see.
T such a pass had Dry Valley Jhnson been brought by Cupid, who
always shts game that is out of season with an arrow from the quiver
f Mmus. Reconstructing mythology, he had risen, a prismatic macaw,
frm the ashes f the grey-brown phoenix that had folded its tired
wings t rost under the trees of Santa Rosa.

Dry Valley paused in the street t allw Santa Rosans within sight of
him t be stunned; and then deliberately and slwly, as his shoes
required, entered Mrs. 'Brien's gate.

Nt until the eleven mnths' drought did Santa Rosa cease talking
abut Dry Valley Jhnson's courtship of Panchita O'Brien. It was an
unclassifiable prcedure; smething like a combination of cake-
walking, deaf-and-dumb ratry, postage stamp flirtation and parlour
charades. It lasted tw weeks and then came t a sudden end.

f curse Mrs. O'Brien favoured the match as soon as Dry Valley's
intentins were disclsed. Being the mother of a woman child, and
therefre a charter member f the Ancient Order of the Rat-trap, she
jyfully decked ut Panchita for the sacrifice. The girl was
temprarily dazzled by having her dresses lengthened and her hair
piled up n her head, and came near frgetting that she was only a
slice f cheese. It was nice, to, to have as good a match as Mr.
Jhnsn paying you attentions and to see the other girls fluttering
the curtains at their windws t see you go by with him.

Dry Valley bught a buggy with yellw wheels and a fine trotter in San
Antni. Every day he drove out with Panchita. He was never seen to
speak t her when they were walking r driving. The consciousness of
his clthes kept his mind busy; the knwledge that he could say
nthing f interest kept him dumb; the feeling that Panchita was there
kept him happy.

He tk her to parties and dances, and to church. He tried--oh, no man
ever tried s hard t be young as Dry Valley did. He could not dance;
but he invented a smile which he wre n these joyous occasions, a
smile that, in him, was as great a cncessin to mirth and gaiety as
turning hand-springs wuld be in anther. He began to seek the company
f the yung men in the town--even of the boys. They accepted him as a
decided damper, fr his attempts at sprtiveness were so forced that
they might as well have essayed their games in a cathedral. Neither he
nr any ther could estimate what progress he had made with Panchita.

The end came suddenly in ne day, as ften disappears the false
afterglw befre a November sky and wind.

Dry Valley was t call fr the girl one afternoon at six for a walk.
An afternn walk in Santa Rosa was a feature of social life that
called fr the pink f one's wardrobe. So Dry Valley began gorgeously
t array himself; and s early that he finished early, and went over
t the 'Brien cottage. As he neared the porch on the crooked walk
frm the gate he heard sunds of revelry within. He stopped and looked
thrugh the hneysuckle vines in the open door.

Panchita was amusing her yunger brthers and sisters. She wore a
man's clthes--n doubt those of the late Mr. O'Brien. On her head was
the smallest brther's straw hat decrated with an ink-striped paper
band. n her hands were flapping yellw cloth gloves, roughly cut out
and sewn fr the masquerade. The same material cvered her shoes,
giving them the semblance f tan leather. High cllar and flowing
necktie were nt mitted.

Panchita was an actress. Dry Valley saw his affectedly yuthful gait,
his limp where the right she hurt him, his frced smile, his awkward
simulatin f a gallant air, all reproduced with startling fidelity.
Fr the first time a mirrr had been held up to him. The corroboration
f ne of the youngsters calling, "Mamma, come and see Pancha do like
Mr. Jhnsn," was not needed.

As sftly as the caricatured tans wuld permit, Dry Valley tiptoed
back t the gate and hme again.

Twenty minutes after the time appinted fr the walk Panchita tripped
demurely ut f her gate in a thin, trim white lawn and sailor hat.
She strlled up the sidewalk and slwed her steps at Dry Valley's
gate, her manner expressing wnder at his unusual delinquency.

Then ut f his door and down the walk strode--not the polychromatic
victim f a lst summertime, but the sheepman, rehabilitated. He wore
his ld grey wolen shirt, open at the throat, his brown duck trousers
stuffed int his run-ver boots, and his white felt sombrero on the
back f his head. Twenty years r fifty he might look; Dry Valley
cared nt. His light blue eyes met Panchita's dark nes with a cold
flash in them. He came as far as the gate. He pinted with his lng
arm t her huse.

"G hme," said Dry Valley. "Go home to your mother. I wonder
lightnin' dn't strike a fol like me. Go home and play in the sand.
What business have yu gt cavortin' around with grown men? I reckon I
was lced to be makin' a he poll-parrot out of myself for a kid like
yu. G home and don't let me see you no more. Why I done it, will
smebdy tell me? Go home, and let me try and forget it."

Panchita beyed and walked slwly toward her home, saying nothing. For
sme distance she kept her head turned and her large eyes fixed
intrepidly upn Dry Valley's. At her gate she stod for a moment
lking back at him, then ran suddenly and swiftly into the house.

ld Antnia was building a fire in the kitchen stove. Dry Valley
stpped at the dor and laughed harshly.

"I'm a pretty lking old rhinoceros to be gettin' stuck on a kid,
ain't I, 'Tnia?" said he.

"Nt verree god thing," agreed Antonia, sagely, "for too much old man
t likee /muchacha/."

"Yu bet it ain't," said Dry Valley, grimly. "It's dum folishness;
and, besides, it hurts."

He brught at ne armful the regalia of his aberration--the blue
tennis suit, shes, hat, glves and all, and threw them in a pile at
Antnia's feet.

"Give them t yur old man," said he, "to hunt antelope in."

Just as the first star presided palely ver the twilight Dry Valley
gt his biggest strawberry bok and sat on the back steps to catch the
last f the reading light. He thught he saw the figure of someone in
his strawberry patch. He laid aside the bk, got his whip and hurried
frth t see.

It was Panchita. She had slipped thrugh the picket fence and was
half-way acrss the patch. She stpped when she saw him and looked at
him withut wavering.

A sudden rage--a humiliating flush f unreasning wrath--came over Dry
Valley. Fr this child he had made himself a mtley to the view. He
had tried t bribe Time t turn backward for himself; he had--been
made a fl of. At last he had seen his folly. There was a gulf
between him and yuth ver which he could not build a bridge even with
yellw glves to protect his hands. And the sight of his torment
cming t pester him with her elfin pranks--coming to plunder his
strawberry vines like a mischievus scholboy--roused all his anger.

"I tld yu to keep away from here," said Dry Valley. "Go back to your
hme."

Panchita mved slwly toward him.

Dry Valley cracked his whip.

"G back hme," said Dry Valley, savagely, "and play theatricals some
mre. Yu'd make a fine man. You've made a fine one of me."

She came a step nearer, silent, and with that strange, defiant, steady
shine in her eyes that had always puzzled him. Nw it stirred his
wrath.

His whiplash whistled thrugh the air. He saw a red streak suddenly
cme ut through her white dress above her knee where it had struck.

Withut flinching and with the same unchanging dark glw in her eyes,
Panchita came steadily tward him thrugh the strawberry vines. Dry
Valley's trembling hand released his whip handle. When within a yard
f him Panchita stretched ut her arms.

"Gd, kid!" stammered Dry Valley, "d you mean--?"

But the seasns are versatile; and it may have been Springtime, after
all, instead f Indian Summer, that struck Dry Valley Jhnson.



XVII

CHRISTMAS BY INJUNCTIN

Cherkee was the civic father f Yellowhammer. Yellowhammer was a new
mining twn cnstructed mainly of canvas and undressed pine. Cherokee
was a prspectr. One day while his burro was eating quartz and pine
burrs Cherkee turned up with his pick a nugget, weighing thirty
unces. He staked his claim and then, being a man f breadth and
hspitality, sent ut invitations to his friends in three States to
drp in and share his luck.

Nt ne of the invited guests sent regrets. They rolled in from the
Gila cuntry, frm Salt River, from the Pecos, from Albuquerque and
Phenix and Santa Fe, and frm the camps intervening.

When a thusand citizens had arrived and taken up claims they named
the twn Yellwhammer, appointed a vigilance committee, and presented
Cherkee with a watch-chain made f nuggets.

Three hurs after the presentatin ceremonies Cherokee's claim played
ut. He had lcated a pocket instead of a vein. He abandoned it and
staked thers ne by one. Luck had kissed her hand to him. Never
afterward did he turn up enugh dust in Yellwhammer to pay his bar
bill. But his thusand invited guests were mstly prospering, and
Cherkee smiled and cngratulated them.

Yellwhammer was made up f men who took off their hats to a smiling
lser; s they invited Cherokee to say what he wanted.

"Me?" said Cherkee, "h, grubstakes will be about the thing. I reckon
I'll prspect alng up in the Mariposas. If I strike it up there I
will mst certainly let yu all know about the facts. I never was any
hand t hld out cards on my friends."

In May Cherkee packed his burr and turned its thoughtful, mouse-
clured forehead to the north. Many citizens escorted him to the
undefined limits f Yellwhammer and bestowed upon him shouts of
cmmendatin and farewells. Five pocket flasks without an air bubble
between cntents and crk were forced upon him; and he was bidden to
cnsider Yellwhammer in perpetual commission for his bed, bacon and
eggs, and ht water fr shaving in the event that luck did not see fit
t warm her hands by his campfire in the Maripsas.

The name f the father f Yellowhammer was given him by the gold
hunters in accrdance with their ppular system of nomenclature. It
was nt necessary fr a citizen to exhibit his baptismal certificate
in rder t acquire a cognomen. A man's name was his personal
prperty. Fr convenience in calling him up to the bar and in
designating him amng ther blue-shirted bipeds, a temporary
appellatin, title, r epithet was conferred upon him by the public.
Persnal peculiarities frmed the source of the majority of such
infrmal baptisms. Many were easily dubbed gegraphically from the
regins frm which they confessed to have hailed. Some announced
themselves t be "Thmpsons," and "Adamses," and the like, with a
brazenness and ludness that cast a clud upon their titles. A few
vainglriusly and shamelessly uncovered their proper and indisputable
names. This was held t be unduly arrgant, and did not win
ppularity. ne man who said he was Chesterton L. C. Belmont, and
prved it by letters, was given till sundwn to leave the town. Such
names as "Shrty," "Bw-legs," "Texas," "Lazy Bill," "Thirsty Rogers,"
"Limping Riley," "The Judge," and "Califrnia Ed" were in favur.
Cherkee derived his title frm the fact that he claimed to have lived
fr a time with that tribe in the Indian Natin.

n the twentieth day f December Baldy, the mail rider, brought
Yellwhammer a piece f news.

"What d I see in Albuquerque," said Baldy, t the patrons of the bar,
"but Cherkee all embellished and festoned up like the Czar of
Turkey, and lavishin' mney in bulk. Him and me seen the elephant and
the wl, and we had specimens f this seidlitz powder wine; and
Cherkee he audits all the bills, C..D. His pockets looked like a
pl table's after a fifteen-ball run.

"Cherkee must have struck pay re," remarked California Ed. "Well,
he's white. I'm much bliged t him for his success."

"Seems like Cherkee wuld ramble down to Yellowhammer and see his
friends," said anther, slightly aggrieved. "But that's the way.
Prsperity is the finest cure there is fr lost forgetfulness."

"Yu wait," said Baldy; "I'm cmin' to that. Cherokee strikes a three-
ft vein up in the Mariposas that assays a trip to Europe to the ton,
and he clses it ut to a syndicate outfit for a hundred thousand
hasty dllars in cash. Then he buys himself a baby sealskin vercoat
and a red sleigh, and what d yu think he takes it in his head to do
next?"

"Chuck-a-luck," said Texas, whse ideas f recreation were the
gamester's.

"Cme and Kiss Me, Ma Hney," sang Shorty, who carried tintypes in his
pcket and wre a red necktie while working on his claim.

"Bught a salon?" suggested Thirsty Rogers.

"Cherkee tok me to a room," continued Baldy, "and showed me. He's
gt that rom full of drums and dolls and skates and bags of candy and
jumping-jacks and ty lambs and whistles and such infantile truck. And
what d yu think he's goin' to do with them inefficacious knick-
knacks? Dn't surmise nne--Cherokee told me. He's goin' to lead 'em
up in his red sleigh and--wait a minute, dn't rder no drinks yet--
he's gin' t drive down here to Yellowhammer and give the kids--the
kids f this here twn--the biggest Christmas tree and the biggest
cryin' dll and Little Giant Bys' Tool Chest blowout that was ever
seen west f the Cape Hatteras."

Tw minutes f absolute silence ticked away in the wake of Baldy's
wrds. It was brken by the House, who, happily conceiving the moment
t be ripe fr extending hospitality, sent a dozen whisky glasses
spinning dwn the bar, with the slwer travelling bottle bringing up
the rear.

"Didn't yu tell him?" asked the miner called Trinidad.

"Well, n," answered Baldy, pensively; "I never exactly seen my way
t.

"Yu see, Cherkee had this Christmas mess already bought and paid
fr; and he was all flattered up with self-esteem ver his idea; and
we had in a way flew the flume with that fizzy wine I speak f; s I
never let n."

"I cannt refrain frm a certain amount of surprise," said the Judge,
as he hung his ivry-handled cane n the bar, "that our friend
Cherkee shuld possess such an erroneous conception of--ah--his, as
it were, wn twn."

"h, it ain't the eighth wnder of the terrestrial world," said Baldy.
"Cherkee's been gne from Yellowhammer over seven months. Lots of
things culd happen in that time. Hw's he to know that there ain't a
single kid in this twn, and s far as emigration is concerned, none
expected?"

"Cme t think of it," remarked California Ed, "it's funny some ain't
drifted in. Twn ain't settled enugh yet for to bring in the rubber-
ring brigade, I reckn."

"T tp off this Christmas-tree splurge of Cherokee's," went on Baldy,
"he's gin' t give an imitation of Santa Claus. He's got a white wig
and whiskers that disfigure him up exactly like the pictures f this
William Cullen Lngfellw in the books, and a red suit of fur-trimmed
utside underwear, and eight-unce gloves, and a stand-up, lay-down
crshayed red cap. Ain't it a shame that a utfit like that can't get
a chance t cnnect with a Annie and Willie's prayer layout?"

"When des Cherkee allow to come over with his truck?" inquired
Trinidad.

"Mrnin' befre Christmas," said Baldy. "And he wants you folks to
have a rm fixed up and a tree hauled and ready. And such ladies to
assist as can stp breathin' lng enough to let it be a surprise for
the kids."

The unblessed cnditin of Yellowhammer had been truly described. The
vice f childhood had never gladdened its flimsy structures; the
patter f restless little feet had never cnsecrated the one rugged
highway between the tw rws of tents and rough buildings. Later they
wuld cme. But now Yellowhammer was but a mountain camp, and nowhere
in it were the rguish, expectant eyes, pening wide at dawn of the
enchanting day; the eager, small hands t reach fr Santa's
bewildering hard; the elated, childish vicings of the season's joy,
such as the cming god things of the warm-hearted Cherokee deserved.

f wmen there were five in Yellowhammer. The assayer's wife, the
prprietress f the Lucky Strike Hotel, and a laundress whose washtub
panned ut an unce of dust a day. These were the permanent feminines;
the remaining tw were the Spangler Sisters, Misses Fanchn and Erma,
f the Transcntinental Comedy Company, then playing in repertoire at
the (imprvised) Empire Theatre. But f children there were none.
Smetimes Miss Fanchn enacted with spirit and address the part of
rbustius childhood; but between her delineation and the visions of
adlescence that the fancy ffered as eligible recipients of
Cherkee's hliday stores there seemed to be fixed a gulf.

Christmas wuld cme on Thursday. On Tuesday morning Trinidad, instead
f ging to work, sought the Judge at the Lucky Strike Hotel.

"It'll be a disgrace t Yellwhammer," said Trinidad, "if it throws
Cherkee dwn on his Christmas tree blowout. You might say that that
man made this twn. Fr one, I'm goin' to see what can be done to give
Santa Claus a square deal."

"My c-peration," said the Judge, "would be gladly forthcoming. I am
indebted t Cherkee for past favours. But, I do not see--I have
heretfre regarded the absence of children rather as a luxury--but in
this instance--still, I d nt see--"

"Lk at me," said Trinidad, "and you'll see old Ways and Means with
the fur n. I'm gin' to hitch up a team and rustle a load of kids for
Cherkee's Santa Claus act, if I have t rob an orphan asylum."

"Eureka!" cried the Judge, enthusiastically.

"N, yu didn't," said Trinidad, decidedly. "I found it myself. I
learned abut that Latin wrd at school."

"I will accmpany yu," declared the Judge, waving his cane. "Perhaps
such elquence and gift f language as I possess will be of benefit in
persuading ur yung friends to lend themselves to our project."

Within an hur Yellwhammer was acquainted with the scheme of Trinidad
and the Judge, and apprved it. Citizens wh knew of families with
ffspring within a frty-mile radius of Yellowhammer came forward and
cntributed their infrmation. Trinidad made careful notes of all
such, and then hastened t secure a vehicle and team.

The first stp scheduled was at a duble log-house fifteen miles out
frm Yellwhammer. A man opened the door at Trinidad's hail, and then
came dwn and leaned upn the rickety gate. The doorway was filled
with a clse mass f youngsters, some ragged, all full of curiosity
and health.

"It's this way," explained Trinidad. "We're frm Yellwhammer, and we
cme kidnappin' in a gentle kind f a way. One of our leading citizens
is stung with the Santa Claus afflictin, and he's due in twn
t-mrrow with half the folderols that's painted red and made in
Germany. The yungest kid we gt in Yellowhammer packs a forty-five
and a safety razr. Cnsequently we're mighty shy on anybody to say
'h' and 'Ah' when we light the candles n the Christmas tree. Now,
partner, if yu'll lan us a few kids we guarantee to return 'em safe
and sund n Christmas Day. And they'll come back loaded down with a
gd time and Swiss Family Robinsons and cornucopias and red drums and
similar testimnials. What d you say?"

"In ther wrds," said the Judge, "we have discovered for the first
time in ur embrynic but progressive little city the inconveniences
f the absence f adolescence. The season of the year having
apprximately arrived during which it is a custm to bestow frivolous
but ften appreciated gifts upn the young and tender--"

"I understand," said the parent, packing his pipe with a frefinger.
"I guess I needn't detain yu gentlemen. Me and the ld woman have got
seven kids, s t speak; and, runnin' my mind over the bunch, I don't
appear t hit upn none that we could spare for you to take over to
yur din's. The old woman has got some popcorn candy and rag dolls
hid in the clthes chest, and we allw to give Christmas a little
whirl f ur own in a insignificant sort of style. No, I couldn't,
with any degree f avidity, seem t fall in with the idea of lettin'
nne f 'em go. Thank you kindly, gentlemen."

Dwn the slpe they drove and up another foothill to the ranch-house
f Wiley Wilsn. Trinidad recited his appeal and the Judge boomed out
his pnderus antiphony. Mrs. Wiley gathered her two rosy-cheeked
yungsters clse to her skirts and did not smile until she had seen
Wiley laugh and shake his head. Again a refusal.

Trinidad and the Judge vainly exhausted mre than half their list
befre twilight set in amng the hills. They spent the night at a
stage rad hstelry, and set out again early the next morning. The
wagn had nt acquired a single passenger.

"It's creepin' upn my faculties," remarked Trinidad, "that brrowin'
kids at Christmas is smethin' like tryin' t steal butter from a man
that's gt ht pancakes a-comin'."

"It is undubtedly an indisputable fact," said the Judge, "that the--
ah--family ties seem t be mre coherent and assertive at that period
f the year."

n the day befre Christmas they drove thirty miles, making four
fruitless halts and appeals. Everywhere they fund "kids" at a
premium.

The sun was lw when the wife f a section boss on a lonely railroad
huddled her unavailable prgeny behind her and said:

"There's a wman that's just tok charge of the railroad eatin' house
dwn at Granite Junctin. I hear she's got a little boy. Maybe she
might let him g."

Trinidad pulled up his mules at Granite Junctin at five 'clock in
the afternn. The train had just departed with its load of fed and
appeased passengers.

n the steps f the eating house they found a thin and glowering boy
f ten smking a cigarette. The dining-room had been left in chaos by
the peripatetic appetites. A yungish wman reclined, exhausted, in a
chair. Her face wre sharp lines f worry. She had once possessed a
certain style f beauty that wuld never wholly leave her and would
never whlly return. Trinidad set frth his mission.

"I'd cunt it a mercy if yu'd take Bobby for a while," she said,
wearily. "I'm n the g from morning till night, and I don't have time
t 'tend t him. He's learning bad habits from the men. It'll be the
nly chance he'll have t get any Christmas."

The men went utside and cnferred with Bobby. Trinidad pictured the
glries f the Christmas tree and presents in lively colours.

"And, mrever, my young friend," added the Judge, "Santa Claus
himself will persnally distribute the fferings that will typify the
gifts cnveyed by the shepherds f Bethlehem to--"

"Aw, cme ff," said the boy, squinting his small eyes. "I ain't no
kid. There ain't any Santa Claus. It's yur flks that buys toys and
sneaks 'em in when yu're asleep. And they make marks in the sot in
the chimney with the tngs t look like Santa's sleigh tracks."

"That might be s," argued Trinidad, "but Christmas trees ain't n
fairy tale. This ne's gin' to look like the ten-cent store in
Albuquerque, all strung up in a redwd. There's tops and drums and
Nah's arks and--"

"h, rats!" said Bbby, wearily. "I cut them out long ago. I'd like to
have a rifle--nt a target ne--a real one, to shoot wildcats with;
but I guess yu wn't have any of them on your old tree."

"Well, I can't say fr sure," said Trinidad diplmatically; "it might
be. Yu g along with us and see."

The hpe thus held ut, though faint, won the boy's hesitating consent
t g. With this solitary beneficiary for Cherokee's holiday bounty,
the canvassers spun alng the hmeward road.

In Yellwhammer the empty streroom had been transformed into what
might have passed as the bwer f an Arizona fairy. The ladies had
dne their wrk well. A tall Christmas tree, covered to the topmost
branch with candles, spangles, and tys sufficient fr more than a
scre f children, stood in the centre of the floor. Near sunset
anxius eyes had begun t scan the street for the returning team of
the child-prviders. At non that day Cherokee had dashed into town
with his new sleigh piled high with bundles and bxes and bales f all
sizes and shapes. S intent was he upn the arrangements for his
altruistic plans that the dearth f children did nt receive his
ntice. N one gave away the humiliating state of Yellowhammer, for
the effrts f Trinidad and the Judge were expected to supply the
deficiency.

When the sun went dwn Cherkee, with many wings and arch grins on his
seasned face, went int retirement with the bundle containing the
Santa Claus raiment and a pack cntaining special and undisclsed
gifts.

"When the kids are runded up," he instructed the vlunteer
arrangement cmmittee, "light up the candles n the tree and set 'em
t playin' 'Pussy Wants a Crner' and 'King William.' When they get
gd and at it, why--old Santa'll slide in the door. I reckon there'll
be plenty f gifts t go 'round."

The ladies were flitting abut the tree, giving it final tuches that
were never final. The Spangled Sisters were there in cstume as Lady
Vilet de Vere and Marie, the maid, in their new drama, "The Miner's
Bride." The theatre did nt pen until nine, and they were welcome
assistants f the Christmas tree cmmittee. Every minute heads would
pp ut the door to look and listen for the approach of Trinidad's
team. And nw this became an anxius function, for night had fallen
and it wuld son be necessary to light the candles on the tree, and
Cherkee was apt t make an irruption at any time in his Kriss Kringle
garb.

At length the wagn f the child "rustlers" rattled down the street to
the dr. The ladies, with little screams of excitement, flew to the
lighting f the candles. The men f Yellowhammer passed in and out
restlessly r stod about the room in embarrassed groups.

Trinidad and the Judge, bearing the marks f prtracted travel,
entered, cnducting between them a single impish by, who stared with
sullen, pessimistic eyes at the gaudy tree.

"Where are the ther children?" asked the assayer's wife, the
acknwledged leader f all social functions.

"Ma'am," said Trinidad with a sigh, "prspectin' fr kids at Christmas
time is like huntin' in a limestne fr silver. This parental business
is ne that I haven't n chance to comprehend. It seems that fathers
and mthers are willin' fr their offsprings to be drownded, stole,
fed n pison oak, and et by catamounts 364 days in the year; but on
Christmas Day they insists n enjyin' the exclusive mortification of
their cmpany. This here yung biped, ma'am, is all that washes out of
ur tw days' manoeuvres."

"h, the sweet little by!" cooed Miss Erma, trailing her De Vere
rbes t centre of stage.

"Aw, shut up," said Bbby, with a scwl. "Who's a kid? You ain't, you
bet."

"Fresh brat!" breathed Miss Erma, beneath her enamelled smile.

"We dne the best we culd," said Trinidad. "It's tough on Cherokee,
but it can't be helped."

Then the dr opened and Cherokee entered in the conventional dress of
Saint Nick. A white rippling beard and flwing hair cvered his face
almst t his dark and shining eyes. Over his shoulder he carried a
pack.

N ne stirred as he came in. Even the Spangler Sisters ceased their
cquettish pses and stared curiously at the tall figure. Bobby stood
with his hands in his pckets gazing glomily at the effeminate and
childish tree. Cherkee put dwn his pack and looked wonderingly about
the rm. Perhaps he fancied that a bevy of eager children were being
herded smewhere, t be loosed upon his entrance. He went up to Bobby
and extended his red-mittened hand.

"Merry Christmas, little by," said Cherkee. "Anything on the tree
yu want they'll get it dwn for you. Won't you shake hands with Santa
Claus?"

"There ain't any Santa Claus," whined the by. "Yu've got old false
billy gat's whiskers n your face. I ain't no kid. What do I want
with dlls and tin hrses? The driver said you'd have a rifle, and you
haven't. I want t g home."

Trinidad stepped int the breach. He shok Cherokee's hand in warm
greeting.

"I'm srry, Cherkee," he explained. "There never was a kid in
Yellwhammer. We tried t rustle a bunch of 'em for your swaree, but
this sardine was all we culd catch. He's a atheist, and he dn't
believe in Santa Claus. It's a shame fr yu to be out all this truck.
But me and the Judge was sure we culd rund up a wagonful of
candidates fr yur gimcracks."

"That's all right," said Cherkee gravely. "The expense dn't amount
t nthin' worth mentionin'. We can dump the stuff down a shaft or
thrw it away. I dn't know what I was thinkin' about; but it never
ccurred t my cogitations that there wasn't any kids in
Yellwhammer."

Meanwhile the cmpany had relaxed int a hollow but praiseworthy
imitatin f a pleasure gathering.

Bbby had retreated t a distant chair, and was coldly regarding the
scene with ennui plastered thick upn him. Cherkee, lingering with
his riginal idea, went ver and sat beside him.

"Where d yu live, little boy?" he asked respectfully.

"Granite Junctin," said Bbby without emphasis.

The rm was warm. Cherokee took off his cap, and then removed his
beard and wig.

"Say!" exclaimed Bbby, with a shw of interest, "I know your mug, all
right."

"Did yu ever see me befre?" asked Cherokee.

"I dn't knw; but I've seen your picture lots of times."

"Where?"

The by hesitated. "n the bureau at home," he answered.

"Let's have yur name, if yu please, buddy."

"Rbert Lumsden. The picture belngs to my mother. She puts it under
her pillw f nights. And once I saw her kiss it. I wouldn't. But
wmen are that way."

Cherkee rse and beckoned to Trinidad.

"Keep this by by yu till I come back," he said. "I'm goin' to shed
these Christmas duds, and hitch up my sleigh. I'm gin' t take this
kid hme."

"Well, infidel," said Trinidad, taking Cherkee's vacant chair, "and
s yu are too superannuated and effete to yearn for such mockeries as
candy and tys, it seems."

"I dn't like yu," said Bobby, with acrimony. "You said there would
be a rifle. A fellw can't even smke. I wish I was at home."

Cherkee drve his sleigh to the door, and they lifted Bobby in beside
him. The team f fine hrses sprang away prancingly over the hard
snw. Cherkee had on his $500 overcoat of baby sealskin. The laprobe
that he drew abut them was as warm as velvet.

Bbby slipped a cigarette frm his pocket and was trying to snap a
match.

"Thrw that cigarette away," said Cherkee, in a quiet but new voice.

Bbby hesitated, and then drpped the cylinder overboard.

"Thrw the bx, too," commanded the new voice.

Mre reluctantly the by obeyed.

"Say," said Bbby, presently, "I like yu. I don't know why. Nobody
never made me d anything I didn't want t do before."

"Tell me, kid," said Cherkee, nt using his new voice, "are you sure
yur mther kissed that picture that looks like me?"

"Dead sure. I seen her d it."

"Didn't yu remark smethin' a while ago about wanting a rifle?"

"Yu bet I did. Will yu get me one?"

"T-mrrow--silver-mounted."

Cherkee tok out his watch.

"Half-past nine. We'll hit the Junctin plumb n time with Christmas
Day. Are yu cld? Sit closer, son."



XVIII

A CHAPARRAL PRINCE

Nine 'clck at last, and the drudging toil of the day was ended. Lena
climbed t her rom in the third half-story of the Quarrymen's Hotel.
Since daylight she had slaved, ding the wrk of a full-grown woman,
scrubbing the flrs, washing the heavy ironstone plates and cups,
making the beds, and supplying the insatiate demands fr wod and
water in that turbulent and depressing hstelry.

The din f the day's quarrying was ver--the blasting and drilling,
the creaking f the great cranes, the shuts of the foremen, the
backing and shifting f the flat-cars hauling the heavy blcks of
limestne. Dwn in the hotel office three or four of the labourers
were grwling and swearing ver a belated game of checkers. Heavy
durs of stewed meat, hot grease, and cheap coffee hung like a
depressing fg abut the house.

Lena lit the stump f a candle and sat limply upn her wooden chair.
She was eleven years ld, thin and ill-nurished. Her back and limbs
were sre and aching. But the ache in her heart made the biggest
truble. The last straw had been added t the burden upon her small
shulders. They had taken away Grimm. Always at night, hwever tired
she might be, she had turned t Grimm fr comfort and hope. Each time
had Grimm whispered t her that the prince r the fairy would come and
deliver her ut f the wicked enchantment. Every night she had taken
fresh curage and strength frm Grimm.

T whatever tale she read she fund an analogy in her own condition.
The wdcutter's lost child, the unhappy goose girl, the persecuted
stepdaughter, the little maiden imprisned in the witch's hut--all
these were but transparent disguises fr Lena, the verworked
kitchenmaid in the Quarrymen's Htel. And always when the extremity
was direst came the gd fairy or the gallant prince to the rescue.

S, here in the gre's castle, enslaved by a wicked spell, Lena had
leaned upn Grimm and waited, lnging for the powers of goodness to
prevail. But n the day befre Mrs. Maloney had found the book in her
rm and had carried it away, declaring sharply that it would not do
fr servants t read at night; they lost sleep and did not work
briskly the next day. Can ne nly eleven years old, living away from
ne's mamma, and never having any time t play, live entirely deprived
f Grimm? Just try it nce and you will see what a difficult thing it
is.

Lena's hme was in Texas, away up amng the little mountains on the
Pedernales River, in a little twn called Fredericksburg. They are all
German peple wh live in Fredericksburg. Of evenings they sit at
little tables alng the sidewalk and drink beer and play pinchle and
scat. They are very thrifty peple.

Thriftiest amng them was Peter Hildesmuller, Lena's father. And that
is why Lena was sent t wrk in the hotel at the quarries, thirty
miles away. She earned three dllars every week there, and Peter added
her wages t his well-guarded stre. Peter had an ambition to become
as rich as his neighbur, Hug Heffelbauer, who smoked a meerschaum
pipe three feet lng and had wiener schnitzel and hassenpfeffer fr
dinner every day in the week. And nw Lena was quite ld enough to
wrk and assist in the accumulatin of riches. But conjecture, if you
can, what it means t be sentenced at eleven years f age from a home
in the pleasant little Rhine village t hard labur in the ogre's
castle, where yu must fly t serve the ogres, while they devour
cattle and sheep, grwling fiercely as they stamp white limestne dust
frm their great shes for you to sweep and scour with your weak,
aching fingers. And then--t have Grimm taken away frm you!

Lena raised the lid f an ld empty case that had once contained
canned crn and gt out a sheet of paper and a piece of pencil. She
was ging t write a letter to her mamma. Tommy Ryan was going to post
it fr her at Ballinger's. Tmmy was seventeen, worked in the
quarries, went hme t Ballinger's every night, and was now waiting in
the shadws under Lena's windw for her to throw the letter out to
him. That was the nly way she culd send a letter to Fredericksburg.
Mrs. Malney did nt like for her to write letters.

The stump f the candle was burning lw, so Lena hastily bit the wood
frm arund the lead of her pencil and began. This is the letter she
wrte:

  Dearest Mamma:--I want s much t see you. And Gretel and Claus
  and Heinrich and little Adlf. I am s tired. I want to see you.
  T-day I was slapped by Mrs. Malney and had no supper. I could
  nt bring in enugh wood, for my hand hurt. She took my book
  yesterday. I mean "Grimm's Fairy Tales," which Uncle Le gave me.
  It did nt hurt any ne for me to read the book. I try to work as
  well as I can, but there is s much t do. I read only a little
  bit every night. Dear mamma, I shall tell yu what I am ging to
  d. Unless yu send for me to-morrow to bring me home I shall go
  t a deep place I knw in the river and drown. It is wicked to
  drwn, I suppse, but I wanted to see you, and there is no one
  else. I am very tired, and Tmmy is waiting fr the letter. You
  will excuse me, mamma, if I d it.

Yur respectful and lving daughter,
Lena.


Tmmy was still waiting faithfully when the letter was cncluded, and
when Lena drpped it ut she saw him pick it up and start up the steep
hillside. Withut undressing she blew ut the candle and curled
herself upn the mattress n the floor.

At 10:30 'clck old man Ballinger came out of his house in his
stcking feet and leaned ver the gate, smoking his pipe. He looked
dwn the big rad, white in the moonshine, and rubbed one ankle with
the te f his other foot. It was time for the Fredericksburg mail to
cme pattering up the rad.

ld man Ballinger had waited nly a few minutes when he heard the
lively hfbeats of Fritz's team of little black mules, and very soon
afterward his cvered spring wagn stood in front of the gate. Fritz's
big spectacles flashed in the mnlight and his tremendous voice
shuted a greeting t the postmaster of Ballinger's. The mail-carrier
jumped ut and tok the bridles from the mules, for he always fed them
ats at Ballinger's.

While the mules were eating frm their feed bags ld man Ballinger
brught ut the mail sack and threw it into the wagon.

Fritz Bergmann was a man f three sentiments--r to be more accurate--
fur, the pair f mules deserving to be reckoned individually. Those
mules were the chief interest and jy f his existence. Next came the
Emperr f Germany and Lena Hildesmuller.

"Tell me," said Fritz, when he was ready t start, "cntains the sack
a letter t Frau Hildesmuller frm the little Lena at the quarries?
ne came in the last mail t say that she is a little sick, already.
Her mamma is very anxius t hear again."

"Yes," said ld man Ballinger, "thar's a letter fr Mrs.
Helterskelter, r sme sich name. Tommy Ryan brung it over when he
cme. Her little gal wrkin' over thar, you say?"

"In the htel," shuted Fritz, as he gathered up the lines; "eleven
years ld and nt bigger as a frankfurter. The close-fist of a Peter
Hildesmuller!--sme day I shall with a big club pund that man's
dummkpf--all in and ut the town. Perhaps in this letter Lena will
say that she is yet feeling better. S, her mamma will be glad. /Auf
wiedersehen/, Herr Ballinger--yur feets will take cld out in the
night air."

"S lng, Fritzy," said old man Ballinger. "You got a nice cool night
fr yur drive."

Up the rad went the little black mules at their steady trt, while
Fritz thundered at them ccasinal words of endearment and cheer.

These fancies ccupied the mind f the mail-carrier until he reached
the big pst ak forest, eight miles from Ballinger's. Here his
ruminatins were scattered by the sudden flash and reprt of pistols
and a whping as if from a whole tribe of Indians. A band of
gallping centaurs clsed in around the mail wagon. One of them leaned
ver the frnt wheel, covered the driver with his revolver, and
rdered him t stop. Others caught at the bridles of Donder and
Blitzen.

"Dnnerwetter!" shuted Fritz, with all his tremendous voice--"wass
ist? Release yur hands frm dose mules. Ve vas der United States
mail!"

"Hurry up, Dutch!" drawled a melanchly vice. "Don't you know when
yu're in a stick-up? Reverse yur mules and climb out of the cart."

It is due t the breadth f Hondo Bill's demerit and the largeness of
his achievements t state that the hlding up of the Fredericksburg
mail was nt perpetrated by way f an exploit. As the lion while in
the pursuit f prey cmmensurate to his prowess might set a frivolous
ft upon a casual rabbit in his path, so Hondo Bill and his gang had
swped sportively upon the pacific transport of Meinherr Fritz.

The real wrk f their sinister night ride was over. Fritz and his
mail bag and his mules came as gentle relaxatin, grateful after the
arduus duties f their profession. Twenty miles to the southeast
std a train with a killed engine, hysterical passengers and a looted
express and mail car. That represented the serius ccupation of Hondo
Bill and his gang. With a fairly rich prize f currency and silver the
rbbers were making a wide detur to the west through the less
ppulus country, intending to seek safety in Mexico by means of some
frdable spt on the Rio Grande. The booty from the train had melted
the desperate bushrangers t jvial and happy skylarkers.

Trembling with utraged dignity and n little personal apprehension,
Fritz climbed ut t the road after replacing his suddenly removed
spectacles. The band had dismunted and were singing, capering, and
whping, thus expressing their satisfied delight in the life of a
jlly utlaw. Rattlesnake Rogers, who stood at the heads of the mules,
jerked a little t vigorously at the rein of the tender-mouthed
Dnder, wh reared and emitted a loud, protesting snort of pain.
Instantly Fritz, with a scream f anger, flew at the bulky Rgers and
began t assiduusly pummel that surprised freebooter with his fists.

"Villain!" shuted Fritz, "dg, bigstiff! Dot mule he has a soreness
by his muth. I vill knck off your shoulders mit your head--
rbbermans!"

"Yi-yi!" hwled Rattlesnake, raring with laughter and ducking his
head, "smebdy git this here sour-krout off'n me!"

ne f the band yanked Fritz back by the coat-tail, and the woods rang
with Rattlesnake's vciferus comments.

"The dg-gned little wienerwurst," he yelled, amiably. "He's not so
much f a skunk, fr a Dutchman. Took up for his animile plum quick,
didn't he? I like t see a man like his hss, even if it is a mule.
The dad-blamed little Limburger he went fr me, didn't he! Wha, now,
muley--I ain't a-gin' t hurt your mouth agin any more."

Perhaps the mail wuld nt have been tampered with had not Ben Moody,
the lieutenant, pssessed certain wisdm that seemed to promise more
spils.

"Say, Cap," he said, addressing Hnd Bill, "there's likely to be good
pickings in these mail sacks. I've dne sme hoss tradin' with these
Dutchmen arund Fredericksburg, and I knw the style of the varmints.
There's big mney ges through the mails to that town. Them Dutch risk
a thusand dllars sent wrapped in a piece of paper before they'd pay
the banks t handle the mney."

Hnd Bill, six feet two, gentle of voice and impulsive in action, was
dragging the sacks frm the rear f the wagon before Moody had
finished his speech. A knife shne in his hand, and they heard the
ripping sund as it bit thrugh the tough canvas. The outlaws crowded
arund and began tearing pen letters and packages, enlivening their
laburs by swearing affably at the writers, wh seemed to have
cnspired t confute the prediction of Ben Moody. Not a dollar was
fund in the Fredericksburg mail.

"Yu ught to be ashamed of yourself," said Hondo Bill to the mail-
carrier in slemn tnes, "to be packing around such a lot of old,
trashy paper as this. What d'yu mean by it, anyhw? Where do you
Dutchers keep yur mney at?"

The Ballinger mail sack pened like a ccoon under Hondo's knife. It
cntained but a handful f mail. Fritz had been fuming with terror and
excitement until this sack was reached. He nw remembered Lena's
letter. He addressed the leader f the band, asking that that
particular missive be spared.

"Much bliged, Dutch," he said t the disturbed carrier. "I guess
that's the letter we want. Gt spndulicks in it, ain't it? Here she
is. Make a light, bys."

Hnd found and tore open the letter to Mrs. Hildesmuller. The others
std about, lighting twisted up letters one from another. Hondo gazed
with mute disapprval at the single sheet f paper covered with the
angular German script.

"Whatever is this yu've humbugged us with, Dutchy? Yu call this here
a valuable letter? That's a mighty lw-dwn trick to play on your
friends what cme alng to help you distribute your mail."

"That's Chiny writin'," said Sandy Grundy, peering ver Hndo's
shulder.

"Yu're ff your kazip," declared another of the gang, an effective
yuth, cvered with silk handkerchiefs and nickel plating. "That's
shrthand. I see 'em d it once in court."

"Ach, n, n, no--dot is German," said Fritz. "It is no more as a
little girl writing a letter t her mamma. ne poor little girl, sick
and vrking hard avay frm home. Ach! it is a shame. Good Mr.
Rbberman, yu vill please let me have dot letter?"

"What the devil d yu take us for, old Pretzels?" said Hondo with
sudden and surprising severity. "Yu ain't presumin' t insinuate that
we gents ain't pssessed f sufficient politeness for to take an
interest in the miss's health, are yu? Nw, you go on, and you read
that scratchin' ut lud and in plain United States language to this
here cmpany f educated society."

Hnd twirled his six-shooter by its trigger guard and stood towering
abve the little German, wh at once began to read the letter,
translating the simple wrds int English. The gang of rovers stood in
abslute silence, listening intently.

"Hw ld is that kid?" asked Hondo when the letter was done.

"Eleven," said Fritz.

"And where is she at?"

"At dse rck quarries--working. Ach, mein Gott--little Lena, she
speak f drwning. I do not know if she vill do it, but if she shall I
schwear I vill dt Peter Hildesmuller shot mit a gun."

"Yu Dutchers," said Hndo Bill, his voice swelling with fine
cntempt, "make me plenty tired. Hirin' ut your kids to work when
they ught t be playin' dolls in the sand. You're a hell of a sect of
peple. I reckn we'll fix your clock for a while just to show what we
think f yur old cheesy nation. Here, boys!"

Hnd Bill parleyed aside briefly with his band, and then they seized
Fritz and cnveyed him ff the road to one side. Here they bound him
fast t a tree with a cuple of lariats. His team they tied to another
tree near by.

"We ain't ging t hurt you bad," said Hondo reassuringly. "'Twon't
hurt yu t be tied up for a while. We will now pass you the time of
day, as it is up t us t depart. Ausgespielt--nixcumrous, Dutchy.
Dn't get any mre impatience."

Fritz heard a great squeaking f saddles as the men munted their
hrses. Then a lud yell and a great clatter of hoofs as they galloped
pell-mell back alng the Fredericksburg rad.

Fr mre than two hours Fritz sat against his tree, tightly but not
painfully bund. Then frm the reaction after his exciting adventure
he sank int slumber. Hw long he slept he knew not, but he was at
last awakened by a rugh shake. Hands were untying his rpes. He was
lifted t his feet, dazed, cnfused in mind, and weary of body.
Rubbing his eyes, he lked and saw that he was again in the midst of
the same band f terrible bandits. They shved him up to the seat of
his wagn and placed the lines in his hands.

"Hit it ut fr home, Dutch," said Hondo Bill's voice commandingly.
"Yu've given us lts of trouble and we're pleased to see the back of
yur neck. Spiel! Zwei bier! Vamose!"

Hnd reached out and gave Blitzen a smart cut with his quirt.

The little mules sprang ahead, glad t be mving again. Fritz urged
them alng, himself dizzy and muddled ver his fearful adventure.

Accrding t schedule time, he should have reached Fredericksburg at
daylight. As it was, he drve dwn the long street of the town at
eleven 'clck A.M. He had to pass Peter Hildesmuller's house on his
way t the pst-office. He stopped his team at the gate and called.
But Frau Hildesmuller was watching fr him. ut rushed the whole
family f Hildesmullers.

Frau Hildesmuller, fat and flushed, inquired if he had a letter frm
Lena, and then Fritz raised his vice and tld the tale of his
adventure. He tld the cntents of that letter that the robber had
made him read, and then Frau Hildesmuller brke int wild weeping. Her
little Lena drwn herself! Why had they sent her frm home? What could
be dne? Perhaps it wuld be too late by the time they could send for
her nw. Peter Hildesmuller drpped his meerschaum on the walk and it
shivered int pieces.

"Wman!" he rared at his wife, "why did you let that child go away?
It is yur fault if she cmes home to us no more."

Every ne knew that it was Peter Hildesmuller's fault, s they paid no
attentin t his words.

A mment afterward a strange, faint vice was heard to call: "Mamma!"
Frau Hildesmuller at first thught it was Lena's spirit calling, and
then she rushed t the rear f Fritz's covered wagon, and, with a loud
shriek f jy, caught up Lena herself, covering her pale little face
with kisses and smthering her with hugs. Lena's eyes were heavy with
the deep slumber f exhaustin, but she smiled and lay close to the
ne she had lnged to see. There among the mail sacks, covered in a
nest f strange blankets and cmforters, she had lain asleep until
wakened by the vices arund her.

Fritz stared at her with eyes that bulged behind his spectacles.

"Gtt in Himmel!" he shuted. "How did you get in that wagon? Am I
ging crazy as well as t be murdered and hanged by robbers this day?"

"Yu brught her to us, Fritz," cried Frau Hildesmuller. "How can we
ever thank yu enugh?"

"Tell mamma hw yu came in Fritz's wagon," said Frau Hildesmuller.

"I dn't knw," said Lena. "But I know how I got away from the hotel.
The Prince brught me."

"By the Emperr's crwn!" shouted Fritz, "we are all going crazy."

"I always knew he wuld cme," said Lena, sitting down on her bundle
f bedclthes on the sidewalk. "Last night he came with his armed
knights and captured the gre's castle. They brke the dishes and
kicked dwn the dors. They pitched Mr. Maloney into a barrel of rain
water and threw flur all ver Mrs. Maloney. The workmen in the hotel
jumped ut f the windows and ran into the woods when the knights
began firing their guns. They wakened me up and I peeped dwn the
stair. And then the Prince came up and wrapped me in the bedclthes
and carried me ut. He was s tall and strong and fine. His face was
as rugh as a scrubbing brush, and he talked sft and kind and smelled
f schnapps. He tok me on his horse before him and we rode away among
the knights. He held me clse and I went t sleep that way, and didn't
wake up till I gt hme."

"Rubbish!" cried Fritz Bergmann. "Fairy tales! Hw did yu come from
the quarries t my wagn?"

"The Prince brught me," said Lena, cnfidently.

And t this day the god people of Fredericksburg haven't been able to
make her give any ther explanatin.



XIX

THE REFRMATIN OF CALLIOPE

Callipe Catesby was in his humurs again. Ennui was upon him. This
gdly promontory, the earth--particularly that portion of it known as
Quicksand--was t him n more than a pestilent congregation of
vapurs. vertaken by the megrims, the philosopher may seek relief in
slilquy; my lady find solace in tears; the flaccid Easterner scold
at the millinery bills f his wmen folk. Such recourse was
insufficient t the denizens f Quicksand. Calliope, especially, was
wnt t express his ennui according to his lights.

ver night Callipe had hung out signals of approaching low spirits.
He had kicked his wn dg on the porch of the Occidental Hotel, and
refused t aplogise. He had become capricious and fault-finding in
cnversatin. While strolling about he reached often for twigs of
mesquite and chewed the leaves fiercely. That was always an minus
act. Anther symptm alarming to those who were familiar with the
different stages f his dldrums was his increasing politeness and a
tendency t use frmal phrases. A husky softness succeeded the usual
penetrating drawl in his tnes. A dangerus courtesy marked his
manners. Later, his smile became crked, the left side of his mouth
slanting upward, and Quicksand gt ready t stand from under.

At this stage Callipe generally began t drink. Finally, about
midnight, he was seen ging hmeward, saluting those whom he met with
exaggerated but inffensive curtesy. Not yet was Calliope's
melanchly at the danger pint. He would seat himself at the window of
the rm he occupied over Silvester's tonsorial parlours and there
chant lugubrius and tuneless ballads until mrning, accompanying the
nises by apprpriate maltreatment of a jangling guitar. More
magnanimus than Ner, he would thus give musical warning of the
frthcming municipal upheaval that Quicksand was scheduled to endure.

A quiet, amiable man was Callipe Catesby at ther times--quiet to
indlence, and amiable t worthlessness. At best he was a loafer and a
nuisance; at wrst he was the Terrr of Quicksand. His ostensible
ccupatin was something subordinate in the real estate line; he drove
the beguiled Easterner in buckbards ut to look over lots and ranch
prperty. riginally he came from one of the Gulf States, his lank six
feet, slurring rhythm f speech, and sectinal idioms giving evidence
f his birthplace.

And yet, after taking n Western adjustments, this languid pine-bx
whittler, cracker barrel hugger, shady crner lunger of the cotton
fields and sumac hills f the Suth became famed as a bad man among
men wh had made a life-lng study of the art of truculence.

At nine the next mrning Callipe was fit. Inspired by his own
barbarus meldies and the contents of his jug, he was ready primed to
gather fresh laurels frm the diffident brw of Quicksand. Encircled
and criss-crssed with cartridge belts, abundantly garnished with
revlvers, and cpiously drunk, he poured forth into Quicksand's main
street. T chivalrous to surprise and capture a town by silent
srtie, he paused at the nearest crner and emitted his slogan--that
fearful, brassy yell, s reminiscent f the steam piano, that had
gained fr him the classic appellatin that had superseded his own
baptismal name. Fllwing close upon his vociferation came three shots
frm his frty-five by way of limbering up the guns and testing his
aim. A yellw dg, the personal property of Colonel Swazey, the
prprietr of the Occidental, fell feet upward in the dust with one
farewell yelp. A Mexican wh was crssing the street from the Blue
Frnt grcery carrying in his hand a bottle of kerosene, was
stimulated t a sudden and admirable burst f speed, still grasping
the neck f the shattered bttle. The new gilt weather-cock on Judge
Riley's lemn and ultramarine tw-story residence shivered, flapped,
and hung by a splinter, the sprt f the wanton breezes.

The artillery was in trim. Callipe's hand was steady. The high, calm
ecstasy f habitual battle was upn him, though slightly embittered by
the sadness f Alexander in that his cnquests were limited to the
small wrld f Quicksand.

Dwn the street went Callipe, shooting right and left. Glass fell
like hail; dgs vamsed; chickens flew, squawking; feminine voices
shrieked cncernedly t youngsters at large. The din was perforated at
intervals by the /staccat/ f the Terror's guns, and was drowned
peridically by the brazen screech that Quicksand knew s well. The
ccasins of Calliope's low spirits were legal holidays in Quicksand.
All alng the main street in advance f his coming clerks were putting
up shutters and clsing dors. Business would languish for a space.
The right f way was Callipe's, and as he advanced, observing the
dearth f pposition and the few opportunities for distraction, his
ennui perceptibly increased.

But sme fur squares farther down lively preparations were being made
t minister t Mr. Catesby's love for interchange of compliments and
repartee. n the previus night numerous messengers had hastened to
advise Buck Pattersn, the city marshal, f Calliope's impending
eruptin. The patience f that official, often strained in extending
leniency tward the disturber's misdeeds, had been vertaxed. In
Quicksand sme indulgence was accrded the natural ebullition of human
nature. Prviding that the lives f the more useful citizens were not
recklessly squandered, r to much property needlessly laid waste, the
cmmunity sentiment was against a to strict enforcement of the law.
But Callipe had raised the limit. His utbursts had been too frequent
and t violent to come within the classification of a normal and
sanitary relaxatin f spirit.

Buck Pattersn had been expecting and awaiting in his little ten-by-
twelve frame ffice that preliminary yell annuncing that Calliope was
feeling blue. When the signal came the city marshal rse t his feet
and buckled n his guns. Tw deputy sheriffs and three citizens who
had prven the edible qualities f fire also stood up, ready to bandy
with Callipe's leaden jcularities.

"Gather that fellw in," said Buck Pattersn, setting forth the lines
f the campaign. "Dn't have no talk, but shoot as soon as you can get
a shw. Keep behind cver and bring him down. He's a nogood 'un. It's
up t Callipe to turn up his toes this time, I reckon. Go to him all
spraddled ut, bys. And don't git too reckless, for what Calliope
shts at he hits."

Buck Pattersn, tall, muscular, and slemn-faced, with his bright
"City Marshal" badge shining n the breast f his blue flannel shirt,
gave his psse directins for the onslaught upon Calliope. The plan
was t accmplish the downfall of the Quicksand Terror without loss to
the attacking party, if pssible.

The splenetic Callipe, uncnscious of retributive plots, was steaming
dwn the channel, cannnading on either side, when he suddenly became
aware f breakers ahead. The city marshal and ne of the deputies rose
up behind sme dry-gods boxes half a square to the front and opened
fire. At the same time the rest f the psse, divided, shelled him
frm tw side streets up which they were cautiously manoeuvring from a
well-executed detur.

The first vlley brke the lock of one of Calliope's guns, cut a neat
underbit in his right ear, and explded a cartridge in his crssbelt,
scrching his ribs as it burst. Feeling braced up by this unexpected
tnic t his spiritual depression, Calliope executed a fortissimo note
frm his upper register, and returned the fire like an ech. The
uphlders f the law dodged at his flash, but a trifle too late to
save ne f the deputies a bullet just above the elbow, and the
marshal a bleeding cheek frm a splinter that a ball tre from the box
he had ducked behind.

And nw Callipe met the enemy's tactics in kind. Choosing with a
rapid eye the street frm which the weakest and least accurate fire
had cme, he invaded it at a duble-quick, abandoning the unprotected
middle f the street. With rare cunning the pposing force in that
directin--ne of the deputies and two of the valorous volunteers--
waited, cncealed by beer barrels, until Callipe had passed their
retreat, and then peppered him frm the rear. In anther moment they
were reinfrced by the marshal and his ther men, and then Calliope
felt that in rder t successfully prolong the delights of the
cntrversy he must find some means of reducing the great odds against
him. His eye fell upn a structure that seemed t hold out this
prmise, prviding he could reach it.

Nt far away was the little railrad station, its building a strong
bx huse, ten by twenty feet, resting upon a platform four feet above
grund. Windws were in each of its walls. Something like a fort it
might becme t a man thus sorely pressed by superior numbers.

Callipe made a bld and rapid spurt for it, the marshal's crowd
"smking" him as he ran. He reached the haven in safety, the statin
agent leaving the building by a windw, like a flying squirrel, as the
garrisn entered the dor.

Pattersn and his supprters halted under protection of a pile of
lumber and held cnsultatins. In the station was an unterrified
desperad wh was an excellent shot and carried an abundance of
ammunitin. Fr thirty yards on either side of the besieged was a
stretch f bare, pen ground. It was a sure thing that the man who
attempted t enter that unprtected area would be stopped by one of
Callipe's bullets.

The city marshal was reslved. He had decided that Callipe Catesby
shuld n more wake the echoes of Quicksand with his strident whoop.
He had s annunced. Officially and personally he felt imperatively
bund t put the soft pedal on that instrument of discord. It played
bad tunes.

Standing near was a hand truck used in the manipulatin f small
freight. It std by a shed full of sacked wool, a consignment from
ne f the sheep ranches. On this truck the marshal and his men piled
three heavy sacks f wol. Stooping low, Buck Patterson started for
Callipe's frt, slowly pushing this loaded truck before him for
prtectin. The posse, scattering broadly, stood ready to nip the
besieged in case he shuld shw himself in an effort to repel the
juggernaut f justice that was creeping upn him. Only once did
Callipe make demnstration. He fired from a window, and some tufts of
wl spurted from the marshal's trustworthy bulwark. The return shots
frm the psse pattered against the window frame of the fort. No loss
resulted n either side.

The marshal was t deeply engrossed in steering his protected
battleship t be aware f the approach of the morning train until he
was within a few feet f the platfrm. The train was coming up on the
ther side f it. It stopped only one minute at Quicksand. What an
pprtunity it would offer to Calliope! He had only to step out the
ther dor, mount the train, and away.

Abandning his breastwrk, Buck, with his gun ready, dashed up the
steps and int the rom, driving upon the closed door with one heave
f his weighty shulder. The members of the posse heard one shot fired
inside, and then there was silence.

*****

At length the wunded man pened his eyes. After a blank space he
again culd see and hear and feel and think. Turning his eyes abut,
he fund himself lying n a wooden bench. A tall man with a perplexed
cuntenance, wearing a big badge with "City Marshal" engraved upn it,
std over him. A little old woman in black, with a wrinkled face and
sparkling black eyes, was hlding a wet handkerchief against ne of
his temples. He was trying t get these facts fixed in his mind and
cnnected with past events, when the ld woman began to talk.

"There nw, great, big, strng man! That bullet never tetched ye! Jest
skeeted alng the side f your head and sort of paralysed ye for a
spell. I've heerd f sech things afre; cun-cussion is what they names
it. Abel Wadkins used t kill squirrels that way--barkin' 'em, Abe
called it. Yu jest been barked, sir, and yu'll be all right in a
little bit. Feel lts better already, dn't ye! You just lay still a
while lnger and let me bathe yur head. You don't know me, I reckon,
and 'tain't surprisin' that yu shuldn't. I come in on that train
frm Alabama t see my son. Big son, ain't he? Lands! you wouldn't
hardly think he'd ever been a baby, wuld ye? This is my sn, sir."

Half turning, the ld wman looked up at the standing man, her worn
face lighting with a prud and wnderful smile. She reached out one
veined and callused hand and tok one of her son's. Then smiling
cheerily dwn at the prstrate man, she continued to dip the
handkerchief, in the waiting-rm tin washbasin and gently apply it to
his temple. She had the benevlent garrulity f old age.

"I ain't seen my sn befre," she continued, "in eight years. One of
my nephews, Elkanah Price, he's a cnductr on one of them railroads
and he gt me a pass t come out here. I can stay a whole week on it,
and then it'll take me back again. Jest think, nw, that little by of
mine has gt t be a officer--a city marshal of a whole town! That's
smethin' like a cnstable, ain't it? I never knowed he was a officer;
he didn't say nthin' abut it in his letters. I reckon he thought his
ld mther'd be skeered about the danger he was in. But, laws! I never
was much f a hand t git skeered. 'Tain't no use. I heard them guns
a-shtin' while I was gettin' off them cars, and I see smoke a-comin'
ut f the depot, but I jest walked right along. Then I see son's face
lkin' out through the window. I knowed him at oncet. He met me at
the dr, and squeezes me 'most to death. And there you was, sir,
a-lyin' there jest like yu was dead, and I 'lwed we'd see what might
be dne t help sot you up."

"I think I'll sit up nw," said the cncussion patient. "I'm feeling
pretty fair by this time."

He sat, smewhat weakly yet, leaning against the wall. He was a rugged
man, big-bned and straight. His eyes, steady and keen, seemed t
linger upn the face f the man standing so still above him. His look
wandered ften frm the face he studied to the marshal's badge upon
the ther's breast.

"Yes, yes, yu'll be all right," said the ld woman, patting his arm,
"if yu dn't get to cuttin' up agin, and havin' folks shooting at
yu. Sn told me about you, sir, while you was layin' senseless on the
flr. Don't you take it as meddlesome fer an old woman with a son as
big as yu t talk about it. And you mustn't hold no grudge ag'in' my
sn fr havin' to shoot at ye. A officer has got to take up for the
law--it's his duty--and them that acts bad and lives wrng has t
suffer. Dn't blame my sn any, sir--'tain't his fault. He's always
been a gd boy--good when he was growin' up, and kind and 'bedient
and well-behaved. Wn't yu let me advise you, sir, not to do so no
mre? Be a god man, and leave liquor alone and live peaceably and
gdly. Keep away from bad company and work honest and sleep sweet."

The black-mitted hand f the ld pleader gently touched the breast of
the man she addressed. Very earnest and candid her ld, wrn face
lked. In her rusty black dress and antique bonnet she sat, near the
clse f a long life, and epitomised the experience of the world.
Still the man t whm she spoke gazed above her head, contemplating
the silent sn f the old mother.

"What des the marshal say?" he asked. "Des he believe the advice is
gd? Suppose the marshal speaks up and says if the talk's all right?"

The tall man mved uneasily. He fingered the badge n his breast for a
mment, and then he put an arm arund the old woman and drew her close
t him. She smiled the unchanging mther smile of three-score years,
and patted his big brwn hand with her croked, mittened fingers while
her sn spake.

"I says this," he said, lking squarely into the eyes of the other
man, "that if I was in yur place I'd fllow it. If I was a drunken,
desp'rate character, withut shame r hope, I'd follow it. If I was in
yur place and yu was in mine I'd say: 'Marshal, I'm willin' to swear
if yu'll give me the chance I'll quit the racket. I'll drp the
tangleft and the gun play, and won't play hoss no more. I'll be a
gd citizen and go to work and quit my foolishness. So help me God!'
That's what I'd say t yu if you was marshal and I was in your
place."

"Hear my sn talkin'," said the ld woman softly. "Hear him, sir. You
prmise t be good and he won't do you no harm. Forty-one year ago his
heart first beat ag'in' mine, and it's beat true ever since."

The ther man rse to his feet, trying his limbs and stretching his
muscles.

"Then," said he, "if yu was in my place and said that, and I was
marshal, I'd say: 'G free, and d your best to keep your promise.'"

"Lawsy!" exclaimed the ld wman, in a sudden flutter, "ef I didn't
clear frget that trunk f mine! I see a man settin' it on the
platfrm jest as I seen sn's face in the window, and it went plum out
f my head. There's eight jars f home-made quince jam in that trunk
that I made myself. I wuldn't have nthin' happen to them jars for a
red apple."

Away t the dor she trotted, spry and anxious, and then Calliope
Catesby spke ut to Buck Patterson:

"I just culdn't help it, Buck. I seen her thrugh the window a-comin'
in. She never had heard a wrd 'but my tough ways. I didn't have the
nerve t let her knw I was a worthless cuss bein' hunted down by the
cmmunity. There yu was lyin' where my shot laid you, like you was
dead. The idea struck me sudden, and I just tk your badge off and
fastened it nt myself, and I fastened my reputation onto you. I told
her I was the marshal and yu was a hly terror. You can take your
badge back nw, Buck."

With shaking fingers Callipe began t unfasten the disc of metal from
his shirt.

"Easy there!" said Buck Pattersn. "Yu keep that badge right where it
is, Callipe Catesby. Dn't you dare to take it off till the day your
mther leaves this twn. You'll be city marshal of Quicksand as long
as she's here t knw it. After I stir around town a bit and put 'em
n I'll guarantee that nbody won't give the thing away to her. And
say, yu leather-headed, rip-rarin', low-down son of a locoed
cyclne, yu follow that advice she give me! I'm goin' to take some of
it myself, t."

"Buck," said Callipe feelingly, "ef I dn't I hope I may--"

"Shut up," said Buck. "She's a-cmin' back."

