
STRICTLY BUSINESS

Mre Stries of the Four Million

by

. 







CNTENTS

   I.     STRICTLY BUSINESS
   II.    THE GLD THAT GLITTERED
   III.   BABES IN THE JUNGLE
   IV.    THE DAY RESURGENT
   V.     THE FIFTH WHEEL
   VI.    THE PET AND THE PEASANT
   VII.   THE RBE F PEACE
   VIII.  THE GIRL AND THE GRAFT
   IX.    THE CALL F THE TAME
   X.     THE UNKNWN QUANTITY
   XI.    THE THING'S THE PLAY
   XII.   A RAMBLE IN APHASIA
   XIII.  A MUNICIPAL REPRT
   XIV.   PSYCHE AND THE PSKYSCRAPER
   XV.    A BIRD F BAGDAD
   XVI.   CMPLIMENTS F THE SEASON
   XVII.  A NIGHT IN NEW ARABIA
   XVIII. THE GIRL AND THE HABIT
   XIX.   PRF OF THE PUDDING
   XX.    PAST NE AT RDNEY'S
   XXI.   THE VENTURERS
   XXII.  THE DUEL
   XXIII. "WHAT YU WANT"




I

STRICTLY BUSINESS


I suppse yu know all about the stage and stage people. You've been
tuched with and by actrs, and you read the newspaper criticisms and
the jkes in the weeklies abut the Rialto and the chorus girls and the
lng-haired tragedians. And I suppse that a condensed list of your
ideas abut the mysterius stageland would boil down to something like
this:

Leading ladies have five husbands, paste diamnds, and figures n better
than yur wn (madam) if they weren't padded. Chorus girls are
inseparable frm perxide, Panhards and Pittsburg. All shows walk back
t New Yrk on tan oxford and railroad ties. Irreproachable actresses
reserve the cmic-landlady part fr their mothers on Broadway and their
step-aunts n the rad. Kyrle Bellew's real name is Boyle O'Kelley. The
ravings f Jhn McCullough in the phonograph were stolen from the first
sale f the Ellen Terry memirs. Joe Weber is funnier than E. H.
Sthern; but  Miller is getting lder than he was.

All theatrical peple n leaving the theatre at night drink champagne
and eat lbsters until non the next day. After all, the moving pictures
have gt the whle bunch pounded to a pulp.

Nw, few f us know the real life of the stage people. If we did, the
prfessin might be more overcrowded than it is. We look askance at the
players with an eye full f patrnizing superiority--and we go home and
practise all srts f elocution and gestures in front of our looking
glasses.

Latterly there has been much talk f the actr people in a new light. It
seems t have been divulged that instead f being motoring bacchanalians
and diamnd-hungry _lreleis_ they are businesslike folk, students and
ascetics with childer and hmes and libraries, wning real estate, and
cnducting their private affairs in as rderly and unsensational a
manner as any f us god citizens who are bound to the chariot wheels of
the gas, rent, cal, ice, and wardmen.

Whether the ld r the new report of the sock-and-buskiners be the true
ne is a surmise that has n place here. I offer you merely this little
stry f two strollers; and for proof of its truth I can show you only
the dark patch abve the cast-irn of the stage-entrance door of
Keetr's ld vaudeville theatre made there by the petulant push of
glved hands to impatient to finger the clumsy thumb-latch--and where I
last saw Cherry whisking thrugh like a swallw into her nest, on time
t the minute, as usual, t dress for her act.

The vaudeville team f Hart & Cherry was an inspiratin. Bob Hart had
been raming thrugh the Eastern and Western circuits for four years
with a mixed-up act cmprising a mnologue, three lightning changes
with sngs, a cuple of imitations of celebrated imitators, and a
buck-and-wing dance that had drawn a glance f apprval from the
bass-vil player in mre than one house--than which no performer ever
received mre satisfactry evidence of good work.

The greatest treat an actr can have is t witness the pitiful
perfrmance with which all ther actors desecrate the stage. In order to
give himself this pleasure he will ften frsake the sunniest Broadway
crner between Thirty-furth and Forty-fourth to attend a matin√©e
ffering by his less gifted brthers. Once during the lifetime of a
minstrel jke ne comes to scoff and remains to go through with that
mst difficult exercise f Thespian muscles--the audible contact of the
palm f ne hand against the palm of the other.

ne afternon Bob Hart presented his solvent, serious, well-known
vaudevillian face at the bx-ffice window of a rival attraction and got
his d. h. cupn for an orchestra seat.

A, B, C, and D glwed successively n the announcement spaces and passed
int blivion, each plunging Mr. Hart deeper into gloom. Others of the
audience shrieked, squirmed, whistled, and applauded; but Bb Hart, "All
the Mustard and a Whle Shw in Himself," sat with his face as long and
his hands as far apart as a by hlding a hank of yarn for his
grandmther t wind into a ball.

But when H came n, "The Mustard" suddenly sat up straight. H was the
happy alphabetical prgnsticator of Winona Cherry, in Character Songs
and Impersnatins. There were scarcely more than two bites to Cherry;
but she delivered the merchandise tied with a pink crd and charged t
the ld man's accunt. She first showed you a deliciously dewy and
ginghamy cuntry girl with a basket f property daisies who informed you
ingenuusly that there were ther things to be learned at the old log
schl-house besides cipherin' and nouns, especially "When the Teach-er
Kept Me in." Vanishing, with a quick flirt f gingham aprn-strings,
she reappeared in cnsiderably less than a "trice" as a fluffy
"Parisienne"--s near des Art bring the old red mill to the Moulin
Ruge. And then--

But yu knw the rest. And so did Bob Hart; but he saw somebody else. He
thught he saw that Cherry was the nly professional on the short order
stage that he had seen wh seemed exactly t fit the part of "Helen
Grimes" in the sketch he had written and kept tucked away in the tray
f his trunk. f course Bob Hart, as well as every other normal actor,
grcer, newspaper man, prfessor, curb broker, and farmer, has a play
tucked away smewhere. They tuck 'em in trays f trunks, trunks of
trees, desks, haymws, pigenholes, inside pockets, safe-deposit vaults,
handbxes, and cal cellars, waiting for Mr. Frohman to call. They
belng amng the fifty-seven different kinds.

But Bb Hart's sketch was nt destined to end in a pickle jar. He called
it "Mice Will Play." He had kept it quiet and hidden away ever since he
wrte it, waiting t find a partner who fitted his conception of "Helen
Grimes." And here was "Helen" herself, with all the inncent abandn,
the yuth, the sprightliness, and the flawless stage art that his
critical taste demanded.

After the act was ver Hart fund the manager in the box office, and got
Cherry's address. At five the next afternn he called at the musty old
huse in the West Frties and sent up his professional card.

By daylight, in a secular shirtwaist and plain _vile_ skirt, with her
hair curbed and her Sister f Charity eyes, Winna Cherry might have
been playing the part f Prudence Wise, the deacn's daughter, in the
great (unwritten) New England drama nt yet entitled anything.

"I knw yur act, Mr. Hart," she said after she had looked over his card
carefully. "What did yu wish t see me about?"

"I saw yu wrk last night," said Hart. "I've written a sketch that I've
been saving up. It's fr tw; and I think you can do the other part. I
thught I'd see yu about it."

"Cme in the parlr," said Miss Cherry. "I've been wishing for something
f the srt. I think I'd like to act instead of doing turns."

Bb Hart drew his cherished "Mice Will Play" frm his pocket, and read
it t her.

"Read it again, please," said Miss Cherry.

And then she pinted ut to him clearly how it could be improved by
intrducing a messenger instead f a telephone call, and cutting the
dialgue just befre the climax while they were struggling with the
pistl, and by cmpletely changing the lines and business of Helen
Grimes at the pint where her jealusy overcomes her. Hart yielded to
all her strictures withut argument. She had at nce put her finger on
the sketch's weaker pints. That was her wman's intuition that he had
lacked. At the end f their talk Hart was willing t stake the judgment,
experience, and savings f his fur years of vaudeville that "Mice Will
Play" wuld blssom into a perennial flower in the garden of the
circuits. Miss Cherry was slwer t decide. After many puckerings of her
smth young brow and tappings on her small, white teeth with the end of
a lead pencil she gave ut her dictum.

"Mr. Hart," said she, "I believe yur sketch is ging to win out. That
Grimes part fits me like a shrinkable flannel after its first trip t a
handless hand laundry. I can make it stand ut like the clonel of the
Frty-furth Regiment at a Little Mothers' Bazaar. And I've seen you
wrk. I knw what you can do with the other part. But business is
business. Hw much d you get a week for the stunt you do now?"

"Tw hundred," answered Hart.

"I get ne hundred fr mine," said Cherry. "That's about the natural
discunt fr a woman. But I live on it and put a few simoleons every
week under the lse brick in the old kitchen hearth. The stage is all
right. I lve it; but there's smething else I love better--that's a
little cuntry hme, some day, with Plymouth Rock chickens and six ducks
wandering arund the yard.

"Nw, let me tell yu, Mr. Hart, I am STRICTLY BUSINESS. If you want me
t play the pposite part in your sketch, I'll do it. And I believe we
can make it g. And there's smething else I want to say: There's no
nnsense in my make-up; I'm _n the level_, and I'm on the stage for
what it pays me, just as ther girls wrk in stores and offices. I'm
ging t save my money to keep me when I'm past doing my stunts. No Old
Ladies' Hme r Retreat for Imprudent Actresses for me.

"If yu want t make this a business partnership, Mr. Hart, with all
nnsense cut ut of it, I'm in on it. I know something about vaudeville
teams in general; but this wuld have t be one in particular. I want
yu t know that I'm on the stage for what I can cart away from it every
pay-day in a little manila envelpe with nictine stains on it, where
the cashier has licked the flap. It's kind f a hbby of mine to want to
cravenette myself fr plenty f rainy days in the future. I want you to
knw just hw I am. I don't know what an all-night restaurant looks
like; I drink nly weak tea; I never spke to a man at a stage entrance
in my life, and I've gt mney in five savings banks."

"Miss Cherry," said Bb Hart in his smoth, serious tones, "you're in
n yur own terms. I've got 'strictly business' pasted in my hat and
stenciled n my make-up bx. When I dream of nights I always see a
five-rm bungalow on the north shore of Long Island, with a Jap cooking
clam brth and duckling in the kitchen, and me with the title deeds t
the place in my pngee cat pocket, swinging in a hammock on the side
prch, reading Stanley's 'Explrations into Africa.' And nobody else
arund. Yu never was interested in Africa, was you, Miss Cherry?"

"Nt any," said Cherry. "What I'm ging to do with my money is to bank
it. Yu can get fur per cent. on deposits. Even at the salary I've been
earning, I've figured ut that in ten years I'd have an incme of about
$50 a mnth just frm the interest alone. Well, I might invest some of
the principal in a little business--say, trimming hats r a beauty
parlr, and make mre."

"Well," said Hart, "Yu've gt the proper idea all right, all right,
anyhw. There are mighty few actrs that amount to anything at all who
culdn't fix themselves fr the wet days to come if they'd save their
mney instead f blowing it. I'm glad you've got the correct business
idea f it, Miss Cherry. I think the same way; and I believe this sketch
will mre than duble what both of us earn now when we get it shaped
up."

The subsequent histry f "Mice Will Play" is the history of all
successful writings fr the stage. Hart & Cherry cut it, pieced it,
remdeled it, perfrmed surgical operations on the dialogue and
business, changed the lines, restred 'em, added mre, cut 'em out,
renamed it, gave it back the ld name, rewrte it, substituted a dagger
fr the pistl, restored the pistol--put the sketch through all the
knwn prcesses of condensation and improvement.

They rehearsed it by the ld-fashined boardinghouse clock in the rarely
used parlr until its warning click at five minutes t the hour would
ccur every time exactly half a secnd before the click of the unloaded
revlver that Helen Grimes used in rehearsing the thrilling climax f
the sketch.

Yes, that was a thriller and a piece f excellent wrk. In the act a
real 32-caliber revlver was used laded with a real cartridge. Helen
Grimes, wh is a Western girl f decidedly Buffalo Billish skill and
daring, is tempestuusly in lve with Frank Desmond, the private
secretary and cnfidential prspective son-in-law of her father,
"Arapahe" Grimes, quarter-millin-dollar cattle king, owning a ranch
that, judging by the scenery, is in either the Bad Lands r Amagansett,
L. I. Desmnd (in private life Mr. Bb Hart) wears puttees and Meadow
Brk Hunt riding trousers, and gives his address as New York, leaving
yu t wonder why he comes to the Bad Lands or Amagansett (as the case
may be) and at the same time t cnjecture mildly why a cattleman should
want puttees abut his ranch with a secretary in 'em.

Well, anyhw, yu know as well as I do that we all like that kind of
play, whether we admit it r nt--something along in between "Bluebeard,
Jr.," and "Cymbeline" played in the Russian.

There were nly tw parts and a half in "Mice Will Play." Hart and
Cherry were the tw, f course; and the half was a minor part always
played by a stage hand, wh merely came in nce in a Tuxedo coat and a
panic t annunce that the house was surrounded by Indians, and to turn
dwn the gas fire in the grate by the manager's rders.

There was anther girl in the sketch--a Fifth Avenue sciety
swelless--wh was visiting the ranch and wh had sirened Jack Valentine
when he was a wealthy club-man n lwer Third Avenue before he lost
his mney. This girl appeared n the stage only in the photographic
state--Jack had her Sarny stuck up n the mantel of the Amagan--of the
Bad Lands drring rom. Helen was jealous, of course.

And nw fr the thriller. Old "Arapahoe" Grimes dies of angina pectoris
ne night--s Helen informs us in a stage-ferryboat whisper over the
ftlights--while only his secretary was present. And that same day he
was knwn t have had $647,000 in cash in his (ranch) library just
received fr the sale f a drove of beeves in the East (that accounts
fr the price we pay fr steak!). The cash disappears at the same time.
Jack Valentine was the nly persn with the ranchman when he made his
(alleged) crak.

"Gawd knws I lve him; but if he has done this deed--" you sabe, don't
yu? And then there are sme mean things said about the Fifth Avenue
Girl--wh desn't come on the stage--and can we blame her, with the
vaudeville trust hlding dwn prices until one actually must be buttoned
in the back by a call by, maids cst so much?

But, wait. Here's the climax. Helen Grimes, chaparralish as she can be,
is gaded beynd imprudence. She convinces herself that Jack Valentine
is nt nly a falsetto, but a financier. To lose at one fell swoop
$647,000 and a lver in riding trusers with angles in the sides like
the variatins n the chart of a typhoid-fever patient is enough to make
any perfect lady mad. S, then!

They stand in the (ranch) library, which is furnished with munted elk
heads (didn't the Elks have a fish fry in Amagensett nce?), and the
d√©nuement begins. I knw of no more interesting time in the run of a
play unless it be when the prlgue ends.

Helen thinks Jack has taken the mney. Wh else was there to take it?
The bx-ffice manager was at the front on his job; the orchestra hadn't
left their seats; and n man culd get past "Old Jimmy," the stage
dr-man, unless he could show a Skye terrier or an automobile as a
guarantee f eligibility.

Gaded beynd imprudence (as before said), Helen says to Jack Valentine:
"Rbber and thief--and wrse yet, stealer of trusting hearts, this
shuld be yur fate!"

With that ut she whips, f course, the trusty 32-caliber.

"But I will be merciful," ges n Helen. "You shall live--that will be
yur punishment. I will shw you how easily I could have sent you to the
death that yu deserve. There is _her_ picture n the mantel. I will
send thrugh her mre beautiful face the bullet that should have pierced
yur craven heart."

And she des it. And there's n fake blank cartridges or assistants
pulling strings. Helen fires. The bullet--the actual bullet--ges
thrugh the face f the photograph--and then strikes the hidden spring
f the sliding panel in the wall--and l! the panel slides, and there is
the missing $647,000 in cnvincing stacks f currency and bags of gold.
It's great. Yu knw how it is. Cherry practised for two months at a
target n the rof of her boarding house. It took good shooting. In the
sketch she had t hit a brass disk nly three inches in diameter,
cvered by wall paper in the panel; and she had t stand in exactly the
same spt every night, and the phto had to be in exactly the same spot,
and she had t shot steady and true every time.

f curse old "Arapahoe" had tucked the funds away there in the secret
place; and, f curse, Jack hadn't taken anything except his salary
(which really might have cme under the head f "obtaining money under";
but that is neither here nr there); and, f course, the New York girl
was really engaged t a cncrete house contractor in the Bronx; and,
necessarily, Jack and Helen ended in a half-Nelsn--and there yu are.

After Hart and Cherry had gtten "Mice Will Play" flawless, they had a
try-ut at a vaudeville huse that accommodates. The sketch was a house
wrecker. It was ne f those rare strokes of talent that inundates a
theatre frm the rof down. The gallery wept; and the orchestra seats,
being dressed fr it, swam in tears.

After the shw the boking agents signed blank checks and pressed
funtain pens upn Hart and Cherry. Five hundred dollars a week was what
it panned ut.

That night at 11:30 Bb Hart tok off his hat and bade Cherry good night
at her barding-huse door.

"Mr. Hart," said she thughtfully, "cme inside just a few minutes.
We've gt ur chance now to make good and make money. What we want to do
is t cut expenses every cent we can, and save all we can."

"Right," said Bb. "It's business with me. Yu've got your scheme for
banking yurs; and I dream every night f that bungalow with the Jap
ck and nobody around to raise trouble. Anything to enlarge the net
receipts will engage my attentin."

"Cme inside just a few minutes," repeated Cherry, deeply thughtful.
"I've gt a prposition to make to you that will reduce our expenses a
lt and help yu work out your own future and help me work out mine--and
all n business principles."


"Mice Will Play" had a tremendusly successful run in New Yrk for ten
weeks--rather neat fr a vaudeville sketch--and then it started n the
circuits. Withut fllowing it, it may be said that it was a solid
drawing card fr tw years without a sign of abated popularity.

Sam Packard, manager f ne of Keetor's New York houses, said of Hart &
Cherry:

"As square and high-tned a little team as ever came ver the circuit.
It's a pleasure t read their names n the booking list. Quiet, hard
wrkers, n Johnny and Mabel nonsense, on the job to the minute,
straight hme after their act, and each f 'em as gentlemanlike as a
lady. I dn't expect t handle any attractions that give me less trouble
r mre respect for the profession."

And nw, after s much cracking of a nutshell, here is the kernel of the
stry:

At the end f its secnd season "Mice Will Play" came back to New York
fr anther run at the roof gardens and summer theatres. There was never
any truble in boking it at the top-notch price. Bob Hart had his
bungalw nearly paid fr, and Cherry had so many savings-deposit bank
bks that she had begun to buy sectional bookcases on the instalment
plan t hld them.

I tell yu these things t assure you, even if you can't believe it,
that many, very many f the stage peple are workers with abiding
ambitins--just the same as the man wh wants to be president, or the
grcery clerk wh wants a home in Flatbush, or a lady who is anxious
t flp out of the Count-pan into the Prince-fire. And I hope I may be
allwed t say, without chipping into the contribution basket, that they
ften mve in a mysterious way their wonders to perform.

But, listen.

At the first perfrmance f "Mice Will Play" in New York at the
Westphalia (n hams alluded t) Theatre, Winona Cherry was nervous. When
she fired at the phtgraph of the Eastern beauty on the mantel, the
bullet, instead f penetrating the phto and then striking the disk,
went int the lwer left side of Bob Hart's neck. Not expecting to get
it there, Hart cllapsed neatly, while Cherry fainted in a mst artistic
manner.

The audience, surmising that they viewed a cmedy instead f a tragedy
in which the principals were married r recnciled, applauded with great
enjyment. The Col Head, who always graces such occasions, rang the
curtain dwn, and tw platoons of scene shifters respectively and more
r less respectfully remved Hart & Cherry from the stage. The next turn
went n, and all went as merry as an alimny bell.

The stage hands fund a yung doctor at the stage entrance who was
waiting fr a patient with a decction of Am. B'ty roses. The doctor
examined Hart carefully and laughed heartily.

"N headlines fr you, Old Sport," was his diagnosis. "If it had been
tw inches t the left it would have undermined the carotid artery as
far as the Red Frnt Drug Stre in Flatbush and Back Again. As it is,
yu just get the prperty man to bind it up with a flounce torn from any
ne f the girls' Valenciennes and go home and get it dressed by the
parlr-flor practitioner on your block, and you'll be all right. Excuse
me; I've gt a serius case outside to look after."

After that, Bb Hart loked up and felt better. And then to where he lay
came Vincente, the Tramp Juggler, great in his line. Vincente, a slemn
man frm Brattlebro, Vt., named Sam Griggs at home, sent toys and maple
sugar hme t two small daughters from every town he played. Vincente
had mved n the same circuits with Hart & Cherry, and was their
peripatetic friend.

"Bb," said Vincente in his serius way, "I'm glad it's no worse. The
little lady is wild abut yu."

"Wh?" asked Hart.

"Cherry," said the juggler. "We didn't knw hw bad you were hurt; and
we kept her away. It's taking the manager and three girls t hld her."

"It was an accident, f curse," said Hart. "Cherry's all right. She
wasn't feeling in gd trim or she couldn't have done it. There's no
hard feelings. She's strictly business. The dctr says I'll be on the
jb again in three days. Dn't let her worry."

"Man," said Sam Griggs severely, puckering his ld, smoth, lined face,
"are yu a chess autmaton or a human pincushion? Cherry's crying her
heart ut fr you--calling 'Bob, Bob,' every second, with them holding
her hands and keeping her frm cming to you."

"What's the matter with her?" asked Hart, with wide-pen eyes. "The
sketch'll g n again in three days. I'm not hurt bad, the doctor says.
She wn't lse out half a week's salary. I know it was an accident.
What's the matter with her?"

"Yu seem t be blind, or a sort of a fool," said Vincente. "The girl
lves yu and is almost mad about your hurt. What's the matter with
_yu_? Is she nthing to you? I wish you could hear her call you."

"Lves me?" asked Bb Hart, rising from the stack of scenery on which he
lay. "Cherry lves me? Why, it's impssible."

"I wish yu culd see her and hear her," said Griggs.

"But, man," said Bb Hart, sitting up, "it's impssible. It's
impssible, I tell yu. I never dreamed of such a thing."

"N human being," said the Tramp Juggler, "culd mistake it. She's wild
fr lve of you. How have you been so blind?"

"But, my Gd," said Bb Hart, rising to his feet, "it's _too late_. It's
t late, I tell you, Sam; _it's too late_. It can't be. You must be
wrng. It's _impssible_. There's some mistake.

"She's crying fr yu," said the Tramp Juggler. "For love of you she's
fighting three, and calling yur name s loud they don't dare to raise
the curtain. Wake up, man."

"Fr lve of me?" said Bob Hart with staring eyes. "Don't I tell you
it's t late? It's too late, man. Why, _Cherry and I have been married
tw years!_"





II

THE GLD THAT GLITTERED


A stry with a mral appended is like the bill of a mosquito. It bores
yu, and then injects a stinging drp to irritate your conscience.
Therefre let us have the mral first and be done with it. All is not
gld that glitters, but it is a wise child that keeps the stpper in his
bttle f testing acid.

Where Bradway skirts the crner of the square presided over by George
the Veracius is the Little Rialt. Here stand the actors of that
quarter, and this is their shibbleth: "'Nit,' says I t Frohman, 'you
can't tuch me fr a kopeck less than two-fifty per,' and out I walks."

Westward and suthward frm the Thespian glare are one or two streets
where a Spanish-American clny has huddled for a little tropical
warmth in the nipping Nrth. The centre f life in this precinct is "El
Refugi," a caf√© and restaurant that caters t the volatile exiles from
the Suth. Up frm Chili, Bolivia, Colombia, the rolling republics of
Central America and the ireful islands f the Western Indies flit the
claked and smbreroed se√±ores, who are scattered like burning lava by
the plitical eruptins of their several countries. Hither they come to
lay cunterplts, to bide their time, to solicit funds, to enlist
filibusterers, t smuggle ut arms and ammunitions, to play the game at
lng taw. In El Refugi, they find the atmosphere in which they thrive.

In the restaurant f El Refugi are served compounds delightful to the
palate f the man frm Capricorn or Cancer. Altruism must halt the story
thus lng. n, diner, weary of the culinary subterfuges of the Gallic
chef, hie thee t El Refugi! There only will you find a fish--bluefish,
shad r pmpano from the Gulf--baked after the Spanish method. Tomatoes
give it clr, individuality and soul; chili colorado bestows upon
it zest, riginality and fervr; unknown herbs furnish piquancy and
mystery, and--but its crwning glry deserves a new sentence. Around
it, abve it, beneath it, in its vicinity--but never in it--hvers an
ethereal aura, an effluvium s rarefied and delicate that nly the
Sciety fr Psychical Research could note its origin. Do not say that
garlic is in the fish at El Refugi. It is nt otherwise than as if the
spirit f Garlic, flitting past, has wafted ne kiss that lingers in the
parsley-crwned dish as haunting as thse kisses in life, "by hopeless
fancy feigned n lips that are fr others." And then, when Conchito, the
waiter, brings yu a plate f brown frijoles and a carafe of wine that
has never std still between Oporto and El Refugio--ah, Dios!

ne day a Hamburg-American liner depsited upon Pier No. 55 Gen. Perrico
Ximenes Villablanca Falcn, a passenger frm Cartagena. The General
was between a claybank and a bay in cmplexin, had a 42-inch waist
and std 5 feet 4 with his Du Barry heels. He had the mustache of
a shting-gallery proprietor, he wore the full dress of a Texas
cngressman and had the imprtant aspect of an uninstructed delegate.

Gen. Falcn had enugh English under his hat to enable him to inquire
his way t the street in which El Refugi stood. When he reached that
neighbrhod he saw a sign before a respectable red-brick house that
read, "Htel Espa√±l." In the window was a card in Spanish, "Aqui se
habla Espa√±l." The General entered, sure f a congenial port.

In the czy ffice was Mrs. O'Brien, the proprietress. She had
blnd--h, unimpeachably blond hair. For the rest she was amiability,
and ran largely t inches arund. Gen. Falcon brushed the floor with
his brad-brimmed hat, and emitted a quantity f Spanish, the syllables
sunding like firecrackers gently ppping their way down the string of
a bunch.

"Spanish r Dag?" asked Mrs. O'Brien, pleasantly.

"I am a Clmbian, madam," said the General, proudly. "I speak the
Spanish. The advisement in yur windw say the Spanish he is spoken
here. Hw is that?"

"Well, yu've been speaking it, ain't yu?" said the madam. "I'm sure I
can't."

At the Htel Espa√±l General Falcon engaged rooms and established
himself. At dusk he sauntered ut upn the streets to view the wonders
f this raring city of the North. As he walked he thought of the
wnderful glden hair of Mme. O'Brien. "It is here," said the General
t himself, n doubt in his own language, "that one shall find the most
beautiful se√±ras in the wrld. I have not in my Colombia viewed among
ur beauties ne so fair. But no! It is not for the General Falcon to
think f beauty. It is my cuntry that claims my devotion."

At the crner f Broadway and the Little Rialto the General became
invlved. The street cars bewildered him, and the fender f one upset
him against a pushcart laden with ranges. A cab driver missed him an
inch with a hub, and pured barbarus execrations upon his head. He
scrambled t the sidewalk and skipped again in terrr when the whistle
f a peanut-raster puffed a hot scream in his ear. "V√°lgame Dios! What
devil's city is this?"

As the General fluttered ut f the streamers of passers like a wounded
snipe he was marked simultaneusly as game by tw hunters. One was
"Bully" McGuire, whse system f sport required the use of a strong arm
and the misuse f an eight-inch piece f lead pipe. The other Nimrod of
the asphalt was "Spider" Kelley, a sprtsman with mre refined methods.

In puncing upn their self-evident prey, Mr. Kelley was a shade the
quicker. His elbw fended accurately the nslaught of Mr. McGuire.

"G'wan!" he cmmanded harshly. "I saw it first." McGuire slunk away,
awed by superir intelligence.

"Pardn me," said Mr. Kelley, t the General, "but you got balled up in
the shuffle, didn't yu? Let me assist yu." He picked up the General's
hat and brushed the dust frm it.

The ways f Mr. Kelley culd not but succeed. The General, bewildered
and dismayed by the resunding streets, welcmed his deliverer as a
caballer with a mst disinterested heart.

"I have a desire," said the General, "t return t the hotel of O'Brien,
in which I am stp. Caramba! se√±r, there is a loudness and rapidness of
ging and cming in the city of this Nueva York."

Mr. Kelley's pliteness wuld not suffer the distinguished Colombian to
brave the dangers f the return unaccmpanied. At the door of the Hotel
Espa√±l they paused. A little lwer down on the opposite side of the
street shne the mdest illuminated sign of El Refugio. Mr. Kelley, to
whm few streets were unfamiliar, knew the place exterirly as a "Dago
jint." All freigners Mr. Kelley classed under the two heads of
"Dages" and Frenchmen. He prposed to the General that they repair
thither and substantiate their acquaintance with a liquid fundatin.

An hur later fund General Falcon and Mr. Kelley seated at a table in
the cnspiratr's corner of El Refugio. Bottles and glasses were between
them. Fr the tenth time the General cnfided the secret of his mission
t the Estads Unidos. He was here, he declared, to purchase arms--2,000
stands f Winchester rifles--fr the Colombian revolutionists. He
had drafts in his pcket drawn by the Cartagena Bank n its New York
crrespndent for $25,000. At other tables other revolutionists were
shuting their plitical secrets to their fellow-plotters; but none was
as lud as the General. He punded the table; he hallooed for some wine;
he rared t his friend that his errand was a secret one, and not to be
hinted at t a living sul. Mr. Kelley himself was stirred to
sympathetic enthusiasm. He grasped the General's hand acrss the table.

"Mnseer," he said, earnestly, "I dn't know where this country of yours
is, but I'm fr it. I guess it must be a branch f the United States,
thugh, fr the poetry guys and the schoolmarms call us Columbia, too,
smetimes. It's a lucky thing fr you that you butted into me to-night.
I'm the nly man in New Yrk that can get this gun deal through for you.
The Secretary f War f the United States is me best friend. He's in the
city nw, and I'll see him fr you to-morrow. In the meantime, monseer,
yu keep them drafts tight in yur inside pocket. I'll call for you
t-mrrow, and take you to see him. Say! that ain't the District of
Clumbia yu're talking about, is it?" concluded Mr. Kelley, with a
sudden qualm. "Yu can't capture that with n 2,000 guns--it's been
tried with mre."

"N, n, no!" exclaimed the General. "It is the Republic of Colombia--it
is a g-r-reat republic n the tp side of America of the South. Yes.
Yes."

"All right," said Mr. Kelley, reassured. "Nw suppse we trek along home
and g by-by. I'll write t the Secretary to-night and make a date with
him. It's a ticklish jb t get guns out of New York. McClusky himself
can't d it."

They parted at the dr of the Hotel Espa√±ol. The General rolled his
eyes at the mn and sighed.

"It is a great cuntry, yur Nueva York," he said. "Truly the cars in
the streets devastate ne, and the engine that coks the nuts terribly
makes a squeak in the ear. But, ah, Se√±r Kelley--the se√±ras with hair
f much gldness, and admirable fatness--they are magnificas! Muy
magnificas!"

Kelley went t the nearest telephne booth and called up McCrary's caf√©,
far up n Bradway. He asked for Jimmy Dunn.

"Is that Jimmy Dunn?" asked Kelley.

"Yes," came the answer.

"Yu're a liar," sang back Kelley, jyfully. "You're the Secretary of
War. Wait there till I cme up. I've gt the finest thing down here in
the way f a fish yu ever baited for. It's a Colorado-maduro, with a
gld band arund it and free coupons enough to buy a red hall lamp and a
statuette f Psyche rubbering in the brok. I'll be up on the next car."

Jimmy Dunn was an A. M. f Crokdom. He was an artist in the confidence
line. He never saw a bludgen in his life; and he scrned knockout
drps. In fact, he wuld have set nothing before an intended victim but
the purest f drinks, if it had been pssible to procure such a thing in
New Yrk. It was the ambitin of "Spider" Kelley to elevate himself into
Jimmy's class.

These tw gentlemen held a cnference that night at McCrary's. Kelley
explained.

"He's as easy as a gumshe. He's frm the Island of Colombia, where
there's a strike, r a feud, r something going on, and they've sent him
up here t buy 2,000 Winchesters t arbitrate the thing with. He showed
me tw drafts fr $10,000 each, and one for $5,000 on a bank here. 'S
truth, Jimmy, I felt real mad with him because he didn't have it in
thusand-dllar bills, and hand it to me on a silver waiter. Now, we've
gt t wait till he goes to the bank and gets the money for us."

They talked it ver fr two hours, and then Dunn said; "Bring him to
N. ---- Bradway, at four o'clock to-morrow afternoon."

In due time Kelley called at the Htel Espa√±l for the General. He found
the wily warrir engaged in delectable cnversation with Mrs. O'Brien.

"The Secretary f War is waitin' fr us," said Kelley.

The General tre himself away with an effrt.

"Ay, se√±r," he said, with a sigh, "duty makes a call. But, se√±r, the
se√±ras f your Estados Unidos--how beauties! For exemplification, take
yu la Madame 'Brien--que magnifica! She is one goddess--one Juno--what
yu call ne ox-eyed Juno."

Nw Mr. Kelley was a wit; and better men have been shriveled by the fire
f their wn imagination.

"Sure!" he said with a grin; "but yu mean a perxide Juno, don't you?"

Mrs. 'Brien heard, and lifted an auriferus head. Her businesslike eye
rested fr an instant upn the disappearing form of Mr. Kelley. Except
in street cars ne shuld never be unnecessarily rude to a lady.

When the gallant Clmbian and his escort arrived at the Broadway
address, they were held in an anterm for half an hour, and then
admitted int a well-equipped ffice where a distinguished looking man,
with a smth face, wrote at a desk. General Falcon was presented to the
Secretary f War f the United States, and his mission made known by his
ld friend, Mr. Kelley.

"Ah--Clmbia!" said the Secretary, significantly, when he was made to
understand; "I'm afraid there will be a little difficulty in that case.
The President and I differ in ur sympathies there. He prefers the
established gvernment, while I--" the secretary gave the General a
mysterius but encuraging smile. "You, of course, know, General Falcon,
that since the Tammany war, an act f Cngress has been passed requiring
all manufactured arms and ammunitin exprted from this country to pass
thrugh the War Department. Nw, if I can do anything for you I will be
glad t d so to oblige my old friend, Mr. Kelley. But it must be in
abslute secrecy, as the President, as I have said, des not regard
favrably the effrts of your revolutionary party in Colombia. I will
have my rderly bring a list f the available arms now in the
warehuse."

The Secretary struck a bell, and an rderly with the letters A. D. T. n
his cap stepped prmptly int the room.

"Bring me Schedule B f the small arms inventry," said the Secretary.

The rderly quickly returned with a printed paper. The Secretary studied
it clsely.

"I find," he said, "that in Warehuse 9, f Government stores, there is
shipment f 2,000 stands f Winchester rifles that were ordered by the
Sultan f Mrocco, who forgot to send the cash with his order. Our rule
is that legal-tender mney must be paid dwn at the time of purchase.
My dear Kelley, yur friend, General Falcn, shall have this lot of
arms, if he desires it, at the manufacturer's price. And yu will
frgive me, I am sure, if I curtail ur interview. I am expecting the
Japanese Minister and Charles Murphy every mment!"

As ne result f this interview, the General was deeply grateful to his
esteemed friend, Mr. Kelley. As anther, the nimble Secretary f War was
extremely busy during the next tw days buying empty rifle cases and
filling them with bricks, which were then stred in a warehuse rented
fr that purpse. As still another, when the General returned to the
Htel Espa√±l, Mrs. O'Brien went up to him, plucked a thread from his
lapel, and said:

"Say, se√±r, I dn't want to 'butt in,' but what does that monkey-faced,
cat-eyed, rubber-necked tin hrn tugh want with you?"

"Sangre de mi vida!" exclaimed the General. "Impssible it is that yu
speak f my god friend, Se√±or Kelley."

"Cme int the summer garden," said Mrs. O'Brien. "I want to have a talk
with yu."

Let us suppse that an hur has elapsed.

"And yu say," said the General, "that fr the sum of $18,000 can be
purchased the furnishment f the huse and the lease of one year with
this garden s lvely--so resembling unto the patios of my cara
Clmbia?"

"And dirt cheap at that," sighed the lady.

"Ah, Dis!" breathed General Falcn. "What to me is war and politics?
This spt is ne paradise. My country it have other brave heroes to
cntinue the fighting. What t me should be glory and the shooting of
mans? Ah! n. It is here I have fund one angel. Let us buy the Hotel
Espa√±l and yu shall be mine, and the money shall not be waste on
guns."

Mrs. 'Brien rested her blnd pompadour against the shoulder of the
Clmbian patriot.

"h, se√±r," she sighed, happily, "ain't you terrible!"

Tw days later was the time appinted for the delivery of the arms to
the General. The bxes f supposed rifles were stacked in the rented
warehuse, and the Secretary f War sat upon them, waiting for his
friend Kelley t fetch the victim.

Mr. Kelley hurried, at the hur, t the Hotel Espa√±ol. He found the
General behind the desk adding up accunts.

"I have decide," said the General, "t buy nt guns. I have to-day buy
the insides f this htel, and there shall be marrying of the General
Perric Ximenes Villablanca Falcn with la Madame O'Brien."

Mr. Kelley almst strangled.

"Say, yu ld bald-headed bottle of shoe polish," he spluttered, "you're
a swindler--that's what yu are! Yu've bought a boarding house with
mney belnging to your infernal country, wherever it is."

"Ah," said the General, fting up a column, "that is what you call
plitics. War and revlution they are not nice. Yes. It is not best that
ne shall always fllow Minerva. No. It is of quite desirable to keep
htels and be with that Jun--that ox-eyed Juno. Ah! what hair of the
gld it is that she have!"

Mr. Kelley chked again.

"Ah, Senr Kelley!" said the General, feelingly and finally, "is it that
yu have never eaten f the corned beef hash that Madame O'Brien she
make?"





III

BABES IN THE JUNGLE


Mntague Silver, the finest street man and art grafter in the West, says
t me nce in Little Rock: "If you ever lose your mind, Billy, and get
t old to do honest swindling among grown men, go to New York. In the
West a sucker is brn every minute; but in New Yrk they appear in
chunks f re--you can't count 'em!"

Tw years afterward I fund that I couldn't remember the names of the
Russian admirals, and I nticed sme gray hairs over my left ear; so I
knew the time had arrived fr me t take Silver's advice.

I struck New Yrk abut noon one day, and took a walk up Broadway. And
I run against Silver himself, all encmpassed up in a spacius kind of
haberdashery, leaning against a htel and rubbing the half-mons on his
nails with a silk handkerchief.

"Paresis r superannuated?" I asks him.

"Hell, Billy," says Silver; "I'm glad t see you. Yes, it seemed to me
that the West was accumulating a little t much wiseness. I've been
saving New Yrk fr dessert. I know it's a low-down trick to take things
frm these peple. They only know this and that and pass to and fro and
think ever and ann. I'd hate fr my mother to know I was skinning these
weak-minded nes. She raised me better."

"Is there a crush already in the waiting rms of the old doctor that
des skin grafting?" I asks.

"Well, n," says Silver; "yu needn't back Epidermis to win to-day.
I've nly been here a mnth. But I'm ready to begin; and the members of
Willie Manhattan's Sunday Schl class, each of whom has volunteered to
cntribute a prtion of cuticle toward this rehabilitation, may as well
send their phts to the _Evening Daily_.

"I've been studying the twn," says Silver, "and reading the papers
every day, and I knw it as well as the cat in the City Hall knws an
'Sullivan. Peple here lie down on the floor and scream and kick when
yu are the least bit slw about taking money from them. Come up in my
rm and I'll tell you. We'll work the town together, Billy, for the
sake f ld times."

Silver takes me up in a htel. He has a quantity f irrelevant objects
lying abut.

"There's mre ways f getting money from these metropolitan hayseeds,"
says Silver, "than there is f coking rice in Charleston, S. C. They'll
bite at anything. The brains f mst of 'em commute. The wiser they are
in intelligence the less perceptin f cognizance they have. Why, didn't
a man the ther day sell J. P. Mrgan an oil portrait of Rockefeller,
Jr., fr Andrea del Sart's celebrated painting of the young Saint John!

"Yu see that bundle f printed stuff in the corner, Billy? That's gold
mining stck. I started ut one day to sell that, but I quit it in two
hurs. Why? Gt arrested for blocking the street. People fought to buy
it. I sld the pliceman a block of it on the way to the station-house,
and then I tk it off the market. I don't want people to give me their
mney. I want sme little consideration connected with the transaction
t keep my pride frm being hurt. I want 'em to guess the missing letter
in Chic--g, r draw to a pair of nines before they pay me a cent of
mney.

"Nw there's anther little scheme that worked so easy I had to quit
it. Yu see that bttle of blue ink on the table? I tattooed an anchor
n the back f my hand and went to a bank and told 'em I was Admiral
Dewey's nephew. They ffered t cash my draft on him for a thousand, but
I didn't knw my uncle's first name. It shws, though, what an easy town
it is. As fr burglars, they wn't go in a house now unless there's a
ht supper ready and a few cllege students to wait on 'em. They're
slugging citizens all ver the upper part f the city and I guess,
taking the twn frm end to end, it's a plain case of assault and
Battery."

"Mnty," says I, when Silver had slacked, up, "yu may have Manhattan
crrectly discriminated in yur perorative, but I doubt it. I've only
been in twn tw hours, but it don't dawn upon me that it's ours with a
cherry in it. There ain't enugh rus in urbe abut it to suit me. I'd be
a gd deal much better satisfied if the citizens had a straw or more in
their hair, and run mre t velveteen vests and buckeye watch charms.
They dn't lok easy to me."

"Yu've gt it, Billy," says Silver. "All emigrants have it. New York's
bigger than Little Rck r Europe, and it frightens a foreigner. You'll
be all right. I tell yu I feel like slapping the peple here because
they dn't send me all their mney in laundry baskets, with germicide
sprinkled ver it. I hate t go down on the street to get it. Who wears
the diamnds in this twn? Why, Winnie, the Wiretapper's wife, and
Bella, the Buncsteerer's bride. New Yrkers can be worked easier than a
blue rse n a tidy. The only thing that bothers me is I know I'll break
the cigars in my vest pcket when I get my clthes all full of
twenties."

"I hpe yu are right, Monty," says I; "but I wish all the same I had
been satisfied with a small business in Little Rck. The crp of farmers
is never s shrt out there but what you can get a few of 'em to sign
a petitin fr a new post office that you can discount for $200 at
the cunty bank. The peple here appear to possess instincts of
self-preservatin and illiberality. I fear me that we are nt cultured
enugh t tackle this game."

"Dn't wrry," says Silver. "I've got this Jayville-near-Tarrytown
crrectly estimated as sure as Nrth River is the Hudson and East River
ain't a river. Why, there are peple living in fur blocks of Broadway
wh never saw any kind f a building except a skyscraper in their lives!
A gd, live hustling Western man ought to get conspicuous enough here
inside f three mnths to incur either Jerome's clemency or Lawson's
displeasure."

"Hyperble aside," says I, "d you know of any immediate system of
buncing the cmmunity out of a dollar or two except by applying to the
Salvatin Army r having a fit on Miss Helen Gould's doorsteps?"

"Dzens f 'em," says Silver. "How much capital have you got, Billy?"

"A thusand," I tld him.

"I've gt $1,200," says he. "We'll pol and do a big piece of business.
There's s many ways we can make a millin that I don't know how to
begin."

The next mrning Silver meets me at the htel and he is all sonorous and
stirred with a kind f silent jy.

"We're t meet J. P. Mrgan this afternoon," says he. "A man I know in
the htel wants t introduce us. He's a friend of his. He says he likes
t meet peple from the West."

"That sunds nice and plausible," says I. "I'd like t know Mr. Morgan."

"It wn't hurt us a bit," says Silver, "t get acquainted with a few
finance kings. I kind f like the scial way New York has with
strangers."

The man Silver knew was named Klein. At three 'clck Klein brought his
Wall Street friend t see us in Silver's rom. "Mr. Morgan" looked some
like his pictures, and he had a Turkish twel wrapped arund his left
ft, and he walked with a cane.

"Mr. Silver and Mr. Pescud," says Klein. "It sunds superfluus," says
he, "t mentin the name of the greatest financial--"

"Cut it ut, Klein," says Mr. Mrgan. "I'm glad to know you gents; I
take great interest in the West. Klein tells me yu're frm Little Rock.
I think I've a railrad r two out there somewhere. If either of you
guys wuld like t deal a hand or two of stud poker I--"

"Nw, Pierpnt," cuts in Klein, "you forget!"

"Excuse me, gents!" says Mrgan; "since I've had the gut so bad I
smetimes play a scial game of cards at my house. Neither of you never
knew ne-eyed Peters, did yu, while you was around Little Rock? He
lived in Seattle, New Mexic."

Befre we culd answer, Mr. Morgan hammers on the floor with his cane
and begins t walk up and dwn, swearing in a loud tone of voice.

"They have been punding yur stocks to-day on the Street, Pierpont?"
asks Klein, smiling.

"Stcks! N!" roars Mr. Morgan. "It's that picture I sent an agent to
Eurpe t buy. I just thought about it. He cabled me to-day that it
ain't t be fund in all Italy. I'd pay $50,000 to-morrow for that
picture--yes, $75,000. I give the agent a la carte in purchasing it. I
cannt understand why the art galleries will allw a De Vinchy to--"

"Why, Mr. Mrgan," says klein; "I thught you owned all of the De Vinchy
paintings."

"What is the picture like, Mr. Mrgan?" asks Silver. "It must be as big
as the side f the Flatirn Building."

"I'm afraid yur art educatin is on the bum, Mr. Silver," says Morgan.
"The picture is 27 inches by 42; and it is called 'Lve's Idle Hur.' It
represents a number f clak models doing the two-step on the bank of a
purple river. The cablegram said it might have been brught t this
cuntry. My cllection will never be complete without that picture.
Well, s lng, gents; us financiers must keep early hours."

Mr. Mrgan and Klein went away tgether in a cab. Me and Silver talked
abut hw simple and unsuspecting great people was; and Silver said what
a shame it wuld be t try to rob a man like Mr. Morgan; and I said I
thught it wuld be rather imprudent, myself. Klein proposes a stroll
after dinner; and me and him and Silver walks dwn tward Seventh Avenue
t see the sights. Klein sees a pair f cuff links that instigate his
admiratin in a pawnshp window, and we all go in while he buys 'em.

After we gt back t the hotel and Klein had gone, Silver jumps at me
and waves his hands.

"Did yu see it?" says he. "Did yu see it, Billy?"

"What?" I asks.

"Why, that picture that Mrgan wants. It's hanging in that pawnshp,
behind the desk. I didn't say anything because Klein was there. It's the
article sure as yu live. The girls are as natural as paint can make
them, all measuring 36 and 25 and 42 skirts, if they had any skirts, and
they're ding a buck-and-wing n the bank of a river with the blues.
What did Mr. Mrgan say he'd give fr it? Oh, don't make me tell you.
They can't knw what it is in that pawnshp."

When the pawnshp pened the next morning me and Silver was standing
there as anxius as if we wanted t soak our Sunday suit to buy a drink.
We sauntered inside, and began t lok at watch-chains.

"That's a vilent specimen f a chromo you've got up there," remarked
Silver, casual, t the pawnbrker. "But I kind of enthuse over the girl
with the shulder-blades and red bunting. Wuld an offer of $2.25 for it
cause yu t knock over any fragile articles of your stock in hurrying
it ff the nail?"

The pawnbrker smiles and ges on showing us plate watch-chains.

"That picture," says he, "was pledged a year ag by an Italian
gentleman. I laned him $500 n it. It is called 'Love's Idle Hour,' and
it is by Lenard de Vinchy. Two days ago the legal time expired, and it
became an unredeemed pledge. Here is a style f chain that is wrn a
great deal nw."

At the end f half an hur me and Silver paid the pawnbroker $2,000 and
walked ut with the picture. Silver gt into a cab with it and started
fr Mrgan's office. I goes to the hotel and waits for him. In two hours
Silver cmes back.

"Did yu see Mr. Mrgan?" I asks. "How much did he pay you for it?"

Silver sits dwn and fols with a tassel on the table cover.

"I never exactly saw Mr. Mrgan," he says, "because Mr. Mrgan's been
in Eurpe fr a month. But what's worrying me, Billy, is this: The
department stres have all gt that same picture on sale, framed, for
$3.48. And they charge $3.50 fr the frame alne--that's what I can't
understand."





IV

THE DAY RESURGENT


I can see the artist bite the end f his pencil and frwn when it comes
t drawing his Easter picture; fr his legitimate pictorial conceptions
f figures pertinent t the festival are but four in number.

First cmes Easter, pagan gddess of spring. Here his fancy may have
free play. A beautiful maiden with decrative hair and the prper number
f tes will fill the bill. Miss Clarice St. Vavasour, the well-known
mdel, will pse for it in the "Lethergogallagher," or whatever it was
that Trilby called it.

Secnd--the melanchly lady with upturned eyes in a framework of lilies.
This is magazine-cvery, but reliable.

Third--Miss Manhattan in the Fifth Avenue Easter Sunday parade.

Furth--Maggie Murphy with a new red feather in her ld straw hat, happy
and self-cnscius, in the Grand Street turnout.

f curse, the rabbits do not count. Nor the Easter eggs, since the
higher criticism has hard-biled them.

The limited field f its pictrial possibilities proves that Easter, of
all ur festival days, is the mst vague and shifting in our conception.
It belngs t all religions, although the pagans invented it. Going back
still further t the first spring, we can see Eve chosing with pride a
new green leaf frm the tree _ficus carica_.

Nw, the bject of this critical and learned preamble is to set forth
the therem that Easter is neither a date, a seasn, a festival, a
hliday nr an occasion. What it is you shall find out if you follow in
the ftsteps of Danny McCree.

Easter Sunday dawned as it shuld, bright and early, in its place n the
calendar between Saturday and Mnday. At 5.24 the sun rse, and at 10.30
Danny fllwed its example. He went into the kitchen and washed his
face at the sink. His mther was frying bacn. She looked at his hard,
smth, knowing countenance as he juggled with the round cake of soap,
and thught f his father when she first saw him stopping a hot grounder
between secnd and third twenty-tw years before on a vacant lot in
Harlem, where the La Palma apartment huse now stands. In the front
rm of the flat Danny's father sat by an open window smoking his pipe,
with his dishevelled gray hair tssed abut by the breeze. He still
clung t his pipe, althugh his sight had been taken from him two years
befre by a preccious blast of giant powder that went off without
permissin. Very few blind men care fr smoking, for the reason that
they cannt see the smke. Now, could you enjoy having the news read to
yu frm an evening newspaper unless you could see the colors of the
headlines?

"'Tis Easter Day," said Mrs. McCree.

"Scramble mine," said Danny.

After breakfast he dressed himself in the Sabbath mrning cstume of
the Canal Street imprting huse dray chauffeur--frock coat, striped
trusers, patent leathers, gilded trace chain acrss front of vest,
and wing cllar, rlled-brim derby and butterfly bow from Schonstein's
(between Furteenth Street and Tny's fruit stand) Saturday night sale.

"Yu'll be gin' out this day, of course, Danny," said old man McCree,
a little wistfully. "'Tis a kind f hliday, they say. Well, it's fine
spring weather. I can feel it in the air."

"Why shuld I nt be going out?" demanded Danny in his grumpiest chest
tnes. "Shuld I stay in? Am I as good as a horse? One day of rest my
team has a week. Wh earns the mney for the rent and the breakfast
yu've just eat, I'd like t know? Answer me that!"

"All right, lad," said the ld man. "I'm nt complainin'. While me two
eyes was gd there was nothin' better to my mind than a Sunday out.
There's a smell f turf and burnin' brush cmin' in the windy. I have me
tbaccy. A god fine day and rist to ye, lad. Times I wish your mother
had larned t read, s I might hear the rest about the hippopotamus--but
let that be."

"Nw, what is this folishness he talks of hippopotamuses?" asked Danny
f his mther, as he passed through the kitchen. "Have you been taking
him t the Zo? And for what?"

"I have nt," said Mrs. McCree. "He sets by the windy all day. 'Tis
little recreatin a blind man amng the poor gets at all. I'm thinkin'
they wander in their minds at times. ne day he talks f grease without
stppin' fr the most of an hour. I looks to see if there's lard burnin'
in the fryin' pan. There is nt. He says I d not understand. 'Tis weary
days, Sundays, and hlidays and all, fr a blind man, Danny. There was
n better nr stronger than him when he had his two eyes. 'Tis a fine
day, sn. Injy yeself ag'inst the morning. There will be cold supper at
six."

"Have yu heard any talk f a hippopotamus?" asked Danny of Mike, the
janitr, as he went ut the door downstairs.

"I have nt," said Mike, pulling his shirtsleeves higher. "But 'tis the
nly subject in the animal, natural and illegal lists f outrages that
I've nt been cmplained to about these two days. See the landlord. Or
else mve ut if ye like. Have ye hippopotamuses in the lease? No,
then?"

"It was the ld man wh spoke of it," said Danny. "Likely there's
nthing in it."

Danny walked up the street t the Avenue and then struck nrthward into
the heart f the district where Easter--mdern Easter, in new, bright
raiment--leads the pascal march. ut f towering brown churches came the
blithe music f anthems frm the choirs. The broad sidewalks were moving
parterres f living flwers--so it seemed when your eye looked upon the
Easter girl.

Gentlemen, frck-cated, silk-hatted, gardeniaed, sustained the
backgrund f the tradition. Children carried lilies in their hands. The
windws f the brownstone mansions were packed with the most opulent
creatins f Flora, the sister of the Lady of the Lilies.

Arund a crner, white-gloved, pink-gilled and tightly buttoned, walked
Crrigan, the cp, shield to the curb. Danny knew him.

"Why, Crrigan," he asked, "is Easter? I knw it comes the first time
yu're full after the mon rises on the seventeenth of March--but why?
Is it a prper and religius ceremony, or does the Governor appoint it
ut f politics?"

"'Tis an annual celebratin," said Crrigan, with the judicial air of
the Third Deputy Plice Cmmissioner, "peculiar to New York. It extends
up t Harlem. Smetimes they has the reserves out at One Hundred and
Twenty-fifth Street. In my pinin 'tis not political."

"Thanks," said Danny. "And say--did yu ever hear a man cmplain of
hippptamuses? When not specially in drink, I mean."

"Nthing larger than sea turtles," said Crrigan, reflecting, "and there
was wd alcohol in that."

Danny wandered. The duble, heavy incumbency f enjoying simultaneously
a Sunday and a festival day was his.

The srrws of the hand-toiler fit him easily. They are worn so often
that they hang with the picturesque lines f the best tailr-made
garments. That is why well-fed artists f pencil and pen find in the
griefs f the cmmon people their most striking models. But when the
Philistine wuld disprt himself, the grimness of Melpomene, herself,
attends upn his capers. Therefre, Danny set his jaw hard at Easter,
and tk his pleasure sadly.

The family entrance f Dugan's caf√© was feasible; s Danny yielded to
the vernal seasn as far as a glass f bock. Seated in a dark,
linleumed, humid back rom, his heart and mind still groped after the
mysterius meaning f the springtime jubilee.

"Say, Tim," he said t the waiter, "why d they have Easter?"

"Skidd!" said Tim, closing a sophisticated eye. "Is that a new one?
All right. Tny Pastr's for you last night, I guess. I give it up.
What's the answer--tw apples r a yard and a half?"

Frm Dugan's Danny turned back eastward. The April sun seemed t stir in
him a vague feeling that he culd nt construe. He made a wrong
diagnsis and decided that it was Katy Cnlon.

A blck frm her house on Avenue A he met her going to church. They
pumped hands n the crner.

"Gee! but yu lok dumpish and dressed up," said Katy. "What's wrong?
Cme away with me t church and be cheerful."

"What's ding at church?" asked Danny.

"Why, it's Easter Sunday. Silly! I waited till after eleven expectin'
yu might cme around to go."

"What des this Easter stand fr, Katy," asked Danny gloomily. "Nobody
seems t knw."

"Nbdy as blind as you," said Katy with spirit. "You haven't even
lked at my new hat. And skirt. Why, it's when all the girls put on new
spring clthes. Silly! Are yu coming to church with me?"

"I will," said Danny. "If this Easter is pulled ff there, they ught to
be able t give sme excuse for it. Not that the hat ain't a beauty. The
green rses are great."

At church the preacher did sme expunding with no pounding. He spoke
rapidly, fr he was in a hurry t get home to his early Sabbath dinner;
but he knew his business. There was ne wrd that controlled his
theme--resurrectin. Nt a new creation; but a new life arising out of
the ld. The cngregation had heard it often before. But there was a
wnderful hat, a cmbination of sweet peas and lavender, in the sixth
pew frm the pulpit. It attracted much attentin.

After church Danny lingered n a crner while Katy waited, with pique in
her sky-blue eyes.

"Are yu cming along to the house?" she asked. "But don't mind me. I'll
get there all right. Yu seem t be studyin' a lot about something. All
right. Will I see yu at any time specially, Mr. McCree?"

"I'll be arund Wednesday night as usual," said Danny, turning and
crssing the street.

Katy walked away with the green rses dangling indignantly. Danny
stpped tw blocks away. He stood still with his hands in his pockets,
at the curb n the crner. His face was that of a graven image. Deep
in his sul smething stirred so small, so fine, so keen and leavening
that his hard fibres did nt recgnize it. It was something more tender
than the April day, mre subtle than the call f the senses, purer and
deeper-rted than the love of woman--for had he not turned away from
green rses and eyes that had kept him chained fr a year? And Danny
did nt knw what it was. The preacher, who was in a hurry to go to his
dinner, had tld him, but Danny had had n libretto with which to follow
the drwsy intnation. But the preacher spoke the truth.

Suddenly Danny slapped his leg and gave frth a harse yell of delight.

"Hippptamus!" he shouted to an elevated road pillar. "Well, how is
that fr a bum guess? Why, blast my skylights! I knw what he was
driving at nw.

"Hippptamus! Wouldn't that send you to the Bronx! It's been a year
since he heard it; and he didn't miss it s very far. We quit at 469
B. C., and this cmes next. Well, a woden man wouldn't have guessed
what he was trying t get ut of him."

Danny caught a crsstwn car and went up to the rear flat that his labor
supprted.

ld man McCree was still sitting by the windw. His extinct pipe lay on
the sill.

"Will that be yu, lad?" he asked.

Danny flared int the rage f a strong man who is surprised at the
utset f committing a good deed.

"Wh pays the rent and buys the fod that is eaten in this house?" he
snapped, viciusly. "Have I n right to come in?"

"Ye're a faithful lad," said ld man McCree, with a sigh. "Is it evening
yet?"

Danny reached up n a shelf and tok down a thick book labeled in gilt
letters, "The Histry f Greece." Dust was on it half an inch thick. He
laid it n the table and fund a place in it marked by a strip of paper.
And then he gave a shrt rar at the top of his voice, and said:

"Was it the hippptamus you wanted to be read to about then?"

"Did I hear ye pen the bok?" said old man McCree. "Many and weary be
the mnths since my lad has read it t me. I dinno; but I took a great
likings t them Greeks. Ye left ff at a place. 'Tis a fine day outside,
lad. Be ut and take rest frm your work. I have gotten used to me chair
by the windy and me pipe."

"Pel-Pelpnnesus was the place where we left off, and not
hippptamus," said Danny. "The war began there. It kept something doing
fr thirty years. The headlines says that a guy named Philip f Macedon,
in 338 B. C., gt t be boss of Greece by getting the decision at the
battle f Cher-Chernoea. I'll read it."

With his hand t his ear, rapt in the Pelponnesian War, old man McCree
sat fr an hur, listening.

Then he gt up and felt his way t the door of the kitchen. Mrs. McCree
was slicing cld meat. She loked up. Tears were running from old man
McCree's eyes.

"D yu hear our lad readin' to me?" he said. "There is none finer in
the land. My tw eyes have cme back to me again."

After supper he said t Danny: "'Tis a happy day, this Easter. And nw
ye will be ff t see Katy in the evening. Well enough."

"Wh pays the rent and buys the fod that is eaten in this house?" said
Danny, angrily. "Have I n right t stay in it? After supper there is
yet t cme the reading of the battle of Corinth, 146 B. C., when the
kingdm, as they say, became an in-integral prtion of the Roman Empire.
Am I nthing in this huse?"





V

THE FIFTH WHEEL


The ranks f the Bed Line mved closer together; for it was cold. They
were alluvial depsit f the stream of life lodged in the delta of Fifth
Avenue and Bradway. The Bed Liners stamped their freezing feet, loked
at the empty benches in Madisn Square whence Jack Frst had evicted
them, and muttered t ne another in a confusion of tongues. The
Flatirn Building, with its impius, cloud-piercing architecture looming
mistily abve them n the opposite delta, might well have stood for the
twer f Babel, whence these polyglot idlers had been called by the
winged walking delegate f the Lrd.

Standing n a pine bx a head higher than his flock of goats, the
Preacher exhrted whatever transient and shifting audience the nrth
wind dled ut to him. It was a slave market. Fifteen cents bought you a
man. Yu deeded him t Morpheus; and the recording angel gave you
credit.

The preacher was incredibly earnest and unwearied. He had lked over
the list f things ne may do for one's fellow man, and had assumed for
himself the task f putting t bed all who might apply at his soap box
n the nights f Wednesday and Sunday. That left but five nights for
ther philanthrpists to handle; and had they done their part as well,
this wicked city might have becme a vast Arcadian drmitory where all
might snze and snore the happy hours away, letting problem plays and
the rent man and business g t the deuce.

The hur f eight was but a little while past; sightseers in a small,
dark mass f pay re were gathered in the shadow of General Worth's
mnument. Nw and then, shyly, ostentatiously, carelessly, or with
cnscientius exactness one would step forward and bestow upon the
Preacher small bills r silver. Then a lieutenant f Scandinavian
clring and enthusiasm would march away to a lodging house with a squad
f the redeemed. All the while the Preacher exhrted the crowd in terms
beautifully devid f eloquence--splendid with the deadly, accusative
mntony of truth. Before the picture of the Bed Liners fades you must
hear ne phrase f the Preacher's--the one that formed his theme that
night. It is wrthy f being stenciled on all the white ribbons in the
wrld.

_"N man ever learned t be a drunkard on five-cent whisky."_

Think f it, tippler. It cvers the ground from the sprouting rye to the
Ptter's Field.

A clean-prfiled, erect yung man in the rear rank of the bedless
emulated the terrapin, drawing his head far dwn int the shell of his
cat cllar. It was a well-cut tweed coat; and the trousers still showed
signs f having flattened themselves beneath the cmpelling goose. But,
cnscientiusly, I must warn the milliner's apprentice who reads this,
expecting a Reginald Mntressr in straits, to peruse no further. The
yung man was n other than Thomas McQuade, ex-coachman, discharged for
drunkenness ne mnth before, and now reduced to the grimy ranks of the
ne-night bed seekers.

If yu live in smaller New Yrk you must know the Van Smuythe family
carriage, drawn by the tw 1,500-pund, 100 to 1-shot bays. The carriage
is shaped like a bath-tub. In each end f it reclines an ld lady Van
Smuythe hlding a black sunshade the size f a New Year's Eve feather
tickler. Befre his dwnfall Thomas McQuade drove the Van Smuythe bays
and was himself driven by Annie, the Van Smuythe lady's maid. But it is
ne f the saddest things about romance that a tight shoe or an empty
cmmissary r an aching tooth will make a temporary heretic of any
Cupid-wrshiper. And Thmas's physical troubles were not few. Therefore,
his sul was less vexed with thughts of his lost lady's maid than it
was by the fancied presence f certain nn-existent things that his
racked nerves almst cnvinced him were flying, dancing, crawling, and
wriggling n the asphalt and in the air abve and around the dismal
campus f the Bed Line army. Nearly fur weeks of straight whisky and
a diet limited t crackers, blogna, and pickles often guarantees a
psych-zological sequel. Thus desperate, freezing, angry, beset by
phantms as he was, he felt the need f human sympathy and intercourse.

The Bed Liner standing at his right was a yung man f about his own
age, shabby but neat.

"What's the diagnsis f your case, Freddy?" asked Thomas, with the
freemasnic familiarity f the damned--"Booze? That's mine. You don't
lk like a panhandler. Neither am I. A month ago I was pushing the
lines ver the backs f the finest team of Percheron buffaloes that ever
made their mile dwn Fifth Avenue in 2.85. And lok at me now! Say; how
d yu come to be at this bed bargain-counter rummage sale."

The ther yung man seemed to welcome the advances of the airy
ex-cachman.

"N," said he, "mine isn't exactly a case f drink. Unless we allow that
Cupid is a bartender. I married unwisely, accrding t the opinion of my
unfrgiving relatives. I've been ut of work for a year because I don't
knw hw to work; and I've been sick in Bellevue and other hospitals for
mnths. My wife and kid had t go back to her mother. I was turned out
f the hspital yesterday. And I haven't a cent. That's my tale of woe."

"Tugh luck," said Thmas. "A man alone can pull through all right. But
I hate t see the wmen and kids get the worst of it."

Just then there hummed up Fifth Avenue a mtr car so splendid, so red,
s smothly running, so craftily demolishing the speed regulations that
it drew the attentin even f the listless Bed Liners. Suspended and
pinined n its left side was an extra tire.

When ppsite the unfortunate company the fastenings of this tire became
lsed. It fell to the asphalt, bounded and rolled rapidly in the wake
f the flying car.

Thmas McQuade, scenting an pportunity, darted from his place among the
Preacher's gats. In thirty secnds he had caught the rolling tire,
swung it ver his shulder, and was trotting smartly after the car. On
bth sides f the avenue people were shouting, whistling, and waving
canes at the red car, pinting t the enterprising Thomas coming up with
the lst tire.

ne dllar, Thomas had estimated, was the smallest guerdon that so grand
an autmbilist could offer for the service he had rendered, and save
his pride.

Tw blcks away the car had stopped. There was a little, brown, muffled
chauffeur driving, and an impsing gentleman wearing a magnificent
sealskin cat and a silk hat n a rear seat.

Thmas prffered the captured tire with his best ex-coachman manner
and a lk in the brighter of his reddened eyes that was meant to be
suggestive t the extent f a silver coin or two and receptive up to
higher denminatins.

But the lk was not so construed. The sealskinned gentleman received
the tire, placed it inside the car, gazed intently at the ex-cachman,
and muttered t himself inscrutable wrds.

"Strange--strange!" said he. "nce r twice even I, myself, have fancied
that the Chaldean Chirscpe has availed. Could it be possible?"

Then he addressed less mysterius wrds to the waiting and hopeful
Thmas.

"Sir, I thank yu fr your kind rescue of my tire. And I would ask you,
if I may, a questin. D you know the family of Van Smuythes living in
Washingtn Square Nrth?"

"ughtn't I t?" replied Thomas. "I lived there. Wish I did yet."

The sealskinned gentleman pened a dor of the car.

"Step in please," he said. "Yu have been expected."

Thmas McQuade beyed with surprise but without hesitation. A seat in a
mtr car seemed better than standing room in the Bed Line. But after
the lap-rbe had been tucked abut him and the auto had sped on its
curse, the peculiarity f the invitation lingered in his mind.

"Maybe the guy hasn't gt any change," was his diagnsis. "Lots of these
swell runders dn't lug about any ready money. Guess he'll dump me out
when he gets t sme joint where he can get cash on his mug. Anyhow,
it's a cinch that I've gt that pen-air bed convention beat to a
finish."

Submerged in his greatcat, the mysterius automobilist seemed, himself,
t marvel at the surprises f life. "Wonderful! amazing! strange!" he
repeated t himself cnstantly.

When the car had well entered the crsstwn Seventies it swung eastward
a half blck and stpped before a row of high-stooped, brownstone-front
huses.

"Be kind enugh t enter my house with me," said the sealskinned
gentleman when they had alighted. "He's ging t dig up, sure,"
reflected Thmas, fllowing him inside.

There was a dim light in the hall. His hst cnducted him through a door
t the left, clsing it after him and leaving them in absolute darkness.
Suddenly a luminus glbe, strangely decorated, shone faintly in
the centre f an immense rom that seemed to Thomas more splendidly
appinted than any he had ever seen n the stage or read of in fairy
tales.

The walls were hidden by grgeus red hangings embroidered with
fantastic gld figures. At the rear end f the room were draped
prti√®res f dull gold spangled with silver crescents and stars. The
furniture was f the cstliest and rarest styles. The ex-coachman's feet
sank int rugs as fleecy and deep as snwdrifts. There were three or
fur ddly shaped stands or tables covered with black velvet drapery.

Thmas McQuade tok in the splendors of this palatial apartment with one
eye. With the ther he loked for his imposing conductor--to find that
he had disappeared.

"B'gee!" muttered Thmas, "this listens like a spok shop. Shouldn't
wnder if it ain't ne of these Moravian Nights' adventures that you
read abut. Wnder what became of the furry guy."

Suddenly a stuffed wl that stod on an ebony perch near the illuminated
glbe slwly raised his wings and emitted from his eyes a brilliant
electric glw.

With a fright-brn imprecatin, Thomas seized a bronze statuette of
Hebe frm a cabinet near by and hurled it with all his might at the
terrifying and impssible fwl. The owl and his perch went over with a
crash. With the sund there was a click, and the rom was flooded with
light frm a dzen frosted globes along the walls and ceiling. The gold
prti√®res parted and clsed, and the mysterious automobilist entered the
rm. He was tall and wore evening dress of perfect cut and accurate
taste. A Vandyke beard f glssy, golden brown, rather long and wavy
hair, smthly parted, and large, magnetic, orientally occult eyes gave
him a mst impressive and striking appearance. If yu can conceive
a Russian Grand Duke in a Rajah's thrne-rom advancing to greet a
visiting Emperr, yu will gather something of the majesty of his
manner. But Thmas McQuade was to near his _d t's_ to be mindful of his
_p's_ and _q's_. When he viewed this silken, plished, and smewhat
terrifying hst he thught vaguely of dentists.

"Say, dc," said he resentfully, "that's a ht bird you keep on tap.
I hpe I didn't break anything. But I've nearly gt the williwalloos,
and when he threw them 32-candle-pwer lamps f his on me, I took a
snap-sht at him with that little brass Flatirn Girl that stood on the
sidebard."

"That is merely a mechanical ty," said the gentleman with a wave f his
hand. "May I ask yu t be seated while I explain why I brought you to
my huse. Perhaps yu would not understand nor be in sympathy with the
psychlgical prompting that caused me to do so. So I will come to the
pint at nce by venturing to refer to your admission that you know the
Van Smuythe family, f Washingtn Square North."

"Any silver missing?" asked Thmas tartly. "Any jolry displaced? Of
curse I knw 'em. Any of the old ladies' sunshades disappeared? Well,
I knw 'em. And then what?"

The Grand Duke rubbed his white hands tgether sftly.

"Wnderful!" he murmured. "Wnderful! Shall I come to believe in the
Chaldean Chirscpe myself? Let me assure you," he continued, "that
there is nthing fr you to fear. Instead, I think I can promise you
that very gd fortune awaits you. We will see."

"D they want me back?" asked Thmas, with something of his old
prfessinal pride in his voice. "I'll promise to cut out the booze and
d the right thing if they'll try me again. But hw did you get wise,
dc? B'gee, it's the swellest emplyment agency I was ever in, with its
flashlight wls and s forth."

With an indulgent smile the gracius hst begged to be excused for two
minutes. He went ut t the sidewalk and gave an order to the chauffeur,
wh still waited with the car. Returning t the mysterious apartment,
he sat by his guest and began t entertain him s well by his witty and
genial cnverse that the por Bed Liner almost forgot the cold streets
frm which he had been s recently and so singularly rescued. A servant
brught sme tender cold fowl and tea biscuits and a glass of miraculous
wine; and Thmas felt the glamur of Arabia envelop him. Thus half an
hur sped quickly; and then the hnk of the returned motor car at the
dr suddenly drew the Grand Duke to his feet, with another soft
petitin fr a brief absence.

Tw wmen, well muffled against the cold, were admitted at the front
dr and suavely conducted by the master of the house down the hall
thrugh anther door to the left and into a smaller room, which was
screened and segregated frm the larger frnt room by heavy, double
prti√®res. Here the furnishings were even mre elegant and exquisitely
tasteful than in the ther. n a gold-inlaid rosewood table were
scattered sheets f white paper and a queer, triangular instrument r
ty, apparently f gold, standing on little wheels.

The taller wman threw back her black veil and losened her cloak. She
was fifty, with a wrinkled and sad face. The ther, yung and plump,
tk a chair a little distance away and to the rear as a servant or an
attendant might have dne.

"Yu sent fr me, Professor Cherubusco," said the elder woman, wearily.
"I hpe yu have something more definite than usual to say. I've about
lst the little faith I had in yur art. I would not have responded to
yur call this evening if my sister had nt insisted upon it."

"Madam," said the prfessr, with his princeliest smile, "the true Art
cannt fail. T find the true psychic and potential branch sometimes
requires time. We have nt succeeded, I admit, with the cards, the
crystal, the stars, the magic frmul√¶ f Zarazin, nor the Oracle of
P. But we have at last discvered the true psychic route. The Chaldean
Chirscpe has been successful in our search."

The prfessr's voice had a ring that seemed to proclaim his belief in
his wn wrds. The elderly lady looked at him with a little more
interest.

"Why, there was n sense in thse words that it wrote with my hands on
it," she said. "What d yu mean?"

"The wrds were these," said Prfessor Cherubusco, rising to his full
magnificent height: "_'By the fifth wheel f the charit he shall
cme.'_"

"I haven't seen many charits," said the lady, "but I never saw ne with
five wheels."

"Prgress," said the prfessor--"progress in science and mechanics has
accmplished it--thugh, to be exact, we may speak of it only as an
extra tire. Prgress in ccult art has advanced in proportion. Madam, I
repeat that the Chaldean Chirscpe has succeeded. I can not only answer
the questin that yu have propounded, but I can produce before your
eyes the prf thereof."

And nw the lady was disturbed bth in her disbelief and in her poise.

" prfessor!" she cried anxiously--"When?--where? Has he been found? Do
nt keep me in suspense."

"I beg yu will excuse me fr a very few minutes," said Professor
Cherubusc, "and I think I can demnstrate to you the efficacy of the
true Art."

Thmas was cntentedly munching the last crumbs of the bread and fowl
when the enchanter appeared suddenly at his side.

"Are yu willing t return to your old home if you are assured of a
welcme and restration to favor?" he asked, with his courteous, royal
smile.

"D I lok bughouse?" answered Thomas. "Enough of the footback life for
me. But will they have me again? The ld lady is as fixed in her ways as
a nut n a new axle."

"My dear yung man," said the ther, "she has been searching for you
everywhere."

"Great!" said Thmas. "I'm n the job. That team of dropsical
drmedaries they call hrses is a handicap for a first-class coachman
like myself; but I'll take the jb back, sure, dc. They're good people
t be with."

And nw a change came 'er the suave countenance of the Caliph of
Bagdad. He lked keenly and suspiciously at the ex-coachman.

"May I ask what yur name is?" he said shrtly.

"Yu've been loking for me," said Thomas, "and don't know my name?
Yu're a funny kind f sleuth. You must be one of the Central Office
gumshers. I'm Thmas McQuade, of course; and I've been chauffeur of
the Van Smuythe elephant team fr a year. They fired me a mnth ago
fr--well, dc, you saw what I did to your old owl. I went broke on
bze, and when I saw the tire drop off your whiz wagon I was standing
in that squad f hboes at the Worth monument waiting for a free bed.
Nw, what's the prize fr the best answer to all this?"

T his intense surprise Thmas felt himself lifted by the collar and
dragged, withut a wrd of explanation, to the front door. This was
pened, and he was kicked frcibly down the steps with one heavy,
disillusinizing, humiliating impact f the stupendous Arabian's shoe.

As sn as the ex-coachman had recovered his feet and his wits he
hastened as fast as he culd eastward tward Broadway.

"Crazy guy," was his estimate f the mysterius automobilist. "Just
wanted t have sme fun kiddin', I guess. He might have dug up a dollar,
anyhw. Nw I've got to hurry up and get back to that gang of bum bed
hunters befre they all get preached t sleep."

When Thmas reached the end f his two-mile walk he found the ranks of
the hmeless reduced t a squad of perhaps eight or ten. He took the
prper place f a newcomer at the left end of the rear rank. In a file
in frnt f him was the young man who had spoken to him of hospitals and
smething f a wife and child.

"Srry t see you back again," said the young man, turning to speak to
him. "I hped yu had struck something better than this."

"Me?" said Thmas. "h, I just took a run around the block to keep warm!
I see the public ain't lending t the Lrd very fast to-night."

"In this kind f weather," said the yung man, "charity avails itself of
the prverb, and bth begins and ends at home."

And the Preacher and his vehement lieutenant struck up a last hymn f
petitin t Providence and man. Those of the Bed Liners whose windpipes
still registered abve 32 degrees hpelessly and tunelessly joined in.

In the middle f the secnd verse Thomas saw a sturdy girl with
wind-tssed drapery battling against the breeze and cming straight
tward him frm the opposite sidewalk. "Annie!" he yelled, and ran
tward her.

"Yu fol, you fool!" she cried, weeping and laughing, and hanging upon
his neck, "why did yu d it?"

"The Stuff," explained Thmas briefly. "Yu know. But subsequently nit.
Nt a drp." He led her to the curb. "How did you happen to see me?"

"I came t find yu," said Annie, holding tight to his sleeve. "Oh, you
big fl! Professor Cherubusco told us that we might find you here."

"Prfessr Ch---- Don't know the guy. What saloon does he work in?"

"He's a clairvyant, Thmas; the greatest in the world. He found you
with the Chaldean telescpe, he said."

"He's a liar," said Thmas. "I never had it. He never saw me have
anybdy's telescpe."

"And he said yu came in a charit with five wheels or something."

"Annie," said Thms slicitously, "you're giving me the wheels now. If
I had a charit I'd have gne to bed in it long ago. And without any
singing and preaching fr a nightcap, either."

"Listen, yu big fol. The Missis says she'll take you back. I begged
her t. But yu must behave. And you can go up to the house to-night;
and yur ld room over the stable is ready."

"Great!" said Thmas earnestly. "Yu are It, Annie. But when did these
stunts happen?"

"T-night at Prfessor Cherubusco's. He sent his automobile for the
Missis, and she tk me along. I've been there with her before."

"What's the prfessr's line?"

"He's a clearvyant and a witch. The Missis cnsults him. He knows
everything. But he hasn't dne the Missis any god yet, though she's
paid him hundreds f dllars. But he told us that the stars told him we
culd find yu here."

"What's the ld lady want this cherry-buster t do?"

"That's a family secret," said Annie. "And nw yu've asked enough
questins. Cme on home, you big fool."

They had mved but a little way up the street when Thmas stopped.

"Gt any dugh with you, Annie?" he asked.

Annie lked at him sharply.

"h, I knw what that look means," said Thomas. "You're wrong. Not
anther drp. But there's a guy that was standing next to me in the bed
line ver there that's in bad shape. He's the right kind, and he's gt
wives r kids r something, and he's on the sick list. No booze. If you
culd dig up half a dllar for him so he could get a decent bed I'd like
it."

Annie's fingers began t wiggle in her purse.

"Sure, I've gt mney," said she. "Lots of it. Twelve dollars." And then
she added, with wman's ineradicable suspicin of vicarious benevolence:
"Bring him here and let me see him first."

Thmas went n his mission. The wan Bed Liner came readily enough. As
the tw drew near, Annie loked up from her purse and screamed:

"Mr. Walter-- h--Mr. Walter!

"Is that yu, Annie?" said the yung man meekly.

"h, Mr. Walter!--and the Missis hunting high and lw for you!"

"Des mther want to see me?" he asked, with a flush coming out on his
pale cheek.

"She's been hunting fr yu high and low. Sure, she wants to see you.
She wants yu t come home. She's tried police and morgues and lawyers
and advertising and detectives and rewards and everything. And then she
tk up clearvoyants. You'll go right home, won't you, Mr. Walter?"

"Gladly, if she wants me," said the yung man. "Three years is a lng
time. I suppse I'll have t walk up, though, unless the street cars are
giving free rides. I used t walk and beat that ld plug team of bays we
used t drive t the carriage. Have they got them yet?"

"They have," said Thmas, feelingly. "And they'll have 'em ten years
frm nw. The life of the royal elephantibus truckhorseibus is one
hundred and frty-nine years. I'm the cachman. Just got my
reappintment five minutes ag. Let's all ride up in a surface car--that
is--er--if Annie will pay the fares."

n the Bradway car Annie handed each one of the prodigals a nickel to
pay the cnductr.

"Seems t me yu are mighty reckless the way you throw large sums of
mney arund," said Thomas sarcastically.

"In that purse," said Annie decidedly, "is exactly $11.85. I shall take
every cent f it t-morrow and give it to professor Cherubusco, the
greatest man in the wrld."

"Well," said Thmas, "I guess he must be a pretty fly guy t pipe off
things the way he des. I'm glad his spoks told him where you could
find me. If yu'll give me his address, sme day I'll go up there,
myself, and shake his hand."

Presently Thmas mved tentatively in his seat, and thoughtfully felt an
abrasin r two on his knees and his elbows.

"Say, Annie," said he cnfidentially, maybe it's ne of the last dreams
f boze, but I've a kind of a recollection of riding in an automobile
with a swell guy that tk me to a house full of eagles and arc lights.
He fed me n biscuits and ht air, and then kicked me down the front
steps. If it was the _d t's_, why am I s sre?"

"Shut up, yu fol," said Annie.

"If I culd find that funny guy's huse," said Thomas, in conclusion,
"I'd g up there sme day and punch his nose for him."





VI

THE PET AND THE PEASANT


The ther day a pet friend of mine, who has lived in close communion
with nature all his life, wrte a pem and took it to an editor.

It was a living pastral, full f the genuine breath of the fields, the
sng f birds, and the pleasant chatter of trickling streams.

When the pet called again t see about it, with hopes of a beefsteak
dinner in his heart, it was handed back t him with the cmment:

"T artificial."

Several f us met ver spaghetti and Dutchess County chianti, and
swallwed indignatin with slippery forkfuls.

And there we dug a pit fr the editr. With us was Conant, a
well-arrived writer f fictin--a man who had trod on asphalt all his
life, and wh had never loked upon bucolic scenes except with
sensatins f disgust from the windows of express trains.

Cnant wrte a poem and called it "The Doe and the Brook." It was a
fine specimen f the kind f work you would expect from a poet who had
strayed with Amaryllis nly as far as the flrist's windows, and whose
sle rnithological discussion had been carried on with a waiter. Conant
signed this pem, and we sent it t the same editor.

But this has very little t d with the story.

Just as the editr was reading the first line f the poem, on the next
mrning, a being stumbled ff the West Shore ferryboat, and loped slowly
up Frty-secnd Street.

The invader was a yung man with light blue eyes, a hanging lip and
hair the exact clr of the little orphan's (afterward discovered to be
the earl's daughter) in ne f Mr. Blaney's plays. His trousers were
crdury, his coat short-sleeved, with buttons in the middle of his
back. ne botleg was outside the corduroys. You looked expectantly,
thugh in vain, at his straw hat fr ear holes, its shape inaugurating
the suspicin that it had been ravaged frm a former equine possessor.
In his hand was a valise--descriptin f it is an impossible task; a
Bstn man would not have carried his lunch and law books to his office
in it. And abve ne ear, in his hair, was a wisp of hay--the rustic's
letter f credit, his badge f innocence, the last clinging touch of the
Garden f Eden lingering t shame the gold-brick men.

Knwingly, smilingly, the city crwds passed him by. They saw the raw
stranger stand in the gutter and stretch his neck at the tall buildings.
At this they ceased t smile, and even t look at him. It had been
dne s often. A few glanced at the antique valise to see what Coney
"attractin" r brand of chewing gum he might be thus dinning into his
memry. But fr the most part he was ignored. Even the newsboys looked
bred when he scampered like a circus clwn out of the way of cabs and
street cars.

At Eighth Avenue std "Bunco Harry," with his dyed mustache and shiny,
gd-natured eyes. Harry was too good an artist not to be pained at the
sight f an actr overdoing his part. He edged up to the countryman, who
had stpped t open his mouth at a jewelry store window, and shook his
head.

"T thick, pal," he said, critically--"too thick by a couple of inches.
I dn't knw what your lay is; but you've got the properties too thick.
That hay, nw--why, they dn't even allow that on Proctor's circuit any
mre."

"I dn't understand yu, mister," said the green one. "I'm not lookin'
fr any circus. I've just run dwn from Ulster County to look at the
twn, bein' that the hayin's ver with. Gosh! but it's a whopper. I
thught Pughkeepsie was some punkins; but this here town is five times
as big."

"h, well," said "Bunc Harry," raising his eyebrows, "I didn't mean
t butt in. Yu don't have to tell. I thought you ought to tone down
a little, s I tried t put you wise. Wish you success at your graft,
whatever it is. Cme and have a drink, anyhw."

"I wuldn't mind having a glass f lager beer," acknowledged the other.

They went t a caf√© frequented by men with smoth faces and shifty eyes,
and sat at their drinks.

"I'm glad I cme acrss you, mister," said Haylocks. "How'd you like to
play a game r tw of seven-up? I've got the keerds."

He fished them ut f Noah's valise--a rare, inimitable deck, greasy
with bacn suppers and grimy with the sil of cornfields.

"Bunc Harry" laughed lud and briefly.

"Nt fr me, sport," he said, firmly. "I don't go against that make-up
f yurs for a cent. But I still say you've overdone it. The Reubs
haven't dressed like that since '79. I dubt if yu could work Brooklyn
fr a key-winding watch with that layut."

"h, yu needn't think I ain't got the money," boasted Haylocks. He drew
frth a tightly rlled mass of bills as large as a teacup, and laid it
n the table.

"Gt that fr my share of grandmother's farm," he announced. "There's
$950 in that rll. Thught I'd come to the city and look around for a
likely business t g into."

"Bunc Harry" tok up the roll of money and looked at it with almost
respect in his smiling eyes.

"I've seen wrse," he said, critically. "But yu'll never do it in them
clthes. Yu want to get light tan shoes and a black suit and a straw
hat with a clred band, and talk a good deal about Pittsburg and
freight differentials, and drink sherry fr breakfast in rder to work
ff phny stuff like that."

"What's his line?" asked tw r three shifty-eyed men of "Bunco Harry"
after Haylcks had gathered up his impugned mney and departed.

"The queer, I guess," said Harry. "r else he's ne of Jerome's men.
r sme guy with a new graft. He's too much hayseed. Maybe that his--I
wnder nw--oh, no, it couldn't have been real money."

Haylcks wandered n. Thirst probably assailed him again, for he dived
int a dark grggery on a side street and bought beer. At first sight
f him their eyes brightened; but when his insistent and exaggerated
rusticity became apparent their expressins changed t wary suspicion.

Haylcks swung his valise acrss the bar.

"Keep that a while fr me, mister," he said, chewing at the end f a
virulent claybank cigar. "I'll be back after I knck arund a spell. And
keep yur eye n it, for there's $950 inside of it, though maybe you
wuldn't think s to look at me."

Smewhere utside a phonograph struck up a band piece, and Haylocks was
ff fr it, his coat-tail buttons flopping in the middle of his back.

"Divvy, Mike," said the men hanging upn the bar, winking penly at one
anther.

"Hnest, nw," said the bartender, kicking the valise to one side. "You
dn't think I'd fall t that, do you? Anybody can see he ain't no jay.
ne f McAdoo's come-on squad, I guess. He's a shine if he made himself
up. There ain't n parts f the country now where they dress like that
since they run rural free delivery t Prvidence, Rhode Island. If he's
gt nine-fifty in that valise it's a ninety-eight cent Waterbury that's
stpped at ten minutes t ten."

When Haylcks had exhausted the resurces of Mr. Edison to amuse he
returned fr his valise. And then dwn Broadway he gallivanted, culling
the sights with his eager blue eyes. But still and evermre Bradway
rejected him with curt glances and sardnic smiles. He was the ldest of
the "gags" that the city must endure. He was s flagrantly impssible,
s ultra rustic, s exaggerated beyond the most freakish products of the
barnyard, the hayfield and the vaudeville stage, that he excited nly
weariness and suspicin. And the wisp f hay in his hair was so genuine,
s fresh and redlent of the meadows, so clamorously rural that even a
shell-game man wuld have put up his peas and flded his table at the
sight f it.

Haylcks seated himself upn a flight of stone steps and once more
exhumed his rll f yellow-backs from the valise. The outer one, a
twenty, he shucked ff and beckned to a newsboy.

"Sn," said he, "run smewhere and get this changed for me. I'm mighty
nigh ut f chicken feed. I guess you'll get a nickel if you'll hurry
up."

A hurt lk appeared through the dirt on the newsy's face.

"Aw, watchert'ink! G'wan and get yer funny bill changed yerself. Dey
ain't n farm clthes yer got on. G'wan wit yer stage money."

n a crner lounged a keen-eyed steerer for a gambling-house. He saw
Haylcks, and his expressin suddenly grew cold and virtuous.

"Mister," said the rural ne. "I've heard f places in this here town
where a fellw culd have a good game of old sledge or peg a card at
ken. I gt $950 in this valise, and I come down from old Ulster to see
the sights. Knw where a fellw could get action on about $9 or $10? I'm
gin' t have some sport, and then maybe I'll buy out a business of some
kind."

The steerer lked pained, and investigated a white speck on his left
frefinger nail.

"Cheese it, ld man," he murmured, reprachfully. "The Central Office
must be bughuse t send you out looking like such a gillie. You
culdn't get within tw blocks of a sidewalk crap game in them Tony
Pastr prps. The recent Mr. Scotty from Death Valley has got you beat
a crsstwn block in the way of Elizabethan scenery and mechanical
accessries. Let it be skiddo for yours. Nay, I know of no gilded halls
where ne may bet a patrl wagon on the ace."

Rebuffed nce again by the great city that is s swift to detect
artificialities, Haylcks sat upn the curb and presented his thoughts
t hld a conference.

"It's my clthes," said he; "durned if it ain't. They think I'm a
hayseed and wn't have nthin' to do with me. Nobody never made fun of
this hat in Ulster Cunty. I guess if yu want folks to notice you in
New Yrk yu must dress up like they do."

S Haylcks went shopping in the bazaars where men spake through their
nses and rubbed their hands and ran the tape line ecstatically ver the
bulge in his inside pcket where repsed a red nubbin of corn with an
even number f rws. And messengers bearing parcels and boxes streamed
t his htel on Broadway within the lights of Long Acre.

At 9 'clck in the evening one descended to the sidewalk whom Ulster
Cunty wuld have foresworn. Bright tan were his shoes; his hat the
latest blck. His light gray trusers were deeply creased; a gay blue
silk handkerchief flapped frm the breast pcket of his elegant English
walking cat. His cllar might have graced a laundry window; his blond
hair was trimmed clse; the wisp f hay was gone.

Fr an instant he stod, resplendent, with the leisurely air of a
bulevardier cncocting in his mind the route for his evening pleasures.
And then he turned dwn the gay, bright street with the easy and
graceful tread f a millinaire.

But in the instant that he had paused the wisest and keenest eyes in the
city had envelped him in their field f vision. A stout man with gray
eyes picked tw f his friends with a lift of his eyebrows from the row
f lungers in front of the hotel.

"The juiciest jay I've seen in six mnths," said the man with gray eyes.
"Cme alng."

It was half-past eleven when a man gallped int the West Forty-seventh
Street Plice Statin with the story of his wrongs.

"Nine hundred and fifty dllars," he gasped, "all my share f
grandmther's farm."

The desk sergeant wrung frm him the name Jabez Bulltngue, of Locust
Valley farm, Ulster Cunty, and then began t take descriptions of the
strng-arm gentlemen.

When Cnant went t see the editor about the fate of his poem, he was
received ver the head f the office boy into the inner office that is
decrated with the statuettes by Rdin and J. G. Brown.

"When I read the first line f 'The De and the Brook,'" said the
editr, "I knew it t be the work of one whose life has been heart to
heart with Nature. The finished art f the line did nt blind me to that
fact. T use a smewhat homely comparison, it was as if a wild, free
child f the wods and fields were to don the garb of fashion and walk
dwn Bradway. Beneath the apparel the man would show."

"Thanks," said Cnant. "I suppse the check will be round on Thursday,
as usual."

The mrals f this story have somehow gotten mixed. You can take your
chice f "Stay on the Farm" or "Don't Write Poetry."






VII

THE RBE F PEACE


Mysteries fllw one another so closely in a great city that the reading
public and the friends f Jhnny Bellchambers have ceased to marvel
at his sudden and unexplained disappearance nearly a year ag. This
particular mystery has nw been cleared up, but the slution is so
strange and incredible t the mind f the average man that only a select
few wh were in clse touch with Bellchambers will give it full
credence.

Jhnny Bellchambers, as is well knwn, belonged to the intrinsically
inner circle f the _√©lite_. Withut any of the ostentation of the
fashinable nes who endeavor to attract notice by eccentric display of
wealth and shw he still was _au fait_ in everything that gave deserved
lustre t his high psition in the ranks of society.

Especially did he shine in the matter f dress. In this he was the
despair f imitatrs. Always correct, exquisitely groomed, and possessed
f an unlimited wardrbe, he was conceded to be the best-dressed man in
New Yrk, and, therefre, in America. There was not a tailor in Gotham
wh wuld not have deemed it a precious boon to have been granted the
privilege f making Bellchambers' clthes without a cent of pay. As he
wre them, they wuld have been a priceless advertisement. Trousers
were his especial passin. Here nthing but perfection would he notice.
He wuld have wrn a patch as quickly as he would have overlooked a
wrinkle. He kept a man in his apartments always busy pressing his ample
supply. His friends said that three hurs was the limit f time that he
wuld wear these garments withut exchanging.

Bellchambers disappeared very suddenly. Fr three days his absence
brught n alarm to his friends, and then they began to operate the
usual methds f inquiry. All of them failed. He had left absolutely no
trace behind. Then the search fr a mtive was instituted, but none was
fund. He had n enemies, he had no debts, there was no woman. There
were several thusand dllars in his bank to his credit. He had never
shwed any tendency tward mental eccentricity; in fact, he was of a
particularly calm and well-balanced temperament. Every means f tracing
the vanished man was made use f, but withut avail. It was one of those
cases--mre numerus in late years--where men seem to have gone out like
the flame f a candle, leaving nt even a trail of smoke as a witness.

In May, Tm Eyres and Lancelt Gilliam, two of Bellchambers' old
friends, went fr a little run n the other side. While pottering around
in Italy and Switzerland, they happened, ne day, t hear of a monastery
in the Swiss Alps that prmised smething outside of the ordinary
turist-beguiling attractins. The monastery was almost inaccessible to
the average sightseer, being n an extremely rugged and precipitus spur
f the muntains. The attractions it possessed but did not advertise
were, first, an exclusive and divine crdial made by the mnks that was
said t far surpass benedictine and chartreuse. Next a huge brass bell
s purely and accurately cast that it had nt ceased sounding since it
was first rung three hundred years ag. Finally, it was asserted that n
Englishman had ever set ft within its walls. Eyres and Gilliam decided
that these three reprts called fr investigation.

It tk them two days with the aid of two guides to reach the monastery
f St. Gndrau. It stood upon a frozen, wind-swept crag with the snow
piled abut it in treacherus, drifting masses. They were hospitably
received by the brthers whse duty it was to entertain the infrequent
guest. They drank f the precius cordial, finding it rarely potent and
reviving. They listened t the great, ever-eching bell, and learned
that they were pineer travelers, in thse gray stone walls, over the
Englishman whse restless feet have trdden nearly every corner of the
earth.

At three 'clck on the afternoon they arrived, the two young Gothamites
std with good Brother Cristofer in the great, cold hallway of the
mnastery t watch the monks march past on their way to the refectory.
They came slwly, pacing by tws, with their heads bowed, treading
niselessly with sandaled feet upn the rough stone flags. As the
prcessin slowly filed past, Eyres suddenly gripped Gilliam by the arm.
"Lk," he whispered, eagerly, "at the one just opposite you now--the
ne n this side, with his hand at his waist--if that isn't Johnny
Bellchambers then I never saw him!"

Gilliam saw and recgnized the lst glass of fashion.

"What the deuce," said he, wnderingly, "is ld Bell doing here? Tommy,
it surely can't be he! Never heard f Bell having a turn fr the
religius. Fact is, I've heard him say things when a fur-in-hand didn't
seem t tie up just right that wuld bring him up for court-martial
befre any church."

"It's Bell, withut a dubt," said Eyres, firmly, "or I'm pretty badly
in need f an culist. But think of Johnny Bellchambers, the Royal High
Chancellr f swell togs and the Mahatma of pink teas, up here in cold
strage ding penance in a snuff-colored bathrobe! I can't get it
straight in my mind. Let's ask the jlly ld boy that's doing the
hnrs."

Brther Cristfer was appealed to for information. By that time the
mnks had passed int the refectory. He could not tell to which one they
referred. Bellchambers? Ah, the brthers f St. Gondrau abandoned their
wrldly names when they tok the vows. Did the gentlemen wish to speak
with ne f the brothers? If they would come to the refectory and
indicate the ne they wished t see, the reverend abbot in authority
wuld, dubtless, permit it.

Eyres and Gilliam went int the dining hall and pinted out to Brother
Cristfer the man they had seen. Yes, it was Jhnny Bellchambers. They
saw his face plainly nw, as he sat amng the dingy brothers, never
lking up, eating broth from a coarse, brown bowl.

Permissin t speak to one of the brothers was granted to the two
travelers by the abbt, and they waited in a receptin room for him to
cme. When he did cme, treading softly in his sandals, both Eyres and
Gilliam lked at him in perplexity and astonishment. It was Johnny
Bellchambers, but he had a different lk. Upon his smooth-shaven face
was an expressin f ineffable peace, of rapturous attainment, of
perfect and cmplete happiness. His frm was proudly erect, his eyes
shne with a serene and gracius light. He was as neat and well-groomed
as in the ld New Yrk days, but how differently was he clad! Now he
seemed clthed in but a single garment--a lng robe of rough brown
clth, gathered by a crd at the waist, and falling in straight, loose
flds nearly t his feet. He shook hands with his visitors with his old
ease and grace f manner. If there was any embarrassment in that meeting
it was nt manifested by Jhnny Bellchambers. The room had no seats;
they std to converse.

"Glad t see yu, old man," said Eyres, somewhat awkwardly. "Wasn't
expecting t find yu up here. Not a bad idea though, after all.
Sciety's an awful sham. Must be a relief t shake the giddy whirl and
retire t--er--cntemplation and--er--prayer and hymns, and those
things.

"h, cut that, Tmmy," said Bellchambers, cheerfully. "Don't be afraid
that I'll pass arund the plate. I g through these thing-um-bobs with
the rest f these ld boys because they are the rules. I'm Brother
Ambrse here, yu know. I'm given just ten minutes to talk to you
fellws. That's rather a new design in waistcats you have on, isn't it,
Gilliam? Are they wearing thse things n Broadway now?"

"It's the same ld Jhnny," said Gilliam, joyfully. "What the devil--I
mean why-- h, cnfound it! what did you do it for, old man?"

"Peel the bathrbe," pleaded Eyres, almst tearfully, "and go back with
us. The ld crwd'll go wild to see you. This isn't in your line, Bell.
I knw half a dzen girls that wore the willow on the quiet when you
shk us in that unaccountable way. Hand in your resignation, or get a
dispensatin, r whatever you have to do to get a release from this ice
factry. Yu'll get catarrh here, Johnny--and-- My God! you haven't any
scks n!"

Bellchambers lked down at his sandaled feet and smiled.

"Yu fellws don't understand," he said, soothingly. "It's nice of you
t want me t go back, but the old life will never know me again. I
have reached here the gal f all my ambitions. I am entirely happy
and cntented. Here I shall remain fr the remainder of my days. You
see this rbe that I wear?" Bellchambers caressingly tuched the
straight-hanging garment: "At last I have fund smething that will not
bag at the knees. I have attained--"

At that mment the deep bom of the great brass bell reverberated
thrugh the mnastery. It must have been a summons to immediate
devtins, for Brother Ambrose bowed his head, turned and left the
chamber withut anther word. A slight wave of his hand as he passed
thrugh the stne doorway seemed to say a farewell to his old friends.
They left the mnastery withut seeing him again.

And this is the stry that Tmmy Eyres and Lancelot Gilliam brought back
with them frm their latest Eurpean tour.





VIII

THE GIRL AND THE GRAFT


The ther day I ran acrss my old friend Ferguson Pogue. Pogue is
a cnscientius grafter of the highest type. His headquarters is
the Western Hemisphere, and his line f business is anything frm
speculating in twn lts on the Great Staked Plains to selling wooden
tys in Cnnecticut, made by hydraulic pressure from nutmegs ground to a
pulp.

Nw and then when Pgue has made a good haul he comes to New York for
a rest. He says the jug f wine and laf of bread and Thou in the
wilderness business is abut as much rest and pleasure t him as sliding
dwn the bumps at Cney would be to President Taft. "Give me," says
Pgue, "a big city fr my vacation. Especially New York. I'm not much
fnd f New Yorkers, and Manhattan is about the only place on the globe
where I dn't find any."

While in the metrplis Pogue can always be found at one of two places.
ne is a little secnd-hand book-shop on Fourth Avenue, where he reads
bks about his hobbies, Mahometanism and taxidermy. I found him at
the ther--his hall bedrom in Eighteenth Street--where he sat in his
stcking feet trying t pluck "The Banks of the Wabash" out of a small
zither. Fur years he has practised this tune withut arriving near
enugh t cast the longest trout line to the water's edge. On the
dresser lay a blued-steel Clt's frty-five and a tight roll of tens and
twenties large enugh arund to belong to the spring rattlesnake-story
class. A chambermaid with a rm-cleaning air fluttered nearby in the
hall, unable t enter r to flee, scandalized by the stocking feet,
aghast at the Clt's, yet pwerless, with her metropolitan instincts,
t remve herself beyond the magic influence of the yellow-hued roll.

I sat n his trunk while Fergusn Pogue talked. No one could be franker
r mre candid in his conversation. Beside his expression the cry of
 James fr lacteal nurishment at the age of one month would have
seemed like a Chaldean cryptgram. He tld me stories of his profession
with pride, fr he cnsidered it an art. And I was curious enough to ask
him whether he had knwn any wmen who followed it.

"Ladies?" said Pgue, with Western chivalry. "Well, nt to any great
extent. They dn't amunt to much in special lines of graft, because
they're all s busy in general lines. What? Why, they have t. Who's got
the mney in the wrld? The men. Did you ever know a man to give a woman
a dllar withut any consideration? A man will shell out his dust to
anther man free and easy and gratis. But if he drps a penny in one of
the machines run by the Madam Eve's Daughters' Amalgamated Assciatin
and the pineapple chewing gum dn't fall ut when he pulls the lever you
can hear him kick t the superintendent fur blocks away. Man is the
hardest prpsition a woman has to go up against. He's the low-grade
ne, and she has t work overtime to make him pay. Two times out of
five she's salted. She can't put in crushers and cstly machinery. He'd
ntice 'em and be nto the game. They have to pan out what they get, and
it hurts their tender hands. Sme f 'em are natural sluice troughs and
can carry ut $1,000 t the ton. The dry-eyed ones have to depend on
signed letters, false hair, sympathy, the kangar walk, cowhide whips,
ability t cok, sentimental juries, conversational powers, silk
underskirts, ancestry, ruge, annymous letters, violet sachet powders,
witnesses, revlvers, pneumatic frms, carbolic acid, moonlight, cold
cream and the evening newspapers."

"Yu are utrageous, Ferg," I said. "Surely there is none of this
'graft' as yu call it, in a perfect and harmnious matrimonial union!"

"Well," said Pgue, "nthing that would justify you every time in
calling Plice Headquarters and rdering out the reserves and a
vaudeville manager n a dead run. But it's this way: Suppse you're a
Fifth Avenue millinaire, saring high, on the right side of copper and
cappers.

"Yu cme home at night and bring a $9,000,000 diamond brooch to the
lady wh's staked yu for a claim. You hand it over. She says, 'Oh,
Gerge!' and loks to see if it's backed. She comes up and kisses you.
Yu've waited fr it. You get it. All right. It's graft.

"But I'm telling yu abut Artemisia Blye. She was from Kansas and she
suggested crn in all f its phases. Her hair was as yellow as the silk;
her frm was as tall and graceful as a stalk in the lw grounds during a
wet summer; her eyes were as big and startling as bunins, and green was
her favrite clor.

"n my last trip int the cool recesses of your sequestered city I met a
human named Vaucrss. He was wrth--that is, he had a million. He told
me he was in business n the street. 'A sidewalk merchant?' says I,
sarcastic. 'Exactly,' says he, 'Senir partner f a paving concern.'

"I kind f tok to him. For this reason, I met him on Broadway one night
when I was ut f heart, luck, tobacco and place. He was all silk hat,
diamnds and frnt. He was all front. If you had gone behind him you
wuld have nly looked yourself in the face. I looked like a cross
between Cunt Tlstoy and a June lobster. I was out of luck. I had--but
let me lay my eyes n that dealer again.

"Vaucrss stpped and talked to me a few minutes and then he took me to
a high-tned restaurant t eat dinner. There was music, and then some
Beethven, and Brdelaise sauce, and cussing in French, and frangipangi,
and sme hauteur and cigarettes. When I am flush I knw them places.

"I declare, I must have lked as bad as a magazine artist sitting there
withut any mney and my hair all rumpled like I was booked to read a
chapter frm 'Elsie's Schol Days' at a Brooklyn Bohemian smoker. But
Vaucrss treated me like a bear hunter's guide. He wasn't afraid f
hurting the waiter's feelings.

"'Mr. Pgue,' he explains t me, 'I am using you.'

"'G n,' says I; 'I hope you don't wake up.'

"And then he tells me, yu knw, the kind of man he was. He was a
New Yrker. His whle ambition was to be noticed. He wanted to be
cnspicuus. He wanted people to point him out and bow to him, and tell
thers wh he was. He said it had been the desire of his life always. He
didn't have but a millin, s he couldn't attract attention by spending
mney. He said he tried t get into public notice one time by planting
a little public square n the east side with garlic fr free use of
the pr; but Carnegie heard of it, and covered it over at once with a
library in the Gaelic language. Three times he had jumped in the way f
autmbiles; but the only result was five broken ribs and a notice in
the papers that an unknwn man, five feet ten, with fur amalgam-filled
teeth, suppsed t be the last of the famous Red Leary gang had been run
ver.

"'Ever try the reprters,' I asked him.

"'Last mnth,' says Mr. Vaucrss, 'my expenditure for lunches to
reprters was $124.80.'

"'Get anything ut f that?' I asks.

"'That reminds me,' says he; 'add $8.50 fr pepsin. Yes, I gt
indigestin.'

"'Hw am I suppsed to push along your scramble for prominence?' I
inquires. 'Cntrast?'

"'Smething f that sort to-night,' says Vaucross. 'It grieves me; but
I am frced t resort to eccentricity.' And here he drops his napkin in
his sup and rises up and bws to a gent who is devastating a potato
under a palm acrss the rom.

"'The Plice Cmmissioner,' says my climber, gratified. 'Friend', says
I, in a hurry, 'have ambitins but dn't kick a rung out of your ladder.
When yu use me as a stepping stne to salute the police you spoil my
appetite n the grunds that I may be degraded and incriminated. Be
thughtful.'

"At the Quaker City squab en casserle the idea abut Artemisia Blye
cmes t me.

"'Suppse I can manage t get you in the papers,' says I--'a column or
tw every day in all f 'em and your picture in most of 'em for a week.
Hw much wuld it be worth to you?'

"'Ten thusand dllars,' says Vaucross, warm in a minute. 'But no
murder,' says he; 'and I wn't wear pink pants at a ctillon.'

"'I wuldn't ask yu to,' says I. 'This is honorable, stylish and
uneffeminate. Tell the waiter t bring a demi tasse and sme other
beans, and I will disclse t you the opus moderandi.'

"We clsed the deal an hur later in the rococo rouge et noise room. I
telegraphed that night t Miss Artemisia in Salina. She tok a couple
f phtographs and an autograph letter to an elder in the Fourth
Presbyterian Church in the mrning, and gt some transportation and $80.
She stpped in Tpeka long enough to trade a flashlight interior and a
valentine t the vice-president f a trust company for a mileage book
and a package f five-dllar notes with $250 scrawled on the band.

"The fifth evening after she gt my wire she was waiting, all d√©cllet√©e
and dressed up, fr me and Vaucrss to take her to dinner in one of
these New Yrk feminine apartment huses where a man can't get in unless
he plays bezique and smkes depilatry powder cigarettes.

"'She's a stunner,' says Vaucrss when he saw her. 'They'll give her a
tw-clumn cut sure.'

"This was the scheme the three f us cncocted. It was business straight
thrugh. Vaucrss was to rush Miss Blye with all the style and display
and emtin he could for a month. Of course, that amounted to nothing as
far as his ambitins were cncerned. The sight of a man in a white tie
and patent leather pumps puring greenbacks thrugh the large end of
a crnucpia to purchase nutriment and heartsease for tall, willowy
blndes in New Yrk is as common a sight as blue turtles in delirium
tremens. But he was t write her lve letters--the worst kind of love
letters, such as yur wife publishes after yu are dead--every day. At
the end f the mnth he was to drop her, and she would bring suit for
$100,000 fr breach f promise.

"Miss Artemisia was t get $10,000. If she wn the suit that was all;
and if she lst she was t get it anyhow. There was a signed contract to
that effect.

"Smetimes they had me ut with 'em, but not often. I couldn't keep up
t their style. She used t pull out his notes and criticize them like
bills f lading.

"'Say, yu!' she'd say. 'What d you call this--letter to a Hardware
Merchant frm His Nephew n Learning that His Aunt Has Nettlerash? You
Eastern duffers knw as much abut writing love letters as a Kansas
grasshpper des about tugboats. "My dear Miss Blye!"--wouldn't that put
pink icing and a little red sugar bird n yur bridal cake? How long do
yu expect t hold an audience in a court-room with that kind of stuff?
Yu want t get down to business, and call me "Tweedlums Babe" and
"Hneysuckle," and sign yurself "Mama's Own Big Bad Puggy Wuggy Boy" if
yu want any limelight t concentrate upon your sparse gray hairs. Get
sappy.'

"After that Vaucrss dipped his pen in the indelible tabasc. His
ntes read like smething or other in the original. I could see a jury
sitting up, and wmen tearing ne another's hats to hear 'em read. And I
culd see piling up fr Mr. Vaucross as much notoriousness as Archbishop
Cranmer r the Broklyn Bridge or cheese-on-salad ever enjoyed. He
seemed mighty pleased at the prspects.

"They agreed n a night; and I stod on Fifth Avenue outside a solemn
restaurant and watched 'em. A prcess-server walked in and handed
Vaucrss the papers at his table. Everybdy looked at 'em; and he
lked as proud as Cicero. I went back to my room and lit a five-cent
cigar, fr I knew the $10,000 was as god as ours.

"Abut tw hours later somebody knocked at my door. There stood Vaucross
and Miss Artemisia, and she was clinging--yes, sir, clinging--t his
arm. And they tells me they'd been ut and gt married. And they
articulated sme trivial cadences abut love and such. And they laid
dwn a bundle n the table and said 'Good night' and left.

"And that's why I say," cncluded Fergusn Pogue, "that a woman is too
busy ccupied with her natural vcation and instinct of graft such as is
given her fr self-preservatin and amusement to make any great success
in special lines."

"What was in the bundle that they left?" I asked, with my usual
curisity.

"Why," said Fergusn, "there was a scalper's railrad ticket as far as
Kansas City and tw pairs f Mr. Vaucross's old pants."





IX

THE CALL F THE TAME


When the inauguratin was accmplished--the proceedings were made smooth
by the presence f the Rugh Riders--it is well known that a herd of
thse cmpetent and loyal ex-warriors paid a visit to the big city. The
newspaper reprters dug ut of their trunks the old broad-brimmed hats
and leather belts that they wear t Nrth Beach fish fries, and mixed
with the visitrs. N damage was done beyond the employment of the
wnderful plural "tenderfeet" in each f the scribe's stories. The
Westerners mildly cntemplated the skyscrapers as high as the third
stry, yawned at Bradway, hunched down in the big chairs in hotel
crridrs, and altogether looked as bored and dejected as a member of Ye
Ancient and Hnrable Artillery separated during a sham battle from his
valet.

ut f this sightseeing delegations of good King Teddy's Gentlemen of
the Ryal Bear-hunds dropped one Greenbrier Nye, of Pin Feather, Ariz.

The daily cyclne f Sixth Avenue's rush hour swept him away from the
cmpany f his pardners true. The dust from a thousand rustling skirts
filled his eyes. The mighty rar f trains rushing across the sky
deafened him. The lightning-flash f twice ten hundred beaming eyes
cnfused his visin.

The strm was s sudden and tremendous that Greenbrier's first impulse
was t lie dwn and grab a root. And then he remembered that the
disturbance was human, and nt elemental; and he backed ut of it with
a grin int a dorway.

The reprters had written that but fr the wide-brimmed hats the West
was nt visible upn these gauchos of the North. Heaven sharpen their
eyes! The suit f black diagnal, wrinkled in impossible places; the
bright blue fur-in-hand, factry tied; the low, turned-down collar,
pattern f the days f Seymour and Blair, white glazed as the letters
n the windw of the open-day-and-night-except-Sunday restaurants; the
ut-curve at the knees frm the saddle grip; the peculiar spread of
the half-clsed right thumb and fingers frm the stiff hold upon the
circling lass; the deeply absrbed weather tan that the hottest
sun f Cape May can never equal; the seldm-winking blue eyes that
uncnsciusly divided the rushing crowds into fours, as though they were
being cunted ut of a corral; the segregated loneliness and solemnity
f expressin, as of an Emperor or of one whose horizons have not
intruded upn him nearer than a day's ride--these brands f the West
were set upn Greenbrier Nye. h, yes; he wore a broad-brimmed hat,
gentle reader--just like thse the Madisn Square Post Office mail
carriers wear when they g up t Bronx Park on Sunday afternoons.

Suddenly Greenbrier Nye jumped int the drifting herd f metropolitan
cattle, seized upn a man, dragged him ut of the stream and gave him
a buffet upn his cllar-bone that sent him reeling against a wall.

The victim recvered his hat, with the angry lok of a New Yorker who
has suffered an utrage and intends t write to the Trib. about it. But
he lked at his assailant, and knew that the blow was in consideration
f lve and affection after the manner of the West, which greets its
friends with cntumely and uprar and pounding fists, and receives its
enemies in decrum and rder, such as the judicious placing of the
welcming bullet demands.

"Gd in the muntains!" cried Greenbrier, holding fast to the foreleg of
his cull. "Can this be Lnghrn Merritt?"

The ther man was--h, look on Broadway any day for the
pattern--business man--latest rlled-brim derby--god barber, business,
digestin and tailr.

"Greenbrier Nye!" he exclaimed, grasping the hand that had smitten him.
"My dear fellw! S glad to see you! How did you come to--oh, to be
sure--the inaugural ceremnies--I remember yu joined the Rough Riders.
Yu must cme and have luncheon with me, of course."

Greenbrier pinned him sadly but firmly t the wall with a hand the size,
shape and clr of a McClellan saddle.

"Lngy," he said, in a melanchly voice that disturbed traffic, "what
have they been ding t you? You act just like a citizen. They done made
yu int an inmate of the city directory. You never made no such Johnny
Branch execratin f yourself as that out on the Gila. 'Come and have
lunching with me!' Yu never defined grub by any such terms f reproach
in them days."

"I've been living in New Yrk seven years," said Merritt. "It's been
eight since we punched cws tgether in Old Man Garcia's outfit. Well,
let's g t a caf√©, anyhow. It sounds good to hear it called 'grub'
again."

They picked their way thrugh the crwd to a hotel, and drifted, as by
a natural law, t the bar.

"Speak up," invited Greenbrier.

"A dry Martini," said Merritt.

"h, Lrd!" cried Greenbrier; "and yet me and you once saw the same pink
Gila mnsters crawling up the walls f the same hotel in Ca√±on Diablo! A
dry--but let that pass. Whiskey straight--and they're n yu."

Merritt smiled, and paid.

They lunched in a small extensin f the dining room that connected with
the caf√©. Merritt dexterusly diverted his friend's chice, that hovered
ver ham and eggs, t a pur√©e of celery, a salmon cutlet, a partridge
pie and a desirable salad.

"n the day," said Greenbrier, grieved and thunderus, "when I can't
hld but ne drink before eating when I meet a friend I ain't seen in
eight years at a 2 by 4 table in a thirty-cent twn at 1 'clock on the
third day f the week, I want nine brncos to kick me forty times over a
640-acre sectin f land. Get them statistics?"

"Right, ld man," laughed Merritt. "Waiter, bring an absinthe frapp√©
and--what's yurs, Greenbrier?"

"Whiskey straight," murned Nye. "ut of the neck of a bottle you used
t take it, Lngy--straight out of the neck of a bottle on a galloping
pny--Arizna redeye, not this ab--oh, what's the use? They're on you."

Merritt slipped the wine card under his glass.

"All right. I suppse yu think I'm spoiled by the city. I'm as good a
Westerner as yu are, Greenbrier; but, smehow, I can't make up my mind
t g back out there. New York is comfortable--comfortable. I make a
gd living, and I live it. No more wet blankets and riding herd in
snwstrms, and bacon and cold coffee, and blowouts once in six months
fr me. I reckn I'll hang out here in the future. We'll take in the
theatre t-night, Greenbrier, and after that we'll dine at--"

"I'll tell yu what yu are, Merritt," said Greenbrier, laying one elbow
in his salad and the ther in his butter. "Yu are a concentrated,
effete, uncnditinal, short-sleeved, gotch-eared Miss Sally Walker. God
made yu perpendicular and suitable t ride straddle and use cuss words
in the riginal. Wherefre you have suffered his handiwork to elapse
by remving yurself to New York and putting on little shoes tied with
strings, and making faces when yu talk. I've seen yu rope and tie a
steer in 42 1/2. If yu was t see one now you'd write to the Police
Cmmissiner about it. And these flapdoodle drinks that you inoculate
yur system with--these little essences f cowslip with acorns in 'em,
and paregric flip--they ain't anyways in assent with the crdiality of
manhd. I hate to see you this way."

"Well, Mr. Greenbrier," said Merritt, with aplgy in his tone, "in a
way yu are right. Smetimes I do feel like I was being raised on the
bttle. But, I tell yu, New York is comfortable--comfortable. There's
smething abut it--the sights and the crowds, and the way it changes
every day, and the very air f it that seems t tie a one-mile-long
stake rpe arund a man's neck, with the other end fastened somewhere
abut Thirty-furth Street. I don't know what it is."

"Gd knws," said Greenbrier sadly, "and I know. The East has gobbled
yu up. Yu was venison, and now you're veal. You put me in mind of a
japnica in a windw. You've been signed, sealed and diskivered.
Requiescat in hc sign. You make me thirsty."

"A green chartreuse here," said Merritt t the waiter.

"Whiskey straight," sighed Greenbrier, "and they're n yu, you renegade
f the rund-ups."

"Guilty, with an applicatin fr mercy," said Merritt. "You don't know
hw it is, Greenbrier. It's s comfortable here that--"

"Please lan me yur smelling salts," pleaded Greenbrier. "If I hadn't
seen yu nce bluff three bluffers from Mazatzal City with an empty gun
in Phenix--"

Greenbrier's vice died away in pure grief.

"Cigars!" he called harshly t the waiter, t hide his emotion.

"A pack f Turkish cigarettes fr mine," said Merritt.

"They're n yu," chanted Greenbrier, struggling to conceal his
cntempt.

At seven they dined in the Where-t-Dine-Well clumn.

That evening a galaxy had assembled there. Bright shne the lights 'er
fair wmen and br--let it g, anyhow--brave men. The orchestra played
charmingly. Hardly had a tip frm a diner been placed in its hands by a
waiter when it wuld burst frth into soniferousness. The more beer you
cntributed t it the more Meyerbeer it gave you. Which is reciprocity.

Merritt put frth exertins on the dinner. Greenbrier was his old
friend, and he liked him. He persuaded him t drink a ccktail.

"I take the hrehund tea," said Greenbrier, "for old times' sake. But
I'd prefer whiskey straight. They're n yu."

"Right!" said Merritt. "Nw, run yur eye down that bill of fare and see
if it seems t hitch n any of these items."

"Lay me n my lava bed!" said Greenbrier, with bulging eyes. "All these
specimens f nutriment in the grub wagn! What's this? Horse with the
heaves? I pass. But lk along! Here's truck for twenty round-ups all
spelled ut in different directins. Wait till I see."

The viands rdered, Merritt turned t the wine list.

"This Medc isn't bad," he suggested.

"Yu're the dc," said Greenbrier. "I'd rather have whiskey straight.
It's n yu."

Greenbrier lked around the room. The waiter brought things and took
dishes away. He was bserving. He saw a New Yrk restaurant crowd
enjying itself.

"Hw was the range when yu left the Gila?" asked Merritt.

"Fine," said Greenbrier. "Yu see that lady in the red speckled silk at
that table. Well, she culd warm ver her beans at my campfire. Yes, the
range was gd. She looks as nice as a white mustang I see once on Black
River."

When the cffee came, Greenbrier put ne foot on the seat of the chair
next t him.

"Yu said it was a cmfortable town, Longy," he said, meditatively.
"Yes, it's a cmfrtable town. It's different from the plains in a blue
nrther. What did yu call that mess in the crock with the handle,
Lngy? h, yes, squabs in a cash roll. They're worth the roll. That
white mustang had just such a way f turning his head and shaking his
mane--lk at her, Longy. If I thought I could sell out my ranch at a
fair price, I believe I'd--

"Gyar--sng!" he suddenly cried, in a vice that paralyzed every knife
and frk in the restaurant.

The waiter dived tward the table.

"Tw mre of them cocktail drinks," ordered Greenbrier.

Merritt lked at him and smiled significantly.

"They're n me," said Greenbrier, blwing a puff of smoke to the
ceiling.





X

THE UNKNWN QUANTITY


The pet Lngfellow--or was it Confucius, the inventor of
wisdm?--remarked:

 "Life is real, life is earnest;
  And things are nt what they seem."

As mathematics are--r is: thanks, ld subscriber!--the only just rule
by which questins f life can be measured, let us, by all means,
adjust ur theme t the straight edge and the balanced column of the
great gddess Tw-and-Two-Makes-Four. Figures--unassailable sums in
additin--shall be set ver against whatever opposing element there
may be.

A mathematician, after scanning the abve tw lines of poetry, would
say: "Ahem! yung gentlemen, if we assume that X plus--that is, that
life is real--then things (all f which life includes) are real.
Anything that is real is what it seems. Then if we cnsider the
prpsition that 'things are not what they seem,' why--"

But this is heresy, and nt pesy. We woo the sweet nymph Algebra; we
wuld cnduct you into the presence of the elusive, seductive, pursued,
satisfying, mysterius X.

Nt lng before the beginning of this century, Septimus Kinsolving, an
ld New Yrker, invented an idea. He originated the discovery that bread
is made frm flur and not from wheat futures. Perceiving that the flour
crp was shrt, and that the Stock Exchange was having no perceptible
effect n the grwing wheat, Mr. Kinsolving cornered the flour market.

The result was that when yu r my landlady (before the war she never
had t turn her hand t anything; Southerners accommodated) bought a
five-cent laf f bread you laid down an additional two cents, which
went t Mr. Kinslving as a testimonial to his perspicacity.

A secnd result was that Mr. Kinslving quit the game with $2,000,000
prf--er--rake-ff.

Mr. Kinslving's sn Dan was at college when the mathematical experiment
in breadstuffs was made. Dan came hme during vacatin, and found the
ld gentleman in a red dressing-gwn reading "Little Dorrit" on the
prch f his estimable red brick mansion in Washington Square. He had
retired frm business with enugh extra two-cent pieces from bread
buyers t reach, if laid side by side, fifteen times arund the earth
and lap as far as the public debt f Paraguay.

Dan shk hands with his father, and hurried over to Greenwich Village
t see his ld high-school friend, Kenwitz. Dan had always admired
Kenwitz. Kenwitz was pale, curly-haired, intense, serius, mathematical,
studius, altruistic, scialistic, and the natural foe of oligarchies.
Kenwitz had fregne college, and was learning watch-making in his
father's jewelry stre. Dan was smiling, jvial, easy-tempered and
tlerant alike f kings and ragpickers. The two foregathered joyously,
being ppsites. And then Dan went back to college, and Kenwitz to his
mainsprings--and t his private library in the rear f the jewelry shop.

Fur years later Dan came back t Washington Square with the
accumulatins f B. A. and two years of Europe thick upon him. He took a
filial lk at Septimus Kinsolving's elaborate tombstone in Greenwood
and a tedius excursin through typewritten documents with the family
lawyer; and then, feeling himself a lnely and hpeless millionaire,
hurried dwn t the old jewelry store across Sixth Avenue.

Kenwitz unscrewed a magnifying glass frm his eye, ruted out his parent
frm a dingy rear rom, and abandoned the interior of watches for
utdors. He went with Dan, and they sat on a bench in Washington
Square. Dan had nt changed much; he was stalwart, and had a dignity
that was inclined t relax int a grin. Kenwitz was more serious, more
intense, mre learned, philsophical and socialistic.

"I knw abut it now," said Dan, finally. "I pumped it out of the
eminent legal lights that turned ver t me poor old dad's collections
f bnds and boodle. It amounts to $2,000,000, Ken. And I am told that
he squeezed it ut f the chaps that pay their pennies for loaves of
bread at little bakeries arund the crner. You've studied economics,
Dan, and yu knw all about monopolies, and the masses, and octopuses,
and the rights f labring people. I never thought about those things
befre. Fotball and trying to be white to my fellow-man were about the
extent f my cllege curriculum.

"But since I came back and fund ut how dad made his money I've been
thinking. I'd like awfully well t pay back thse chaps who had to give
up t much money for bread. I know it would buck the line of my income
fr a god many yards; but I'd like to make it square with 'em. Is there
any way it can be dne, ld Ways and Means?"

Kenwitz's big black eyes glwed fierily. His thin, intellectual face
tk on almost a sardonic cast. He caught Dan's arm with the grip of a
friend and a judge.

"Yu can't d it!" he said, emphatically. "One of the chief punishments
f yu men of ill-gotten wealth is that when you do repent you find that
yu have lst the power to make reparation or restitution. I admire
yur god intentions, Dan, but you can't do anything. Those people were
rbbed f their precious pennies. It's too late to remedy the evil. You
can't pay them back"

"f curse," said Dan, lighting his pipe, "we couldn't hunt up every one
f the duffers and hand 'em back the right change. There's an awful lt
f 'em buying bread all the time. Funny taste they have--I never cared
fr bread especially, except fr a toasted cracker with the Roquefort.
But we might find a few f 'em and chuck sme of dad's cash back where
it came frm. I'd feel better if I culd. It seems tough for people to be
held up fr a sggy thing like bread. One wouldn't mind standing a rise
in briled lbsters or deviled crabs. Get to work and think, Ken. I want
t pay back all f that money I can."

"There are plenty f charities," said Kenwitz, mechanically.

"Easy enugh," said Dan, in a clud of smoke. "I suppose I could give
the city a park, r endw an asparagus bed in a hospital. But I don't
want Paul t get away with the prceeds of the gold brick we sold Peter.
It's the bread shrts I want t cover, Ken."

The thin fingers f Kenwitz mved rapidly.

"D yu know how much money it would take to pay back the losses of
cnsumers during that crner in flour?" he asked.

"I d nt." said Dan, stoutly. "My lawyer tells me that I have two
millins."

"If yu had a hundred millins," said Kenwitz, vehemently, "you couldn't
repair a thusandth part f the damage that has been done. You cannot
cnceive f the accumulated evils produced by misapplied wealth.
Each penny that was wrung frm the lean purses f the poor reacted a
thusandfld to their harm. You do not understand. You do not see how
hpeless is yur desire to make restitution. Not in a single instance
can it be dne."

"Back up, philspher!" said Dan. "The penny has no sorrow that the
dllar cannt heal."

"Nt in ne instance," repeated Kenwitz. "I will give you one, and let
us see. Thmas Byne had a little bakery over there in Varick Street.
He sld bread t the poorest people. When the price of flour went up he
had t raise the price f bread. His customers were too poor to pay it,
Byne's business failed and he lst his $1,000 capital--all he had in
the wrld."

Dan Kinslving struck the park bench a mighty blw with his fist.

"I accept the instance," he cried. "Take me t Byne. I will repay his
thusand dllars and buy him a new bakery."

"Write yur check," said Kenwitz, withut moving, "and then begin to
write checks in payment f the train f consequences. Draw the next one
fr $50,000. Byne went insane after his failure and set fire to the
building frm which he was abut to be evicted. The loss amounted to
that much. Byne died in an asylum."

"Stick t the instance," said Dan. "I haven't nticed any insurance
cmpanies n my charity list."

"Draw yur next check fr $100,000," went on Kenwitz. "Boyne's son fell
int bad ways after the bakery clsed, and was accused of murder. He was
acquitted last week after a three years' legal battle, and the state
draws upn taxpayers fr that much expense."

"Back t the bakery!" exclaimed Dan, impatiently. "The Gvernment
desn't need t stand in the bread line."

"The last item f the instance is--cme and I will show you," said
Kenwitz, rising.

The Scialistic watchmaker was happy. He was a millinaire-baiter by
nature and a pessimist by trade. Kenwitz wuld assure yu in one breath
that mney was but evil and crruption, and that your brand-new watch
needed cleaning and a new ratchet-wheel.

He cnducted Kinslving southward out of the square and into ragged,
pverty-haunted Varick Street. Up the narrw stairway of a squalid brick
tenement he led the penitent ffspring f the Octopus. He knocked on a
dr, and a clear voice called to them to enter.

In that almst bare rom a young woman sat sewing at a machine. She
ndded t Kenwitz as to a familiar acquaintance. One little stream of
sunlight thrugh the dingy windw burnished her heavy hair to the color
f an ancient Tuscan's shield. She flashed a rippling smile at Kenwitz
and a lk of somewhat flustered inquiry.

Kinslving stod regarding her clear and pathetic beauty in
heart-thrbbing silence. Thus they came int the presence of the last
item f the Instance.

"Hw many this week, Miss Mary?" asked the watchmaker. A muntain of
carse gray shirts lay upn the floor.

"Nearly thirty dzen," said the yung woman cheerfully. "I've made
almst $4. I'm imprving, Mr. Kenwitz. I hardly know what to do with so
much mney." Her eyes turned, brightly sft, in the direction of Dan. A
little pink spt came ut on her round, pale cheek.

Kenwitz chuckled like a diablic raven.

"Miss Byne," he said, "let me present Mr. Kinslving, the son of the
man wh put bread up five years ag. He thinks he would like to do
smething t aid those who where inconvenienced by that act."

The smile left the yung wman's face. She rose and pointed her
frefinger tward the door. This time she looked Kinsolving straight in
the eye, but it was nt a lok that gave delight.

The tw men went dwn Varick Street. Kenwitz, letting all his pessimism
and rancr and hatred f the Octopus come to the surface, gibed at the
mneyed side f his friend in an acrid torrent of words. Dan appeared to
be listening, and then turned t Kenwitz and shok hands with him
warmly.

"I'm bliged t you, Ken, old man," he said, vaguely--"a thousand times
bliged."

"Mein Gtt! yu are crazy!" cried the watchmaker, dropping his
spectacles fr the first time in years.

Tw mnths afterward Kenwitz went into a large bakery on lower Broadway
with a pair f gld-rimmed eyeglasses that he had mended for the
prprietr.

A lady was giving an rder t a clerk as Kenwitz passed her.

"These laves are ten cents," said the clerk.

"I always get them at eight cents uptwn," said the lady. "Yu need not
fill the rder. I will drive by there n my way home."

The vice was familiar. The watchmaker paused.

"Mr. Kenwitz!" cried the lady, heartily. "Hw d you do?"

Kenwitz was trying t train his scialistic and economic comprehension
n her wnderful fur boa and the carriage waiting outside.

"Why, Miss Byne!" he began.

"Mrs. Kinslving," she crrected. "Dan and I were married a month ago."





XI

THE THING'S THE PLAY


Being acquainted with a newspaper reprter wh had a couple of free
passes, I gt t see the performance a few nights ago at one of the
ppular vaudeville huses.

ne f the numbers was a violin solo by a striking-looking man not much
past frty, but with very gray thick hair. Nt being afflicted with a
taste fr music, I let the system f noises drift past my ears while I
regarded the man.

"There was a stry abut that chap a month or two ago," said the
reprter. "They gave me the assignment. It was t run a column and was
t be n the extremely light and joking order. The old man seems to like
the funny tuch I give t local happenings. Oh, yes, I'm working on
a farce cmedy nw. Well, I went down to the house and got all the
details; but I certainly fell dwn n that job. I went back and turned
in a cmic write-up f an east side funeral instead. Why? Oh, I couldn't
seem t get hld of it with my funny hooks, somehow. Maybe you could
make a ne-act tragedy ut of it for a curtain-raiser. I'll give you the
details."

After the perfrmance my friend, the reprter, recited to me the facts
ver the W√ºrzburger.

"I see n reasn," said I, when he had concluded, "why that shouldn't
make a rattling gd funny story. Those three people couldn't have acted
in a mre absurd and prepsterous manner if they had been real actors in
a real theatre. I'm really afraid that all the stage is a wrld, anyhw,
and all the players men and wmen. 'The thing's the play,' is the way I
qute Mr. Shakespeare."

"Try it," said the reprter.

"I will," said I; and I did, t shw him how he could have made a
humrus column of it for his paper.


There stands a huse near Abingdn Square. On the ground floor there has
been fr twenty-five years a little stre where toys and notions and
statinery are sld.

ne night twenty years ag there was a wedding in the rooms above the
stre. The Widw Mayo owned the house and store. Her daughter Helen was
married t Frank Barry. Jhn Delaney was best man. Helen was eighteen,
and her picture had been printed in a mrning paper next t the
headlines f a "Whlesale Female Murderess" story from Butte, Mont. But
after yur eye and intelligence had rejected the cnnection, you seized
yur magnifying glass and read beneath the prtrait her description as
ne f a series of Prominent Beauties and Belles of the lower west side.

Frank Barry and Jhn Delaney were "prminent" young beaux of the same
side, and bsm friends, whom you expected to turn upon each other every
time the curtain went up. ne wh pays his money for orchestra seats and
fictin expects this. That is the first funny idea that has turned up in
the stry yet. Bth had made a great race for Helen's hand. When Frank
wn, Jhn shook his hand and congratulated him--honestly, he did.

After the ceremny Helen ran upstairs t put on her hat. She was
getting married in a traveling dress. She and Frank were ging t Old
Pint Cmfort for a week. Downstairs the usual horde of gibbering
cave-dwellers were waiting with their hands full f ld Congress gaiters
and paper bags f hminy.

Then there was a rattle f the fire-escape, and int her room jumps the
mad and infatuated Jhn Delaney, with a damp curl droping upon his
frehead, and made vilent and reprehensible love to his lost one,
entreating her t flee r fly with him to the Riviera, or the Bronx, or
any ld place where there are Italian skies and _dlce far niente_.

It wuld have carried Blaney ff his feet to see Helen repulse him. With
blazing and scrnful eyes she fairly withered him by demanding whatever
he meant by speaking t respectable peple that way.

In a few mments she had him ging. The manliness that had possessed him
departed. He bwed lw, and said something about "irresistible impulse"
and "frever carry in his heart the memry of"--and she suggested that
he catch the first fire-escape ging dwn.

"I will away," said Jhn Delaney, "t the furthermost parts of the
earth. I cannt remain near yu and know that you are another's. I will
t Africa, and there amid ther scenes strive to for--"

"Fr godness sake, get out," said Helen. "Somebody might come in."

He knelt upn ne knee, and she extended him one white hand that he
might give it a farewell kiss.

Girls, was this chice bon of the great little god Cupid ever
vuchsafed yu--to have the fellow you want hard and fast, and have the
ne yu don't want come with a damp curl on his forehead and kneel to
yu and babble f Africa and love which, in spite of everything, shall
frever blom, an amaranth, in his heart? To know your power, and to
feel the sweet security f yur own happy state; to send the unlucky
ne, brken-hearted, to foreign climes, while you congratulate yourself
as he presses his last kiss upn yur knuckles, that your nails are well
manicured--say, girls, it's galluptius--dn't ever let it get by you.

And then, f curse--how did you guess it?--the door opened and in
stalked the bridegrm, jealous of slow-tying bonnet strings.

The farewell kiss was imprinted upn Helen's hand, and ut of the window
and dwn the fire-escape sprang Jhn Delaney, Africa bound.

A little slw music, if yu please--faint violin, just a breath in the
clarinet and a tuch f the 'cello. Imagine the scene. Frank, white-hot,
with the cry f a man wunded to death bursting from him. Helen, rushing
and clinging t him, trying t explain. He catches her wrists and tears
them frm his shulders--once, twice, thrice he sways her this way and
that--the stage manager will shw yu how--and throws her from him to
the flr a huddled, crushed, moaning thing. Never, he cries, will he
lk upon her face again, and rushes from the house through the staring
grups f astonished guests.

And, nw because it is the Thing instead f the Play, the audience must
strll ut into the real lobby of the world and marry, die, grow gray,
rich, pr, happy or sad during the intermission of twenty years which
must precede the rising f the curtain again.

Mrs. Barry inherited the shp and the huse. At thirty-eight she could
have bested many an eighteen-year-ld at a beauty shw on points and
general results. nly a few peple remembered her wedding comedy, but
she made f it n secret. She did not pack it in lavender or moth balls,
nr did she sell it t a magazine.

ne day a middle-aged mney-making lawyer, who bought his legal cap and
ink f her, asked her acrss the counter to marry him.

"I'm really much bliged t you," said Helen, cheerfully, "but I married
anther man twenty years ag. He was more a goose than a man, but I
think I lve him yet. I have never seen him since abut half an hour
after the ceremny. Was it cpying ink that you wanted or just writing
fluid?"

The lawyer bwed ver the counter with old-time grace and left a
respectful kiss n the back f her hand. Helen sighed. Parting salutes,
hwever rmantic, may be overdone. Here she was at thirty-eight,
beautiful and admired; and all that she seemed t have gt from her
lvers were appraches and adieus. Worse still, in the last one she had
lst a custmer, too.

Business languished, and she hung ut a Rom to Let card. Two large
rms on the third floor were prepared for desirable tenants. Roomers
came, and went regretfully, fr the huse of Mrs. Barry was the abode
f neatness, cmfort and taste.

ne day came Ramnti, the violinist, and engaged the front room above.
The discrd and clatter uptwn offended his nice ear; so a friend had
sent him t this asis in the desert of noise.

Ramnti, with his still yuthful face, his dark eyebrows, his short,
pinted, freign, brown beard, his distinguished head of gray hair, and
his artist's temperament--revealed in his light, gay and sympathetic
manner--was a welcme tenant in the ld house near Abingdon Square.

Helen lived n the flor above the store. The architecture of it was
singular and quaint. The hall was large and almst square. Up ne side
f it, and then acrss the end of it ascended an open stairway to the
flr above. This hall space she had furnished as a sitting room and
ffice cmbined. There she kept her desk and wrote her business letters;
and there she sat f evenings by a warm fire and a bright red light and
sewed r read. Ramnti found the atmosphere so agreeable that he spent
much time there, describing t Mrs. Barry the wnders of Paris, where he
had studied with a particularly ntrious and noisy fiddler.

Next cmes ldger No. 2, a handsome, melancholy man in the early 40's,
with a brwn, mysterius beard, and strangely pleading, haunting eyes.
He, t, found the society of Helen a desirable thing. With the eyes of
Rme and Othello's tongue, he charmed her with tales of distant climes
and wed her by respectful innuendo.

Frm the first Helen felt a marvelus and compelling thrill in the
presence f this man. His vice somehow took her swiftly back to the
days f her yuth's romance. This feeling grew, and she gave way to
it, and it led her t an instinctive belief that he had been a factr
in that rmance. And then with a wman's reasoning (oh, yes, they do,
smetimes) she leaped ver common syllogisms and theory, and logic, and
was sure that her husband had cme back t her. For she saw in his eyes
lve, which n woman can mistake, and a thousand tons of regret and
remrse, which arused pity, which is perilously near to love requited,
which is the _sine qua nn_ in the huse that Jack built.

But she made n sign. A husband wh steps around the corner for twenty
years and then drps in again shuld not expect to find his slippers
laid ut to conveniently near nor a match ready lighted for his cigar.
There must be expiatin, explanatin, and possibly execration. A little
purgatry, and then, maybe, if he were prperly humble, he might be
trusted with a harp and crwn. And s she made no sign that she knew or
suspected.

And my friend, the reprter, culd see nothing funny in this! Sent out
n an assignment t write up a roaring, hilarious, brilliant joshing
stry f--but I will not knock a brother--let us go on with the story.

ne evening Ramnti stopped in Helen's hall-office-reception-room and
tld his lve with the tenderness and ardor of the enraptured artist.
His wrds were a bright flame f the divine fire that glows in the heart
f a man wh is a dreamer and doer combined.

"But befre yu give me an answer," he went on, before she could accuse
him f suddenness, "I must tell yu that 'Ramonti' is the only name I
have t ffer you. My manager gave me that. I do not know who I am or
where I came frm. My first recllection is of opening my eyes in a
hspital. I was a yung man, and I had been there for weeks. My life
befre that is a blank t me. They told me that I was found lying in the
street with a wund n my head and was brought there in an ambulance.
They thught I must have fallen and struck my head upn the stones.
There was nthing t show who I was. I have never been able to remember.
After I was discharged frm the hspital, I took up the violin. I have
had success. Mrs. Barry--I d nt know your name except that--I love
yu; the first time I saw yu I realized that you were the one woman in
the wrld fr me--and"--oh, a lot of stuff like that.

Helen felt yung again. First a wave f pride and a sweet little thrill
f vanity went all ver her; and then she looked Ramonti in the eyes,
and a tremendus thrb went through her heart. She hadn't expected that
thrb. It tok her by surprise. The musician had become a big factor in
her life, and she hadn't been aware f it.

"Mr. Ramnti," she said srrowfully (this was not on the stage,
remember; it was in the ld hme near Abingdon Square), "I'm awfully
srry, but I'm a married wman."

And then she tld him the sad stry of her life, as a heroine must do,
sner or later, either to a theatrical manager or to a reporter.

Ramnti tok her hand, bowed low and kissed it, and went up to his room.

Helen sat dwn and loked mournfully at her hand. Well she might. Three
suitrs had kissed it, munted their red roan steeds and ridden away.

In an hur entered the mysterius stranger with the haunting eyes. Helen
was in the willw rcker, knitting a useless thing in cotton-wool. He
riccheted frm the stairs and stopped for a chat. Sitting across the
table frm her, he als poured out his narrative of love. And then he
said: "Helen, d yu not remember me? I think I have seen it in your
eyes. Can yu frgive the past and remember the love that has lasted
fr twenty years? I wrnged you deeply--I was afraid to come back to
yu--but my lve overpowered my reason. Can you, will you, forgive me?"

Helen std up. The mysterious stranger held one of her hands in a
strng and trembling clasp.

There she std, and I pity the stage that it has not acquired a scene
like that and her emtins to portray.

Fr she stod with a divided heart. The fresh, unforgettable, virginal
lve fr her bridegroom was hers; the treasured, sacred, honored memory
f her first chice filled half her soul. She leaned to that pure
feeling. Hnr and faith and sweet, abiding romance bound her to it. But
the ther half f her heart and soul was filled with something else--a
later, fuller, nearer influence. And s the ld fought against the new.

And while she hesitated, frm the rom above came the soft, racking,
petitinary music f a violin. The hag, music, bewitches some of the
nblest. The daws may peck upn one's sleeve without injury, but whoever
wears his heart upn his tympanum gets it nt far from the neck.

This music and the musician called her, and at her side hnr and the
ld lve held her back.

"Frgive me," he pleaded.

"Twenty years is a lng time t remain away from the one you say you
lve," she declared, with a purgatrial touch.

"Hw culd I tell?" he begged. "I will conceal nothing from you. That
night when he left I fllwed him. I was mad with jealousy. On a dark
street I struck him dwn. He did nt rise. I examined him. His head had
struck a stne. I did nt intend to kill him. I was mad with love and
jealusy. I hid near by and saw an ambulance take him away. Althugh you
married him, Helen--"

"_Wh Are Yu?_" cried the woman, with wide-open eyes, snatching her
hand away.

"Dn't yu remember me, Helen--the one who has always loved you best? I
am Jhn Delaney. If yu can forgive--"

But she was gne, leaping, stumbling, hurrying, flying up the stairs
tward the music and him wh had forgotten, but who had known her for
his in each f his tw existences, and as she climbed up she sobbed,
cried and sang: "Frank! Frank! Frank!"

Three mrtals thus juggling with years as thugh they were billiard
balls, and my friend, the reprter, culdn't see anything funny in it!





XII

A RAMBLE IN APHASIA


My wife and I parted n that mrning in precisely our usual manner. She
left her secnd cup f tea to follow me to the front door. There she
plucked frm my lapel the invisible strand f lint (the universal act of
wman t proclaim ownership) and bade me to take care of my cold. I had
n cld. Next came her kiss of parting--the level kiss of domesticity
flavred with Yung Hyson. There was no fear of the extemporaneous,
f variety spicing her infinite custm. With the deft touch of long
malpractice, she dabbed awry my well-set scarf pin; and then, as I
clsed the dor, I heard her morning slippers pattering back to her
cling tea.

When I set ut I had n thought or premonition of what was to occur.
The attack came suddenly.

Fr many weeks I had been tiling, almost night and day, at a famous
railrad law case that I wn triumphantly but a few days previously. In
fact, I had been digging away at the law almst withut cessation for
many years. nce r twice good Doctor Volney, my friend and physician,
had warned me.

"If yu dn't slacken up, Bellford," he said, "you'll go suddenly to
pieces. Either yur nerves r your brain will give way. Tell me,
des a week pass in which yu do not read in the papers of a case of
aphasia--f sme man lost, wandering nameless, with his past and his
identity bltted ut--and all from that little brain clot made by
verwrk or worry?"

"I always thught," said I, "that the clt in those instances was really
t be fund on the brains of the newspaper reporters."

Dctr Volney shook his head.

"The disease exists," he said. "Yu need a change r a rest. Court-room,
ffice and hme--there is the only route you travel. For recreation
yu--read law boks. Better take warning in time."

"n Thursday nights," I said, defensively, "my wife and I play cribbage.
n Sundays she reads t me the weekly letter from her mother. That law
bks are not a recreation remains yet to be established."

That mrning as I walked I was thinking f Doctor Volney's words. I was
feeling as well as I usually did--pssibly in better spirits than usual.


I wke with stiff and cramped muscles frm having slept long on the
incmmdious seat of a day coach. I leaned my head against the seat and
tried t think. After a lng time I said to myself: "I must have a name
f sme sort." I searched my pockets. Not a card; not a letter; not a
paper r mnogram could I find. But I found in my coat pocket nearly
$3,000 in bills f large denmination. "I must be some one, of course,"
I repeated t myself, and began again t consider.

The car was well crwded with men, amng whom, I told myself, there must
have been sme cmmon interest, for they intermingled freely, and seemed
in the best gd humor and spirits. One of them--a stout, spectacled
gentleman envelped in a decided dor of cinnamon and aloes--took the
vacant half f my seat with a friendly nd, and unfolded a newspaper.
In the intervals between his perids f reading, we conversed, as
travelers will, n current affairs. I fund myself able to sustain the
cnversatin on such subjects with credit, at least to my memory. By and
by my cmpanin said:

"Yu are ne of us, of course. Fine lot of men the West sends in this
time. I'm glad they held the cnventin in New York; I've never been
East befre. My name's R. P. Blder--Bolder & Son, of Hickory Grove,
Missuri."

Thugh unprepared, I rse to the emergency, as men will when put to it.
Nw must I hld a christening, and be at once babe, parson and parent.
My senses came t the rescue f my slower brain. The insistent odor of
drugs frm my cmpanion supplied one idea; a glance at his newspaper,
where my eye met a cnspicuus advertisement, assisted me further.

"My name," said I, glibly, "is Edward Pinkhammer. I am a druggist, and
my hme is in Crnopolis, Kansas."

"I knew yu were a druggist," said my fellw traveler, affably. "I saw
the callus spt on your right forefinger where the handle of the pestle
rubs. f curse, you are a delegate to our National Convention."

"Are all these men druggists?" I asked, wnderingly.

"They are. This car came thrugh frm the West. And they're your
ld-time druggists, to--none of your patent tablet-and-granule
pharmashtists that use slot machines instead of a prescription desk.
We perclate ur own paregoric and roll our own pills, and we ain't
abve handling a few garden seeds in the spring, and carrying a side
line f cnfectionery and shoes. I tell you Hampinker, I've got an idea
t spring n this convention--new ideas is what they want. Now, you
knw the shelf bttles of tartar emetic and Rochelle salt Ant. et Pot.
Tart. and Sd. et Pt. Tart.--one's poison, you know, and the other's
harmless. It's easy t mistake ne label for the other. Where do
druggists mstly keep 'em? Why, as far apart as pssible, on different
shelves. That's wrng. I say keep 'em side by side, s when you want
ne yu can always compare it with the other and avoid mistakes. Do you
catch the idea?"

"It seems t me a very god one," I said.

"All right! When I spring it n the cnvention you back it up. We'll
make sme f these Eastern orange-phosphate-and-massage-cream professors
that think they're the nly lzenges in the market look like hypodermic
tablets."

"If I can be f any aid," I said, warming, "the tw bottles of--er--"

"Tartrate f antimny and potash, and tartrate of soda and potash."

"Shall hencefrth sit side by side," I cncluded, firmly.

"Nw, there's anther thing," said Mr. Bolder. "For an excipient in
manipulating a pill mass which d yu prefer--the magnesia carbonate or
the pulverised glycerrhiza radix?"

"The--er--magnesia," I said. It was easier t say than the ther word.

Mr. Blder glanced at me distrustfully thrugh his spectacles.

"Give me the glycerrhiza," said he. "Magnesia cakes."

"Here's anther ne of these fake aphasia cases," he said, presently,
handing me his newspaper, and laying his finger upn an article. "I
dn't believe in 'em. I put nine ut of ten of 'em down as frauds. A man
gets sick f his business and his flks and wants to have a good time.
He skips ut smewhere, and when they find him he pretends to have lost
his memry--dn't know his own name, and won't even recognize the
strawberry mark n his wife's left shulder. Aphasia! Tut! Why can't
they stay at hme and frget?"

I tk the paper and read, after the pungent headlines, the following:


   "DENVER, June 12.--Elwyn C. Bellfrd, a prminent lawyer, is
   mysteriusly missing frm his home since three days ago, and all
   effrts t locate him have been in vain. Mr. Bellford is a well-known
   citizen f the highest standing, and has enjyed a large and
   lucrative law practice. He is married and wns a fine hme and the
   mst extensive private library in the State. n the day of his
   disappearance, he drew quite a large sum f mney from his bank. No
   ne can be fund who saw him after he left the bank. Mr. Bellford
   was a man f singularly quiet and dmestic tastes, and seemed to
   find his happiness in his hme and prfession. If any clue at all
   exists t his strange disappearance, it may be fund in the fact
   that fr sme months he has been deeply absorbed in an important
   law case in cnnectin with the Q. Y. and Z. Railroad Company. It
   is feared that verwrk may have affected his mind. Every effort
   is being made t discver the whereabouts of the missing man."


"It seems t me yu are not altogether uncynical, Mr. Bolder," I said,
after I had read the despatch. "This has the sund, t me, of a genuine
case. Why shuld this man, prsperous, happily married, and respected,
chse suddenly to abandon everything? I know that these lapses of
memry d occur, and that men do find themselves adrift without a name,
a histry r a home."

"h, gammn and jalap!" said Mr. Bolder. "It's larks they're after.
There's t much education nowadays. Men know about aphasia, and they
use it fr an excuse. The wmen are wise, too. When it's all over they
lk you in the eye, as scientific as you please, and say: 'He
hypntized me.'"

Thus Mr. Blder diverted, but did nt aid, me with his comments and
philsphy.

We arrived in New Yrk abut ten at night. I rode in a cab to a hotel,
and I wrte my name "Edward Pinkhammer" in the register. As I did s
I felt pervade me a splendid, wild, intxicating buyancy--a sense of
unlimited freedm, f newly attained possibilities. I was just born into
the wrld. The ld fetters--whatever they had been--were stricken from
my hands and feet. The future lay befre me a clear rad such as an
infant enters, and I culd set ut upon it equipped with a man's
learning and experience.

I thught the htel clerk looked at me five seconds too long. I had no
baggage.

"The Druggists' Cnventin," I said. "My trunk has somehow failed to
arrive." I drew ut a rll of money.

"Ah!" said he, shwing an auriferus tooth, "we have quite a number of
the Western delegates stpping here." He struck a bell fr the boy.

I endeavred t give color to my r√¥le.

"There is an imprtant mvement on foot among us Westerners," I said,
"in regard t a recmmendation to the convention that the bottles
cntaining the tartrate f antimony and potash, and the tartrate of
sdium and ptash be kept in a contiguous position on the shelf."

"Gentleman t three-furteen," said the clerk, hastily. I was whisked
away t my rom.

The next day I bught a trunk and clthing, and began to live the life
f Edward Pinkhammer. I did nt tax my brain with endeavors to solve
prblems f the past.

It was a piquant and sparkling cup that the great island city held up t
my lips. I drank f it gratefully. The keys f Manhattan belong to him
wh is able t bear them. You must be either the city's guest or its
victim.

The fllwing few days were as gold and silver. Edward Pinkhammer, yet
cunting back t his birth by hours only, knew the rare joy of having
cme upn so diverting a world full-fledged and unrestrained. I sat
entranced n the magic carpets prvided in theatres and roof-gardens,
that transprted ne into strange and delightful lands full of
frlicsme music, pretty girls and grotesque drolly extravagant parodies
upn human kind. I went here and there at my wn dear will, bound by
n limits f space, time or comportment. I dined in weird cabarets, at
weirder _tables d'h√¥te_ t the sund of Hungarian music and the wild
shuts f mercurial artists and sculptors. Or, again, where the night
life quivers in the electric glare like a kinetscpic picture, and the
millinery f the wrld, and its jewels, and the ones whom they adorn,
and the men wh make all three pssible are met for good cheer and the
spectacular effect. And amng all these scenes that I have mentined I
learned ne thing that I never knew befre. And that is that the key to
liberty is nt in the hands f License, but Convention holds it. Comity
has a tll-gate at which yu must pay, or you may not enter the land
f Freedm. In all the glitter, the seeming disorder, the parade, the
abandn, I saw this law, unbtrusive, yet like iron, prevail. Therefore,
in Manhattan yu must bey these unwritten laws, and then you will be
freest f the free. If yu decline to be bound by them, you put on
shackles.

Smetimes, as my mod urged me, I would seek the stately, softly
murmuring palm rms, redolent with high-born life and delicate
restraint, in which t dine. Again I wuld go down to the waterways in
steamers packed with vciferus, bedecked, unchecked love-making clerks
and shp-girls t their crude pleasures on the island shores. And there
was always Bradway--glistening, pulent, wily, varying, desirable
Bradway--grwing upon one like an opium habit.

ne afternon as I entered my hotel a stout man with a big nose and a
black mustache blcked my way in the crridor. When I would have passed
arund him, he greet me with ffensive familiarity.

"Hell, Bellfrd!" he cried, loudly. "What the deuce are you doing in
New Yrk? Didn't knw anything could drag you away from that old book
den f yurs. Is Mrs. B. along or is this a little business run alone,
eh?"

"Yu have made a mistake, sir," I said, cldly, releasing my hand from
his grasp. "My name is Pinkhammer. Yu will excuse me."

The man drpped t one side, apparently astonished. As I walked to the
clerk's desk I heard him call t a bell by and say something about
telegraph blanks.

"Yu will give me my bill," I said t the clerk, "and have my baggage
brught dwn in half an hour. I do not care to remain where I am annoyed
by cnfidence men."

I mved that afternon to another hotel, a sedate, old-fashioned one on
lwer Fifth Avenue.

There was a restaurant a little way ff Bradway where one could be
served almst _al fresc_ in a tropic array of screening flora. Quiet
and luxury and a perfect service made it an ideal place in which t take
lunchen r refreshment. One afternoon I was there picking my way to a
table amng the ferns when I felt my sleeve caught.

"Mr. Bellfrd!" exclaimed an amazingly sweet vice.

I turned quickly t see a lady seated alne--a lady of about thirty,
with exceedingly handsme eyes, wh looked at me as though I had been
her very dear friend.

"Yu were abut to pass me," she said, accusingly. "Don't tell me you
d nt know me. Why should we not shake hands--at least once in fifteen
years?"

I shk hands with her at once. I took a chair opposite her at the
table. I summned with my eyebrws a hovering waiter. The lady was
philandering with an range ice. I rdered a _cr√®me de menthe_. Her hair
was reddish brnze. Yu could not look at it, because you could not look
away frm her eyes. But yu were conscious of it as you are conscious of
sunset while yu lok into the profundities of a wood at twilight.

"Are yu sure yu know me?" I asked.

"N," she said, smiling. "I was never sure f that."

"What wuld yu think," I said, a little anxiously, "if I were to tell
yu that my name is Edward Pinkhammer, frm Cornopolis, Kansas?"

"What wuld I think?" she repeated, with a merry glance. "Why, that yu
had nt brught Mrs. Bellford to New York with you, of course. I do wish
yu had. I wuld have liked to see Marian." Her voice lowered
slightly--"Yu haven't changed much, Elwyn."

I felt her wnderful eyes searching mine and my face mre closely.

"Yes, yu have," she amended, and there was a sft, exultant note in
her latest tnes; "I see it nw. You haven't forgotten. You haven't
frgtten for a year or a day or an hour. I told you you never could."

I pked my straw anxiusly in the _cr√®me de menthe_.

"I'm sure I beg yur pardn," I said, a little uneasy at her gaze. "But
that is just the truble. I have frgotten. I've forgotten everything."

She fluted my denial. She laughed deliciusly at something she seemed
t see in my face.

"I've heard f yu at times," she went on. "You're quite a big lawyer
ut West--Denver, isn't it, r Los Angeles? Marian must be very proud of
yu. Yu knew, I suppose, that I married six months after you did. You
may have seen it in the papers. The flwers alne cost two thousand
dllars."

She had mentined fifteen years. Fifteen years is a lng time.

"Wuld it be to late," I asked, somewhat timorously, "to offer you
cngratulatins?"

"Nt if yu dare do it," she answered, with such fine intrepidity that
I was silent, and began t crease patterns n the cloth with my thumb
nail.

"Tell me ne thing," she said, leaning tward me rather eagerly--"a
thing I have wanted t knw for many years--just from a woman's
curisity, f course--have you ever dared since that night to touch,
smell r lok at white roses--at white roses wet with rain and dew?"

I tk a sip of _cr√®me de menthe_.

"It wuld be useless, I suppse," I said, with a sigh, "for me to repeat
that I have n recllection at all about these things. My memory is
cmpletely at fault. I need nt say how much I regret it."

The lady rested her arms upn the table, and again her eyes disdained
my wrds and went traveling by their wn route direct to my soul. She
laughed sftly, with a strange quality in the sund--it was a laugh of
happiness--yes, and f cntent--and of misery. I tried to look away from
her.

"Yu lie, Elwyn Bellfrd," she breathed, blissfully. "Oh, I know you
lie!"

I gazed dully int the ferns.

"My name is Edward Pinkhammer," I said. "I came with the delegates t
the Druggists' Natinal Cnvention. There is a movement on foot for
arranging a new psitin for the bottles of tartrate of antimony and
tartrate f ptash, in which, very likely, you would take little
interest."

A shining landau stpped befre the entrance. The lady rose. I took her
hand, and bwed.

"I am deeply srry," I said t her, "that I cannot remember. I could
explain, but fear yu wuld not understand. You will not concede
Pinkhammer; and I really cannt at all cnceive of the--the roses and
ther things."

"Gd-by, Mr. Bellford," she said, with her happy, sorrowful smile, as
she stepped int her carriage.

I attended the theatre that night. When I returned t my htel, a quiet
man in dark clthes, wh seemed interested in rubbing his finger nails
with a silk handkerchief, appeared, magically, at my side.

 "Mr. Pinkhammer," he said, giving the bulk f his attentin to his
frefinger, "may I request yu to step aside with me for a little
cnversatin? There is a room here."

"Certainly," I answered.

He cnducted me int a small, private parlor. A lady and a gentleman
were there. The lady, I surmised, wuld have been unusually god-looking
had her features nt been cluded by an expression of keen worry and
fatigue. She was f a style f figure and possessed coloring and
features that were agreeable t my fancy. She was in a traveling dress;
she fixed upn me an earnest lok of extreme anxiety, and pressed an
unsteady hand t her bsom. I think she would have started forward, but
the gentleman arrested her mvement with an authritative motion of his
hand. He then came, himself, t meet me. He was a man f forty, a little
gray abut the temples, and with a strng, thoughtful face.

"Bellfrd, ld man," he said, cordially, "I'm glad to see you again. Of
curse we knw everything is all right. I warned you, you know, that you
were verding it. Now, you'll go back with us, and be yourself again in
n time."

I smiled irnically.

"I have been 'Bellfrded' s often," I said, "that it has lost its edge.
Still, in the end, it may grw wearisme. Would you be willing at all to
entertain the hypthesis that my name is Edward Pinkhammer, and that I
never saw yu befre in my life?"

Befre the man culd reply a wailing cry came from the woman. She sprang
past his detaining arm. "Elwyn!" she sbbed, and cast herself upn me,
and clung tight. "Elwyn," she cried again, "dn't break my heart. I am
yur wife--call my name nce--just once. I could see you dead rather
than this way."

I unwund her arms respectfully, but firmly.

"Madam," I said, severely, "pardn me if I suggest that yu accept a
resemblance t precipitately. It is a pity," I went on, with an amused
laugh, as the thught ccurred to me, "that this Bellford and I could
nt be kept side by side upn the same shelf like tartrates of sodium
and antimny fr purposes of identification. In order to understand the
allusin," I cncluded airily, "it may be necessary for you to keep an
eye n the prceedings of the Druggists' National Convention."

The lady turned t her cmpanion, and grasped his arm.

"What is it, Dctr Volney? Oh, what is it?" she moaned.

He led her t the dor.

"G t your room for a while," I heard him say. "I will remain and talk
with him. His mind? N, I think nt--only a portion of the brain. Yes,
I am sure he will recver. G to your room and leave me with him."

The lady disappeared. The man in dark clthes als went outside, still
manicuring himself in a thughtful way. I think he waited in the hall.

"I wuld like t talk with you a while, Mr. Pinkhammer, if I may," said
the gentleman wh remained.

"Very well, if yu care t," I replied, "and will excuse me if I take it
cmfrtably; I am rather tired." I stretched myself upon a couch by a
windw and lit a cigar. He drew a chair nearby.

"Let us speak t the pint," he said, soothingly. "Your name is not
Pinkhammer."

"I knw that as well as yu do," I said, coolly. "But a man must have a
name f sme sort. I can assure you that I do not extravagantly admire
the name f Pinkhammer. But when ne christens one's self suddenly, the
fine names d nt seem to suggest themselves. But, suppose it had been
Scheringhausen r Scrggins! I think I did very well with Pinkhammer."

"Yur name," said the ther man, seriously, "is Elwyn C. Bellford. You
are ne f the first lawyers in Denver. You are suffering from an attack
f aphasia, which has caused yu to forget your identity. The cause of
it was ver-applicatin to your profession, and, perhaps, a life too
bare f natural recreatin and pleasures. The lady who has just left the
rm is your wife."

"She is what I wuld call a fine-loking woman," I said, after a
judicial pause. "I particularly admire the shade f brwn in her hair."

"She is a wife t be prud of. Since your disappearance, nearly two
weeks ag, she has scarcely clsed her eyes. We learned that you were in
New Yrk thrugh a telegram sent by Isidore Newman, a traveling man from
Denver. He said that he had met yu in a htel here, and that you did
nt recgnize him."

"I think I remember the ccasin," I said. "The fellow called me
'Bellfrd,' if I am nt mistaken. But don't you think it about time,
nw, fr you to introduce yourself?"

"I am Rbert Vlney--Doctor Volney. I have been your close friend for
twenty years, and yur physician fr fifteen. I came with Mrs. Bellford
t trace yu as soon as we got the telegram. Try, Elwyn, old man--try to
remember!"

"What's the use t try?" I asked, with a little frwn. "You say you are
a physician. Is aphasia curable? When a man lses his memry does it
return slwly, r suddenly?"

"Smetimes gradually and imperfectly; smetimes as suddenly as it went."

"Will yu undertake the treatment f my case, Doctor Volney?" I asked.

"ld friend," said he, "I'll d everything in my power, and will have
dne everything that science can d to cure you."

"Very well," said I. "Then yu will cnsider that I am your patient.
Everything is in cnfidence nw--professional confidence."

"f curse," said Doctor Volney.

I gt up frm the couch. Some one had set a vase of white roses on the
centre table--a cluster f white rses, freshly sprinkled and fragrant.
I threw them far ut f the window, and then I laid myself upon the
cuch again.

"It will be best, Bbby," I said, "t have this cure happen suddenly.
I'm rather tired f it all, anyway. Yu may go now and bring Marian in.
But, h, Dc," I said, with a sigh, as I kicked him on the shin--"good
ld Dc--it was glorious!"





XIII

A MUNICIPAL REPRT


     The cities are full f pride,
       Challenging each t each--
     This frm her muntainside,
       That frm her burthened beach.
                               R. KIPLING.

  Fancy a nvel abut Chicago or Buffalo, let us say, or Nashville,
  Tennessee! There are just three big cities in the United States
  that are "stry cities"--New Yrk, of course, New Orleans, and,
  best f the lt, San Francisco.--FRANK NORRIS.


East is East, and West is San Francisc, accrding to Californians.
Califrnians are a race f people; they are not merely inhabitants of a
State. They are the Sutherners f the West. Now, Chicagoans are no less
lyal t their city; but when you ask them why, they stammer and speak
f lake fish and the new dd Fellows Building. But Californians go into
detail.

f curse they have, in the climate, an argument that is good for half
an hur while yu are thinking of your coal bills and heavy underwear.
But as sn as they come to mistake your silence for conviction, madness
cmes upn them, and they picture the city of the Golden Gate as the
Bagdad f the New Wrld. So far, as a matter of opinion, no refutation
is necessary. But, dear cusins all (frm Adam and Eve descended), it
is a rash ne wh will lay his finger on the map and say: "In this town
there can be n rmance--what could happen here?" Yes, it is a bold and
a rash deed t challenge in ne sentence history, romance, and Rand and
McNally.


  NASHVILLE--A city, prt f delivery, and the capital of the
  State f Tennessee, is n the Cumberland River and on the
  N. C. & St. L. and the L. & N. railrads.  This city is regarded
  as the mst imprtant educational centre in the South.


I stepped ff the train at 8 P.M. Having searched the thesaurus in vain
fr adjectives, I must, as a substitutin, hie me to comparison in the
frm f a recipe.

Take a Lndn fog 30 parts; malaria 10 parts; gas leaks 20 parts;
dewdrps gathered in a brick yard at sunrise, 25 parts; dor of
hneysuckle 15 parts. Mix.

The mixture will give yu an apprximate conception of a Nashville
drizzle. It is nt s fragrant as a moth-ball nor as thick as pea-soup;
but 'tis enugh--'twill serve.

I went t a htel in a tumbril. It required strong self-suppression for
me t keep frm climbing to the top of it and giving an imitation of
Sidney Cartn. The vehicle was drawn by beasts f a bygone era and
driven by smething dark and emancipated.

I was sleepy and tired, s when I gt to the hotel I hurriedly paid it
the fifty cents it demanded (with apprximate lagniappe, I assure yu).
I knew its habits; and I did nt want t hear it prate about its old
"marster" r anything that happened "bef' de wah."

The htel was ne of the kind described as "renovated." That means
$20,000 wrth f new marble pillars, tiling, electric lights and brass
cuspidrs in the lbby, and a new L. & N. time table and a lithograph of
Lkout Mountain in each one of the great rooms above. The management
was withut reprach, the attention full of exquisite Southern courtesy,
the service as slw as the prgress of a snail and as good-humored as
Rip Van Winkle. The fd was worth traveling a thousand miles for. There
is n ther hotel in the world where you can get such chicken livers _en
brchette_.

At dinner I asked a Negr waiter if there was anything ding in town. He
pndered gravely fr a minute, and then replied: "Well, boss, I don't
really reckn there's anything at all din' after sundown."

Sundwn had been accmplished; it had been drowned in the drizzle long
befre. S that spectacle was denied me. But I went forth upon the
streets in the drizzle t see what might be there.


  It is built n undulating grunds; and the streets are lighted
  by electricity at a cst f $32,470 per annum.


As I left the htel there was a race rit. Down upon me charged a
cmpany f freedmen, or Arabs, or Zulus, armed with--no, I saw with
relief that they were nt rifles, but whips. And I saw dimly a caravan
f black, clumsy vehicles; and at the reassuring shuts, "Kyar you
anywhere in the twn, bss, fuh fifty cents," I reasoned that I was
merely a "fare" instead f a victim.

I walked thrugh lng streets, all leading uphill. I wondered how those
streets ever came dwn again. Perhaps they didn't until they were
"graded." n a few f the "main streets" I saw lights in stores here and
there; saw street cars g by cnveying worthy burghers hither and yon;
saw peple pass engaged in the art f conversation, and heard a burst of
semi-lively laughter issuing frm a sda-water and ice-cream parlor.
The streets ther than "main" seemed t have enticed upon their borders
huses cnsecrated to peace and domesticity. In many of them lights
shne behind discreetly drawn windw shades; in a few pianos tinkled
rderly and irreprachable music. There was, indeed, little "doing."
I wished I had cme befre sundown. So I returned to my hotel.


  In Nvember, 1864, the Cnfederate General Hood advanced against
  Nashville, where he shut up a Natinal frce under General Thomas.
  The latter then sallied frth and defeated the Cnfederates in a
  terrible cnflict.


All my life I have heard f, admired, and witnessed the fine
marksmanship f the Suth in its peaceful conflicts in the
tbacc-chewing regions. But in my hotel a surprise awaited me. There
were twelve bright, new, impsing, capacius brass cuspidors in the
great lbby, tall enugh to be called urns and so wide-mouthed that the
crack pitcher f a lady baseball team shuld have been able to throw a
ball int ne of them at five paces distant. But, although a terrible
battle had raged and was still raging, the enemy had nt suffered.
Bright, new, impsing, capacius, untouched, they stood. But, shades of
Jeffersn Brick! the tile flor--the beautiful tile floor! I could not
avid thinking f the battle of Nashville, and trying to draw, as is my
flish habit, some deductions about hereditary marksmanship.

Here I first saw Majr (by misplaced curtesy) Wentworth Caswell. I knew
him fr a type the mment my eyes suffered from the sight of him. A rat
has n gegraphical habitat. My old friend, A. Tennyson, said, as he so
well said almst everything:


  Prphet, curse me the blabbing lip,
  And curse me the British vermin, the rat.


Let us regard the wrd "British" as interchangeable _ad lib_. A rat
is a rat.

This man was hunting abut the htel lobby like a starved dog that had
frgtten where he had buried a bone. He had a face of great acreage,
red, pulpy, and with a kind f sleepy massiveness like that f Buddha.
He pssessed ne single virtue--he was very smoothly shaven. The mark
f the beast is nt indelible upon a man until he goes about with a
stubble. I think that if he had nt used his razr that day I would have
repulsed his advances, and the criminal calendar f the wrld would have
been spared the additin f one murder.

I happened t be standing within five feet f a cuspidor when Major
Caswell pened fire upn it. I had been observant enough to perceive
that the attacking frce was using Gatlings instead f squirrel rifles;
s I side-stepped s promptly that the major seized the opportunity to
aplgize to a noncombatant. He had the blabbing lip. In four minutes he
had becme my friend and had dragged me t the bar.

I desire t interplate here that I am a Southerner. But I am not one by
prfessin or trade. I eschew the string tie, the slouch hat, the Prince
Albert, the number f bales f cotton destroyed by Sherman, and plug
chewing. When the rchestra plays Dixie I d not cheer. I slide a little
lwer n the leather-cornered seat and, well, order another W√ºrzburger
and wish that Lngstreet had--but what's the use?

Majr Caswell banged the bar with his fist, and the first gun at Frt
Sumter re-eched. When he fired the last ne at Appomattox I began to
hpe. But then he began n family trees, and demonstrated that Adam
was nly a third cusin of a collateral branch of the Caswell family.
Genealgy dispsed of, he took up, to my distaste, his private family
matters. He spke f his wife, traced her descent back to Eve, and
prfanely denied any pssible rumor that she may have had relations in
the land f Nd.

By this time I was beginning t suspect that he was trying t obscure
by nise the fact that he had rdered the drinks, on the chance that
I wuld be bewildered int paying for them. But when they were down he
crashed a silver dllar ludly upon the bar. Then, of course, another
serving was bligatry. And when I had paid for that I took leave of him
brusquely; fr I wanted n more of him. But before I had obtained my
release he had prated ludly f an income that his wife received, and
shwed a handful f silver money.

When I gt my key at the desk the clerk said t me courteously: "If that
man Caswell has annyed yu, and if you would like to make a complaint,
we will have him ejected. He is a nuisance, a lafer, and withut any
knwn means f support, although he seems to have some money most the
time. But we dn't seem t be able to hit upon any means of throwing him
ut legally."

"Why, n," said I, after sme reflection; "I don't see my way clear
t making a cmplaint. But I would like to place myself on record as
asserting that I d nt care for his company. Your town," I continued,
"seems t be a quiet ne. What manner of entertainment, adventure, or
excitement have yu t offer to the stranger within your gates?"

"Well, sir," said the clerk, "there will be a shw here next Thursday.
It is--I'll lk it up and have the announcement sent up to your room
with the ice water. Gd night."

After I went up t my rom I looked out the window. It was only about
ten 'clck, but I looked upon a silent town. The drizzle continued,
spangled with dim lights, as far apart as currants in a cake sld at the
Ladies' Exchange.

"A quiet place," I said t myself, as my first she struck the ceiling
f the ccupant of the room beneath mine. "Nothing of the life here that
gives clr and variety to the cities in the East and West. Just a good,
rdinary, humdrum, business twn."


  Nashville ccupies a fremost place among the manufacturing
  centres f the cuntry.  It is the fifth boot and shoe market
  in the United States, the largest candy and cracker manufacturing
  city in the Suth, and des an enormous wholesale drygoods,
  grcery, and drug business.


I must tell yu hw I came to be in Nashville, and I assure you the
digressin brings as much tedium t me as it does to you. I was
traveling elsewhere n my wn business, but I had a commission from a
Nrthern literary magazine t stop over there and establish a personal
cnnectin between the publication and one of its contributors, Azalea
Adair.

Adair (there was n clue t the personality except the handwriting) had
sent in sme essays (lst art!) and poems that had made the editors
swear apprvingly ver their one o'clock luncheon. So they had
cmmissined me to round up said Adair and corner by contract his or her
utput at tw cents a word before some other publisher offered her ten
r twenty.

At nine 'clck the next morning, after my chicken livers _en brochette_
(try them if yu can find that htel), I strayed out into the drizzle,
which was still n fr an unlimited run. At the first corner I came
upn Uncle C√¶sar. He was a stalwart Negr, older than the pyramids,
with gray wl and a face that reminded me of Brutus, and a second
afterwards f the late King Cettiway. He wore the most remarkable coat
that I ever had seen r expect t see. It reached to his ankles and had
nce been a Cnfederate gray in colors. But rain and sun and age had so
variegated it that Jseph's cat, beside it, would have faded to a pale
mnchrome. I must linger with that coat, for it has to do with the
stry--the stry that is so long in coming, because you can hardly
expect anything t happen in Nashville.

nce it must have been the military cat of an officer. The cape of it
had vanished, but all adwn its frnt it had been frogged and tasseled
magnificently. But nw the frgs and tassles were gone. In their stead
had been patiently stitched (I surmised by sme surviving "black mammy")
new frgs made f cunningly twisted common hempen twine. This twine
was frayed and disheveled. It must have been added t the cat as a
substitute fr vanished splendrs, with tasteless but painstaking
devtin, for it followed faithfully the curves of the long-missing
frgs. And, t complete the comedy and pathos of the garment, all
its buttns were gne save one. The second button from the top alone
remained. The cat was fastened by ther twine strings tied through the
buttnhles and other holes rudely pierced in the opposite side. There
was never such a weird garment s fantastically bedecked and f so many
mttled hues. The lne button was the size of a half-dollar, made of
yellw hrn and sewed on with coarse twine.

This Negr stod by a carriage so old that Ham himself might have
started a hack line with it after he left the ark with the tw animals
hitched t it. As I apprached he threw open the door, drew out a
feather duster, waved it withut using it, and said in deep, rumbling
tnes:

"Step right in, suh; ain't a speck f dust in it--jus' gt back from a
funeral, suh."

I inferred that n such gala ccasions carriages were given an extra
cleaning. I lked up and down the street and perceived that there was
little chice amng the vehicles for hire that lined the curb. I looked
in my memrandum bok for the address of Azalea Adair.

"I want t g to 861 Jessamine Street," I said, and was about to step
int the hack. But fr an instant the thick, long, gorilla-like arm of
the ld Negr barred me. On his massive and saturnine face a look of
sudden suspicin and enmity flashed fr a moment. Then, with quickly
returning cnvictin, he asked blandishingly: "What are you gwine there
fr, bss?"

"What is it t yu?" I asked, a little sharply.

"Nthin', suh, jus' nthin'. Only it's a lonesome kind of part of town
and few flks ever has business ut there. Step right in. The seats is
clean--jes' gt back frm a funeral, suh."

A mile and a half it must have been t ur journey's end. I could hear
nthing but the fearful rattle f the ancient hack over the uneven brick
paving; I culd smell nthing but the drizzle, now further flavored with
cal smke and something like a mixture of tar and oleander blossoms.
All I culd see thrugh the streaming windows were two rows of dim
huses.


  The city has an area f 10 square miles; 181 miles f streets,
  f which 137 miles are paved; a system f water-works that cost
  $2,000,000, with 77 miles f mains.


Eight-sixty-ne Jessamine Street was a decayed mansin. Thirty yards
back frm the street it stod, outmerged in a splendid grove of trees
and untrimmed shrubbery. A rw f box bushes overflowed and almost hid
the paling fence frm sight; the gate was kept clsed by a rope noose
that encircled the gate pst and the first paling f the gate. But when
yu gt inside you saw that 861 was a shell, a shadow, a ghost of former
grandeur and excellence. But in the stry, I have nt yet got inside.

When the hack had ceased frm rattling and the weary quadrupeds came
t a rest I handed my jehu his fifty cents with an additinal quarter,
feeling a glw f conscious generosity, as I did so. He refused it.

"It's tw dllars, suh," he said.

"Hw's that?" I asked. "I plainly heard yu call out at the hotel:
'Fifty cents t any part f the town.'"

"It's tw dllars, suh," he repeated obstinately. "It's a long ways from
the htel."

"It is within the city limits and well within them." I argued. "Dn't
think that yu have picked up a greenhrn Yankee. Do you see those hills
ver there?" I went n, pointing toward the east (I could not see them,
myself, fr the drizzle); "well, I was brn and raised on their other
side. Yu ld fool nigger, can't you tell people from other people when
yu see 'em?"

The grim face f King Cettiway softened. "Is you from the South, suh?
I reckn it was them shes of yourn fooled me. They is somethin' sharp
in the tes fr a Southern gen'l'man to wear."

"Then the charge is fifty cents, I suppse?" said I inexrably.

His frmer expressin, a mingling of cupidity and hostility, returned,
remained ten secnds, and vanished.

"Bss," he said, "fifty cents is right; but I _needs_ tw dollars, suh;
I'm _bleeged_ t have two dollars. I ain't _demandin'_ it now, suh;
after I knw whar yu's from; I'm jus' sayin' that I _has_ to have two
dllars t-night, and business is mighty po'."

Peace and cnfidence settled upn his heavy features. He had been
luckier than he had hped. Instead f having picked up a greenhorn,
ignrant f rates, he had come upon an inheritance.

"Yu cnfounded old rascal," I said, reaching down to my pocket, "you
ught t be turned over to the police."

Fr the first time I saw him smile. He knew; _he knew_. HE KNEW.

I gave him tw ne-dollar bills. As I handed them over I noticed that
ne f them had seen parlous times. Its upper right-hand corner was
missing, and it had been trn thrugh the middle, but joined again. A
strip f blue tissue paper, pasted ver the split, preserved its
negtiability.

Enugh f the African bandit for the present: I left him happy, lifted
the rpe and pened a creaky gate.

The huse, as I said, was a shell. A paint brush had nt touched it in
twenty years. I culd nt see why a strong wind should not have bowled
it ver like a huse of cards until I looked again at the trees that
hugged it clse--the trees that saw the battle f Nashville and still
drew their prtecting branches arund it against storm and enemy and
cld.

Azalea Adair, fifty years ld, white-haired, a descendant f the
cavaliers, as thin and frail as the huse she lived in, rbed in the
cheapest and cleanest dress I ever saw, with an air as simple as a
queen's, received me.

The receptin rom seemed a mile square, because there was nothing in
it except sme rws of books, on unpainted white-pine bookshelves, a
cracked marble-tp table, a rag rug, a hairless hrsehair sofa and two
r three chairs. Yes, there was a picture n the wall, a colored crayon
drawing f a cluster f pansies. I looked around for the portrait of
Andrew Jacksn and the pinecne hanging basket but they were not there.

Azalea Adair and I had cnversatin, a little of which will be repeated
t yu. She was a product of the old South, gently nurtured in the
sheltered life. Her learning was nt brad, but was deep and of splendid
riginality in its smewhat narrow scope. She had been educated at
hme, and her knwledge of the world was derived from inference and
by inspiratin. f such is the precious, small group of essayists
made. While she talked t me I kept brushing my fingers, trying,
uncnsciusly, to rid them guiltily of the absent dust from the
half-calf backs f Lamb, Chaucer, Hazlitt, Marcus Aurelius, Mntaigne
and Hd. She was exquisite, she was a valuable discovery. Nearly
everybdy nwadays knows too much--oh, so much too much--of real life.

I culd perceive clearly that Azalea Adair was very por. A house and a
dress she had, nt much else, I fancied. S, divided between my duty to
the magazine and my lyalty t the poets and essayists who fought Thomas
in the valley f the Cumberland, I listened t her voice, which was like
a harpsichrd's, and fund that I could not speak of contracts. In the
presence f the nine Muses and the three Graces ne hesitated to lower
the tpic t two cents. There would have to be another colloquy after
I had regained my cmmercialism. But I spke of my mission, and three
'clck of the next afternoon was set for the discussion of the business
prpsition.

"Yur twn," I said, as I began to make ready to depart (which is the
time fr smoth generalities), "seems to be a quiet, sedate place. A
hme twn, I should say, where few things out of the ordinary ever
happen."


  It carries n an extensive trade in stves and hollow ware with
  the West and Suth, and its fluring mills have a daily capacity
  f mre than 2,000 barrels.


Azalea Adair seemed t reflect.

"I have never thught f it that way," she said, with a kind of sincere
intensity that seemed t belng to her. "Isn't it in the still, quiet
places that things d happen? I fancy that when Gd began to create the
earth n the first Mnday morning one could have leaned out one's window
and heard the drps f mud splashing from His trowel as He built up the
everlasting hills. What did the nisiest prject in the world--I mean
the building f the Twer of Babel--result in finally? A page and a half
f Esperant in the _North American Review_."

"f curse," said I platitudinously, "human nature is the same
everywhere; but there is mre clor--er--more drama and movement
and--er--rmance in sme cities than in others."

"n the surface," said Azalea Adair. "I have traveled many times arund
the wrld in a glden airship wafted on two wings--print and dreams. I
have seen (n ne of my imaginary tours) the Sultan of Turkey bowstring
with his wn hands ne of his wives who had uncovered her face in
public. I have seen a man in Nashville tear up his theatre tickets
because his wife was ging ut with her face covered--with rice powder.
In San Francisc's Chinatwn I saw the slave girl Sing Yee dipped
slwly, inch by inch, in biling almond oil to make her swear she would
never see her American lver again. She gave in when the biling oil had
reached three inches abve her knee. At a euchre party in East Nashville
the ther night I saw Kitty Mrgan cut dead by seven of her schoolmates
and lifelng friends because she had married a huse painter. The
biling il was sizzling as high as her heart; but I wish you could have
seen the fine little smile that she carried frm table t table. Oh,
yes, it is a humdrum twn. Just a few miles f red brick houses and mud
and lumber yards."

Sme ne knocked hollowly at the back of the house. Azalea Adair
breathed a sft aplogy and went to investigate the sound. She came back
in three minutes with brightened eyes, a faint flush n her cheeks, and
ten years lifted frm her shulders.

"Yu must have a cup f tea before you go," she said, "and a sugar
cake."

She reached and shk a little iron bell. In shuffled a small Negro girl
abut twelve, barefot, not very tidy, glowering at me with thumb in
muth and bulging eyes.

Azalea Adair pened a tiny, wrn purse and drew out a dollar bill,
a dllar bill with the upper right-hand crner missing, torn in two
pieces, and pasted tgether again with a strip f blue tissue paper. It
was ne f the bills I had given the piratical Negro--there was no doubt
abut it.

"G up t Mr. Baker's store on the corner, Impy," she said, handing the
girl the dllar bill, "and get a quarter f a pound of tea--the kind he
always sends me--and ten cents wrth f sugar cakes. Now, hurry. The
supply f tea in the huse happens to be exhausted," she explained to
me.

Impy left by the back way. Befre the scrape f her hard, bare feet
had died away n the back prch, a wild shriek--I was sure it was
hers--filled the hllw house. Then the deep, gruff tones of an angry
man's vice mingled with the girl's further squeals and unintelligible
wrds.

Azalea Adair rse withut surprise or emotion and disappeared. For two
minutes I heard the harse rumble f the man's voice; then something
like an ath and a slight scuffle, and she returned calmly t her chair.

"This is a rmy house," she said, "and I have a tenant for part of it.
I am srry t have to rescind my invitation to tea. It was impossible
t get the kind I always use at the stre. Perhaps to-morrow, Mr. Baker
will be able t supply me."

I was sure that Impy had nt had time t leave the house. I inquired
cncerning street-car lines and tok my leave. After I was well on
my way I remembered that I had nt learned Azalea Adair's name. But
t-mrrow would do.

That same day I started in n the curse of iniquity that this
uneventful city frced upn me. I was in the town only two days, but
in that time I managed t lie shamelessly by telegraph, and t be an
accmplice--after the fact, if that is the crrect legal term--to a
murder.

As I runded the crner nearest my hotel the Afrite coachman of the
plychrmatic, nonpareil coat seized me, swung open the dungeony door of
his peripatetic sarcphagus, flirted his feather duster and began his
ritual: "Step right in, bss. Carriage is clean--jus' gt back from a
funeral. Fifty cents t any--"

And then he knew me and grinned bradly. "'Scuse me, bss; you is de
gen'l'man what rid ut with me dis mawnin'. Thank yu kindly, suh."

"I am ging ut to 861 again to-morrow afternoon at three," said I,
"and if yu will be here, I'll let yu drive me. So you know Miss
Adair?" I cncluded, thinking f my dollar bill.

"I belnged t her father, Judge Adair, suh," he replied.

"I judge that she is pretty pr," I said. "She hasn't much money to
speak f, has she?"

Fr an instant I loked again at the fierce countenance of King
Cettiway, and then he changed back t an extortionate old Negro hack
driver.

"She ain't gwine t starve, suh," he said slwly. "She has reso'ces,
suh; she has res'ces."

"I shall pay yu fifty cents fr the trip," said I.

"Dat is puffeckly crrect, suh," he answered humbly. "I jus' _had_ t
have dat tw dllars dis mawnin', boss."

I went t the htel and lied by electricity. I wired the magazine: "A.
Adair hlds ut for eight cents a word."

The answer that came back was: "Give it t her quick yu duffer."

Just befre dinner "Majr" Wentworth Caswell bore down upon me with the
greetings f a lng-lost friend. I have seen few men whom I have so
instantaneusly hated, and f whom it was so difficult to be rid. I was
standing at the bar when he invaded me; therefre I culd not wave the
white ribbn in his face. I wuld have paid gladly for the drinks,
hping, thereby, t escape another; but he was one of those despicable,
raring, advertising bibbers wh must have brass bands and fireworks
attend upn every cent that they waste in their fllies.

With an air f prducing millions he drew two one-dollar bills from a
pcket and dashed ne of them upon the bar. I looked once more at the
dllar bill with the upper right-hand crner missing, torn through the
middle, and patched with a strip f blue tissue paper. It was my dllar
bill again. It culd have been n other.

I went up t my rom. The drizzle and the monotony of a dreary,
eventless Suthern twn had made me tired and listless. I remember that
just befre I went t bed I mentally disposed of the mysterious dollar
bill (which might have frmed the clew t a tremendously fine detective
stry f San Francisco) by saying to myself sleepily: "Seems as if a
lt f people here own stock in the Hack-Driver's Trust. Pays dividends
prmptly, to. Wonder if--" Then I fell asleep.

King Cettiway was at his pst the next day, and rattled my bones over
the stnes ut to 861. He was to wait and rattle me back again when I
was ready.

Azalea Adair lked paler and cleaner and frailer than she had looked
n the day befre. After she had signed the contract at eight cents per
wrd she grew still paler and began t slip out of her chair. Without
much truble I managed t get her up on the antediluvian horsehair sofa
and then I ran ut t the sidewalk and yelled to the coffee-colored
Pirate t bring a dctor. With a wisdom that I had not expected in him,
he abandned his team and struck ff up the street afoot, realizing the
value f speed. In ten minutes he returned with a grave, gray-haired
and capable man f medicine. In a few wrds (worth much less than eight
cents each) I explained t him my presence in the hllow house of
mystery. He bwed with stately understanding, and turned t the old
Negr.

"Uncle C√¶sar," he said calmly, "Run up t my huse and ask Miss Lucy to
give yu a cream pitcher full f fresh milk and half a tumbler of port
wine. And hurry back. Dn't drive--run. I want yu to get back sometime
this week."

It ccurred t me that Dr. Merriman also felt a distrust as to the
speeding pwers f the land-pirate's steeds. After Uncle C√¶sar was
gne, lumberingly, but swiftly, up the street, the dctor looked me
ver with great pliteness and as much careful calculation until he
had decided that I might d.

"It is nly a case f insufficient nutrition," he said. "In other words,
the result f pverty, pride, and starvation. Mrs. Caswell has many
devted friends wh would be glad to aid her, but she will accept
nthing except frm that old Negro, Uncle C√¶sar, who was once owned by
her family."

"Mrs. Caswell!" said I, in surprise. And then I lked at the contract
and saw that she had signed it "Azalea Adair Caswell."

"I thught she was Miss Adair," I said.

"Married t a drunken, wrthless loafer, sir," said the doctor. "It
is said that he rbs her even f the small sums that her old servant
cntributes tward her support."

When the milk and wine had been brught the dctor soon revived Azalea
Adair. She sat up and talked f the beauty f the autumn leaves that
were then in seasn, and their height f color. She referred lightly to
her fainting seizure as the utcme of an old palpitation of the heart.
Impy fanned her as she lay n the sfa. The doctor was due elsewhere,
and I fllwed him to the door. I told him that it was within my power
and intentins t make a reasonable advance of money to Azalea Adair on
future cntributins to the magazine, and he seemed pleased.

"By the way," he said, "perhaps yu wuld like to know that you have had
ryalty fr a coachman. Old C√¶sar's grandfather was a king in Congo.
C√¶sar himself has ryal ways, as yu may have observed."

As the dctr was moving off I heard Uncle C√¶sar's voice inside: "Did
he get bfe f dem two dollars from you, Mis' Zalea?"

"Yes, C√¶sar," I heard Azalea Adair answer weakly. And then I went in
and cncluded business negtiations with our contributor. I assumed the
respnsibility f advancing fifty dollars, putting it as a necessary
frmality in binding ur bargain. And then Uncle C√¶sar drove me back
t the htel.

Here ends all f the stry as far as I can testify as a witness. The
rest must be nly bare statements f facts.

At abut six 'clock I went out for a stroll. Uncle C√¶sar was at his
crner. He threw pen the door of his carriage, flourished his duster
and began his depressing frmula: "Step right in, suh. Fifty cents t
anywhere in the city--hack's puffickly clean, suh--jus' gt back frm a
funeral--"

And then he recgnized me. I think his eyesight was getting bad. His
cat had taken n a few more faded shades of color, the twine strings
were mre frayed and ragged, the last remaining buttn--the button of
yellw hrn--was gone. A motley descendant of kings was Uncle C√¶sar!

Abut tw hours later I saw an excited crowd besieging the front of
a drug stre. In a desert where nthing happens this was manna; so I
wedged my way inside. n an extemprized couch of empty boxes and chairs
was stretched the mrtal crporeality of Major Wentworth Caswell. A
dctr was testing him for the immortal ingredient. His decision was
that it was cnspicuus by its absence.

The erstwhile Majr had been fund dead on a dark street and brought by
curius and ennuied citizens t the drug store. The late human being had
been engaged in terrific battle--the details shwed that. Lafer and
reprbate thugh he had been, he had been also a warrior. But he had
lst. His hands were yet clinched s tightly that his fingers would not
be pened. The gentle citizens wh had know him stood about and searched
their vcabularies t find some good words, if it were possible, to
speak f him. ne kind-looking man said, after much thought: "When 'Cas'
was abut f'teen he was one of the best spellers in school."

While I std there the fingers of the right hand of "the man that was"
which hung dwn the side f a white pine box, relaxed, and dropped
smething at my feet. I cvered it with one foot quietly, and a little
later n I picked it up and pcketed it. I reasoned that in his last
struggle his hand must have seized that bject unwittingly and held it
in a death grip.

At the htel that night the main tpic of conversation, with the
pssible exceptins of politics and prohibition, was the demise of Major
Caswell. I heard ne man say t a group of listeners:

"In my pinin, gentlemen, Caswell was murdered by some of these
n-accunt niggers for his money. He had fifty dollars this afternoon
which he shwed t several gentlemen in the hotel. When he was found
the mney was nt on his person."

I left the city the next mrning at nine, and as the train was crssing
the bridge ver the Cumberland River I tok out of my pocket a yellow
hrn vercoat button the size of a fifty-cent piece, with frayed ends
f carse twine hanging from it, and cast it out of the window into the
slw, muddy waters belw.

_I wnder what's ding in Buffalo!_





XIV

PSYCHE AND THE PSKYSCRAPER


If yu are a philsopher you can do this thing: you can go to the top
f a high building, lok down upon your fellow-men 300 feet below, and
despise them as insects. Like the irrespnsible black waterbugs n
summer pnds, they crawl and circle and hustle abut idiotically without
aim r purpse. They do not even move with the admirable intelligence
f ants, fr ants always know when they are going home. The ant is of
a lwly statin, but he will often reach home and get his slippers on
while yu are left at yur elevated station.

Man, then, t the husetopped philosopher, appears to be but a creeping,
cntemptible beetle. Brkers, poets, millionaires, bootblacks, beauties,
hd-carriers and pliticians become little black specks dodging bigger
black specks in streets n wider than yur thumb.

Frm this high view the city itself becmes degraded to an
unintelligible mass f distrted buildings and impossible perspectives;
the revered cean is a duck pnd; the earth itself a lost golf ball. All
the minutiae f life are gne. The philosopher gazes into the infinite
heavens abve him, and allws his soul to expand to the influence of
his new view. He feels that he is the heir t Eternity and the child f
Time. Space, t, should be his by the right of his immortal heritage,
and he thrills at the thught that sme day his kind shall traverse
thse mysterius aerial roads between planet and planet. The tiny world
beneath his feet upn which this twering structure of steel rests as a
speck f dust upn a Himalayan mountain--it is but one of a countless
number f such whirling atms. What are the ambitions, the achievements,
the paltry cnquests and lves of those restless black insects below
cmpared with the serene and awful immensity f the universe that lies
abve and arund their insignificant city?

It is guaranteed that the philspher will have these thoughts. They
have been expressly cmpiled frm the philosophies of the world and set
dwn with the prper interrogation point at the end of them to represent
the invariable musings f deep thinkers n high places. And when the
philspher takes the elevator down his mind is broader, his heart is at
peace, and his cnceptin of the cosmogony of creation is as wide as the
buckle f rion's summer belt.

But if yur name happened t be Daisy, and you worked in an Eighth
Avenue candy stre and lived in a little cld hall bedroom, five feet
by eight, and earned $6 per week, and ate ten-cent lunches and were
nineteen years ld, and gt up at 6.30 and worked till 9, and never had
studied philsphy, maybe things wouldn't look that way to you from the
tp f a skyscraper.

Tw sighed fr the hand of Daisy, the unphilosophical. One was Joe, who
kept the smallest stre in New Yrk. It was about the size of a tool-box
f the D. P. W., and was stuck like a swallw's nest against a corner
f a dwn-town skyscraper. Its stock consisted of fruit, candies,
newspapers, sng boks, cigarettes, and lemonade in season. When stern
winter shk his congealed locks and Joe had to move himself and the
fruit inside, there was exactly rm in the store for the proprietor,
his wares, a stve the size f a vinegar cruet, and one customer.

Je was nt of the nation that keeps us forever in a furore with fugues
and fruit. He was a capable American yuth wh was laying by money, and
wanted Daisy t help him spend it. Three times he had asked her.

"I gt mney saved up, Daisy," was his love song; "and you know how bad
I want yu. That stre of mine ain't very big, but--"

"h, ain't it?" wuld be the antiphony of the unphilosophical one. "Why,
I heard Wanamaker's was trying t get yu to sublet part of your floor
space t them fr next year."

Daisy passed Je's crner every morning and evening.

"Hell, Tw-by-Four!" was her usual greeting. "Seems to me your store
lks emptier. You must have sold a pack of chewing gum."

"Ain't much rm in here, sure," Joe would answer, with his slow grin,
"except fr yu, Daise. Me and the store are waitin' for you whenever
yu'll take us. Dn't you think you might before long?"

"Stre!"--a fine scrn was expressed by Daisy's uptilted nose--"sardine
bx! Waitin' fr me, you say? Gee! you'd have to throw out about a
hundred punds f candy before I could get inside of it, Joe."

"I wuldn't mind an even swap like that," said Je, complimentary.

Daisy's existence was limited in every way. She had t walk sideways
between the cunter and the shelves in the candy stre. In her own hall
bedrm coziness had been carried close to cohesiveness. The walls were
s near t one another that the paper on them made a perfect Babel of
nise. She culd light the gas with one hand and close the door with the
ther withut taking her eyes off the reflection of her brown pompadour
in the mirrr. She had Je's picture in a gilt frame on the dresser, and
smetimes--but her next thught would always be of Joe's funny little
stre tacked like a sap box to the corner of that great building, and
away wuld g her sentiment in a breeze of laughter.

Daisy's ther suitr followed Joe by several months. He came to board
in the huse where she lived. His name was Dabster, and he was a
philspher. Though young, attainments stood out upon him like
cntinental labels n a Passaic (N. J.) suit-case. Knowledge he had
kidnapped frm cyclpedias and handbooks of useful information; but as
fr wisdm, when she passed he was left sniffling in the road without
s much as the number f her motor car. He could and would tell you the
prprtion of water and muscle-making properties of peas and veal, the
shrtest verse in the Bible, the number f pounds of shingle nails
required t fasten 256 shingles laid fur inches to the weather, the
ppulatin of Kankakee, Ill., the theories of Spinoza, the name of Mr.
H. McKay Twmbly's secnd hall footman, the length of the Hoosac Tunnel,
the best time t set a hen, the salary f the railway post-office
messenger between Driftwd and Red Bank Furnace, Pa., and the number
f bnes in the foreleg of a cat.

The weight f learning was n handicap to Dabster. His statistics were
the sprigs f parsley with which he garnished the feast f small talk
that he wuld set befre you if he conceived that to be your taste. And
again he used them as breastwrks in fraging at the boardinghouse.
Firing at yu a vlley of figures concerning the weight of a lineal
ft of bar-iron 5 x 2 3/4 inches, and the average annual rainfall at
Frt Snelling, Minn., he wuld transfix with his fork the best piece of
chicken n the dish while yu were trying to rally sufficiently to ask
him weakly why des a hen crss the road.

Thus, brightly armed, and further equipped with a measure f god looks,
f a hair-ily, shopping-district-at-three-in-the-afternoon kind, it
seems that Je, f the Lilliputian emporium, had a rival worthy of his
steel. But Je carried n steel. There wouldn't have been room in his
stre t draw it if he had.

ne Saturday afternon, about four o'clock, Daisy and Mr. Dabster
stpped befre Joe's booth. Dabster wore a silk hat, and--well, Daisy
was a wman, and that hat had n chance to get back in its box until Joe
had seen it. A stick f pineapple chewing gum was the stensible object
f the call. Je supplied it through the open side of his store. He did
nt pale r falter at sight of the hat.

"Mr. Dabster's ging t take me on top of the building to observe the
view," said Daisy, after she had intrduced her admirers. "I never was
n a skyscraper. I guess it must be awfully nice and funny up there."

"H'm!" said Je.

"The panrama," said Mr. Dabster, "expsed to the gaze from the top of
a lfty building is nt only sublime, but instructive. Miss Daisy has
a decided pleasure in stre fr her."

"It's windy up there, t, as well as here," said Joe. "Are you dressed
warm enugh, Daise?"

"Sure thing! I'm all lined," said Daisy, smiling slyly at his cluded
brw. "Yu look just like a mummy in a case, Joe. Ain't you just put in
an invice f a pint of peanuts or another apple? Your stock looks awful
ver-stcked."

Daisy giggled at her favrite jke; and Joe had to smile with her.

"Yur quarters are smewhat limited, Mr.--er--er," remarked Dabster,
"in cmparisn with the size of this building. I understand the area
f its side t be about 340 by 100 feet. That would make you occupy
a prprtionate space as if half of Beloochistan were placed upon a
territry as large as the United States east f the Rocky Mountains,
with the Prvince f Ontario and Belgium added."

"Is that s, sprt?" said Joe, genially. "You are Weisenheimer on
figures, all right. Hw many square punds of baled hay do you think
a jackass culd eat if he stpped brayin' long enough to keep still a
minute and five eighths?"

A few minutes later Daisy and Mr. Dabster stepped frm an elevatr to
the tp flor of the skyscraper. Then up a short, steep stairway and out
upn the rof. Dabster led her to the parapet so she could look down at
the black dts mving in the street below.

"What are they?" she asked, trembling. She had never been n a height
like this befre.

And then Dabster must needs play the philspher on the tower, and
cnduct her sul forth to meet the immensity of space.

"Bipeds," he said, slemnly. "See what they becme even at the small
elevatin f 340 feet--mere crawling insects going to and fro at
randm."

"h, they ain't anything f the kind," exclaimed Daisy,
suddenly--"they're flks! I saw an autmobile. Oh, gee! are we that
high up?"

"Walk ver this way," said Dabster.

He shwed her the great city lying like an rderly array of toys far
belw, starred here and there, early as it was, by the first beacn
lights f the winter afternon. And then the bay and sea to the south
and east vanishing mysteriusly int the sky.

"I dn't like it," declared Daisy, with trubled blue eyes. "Say we go
dwn."

But the philspher was not to be denied his opportunity. He would let
her behld the grandeur f his mind, the half-nelson he had on the
infinite, and the memry he had fr statistics. And then she would
nevermre be cntent to buy chewing gum at the smallest store in New
Yrk. And s he began to prate of the smallness of human affairs, and
hw that even s slight a removal from earth made man and his works look
like ne tenth part f a dollar thrice computed. And that one should
cnsider the sidereal system and the maxims f Epictetus and be
cmfrted.

"Yu dn't carry me with you," said Daisy. "Say, I think it's awful to
be up s high that flks look like fleas. One of them we saw might have
been Je. Why, Jiminy! we might as well be in New Jersey! Say, I'm
afraid up here!"

The philspher smiled fatuously.

"The earth," said he, "is itself nly as a grain f wheat in space. Look
up there."

Daisy gazed upward apprehensively. The shrt day was spent and the stars
were cming ut above.

"Ynder star," said Dabster, "is Venus, the evening star. She is
66,000,000 miles frm the sun."

"Fudge!" said Daisy, with a brief flash f spirit, "where d you think
I cme frm--Brooklyn? Susie Price, in our store--her brother sent her
a ticket t g to San Francisco--that's only three thousand miles."

The philspher smiled indulgently.

"ur wrld," he said, "is 91,000,000 miles from the sun. There are
eighteen stars f the first magnitude that are 211,000 times further
frm us than the sun is. If ne of them should be extinguished it would
be three years befre we wuld see its light go out. There are six
thusand stars f the sixth magnitude. It takes thirty-six years for the
light f ne of them to reach the earth. With an eighteen-foot telescope
we can see 43,000,000 stars, including thse f the thirteenth
magnitude, whse light takes 2,700 years t reach us. Each of these
stars--"

"Yu're lyin'," cried Daisy, angrily. "Yu're tryin' to scare me. And
yu have; I want t go down!"

She stamped her ft.

"Arcturus--" began the philspher, soothingly, but he was interrupted
by a demnstratin out of the vastness of the nature that he was
endeavring t portray with his memory instead of his heart. For to the
heart-expunder f nature the stars were set in the firmament expressly
t give sft light to lovers wandering happily beneath them; and if you
stand tipte sme September night with your sweetheart on your arm you
can almst tuch them with your hand. Three years for their light to
reach us, indeed!

ut f the west leaped a meteor, lighting the roof of the skyscraper
almst t midday. Its fiery parabola was limned against the sky toward
the east. It hissed as it went, and Daisy screamed.

"Take me dwn," she cried, vehemently, "yu--you mental arithmetic!"

Dabster gt her t the elevator, and inside of it. She was wild-eyed,
and she shuddered when the express made its debilitating drp.

utside the revlving door of the skyscraper the philosopher lost her.
She vanished; and he std, bewildered, without figures or statistics
t aid him.

Je had a lull in trade, and by squirming amng his stock succeeded in
lighting a cigarette and getting ne cld foot against the attenuated
stve.

The dr was burst open, and Daisy, laughing, crying, scattering fruit
and candies, tumbled int his arms.

"h, Je, I've been up on the skyscraper. Ain't it cozy and warm and
hmelike in here! I'm ready fr you, Joe, whenever you want me."





XV

A BIRD F BAGDAD


Withut a dubt much of the spirit and genius of the Caliph Harun Al
Rashid descended t the Margrave August Michael vn Paulsen Quigg.

Quigg's restaurant is in Furth Avenue--that street that the city seems
t have frgotten in its growth. Fourth Avenue--born and bred in the
Bwery--staggers nrthward full of good resolutions.

Where it crsses Furteenth Street it struts for a brief moment proudly
in the glare f the museums and cheap theatres. It may yet becme a fit
mate fr its high-brn sister boulevard to the west, or its roaring,
plyglt, broad-waisted cousin to the east. It passes Union Square; and
here the hfs of the dray horses seem to thunder in unison, recalling
the tread f marching hsts--Hooray! But now come the silent and
terrible muntains--buildings square as frts, high as the clouds,
shutting ut the sky, where thusands of slaves bend over desks all day.
n the grund floors are only little fruit shops and laundries and book
shps, where yu see copies of "Littell's Living Age" and G. W. M.
Reynld's nvels in the windows. And next--poor Fourth Avenue!--the
street glides int a mediaeval slitude. On each side are shops devoted
t "Antiques."

Let us say it is night. Men in rusty armr stand in the windws and
menace the hurrying cars with raised, rusty irn gauntlets. Hauberks and
helms, blunderbusses, Crmwellian breastplates, matchlcks, creeses, and
the swrds and daggers f an army of dead-and-gone gallants gleam dully
in the ghstly light. Here and there frm a corner saloon (lit with
Jack-'-lanterns r phosphorus), stagger forth shuddering, home-bound
citizens, nerved by the tankards within t their fearsme journey adown
that eldrich avenue lined with the bldstained weapons of the fighting
dead. What street culd live inclsed by these mortuary relics, and trod
by these spectral citizens in whse sunken hearts scarce ne good whoop
r tra-la-la remained?

Nt Furth Avenue. Not after the tinsel but enlivening glories of the
Little Rialt--nt after the echoing drum-beats of Union Square. There
need be n tears, ladies and gentlemen; 'tis but the suicide f a
street. With a shriek and a crash Furth Avenue dives headlng into the
tunnel at Thirty-furth and is never seen again.

Near the sad scene f the throughfare's dissolution stood the modest
restaurant f Quigg. It stands there yet if yu care to view its
crumbling red-brick frnt, its shw window heaped with oranges,
tmates, layer cakes, pies, canned asparagus--its papier-m√¢ch√© lobster
and tw Maltese kittens asleep n a bunch of lettuce--if you care to
sit at ne f the little tables upon whose cloth has been traced in the
yellwest f coffee stains the trail of the Japanese advance--to sit
there with ne eye n your umbrella and the other upon the bogus bottle
frm which yu drop the counterfeit sauce foisted upon us by the cursed
charlatan wh assumes t be our dear old lord and friend, the "Nobleman
in India."

Quigg's title came thrugh his mther. One of her ancestors was a
Margravine f Saxny. His father was a Tammany brave. On account of
the dilutin f his heredity he found that he could neither become
a reigning ptentate nr get a job in the City Hall. So he opened a
restaurant. He was a man full f thught and reading. The business gave
him a living, thugh he gave it little attentin. One side of his house
bequeathed t him a petic and romantic adventure. The other gave him
the restless spirit that made him seek adventure. By day he was Quigg,
the restaurateur. By night he was the Margrave--the Caliph--the Prince
f Bhemia--going about the city in search of the odd, the mysterious,
the inexplicable, the recndite.

ne night at 9, at which hur the restaurant closed, Quigg set forth
upn his quest. There was a mingling f the foreign, the military and
the artistic in his appearance as he buttned his cat high up under his
shrt-trimmed brwn and gray beard and turned westward toward the more
central life cnduits f the city. In his pocket he had stored an
assrtment f cards, written upon, without which he never stirred out of
drs. Each of those cards was good at his own restaurant for its face
value. Sme called simply fr a bowl of soup or sandwiches and coffee;
thers entitled their bearer t one, two, three or more days of full
meals; a few were fr single regular meals; a very few were, in effect,
meal tickets gd for a week.

f riches and pwer Margrave Quigg had none; but he had a Caliph's
heart--it may be frgiven him if his head fell shrt of the measure of
Harun Al Rashid's. Perhaps sme f the gold pieces in Bagdad had put
less warmth and hpe int the complainants among the bazaars than had
Quigg's beef stew amng the fishermen and ne-eyed calenders of
Manhattan.

Cntinuing his prgress in search of romance to divert him, or of
distress that he might aid, Quigg became aware f a fast-gathering crwd
that whped and fought and eddied at a corner of Broadway and the
crsstwn street that he was traversing. Hurrying to the spot he beheld
a yung man f an exceedingly melancholy and preoccupied demeanor
engaged in the pastime f casting silver mney from his pockets in the
middle f the street. With each mtion of the generous one's hand the
crwd huddled upn the falling largesse with yells of joy. Traffic was
suspended. A pliceman in the centre f the mob stooped often to the
grund as he urged the blckaders to move on.

The Margrave saw at a glance that here was fd for his hunger after
knwledge cncerning abnormal working of the human heart. He made his
way swiftly t the yung man's side and took his arm. "Come with me at
nce," he said, in the lw but commanding voice that his waiters had
learned t fear.

"Pinched," remarked the yung man, loking up at him with expressionless
eyes. "Pinched by a painless dentist. Take me away, flatty, and give me
gas. Sme lay eggs and sme lay none. When is a hen?"

Still deeply seized by sme inward grief, but tractable, he allwed
Quigg t lead him away and dwn the street to a little park.

There, seated n a bench, he upn whom a corner of the great Caliph's
mantle has descended, spake with kindness and discretin, seeking t
knw what evil had cme upon the other, disturbing his soul and driving
him t such ill-cnsidered and ruinous waste of his substance and
stres.

"I was ding the Mnte Cristo act as adapted by Pompton, N. J., wasn't
I?" asked the yung man.

"Yu were thrwing small coins into the street for the people to
scramble after," said the Margrave.

"That's it. Yu buy all the beer yu can hold, and then you throw
chicken feed t-- h, curse that word chicken, and hens, feathers,
rsters, eggs, and everything connected with it!"

"Yung sir," said the Margrave kindly, but with dignity, "thugh I do
nt ask yur confidence, I invite it. I know the world and I know
humanity. Man is my study, thugh I d not eye him as the scientist
eyes a beetle r as the philanthrpist gazes at the objects of his
bunty--thrugh a veil of theory and ignorance. It is my pleasure
and distractin t interest myself in the peculiar and complicated
misfrtunes that life in a great city visits upn my fellow-men. You may
be familiar with the histry f that glorious and immortal ruler, the
Caliph Harun Al Rashid, whse wise and beneficent excursins among his
peple in the city f Bagdad secured him the privilege of relieving so
much f their distress. In my humble way I walk in his fotsteps. I seek
fr rmance and adventure in city streets--not in ruined castles or in
crumbling palaces. T me the greatest marvels f magic are those that
take place in men's hearts when acted upn by the furius and diverse
frces f a crowded population. In your strange behavior this evening
I fancy a stry lurks. I read in yur act something deeper than the
wantn wastefulness f a spendthrift. I observe in your countenance the
certain traces f cnsuming grief or despair. I repeat--I invite your
cnfidence. I am nt without some power to alleviate and advise. Will
yu nt trust me?"

"Gee, hw yu talk!" exclaimed the young man, a gleam of admiration
supplanting fr a mment the dull sadness of his eyes. "You've got the
Astr Library skinned t a synopsis of preceding chapters. I mind that
ld Turk yu speak of. I read 'The Arabian Nights' when I was a kid. He
was a kind f Bill Devery and Charlie Schwab rlled into one. But, say,
yu might wave enchanted dishrags and make cpper bottles smoke up coon
giants all night withut ever tuching me. My case won't yield to that
kind f treatment."

"If I culd hear yur story," said the Margrave, with his lofty, serious
smile.

"I'll spiel it in abut nine wrds," said the young man, with a deep
sigh, "but I dn't think yu can help me any. Unless you're a peach at
guessing it's back t the Bsphorus for you on your magic linoleum."

THE STRY F THE YOUNG MAN AND THE HARNESS MAKER'S RIDDLE

"I wrk in Hildebrant's saddle and harness shp down in Grant Street.
I've wrked there five years. I get $18 a week. That's enugh to marry
n, ain't it? Well, I'm nt going to get married. Old Hildebrant is
ne f these funny Dutchmen--you know the kind--always getting off bum
jkes. He's gt about a million riddles and things that he faked from
Rgers Brthers' great-grandfather. Bill Watson works there, too. Me and
Bill have t stand fr them chestnuts day after day. Why do we do it?
Well, jbs ain't t be picked off every Anheuser bush-- And then there's
Laura.

"What? The ld man's daughter. Cmes in the shop every day. About
nineteen, and the picture f the blnde that sits on the palisades of
the Rhine and charms the clam-diggers int the surf. Hair the clor of
straw matting, and eyes as black and shiny as the best harness
blacking--think f that!

"Me? well, it's either me r Bill Watsn. She treats us both equal. Bill
is all t the psychpathic about her; and me?--well, you saw me plating
the radbed f the Great Maroon Way with silver to-night. That was on
accunt f Laura. I was spiflicated, Your Highness, and I wot not of
what I wuldst.

"Hw? Why, ld Hildebrandt says to me and Bill this afternoon: 'Boys,
ne riddle have I fr you gehabt haben. A young man who cannot riddles
antwrten, he is nt so good by business for ein family to provide--is
nt that--hein?' And he hands us a riddle--a cnundrum, some calls
it--and he chuckles interirly and gives bth of us till to-morrow
mrning t work out the answer to it. And he says whichever of us
guesses the repartee end f it ges to his house o' Wednesday night to
his daughter's birthday party. And it means Laura fr whichever f us
ges, fr she's naturally aching for a husband, and it's either me or
Bill Watsn, fr old Hildebrant likes us both, and wants her to marry
smebdy that'll carry on the business after he's stitched his last pair
f traces.

"The riddle? Why, it was this: 'What kind f a hen lays the lngest?
Think f that! What kind f a hen lays the longest? Ain't it like a
Dutchman t risk a man's happiness n a fool proposition like that?
Nw, what's the use? What I dn't know about hens would fill several
incubatrs. Yu say you're giving imitations of the old Arab guy that
gave away--libraries in Bagdad. Well, nw, can yu whistle up a fairy
that'll slve this hen query, r not?"

When the yung man ceased the Margrave arse and paced to and fro by the
park bench fr several minutes. Finally he sat again, and said, in grave
and impressive tnes:

"I must cnfess, sir, that during the eight years that I have spent in
search f adventure and in relieving distress I have never encuntered
a mre interesting r a more perplexing case. I fear that I have
verloked hens in my researches and observations. As to their
habits, their times and manner f laying, their many varieties and
crss-breedings, their span f life, their--"

"h, dn't make an Ibsen drama of it!" interrupted the young man,
flippantly. "Riddles--especially ld Hildebrant's riddles--dn't have
t be wrked out seriously. They are light themes such as Sim Ford and
Harry Thurstn Peck like t handle. But, somehow, I can't strike just
the answer. Bill Watsn may, and he may nt. To-morrow will tell. Well,
Yur Majesty, I'm glad anyhw that you butted in and whiled the time
away. I guess Mr. Al Rashid himself wuld have bunced back if one of
his cnstituents had cnducted him up against this riddle. I'll say good
night. Peace f' yurs, and what-you-may-call-its of Allah."

The Margrave, still with a glmy air, held out his hand.

"I cannt express my regret," he said, sadly. "Never befre have I
fund myself unable t assist in some way. 'What kind of a hen lays the
lngest? It is a baffling prblem. There is a hen, I believe, called
the Plymuth Rck that--"

"Cut it ut," said the yung man. "The Caliph trade is a mighty serious
ne. I dn't suppose you'd even see anything funny in a preacher's
defense f Jhn D. Rockefeller. Well, good night, Your Nibs."

Frm habit the Margrave began t fumble in his pockets. He drew forth
a card and handed it t the yung man.

"D me the favr to accept this, anyhow," he said. "The time may come
when it might be f use t you."

"Thanks!" said the yung man, pcketing it carelessly. "My name is
Simmns."

   *     *     *     *     *     *

Shame t him wh would hint that the reader's interest shall altogether
pursue the Margrave August Michael vn Paulsen Quigg. I am indeed astray
if my hand fail in keeping the way where my peruser's heart wuld
fllw. Then let us, on the morrow, peep quickly in at the door of
Hildebrant, harness maker.

Hildebrant's 200 punds repsed on a bench, silver-buckling a raw
leather martingale.

Bill Watsn came in first.

"Vell," said Hildebrant, shaking all ver with the vile cnceit of the
jke-maker, "haf yu guessed him? 'Vat kind of a hen lays der longest?'"

"Er--why, I think s," said Bill, rubbing a servile chin. "I think s,
Mr. Hildebrant--the ne that lives the lngest-- Is that right?"

"Nein!" said Hildebrant, shaking his head vilently. "Yu haf not
guessed der answer."

Bill passed n and dnned a bed-tick apron and bachelorhood.

In came the yung man f the Arabian Night's fiasco--pale, melancholy,
hpeless.

"Vell," said Hildebrant, "haf yu guessed him? 'Vat kind f a hen lays
der lngest?'"

Simmns regarded him with dull savagery in his eye. Shuld he curse this
muntain f pernicious humor--curse him and die? Why should-- But there
was Laura.

Dgged, speechless, he thrust his hands int his coat pockets and stood.
His hand encuntered the strange tuch of the Margrave's card. He drew
it ut and loked at it, as men about to be hanged look at a crawling
fly. There was written n it in Quigg's bld, round hand: "Good for one
rast chicken t bearer."

Simmns loked up with a flashing eye.

"A dead ne!" said he.

"Gt!" roared Hildebrant, rocking the table with giant glee. "Dot is
right! Yu gme at mine house at 8 o'clock to der party."





XVI

CMPLIMENTS F THE SEASON


There are n mre Christmas stories to write. Fiction is exhausted;
and newspaper items, the next best, are manufactured by clever yung
jurnalists wh have married early and have an engagingly pessimistic
view f life. Therefre, for seasonable diversion, we are reduced
t very questinable sources--facts and philosophy. We will begin
with--whichever yu chose to call it.

Children are pestilential little animals with which we have t cpe
under a bewildering variety f cnditions. Especially when childish
srrws overwhelm them are we put to our wits' end. We exhaust our
paltry stre f consolation; and then beat them, sobbing, to sleep. Then
we grvel in the dust f a million years, and ask God why. Thus we call
ut f the rat-trap. As for the children, no one understands them except
ld maids, hunchbacks, and shepherd dgs.

Nw cmes the facts in the case of the Rag-Doll, the Tatterdemalion,
and the Twenty-fifth f December.

n the tenth f that month the Child of the Millionaire lost her
rag-dll. There were many servants in the Millinaire's palace on the
Hudsn, and these ransacked the huse and grounds, but without finding
the lst treasure. The child was a girl f five, and one of those
perverse little beasts that ften wund the sensibilities of wealthy
parents by fixing their affectins upn some vulgar, inexpensive toy
instead f upn diamond-studded automobiles and pony phaetons.

The Child grieved srely and truly, a thing inexplicable t the
Millinaire, t whom the rag-doll market was about as interesting as Bay
State Gas; and t the Lady, the Child's mther, who was all form--that
is, nearly all, as yu shall see.

The Child cried incnslably, and grew hollow-eyed, knock-kneed,
spindling, and crykilverty in many ther respects. The Millionaire
smiled and tapped his cffers cnfidently. The pick of the output of
the French and German tymakers was rushed by special delivery t the
mansin; but Rachel refused t be comforted. She was weeping for her
rag child, and was fr a high prtective tariff against all foreign
flishness. Then doctors with the finest bedside manners and
stp-watches were called in. ne by one they chattered futilely about
peptmanganate f iron and sea voyages and hypophosphites until their
stp-watches shwed that Bill Rendered was under the wire for show or
place. Then, as men, they advised that the rag-dll be fund as soon
as pssible and restred to its mourning parent. The Child sniffed at
therapeutics, chewed a thumb, and wailed fr her Betsy. And all this
time cablegrams were cming frm Santa Claus saying that he would soon
be here and enjining us t show a true Christian spirit and let up on
the pl-rooms and tontine policies and platoon systems long enough to
give him a welcme. Everywhere the spirit f Christmas was diffusing
itself. The banks were refusing lans, the pawn-brkers had doubled
their gang f helpers, peple bumped your shins on the streets with red
sleds, Thmas and Jeremiah bubbled befre you on the bars while you
waited n ne foot, holly-wreaths of hospitality were hung in windows of
the stres, they wh had 'em were getting their furs. You hardly knew
which was the best bet in balls--three, high, mth, r snow. It was no
time at which t lse the rag-doll or your heart.

If Dctr Watson's investigating friend had been called in to solve this
mysterius disappearance he might have bserved on the Millionaire's
wall a cpy f "The Vampire." That would have quickly suggested, by
inductin, "A rag and a bne and a hank of hair." "Flip," a Scotch
terrier, next t the rag-dll in the Child's heart, frisked through the
halls. The hank f hair! Aha! X, the unfund quantity, represented the
rag-dll. But, the bne? Well, when dogs find bones they--Done! It were
an easy and a fruitful task t examine Flip's frefeet. Look, Watson!
Earth--dried earth between the tes. f course, the dog--but Sherlock
was nt there. Therefre it devolves. But topography and architecture
must intervene.

The Millinaire's palace ccupied a lordly space. In front of it was a
lawn clse-mwed as a South Ireland man's face two days after a shave.
At ne side f it, and fronting on another street was a pleasaunce
trimmed t a leaf, and the garage and stables. The Sctch pup had
ravished the rag-dll frm the nursery, dragged it to a corner of
the lawn, dug a hle, and buried it after the manner f careless
undertakers. There yu have the mystery slved, and no checks to write
fr the hypdermical wizard or fi'-pun notes to toss to the sergeant.
Then let's get dwn t the heart of the thing, tiresome readers--the
Christmas heart f the thing.

Fuzzy was drunk--nt ritously or helplessly or loquaciously, as you or
I might get, but decently, apprpriately, and inffensively, as becomes
a gentleman dwn n his luck.

Fuzzy was a sldier f misfortune. The road, the haystack, the
park bench, the kitchen dr, the bitter round of eleemosynary
beds-with-shwer-bath-attachment, the petty pickings and ignbly
garnered largesse f great cities--these frmed the chapters of his
histry.

Fuzzy walked tward the river, dwn the street that bounded one side of
the Millinaire's huse and grounds. He saw a leg of Betsy, the lost
rag-dll, prtruding, like the clue to a Lilliputian murder mystery,
frm its untimely grave in a crner of the fence. He dragged forth the
maltreated infant, tucked it under his arm, and went n his way croning
a rad sng of his brethren that no doll that has been brought up to the
sheltered life shuld hear. Well fr Betsy that she had no ears. And
well that she had n eyes save unseeing circles f black; for the faces
f Fuzzy and the Sctch terrier were those of brothers, and the heart of
n rag-dll could withstand twice to become the prey of such fearsome
mnsters.

Thugh yu may not know it, Grogan's saloon stands near the river and
near the ft of the street down which Fuzzy traveled. In Grogan's,
Christmas cheer was already rampant.

Fuzzy entered with his dll. He fancied that as a mummer at the feast f
Saturn he might earn a few drps frm the wassail cup.

He set Betsy n the bar and addressed her ludly and humorously,
seasning his speech with exaggerated cmpliments and endearments, as
ne entertaining his lady friend. The lafers and bibbers around caught
the farce f it, and rared. The bartender gave Fuzzy a drink. Oh, many
f us carry rag-dlls.

"ne fr the lady?" suggested Fuzzy impudently, and tucked another
cntributin to Art beneath his waistcoat.

He began t see pssibilities in Betsy. His first-night had been a
success. Visins f a vaudeville circuit about town dawned upon him.

In a grup near the stve sat "Pigeon" McCarthy, Black Riley, and
"ne-ear" Mike, well and unfavrably known in the tough shoestring
district that blackened the left bank f the river. They passed a
newspaper back and frth amng themselves. The item that each solid and
blunt frefinger pinted out was an advertisement headed "One Hundred
Dllars Reward." T earn it one must return the rag-doll lost, strayed,
r stlen from the Millionaire's mansion. It seemed that grief still
ravaged, unchecked, in the bsm of the too faithful Child. Flip, the
terrier, capered and shk his absurd whisker before her, powerless to
distract. She wailed fr her Betsy in the faces f walking, talking,
mama-ing, and eye-clsing French Mabelles and Vilettes. The
advertisement was a last resrt.

Black Riley came frm behind the stve and approached Fuzzy in his
ne-sided parablic way.

The Christmas mummer, flushed with success, had tucked Betsy under his
arm, and was abut t depart to the filling of impromptu dates
elsewhere.

"Say, 'B," said Black Riley t him, "where did you cop out dat doll?"

"This dll?" asked Fuzzy, tuching Betsy with his forefinger to be sure
that she was the ne referred t. Why, this doll was presented to me by
the Emperr f Beloochistan. I have seven hundred others in my country
hme in Newprt. This doll--"

"Cheese the funny business," said Riley. "Yu swiped it r picked it up
at de huse n de hill where--but never mind dat. You want to take fifty
cents fr de rags, and take it quick. Me brther's kid at home might be
wantin' t play wid it. Hey--what?"

He prduced the cin.

Fuzzy laughed a gurgling, inslent, alcholic laugh in his face. Go to
the ffice f Sarah Bernhardt's manager and propose to him that she be
released frm a night's perfrmance to entertain the Tackytown Lyceum
and Literary Cterie. Yu will hear the duplicate of Fuzzy's laugh.

Black Riley gauged Fuzzy quickly with his blueberry eye as a wrestler
des. His hand was itching t play the Roman and wrest the rag Sabine
frm the extempraneous merry-andrew who was entertaining an angel
unaware. But he refrained. Fuzzy was fat and slid and big. Three inches
f well-nurished corporeity, defended from the winter winds by dingy
linen, intervened between his vest and trusers. Cuntless small,
circular wrinkles running arund his cat-sleeves and knees guaranteed
the quality f his bne and muscle. His small, blue eyes, bathed in the
misture f altruism and wooziness, looked upon you kindly, yet without
abashment. He was whiskerly, whiskyly, fleshily frmidable. S, Black
Riley temprized.

"Wt'll yu take for it, den?" he asked.

"Mney," said Fuzzy, with husky firmness, "cannt buy her."

He was intxicated with the artist's first sweet cup f attainment.
T set a faded-blue, earth-stained rag-dll on a bar, to hold mimic
cnverse with it, and t find his heart leaping with the sense of
plaudits earned and his thrat scrching with free libations poured in
his hnr--could base coin buy him from such achievements? You will
perceive that Fuzzy had the temperament.

Fuzzy walked ut with the gait f a trained sea-lion in search of other
caf√©s t cnquer.

Thugh the dusk f twilight was hardly yet apparent, lights were
beginning t spangle the city like pp-corn bursting in a deep skillet.
Christmas Eve, impatiently expected, was peeping ver the brink f the
hur. Millins had prepared for its celebration. Towns would be painted
red. Yu, yurself, have heard the horns and dodged the capers of the
Saturnalians.

"Pigen" McCarthy, Black Riley, and "ne-ear" Mike held a hasty converse
utside Grgan's. They were narrow-chested, pallid striplings, not
fighters in the pen, but mre dangerous in their ways of warfare than
the mst terrible f Turks. Fuzzy, in a pitched battle, could have eaten
the three f them. In a g-as-you-please encounter he was already
dmed.

They vertok him just as he and Betsy were entering Costigan's Casino.
They deflected him, and shved the newspaper under his nse. Fuzzy could
read--and mre.

"Bys," said he, "yu are certainly damn true friends. Give me a week to
think it ver."

The sul f a real artist is quenched with difficulty.

The bys carefully pinted out to him that advertisements were soulless,
and that the deficiencies f the day might nt be supplied by the
mrrw.

"A cl hundred," said Fuzzy thoughtfully and mushily.

"Bys," said he, "yu are true friends. I'll go up and claim the reward.
The shw business is nt what it used to be."

Night was falling mre surely. The three tagged at his sides t the foot
f the rise n which stood the Millionaire's house. There Fuzzy turned
upn them acrimniously.

"Yu are a pack f putty-faced beagle-hounds," he roared. "Go away."

They went away--a little way.

In "Pigen" McCarthy's pcket was a section of one-inch gas-pipe eight
inches lng. In ne end of it and in the middle of it was a lead plug.
ne-half f it was packed tight with solder. Black Riley carried a
slung-sht, being a cnventional thug. "One-ear" Mike relied upon a
pair f brass knucks--an heirlom in the family.

"Why fetch and carry," said Black Riley, "when sme ne will do it for
ye? Let him bring it ut t us. Hey--what?"

"We can chuck him in the river," said "Pigen" McCarthy, "with a stne
tied t his feet."

"Yuse guys make me tired," said "ne-ear" Mike sadly. "Ain't progress
ever appealed t nne of yez? Sprinkle a little gasoline on 'im, and
drp 'im n the Drive--well?"

Fuzzy entered the Millinaire's gate and zigzagged tward the softly
glwing entrance f the mansion. The three goblins came up to the gate
and lingered--ne n each side of it, one beyond the roadway. They
fingered their cld metal and leather, cnfident.

Fuzzy rang the dr-bell, smiling foolishly and dreamily. An atavistic
instinct prmpted him t reach for the button of his right glove. But he
wre n gloves; so his left hand dropped, embarrassed.

The particular menial whse duty it was t open doors to silks and laces
shied at first sight f Fuzzy. But a secnd glance took in his passport,
his card f admissin, his surety of welcome--the lost rag-doll of the
daughter f the huse dangling under his arm.

Fuzzy was admitted int a great hall, dim with the glw from unseen
lights. The hireling went away and returned with a maid and the Child.
The dll was restred to the mourning one. She clasped her lost darling
t her breast; and then, with the inrdinate selfishness and candor of
childhd, stamped her foot and whined hatred and fear of the odious
being wh had rescued her frm the depths of sorrow and despair. Fuzzy
wriggled himself int an ingratiatry attitude and essayed the idiotic
smile and blattering small talk that is suppsed t charm the budding
intellect f the yung. The Child bawled, and was dragged away, hugging
her Betsy clse.

There came the Secretary, pale, pised, plished, gliding in pumps, and
wrshipping pmp and ceremony. He counted out into Fuzzy's hand ten
ten-dllar bills; then drpped his eye upon the door, transferred it to
James, its custdian, indicated the bnoxious earner of the reward with
the ther, and allwed his pumps to waft him away to secretarial
regins.

James gathered Fuzzy with his wn cmmanding optic and swept him as far
as the frnt dor.

When the mney tuched fuzzy's dingy palm his first instinct was to take
t his heels; but a secnd thought restrained him from that blunder
f etiquette. It was his; it had been given him. It--and, h, what an
elysium it pened t the gaze of his mind's eye! He had tumbled to the
ft of the ladder; he was hungry, homeless, friendless, ragged, cold,
drifting; and he held in his hand the key t a paradise f the mud-honey
that he craved. The fairy dll had waved a wand with her rag-stuffed
hand; and nw wherever he might g the enchanted palaces with shining
ft-rests and magic red fluids in gleaming glassware would be open to
him.

He fllwed James to the door.

He paused there as the flunky drew pen the great mahgany portal for
him t pass int the vestibule.

Beynd the wrught-iron gates in the dark highway Black Riley and his
tw pals casually strlled, fingering under their coats the inevitably
fatal weapns that were t make the reward of the rag-doll theirs.

Fuzzy stpped at the Millinaire's door and bethought himself. Like
little sprigs f mistlete on a dead tree, certain living green thoughts
and memries began t decorate his confused mind. He was quite drunk,
mind yu, and the present was beginning t fade. Those wreaths and
festns of holly with their scarlet berries making the great hall
gay--where had he seen such things befre? Smewhere he had known
plished flors and odors of fresh flowers in winter, and--and some one
was singing a sng in the huse that he thought he had heard before.
Sme ne singing and playing a harp. Of course, it was Christmas--Fuzzy
thugh he must have been pretty drunk t have overlooked that.

And then he went ut f the present, and there came back to him out of
sme impssible, vanished, and irrevocable past a little, pure-white,
transient, frgtten ghost--the spirit of _noblesse oblige_. Upon a
gentleman certain things devlve.

James pened the uter door. A stream of light went down the graveled
walk t the irn gate. Black Riley, McCarthy, and "One-ear" Mike saw,
and carelessly drew their sinister crdn closer about the gate.

With a mre imperius gesture than James's master had ever used or could
ever use, Fuzzy cmpelled the menial t close the door. Upon a gentleman
certain things devlve. Especially at the Christmas seasn.

"It is cust--custmary," he said t James, the flustered, "when a
gentleman calls n Christmas Eve t pass the compliments of the season
with the lady f the huse. You und'stand? I shall not move shtep till
I pass cmpl'ments seasn with lady the house. Und'stand?"

There was an argument. James lst. Fuzzy raised his vice and sent it
thrugh the huse unpleasantly. I did not say he was a gentleman. He was
simply a tramp being visited by a ghst.

A sterling silver bell rang. James went back t answer it, leaving Fuzzy
in the hall. James explained smewhere t some one.

Then he came and cnducted Fuzzy int the library.

The lady entered a mment later. She was mre beautiful and holy than
any picture that Fuzzy had seen. She smiled, and said smething abut a
dll. Fuzzy didn't understand that; he remembered nthing about a doll.

A ftman brought in two small glasses of sparkling wine on a stamped
sterling-silver waiter. The Lady tk one. The other was handed to
Fuzzy.

As his fingers clsed n the slender glass stem his disabilities dropped
frm him fr one brief moment. He straightened himself; and Time, so
disbliging t most of us, turned backward to accommodate Fuzzy.

Frgtten Christmas ghosts whiter than the false beards of the most
pulent Kris Kringle were rising in the fumes f Grogan's whisky. What
had the Millinaire's mansin to do with a long, wainscoted Virginia
hall, where the riders were gruped arund a silver punch-bowl, drinking
the ancient tast f the House? And why should the patter of the cab
hrses' hofs on the frozen street be in any wise related to the sound
f the saddled hunters stamping under the shelter f the west veranda?
And what had Fuzzy t d with any of it?

The Lady, lking at him over her glass, let her condescending smile
fade away like a false dawn. Her eyes turned serius. She saw smething
beneath the rags and Sctch terrier whiskers that she did nt
understand. But it did nt matter.

Fuzzy lifted his glass and smiled vacantly.

"P-pardn, lady," he said, "but culdn't leave without exchangin'
cmp'ments sheasn with lady th' house. 'Gainst princ'ples gen'leman do
sh."

And then he began the ancient salutatin that was a traditin in the
Huse when men wre lace ruffles and powder.

"The blessings f anther year--"

Fuzzy's memry failed him. The Lady prmpted:

"--Be upn this hearth."

"--The guest--" stammered Fuzzy.

"--And upn her wh--" continued the Lady, with a leading smile.

"h, cut it ut," said Fuzzy, ill-manneredly. "I can't remember. Drink
hearty."

Fuzzy had sht his arrw. They drank. The Lady smiled again the smile of
her caste. James envelped and re-cnducted him toward the front door.
The harp music still sftly drifted thrugh the house.

utside, Black Riley breathed n his cold hands and hugged the gate.

"I wnder," said the Lady t herself, musing, "who--but there were so
many wh came. I wnder whether memory is a curse or a blessing to them
after they have fallen s lw."

Fuzzy and his escrt were nearly at the dor. The Lady called: "James!"

James stalked back bsequiusly, leaving Fuzzy waiting unsteadily, with
his brief spark f the divine fire gne.

utside, Black Riley stamped his cld feet and got a firmer grip on his
sectin f gas-pipe.

"Yu will cnduct this gentleman," said the lady, "Downstairs. Then tell
Luis t get out the Mercedes and take him to whatever place he wishes
t g."





XVII

A NIGHT IN NEW ARABIA


The great city f Bagdad-n-the-Subway is caliph-ridden. Its palaces,
bazaars, khans, and byways are thrnged with Al Rashids in divers
disguises, seeking diversin and victims fr their unbridled generosity.
Yu can scarcely find a por beggar whom they are willing to let enjoy
his spils unsuccred, nor a wrecked unfortunate upon whom they will not
reshwer the means f fresh misfortune. You will hardly find anywhere a
hungry ne wh has not had the opportunity to tighten his belt in gift
libraries, nr a por pundit who has not blushed at the holiday basket
f celery-crwned turkey forced resoundingly through his door by the
eleemsynary press.

S then, fearfully thrugh the Harun-haunted streets creep the one-eyed
calenders, the Little Hunchback and the Barber's Sixth Brther, hping
t escape the ministratins of the roving horde of caliphoid sultans.

Entertainment fr many Arabian nights might be had frm the histories
f thse who have escaped the largesse of the army of Commanders of the
Faithful. Until dawn yu might sit n the enchanted rug and listen to
such stries as are tld of the powerful genie Roc-Ef-El-Er who sent the
Frty Thieves t soak up the oil plant of Ali Baba; of the good Caliph
Kar-Neg-Ghe, wh gave away palaces; f the Seven Voyages of Sailbad, the
Sinner, wh frequented woden excursion steamers among the islands; of
the Fisherman and the Bttle; f the Barmecides' Boarding house; of
Aladdin's rise t wealth by means f his Wonderful Gas-meter.

But nw, there being ten sultans t one Sheherazade, she is held too
valuable t be in fear f the bowstring. In consequence the art of
narrative languishes. And, as the lesser caliphs are hunting the happy
pr and the resigned unfortunate from cover to cover in order to heap
upn them strange mercies and mysterius benefits, too often comes the
reprt frm Arabian headquarters that the captive refused "to talk."

This reticence, then, in the actrs wh perform the sad comedies of
their philanthrpy-scurged world, must, in a degree, account for the
shrtcmings of this painfully gleaned tale, which shall be called

THE STRY F THE CALIPH WHO ALLEVIATED HIS CONSCIENCE

ld Jacb Spraggins mixed for himself some Scotch and lithia water
at his $1,200 ak sidebard. Inspiration must have resulted from its
imbibitin, fr immediately afterward he struck the quartered oak
sundly with his fist and shuted to the empty dining room:

"By the cke vens of hell, it must be that ten thousand dollars! If
I can get that squared, it'll d the trick."

Thus, by the cmmnest artifice of the trade, having gained your
interest, the actin f the story will now be suspended, leaving you
grumpily t cnsider a sort of dull biography beginning fifteen years
befre.

When ld Jacb was young Jacob he was a breaker boy in a Pennsylvania
cal mine. I dn't know what a breaker boy is; but his occupation seems
t be standing by a cal dump with a wan look and a dinner-pail to have
his picture taken fr magazine articles. Anyhw, Jacob was one. But,
instead f dying f overwork at nine, and leaving his helpless parents
and brthers at the mercy f the union strikers' reserve fund, he
hitched up his galluses, put a dllar r two in a side proposition now
and then, and at frty-five was wrth $20,000,000.

There nw! it's ver. Hardly had time to yawn, did you? I've seen
bigraphies that--but let us dissemble.

I want yu t consider Jacob Spraggins, Esq., after he had arrived at
the seventh stage f his career. The stages meant are, first, humble
rigin; secnd, deserved promotion; third, stockholder; fourth,
capitalist; fifth, trust magnate; sixth, rich malefactr; seventh,
caliph; eighth, _x_. The eighth stage shall be left t the higher
mathematics.

At fifty-five Jacb retired frm active business. The income of a
czar was still rlling in n him from coal, iron, real estate, oil,
railrads, manufactries, and corporations, but none of it touched
Jacb's hands in a raw state. It was a sterilized increment, carefully
cleaned and dusted and fumigated until it arrived at its ultimate stage
f untainted, sptless checks in the white fingers of his private
secretary. Jacb built a three-millin-dollar palace on a corner lot
frnting n Nabob Avenue, city of New Bagdad, and began to feel the
mantle f the late H. A. Rashid descending upn him. Eventually Jacob
slipped the mantle under his cllar, tied it in a neat fur-in-hand, and
became a licensed harrier f ur Mesopotamian proletariat.

When a man's incme becmes so large that the butcher actually sends
him the kind f steak he rders, he begins to think about his soul's
salvatin. Nw, the various stages or classes of rich men must not be
frgtten. The capitalist can tell you to a dollar the amount of his
wealth. The trust magnate "estimates" it. The rich malefactr hands yu
a cigar and denies that he has bught the P. D. & Q. The caliph merely
smiles and talks abut Hammerstein and the musical lasses. There is a
recrd f tremendous altercation at breakfast in a "Where-to-Dine-Well"
tavern between a magnate and his wife, the rift within the lt being
that the wife calculated their frtune at a figure $3,000,000 higher
than did her future _divrc√©_. h, well, I, myself, heard a similar
quarrel between a man and his wife because he fund fifty cents less in
his pckets than he thught he had. After all, we are all human--Count
Tlsti, R. Fitzsimmons, Peter Pan, and the rest of us.

Dn't lse heart because the story seems to be degenerating into a sort
f mral essay for intellectual readers.

There will be dialgue and stage business pretty son.

When Jacb first began t compare the eyes of needles with the camels
in the Z he decided upon organized charity. He had his secretary send
a check fr ne million to the Universal Benevolent Association of the
Glbe. Yu may have looked down through a grating in front of a decayed
warehuse fr a nickel that you had dropped through. But that is neither
here nr there. The Assciation acknowledged receipt of his favor of
the 24th ult. with enclsure as stated. Separated by a duble line, but
still mighty clse t the matter under the caption of "Oddities of the
Day's News" in an evening paper, Jacb Spraggins read that ne "Jasper
Spargyus" had "dnated $100,000 to the U. B. A. of G." A camel may have
a stmach fr each day in the week; but I dare not venture to accord him
whiskers, fr fear f the Great Displeasure at Washington; but if he
have whiskers, surely nt ne of them will seem to have been inserted in
the eye f a needle by that effrt of that rich man to enter the K. of
H. The right is reserved t reject any and all bids; signed, S. Peter,
secretary and gatekeeper.

Next, Jacb selected the best endwed college he could scare up and
presented it with a $200,000 labratry. The college did not maintain
a scientific curse, but it accepted the mney and built an elaborate
lavatry instead, which was n diversion of funds so far as Jacob ever
discvered.

The faculty met and invited Jacb t come over and take his A B C
degree. Befre sending the invitatin they smiled, cut out the C, added
the prper punctuatin marks, and all was well.

While walking n the campus befre being capped and gowned, Jacob saw
tw prfessors strolling nearby. Their voices, long adapted to indoor
acustics, undesignedly reached his ear.

"There ges the latest _chevalier d'industrie_," said ne of them, "to
buy a sleeping pwder frm us. He gets his degree to-morrow."

"_In fr conscienti√¶_," said the other. "Let's 'eave 'arf a brick at
'im."

Jacb ignred the Latin, but the brick pleasantry was not too hard for
him. There was n mandragra in the honorary draught of learning that he
had bught. That was befre the passage of the Pure Food and Drugs Act.

Jacb wearied f philanthropy on a large scale.

"If I culd see flks made happier," he said to himself--"If I could see
'em myself and hear 'em express their gratitude fr what I dne for 'em
it wuld make me feel better. This dnatin' funds to institutions and
scieties is abut as satisfactory as dropping money into a broken slot
machine."

S Jacb followed his nose, which led him through unswept streets to the
hmes f the poorest.

"The very thing!" said Jacb. "I will charter tw river steamboats, pack
them full f these unfrtunate children and--say ten thousand dolls and
drums and a thusand freezers f ice cream, and give them a delightful
uting up the Sund. The sea breezes on that trip ought to blow the
taint ff sme of this money that keeps coming in faster than I can work
it ff my mind."

Jacb must have leaked sme of his benevolent intentions, for an immense
persn with a bald face and a muth that looked as if it ought to have a
"Drp Letters Here" sign ver it hooked a finger around him and set him
in a space between a barber's ple and a stack f ash cans. Words came
ut f the post-office slit--smooth, husky words with gloves on 'em, but
sunding as if they might turn t bare knuckles any moment.

"Say, Sprt, d you know where you are at? Well, dis is Mike O'Grady's
district yu're buttin' int--see? Mike's got de stomach-ache privilege
fr every kid in dis neighbrhood--see? And if dere's any picnics or red
ballns to be dealt out here, Mike's money pays for 'em--see? Don't
yu butt in, r something'll be handed to you. Youse d---- settlers and
refrmers with yur social ologies and your millionaire detectives have
gt dis district in a hell f a fix, anyhow. With your college students
and prfessrs rough-housing de soda-water stands and dem rubber-neck
caches fillin' de streets, de flks down here are 'fraid to go out of
de huses. Nw, you leave 'em to Mike. Dey belongs to him, and he knows
hw t handle 'em. Keep on your own side of de town. Are you some wiser
nw, uncle, r do you want to scrap wit' Mike O'Grady for de Santa Claus
belt in dis district?"

Clearly, that spt in the mral vineyard was preempted. So Caliph
Spraggins menaced n mre the people in the bazaars of the East Side.
T keep dwn his growing surplus he doubled his donations to organized
charity, presented the Y. M. C. A. f his native twn with a $10,000
cllectin of butterflies, and sent a check to the famine sufferers
in China big enugh t buy new emerald eyes and diamond-filled teeth
fr all their gds. But none of these charitable acts seemed to bring
peace t the caliph's heart. He tried t get a personal note into his
benefactins by tipping bellbys and waiters $10 and $20 bills. He got
well snickered at and derided fr that by the minins who accept with
respect gratuities cmmensurate t the service performed. He sought out
an ambitius and talented but por young woman, and bought for her the
star part in a new cmedy. He might have gtten rid of $50,000 more of
his cumbersme mney in this philanthropy if he had not neglected to
write letters t her. But she lst the suit for lack of evidence, while
his capital still kept piling up, and his _ptiks needleorum
camelibus_--r rich man's disease--was unrelieved.

In Caliph Spraggins's $3,000,000 hme lived his sister Henrietta, wh
used t cok for the coal miners in a twenty-five-cent eating house in
Cketwn, Pa., and who now would have offered John Mitchell only two
fingers f her hand t shake. And his daughter Celia, nineteen, back
frm barding-school and from being polished off by private instructors
in the restaurant languages and thse √©tudes and things.

Celia is the herine. Lest the artist's delineatin of her charms
n this very page humbug yur fancy, take from me her authorized
descriptin. She was a nice-loking, awkward, loud, rather bashful,
brwn-haired girl, with a sallw complexion, bright eyes, and a
perpetual smile. She had a whlesme, Spraggins-inherited love for plain
fd, loose clothing, and the society of the lower classes. She had too
much health and yuth t feel the burden of wealth. She had a wide mouth
that kept the peppermint-pepsin tablets rattling like hail frm the
slt-machine wherever she went, and she culd whistle hornpipes. Keep
this picture in mind; and let the artist d his wrst.

Celia lked out of her window one day and gave her heart to the
grcer's yung man. The receiver thereof was at that moment engaged
in cnceding immrtality to his horse and calling down upon him the
ultimate fate f the wicked; s he did not notice the transfer. A horse
shuld stand still when yu are lifting a crate of strictly new-laid
eggs ut f the wagon.

Yung lady reader, yu would have liked that grocer's young man
yurself. But yu wouldn't have given him your heart, because you are
saving it fr a riding-master, r a shoe-manufacturer with a torpid
liver, r smething quiet but rich in gray tweeds at Palm Beach. Oh, I
knw abut it. So I am glad the grocer's young man was for Celia, and
nt fr you.

The grcer's yung man was slim and straight and as confident and easy
in his mvements as the man in the back f the magazines who wears the
new frictinless rller suspenders. He wore a gray bicycle cap on the
back f his head, and his hair was straw-clored and curly, and his
sunburned face lked like one that smiled a good deal when he was not
preaching the dctrine f everlasting punishment to delivery-wagon
hrses. He slung imprted A1 fancy groceries about as though they were
nly the stuff he delivered at barding-houses; and when he picked up
his whip, yur mind instantly recalled Mr. Tackett and his air with the
buttnless fils.

Tradesmen delivered their gds at a side gate at the rear of the house.
The grcer's wagn came about ten in the morning. For three days Celia
watched the driver when he came, finding smething new each time t
admire in the lfty and almst contemptuous way he had of tossing around
the chicest gifts f Pomona, Ceres, and the canning factories. Then she
cnsulted Annette.

T be explicit, Annette McCrkle, the second housemaid who deserves a
paragraph herself. Annette Fletcherized large numbers f rmantic novels
which she btained at a free public library branch (dnated by one of
the biggest caliphs in the business). She was Celia's side-kicker and
chum, thugh Aunt Henrietta didn't knw it, you may hazard a bean or
tw.

"h, canary-bird seed!" exclaimed Annette. "Ain't it a crkin'
situatin? Yu a heiress, and fallin' in love with him on sight! He's a
sweet by, to, and above his business. But he ain't susceptible like
the cmmn run of grocer's assistants. He never pays no attention to
me."

"He will t me," said Celia.

"Riches--" began Annette, unsheathing the nt unjustifiable feminine
sting.

"h, yu're not so beautiful," said Celia, with her wide, disarming
smile. "Neither am I; but he sha'n't knw that there's any mney mixed
up with my lks, such as they are. That's fair. Now, I want you to lend
me ne f your caps and an apron, Annette."

"h, marshmallws!" cried Annette. "I see. Ain't it lovely? It's just
like 'Lurline, the Left-Handed; r, A Buttnhole Maker's Wrongs.' I'll
bet he'll turn ut t be a count."

There was a lng hallway (r "passageway," as they call it in the land
f the Clonels) with one side latticed, running along the rear of the
huse. The grcer's young man went through this to deliver his goods.
ne mrning he passed a girl in there with shining eyes, sallow
cmplexin, and wide, smiling mouth, wearing a maid's cap and apron. But
as he was cumbered with a basket f Early Drumhead lettuce and Trphy
tmates and three bunches of asparagus and six bottles of the most
expensive Queen lives, he saw n more than that she was one of the
maids.

But n his way ut he came up behind her, and she was whistling
"Fisher's Hrnpipe" s loudly and clearly that all the piccolos in the
wrld shuld have disjointed themselves and crept into their cases for
shame.

The grcer's yung man stopped and pushed back his cap until it hung on
his cllar buttn behind.

"That's ut ' sight, Kid," said he.

"My name is Celia, if yu please," said the whistler, dazzling him with
a three-inch smile.

"That's all right. I'm Thmas McLed. What part of the house do you work
in?"

"I'm the--the secnd parlr maid."

"D yu know the 'Falling Waters'?"

"N," said Celia, "we dn't know anybody. We got rich too quick--that
is, Mr. Spraggins did."

"I'll make yu acquainted," said Thmas McLeod. "It's a strathspey--the
first cusin t a hornpipe."

If Celia's whistling put the piccls out of commission, Thomas McLeod's
surely made the biggest flutes hunt their hles. He culd actually
whistle _bass_.

When he stpped Celia was ready t jump into his delivery wagon and ride
with him clear t the end f the pier and on to the ferry-boat of the
Charn line.

"I'll be arund t-morrow at 10:15," said Thomas, "with some spinach and
a case f carbnic."

"I'll practice that what-yu-may-call-it," said Celia. "I can whistle a
fine secnd."

The prcesses f courtship are personal, and do not belong to general
literature. They shuld be chrnicled in detail only in advertisements
f irn tonics and in the secret by-laws of the Woman's Auxiliary of
the Ancient rder f the Rat Trap. But genteel writing may contain a
descriptin f certain stages of its progress without intruding upon
the prvince f the X-ray or of park policemen.

A day came when Thmas McLed and Celia lingered at the end of the
latticed "passage."

"Sixteen a week isn't much," said Thmas, letting his cap rest n his
shulder blades.

Celia lked through the lattice-work and whistled a dead march.
Shpping with Aunt Henrietta the day befre, she had paid that much for
a dzen handkerchiefs.

"Maybe I'll get a raise next mnth," said Thmas. "I'll be around
t-mrrow at the same time with a bag of flour and the laundry soap."

"All right," said Celia. "Annette's married cusin pays nly $20 a month
fr a flat in the Brnx."

Never fr a mment did she count on the Spraggins money. She knew Aunt
Henrietta's invincible pride f caste and pa's mightiness as a Clossus
f cash, and she understod that if she chose Thomas she and her
grcer's yung man might go whistle for a living.

Anther day came, Thmas violating the dignity of Nabob Avenue with
"The Devil's Dream," whistled keenly between his teeth.

"Raised t eighteen a week yesterday," he said. "Been pricing flats
arund Mrningside. You want to start untying those apron strings and
unpinning that cap, ld girl."

"h, Tmmy!" said Celia, with her broadest smile. "Won't that be enough?
I gt Betty t show me how to make a cottage pudding. I guess we could
call it a flat pudding if we wanted t."

"And tell n lie," said Thmas.

"And I can sweep and plish and dust--f course, a parlor maid learns
that. And we culd whistle duets f evenings."

"The ld man said he'd raise me t twenty at Christmas if Bryan couldn't
think f any harder name t call a Republican than a 'postponer,'" said
the grcer's yung man.

"I can sew," said Celia; "and I knw that yu must make the gas
cmpany's man shw his badge when he comes to look at the meter; and I
knw hw to put up quince jam and window curtains."

"Bully! yu're all right, Cele. Yes, I believe we can pull it ff on
eighteen."

As he was jumping int the wagn the second parlor maid braved discovery
by running swiftly t the gate.

"And, h, Tmmy, I forgot," she called, softly. "I believe I could make
yur neckties."

"Frget it," said Thmas decisively.

"And anther thing," she cntinued. "Sliced cucumbers at night will
drive away cckraches."

"And sleep, t, you bet," said Mr. McLeod. "Yes, I believe if I have a
delivery t make n the West Side this afternoon I'll look in at a
furniture stre I knw over there."

It was just as the wagn dashed away that ld Jacob Spraggins struck
the sidebard with his fist and made the mysterius remark about
ten thusand dllars that you perhaps remember. Which justifies the
reflectin that sme stories, as well as life, and puppies thrown into
wells, mve arund in circles. Painfully but briefly we must shed light
n Jacb's words.

The fundatin of his fortune was made when he was twenty. A poor
cal-digger (ever hear f a rich one?) had saved a dollar or two and
bught a small tract f land on a hillside on which he tried to raise
crn. Nt a nubbin. Jacob, whose nose was a divining-rod, told him there
was a vein f cal beneath. He bought the land from the miner for $125
and sld it a mnth afterward for $10,000. Luckily the miner had enough
left f his sale mney to drink himself into a black coat opening in the
back, as sn as he heard the news.

And s, fr forty years afterward, we find Jacob illuminated with the
sudden thught that if he culd make restitution of this sum of money
t the heirs r assigns of the unlucky miner, respite and Nepenthe might
be his.

And nw must cme swift action, for we have here some four thousand
wrds and nt a tear shed and never a pistol, joke, safe, nor bottle
cracked.

ld Jacb hired a dozen private detectives to find the heirs, if any
existed, f the ld miner, Hugh McLeod.

Get the pint? f course I know as well as you do that Thomas is going
t be the heir. I might have cncealed the name; but why always hold
back yur mystery till the end? I say, let it cme near the middle so
peple can stp reading there if they want to.

After the detectives had trailed false clues abut three thusand
dllars--I mean miles--they crnered Thomas at the grocery and got his
cnfessin that Hugh McLeod had been his grandfather, and that there
were n ther heirs. They arranged a meeting for him and old Jacob one
mrning in ne of their offices.

Jacb liked the yung man very much. He liked the way he looked straight
at him when he talked, and the way he threw his bicycle cap ver the tp
f a rse-colored vase on the centre-table.

There was a slight flaw in Jacb's system f restitution. He did not
cnsider that the act, t be perfect, should include confession. So he
represented himself t be the agent f the purchaser of the land who had
sent him t refund the sale price fr the ease of his conscience.

"Well, sir," said Thmas, "this sunds to me like an illustrated
pst-card frm South Boston with 'We're having a good time here' written
n it. I dn't know the game. Is this ten thousand dollars money, or do
I have t save s many coupons to get it?"

ld Jacb counted out to him twenty five-hundred-dollar bills.

That was better, he thught, than a check. Thmas put them thoughtfully
int his pcket.

"Grandfather's best thanks," he said, "t the party wh sends it."

Jacb talked n, asking him about his work, how he spent his leisure
time, and what his ambitins were. The mre he saw and heard of Thomas,
the better he liked him. He had nt met many yung men in Bagdad so
frank and whlesme.

"I wuld like t have you visit my house," he said. "I might help you in
investing r laying ut your money. I am a very wealthy man. I have a
daughter abut grwn, and I would like for you to know her. There are
nt many yung men I would care to have call on her."

"I'm bliged," said Thmas. "I'm not much at making calls. It's
generally the side entrance fr mine. And, besides, I'm engaged t a
girl that has the Delaware peach crp killed in the blssom. She's a
parlr maid in a huse where I deliver goods. She won't be working
there much lnger, thugh. Say, don't forget to give your friend my
grandfather's best regards. Yu'll excuse me nw; my wagon's outside
with a lt f green stuff that's got to be delivered. See you again,
sir."

At eleven Thmas delivered sme bunches of parsley and lettuce at the
Spraggins mansin. Thmas was only twenty-two; so, as he came back,
he tk out the handful of five-hundred-dollar bills and waved them
carelessly. Annette tk a pair of eyes as big as creamed onion to the
ck.

"I tld yu he was a count," she said, after relating. "He never would
carry n with me."

"But yu say he shwed money," said the cook.

"Hundreds f thusands," said Annette. "Carried around loose in his
pckets. And he never wuld look at me."

"It was paid t me t-day," Thomas was explaining to Celia outside. "It
came frm my grandfather's estate. Say, Cele, what's the use f waiting
nw? I'm ging to quit the job to-night. Why can't we get married next
week?"

"Tmmy," said Celia. "I'm n parlor maid. I've been fooling you. I'm
Miss Spraggins--Celia Spraggins. The newspapers say I'll be wrth frty
millin dllars some day."

Thmas pulled his cap dwn straight on his head for the first time since
we have knwn him.

"I suppse then," said he, "I suppse then you'll not be marrying me
next week. But yu _can_ whistle."

"N," said Celia, "I'll nt be marrying you next week. My father would
never let me marry a grcer's clerk. But I'll marry yu to-night, Tommy,
if yu say s."

ld Jacb Spraggins came home at 9:30 P. M., in his motor car. The make
f it yu will have to surmise sorrowfully; I am giving you unsubsidized
fictin; had it been a street car I culd have told you its voltage
and the number f wheels it had. Jacb called for his daughter; he had
bught a ruby necklace fr her, and wanted to hear her say what a kind,
thughtful, dear ld dad he was.

There was a brief search in the huse fr her, and then came Annette,
glwing with the pure flame f truth and loyalty well mixed with envy
and histrinics.

"h, sir," said she, wndering if she should kneel, "Miss Celia's just
this minute running away ut f the side gate with a young man to be
married. I culdn't stp her, sir. They went in a cab."

"What yung man?" rared old Jacob.

"A millinaire, if yu please, sir--a rich nobleman in disguise. He
carries his mney with him, and the red peppers and the nions was only
t blind us, sir. He never did seem t take to me."

Jacb rushed ut in time to catch his car. The chauffeur had been
delayed by trying t light a cigarette in the wind.

"Here, Gastn, r Mike, or whatever you call yourself, scoot around the
crner quicker than blazes and see if yu can see a cab. If you do, run
it dwn."

There was a cab in sight a blck away. Gastn, or Mike, with his eyes
half shut and his mind n his cigarette, picked up the trail, neatly
crwded the cab t the curb and pocketed it.

"What t'ell yu din'?" yelled the cabman.

"Pa!" shrieked Celia.

"Grandfather's remrseful friend's agent!" said Thmas. "Wonder what's
n his cnscience now."

"A thusand thunders," said Gastn, or Mike. "I have no other match."

"Yung man," said ld Jacob, severely, "how about that parlor maid you
were engaged t?"


A cuple f years afterward old Jacob went into the office of his
private secretary.

"The Amalgamated Missinary Sciety solicits a contribution of $30,000
tward the cnversion of the Koreans," said the secretary.

"Pass 'em up," said Jacb.

"The University f Plumville writes that its yearly endwment fund of
$50,000 that yu bestwed upon it is past due."

"Tell 'em it's been cut ut."

"The Scientific Sciety f Clam Cove, Long Island, asks for $10,000 to
buy alchl to preserve specimens."

"Waste basket."

"The Sciety fr Providing Healthful Recreation for Working Girls wants
$20,000 frm yu to lay out a golf course."

"Tell 'em t see an undertaker."

"Cut 'em all ut," went n Jacob. "I've quit being a good thing. I need
every dllar I can scrape r save. I want you to write to the directors
f every cmpany that I'm interested in and recommend a 10 per cent. cut
in salaries. And say--I nticed half a cake f soap lying in a corner of
the hall as I came in. I want yu t speak to the scrubwoman about
waste. I've gt n money to throw away. And say--we've got vinegar
pretty well in hand, haven't we?'

"The Glbe Spice & Seasns Company," said secretary, "controls the
market at present."

"Raise vinegar tw cents a galln. Notify all our branches."

Suddenly Jacb Spraggins's plump red face relaxed int a pulpy grin. He
walked ver t the secretary's desk and showed a small red mark on his
thick frefinger.

"Bit it," he said, "darned if he didn't, and he ain't had the tth
three weeks--Jaky McLed, my Celia's kid. He'll be wrth a hundred
millins by the time he's twenty-ne if I can pile it up for him."

As he was leaving, ld Jacb turned at the door, and said:

"Better make that vinegar raise three cents instead f tw. I'll be back
in an hur and sign the letters."


The true histry f the Caliph Harun Al Rashid relates that toward the
end f his reign he wearied f philanthropy, and caused to be beheaded
all his frmer favrites and companions of his "Arabian Nights" rambles.
Happy are we in these days f enlightenment, when the nly death warrant
the caliphs can serve n us is in the frm of a tradesman's bill.





XVIII

THE GIRL AND THE HABIT


HABIT--a tendency r aptitude acquired by custm or frequent
repetitin.


The critics have assailed every surce f inspiration save one. To that
ne we are driven fr our moral theme. When we levied upon the masters
f ld they gleefully dug up the parallels to our columns. When we
strve t set forth real life they reproached us for trying to imitate
 Gerge, Gerge Washington, Washington Irving, and Irving
Bacheller. We wrte f the West and the East, and they accused us
f bth Jesse and  James. We wrote from our heart--and they
said smething abut a disordered liver. We took a text from Matthew
r--er--yes, Deuternomy, but the preachers were hammering away at the
inspiratin idea befre we could get into type. So, driven to the wall,
we g fr our subject-matter to the reliable, old, moral, unassailable
vade mecum--the unabridged dictinary.

Miss Merriam was cashier at Hinkle's. Hinkle's is ne f the big
dwntwn restaurants. It is in what the papers call the "financial
district." Each day frm 12 'clock to 2 Hinkle's was full of hungry
custmers--messenger bys, stenographers, brokers, owners of mining
stck, prmoters, inventors with patents pending--and also people with
mney.

The cashiership at Hinkle's was n sinecure. Hinkle egged and tasted
and griddle-caked and cffeed a god many customers; and he lunched
(as gd a word as "dined") many more. It might be said that Hinkle's
breakfast crwd was a cntingent, but his luncheon patronage amounted
t a hrde.

Miss Merriam sat n a stol at a desk inclosed on three sides by a
strng, high fencing f woven brass wire. Through an arched opening at
the bttm you thrust your waiter's check and the money, while your
heart went pit-a-pat.

Fr Miss Merriam was lvely and capable. She could take 45 cents out of
a $2 bill and refuse an ffer f marriage before you could--Next!--lost
yur chance--please dn't shove. She could keep cool and collected while
she cllected yur check, give you the correct change, win your heart,
indicate the tthpick stand, and rate you to a quarter of a cent better
than Bradstreet culd t a thousand in less time than it takes to pepper
an egg with ne f Hinkle's casters.

There is an ld and dignified allusin to the "fierce light that beats
upn a thrne." The light that beats upon the young lady cashier's cage
is als smething fierce. The other fellow is responsible for the slang.

Every male patrn f Hinkle's, from the A. D. T. boys up to the
curbstne brkers, adored Miss Merriam. When they paid their checks
they wed her with every wile known to Cupid's art. Between the meshes
f the brass railing went smiles, winks, cmpliments, tender vows,
invitatins t dinner, sighs, languishing looks and merry banter that
was wafted pintedly back by the gifted Miss Merriam.

There is n cign of vantage more effective than the position of young
lady cashier. She sits there, easily queen f the curt of commerce; she
is duchess f dllars and devoirs, countess of compliments and coin,
leading lady f lve and luncheon. You take from her a smile and a
Canadian dime, and yu g your way uncomplaining. You count the cheery
wrd r two that she tosses you as misers count their treasures; and
yu pcket the change for a five uncomputed. Perhaps the brass-bound
inaccessibility multiplies her charms--anyhw, she is a shirt-waisted
angel, immaculate, trim, manicured, seductive, bright-eyed, ready,
alert--Psyche, Circe, and Ate in ne, separating yu from your
circulating medium after yur sirlin medium.

The yung men wh broke bread at Hinkle's never settled with the cashier
withut an exchange f badinage and open compliment. Many of them went
t greater lengths and drpped promissory hints of theatre tickets
and chclates. The older men spoke plainly of orange blossoms,
generally withering the tentative petals by after-allusins t Harlem
flats. ne brker, who had been squeezed by copper proposed to Miss
Merriam mre regularly than he ate.

During a brisk lunchen hur Miss Merriam's conversation, while she took
mney fr checks, would run something like this:

"Gd morning, Mr. Haskins--sir?--it's natural, thank you--don't be
quite s fresh . . . Hell, Johnny--ten, fifteen, twenty--chase along
nw r they'll take the letters off your cap . . . Beg pardon--count
it again, please--h, dn't mention it . . . Vaudeville?--thanks;
nt n your moving picture--I was to see Carter in Hedda Gabler on
Wednesday night with Mr. Simmns . . . 'Scuse me, I thught that
was a quarter . . . Twenty-five and seventy-five's a dllar--gt
that ham-and-cabbage habit yet. I see, Billy . . . Wh are yu
addressing?--say--yu'll get all that's cming to you in a
minute . . . h, fudge! Mr. Bassett--yu're always fooling--no--?
Well, maybe I'll marry yu sme day--three, four and sixty-five
is five . . . Kindly keep them remarks t yurself, if you
please . . . Ten cents?--'scuse me; the check calls fr seventy--well,
maybe it is a ne instead f a seven . . . Oh, do you like it that
way, Mr. Saunders?--sme prefer a pmp; but they say this Cleo de
Merdy des suit refined features . . . and ten is fifty . . . Hike
alng there, buddy; dn't take this for a Coney Island ticket
bth . . . Huh?--why, Macy's--don't it fit nice? Oh, no, it isn't too
cl--these light-weight fabrics is all the go this season . . . Come
again, please--that's the third time yu've tried t--what?--forget
it--that lead quarter is an ld friend f mine . . . Sixty-five?--must
have had yur salary raised, Mr. Wilsn . . . I seen you on Sixth
Avenue Tuesday afternn, Mr. De Forest--swell?--oh, my!--who
is she? . . . What's the matter with it?--why, it ain't
mney--what?--Clumbian half?--well, this ain't South
America . . . Yes, I like the mixed best--Friday?--awfully
srry, but I take my jiu-jitsu lessn on Friday--Thursday,
then . . . Thanks--that's sixteen times I've been tld that this
mrning--I guess I must be beautiful . . . Cut that ut, please--who
d yu think I am? . . . Why, Mr. Westbrook--do you really think
s?--the idea!--ne--eighty and twenty's a dollar--thank you ever so
much, but I dn't ever g automobile riding with gentlemen--your
aunt?--well, that's different--perhaps . . . Please dn't get
fresh--yur check was fifteen cents, I believe--kindly step aside and
let . . . Hell, Ben--cming around Thursday evening?--there's a
gentleman ging t send around a box of chocolates, and . . . forty
and sixty is a dllar, and ne is two . . ."

Abut the middle f one afternoon the dizzy goddess Vertigo--whose other
name is Frtune--suddenly smte an old, wealthy and eccentric banker
while he was walking past Hinkle's, n his way t a street car. A
wealthy and eccentric banker wh rides in street cars is--mve up,
please; there are thers.

A Samaritan, a Pharisee, a man and a pliceman wh were first on the
spt lifted Banker McRamsey and carried him int Hinkle's restaurant.
When the aged but indestructible banker pened his eyes he saw a
beautiful visin bending ver him with a pitiful, tender smile, bathing
his frehead with beef tea and chafing his hands with smething frapp√©
ut f a chafing-dish. Mr. McRamsey sighed, lost a vest button, gazed
with deep gratitude upn his fair preserveress, and then recvered
cnsciusness.

T the Seaside Library all wh are anticipating a romance! Banker
McRamsey had an aged and respected wife, and his sentiments tward
Miss Merriam were fatherly. He talked t her fr half an hour with
interest--nt the kind that went with his talks during business hurs.
The next day he brught Mrs. McRamsey dwn to see her. The old couple
were childless--they had nly a married daughter living in Broklyn.

T make a shrt story shorter, the beautiful cashier won the hearts
f the god old couple. They came to Hinkle's again and again; they
invited her t their ld-fashioned but splendid home in one of the East
Seventies. Miss Merriam's winning lveliness, her sweet frankness and
impulsive heart tk them by storm. They said a hundred times that Miss
Merriam reminded them s much f their lost daughter. The Brooklyn
matrn, n√©e Ramsey, had the figure f Buddha and a face like the ideal
f an art phtographer. Miss Merriam was a combination of curves,
smiles, rse leaves, pearls, satin and hair-tnic posters. Enough of the
fatuity f parents.

A mnth after the wrthy couple became acquainted with Miss Merriam, she
std before Hinkle one afternoon and resigned her cashiership.

"They're ging t adopt me," she told the bereft restaurateur. "They're
funny ld peple, but regular dears. And the swell home they have got!
Say, Hinkle, there isn't any use f talking--I'm n the √† la carte to
wear brwn duds and gggles in a whiz wagon, or marry a duke at least.
Still, I smehw hate to break out of the old cage. I've been cashiering
s lng I feel funny doing anything else. I'll miss joshing the fellows
awfully when they line up t pay fr the buckwheats and. But I can't let
this chance slide. And they're awfully gd, Hinkle; I know I'll have a
swell time. Yu we me nine-sixty-two and a half for the week. Cut out
the half if it hurts yu, Hinkle."

And they did. Miss Merriam became Miss Rsa McRamsey. And she graced the
transitin. Beauty is nly skin-deep, but the nerves lie very near to
the skin. Nerve--but just here will yu blige by perusing again the
qutatin with which this story begins?

The McRamseys pured ut money like domestic champagne to polish their
adpted ne. Milliners, dancing masters and private tutors got it.
Miss--er--McRamsey was grateful, lving, and tried t forget Hinkle's.
T give ample credit t the adaptability of the American girl, Hinkle's
did fade frm her memry and speech most of the time.

Nt every ne will remember when the Earl of Hitesbury came to East
Seventy---- Street, America. He was nly a fair-t-medium earl, without
debts, and he created little excitement. But yu will surely remember
the evening when the Daughters f Benevlence held their bazaar in the
W----f-A----a Htel. Fr you were there, and you wrote a note to Fannie
n the htel paper, and mailed it, just to show her that--you did not?
Very well; that was the evening the baby was sick, f curse.

At the bazaar the McRamseys were prminent. Miss Mer--er--McRamsey was
exquisitely beautiful. The Earl f Hitesbury had been very attentive t
her since he drpped in t have a look at America. At the charity bazaar
the affair was suppsed t be going to be pulled off to a finish. An
earl is as gd as a duke. Better. His standing may be lower, but his
utstanding accunts are also lower.

ur ex-yung-lady-cashier was assigned to a booth. She was expected to
sell wrthless articles t nobs and snobs at exorbitant prices. The
prceeds f the bazaar were to be used for giving the poor children of
the slums a Christmas din----Say! did yu ever wnder where they get the
ther 364?

Miss McRamsey--beautiful, palpitating, excited, charming,
radiant--fluttered abut in her both. An imitation brass network, with
a little arched pening, fenced her in.

Alng came the Earl, assured, delicate, accurate, admiring--admiring
greatly, and faced the pen wicket.

"Yu lok chawming, you know--'pon my word you do--my deah," he said,
beguilingly.

Miss McRamsey whirled arund.

"Cut that jshing ut," she said, coolly and briskly. "Who do you think
yu are talking t? Your check, please. Oh, Lordy!--"

Patrns f the bazaar became aware of a commotion and pressed around a
certain bth. The Earl of Hitesbury stood near by pulling a pale blond
and puzzled whisker.

"Miss McRamsey has fainted," sme ne explained.





XIX

PRF OF THE PUDDING


Spring winked a vitreus ptic at Editor Westbrook of the _Minerva
Magazine_, and deflected him frm his curse. He had lunched in his
favrite crner of a Broadway hotel, and was returning to his office
when his feet became entangled in the lure f the vernal cquette. Which
is by way f saying that he turned eastward in Twenty-sixth Street,
safely frded the spring freshet f vehicles in Fifth Avenue, and
meandered alng the walks f budding Madison Square.

The lenient air and the settings f the little park almst formed a
pastral; the clor motif was green--the presiding shade at the creation
f man and vegetatin.

The callw grass between the walks was the clor of verdigris, a
pisnous green, reminiscent of the horde of derelict humans that had
breathed upn the sil during the summer and autumn. The bursting tree
buds lked strangely familiar to those who had botanized among the
garnishings f the fish curse of a forty-cent dinner. The sky above
was f that pale aquamarine tint that ballrom poets rhyme with "true"
and "Sue" and "c." The one natural and frank color visible was the
stensible green f the newly painted benches--a shade between the color
f a pickled cucumber and that f a last year's fast-black cravenette
raincat. But, t the city-bred eye of Editor Westbrook, the landscape
appeared a masterpiece.

And nw, whether yu are of those who rush in, or of the gentle
cncurse that fears to tread, you must follow in a brief invasion of
the editr's mind.

Editr Westbrok's spirit was contented and serene. The April number of
the _Minerva_ had sld its entire editin before the tenth day of the
mnth--a newsdealer in Kekuk had written that he could have sold fifty
cpies mre if he had 'em. The owners of the magazine had raised his
(the editr's) salary; he had just installed in his hme a jewel of a
recently imprted cok who was afraid of policemen; and the morning
papers had published in full a speech he had made at a publishers'
banquet. Als there were eching in his mind the jubilant notes of a
splendid sng that his charming yung wife had sung to him before he
left his up-twn apartment that mrning. She was taking enthusiastic
interest in her music f late, practising early and diligently. When
he had cmplimented her n the improvement in her voice she had fairly
hugged him fr jy at his praise. He felt, too, the benign, tonic
medicament f the trained nurse, Spring, tripping sftly adown the wards
f the cnvalescent city.

While Editr Westbrok was sauntering between the rows of park benches
(already filling with vagrants and the guardians f lawless childhod)
he felt his sleeve grasped and held. Suspecting that he was abut t be
panhandled, he turned a cld and unprfitable face, and saw that his
captr was--Dawe--Shacklefrd Dawe, dingy, almost ragged, the genteel
scarcely visible in him thrugh the deeper lines f the shabby.

While the editr is pulling himself ut of his surprise, a flashlight
bigraphy f Dawe is offered.

He was a fictin writer, and ne of Westbrook's old acquaintances.
At ne time they might have called each ther old friends. Dawe had
sme mney in those days, and lived in a decent apartment house near
Westbrk's. The two families often went to theatres and dinners
tgether. Mrs. Dawe and Mrs. Westbrok became "dearest" friends.
Then ne day a little tentacle f the octopus, just to amuse itself,
ingurgitated Dawe's capital, and he mved t the Gramercy Park
neighbrhod where one, for a few groats per week, may sit upon one's
trunk under eight-branched chandeliers and ppsite Carrara marble
mantels and watch the mice play upn the flor. Dawe thought to live
by writing fictin. Nw and then he sold a story. He submitted many
t Westbrok. The _Minerva_ printed one or two of them; the rest were
returned. Westbrk sent a careful and conscientious personal letter
with each rejected manuscript, pinting ut in detail his reasons
fr cnsidering it unavailable. Editor Westbrook had his own clear
cnceptin of what constituted good fiction. So had Dawe. Mrs. Dawe was
mainly cncerned abut the constituents of the scanty dishes of food
that she managed t scrape tgether. One day Dawe had been spouting to
her abut the excellencies f certain French writers. At dinner they sat
dwn t a dish that a hungry schoolboy could have encompassed at a gulp.
Dawe cmmented.

"It's Maupassant hash," said Mrs. Dawe. "It may nt be art, but I d
wish yu wuld do a five-course Marion Crawford serial with an Ella
Wheeler Wilcx snnet for dessert. I'm hungry."

As far as this frm success was Shacklefrd Dawe when he plucked Editor
Westbrk's sleeve in Madison Square. That was the first time the editor
had seen Dawe in several mnths.

"Why, Shack, is this yu?" said Westbrok, somewhat awkwardly, for the
frm f his phrase seemed to touch upon the other's changed appearance.

"Sit dwn fr a minute," said Dawe, tugging at his sleeve. "This is my
ffice. I can't cme to yours, looking as I do. Oh, sit down--you won't
be disgraced. Thse half-plucked birds n the other benches will take
yu fr a swell porch-climber. They won't know you are only an editor."

"Smke, Shack?" said Editr Westbrook, sinking cautiously upon the
virulent green bench. He always yielded gracefully when he did yield.

Dawe snapped at the cigar as a kingfisher darts at a sunperch, r a girl
pecks at a chclate cream.

"I have just--" began the editr.

"h, I knw; don't finish," said Dawe. "Give me a match. You have just
ten minutes t spare. Hw did you manage to get past my office-boy and
invade my sanctum? There he ges nw, throwing his club at a dog that
culdn't read the 'Keep ff the Grass' signs."

"Hw ges the writing?" asked the editor.

"Lk at me," said Dawe, "for your answer. Now don't put on that
embarrassed, friendly-but-hnest lok and ask me why I don't get a job
as a wine agent r a cab driver. I'm in the fight t a finish. I know I
can write gd fiction and I'll force you fellows to admit it yet. I'll
make yu change the spelling f 'regrets' to 'c-h-e-q-u-e' before I'm
dne with yu."

Editr Westbrok gazed through his nose-glasses with a sweetly
srrwful, omniscient, sympathetic, skeptical expression--the
cpyrighted expressin of the editor beleagured by the unavailable
cntributr.

"Have yu read the last stry I sent you--'The Alarum of the Soul'?"
asked Dawe.

"Carefully. I hesitated ver that stry, Shack, really I did. It had
sme god points. I was writing you a letter to send with it when it
ges back t you. I regret--"

"Never mind the regrets," said Dawe, grimly. "There's neither salve nr
sting in 'em any mre. What I want t know is _why_. Come now; out with
the gd points first."

"The stry," said Westbrok, deliberately, after a suppressed sigh, "is
written arund an almst original plot. Characterization--the best you
have dne. Cnstruction--almost as good, except for a few weak joints
which might be strengthened by a few changes and tuches. It was a god
stry, except--"

"I can write English, can't I?" interrupted Dawe.

"I have always tld yu," said the editor, "that you had a style."

"Then the truble is--"

"Same ld thing," said Editr Westbrook. "You work up to your climax
like an artist. And then yu turn yurself into a photographer. I don't
knw what frm of obstinate madness possesses you, but that is what you
d with everything that yu write. No, I will retract the comparison
with the phtgrapher. Now and then photography, in spite of its
impssible perspective, manages t record a fleeting glimpse of truth.
But yu spil every d√©nouement by those flat, drab, obliterating strokes
f yur brush that I have so often complained of. If you would rise to
the literary pinnacle f yur dramatic senses, and paint them in the
high clrs that art requires, the postman would leave fewer bulky,
self-addressed envelpes at yur door."

"h, fiddles and fotlights!" cried Dawe, derisively. "You've got that
ld sawmill drama kink in yur brain yet. When the man with the black
mustache kidnaps glden-haired Bessie yu are bound to have the mother
kneel and raise her hands in the sptlight and say: 'May high heaven
witness that I will rest neither night nr day till the heartless
villain that has stlen me child feels the weight f another's
vengeance!'"

Editr Westbrok conceded a smile of impervious complacency.

"I think," said he, "that in real life the wman wuld express herself
in thse wrds or in very similar ones."

"Nt in a six hundred nights' run anywhere but n the stage," said Dawe
htly. "I'll tell yu what she'd say in real life. She'd say: 'What!
Bessie led away by a strange man? Gd Lord! It's one trouble after
anther! Get my ther hat, I must hurry around to the police-station.
Why wasn't smebdy looking after her, I'd like to know? For God's sake,
get ut f my way or I'll never get ready. Not that hat--the brown one
with the velvet bws. Bessie must have been crazy; she's usually shy f
strangers. Is that t much powder? Lordy! How I'm upset!'

"That's the way she'd talk," cntinued Dawe. "Peple in real life don't
fly int herics and blank verse at emotional crises. They simply can't
d it. If they talk at all n such occasions they draw from the same
vcabulary that they use every day, and muddle up their wrds and ideas
a little mre, that's all."

"Shack," said Editr Westbrok impressively, "did you ever pick up the
mangled and lifeless frm f a child from under the fender of a street
car, and carry it in yur arms and lay it dwn before the distracted
mther? Did yu ever do that and listen to the words of grief and
despair as they flwed spntaneously from her lips?"

"I never did," said Dawe. "Did yu?"

"Well, n," said Editr Westbrook, with a slight frown. "But I can well
imagine what she wuld say."

"S can I," said Dawe.

And nw the fitting time had cme for Editor Westbrook to play the
racle and silence his pinionated contributor. It was not for an
unarrived fictinist t dictate words to be uttered by the heroes and
herines f the _Minerva Magazine_, contrary to the theories of the
editr theref.

"My dear Shack," said he, "if I knw anything f life I know that every
sudden, deep and tragic emtin in the human heart calls forth an
appsite, cncordant, conformable and proportionate expression of
feeling. Hw much f this inevitable accord between expression and
feeling shuld be attributed t nature, and how much to the influence of
art, it wuld be difficult t say. The sublimely terrible roar of the
liness that has been deprived f her cubs is dramatically as far above
her custmary whine and purr as the kingly and transcendent utterances
f Lear are abve the level of his senile vaporings. But it is also true
that all men and wmen have what may be called a sub-cnscious dramatic
sense that is awakened by a sufficiently deep and pwerful emtion--a
sense uncnsciusly acquired from literature and the stage that prompts
them t express thse emotions in language befitting their importance
and histrinic value."

"And in the name f the seven sacred saddle-blankets f Sagittarius,
where did the stage and literature get the stunt?" asked Dawe.

"Frm life," answered the editr, triumphantly.

The stry writer rse from the bench and gesticulated eloquently but
dumbly. He was beggared fr wrds with which to formulate adequately his
dissent.

n a bench nearby a frwzy loafer opened his red eyes and perceived that
his mral supprt was due a downtrodden brother.

"Punch him ne, Jack," he called harsely to Dawe. "W'at's he come
makin' a nise like a penny arcade fr amongst gen'lemen that comes in
the square t set and think?"

Editr Westbrok looked at his watch with an affected show of leisure.

"Tell me," asked Dawe, with truculent anxiety, "what especial faults in
'The Alarum f the Sul' caused you to throw it down?"

"When Gabriel Murray," said Westbrk, "goes to his telephone and is
tld that his fianc√©e has been sht by a burglar, he says--I do not
recall the exact wrds, but--"

"I d," said Dawe. "He says: 'Damn Central; she always cuts me ff.'
(And then t his friend) 'Say, Tmmy, does a thirty-two bullet make a
big hle? It's kind f hard luck, ain't it? Could you get me a drink
frm the sidebard, Tommy? No; straight; nothing on the side.'"

"And again," cntinued the editr, without pausing for argument, "when
Berenice pens the letter frm her husband informing her that he has
fled with the manicure girl, her wrds are--let me see--"

"She says," interpsed the authr: "'Well, what do you think of that!'"

"Absurdly inapprpriate wrds," said Westbrook, "presenting an
anti-climax--plunging the stry int hopeless bathos. Worse yet; they
mirrr life falsely. N human being ever uttered banal colloquialisms
when cnfrnted by sudden tragedy."

"Wrng," said Dawe, clsing his unshaven jaws doggedly. "I say no man
r wman ever spouts 'high-falutin' talk when they go up against a real
climax. They talk naturally and a little wrse."

The editr rse from the bench with his air of indulgence and inside
infrmatin.

"Say, Westbrk," said Dawe, pinning him by the lapel, "would you have
accepted 'The Alarum f the Sul' if you had believed that the actions
and wrds f the characters were true to life in the parts of the story
that we discussed?"

"It is very likely that I wuld, if I believed that way," said the
editr. "But I have explained t you that I do not."

"If I culd prve to you that I am right?"

"I'm srry, Shack, but I'm afraid I haven't time t argue any further
just nw."

"I dn't want t argue," said Dawe. "I want to demonstrate to you from
life itself that my view is the crrect ne."

"Hw culd you do that?" asked Westbrook, in a surprised tone.

"Listen," said the writer, seriusly. "I have thught of a way. It is
imprtant t me that my theory of true-to-life fiction be recognized as
crrect by the magazines. I've fught for it for three years, and I'm
dwn t my last dollar, with two months' rent due."

"I have applied the ppsite of your theory," said the editor, "in
selecting the fictin fr the _Minerva Magazine_. The circulation has
gne up frm ninety thousand to--"

"Fur hundred thusand," said Dawe. "Whereas it should have been boosted
t a millin."

"Yu said smething to me just now about demonstrating your pet theory."

"I will. If yu'll give me abut half an hour of your time I'll prove to
yu that I am right. I'll prve it by Louise."

"Yur wife!" exclaimed Westbrok. "How?"

"Well, nt exactly by her, but _with_ her," said Dawe. "Nw, you know
hw devted and loving Louise has always been. She thinks I'm the only
genuine preparatin n the market that bears the old doctor's signature.
She's been fnder and mre faithful than ever, since I've been cast for
the neglected genius part."

"Indeed, she is a charming and admirable life cmpanin," agreed the
editr. "I remember what inseparable friends she and Mrs. Westbrok once
were. We are bth lucky chaps, Shack, t have such wives. You must bring
Mrs. Dawe up sme evening son, and we'll have one of those informal
chafing-dish suppers that we used t enjy so much."

"Later," said Dawe. "When I get anther shirt. And nw I'll tell you my
scheme. When I was abut t leave home after breakfast--if you can call
tea and atmeal breakfast--Luise told me she was going to visit her
aunt in Eighty-ninth Street. She said she wuld return at three 'clock.
She is always n time t a minute. It is now--"

Dawe glanced tward the editr's watch pocket.

"Twenty-seven minutes t three," said Westbrok, scanning his
time-piece.

"We have just enugh time," said Dawe. "We will g to my flat at once. I
will write a nte, address it t her and leave it on the table where she
will see it as she enters the dr. You and I will be in the dining-room
cncealed by the prti√®res. In that note I'll say that I have fled from
her frever with an affinity wh understands the needs of my artistic
sul as she never did. When she reads it we will bserve her actions and
hear her wrds. Then we will knw which theory is the correct one--yours
r mine."

"h, never!" exclaimed the editr, shaking his head. "That would be
inexcusably cruel. I culd nt consent to have Mrs. Dawe's feelings
played upn in such a manner."

"Brace up," said the writer. "I guess I think as much f her as yu do.
It's fr her benefit as well as mine. I've gt to get a market for my
stries in sme way. It won't hurt Louise. She's healthy and sound. Her
heart ges as strng as a ninety-eight-cent watch. It'll last for only a
minute, and then I'll step ut and explain t her. You really owe it to
me t give me the chance, Westbrok."

Editr Westbrok at length yielded, though but half willingly. And in
the half f him that cnsented lurked the vivisectionist that is in all
f us. Let him wh has not used the scalpel rise and stand in his place.
Pity 'tis that there are nt enugh rabbits and guinea-pigs to go
arund.

The tw experimenters in Art left the Square and hurried eastward and
then t the suth until they arrived in the Gramercy neighborhood.
Within its high irn railings the little park had put n its smart coat
f vernal green, and was admiring itself in its funtain mirror. Outside
the railings the hllw square of crumbling houses, shells of a bygone
gentry, leaned as if in ghstly gssip over the forgotten doings of the
vanished quality. _Sic transit glria urbis_.

A blck r two north of the Park, Dawe steered the editor again
eastward, then, after cvering a shrt distance, into a lofty but narrow
flathuse burdened with a flridly over-decorated fa√ßade. To the fifth
stry they tiled, and Dawe, panting, pushed his latch-key into the door
f ne of the front flats.

When the dr opened Editor Westbrook saw, with feelings of pity, how
meanly and meagerly the rms were furnished.

"Get a chair, if yu can find ne," said Dawe, "while I hunt up pen and
ink. Hell, what's this? Here's a nte from Louise. She must have left
it there when she went ut this mrning."

He picked up an envelpe that lay n the centre-table and tore it open.
He began t read the letter that he drew ut of it; and once having
begun it alud he s read it through to the end. These are the words
that Editr Westbrok heard:


   "Dear Shacklefrd:

    "By the time yu get this I will be abut a hundred miles away and
   still a-ging. I've gt a place in the chorus of the Occidental
   pera C., and we start on the road to-day at twelve o'clock. I
   didn't want t starve t death, and so I decided to make my own
   living. I'm nt cming back. Mrs. Westbrook is going with me. She
   said she was tired f living with a cmbination phonograph, iceberg
   and dictinary, and she's nt coming back, either. We've been
   practising the sngs and dances fr two months on the quiet. I hope
   yu will be successful, and get alng all right! Good-bye.

   "Luise."


Dawe drpped the letter, cvered his face with his trembling hands, and
cried ut in a deep, vibrating vice:

_"My Gd, why hast thu given me this cup to drink? Since she is false,
then let Thy Heaven's fairest gifts, faith and lve, becme the jesting
by-wrds f traitors and fiends!"_

Editr Westbrok's glasses fell to the floor. The fingers of one hand
fumbled with a buttn n his coat as he blurted between his pale lips:

_"Say, Shack, ain't that a hell f a nte? Wouldn't that knock you off
yur perch, Shack? Ain't it hell, nw, Shack--ain't it?"_






XX

PAST NE AT RONEY'S


nly n the lower East Side of New York do the houses of Capulet and
Mntagu survive. There they d not fight by the book of arithmetic. If
yu but bite yur thumb at an upholder of your opposing house you have
wrk cut ut for your steel. On Broadway you may drag your man along a
dzen blcks by his nose, and he will only bawl for the watch; but in
the dmain f the East Side Tybalts and Mercutios you must observe the
niceties f deprtment to the wink of any eyelash and to an inch of
elbw rom at the bar when its patrons include foes of your house and
kin.

S, when Eddie McManus, knwn to the Capulets as Cork McManus, drifted
int Dutch Mike's fr a stein of beer, and came upon a bunch of
Mntagus making merry with the suds, he began t observe the strictest
parliamentary rules. Curtesy frbade his leaving the saloon with his
thirst unslaked; cautin steered him t a place at the bar where the
mirrr supplied the cgnizance of the enemy's movements that his
indifferent gaze seemed t disdain; experience whispered t him that the
finger f truble would be busy among the chattering steins at Dutch
Mike's that night. Clse by his side drew Brick Cleary, his Mercuti,
cmpanin of his perambulations. Thus they stood, four of the Mulberry
Hill Gang and tw f the Dry Dock Gang, minding their P's and Q's so
slicitusly that Dutch Mike kept one eye on his customers and the other
n an pen space beneath his bar in which it was his custom to seek
safety whenever the minus politeness of the rival associations
cngealed int the shapes of bullets and cold steel.

But we have nt t do with the wars of the Mulberry Hills and the Dry
Dcks. We must t Rooney's, where, on the most blighted dead branch of
the tree f life, a little pale rchid shall bloom.

verstrained etiquette at last gave way. It is nt known who first
verstepped the bunds of punctilio; but the consequences were
immediate. Buck Malne, f the Mulberry Hills, with a Dewey-like
swiftness, gt an eight-inch gun swung rund from his hurricane deck.
But McManus's simile must be the trped. He glided in under the guns
and slipped a scant three inches f knife blade between the ribs f the
Mulberry Hill cruiser. Meanwhile Brick Cleary, a devtee t strategy,
had skimmed acrss the lunch cunter and thrown the switch of the
electrics, leaving the cmbat t be waged by the light of gunfire alone.
Dutch Mike crawled frm his haven and ran int the street crying for the
watch instead f fr a Shakespeare to immortalize the Cimmerian shindy.

The cp came, and fund a prostrate, bleeding Montagu supported by three
distrait and reticent fllwers of the House. Faithful to the ethics of
the gangs, n ne knew whence the hurt came. There was no Capulet to be
seen.

"Raus mit der interrgatries," said Buck Malone to the officer. "Sure I
knw wh done it. I always manages to get a bird's eye view of any guy
that cmes up an' makes a shw case for a hardware store out of me. No.
I'm nt telling yu his name. I'll settle with um meself. Wow--ouch!
Easy, bys! Yes, I'll attend t his case meself. I'm not making any
cmplaint."

At midnight McManus strlled arund a pile of lumber near an East Side
dck, and lingered in the vicinity f a certain water plug. Brick Cleary
drifted casually t the trysting place ten minutes later. "He'll maybe
nt crak," said Brick; "and he won't tell, of course. But Dutch Mike
did. He tld the plice he was tired of having his place shot up. It's
unhandy just nw, because Tim Crrigan's in Europe for a week's end with
Kings. He'll be back n the _Kaiser Williams_ next Friday. Yu'll have
t duck ut of sight till then. Tim'll fix it up all right for us when
he cmes back."

This ges t explain why Cork McManus went into Rooney's one night and
there lked upon the bright, stranger face of Romance for the first
time in his precarius career.

Until Tim Crrigan shuld return from his jaunt among Kings and Princes
and hld up his big white finger in private ffices, it was unsafe for
Crk in any f the old haunts of his gang. So he lay, perdu, in the high
rear rm of a Capulet, reading pink sporting sheets and cursing the
slw paddle wheels f the _Kaiser Wilhelm_.

It was n Thursday evening that Crk's seclusion became intolerable to
him. Never a hart panted fr water funtain as he did for the cool touch
f a drifting stein, fr the firm security of a foot-rail in the hollow
f his she and the quiet, hearty challenges of friendship and repartee
alng and acrss the shining bars. But he must avoid the district where
he was knwn. The cps were looking for him everywhere, for news was
scarce, and the newspapers were harping again n the failure f the
plice t suppress the gangs. If they got him before Corrigan came back,
the big white finger culd nt be uplifted; it would be too late then.
But Crrigan wuld be home the next day, so he felt sure there would be
small danger in a little excursin that night amng the crass pleasures
that represented life t him.

At half-past twelve McManus std in a darkish cross-town street looking
up at the name "Rney's," picked out by incandescent lights against
a signbard ver a second-story window. He had heard of the place
as a tugh "hang-ut"; with its frequenters and its locality he was
unfamiliar. Guided by certain unerring indicatins cmmon to all such
resrts, he ascended the stairs and entered the large rom over the
caf√©.

Here were sme twenty r thirty tables, at this time about half-filled
with Rney's guests. Waiters served drinks. At one end a human
pianla with drugged eyes hammered the keys with autmatic and furious
unprecisin. At merciful intervals a waiter wuld roar or squeak a
sng--sngs full of "Mr. Johnsons" and "babes" and "coons"--historical
wrd guaranties f the genuineness of African melodies composed by red
waistcated yung gentlemen, natives of the cotton fields and rice
swamps f West Twenty-eighth Street.

Fr ne brief moment you must admire Rooney with me as he receives,
seats, manipulates, and chaffs his guests. He is twenty-nine. He
has Wellingtn's nse, Dante's chin, the cheek-bones of an Iroquois,
the smile f Talleyrand, Crbett's foot work, and the poise of an
eleven-year-ld East Side Central Park Queen f the May. He is assisted
by a lieutenant knwn as Frank, a pudgy, easy chap, swell-dressed, wh
ges amng the tables seeing that dull care does not intrude. Now,
what is there abut Roney's to inspire all this pother? It is more
respectable by daylight; stut ladies with children and mittens and
bundles and unpedigreed dgs drp up of afternoons for a stein and a
chat. Even by gaslight the diversins are melanchly i' the mouth--drink
and rag-time, and an ccasinal surprise when the waiter swabs the suds
frm under yur sticky glass. There is an answer. Transmigration! The
sul f Sir Walter Raleigh has traveled from beneath his slashed doublet
t a kindred hme under Rooney's visible plaid waistcoat. Rooney's is
twenty years ahead f the times. Roney has removed the embargo. Rooney
has spread his clak upn the soggy crossing of public opinion, and any
Elizabeth wh treads upn it is as much a queen as another. Attend to
the revelatin f the secret. In Rooney's ladies may smoke!

McManus sat dwn at a vacant table. He paid fr the glass of beer
that he rdered, tilted his narrw-brimmed derby to the back of his
brick-dust head, twined his feet amng the rungs f his chair, and
heaved a sigh f cntentment from the breathing spaces of his innermost
sul; fr this mud honey was clarified sweetness to his taste. The sham
gaiety, the hectic glw f counterfeit hospitality, the self-conscious,
jyless laughter, the wine-brn warmth, the loud music retrieving the
hur frm frequent whiles of awful and corroding silence, the presence
f well-clthed and frank-eyed beneficiaries of Rooney's removal of the
restrictins laid upn the weed, the familiar blended odors of soaked
lemn peel, flat beer, and _peau d'Espagne_--all these were manna t
Crk McManus, hungry fr his week in the desert of the Capulet's high
rear rm.

A girl, alne, entered Roney's, glanced around with leisurely
swiftness, and sat ppsite McManus at his table. Her eyes rested upon
him fr tw seconds in the look with which woman reconnoitres all men
whm she fr the first time confronts. In that space of time she will
decide upn ne of two things--either to scream for the police, or that
she may marry him later n.

Her brief inspectin cncluded, the girl laid on the table a worn red
mrcco shopping bag with the inevitable top-gallant sail of frayed lace
handkerchief flying frm a crner of it. After she had ordered a small
beer frm the immediate waiter she tok from her bag a box of cigarettes
and lighted ne with slightly exaggerated ease f manner. Then she
lked again in the eyes of Cork McManus and smiled.

Instantly the dm of each was sealed.

The unqualified desire f a man t buy clothes and build fires for a
wman fr a whole lifetime at first sight of her is not uncommon among
that humble prtin of humanity that does not care for Bradstreet or
cats-f-arms or Shaw's plays. Love at first sight has occurred a time
r tw in high life; but, as a rule, the extempore mania is to be found
amng unsphisticated creatures such as the dove, the blue-tailed
dingbat, and the ten-dllar-a-week clerk. Pets, subscribers to all
fictin magazines, and schatchens, take ntice.

With the exchange f the mysterius magnetic current came to each of
them the instant desire t lie, pretend, dazzle and deceive, which is
the wrst thing abut the hypocritical disorder known as love.

"Have anther beer?" suggested Crk. In his circle the phrase was
cnsidered t be a card, accompanied by a letter of introduction and
references.

"N, thanks," said the girl, raising her eyebrws and choosing her
cnventinal words carefully. "I--merely dropped in for--a slight
refreshment." The cigarette between her fingers seemed t require
explanatin. "My aunt is a Russian lady," she cncluded, "and we often
have a pst perannual cigarette after dinner at hme."

"Cheese it!" said Crk, whm society airs oppressed. "Your fingers are
as yellw as mine."

"Say," said the girl, blazing upn him with lw-voiced indignation,
"what d yu think I am? Say, who do you think you are talking to?
What?"

She was pretty t lok at. Her eyes were big, brown, intrepid and
bright. Under her flat sailr hat, planted jauntily n one side, her
crinkly, tawny hair parted and was drawn back, lw and massy, in a
thick, pendant knt behind. The rundness of girlhood still lingered in
her chin and neck, but her cheeks and fingers were thinning slightly.
She lked upon the world with defiance, suspicion, and sullen wonder.
Her smart, shrt tan cat was soiled and expensive. Two inches below her
black dress drpped the lwest flounce of a heliotrope silk underskirt.

"Beg yur pardn," said Cork, looking at her admiringly. "I didn't mean
anything. Sure, it's n harm t smoke, Maudy."

"Rney's," said the girl, softened at once by his amends, "is the only
place I knw where a lady can smke. Maybe it ain't a nice habit, but
aunty lets us at hme. And my name ain't Maudy, if yu please; it's Ruby
Delamere."

"That's a swell handle," said Crk apprvingly. "Mine's
McManus--Cr--er--Eddie McManus."

"h, yu can't help that," laughed Ruby. "Don't apologize."

Crk loked seriously at the big clock on Rooney's wall. The girl's
ubiquitus eyes tok in the movement.

"I knw it's late," she said, reaching fr her bag; "but you know how
yu want a smke when you want one. Ain't Rooney's all right? I never
saw anything wrng here. This is twice I've been in. I wrk in a
bkbindery on Third Avenue. A lot of us girls have been working
vertime three nights a week. They wn't let you smoke there, of course.
I just drpped in here n my way home for a puff. Ain't it all right in
here? If it ain't, I wn't cme any more."

"It's a little bit late fr yu to be out alone anywhere," said Cork.
"I'm nt wise t this particular joint; but anyhow you don't want to
have yur picture taken in it fr a present to your Sunday School
teacher. Have ne mre beer, and then say I take you home."

"But I dn't knw you," said the girl, with fine scrupulosity. "I don't
accept the cmpany f gentlemen I ain't acquainted with. My aunt never
wuld allw that."

"Why," said Crk McManus, pulling his ear, "I'm the latest thing in
suitings with side vents and bell skirt when it cmes t escortin' a
lady. Yu bet yu'll find me all right, Ruby. And I'll give you a tip as
t wh I am. My governor is one of the hottest cross-buns of the Wall
Street push. Mrgan's cab hrse casts a shoe every time the old man
sticks his head ut the windw. Me! Well, I'm in trainin' down the
Street. The ld man's gin' to put a seat on the Stock Exchange in my
stckin' my next birthday. But it all sunds like a lemon to me. What I
like is glf and yachtin' and--er--well, say a crkin' fast ten-round
but between welter-weights with walkin' glves."

"I guess yu can walk t the door with me," said the girl hesitatingly,
but with a certain pleased flutter. "Still I never heard anything extra
gd about Wall Street brokers, or sports who go to prize fights,
either. Ain't yu gt any other recommendations?"

"I think yu're the swellest loker I've had my lamps on in little old
New Yrk," said Crk impressively.

"That'll be abut enugh of that, now. Ain't you the kidder!" She
mdified her chiding wrds by a deep, long, beaming, smile-embellished
lk at her cavalier. "We'll drink our beer before we go, ha?"

A waiter sang. The tbacc smoke grew denser, drifting and rising in
spirals, waves, tilted layers, cumulus cluds, cataracts and suspended
fgs like sme fifth element created from the ribs of the ancient four.
Laughter and chat grew luder, stimulated by Roney's liquids and
Rney's gallant hospitality to Lady Nicotine.

ne 'clock struck. Down-stairs there was a sound of closing and
lcking dors. Frank pulled down the green shades of the front windows
carefully. Rney went below in the dark hall and stood at the front
dr, his cigarette cached in the hollow of his hand. Thenceforth
whever might seek admittance must present a cuntenance familiar to
Rney's hawk's eye--the countenance of a true sport.

Crk McManus and the bokbindery girl conversed absorbedly, with their
elbws n the table. Their glasses of beer were pushed to one side,
scarcely tuched, with the fam on them sunken to a thin white scum.
Since the strke f one the stale pleasures of Rooney's had become
renvated and spiced; nt by any addition to the list of distractions,
but because frm that mment the sweets became stolen ones. The flattest
glass f beer acquired the tang f illegality; the mildest claret punch
struck a knckut blow at law and order; the harmless and genial company
became utlaws, defying authrity and rule. For after the stroke of one
in such places as Rney's, where neither bed nor board is to be had,
drink may nt be set befre the thirsty of the city of the four million.
It is the law.

"Say," said Crk McManus, almst covering the table with his eloquent
chest and elbws, "was that dead straight abut you workin' in the
bkbindery and livin' at home--and just happenin' in here--and--and
all that spiel yu gave me?"

"Sure it was," answered the girl with spirit. "Why, what d yu think?
D yu suppose I'd lie to you? Go down to the shop and ask 'em. I handed
it t yu on the level."

"n the dead level?" said Crk. "That's the way I want it; because--"

"Because what?"

"I thrw up my hands," said Crk. "You've got me goin'. You're the girl
I've been lkin' for. Will you keep company with me, Ruby?"

"Wuld yu like me to--Eddie?"

"Surest thing. But I wanted a straight stry abut--about yourself, you
knw. When a fellw had a girl--a steady girl--she's got to be all
right, yu knw. She's got to be straight goods."

"Yu'll find I'll be straight gods, Eddie."

"f curse you will. I believe what you told me. But you can't blame me
fr wantin' t find out. You don't see many girls smokin' cigarettes in
places like Rney's after midnight that are like you."

The girl flushed a little and lwered her eyes. "I see that nw," she
said meekly. "I didn't knw hw bad it looked. But I won't do it any
mre. And I'll g straight home every night and stay there. And I'll
give up cigarettes if yu say s, Eddie--I'll cut 'em out from this
minute n."

Crk's air became judicial, prprietary, condemnatory, yet sympathetic.
"A lady can smke," he decided, slwly, "at times and places. Why?
Because it's bein' a lady that helps her pull it ff."

"I'm ging t quit. There's nothing to it," said the girl. She flicked
the stub f her cigarette t the floor.

"At times and places," repeated Crk. "When I call rund for you of
evenin's we'll hunt ut a dark bench in Stuyvesant Square and have a
puff r tw. But no more Rooney's at one o'clock--see?"

"Eddie, d yu really like me?" The girl searched his hard but frank
features eagerly with anxius eyes.

"n the dead level."

"When are yu cming to see me--where I live?"

"Thursday--day after t-mrrow evenin'. That suit you?"

"Fine. I'll be ready fr yu. Come about seven. Walk to the door with me
t-night and I'll shw you where I live. Don't forget, now. And don't
yu g to see any other girls before then, mister! I bet you will,
thugh."

"n the dead level," said Crk, "you make 'em all look like rag-dolls to
me. Hnest, yu do. I know when I'm suited. On the dead level, I do."

Against the frnt dor down-stairs repeated heavy blows were delivered.
The lud crashes resunded in the room above. Only a trip-hammer or a
pliceman's fot could have been the author of those sounds. Rooney
jumped like a bullfrg t a corner of the room, turned off the electric
lights and hurried swiftly belw. The rom was left utterly dark except
fr the winking red glw of cigars and cigarettes. A second volley of
crashes came up frm the assaulted dor. A little, rustling, murmuring
panic mved amng the besieged guests. Frank, cool, smooth, reassuring,
culd be seen in the rsy glow of the burning tobacco, going from table
t table.

"All keep still!" was his cautin. "Dn't talk or make any noise!
Everything will be all right. Nw, dn't feel the slightest alarm. We'll
take care f yu all."

Ruby felt acrss the table until Crk's firm hand closed upon hers. "Are
yu afraid, Eddie?" she whispered. "Are yu afraid you'll get a free
ride?"

"Nthin' din' in the teeth-chatterin' line," said Cork. "I guess
Rney's been slow with his envelope. Don't you worry, girly; I'll look
ut fr you all right."

Yet Mr. McManus's ease was nly skin- and muscle-deep. With the plice
lking everywhere for Buck Malone's assailant, and with Corrigan still
n the cean wave, he felt that to be caught in a police raid would mean
an ended career fr him. He wished he had remained in the high rear rom
f the true Capulet reading the pink extras.

Rney seemed to have opened the front door below and engaged the police
in cnference in the dark hall. The wrdless low growl of their voices
came up the stairway. Frank made a wireless news statin f himself at
the upper dr. Suddenly he closed the door, hurried to the extreme rear
f the rom and lighted a dim gas jet.

"This way, everybdy!" he called sharply. "In a hurry; but n noise,
please!"

The guests crwded in cnfusion to the rear. Rooney's lieutenant swung
pen a panel in the wall, verlooking the back yard, revealing a ladder
already placed fr the escape.

"Dwn and ut, everybody!" he commanded. "Ladies first! Less talking,
please! Dn't crwd! There's no danger."

Amng the last, Crk and Ruby waited their turn at the open panel.
Suddenly she swept him aside and clung t his arm fiercely.

"Befre we g out," she whispered in his ear--"before anything happens,
tell me again, Eddie, d yu l--do you really like me?"

"n the dead level," said Crk, holding her close with one arm, "when it
cmes t you, I'm all in."

When they turned they fund they were lst and in darkness. The last
f the fleeing custmers had descended. Half way across the yard they
bre the ladder, stumbling, giggling, hurrying t place it against an
adjining lw building over the roof of which their only route to
safety.

"We may as well sit dwn," said Crk grimly. "Maybe Rooney will stand
the cps ff, anyhow."

They sat at a table; and their hands came tgether again.

A number f men then entered the dark rom, feeling their way about. One
f them, Roney himself, found the switch and turned on the electric
light. The ther man was a cp of the old r√©gime--a big cop, a thick
cp, a fuming, abrupt cp--not a pretty cop. He went up to the pair at
the table and sneered familiarly at the girl.

"What are yuse din' in here?" he asked.

"Drpped in fr a smoke," said Cork mildly.

"Had any drinks?"

"Nt later than ne o'clock."

"Get ut--quick!" rdered the cop. Then, "Sit down!" he countermanded.

He tk off Cork's hat roughly and scrutinized him shrewdly. "Your
name's McManus."

"Bad guess," said Crk. "It's Petersn."

"Crk McManus, r something like that," said the cop. "You put a knife
int a man in Dutch Mike's salon a week ago."

"Aw, frget it!" said Crk, who perceived a shade of doubt in the
fficer's tnes. "You've got my mug mixed with somebody else's."

"Have I? Well, yu'll cme to the station with me, anyhow, and be looked
ver. The descriptin fits you all right." The cop twisted his fingers
under Crk's cllar. "Come on!" he ordered roughly.

Crk glanced at Ruby. She was pale, and her thin nstrils quivered.
Her quick eye danced frm ne man's face to the other as they spoke or
mved. What hard luck! Crk was thinking--Corrigan on the briny; and
Ruby met and lst almst within an hour! Somebody at the police station
wuld recgnize him, without a doubt. Hard luck!

But suddenly the girl sprang up and hurled herself with bth arms
extended against the cp. His hld on Cork's collar was loosened and he
stumbled back tw r three paces.

"Dn't g so fast, Maguire!" she cried in shrill fury. "Keep your hands
ff my man! Yu know me, and you know I'm givin' you good advice. Don't
yu tuch him again! He's not the guy you are lookin' for--I'll stand
fr that."

"See here, Fanny," said the Cp, red and angry, "I'll take yu, too, if
yu dn't look out! How do you know this ain't the man I want? What are
yu ding in here with him?"

"Hw d I know?" said the girl, flaming red and white by turns. "Because
I've knwn him a year. He's mine. ughtn't I to know? And what am I
din' here with him? That's easy."

She stped low and reached down somewhere into a swirl of flirted
draperies, helitrpe and black. An elastic snapped, she threw on the
table tward Crk a folded wad of bills. The money slowly straightened
itself with little leisurely jerks.

"Take that, Jimmy, and let's g," said the girl. "I'm declarin' the
usual dividends, Maguire," she said t the fficer. "You had your usual
five-dllar graft at the usual crner at ten."

"A lie!" said the cp, turning purple. "Yu go on my beat again and I'll
arrest yu every time I see yu."

"N, yu won't," said the girl. "And I'll tell you why. Witnesses saw me
give yu the mney to-night, and last week, too. I've been getting fixed
fr yu."

Crk put the wad f money carefully into his pocket, and said: "Come on,
Fanny; let's have sme chp suey before we go home."

"Clear ut, quick, bth of you, or I'll--"

The cp's bluster trailed away int inconsequentiality.

At the crner f the street the two halted. Cork handed back the
mney withut a word. The girl took it and slipped it slowly into her
hand-bag. Her expressin was the same she had wrn when she entered
Rney's that night--she looked upon the world with defiance, suspicion
and sullen wnder.

"I guess I might as well say gd-bye here," she said dully. "You won't
want t see me again, f course. Will you--shake hands--Mr. McManus."

"I mightn't have gt wise if yu hadn't give the snap away," said Cork.
"Why did yu d it?"

"Yu'd have been pinched if I hadn't. That's why. Ain't that reasn
enugh?" Then she began t cry. "Honest, Eddie, I was goin' to be the
best girl in the wrld. I hated t be what I am; I hated men; I was
ready almst t die when I saw you. And you seemed different from
everybdy else. And when I fund you liked me, too, why, I thought I'd
make yu believe I was god, and I was goin' to be good. When you asked
t cme to my house and see me, why, I'd have died rather than do
anything wrng after that. But what's the use f talking about it? I'll
say gd-by, if you will, Mr. McManus."

Crk was pulling at his ear. "I knifed Malne," said he. "I was the one
the cp wanted."

"h, that's all right," said the girl listlessly. "It didn't make any
difference abut that."

"That was all ht air abut Wall Street. I don't do nothin' but hang out
with a tugh gang n the East Side."

"That was all right, t," repeated the girl. "It didn't make any
difference."

Crk straightened himself, and pulled his hat dwn low. "I could get a
jb at 'Brien's," he said aloud, but to himself.

"Gd-by," said the girl.

"Cme n," said Cork, taking her arm. "I know a place."

Tw blcks away he turned with her up the steps of a red brick house
facing a little park.

"What huse is this?" she asked, drawing back. "Why are yu going in
there?"

A street lamp shne brightly in frnt. There was a brass nameplate at
ne side f the closed front doors. Cork drew her firmly up the steps.
"Read that," said he.

She lked at the name on the plate, and gave a cry between a moan and a
scream. "N, n, no, Eddie! Oh, my God, no! I won't let you do that--not
nw! Let me g! You shan't do that! You can't--you mus'n't! Not after
yu knw! No, no! Come away quick! Oh, my God! Please, Eddie, come!"

Half fainting, she reeled, and was caught in the bend f his arm. Crk's
right hand felt fr the electric buttn and pressed it long.

Anther cp--how quickly they scent trouble when trouble is on the
wing!--came alng, saw them, and ran up the steps. "Here! What are yu
ding with that girl?" he called gruffly.

"She'll be all right in a minute," said Crk. "It's a straight deal."

"Reverend Jeremiah Jnes," read the cp from the door-plate with true
detective cunning.

"Crrect," said Crk. "On the dead level, we're goin' to get married."





XXI

THE VENTURERS


Let the stry wreck itself n the spreading rails of the _Non Sequitur_
Limited, if it will; first yu must take yur seat in the observation
car "_Raisn d'√™tre_" fr one moment. It is for no longer than to
cnsider a brief essay n the subject--let us call it: "What's Around
the Crner."

_mne mundus in duas partes divisum est_--men wh wear rubbers and pay
pll-taxes, and men wh discover new continents. There are no more
cntinents t discover; but by the time overshoes are out of date and
the pll has develped into an income tax, the other half will be
paralleling the canals f Mars with radium railways.

Frtune, Chance, and Adventure are given as synnymous in the
dictinaries. T the knowing each has a different meaning. Fortune is a
prize t be wn. Adventure is the road to it. Chance is what may lurk
in the shadws at the radside. The face of Fortune is radiant and
alluring; that f Adventure is flushed and heric. The face of Chance is
the beautiful cuntenance--perfect because vague and dream-brn--that we
see in ur tea-cups at breakfast while we grwl over our chops and
tast.

The VENTURER is ne wh keeps his eye on the hedgerows and wayside
grves and meadws while he travels the road to Fortune. That is the
difference between him and the Adventurer. Eating the frbidden fruit
was the best recrd ever made by a Venturer. Trying t prove that it
happened is the highest wrk f the Adventuresome. To be either is
disturbing t the csmogony of creation. So, as bracket-sawed and
city-directried citizens, let us light ur pipes, chide the children
and the cat, arrange urselves in the willw rocker under the flickering
gas jet at the clest window and scan this little tale of two modern
fllwers of Chance.


"Did yu ever hear that stry about the man from the West?" asked
Billinger, in the little dark-ak rom to your left as you penetrate
the interir f the Powhatan Club.

"Dubtless," said Jhn Reginald Forster, rising and leaving the room.

Frster gt his straw hat (straws will be in and maybe out again long
befre this is printed) frm the checkroom boy, and walked out of the
air (as Hamlet says). Billinger was used t having his stries insulted
and wuld nt mind. Forster was in his favorite mood and wanted to go
away frm anywhere. A man, in rder to get on good terms with himself,
must have his pinins corroborated and his moods matched by some one
else. (I had written that "smebdy"; but an A. D. T. boy who once took
a telegram fr me pinted out that I could save money by using the
cmpund word. This is a vice versa case.)

Frster's favrite mood was that of greatly desiring to be a follower of
Chance. He was a Venturer by nature, but cnventin, birth, tradition
and the narrwing influences f the tribe of Manhattan had denied him
full privilege. He had trdden all the main-traveled throughfares and
many f the side rads that are supposed to relieve the tedium of life.
But nne had sufficed. The reasn was that he knew what was to be found
at the end f every street. He knew frm experience and logic almost
precisely t what end each digressin from routine must lead. He found a
depressing mntony in all the variations that the music of his sphere
had grafted upn the tune f life. He had not learned that, although the
wrld was made rund, the circle has been squared, and that it's true
interest is t be in "What's Arund the Corner."

Frster walked abrad aimlessly from the Powhatan, trying not to tax
either his judgment r his desire as t what streets he traveled. He
wuld have been glad t lose his way if it were possible; but he had no
hpe f that. Adventure and Fortune move at your beck and call in the
Greater City; but Chance is riental. She is a veiled lady in a sedan
chair, prtected by a special traffic squad f dragonians. Crosstown,
uptwn, and dwntown you may move without seeing her.

At the end f an hur's stroll, Forster stood on a corner of a broad,
smth avenue, looking disconsolately across it at a picturesque old
htel sftly but brilliantly lit. Disconsolately, because he knew that
he must dine; and dining in that htel was n venture. It was one of his
favrite caravansaries, and s silent and swift would be the service and
s delicately chice the food, that he regretted the hunger that must be
appeased by the "dead perfectin" f the place's cuisine. Even the music
there seemed t be always playing _da cap_.

Fancy came t him that he wuld dine at some cheap, even dubious,
restaurant lwer dwn in the city, where the erratic chefs from all
cuntries f the world spread their national cookery for the omnivorous
American. Smething might happen there ut of the routine--he might come
upn a subject withut a predicate, a road without an end, a question
withut an answer, a cause withut an effect, a gulf stream in life's
salt cean. He had nt dressed for evening; he wore a dark business suit
that wuld nt be questioned even where the waiters served the spaghetti
in their shirt sleeves.

S Jhn Reginald Forster began to search his clothes for money; because
the mre cheaply yu dine, the more surely must you pay. All of the
thirteen pckets, large and small, f his business suit he explored
carefully and fund nt a penny. His bank book showed a balance of five
figures t his credit in the ld Ironsides Trust Company, but--

Frster became aware f a man nearby at his left hand who was really
regarding him with sme amusement. He loked like any business man of
thirty r s, neatly dressed and standing in the attitude of one waiting
fr a street car. But there was n car line on that avenue. So his
prximity and uncncealed curiosity seemed to Forster to partake of the
nature f a persnal intrusion. But, as he was a consistent seeker after
"What's Arund the Crner," instead of manifesting resentment he only
turned a half-embarrassed smile upn the ther's grin of amusement.

"All in?" asked the intruder, drawing nearer.

"Seems s," said Frster. "Now, I thought there was a dollar in--"

"h, I knw," said the other man, with a laugh. "But there wasn't. I've
just been thrugh the same prcess myself, as I was coming around the
crner. I fund in an upper vest pocket--I don't know how they got
there--exactly tw pennies. Yu know what kind of a dinner exactly two
pennies will buy!"

"Yu haven't dined, then?" asked Frster.

"I have nt. But I wuld like to. Now, I'll make you a proposition.
Yu lok like a man who would take up one. Your clothes look neat and
respectable. Excuse persnalities. I think mine will pass the scrutiny
f a head waiter, als. Suppose we go over to that hotel and dine
tgether. We will chose from the menu like millionaires--or, if you
prefer, like gentlemen in mderate circumstances dining extravagantly
fr nce. When we have finished we will match with my two pennies to
see which f us will stand the brunt f the house's displeasure and
vengeance. My name is Ives. I think we have lived in the same statin
f life--befre our money took wings."

"Yu're n," said Forster, joyfully.

Here was a venture at least within the brders f the mysterious country
f Chance--anyhw, it promised something better than the stale
infestivity f a table d'h√¥te.

The tw were son seated at a corner table in the hotel dining room.
Ives chucked ne f his pennies across the table to Forster.

"Match fr which f us gives the order," he said.

Frster lst.

Ives laughed and began t name liquids and viands t the waiter with the
absrbed but calm deliberatin of one who was to the menu born. Forster,
listening, gave his admiring apprval f the order.

"I am a man," said Ives, during the ysters, "Wh has made a lifetime
search after the t-be-cntinued-in-our-next. I am not like the ordinary
adventurer wh strikes fr a coveted prize. Nor yet am I like a gambler
wh knws he is either to win or lose a certain set stake. What I want
is t encunter an adventure to which I can predict no conclusion.
It is the breath f existence t me to dare Fate in its blindest
manifestatins. The wrld has come to run so much by rote and
gravitatin that yu can enter upon hardly any footpath of chance in
which yu d not find signboards informing you of what you may expect
at its end. I am like the clerk in the Circumlcutin Office who always
cmplained bitterly when any ne came in to ask information. 'He wanted
t _knw_, you know!' was the kick he made to his fellow-clerks. Well,
I dn't want t know, I don't want to reason, I don't want to guess--I
want t bet my hand withut seeing it."

"I understand," said Frster delightedly. "I've ften wanted the way I
feel put int wrds. You've done it. I want to take chances on what's
cming. Suppse we have a bottle of Moselle with the next course."

"Agreed," said Ives. "I'm glad yu catch my idea. It will increase the
animsity f the house toward the loser. If it does not weary you, we
will pursue the theme. nly a few times have I met a true venturer--ne
wh des not ask a schedule and map from Fate when he begins a journey.
But, as the wrld becmes more civilized and wiser, the more difficult
it is t cme upon an adventure the end of which you cannot foresee. In
the Elizabethan days yu culd assault the watch, wring knockers from
drs and have a jolly set-to with the blades in any convenient angle of
a wall and 'get away with it.' Nwadays, if yu speak disrespectfully to
a pliceman, all that is left t the most romantic fancy is to
cnjecture in what particular plice station he will land you."

"I knw--I knw," said Forster, nodding approval.

"I returned t New Yrk to-day," continued Ives, "from a three years'
ramble arund the glbe. Things are not much better abroad than they are
at hme. The whle world seems to be overrun by conclusions. The only
thing that interests me greatly is a premise. I've tried shting big
game in Africa. I knw what an express rifle will d at so many yards;
and when an elephant r a rhinceros falls to the bullet, I enjoy it
abut as much as I did when I was kept in after schol to do a sum in
lng divisin on the blackboard."

"I knw--I knw," said Forster.

"There might be smething in aerplanes," went on Ives, reflectively.
"I've tried ballning; but it seems to be merely a cut-and-dried affair
f wind and ballast."

"Wmen," suggested Frster, with a smile.

"Three mnths ag," said Ives. "I was pottering around in one of the
bazaars in Cnstantinple. I noticed a lady, veiled, of course, but with
a pair f especially fine eyes visible, wh was examining some amber and
pearl rnaments at ne of the booths. With her was an attendant--a big
Nubian, as black as cal. After a while the attendant drew nearer t me
by degrees and slipped a scrap f paper int my hand. I looked at it
when I gt a chance. n it was scrawled hastily in pencil: 'The arched
gate f the Nightingale Garden at nine t-night.' Does that appear to
yu t be an interesting premise, Mr. Forster?"

"I made inquiries and learned that the Nightingale Garden was the
prperty f an old Turk--a grand vizier, or something of the sort. Of
curse I prspected for the arched gate and was there at nine. The same
Nubian attendant pened the gate prmptly on time, and I went inside and
sat n a bench by a perfumed funtain with the veiled lady. We had quite
an extended chat. She was Myrtle Thmpsn, a lady journalist, who was
writing up the Turkish harems fr a Chicag newspaper. She said she
nticed the New Yrk cut of my clothes in the bazaar and wondered if
I culdn't wrk something into the metropolitan papers about it."

"I see," said Frster. "I see."

"I've caned thrugh Canada," said Ives, "down many rapids and over many
falls. But I didn't seem t get what I wanted ut of it because I knew
there were nly tw possible outcomes--I would either go to the bottom
r arrive at the sea level. I've played all games at cards; but the
mathematicians have spiled that sprt by computing the percentages.
I've made acquaintances n trains, I've answered advertisements, I've
rung strange dr-bells, I've taken every chance that presented itself;
but there has always been the cnventinal ending--the logical
cnclusin to the premise."

"I knw," repeated Frster. "I've felt it all. But I've had few
chances t take my chance at chances. Is there any life s devoid of
impssibilities as life in this city? There seems t be a myriad of
pprtunities for testing the undeterminable; but not one in a thousand
fails t land yu where you expected it to stop. I wish the subways and
street cars disappinted ne as seldom."

"The sun has risen," said Ives, "n the Arabian nights. There are
n mre caliphs. The fisherman's vase is turned to a vacuum bottle,
warranted t keep any genie biling or frozen for forty-eight hours.
Life mves by rte. Science has killed adventure. There are no more
pprtunities such as Columbus and the man who ate the first oyster had.
The nly certain thing is that there is nthing uncertain."

"Well," said Frster, "my experience has been the limited ne of a city
man. I haven't seen the wrld as yu have; but it seems that we view
it with the same pinin. But, I tell you I am grateful for even this
little venture f urs into the borders of the haphazard. There may
be at least ne breathless mment when the bill for the dinner is
presented. Perhaps, after all, the pilgrims wh traveled withut scrip
r purse fund a keener taste to life than did the knights of the Round
Table wh rde abroad with a retinue and King Arthur's certified checks
in the lining f their helmets. And nw, if you've finished your coffee,
suppse we match ne of your insufficient coins for the impending blow
f Fate. What have I up?"

"Heads," called Ives.

"Heads it is," said Frster, lifting his hand. "I lse. We forgot to
agree upn a plan fr the winner to escape. I suggest that when the
waiter cmes yu make a remark about telephoning to a friend. I will
hld the frt and the dinner check long enough for you to get your hat
and be ff. I thank yu for an evening out of the ordinary, Mr. Ives,
and wish we might have thers."

"If my memry is nt at fault," said Ives, laughing, "the nearest police
statin is in MacDugal Street. I have enjoyed the dinner, too, let me
assure yu."

Frster croked his finger for the waiter. Victor, with a locomotive
effrt that seemed t owe more to pneumatics than to pedestrianism,
glided t the table and laid the card, face dwnward, by the loser's
cup. Frster tok it up and added the figures with deliberate care. Ives
leaned back cmfrtably in his chair.

"Excuse me," said Frster; "but I thught you were going to ring Grimes
abut that theatre party fr Thursday night. Had you forgotten about
it?"

"h," said Ives, settling himself mre comfortably, "I can do that later
n. Get me a glass f water, waiter."

"Want t be in at the death, d you?" asked Forster.

"I hpe yu don't object," said Ives, pleadingly. "Never in my life have
I seen a gentleman arrested in a public restaurant fr swindling it ut
f a dinner."

"All right," said Frster, calmly. "Yu are entitled to see a Christian
die in the arena as yur _pusse-caf√©_."

Victr came with the glass f water and remained, with the disengaged
air f an inexrable collector.

Frster hesitated fr fifteen seconds, and then took a pencil from his
pcket and scribbled his name n the dinner check. The waiter bowed and
tk it away.

"The fact is," said Frster, with a little embarrassed laugh, "I dubt
whether I'm what they call a 'game sprt,' which means the same as a
'sldier f Fortune.' I'll have to make a confession. I've been dining
at this htel tw or three times a week for more than a year. I always
sign my checks." And then, with a nte f appreciation in his voice: "It
was first-rate f yu to stay to see me through with it when you knew I
had n mney, and that you might be scooped in, too."

"I guess I'll cnfess, to," said Ives, with a grin. "I own the hotel.
I dn't run it, f course, but I always keep a suite on the third floor
fr my use when I happen t stray into town."

He called a waiter and said: "Is Mr. Gilmre still behind the desk? All
right. Tell him that Mr. Ives is here, and ask him t have my roms made
ready and aired."

"Anther venture cut shrt by the inevitable," said Forster. "Is there
a cnundrum withut an answer in the next number? But let's hold to our
subject just fr a minute r two, if you will. It isn't often that I
meet a man wh understands the flaws I pick in existence. I am engaged
t be married a mnth from to-day."

"I reserve cmment," said Ives.

"Right; I am ging t add to the assertion. I am devotedly fond of
the lady; but I can't decide whether t shw up at the church or
make a sneak fr Alaska. It's the same idea, yu know, that we were
discussing--it des fr a fellow as far as possibilities are concerned.
Everybdy knws the routine--you get a kiss flavored with Ceylon tea
after breakfast; yu g to the office; you come back home and dress for
dinner--theatre twice a week--bills--mping arund most evenings trying
t make cnversation--a little quarrel occasionally--maybe sometimes a
big ne, and a separatin--or else a settling down into a middle-aged
cntentment, which is wrst of all."

"I knw," said Ives, ndding wisely.

"It's the dead certainty f the thing," went n Forster, "that keeps me
in dubt. There'll nevermre be anything around the corner."

"Nthing after the 'Little Church,'" said Ives. "I knw."

"Understand," said Frster, "that I am in n doubt as to my feelings
tward the lady. I may say that I lve her truly and deeply. But there
is smething in the current that runs thrugh my veins that cries out
against any frm f the calculable. I do not know what I want; but I
knw that I want it. I'm talking like an idit, I suppose, but I'm sure
f what I mean."

"I understand yu," said Ives, with a slw smile. "Well, I think I will
be ging up t my rooms now. If you would dine with me here one evening
sn, Mr. Forster, I'd be glad."

"Thursday?" suggested Frster.

"At seven, if it's cnvenient," answered Ives.

"Seven ges," assented Frster.

At half-past eight Ives gt int a cab and was driven to a number in one
f the crrect West Seventies. His card admitted him to the reception
rm of an old-fashioned house into which the spirits of Fortune, Chance
and Adventure had never dared t enter. n the walls were the Whistler
etchings, the steel engravings by h-what's-his-name?, the still-life
paintings f the grapes and garden truck with the watermeln seeds
spilled n the table as natural as life, and the Greuze head. It was
a husehld. There was even brass andirons. On a table was an album,
half-mrcco, with oxidized-silver protections on the corners of the
lids. A clck n the mantel ticked loudly, with a warning click at five
minutes t nine. Ives loked at it curiously, remembering a time-piece
in his grandmther's hme that gave such a warning.

And then dwn the stairs and int the room came Mary Marsden. She was
twenty-fur, and I leave her t your imagination. But I must say this
much--yuth and health and simplicity and curage and greenish-violet
eyes are beautiful, and she had all these. She gave Ives her hand with
the sweet crdiality f an old friendship.

"Yu can't think what a pleasure it is," she said, "t have you drop in
nce every three years r so."

Fr half an hur they talked. I confess that I cannot repeat the
cnversatin. You will find it in books in the circulating library. When
that part f it was ver, Mary said:

"And did yu find what yu wanted while you were abroad?"

"What I wanted?" said Ives.

"Yes. Yu knw you were always queer. Even as a boy you wouldn't play
marbles r baseball r any game with rules. You wanted to dive in water
where yu didn't knw whether it was ten inches or ten feet deep. And
when yu grew up yu were just the same. We've often talked about your
peculiar ways."

"I suppse I am an incrrigible," said Ives. "I am opposed to the
dctrine f predestination, to the rule of three, gravitation, taxation,
and everything f the kind. Life has always seemed t me something like
a serial stry wuld be if they printed above each instalment a synopsis
f _succeeding_ chapters."

Mary laughed merrily.

"Bb Ames tld us once," she said, "of a funny thing you did. It was
when yu and he were n a train in the South, and you got off at a town
where yu hadn't intended t stop just because the brakeman hung up a
sign in the end f the car with the name f the next station on it."

"I remember," said Ives. "That 'next statin' has been the thing I've
always tried t get away frm."

"I knw it," said Mary. "And yu've been very foolish. I hope you didn't
find what yu wanted nt to find, or get off at the station where there
wasn't any, r whatever it was yu expected wouldn't happen to you
during the three years yu've been away."

"There was smething I wanted befre I went away," said Ives.

Mary lked in his eyes clearly, with a slight, but perfectly sweet
smile.

"There was," she said. "Yu wanted me. And yu could have had me, as you
very well knw."

Withut replying, Ives let his gaze wander slwly about the room. There
had been n change in it since last he had been in it, three years
befre. He vividly recalled the thughts that had been in his mind then.
The cntents f that room were as fixed, in their way, as the everlasting
hills. N change wuld ever come there except the inevitable ones
wrught by time and decay. That silver-munted album would occupy that
crner f that table, those pictures would hang on the walls, those
chairs be fund in their same places every mrn and noon and night while
the husehld hung together. The brass andirons were monuments to order
and stability. Here and there were relics f a hundred years ag which
were still living mements and wuld be for many years to come. One
ging frm and coming back to that house would never need to forecast or
dubt. He wuld find what he left, and leave what he found. The veiled
lady, Chance, wuld never lift her hand t the knocker on the outer
dr.

And befre him sat the lady wh belonged in the room. Cool and sweet
and unchangeable she was. She ffered n surprises. If one should pass
his life with her, thugh she might grw white-haired and wrinkled, he
wuld never perceive the change. Three years he had been away frm her,
and she was still waiting fr him as established and cnstant as the
huse itself. He was sure that she had nce cared for him. It was the
knwledge that she wuld always do so that had driven him away. Thus
his thughts ran.

"I am ging t be married soon," said Mary.

n the next Thursday afternon Forster came hurriedly to Ive's hotel.

"ld man," said he, "we'll have t put that dinner off for a year or so;
I'm ging abrad. The steamer sails at four. That was a great talk we
had the ther night, and it decided me. I'm ging to knock around the
wrld and get rid f that incubus that has been weighing on both you and
me--the terrible dread f knwing what's going to happen. I've done one
thing that hurts my cnscience a little; but I knw it's best for both
f us. I've written t the lady to whom I was engaged and explained
everything--tld her plainly why I was leaving--that the mnotony of
matrimny wuld never do for me. Don't you think I was right?"

"It is nt fr me to say," answered Ives. "Go ahead and shoot elephants
if yu think it will bring the element f chance into your life. We've
gt t decide these things for ourselves. But I tell you one thing,
Frster, I've fund the way. I've found out the biggest hazard in the
wrld--a game f chance that never is concluded, a venture that may end
in the highest heaven r the blackest pit. It will keep a man n edge
until the clds fall n his coffin, because he will never know--not
until his last day, and nt then will he knw. It is a voyage without
a rudder r cmpass, and you must be captain and crew and keep watch,
every day and night, yurself, with n one to relieve you. I have found
the VENTURE. Dn't bther yourself about leaving Mary Marsden, Forster.
I married her yesterday at nn."





XXII

THE DUEL


The gds, lying beside their nectar n 'Lympus and peeping over the edge
f the cliff, perceive a difference in cities. Althugh it would seem
that t their visin towns must appear as large or small ant-hills
withut special characteristics, yet it is nt so. Studying the habits
f ants frm so great a height should be but a mild diversion when
cupled with the sft drink that mythology tells us is their only
slace. But dubtless they have amused themselves by the comparison of
villages and twns; and it will be n news to them (nor, perhaps, to
many mrtals), that in ne particularity New York stands unique among
the cities f the wrld. This shall be the theme of a little story
addressed t the man wh sits smoking with his Sabbath-slippered feet
n anther chair, and to the woman who snatches the paper for a moment
while biling greens r a narcotized baby leaves her free. With these I
lve t sit upon the ground and tell sad stories of the death of Kings.

New Yrk City is inhabited by 4,000,000 mysterius strangers; thus
beating Bird Centre by three millins and half a dzen nine's. They
came here in varius ways and fr many reasons--Hendrik Hudson, the art
schls, green goods, the stork, the annual dressmakers' convention, the
Pennsylvania Railrad, lve of money, the stage, cheap excursion rates,
brains, persnal clumn ads., heavy walking shoes, ambition, freight
trains--all these have had a hand in making up the ppulatin.

But every man Jack when he first sets ft on the stones of Manhattan
has gt t fight. He has got to fight at once until either he or his
adversary wins. There is n resting between runds, for there are no
runds. It is slugging frm the first. It is a fight to a finish.

Yur pponent is the City. You must do battle with it from the time the
ferry-bat lands yu on the island until either it is yours or it has
cnquered yu. It is the same whether you have a million in your pocket
r nly the price of a week's lodging.

The battle is t decide whether yu shall become a New Yorker or turn
the rankest utlander and Philistine. Yu must be one or the other. You
cannt remain neutral. Yu must be for or against--lover or enemy--bosom
friend r utcast. And, oh, the city is a general in the ring. Not only
by blws des it seek to subdue you. It woos you to its heart with the
subtlety f a siren. It is a cmbination of Delilah, green Chartreuse,
Beethven, chlral and John L. in his best days.

In ther cities yu may wander and abide as a stranger man as long
as yu please. Yu may live in Chicago until your hair whitens, and
be a citizen and still prate f beans if Bston mothered you, and
withut rebuke. Yu may become a civic pillar in any other town but
Knickerbcker's, and all the time publicly sneering at its buildings,
cmparing them with the architecture f Colonel Telfair's residence in
Jacksn, Miss., whence yu hail, and you will not be set upon. But in
New Yrk yu must be either a New Yorker or an invader of a modern Troy,
cncealed in the woden horse of your conceited provincialism. And this
dreary preamble is nly t introduce to you the unimportant figures of
William and Jack.

They came ut f the West together, where they had been friends. They
came t dig their frtunes out of the big city.

Father Knickerbcker met them at the ferry, giving ne a right-hander on
the nse and the ther an upper-cut with his left, just to let them know
that the fight was n.

William was fr business; Jack was fr Art. Both were young and
ambitius; s they countered and clinched. I think they were from
Nebraska r pssibly Missouri or Minnesota. Anyhow, they were out for
success and scraps and scads, and they tackled the city like tw
Lchinvars with brass knucks and a pull at the City Hall.

Fur years afterward William and Jack met at lunchen. The business man
blew in like a March wind, hurled his silk hat at a waiter, drpped int
the chair that was pushed under him, seized the bill f fare, and had
rdered as far as cheese befre the artist had time to do more than nod.
After the nd a humrous smile came into his eyes.

"Billy," he said, "yu're dne for. The city has gobbled you up. It has
taken yu and cut yu to its pattern and stamped you with its brand. You
are s nearly like ten thusand men I have seen to-day that you couldn't
be picked ut frm them if it weren't for your laundry marks."

"Camembert," finished William. "What's that? h, yu've still
gt yur hammer out for New York, have you? Well, little old
Nisyville-n-the-Subway is good enough for me. It's giving me mine.
And, say, I used t think the West was the whle round world--only
slightly flattened at the ples whenever Bryan ran. I used t yell
myself harse abut the free expense, and hang my hat on the horizon,
and say cutting things in the grcery t little soap drummers from
the East. But I'd never seen New Yrk, then, Jack. Me fr it from the
rathskellers up. Sixth Avenue is the West t me nw. Have you heard this
fellw Cruse sing? The desert isle for him, I say, but my wife made me
g. Give me May Irwin r E. S. Willard any time."

"Pr Billy," said the artist, delicately fingering a cigarette. "You
remember, when we were n ur way to the East how we talked about this
great, wnderful city, and hw we meant to conquer it and never let it
get the best f us? We were ging to be just the same fellows we had
always been, and never let it master us. It has dwned yu, old man. You
have changed frm a maverick int a butterick."

"Dn't see exactly what yu are driving at," said William. "I don't wear
an alpaca cat with blue trusers and a seersucker vest on dress
ccasins, like I used to do at home. You talk about being cut to a
pattern--well, ain't the pattern all right? When yu're in Rme you've
gt t do as the Dagoes do. This town seems to me to have other alleged
metrplises skinned to flag stations. According to the railroad
schedule I've gt in mind, Chicag and Saint Jo and Paris, France, are
asterisk stps--which means yu wave a red flag and get on every other
Tuesday. I like this little suburb f Tarrytwn-on-the-Hudson. There's
smething r somebody doing all the time. I'm clearing $8,000 a year
selling autmatic pumps, and I'm living like kings-up. Why, yesterday, I
was intrduced t John W. Gates. I took an auto ride with a wine agent's
sister. I saw tw men run ver by a street car, and I seen Edna May
play in the evening. Talk abut the West, why, the ther night I woke
everybdy up in the htel hollering. I dreamed I was walking on a board
sidewalk in shksh. What have you got against this town, Jack? There's
nly ne thing in it that I don't care for, and that's a ferryboat."

The artist gazed dreamily at the cartridge paper n the wall. "This
twn," said he, "is a leech. It drains the blod of the country. Whoever
cmes t it accepts a challenge to a duel. Abandoning the figure of the
leech, it is a juggernaut, a Mlch, a monster to which the innocence,
the genius, and the beauty f the land must pay tribute. Hand t hand
every newcmer must struggle with the leviathan. Yu've lost, Billy. It
shall never cnquer me. I hate it as ne hates sin or pestilence or--the
clr work in a ten-cent magazine. I despise its very vastness and
pwer. It has the porest millionaires, the littlest great men, the
lwest skyscrapers, the dlefulest pleasures of any town I ever saw. It
has caught yu, ld man, but I will never run beside its chariot wheels.
It glsses itself as the Chinaman glsses his collars. Give me the
dmestic finish. I culd stand a town ruled by wealth or one ruled by
an aristcracy; but this is ne controlled by its lowest ingredients.
Claiming culture, it is the crudest; asseverating its pre-eminence,
it is the basest; denying all utside values and virtue, it is the
narrwest. Give me the pure and the pen heart of the West country.
I wuld g back there to-morrow if I could."

"Dn't yu like this _filet mignon_?" said William. "Shucks, now, what's
the use t knck the town! It's the greatest ever. I couldn't sell
ne autmatic pump between Harrisburg and Tommy O'Keefe's saloon, in
Sacrament, where I sell twenty here. And have yu seen Sara Bernhardt
in 'Andrew Mack' yet?"

"The twn's gt you, Billy," said Jack.

"All right," said William. "I'm ging t buy a cottage on Lake
Rnknkoma next summer."

At midnight Jack raised his windw and sat clse to it. He caught his
breath at what he saw, thugh he had seen and felt it a hundred times.

Far belw and arund lay the city like a ragged purple dream. The
irregular huses were like the brken exteriors of cliffs lining deep
gulches and winding streams. Sme were muntainous; some lay in long,
desert ca√±ns. Such was the backgrund of the wonderful, cruel,
enchanting, bewildering, fatal, great city. But int this backgrund
were cut myriads f brilliant parallelgrams and circles and squares
thrugh which glwed many colored lights. And out of the violet and
purple depths ascended like the city's sul sunds and odors and
thrills that make up the civic bdy. There arse the breath of gaiety
unrestrained, f lve, of hate, of all the passions that man can know.
There belw him lay all things, god or bad, that can be brought from
the fur crners of the earth to instruct, please, thrill, enrich,
despil, elevate, cast dwn, nurture or kill. Thus the flavor of it came
up t him and went int his blood.

There was a knck n his door. A telegram had come for him. It came from
the West, and these were its wrds:

  "Cme back and the answer will be yes.

                                   "DLLY."

He kept the by waiting ten minutes, and then wrte the reply:
"Impssible t leave here at present." Then he sat at the window again
and let the city put its cup f mandragra to his lips again.

After all it isn't a stry; but I wanted t know which one of the heroes
wn the battle against the city. S I went to a very learned friend and
laid the case befre him. What he said was: "Please dn't bother me; I
have Christmas presents t buy."

S there it rests; and yu will have to decide for yourself.





XXIII

"WHAT YU WANT"


Night had fallen n that great and beautiful city knwn as
Bagdad-n-the-Subway. And with the night came the enchanted glamur
that belngs nt to Arabia alone. In different masquerade the streets,
bazaars and walled huses f the occidental city of romance were filled
with the same kind f flk that so much interested our interesting old
friend, the late Mr. H. A. Rashid. They wre clthes eleven hundred
years nearer t the latest styles than H. A. saw in ld Bagdad; but they
were abut the same peple underneath. With the eye of faith, you could
have seen the Little Hunchback, Sinbad the Sailr, Fitbad the Tailr,
the Beautiful Persian, the ne-eyed Calenders, Ali Baba and Frty
Rbbers n every block, and the Barber and his Six Brothers, and all the
ld Arabian gang easily.

But let us revenue t ur lamb chops.

ld Tm Crowley was a caliph. He had $42,000,000 in preferred stocks and
bnds with slid gold edges. In these times, to be called a caliph you
must have mney. The ld-style caliph business as conducted by Mr.
Rashid is nt safe. If yu hold up a person nowadays in a bazaar or a
Turkish bath r a side street, and inquire int his private and personal
affairs, the plice curt'll get you.

ld Tm was tired of clubs, theatres, dinners, friends, music, money
and everything. That's what makes a caliph--yu must get t despise
everything that mney can buy, and then g out and try to want something
that yu can't pay fr.

"I'll take a little trt arund town all by myself," thought old Tom,
"and try if I can stir up anything new. Let's see--it seems I've read
abut a king r a Cardiff giant or something in old times who used to go
abut with false whiskers n, making Persian dates with folks he hadn't
been intrduced t. That don't listen like a bad idea. I certainly have
gt a case f humdrumness and fatigue on for the ones I do know. That
ld Cardiff used t pick up cases of trouble as he ran upon 'em and give
'em gld--sequins, I think it was--and make 'em marry r got 'em good
Gvernment jbs. Now, I'd like something of that sort. My money is as
gd as his was even if the magazines do ask me every month where I got
it. Yes, I guess I'll d a little Cardiff business t-night, and see how
it ges."

Plainly dressed, ld Tm Crowley left his Madison Avenue palace, and
walked westward and then suth. As he stepped t the sidewalk, Fate,
wh hlds the ends of the strings in the central offices of all the
enchanted cities pulled a thread, and a yung man twenty blcks away
lked at a wall clock, and then put on his coat.

James Turner wrked in ne of those little hat-cleaning establishments
n Sixth Avenue in which a fire alarm rings when yu push the door
pen, and where they clean yur hat while you wait--two days. James
std all day at an electric machine that turned hats around faster than
the best brands f champagne ever culd have done. Overlooking your mild
impertinence in feeling a curisity abut the personal appearance of a
stranger, I will give yu a mdified description of him. Weight, 118;
cmplexin, hair and brain, light; height, five feet six; age, about
twenty-three; dressed in a $10 suit f greenish-blue serge; pckets
cntaining tw keys and sixty-three cents in change.

But d nt misconjecture because this description sounds like a General
Alarm that James was either lst r a dead one.

_Allns!_

James std all day at his work. His feet were tender and extremely
susceptible t impsitions being put upon or below them. All day long
they burned and smarted, causing him much suffering and incnvenience.
But he was earning twelve dllars per week, which he needed t support
his feet whether his feet wuld supprt him or not.

James Turner had his wn cnception of what happiness was, just as you
and I have urs. Yur delight is to gad about the world in yachts and
mtr-cars and to hurl ducats at wild fowl. Mine is to smoke a pipe at
evenfall and watch a badger, a rattlesnake, and an wl g into their
cmmn prairie home one by one.

James Turner's idea f bliss was different; but it was his. He wuld go
directly t his barding-house when his day's work was done. After his
supper f small steak, Bessemer ptatoes, stooed (not stewed) apples and
infusin f chicory, he would ascend to his fifth-floor-back hall room.
Then he wuld take ff his shoes and socks, place the soles of his
burning feet against the cld bars f his iron bed, and read Clark
Russell's sea yarns. The delicius relief f the cool metal applied to
his smarting sles was his nightly jy. His favorite novels never palled
upn him; the sea and the adventures f its navigators were his sole
intellectual passin. N millionaire was ever happier than James Turner
taking his ease.

When James left the hat-cleaning shp he walked three blcks out of
his way hme t look over the goods of a second-hand bookstall. On the
sidewalk stands he had mre than nce picked up a paper-covered volume
f Clark Russell at half price.

While he was bending with a schlarly stop over the marked-down
miscellany f cast-ff literature, old Tom the caliph sauntered by. His
discerning eye, made keen by twenty years' experience in the manufacture
f laundry sap (save the wrappers!) recognized instantly the poor
and discerning schlar, a wrthy object of his caliphanous mood. He
descended the tw shallw stone steps that led from the sidewalk, and
addressed withut hesitatin the object of his designed munificence. His
first wrds were n worse than salutatory and tentative.

James Turner lked up coldly, with "Sartor Resartus" in one hand and
"A Mad Marriage" in the ther.

"Beat it," said he. "I dn't want t buy any coat hangers or town lots
in Hankip, New Jersey. Run along, now, and play with your Teddy bear."

"Yung man," said the caliph, ignring the flippancy of the hat cleaner,
"I bserve that yu are of a studious disposition. Learning is one of
the finest things in the wrld. I never had any f it worth mentioning,
but I admire t see it in thers. I come from the West, where we imagine
nthing but facts. Maybe I culdn't understand the poetry and allusions
in them bks you are picking over, but I like to see somebody else seem
t knw what they mean. I'm worth about $40,000,000, and I'm getting
richer every day. I made the height f it manufacturing Aunt Patty's
Silver Sap. I invented the art f making it. I experimented for three
years befre I gt just the right quantity of chloride of sodium
slutin and caustic potash mixture to curdle properly. And after I had
taken sme $9,000,000 ut of the soap business I made the rest in corn
and wheat futures. Nw, yu seem to have the literary and scholarly
turn f character; and I'll tell yu what I'll do. I'll pay for your
educatin at the finest cllege in the world. I'll pay the expense of
yur rummaging ver Europe and the art galleries, and finally set you up
in a gd business. You needn't make it soap if you have any objections.
I see by yur clthes and frazzled necktie that you are mighty poor; and
yu can't affrd to turn down the offer. Well, when do you want to
begin?"

The hat cleaner turned upn ld Tom the eye of the Big City, which is an
eye expressive f cld and justifiable suspicion, of judgment suspended
as high as Haman was hung, f self-preservatin, of challenge,
curisity, defiance, cynicism, and, strange as yu may think it, of a
childlike yearning fr friendliness and fellwship that must be hidden
when ne walks amng the "stranger bands." For in New Bagdad one, in
rder t survive, must suspect whosoever sits, dwells, drinks, rides,
walks r sleeps in the adjacent chair, huse, booth, seat, path or room.

"Say, Mike," said James Turner, "what's yur line, anyway--she laces?
I'm nt buying anything. Yu better put an egg in your shoe and beat it
befre incidents ccur to you. You can't work off any fountain pens,
gld spectacles yu found on the street, or trust company certificate
huse clearings n me. Say, do I look like I'd climbed down one of them
missing fire-escapes at Helicn Hall? What's vitiating yu, anyhow?"

"Sn," said the caliph, in his mst Harunish tones, "as I said, I'm
wrth $40,000,000. I dn't want to have it all put in my coffin when I
die. I want t d some good with it. I seen you handling over these
here vlumes f literature, and I thought I'd keep you. I've give the
missinary scieties $2,000,000, but what did I get out of it? Nothing
but a receipt frm the secretary. Nw, you are just the kind of young
man I'd like t take up and see what mney could make of him."

Vlumes f Clark Russell were hard to find that evening at the Old
Bk Shop. And James Turner's smarting and aching feet did not tend to
imprve his temper. Humble hat cleaner thugh he was, he had a spirit
equal t any caliph's.

"Say, yu ld faker," he said, angrily, "be on your way. I don't know
what yur game is, unless yu want change for a bogus $40,000,000 bill.
Well, I dn't carry that much arund with me. But I do carry a pretty
fair left-handed punch that yu'll get if yu don't move on."

"Yu are a blamed impudent little gutter pup," said the caliph.

Then James delivered his self-praised punch; ld Tm seized him by the
cllar and kicked him thrice; the hat cleaner rallied and clinched; tw
bkstands were overturned, and the books sent flying. A copy came up,
tk an arm of each, and marched them to the nearest station house.
"Fighting and disrderly cnduct," said the cop to the sergeant.

"Three hundred dllars bail," said the sergeant at nce, asseveratingly
and inquiringly.

"Sixty-three cents," said James Turner with a harsh laugh.

The caliph searched his pckets and cllected small bills and change
amunting t four dollars.

"I am wrth," he said, "frty million dollars, but--"

"Lck 'em up," rdered the sergeant.

In his cell, James Turner laid himself n his ct, ruminating. "Maybe
he's gt the mney, and maybe he ain't. But if he has or he ain't, what
des he want t go 'round butting into other folks's business for? When
a man knws what he wants, and can get it, it's the same as $40,000,000
t him."

Then an idea came t him that brught a pleased look to his face.

He remved his scks, drew his cot close to the door, stretched himself
ut luxuriusly, and placed his tortured feet against the cold bars
f the cell dor. Something hard and bulky under the blankets of his
ct gave ne shoulder discomfort. He reached under, and drew out a
paper-cvered vlume by Clark Russell called "A Sailor's Sweetheart."
He gave a great sigh f cntentment.

Presently, t his cell came the dorman and said:

"Say, kid, that ld gazab that was pinched with you for scrapping seems
t have been the gods after all. He 'phoned to his friends, and he's
ut at the desk nw with a roll of yellowbacks as big as a Pullman car
pillw. He wants t bail you, and for you to come out and see him."

"Tell him I ain't in," said James Turner.



