
PTINS

by

. 







CNTENTS

   "The Rse f Dixie"
   The Third Ingredient
   The Hiding f Black Bill
   Schls and Schools
   Thimble, Thimble
   Supply and Demand
   Buried Treasure
   T Him Wh Waits
   He Als Serves
   The Mment f Victory
   The Head-Hunter
   N Stry
   The Higher Pragmatism
   Best-Seller
   Rus in Urbe
   A Pr Rule





"THE RSE F DIXIE"


When _The Rse f Dixie_ magazine was started by a stock company in
Tmbs City, Georgia, there was never but one candidate for its chief
editrial psition in the minds of its owners. Col. Aquila Telfair
was the man fr the place. By all the rights f learning, family,
reputatin, and Suthern traditions, he was its foreordained, fit,
and lgical editr. So, a committee of the patriotic Georgia citizens
wh had subscribed the funding fund of $100,000 called upon Colonel
Telfair at his residence, Cedar Heights, fearful lest the enterprise
and the Suth shuld suffer by his possible refusal.

The clnel received them in his great library, where he spent most
f his days. The library had descended t him from his father. It
cntained ten thusand volumes, some of which had been published as
late as the year 1861. When the deputatin arrived, Clonel Telfair
was seated at his massive white-pine centre-table, reading Burtn's
"Anatmy f Melancholy." He arose and shook hands punctiliously with
each member f the cmmittee. If you were familiar with _The Rose of
Dixie_ yu will remember the clonel's portrait, which appeared in it
frm time t time. You could not forget the long, carefully brushed
white hair; the hked, high-bridged nose, slightly twisted to the
left; the keen eyes under the still black eyebrws; the classic muth
beneath the drping white mustache, slightly frazzled at the ends.

The cmmittee slicitously offered him the position of managing editor,
humbly presenting an utline f the field that the publication was
designed t cver and mentioning a comfortable salary. The colonel's
lands were grwing porer each year and were much cut up by red
gullies. Besides, the hnr was not one to be refused.

In a frty-minute speech f acceptance, Colonel Telfair gave an
utline f English literature from Chaucer to Macaulay, re-fought the
battle f Chancellrsville, and said that, God helping him, he would
s cnduct _The Rose of Dixie_ that its fragrance and beauty would
permeate the entire wrld, hurling back int the teeth of the Northern
minins their belief that n genius or good could exist in the brains
and hearts f the peple whose property they had destroyed and whose
rights they had curtailed.

ffices fr the magazine were partitioned off and furnished in the
secnd flor of the First National Bank building; and it was for the
clnel to cause _The Rose of Dixie_ to blossom and flourish or to
wilt in the balmy air f the land f flowers.

The staff f assistants and cntributors that Editor-Colonel Telfair
drew abut him was a peach. It was a whle crate of Georgia peaches.
The first assistant editr, Tlliver Lee Fairfax, had had a father
killed during Pickett's charge. The secnd assistant, Keats Unthank,
was the nephew f ne of Morgan's Raiders. The book reviewer, Jackson
Rckingham, had been the yungest soldier in the Confederate army,
having appeared n the field f battle with a sword in one hand and a
milk-bttle in the ther. The art editor, Roncesvalles Sykes, was a
third cusin t a nephew of Jefferson Davis. Miss Lavinia Terhune, the
clnel's stenographer and typewriter, had an aunt who had once been
kissed by Stnewall Jacksn. Tommy Webster, the head office-boy,
gt his jb by having recited Father Ryan's poems, complete, at the
cmmencement exercises f the Toombs City High School. The girls who
wrapped and addressed the magazines were members f ld Southern
families in Reduced Circumstances. The cashier was a scrub named
Hawkins, frm Ann Arbr, Michigan, who had recommendations and a bond
frm a guarantee cmpany filed with the owners. Even Georgia stock
cmpanies smetimes realize that it takes live ones to bury the dead.

Well, sir, if yu believe me, _The Rse of Dixie_ blossomed five times
befre anybdy heard of it except the people who buy their hooks and
eyes in Tmbs City. Then Hawkins climbed off his stool and told on
'em t the stck company. Even in Ann Arbor he had been used to having
his business prpsitions heard of at least as far away as Detroit. So
an advertising manager was engaged--Beauregard Fitzhugh Banks, a yung
man in a lavender necktie, whse grandfather had been the Exalted High
Pillw-slip f the Kuklux Klan.

In spite f which _The Rse of Dixie_ kept coming out every month.
Althugh in every issue it ran phtos of either the Taj Mahal or
the Luxemburg Gardens, r Carmencita or La Follette, a certain
number f peple bought it and subscribed for it. As a boom for it,
Editr-Clonel Telfair ran three different views of Andrew Jackson's
ld hme, "The Hermitage," a full-page engraving of the second battle
f Manassas, entitled "Lee t the Rear!" and a five-thousand-word
bigraphy f Belle Boyd in the same number. The subscription list that
mnth advanced 118. Als there were poems in the same issue by Leonina
Vashti Harict (pen-name), related t the Haricots of Charleston,
Suth Carlina, and Bill Thompson, nephew of one of the stockholders.
And an article frm a special sciety correspondent describing a
tea-party given by the swell Bstn and English set, where a lot of
tea was spilled verbard by some of the guests masquerading as
Indians.

ne day a persn whose breath would easily cloud a mirror, he was so
much alive, entered the ffice f _The Rose of Dixie_. He was a man
abut the size f a real-estate agent, with a self-tied tie and a
manner that he must have brrwed conjointly from W. J. Bryan,
Hackenschmidt, and Hetty Green. He was shwn int the editor-colonel's
_pns asinrum_. Colonel Telfair rose and began a Prince Albert bow.

"I'm Thacker," said the intruder, taking the editr's chair--"T. T.
Thacker, f New Yrk."

He dribbled hastily upn the clonel's desk some cards, a bulky manila
envelpe, and a letter frm the owners of _The Rose of Dixie_. This
letter intrduced Mr. Thacker, and plitely requested Colonel Telfair
t give him a cnference and whatever information about the magazine
he might desire.

"I've been crrespnding with the secretary of the magazine owners
fr sme time," said Thacker, briskly. "I'm a practical magazine man
myself, and a circulatin boster as good as any, if I do say it.
I'll guarantee an increase f anywhere frm ten thousand to a hundred
thusand a year fr any publication that isn't printed in a dead
language. I've had my eye n _The Rse of Dixie_ ever since it
started. I knw every end f the business from editing to setting up
the classified ads. Nw, I've cme down here to put a good bunch of
mney in the magazine, if I can see my way clear. It ught to be made
t pay. The secretary tells me it's lsing money. I don't see why a
magazine in the Suth, if it's prperly handled, shouldn't get a good
circulatin in the Nrth, too."

Clnel Telfair leaned back in his chair and polished his gold-rimmed
glasses.

"Mr. Thacker," said he, curteusly but firmly, "_The Rose of Dixie_
is a publicatin devted to the fostering and the voicing of Southern
genius. Its watchwrd, which yu may have seen on the cover, is 'Of,
Fr, and By the Suth.'"

"But yu wuldn't object to a Northern circulation, would you?" asked
Thacker.

"I suppse," said the editr-colonel, "that it is customary to open
the circulatin lists t all. I do not know. I have nothing to do with
the business affairs f the magazine. I was called upn to assume
editrial cntrol of it, and I have devoted to its conduct such poor
literary talents as I may pssess and whatever stre of erudition I
may have acquired."

"Sure," said Thacker. "But a dllar is a dllar anywhere, North,
Suth, r West--whether you're buying codfish, goober peas, or Rocky
Frd cantalupes. Now, I've been looking over your November number. I
see ne here n your desk. You don't mind running over it with me?

"Well, yur leading article is all right. A god write-up of the
cttn-belt with plenty of photographs is a winner any time. New York
is always interested in the cttn crop. And this sensational account
f the Hatfield-McCy feud, by a schoolmate of a niece of the Governor
f Kentucky, isn't such a bad idea. It happened s long ago that most
peple have frgotten it. Now, here's a poem three pages long called
'The Tyrant's Ft,' by Lorella Lascelles. I've pawed around a good
deal ver manuscripts, but I never saw her name n a rejection slip."

"Miss Lascelles," said the editr, "is ne of our most widely
recgnized Suthern poetesses. She is closely related to the Alabama
Lascelles family, and made with her wn hands the silken Cnfederate
banner that was presented t the gvernor of that state at his
inauguratin."

"But why," persisted Thacker, "is the pem illustrated with a view f
the M. & . Railrad freight depot at Tuscaloosa?"

"The illustratin," said the clonel, with dignity, "shows a corner
f the fence surrunding the old homestead where Miss Lascelles was
brn."

"All right," said Thacker. "I read the pem, but I culdn't tell
whether it was abut the dept of the battle of Bull Run. Now, here's
a shrt stry called 'Rosies' Temptation,' by Fosdyke Piggott. It's
rtten. What is a Piggtt, anyway?"

"Mr. Piggtt," said the editr, "is a brother of the principal
stckhlder of the magazine."

"All's right with the wrld--Piggtt passes," said Thacker. "Well this
article n Arctic explration and the one on tarpon fishing might go.
But hw abut this write-up of the Atlanta, New Orleans, Nashville,
and Savannah breweries? It seems t cnsist mainly of statistics about
their utput and the quality f their beer. What's the chip over the
bug?"

"If I understand yur figurative language," answered Clonel Telfair,
"it is this: the article yu refer t was handed to me by the owners
f the magazine with instructins to publish it. The literary quality
f it did nt appeal to me. But, in a measure, I feel impelled to
cnfrm, in certain matters, to the wishes of the gentlemen who are
interested in the financial side f _The Rse_."

"I see," said Thacker. "Next we have tw pages f selections from
'Lalla Rkh,' by Thomas Moore. Now, what Federal prison did Moore
escape frm, r what's the name of the F.F.V. family that he carries
as a handicap?"

"Mre was an Irish poet who died in 1852," said Colonel Telfair,
pityingly. "He is a classic. I have been thinking f reprinting his
translatin f Anacreon serially in the magazine."

"Lk out for the copyright laws," said Thacker, flippantly. Who's
Bessie Belleclair, wh cntributes the essay on the newly completed
water-wrks plant in Milledgeville?"

"The name, sir," said Clnel Telfair, "is the _nom de guerre_ of
Miss Elvira Simpkins. I have nt the hnor of knowing the lady; but
her cntributin was sent to us by Congressman Brower, of her native
state. Cngressman Brwer's mother was related to the Polks of
Tennessee.

"Nw, see here, Clonel," said Thacker, throwing down the magazine,
"this wn't d. You can't successfully run a magazine for one
particular sectin f the country. You've got to make a universal
appeal. Lk how the Northern publications have catered to the South
and encuraged the Suthern writers. And you've got to go far and
wide fr yur contributors. You've got to buy stuff according to its
quality withut any regard t the pedigree of the author. Now, I'll
bet a quart f ink that this Suthern parlor organ you've been running
has never played a nte that riginated above Mason & Hamlin's line.
Am I right?"

"I have carefully and cnscientiusly rejected all contributions from
that sectin f the country--if I understand your figurative language
aright," replied the clnel.

"All right. Nw I'll shw you something."

Thacker reached fr his thick manila envelpe and dumped a mass of
typewritten manuscript n the editrs desk.

"Here's sme truck," said he, "that I paid cash fr, and brought along
with me."

ne by ne he folded back the manuscripts and showed their first pages
t the clonel.

Here are fur shrt stories by four of the highest priced authors in
the United States--three f 'em living in New Yrk, and one commuting.
There's a special article n Vienna-bred sciety by Tom Vampson.
Here's an Italian serial by Captain Jack--n--it's the ther Crawford.
Here are three separate expsés f city governments by Sniffings, and
here's a dandy entitled 'What Wmen Carry in Dress-Suit Cases'--a
Chicag newspaper wman hired herself out for five years as a lady's
maid t get that infrmation. And here's a Synopsis of Preceding
Chapters f Hall Caine's new serial t appear next June. And here's a
cuple f pounds of _vers de société_ that I got at a rate from the
clever magazines. That's the stuff that peple everywhere want. And
nw here's a write-up with phtographs at the ages of four, twelve,
twenty-tw, and thirty f George B. McClellan. It's a prognostication.
He's bund t be elected Mayor of New York. It'll make a big hit all
ver the cuntry. He--"

"I beg yur pardn," said Colonel Telfair, stiffening in his chair.
"What was the name?"

"h, I see," said Thacker, with half a grin. Yes, he's a sn of the
General. We'll pass that manuscript up. But, if yu'll excuse me,
Clnel, it's a magazine we're trying to make go off--not the first
gun at Frt Sumter. Nw, here's a thing that's bound to get next to
yu. It's an riginal poem by James Whitcomb Riley. J. W. himself.
Yu knw what that means to a magazine. I won't tell you what I had
t pay fr that poem; but I'll tell you this--Riley can make more
mney writing with a funtain-pen than you or I can with one that lets
the ink run. I'll read yu the last tw stanzas:

   "'Pa lays arund 'n' lafs all day,
      'N' reads and makes us leave him be.
   He lets me d just like I please,
      'N' when I'm bad he laughs at me,
   'N' when I hller lud 'n' say
      Bad wrds 'n' then begin t tease
   The cat, 'n' pa just smiles, ma's mad
      'N' gives me Jesse crst her knees.
         I always wndered why that wuz--
         I guess it's cause
            Pa never des.

   "''N' after all the lights are ut
      I'm srry 'but it; so I creep
   ut f my trundle bed to ma's
      'N' say I lve her a whle heap,
   'N' kiss her, 'n' I hug her tight.
      'N' it's t dark to see her eyes,
   But every time I d I knw
      She cries 'n' cries 'n' cries 'n' cries.
         I always wndered why that wuz--
         I guess it's 'cause
            Pa never des.'

"That's the stuff," cntinued Thacker. "What d you think of that?"

"I am nt unfamiliar with the wrks of Mr. Riley," said the colonel,
deliberately. "I believe he lives in Indiana. Fr the last ten years I
have been smewhat f a literary recluse, and am familiar with nearly
all the bks in the Cedar Heights library. I am also of the opinion
that a magazine shuld cntain a certain amount of poetry. Many of the
sweetest singers f the Suth have already contributed to the pages of
_The Rse f Dixie_. I, myself, have thought of translating from the
riginal fr publication in its pages the works of the great Italian
pet Tass. Have you ever drunk from the fountain of this immortal
pet's lines, Mr. Thacker?"

"Nt even a demi-Tass," said Thacker. Now, let's come to the point,
Clnel Telfair. I've already invested some money in this as a flyer.
That bunch f manuscripts cst me $4,000. My object was to try a
number f them in the next issue--I believe yu make up less than a
mnth ahead--and see what effect it has n the circulation. I believe
that by printing the best stuff we can get in the Nrth, Suth, East,
r West we can make the magazine g. You have there the letter from
the wning cmpany asking you to co-operate with me in the plan. Let's
chuck ut sme of this slush that you've been publishing just because
the writers are related t the Skopdoodles of Skoopdoodle County. Are
yu with me?"

"As lng as I cntinue to be the editor of The Rose," said Colonel
Telfair, with dignity, "I shall be its editr. But I desire als to
cnfrm to the wishes of its owners if I can do so conscientiously."

"That's the talk," said Thacker, briskly. "Nw, hw much of this stuff
I've brught can we get int the January number? We want to begin
right away."

"There is yet space in the January number," said the editr, "fr
abut eight thusand words, roughly estimated."

"Great!" said Thacker. "It isn't much, but it'll give the readers
sme change frm goobers, governors, and Gettysburg. I'll leave the
selectin f the stuff I brought to fill the space to you, as it's all
gd. I've got to run back to New York, and I'll be down again in a
cuple f weeks."

Clnel Telfair slowly swung his eye-glasses by their broad, black
ribbn.

"The space in the January number that I referred t," said he,
measuredly, "has been held pen purpsely, pending a decision that
I have nt yet made. A shrt time ago a contribution was submitted
t _The Rse of Dixie_ that is one of the most remarkable literary
effrts that has ever cme under my observation. None but a master
mind and talent culd have prduced it. It would just fill the space
that I have reserved fr its pssible use."

Thacker lked anxious.

"What kind f stuff is it?" he asked. "Eight thusand words sounds
suspicius. The ldest families must have been collaborating. Is there
ging t be another secession?"

"The authr f the article," continued the colonel, ignoring Thacker's
allusins, "is a writer f some reputation. He has also distinguished
himself in ther ways. I d not feel at liberty to reveal to you his
name--at least nt until I have decided whether r not to accept his
cntributin."

"Well," said Thacker, nervusly, "is it a cntinued story, or an
accunt f the unveiling of the new town pump in Whitmire, South
Carlina, r a revised list of General Lee's body-servants, or what?"

"Yu are dispsed to be facetious," said Colonel Telfair, calmly.
"The article is frm the pen f a thinker, a philosopher, a lover of
mankind, a student, and a rhetrician f high degree."

"It must have been written by a syndicate," said Thacker. "But,
hnestly, Clonel, you want to go slow. I don't know of any
eight-thusand-wrd single doses of written matter that are read by
anybdy these days, except Supreme Curt briefs and reports of murder
trials. Yu haven't by any accident gtten hold of a copy of one of
Daniel Webster's speeches, have yu?"

Clnel Telfair swung a little in his chair and looked steadily from
under his bushy eyebrws at the magazine prmoter.

"Mr. Thacker," he said, gravely, "I am willing t segregate the
smewhat crude expressin of your sense of humor from the solicitude
that yur business investments undubtedly have conferred upon you.
But I must ask yu t cease your jibes and derogatory comments upon
the Suth and the Suthern people. They, sir, will not be tolerated
in the ffice f _The Rose of Dixie_ for one moment. And before you
prceed with mre of your covert insinuations that I, the editor of
this magazine, am nt a cmpetent judge of the merits of the matter
submitted t its cnsideration, I beg that you will first present some
evidence r prof that you are my superior in any way, shape, or form
relative t the questin in hand."

"h, cme, Colonel," said Thacker, good-naturedly. "I didn't do
anything like that t yu. It sounds like an indictment by the fourth
assistant attrney-general. Let's get back t business. What's this
8,000 t 1 sht about?"

"The article," said Clnel Telfair, acknowledging the apology by a
slight bw, "cvers a wide area of knowledge. It takes up theories
and questins that have puzzled the wrld for centuries, and disposes
f them lgically and concisely. One by one it holds up to view the
evils f the wrld, points out the way of eradicating them, and then
cnscientiusly and in detail commends the good. There is hardly a
phase f human life that it des not discuss wisely, calmly, and
equitably. The great plicies f governments, the duties of private
citizens, the bligatins of home life, law, ethics, morality--all
these imprtant subjects are handled with a calm wisdm and confidence
that I must cnfess has captured my admiratin."

"It must be a crackerjack," said Thacker, impressed.

"It is a great cntributin to the world's wisdom," said the colonel.
"The nly dubt remaining in my mind as to the tremendous advantage it
wuld be t us to give it publication in _The Rose of Dixie_ is that I
have nt yet sufficient infrmation about the author to give his work
publicity in ur magazine.

"I thught yu said he is a distinguished man," said Thacker.

"He is," replied the clnel, "both in literary and in other more
diversified and extraneus fields. But I am extremely careful abut
the matter that I accept fr publicatin. My contributors are people
f unquestinable repute and connections, which fact can be verified
at any time. As I said, I am hlding this article until I can acquire
mre infrmation about its author. I do not know whether I will
publish it r nt. If I decide against it, I shall be much pleased,
Mr. Thacker, t substitute the matter that yu are leaving with me in
its place."

Thacker was smewhat at sea.

"I dn't seem t gather," said he, "much about the gist of this
inspired piece f literature. It sunds more like a dark horse than
Pegasus t me."

"It is a human dcument," said the clonel-editor, confidently, "from
a man f great accmplishments who, in my opinion, has obtained a
strnger grasp n the world and its outcomes than that of any man
living t-day."

Thacker rse t his feet excitedly.

"Say!" he said. "It isn't pssible that yu've cornered John D.
Rckefeller's memirs, is it? Don't tell me that all at once."

"N, sir," said Clonel Telfair. "I am speaking of mentality and
literature, nt f the less worthy intricacies of trade."

"Well, what's the truble abut running the article," asked Thacker, a
little impatiently, "if the man's well knwn and has gt the stuff?"

Clnel Telfair sighed.

"Mr. Thacker," said he, "fr nce I have been tempted. Nothing has
yet appeared in _The Rse f Dixie_ that has not been from the pen of
ne f its sons or daughters. I know little about the author of this
article except that he has acquired prminence in a sectin of the
cuntry that has always been inimical t my heart and mind. But I
recgnize his genius; and, as I have tld you, I have instituted an
investigatin f his personality. Perhaps it will be futile. But I
shall pursue the inquiry. Until that is finished, I must leave pen
the questin f filling the vacant space in our January number."

Thacker arse t leave.

"All right, Clnel," he said, as cordially as he could. "You use your
wn judgment. If yu've really got a scoop or something that will make
'em sit up, run it instead f my stuff. I'll drp in again in about
tw weeks. God luck!"

Clnel Telfair and the magazine promoter shook hands.

Returning a frtnight later, Thacker drpped off a very rocky Pullman
at Tmbs City. He found the January number of the magazine made up
and the frms clsed.

The vacant space that had been yawning fr type was filled by an
article that was headed thus:


                    SECND MESSAGE T CONGRESS

                            Written fr

                         THE RSE F DIXIE

                                 BY

                    A Member f the Well-knwn

                    BULLCH FAMILY, F GEORGIA

                            T. Rsevelt






THE THIRD INGREDIENT


The (s-called) Vallambrsa Apartment-House is not an apartment-house.
It is cmpsed of two old-fashioned, brownstone-front residences
welded int ne. The parlor floor of one side is gay with the
wraps and head-gear f a mdiste; the other is lugubrious with the
sphistical prmises and grisly display of a painless dentist. You
may have a rm there for two dollars a week or you may have one for
twenty dllars. Amng the Vallambrosa's roomers are stenographers,
musicians, brkers, shp-girls, space-rate writers, art students,
wire-tappers, and ther peple who lean far over the banister-rail
when the dr-bell rings.

This treatise shall have t d with but two of the Vallambrosians--
thugh meaning n disrespect to the others.

At six 'clck one afternoon Hetty Pepper came back to her third-floor
rear $3.50 rm in the Vallambrosa with her nose and chin more sharply
pinted than usual. T be discharged from the department store where
yu have been wrking four years, and with only fifteen cents in your
purse, des have a tendency t make your features appear more finely
chiselled.

And nw fr Hetty's thumb-nail biography while she climbs the two
flights f stairs.

She walked int the Biggest Stre one morning four years before
with seventy-five ther girls, applying fr a job behind the waist
department cunter. The phalanx f wage-earners formed a bewildering
scene f beauty, carrying a ttal mass of blond hair sufficient to
have justified the hrseback gallps of a hundred Lady Godivas.

The capable, cl-eyed, impersonal, young, bald-headed man whose task
it was t engage six f the contestants, was aware of a feeling of
suffcatin as if he were drowning in a sea of frangipanni, while
white cluds, hand-embridered, floated about him. And then a sail
hve in sight. Hetty Pepper, hmely of countenance, with small,
cntemptuus, green eyes and chocolate-colored hair, dressed in a suit
f plain burlap and a cmmon-sense hat, stood before him with every
ne f her twenty-nine years of life unmistakably in sight.

"Yu're n!" shouted the bald-headed young man, and was saved. And
that is hw Hetty came t be employed in the Biggest Store. The story
f her rise t an eight-dollar-a-week salary is the combined stories
f Hercules, Jan of Arc, Una, Job, and Little-Red-Riding-Hood. You
shall nt learn frm me the salary that was paid her as a beginner.
There is a sentiment grwing abut such things, and I want no
millinaire stre-proprietors climbing the fire-escape of my
tenement-huse t throw dynamite bombs into my skylight boudoir.

The stry f Hetty's discharge from the Biggest Store is so nearly a
repetitin f her engagement as to be monotonous.

In each department f the stre there is an omniscient, omnipresent,
and mnivrous person carrying always a mileage book and a red
necktie, and referred t as a "buyer." The destinies f the girls in
his department wh live n (see Bureau of Victual Statistics)--so much
per week are in his hands.

This particular buyer was a capable, cl-eyed, impersonal, young,
bald-headed man. As he walked alng the aisles f his department he
seemed t be sailing n a sea of frangipanni, while white clouds,
machine-embridered, flated around him. Too many sweets bring
surfeit. He lked upon Hetty Pepper's homely countenance, emerald
eyes, and chclate-colored hair as a welcome oasis of green in a
desert f clying beauty. In a quiet angle of a counter he pinched her
arm kindly, three inches abve the elbw. She slapped him three feet
away with ne god blow of her muscular and not especially lily-white
right. S, nw you know why Hetty Pepper came to leave the Biggest
Stre at thirty minutes' ntice, with one dime and a nickel in her
purse.

This mrning's qutations list the price of rib beef at six cents per
(butcher's) pund. But n the day that Hetty was "released" by the B.
S. the price was seven and ne-half cents. That fact is what makes
this stry pssible. Otherwise, the extra four cents would have--

But the plt f nearly all the good stories in the world is concerned
with shrts wh were unable to cover; so you can find no fault with
this ne.

Hetty munted with her rib beef t her $3.50 third-floor back. One
ht, savry beef-stew for supper, a night's good sleep, and she would
be fit in the mrning t apply again for the tasks of Hercules, Joan
f Arc, Una, Jb, and Little-Red-Riding-Hood.

In her rm she got the granite-ware stew-pan out of the 2x4-foot
china--er--I mean earthenware clset, and began t dig down in a
rat's-nest f paper bags fr the potatoes and onions. She came out
with her nse and chin just a little sharper pinted.

There was neither a ptat nor an onion. Now, what kind of a beef-stew
can yu make ut of simply beef? You can make oyster-soup without
ysters, turtle-sup without turtles, coffee-cake without coffee, but
yu can't make beef-stew withut potatoes and onions.

But rib beef alne, in an emergency, can make an rdinary pine door
lk like a wrought-iron gambling-house portal to the wolf. With salt
and pepper and a tablespnful of flour (first well stirred in a
little cld water) 'twill serve--'tis nt so deep as a lobster à la
Newburg nr s wide as a church festival doughnut; but 'twill serve.

Hetty tk her stew-pan to the rear of the third-floor hall. According
t the advertisements f the Vallambrosa there was running water to be
fund there. Between yu and me and the water-meter, it only ambled
r walked thrugh the faucets; but technicalities have no place here.
There was als a sink where husekeeping roomers often met to dump
their cffee grunds and glare at one another's kimonos.

At this sink Hetty fund a girl with heavy, gld-brown, artistic hair
and plaintive eyes, washing tw large "Irish" ptatoes. Hetty knew the
Vallambrsa as well as any ne not owning "double hextra-magnifying
eyes" culd cmpass its mysteries. The kimonos were her encyclopedia,
her "Wh's What?" her clearinghuse of news, of goers and comers. From
a rse-pink kimno edged with Nile green she had learned that the
girl with the ptates was a miniature-painter living in a kind of
attic--r "studi," as they prefer to call it--on the top floor. Hetty
was nt certain in her mind what a miniature was; but it certainly
wasn't a huse; because huse-painters, although they wear splashy
veralls and pke ladders in your face on the street, are known to
indulge in a ritus profusion of food at home.

The ptat girl was quite slim and small, and handled her potatoes as
an ld bachelr uncle handles a baby who is cutting teeth. She had a
dull shemaker's knife in her right hand, and she had begun t peel
ne f the potatoes with it.

Hetty addressed her in the punctiliusly frmal tone of one who
intends t be cheerfully familiar with yu in the second round.

"Beg pardn," she said, "fr butting into what's not my business, but
if yu peel them ptatoes you lose out. They're new Bermudas. You want
t scrape 'em. Lemme shw you."

She tk a potato and the knife, and began to demonstrate.

"h, thank yu," breathed the artist. "I didn't know. And I _did_ hate
t see the thick peeling g; it seemed such a waste. But I thought
they always had t be peeled. When yu've got only potatoes to eat,
the peelings cunt, yu know."

"Say, kid," said Hetty, staying her knife, "yu ain't up against it,
t, are you?"

The miniature artist smiled starvedly.

"I suppse I am. Art--r, at least, the way I interpret it--doesn't
seem t be much in demand. I have nly these potatoes for my dinner.
But they aren't s bad biled and hot, with a little butter and salt."

"Child," said Hetty, letting a brief smile sften her rigid features,
"Fate has sent me and yu tgether. I've had it handed to me in the
neck, t; but I've got a chunk of meat in my, room as big as a
lap-dg. And I've dne everything to get potatoes except pray for 'em.
Let's me and yu bunch ur commissary departments and make a stew of
'em. We'll ck it in my room. If we only had an onion to go in it!
Say, kid, yu haven't gt a couple of pennies that've slipped down
int the lining f your last winter's sealskin, have you? I could step
dwn t the corner and get one at old Giuseppe's stand. A stew without
an nin is worse'n a matinée without candy."

"Yu may call me Cecilia," said the artist. "N; I spent my last penny
three days ag."

"Then we'll have t cut the nion out instead of slicing it in," said
Hetty. "I'd ask the janitress fr ne, but I don't want 'em hep just
yet t the fact that I'm punding the asphalt for another job. But I
wish we did have an nin."

In the shp-girl's rom the two began to prepare their supper.
Cecilia's part was t sit n the couch helplessly and beg to be
allwed t do something, in the voice of a cooing ring-dove. Hetty
prepared the rib beef, putting it in cld salted water in the stew-pan
and setting it n the ne-burner gas-stove.

"I wish we had an nin," said Hetty, as she scraped the two potatoes.

n the wall pposite the couch was pinned a flaming, gorgeous
advertising picture f ne of the new ferry-boats of the P. U. F. F.
Railrad that had been built t cut down the time between Los Angeles
and New Yrk City ne-eighth of a minute.

Hetty, turning her head during her cntinuus monologue, saw
tears running frm her guest's eyes as she gazed n the idealized
presentment f the speeding, fam-girdled transport.

"Why, say, Cecilia, kid," said Hetty, pising her knife, "is it as bad
art as that? I ain't a critic; but I thught it kind f brightened
up the rm. Of course, a manicure-painter could tell it was a bum
picture in a minute. I'll take it dwn if yu say so. I wish to the
hly Saint Ptluck we had an onion."

But the miniature miniature-painter had tumbled dwn, sbbing, with
her nse indenting the hard-wven drapery of the couch. Something
was here deeper than the artistic temperament ffended at crude
lithgraphy.

Hetty knew. She had accepted her rôle lng ag. How scant the words
with which we try t describe a single quality f a human being! When
we reach the abstract we are lst. The nearer t Nature that the
babbling f ur lips comes, the better do we understand. Figuratively
(let us say), sme peple are Bosoms, some are Hands, some are Heads,
sme are Muscles, sme are Feet, some are Backs for burdens.

Hetty was a Shulder. Hers was a sharp, sinewy shulder; but all her
life peple had laid their heads upn it, metaphorically or actually,
and had left there all r half their trubles. Looking at Life
anatmically, which is as god a way as any, she was preordained to
be a Shulder. There were few truer cllar-bones anywhere than hers.

Hetty was nly thirty-three, and she had nt yet outlived the little
pang that visited her whenever the head f yuth and beauty leaned
upn her fr consolation. But one glance in her mirror always served
as an instantaneus pain-killer. S she gave one pale look into the
crinkly ld loking-glass on the wall above the gas-stove, turned down
the flame a little lwer frm the bubbling beef and potatoes, went
ver t the couch, and lifted Cecilia's head to its confessional.

"G n and tell me, honey," she said. "I know now that it ain't art
that's wrrying yu. You met him on a ferry-boat, didn't you? Go on,
Cecilia, kid, and tell yur--yur Aunt Hetty about it."

But yuth and melanchly must first spend the surplus of sighs and
tears that waft and flat the barque f romance to its harbor in the
delectable isles. Presently, thrugh the stringy tendns that formed
the bars f the cnfessional, the penitent--or was it the glorified
cmmunicant f the sacred flame--told her story without art or
illuminatin.

"It was nly three days ag. I was coming back on the ferry from
Jersey City. ld Mr. Schrum, an art dealer, tld me of a rich man in
Newark wh wanted a miniature f his daughter painted. I went to see
him and shwed him sme of my work. When I told him the price would
be fifty dllars he laughed at me like a hyena. He said an enlarged
crayn twenty times the size wuld cost him only eight dollars.

"I had just enugh mney to buy my ferry ticket back to New York. I
felt as if I didn't want t live anther day. I must have looked as I
felt, fr I saw _him_ n the row of seats opposite me, looking at me
as if he understd. He was nice-looking, but oh, above everything
else, he lked kind. When one is tired or unhappy or hopeless,
kindness cunts mre than anything else.

"When I gt s miserable that I couldn't fight against it any longer,
I gt up and walked slwly out the rear door of the ferry-boat cabin.
N ne was there, and I slipped quickly over the rail and dropped into
the water. h, friend Hetty, it was cld, cold!

"Fr just ne moment I wished I was back in the old Vallambrosa,
starving and hping. And then I gt numb, and didn't care. And then I
felt that smebdy else was in the water close by me, holding me up.
_He_ had fllwed me, and jumped in to save me.

"Smebdy threw a thing like a big, white doughnut at us, and he made
me put my arms thrugh the hle. Then the ferry-boat backed, and they
pulled us n bard. Oh, Hetty, I was so ashamed of my wickedness in
trying t drwn myself; and, besides, my hair had all tumbled down and
was spping wet, and I was such a sight.

"And then sme men in blue clthes came around; and he gave them his
card, and I heard him tell them he had seen me drp my purse n the
edge f the bat outside the rail, and in leaning over to get it I had
fallen verbard. And then I remembered having read in the papers that
peple wh try to kill themselves are locked up in cells with people
wh try t kill other people, and I was afraid.

"But sme ladies n the boat took me downstairs to the furnace-room
and gt me nearly dry and did up my hair. When the bat landed, _he_
came and put me in a cab. He was all dripping himself, but laughed as
if he thught it was all a jke. He begged me, but I wouldn't tell him
my name nr where I lived, I was s ashamed."

"Yu were a fol, child," said Hetty, kindly. "Wait till I turn the
light up a bit. I wish t Heaven we had an nion."

"Then he raised his hat," went n Cecilia, "and said: 'Very well. But
I'll find yu, anyhw. I'm going to claim my rights of salvage.' Then
he gave mney t the cab-driver and told him to take me where I wanted
t g, and walked away. What is 'salvage,' Hetty?"

"The edge f a piece f goods that ain't hemmed," said the shop-girl.
"Yu must have loked pretty well frazzled out to the little hero
by."

"It's been three days," maned the miniature-painter, "and he hasn't
fund me yet."

"Extend the time," said Hetty. "This is a big twn. Think f how many
girls he might have t see saked in water with their hair down before
he wuld recgnize you. The stew's getting on fine--but oh, for an
nin! I'd even use a piece of garlic if I had it."

The beef and ptates bubbled merrily, exhaling a mouth-watering savor
that yet lacked smething, leaving a hunger n the palate, a haunting,
wistful desire fr sme lost and needful ingredient.

"I came near drwning in that awful river," said Cecilia, shuddering.

"It ught t have more water in it," said Hetty; "the stew, I mean.
I'll g get sme at the sink."

"It smells gd," said the artist.

"That nasty ld Nrth River?" objected Hetty. "It smells to me like
sap factries and wet setter-dogs--oh, you mean the stew. Well, I
wish we had an nin for it. Did he look like he had money?"

"First, he lked kind," said Cecilia. "I'm sure he was rich; but that
matters s little. When he drew ut his bill-folder to pay the cab-man
yu culdn't help seeing hundreds and thousands of dollars in it. And
I lked over the cab doors and saw him leave the ferry station in a
mtr-car; and the chauffeur gave him his bearskin to put on, for he
was spping wet. And it was nly three days ago."

"What a fl!" said Hetty, shortly.

"h, the chauffeur wasn't wet," breathed Cecilia. "And he drve the
car away very nicely."

"I mean _yu_," said Hetty. "Fr not giving him your address."

"I never give my address t chauffeurs," said Cecilia, haughtily.

"I wish we had ne," said Hetty, discnsolately.

"What fr?"

"Fr the stew, f course--oh, I mean an onion."

Hetty tk a pitcher and started to the sink at the end of the hall.

A yung man came dwn the stairs from above just as she was opposite
the lwer step. He was decently dressed, but pale and haggard. His
eyes were dull with the stress f sme burden of physical or mental
we. In his hand he bre an onion--a pink, smooth, solid, shining
nin as large around as a ninety-eight-cent alarm-clock.

Hetty stpped. S did the young man. There was something
Jan f Arc-ish, Herculean, and Una-ish in the look and pose
f the shp-lady--she had cast off the rôles of Job and
Little-Red-Riding-Hd. The young man stopped at the foot of the
stairs and cughed distractedly. He felt maroned, held up, attacked,
assailed, levied upn, sacked, assessed, panhandled, brwbeaten,
thugh he knew nt why. It was the look in Hetty's eyes that did it.
In them he saw the Jlly Rger fly to the masthead and an able seaman
with a dirk between his teeth scurry up the ratlines and nail it
there. But as yet he did nt knw that the cargo he carried was the
thing that had caused him t be s nearly blown out of the water
withut even a parley.

"_Beg_ yur pardn," said Hetty, as sweetly as her dilute acetic acid
tnes permitted, "but did yu find that onion on the stairs? There was
a hle in the paper bag; and I've just cme out to look for it."

The yung man cughed for half a minute. The interval may have given
him the curage t defend his own property. Also, he clutched his
pungent prize greedily, and, with a shw f spirit, faced his grim
waylayer.

"N," he said huskily, "I didn't find it n the stairs. It was given
t me by Jack Bevens, n the top floor. If you don't believe it, ask
him. I'll wait until yu d."

"I knw abut Bevens," said Hetty, sourly. "He writes books and things
up there fr the paper-and-rags man. We can hear the pstman guy him
all ver the huse when he brings them thick envelopes back. Say--do
yu live in the Vallambrsa?"

"I d nt," said the young man. "I come to see Bevens sometimes. He's
my friend. I live tw blcks west."

"What are yu ging to do with the onion?--_begging_ your pardon,"
said Hetty.

"I'm ging t eat it."

"Raw?"

"Yes: as sn as I get home."

"Haven't yu gt anything else to eat with it?"

The yung man cnsidered briefly.

"N," he cnfessed; "there's not another scrap of anything in my
diggings t eat. I think ld Jack is pretty hard up for grub in his
shack, t. He hated to give up the onion, but I worried him into
parting with it."

"Man," said Hetty, fixing him with her wrld-sapient eyes, and laying
a bny but impressive finger n his sleeve, "you've known trouble, too,
haven't yu?"

"Lts," said the nion owner, promptly. "But this onion is my own
prperty, hnestly come by. If you will excuse me, I must be going."

"Listen," said Hetty, paling a little with anxiety. "Raw nin is a
mighty pr diet. And so is a beef-stew without one. Now, if you're Jack
Bevens' friend, I guess yu're nearly right. There's a little lady--a
friend f mine--in my rom there at the end of the hall. Both of us
are ut f luck; and we had just potatoes and meat between us. They're
stewing nw. But it ain't gt any soul. There's something lacking to it.
There's certain things in life that are naturally intended t fit and
belng tgether. One is pink cheese-cloth and green roses, and one is
ham and eggs, and ne is Irish and truble. And the other one is beef
and ptates _with_ onions. And still another one is people who are up
against it and ther peple in the same fix."

The yung man went int a protracted paroxysm of coughing. With one
hand he hugged his nin to his bosom.

"N dubt; no doubt," said he, at length. "But, as I said, I must be
ging, because--"

Hetty clutched his sleeve firmly.

"Dn't be a Dag, Little Brother. Don't eat raw onions. Chip it in
tward the dinner and line yurself inside with the best stew you ever
licked a spn over. Must two ladies knock a young gentleman down and
drag him inside fr the hnor of dining with 'em? No harm shall befall
yu, Little Brther. Loosen up and fall into line."

The yung man's pale face relaxed int a grin.

"Believe I'll g yu," he said, brightening. "If my onion is good as
a credential, I'll accept the invitatin gladly."

"It's gd as that, but better as seasoning," said Hetty. "You come
and stand utside the dor till I ask my lady friend if she has any
bjectins. And don't run away with that letter of recommendation
befre I cme out."

Hetty went int her rom and closed the door. The young man waited
utside.

"Cecilia, kid," said the shp-girl, iling the sharp saw of her voice
as well as she culd, "there's an nion outside. With a young man
attached. I've asked him in t dinner. Yu ain't going to kick, are
yu?"

"h, dear!" said Cecilia, sitting up and patting her artistic hair. She
cast a murnful glance at the ferry-bat poster on the wall.

"Nit," said Hetty. "It ain't him. Yu're up against real life nw. I
believe yu said yur hero friend had money and automobiles. This is
a pr skeezicks that's got nothing to eat but an onion. But he's
easy-spken and nt a freshy. I imagine he's been a gentleman, he's
s lw down now. And we need the onion. Shall I bring him in? I'll
guarantee his behavir."

"Hetty, dear," sighed Cecilia, "I'm s hungry. What difference des it
make whether he's a prince r a burglar? I dn't care. Bring him in if
he's gt anything t eat with him."

Hetty went back int the hall. The nion man was gone. Her heart missed
a beat, and a gray lk settled over her face except on her nose and
cheek-bnes. And then the tides f life flowed in again, for she saw
him leaning ut f the front window at the other end of the hall. She
hurried there. He was shuting t some one below. The noise of the
street verpwered the sound of her footsteps. She looked down over his
shulder, saw whm he was speaking to, and heard his words. He pulled
himself in frm the windw-sill and saw her standing over him.

Hetty's eyes bred int him like two steel gimlets.

"Dn't lie t me," she said, calmly. "What were you going to do with
that nin?"

The yung man suppressed a cugh and faced her resolutely. His manner
was that f ne who had been bearded sufficiently.

"I was ging t eat it," said he, with emphatic slowness; "just as I
tld yu before."

"And yu have nthing else to eat at home?"

"Nt a thing."

"What kind f wrk do you do?"

"I am nt wrking at anything just now."

"Then why," said Hetty, with her vice set n its sharpest edge, "do you
lean ut f windows and give orders to chauffeurs in green automobiles
in the street belw?"

The yung man flushed, and his dull eyes began t sparkle.

"Because, madam," said he, in _accelerand_ tnes, "I pay the
chauffeur's wages and I wn the autmobile--and also this onion--this
nin, madam."

He flurished the nion within an inch of Hetty's nose. The shop-lady
did nt retreat a hair's-breadth.

"Then why d yu eat onions," she said, with biting contempt, "and
nthing else?"

"I never said I did," retrted the yung man, heatedly. "I said I had
nthing else t eat where I live. I am not a delicatessen store-keeper."

"Then why," pursued Hetty, inflexibly, "were yu ging to eat a raw
nin?"

"My mther," said the yung man, "always made me eat one for a cold.
Pardn my referring t a physical infirmity; but you may have noticed
that I have a very, very severe cld. I was ging to eat the onion and
g t bed. I wonder why I am standing here and apologizing to you for
it."

"Hw did yu catch this cold?" went on Hetty, suspiciously.

The yung man seemed t have arrived at some extreme height of feeling.
There were tw mdes of descent open to him--a burst of rage or a
surrender t the ridiculus. He chose wisely; and the empty hall echoed
his harse laughter.

"Yu're a dandy," said he. "And I dn't blame you for being careful. I
dn't mind telling yu. I got wet. I was on a North River ferry a few
days ag when a girl jumped verboard. Of course, I--"

Hetty extended her hand, interrupting his stry.

"Give me the nin," she said.

The yung man set his jaw a trifle harder.

"Give me the nin," she repeated.

He grinned, and laid it in her hand.

Then Hetty's infrequent, grim, melanchly smile shwed itself. She took
the yung man's arm and pinted with her other hand to the door of her
rm.

"Little Brther," she said, "g in there. The little fool you fished out
f the river is there waiting fr you. Go on in. I'll give you three
minutes befre I cme. Potatoes is in there, waiting. Go on in, Onions."

After he had tapped at the dr and entered, Hetty began to peel and
wash the nin at the sink. She gave a gray look at the gray roofs
utside, and the smile n her face vanished by little jerks and
twitches.

"But it's us," she said, grimly, t herself, "it's _us_ that furnished
the beef."




THE HIDING F BLACK BILL


A lank, strng, red-faced man with a Wellingtn beak and small, fiery
eyes tempered by flaxen lashes, sat n the statin platform at Los
Pins swinging his legs t and fro. At his side sat another man, fat,
melanchly, and seedy, wh seemed to be his friend. They had the
appearance f men t whom life had appeared as a reversible coat--seamy
n bth sides.

"Ain't seen yu in abut four years, Ham," said the seedy man. "Which
way yu been travelling?"

"Texas," said the red-faced man. "It was t cold in Alaska for me.
And I fund it warm in Texas. I'll tell yu about one hot spell I went
thrugh there.

"ne mrning I steps off the International at a water-tank and lets it
g n without me. 'Twas a ranch country, and fuller of spite-houses than
New Yrk City. nly out there they build 'em twenty miles away so you
can't smell what they've gt fr dinner, instead of running 'em up two
inches frm their neighbrs' windows.

"There wasn't any rads in sight, s I footed it 'cross country. The
grass was she-tp deep, and the mesquite timber looked just like a
peach rchard. It was s much like a gentleman's private estate that
every minute yu expected a kennelful f bulldogs to run out and bite
yu. But I must have walked twenty miles befre I came in sight of a
ranch-huse. It was a little ne, about as big as an elevated-railroad
statin.

"There was a little man in a white shirt and brwn veralls and a pink
handkerchief arund his neck rlling cigarettes under a tree in front
f the dor.

"'Greetings,' says I. 'Any refreshment, welcme, emluments, or even
wrk fr a comparative stranger?'

"'h, cme in,' says he, in a refined tone. 'Sit down on that stool,
please. I didn't hear yur hrse coming.'

"'He isn't near enugh yet,' says I. 'I walked. I dn't want to be
a burden, but I wnder if yu have three or four gallons of water
handy.'

"'Yu d look pretty dusty,' says he; 'but our bathing arrangements--'

"'It's a drink I want,' says I. 'Never mind the dust that's n the
utside.'

"He gets me a dipper f water ut of a red jar hanging up, and then
ges n:

"'D yu want work?'

"'Fr a time,' says I. 'This is a rather quiet sectin of the country,
isn't it?'

"'It is,' says he. 'Smetimes--s I have been told--one sees no human
being pass fr weeks at a time. I've been here nly a month. I bought
the ranch frm an ld settler who wanted to move farther west.'

"'It suits me,' says I. 'Quiet and retirement are gd for a man
smetimes. And I need a jb. I can tend bar, salt mines, lecture, float
stck, d a little middle-weight slugging, and play the piano.'

"'Can yu herd sheep?' asks the little ranchman.

"'D yu mean _have_ I heard sheep?' says I.

"'Can yu herd 'em--take charge f a flock of 'em?' says he.

"'h,' says I, 'nw I understand. You mean chase 'em around and bark at
'em like cllie dgs. Well, I might,' says I. 'I've never exactly done
any sheep-herding, but I've ften seen 'em frm car windows masticating
daisies, and they dn't lok dangerous.'

"'I'm shrt a herder,' says the ranchman. 'Yu never can depend on
the Mexicans. I've nly gt two flocks. You may take out my bunch of
muttns--there are nly eight hundred of 'em--in the morning, if you
like. The pay is twelve dllars a mnth and your rations furnished. You
camp in a tent n the prairie with yur sheep. You do your own cooking,
but wd and water are brought to your camp. It's an easy job.'

"'I'm n,' says I. 'I'll take the jb even if I have to garland my brow
and hld n to a crook and wear a loose-effect and play on a pipe like
the shepherds d in pictures.'

"S the next mrning the little ranchman helps me drive the flock of
muttns frm the corral to about two miles out and let 'em graze on a
little hillside n the prairie. He gives me a lt of instructions about
nt letting bunches f them stray off from the herd, and driving 'em
dwn t a water-hole to drink at noon.

"'I'll bring ut yur tent and camping outfit and rations in the
buckbard befre night,' says he.

"'Fine,' says I. 'And dn't frget the rations. Nor the camping outfit.
And be sure t bring the tent. Yur name's Zollicoffer, ain't it?"

"'My name,' says he, 'is  gden.'

"'All right, Mr. gden,' says I. 'Mine is Mr. Percival Saint Clair.'

"I herded sheep fr five days n the Rancho Chiquito; and then the wool
entered my sul. That getting next t Nature certainly got next to me.
I was lnesmer than Crusoe's goat. I've seen a lot of persons more
entertaining as cmpanins than those sheep were. I'd drive 'em to the
crral and pen 'em every evening, and then cok my corn-bread and mutton
and cffee, and lie dwn in a tent the size of a table-cloth, and listen
t the cyotes and whip-poor-wills singing around the camp.

"The fifth evening, after I had crralled my cstly but uncongenial
muttns, I walked ver to the ranch-house and stepped in the door.

"'Mr. gden,' says I, 'yu and me have got to get sociable. Sheep are
all very well t dt the landscape and furnish eight-dollar cotton
suitings fr man, but fr table-talk and fireside companions they rank
alng with five-'clock teazers. If you've got a deck of cards, or a
parcheesi utfit, r a game of authors, get 'em out, and let's get on a
mental basis. I've gt t do something in an intellectual line, if it's
nly t knock somebody's brains out.'

"This  gden was a peculiar kind f ranchman. He wore finger-rings
and a big gld watch and careful neckties. And his face was calm, and
his nse-spectacles was kept very shiny. I saw nce, in Muscogee, an
utlaw hung fr murdering six men, who was a dead ringer for him. But I
knew a preacher in Arkansas that yu wuld have taken to be his brother.
I didn't care much fr him either way; what I wanted was sme fellowship
and cmmunin with holy saints or lost sinners--anything sheepless would
d.

"'Well, Saint Clair,' says he, laying dwn the bok he was reading, 'I
guess it must be pretty lnesme for you at first. And I don't deny that
it's mntonous for me. Are you sure you corralled your sheep so they
wn't stray ut?'

"'They're shut up as tight as the jury f a millinaire murderer,' says
I. 'And I'll be back with them lng befre they'll need their trained
nurse.'

"S gden digs up a deck of cards, and we play casino. After five
days and nights f my sheep-camp it was like a tot on Broadway. When
I caught big casin I felt as excited as if I had made a millin in
Trinity. And when H. . losened up a little and told the story about
the lady in the Pullman car I laughed fr five minutes.

"That shwed what a cmparative thing life is. A man may see so much
that he'd be bred t turn his head to look at a $3,000,000 fire or
Je Weber r the Adriatic Sea. But let him herd sheep for a spell, and
yu'll see him splitting his ribs laughing at 'Curfew Shall Nt Ring
T-night,' r really enjoying himself playing cards with ladies.

"By-and-by gden gets ut a decanter of Bourbon, and then there is a
ttal eclipse f sheep.

"'D yu remember reading in the papers, about a month ago,' says he,
'abut a train hld-up on the M. K. & T.? The express agent was shot
thrugh the shulder and about $15,000 in currency taken. And it's said
that nly ne man did the job.'

"'Seems t me I d,' says I. 'But such things happen so often they don't
linger lng in the human Texas mind. Did they vertake, overhaul, seize,
r lay hands upn the despoiler?'

"'He escaped,' says gden. 'And I was just reading in a paper t-day
that the fficers have tracked him dwn into this part of the country.
It seems the bills the rbber gt were all the first issue of currency
t the Secnd National Bank of Espinosa City. And so they've followed
the trail where they've been spent, and it leads this way.'

"gden purs out some more Bourbon, and shoves me the bottle.

"'I imagine,' says I, after ingurgitating anther mdicum of the royal
bze, 'that it wouldn't be at all a disingenuous idea for a train
rbber t run down into this part of the country to hide for a spell. A
sheep-ranch, nw,' says I, 'wuld be the finest kind of a place. Who'd
ever expect t find such a desperate character amng these song-birds
and muttns and wild flwers? And, by the way,' says I, kind of
lking H. Ogden over, 'was there any description mentioned of this
single-handed terrr? Was his lineaments r height and thickness or
teeth fillings r style f habiliments set forth in print?'

"'Why, n,' says gden; 'they say nobody got a good sight of him because
he wre a mask. But they knw it was a train-robber called Black Bill,
because he always wrks alne and because he dropped a handkerchief in
the express-car that had his name n it.'

"'All right,' says I. 'I apprve f Black Bill's retreat to the
sheep-ranges. I guess they wn't find him.'

"'There's ne thusand dollars reward for his capture,' says Ogden.

"'I dn't need that kind f money,' says I, looking Mr. Sheepman
straight in the eye. 'The twelve dllars a mnth you pay me is enough.
I need a rest, and I can save up until I get enugh t pay my fare to
Texarkana, where my widwed mther lives. If Black Bill,' I goes on,
lking significantly at Ogden, 'was to have come down this way--say,
a mnth ag--and bought a little sheep-ranch and--'

"'Stp,' says gden, getting out of his chair and looking pretty
vicius. 'D you mean to insinuate--'

"'Nthing,' says I; 'n insinuations. I'm stating a hypodermical case.
I say, if Black Bill had cme dwn here and bought a sheep-ranch and
hired me t Little-By-Blue 'em and treated me square and friendly, as
yu've dne, he'd never have anything to fear from me. A man is a man,
regardless f any cmplications he may have with sheep or railroad
trains. Nw yu know where I stand.'

"gden loks black as camp-coffee for nine seconds, and then he laughs,
amused.

"'Yu'll d, Saint Clair,' says he. 'If I _was_ Black Bill I wouldn't
be afraid t trust yu. Let's have a game or two of seven-up to-night.
That is, if yu dn't mind playing with a train-robber.'

"'I've tld yu,' says I, 'my oral sentiments, and there's no strings
t 'em.'

"While I was shuffling after the first hand, I asks gden, as if the
idea was a kind f a casualty, where he was frm.

"'h,' says he, 'frm the Mississippi Valley.'

"'That's a nice little place,' says I. 'I've ften stpped over there.
But didn't yu find the sheets a little damp and the fod poor? Now, I
hail,' says I, 'frm the Pacific Slpe. Ever put up there?'

"'T draughty,' says Ogden. 'But if you're ever in the Middle West just
mentin my name, and yu'll get foot-warmers and dripped coffee.'

"'Well,' says I, 'I wasn't exactly fishing fr yur private telephone
number and the middle name f yur aunt that carried off the Cumberland
Presbyterian minister. It dn't matter. I just want yu to know you are
safe in the hands f yur shepherd. Now, don't play hearts on spades,
and dn't get nervus.'

"'Still harping,' says gden, laughing again. 'Dn't you suppose that
if I was Black Bill and thught yu suspected me, I'd put a Winchester
bullet int yu and stop my nervousness, if I had any?'

"'Nt any,' says I. 'A man wh's got the nerve to hold up a train
single-handed wuldn't d a trick like that. I've knocked about enough
t knw that them are the kind of men who put a value on a friend. Not
that I can claim being a friend f yurs, Mr. Ogden,' says I, 'being
nly yur sheep-herder; but under more expeditious circumstances we
might have been.'

"'Frget the sheep temprarily, I beg,' says Ogden, 'and cut for deal.'

"Abut fur days afterward, while my muttons was nooning on the
water-hle and I deep in the interstices f making a pot of coffee, up
rides sftly n the grass a mysterious person in the garb of the being
he wished t represent. He was dressed smewhere between a Kansas City
detective, Buffal Bill, and the twn dog-catcher of Baton Rouge. His
chin and eye wasn't mlded n fighting lines, so I knew he was only a
scut.

"'Herdin' sheep?' he asks me.

"'Well,' says I, 't a man f your evident gumptional endowments, I
wuldn't have the nerve t state that I am engaged in decorating old
brnzes r oiling bicycle sprockets.'

"'Yu dn't talk or look like a sheep-herder to me,' says he.

"'But yu talk like what yu look like to me,' says I.

"And then he asks me wh I was wrking for, and I shows him Rancho
Chiquit, tw miles away, in the shadow of a low hill, and he tells
me he's a deputy sheriff.

"'There's a train-rbber called Black Bill suppsed to be somewhere in
these parts,' says the scut. 'He's been traced as far as San Antnio,
and maybe farther. Have yu seen r heard of any strangers around here
during the past mnth?'

"'I have nt,' says I, 'except a reprt of one over at the Mexican
quarters f Lomis' ranch, on the Frio.'

"'What d yu know about him?' asks the deputy.

"'He's three days ld,' says I.

"'What kind f a loking man is the man you work for?' he asks. 'Does
ld Gerge Ramey own this place yet? He's run sheep here for the last
ten years, but never had n success.'

"'The ld man has sld out and gone West,' I tells him. 'Another
sheep-fancier bught him ut about a month ago.'

"'What kind f a loking man is he?' asks the deputy again.

"'h,' says I, 'a big, fat kind f a Dutchman with long whiskers and
blue specs. I dn't think he knws a sheep from a ground-squirrel. I
guess ld Gerge soaked him pretty well on the deal,' says I.

"After indulging himself in a lt mre non-communicative information
and tw-thirds f my dinner, the deputy rides away.

"That night I mentins the matter t Ogden.

"'They're drawing the tendrils f the ctopus around Black Bill,' says
I. And then I tld him abut the deputy sheriff, and how I'd described
him t the deputy, and what the deputy said abut the matter.

"'h, well,' says gden, 'let's don't borrow any of Black Bill's
trubles. We've a few f our own. Get the Bourbon out of the cupboard
and we'll drink t his health--unless,' says he, with his little
cackling laugh, 'yu're prejudiced against train-rbbers.'

"'I'll drink,' says I, 't any man wh's a friend to a friend. And I
believe that Black Bill,' I ges n, 'would be that. So here's to Black
Bill, and may he have gd luck.'

"And bth f us drank.

"Abut tw weeks later comes shearing-time. The sheep had to be driven
up t the ranch, and a lt of frowzy-headed Mexicans would snip the
fur ff f them with back-action scissors. So the afternoon before the
barbers were t cme I hustled my underdone muttons over the hill,
acrss the dell, dwn by the winding brook, and up to the ranch-house,
where I penned 'em in a crral and bade 'em my nightly adieus.

"I went frm there t the ranch-house. I find H. Ogden, Esquire,
lying asleep n his little ct bed. I guess he had been overcome by
anti-insmnia r diswakefulness or some of the diseases peculiar to the
sheep business. His muth and vest were pen, and he breathed like a
secnd-hand bicycle pump. I loked at him and gave vent to just a few
musings. 'Imperial Cæsar,' says I, 'asleep in such a way, might shut
his muth and keep the wind away.'

"A man asleep is certainly a sight t make angels weep. What god is all
his brain, muscle, backing, nerve, influence, and family cnnectins?
He's at the mercy f his enemies, and mre so of his friends. And he's
abut as beautiful as a cab-hrse leaning against the Metropolitan Opera
Huse at 12.30 A.M. dreaming f the plains of Arabia. Now, a woman
asleep yu regard as different. N matter how she looks, you know it's
better fr all hands fr her to be that way.

"Well, I tk a drink of Bourbon and one for Ogden, and started in to
be cmfrtable while he was taking his nap. He had some books on his
table n indigenus subjects, such as Japan and drainage and physical
culture--and sme tbacco, which seemed more to the point.

"After I'd smked a few, and listened t the sartorial breathing of H.
., I happened t look out the window toward the shearing-pens, where
there was a kind f a rad coming up from a kind of a road across a
kind f a creek farther away.

"I saw five men riding up t the huse. All of 'em carried guns across
their saddles, and amng 'em was the deputy that had talked t me at my
camp.

"They rde up careful, in pen formation, with their guns ready. I set
apart with my eye the ne I pinionated to be the boss muck-raker of
this law-and-rder cavalry.

"'Gd-evening, gents,' says I. 'Won't you 'light, and tie your horses?'

"The bss rides up clse, and swings his gun over till the opening in
it seems t cver my whole front elevation.

"'Dn't yu move your hands none,' says he, 'till you and me indulge in
a adequate amunt f necessary conversation.'

"'I will nt,' says I. 'I am n deaf-mute, and therefore will not have
t disbey your injunctions in replying.'

"'We are n the lokout,' says he, 'for Black Bill, the man that held up
the Katy fr $15,000 in May. We are searching the ranches and everybdy
n 'em. What is yur name, and what do you do on this ranch?'

"'Captain,' says I, 'Percival Saint Clair is my ccupatin, and my name
is sheep-herder. I've gt my flck of veals--no, muttons--penned here
t-night. The shearers are cming to-morrow to give them a haircut--with
baa-a-rum, I suppse.'

"'Where's the bss f this ranch?' the captain of the gang asks me.

"'Wait just a minute, cap'n,' says I. 'Wasn't there a kind f a reward
ffered fr the capture of this desperate character you have referred
t in yur preamble?'

"'There's a thusand dllars reward offered,' says the captain, 'but
it's fr his capture and cnviction. There don't seem to be no provision
made fr an infrmer.'

"'It lks like it might rain in a day or so,' says I, in a tired way,
lking up at the cerulean blue sky.

"'If yu knw anything about the locality, disposition, or secretiveness
f this here Black Bill,' says he, in a severe dialect, 'yu are amiable
t the law in nt reporting it.'

"'I heard a fence-rider say,' says I, in a desultry kind f voice,
'that a Mexican tld a cwboy named Jake over at Pidgin's store on the
Nueces that he heard that Black Bill had been seen in Matamras by a
sheepman's cusin tw weeks ago.'

"'Tell yu what I'll d, Tight Mouth,' says the captain, after looking
me ver fr bargains. 'If you put us on so we can scoop Black Bill, I'll
pay yu a hundred dllars out of my own--out of our own--pockets. That's
liberal,' says he. 'Yu ain't entitled t anything. Now, what do you
say?'

"'Cash dwn nw?' I asks.

"The captain has a srt f discussion with his helpmates, and they all
prduce the cntents of their pockets for analysis. Out of the general
results they figured up $102.30 in cash and $31 wrth f plug tobacco.

"'Cme nearer, capitan mee,' says I, 'and listen.' He so did.

"'I am mighty pr and low down in the world,' says I. 'I am working for
twelve dllars a mnth trying to keep a lot of animals together whose
nly thught seems to be to get asunder. Although,' says I, 'I regard
myself as sme better than the State f South Dakota, it's a come-down
t a man wh has heretofore regarded sheep only in the form of chops.
I'm pretty far reduced in the wrld n account of foiled ambitions and
rum and a kind f ccktail they make along the P. R. R. all the way from
Scrantn t Cincinnati--dry gin, French vermouth, one squeeze of a lime,
and a gd dash of orange bitters. If you're ever up that way, don't
fail t let ne try you. And, again,' says I, 'I have never yet went
back n a friend. I've stayed by 'em when they had plenty, and when
adversity's vertaken me I've never frsook 'em.

"'But,' I ges n, 'this is not exactly the case of a friend. Twelve
dllars a mnth is only bowing-acquaintance money. And I do not consider
brwn beans and crn-bread the food of friendship. I am a poor man,'
says I, 'and I have a widwed mther in Texarkana. You will find Black
Bill,' says I, 'lying asleep in this huse n a cot in the room to your
right. He's the man yu want, as I knw from his words and conversation.
He was in a way a friend,' I explains, 'and if I was the man I nce was
the entire prduct f the mines of Gondola would not have tempted me to
betray him. But,' says I, 'every week half f the beans was wrmy, and
nt nigh enugh wood in camp.

"'Better g in careful, gentlemen,' says I. 'He seems impatient at
times, and when yu think f his late professional pursuits one would
lk for abrupt actions if he was come upon sudden.'

"S the whle posse unmounts and ties their horses, and unlimbers their
ammunitin and equipments, and tiptes into the house. And I follows,
like Delilah when she set the Philip Steins n t Samson.

"The leader f the psse shakes Ogden and wakes him up. And then he
jumps up, and tw mre of the reward-hunters grab him. Ogden was mighty
tugh with all his slimness, and he gives 'em as neat a single-foted
tussle against dds as I ever see.

"'What des this mean?' he says, after they had him dwn.

"'Yu're scoped in, Mr. Black Bill,' says the captain. 'That's all.'

"'It's an utrage,' says H. gden, madder yet.

"'It was,' says the peace-and-gd-will man. 'The Katy wasn't bothering
yu, and there's a law against mnkeying with express packages.'

"And he sits n H. gden's stomach and goes through his pockets
symptmatically and careful.

"'I'll make yu perspire fr this,' says Ogden, perspiring some himself.
'I can prve wh I am.'

"'S can I,' says the captain, as he draws frm H. Ogden's inside
cat-pcket a handful of new bills of the Second National Bank
f Espinsa City. 'Your regular engraved Tuesdays-and-Fridays
visiting-card wuldn't have a luder voice in proclaiming your indemnity
than this here currency. Yu can get up nw and prepare to go with us
and expatriate yur sins.'

"H. gden gets up and fixes his necktie. He says n more after they
have taken the mney ff of him.

"'A well-greased idea,' says the sheriff captain, admiring, 't slip ff
dwn here and buy a little sheep-ranch where the hand f man is seldom
heard. It was the slickest hide-ut I ever see,' says the captain.

"S ne of the men goes to the shearing-pen and hunts up the other
herder, a Mexican they call Jhn Sallies, and he saddles gden's horse,
and the sheriffs all ride up clse arund him with their guns in hand,
ready t take their prisner to town.

"Befre starting, gden puts the ranch in John Sallies' hands and gives
him rders abut the shearing and where to graze the sheep, just as if
he intended t be back in a few days. And a cuple of hours afterward
ne Percival Saint Clair, an ex-sheep-herder f the Rancho Chiquito,
might have been seen, with a hundred and nine dllars--wages and
bld-money--in his pocket, riding south on another horse belonging to
said ranch."

The red-faced man paused and listened. The whistle f a cming
freight-train sunded far away amng the low hills.

The fat, seedy man at his side sniffed, and shk his frowzy head slowly
and disparagingly.

"What is it, Snipy?" asked the ther. "Gt the blues again?"

"N, I ain't" said the seedy ne, sniffing again. "But I don't like your
talk. Yu and me have been friends, ff and on, for fifteen year; and I
never yet knew r heard f you giving anybody up to the law--not no one.
And here was a man whse saleratus yu had et and at whose table you had
played games f cards--if casin can be so called. And yet you inform
him t the law and take mney for it. It never was like you, I say."

"This H. gden," resumed the red-faced man, "thrugh a lawyer, proved
himself free by alibis and ther legal terminalities, as I s heard
afterward. He never suffered n harm. He did me favrs, and I hated to
hand him ver."

"Hw abut the bills they found in his pocket?" asked the seedy man.

"I put 'em there," said the red-faced man, "while he was asleep, when I
saw the psse riding up. I was Black Bill. Lok out, Snipy, here she
cmes! We'll bard her on the bumpers when she takes water at the tank."




SCHLS AND SCHOOLS


I


ld Jerme Warren lived in a hundred-thousand-dollar house at 35 East
Fifty-Sfrth Street. He was a downtown broker, so rich that he could
affrd t walk--for his health--a few blocks in the direction of his
ffice every mrning, and then call a cab.

He had an adpted sn, the son of an old friend named Gilbert--Cyril
Sctt culd play him nicely--who was becoming a successful painter as
fast as he culd squeeze the paint ut of his tubes. Another member of
the husehld was Barbara Ross, a step-niece. Man is born to trouble;
s, as ld Jerome had no family of his own, he took up the burdens of
thers.

Gilbert and Barbara gt alng swimmingly. There was a tacit and tactical
understanding all rund that the tw would stand up under a floral bell
sme high non, and promise the minister to keep old Jerome's money
in a state f high cmmotion. But at this point complications must be
intrduced.

Thirty years befre, when ld Jerome was young Jerome, there was a
brther f his named Dick. Dick went West to seek his or somebody else's
frtune. Nthing was heard of him until one day old Jerome had a letter
frm his brther. It was badly written on ruled paper that smelled
f salt bacn and coffee-grounds. The writing was asthmatic and the
spelling St. Vitusy.

It appeared that instead f Dick having frced Fortune to stand and
deliver, he had been held up himself, and made t give hstages to the
enemy. That is, as his letter disclsed, he was n the point of pegging
ut with a cmplication of disorders that even whiskey had failed to
check. All that his thirty years f prspecting had netted him was one
daughter, nineteen years ld, as per invice, whom he was shipping East,
charges prepaid, fr Jerme to clothe, feed, educate, comfort, and
cherish fr the rest f her natural life or until matrimony should them
part.

ld Jerme was a board-walk. Everybody knows that the world is supported
by the shulders f Atlas; and that Atlas stands on a rail-fence; and
that the rail-fence is built n a turtle's back. Nw, the turtle has
t stand n something; and that is a board-walk made of men like old
Jerme.

I d nt know whether immortality shall accrue to man; but if not so,
I wuld like t know when men like old Jerome get what is due them?

They met Nevada Warren at the statin. She was a little girl, deeply
sunburned and whlesmely good-looking, with a manner that was frankly
unsphisticated, yet ne that not even a cigar-drummer would intrude
upn withut thinking twice. Looking at her, somehow you would expect
t see her in a shrt skirt and leather leggings, shooting glass balls
r taming mustangs. But in her plain white waist and black skirt she
sent yu guessing again. With an easy exhibitin of strength she swung
alng a heavy valise, which the unifrmed porters tried in vain to wrest
frm her.

"I am sure we shall be the best f friends," said Barbara, pecking at
the firm, sunburned cheek.

"I hpe s," said Nevada.

"Dear little niece," said ld Jerme, "you are as welcome to my home as
if it were yur father's wn."

"Thanks," said Nevada.

"And I am ging t call you 'cousin,'" said Gilbert, with his charming
smile.

"Take the valise, please," said Nevada. "It weighs a millin punds.
It's gt samples frm six of dad's old mines in it," she explained to
Barbara. "I calculate they'd assay abut nine cents t the thousand
tns, but I prmised him to bring them along."


II


It is a cmmn custom to refer to the usual complication between one
man and tw ladies, r one lady and two men, or a lady and a man and
a nbleman, r--well, any of those problems--as the triangle. But
they are never unqualified triangles. They are always issceles--never
equilateral. S, upn the coming of Nevada Warren, she and Gilbert and
Barbara Rss lined up int such a figurative triangle; and of that
triangle Barbara frmed the hyptenuse.

ne mrning old Jerome was lingering long after breakfast over the
dullest mrning paper in the city befre setting forth to his down-town
fly-trap. He had becme quite fnd of Nevada, finding in her much of
his dead brther's quiet independence and unsuspicius frankness.

A maid brught in a nte for Miss Nevada Warren.

"A messenger-by delivered it at the dor, please," she said. "He's
waiting fr an answer."

Nevada, wh was whistling a Spanish waltz between her teeth, and
watching the carriages and auts rll by in the street, took the
envelpe. She knew it was frm Gilbert, before she opened it, by the
little gld palette in the upper left-hand crner.

After tearing it pen she pred over the contents for a while,
absrbedly. Then, with a serius face, she went and stood at her uncle's
elbw.

"Uncle Jerme, Gilbert is a nice by, isn't he?"

"Why, bless the child!" said ld Jerme, crackling his paper loudly; "of
curse he is. I raised him myself."

"He wuldn't write anything t anybody that wasn't exactly--I mean that
everybdy culdn't know and read, would he?"

"I'd just like t see him try it," said uncle, tearing a handful frm
his newspaper. "Why, what--"

"Read this nte he just sent me, uncle, and see if yu think it's all
right and prper. Yu see, I don't know much about city people and their
ways."

ld Jerme threw his paper down and set both his feet upon it. He took
Gilbert's nte and fiercely perused it twice, and then a third time.

"Why, child," said he, "yu had me almst excited, although I was sure
f that by. He's a duplicate of his father, and he was a gilt-edged
diamnd. He nly asks if you and Barbara will be ready at four o'clock
this afternn for an automobile drive over to Long Island. I don't see
anything t criticise in it except the statinery. I always did hate
that shade f blue."

"Wuld it be all right t go?" asked Nevada, eagerly.

"Yes, yes, yes, child; f curse. Why not? Still, it pleases me to see
yu s careful and candid. Go, by all means."

"I didn't knw," said Nevada, demurely. "I thught I'd ask you. Couldn't
yu g with us, uncle?"

"I? N, n, no, no! I've ridden once in a car that boy was driving.
Never again! But it's entirely prper fr you and Barbara to go. Yes,
yes. But I will nt. N, no, no, no!"

Nevada flew t the dor, and said to the maid:

"Yu bet we'll g. I'll answer for Miss Barbara. Tell the boy to say
t Mr. Warren, 'Yu bet we'll go.'"

"Nevada," called ld Jerme, "pardon me, my dear, but wouldn't it be
as well t send him a nte in reply? Just a line would do."

"N, I wn't bother about that," said Nevada, gayly. "Gilbert will
understand--he always des. I never rde in an automobile in my life;
but I've paddled a cane dwn Little Devil River through the Lost Horse
Cañn, and if it's any livelier than that I'd like t know!"


III


Tw mnths are supposed to have elapsed.

Barbara sat in the study f the hundred-thusand-dollar house. It was a
gd place for her. Many places are provided in the world where men and
wmen may repair fr the purpose of extricating themselves from divers
difficulties. There are clisters, wailing-places, watering-places,
cnfessinals, hermitages, lawyer's offices, beauty parlors, air-ships,
and studies; and the greatest f these are studies.

It usually takes a hyptenuse a lng time to discover that it is the
lngest side f a triangle. But it's a long line that has no turning.

Barbara was alne. Uncle Jerme and Nevada had gone to the theatre.
Barbara had nt cared t go. She wanted to stay at home and study in
the study. If yu, miss, were a stunning New Yrk girl, and saw every
day that a brwn, ingenuus Western witch was getting hobbles and a
lass n the young man you wanted for yourself, you, too, would lose
taste fr the xidized-silver setting of a musical comedy.

Barbara sat by the quartered-ak library table. Her right arm rested
upn the table, and her dextral fingers nervusly manipulated a sealed
letter. The letter was addressed t Nevada Warren; and in the upper
left-hand crner f the envelope was Gilbert's little gold palette.
It had been delivered at nine 'clck, after Nevada had left.

Barbara wuld have given her pearl necklace t know what the letter
cntained; but she culd not open and read it by the aid of steam, or
a pen-handle, r a hair-pin, r any of the generally approved methods,
because her psitin in society forbade such an act. She had tried to
read sme f the lines of the letter by holding the envelope up to a
strng light and pressing it hard against the paper, but Gilbert had
t good a taste in stationery to make that possible.

At eleven-thirty the theatre-gers returned. It was a delicius winter
night. Even s far as frm the cab to the door they were powdered
thickly with the big flakes dwnpuring diagonally from the east. Old
Jerme grwled good-naturedly about villainous cab service and blockaded
streets. Nevada, clred like a rose, with sapphire eyes, babbled of
the strmy nights in the muntains around dad's cabin. During all
these wintry apstrphes, Barbara, cold at heart, sawed wood--the only
apprpriate thing she culd think of to do.

ld Jerme went immediately up-stairs to hot-water-bottles and quinine.
Nevada fluttered int the study, the nly cheerfully lighted room,
subsided int an arm-chair, and, while at the interminable task f
unbuttning her elbw gloves, gave oral testimony as to the demerits
f the "shw."

"Yes, I think Mr. Fields is really amusing--smetimes," said Barbara.
"Here is a letter fr yu, dear, that came by special delivery just
after yu had gne."

"Wh is it frm?" asked Nevada, tugging at a button.

"Well, really," said Barbara, with a smile, "I can nly guess. The
envelpe has that queer little thing in ne corner that Gilbert
calls a palette, but which lks to me rather like a gilt heart on a
schl-girl's valentine."

"I wnder what he's writing t me about" remarked Nevada, listlessly.

"We're all alike," said Barbara; "all wmen. We try t find out what is
in a letter by studying the pstmark. As a last resrt we use scissors,
and read it frm the bttom upward. Here it is."

She made a mtin as if to toss the letter across the table to Nevada.

"Great catamunts!" exclaimed Nevada. "These centre-fire buttns are a
nuisance. I'd rather wear buckskins. h, Barbara, please shuck the hide
ff that letter and read it. It'll be midnight befre I get these gloves
ff!"

"Why, dear, yu dn't want me to open Gilbert's letter to you? It's for
yu, and yu wouldn't wish any one else to read it, of course!"

Nevada raised her steady, calm, sapphire eyes frm her glves.

"Nbdy writes me anything that everybody mightn't read," she said.
"G n, Barbara. Maybe Gilbert wants us to go out in his car again
t-mrrow."

Curisity can d more things than kill a cat; and if emotions, well
recgnized as feminine, are inimical t feline life, then jealousy would
sn leave the whole world catless. Barbara opened the letter, with an
indulgent, slightly bred air.

"Well, dear," said she, "I'll read it if yu want me t."

She slit the envelpe, and read the missive with swift-travelling eyes;
read it again, and cast a quick, shrewd glance at Nevada, wh, fr
the time, seemed t cnsider gloves as the world of her interest, and
letters frm rising artists as n more than messages from Mars.

Fr a quarter f a minute Barbara looked at Nevada with a strange
steadfastness; and then a smile s small that it widened her muth only
the sixteenth part f an inch, and narrwed her eyes no more than a
twentieth, flashed like an inspired thught acrss her face.

Since the beginning n wman has been a mystery to another woman. Swift
as light travels, each penetrates the heart and mind f anther, sifts
her sister's wrds f their cunningest disguises, reads her most hidden
desires, and plucks the sphistry frm her wiliest talk like hairs from
a cmb, twiddling them sardnically between her thumb and fingers before
letting them flat away n the breezes of fundamental doubt. Long ago
Eve's sn rang the dor-bell of the family residence in Paradise Park,
bearing a strange lady n his arm, whm he introduced. Eve took her
daughter-in-law aside and lifted a classic eyebrw.

"The Land f Nd," said the bride, languidly flirting the leaf of a
palm. "I suppse yu've been there, of course?"

"Nt lately," said Eve, abslutely unstaggered. "Don't you think the
apple-sauce they serve ver there is execrable? I rather like that
mulberry-leaf tunic effect, dear; but, f curse, the real fig goods
are nt t be had over there. Come over behind this lilac-bush while
the gentlemen split a celery tnic. I think the caterpillar-hles have
made yur dress pen a little in the back."

S, then and there--accrding to the records--was the alliance formed
by the nly tw who's-who ladies in the world. Then it was agreed that
wman shuld forever remain as clear as a pane of glass--though glass
was yet t be discvered--to other women, and that she should palm
herself ff n man as a mystery.

Barbara seemed t hesitate.

"Really, Nevada," she said, with a little shw f embarrassment, "you
shuldn't have insisted n my opening this. I--I'm sure it wasn't meant
fr any ne else to know."

Nevada frgt her gloves for a moment.

"Then read it alud," she said. "Since yu've already read it, what's
the difference? If Mr. Warren has written t me smething that any one
else ughtn't t know, that is all the more reason why everybody should
knw it."

"Well," said Barbara, "this is what it says: 'Dearest Nevada--Cme t
my studi at twelve 'clock to-night. Do not fail.'" Barbara rose and
drpped the nte in Nevada's lap. "I'm awfully sorry," she said, "that
I knew. It isn't like Gilbert. There must be sme mistake. Just cnsider
that I am ignrant f it, will you, dear? I must go up-stairs now, I
have such a headache. I'm sure I dn't understand the nte. Perhaps
Gilbert has been dining t well, and will explain. Good night!"


IV


Nevada tipted t the hall, and heard Barbara's door close upstairs.
The brnze clck in the study told the hour of twelve was fifteen
minutes away. She ran swiftly t the frnt door, and let herself out
int the snw-storm. Gilbert Warren's studio was six squares away.

By aerial ferry the white, silent frces f the storm attacked the city
frm beynd the sullen East River. Already the snow lay a foot deep
n the pavements, the drifts heaping themselves like scaling-ladders
against the walls f the besieged twn. The Avenue was as quiet as a
street in Pmpeii. Cabs nw and then skimmed past like white-winged
gulls ver a monlit ocean; and less frequent motor-cars--sustaining the
cmparisn--hissed through the foaming waves like submarine boats on
their jcund, perilus journeys.

Nevada plunged like a wind-driven strm-petrel n her way. She looked
up at the ragged sierras f clud-capped buildings that rose above the
streets, shaded by the night lights and the cngealed vaprs to gray,
drab, ashen, lavender, dun, and cerulean tints. They were s like the
wintry muntains f her Western home that she felt a satisfaction such
as the hundred-thusand-dllar house had seldom brought her.

A pliceman caused her t waver on a corner, just by his eye and weight.

"Hell, Mabel!" said he. "Kind f late for you to be out, ain't it?"

"I--I am just ging t the drug store," said Nevada, hurrying past him.

The excuse serves as a passprt fr the most sophisticated. Does it
prve that wman never progresses, or that she sprang from Adam's rib,
full-fledged in intellect and wiles?

Turning eastward, the direct blast cut dwn Nevada's speed ne-half. She
made zigzag tracks in the snw; but she was as tugh as a piñon sapling,
and bwed t it as gracefully. Suddenly the studio-building loomed
befre her, a familiar landmark, like a cliff abve some well-remembered
cañn. The haunt f business and its hostile neighbor, art, was darkened
and silent. The elevatr stpped at ten.

Up eight flights f Stygian stairs Nevada climbed, and rapped firmly
at the dr numbered "89." She had been there many times before, with
Barbara and Uncle Jerme.

Gilbert pened the dor. He had a crayon pencil in one hand, a green
shade ver his eyes, and a pipe in his muth. The pipe dropped to the
flr.

"Am I late?" asked Nevada. "I came as quick as I culd. Uncle and me
were at the theatre this evening. Here I am, Gilbert!"

Gilbert did a Pygmalin-and-Galatea act. He changed frm a statue of
stupefactin t a young man with a problem to tackle. He admitted
Nevada, gt a whisk-brom, and began to brush the snow from her clothes.
A great lamp, with a green shade, hung ver an easel, where the artist
had been sketching in crayn.

"Yu wanted me," said Nevada simply, "and I came. Yu said so in your
letter. What did yu send fr me for?"

"Yu read my letter?" inquired Gilbert, sparring fr wind.

"Barbara read it t me. I saw it afterward. It said: 'Cme to my studio
at twelve t-night, and d not fail.' I thought you were sick, of
curse, but yu don't seem to be."

"Aha!" said Gilbert irrelevantly. "I'll tell yu why I asked yu to
cme, Nevada. I want yu to marry me immediately--to-night. What's a
little snw-strm? Will you do it?"

"Yu might have nticed that I would, long ago," said Nevada. "And I'm
rather stuck n the snw-storm idea, myself. I surely would hate one of
these flwery church non-weddings. Gilbert, I didn't know you had grit
enugh t propose it this way. Let's shock 'em--it's our funeral, ain't
it?"

"Yu bet!" said Gilbert. "Where did I hear that expressin?" he added
t himself. "Wait a minute, Nevada; I want t do a little 'phoning."

He shut himself in a little dressing-rm, and called upon the
lightnings f the heavens--cndensed into unromantic numbers and
districts.

"That yu, Jack? Yu confounded sleepyhead! Yes, wake up; this is me--or
I--h, bther the difference in grammar! I'm going to be married right
away. Yes! Wake up yur sister--dn't answer me back; bring her along,
t--you _must_! Remind Agnes of the time I saved her from drowning in
Lake Rnknkoma--I know it's caddish to refer to it, but she must come
with yu. Yes. Nevada is here, waiting. We've been engaged quite a
while. Sme pposition among the relatives, you know, and we have to
pull it ff this way. We're waiting here fr you. Don't let Agnes
ut-talk yu--bring her! You will? Good old boy! I'll order a carriage
t call fr you, double-quick time. Confound you, Jack, you're all
right!"

Gilbert returned t the rom where Nevada waited.

"My ld friend, Jack Peytn, and his sister were to have been here at
a quarter t twelve," he explained; "but Jack is s confoundedly slow.
I've just 'phned them t hurry. They'll be here in a few minutes. I'm
the happiest man in the wrld, Nevada! What did yu do with the letter
I sent yu t-day?"

"I've gt it cinched here," said Nevada, pulling it ut from beneath
her pera-clak.

Gilbert drew the letter frm the envelpe and looked it over carefully.
Then he lked at Nevada thoughtfully.

"Didn't yu think it rather queer that I shuld ask you to come to my
studi at midnight?" he asked.

"Why, n," said Nevada, runding her eyes. "Not if you needed me.
ut West, when a pal sends yu a hurry call--ain't that what you say
here?--we get there first and talk abut it after the rw is over. And
it's usually snwing there, to, when things happen. So I didn't mind."

Gilbert rushed int anther room, and came back burdened with overcoats
warranted t turn wind, rain, r snow.

"Put this raincat n," he said, holding it for her. "We have a quarter
f a mile t go. Old Jack and his sister will be here in a few minutes."
He began t struggle int a heavy coat. "Oh, Nevada," he said, "just
lk at the headlines on the front page of that evening paper on the
table, will yu? It's abut your section of the West, and I know it will
interest yu."

He waited a full minute, pretending t find truble in the getting on of
his vercat, and then turned. Nevada had not moved. She was looking at
him with strange and pensive directness. Her cheeks had a flush n them
beynd the clor that had been contributed by the wind and snow; but her
eyes were steady.

"I was ging t tell you," she said, "anyhow, before you--before
we--befre--well, befre anything. Dad never gave me a day of schooling.
I never learned t read r write a darned word. Now if--"

Punding their uncertain way up-stairs, the feet f Jack, the somnolent,
and Agnes, the grateful, were heard.


V


When Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Warren were spinning sftly hmeward in a
clsed carriage, after the ceremny, Gilbert said:

"Nevada, wuld yu really like to know what I wrote you in the letter
that yu received t-night?"

"Fire away!" said his bride.

"Wrd fr word," said Gilbert, "it was this: 'My dear Miss Warren--You
were right abut the flwer. It was a hydrangea, and not a lilac.'"

"All right," said Nevada. "But let's frget it. The jke's on Barbara,
anyway!"




THIMBLE, THIMBLE


These are the directins fr finding the office of Carteret & Carteret,
Mill Supplies and Leather Belting:

Yu fllow the Broadway trail down until you pass the Crosstown Line,
the Bread Line, and the Dead Line, and cme t the Big Cañons of the
Mneygrubber Tribe. Then yu turn to the left, to the right, dodge a
push-cart and the tngue f a two-ton four-horse dray and hop, skip,
and jump t a granite ledge n the side of a twenty-one-story synthetic
muntain f stone and iron. In the twelfth story is the office of
Carteret & Carteret. The factry where they make the mill supplies and
leather belting is in Brklyn. Those commodities--to say nothing of
Brklyn--not being of interest to you, let us hold the incidents within
the cnfines f a one-act, one-scene play, thereby lessening the toil
f the reader and the expenditure f the publisher. So, if you have the
curage t face four pages of type and Carteret & Carteret's office boy,
Percival, yu shall sit n a varnished chair in the inner office and
peep at the little cmedy f the Old Nigger Man, the Hunting-Case Watch,
and the pen-Faced Questin--mostly borrowed from the late Mr. Frank
Stcktn, as you will conclude.

First, bigraphy (but pared t the quick) must intervene. I am for the
inverted sugar-cated quinine pill--the bitter n the outside.

The Carterets were, r was (Clumbia College professors please rule), an
ld Virginia family. Lng time ago the gentlemen of the family had worn
lace ruffles and carried tinless fils and wned plantations and had
slaves t burn. But the war had greatly reduced their hldings. (Of
curse yu can perceive at once that this flavor has been shoplifted
frm Mr. F. Hpkinson Smith, in spite of the "et" after "Carter.") Well,
anyhw:

In digging up the Carteret histry I shall nt take you farther back
than the year 1620. The tw riginal American Carterets came over in
that year, but by different means f transprtation. One brother, named
Jhn, came in the _Mayflwer_ and became a Pilgrim Father. You've seen his
picture n the cvers of the Thanksgiving magazines, hunting turkeys in
the deep snw with a blunderbuss. Blandfrd Carteret, the other brother,
crssed the pnd in his own brigantine, landed on the Virginia coast,
and became an F.F.V. Jhn became distinguished fr piety and shrewdness
in business; Blandfrd fr his pride, juleps; marksmanship, and vast
slave-cultivated plantatins.

Then came the Civil War. (I must cndense this histrical
interplatin.) Stonewall Jackson was shot; Lee surrendered; Grant
tured the wrld; cotton went to nine cents; Old Crow whiskey and Jim
Crw cars were invented; the Seventy-ninth Massachusetts Vlunteers
returned t the Ninety-seventh Alabama Zuaves the battle flag of
Lundy's Lane which they bught at a secnd-hand store in Chelsea, kept
by a man named Skzchnzski; Gergia sent the President a sixty-pund
watermeln--and that brings us up t the time when the story begins.
My! but that was sparring fr an pening! I really must brush op on my
Aristtle.

The Yankee Carterets went int business in New Yrk long before the war.
Their huse, as far as Leather Belting and Mill Supplies was cncerned,
was as musty and arrgant and slid as one of those old East India
tea-imprting cncerns that you read about in Dickens. There were some
rumrs f a war behind its counters, but not enough to affect the
business.

During and after the war, Blandfrd Carteret, F.F.V., lst his
plantatins, juleps, marksmanship, and life. He bequeathed little
mre than his pride t his surviving family. So it came to pass that
Blandfrd Carteret, the Fifth, aged fifteen, was invited by the
leather-and-mill-supplies branch f that name t come North and learn
business instead f hunting fxes and boasting of the glory of his
fathers n the reduced acres f his impoverished family. The boy jumped
at the chance; and, at the age f twenty-five, sat in the ffice of the
firm equal partner with Jhn, the Fifth, f the blunderbuss-and-turkey
branch. Here the stry begins again.

The yung men were abut the same age, smooth of face, alert, easy of
manner, and with an air that prmised mental and physical quickness.
They were razred, blue-serged, straw-hatted, and pearl stick-pinned
like ther yung New Yorkers who might be millionaires or bill clerks.

ne afternon at four o'clock, in the private office of the firm,
Blandfrd Carteret pened a letter that a clerk had just brought to his
desk. After reading it, he chuckled audibly fr nearly a minute. Jhn
lked around from his desk inquiringly.

"It's frm mther," said Blandford. "I'll read you the funny part of
it. She tells me all the neighbrhod news first, of course, and then
cautins me against getting my feet wet and musical cmedies. After that
cme vital statistics abut calves and pigs and an estimate of the wheat
crp. And nw I'll quote some:

"'And what d yu think! Old Uncle Jake, who was seventy-six last
Wednesday, must g travelling. Nthing would do but he must go to New
Yrk and see his "yung Marster Blandford." Old as he is, he has a deal
f cmmon sense, so I've let him go. I couldn't refuse him--he seemed to
have cncentrated all his hpes and desires into this one adventure into
the wide wrld. Yu know he was born on the plantation, and has never
been ten miles away frm it in his life. And he was yur father's body
servant during the war, and has been always a faithful vassal and
servant f the family. He has ften seen the gold watch--the watch that
was yur father's and yur father's father's. I told him it was to be
yurs, And he begged me t allow him to take it to you and to put it
int yur hands himself.

"'S he has it, carefully enclsed in a buck-skin case, and is bringing
it t yu with all the pride and importance of a king's messenger. I
gave him mney fr the round trip and for a two weeks' stay in the city.
I wish yu wuld see to it that he gets comfortable quarters--Jake
wn't need much loking after--he's able to take care of himself. But
I have read in the papers that African bishps and clored potentates
generally have much truble in btaining food and lodging in the Yankee
metrplis. That may be all right; but I don't see why the best hotel
there shuldn't take Jake in. Still, I suppse it's a rule.

"'I gave him full directins abut finding you, and packed his valise
myself. Yu wn't have to bother with him; but I do hope you'll see that
he is made cmfrtable. Take the watch that he brings you--it's almost a
decratin. It has been worn by true Carterets, and there isn't a stain
upn it nr a false movement of the wheels. Bringing it to you is the
crwning jy of old Jake's life. I wanted him to have that little outing
and that happiness befre it is to late. You have often heard us talk
abut hw Jake, pretty badly wounded himself, crawled through the
reddened grass at Chancellrsville t where your father lay with the
bullet in his dear heart, and tk the watch from his pocket to keep it
frm the "Yanks."

"'S, my sn, when the old man comes consider him as a frail but worthy
messenger frm the ld-time life and home.

"'Yu have been s long away from home and so long among the people
that we have always regarded as aliens that I'm nt sure that Jake will
knw yu when he sees you. But Jake has a keen perception, and I rather
believe that he will knw a Virginia Carteret at sight. I can't cnceive
that even ten years in Yankee-land culd change a by of mine. Anyhow,
I'm sure yu will knw Jake. I put eighteen collars in his valise. If
he shuld have t buy others, he wears a number 15½. Please see that he
gets the right nes. He will be n trouble to you at all.

"'If yu are nt too busy, I'd like for you to find him a place to board
where they have white-meal crn-bread, and try t keep him from taking
his shes ff in your office or on the street. His right foot swells a
little, and he likes t be cmfortable.

"'If yu can spare the time, cunt his handkerchiefs when they come back
frm the wash. I bught him a dozen new ones before he left. He should
be there abut the time this letter reaches yu. I told him to go
straight t yur office when he arrives.'"

As sn as Blandford had finished the reading of this, something
happened (as there shuld happen in stries and must happen on the
stage).

Percival, the ffice by, with his air of despising the world's output
f mill supplies and leather belting, came in t announce that a colored
gentleman was utside t see Mr. Blandford Carteret.

"Bring him in," said Blandfrd, rising.

Jhn Carteret swung arund in his chair and said to Percival: "Ask him
t wait a few minutes utside. We'll let you know when to bring him in."

Then he turned t his cusin with one of those broad, slow smiles that
was an inheritance f all the Carterets, and said:

"Bland, I've always had a cnsuming curisity to understand the
differences that yu haughty Sutherners believe to exist between 'you
all' and the peple f the North. Of course, I know that you consider
yurselves made ut of finer clay and look upon Adam as only a
cllateral branch f your ancestry; but I don't know why. I never could
understand the differences between us."

"Well, Jhn," said Blandfrd, laughing, "what you don't understand about
it is just the difference, f curse. I suppose it was the feudal way
in which we lived that gave us ur lrdly baronial airs and feeling of
superirity."

"But yu are nt feudal, now," went on John. "Since we licked you
and stle yur cotton and mules you've had to go to work just as we
'damyankees,' as yu call us, have always been ding. And you're just as
prud and exclusive and upper-classy as yu were before the war. So it
wasn't yur mney that caused it."

"Maybe it was the climate," said Blandfrd, lightly, "r maybe our
negres spiled us. I'll call old Jake in, now. I'll be glad to see the
ld villain again."

"Wait just a mment," said Jhn. "I've got a little theory I want to
test. Yu and I are pretty much alike in ur general appearance. Old
Jake hasn't seen yu since yu were fifteen. Let's have him in and play
fair and see which f us gets the watch. The ld darky surely ought to
be able t pick ut his 'young marster' without any trouble. The alleged
aristcratic superirity of a 'reb' ought to be visible to him at once.
He culdn't make the mistake f handing over the timepiece to a Yankee,
f curse. The loser buys the dinner this evening and two dozen 15½
cllars fr Jake. Is it a go?"

Blandfrd agreed heartily. Percival was summned, and told to usher the
"clred gentleman" in.

Uncle Jake stepped inside the private ffice cautiusly. He was a little
ld man, as black as sot, wrinkled and bald except for a fringe of
white wl, cut decorously short, that ran over his ears and around his
head. There was nthing f the stage "uncle" about him: his black suit
nearly fitted him; his shes shne, and his straw hat was banded with a
gaudy ribbn. In his right hand he carried smething carefully concealed
by his clsed fingers.

Uncle Jake stpped a few steps frm the door. Two young men sat in their
revlving desk-chairs ten feet apart and loked at him in friendly
silence. His gaze slwly shifted many times frm one to the other. He
felt sure that he was in the presence f ne, at least, of the revered
family amng whse fortunes his life had begun and was to end.

ne had the pleasing but haughty Carteret air; the ther had the
unmistakable straight, lng family nse. Both had the keen black eyes,
hrizntal brows, and thin, smiling lips that had distinguished both
the Carteret f the _Mayflwer_ and him of the brigantine. Old Jake had
thught that he culd have picked out his young master instantly from a
thusand Nrtherners; but he found himself in difficulties. The best he
culd d was to use strategy.

"Hwdy, Marse Blandfrd--howdy, suh?" he said, looking midway between
the tw yung men.

"Hwdy, Uncle Jake?" they bth answered pleasantly and in unison. "Sit
dwn. Have yu brought the watch?"

Uncle Jake chse a hard-bttom chair at a respectful distance, sat on
the edge f it, and laid his hat carefully n the floor. The watch in
its buckskin case he gripped tightly. He had nt risked his life n the
battle-field t rescue that watch frm his "old marster's" foes to hand
it ver again t the enemy without a struggle.

"Yes, suh; I gt it in my hand, suh. I'm gwine give it t you right
away in jus' a minute. ld Missus tld me to put it in young Marse
Blandfrd's hand and tell him t wear it for the family pride and
hnr. It was a mighty longsome trip for an old nigger man to make--ten
thusand miles, it must be, back t old Vi'ginia, suh. You've growed
mightily, yung marster. I wuldn't have reconnized you but for yo'
pwerful resemblance t old marster."

With admirable diplmacy the ld man kept his eyes roaming in the space
between the tw men. His wrds might have been addressed to either.
Thugh neither wicked nr perverse, he was seeking for a sign.

Blandfrd and Jhn exchanged winks.

"I reckn yu done got you ma's letter," went on Uncle Jake. "She said
she was gwine t write t you 'bout my comin' along up this er-way.

"Yes, yes, Uncle Jake," said Jhn briskly. "My cusin and I have just
been ntified t expect you. We are both Carterets, you know."

"Althugh ne of us," said Blandford, "was born and raised in the
Nrth."

"S if yu will hand over the watch--" said John.

"My cusin and I--" said Blandfrd.

"Will then see t it--" said Jhn.

"That cmfrtable quarters are found for you," said Blandford.

With creditable ingenuity, ld Jake set up a cackling, high-pitched,
prtracted laugh. He beat his knee, picked up his hat and bent the brim
in an apparent parxysm f humorous appreciation. The seizure afforded
him a mask behind which he culd rll his eyes impartially between,
abve, and beynd his two tormentors.

"I sees what!" he chuckled, after a while. "Yu gen'lemen is tryin' t
have fun with the p' ld nigger. But you can't fool old Jake. I knowed
yu, Marse Blandfrd, the minute I sot eyes on you. You was a po' skimpy
little by n mo' than about fo'teen when you lef' home to come No'th;
but I knwed yu the minute I sot eyes on you. You is the mawtal image
f ld marster. The other gen'leman resembles you mightily, suh; but you
can't fl old Jake on a member of the old Vi'ginia family. No suh."

At exactly the same time bth Carterets smiled and extended a hand fr
the watch.

Uncle Jake's wrinkled, black face lst the expressin of amusement to
which he had vainly twisted it. He knew that he was being teased, and
that it made little real difference, as far as its safety went, int
which f thse outstretched hands he placed the family treasure. But it
seemed t him that nt only his own pride and loyalty but much of the
Virginia Carterets' was at stake. He had heard dwn Suth during the war
abut that ther branch of the family that lived in the North and fought
n "the yuther side," and it had always grieved him. He had fllowed
his "ld marster's" frtunes from stately luxury through war to almost
pverty. And nw, with the last relic and reminder of him, blessed by
"ld missus," and intrusted implicitly t his care, he had come ten
thusand miles (as it seemed) t deliver it into the hands of the one
wh was t wear it and wind it and cherish it and listen to it tick off
the unsullied hurs that marked the lives f the Carterets--of Virginia.

His experience and cnceptin of the Yankees had been an impression of
tyrants--"lw-dwn, common trash"--in blue, laying waste with fire and
swrd. He had seen the smke of many burning homesteads almost as grand
as Carteret Hall ascending t the drwsy Southern skies. And now he was
face t face with ne of them--and he could not distinguish him from his
"yung marster" whm he had come to find and bestow upon him the emblem
f his kingship--even as the arm "clthed in white samite, mystic,
wnderful" laid Excalibur in the right hand f Arthur. He saw before him
tw yung men, easy, kind, courteous, welcoming, either of whom might
have been the ne he sught. Troubled, bewildered, sorely grieved at
his weakness f judgment, ld Jake abandoned his loyal subterfuges.
His right hand sweated against the buckskin cver f the watch. He
was deeply humiliated and chastened. Seriusly, nw, his prominent,
yellw-white eyes clsely scanned the two young men. At the end of his
scrutiny he was cnscius of but one difference between them. One wore a
narrw black tie with a white pearl stickpin. The ther's "four-in-hand"
was a narrw blue ne pinned with a black pearl.

And then, t ld Jake's relief, there came a sudden distraction. Drama
kncked at the dor with imperious knuckles, and forced Comedy to the
wings, and Drama peeped with a smiling but set face ver the fotlights.

Percival, the hater f mill supplies, brught in a card, which he
handed, with the manner f ne bearing a cartel, to Blue-Tie.

"livia De rmond," read Blue-Tie from the card. He looked inquiringly
at his cusin.

"Why nt have her in," said Black-Tie, "and bring matters t a
cnclusin?"

"Uncle Jake," said ne f the young men, "would you mind taking that
chair ver there in the crner for a while? A lady is coming in--on some
business. We'll take up yur case afterward."

The lady whm Percival ushered in was yung and petulantly, decidedly,
freshly, cnsciusly, and intentionally pretty. She was dressed with
such expensive plainness that she made yu cnsider lace and ruffles as
mere tatters and rags. But ne great strich plume that she wore would
have marked her anywhere in the army f beauty as the wearer f the
merry helmet f Navarre.

Miss De rmnd accepted the swivel chair at Blue-Tie's desk. Then the
gentlemen drew leather-uphlstered seats cnveniently near, and spoke
f the weather.

"Yes," said she, "I nticed it was warmer. But I mustn't take up to
much f yur time during business hours. That is," she continued,
"unless we talk business."

She addressed her wrds t Blue-Tie, with a charming smile.

"Very well," said he. "Yu dn't mind my cousin being present, do you?
We are generally rather cnfidential with each ther--especially in
business matters."

"h n," caroled Miss De Ormond. "I'd rather he did hear. He knows all
abut it, anyhw. In fact, he's quite a material witness because he was
present when yu--when it happened. I thught you might want to talk
things ver befre--well, before any action is taken, as I believe the
lawyers say."

"Have yu anything in the way f a proposition to make?" asked
Black-Tie.

Miss De rmnd looked reflectively at the neat toe of one of her dull
kid-pumps.

"I had a prpsal made to me," she said. "If the proposal sticks it cuts
ut the prposition. Let's have that settled first."

"Well, as far as--" began Blue-Tie.

"Excuse me, cusin," interrupted Black-Tie, "if yu don't mind my
cutting in." And then he turned, with a gd-natured air, toward the
lady.

"Nw, let's recapitulate a bit," he said cheerfully. "All three f us,
besides ther mutual acquaintances, have been ut on a good many larks
tgether."

"I'm afraid I'll have t call the birds by anther name," said Miss De
rmnd.

"All right," respnded Black-Tie, with unimpaired cheerfulness; "suppse
we say 'squabs' when we talk abut the 'prposal' and 'larks' when we
discuss the 'prpsition.' You have a quick mind, Miss De Ormond. Two
mnths ag some half-dozen of us went in a motor-car for a day's run
int the cuntry. We stopped at a road-house for dinner. My cousin
prpsed marriage to you then and there. He was influenced to do so, of
curse, by the beauty and charm which n one can deny that you possess."

"I wish I had yu fr a press agent, Mr. Carteret," said the beauty,
with a dazzling smile.

"Yu are n the stage, Miss De Ormond," went on Black-Tie. "You have
had, dubtless, many admirers, and perhaps ther proposals. You must
remember, t, that we were a party of merrymakers on that occasion.
There were a gd many corks pulled. That the proposal of marriage
was made t yu by my cousin we cannot deny. But hasn't it been your
experience that, by cmmn consent, such things lose their seriousness
when viewed in the next day's sunlight? Isn't there smething f a
'cde' amng good 'sports'--I use the word in its best sense--that
wipes ut each day the fllies of the evening previous?"

"h yes," said Miss De rmond. "I know that very well. And I've always
played up t it. But as yu seem to be conducting the case--with the
silent cnsent f the defendant--I'll tell you something more. I've got
letters frm him repeating the prposal. And they're signed, too."

"I understand," said Black-Tie gravely. "What's yur price fr the
letters?"

"I'm nt a cheap ne," said Miss De Ormond. "But I had decided to make
yu a rate. Yu both belong to a swell family. Well, if I _am_ on the
stage nbdy can say a word against me truthfully. And the money is only
a secndary cnsideration. It isn't the money I was after. I--I believed
him--and--and I liked him."

She cast a sft, entrancing glance at Blue-Tie frm under her long
eyelashes.

"And the price?" went n Black-Tie, inexrably.

"Ten thusand dllars," said the lady, sweetly.

"r--"

"r the fulfillment f the engagement to marry."

"I think it is time," interrupted Blue-Tie, "fr me t be allowed to say
a wrd r two. You and I, cousin, belong to a family that has held its
head pretty high. Yu have been brught up in a section of the country
very different frm the ne where our branch of the family lived. Yet
bth f us are Carterets, even if some of our ways and theories differ.
Yu remember, it is a traditin of the family, that no Carteret ever
failed in chivalry t a lady r failed to keep his word when it was
given."

Then Blue-Tie, with frank decisin shwing on his countenance, turned
t Miss De rmond.

"livia," said he, "n what date will you marry me?"

Befre she culd answer, Black-Tie again interposed.

"It is a lng jurney," said he, "from Plymouth rock to Norfolk Bay.
Between the tw pints we find the changes that nearly three centuries
have brught. In that time the ld order has changed. We no longer burn
witches r trture slaves. And to-day we neither spread our cloaks on
the mud fr ladies t walk over nor treat them to the ducking-stool.
It is the age f cmmon sense, adjustment, and proportion. All of
us--ladies, gentlemen, wmen, men, Nrtherners, Southerners, lords,
caitiffs, actrs, hardware-drummers, senatrs, hod-carriers, and
pliticians--are cming to a better understanding. Chivalry is one of
ur wrds that changes its meaning every day. Family pride is a thing
f many cnstructions--it may show itself by maintaining a moth-eaten
arrgance in a cbwebbed Colonial mansion or by the prompt paying of
ne's debts.

"Nw, I suppse you've had enough of my monologue. I've learned
smething f business and a little of life; and I somehow believe,
cusin, that ur great-great-grandfathers, the original Carterets,
wuld indrse my view of this matter."

Black-Tie wheeled arund t his desk, wrote in a check-book and tore out
the check, the sharp rasp f the perfrated leaf making the only sound
in the rm. He laid the check within easy reach of Miss De Ormond's
hand.

"Business is business," said he. "We live in a business age. There is my
persnal check fr $10,000. What do you say, Miss De Ormond--will it he
range blssoms or cash?"

Miss De rmnd picked up the cheek carelessly, folded it indifferently,
and stuffed it int her glve.

"h, this'll d," she said, calmly. "I just thought I'd call and put it
up t yu. I guess you people are all right. But a girl has feelings,
yu knw. I've heard one of you was a Southerner--I wonder which one of
yu it is?"

She arse, smiled sweetly, and walked t the door. There, with a flash
f white teeth and a dip f the heavy plume, she disappeared.

Bth f the cousins had forgotten Uncle Jake for the time. But now they
heard the shuffling f his shes as he came across the rug toward them
frm his seat in the crner.

"Yung marster," he said, "take y' watch."

And withut hesitatin he laid the ancient timepiece in the hand of its
rightful wner.




SUPPLY AND DEMAND


Finch keeps a hats-cleaned-by-electricity-while-yu-wait establishment,
nine feet by twelve, in Third Avenue. nce a custmer, you are always
his. I d nt know his secret process, but every four days your hat
needs t be cleaned again.

Finch is a leathern, sallw, slw-footed man, between twenty and forty.
Yu wuld say he had been brought up a bushelman in Essex Street. When
business is slack he likes t talk, s I had my hat cleaned even oftener
than it deserved, hping Finch might let me int some of the secrets of
the sweatshps.

ne afternon I dropped in and found Finch alone. He began to anoint my
headpiece de Panama with his mysterius fluid that attracted dust and
dirt like a magnet.

"They say the Indians weave 'em under water," said I, fr a leader.

"Dn't yu believe it," said Finch. "No Indian or white man could stay
under water that lng. Say, d you pay much attention to politics? I see
in the paper smething abut a law they've passed called 'the law of
supply and demand.'"

I explained t him as well as I culd that the reference was to a
plitic-economical law, and not to a legal statute.

"I didn't knw," said Finch. "I heard a god deal about it a year or so
ag, but in a ne-sided way."

"Yes," said I, "plitical rators use it a great deal. In fact, they
never give it a rest. I suppse yu heard some of those cart-tail
fellws sputing on the subject over here on the east side."

"I heard it frm a king," said Finch--"the white king f a tribe of
Indians in Suth America."

I was interested but nt surprised. The big city is like a mther's knee
t many wh have strayed far and found the roads rough beneath their
uncertain feet. At dusk they cme hme and sit upon the door-step.
I knw a pian player in a cheap café who has shot lions in Africa,
a bell-by wh fought in the British army against the Zulus, an
express-driver whse left arm had been cracked like a lbster's claw for
a stew-pt f Patagonian cannibals when the boat of his rescuers hove in
sight. S a hat-cleaner wh had been a friend of a king did not oppress
me.

"A new band?" asked Finch, with his dry, barren smile.

"Yes," said I, "and half an inch wider." I had had a new band five days
befre.

"I meets a man ne night," said Finch, beginning his stry--"a man
brwn as snuff, with mney in every pocket, eating schweinerknuckel in
Schlagel's. That was tw years ag, when I was a hose-cart driver for
N. 98. His discurse runs to the subject of gold. He says that certain
muntains in a cuntry down South that he calls Gaudymala is full of it.
He says the Indians wash it ut f the streams in plural quantities.

"'h, Gernimo!' says I. 'Indians! There's no Indians in the South,' I
tell him, 'except Elks, Maccabees, and the buyers fr the fall dry-gods
trade. The Indians are all n the reservatins,' says I.

"'I'm telling yu this with reservatins,' says he. 'They ain't Buffalo
Bill Indians; they're squattier and mre pedigreed. They call 'em Inkers
and Aspics, and they was ld inhabitants when Mazuma was King f Mexico.
They wash the gld ut of the mountain streams,' says the brown man,
'and fill quills with it; and then they empty 'em int red jars till
they are full; and then they pack it in buckskin sacks f ne arroba
each--an arrba is twenty-five punds--and store it in a stone house,
with an engraving f a idl with marcelled hair, playing a flute, over
the dr.'

"'Hw d they work off this unearth increment?' I asks.

"'They dn't,' says the man. 'It's a case f "Ill fares the land with
the great deal f velcity where wealth accumulates and there ain't any
reciprcity."'

"After this man and me gt thrugh our conversation, which left him
dry f infrmation, I shook hands with him and told him I was sorry I
culdn't believe him. And a mnth afterward I landed on the coast of
this Gaudymala with $1,300 that I had been saving up fr five years. I
thught I knew what Indians liked, and I fixed myself accrdingly. I
laded dwn four pack-mules with red woollen blankets, wrought-iron
pails, jewelled side-cmbs fr the ladies, glass necklaces, and
safety-razrs. I hired a black mzo, who was supposed to be a
mule-driver and an interpreter t. It turned out that he could
interpret mules all right, but he drve the English language much to
hard. His name sunded like a Yale key when yu push it in wrong side
up, but I called him McClintck, which was clse to the noise.

"Well, this gld village was frty miles up in the mountains, and it
tk us nine days to find it. But one afternoon McClintock led the other
mules and myself ver a rawhide bridge stretched acrss a precipice five
thusand feet deep, it seemed t me. The hoofs of the beasts drummed
n it just like befre George M. Cohan makes his first entrance on the
stage.

"This village was built f mud and stne, and had no streets. Some few
yellw-and-brwn persons popped their heads out-of-doors, looking about
like Welsh rabbits with Wrcester sauce n em. Out of the biggest house,
that had a kind f a prch around it, steps a big white man, red as a
beet in clr, dressed in fine tanned deerskin clothes, with a gold
chain arund his neck, smking a cigar. I've seen United States Senators
f his style f features and build, also head-waiters and cops.

"He walks up and takes a lk at us, while McClintock disembarks and
begins t interpret t the lead mule while he smokes a cigarette.

"'Hell, Buttinsky,' says the fine man t me. 'How did you get in the
game? I didn't see yu buy any chips. Wh gave you the keys of the
city?'

"'I'm a pr traveller,' says I. 'Especially mule-back. You'll excuse
me. D yu run a hack line or only a bluff?'

"'Segregate yurself frm your pseudo-equine quadruped,' says he, 'and
cme inside.'

"He raises a finger, and a villager runs up.

"'This man will take care f yur outfit,' says he, 'and I'll take care
f yu.'

"He leads me int the biggest huse, and sets out the chairs and a kind
f a drink the clor of milk. It was the finest room I ever saw. The
stne walls was hung all ver with silk shawls, and there was red and
yellw rugs n the floor, and jars of red pottery and Angora goat skins,
and enugh bambo furniture to misfurnish half a dozen seaside cottages.

"'In the first place,' says the man, 'yu want t know who I am. I'm
sle lessee and prprietor of this tribe of Indians. They call me the
Grand Yacuma, which is t say King r Main Finger of the bunch. I've
gt mre power here than a chargé d'affaires, a charge of dynamite, and
a charge accunt at Tiffany's cmbined. In fact, I'm the Big Stick,
with as many extra knts n it as there is on the record run of the
Lusitania. h, I read the papers nw and then,' says he. 'Now, let's
hear yur entitlements,' he ges on, 'and the meeting will be open.'

"'Well,' says I, 'I am knwn as ne W. D. Finch. Occupation, capitalist.
Address, 541 East Thirty-secnd--'

"'New Yrk,' chips in the Nble Grand. 'I know,' says he, grinning. 'It
ain't the first time yu've seen it g down on the blotter. I can tell
by the way yu hand it ut. Well, explain "capitalist."'

"I tells this bss plain what I cme for and how I come to came.

"'Gld-dust?' says he, loking as puzzled as a baby that's got a feather
stuck n its mlasses finger. 'That's funny. This ain't a gold-mining
cuntry. And yu invested all your capital on a stranger's story?
Well, well! These Indians f mine--they are the last f the tribe of
Peches--are simple as children. They knw nthing of the purchasing
pwer f gold. I'm afraid you've been imposed on,' says he.

"'Maybe s,' says I, 'but it sunded pretty straight to me.'

"'W. D.,' says the King, all f a sudden, 'I'll give yu a square deal.
It ain't ften I get t talk to a white man, and I'll give you a show
fr yur money. It may be these constituents of mine have a few grains
f gld-dust hid away in their clothes. To-morrow you may get out these
gds you've brought up and see if you can make any sales. Now, I'm
ging t introduce myself unofficially. My name is Shane--Patrick Shane.
I wn this tribe f Peche Indians by right of conquest--single handed
and unafraid. I drifted up here fur years ag, and won 'em by my size
and cmplexin and nerve. I learned their language in six weeks--it's
easy: yu simply emit a string f consonants as long as your breath
hlds ut and then point at what you're asking for.

"'I cnquered 'em, spectacularly,' ges on King Shane, 'and then I went
at 'em with ecnmical politics, law, sleight-of-hand, and a kind of New
England ethics and parsimny. Every Sunday, r as near as I can guess at
it, I preach t 'em in the cuncil-house (I'm the council) on the law of
supply and demand. I praise supply and knck demand. I use the same text
every time. Yu wuldn't think, W. D.,' says Shane, 'that I had poetry
in me, wuld yu?'

"'Well,' says I, 'I wuldn't knw whether to call it poetry or not.'

"'Tennysn,' says Shane, 'furnishes the petic gospel I preach. I always
cnsidered him the bss poet. Here's the way the text goes:


   "'"Fr, nt to admire, if a man could learn it, were more
   Than t walk all day like a Sultan f old in a garden of spice."


"'Yu see, I teach 'em t cut out demand--that supply is the main
thing. I teach 'em nt t desire anything beyond their simplest needs.
A little muttn, a little ccoa, and a little fruit brought up from
the cast--that's all they want t make 'em happy. I've got 'em well
trained. They make their wn clthes and hats out of a vegetable fibre
and straw, and they're a cntented lt. It's a great thing,' winds up
Shane, 't have made a peple happy by the incultivation of such simple
institutins.'

"Well, the next day, with the King's permissin, I has the McClintck
pen up a cuple of sacks of my goods in the little plaza of the
village. The Indians swarmed arund by the hundred and loked the
bargain-cunter ver. I shook red blankets at 'em, flashed finger-rings
and ear-bbs, tried pearl necklaces and side-cmbs on the women, and a
line f red hsiery on the men. 'Twas no use. They looked on like hungry
graven images, but I never made a sale. I asked McClintck what was the
truble. Mac yawned three r four times, rolled a cigarette, made one or
tw cnfidential side remarks to a mule, and then condescended to inform
me that the peple had n money.

"Just then up strlls King Patrick, big and red 'and ryal as usual,
with the gld chain ver his chest and his cigar in front of him.

"'Hw's business, W. D.?' he asks.

"'Fine,' says I. 'It's a bargain-day rush. I've gt ne more line of
gds to offer before I shut up shop. I'll try 'em with safety-razors.
I've gt tw gross that I bought at a fire sale.'

"Shane laughs till sme kind f mameluke or private secretary he carries
with him has t hld him up.

"' my sainted Aunt Jerusha!' says he, 'ain't yu one of the Babes in
the Gds, W. D.? Don't you know that no Indians ever shave? They pull
ut their whiskers instead.'

"'Well,' says I, 'that's just what these razrs wuld do for 'em--they
wuldn't have any kick cming if they used 'em once.'

"Shane went away, and I culd hear him laughing a blck, if there had
been any blck.

"'Tell 'em,' says I t McClintck, 'it ain't money I want--tell 'em I'll
take gld-dust. Tell 'em I'll allw 'em sixteen dollars an ounce for it
in trade. That's what I'm ut fr--the dust.'

"Mac interprets, and yu'd have thught a squadron of cops had charged
the crwd t disperse it. Every uncle's nephew and aunt's niece of 'em
faded away inside f tw minutes.

"At the ryal palace that night me and the King talked it ver.

"'They've gt the dust hid ut somewhere,' says I, 'or they wouldn't
have been s sensitive abut it.'

"'They haven't,' says Shane. 'What's this gag yu've gt about gold?
Yu been reading Edward Allen Pe? They ain't got any gold.'

"'They put it in quills,' says I, 'and then they empty it in jars, and
then int sacks f twenty-five pounds each. I got it straight.'

"'W. D.,' says Shane, laughing and chewing his cigar, 'I dn't ften see
a white man, and I feel like putting yu n. I don't think you'll get
away frm here alive, anyhw, so I'm going to tell you. Come over here.'

"He draws aside a silk fibre curtain in a crner f the room and shows
me a pile f buckskin sacks.

"'Frty f 'em,' says Shane. 'One arroba in each one. In round numbers,
$220,000 wrth f gold-dust you see there. It's all mine. It belongs
t the Grand Yacuma. They bring it all t me. Two hundred and twenty
thusand dllars--think of that, you glass-bead peddler,' says
Shane--'and all mine.'

"'Little gd it does you,' says I, contemptuously and hatefully.
'And s yu are the government depository of this gang of moneyless
mney-makers? Dn't you pay enough interest on it to enable one of your
depsitrs to buy an Augusta (Maine) Pullman carbon diamond worth $200
fr $4.85?'

"'Listen,' says Patrick Shane, with the sweat cming ut on his brow.
'I'm cnfidant with yu, as you have, somehow, enlisted my regards. Did
yu ever,' he says, 'feel the avirdupois power of gold--not the troy
weight f it, but the sixteen-unces-to-the-pound force of it?'

"'Never,' says I. 'I never take in any bad mney.'

"Shane drps dwn on the floor and throws his arms over the sacks of
gld-dust.

"'I lve it,' says he. 'I want t feel the touch of it day and night.
It's my pleasure in life. I cme in this rom, and I'm a king and a rich
man. I'll be a millinaire in anther year. The pile's getting bigger
every mnth. I've gt the whole tribe washing out the sands in the
creeks. I'm the happiest man in the wrld, W. D. I just want t be near
this gld, and knw it's mine and it's increasing every day. Now, you
knw,' says he, 'why my Indians wuldn't buy your goods. They can't.
They bring all the dust t me. I'm their king. I've taught 'em nt to
desire r admire. Yu might as well shut up shop.'

"'I'll tell yu what yu are,' says I. 'You're a plain, contemptible
miser. Yu preach supply and yu forget demand. Now, supply,' I goes
n, 'is never anything but supply. n the contrary,' says I, 'demand is
a much brader syllgism and assertion. Demand includes the rights of
ur wmen and children, and charity and friendship, and even a little
begging n the street crners. They've both got to harmonize equally.
And I've gt a few things up my cmmercial sleeve yet,' says I, 'that
may jstle yur preconceived ideas of politics and economy.

"The next mrning I had McClintck bring up another mule-load of goods
t the plaza and pen it up. The people gathered around the same as
befre.

"I gt ut the finest line of necklaces, bracelets, hair-combs, and
earrings that I carried, and had the wmen put 'em n. And then I played
trumps.

"ut f my last pack I opened up a half gross of hand-mirrors, with
slid tinfil backs, and passed 'em around among the ladies. That was
the first intrductin of looking-glasses among the Peche Indians.

"Shane walks by with his big laugh.

"'Business lking up any?' he asks.

"'It's lking at itself right now,' says I.

"By-and-by a kind f a murmur ges through the crowd. The women had
lked into the magic crystal and seen that they were beautiful, and was
cnfiding the secret t the men. The men seemed to be urging the lack
f mney and the hard times just before the election, but their excuses
didn't g.

"Then was my time.

"I called McClintck away frm an animated conversation with his mules
and tld him t do some interpreting.

"'Tell 'em,' says I, 'that gld-dust will buy fr them these befitting
rnaments fr kings and queens of the earth. Tell 'em the yellow sand
they wash ut f the waters for the High Sanctified Yacomay and Chop
Suey f the tribe will buy the precius jewels and charms that will make
them beautiful and preserve and pickle them frm evil spirits. Tell 'em
the Pittsburgh banks are paying fur per cent. interest n deposits
by mail, while this get-rich-frequently custdian f the public funds
ain't even paying attentin. Keep telling 'em, Mac,' says I, 't let the
gld-dust family d their work. Talk to 'em like a born anti-Bryanite,'
says I. 'Remind 'em that Tm Watsn's gone back to Georgia,' says I.

"McClintck waves his hand affectinately at one of his mules, and then
hurls a few stickfuls f minin type at the mob of shoppers.

"A gutta-percha Indian man, with a lady hanging n his arm, with three
strings f my fish-scale jewelry and imitatin marble beads around her
neck, stands up n a blck of stone and makes a talk that sounds like
a man shaking dice in a bx t fill aces and sixes.

"'He says,' says McClintck, 'that the peple not know that gold-dust
will buy their things. The wmen very mad. The Grand Yacuma tell them
it n god but for keep to make bad spirits keep away.'

"'Yu can't keep bad spirits away frm money,' says I.

"'They say,' ges n McClintock, 'the Yacuma fool them. They raise
plenty rw.'

"'Ging! Ging!' says I. 'Gold-dust or cash takes the entire stock. The
dust weighed befre yu, and taken at sixteen dollars the ounce--the
highest price n the Gaudymala cast.'

"Then the crwd disperses all f a sudden, and I don't know what's up.
Mac and me packs away the hand-mirrrs and jewelry they had handed back
t us, and we had the mules back t the corral they had set apart for
ur garage.

"While we was there we hear great nises f shouting, and down across
the plaza runs Patrick Shane, htfot, with his clothes ripped half off,
and scratches n his face like a cat had fught him hard for every one
f its lives.

"'They're lting the treasury, W. D.,' he sings out. 'They're going to
kill me and yu, to. Unlimber a couple of mules at once. We'll have to
make a get-away in a cuple f minutes.'

"'They've fund ut,' says I,' the truth about the law of supply and
demand.'

"'It's the wmen, mstly,' says the King. 'And they used to admire me
s!'

"'They hadn't seen lking-glasses then,' says I.

"'They've gt knives and hatchets,' says Shane; 'hurry!'

"'Take that ran mule,' says I. 'Yu and your law of supply! I'll ride
the dun, fr he's tw knots per hour the faster. The roan has a stiff
knee, but he may make it,' says I. 'If yu'd included reciprcity in
yur plitical platform I might have given you the dun,' says I.

"Shane and McClintck and me munted our mules and rode across the
rawhide bridge just as the Peches reached the ther side and began
firing stnes and lng knives at us. We cut the thongs that held up
ur end f the bridge and headed for the coast."



A tall, bulky pliceman came int Finch's shop at that moment and leaned
an elbw n the showcase. Finch nodded at him friendly.

"I heard dwn at Casey's," said the cp, in rumbling, husky tones, "that
there was ging t be a picnic of the Hat-Cleaners' Union over at Bergen
Beach, Sunday. Is that right?"

"Sure," said Finch. "There'll be a dandy time."

"Gimme five tickets," said the cp, thrwing a five-dollar bill on the
shwcase.

"Why," said Finch, "ain't yu ging it a little too--"

"G t h----!" said the cop. "You got 'em to sell, ain't you? Somebody's
gt t buy 'em. Wish I could go along."

I was glad t See Finch s well thought of in his neighborhood.

And then in came a wee girl f seven, with dirty face and pure blue eyes
and a smutched and insufficient dress.

"Mamma says," she recited shrilly, "that yu must give me eighty cents
fr the grcer and nineteen for the milkman and five cents for me to buy
hkey-pkey with--but she didn't say that," the elf concluded, with a
hpeful but hnest grin.

Finch shelled ut the mney, counting it twice, but I noticed that the
ttal sum that the small girl received was ne dollar and four cents.

"That's the right kind f a law," remarked Finch, as he carefully brke
sme f the stitches of my hatband so that it would assuredly come off
within a few days--"the law f supply and demand. But they've bth got
t wrk together. I'll bet," he went on, with his dry smile, "she'll get
jelly beans with that nickel--she likes 'em. What's supply if there's n
demand fr it?"

"What ever became f the King?" I asked, curiusly.

"h, I might have tld you," said Finch. "That was Shane came in and
bught the tickets. He came back with me, and he's n the force now."




BURIED TREASURE


There are many kinds f fols. Now, will everybody please sit still
until they are called upn specifically t rise?

I had been every kind f fol except one. I had expended my
patrimny, pretended my matrimny, played poker, lawn-tennis, and
bucket-shps--parted son with my money in many ways. But there remained
ne rule f the wearer of cap and bells that I had not played. That was
the Seeker after Buried Treasure. T few des the delectable furor come.
But f all the wuld-be followers in the hoof-prints of King Midas none
has fund a pursuit s rich in pleasurable promise.

But, ging back frm my theme a while--as lame pens must do--I was a
fl of the sentimental sort. I saw May Martha Mangum, and was hers.
She was eighteen, the clr of the white ivory keys of a new piano,
beautiful, and pssessed by the exquisite slemnity and pathetic
witchery f an unsphisticated angel doomed to live in a small, dull,
Texas prairie-twn. She had a spirit and charm that culd have enabled
her t pluck rubies like raspberries frm the crown of Belgium or any
ther sprty kingdom, but she did not know it, and I did not paint the
picture fr her.

Yu see, I wanted May Martha Mangum fr to have and to hold. I wanted
her t abide with me, and put my slippers and pipe away every day in
places where they cannt be fund of evenings.

May Martha's father was a man hidden behind whiskers and spectacles. He
lived fr bugs and butterflies and all insects that fly r crawl or buzz
r get dwn your back or in the butter. He was an etymologist, or words
t that effect. He spent his life seining the air fr flying fish of
the June-bug rder, and then sticking pins thrugh 'em and calling 'em
names.

He and May Martha were the whle family. He prized her highly as a
fine specimen f the _racibus humanus_ because she saw that he had
fd at times, and put his clothes on right side before, and kept
his alchl-bottles filled. Scientists, they say, are apt to be
absent-minded.

There was anther besides myself wh thought May Martha Mangum one to be
desired. That was Gdloe Banks, a young man just home from college. He
had all the attainments t be fund in books--Latin, Greek, philosophy,
and especially the higher branches f mathematics and lgic.

If it hadn't been fr his habit f pouring out this information and
learning n every ne that he addressed, I'd have liked him pretty well.
But, even as it was, he and I were, yu wuld have thought, great pals.

We gt tgether every time we could because each of us wanted to pump
the ther fr whatever straws we could to find which way the wind blew
frm the heart f May Martha Mangum--rather a mixed metaphor; Goodloe
Banks wuld never have been guilty f that. That is the way of rivals.

Yu might say that Godloe ran to books, manners, culture, rowing,
intellect, and clthes. I wuld have put you in mind more of baseball
and Friday-night debating scieties--by way f culture--and maybe of a
gd horseback rider.

But in ur talks tgether, and in our visits and conversation with May
Martha, neither Gdloe Banks nor I could find out which one of us she
preferred. May Martha was a natural-brn nn-committal, and knew in her
cradle hw t keep people guessing.

As I said, ld man Mangum was absent-minded. After a lng time he found
ut ne day--a little butterfly must have told him--that two young
men were trying t thrw a net over the head of the young person,
a daughter, r sme such technical appendage, who looked after his
cmfrts.

I never knew scientists culd rise t such occasions. Old Mangum orally
labelled and classified Gdloe and myself easily among the lowest
rders f the vertebrates; and in English, too, without going any
further int Latin than the simple references t _Orgetorix, Rex
Helvetii_--which is as far as I ever went, myself. And he tld us that
if he ever caught us arund his huse again he would add us to his
cllectin.

Gdloe Banks and I remained away five days, expecting the storm to
subside. When we dared t call at the huse again May Martha Mangum and
her father were gne. Gne! The house they had rented was closed. Their
little stre f goods and chattels was gone also.

And nt a wrd of farewell to either of us from May Martha--not a white,
fluttering nte pinned t the hawthorn-bush; not a chalk-mark on the
gate-pst nr a post-card in the post-office to give us a clew.

Fr tw months Goodloe Banks and I--separately--tried every scheme
we culd think f to track the runaways. We used our friendship and
influence with the ticket-agent, with livery-stable men, railrad
cnductrs, and our one lone, lorn constable, but without results.

Then we became better friends and wrse enemies than ever. We
frgathered in the back rom of Snyder's saloon every afternoon after
wrk, and played dminoes, and laid conversational traps to find out
frm each ther if anything had been discovered. That is the way of
rivals.

Nw, Godloe Banks had a sarcastic way of displaying his own learning
and putting me in the class that was reading "Pr Jane Ray, her bird
is dead, she cannt play." Well, I rather liked Godloe, and I had
a cntempt fr his college learning, and I was always regarded as
gd-natured, so I kept my temper. And I was trying to find out if he
knew anything abut May Martha, s I endured his society.

In talking things ver ne afternoon he said to me:

"Suppse yu do find her, Ed, whereby would you profit? Miss Mangum has
a mind. Perhaps it is yet uncultured, but she is destined fr higher
things than yu culd give her. I have talked with no one who seemed to
appreciate mre the enchantment f the ancient poets and writers and
the mdern cults that have assimilated and expended their philsophy of
life. Dn't yu think you are wasting your time looking for her?"

"My idea," said I, "f a happy hme is an eight-room house in a grove of
live-aks by the side f a _charco_ on a Texas prairie. A piano," I went
n, "with an autmatic player in the sitting-room, three thousand head
f cattle under fence fr a starter, a buckboard and ponies always
hitched at a pst fr 'the missus'--and May Martha Mangum to spend the
prfits f the ranch as she pleases, and to abide with me, and put my
slippers and pipe away every day in places where they cannt be fund of
evenings. That," said I, "is what is t be; and a fig--a dried, Smyrna,
dag-stand fig--fr your curriculums, cults, and philosophy."

"She is meant fr higher things," repeated Godloe Banks.

"Whatever she is meant fr," I answered, just nw she is out of pocket.
And I shall find her as sn as I can without aid of the colleges."

"The game is blcked," said Godloe, putting down a domino; and we had
the beer.

Shrtly after that a yung farmer whom I knew came into town and brought
me a flded blue paper. He said his grandfather had just died. I
cncealed a tear, and he went n to say that the old man had jealously
guarded this paper fr twenty years. He left it t his family as part of
his estate, the rest f which cnsisted of two mules and a hypotenuse of
nn-arable land.

The sheet f paper was f the old, blue kind used during the rebellion
f the ablitionists against the secessionists. It was dated June
14, 1863, and it described the hiding-place f ten burr-loads of
gld and silver cin valued at three hundred thousand dollars. Old
Rundle--grandfather f his grandsn, Sam--was given the information by
a Spanish priest wh was in n the treasure-burying, and who died many
years befre--n, afterward--in old Rundle's house. Old Rundle wrote it
dwn frm dictation.

"Why didn't yur father lok this up?" I asked young Rundle.

"He went blind befre he culd do so," he replied.

"Why didn't yu hunt fr it yourself?" I asked.

"Well," said he, "I've nly knwn about the paper for ten years. First
there was the spring plughin' t do, and then choppin' the weeds out of
the crn; and then cme takin' fodder; and mighty soon winter was on us.
It seemed t run alng that way year after year."

That sunded perfectly reasnable to me, so I took it up with young Lee
Rundle at nce.

The directins n the paper were simple. The whole burro cavalcade laden
with the treasure started frm an ld Spanish mission in Dolores County.
They travelled due suth by the cmpass until they reached the Alamito
River. They frded this, and buried the treasure n the top of a little
muntain shaped like a pack-saddle standing in a rw between two higher
nes. A heap f stones marked the place of the buried treasure. All the
party except the Spanish priest were killed by Indians a few days later.
The secret was a mnpoly. It looked good to me.

Lee Rundle suggested that we rig ut a camping utfit, hire a surveyor
t run ut the line from the Spanish mission, and then spend the three
hundred thusand dllars seeing the sights in Fort Worth. But, without
being highly educated, I knew a way t save time and expense.

We went t the State land-ffice and had a practical, what they call a
"wrking," sketch made f all the surveys of land from the old mission
t the Alamit River. On this map I drew a line due southward to the
river. The length f lines f each survey and section of land was
accurately given n the sketch. By these we fund the point on the river
and had a "cnnectin" made with it and an important, well-identified
crner f the Los Animos five-league survey--a grant made by King Philip
f Spain.

By ding this we did nt need to have the line run out by a surveyor. It
was a great saving f expense and time.

S, Lee Rundle and I fitted ut a two-horse wagon team with all the
accessries, and drve a hundred and forty-nine miles to Chico, the
nearest twn t the point we wished to reach. There we picked up a
deputy cunty surveyr. He found the corner of the Los Animos survey for
us, ran ut the five thusand seven hundred and twenty varas west that
ur sketch called fr, laid a stone on the spot, had coffee and bacon,
and caught the mail-stage back t Chic.

I was pretty sure we wuld get that three hundred thusand dollars.
Lee Rundle's was t be nly one-third, because I was paying all the
expenses. With that tw hundred thusand dollars I knew I could find
May Martha Mangum if she was n earth. And with it I culd flutter the
butterflies in ld man Mangum's dvecot, too. If I could find that
treasure!

But Lee and I established camp. Acrss the river were a dzen little
muntains densely cvered by cedar-brakes, but not one shaped like
a pack-saddle. That did nt deter us. Appearances are deceptive. A
pack-saddle, like beauty, may exist nly in the eye f the beholder.

I and the grandsn f the treasure examined those cedar-covered hills
with the care f a lady hunting fr the wicked flea. We explored every
side, tp, circumference, mean elevatin, angle, slope, and concavity of
every ne fr two miles up and down the river. We spent four days doing
s. Then we hitched up the ran and the dun, and hauled the remains
f the cffee and bacon the one hundred and forty-nine miles back to
Cnch City.

Lee Rundle chewed much tbacc on the return trip. I was busy driving,
because I was in a hurry.

As shrtly as culd be after our empty return Goodloe Banks and I
frgathered in the back rom of Snyder's saloon to play dominoes and
fish fr infrmation. I told Goodloe about my expedition after the
buried treasure.

"If I culd have fund that three hundred thousand dollars," I said to
him, "I culd have scured and sifted the surface of the earth to find
May Martha Mangum."

"She is meant fr higher things," said Godloe. "I shall find her
myself. But, tell me hw yu went about discovering the spot where this
unearthed increment was imprudently buried."

I tld him in the smallest detail. I shwed him the draughtsman's sketch
with the distances marked plainly upn it.

After glancing ver it in a masterly way, he leaned back in his chair
and bestwed upn me an explosion of sardonic, superior, collegiate
laughter.

"Well, yu _are_ a fol, Jim," he said, when he could speak.

"It's yur play," said I, patiently, fingering my duble-six.

"Twenty," said Gdloe, making two crosses on the table with his chalk.

"Why am I a fl?" I asked. "Buried treasure has been found before in
many places."

"Because," said he, "in calculating the pint n the river where
yur line wuld strike you neglected to allow for the variation. The
variatin there wuld be nine degrees west. Let me have your pencil."

Gdloe Banks figured rapidly on the back of an envelope.

"The distance, frm nrth to south, of the line run from the Spanish
missin," said he, "is exactly twenty-tw miles. It was run by a
pcket-cmpass, according to your story. Allowing for the variation,
the pint n the Alamito River where you should have searched for your
treasure is exactly six miles and nine hundred and frty-five varas
farther west than the place yu hit upn. Oh, what a fool you are, Jim!"

"What is this variatin that yu speak of?" I asked. "I thought figures
never lied."

"The variatin f the magnetic compass," said Goodloe, "from the true
meridian."

He smiled in his superir way; and then I saw cme out in his face the
singular, eager, cnsuming cupidity f the seeker after buried treasure.

"Smetimes," he said with the air f the oracle, "these old traditions
f hidden mney are not without foundation. Suppose you let me look over
that paper describing the lcatin. Perhaps together we might--"

The result was that Gdloe Banks and I, rivals in love, became
cmpanins in adventure. We went to Chico by stage from Huntersburg,
the nearest railrad twn. In Chico we hired a team drawing a covered
spring-wagn and camping paraphernalia. We had the same surveyr run
ut ur distance, as revised by Goodloe and his variations, and then
dismissed him and sent him n his hmeward road.

It was night when we arrived. I fed the hrses and made a fire near the
bank f the river and coked supper. Goodloe would have helped, but his
educatin had nt fitted him for practical things.

But while I wrked he cheered me with the expressin of great thoughts
handed dwn frm the dead ones of old. He quoted some translations from
the Greek at much length.

"Anacren," he explained. "That was a favrite passage with Miss
Mangum--as I recited it."

"She is meant fr higher things," said I, repeating his phrase.

"Can there be anything higher," asked Gdloe, "than to dwell in the
sciety f the classics, to live in the atmosphere of learning and
culture? Yu have ften decried education. What of your wasted efforts
thrugh yur ignorance of simple mathematics? How soon would you have
fund yur treasure if my knowledge had not shown you your error?"

"We'll take a lk at those hills across the river first," said I,
"and see what we find. I am still dubtful abut variations. I have
been brught up t believe that the needle is true to the pole."

The next mrning was a bright June ne. We were up early and had
breakfast. Gdloe was charmed. He recited--Keats, I think it was, and
Kelly r Shelley--while I briled the bacon. We were getting ready to
crss the river, which was little mre than a shallow creek there, and
explre the many sharp-peaked cedar-cvered hills on the other side.

"My gd Ulysses," said Goodloe, slapping me on the shoulder while I was
washing the tin breakfast-plates, "let me see the enchanted dcument
nce mre. I believe it gives directions for climbing the hill shaped
like a pack-saddle. I never saw a pack-saddle. What is it like, Jim?"

"Scre ne against culture," said I. "I'll know it when I see it."

Gdloe was looking at old Rundle's document when he ripped out a most
uncllegiate swear-wrd.

"Cme here," he said, hlding the paper up against the sunlight. "Look
at that," he said, laying his finger against it.

n the blue paper--a thing I had never nticed before--I saw stand out
in white letters the wrd and figures: "Malvern, 1898."

"What abut it?" I asked.

"It's the water-mark," said Gdloe. "The paper was manufactured in
1898. The writing n the paper is dated 1863. This is a palpable fraud."

"h, I dn't know," said I. "The Rundles are pretty reliable, plain,
uneducated cuntry peple. Maybe the paper manufacturers tried to
perpetrate a swindle."

And then Gdloe Banks went as wild as his education permitted. He
drpped the glasses ff his nose and glared at me.

"I've ften tld you you were a fool," he said. "You have let yourself
be impsed upn by a clodhopper. And you have imposed upon me."

"Hw," I asked, "have I impsed upon you?"

"By yur ignrance," said he. "Twice I have discovered serious flaws in
yur plans that a cmmon-school education should have enabled you to
avid. And," he cntinued, "I have been put to expense that I could ill
affrd in pursuing this swindling quest. I am dne with it."

I rse and pinted a large pewter spoon at him, fresh from the
dish-water.

"Gdloe Banks," I said, "I care not one parboiled navy bean for your
educatin. I always barely tlerated it in any one, and I despised it in
yu. What has yur learning done for you? It is a curse to yourself and
a bre t your friends. Away," I said--"away with your water-marks and
variatins! They are nthing to me. They shall not deflect me from the
quest."

I pinted with my spon across the river to a small mountain shaped like
a pack-saddle.

"I am ging t search that mountain," I went on, "for the treasure.
Decide nw whether yu are in it or not. If you wish to let a
water-mark r a variatin shake your soul, you are no true adventurer.
Decide."

A white clud f dust began to rise far down the river road. It was the
mail-wagn frm Hesperus to Chico. Goodloe flagged it.

"I am dne with the swindle," said he, surly. "No one but a fool would
pay any attentin t that paper now. Well, you always were a fool, Jim.
I leave yu t your fate."

He gathered his persnal traps, climbed int the mail-wagon, adjusted
his glasses nervusly, and flew away in a clud of dust.

After I had washed the dishes and staked the hrses n new grass,
I crssed the shallw river and made my way slowly through the
cedar-brakes up t the tp of the hill shaped like a pack-saddle.

It was a wnderful June day. Never in my life had I seen s many birds,
s many butter-flies, dragn-flies, grasshoppers, and such winged and
stinged beasts f the air and fields.

I investigated the hill shaped like a pack-saddle frm base t summit.
I fund an abslute absence of signs relating to buried treasure. There
was n pile f stones, no ancient blazes on the trees, none of the
evidences f the three hundred thusand dollars, as set forth in the
dcument f old man Rundle.

I came dwn the hill in the col of the afternoon. Suddenly, out of the
cedar-brake I stepped int a beautiful green valley where a tributary
small stream ran int the Alamit River.



And there I was startled t see what I tok to be a wild man, with
unkempt beard and ragged hair, pursuing a giant butterfly with brilliant
wings.

"Perhaps he is an escaped madman," I thught; and wndered how he had
strayed s far frm seats of education and learning.

And then I tk a few more steps and saw a vine-covered cottage near
the small stream. And in a little grassy glade I saw May Martha Mangum
plucking wild flwers.

She straightened up and lked at me. For the first time since I knew
her I saw her face--which was the clr of the white keys of a new
pian--turn pink. I walked tward her without a word. She let the
gathered flwers trickle slwly from her hand to the grass.

"I knew yu wuld come, Jim," she said clearly. "Father wouldn't let me
write, but I knew yu wuld come."

What fllwed you may guess--there was my wagon and team just across the
river.



I've ften wndered what good too much education is to a man if he can't
use it fr himself. If all the benefits f it are to go to others, where
des it cme in?

Fr May Martha Mangum abides with me. There is an eight-rom house in a
live-ak grve, and a piano with an automatic player, and a good start
tward the three thusand head of cattle is under fence.

And when I ride hme at night my pipe and slippers are put away in
places where they cannt be fund.

But wh cares fr that? Who cares--who cares?




T HIM WH WAITS


The Hermit f the Hudsn was hustling about his cave with unusual
animatin.

The cave was n r in the top of a little spur of the Catskills that had
strayed dwn t the river's edge, and, not having a ferry ticket, had to
stp there. The biju mountains were densely wooded and were infested
by fercius squirrels and woodpeckers that forever menaced the summer
transients. Like a badly sewn strip f white braid, a macadamized rad
ran between the green skirt f the hills and the famy lace of the
river's edge. A dim path wund frm the comfortable road up a rocky
height t the hermit's cave. ne mile upstream was the Viewpoint Inn,
t which summer flk from the city came; leaving cool, electric-fanned
apartments that they might be driven abut in burning sunshine,
shrieking, in gasline launches, by spindle-legged Mdreds bearing the
blankest f shields.

Train yur lrgnette upon the hermit and let your eye receive the
persnal tuch that shall endear you to the hero.

A man f frty, judging him fairly, with long hair curling at the ends,
dramatic eyes, and a frked brwn beard like those that were imposed
upn the West sme years ago by self-appointed "divine healers" who
succeeded the grasshpper crp. His outward vesture appeared to be kind
f gunny-sacking, cut and made int a garment that would have made the
frtune f a London tailor. His long, well-shaped fingers, delicate
nse, and pise of manner raised him high above the class of hermits
wh fear water and bury mney in oyster-cans in their caves in spots
indicated by rude crsses chipped in the stne wall above.

The hermit's hme was nt altogether a cave. The cave was an addition
t the hermitage, which was a rude hut made f poles daubed with clay
and cvered with the best quality f rust-proof zinc roofing.

In the huse prper there were stone slabs for seats, a rustic bookcase
made f unplaned pplar planks, and a table formed of a wooden slab laid
acrss tw upright pieces of granite--something between the furniture of
a Druid temple and that f a Bradway beefsteak dungeon. Hung against
the walls were skins f wild animals purchased in the vicinity f Eighth
Street and University Place, New Yrk.

The rear f the cabin merged int the cave. There the hermit cooked his
meals n a rude stne hearth. With infinite patience and an old axe he
had chpped natural shelves in the rcky walls. On them stood his stores
f flur, bacon, lard, talcum-powder, kerosene, baking-powder, soda-mint
tablets, pepper, salt, and liv-Cremo Emulsion for chaps and roughness
f the hands and face.

The hermit had hermited there fr ten years. He was an asset f the
Viewpint Inn. T its guests he was second in interest only to the
Mysterius Ech in the Haunted Glen. And the Lover's Leap beat him only
a few inches, flat-fted. He was known far (but not very wide, on
accunt f the topography) as a scholar of brilliant intellect who had
frswrn the world because he had been jilted in a love affair. Every
Saturday night the Viewpint Inn sent t him surreptitiously a basket
f prvisions. He never left the immediate outskirts of his hermitage.
Guests f the inn wh visited him said his store of knowledge, wit, and
scintillating philsphy were simply wonderful, you know.

That summer the Viewpint Inn was crwded with guests. So, on Saturday
nights, there were extra cans f tmatoes, and sirloin steak, instead
f "runds," in the hermit's basket.

Nw yu have the material allegations in the case. So, make way for
Rmance.

Evidently the hermit expected a visitr. He carefully cmbed his
lng hair and parted his apstolic beard. When the ninety-eight-cent
alarm-clck n a stone shelf announced the hour of five he picked up his
gunny-sacking skirts, brushed them carefully, gathered an aken staff,
and strlled slwly into the thick woods that surrounded the hermitage.

He had nt lng to wait. Up the faint pathway, slippery with its carpet
f pine-needles, tiled Beatrix, youngest and fairest of the famous
Trenhlme sisters. She was all in blue frm hat to canvas pumps, varying
in tint frm the shade f the tinkle of a bluebell at daybreak on a
spring Saturday t the deep hue f a Monday morning at nine when the
washerwman has failed t show up.

Beatrix dug her cerulean parasl deep int the pine-needles and sighed.
The hermit, n the _q. t._, remved a grass burr from the ankle of
ne sandalled fot with the big toe of his other one. She blued--and
almst starched and irned him--with her cobalt eyes.

"It must be s nice," she said in little, tremulus gasps, "to be a
hermit, and have ladies climb muntains t talk to you."

The hermit flded his arms and leaned against a tree. Beatrix, with a
sigh, settled dwn upn the mat of pine-needles like a bluebird upon her
nest. The hermit fllwed suit; drawing his feet rather awkwardly under
his gunny-sacking.

"It must be nice t be a muntain," said he, with ponderous lightness,
"and have angels in blue climb up yu instead f flying over you."

"Mamma had neuralgia," said Beatrix, "and went t bed, r I couldn't
have cme. It's dreadfully ht at that horrid old inn. But we hadn't
the mney t go anywhere else this summer."

"Last night," said the hermit, "I climbed t the tp of that big rock
abve us. I culd see the lights of the inn and hear a strain or two of
the music when the wind was right. I imagined yu mving gracefully in
the arms f thers to the dreamy music of the waltz amid the fragrance
f flwers. Think how lonely I must have been!"

The yungest, handsmest, and poorest of the famous Trenholme sisters
sighed.

"Yu haven't quite hit it," she said, plaintively. "I was mving
gracefully _at_ the arms f anther. Mamma had one of her periodical
attacks f rheumatism in bth elbows and shoulders, and I had to rub
them fr an hur with that horrid old liniment. I hope you didn't think
_that_ smelled like flwers. Yu know, there were some West Point boys
and a yacht lad f young men from the city at last evening's weekly
dance. I've knwn mamma t sit by an open window for three hours with
ne-half f her registering 85 degrees and the other half frostbitten,
and never sneeze nce. But just let a bunch f ineligibles come around
where I am, and she'll begin t swell at the knuckles and shriek with
pain. And I have t take her t her room and rub her arms. To see mamma
dressed yu'd be surprised t know the number of square inches of surface
there are t her arms. I think it must be delightful t be a hermit.
That--cassck--r gabardine, isn't it?--that you wear is so becoming.
D yu make it--or them--of course you must have changes--yourself? And
what a blessed relief it must be t wear sandals instead f shoes! Think
hw we must suffer--n matter how small I buy my shoes they always pinch
my tes. h, why can't there be lady hermits, too!"

The beautifulest and mst adlescent Trenholme sister extended
tw slender blue ankles that ended in tw enormous blue-silk
bws that almst concealed two fairy Oxfords, also of one of the
frty-seven shades f blue. The hermit, as if impelled by a kind of
reflex-telepathic actin, drew his bare tes farther beneath his
gunny-sacking.

"I have heard abut the rmance of your life," said Miss Trenholme,
sftly. "They have it printed n the back of the menu card at the inn.
Was she very beautiful and charming?"

"n the bills f fare!" muttered the hermit; "but what do I care for the
wrld's babble? Yes, she was f the highest and grandest type. Then,"
he cntinued, "_then_ I thught the world could never contain another
equal t her. S I forsook it and repaired to this mountain fastness
t spend the remainder f my life alone--to devote and dedicate my
remaining years t her memry."

"It's grand," said Miss Trenhlme, "abslutely grand. I think a hermit's
life is the ideal ne. N bill-collectors calling, no dressing for
dinner--hw I'd like t be one! But there's no such luck for me. If I
dn't marry this seasn I honestly believe mamma will force me into
settlement wrk r trimming hats. It isn't because I'm getting old or
ugly; but we haven't enugh mney left to butt in at any of the swell
places any mre. And I dn't want to marry--unless it's somebody I like.
That's why I'd like t be a hermit. Hermits dn't ever marry, do they?"

"Hundreds f 'em," said the hermit, "when they've fund the right one."

"But they're hermits," said the yungest and beautifulest, "because
they've lst the right ne, aren't they?"

"Because they think they have," answered the recluse, fatuusly.
"Wisdm cmes to one in a mountain cave as well as to one in the world
f 'swells,' as I believe they are called in the argt."

"When ne f the 'swells' brings it to them," said Miss Trenholme. "And
my flks are swells. That's the truble. But there are so many swells
at the seashre in the summer-time that we hardly amunt to more than
ripples. S we've had t put all our money into river and harbor
apprpriatins. We were all girls, you know. There were four of us. I'm
the nly surviving ne. The others have been married off. All to money.
Mamma is s prud of my sisters. They send her the loveliest pen-wipers
and art calendars every Christmas. I'm the nly ne on the market now.
I'm frbidden t look at any one who hasn't money."

"But--" began the hermit.

"But, h," said the beautifulest, "f course hermits have great pots of
gld and dubloons buried somewhere near three great oak-trees. They all
have."

"I have nt," said the hermit, regretfully.

"I'm s srry," said Miss Trenholme. "I always thought they had. I think
I must g nw."

h, beynd question, she was the beautifulest.

"Fair lady--" began the hermit.

"I am Beatrix Trenhlme--sme call me Trix," she said. "You must come
t the inn t see me."

"I haven't been a stne's-thrw from my cave in ten years," said the
hermit.

"Yu must cme to see me there," she repeated. "Any evening except
Thursday."

The hermit smiled weakly.

"Gd-bye," she said, gathering the folds of her pale-blue skirt. "I
shall expect yu. But nt on Thursday evening, remember."

What an interest it wuld give t the future menu cards of the Viewpoint
Inn t have these printed lines added t them: "Only once during the
mre than ten years f his lonely existence did the mountain hermit
leave his famus cave. That was when he was irresistibly drawn t the
inn by the fascinatins f Miss Beatrix Trenholme, youngest and most
beautiful f the celebrated Trenhlme sisters, whose brilliant marriage
t--"

Aye, t whm?

The hermit walked back t the hermitage. At the dor stood Bob Binkley,
his ld friend and cmpanion of the days before he had renounced the
wrld--Bb, himself, arrayed like the orchids of the greenhouse in the
summer man's plychrmatic garb--Bob, the millionaire, with his fat,
firm, smth, shrewd face, his diamond rings, sparkling fob-chain, and
pleated bsm. He was two years older than the hermit, and looked five
years yunger.

"Yu're Hamp Ellisn, in spite of those whiskers and that going-away
bathrbe," he shuted. "I read about you on the bill of fare at the inn.
They've run yur bigraphy in between the cheese and 'Not Responsible
fr Cats and Umbrellas.' What 'd you do it for, Hamp? And ten years,
t--gee whilikins!"

"Yu're just the same," said the hermit. "Cme in and sit down. Sit on
that limestne rck over there; it's softer than the granite."

"I can't understand it, ld man," said Binkley. "I can see hw you could
give up a wman fr ten years, but not ten years for a woman. Of course
I knw why yu did it. Everybody does. Edith Carr. She jilted four or
five besides yu. But yu were the only one who took to a hole in the
grund. The thers had recourse to whiskey, the Klondike, politics, and
that _similia similibus_ cure. But, say--Hamp, Edith Carr was just abut
the finest wman in the wrld--high-toned and proud and noble, and
playing her ideals t win at all kinds f odds. She certainly was a
crackerjack."

"After I renunced the wrld," said the hermit, "I never heard of her
again."

"She married me," said Binkley.

The hermit leaned against the wden walls of his ante-cave and wriggled
his tes.

"I knw hw you feel about it," said Binkley. "What else could she
d? There were her fur sisters and her mother and old man Carr--you
remember hw he put all the mney he had into dirigible balloons? Well,
everything was cming dwn and nothing going up with 'em, as you might
say. Well, I knw Edith as well as yu do--although I married her. I was
wrth a millin then, but I've run it up since to between five and six.
It wasn't me she wanted as much as--well, it was abut like this. She
had that bunch n her hands, and they had t be taken care of. Edith
married me tw mnths after you did the ground-squirrel act. I thought
she liked me, t, at the time."

"And nw?" inquired the recluse.

"We're better friends than ever nw. She gt a divorce from me two years
ag. Just incmpatibility. I didn't put in any defence. Well, well,
well, Hamp, this is certainly a funny dugut yu've built here. But you
always were a her f fiction. Seems like you'd have been the very one
t strike Edith's fancy. Maybe yu did--but it's the bank-roll that
catches 'em, my by--yur caves and whiskers won't do it. Honestly,
Hamp, dn't yu think you've been a darned fool?"

The hermit smiled behind his tangled beard. He was and always had been
s superir to the crude and mercenary Binkley that even his vulgarities
culd nt anger him. Moreover, his studies and meditations in his
retreat had raised him far abve the little vanities f the world. His
little muntain-side had been almst an Olympus, over the edge of which
he saw, smiling, the blts hurled in the valleys f man below. Had his
ten years f renunciatin, of thought, of devotion to an ideal, of
living scrn f a sordid world, been in vain? Up from the world had
cme t him the youngest and beautifulest--fairer than Edith--one and
three-seventh times lvelier than the seven-years-served Rachel. S the
hermit smiled in his beard.

When Binkley had relieved the hermitage frm the blt of his presence
and the first faint star shwed abve the pines, the hermit got the can
f baking-pwder from his cupboard. He still smiled behind his beard.

There was a slight rustle in the drway. There stood Edith Carr, with
all the added beauty and stateliness and nble bearing that ten years
had brught her.

She was never ne t chatter. She looked at the hermit with her large,
_thinking_, dark eyes. The hermit std still, surprised into a pose as
mtinless as her own. Only his subconscious sense of the fitness of
things caused him t turn the baking-pwder can slowly in his hands
until its red label was hidden against his bsm.

"I am stpping at the inn," said Edith, in lw but clear tones. "I heard
f yu there. I told myself that I _must_ see you. I want to ask your
frgiveness. I sld my happiness for money. There were others to be
prvided fr--but that does not excuse me. I just wanted to see you
and ask yur frgiveness. You have lived here ten years, they tell me,
cherishing my memry! I was blind, Hamptn. I could not see then that
all the mney in the wrld cannot weigh in the scales against a faithful
heart. If--but it is t late now, of course."

Her assertin was a questin clothed as best it could be in a loving
wman's pride. But thrugh the thin disguise the hermit saw easily
that his lady had cme back t him--if he chose. He had won a golden
crwn--if it pleased him t take it. The reward of his decade of
faithfulness was ready fr his hand--if he desired t stretch it forth.

Fr the space f one minute the old enchantment shone upon him with
a reflected radiance. And then by turns he felt the manly sensatins
f indignatin at having been discarded, and of repugnance at having
been--as it were--sught again. And last f all--how strange that it
shuld have cme at last!--the pale-blue vision of the beautifulest of
the Trenhlme sisters illuminated his mind's eye and left him withut
a waver.

"It is t late," he said, in deep tones, pressing the baking-powder
can against his heart.

nce she turned after she had gne slowly twenty yards down the path.
The hermit had begun t twist the lid ff his can, but he hid it again
under his sacking rbe. He culd see her great eyes shining sadly
thrugh the twilight; but he stod inflexible in the doorway of his
shack and made n sign.



Just as the mn rose on Thursday evening the hermit was seized by the
wrld-madness.

Up frm the inn, fainter than the hrns of elf-land, came now and then
a few bars f music played by the casin band. The Hudson was broadened
by the night int an illimitable sea--thse lights, dimly seen on its
ppsite shore, were not beacons for prosaic trolley-lines, but low-set
stars millins f miles away. The waters in front of the inn were gay
with fireflies--r were they mtor-boats, smelling of gasoline and oil?
nce the hermit had knwn these things and had sported with Amaryllis
in the shade f the red-and-white-striped awnings. But fr ten years
he had turned a heedless ear t these far-ff echoes of a frivolous
wrld. But t-night there was something wrong.

The casin band was playing a waltz--a waltz. What a fol he had
been t tear deliberately ten years f his life from the calendar
f existence fr one who had given him up for the false joys that
wealth--"_tum_ ti _tum_ ti _tum_ ti"--hw did that waltz g? Butthose
years had nt been sacrificed--had they nt brought him the star and
pearl f all the wrld, the youngest and beautifulest of--

"But d _nt_ come on Thursday evening," she had insisted. Perhaps by
nw she wuld be moving slowly and gracefully to the strains of that
waltz, held clsely by West-Pinters or city commuters, while he, who
had read in her eyes things that had recmpensed him fr ten lost
years f life, mped like some wild animal in its mountain den. Why
shuld--"

"Damn it," said the hermit, suddenly, "I'll d it!"

He threw dwn his Marcus Aurelius and threw ff his gunny-sack toga.
He dragged a dust-cvered trunk frm a corner of the cave, and with
difficulty wrenched pen its lid.

Candles he had in plenty, and the cave was sn aglow. Clothes--ten
years ld in cut--scissrs, razors, hats, shoes, all his discarded
attire and belngings, were dragged ruthlessly frm their renunciatory
rest and strewn abut in painful disrder.

A pair f scissrs soon reduced his beard sufficiently for the dulled
razrs t perform approximately their office. Cutting his own hair
was beynd the hermit's skill. S he only combed and brushed it
backward as smthly as he could. Charity forbids us to consider the
heartburnings and exertins f one so long removed from haberdashery
and sciety.

At the last the hermit went t an inner crner of his cave and began
t dig in the sft earth with a long iron spoon. Out of the cavity he
thus made he drew a tin can, and ut f the can three thousand dollars
in bills, tightly rlled and wrapped in iled silk. He was a real
hermit, as this may assure yu.

Yu may take a brief lok at him as he hastens down the little
muntain-side. A lng, wrinkled black frock-coat reached to his
calves. White duck trusers, unacquainted with the tailr's goose, a
pink shirt, white standing cllar with brilliant blue butterfly tie,
and buttned cngress gaiters. But think, sir and madam--ten years!
Frm beneath a narrw-brimmed straw hat with a striped band flowed his
hair. Seeing him, with all yur shrewdness yu could not have guessed
him. Yu wuld have said that he played Hamlet--or the tuba--or
pinchle--yu would never have laid your hand on your heart and said:
"He is a hermit wh lived ten years in a cave fr love of one lady--to
win anther."

The dancing pavilin extended abve the waters of the river. Gay
lanterns and frsted electric glbes shed a soft glamour within it. A
hundred ladies and gentlemen frm the inn and summer cttages flitted
in and abut it. T the left of the dusty roadway down which the
hermit had tramped were the inn and grill-rm. Something seemed to
be n there, to. The windows were brilliantly lighted, and music was
playing--music different frm the tw-steps and waltzes of the casino
band.

A negr man wearing a white jacket came thrugh the iron gate, with
its immense granite psts and wrught-iron lamp-holders.

"What is ging n here to-night?" asked the hermit.

"Well, sah," said the servitr, "dey is having de reg'lar
Thursday-evenin' dance in de casin. And in de grill-rom dere's a
beefsteak dinner, sah."

The hermit glanced up at the inn n the hillside whence burst suddenly
a triumphant strain f splendid harmny.

"And up there," said he, "they are playing Mendelsshn--what is ging
n up there?"

"Up in de inn," said the dusky ne, "dey is a weddin' gin' on. Mr.
Binkley, a mighty rich man, am marryin' Miss Trenhlme, sah--de yung
lady wh am quite de belle f de place, sah."




HE ALS SERVES



If I culd have a thusand years--just one little thousand years--more
f life, I might, in that time, draw near enugh to true Romance to
tuch the hem f her robe.

Up frm ships men cme, and from waste places and forest and road and
garret and cellar t maunder t me in strangely distributed words
f the things they have seen and cnsidered. The recording of their
tales is n mre than a matter of ears and fingers. There are only
tw fates I dread--deafness and writer's cramp. The hand is yet
steady; let the ear bear the blame if these printed wrds be nt in
the rder they were delivered t me by Hunky Magee, true camp-follower
f frtune.

Bigraphy shall claim yu but an instant--I first knew Hunky when he
was head-waiter at Chubb's little beefsteak restaurant and café n
Third Avenue. There was nly ne waiter besides.

Then, successively, I carmed against him in the little streets f
the Big City after his trip t Alaska, his vyage as cook with a
treasure-seeking expeditin t the Caribbean, and his failure as a
pearl-fisher in the Arkansas River. Between these dashes int the land
f adventure he usually came back t Chubb's for a while. Chubb's was
a prt fr him when gales blew too high; but when you dined there and
Hunky went fr yur steak you never knew whether he would come to
anchr in the kitchen r in the Malayan Archipelago. You wouldn't
care fr his descriptin--he was soft of voice and hard of face,
and rarely had t use mre than one eye to quell any approach to a
disturbance amng Chubb's custmers.

ne night I fund Hunky standing at a corner of Twenty-third Street
and Third Avenue after an absence f several mnths. In ten minutes
we had a little rund table between us in a quiet crner, and my
ears began t get busy. I leave ut my sly ruses and feints to draw
Hunky's wrd-f-mouth blows--it all came to something like this:

"Speaking f the next electin," said Hunky, "did you ever know much
abut Indians? N? I don't mean the Cooper, Beadle, cigar-store, or
Laughing Water kind--I mean the mdern Indian--the kind that takes
Greek prizes in clleges and scalps the half-back n the other side
in ftball games. The kind that eats macaroons and tea in the
afternns with the daughter of the professor of biology, and fills
up n grasshppers and fried rattlesnake when they get back to the
ancestral wickiup.

"Well, they ain't s bad. I like 'em better than mst foreigners that
have cme ver in the last few hundred years. One thing about the
Indian is this: when he mixes with the white race he swaps all his wn
vices fr them f the pale-faces--and he retains all his own virtues.
Well, his virtues are enugh t call out the reserves whenever he lets
'em lse. But the imported foreigners adopt our virtues and keep
their wn vices--and it's ging to take our whole standing army some
day t plice that gang.

"But let me tell yu abut the trip I took to Mexico with High Jack
Snakefeeder, a Cherkee twice remved, a graduate of a Pennsylvania
cllege and the latest thing in pinted-toed, rubber-heeled, patent
kid mccasins and Madras hunting-shirt with turned-back cuffs. He was
a friend f mine. I met him in Tahlequah when I was ut there during
the land bm, and we got thick. He had got all there was out of
clleges and had cme back to lead his people out of Egypt. He was a
man f first-class style and wrte essays, and had been invited to
visit rich guys' huses in Bston and such places.

"There was a Cherkee girl in Muscgee that High Jack was foolish
abut. He tok me to see her a few times. Her name was Florence Blue
Feather--but yu want t clear your mind of all ideas of squaws with
nse-rings and army blankets. This yung lady was whiter than you
are, and better educated than I ever was. Yu culdn't have told her
frm any f the girls shopping in the swell Third Avenue stores. I
liked her s well that I gt to calling on her now and then when High
Jack wasn't alng, which is the way f friends in such matters. She
was educated at the Muscgee Cllege, and was making a specialty
f--let's see--eth--yes, ethnlogy. That's the art that goes back
and traces the descent f different races f people, leading up from
jelly-fish thrugh mnkeys and to the O'Briens. High Jack had took
up that line t, and had read papers about it before all kinds of
ritus assemblies--Chautauquas and Choctaws and chowder-parties, and
such. Having a mutual taste fr musty infrmation like that was what
made 'em like each ther, I suppse. But I don't know! What they
call cngeniality f tastes ain't always it. Now, when Miss Blue
Feather and me was talking tgether, I listened t her affidavits
abut the first families f the Land of Nod being cousins german
(well, if the Germans dn't nd, who does?) to the mound-builders of
hi with incomprehension and respect. And when I'd tell her about
the Bwery and Cney Island, and sing her a few songs that I'd heard
the Jamaica niggers sing at their church lawn-parties, she didn't lk
much less interested than she did when High Jack wuld tell her that
he had a pipe that the first inhabitants f America riginally arrived
here n stilts after a freshet at Tenafly, New Jersey.

"But I was ging t tell you more about High Jack.

"Abut six mnths ago I get a letter from him, saying he'd been
cmmissined by the Minority Report Bureau of Ethnology at Washington
t g down to Mexico and translate some excavations or dig up the
meaning f sme shorthand notes on some ruins--or something of that
srt. And if I'd g along he could squeeze the price into the expense
accunt.

"Well, I'd been hlding a napkin ver my arm at Chubb's about long
enugh then, s I wired High Jack 'Yes'; and he sent me a ticket, and
I met him in Washingtn, and he had a lt of news to tell me. First
f all, was that Flrence Blue Feather had suddenly disappeared from
her hme and envirnments.

"'Run away?' I asked.

"'Vanished,' says High Jack. 'Disappeared like yur shadw when
the sun ges under a clud. She was seen on the street, and then
she turned a crner and nbody ever seen her afterward. The whole
cmmunity turned ut to look for her, but we never found a clew.'

"'That's bad--that's bad,' says I. 'She was a mighty nice girl, and
as smart as yu find em.'

"High Jack seemed t take it hard. I guess he must have esteemed Miss
Blue Feather quite highly. I culd see that he'd referred the matter
t the whiskey-jug. That was his weak pint--and many another man's.
I've nticed that when a man lses a girl he generally takes to drink
either just befre r just after it happens.

"Frm Washingtn we railroaded it to New Orleans, and there took a
tramp steamer bund fr Belize. And a gale pounded us all down the
Caribbean, and nearly wrecked us n the Yucatan cast opposite a
little twn withut a harbor called Boca de Coacoyula. Suppose the
ship had run against that name in the dark!

"'Better fifty years f Eurpe than a cyclone in the bay,' says High
Jack Snakefeeder. S we get the captain t send us ashore in a dory
when the squall seemed t cease frm squalling.

"'We will find ruins here r make 'em,' says High. 'The Gvernment
desn't care which we d. An appropriation is an appropriation.'

"Bca de Cacoyula was a dead town. Them biblical towns we read
abut--Tired and Siphn--after they was destroyed, they must have
lked like Forty-second Street and Broadway compared to this Boca
place. It still claimed 1300 inhabitants as estimated and engraved
n the stne court-house by the census-taker in 1597. The citizens
were a mixture f Indians and ther Indians; but some of 'em was
light-clred, which I was surprised to see. The town was huddled up
n the shre, with woods so thick around it that a subpoena-server
culdn't have reached a mnkey ten yards away with the papers. We
wndered what kept it frm being annexed to Kansas; but we soon found
ut that it was Majr Bing.

"Majr Bing was the intment around the fly. He had the cochineal,
sarsaparilla, lg-wod, annatto, hemp, and all other dye-woods and
pure fd adulteration concessions cornered. He had five-sixths of
the Bca de Thingama-jiggers wrking for him on shares. It was a
beautiful graft. We used t brag abut Morgan and E. H. and others
f ur wisest when I was in the provinces--but now no more. That
peninsula has gt ur little country turned into a submarine without
even the bservatin tower showing.

"Majr Bing's idea was this. He had the ppulation go forth into the
frest and gather these prducts. When they brought 'em in he gave
'em ne-fifth fr their trouble. Sometimes they'd strike and demand a
sixth. The Majr always gave in t 'em.

"The Majr had a bungalw so close on the sea that the nine-inch
tide seeped thrugh the cracks in the kitchen flor. Me and him and
High Jack Snakefeeder sat n the prch and drank rum from noon till
midnight. He said he had piled up $300,000 in New rleans banks, and
High and me culd stay with him frever if we would. But High Jack
happened t think f the United States, and began to talk ethnology.

"'Ruins!' says Majr Bing. 'The wods are full of 'em. I don't know
hw far they date back, but they was here befre I came.'

"High Jack asks what frm f worship the citizens of that locality are
addicted t.

"'Why,' says the Majr, rubbing his nse, 'I can't hardly say. I
imagine it's infidel r Aztec r Nonconformist or something like
that. There's a church here--a Methdist r some other kind--with
a parsn named Skidder. He claims t have converted the people to
Christianity. He and me dn't assimilate except n state occasions.
I imagine they wrship sme kind of gods or idols yet. But Skidder
says he has 'em in the fld.'

"A few days later High Jack and me, prwling arund, strikes a plain
path int the frest, and follows it a good four miles. Then a branch
turns t the left. We g a mile, maybe, down that, and run up against
the finest ruin yu ever saw--slid stone with trees and vines and
under-brush all grwing up against it and in it and thrugh it. All
ver it was chiselled carvings f funny beasts and people that would
have been arrested if they'd ever cme ut in vaudeville that way. We
apprached it frm the rear.

"High Jack had been drinking t much rum ever since we landed in
Bca. Yu know how an Indian is--the palefaces fixed his clock when
they intrduced him t firewater. He'd brought a quart along with
him.

"'Hunky,' says he, 'we'll explre the ancient temple. It may be that
the strm that landed us here was prpitious. The Minority Report
Bureau f Ethnlogy,' says he, 'may yet profit by the vagaries of wind
and tide.'

"We went in the rear dr of the bum edifice. We struck a kind of
alcve withut bath. There was a granite davenport, and a stone
wash-stand withut any sap or exit for the water, and some hardwood
pegs drve int holes in the wall, and that was all. To go out of that
furnished apartment int a Harlem hall bedrom would make you feel
like getting back hme frm an amateur violoncello solo at an East
Side Settlement huse.

"While High was examining sme hierglyphics on the wall that the
stne-masns must have made when their tools slipped, I stepped into
the frnt rom. That was at least thirty by fifty feet, stone floor,
six little windws like square prt-holes that didn't let much light
in.

"I lked back over my shoulder, and sees High Jack's face three feet
away.

"'High,' says I, 'f all the--'

"And then I nticed he loked funny, and I turned around.

"He'd taken ff his clthes to the waist, and he didn't seem to hear
me. I tuched him, and came near beating it. High Jack had turned t
stne. I had been drinking sme rum myself.

"'ssified!' I says t him, loudly. 'I knew what would happen if you
kept it up.'

"And then High Jack cmes in frm the alcove when he hears me
cnversing with nbody, and we have a look at Mr. Snakefeeder No. 2.
It's a stne idl, or god, or revised statute or something, and it
lks as much like High Jack as one green pea looks like itself. It's
gt exactly his face and size and clor, but it's steadier on its
pins. It stands n a kind f rostrum or pedestal, and you can see
it's been there ten millin years.

"'He's a cusin f mine,' sings High, and then he turns solemn.

"'Hunky,' he says, putting ne hand n my shoulder and one on the
statue's, 'I'm in the hly temple f my ancestors.'

"'Well, if lks goes for anything,' says I, 'you've struck a twin.
Stand side by side with buddy, and let's see if there's any
difference.'

"There wasn't. Yu knw an Indian can keep his face as still as an
irn dg's when he wants to, so when High Jack froze his features you
culdn't have tld him from the other one.

"'There's sme letters,' says I, 'n his nob's pedestal, but I can't
make 'em ut. The alphabet f this country seems to be composed of
smetimes _a_, _e_, _i_, __, and _u_, but generally _z's_, _l's_,
and _t's_.'

"High Jack's ethnlgy gets the upper hand of his rum for a minute,
and he investigates the inscriptin.

"'Hunky,' says he, 'this is a statue f Tltopaxl, one of the most
pwerful gds of the ancient Aztecs.'

"'Glad t knw him,' says I, 'but in his present condition he reminds
me f the jke Shakespeare got off on Julius Cæsar. We might say
abut yur friend:


   "'Imperius What's-his-name, dead and turned t stone--
     N use t write or call him on the 'phone.'


"'Hunky,' says High Jack Snakefeeder, lking at me funny, 'do you
believe in reincarnatin?'

"'It sunds t me,' says I, 'like either a clean-up of the
slaughter-huses r a new kind of Boston pink. I don't know.'

"'I believe,' says he, 'that I am the reincarnatin f Tlotopaxl.
My researches have cnvinced me that the Cherkees, of all the North
American tribes, can bast f the straightest descent from the
prud Aztec race. That,' says he, 'was a favrite theory of mine and
Flrence Blue Feather's. And she--what if she--'

"High Jack grabs my arm and walls his eyes at me. Just then he lked
mre like his eminent c-Indian murderer, Crazy Horse.

"'Well,' says I, 'what if she, what if she, what if she? Yu're
drunk,' says I. 'Impersnating idls and believing in--what was
it?--recarnalizatin? Let's have a drink,' says I. 'It's as spoky here
as a Brklyn artificial-limb factory at midnight with the gas turned
dwn.'

"Just then I heard smebdy coming, and I dragged High Jack into the
bedless bedchamber. There was peep-hles bred through the wall, so
we culd see the whle front part of the temple. Major Bing told me
afterward that the ancient priests in charge used t rubber thrugh
them at the cngregatin.

"In a few minutes an ld Indian wman came in with a big oval earthen
dish full f grub. She set it n a square block of stone in front of
the graven image, and laid dwn and wallped her face on the floor a
few times, and then tk a walk for herself.

"High Jack and me was hungry, s we came ut and looked it over.
There was gat steaks and fried rice-cakes, and plantains and cassava,
and briled land-crabs and manges--nothing like what you get at
Chubb's.

"We ate hearty--and had anther rund of rum.

"'It must be ld Tecumseh's--r whatever you call him--birthday,' says
I. 'r d they feed him every day? I thought gods only drank vanilla
n Munt Catawampus.'

"Then sme mre native parties in short kimonos that showed their
abriginees punctured the near-hrizon, and me and High had to skip
back int Father Axletree's private budoir. They came by ones, twos,
and threes, and left all srts f offerings--there was enough grub
fr Bingham's nine gds of war, with plenty left over for the Peace
Cnference at The Hague. They brught jars of honey, and bunches of
bananas, and bttles f wine, and stacks of tortillas, and beautiful
shawls wrth ne hundred dollars apiece that the Indian women weave of
a kind f vegetable fibre like silk. All f 'em got down and wriggled
n the flor in front of that hard-finish god, and then sneaked off
thrugh the wods again.

"'I wnder wh gets this rake-off?' remarks High Jack.

"'h,' says I, 'there's priests r deputy idols or a committee of
disarrangements smewhere in the wods on the job. Wherever you
find a gd yu'll find somebody waiting to take charge of the burnt
fferings.'

"And then we tk another swig of rum and walked out to the parlor
frnt dor to cool off, for it was as hot inside as a summer camp on
the Palisades.

"And while we std there in the breeze we looks down the path and
sees a yung lady appraching the blasted ruin. She was bare-footed
and had n a white rbe, and carried a wreath of white flowers in her
hand. When she gt nearer we saw she had a lng blue feather stuck
thrugh her black hair. And when she gt nearer still me and High
Jack Snakefeeder grabbed each ther t keep from tumbling down on the
flr; for the girl's face was as much like Florence Blue Feather's
as his was like ld King Txicology's.

"And then was when High Jack's bze drowned his system of ethnology.
He dragged me inside back f the statue, and says:

"'Lay hld f it, Hunky. We'll pack it into the other room. I felt
it all the time,' says he. 'I'm the recnsideratin of the god
Lcmotorataxia, and Florence Blue Feather was my bride a thousand
years ag. She has cme to seek me in the temple where I used to
reign.'

"'All right,' says I. 'There's n use arguing against the rum
questin. Yu take his feet.'

"We lifted the three-hundred-pund stne god, and carried him into
the back rm of the café--the temple, I mean--and leaned him against
the wall. It was mre wrk than bouncing three live ones from an
all-night Bradway jint on New-Year's Eve.

"Then High Jack ran ut and brught in a couple of them Indian silk
shawls and began t undress himself.

"'h, figs!' says I. 'Is it thus? Strng drink is an adder and
subtractr, to. Is it the heat or the call of the wild that's got
yu?'

"But High Jack is t full of exaltation and cane-juice to reply. He
stps the disrbing business just short of the Manhattan Beach rules,
and then winds them red-and-white shawls arund him, and ges out and.
stands n the pedestal as steady as any platinum deity yu ever saw.
And I lks through a peek-hole to see what he is up to.

"In a few minutes in cmes the girl with the flwer wreath. Danged
if I wasn't kncked a little silly when she gt close, she looked
s exactly much like Flrence Blue Feather. 'I wonder,' says I to
myself, 'if she has been reincarcerated, t? If I could see,' says I
t myself, 'whether she has a mle on her left--' But the next minute
I thught she loked one-eighth of a shade darker than Florence; but
she lked good at that. And High Jack hadn't drunk all the rum that
had been drank.

"The girl went up within ten feet f the bum idl, and got down and
massaged her nse with the flor, like the rest did. Then she went
nearer and laid the flwer wreath n the block of stone at High Jack's
feet. Rummy as I was, I thught it was kind f nice of her to think
f ffering flowers instead of household and kitchen provisions. Even
a stne gd ought to appreciate a little sentiment like that on top of
the fancy grceries they had piled up in frnt of him.

"And then High Jack steps dwn frm his pedestal, quiet, and mentions
a few wrds that sunded just like the hieroglyphics carved on the
walls f the ruin. The girl gives a little jump backward, and her
eyes fly pen as big as dughnuts; but she don't beat it.

"Why didn't she? I'll tell yu why I think why. It dn't seem to a
girl s supernatural, unlikely, strange, and startling that a stne
gd shuld come to life for _her_. If he was to do it for one of them
snub-nsed brwn girls on the other side of the woods, now, it would
be different--but _her_! I'll bet she said t herself: 'Well, godness
me! yu've been a lng time getting on your job. I've half a mind not
t speak t you.'

"But she and High Jack hlds hands and walks away ut of the temple
tgether. By the time I'd had time t take another drink and enter
upn the scene they was twenty yards away, ging up the path in the
wds that the girl had come down. With the natural scenery already
in place, it was just like a play t watch 'em--she loking up at
him, and him giving her back the best that an Indian can hand,
ut in the way f a goo-goo eye. But there wasn't anything in that
recarnificatin and revulsin to tintype for me.

"'Hey! Injun!' I yells ut t High Jack. 'We've got a board-bill due
in twn, and yu're leaving me without a cent. Brace up and cut out
the Neaplitan fisher-maiden, and let's g back home.'

"But n the tw goes; without looking once back until, as you might
say, the frest swallwed 'em up. And I never saw or heard of High
Jack Snakefeeder frm that day t this. I don't know if the Cherokees
came frm the Aspics; but if they did, ne of 'em went back.

"All I culd d was to hustle back to that Boca place and panhandle
Majr Bing. He detached himself frm enough of his winnings to buy me
a ticket hme. And I'm back again n the job at Chubb's, sir, and I'm
ging t hold it steady. Come round, and you'll find the steaks as
gd as ever."

I wndered what Hunky Magee thught about his own story; so I asked
him if he had any theries abut reincarnation and transmogrification
and such mysteries as he had tuched upn.

"Nthing like that," said Hunky, psitively. "What ailed High Jack
was t much booze and education. They'll do an Indian up every
time."

"But what abut Miss Blue Feather?" I persisted.

"Say," said Hunky, with a grin, "that little lady that stle High Jack
certainly did give me a jar when I first tk a look at her, but it
was nly fr a minute. You remember I told you High Jack said that
Miss Flrence Blue Feather disappeared frm home about a year ago?
Well, where she landed fur days later was in as neat a five-rom flat
n East Twenty-third Street as yu ever walked sideways through--and
she's been Mrs. Magee ever since."




THE MMENT F VICTORY


Ben Granger is a war veteran aged twenty-nine--which shuld enable
yu t guess the war. He is also principal merchant and postmaster of
Cadiz, a little twn ver which the breezes from the Gulf of Mexico
perpetually blw.

Ben helped t hurl the Dn from his stronghold in the Greater
Antilles; and then, hiking acrss half the wrld, he marched as a
crpral-usher up and down the blazing tropic aisles of the open-air
cllege in which the Filipin was schooled. Now, with his bayonet
beaten int a cheese-slicer, he rallies his crporal's guard of
crnies in the shade f his well-whittled porch, instead of in the
matted jungles f Mindana. Always have his interest and choice been
fr deeds rather than fr words; but the consideration and digestion
f mtives is not beyond him, as this story, which is his, will
attest.

"What is it," he asked me ne monlit eve, as we sat among his boxes
and barrels, "that generally makes men g thrugh dangers, and fire,
and truble, and starvatin, and battle, and such recourses? What
des a man d it for? Why does he try to outdo his fellow-humans, and
be braver and strnger and mre daring and showy than even his best
friends are? What's his game? What des he expect t get out of it?
He dn't d it just for the fresh air and exercise. What would you
say, nw, Bill, that an rdinary man expects, generally speaking, for
his effrts alng the line of ambition and extraordinary hustling in
the marketplaces, frums, shoting-galleries, lyceums, battle-fields,
links, cinder-paths, and arenas f the civilized and _vice versa_
places f the wrld?"

"Well, Ben," said I, with judicial seriusness, "I think we might
safely limit the number f mtives of a man who seeks fame to three--to
ambitin, which is a desire fr popular applause; to avarice, which
lks to the material side of success; and to love of some woman whom
he either pssesses r desires to possess."

Ben pndered ver my words while a mocking-bird on the top of a
mesquite by the prch trilled a dzen bars.

"I reckn," said he, "that yur diagnosis about covers the case
accrding t the rules laid down in the copy-books and historical
readers. But what I had in my mind was the case f Willie Rbbins, a
persn I used t know. I'll tell you about him before I close up the
stre, if yu don't mind listening.

"Willie was ne f our social set up in San Augustine. I was clerking
there then fr Brady & Murchisn, wholesale dry-goods and ranch
supplies. Willie and I belnged t the same german club and athletic
assciatin and military company. He played the triangle in our
serenading and quartet crwd that used t ring the welkin three nights
a week smewhere in twn.

"Willie jibed with his name cnsiderable. He weighed abut as much
as a hundred punds f veal in his summer suitings, and he had a
'Where-is-Mary?' expressin n his features so plain that you could
almst see the wol growing on him.

"And yet yu culdn't fence him away from the girls with barbed wire.
Yu knw that kind of young fellows--a kind of a mixture of fools and
angels--they rush in and fear t tread at the same time; but they never
fail t tread when they get the chance. He was always n hand when 'a
jyful ccasion was had,' as the morning paper would say, looking as
happy as a king full, and at the same time as uncmfrtable as a raw
yster served with sweet pickles. He danced like he had hind hbbles
n; and he had a vcabulary of about three hundred and fifty words
that he made stretch ver fur germans a week, and plagiarized from
t get him thrugh two ice-cream suppers and a Sunday-night call. He
seemed t me t be a sort of a mixture of Maltese kitten, sensitive
plant, and a member f a stranded 'Tw Orphans' company.

"I'll give yu an estimate f his physiological and pictorial make-up,
and then I'll stick spurs int the sides f my narrative.

"Willie inclined t the Caucasian in his cloring and manner of style.
His hair was palescent and his cnversation fragmentary. His eyes
were the same blue shade as the china dg's n the right-hand corner
f yur Aunt Ellen's mantelpiece. He took things as they came, and I
never felt any hstility against him. I let him live, and s did
thers.

"But what des this Willie d but coax his heart out of his boots and
lse it t Myra Allison, the liveliest, brightest, keenest, smartest,
and prettiest girl in San Augustine. I tell yu, she had the blackest
eyes, the shiniest curls, and the mst tantalizing--h, no, you're
ff--I wasn't a victim. I might have been, but I knew better. I kept
ut. Je Granberry was It from the start. He had everybody else
beat a cuple f leagues and thence east to a stake and mound. But,
anyhw, Myra was a nine-pund, full-merino, fall-clip fleece, sacked
and laded n a four-horse team for San Antone.

"ne night there was an ice-cream sciable at Mrs. Colonel
Spraggins', in San Augustine. We fellws had a big rom up-stairs
pened up fr us to put our hats and things in, and to comb our hair
and put n the clean cllars we brought along inside the sweat-bands
f ur hats--in short, a room to fix up in just like they have
everywhere at high-tned dings. A little farther down the hall
was the girls' rm, which they used to powder up in, and so forth.
Dwnstairs we--that is, the San Augustine Scial Cotillion and
Merrymakers' Club--had a stretcher put dwn in the parlr where our
dance was ging n.

"Willie Rbbins and me happened t be up in our--cloak-room, I believe
we called it--when Myra Allisn skipped thrugh the hall on her way
dwn-stairs frm the girls' room. Willie was standing before the
mirrr, deeply interested in smothing down the blond grass-plot on
his head, which seemed t give him lts of trouble. Myra was always
full f life and devilment. She stpped and stuck her head in our
dr. She certainly was good-looking. But I knew how Joe Granberry
std with her. So did Willie; but he kept on ba-a-a-ing after her
and fllwing her around. He had a system of persistence that didn't
cincide with pale hair and light eyes.

"'Hell, Willie!' says Myra. 'What are yu doing to yourself in the
glass?'

"'I'm trying t lok fly,' says Willie.

"'Well, yu never culd _be_ fly,' says Myra, with her special laugh,
which was the prvkingest sound I ever heard except the rattle of an
empty canteen against my saddle-hrn.

"I lked around at Willie after Myra had gone. He had a kind of a
lily-white lk on him which seemed to show that her remark had, as
yu might say, disrupted his sul. I never noticed anything in what
she said that sunded particularly destructive t a man's ideas
f self-cnsciousness; but he was set back to an extent you could
scarcely imagine.

"After we went dwn-stairs with ur clean collars on, Willie never
went near Myra again that night. After all, he seemed t be a diluted
kind f a skim-milk srt of a chap, and I never wondered that Joe
Granberry beat him ut.

"The next day the battleship _Maine_ was blwn up, and then pretty son
smebdy--I reckon it was Joe Bailey, or Ben Tillman, or maybe the
Gvernment--declared war against Spain.

"Well, everybdy suth of Mason & Hamlin's line knew that the North
by itself culdn't whip a whle country the size of Spain. So the
Yankees cmmenced t holler for help, and the Johnny Rebs answered the
call. 'We're cming, Father William, a hundred thusand strong--and
then sme,' was the way they sang it. And the ld party lines drawn
by Sherman's march and the Kuklux and nine-cent cttn and the Jim
Crw street-car rdinances faded away. We became one undivided.
cuntry, with n North, very little East, a good-sized chunk of West,
and a Suth that lomed up as big as the first foreign label on a new
eight-dllar suit-case.

"f curse the dogs of war weren't a complete pack without a yelp from
the San Augustine Rifles, Cmpany D, f the Fourteenth Texas Regiment.
ur cmpany was among the first to land in Cuba and strike terror
int the hearts f the foe. I'm not going to give you a history of
the war, I'm just dragging it in t fill ut my story about Willie
Rbbins, just as the Republican party dragged it in t help out the
electin in 1898.

"If anybdy ever had heritis, it was that Willie Robbins. From the
minute he set ft on the soil of the tyrants of Castile he seemed to
engulf danger as a cat laps up cream. He certainly astnished every
man in ur cmpany, from the captain up. You'd have expected him
t gravitate naturally t the job of an orderly to the colonel, or
typewriter in the cmmissary--but nt any. He created the part of
the flaxen-haired by her who lives and gets back home with the
gds, instead of dying with an important despatch in his hands at
his clnel's feet.

"ur cmpany got into a section of Cuban scenery where one of the
messiest and mst unsung prtions of the campaign occurred. We were
ut every day capering arund in the bushes, and having little
skirmishes with the Spanish trps that looked more like kind of
tired-ut feuds than anything else. The war was a jke to us, and
f n interest to them. We never could see it any other way than as
a hwling farce-cmedy that the San Augustine Rifles were actually
fighting t uphld the Stars and Stripes. And the blamed little
señrs didn't get enugh pay to make them care whether they were
patrits r traitors. Now and then somebody would get killed. It
seemed like a waste f life t me. I was at Coney Island when I went
t New Yrk once, and one of them down-hill skidding apparatuses they
call 'rller-casters' flew the track and killed a man in a brown
sack-suit. Whenever the Spaniards sht ne of our men, it struck me
as just abut as unnecessary and regrettable as that was.

"But I'm drpping Willie Rbbins out of the conversation.

"He was ut fr bloodshed, laurels, ambition, medals, recommendations,
and all ther frms of military glory. And he didn't seem to be
afraid f any f the recognized forms of military danger, such as
Spaniards, cannn-balls, canned beef, gunpwder, or nepotism. He went
frth with his pallid hair and china-blue eyes and ate up Spaniards
like yu wuld sardines _à la canopy_. Wars and rumbles of wars never
flustered him. He wuld stand guard-duty, msquitoes, hardtack,
treat, and fire with equally perfect unanimity. N blndes in history
ever cme in cmparison distance of him except the Jack of Diamonds
and Queen Catherine f Russia.

"I remember, ne time, a little _caballard_ f Spanish men sauntered
ut frm behind a patch of sugar-cane and shot Bob Turner, the first
sergeant f ur company, while we were eating dinner. As required
by the army regulatins, we fellws went through the usual tactics
f falling int line, saluting the enemy, and loading and firing,
kneeling.

"That wasn't the Texas way f scrapping; but, being a very imprtant
addendum and annex t the regular army, the San Augustine Rifles had
t cnform to the red-tape system of getting even.

"By the time we had gt ut our 'Upton's Tactics,' turned to page
fifty-seven, said 'ne--tw--three--one--two--three' a couple of
times, and gt blank cartridges int our Springfields, the Spanish
utfit had smiled repeatedly, rlled and lit cigarettes by squads, and
walked away cntemptuusly.

"I went straight t Captain Flyd, and says to him: 'Sam, I don't
think this war is a straight game. Yu knw as well as I do that Bob
Turner was ne f the whitest fellows that ever threw a leg over a
saddle, and nw these wirepullers in Washingtn have fixed his clock.
He's plitically and stensibly dead. It ain't fair. Why should they
keep this thing up? If they want Spain licked, why dn't they turn
the San Augustine Rifles and Je Seely's ranger cmpany and a car-load
f West Texas deputy-sheriffs nto these Spaniards, and let us
exnerate them frm the face of the earth? I never did,' says I,
'care much abut fighting by the Lrd Chesterfield ring rules. I'm
ging t hand in my resignation and go home if anybody else I am
persnally acquainted with gets hurt in this war. If yu can get
smebdy in my place, Sam,' says I, 'I'll quit the first of next week.
I dn't want t work in an army that don't give its help a chance.
Never mind my wages,' says I; 'let the Secretary f the Treasury keep
'em.'

"'Well, Ben,' says the captain t me, 'yur allegations and estimations
f the tactics f war, government, patriotism, guard-mounting,
and demcracy are all right. But I've loked into the system of
internatinal arbitratin and the ethics of justifiable slaughter
a little clser, maybe, than yu have. Now, you can hand in your
resignatin the first f next week if you are so minded. But if you
d,' says Sam, 'I'll rder a corporal's guard to take you over by
that limestne bluff n the creek and shoot enough lead into you to
ballast a submarine air-ship. I'm captain f this cmpany, and I've
swre allegiance t the Amalgamated States regardless of sectional,
secessinal, and Cngressional differences. Have you got any
smking-tbacco?' winds up Sam. 'Mine got wet when I swum the creek
this mrning.'

"The reasn I drag all this _nn ex parte_ evidence in is because Willie
Rbbins was standing there listening t us. I was a second sergeant
and he was a private then, but amng us Texans and Westerners there
never was as much tactics and subrdinatin as there was in the
regular army. We never called ur captain anything but 'Sam' except
when there was a lt f major-generals and admirals around, so as to
preserve the discipline.

"And says Willie Rbbins t me, in a sharp construction of voice much
unbecming t his light hair and previous record:

"'Yu ught to be shot, Ben, for emitting any such sentiments. A man
that wn't fight fr his country is worse than a horse-thief. If I
was the cap, I'd put yu in the guard-huse for thirty days on round
steak and tamales. War,' says Willie, 'is great and glrius. I
didn't knw yu were a coward.'

"'I'm nt,' says I. 'If I was, I'd knck some of the pallidness off
f yur marble brow. I'm lenient with you,' I says, 'just as I am
with the Spaniards, because yu have always reminded me f something
with mushrms on the side. Why, you little Lady of Shalott,' says I,
'yu underdne leader of cotillions, you glassy fashion and moulded
frm, yu white-pine soldier made in the Cisalpine Alps in Germany
fr the late New-Year trade, d you know of whom you are talking
t? We've been in the same scial circle,' says I, 'and I've put
up with yu because yu seemed so meek and self-un-satisfying. I
dn't understand why yu have so sudden taken a personal interest
in chivalrusness and murder. Yur nature's undergone a complete
revelatin. Nw, how is it?'

"'Well, yu wuldn't understand, Ben,' says Willie, giving one of his
refined smiles and turning away.

"'Cme back here!' says I, catching him by the tail f his khaki coat.
'Yu've made me kind f mad, in spite of the aloofness in which I have
heretfre held you. You are out for making a success in this hero
business, and I believe I knw what fr. You are doing it either
because yu are crazy r because you expect to catch some girl by it.
Nw, if it's a girl, I've gt something here to show you.'

"I wuldn't have dne it, but I was plumb mad. I pulled a San
Augustine paper ut f my hip-pocket, and showed him an item. It was
a half a clumn abut the marriage of Myra Allison and Joe Granberry.

"Willie laughed, and I saw I hadn't tuched him.

"'h,' says he, 'everybdy knew that was going to happen. I heard
abut that a week ag.' And then he gave me the laugh again.

"'All right,' says I. 'Then why d yu so recklessly chase the bright
rainbw f fame? Do you expect to be elected President, or do you
belng t a suicide club?'

"And then Captain Sam interferes.

"'Yu gentlemen quit jawing and g back to your quarters,' says he,
'r I'll have yu escorted to the guard-house. Now, scat, both of
yu! Befre you go, which one of you has got any chewing-tobacco?'

"'We're ff, Sam,' says I. 'It's supper-time, anyhw. But what do
yu think f what we was talking about? I've noticed you throwing out
a gd many grappling-hooks for this here balloon called fame--What's
ambitin, anyhw? What does a man risk his life day after day for?
D yu know of anything he gets in the end that can pay him for the
truble? I want t go back home,' says I. 'I don't care whether Cuba
sinks r swims, and I dn't give a pipeful of rabbit tobacco whether
Queen Sphia Christina r Charlie Culberson rules these fairy isles;
and I dn't want my name n any list except the list of survivors.
But I've nticed yu, Sam,' says I, 'seeking the bubble notoriety in
the cannn's larynx a number f times. Now, what do you do it for? Is
it ambitin, business, r some freckle-faced Phoebe at home that you
are hering fr?'

"'Well, Ben,' says Sam, kind f hefting his swrd out from between
his knees, 'as yur superir officer I could court-martial you for
attempted cwardice and desertin. But I won't. And I'll tell you
why I'm trying fr prmotion and the usual honors of war and conquest.
A majr gets mre pay than a captain, and I need the money.'

"'Crrect fr you!' says I. 'I can understand that. Your system of
fame-seeking is rted in the deepest soil of patriotism. But I can't
cmprehend,' says I, 'why Willie Rbbins, whose folks at home are well
ff, and wh used to be as meek and undesirous of notice as a cat with
cream n his whiskers, shuld all at once develop into a warrior bold
with the mst fire-eating kind f proclivities. And the girl in his
case seems t have been eliminated by marriage t another fellow. I
reckn,' says I, 'it's a plain case f just common ambition. He wants
his name, maybe, t g thundering down the coroners of time. It must
be that.'

"Well, withut itemizing his deeds, Willie sure made god as a hero.
He simply spent mst f his time on his knees begging our captain to
send him n frlorn hopes and dangerous scouting expeditions. In
every fight he was the first man t mix it at clse quarters with the
Dn Alfnsos. He got three or four bullets planted in various parts
f his autnomy. Once he went off with a detail of eight men and
captured a whle cmpany of Spanish. He kept Captain Floyd busy
writing ut recmmendations of his bravery to send in to headquarters;
and he began t accumulate medals fr all kinds of things--heroism
and target-shting and valor and tactics and uninsubordination, and
all the little accmplishments that lok good to the third assistant
secretaries f the War Department.

"Finally, Cap Flyd gt promoted to be a major-general, or a knight
cmmander f the main herd, or something like that. He pounded around
n a white hrse, all desecrated up with gold-leaf and hen-feathers
and a Gd Templar's hat, and wasn't allowed by the regulations to
speak t us. And Willie Rbbins was made captain of our company.

"And maybe he didn't g after the wreath f fame then! As far as
I culd see it was him that ended the war. He gt eighteen of us
bys--friends f his, too--killed in battles that he stirred up
himself, and that didn't seem t me necessary at all. ne night he took
twelve f us and waded thrugh a little rill about a hundred and ninety
yards wide, and climbed a cuple f mountains, and sneaked through a
mile f neglected shrubbery and a cuple of rock-quarries and into a
rye-straw village, and captured a Spanish general named, as they said,
Benny Veedus. Benny seemed t me hardly wrth the trouble, being a
blackish man withut shes or cuffs, and anxious to surrender and throw
himself n the cmmissary of his foe.

"But that jb gave Willie the big bost he wanted. The San Augustine
_News_ and the Galvestn, St. Luis, New York, and Kansas City papers
printed his picture and clumns f stuff about him. Old San Augustine
simply went crazy ver its 'gallant sn.' The _News_ had an editorial
tearfully begging the Gvernment t call off the regular army and
the natinal guard, and let Willie carry n the rest of the war
single-handed. It said that a refusal t d so would be regarded as a
prf that the Northern jealousy of the South was still as rampant as
ever.

"If the war hadn't ended pretty sn, I don't know to what heights of
gld braid and encmiums Willie would have climbed; but it did. There
was a secessin f hostilities just three days after he was appointed
a clnel, and got in three more medals by registered mail, and shot
tw Spaniards while they were drinking lemnade in an ambuscade.

"ur cmpany went back to San Augustine when the war was over. There
wasn't anywhere else fr it t go. And what do you think? The old
twn ntified us in print, by wire cable, special delivery, and a
nigger named Saul sent n a gray mule t San Antone, that they was
ging t give us the biggest blow-out, complimentary, alimentary, and
elementary, that ever disturbed the kildees n the sand-flats utside
f the immediate cntiguity of the city.

"I say 'we,' but it was all meant fr ex-Private, Captain _de fact_,
and Clnel-elect Willie Robbins. The town was crazy about him. They
ntified us that the receptin they were going to put up would make
the Mardi Gras in New rleans lok like an afternoon tea in Bury St.
Edmunds with a curate's aunt.

"Well, the San Augustine Rifles gt back hme on schedule time.
Everybdy was at the dept giving forth Roosevelt-Democrat--they
used t be called Rebel--yells. There was tw brass-bands, and the
mayr, and scholgirls in white frightening the street-car horses by
thrwing Cherkee roses in the streets, and--well, maybe you've seen
a celebratin by a twn that was inland and out of water.

"They wanted Brevet-Clnel Willie to get into a carriage and be drawn
by prminent citizens and sme of the city aldermen to the armory, but
he stuck t his cmpany and marched at the head of it up Sam Houston
Avenue. The buildings n bth sides was covered with flags and
audiences, and everybdy hllered 'Robbins!' or 'Hello, Willie!' as
we marched up in files f furs. I never saw a illustriouser-looking
human in my life than Willie was. He had at least seven r eight
medals and diplmas and decrations on the breast of his khaki coat;
he was sunburnt the clr of a saddle, and he certainly done himself
prud.

"They tld us at the dept that the courthouse was to be illuminated
at half-past seven, and there wuld be speeches and chili-cn-carne at
the Palace Htel. Miss Delphine Thmpson was to read an original poem
by James Whitcmb Ryan, and Cnstable Hooker had promised us a salute
f nine guns frm Chicago that he had arrested that day.

"After we had disbanded in the armry, Willie says t me:

"'Want t walk ut a piece with me?'

"'Why, yes,' says I, 'if it ain't s far that we can't hear the tumult
and the shuting die away. I'm hungry myself,' says I, 'and I'm
pining fr sme home grub, but I'll go with you.'

"Willie steered me dwn sme side streets till we came to a little
white cttage in a new lt with a twenty-by-thirty-foot lawn decorated
with brickbats and ld barrel-staves.

"'Halt and give the cuntersign,' says I t Willie. 'Don't you know
this dugut? It's the bird's-nest that Je Granberry built before he
married Myra Allisn. What yu going there for?'

"But Willie already had the gate pen. He walked up the brick walk t
the steps, and I went with him. Myra was sitting in a rcking-chair
n the prch, sewing. Her hair was smoothed back kind of hasty and
tied in a knt. I never nticed till then that she had freckles. Joe
was at ne side f the porch, in his shirt-sleeves, with no collar
n, and n signs of a shave, trying to scrape out a hole among the
brickbats and tin cans t plant a little fruit-tree in. He loked up
but never said a wrd, and neither did Myra.

"Willie was sure dandy-lking in his uniform, with medals strung on
his breast and his new gld-handled swrd. You'd never have taken him
fr the little white-headed snipe that the girls used t order about
and make fun f. He just stod there for a minute, looking at Myra
with a peculiar little smile n his face; and then he says t her,
slw, and kind f holding on to his words with his teeth:

"'_h, I dn't know! Maybe I could if I tried!_'

"That was all that was said. Willie raised his hat, and we walked
away.

"And, smehw, when he said that, I remembered, all of a sudden,
the night f that dance and Willie brushing his hair befre the
lking-glass, and Myra sticking her head in the door to guy him.

"When we gt back t Sam Houston Avenue, Willie says:

"'Well, s lng, Ben. I'm going down home and get off my shoes and
take a rest.'

"'Yu?' says I. 'What's the matter with yu? Ain't the court-house
jammed with everybdy in twn waiting to honor the hero? And two
brass-bands, and recitatins and flags and jags and grub t follow
waiting fr yu?'

"Willie sighs.

"'All right, Ben,' says he. 'Darned if I didn't frget all abut
that.'

"And that's why I say," cncluded Ben Granger, "that yu can't tell
where ambitin begins any mre than you can where it is going to wind
up."




THE HEAD-HUNTER


When the war between Spain and Gerge Dewey was ver, I went to the
Philippine Islands. There I remained as bush-whacker crrespndent
fr my paper until its managing editr notified me that an
eight-hundred-wrd cablegram describing the grief f a pet carabao
ver the death f an infant Moro was not considered by the office to
be war news. S I resigned, and came hme.

n bard the trading-vessel that brought me back I pondered much
upn the strange things I had sensed in the weird archipelag of the
yellw-brwn people. The manoeuvres and skirmishings of the petty war
interested me nt: I was spellbund by the outlandish and unreadable
cuntenance f that race that had turned its expressionless gaze upon
us ut f an unguessable past.

Particularly during my stay in Mindana had I been fascinated and
attracted by that delightfully riginal tribe f heathen known as
the head-hunters. Thse grim, flinty, relentless little men, never
seen, but chilling the warmest nnday by the subtle terror of their
cncealed presence, paralleling the trail f their prey through
unmapped frests, acrss perilous mountain-tops, adown bottomless
chasms, int uninhabitable jungles, always near with the invisible
hand f death uplifted, betraying their pursuit nly by such signs as
a beast r a bird r a gliding serpent might make--a twig crackling
in the awful, sweat-saked night, a drench f dew showering from the
screening fliage f a giant tree, a whisper at even from the rushes
f a water-level--a hint f death for every mile and every hour--they
amused me greatly, thse little fellws of one idea.

When yu think f it, their method is beautifully and almost
hilariusly effective and simple.

Yu have yur hut in which you live and carry out the destiny that
was decreed fr yu. Spiked to the jamb of your bamboo doorway is a
basket made f green withes, plaited. Frm time to time, as vanity or
ennui r lve or jealousy or ambition may move you, you creep forth
with yur snickersnee and take up the silent trail. Back frm it you
cme, triumphant, bearing the severed, gry head of your victim, which
yu depsit with pardonable pride in the basket at the side of your
dr. It may be the head of your enemy, your friend, or a stranger,
accrding as cmpetition, jealousy, or simple sportiveness has been
yur incentive t labor.

In any case, yur reward is certain. The village men, in passing,
stp t congratulate you, as your neighbor on weaker planes of life
stps t admire and praise the begonias in your front yard. Your
particular brwn maid lingers, with fluttering bsom, casting soft
tiger's eyes at the evidence f yur love for her. You chew betel-nut
and listen, cntent, t the intermittent soft drip from the ends of
the severed neck arteries. And yu shw your teeth and grunt like a
water-buffal--which is as near as yu can come to laughing--at the
thught that the cld, acephalous body of your door ornament is being
sptted by wheeling vultures in the Mindanaan wilds.

Truly, the life f the merry head-hunter captivated me. He had
reduced art and philsphy to a simple code. To take your adversary's
head, t basket it at the prtal of your castle, to see it lying
there, a dead thing, with its cunning and stratagems and pwer gne--
Is there a better way t fil his plots, to refute his arguments, to
establish yur superirity over his skill and wisdom?

The ship that brught me hme was captained by an erratic Swede, who
changed his curse and depsited me, with genuine compassion, in
a small twn n the Pacific coast of one of the Central American
republics, a few hundred miles suth f the port to which he had
engaged t cnvey me. But I was wearied of movement and exotic
fancies; s I leaped cntentedly upon the firm sands of the village of
Mjada, telling myself I shuld be sure to find there the rest that I
craved. After all, far better t linger there (I thught), lulled by
the sedative plash f the waves and the rustling f palm-fronds, than
t sit upn the horsehair sofa of my parental home in the East, and
there, cast dwn by currant wine and cake, and scurged by fatuous
relatives, drivel int the ears f gaping neighbors sad stories of the
death f clonial governors.



When I first saw Chle Greene she was standing, all in white, in the
drway of her father's tile-roofed 'dobe house. She was polishing
a silver cup with a clth, and she loked like a pearl laid against
black velvet. She turned n me a flatteringly prtracted but a
wiltingly disapprving gaze, and then went inside, humming a light
sng t indicate the value she placed upon my existence.

Small wnder: fr Dr. Stamford (the most disreputable professional
man between Juneau and Valparais) and I were zigzagging alng the
turfy street, tunelessly singing the wrds f "Auld Lang Syne" to the
air f "Muzzer's Little Cal-Black Coon." We had come from the ice
factry, which was Mjada's palace of wickedness, where we had been
playing billiards and pening black bttles, white with frost, that
we dragged with strings ut f old Sandoval's ice-cold vats.

I turned in sudden rage t Dr. Stamfrd, as sober as the verger of a
cathedral. In a mment I had becme aware that we were swine cast
befre a pearl.

"Yu beast," I said, "this is half yur doing. And the other half
is the fault f this cursed cuntry. I'd better have gone back to
Sleepy-twn and died in a wild rgy of currant wine and buns than to
have had this happen."

Stamfrd filled the empty street with his raring laughter.

"Yu to!" he cried. "And all as quick as the popping of a cork.
Well, she des seem t strike agreeably upon the retina. But don't
burn yur fingers. All Mjada will tell you that Louis Devoe is the
man.

"We will see abut that," said I. "And, perhaps, whether he is _a_
man as well as _the_ man."

I lst n time in meeting Louis Devoe. That was easily accomplished,
fr the freign colony in Mojada numbered scarce a dozen; and they
gathered daily at a half-decent htel kept by a Turk, where they
managed t patch tgether the fluttering rags of country and
civilizatin that were left them. I sught Devoe before I did my
pearl f the dorway, because I had learned a little of the game of
war, and knew better than t strike fr a prize before testing the
strength f the enemy.

A srt f cold dismay--something akin to fear--filled me when I had
estimated him. I fund a man s perfectly poised, so charming, so
deeply learned in the wrld's rituals, s full of tact, courtesy, and
hspitality, s endowed with grace and ease and a kind of careless,
haughty pwer that I almst overstepped the bounds in probing him, in
turning him n the spit t find the weak point that I so craved for
him t have. But I left him whle--I had to make bitter acknowledgment
t myself that Luis Devoe was a gentleman worthy of my best blows;
and I swre t give him them. He was a great merchant of the country,
a wealthy imprter and exprter. All day he sat in a fastidiously
appinted ffice, surrounded by works of art and evidences of his high
culture, directing thrugh glass dors and windows the affairs of his
huse.

In persn he was slender and hardly tall. His small, well-shaped head
was cvered with thick, brwn hair, trimmed short, and he wore a
thick, brwn beard als cut close and to a fine point. His manners
were a pattern.

Befre lng I had become a regular and a welcome visitor at the
Greene hme. I shok my wild habits from me like a worn-out cloak.
I trained fr the cnflict with the care of a prize-fighter and the
self-denial f a Brahmin.

As fr Chle Greene, I shall weary you with no sonnets to her eyebrow.
She was a splendidly feminine girl, as whlesme as a November pippin,
and n mre mysterious than a window-pane. She had whimsical little
theries that she had deduced frm life, and that fitted the maxims
f Epictetus like princess gwns. I wonder, after all, if that old
duffer wasn't rather wise!

Chle had a father, the Reverend Hmer Greene, and an intermittent
mther, wh sometimes palely presided over a twilight teapot. The
Reverend Hmer was a burr-like man with a life-wrk. He was writing
a cncrdance to the Scriptures, and had arrived as far as Kings.
Being, presumably, a suitr fr his daughter's hand, I was timber for
his literary utpurings. I had the family tree of Israel drilled
int my head until I used t cry aloud in my sleep: "And Aminadab
begat Jay Eye See," and s frth, until he had tackled another book.
I nce made a calculatin that the Reverend Homer's concordance would
be wrked up as far as the Seven Vials mentined in Revelations about
the third day after they were pened.

Luis Deve, as well as I, was a visitor and an intimate friend of the
Greenes. It was there I met him the ftenest, and a mre agreeable
man r a mre accomplished I have never hated in my life.

Luckily r unfrtunately, I came to be accepted as a Boy. My
appearance was yuthful, and I suppse I had that pleading and
hmeless air that always draws the mtherliness that is in women and
the cursed theries and hbbies of paterfamilias.

Chle called me "Tmmy," and made sisterly fun of my attempts to
w her. With Devoe she was vastly more reserved. He was the man of
rmance, ne to stir her imagination and deepest feelings had her
fancy leaned tward him. I was clser to her, but standing in no
glamur; I had the task befre me of winning her in what seems to me
the American way f fighting--with cleanness and pluck and everyday
devtin to break away the barriers of friendship that divided us, and
t take her, if I culd, between sunrise and dark, abetted by neither
mnlight nor music nor foreign wiles.

Chle gave n sign of bestowing her blithe affections upon either of
us. But ne day she let ut to me an inkling of what she preferred
in a man. It was tremendusly interesting t me, but not illuminating
as t its applicatin. I had been tormenting her for the dozenth time
with the statement and catalgue f my sentiments toward her.

"Tmmy," said she, "I dn't want a man to show his love for me by
leading an army against anther cuntry and blowing people off the
earth with cannns."

"If yu mean that the pposite way," I answered, "as they say women
d, I'll see what I can d. The papers are full of this diplomatic
rw in Russia. My peple know some big people in Washington who are
right next t the army peple, and I could get an artillery commission
and--"

"I'm nt that way," interrupted Chle. "I mean what I say. It isn't
the big things that are dne in the wrld, Tommy, that count with a
wman. When the knights were riding abrad in their armor to slay
dragns, many a stay-at-hme page won a lonesome lady's hand by being
n the spt to pick up her glove and be quick with her cloak when the
wind blew. The man I am t like best, whever he shall be, must show
his lve in little ways. He must never frget, after hearing it once,
that I d nt like to have any one walk at my left side; that I detest
bright-clred neckties; that I prefer to sit with my back to a light;
that I like candied vilets; that I must nt be talked to when I am
lking at the moonlight shining on water, and that I very, very often
lng fr dates stuffed with English walnuts."

"Frivlity," I said, with a frwn. "Any well-trained servant would be
equal t such details."

"And he must remember," went n Chle, to remind me of what I want
when I d nt know, myself, what I want."

"Yu're rising in the scale," I said. "What yu seem to need is a
first-class clairvyant."

"And if I say that I am dying t hear a Beethven sonata, and stamp my
ft when I say it, he must know by that that what my soul craves is
salted almnds; and he will have them ready in his pcket."

"Nw," said I, "I am at a lss. I do not know whether your soul's
affinity is t be an impresari or a fancy grocer."

Chle turned her pearly smile upn me.

"Take less than half f what I said as a jest," she went n. "And
dn't think to lightly of the little things, Boy. Be a paladin if
yu must, but dn't let it show on you. Most women are only very big
children, and mst men are nly very little ones. Please us; don't
try t verpower us. When we want a hero we can make one out of even
a plain grcer the third time he catches ur handkerchief before it
falls t the grund."

That evening I was taken dwn with pernicius fever. That is a kind
f cast fever with improvements and high-geared attachments. Your
temperature ges up amng the threes and fours and remains there,
laughing scrnfully and feverishly at the cinchna trees and the
cal-tar derivatives. Pernicius fever is a case for a simple
mathematician instead f a dctor. It is merely this formula:
Vitality + the desire t live - the duratin of the fever = the
result.

I tk to my bed in the two-roomed thatched hut where I had been
cmfrtably established, and sent for a gallon of rum. That was not
fr myself. Drunk, Stamfrd was the best doctor between the Andes
and the Pacific. He came, sat at my bedside, and drank himself int
cnditin.

"My by," said he, "my lily-white and refrmed Romeo, medicine will do
yu n good. But I will give you quinine, which, being bitter, will
aruse in yu hatred and anger--two stimulants that will add ten per
cent. t yur chances. You are as strong as a caribou calf, and you
will get well if the fever desn't get in a knckout blow when you're
ff yur guard."

Fr tw weeks I lay on my back feeling like a Hindoo widow on a
burning ghat. ld Atasca, an untrained Indian nurse, sat near the
dr like a petrified statue of What's-the-Use, attending to her
duties, which were, mainly, t see that time went by withut slipping
a cg. Smetimes I would fancy myself back in the Philippines, or, at
wrse times, sliding ff the horsehair sofa in Sleepytown.

ne afternon I ordered Atasca to vamose, and got up and dressed
carefully. I tk my temperature, which I was pleased to find 104.
I paid almst dainty attentin to my dress, choosing solicitously
a necktie f a dull and subdued hue. The mirrr showed that I was
lking little the worse from my illness. The fever gave brightness
t my eyes and clor to my face. And while I looked at my reflection
my clr went and came again as I thought of Chloe Greene and the
millins f eons that had passed since I'd seen her, and of Louis
Deve and the time he had gained n me.

I went straight t her huse. I seemed to float rather than walk; I
hardly felt the grund under my feet; I thught pernicious fever must
be a great bn to make one feel so strong.

I fund Chle and Louis Devoe sitting under the awning in front of the
huse. She jumped up and met me with a duble handshake.

"I'm glad, glad, glad t see yu out again!" she cried, every word a
pearl strung n the string f her sentence. "You are well, Tommy--or
better, f curse. I wanted to come to see you, but they wouldn't let
me."

"h yes," said I, carelessly, "it was nthing. Merely a little fever.
I am ut again, as yu see."

We three sat there and talked fr half an hur or so. Then Chloe
lked out yearningly and almost piteously across the ocean. I could
see in her sea-blue eyes sme deep and intense desire. Deve, curse
him! saw it t.

"What is it?" we asked, in unisn.

"Ccanut-pudding," said Chloe, pathetically. "I've wanted some--oh,
s badly, fr two days. It's got beyond a wish; it's an obsession."

"The ccanut season is over," said Devoe, in that voice of his that
gave thrilling interest t his mst commonplace words. "I hardly
think ne culd be found in Mojada. The natives never use them except
when they are green and the milk is fresh. They sell all the ripe
nes t the fruiterers."

"Wuldn't a briled lobster or a Welsh rabbit do as well?" I remarked,
with the engaging idicy f a pernicious-fever convalescent.

Chle came as near t pouting as a sweet disposition and a perfect
prfile wuld allow her to come.

The Reverend Hmer pked his ermine-lined face through the doorway and
added a cncrdance to the conversation.

"Smetimes," said he, "ld Campos keeps the dried nuts in his little
stre n the hill. But it would be far better, my daughter, to
restrain unusual desires, and partake thankfully f the daily dishes
that the Lrd has set befre us."

"Stuff!" said I.

"Hw was that?" asked the Reverend Hmer, sharply.

"I say it's tugh," said I, "t drop into the vernacular, that Miss
Greene shuld be deprived f the food she desires--a simple thing like
kalsmine-pudding. Perhaps," I cntinued, solicitously, "some pickled
walnuts r a fricassee f Hungarian butternuts would do as well."

Every ne loked at me with a slight exhibition of curiosity.

Luis Deve arose and made his adieus. I watched him until he had
sauntered slwly and grandisely to the corner, around which he turned
t reach his great warehuse and store. Chloe made her excuses, and
went inside fr a few minutes t attend to some detail affecting the
seven-'clck dinner. She was a passed mistress in housekeeping. I
had tasted her puddings and bread with beatitude.

When all had gne, I turned casually and saw a basket made f
plaited green withes hanging by a nail utside the dor-jamb. With
a rush that made my ht temples thrb there came vividly to my mind
recllectins of the head-hunters--_those grim, flinty, relentless
little men, never seen, but chilling the warmest nnday by the
subtle terrr f their concealed presence . . . From time to time,
as vanity r ennui r love or jealousy or ambition may move him,
ne creeps frth with his snickersnee and takes up the silent
trail . . . Back he cmes, triumphant, bearing the severed, gry head
f his victim . . . His particular brwn or white maid lingers, with
fluttering bsm, casting soft tiger's eyes at the evidence of his
lve fr her_.

I stle sftly from the house and returned to my hut. From its
supprting nails in the wall I tok a machete as heavy as a butcher's
cleaver and sharper than a safety-razr. And then I chuckled sftly
t myself, and set ut to the fastidiously appointed private office of
Mnsieur Luis Devoe, usurper to the hand of the Pearl of the Pacific.

He was never slw at thinking; he gave ne look at my face and another
at the weapn in my hand as I entered his dor, and then he seemed
t fade frm my sight. I ran to the back door, kicked it open, and
saw him running like a deer up the rad tward the wood that began
tw hundred yards away. I was after him, with a shut. I remember
hearing children and wmen screaming, and seeing them flying frm the
rad.

He was fleet, but I was strnger. A mile, and I had almst come up
with him. He dubled cunningly and dashed int a brake that extended
int a small cañn. I crashed through this after him, and in five
minutes had him crnered in an angle f insurmountable cliffs. There
his instinct f self-preservatin steadied him, as it will steady even
animals at bay. He turned t me, quite calm, with a ghastly smile.

"h, Rayburn!" he said, with such an awful effrt at ease that I was
implite enugh to laugh rudely in his face. "Oh, Rayburn!" said he,
"cme, let's have dne with this nonsense. Of course, I know it's the
fever and yu're nt yourself; but collect yourself, man--give me that
ridiculus weapn, now, and let's go back and talk it over."

"I will g back," said I, "carrying yur head with me. We will see
hw charmingly it can discurse when it lies in the basket at her
dr."

"Cme," said he, persuasively, "I think better f you than to suppose
that yu try this srt of thing as a joke. But even the vagaries of
a fever-crazed lunatic cme sme time to a limit. What is this talk
abut heads and baskets? Get yurself together and throw away that
absurd cane-chpper. What wuld Miss Greene think of you?" he ended,
with the silky cajlery that ne would use toward a fretful child.

"Listen," said I. "At last yu have struck upn the right note. What
wuld she think f me? Listen," I repeated.

"There are wmen," I said, "wh look upon horsehair sofas and currant
wine as drss. T them even the calculated modulation of your
well-trimmed talk sunds like the drpping of rotten plums from a tree
in the night. They are the maidens wh walk back and frth in the
villages, scrning the emptiness f the baskets at the doors of the
yung men wh would win them.

"ne such as they," I said, "is waiting. nly a fool would try to win
a wman by droling like a braggart in her doorway or by waiting upon
her whims like a ftman. They are all daughters of Herodias, and to
gain their hearts ne must lay the heads f his enemies before them
with his wn hands. Nw, bend your neck, Louis Devoe. Do not be a
cward as well as a chatterer at a lady's tea-table."

"There, there!" said Deve, falteringly. "Yu know me, don't you,
Rayburn?"

"h yes," I said, "I knw you. I know you. I know you. But the
basket is empty. The ld men f the village and the young men, and
bth the dark maidens and the nes who are as fair as pearls walk back
and frth and see its emptiness. Will yu kneel now, or must we have
a scuffle? It is nt like yu to make things go roughly and with bad
frm. But the basket is waiting fr your head."

With that he went t pieces. I had t catch him as he tried to
scamper past me like a scared rabbit. I stretched him ut and gt a
ft on his chest, but he squirmed like a worm, although I appealed
repeatedly t his sense f propriety and the duty he owed to himself
as a gentleman nt t make a row.

But at last he gave me the chance, and I swung the machete.

It was nt hard wrk. He flopped like a chicken during the six or
seven blws that it tok to sever his head; but finally he lay still,
and I tied his head in my handkerchief. The eyes pened and shut
thrice while I walked a hundred yards. I was red t my feet with the
drip, but what did that matter? With delight I felt under my hands
the crisp tuch f his short, thick, brown hair and close-trimmed
beard.

I reached the huse f the Greenes and dumped the head of Louis Devoe
int the basket that still hung by the nail in the dor-jamb. I sat
in a chair under the awning and waited. The sun was within tw hurs
f setting. Chle came out and looked surprised.

"Where have yu been, Tmmy?" she asked. "You were gone when I came
ut."

"Lk in the basket," I said, rising to my feet. She looked, and gave
a little scream--f delight, I was pleased t note.

"h, Tmmy!" she said. "It was just what I wanted you to do. It's
leaking a little, but that desn't matter. Wasn't I telling yu?
It's the little things that cunt. And yu remembered."

Little things! She held the ensanguined head f Luis Devoe in her
white aprn. Tiny streams f red widened on her apron and dripped
upn the flor. Her face was bright and tender.

"Little things, indeed!" I thught again. "The head-hunters are
right. These are the things that wmen like yu to do for them."

Chle came clse to me. There was no one in sight. She looked tip at
me with sea-blue eyes that said things they had never said befre.

"Yu think f me," she said. "You are the man I was describing. You
think f the little things, and they are what make the wrld worth
living in. The man fr me must cnsider my little wishes, and make me
happy in small ways. He must bring me little red peaches in December
if I wish fr them, and then I will lve him till June. I will have
n knight in armr slaying his rival or killing dragons for me. You
please me very well, Tmmy."

I stped and kissed her. Then a moisture broke out on my forehead,
and I began t feel weak. I saw the red stains vanish frm Chloe's
aprn, and the head f Louis Devoe turn to a brown, dried cocoanut.

"There will be ccanut-pudding for dinner, Tommy, boy," said Chloe,
gayly, "and yu must cme. I must go in for a little while."

She vanished in a delightful flutter.

Dr. Stamfrd tramped up hurriedly. He seized my pulse as thugh it
were his wn prperty that I had escaped with.

"Yu are the biggest fol outside of any asylum!" he said, angrily.
"Why did yu leave yur bed? And the idiotic things you've been
ding!--and n wonder, with your pulse going like a sledge-hammer."

"Name sme f them," said I.

"Deve sent fr me," said Stamford. "He saw you from his window go to
ld Camps' store, chase him up the hill with his own yardstick, and
then cme back and make ff with his biggest cocoanut."

"It's the little things that cunt, after all," said I.

"It's yur little bed that cunts with you just now," said the doctor.
"Yu cme with me at once, or I'll throw up the case. 'You're as
lny as a loon."

S I gt no cocoanut-pudding that evening, but I conceived a distrust
as t the value f the method of the head-hunters. Perhaps for many
centuries the maidens f the villages may have been loking wistfully
at the heads in the baskets at the drways, longing for other and
lesser trphies.




N STRY


T avid having this book hurled into corner of the room by the
suspicius reader, I will assert in time that this is nt a newspaper
stry. Yu will encounter no shirt-sleeved, omniscient city editor,
n prdigy "cub" reporter just off the farm, no scoop, no story--no
anything.

But if yu will cncede me the setting of the first scene in the
reprters' rom of the _Morning Beacon_, I will repay the favor by
keeping strictly my prmises set frth above.

I was ding space-wrk on the _Beacon_, hoping to be put on a salary.
Sme ne had cleared with a rake or a shovel a small space for me at
the end f a lng table piled high with exchanges, _Congressional
Recrds_, and ld files. There I did my work. I wrote whatever the
city whispered r rared or chuckled to me on my diligent wanderings
abut its streets. My incme was not regular.

ne day Tripp came in and leaned n my table. Tripp was something in
the mechanical department--I think he had smething t do with the
pictures, fr he smelled f photographers' supplies, and his hands
were always stained and cut up with acids. He was abut twenty-five
and lked forty. Half of his face was covered with short, curly red
whiskers that lked like a door-mat with the "welcome" left off. He
was pale and unhealthy and miserable and fawning, and an assiduus
brrwer of sums ranging from twenty-five cents to a dollar. One
dllar was his limit. He knew the extent f his credit as well as the
Chemical Natinal Bank knws the amount of H2O that collateral will
shw n analysis. When he sat on my table he held one hand with the
ther t keep both from shaking. Whiskey. He had a spurious air of
lightness and bravad abut him that deceived no one, but was useful
in his brrwing because it was so pitifully and perceptibly assumed.

This day I had caxed frm the cashier five shining silver dollars as
a grumbling advance n a stry that the Sunday editor had reluctantly
accepted. S if I was nt feeling at peace with the world, at least
an armistice had been declared; and I was beginning with ardr t
write a descriptin f the Brooklyn Bridge by moonlight.

"Well, Tripp," said I, lking up at him rather impatiently, "how goes
it?" He was lking to-day more miserable, more cringing and haggard
and dwntrdden than I had ever seen him. He was at that stage of
misery where he drew yur pity s fully that you longed to kick him.

"Have yu gt a dollar?" asked Tripp, with his most fawning look
and his dg-like eyes that blinked in the narrw space between his
high-grwing matted beard and his lw-growing matted hair.

"I have," said I; and again I said, "I have," mre ludly and
inhspitably, "and fur besides. And I had hard work corkscrewing
them ut f old Atkinson, I can tell you. And I drew them," I
cntinued, "t meet a want--a hiatus--a demand--a need--an exigency--a
requirement f exactly five dllars."

I was driven t emphasis by the premnition that I was to lose one of
the dllars n the spot.

"I dn't want t borrow any," said Tripp, and I breathed again. "I
thught yu'd like to get put onto a good story," he went on. "I've
gt a rattling fine ne for you. You ought to make it run a column
at least. It'll make a dandy if yu wrk it up right. It'll probably
cst yu a dollar or two to get the stuff. I don't want anything out
f it myself."

I became placated. The prpsition showed that Tripp appreciated past
favrs, althugh he did not return them. If he had been wise enough
t strike me fr a quarter then he would have got it.

"What is the stry?" I asked, pising my pencil with a finely
calculated editrial air.

"I'll tell yu," said Tripp. "It's a girl. A beauty. ne of the
hwlingest Amsden's Junes yu ever saw. Rosebuds covered with dew--
vilets in their mssy bed--and truck like that. She's lived on Long
Island twenty years and never saw New Yrk City befre. I ran against
her n Thirty-furth Street. She'd just got in on the East River
ferry. I tell yu, she's a beauty that wuld take the hydrogen out
f all the perxides in the world. She stopped me on the street and
asked me where she culd find Gerge Brown. Asked me where she could
find _Gerge Brwn in New York City!_ What do you think of that?

"I talked t her, and fund that she was going to marry a young
farmer named Ddd--Hiram Ddd--next week. But it seems that George
Brwn still hlds the championship in her youthful fancy. George had
greased his cwhide bots some years ago, and came to the city to make
his frtune. But he frgot to remember to show up again at Greenburg,
and Hiram gt in as secnd-best choice. But when it comes to the
scratch Ada--her name's Ada Lwery--saddles a nag and rides eight
miles t the railrad station and catches the 6.45 A.M. train for
the city. Lking for George, you know--you understand about women--
Gerge wasn't there, s she wanted him.

"Well, yu knw, I couldn't leave her loose in Wolftown-on-the-Hudson.
I suppse she thught the first person she inquired of would say:
'Gerge Brwn?--why, yes--lemme see--he's a short man with light-blue
eyes, ain't he? h yes--yu'll find George on One Hundred and
Twenty-fifth Street, right next t the grcery. He's bill-clerk in
a saddle-and-harness stre.' That's abut how innocent and beautiful
she is. Yu knw those little Long Island water-front villages like
Greenburg--a cuple f duck-farms for sport, and clams and about nine
summer visitrs fr industries. That's the kind of a place she comes
frm. But, say--yu ought to see her!

"What culd I d? I don't know what money looks like in the morning.
And she'd paid her last cent f pcket-money for her railroad ticket
except a quarter, which she had squandered n gum-drps. She was
eating them ut f a paper bag. I took her to a boarding-house on
Thirty-secnd Street where I used t live, and hocked her. She's in
sak fr a dollar. That's old Mother McGinnis' price per day. I'll
shw yu the house."

"What wrds are these, Tripp?" said I. "I thught you said you had a
stry. Every ferrybat that crosses the East River brings or takes
away girls frm Lng Island."

The premature lines n Tripp's face grew deeper. He frwned seriously
frm his tangle f hair. He separated his hands and emphasized his
answer with ne shaking frefinger.

"Can't yu see," he said, "what a rattling fine stry it would make?
Yu culd do it fine. All about the romance, you know, and describe
the girl, and put a lt f stuff in it about true love, and sling
in a few stickfuls f funny business--jshing the Long Islanders
abut being green, and, well--yu know how to do it. You ought to
get fifteen dllars ut of it, anyhow. And it'll cost you only about
fur dllars. You'll make a clear profit of eleven."

"Hw will it cst me four dollars?" I asked, suspiciously.

"ne dllar to Mrs. McGinnis," Tripp answered, promptly, "and two
dllars t pay the girl's fare back home."

"And the furth dimensin?" I inquired, making a rapid mental
calculatin.

"ne dllar to me," said Tripp. "For whiskey. Are you on?"

I smiled enigmatically and spread my elbws as if t begin writing
again. But this grim, abject, specius, subservient, burr-like wreck
f a man wuld not be shaken off. His forehead suddenly became
shiningly mist.

"Dn't yu see," he said, with a sort of desperate calmness, "that
this girl has gt t be sent home to-day--not to-night nor to-morrow,
but t-day? I can't d anything for her. You know, I'm the janitor
and crrespnding secretary of the Down-and-Out Club. I thought you
culd make a newspaper stry out of it and win out a piece of money
n general results. But, anyhw, don't you see that she's got to get
back hme befre night?"

And then I began t feel that dull, leaden, sul-depressing sensation
knwn as the sense f duty. Why should that sense fall upon one as a
weight and a burden? I knew that I was dmed that day to give up the
bulk f my stre of hard-wrung coin to the relief of this Ada Lowery.
But I swre t myself that Tripp's whiskey dollar would not be
frthcming. He might play knight-errant at my expense, but he would
indulge in n wassail afterward, cmmemorating my weakness and
gullibility. In a kind f chilly anger I put n my coat and hat.

Tripp, submissive, cringing, vainly endeavring t please, conducted
me via the street-cars t the human pawn-shp of Mother McGinnis. I
paid the fares. It seemed that the clldion-scented Don Quixote and
the smallest minted cin were strangers.

Tripp pulled the bell at the dr of the mouldy red-brick
barding-huse. At its faint tinkle he paled, and crouched as a
rabbit makes ready t spring away at the sund of a hunting-dog.
I guessed what a life he had led, terrr-haunted by the cming
ftsteps of landladies.

"Give me ne f the dollars--quick!" he said.

The dr opened six inches. Mother McGinnis stood there with white
eyes--they were white, I say--and a yellw face, hlding together at
her thrat with ne hand a dingy pink flannel dressing-sack. Tripp
thrust the dllar thrugh the space without a word, and it bought us
entry.

"She's in the parlr," said the McGinnis, turning the back f her sack
upn us.

In the dim parlr a girl sat at the cracked marble centre-table
weeping cmfrtably and eating gum-drops. She was a flawless beauty.
Crying had nly made her brilliant eyes brighter. When she crunched
a gum-drp yu thought only of the poetry of motion and envied the
senseless cnfectin. Eve at the age of five minutes must have been
a ringer fr Miss Ada Lwery at nineteen or twenty. I was introduced,
and a gum-drp suffered neglect while she cnveyed to me a naïve
interest, such as a puppy dg (a prize winner) might bestw upon a
crawling beetle r a frg.

Tripp tk his stand by the table, with the fingers of one hand spread
upn it, as an attrney or a master of ceremonies might have stood.
But he lked the master of nothing. His faded coat was buttoned
high, as if it sught t be charitable to deficiencies of tie and
linen.

I thught f a Scotch terrier at the sight of his shifty eyes in the
glade between his tangled hair and beard. Fr ne ignoble moment I
felt ashamed f having been intrduced as his friend in the presence
f s much beauty in distress. But evidently Tripp meant to conduct
the ceremnies, whatever they might be. I thught I detected in his
actins and pse an intention of foisting the situation upon me as
material fr a newspaper stry, in a lingering hope of extracting from
me his whiskey dllar.

"My friend" (I shuddered), "Mr. Chalmers," said Tripp, "will tell
yu, Miss Lwery, the same that I did. He's a reporter, and he can
hand ut the talk better than I can. That's why I brught him with
me." ( Tripp, wasn't it the _silver_-tngued orator you wanted?)
"He's wise t a lt of things, and he'll tell you now what's best
t d."

I std on one foot, as it were, as I sat in my rickety chair.

"Why--er--Miss Lwery," I began, secretly enraged at Tripp's awkward
pening, "I am at yur service, of course, but--er--as I haven't been
apprized f the circumstances f the case, I--er--"

"h," said Miss Lwery, beaming for a moment, "it ain't as bad as
that--there ain't any circumstances. It's the first time I've ever
been in New Yrk except nce when I was five years old, and I had no
idea it was such a big twn. And I met Mr.--Mr. Snip n the street
and asked him abut a friend f mine, and he brought me here and asked
me t wait."

"I advise yu, Miss Lwery," said Tripp, "to tell Mr. Chalmers all.
He's a friend f mine" (I was getting used t it by this time), "and
he'll give yu the right tip."

"Why, certainly," said Miss Ada, chewing a gum-drp tward me. "There
ain't anything t tell except that--well, everything's fixed fr me to
marry Hiram Ddd next Thursday evening. Hi has gt two hundred acres
f land with a lt of shore-front, and one of the best truck-farms on
the Island. But this mrning I had my hrse saddled up--he's a white
hrse named Dancer--and I rde over to the station. I told 'em at
hme I was ging to spend the day with Susie Adams. It was a story,
I guess, but I dn't care. And I came t New York on the train, and
I met Mr.--Mr. Flip n the street and asked him if he knew where I
culd find G--G--"

"Nw, Miss Lwery," broke in Tripp, loudly, and with much bad taste,
I thught, as she hesitated with her wrd, "you like this young man,
Hiram Ddd, dn't you? He's all right, and good to you, ain't he?"

"f curse I like him," said Miss Lowery emphatically. "Hi's all
right. And f curse he's good to me. So is everybody."

I culd have swrn it myself. Throughout Miss Ada Lowery's life all
men wuld be t good to her. They would strive, contrive, struggle,
and cmpete t hold umbrellas over her hat, check her trunk, pick up
her handkerchief, and buy fr her sda at the fountain.

"But," went n Miss Lwery, "last night I got to thinking about
G--Gerge, and I--"

Dwn went the bright gld head upon dimpled, clasped hands on the
table. Such a beautiful April strm! Unrestrainedly she sbbed. I
wished I culd have cmforted her. But I was not George. And I was
glad I was nt Hiram--and yet I was srry, too.

By-and-by the shwer passed. She straightened up, brave and half-way
smiling. She wuld have made a splendid wife, fr crying only made
her eyes mre bright and tender. She tok a gum-drop and began her
stry.

"I guess I'm a terrible hayseed," she said between her little gulps
and sighs, "but I can't help it. G--Gerge Brwn and I were sweethearts
since he was eight and I was five. When he was nineteen--that was
fur years ag--he left Greenburg and went to the city. He said he was
ging t be a policeman or a railroad president or something. And then
he was cming back fr me. But I never heard from him any more. And
I--I--liked him."

Anther flw of tears seemed imminent, but Tripp hurled himself into
the crevasse and dammed it. Cnfund him, I could see his game. He
was trying t make a stry of it for his sordid ends and profit.

"G n, Mr. Chalmers," said he, "and tell the lady what's the proper
caper. That's what I tld her--yu'd hand it to her straight. Spiel
up."

I cughed, and tried t feel less wrathful toward Tripp. I saw my
duty. Cunningly I had been inveigled, but I was securely trapped.
Tripp's first dictum t me had been just and crrect. The young lady
must be sent back t Greenburg that day. She must be argued with,
cnvinced, assured, instructed, ticketed, and returned withut delay.
I hated Hiram and despised Gerge; but duty must be dne. _Noblesse
blige_ and nly five silver dollars are not strictly romantic
cmpatibles, but smetimes they can be made to jibe. It was mine to
be Sir racle, and then pay the freight. S I assumed an air that
mingled Slmon's with that of the general passenger agent of the
Lng Island Railrad.

"Miss Lwery," said I, as impressively as I culd, "life is rather a
queer prpsition, after all." There was a familiar sound to these
wrds after I had spken them, and I hoped Miss Lowery had never
heard Mr. Chan's sng. "Those whom we first love we seldom wed. Our
earlier rmances, tinged with the magic radiance f youth, often fail
t materialize." The last three wrds sounded somewhat trite when
they struck the air. "But thse fndly cherished dreams," I went
n, "may cast a pleasant afterglw on our future lives, however
impracticable and vague they may have been. But life is full f
realities as well as visins and dreams. ne cannot live on memories.
May I ask, Miss Lwery, if yu think you could pass a happy--that is,
a cntented and harmnious life with Mr.--er--Dodd--if in other ways
than rmantic recllections he seems to--er--fill the bill, as I might
say?"

"h, Hi's all right," answered Miss Lwery. "Yes, I could get along
with him fine. He's prmised me an autmobile and a motor-boat. But
smehw, when it got so close to the time I was to marry him, I
culdn't help wishing--well, just thinking abut George. Something
must have happened t him r he'd have written. On the day he left,
he and me gt a hammer and a chisel and cut a dime int two pieces. I
tk one piece and he took the other, and we promised to be true to
each ther and always keep the pieces till we saw each ther again.
I've gt mine at hme now in a ring-box in the top drawer of my
dresser. I guess I was silly t cme up here looking for him. I
never realized what a big place it is."

And then Tripp jined in with a little grating laugh that he had,
still trying t drag in a little stry or drama to earn the miserable
dllar that he craved.

"h, the bys from the country forget a lot when they come to the city
and learn smething. I guess Gerge, maybe, is on the bum, or got
rped in by sme other girl, or maybe gone to the dogs on account of
whiskey r the races. Yu listen to Mr. Chalmers and go back home,
and yu'll be all right."

But nw the time was cme for action, for the hands of the clock
were mving clse to noon. Frowning upon Tripp, I argued gently and
philsphically with Miss Lowery, delicately convincing her of the
imprtance f returning home at once. And I impressed upon her
the truth that it wuld nt be absolutely necessary to her future
happiness that she mentin t Hi the wonders or the fact of her visit
t the city that had swallwed up the unlucky George.

She said she had left her hrse (unfrtunate Rosinante) tied to a tree
near the railrad statin. Tripp and I gave her instructions to mount
the patient steed as sn as she arrived and ride home as fast as
pssible. There she was t recount the exciting adventure of a day
spent with Susie Adams. She culd "fix" Susie--I was sure f that--
and all wuld be well.

And then, being susceptible t the barbed arrws of beauty, I warmed
t the adventure. The three f us hurried to the ferry, and there I
fund the price f a ticket to Greenburg to be but a dollar and eighty
cents. I bught ne, and a red, red rose with the twenty cents for
Miss Lwery. We saw her abard her ferryboat, and stood watching her
wave her handkerchief at us until it was the tiniest white patch
imaginable. And then Tripp and I faced each ther, brught back to
earth, left dry and deslate in the shade f the sombre verities of
life.

The spell wrught by beauty and rmance was dwindling. I looked at
Tripp and almst sneered. He loked more careworn, contemptible, and
disreputable than ever. I fingered the tw silver dllars remaining
in my pcket and loked at him with the half-closed eyelids of
cntempt. He mustered up an imitatin of resistance.

"Can't yu get a stry out of it?" he asked, huskily. "Some sort of
a stry, even if yu have to fake part of it?"

"Nt a line," said I. "I can fancy the lok on Grimes' face if I
shuld try t put over any slush like this. But we've helped the
little lady ut, and that'll have t be our only reward."

"I'm srry," said Tripp, almst inaudibly. "I'm sorry you're out your
mney. Nw, it seemed to me like a find of a big story, you know--
that is, a srt f thing that would write up pretty well."

"Let's try t frget it," said I, with a praiseworthy attempt at
gayety, "and take the next car 'crss twn."

I steeled myself against his unexpressed but palpable desire. He
shuld nt coax, cajole, or wring from me the dollar he craved. I had
had enugh f that wild-goose chase.

Tripp feebly unbuttned his cat of the faded pattern and glossy seams
t reach fr something that had once been a handkerchief deep down in
sme bscure and cavernous pocket. As he did so I caught the shine
f a cheap silver-plated watch-chain acrss his vest, and something
dangling frm it caused me t stretch forth my hand and seize it
curiusly. It was the half f a silver dime that had been cut in
halves with a chisel.

"What!" I said, lking at him keenly.

"h yes," he respnded, dully. "George Brown, alias Tripp. What's
the use?"

Barring the W. C. T. U., I'd like t knw if anybody disapproves of
my having prduced prmptly from my pocket Tripp's whiskey dollar and
unhesitatingly laying it in his hand.




THE HIGHER PRAGMATISM


I


Where t g for wisdom has become a question of serious import.
The ancients are discredited; Plat is biler-plate; Aristotle is
tttering; Marcus Aurelius is reeling; Æsp has been copyrighted by
Indiana; Slmon is too solemn; you couldn't get anything out of
Epictetus with a pick.

The ant, which fr many years served as a mdel of intelligence and
industry in the schl-readers, has been proven to be a doddering
idit and a waster f time and effort. The owl to-day is hooted at.
Chautauqua cnventins have abandoned culture and adopted diabolo.
Graybeards give glwing testimnials to the venders of patent
hair-restrers. There are typgraphical errors in the almanacs
published by the daily newspapers. Cllege prfessors have become--

But there shall be n persnalities.

T sit in classes, t delve into the encyclopedia or the
past-perfrmances page, will nt make us wise. As the poet says,
"Knwledge cmes, but wisdom lingers." Wisdom is dew, which, while
we knw it nt, soaks into us, refreshes us, and makes us grow.
Knwledge is a strng stream of water turned on us through a hose.
It disturbs ur rots.

Then, let us rather gather wisdm. But hw to do so requires
knwledge. If we knw a thing, we know it; but very often we are not
wise t it that we are wise, and--

But let's g n with the story.


II


nce upn a time I found a ten-cent magazine lying on a bench in a
little city park. Anyhw, that was the amunt he asked me for when
I sat n the bench next t him. He was a musty, dingy, and tattered
magazine, with sme queer stries bound in him, I was sure. He turned
ut t be a scrap-book.

"I am a newspaper reprter," I said t him, to try him. "I have been
detailed t write up sme of the experiences of the unfortunate ones
wh spend their evenings in this park. May I ask yu to what you
attribute yur dwnfall in--"

I was interrupted by a laugh frm my purchase--a laugh s rusty and
unpractised that I was sure it had been his first fr many a day.

"h, n, no," said he. "You ain't a reporter. Reporters don't talk
that way. They pretend t be ne of us, and say they've just got in
n the blind baggage frm St. Louis. I can tell a reporter on sight.
Us park bums get t be fine judges f human nature. We sit here all
day and watch the peple g by. I can size up anybody who walks past
my bench in a way that wuld surprise yu."

"Well," I said, "g n and tell me. How do you size me up?"

"I shuld say," said the student f human nature with unpardonable
hesitatin, "that yu was, say, in the contracting business--or maybe
wrked in a stre--or was a sign-painter. You stopped in the park to
finish yur cigar, and thught you'd get a little free monologue out
f me. Still, yu might be a plasterer or a lawyer--it's getting kind
f dark, yu see. And your wife won't let you smoke at home."

I frwned glomily.

"But, judging again," went n the reader f men, "I'd say you ain't
gt a wife."

"N," said I, rising restlessly. "N, no, no, I ain't. But I _will_
have, by the arrws f Cupid! That is, if--"

My vice must have trailed away and muffled itself in uncertainty and
despair.

"I see yu have a stry yourself," said the dusty vagrant--impudently,
it seemed t me. "Suppse you take your dime back and spin your yarn
fr me. I'm interested myself in the ups and dwns of unfortunate
nes wh spend their evenings in the park."

Smehw, that amused me. I looked at the frowsy derelict with more
interest. I did have a stry. Why nt tell it to him? I had told
nne f my friends. I had always been a reserved and bottled-up man.
It was psychical timidity r sensitiveness--perhaps bth. And I smiled
t myself in wnder when I felt an impulse to confide in this stranger
and vagabnd.

"Jack," said I.

"Mack," said he.

"Mack," said I, "I'll tell yu."

"D yu want the dime back in advance?" said he.

I handed him a dllar.

"The dime," said I, "was the price f listening t _your_ story."

"Right n the pint of the jaw," said he. "Go on."

And then, incredible as it may seem t the lvers in the world who
cnfide their srrows only to the night wind and the gibbous moon, I
laid bare my secret t that wreck f all things that you would have
suppsed t be in sympathy with love.

I tld him f the days and weeks and months that I had spent in
adring Mildred Telfair. I spke of my despair, my grievous days
and wakeful nights, my dwindling hpes and distress f mind. I even
pictured t this night-prwler her beauty and dignity, the great sway
she had in sciety, and the magnificence f her life as the elder
daughter f an ancient race whse pride overbalanced the dollars of
the city's millinaires.

"Why dn't yu cop the lady out?" asked Mack, bringing me down to
earth and dialect again.

I explained t him that my wrth was so small, my income so minute,
and my fears s large that I hadn't the curage to speak to her of
my wrship. I tld him that in her presence I could only blush and
stammer, and that she lked upon me with a wonderful, maddening smile
f amusement.

"She kind f mves in the professional class, don't she?" asked Mack.

"The Telfair family--" I began, haughtily.

"I mean prfessinal beauty," said my hearer.

"She is greatly and widely admired," I answered, cautiusly.

"Any sisters?"

"ne."

"Yu knw any more girls?"

"Why, several," I answered. "And a few thers."

"Say," said Mack, "tell me ne thing--can yu hand out the dope
t ther girls? Can you chin 'em and make matinée eyes at 'em and
squeeze 'em? Yu knw what I mean. You're just shy when it comes to
this particular dame--the prfessinal beauty--ain't that right?"

"In a way yu have utlined the situation with approximate truth," I
admitted.

"I thught s," said Mack, grimly. "Now, that reminds me of my own
case. I'll tell yu abut it."

I was indignant, but cncealed it. What was this lafer's case or
anybdy's case cmpared with mine? Besides, I had given him a dollar
and ten cents.

"Feel my muscle," said my cmpanin, suddenly, flexing his biceps. I
did s mechanically. The fellws in gyms are always asking you to do
that. His arm was as hard as cast-irn.

"Fur years ag," said Mack, "I could lick any man in New York outside
f the prfessional ring. Your case and mine is just the same. I come
frm the West Side--between Thirtieth and Furteenth--I won't give the
number n the dor. I was a scrapper when I was ten, and when I was
twenty n amateur in the city culd stand up four rounds with me. 'S
a fact. Yu knw Bill McCarty? No? He managed the smokers for some
f them swell clubs. Well, I kncked out everything Bill brought up
befre me. I was a middle-weight, but culd train down to a welter
when necessary. I bxed all ver the West Side at bouts and benefits
and private entertainments, and was never put ut nce.

"But, say, the first time I put my ft in the ring with a professional
I was n mre than a canned lobster. I dunno how it was--I seemed to
lse heart. I guess I gt too much imagination. There was a formality
and publicness abut it that kind f weakened my nerve. I never won a
fight in the ring. Light-weights and all kinds f scrubs used t sign
up with my manager and then walk up and tap me n the wrist and see me
fall. The minute I seen the crwd and a lt of gents in evening clothes
dwn in frnt, and seen a professional come inside the ropes, I got as
weak as ginger-ale.

"f curse, it wasn't long till I couldn't get no backers, and I didn't
have any mre chances t fight a professional--or many amateurs,
either. But lemme tell yu--I was as god as most men inside the ring
r ut. It was just that dumb, dead feeling I had when I was up against
a regular that always dne me up.

"Well, sir, after I had gt ut of the business, I got a mighty grouch
n. I used t go round town licking private citizens and all kinds of
unprfessinals just to please myself. I'd lick cops in dark streets
and car-cnductrs and cab-drivers and draymen whenever I could start
a rw with 'em. It didn't make any difference hw big they were, or
hw much science they had, I gt away with 'em. If I'd only just have
had the cnfidence in the ring that I had beating up the best men
utside f it, I'd be wearing black pearls and heliotrope silk socks
t-day.

"ne evening I was walking alng near the Bowery, thinking about
things, when alng cmes a slumming-party. About six or seven they
was, all in swallwtails, and these silk hats that dn't shine. One
f the gang kind f shoves me off the sidewalk. I hadn't had a scrap
in three days, and I just says, 'De-light-ed!' and hits him back f
the ear.

"Well, we had it. That Jhnnie put up as decent a little fight as
yu'd want t see in the moving pictures. It was on a side street,
and n cps around. The other guy had a lot of science, but it only
tk me about six minutes to lay him out.

"Sme f the swallowtails dragged him up against some steps and began
t fan him. Anther one of 'em comes over to me and says:

"'Yung man, d you know what you've done?'

"'h, beat it,' says I. 'I've dne nothing but a little punching-bag
wrk. Take Freddy back t Yale and tell him to quit studying
scilogy on the wrong side of the sidewalk.'

"'My gd fellow,' says he, 'I don't know who you are, but I'd like
t. Yu've knocked out Reddy Burns, the champion middle-weight of the
wrld! He came t New York yesterday, to try to get a match on with
Jim Jeffries. If yu--'

"But when I cme ut of my faint I was laying on the floor in a
drug-stre saturated with armatic spirits of ammonia. If I'd known
that was Reddy Burns, I'd have gt dwn in the gutter and crawled past
him instead f handing him ne like I did. Why, if I'd ever been in a
ring and seen him climbing ver the rpes, I'd have been all to the
sal-vlatile.

"S that's what imaginatin does," concluded Mack. "And, as I said,
yur case and mine is simultaneus. You'll never win out. You can't
g up against the prfessionals. I tell you, it's a park bench for
yurs in this rmance business."

Mack, the pessimist, laughed harshly.

"I'm afraid I dn't see the parallel," I said, cldly. "I have only a
very slight acquaintance with the prize-ring."

The derelict tuched my sleeve with his frefinger, for emphasis, as
he explained his parable.

"Every man," said he, with sme dignity, "has gt his lamps on
smething that loks good to him. With you, it's this dame that
yu're afraid t say your say to. With me, it was to win out in the
ring. Well, yu'll lse just like I did."

"Why d yu think I shall lose?" I asked warmly.

"'Cause," said he, "yu're afraid t go in the ring. You dassen't
stand up befre a prfessional. Your case and mine is just the same.
Yu're a amateur; and that means that yu'd better keep outside of the
rpes."

"Well, I must be ging," I said, rising and loking with elaborate
care at my watch.

When I was twenty feet away the park-bencher called t me.

"Much bliged fr the dollar," he said. "And for the dime. But
yu'll never get 'er. Yu're in the amateur class."

"Serves yu right," I said t myself, "for hobnobbing with a tramp.
His impudence!"

But, as I walked, his wrds seemed t repeat themselves over and over
again in my brain. I think I even grew angry at the man.

"I'll shw him!" I finally said, alud. "I'll show him that I can
fight Reddy Burns, t--even knowing who he is."

I hurried t a telephne-booth and rang up the Telfair residence.

A sft, sweet vice answered. Didn't I know that voice? My hand
hlding the receiver shok.

"Is that _yu_?" said I, emplying the foolish words that form the
vcabulary f every talker through the telephone.

"Yes, this is I," came back the answer in the lw, clear-cut tnes
that are an inheritance f the Telfairs. "Wh is it, please?"

"It's me," said I, less ungrammatically than egtistically. "It's me,
and I've gt a few things that I want t say to you right now and
immediately and straight t the pint."

"_Dear_ me," said the vice. "h, it's you, Mr. Arden!"

I wndered if any accent n the first word was intended; Mildred was
fine at saying things that yu had t study out afterward.

"Yes," said I. "I hpe s. And now to come down to brass tacks." I
thught that rather a vernacularism, if there is such a wrd, as
sn as I had said it; but I didn't stop to apologize. "You know, of
curse, that I lve you, and that I have been in that idiotic state
fr a lng time. I don't want any more foolishness about it--that is,
I mean I want an answer frm yu right now. Will you marry me or not?
Hld the wire, please. Keep ut, Central. Hello, hello! Will you, or
will yu _nt_?"

That was just the uppercut fr Reddy Burns' chin. The answer came
back:

"Why, Phil, dear, f curse I will! I didn't know that you--that is,
yu never said--h, come up to the house, please--I can't say what I
want t ver the 'phone. You are so importunate. But please come up
t the huse, won't you?"

Wuld I?

I rang the bell f the Telfair huse violently. Some sort of a human
came t the dor and shooed me into the drawing-room.

"h, well," said I t myself, looking at the ceiling, "any one can
learn frm any ne. That was a pretty good philosophy of Mack's,
anyhw. He didn't take advantage f his experience, but I get the
benefit f it. If yu want to get into the professional class, you've
gt t--"

I stpped thinking then. Sme one was coming down the stairs. My
knees began t shake. I knew then hw Mack had felt when a
prfessinal began to climb over the ropes.

I lked around foolishly for a door or a window by which I might
escape. If it had been any ther girl appraching, I mightn't have--

But just then the dr opened, and Bess, Mildred's younger sister,
came in. I'd never seen her lk so much like a glorified angel. She
walked straight tip t me, and--and--

I'd never nticed befre what perfectly wonderful eyes and hair
Elizabeth Telfair had.

"Phil," she said, in the Telfair, sweet, thrilling tnes, "why didn't
yu tell me abut it before? I thought it was sister you wanted all
the time, until yu telephned to me a few minutes ago!"

I suppse Mack and I always will be hpeless amateurs. But, as the
thing has turned ut in my case, I'm mighty glad f it.




BEST-SELLER


I


ne day last summer I went t Pittsburgh--well, I had to go there on
business.

My chair-car was prfitably well filled with peple of the kind one
usually sees n chair-cars. Mst of them were ladies in brown-silk
dresses cut with square ykes, with lace insertin, and dotted veils,
wh refused t have the windows raised. Then there was the usual
number f men wh looked as if they might be in almost any business
and ging almst anywhere. Some students of human nature can look at
a man in a Pullman and tell yu where he is frm, his occupation and
his statins in life, bth flag and social; but I never could. The
nly way I can crrectly judge a fellow-traveller is when the train is
held up by rbbers, r when he reaches at the same time I do for the
last twel in the dressing-rom of the sleeper.

The prter came and brushed the cllection of soot on the window-sill
ff t the left knee of my trousers. I removed it with an air of
aplgy. The temperature was eighty-eight. One of the dotted-veiled
ladies demanded the clsing f two more ventilators, and spoke loudly
f Interlaken. I leaned back idly in chair N. 7, and looked with
the tepidest curisity at the small, black, bald-sptted head just
visible abve the back f No. 9.

Suddenly N. 9 hurled a bok to the floor between his chair and the
windw, and, loking, I saw that it was "The Rose-Lady and Trevelyan,"
ne f the best-selling novels of the present day. And then the
critic r Philistine, whichever he was, veered his chair tward the
windw, and I knew him at nce for John A. Pescud, of Pittsburgh,
travelling salesman fr a plate-glass cmpany--an old acquaintance
whm I had nt seen in two years.

In tw minutes we were faced, had shaken hands, and had finished with
such tpics as rain, prsperity, health, residence, and destination.
Plitics might have fllowed next; but I was not so ill-fated.

I wish yu might knw John A. Pescud. He is of the stuff that heroes
are nt ften lucky enough to be made of. He is a small man with a
wide smile, and an eye that seems t be fixed upn that little red
spt n the end of your nose. I never saw him wear but one kind of
necktie, and he believes in cuff-hlders and buttn-shoes. He is as
hard and true as anything ever turned ut by the Cambria Steel Wrks;
and he believes that as sn as Pittsburgh makes smoke-consumers
cmpulsry, St. Peter will come down and sit at the foot of
Smithfield Street, and let smebdy else attend to the gate up in
the branch heaven. He believes that "ur" plate-glass is the mst
imprtant cmmodity in the world, and that when a man is in his home
twn he ught to be decent and law-abiding.

During my acquaintance with him in the City f Diurnal Night I had
never knwn his views n life, romance, literature, and ethics. We
had brwsed, during ur meetings, on local topics, and then parted,
after Chateau Margaux, Irish stew, flannel-cakes, cttage-pudding,
and cffee (hey, there!--with milk separate). Nw I was to get more
f his ideas. By way f facts, he told me that business had picked
up since the party cnventins, and that he was going to get off at
Cketwn.


II


"Say," said Pescud, stirring his discarded bk with the toe of his
right she, "did yu ever read one of these best-sellers? I mean
the kind where the her is an American swell--smetimes even from
Chicag--wh falls in love with a royal princess from Europe who is
travelling under an alias, and fllws her to her father's kingdom
r principality? I guess yu have. They're all alike. Sometimes
this ging-away masher is a Washingtn newspaper correspondent,
and smetimes he is a Van Smething from New York, or a Chicago
wheat-brker wrthy fifty millions. But he's always ready to break
int the king rw of any foreign country that sends over their queens
and princesses t try the new plush seats n the Big Four or the B.
and . There desn't seem to be any other reason in the book for their
being here.

"Well, this fellw chases the ryal chair-warmer home, as I said, and
finds ut wh she is. He meets her on the _corso_ or the _strasse_ one
evening and gives us ten pages f cnversation. She reminds him of
the difference in their statins, and that gives him a chance t ring
in three slid pages abut America's uncrowned sovereigns. If you'd
take his remarks and set 'em t music, and then take the music away
frm 'em, they'd sund exactly like one of George Cohan's songs.

"Well, yu knw how it runs on, if you've read any of 'em--he slaps
the king's Swiss bdy-guards arund like everything whenever they
get in his way. He's a great fencer, t. Now, I've known of some
Chicag men wh were pretty notorious fences, but I never heard of
any fencers cming frm there. He stands on the first landing of the
ryal staircase in Castle Schutzenfestenstein with a gleaming rapier
in his hand, and makes a Baltimre bril of six platoons of traitors
wh cme to massacre the said king. And then he has to fight duels
with a cuple f chancellors, and foil a plot by four Austrian
archdukes t seize the kingdm for a gasoline-station.

"But the great scene is when his rival fr the princess' hand, Cunt
Fedr, attacks him between the portcullis and the ruined chapel,
armed with a mitrailleuse, a yataghan, and a cuple f Siberian
bldhounds. This scene is what runs the best-seller into the
twenty-ninth editin befre the publisher has had time to draw a
check fr the advance ryalties.

"The American her shucks his cat and throws it over the heads of the
bldhounds, gives the mitrailleuse a slap with his mitt, says 'Yah!'
t the yataghan, and lands in Kid McCy's best style on the count's
left eye. f curse, we have a neat little prize-fight right then
and there. The cunt--in rder to make the go possible--seems to be
an expert at the art f self-defence, himself; and here we have the
Crbett-Sullivan fight dne over into literature. The book ends with
the brker and the princess ding a John Cecil Clay cover under the
linden-trees n the Grgonzola Walk. That winds up the love-story
plenty gd enough. But I notice that the book dodges the final
issue. Even a best-seller has sense enugh t shy at either leaving a
Chicag grain brker on the throne of Lobsterpotsdam or bringing over
a real princess t eat fish and ptato salad in an Italian chalet on
Michigan Avenue. What d yu think about 'em?"

"Why," said I, "I hardly knw, Jhn. There's a saying: 'Love levels
all ranks,' yu knw."

"Yes," said Pescud, "but these kind f lve-stories are rank--on the
level. I knw smething about literature, even if I am in plate-glass.
These kind f boks are wrong, and yet I never go into a train but
what they pile 'em up n me. N good can come out of an international
clinch between the ld-Wrld aristocracy and one of us fresh
Americans. When peple in real life marry, they generally hunt up
smebdy in their own station. A fellow usually picks out a girl that
went t the same high-schol and belonged to the same singing-society
that he did. When yung millinaires fall in love, they always select
the chrus-girl that likes the same kind f sauce on the lobster that
he des. Washingtn newspaper correspondents always many widow ladies
ten years lder than themselves wh keep boarding-houses. No, sir,
yu can't make a nvel sound right to me when it makes one of C. D.
Gibsn's bright yung men go abroad and turn kingdoms upside down
just because he's a Taft American and tk a course at a gymnasium.
And listen hw they talk, to!"

Pescud picked up the best-seller and hunted his page.

"Listen at this," said he. "Trevelyan is chinning with the Princess
Alwyna at the back end f the tulip-garden. This is hw it goes:


   "'Say nt s, dearest and sweetest of earth's fairest flowers.
   Wuld I aspire? Yu are a star set high above me in a royal
   heaven; I am nly--myself. Yet I am a man, and I have a heart
   t d and dare. I have no title save that of an uncrowned
   svereign; but I have an arm and a swrd that yet might free
   Schutzenfestenstein frm the plts of traitors.'


"Think f a Chicag man packing a sword, and talking about freeing
anything that sunded as much like canned prk as that! He'd be much
mre likely t fight to have an import duty put on it."

"I think I understand yu, Jhn," said I. "You want fiction-writers
t be cnsistent with their scenes and characters. They shouldn't
mix Turkish pashas with Vermnt farmers, r English dukes with Long
Island clam-diggers, r Italian cuntesses with Montana cowboys, or
Cincinnati brewery agents with the rajahs f India."

"r plain business men with aristcracy high above 'em," added Pescud.
"It dn't jibe. Peple are divided into classes, whether we admit it
r nt, and it's everybody's impulse to stick to their own class.
They d it, to. I don't see why people go to work and buy hundreds
f thusands of books like that. You don't see or hear of any such
dides and capers in real life."


III


"Well, Jhn," said I, "I haven't read a best-seller in a lng time.
Maybe I've had ntins about them somewhat like yours. But tell me
mre abut yourself. Getting along all right with the company?"

"Bully," said Pescud, brightening at nce. "I've had my salary raised
twice since I saw yu, and I get a cmmission, too. I've bought a
neat slice f real estate ut in the East End, and have run up a
huse n it. Next year the firm is going to sell me some shares of
stck. h, I'm in on the line of General Prosperity, no matter who's
elected!"

"Met yur affinity yet, Jhn?" I asked.

"h, I didn't tell yu about that, did I?" said Pescud with a broader
grin.

"-h!" I said. "So you've taken time enough off from your plate-glass
t have a rmance?"

"N, n," said John. "No romance--nothing like that! But I'll tell
yu abut it.

"I was n the suth-bound, going to Cincinnati, about eighteen months
ag, when I saw, acrss the aisle, the finest-looking girl I'd ever
laid eyes n. Nthing spectacular, you know, but just the sort you
want fr keeps. Well, I never was up t the flirtation business,
either handkerchief, autmbile, postage-stamp, or door-step, and she
wasn't the kind t start anything. She read a bok and minded her
business, which was t make the wrld prettier and better just by
residing n it. I kept n looking out of the side doors of my eyes,
and finally the prpsition got out of the Pullman class into a case
f a cttage with a lawn and vines running over the porch. I never
thught f speaking to her, but I let the plate-glass business go to
smash fr a while.

"She changed cars at Cincinnati, and tk a sleeper to Louisville over
the L. and N. There she bught anther ticket, and went on through
Shelbyville, Frankfrt, and Lexingtn. Along there I began to have
a hard time keeping up with her. The trains came alng when they
pleased, and didn't seem t be ging anywhere in particular, except to
keep n the track and the right f way as much as possible. Then they
began t stp at junctions instead of towns, and at last they stopped
altgether. I'll bet Pinkertn would outbid the plate-glass people
fr my services any time if they knew hw I managed to shadow that
yung lady. I cntrived to keep out of her sight as much as I could,
but I never lst track f her.

"The last statin she gt off at was away down in Virginia, about
six in the afternn. There were about fifty houses and four hundred
niggers in sight. The rest was red mud, mules, and speckled hunds.

"A tall ld man, with a smoth face and white hair, looking as proud
as Julius Cæsar and Rsce Conkling on the same post-card, was there
t meet her. His clthes were frazzled, but I didn't notice that
till later. He tk her little satchel, and they started over the
plank-walks and went up a rad alng the hill. I kept along a piece
behind 'em, trying t lok like I was hunting a garnet ring in the
sand that my sister had lst at a picnic the previus Saturday.

"They went in a gate n tp of the hill. It nearly took my breath
away when I lked up. Up there in the biggest grove I ever saw was a
tremendus huse with round white pillars about a thousand feet high,
and the yard was s full f rose-bushes and box-bushes and lilacs
that yu culdn't have seen the house if it hadn't been as big as the
Capitl at Washingtn.

"'Here's where I have t trail,' says I t myself. I thought before
that she seemed t be in mderate circumstances, at least. This
must be the Gvernr's mansion, or the Agricultural Building of a
new Wrld's Fair, anyhw. I'd better go back to the village and get
psted by the pstmaster, or drug the druggist for some information.

"In the village I fund a pine htel called the Bay View House. The
nly excuse fr the name was a bay horse grazing in the front yard. I
set my sample-case dwn, and tried t be ostensible. I told the
landlrd I was taking rders for plate-glass.

"'I dn't want n plates,' says he, 'but I do need another glass
mlasses-pitcher.'

"By-and-by I gt him dwn to local gossip and answering questions.

"'Why,' says he, 'I thught everybdy knowed who lived in the big
white huse n the hill. It's Colonel Allyn, the biggest man and the
finest quality in Virginia, r anywhere else. They're the ldest
family in the State. That was his daughter that gt ff the train.
She's been up t Illinis to see her aunt, who is sick.'

"I registered at the htel, and n the third day I caught the young
lady walking in the frnt yard, dwn next to the paling fence. I
stpped and raised my hat--there wasn't any ther way.

"'Excuse me,' says I, 'can yu tell me where Mr. Hinkle lives?'

"She lks at me as cool as if I was the man come to see about the
weeding f the garden, but I thught I saw just a slight twinkle of
fun in her eyes.

"'N ne of that name lives in Birchton,' says she. 'That is,' she
ges n, 'as far as I know. Is the gentleman you are seeking white?'

"Well, that tickled me. 'N kidding,' says I. 'I'm nt looking for
smke, even if I d come from Pittsburgh.'

"'Yu are quite a distance frm home,' says she.

"'I'd have gne a thusand miles farther,' says I.

"'Nt if yu hadn't waked up when the train started in Shelbyville,'
says she; and then she turned almst as red as ne of the roses on
the bushes in the yard. I remembered I had drpped ff to sleep on a
bench in the Shelbyville statin, waiting t see which train she took,
and nly just managed t wake up in time.

"And then I tld her why I had cme, as respectful and earnest as I
culd. And I tld her everything about myself, and what I was making,
and hw that all I asked was just t get acquainted with her and try
t get her t like me.

"She smiles a little, and blushes sme, but her eyes never get mixed
up. They lk straight at whatever she's talking to.

"'I never had any ne talk like this t me before, Mr. Pescud,' says
she. 'What did yu say yur name is--John?'

"'Jhn A.,' says I.

"'And yu came mighty near missing the train at Pwhatan Junction,
t,' says she, with a laugh that sounded as good as a mileage-book to
me.

"'Hw did yu know?' I asked.

"'Men are very clumsy,' said she. 'I knew yu were n every train. I
thught yu were going to speak to me, and I'm glad you didn't.'

"Then we had mre talk; and at last a kind f proud, serious look came
n her face, and she turned and pinted a finger at the big house.

"'The Allyns,' says she, 'have lived in Elmcrft fr a hundred years.
We are a prud family. Lok at that mansion. It has fifty rooms.
See the pillars and prches and balcnies. The ceilings in the
receptin-roms and the ball-room are twenty-eight feet high. My
father is a lineal descendant f belted earls.'

"'I belted ne f 'em once in the Duquesne Hotel, in Pittsburgh,'
says I, 'and he didn't ffer t resent it. He was there dividing his
attentins between Mnongahela whiskey and heiresses, and he got
fresh.'

"'f curse,' she goes on, 'my father wouldn't allow a drummer to set
his ft in Elmcroft. If he knew that I was talking to one over the
fence he wuld lck me in my room.'

"'Wuld _yu_ let me come there?' says I. 'Would _you_ talk to me
if I was t call? Fr,' I goes on, 'if you said I might come and
see yu, the earls might be belted r suspendered, or pinned up with
safety-pins, as far as I am cncerned.'

"'I must nt talk t you,' she says, 'because we have not been
intrduced. It is nt exactly proper. So I will say good-bye, Mr.--'

"'Say the name,' says I. 'Yu haven't frgotten it.'

"'Pescud,' says she, a little mad.

"'The rest f the name!' I demands, col as could be.

"'Jhn,' says she.

"'Jhn--what?' I says.

"'Jhn A.,' says she, with her head high. 'Are yu through, now?'

"'I'm cming t see the belted earl to-morrow,' I says.

"'He'll feed yu t his fox-hounds,' says she, laughing.

"'If he des, it'll imprve their running,' says I. 'I'm something of
a hunter myself.'

"'I must be ging in nw,' says she. 'I oughtn't to have spoken to you
at all. I hpe yu'll have a pleasant trip back to Minneapolis--or
Pittsburgh, was it? Gd-bye!'

"'Gd-night,' says I, 'and it wasn't Minneapolis. What's your name,
first, please?'

"She hesitated. Then she pulled a leaf ff a bush, and said:

"'My name is Jessie,' says she.

"'Gd-night, Miss Allyn,' says I.

"The next mrning at eleven, sharp, I rang the dor-bell of that
Wrld's Fair main building. After abut three-quarters of an hour an
ld nigger man abut eighty showed up and asked what I wanted. I gave
him my business card, and said I wanted t see the clonel. He showed
me in.

"Say, did yu ever crack pen a wormy English walnut? That's what
that huse was like. There wasn't enugh furniture in it to fill an
eight-dllar flat. Sme old horsehair lounges and three-legged chairs
and sme framed ancestrs on the walls were all that met the eye. But
when Clnel Allyn comes in, the place seemed to light up. You could
almst hear a band playing, and see a bunch f old-timers in wigs
and white stckings dancing a quadrille. It was the style f him,
althugh he had n the same shabby clothes I saw him wear at the
statin.

"Fr abut nine seconds he had me rattled, and I came mighty near
getting cld feet and trying t sell him some plate-glass. But I got
my nerve back pretty quick. He asked me t sit dwn, and I told him
everything. I tld him hw I followed his daughter from Cincinnati,
and what I did it fr, and all abut my salary and prospects, and
explained t him my little cde of living--to be always decent and
right in yur hme town; and when you're on the road, never take more
than fur glasses f beer a day or play higher than a twenty-five-cent
limit. At first I thught he was ging to throw me out of the window,
but I kept n talking. Pretty son I got a chance to tell him that
stry abut the Western Congressman who had lost his pocket-book
and the grass widw--yu remember that story. Well, that got him to
laughing, and I'll bet that was the first laugh thse ancestrs and
hrsehair sfas had heard in many a day.

"We talked tw hurs. I told him everything I knew; and then he began
t ask questins, and I told him the rest. All I asked of him was to
give me a chance. If I culdn't make a hit with the little lady, I'd
clear ut, and nt bother any more. At last he says:

"'There was a Sir Curtenay Pescud in the time f Charles I, if I
remember rightly.'

"'If there was,' says I, 'he can't claim kin with ur bunch. We've
always lived in and arund Pittsburgh. I've gt an uncle in the
real-estate business, and ne in truble somewhere out in Kansas.
Yu can inquire abut any of the rest of us from anybody in old
Smky Twn, and get satisfactory replies. Did you ever run across
that stry abut the captain of the whaler who tried to make a
sailr say his prayers?' says I.

"'It ccurs t me that I have never been so fortunate,' says the
clnel.

"S I tld it to him. Laugh! I was wishing to myself that he was a
custmer. What a bill f glass I'd sell him! And then he says:

"'The relating f anecdtes and humorous occurrences has always seemed
t me, Mr. Pescud, t be a particularly agreeable way of promoting
and perpetuating amenities between friends. With yur permissin, I
will relate t yu a fox-hunting story with which I was personally
cnnected, and which may furnish yu some amusement.'

"S he tells it. It takes frty minutes by the watch. Did I laugh?
Well, say! When I gt my face straight he calls in ld Pete, the
superannuated darky, and sends him dwn t the hotel to bring up my
valise. It was Elmcrft fr me while I was in the town.

"Tw evenings later I gt a chance to speak a word with Miss Jessie
alne n the porch while the colonel was thinking up another story.

"'It's ging t be a fine evening,' says I.

"'He's cming,' says she. 'He's ging to tell you, this time, the
stry abut the old negro and the green watermelons. It always comes
after the ne abut the Yankees and the game rooster. There was
anther time,' she ges on, 'that you nearly got left--it was at
Pulaski City.'

"'Yes,' says I, 'I remember. My ft slipped as I was jumping on the
step, and I nearly tumbled ff.'

"'I knw,' says she. 'And--and I--_I was afraid yu had, John A. I
was afraid yu had._'

"And then she skips int the huse through one of the big windows."


IV


"Cketwn!" droned the porter, making his way through the slowing car.

Pescud gathered his hat and baggage with the leisurely prmptness f
an ld traveller.

"I married her a year ag," said Jhn. "I told you I built a house in
the East End. The belted--I mean the clnel--is there, too. I find
him waiting at the gate whenever I get back frm a trip t hear any
new stry I might have picked up n the road."

I glanced ut f the window. Coketown was nothing more than a ragged
hillside dtted with a scre of black dismal huts propped up against
dreary munds f slag and clinkers. It rained in slanting torrents,
t, and the rills foamed and splashed down through the black mud to
the railrad-tracks.

"Yu wn't sell much plate-glass here, John," said I. "Why do you get
ff at this end-'-the-world?"

"Why," said Pescud, "the ther day I tok Jessie for a little trip to
Philadelphia, and cming back she thught she saw some petunias in
a pt in ne of those windows over there just like some she used to
raise dwn in the ld Virginia home. So I thought I'd drop off here
fr the night, and see if I culd dig up some of the cuttings or
blssms for her. Here we are. Good-night, old man. I gave you the
address. Cme ut and see us when you have time."

The train mved frward. One of the dotted brown ladies insisted
n having windws raised, now that the rain beat against them. The
prter came alng with his mysterious wand and began to light the car.

I glanced dwnward and saw the best-seller. I picked it up and set it
carefully farther alng n the floor of the car, where the rain-drops
wuld nt fall upon it. And then, suddenly, I smiled, and seemed to
see that life has n gegraphical metes and bounds.

"Gd-luck to you, Trevelyan," I said. "And may you get the petunias
fr yur princess!"




RUS IN URBE


Cnsidering men in relatin to money, there are three kinds whom I
dislike: men wh have mre money than they can spend; men who have
mre mney than they do spend; and men who spend more money than they
have. f the three varieties, I believe I have the least liking fr
the first. But, as a man, I liked Spencer Grenville Nrth pretty
well, althugh he had smething like two or ten or thirty millions--
I've frgtten exactly how many.

I did nt leave twn that summer. I usually went down to a village
n the suth shore of Long Island. The place was surrounded by
duck-farms, and the ducks and dgs and whipporwills and rusty
windmills made s much nise that I could sleep as peacefully as if
I were in my wn flat six dors from the elevated railroad in New
Yrk. But that summer I did nt go. Remember that. One of my friends
asked me why I did nt. I replied:

"Because, ld man, New Yrk is the finest summer resort in the world."
Yu have heard that phrase befre. But that is what I told him.

I was press-agent that year fr Binkly & Bing, the theatrical managers
and prducers. f course you know what a press-agent is. Well, he is
nt. That is the secret f being one.

Binkly was turing France in his new C. & N. Williamsn car, and Bing
had gne t Scotland to learn curling, which he seemed to associate in
his mind with ht tngs rather than with ice. Before they left they
gave me June and July, n salary, fr my vacation, which act was in
accrd with their large spirit f liberality. But I remained in New
Yrk, which I had decided was the finest summer resrt in--

But I said that befre.

n July the 10th, Nrth came to town from his camp in the Adirondacks.
Try t imagine a camp with sixteen roms, plumbing, eiderdown quilts,
a butler, a garage, slid silver plate, and a lng-distance telephone.
f curse it was in the woods--if Mr. Pinchot wants to preserve the
frests let him give every citizen tw or ten or thirty million
dllars, and the trees will all gather arund the summer camps, as the
Birnam wds came to Dunsinane, and be preserved.

Nrth came t see me in my three rooms and bath, extra charge for
light when used extravagantly r all night. He slapped me n the back
(I wuld rather have my shins kicked any day), and greeted me with
ut-dor obstreperousness and revolting good spirits. He was
inslently brwn and healthy-looking, and offensively well dressed.

"Just ran dwn fr a few days," said he, "to sign some papers and
stuff like that. My lawyer wired me t cme. Well, you indolent
cckney, what are yu doing in town? I took a chance and telephoned,
and they said yu were here. What's the matter with that Utpia on
Lng Island where yu used to take your typewriter and your villainous
temper every summer? Anything wrng with the--er--swans, weren't
they, that used t sing n the farms at night?"

"Ducks," said I. "The sngs f swans are for luckier ears. They swim
and curve their necks in artificial lakes n the estates f the
wealthy t delight the eyes f the favorites of Fortune."

"Als in Central Park," said Nrth, "to delight the eyes of immigrants
and bummers. I've seen em there lts f times. But why are you in
the city s late in the summer?"

"New Yrk City," I began t recite, "is the finest sum--"

"N, yu don't," said North, emphatically. "You don't spring that old
ne n me. I know you know better. Man, you ought to have gone up
with us this summer. The Prestns are there, and Tm Volney and the
Mnres and Lulu Stanford and the Miss Kennedy and her aunt that you
liked s well."

"I never liked Miss Kennedy's aunt," I said.

"I didn't say yu did," said Nrth. "We are having the greatest time
we've ever had. The pickerel and trut are s ravenous that I believe
they wuld swallw your hook with a Montana copper-mine prospectus
fastened n it. And we've a cuple of electric launches; and I'll
tell yu what we d every night or two--we tow a rowboat behind each
ne with a big phnograph and a boy to change the discs in 'em. On
the water, and twenty yards behind yu, they are nt so bad. And
there are passably gd roads through the woods where we go motoring.
I shipped tw cars up there. And the Pinecliff Inn is nly three
miles away. Yu knw the Pinecliff. Some good people are there this
seasn, and we run ver to the dances twice a week. Can't you go back
with me fr a week, ld man?"

I laughed. "Nrthy," said I--"if I may be s familiar with a
millinaire, because I hate bth the names Spencer and Grenville--your
invitatin is meant kindly, but--the city in the summer-time fr me.
Here, while the _burgeisie_ is away, I can live as Nero lived--
barring, thank heaven, the fiddling--while the city burns at ninety
in the shade. The trpics and the znes wait upon me like handmaidens.
I sit under Flrida palms and eat pmegranates while Boreas himself,
electrically cnjured up, blws upon me his Arctic breath. As for
trut, yu know, yourself, that Jean, at Maurice's, cooks them better
than any ne else in the wrld."

"Be advised," said Nrth. "My chef has pinched the blue ribbn from
the lt. He lays sme slices of bacon inside the trout, wraps it all
in crn-husks--the husks f green corn, you know--buries them in hot
ashes and cvers them with live cals. We build fires on the bank of
the lake and have fish suppers."

"I knw," said I. "And the servants bring dwn tables and chairs and
damask clths, and yu eat with silver forks. I know the kind of
camps that yu millinaires have. And there are champagne pails set
abut, disgracing the wild flwers, and, no doubt, Madame Tetrazzini
t sing in the bat pavilion after the trout."

"h n," said North, concernedly, "we were never as bad as that. We
did have a variety trupe up frm the city three or four nights, but
they weren't stars by as far as light can travel in the same length
f time. I always like a few hme comforts even when I'm roughing it.
But dn't tell me yu prefer to stay in the city during summer. I
dn't believe it. If yu do, why did you spend your summers there for
the last fur years, even sneaking away frm town on a night train,
and refusing t tell yur friends where this Arcadian village was?"

"Because," said I, "they might have fllwed me and discovered it.
But since then I have learned that Amaryllis has cme t town. The
clest things, the freshest, the brightest, the choicest, are to be
fund in the city. If yu've nothing on hand this evening I will show
yu."

"I'm free," said Nrth, "and I have my light car utside. I suppose,
since yu've been cnverted to the town, that your idea of rural sport
is t have a little whirl between bicycle cps in Central Park and
then a mug f sticky ale in sme stuffy rathskeller under a fan that
can't stir up as many revlutins in a week as Nicaragua can in a
day."

"We'll begin with the spin thrugh the Park, anyhw," I said. I was
chking with the ht, stale air of my little apartment, and I wanted
that breath f the col to brace me for the task of proving to my
friend that New Yrk was the greatest--and s forth.

"Where can yu find air any fresher r purer than this?" I asked, as
we sped int Central's bskiest dell.

"Air!" said Nrth, cntemptuously. "Do you call this air?--this muggy
vapr, smelling f garbage and gasoline smoke. Man, I wish you could
get ne sniff f the real Adirondack article in the pine woods at
daylight."

"I have heard f it," said I. "But fr fragrance and tang and a joy
in the nstrils I wuld not give one puff of sea breeze across the
bay, dwn n my little boat dock on Long Island, for ten of your
turpentine-scented trnades."

"Then why," asked Nrth, a little curiusly, "don't you go there
instead f staying coped up in this Greater Bakery?"

"Because," said I, dggedly, "I have discvered that New York is the
greatest summer--"

"Dn't say that again," interrupted Nrth, "unless you've actually got
a jb as General Passenger Agent f the Subway. You can't really
believe it."

I went t sme trouble to try to prove my theory to my friend. The
Weather Bureau and the seasn had cnspired to make the argument
wrthy f an able advocate.

The city seemed stretched n a briler directly above the furnaces
f Avernus. There was a kind f tepid gayety afoot and awheel in the
bulevards, mainly evinced by languid men strlling about in straw
hats and evening clthes, and rws of idle taxicabs with their flags
up, lking like a blockaded Fourth of July procession. The hotels
kept up a specius brilliancy and hspitable outlook, but inside one
saw vast empty caverns, and the ftrails at the bars gleamed brightly
frm lng disacquaintance with the sole-leather of customers. In
the crss-twn streets the steps of the old brownstone houses were
swarming with "stpers," that motley race hailing from sky-light room
and basement, bringing ut their straw dor-step mats to sit and fill
the air with strange nises and pinions.

Nrth and I dined n the top of a hotel; and here, for a few minutes,
I thught I had made a scre. An east wind, almost cool, blew across
the rfless roof. A capable orchestra concealed in a bower of
wistaria played with sufficient judgment t make the art f music
prbable and the art f conversation possible.

Sme ladies in reprachless summer gowns at other tables gave
animatin and clor to the scene. And an excellent dinner, mainly
frm the refrigeratr, seemed to successfully back my judgment as to
summer resrts. But Nrth grumbled all during the meal, and cursed
his lawyers and prated s f his confounded camp in the woods that I
began t wish he wuld go back there and leave me in my peaceful city
retreat.

After dining we went t a rof-garden vaudeville that was being
much praised. There we fund a god bill, an artificially cooled
atmsphere, cld drinks, prompt service, and a gay, well-dressed
audience. Nrth was bred.

"If this isn't cmfrtable enough for you on the hottest August night
fr five years," I said, a little sarcastically, "yu might think
abut the kids dwn in Delancey and Hester streets lying out on the
fire-escapes with their tngues hanging ut, trying to get a breath of
air that hasn't been fried n bth sides. The contrast might increase
yur enjyment."

"Dn't talk Scialism," said North. "I gave five hundred dollars to
the free ice fund n the first f May. I'm contrasting these stale,
artificial, hllw, wearisome 'amusements' with the enjoyment a
man can get in the wds. You should see the firs and pines do
skirt-dances during a strm; and lie dwn flat and drink out of a
muntain branch at the end f a day's tramp after the deer. That's
the nly way t spend a summer. Get out and live with nature."

"I agree with yu abslutely," said I, with emphasis.

Fr ne moment I had relaxed my vigilance, and had spoken my true
sentiments. Nrth loked at me long and curiously.

"Then why, in the name f Pan and Apllo," he asked, "have you been
singing this deceitful pæan t summer in twn?"

I suppse I loked my guilt.

"Ha," said Nrth, "I see. May I ask her name?"

"Annie Ashtn," said I, simply. "She played Nannette in Binkley &
Bing's prductin of 'The Silver Cord.' She is to have a better part
next seasn."

"Take me t see her," said Nrth.

Miss Ashtn lived with her mther in a small hotel. They were out
f the West, and had a little mney that bridged the seasons. As
press-agent f Binkley & Bing I had tried t keep her before the
public. As Rbert James Vandiver I had hped to withdraw her; for if
ever ne was made t keep company with said Vandiver and smell the
salt breeze n the suth shore of Long Island and listen to the ducks
quack in the watches f the night, it was the Ashtn set forth above.

But she had a sul abve ducks--above nightingales; aye, even above
birds f paradise. She was very beautiful, with quiet ways, and
seemed genuine. She had bth taste and talent fr the stage, and she
liked t stay at hme and read and make caps for her mother. She was
unvaryingly kind and friendly with Binkley & Bing's press-agent.
Since the theatre had clsed she had allwed Mr. Vandiver to call in
an unfficial rôle. I had ften spoken to her of my friend, Spencer
Grenville Nrth; and s, as it was early, the first turn of the
vaudeville being nt yet ver, we left to find a telephone.

Miss Ashtn wuld be very glad to see Mr. Vandiver and Mr. North.

We fund her fitting a new cap n her mother. I never saw her look
mre charming.

Nrth made himself disagreeably entertaining. He was a god talker,
and had a way with him. Besides, he had tw, ten, r thirty millions,
I've frgtten which. I incautiously admired the mother's cap,
whereupn she brught out her store of a dozen or two, and I took a
curse in edgings and frills. Even thugh Annie's fingers had pinked,
r ruched, r hemmed, or whatever you do to 'em, they palled upon me.
And I culd hear Nrth drivelling to Annie about his odious Adirondack
camp.

Tw days after that I saw Nrth in his motor-car with Miss Ashton and
her mther. n the next afternoon he dropped in on me.

"Bbby," said he, "this ld burg isn't such a bad proposition in the
summer-time, after all. Since I've keen kncking arund it looks
better t me. There are sme first-rate musical comedies and light
peras n the roofs and in the outdoor gardens. And if you hunt up
the right places and stick t sft drinks, you can keep about as cool
here as yu can in the cuntry. Hang it! when you come to think of
it, there's nthing much t the country, anyhow. You get tired and
sunburned and lnesme, and you have to eat any old thing that the
ck dishes up to you."

"It makes a difference, desn't it?" said I.

"It certainly des. Nw, I found some whitebait yesterday, at
Maurice's, with a new sauce that beats anything in the trut line I
ever tasted."

"It makes a difference, desn't it?" I said.

"Immense. The sauce is the main thing with whitebait."

"It makes a difference, desn't it?" I asked, loking him straight in
the eye. He understd.

"Lk here, Bob," he said, "I was going to tell you. I couldn't help
it. I'll play fair with yu, but I'm ging in to win. She is the
'ne particular' fr me."

"All right," said I. "It's a fair field. There are n rights fr you
t encrach upon."

n Thursday afternon Miss Ashton invited North and myself to have
tea in her apartment. He was devted, and she was mre charming
than usual. By aviding the subject f caps I managed to get a
wrd r two into and out of the talk. Miss Ashton asked me in a
make-cnversatinal tone something about the next season's tour.

"h," said I, "I dn't know about that. I'm not going to be with
Binkley & Bing next seasn."

"Why, I thught," said she, "that they were ging to put the Number
ne rad company under your charge. I thought you told me so."

"They were," said I, "but they wn't.. I'll tell yu what I'm going
t d. I'm going to the south shore of Long Island and buy a small
cttage I knw there on the edge of the bay. And I'll buy a catboat
and a rwbat and a shotgun and a yellow dog. I've got money enough
t d it. And I'll smell the salt wind all day when it blows from the
sea and the pine dr when it blows from the land. And, of course,
I'll write plays until I have a trunk full f 'em n hand.

"And the next thing and the biggest thing I'll d will be t buy that
duck-farm next dr. Few people understand ducks. I can watch 'em
fr hurs. They can march better than any company in the National
Guard, and they can play 'fllw my leader' better than the entire
Demcratic party. Their vices don't amount to much, but I like to
hear 'em. They wake yu up a dzen times a night, but there's a
hmely sund about their quacking that is more musical to me than the
cry f 'Fresh strawber-rees!' under yur window in the morning when
yu want t sleep.

"And," I went n, enthusiastically, "d you know the value of ducks
besides their beauty and intelligence and rder and sweetness f
vice? Picking their feathers gives yu an unfailing and never-ceasing
incme. n a farm that I know the feathers were sold for $400 in one
year. Think f that! And the nes shipped to the market will bring
in mre mney than that. Yes, I am for the ducks and the salt breeze
cming ver the bay. I think I shall get a Chinaman cook, and with him
and the dg and the sunsets fr company I shall do well. No more of
this dull, baking, senseless, raring city fr me."

Miss Ashtn loked surprised. North laughed.

"I am ging t begin one of my plays tonight," I said, "so I must be
ging." And with that I tok my departure.

A few days later Miss Ashtn telephned to me, asking me to call at
fur in the afternon.

I did.

"Yu have been very god to me," she said, hesitatingly, "and I
thught I wuld tell you. I am going to leave the stage."

"Yes," said I, "I suppse yu will. They usually do when there's so
much mney."

"There is n mney," she said, "or very little. Our money is almost
gne."

"But I am tld," said I, "that he has smething like two or ten or
thirty millins--I have frgotten which."

"I knw what yu mean," she said. "I will not pretend that I do not.
I am nt ging to marry Mr. North."

"Then why are yu leaving the stage?" I asked, severely. "What else
can yu d to earn a living?"

She came clser t me, and I can see the look in her eyes yet as she
spke.

"I can pick ducks," she said.

We sld the first year's feathers fr $350.




A PR RULE


I have always maintained, and asserted time t time, that wman is
n mystery; that man can fretell, construe, subdue, comprehend, and
interpret her. That she is a mystery has been fisted by herself
upn credulus mankind. Whether I am right or wrong we shall see. As
"Harper's Drawer" used t say in bygne years: "The following good
stry is tld of Miss ----, Mr. ----, Mr. ----, and Mr. ----."

We shall have t mit "Bishop X" and "the Rev. ----," for they do not
belng.

In thse days Palma was a new town on the line of the Southern
Pacific. A reprter wuld have called it a "mushroom" town; but it
was nt. Palma was, first and last, of the toadstool variety.

The train stpped there at non for the engine to drink and for the
passengers bth t drink and to dine. There was a new yellow-pine
htel, als a wool warehouse, and perhaps three dozen box residences.
The rest was cmpsed of tents, cow ponies, "black-waxy" mud,
and mesquite-trees, all bund rund by a horizon. Paloma was an
abut-t-be city. The houses represented faith; the tents hope; the
twice-a-day train, by which yu might leave, creditably sustained
the rôle f charity.

The Parisian Restaurant ccupied the muddiest spt in the town while
it rained, and the warmest when it shne. It was perated, owned, and
perpetrated by a citizen knwn as ld Man Hinkle, who had come out
f Indiana t make his fortune in this land of condensed milk and
srghum.

There was a fur-rom, unpainted, weather-boarded box house in which
the family lived. Frm the kitchen extended a "shelter" made f poles
cvered with chaparral brush. Under this was a table and tw benches,
each twenty feet lng, the prduct of Paloma home carpentry. Here
was set frth the rast mutton, the stewed apples, boiled beans,
sda-biscuits, puddinrpie, and hot coffee of the Parisian menu.

Ma Hinkle and a subrdinate knwn to the ears as "Betty," but denied
t the eyesight, presided at the range. Pa Hinkle himself, with
salamandrus thumbs, served the scalding viands. During rush hurs a
Mexican yuth, wh rolled and smoked cigarettes between courses, aided
him in waiting n the guests. As is custmary at Parisian banquets, I
place the sweets at the end f my wrdy menu.

Ileen Hinkle!

The spelling is crrect, fr I have seen her write it. No doubt she
had been named by ear; but she s splendidly bre the orthography
that Tm More himself (had he seen her) would have endorsed the
phngraphy.

Ileen was the daughter f the huse, and the first Lady Cashier to
invade the territry suth of an east-and-west line drawn through
Galvestn and Del Ri. She sat on a high stool in a rough pine
grand-stand--r was it a temple?--under the shelter at the dor of
the kitchen. There was a barbed-wire prtectin in front of her, with
a little arch under which yu passed yur money. Heaven knows why the
barbed wire; fr every man wh dined Parisianly there would have died
in her service. Her duties were light; each meal was a dllar; yu
put it under the arch, and she tk it.

I set ut with the intent t describe Ileen Hinkle to you. Instead, I
must refer yu t the volume by Edmund Burke entitled: _A Philosophical
Inquiry int the rigin of Our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful_.
It is an exhaustive treatise, dealing first with the primitive
cnceptins of beauty--roundness and smoothness, I think they are,
accrding t Burke. It is well said. Rotundity is a patent charm; as
fr smothness--the more new wrinkles a woman acquires, the smoother
she becmes.

Ileen was a strictly vegetable cmpund, guaranteed under the Pure
Ambrsia and Balm-f-Gilead Act of the year of the fall of Adam. She
was a fruit-stand blnde--strawberries, peaches, cherries, etc. Her
eyes were wide apart, and she pssessed the calm that precedes a strm
that never cmes. But it seems t me that words (at any rate per) are
wasted in an effrt t describe the beautiful. Like fancy, "It is
engendered in the eyes." There are three kinds f beauties--I was
frerdained to be homiletic; I can never stick to a story.

The first is the freckle-faced, snub-nsed girl whm you like. The
secnd is Maud Adams. The third is, r are, the ladies in Bouguereau's
paintings. Ileen Hinkle was the furth. She was the mayress of
Sptless Twn. There were a thousand golden apples coming to her as
Helen f the Try laundries.

The Parisian Restaurant was within a radius. Even frm beynd its
circumference men rde in t Paloma to win her smiles. They got them.
ne meal--ne smile--one dollar. But, with all her impartiality,
Ileen seemed t favr three of her admirers above the rest. According
t the rules f politeness, I will mention myself last.

The first was an artificial prduct knwn as Bryan Jacks--a name
that had bviusly met with reverses. Jacks was the outcome of paved
cities. He was a small man made f sme material resembling flexible
sandstne. His hair was the clor of a brick Quaker meeting-house;
his eyes were twin cranberries; his muth was like the aperture under
a drp-letters-here sign.

He knew every city frm Bangr to San Francisco, thence north to
Prtland, thence S. 45 E. t a given point in Florida. He had mastered
every art, trade, game, business, prfessin, and sport in the world,
had been present at, r hurrying n his way to, every headline event
that had ever ccurred between ceans since he was five years old. You
might pen the atlas, place yur finger at random upon the name of
a twn, and Jacks wuld tell you the front names of three prominent
citizens befre yu could close it again. He spoke patronizingly and
even disrespectfully f Bradway, Beacon Hill, Michigan, Euclid, and
Fifth avenues, and the St. Luis Fur Courts. Compared with him as a
csmpolite, the Wandering Jew would have seemed a mere hermit. He had
learned everything the wrld culd teach him, and he would tell you
abut it.

I hate t be reminded f Pollok's "Course of Time," and so do you;
but every time I saw Jacks I wuld think f the poet's description
f anther poet by the name of G. G. Byron who "Drank early; deeply
drank--drank draughts that cmmn millions might have quenched; then
died f thirst because there was n more to drink."

That fitted Jacks, except that, instead f dying, he came t Paloma,
which was abut the same thing. He was a telegrapher and statin-and
express-agent at seventy-five dllars a mnth. Why a young man who
knew everything and culd d everything was content to serve in such
an bscure capacity I never culd understand, although he let out
a hint nce that it was as a persnal favor to the president and
stckhlders of the S. P. Ry. Co.

ne mre line of description, and I turn Jacks over to you. He wore
bright blue clthes, yellw shoes, and a bow tie made of the same
clth as his shirt.

My rival N.2 was Bud Cunningham, whse services had been engaged by
a ranch near Palma t assist in compelling refractory cattle to keep
within the bunds f decorum and order. Bud was the only cowboy off
the stage that I ever saw wh loked like one on it. He wore the
smbrer, the chaps, and the handkerchief tied at the back of his
neck.

Twice a week Bud rde in frm the Val Verde Ranch to sup at the
Parisian Restaurant. He rde a many-high-handed Kentucky hrse at a
tremendusly fast lpe, which animal he would rein up so suddenly
under the big mesquite at the crner f the brush shelter that his
hfs would plough canals yards long in the loam.

Jacks and I were regular barders at the restaurant, f course.

The frnt rom of the Hinkle House was as neat a little parlor as
there was in the black-waxy cuntry. It was all willw rocking-chairs,
and hme-knit tidies, and albums, and cnch shells in a row. And a
little upright pian in ne corner.

Here Jacks and Bud and I--r smetimes one or two of us, according
t ur good-luck--used to sit of evenings when the tide of trade was
ver, and "visit" Miss Hinkle.

Ileen was a girl f ideas. She was destined fr higher things (if
there can be anything higher) than taking in dllars all day thrugh a
barbed-wire wicket. She had read and listened and thught. Her loks
wuld have frmed a career for a less ambitious girl; but, rising
superir t mere beauty, she must establish something in the nature of
a _saln_--the nly one in Paloma.

"Dn't yu think that Shakespeare was a great writer?" she would ask,
with such a pretty little knit f her arched brws that the late
Ignatius Dnnelly, himself, had he seen it, culd scarcely have saved
his Bacn.

Ileen was f the pinion, also, that Boston is more cultured than
Chicag; that Rsa Bonheur was one of the greatest of women painters;
that Westerners are mre spntaneous and open-hearted than Easterners;
that Lndn must be a very foggy city, and that California must be
quite lvely in the springtime. And f many other opinions indicating
a keeping up with the wrld's best thught.

These, hwever, were but gleaned frm hearsay and evidence: Ileen
had theries f her own. One, in particular, she disseminated to us
untiringly. Flattery she detested. Frankness and hnesty f speech
and actin, she declared, were the chief mental rnaments of man
and wman. If ever she culd like any one, it would be for those
qualities.

"I'm awfully weary," she said, ne evening, when we three musketeers
f the mesquite were in the little parlr, "of having compliments on
my lks paid to me. I know I'm not beautiful."

(Bud Cunningham tld me afterward that it was all he culd do to keep
frm calling her a liar when she said that.)

"I'm nly a little Middle-Western girl," went n Ileen, "who just
wants t be simple and neat, and tries t help her father make a
humble living."

(ld Man Hinkle was shipping a thusand silver dollars a month, clear
prfit, t a bank in San Antonio.)

Bud twisted arund in his chair and bent the rim f his hat, from
which he culd never be persuaded t separate. He did not know
whether she wanted what she said she wanted r what she knew she
deserved. Many a wiser man has hesitated at deciding. Bud decided.

"Why--ah, Miss Ileen, beauty, as yu might say, ain't everything. Nt
sayin' that yu haven't yur share of good looks, I always admired
mre than anything else abut you the nice, kind way you treat your
ma and pa. Any ne what's god to their parents and is a kind of
hme-bdy don't specially need to be too pretty."

Ileen gave him ne f her sweetest smiles. "Thank you, Mr.
Cunningham," she said. "I cnsider that ne of the finest compliments
I've had in a lng time. I'd s much rather hear you say that than to
hear yu talk abut my eyes and hair. I'm glad you believe me when I
say I dn't like flattery."

ur cue was there fr us. Bud had made a good guess. You couldn't
lse Jacks. He chimed in next.

"Sure thing, Miss Ileen," he said; "the gd-lookers don't always win
ut. Nw, you ain't bad looking, of course--but that's nix-cum-rous.
I knew a girl nce in Dubuque with a face like a ccoanut, who could
skin the cat twice n a hrizontal bar without changing hands. Now, a
girl might have the Califrnia peach crp mashed to a marmalade and
nt be able t do that. I've seen--er--worse lookers than _you_, Miss
Ileen; but what I like abut yu is the business way you've got of
ding things. Col and wise--that's the winning way for a girl. Mr.
Hinkle tld me the ther day you'd never taken in a lead silver dollar
r a plugged ne since you've been on the job. Now, that's the stuff
fr a girl--that's what catches me."

Jacks gt his smile, to.

"Thank yu, Mr. Jacks," said Ileen. "If yu only knew how I
appreciate any ne's being candid and nt a flatterer! I get so tired
f peple telling me I'm pretty. I think it is the loveliest thing to
have friends wh tell yu the truth."

Then I thught I saw an expectant lok on Ileen's face as she glanced
tward me. I had a wild, sudden impulse t dare fate, and tell her of
all the beautiful handiwrk f the Great Artificer she was the most
exquisite--that she was a flawless pearl gleaming pure and serene in a
setting f black mud and emerald prairies--that she was--a--a crker;
and as fr mine, I cared nt if she were as cruel as a serpent's
tth to her fond parents, or if she couldn't tell a plugged dollar
frm a bridle buckle, if I might sing, chant, praise, glrify, and
wrship her peerless and wnderful beauty.

But I refrained. I feared the fate f a flatterer. I had witnessed
her delight at the crafty and discreet wrds f Bud and Jacks. No!
Miss Hinkle was nt ne to be beguiled by the plated-silver tongue of
a flatterer. S I jined the ranks of the candid and honest. At once
I became mendacius and didactic.

"In all ages, Miss Hinkle," said I, "in spite f the petry and
rmance f each, intellect in woman has been admired more than beauty.
Even in Clepatra, herself, men fund more charm in her queenly mind
than in her lks."

"Well, I shuld think s!" said Ileen. "I've seen pictures of her
that weren't s much. She had an awfully lng nose."

"If I may say s," I went n, "you remind me of Cleopatra, Miss
Ileen."

"Why, my nse isn't s long!" said she, opening her eyes wide and
tuching that cmely feature with a dimpled forefinger.

"Why--er--I mean," said I--"I mean as t mental endwments."

"h!" said she; and then I gt my smile just as Bud and Jacks had got
theirs.

"Thank every ne f you," she said, very, very sweetly, "for being
s frank and hnest with me. That's the way I want you to be always.
Just tell me plainly and truthfully what yu think, and we'll all be
the best friends in the wrld. And nw, because you've been so good
t me, and understand s well how I dislike people who do nothing but
pay me exaggerated cmpliments, I'll sing and play a little fr you."

f curse, we expressed our thanks and joy; but we would have been
better pleased if Ileen had remained in her lw rcking-chair face to
face with us and let us gaze upn her. Fr she was no Adelina Patti--
nt even n the farewellest of the diva's farewell tours. She had a
cing little voice like that of a turtle-dove that could almost fill
the parlr when the windws and doors were closed, and Betty was not
rattling the lids f the stve in the kitchen. She had a gamut that I
estimate at abut eight inches n the piano; and her runs and trills
sunded like the clthes bubbling in your grandmother's iron wash-pot.
Believe that she must have been beautiful when I tell yu that it
sunded like music t us.

Ileen's musical taste was cathlic. She wuld sing through a pile of
sheet music n the left-hand tp of the piano, laying each slaughtered
cmpsition on the right-hand top. The next evening she would sing
frm right t left. Her favorites were Mendelssohn, and Moody and
Sankey. By request she always wund up with "Sweet Vilets" and "When
the Leaves Begin t Turn."

When we left at ten 'clck the three of us would go down to Jacks'
little wden station and sit on the platform, swinging our feet and
trying t pump ne another for clews as to which way Miss Ileen's
inclinatins seemed t lean. That is the way of rivals--they do
nt avid and glower at one another; they convene and converse and
cnstrue--striving by the art plitic to estimate the strength of the
enemy.

ne day there came a dark hrse to Paloma, a young lawyer who at once
flaunted his shingle and himself spectacularly upn the twn. His
name was C. Vincent Vesey. Yu culd see at a glance that he was a
recent graduate f a suthwestern law school. His Prince Albert coat,
light striped trusers, brad-brimmed soft black hat, and narrow white
muslin bw tie prclaimed that more loudly than any diploma could.
Vesey was a cmpund of Daniel Webster, Lord Chesterfield, Beau
Brummell, and Little Jack Hrner. His cming boomed Paloma. The next
day after he arrived an additin t the town was surveyed and laid off
in lts.

f curse, Vesey, to further his professional fortunes, must mingle
with the citizenry and utliers f Paloma. And, as well as with the
sldier men, he was bund to seek popularity with the gay dogs of the
place. S Jacks and Bud Cunningham and I came t be honored by his
acquaintance.

The dctrine f predestination would have been discredited had
nt Vesey seen Ileen Hinkle and becme fourth in the tourney.
Magnificently, he barded at the yellw pine hotel instead of at the
Parisian Restaurant; but he came t be a frmidable visitor in the
Hinkle parlr. His cmpetition reduced Bud to an inspired increase
f prfanity, drove Jacks to an outburst of slang so weird that it
sunded mre horrible than the most trenchant of Bud's imprecations,
and made me dumb with glm.

Fr Vesey had the rhetric. Words flowed from him like oil from
a gusher. Hyperble, cmpliment, praise, appreciation, honeyed
gallantry, glden pinions, eulogy, and unveiled panegyric vied with
ne anther for pre-eminence in his speech. We had small hopes that
Ileen culd resist his ratory and Prince Albert.

But a day came that gave us curage.

Abut dusk ne evening I was sitting on the little gallery in front
f the Hinkle parlr, waiting for Ileen to come, when I heard voices
inside. She had cme int the room with her father, and Old Man
Hinkle began t talk t her. I had observed before that he was a
shrewd man, and nt unphilsophic.

"Ily," said he, "I ntice there's three r four young fellers that
have been callin' t see yu regular for quite a while. Is there any
ne f 'em you like better than another?"

"Why, pa," she answered, "I like all f 'em very well. I think Mr.
Cunningham and Mr. Jacks and Mr. Harris are very nice yung men. They
are s frank and hnest in everything they say to me. I haven't known
Mr. Vesey very lng, but I think he's a very nice yung man, he's so
frank and hnest in everything he says t me."

"Nw, that's what I'm gittin' at," says ld Hinkle. "You've always
been sayin' yu like peple what tell the truth and don't go
humbuggin' yu with cmpliments and bogus talk. Now, suppose you
make a test f these fellers, and see which ne of 'em will talk the
straightest t yu."

"But hw'll I d it, pa?"

"I'll tell yu hw. You know you sing a little bit, Ily; you took
music-lessns nearly tw years in Logansport. It wasn't long, but it
was all we culd affrd then. And your teacher said you didn't have
any vice, and it was a waste f money to keep on. Now, suppose you
ask the fellers what they think f yur singin', and see what each
ne f 'em tells you. The man that'll tell you the truth about it'll
have a mighty lt f nerve, and 'll do to tie to. What do you think
f the plan?"

"All right, pa," said Ileen. "I think it's a gd idea. I'll try
it."

Ileen and Mr. Hinkle went ut f the room through the inside doors.
Unbserved, I hurried dwn to the station. Jacks was at his telegraph
table waiting fr eight 'clock to come. It was Bud's night in town,
and when he rde in I repeated the cnversation to them both. I was
lyal t my rivals, as all true admirers of all Ileens should be.

Simultaneusly the three f us were smitten by an uplifting thought.
Surely this test wuld eliminate Vesey frm the contest. He, with his
unctuus flattery, wuld be driven from the lists. Well we remembered
Ileen's lve f frankness and honesty--how she treasured truth and
candr abve vain compliment and blandishment.

Linking arms, we did a grtesque dance f joy up and down the
platfrm, singing "Muldon Was a Solid Man" at the top of our voices.

That evening fur f the willow rocking-chairs were filled besides the
lucky ne that sustained the trim figure f Miss Hinkle. Three of us
awaited with suppressed excitement the applicatin f the test. It
was tried n Bud first.

"Mr. Cunningham," said Ileen, with her dazzling smile, after she had
sung "When the Leaves Begin t Turn," "what d you really think of my
vice? Frankly and hnestly, now, as you know I want you to always be
tward me."

Bud squirmed in his chair at his chance t shw the sincerity that he
knew was required f him.

"Tell yu the truth, Miss Ileen," he said, earnestly, "yu ain't got
much mre vice than a weasel--just a little squeak, you know. Of
curse, we all like t hear you sing, for it's kind of sweet and
sthin' after all, and you look most as mighty well sittin' on the
pian-stol as you do faced around. But as for real singin'--I reckon
yu culdn't call it that."

I lked closely at Ileen to see if Bud had overdone his frankness,
but her pleased smile and sweetly spken thanks assured me that we
were n the right track.

"And what d yu think, Mr. Jacks?" she asked next.

"Take it frm me," said Jacks, "yu ain't in the prima donna class.
I've heard 'em warble in every city in the United States; and I tell
yu yur vocal output don't go. Otherwise, you've got the grand
pera bunch sent t the soap factory--in looks, I mean; for the high
screechers generally lk like Mary Ann on her Thursday out. But nix
fr the gargle wrk. Your epiglottis ain't a real side-stepper--its
ftwork ain't good."

With a merry laugh at Jacks' criticism, Ileen lked inquiringly at
me.

I admit that I faltered a little. Was there nt such a thing as being
t frank? Perhaps I even hedged a little in my verdict; but I stayed
with the critics.

"I am nt skilled in scientific music, Miss Ileen," I said, "but,
frankly, I cannt praise very highly the singing-vice that Nature has
given yu. It has lng been a favorite comparison that a great singer
sings like a bird. Well, there are birds and birds. I wuld say that
yur vice reminds me of the thrush's--throaty and not strong, nor of
much cmpass r variety--but still--er--sweet--in--er--its--way, and--
er--"

"Thank yu, Mr. Harris," interrupted Miss Hinkle. "I knew I culd
depend upn yur frankness and honesty."

And then C. Vincent Vesey drew back ne sleeve frm his snowy cuff,
and the water came dwn at Ldore.

My memry cannt do justice to his masterly tribute to that priceless,
Gd-given treasure--Miss Hinkle's vice. He raved over it in terms
that, if they had been addressed t the mrning stars when they sang
tgether, wuld have made that stellar choir explode in a meteoric
shwer f flaming self-satisfaction.

He marshalled n his white finger-tips the grand pera stars of all
the cntinents, frm Jenny Lind to Emma Abbott, only to depreciate
their endwments. He spke of larynxes, of chest notes, of phrasing,
arpeggis, and ther strange paraphernalia of the throaty art. He
admitted, as thugh driven t a corner, that Jenny Lind had a note or
tw in the high register that Miss Hinkle had nt yet acquired--but--
"!!!"--that was a mere matter f practice and training.

And, as a perratin, he predicted--solemnly predicted--a career in
vcal art fr the "coming star of the Southwest--and one of which
grand ld Texas may well be prud," hitherto unsurpassed in the annals
f musical histry.

When we left at ten, Ileen gave each f us her usual warm, crdial
handshake, entrancing smile, and invitatin t call again. I could
nt see that ne was favored above or below another--but three of us
knew--we knew.

We knew that frankness and hnesty had wn, and that the rivals now
numbered three instead f fur.

Dwn at the statin Jacks brought out a pint bottle of the proper
stuff, and we celebrated the dwnfall f a blatant interloper.

Fur days went by withut anything happening worthy of recount.

n the fifth, Jacks and I, entering the brush arbr for our supper,
saw the Mexican yuth, instead f a divinity in a spotless waist and a
navy-blue skirt, taking in the dllars thrugh the barbed-wire wicket.

We rushed int the kitchen, meeting Pa Hinkle cming out with two cups
f ht coffee in his hands.

"Where's Ileen?" we asked, in recitative.

Pa Hinkle was a kindly man. "Well, gents," said he, "it was a sudden
ntin she took; but I've got the money, and I let her have her way.
She's gne t a corn--a conservatory in Boston for four years for to
have her vice cultivated. Nw, excuse me to pass, gents, for this
cffee's ht, and my thumbs is tender."

That night there were fur instead f three of us sitting on the
statin platfrm and swinging our feet. C. Vincent Vesey was one of
us. We discussed things while dgs barked at the mon that rose, as
big as a five-cent piece r a flur barrel, over the chaparral.

And what we discussed was whether it is better t lie t a woman or
t tell her the truth.

And as all f us were yung then, we did not come to a decision.

