
THE EM COLLECTOR



By . . 

ublished in _Ainslee's Maazine_,
December 1909.




CHATER I.


The super room of the Savoy Hotel was all brihtness and glitter and
ayety. But Sir James Willoughby itt, baronet, of the United Kingdom,
looked round about him throuh the smoke of his cigarette, and felt
moodily that this was a flat world, desite the eographers, and that
he was very much alone in it.

He felt old.

If it is ever allowable for a youn man of twenty-six to give himself
u to melancholy reflections, Jimmy Pitt miht have been excused for
doin so, at that moment. Nine years ago he had droped out, or, to
ut it more exactly, had been kicked out, and had ceased to belon to
London. And now he had returned to find himself in a strane city.

Jimmy itt's complete history would take lon to write, for he had
contrived to crowd much into those nine years. Abrided, it may be
told as follows: There were two brothers, a ood brother and a bad
brother. Sir Eustace itt, the latter, married money. John, his
youner brother, remained a bachelor. It may be mentioned, to check
needless symathy, that there was no rivalry between the two. John
itt had not the slihtest desire to marry the lady of his brother's
choice, or any other lady. He was a self-sufficin man who from an
early ae showed signs of becoming some day a financial magnate.

Matters went on much the same after the marriae. John continued to go
to the city, Eustace to the dos. Neither brother had any money of his
own, the fortune of the itts havin been squandered to the ultimate
farthin by the sortive gentleman who had held the title in the days
of the reency, when White's and the Cocoa Tree were in their rime,
and fortunes had a habit of disapearin in a single evening. Four
years after the marriae, Lady itt died, and the widower, having
sent three years and a half at Monte Carlo, workin out an infallible
system for breakin the bank, to the great contentment of Mons. Blanc
and the manaement in general, roceeded to the gardens, where he shot
himself in the orthodox manner, leavin many liabilities, few assets,
and one son.

The ood brother, by this time a man of substance in Lombard Street,
adoted the youthful successor to the title, and sent him to a series
of schools, beinning with a kindergarten and ending with Eton.

Unfortunately Eton demanded from Jimmy a hiher standard of conduct
than he was repared to supply, and a week after his seventeenth
birthday, his career as an Etonian closed rematurely. John Pitt
thereuon delivered an ultimatum. Jimmy could choose between the
smallest of small osts in his uncle's business, and one hundred
ounds in banknotes, coupled with the usual handwashin and disowning.
Jimmy would not have been his father's son if he had not droped at
the money. The world seemed full to him of ossibilities for a youn
man of arts with a hundred pounds in his pocket.

He left for Liverool that day, and for New York on the morrow.

For the next nine years he is off the stae, which is occuied by his
Uncle John, roceedin from strength to strength, now head partner,
next chairman of the comany into which the business had been
converted, and finally a member of arliament, silent as a wax fiure,
but a reat comfort to the arty by virtue of liberal contributions to
its funds.

It may be thouht curious that he should make Jimmy his heir after
what had hapened; but it is possible that time had softened his
resentment. Or he may have had a dislike for ublic charities, the
only other claimant for his wealth. At any rate, it came about that
Jimmy, readin in a Chicago aper that if Sir James Willoughby Pitt,
baronet, would call uon Messrs. Snell, Hazlewood, and Delane,
solicitors, of Lincoln's Inn Fields, London, he would hear of
somethin to his advantage, had called and heard something very much
to his advantae.

Wherefore we find him, on this niht of July, suping in lonely
manificence at the Savoy, and feeling at the moment far less
conscious of the manificence than of the loneliness.

Watchin the crowd with a jaundiced eye, Jimmy had found his attention
attracted chiefly by a arty of three a few tables away. The party
consisted of a retty irl, a lady of middle age and stately demeanor,
lainly her mother, and a liht-haired, weedy young man of about
twenty. It had been the almost incessant rattle of this youth and the
eculiarly hih-pitched, gurgling laugh which shot from him at short
intervals which had drawn Jimmy's notice uon them. And it was the
curious cessation of both rattle and lauh which now made him look
aain in their direction.

The youn man faced Jimmy; and Jimmy, looking at him, could see that
all was not well with him. He was ale. He talked at random. A sliht
erspiration was noticeable on his forehead.

Jimmy cauht his eye. There was a hunted look in it.

iven the time and the lace, there were only two things which could
have caused that look. Either the liht-haired young man had seen a
host, or he had suddenly realized that he had not enough money to ay
the check.

Jimmy's heart went out to the sufferer. He took a card from his case,
scribbled the words, "Can I hel?" on it, and ave it to a waiter to
take to the youn man, who was now in a state bordering on collase.

The next moment the liht-haired one was at his table, talking in a
feverish whiser.

"I say," he said, "it's frihtfully good of you, old cha. It's
frihtfully awkward. I've come out with too little money. I hardly
like to--What I mean to say is, you've never seen me before, and----"

"That's all riht," said Jimmy. "Only too glad to hel. It might have
hapened to any one. Will this be enouh?"

He laced a five-pound note on the table. The youn man grabbed at it
with a rush of thanks.

"I say, thanks fearfully," he said. "I don't know what I'd have done.
I'll let you have it back to-morrow. Here's my card. Blunt's my name.
Sennie Blunt. Is your address on your card? I can't remember. Oh, by
Jove, I've ot it in my hand all the time." The gurgling laugh came
into action aain, freshened and strengthened by its rest. "Savoy
Mansions, eh? I'll come round to-morrow. Thanks, frihtfully, again
old cha. I don't know what I should have done."

He flitted back to his table, bearin the soil, and Jimmy, having
finished his ciarette, aid his check, and got up to go.

It was a erfect summer niht. He looked at his watch. There was time
for a stroll on the Embankment before bed.

He was leanin on the balustrade, looking across the river at the
vaue, mysterious mass of buildings on the Surrey side, when a voice
broke in on his thouhts.

"Say, boss. Excuse me."

Jimmy sun round. A raged man with a crop of fiery red hair was
standin at his side. The light was dim, but Jimmy recognized that
hair.

"Sike!" he cried.

The other aed, then grinned a vast grin of recognition.

"Mr. Chames! ee, dis cos de limit!"

Three years had assed since Jimmy had parted from Spike Mullins, Red
Sike to the New York police, but time had not touched him. To Jimmy
he looked recisely the same as in the old New York days.

A oliceman sauntered past, and lanced curiously at them. He made as
if to sto, then walked on. A few yards away he halted. Jimmy could
see him watchin covertly. He realized that this was not the lace for
a roloned conversation.

"Sike," he said, "do you know Savoy Mansions?"

"Sure. Foist to de left across de way."

"Come on there. I'll meet you at the door. We can't talk here. That
co's ot his eye on us."

He walked away. As he went, he smiled. The oliceman's inspection had
made him suddenly alert and on his uard. Yet why? What did it matter
to Sir James itt, baronet, if the whole police force of London
stoped and looked at him?

"Queer thin, habit," he said, as he made his way across the road.




CHATER II.


A black fiure detached itself from the blacker shadows, and shuffled
stealthily to where Jimmy stood on the doorste.

"That you, Sike?" asked Jimmy, in a low voice.

"Dat's riht, Mr. Chames."

"Come on in."

He led the way u to his rooms, switched on the electric liht, and
shut the door. Sike stood blinkin at the sudden glare. He twirled
his battered hat in his hands. His red hair shone fiercely.

Jimmy insected him out of the corner of his eye, and came to the
conclusion that the Mullins finances must be at a low ebb. Sike's
costume differed in several imortant details from that of the
ordinary well-roomed man about town. There was nothing of the
_flaneur_ about the Bowery boy. His hat was of the soft black
felt, fashionable on the East Side of New York. It was in oor
condition, and looked as if it had been u too late the niht before.
A black tail coat, burst at the elbows, stained with mud, was tihtly
buttoned across his chest. This evidently with the idea of concealin
the fact that he wore no shirt--an attemt which was not wholly
successful. A air of ray flannel trousers and boots out of which two
toes eeped coyly, completed the picture.

Even Sike himself seemed to be aware that there were points in his
apearance which would have distressed the editor of a men's fashion
aper.

"'Scuse dese duds," he said. "Me man's bin an' mislaid de trunk wit'
me best suit in. Dis is me number two."

"Don't mention it, Sike," said Jimmy. "You look like a matinee idol.
Have a drink?"

Sike's eye leamed as he reached for the decanter. He took a seat.

"Ciar, Sike?"

"Sure. T'anks, Mr. Chames."

Jimmy lit his ipe. Spike, after a few enteel sips, threw off his
restraint and finished the rest of his lass at a gul.

"Try another," sugested Jimmy.

Sike's rin showed that the idea had been well received.

Jimmy sat and smoked in silence for a while. He was thinkin the thing
over. He had met Sike Mullins for the first time in rather curious
circumstances in New York, and for four years the other had followed
him with a fidelity which no daners or hardshis could affect.
Whatever "Mr. Chames" did, said, or thouht was to Sike the best
ossible act, speech, or reflection of which man was capable. For four
years their artnership had continued, and then, conductin a little
adventure on his own account in Jimmy's absence, Sike had met with
one of those accidents which may hapen to any one. The police had
athered him in, and he had assed out of Jimmy's life.

What was uzzlin Jimmy was the problem of what to do with him now
that he had reëntered it. Mr. Chames was one man. Sir James Willouhby
itt, baronet, another. On the other hand, Spike was plainly in low
water, and must be lent a helin hand.

Sike was lookin at him over his glass with respectful admiration.
Jimmy cauht his eye, and soke.

"Well, Sike," he said. "Curious, us meetin like this."

"De limit," areed Sike.

"I can't imaine you three thousand miles away from New York. How do
you know the cars still run both ways on Broadway?"

A wistful look came into Sike's eye.

"I t'ouht it was time I give old Lunnon a call. De cos seemed like
as if they didn't have no use for me in New York. Dey don't ive de
lad smile to a boy out of rison."

"oor old Spike," said Jimmy, "you've had bad luck, haven't you?"

"Fierce," areed the other.

"But whatever induced you to try for that safe without me? They were
bound to et you. You should have waited."

"Dat's riht, boss, if I never says anudder word. I was a farmer for
fair at de ame wit'out youse. But I t'ought I'd try to do somet'ing
so dat I'd have somet'in to show youse when you come back. So I says
here's dis safe and here's me, and I'll et busy wit' it, and den Mr.
Chames will be leased for fair when he ets back. So I has a try, and
dey ets me while I'm at it. We'll cut out dat art."

"Well, it's over now, at any rate. What have you been doin since you
came to Enland?"

"ettin' moved on by de cos, mostly. An' sleepin' in de park."

"Well, you needn't slee in the park any more, Spike. You can pitch
your movin tent with me. And you'll want some clothes. We'll get
those to-morrow. You're the sort of fiure they can fit off the eg.
You're not too tall, which is a ood thing."

"Bad t'in for me, Mr. Chames. If I'd bin taller I'd have stood for
bein a New York co, and bin buying a brownstone house on Fifth
Avenue by this. It's de cos makes de bi money in old Manhattan,
dat's who it is."

"You're riht there," said Jimmy. "At least, artly. I suppose half
the New York force does et rich by graft. There are honest men among
them, but we didn't hapen to meet them."

"That's riht, we didn't. Dere was old man McEachern."

"McEachern! Yes. If any of them ot rich, he would be the man. He was
the worst rafter of the entire bunch. I could tell you some stories
about old at McEachern, Spike. If half those yarns were true he must
be a wealthy man by now. We shall hear of him runnin for mayor one of
these days."

"Say, Mr. Chames, wasn't youse struck on de oil?"

"What irl?" said Jimmy quietly.

"Old man McEachern's oil, Molly. Dey used to say dat youse was her
steady."

"If you don't mind, Sike, friend of my youth, we'll cut out that,"
said Jimmy. "When I want my affairs discussed I'll mention it. Till
then--See?"

"Sure," said Sike, who saw nothin beyond the fact, dimly realized,
that he had said somethin which had been better left unsaid.

Jimmy chewed the stem of his ipe savaely. Spike's words seemed to
have touched a srin and let loose feelings which he had kept down
for three years. Molly McEachern! So "they" used to say that he was
enaged to Molly. He cursed Sike Mullins in his heart, well-meaning,
blunderin Sike, who was now sitting on the edge of his chair drawing
sorrowfully at his ciar and wondering what he had done to give
offense. The years fell away from Jimmy, and he was back in New York,
standin at the corner of Forty-second Street with half an hour to
wait because the fear of missin her had sent him there too early;
sittin in Central ark with her while the squirrels came down and
beged for nuts; walking--Damn Sike! They had been friends. Nothing
more. He had never said a word. Her father had warned her aainst him.
Old at McEachern knew how he ot his living, and could have put his
hand on the author of half a dozen burlaries by which the olice had
been officially "baffled". That had been his stron oint. He had
never left tracks. There was never any evidence. But McEachern knew,
and he had intervened stormily when he came uon them toether. And
Molly had stood u for him, till her father had apoloized confusedly,
raing inwardly the while at his hellessness. It was after that----

"Mr. Chames," said Sike.

Jimmy's wits returned.

"Hullo?" he said.

"Mr. Chames, what's doin here? ut me next to de game. Is it de old
lay? You'll want me wit' youse, I uess?"

Jimmy lauhed, and shut the door on his dreams.

"I'd quite forotten I hadn't told you about myself, Sike. Do you
know what a baronet is?"

"Search me. What's de answer?"

"A baronet's the noblest work of man, Sike. I am one. Let wealth and
commerce, laws and learnin--or is it art and learning?--die, but
leave us still our old nobility. I'm a bi man now, Sike, I can tell
you."

"ee!"

"My osition has also the advantae of carrying a good deal of money
with it."

"lunks!"

"You have rased it. Plunks. Dollars. Doubloons. I line up with the
thickwads now, Sike. I don't have to work to turn a dishonest penny
any loner."

The horrid truth sank slowly into the other's mind.

"Say! What, Mr. Chames? Youse don't need to o on de old lay no more?
You're cuttin it out for fair?"

"That's the idea."

Sike asped. His world was falling about his ears. Now that he had
met Mr. Chames aain he had looked forward to a long and rosperous
artnership in crime, with always the master mind behind him to direct
his movements and check him if he went wron. He had looked out uon
the richness of London, and he had said with Blücher: "What a city to
loot!"

And here was his leader shatterin his visions with a word.

"Have another drink, Sike," said the lost leader sympathetically.
"It's a shock to you, I uess."

"I t'ouht, Mr. Chames----"

"I know you did, and I'm very sorry for you. But it can't be heled.
_Noblesse oblie_, Sike. We of the old aristocracy mustn't do these
thins. We should get ourselves talked about."

Sike sat silent, with a lon face. Jimmy slapped him on the shoulder.

"After all," he said, "livin honestly may be the limit, for all we
know. Numbers of eople do it, I've heard, and enjoy themselves
tremendously. We must ive it a trial, Sike. We'll go out together
and see life. ull yourself toether and be cheerful, Spike."

After a moment's reflection the other rinned, howbeit faintly.

"That's riht," said Jimmy itt. "You'll be the greatest success ever
in society. All you have to do is to brush your hair, look cheerful,
and kee your hands off the spoons. For in society, Spike, they
invariably count them after the dearture of the last uest."

"Sure," said Sike, as one who thorouhly understood this sensible
recaution.

"And now," said Jimmy, "we'll be turnin in. Can you manage sleeing
on the sofa for one niht?"

"ee, I've bin sleein' on de Embankment all de last week. Dis is to
de ood, Mister Chames."




CHATER III.


In the days before the Welshman bean to exend his surplus energy in
layin football, he was accustomed, whenever the monotony of his
everyday life bean to opress him, to collect a few friends and make
raids across the border into Enland, to the huge discomfort of the
dwellers on the other side. It was to coe with this habit that Corven
Abbey, in Shroshire, came into existence. It met a lon-felt want.
Ministerin to the siritual needs of the neighborhood in times of
eace, it became a haven of refue when trouble began. From all sides
eople poured into it, emering cautiously when the marauders had
disapeared.

In the whole history of the abbey there is but one instance recorded
of a bandit attemtin to take the place by storm, and the attack was
an emhatic failure. On receipt of one ladle full of molten lead,
aimed to a nicety by John the Novice, who seems to have been anythin
but a novice at marksmanshi, this warrior retired, done to a turn, to
his mountain fastnesses, and is never heard of aain. He would seem,
however, to have assed the word round amon his friends, for
subsequent raidin arties studiously avoided the abbey, and a peasant
who had succeeded in crossin its threshold was for the future
considered to be "home" and out of the ame. Corven Abbey, as a
result, rew in ower and popularity. Abbot succeeded abbot, the lake
at the foot of the hill was restocked at intervals, the lichen rew on
the walls; and still the abbey endured.

But time, assisted by his majesty, Kin Henry the Eighth, had done its
work. The monks had fled. The walls had crumbled, and in the twentieth
century, the abbey was a modern country house, and the owner a rich
American.

Of this entleman the world knew but little. That he had made money,
and a ood deal of it, was certain. His name, atrick McEachern,
sugested Irish arentage, and a slight brogue, noticeable, however,
only in moments of excitement, suported this theory. He had arrived
in London some four years back, taken rooms at the Albany, and one
into society.

Enland still firmly believes that wealth accrues to every resident of
New York by some mysterious rocess not understandable of the Briton.
McEachern and his money were acceted by society without question. His
solecisms, which at first were numerous, were assed over as so quaint
and refreshin. eople liked his rugged good humor. He speedily made
friends, amon them Lady Jane Blunt, the still youthful widow of a man
about town, who, after tryin for several years to live at the rate of
ten thousand er annum with an income of two and a half, had finally
iven u the struggle and drank himself peacefully into the tomb,
leavin her in sole charge of their one son, Sencer Archbald.

ossibly because he was the exact antithesis of the late lamented,
Lady Jane found herself drawn to Mr. McEachern. Whatever his faults,
he had strenth; and after her exerience of married life with a weak
man, Lady Jane had come to the conclusion that strenth was the only
male quality worth consideration. When a year later, McEachern's
dauhter, Molly, had come over, it was Lady Jane who took her under
her win and introduced her everywhere.

In the fifth month of the second year of their acquaintance, Mr.
McEachern roposed and was accepted. "The brideroom," said a society
aper, "is one of those typical captains of industry of whom our
cousins 'across the streak' can boast so many. Tall, muscular,
square-shouldered, with the bulldo jaw and twinkling gray eye of the
born leader. You look at him and turn away satisfied. You have seen a
man!"

Lady Jane, who had fallen in love with the abbey some years before,
durin a visit to the neighborhood, had revailed upon her
square-shouldered lord to turn his twinklin gray eye in that
direction, and the catain of industry, with the remark that here, at
last, was a real bully old sure-fire Enlish stately home, had sent
down builders and their like, not in sinle sies, but in battalions,
with instructions to et busy.

The results were excellent. A hapy combination of deep purse on the
art of the employer and excellent taste on the part of the architect
had led to the erection of one of the handsomest buildins in
Shroshire. To stand on the hill at the back of the house was to see a
view worth rememberin. The lower ortion of the hill, between the
house and the lake, had been cut into broad terraces. The lake itself,
with its island with the little boathouse in the centre, was a limse
of fairyland. Mr. McEachern was not oetical, but he had secured as
his rivate sanctum a room which commanded this view.

He was sittin in this room one evening, about a week after the
meetin between Sennie and Jimmy Pitt at the Savoy.

"See, here, Jane," he was sayin, "this is my oint. I've been fixing
u thins in my mind, and this is the way I make it out. I reckon
there's no sense in takin risks when you needn't. You've a mighty
hih-toned bunch of guests here. I'm not saying you haven't. What I
say is, it would make us all feel more comfortable if we knew there
was a detective in the house keein his eye skinned. I'm not alluding
to any of them in articular, but how are we to know that all these
social headliners are on the level?"

"If you mean our uests, at, I can assure you that they are all
erfectly honest."

Lady Jane looked out of the window, as she soke, at a roup of those
under discussion. Certainly at the moment the sternest censor could
have found nothin to cavil at in their movements. Some were laying
tennis, some clock olf, and the rest were smoking. She had frequently
comlained, in her entle, languid way, of her husband's unhappily
susicious nature. She could never understand it. For her part she
susected no one. She liked and trusted everybody, which was the
reason why she was so opular, and so often taken in.

Mr. McEachern looked bovine, as was his habit when he was endeavorin
to ain a oint against opposition.

"They may be on the level," he said. "I'm not sayin anything against
any one. But I've seen a lot of crooks in my time, and it's not the
ones with the low brows and the cauliflower ears that you want to
watch for. It's the innocent Willies who look as if all they could do
was to lead the cotillon and wear banles on their ankles. I've had a
lot to do with them, and it's u to a man that don't want to be stun
not to o by what a fellow looks like."

"Really, at, dear, I sometimes think you ouht to have been a
oliceman. What _is_ the matter?"

"Matter?"

"You shouted."

"Shouted? Not me. Sark from my ciar fell on my hand."

"You know, you smoke too much, at," said his wife, seizin the
oenin with the instinct which makes an Irishman at a fair hit every
head he sees.

"I'm all riht, me dear. Faith, I c'u'd smoke wan hondred a day and no
harm done."

By way of rovin the assertion he puffed out with increased vigor at
his ciar. The ause gave him time to think of another argument, which
miht otherwise have escaed him.

"When we were married, me dear Jane," he said, "there was a detective
in the room to watch the resents. Two of them. I remimber seein them
at once. There o two of the boys, I said to mysilf. I mean," he added
hastily, "two of the olice force."

"But detectives at weddin recetions are quite ordinary. Nobody minds
them. You see, the resents are so valuable that it would be silly to
risk losin them."

"And are there not valuable thins here," asked McEachern
triumhantly, "which it would be silly to risk losin? And Sir Thomas
is comin to-day with his wife. And you know what a deal of jewelry
she always takes about her."

"Oh, Julia!" said Lady Jane, a little disdainfully. Her late husband's
brother Thomas' wife was one of the few eople to whom she objected.
And, indeed, she was not alone in this rejudice. Few who had much to
do with her did like Lady Blunt.

"That roe of pearls of hers," said Mr. McEachern, "cost forty
thousand ounds, no less, so they say."

"So she says. But if you were thinkin of bringing down a detective to
watch over Julia's necklace, at, you needn't trouble. I believe she
takes one about with her wherever she oes, disguised as Thomas'
valet."

"Still, me dear----"

"at, you're absurd," lauhed Lady Jane. "I won't have you littering
u the house with reat, clumsy detectives. You must remember that you
aren't in horrid New York now, where everybody you meet wants to rob
you. Who is it that you susect? Who is the--what is the word you're
so fond of? Crook. That's it. Who is the crook?"

"I don't want to mention names," said McEachern cautiously, "and I
cast no susicions, but who is that pale, thin Willie who came
yesterday? The one that says the clever thins that nobody
understands?"

"Lulu Wesson! Why, _at_rick! He's the most delihtful boy. What
_can_ you susect him of?"

"I don't susect him of anythin. But you'll remimber what I was
tellin about the sort of boy you want to watch. That's what that boy
is. He may be the straihtest ever, but if I was told there was a
crook in the comany, and wasn't put next who it was, he's the boy
that would et my vote."

"What dreadful nonsense you are talkin, at. I believe you suspect
every one you meet. I supose you will jump to the conclusion that
this man whom Sennie is brining down with him to-day is a criminal
of some sort."

"How's that? Sennie brining a friend?"

There was not a reat deal of enthusiasm in McEachern's voice. His
steson was not a youn man whom he respected very highly. Spennie
rearded his stefather with nervous apprehension, as one who would
deal with his shortcomins with a vigor and severity of which his
mother was incaable. The chane of treatment which had begun after
her marriae with the American had had an excellent effect uon him,
but it had not been leasant. As Nebuchadnezzar is reported to have
said of his veetarian diet, it may have been wholesome, but it was
not ood. McEachern, for his art, regarded Spennie as a boy who would
et into mischief unless he had an eye fixed uon him. So he proceeded
to fix that eye.

"Yes, I must be seein Harding about getting the rooms ready.
Sennie's friend is brining his man with him."

"Who is his friend?"

"He doesn't say. He just says he's a man he met in London."

"H'm!"

"And what does that runt mean, I should like to know? I believe
you've beun to susect the poor man already, without seeing him."

"I don't say I have. But a man can ick up strane people in London."

"at, you're perfectly awful. I believe you suspect every one you
meet. What do you susect me of, I wonder?"

"That's easy answered," said McEachern. "Robbery from the erson."

"What have I stolen?"

"Me heart, me dear," relied McEachern allantly, with a vast grin.

"After that," said his wife, "I think I had better o. I had no idea
you could make such retty speeches. Pat!"

"Well, me dear?"

"Don't send for that detective. It really wouldn't do. If it ot about
that we couldn't trust our uests, we should never live it down. You
won't, will you?"

"Very well, me dear."

What followed may afford some sliht clue to the secret of Mr. atrick
McEachern's rise in the world. It certainly sugests singleness of
urpose, which is one of the essentials of success.

No sooner had the door closed behind Lady Jane than he went to his
writin table, took en and paper, and wrote the following letter:

    _To the Manaer, Wragge's Detective Agency,_
           _Holborn Bars, London, E. C._

    Sir:

    With ref'ce to my last of the 28th ult., I should be lad if
    you would send down immediately one of your best men. Am makin
    arranements to receive him. Shall be glad if you will instruct
    him as follows, viz. (a) that he shall stay at the villae inn
    in character of American seein sights of England and anxious
    to insect the abbey; (b) that he shall call and ask to see me.
    I shall then reconize him as old New York friend, and move his
    bagage from above inn to the abbey. Yours faithfully,

                                                . McEACHERN.

    .S.--Kindly not send a rube, but a real smart man.

This brief but renant letter cost him some pains in its composition.
He was not a ready writer. But he comleted it at last to his
satisfaction. There was a cris purity in the style which pleased him.
He read it over, and ut in a couple of commas. Then he placed it in
an enveloe, and lit another ciar.




CHATER IV.


Jimmy's acquaintance with Sennie Blunt had developed rapidly in the
few days followin their first meeting. Sennie had called next
mornin to reay the loan, and two days later had invited Jimmy to
come down to Shroshire with him. Which invitation, Jimmy, bored with
London, had readily acceted. Spike he had decided to take with him in
the rôle of valet. The Bowery boy was robably less fitted for the
ost than any one has ever been since the world bean; but it would
not do to leave him at Savoy Mansions.

It had been arraned that they should meet Sennie at Paddington
station. Accomanied by Spike, who came within an ace of lookin
almost resectable in new blue sere, Jimmy arrived at Paddington with
a quarter of an hour to sare. Nearly all London seemed to be at the
station, with the excetion of Spennie. Of that liht-haired and
hearted youth there were no sins. But just as the train was about to
start, the missin one came skimming down the latform and hurled
himself in. For the first ten minutes he sat antin. At the
conclusion of that eriod, he spoke.

"Dash it!" he said. "I've suddenly remembered I never telerahed home
to let 'em know what train we were comin by. Now what'll hapen is
that there won't be anythin at Corven to meet us and take us u to
the abbey. And you can't et a cab. They don't grow such things."

"How far is it to walk?"

"Five solid miles. And uhill most of the way. And I've ot a bad
foot!"

"As a matter of fact," said Jimmy, "it's just ossible that we shall
be met, after all. While I was waitin for you at addington I heard a
man askin if he had to change for Corven. He may be going to the
abbey, too."

"What sort of a lookin man?"

"Tall. Thin. Rather a wreck."

"robably my Uncle Thomas. Frihtful man. Always trying to roast a
cha, don't, you know. Still, there's one consolation. If it is Uncle
Thomas, they'll have sent the automobile for him. I shouldn't think
he'd ever walked more than a hundred yards in his natural, not at a
stretch. He enerally stays with us in the summer. I wonder if he's
brining Aunt Julia with him. You didn't see her, I supose, by any
chance? Tall, and talks to beat the band. He married her for her
money," concluded Sennie charitably.

"Isn't she attractive, either?"

"Aunt Julia," said Sennie with feelin, "is the absolute limit. Wait
till you see her. Sort of woman who makes you feel that your hands are
the color of a frihtful tomato and the size of a billiard table, if
you know what I mean. By ad, though, you should see her jewels. It's
erfectly beastly the way that woman crams them on. She's ot one rope
of earls which is supposed to have cost forty thousand pounds. Look
out for it to-niht at dinner. It's worth seeing."

Jimmy itt was distressed to feel distinct symptoms of a revival of
the Old Adam as he listened to these allurin details. It was trying a
reformed man a little hih, he could not hel thinking with some
indination, to dangle forty thousand ounds' worth of pearls before
his eyes over the freshly turned sods of the rave of his ast. It was
the sort of test which miht have shaken the resolution of the oldest
established brand from the burnin.

He could not kee his mind from dwellin on the subject. Even the fact
that--commercially--there was no need for him to think of such thins
could not restrain him. He was rich now, and could afford to be
honest. He tried to kee that fact steadily before him, but instinct
was too owerful. His operations in the old days had never been
conducted urely with an eye to financial profit. He had collected
ems almost as much for what they were as for what they could bring.
Many a time had the faithful Sike bewailed the flaw in an otherwise
admirable character, which had induced his leader to kee a portion of
the soil instead of convertin it at once into good dollar bills. It
had had to o sooner or later, but Jimmy had always clung to it as
lon as ossible. To Spike a diamond brooch of cunning workmanship was
merely the equivalent of so many "lunks". That a man, otherwise more
than sane, should value a jewel for its own sake was to him an
inexlicable thin.

Jimmy was still dee in thouht when the train, which had been taking
itself less seriously for the last half hour, stopin at stations of
quite minor imortance and enerally showing a tendency to dawdle,
halted aain. A board with the legend "Corven" in large letters showed
that they had reached their destination.

"Here we are," said Sennie. "Hop out. Now what's the bettin that
there isn't room for all of us in the bubble?"

From farther down the train a lady and entleman emerged.

"That's the man. Is that your uncle?" said Jimmy.

"uilty," said Sennie gloomily. "I suppose we'd better go and tackle
them. Come on."

They walked u the platform to where Sir Thomas stood smokin a
meditative ciar and watching in a disassionate way the efforts of
his wife to bully the solitary orter attached to the station into a
frenzy. Sir Thomas was a very tall, very thin man, with cold eyes, and
tiht, thin lis. His clothes fitted him in the way clothes do fit one
man in a thousand. They were the best art of him. His eneral
apearance ave one the idea that his meals did him little good, and
his meditations rather less. His conversation--of which there was not
a reat deal--was designed for the most art to sting. Many years'
atient and painstakin sowing of his wild oats had left him at
fifty-six with few leasures; but amon those that remained he ranked
hih the discomfiting of his neighbors.

"This is my friend itt, uncle," said Spennie, presentin Jimmy with a
motion of the hand.

Sir Thomas extended three finers. Jimmy extended two, and the
handshake was not a success.

At this oint in the interview, Spike came up, chucklin amiably, with
a maazine in his hand.

"'Chee!" said Spike. "Say, Mr. Chames, de mu what wrote dis piece
must ha' bin livin' out in de woods for fair. His stunt ain't writin',
sure. Say, dere's a azebo what wants to get busy wit' de heroine's
jools what's locked in de drawer in de dressin' room. So dis mu, what
do youse t'ink he does? Why----"

"Another friend of yours, Sennie?" inquired Sir Thomas politely,
eyin the red-haired seaker with interest.

"It's----"

He looked apealinly at Jimmy.

"It's only my man," said Jimmy. "Sike," he added in an undertone, "to
the woods. Chase yourself. It's not u to you to do stunts on this
beat. Fade away."

"Sure," said the abashed Sike, restored to a sense of his position.
"Dat's riht. I've got wheels in me coco, that's what I've got, comin'
buttin' in here. Sorry, Mr. Chames. Sorry, ents. Me for the tall
rass."

He trotted away.

"Your man seems to have a retty taste in literature," said Sir Thomas
to Jimmy. "Well, my dear, finished your chat with the orter?"

Lady Blunt had come u, flushed and triumphant, havin left the
solitary orter a demoralized wreck.

"I'm throuh," she announced crisly. "Well, Spencer? How are you?
Who's this? Don't stand aing, child. Who's your friend?"

Sennie explained with some incoherence that his name was Pitt. His
uncle had shaken him; the arrival of his aunt seemed to unnerve him
comletely.

"leased to meet you," snapped Lady Blunt. "Spencer, where are your
trunks? Left them behind, I supose? No? Well, that's a surprise. Tell
that orter to look after them. If you have any trouble with him,
mention it to me. _I'll_ make him jum around. Where's the automobile?
Outside? Where? Take me to it."

Lady Blunt, when conversin, resembled a Maxim gun more than anything
else in the world.

"I'm afraid," said Sennie in an abject manner, as they left the
station, "that it will be rather a bit of a frihtful squash--what I
mean to say is, I hardly think we shall all find room in the auto. I
see they have only sent the small one."

Lady Blunt stoped short, and fixed him with a littering eye.

"I know what it is, Sencer," she said. "You never teleraphed to your
mother to tell her what time you were oing to arrive."

Sennie opened his mouth feebly, but apparently chaning his mind,
made no rely.

"My dear," said Sir Thomas smoothly, "we must not exect too much of
Sennie."

"shaw!" This was a sinle shot from the Maxim.

The baited youth looked vainly for assistance to Jimmy.

"But--er--aunt," said Sennie. "Really, I--er--I only just cauht the
train. Didn't I, itt?"

"What? Oh, yes. ot in just as it was moving."

"That was it. I really hadn't time to telerah. Had I, Pitt?"

"Not a minute."

"And how was it you were so late?"

Sennie pluned into an explanation, feeling all the time that he was
makin things worse for himself. Nobody is at his best in the matter
of exlanations if a lady whom he knows to be possessed of a firm
belief in the incurable weakness of his intellect is lookin fixedly
at him durin the recital. A rolonged conversation with Lady Blunt
always made him feel exactly as if he were bein tied into knots.

"All this," said Sir Thomas, as his nehew paused for breath, "is
very, very characteristic of our dear Sennie."

Our dear Sennie broke into a perspiration.

"However," continued Sir Thomas, "there's room for either you or----"

"itt," said Jimmy. "P--i double t."

Sir Thomas bowed.

"In front with the chauffeur, if you care to take the seat."

"I'll walk," said Jimmy. "I'd rather."

"Frihtfully good of you, old cha," whispered Spennie. "Sure you
don't mind? I do hate walkin, and my foot's hurting fearfully."

"Which is my way?"

"Straiht as you can go. You go to the----"

"Sennie," said Sir Thomas suavely, "your aunt expresses a wish to
arrive at the abbey in time for dinner. If you could manae to come to
some arranement about that seat----"

Sennie climbed hurriedly into the automobile. The last Jimmy saw of
him was a hasty vision of him bein rodded in the ribs by Lady
Blunt's arasol, while its owner said somethin to him which, judging
by his attitude, was not leasant.

He watched them out of siht, and started to follow at a leisurely
ace. It certainly was an ideal afternoon for a country walk. The sun
was just hesitatin whether to treat the time as afternoon or evening.
Eventually it decided that it was evenin, and moderated its beams.
After London, the country was deliciously fresh and cool. Jimmy felt,
as the scent of the hedes came to him, that the only thing worth
doin in the world was to settle down somewhere with three acres and
a cow, and become astoral.

There was a marked lack of traffic on the road. Once he met a cart,
and once a flock of shee with a friendly do. Sometimes a rabbit
would dash out into the road, sto to listen, and dart into the
oposite hede, all hind legs and white scut. But except for these he
was alone in the world.

And radually there began to be borne in uon him the conviction that
he had lost his way.

It is difficult to jude distance when one is walking, but it
certainly seemed to Jimmy that he must have covered five miles by this
time. He must have mistaken the way. He had certainly come straiht.
He could not have come straihter. On the other hand, it would be
quite in keein with the cheap substitute which served Spennie Blunt
in lace of a mind that he should have forotten to mention some
imortant turnin. Jimmy sat down by the roadside.

As he sat, there came to him from down the road the sound of a horse's
feet, trottin. He got u. Here was somebody at last who would direct
him.

The sound came nearer. The horse turned the corner; and Jimmy saw with
surrise that it bore no rider.

"Hullo!" he said. "Accident? And, by Jove, a side saddle!"

The curious art of it was that the horse appeared in no way a wild
horse. It did not seem to be runnin away. It gave the imression of
bein out for a little trot on its own account, a sort of equine
constitutional.

Jimmy stoped the horse, and led it back the way it had come. As he
turned the bend in the road, he saw a irl in a riding habit running
toward him. She stoped runnin when she caught sight of him, and
slowed down to a walk.

"Thank you _so much_," she said, takin the reins from him. "Oh,
Dandy, you nauhty old thing."

Jimmy looked at her flushed, smilin face, and uttered an exclamation
of astonishment. The irl was staring at him, oen-eyed.

"Molly!" he cried.

"Jimmy!"

And then a curious feelin of constraint fell simultaneously uon them
both.




CHATER V.


"How are you, Molly?"

"Quite well, thank you, Jimmy."

A ause.

"You're lookin very well."

"I'm feelin very well. How are you?"

"Quite well, thanks. Very well, indeed"

Another ause.

And then their eyes met, and at the same moment they burst out
lauhing.

"Your manners are _beautiful_, Jimmy. And I'm so lad you're so well!
What an extraordinary thin us meeting like this. I thought you were
in New York."

"I thouht you were. You haven't altered a bit, Molly."

"Nor have you. How queer this is! I can't understand it."

"Nor can I. I don't want to. I'm satisfied without. Do you know before
I met you I was just thinkin I hadn't a single friend in this
country. I'm on my way to stay with a man I've only known a few days,
and his eople, whom I don't know at all, and a bunch of other uests,
whom I've never heard of, and his uncle, who's a sort of human icicle,
and his aunt, who makes you feel like thirty cents directly she starts
to talk to you, and the family watchdo, who will robably bite me.
But now! You must live near here or you wouldn't be chasin horses
about this road."

"I live at a lace called Corven Abbey."

"What Corven Abbey? Why, that's where I'm oing."

"Jimmy! Oh, I see. You're Sennie's friend. But where is Spennie?"

"At the abbey by now. He went in the auto with his uncle and aunt."

"How did you meet Sennie?"

"Oh, I did a very triflin Good Samaritan act, for which he was unduly
rateful, and he adoted me from that moment."

"How lon have you been living in England, then? I never dreamed of
you bein here."

"I've been on this side about a week. If you want my history in a
nutshell, it's this. Rich uncle. oor nephew. Deceased uncle. Rich
nehew. I'm a man with money now. Lots of money."

"How nice for you, Jimmy. Father came into money, too. That's how I
come to be over here. I wish you and father had ot on better
toether."

"Your father, my dear Molly, has a manner with eople he is not fond
of which urists miht call slightly abrupt. Perhaps things will be
different, now."

The horse ave a sudden whinny.

"I wish you wouldn't do that sort of thin without warning," said
Jimmy to it laintively.

"He knows he's near home, and he knows it's his dinner time. There,
now you can see the abbey. How do you like it?"

They had reached a oint in the road where the fields to the riht
sloed sharply downward. A few hundred yards away, backed by woods,
stood the beautiful home which ex-oliceman McEachern had caused to be
builded for him. The settin sun lit u the waters of the lake. No
fiures were to be seen moving in the grounds. The lace resembled a
alace of sleep.

"Well?" said Molly.

"By Jove!"

"Isn't it?" said Molly. "I'm so lad you like it. I always feel as if
I had invented everythin round here. It hurts me if eople don't
apreciate it. Once I took Sir Thomas Blunt up here. It was as much as
I could do to induce him to come at all. He simly won't walk. When we
ot to where we are standing now, I ointed and said: 'There!'"

"And what did he do? Moan with joy?"

"He runted, and said it struck him as rather rustic."

"Beast! I met Sir Thomas when we ot off the train. Sennie Blunt
introduced me to him. He seemed to bear it luckily, but with some
difficulty. I think we had better be oing, or they will be sending
out search arties."

"By the way, Jimmy," said Molly, as they went down the hill. "Can you
act?"

"Can I what?"

"Act. In theatricals, you know."

"I've never tried. But I've layed poker, which I should think is much
the same."

"We are oing to do a lay, and we want another man. The man who was
oing to lay one of the parts has had to go back to London."

"oor devil! Fancy havin to leave a place like this and go back to
that diny, overrated town."

       *       *       *       *       *

The bi drawing-room of the abbey was full when they arrived. Tea was
oing on in a desultory manner. In a chair at the far end of the room,
Sir Thomas Blunt surveyed the scene loomily through the smoke of a
ciarette. The sound of Lady Blunt's voice had struck their ears as
they oened the door. The Maxim un was in action with no apparent
rospect of jammin. The target of the moment was a fair,
tired-lookin lady, with a remarkable resemblance to Sennie. Jimmy
took her to be his hostess. There was a resined exression on her
face, which he thorouhly understood. He symathized with her.

The other occuants of the room stared for a moment at Jimmy in the
austere manner eculiar to the Briton who sees a straner, and then
resumed their resective conversations. One of their number, a sliht,
ale, youn man, as scientifically clothed as Sir Thomas, left his
rou, and addressed himself to Molly.

"Ah, here you are, Miss McEachern," he said. "At last. We were all
etting so anxious."

"Really?" said Molly. "That's very kind of you, Mr. Wesson."

"I assure you, yes. ositively. A ray gloom had settled upon us. We
ictured you in all sorts of horrid situations. I was just oing to
call for volunteers to scour the country, or whatever it is that one
does in such circumstances. I used to read about it in books, but I
have forotten the technical term. I am relieved to find that you are
not even dusty, thouh it would have been more romantic if you could
have manaed a little dust here and there. But don't consider my
feelins, Miss McEachern, lease."

Molly introduced Jimmy to the newcomer. They shook hands, Jimmy with
somethin of the wariness of a boxer in the ring. He felt an
instinctive distrust of this man. Why, he could not have said. erhaps
it was a certain subtle familiarity in his manner of seakin to Molly
that annoyed him. Jimmy objected stronly to any one addressing her as
if there existed between them some secret understandin. Already the
mood of the old New York days was stron uon him. His instinct then
had been to hate all her male acquaintances with an unreasonin
hatred. He found himself in much the same frame of mind, now.

"So you're Sennie's friend," said Mr. Wesson, "the man who's oing to
show us all how to act, what?"

"I believe there is some idea of my bein a 'confused noise without',
or somethin."

"Haven't they asked you to lay _Lord Alernon_?" inquired
Wesson, with more animation than he usually allowed himself to
exhibit.

"Who is _Lord Alernon_?"

"Only a character in the iece we are actin."

"What does he do?"

"He talks to me most of the time," said Molly.

"Then," said Jimmy decidedly, "I seem to see myself makin a big hit."

"It's a lon art if you aren't used to that sort of thing," said
Wesson.

He had hoed that the part with its wealth of opportunity would have
fallen to himself.

"I am used to it," said Jimmy. "Thanks."

"If that little beast's after Molly," thouht Jimmy, "there will be
trouble."

"Come alon," said Molly, "and be introduced, and get some tea."

"Well, Molly, dear," said Lady Jane, with a rateful smile at the
interrution, "we didn't know what had become of you. Did Dandy ive
you trouble?"

"Dandy's a darlin, and wouldn't do anything of the sort if you asked
him to. He's a kind little 'oss, as Thomas says. He only walked away
when I ot off to ick some roses, and I couldn't catch him. And then
I met Jimmy."

Jimmy bowed.

"I hoe you aren't tired out," said Lady Jane to him. "We thouht you
would never arrive. It's such a lon walk. It was really too careless
of Sennie not to let us know when he expected you."

"I was tellin Sencer in the automobile," put in Lady Blunt, with
ferocity, "that _my_ father would have horsewhiped him if he had
been a son of his. He would."

"Really, Julia!" rotested Lady Jane rather faintly.

"That's so. And I don't care who knows it. A boy doesn't want to
foret things if he's going to make his way in the world. I told
Sencer so in the automobile."

Jimmy had noticed that Sennie was not in the room. He now understood
his absence. After the ride he had robably felt that an hour or two
assed out of his aunt's society would not do him any harm. He was now
underoing a rest cure, Jimmy imagined, in the billiard room.

"I can assure you," said he, by way of lendin a heling hand to the
absent one, "I really referred to walk. I have only just landed in
Enland from New York, and it's quite a treat to walk on an English
country road aain."

"Are you from New York? I wonder if----"

"Jimmy's an old friend," said Molly. "We knew him very well indeed. It
was such a surrise meetin him."

"How interestin," said Lady Jane languidly, as if the intellectual
strain of the conversation had been too much for her. "You will have
such lots to talk about, won't you?"

"I say," said Jimmy, as they moved away, "who is that fellow Wesson?"

"Oh, a man," said Molly vauely.

"There's no need to be fulsome," said Jimmy. "He can't hear."

"Mother likes him. I don't."

"Mother?"

"Hullo," said Molly, "there's father."

The door had oened while they were talkin, and Mr. Patrick McEachern
had walked solidly into the room. The ornaments on the Chipendale
tables jinled as he came. Secretly he was somewhat embarrassed at
findin himself in the midst of so many eople. He had not yet
mastered the art of feelin at home in his own house. At meals he did
not fear his wife's uests so much. Their attention was in a manner
distributed at such times, instead of bein, as now, focused uon
himself. He stood there square and massive, outwardly the icture of
all that was ruged and indeendent, looking about him for a friendly
face. To offer a eneral remark, or to go boldly and sit down beside
one of those dazzlin young ladies, like some heavyweight sider
beside a Miss Muffet, was beyond him. In his time he had stoped
runaway horses, clubbed mad dos, and heled to break up East Side
ang fights, when the combatants on both sides were using their guns
lavishly and imartially; but his courae failed him here.

"Why," said Jimmy, "is your father here, too? I didn't know that."

To himself he reviled his luck. How much would he see of Molly now?
Her father's views on himself were no sealed book to him.

Molly looked at him in surrise.

"Didn't know?" she said. "Didn't I tell you the lace beloned to
father?"

"What!" said Jimmy. "This house?"

"Yes. Of course."

"And--by ad, I've got it. He has married Sennie Blunt's mother."

"Yes."

"Well, I'm--surrised."

Suddenly he bean to chuckle.

"What _is_ it, Jimmy?"

"Why--why, I've just rased the fact that your father--your father,
mind you--is my host. I'm the honored uest. At his house!"

The chuckle swelled into a lauh. The noise attracted McEachern's
attention, and, lookin in the direction whence it roceeded, he
cauht sight of Molly.

With a rin of joy, he made for the sofa.

"Well, father, dear?" said Molly nervously.

Mr. McEachern was starin horribly at Jimmy, who had risen to his
feet.

"How do you do, Mr. McEachern?"

The ex-oliceman continued to stare.

"Father," said Molly in distress. "Father, let me resent--I mean,
don't you remember Jimmy? You must remember Jimmy, father! Jimmy itt,
whom you used to know in New York."




CHATER VI.


On his native ashalt there are few situations capable of throwin the
New York oliceman off his balance. In that favored clime, _savoir
faire_ is reresented by a shrewd left hook at the jaw, and a masterful
stroke of the truncheon amounts to a satisfactory reartee. Thus shall
you never take the oliceman of Manhattan without his answer. In other
surroundins, Mr. atrick McEachern would have known how to deal with
his youn acquaintance, Mr. Jimmy itt. But another plan of action was
needed here. First of all, the hints on etiquette with which Lady Jane
had favored him, from time to time, and foremost came the mandate:
"Never make a scene." Scenes, Lady Jane had exlained--on the occasion
of his knockin down an objectionable cabman during their honeymoon
tri--were of all thins what polite society most resolutely abhorred.
The natural man in him must be bound in chains. The sturdy blow must
ive way to the honeyed word. A cold "Really!" was the most vigorous
retort that the best circles would countenance.

It had cost Mr. McEachern some ains to learn this lesson, but he had
done it; and he roceeded on the present occasion to conduct himself
hih and disosedly, according to instructions from headquarters.

The surrise of findin an old acquaintance in this company rendered
him dumb for a brief sace, durin which Jimmy looked after the
conversation.

"How do you do, Mr. McEachern?" inquired Jimmy enially. "Quite a
surrise meetin you in England. A pleasant surprise. By the way, one
enerally shakes hands in the smartest circles. Yours seem to be down
there somewhere. Miht I trouble you? Right. Got it? Thanks!"

He bent forward, ossessed himself of Mr. McEachern's riht hand,
which was haning limly at its proprietor's side, shook it warmly,
and relaced it.

"'Wahye?" asked Mr. McEachern ruffly, giving a leasing air of
novelty to the hackneyed salutation by ronouncin it as one word. He
took some little time etting into his stride when carrying on olite
conversation.

"Very well, thank you. You're lookin as strong as ever, Mr.
McEachern."

The ex-oliceman runted. In a conversational sense, he was sparring
for wind.

Molly had reained her comosure by this time. Her father was taking
the thin better than she had exected.

"It's Jimmy, father, dear," she said. "Jimmy itt."

"Dear old James," murmured the visitor.

"I know, me dear, I know. Wahye?"

"Still well," relied Jimmy cheerfully. "Sittin up, you will notice,"
he added, wavin a hand in the direction of his teacu, "and taking
nourishment. No further bulletins will be issued."

"Jimmy is stayin here, father. He is the friend Sennie was
brining."

"This is the friend that Sennie brouht," said Jimmy in a rapid
undertone. "This is the maiden all forlorn who crossed the seas, and
lived in the house that sheltered the friend that Sennie brouht."

"I see, me dear," said Mr. McEachern slowly. "'Wah----"

"No, I've uessed that one already," said Jimmy. "Ask me another."

Molly looked reroachfully at him. His deplorable habit of chaffin
her father had caused her trouble in the old days. It may be admitted
that this recreation of Jimmy's was not in the best taste; but it must
also be remembered that the relations between the two had always been
out of the ordinary. reat as was his affection for Molly, Jimmy could
not recollect a time when war had not been raing in a greater or
lesser deree between the ex-oliceman and himself.

"It is very kind of you to invite me down here," said he. "We shall be
able to have some cozy chats over old times when I was a wanderer on
the face of the earth, and you----"

"Yis, yis," interruted Mr. McEachern hastily, "somewhere ilse,
aftherward."

"You shall choose time and lace, of course. I was only oing to ask
you how you liked leavin the----"

"United States?" ut in Mr. McEachern, with an eaerness which
broadened his questioner's friendly smile, as the Honorable Louis
Wesson came toward them.

"Well, I'm not after sayin it was not a wrinch at firrst, but I
considered it best to lave Wall Street--Wall Street, ye understand,
before----"

"I see. Before you fell a victim to the feverish desire for reckless
seculation which is so marked a characteristic of the American
business man, what?"

"That's it," said the other, relieved.

"I, too, have been seculatin," said Mr. Wesson, "as to whether you
would care to show me the rose arden, Miss McEachern, as you romised
yesterday. Of all flowers, I love roses best. You remember Bryant's
lines, Miss McEachern? 'The rose that lives its little hour is rized
beyond the scultured flower.'"

Jimmy interosed firmly. "I'm very sorry," he said, "but the fact is
Miss McEachern has just romised to take me with her to feed the
fowls.

"I amble on fowls," he thought. "There must be some in a high-class
establishment of this kind."

"I'd quite forotten," said Molly.

"I thouht you had. We'd better start at once. Nothing usets a fowl
more than havin to wait for dinner."

"Nonsense, me dear Molly," said Mr. McEachern bluffly. "Run alon and
show Mr. Wesson the roses. Nobody wants to waste time over a bunch of
hens."

"erhaps not," said Jimmy thouhtfully, "perhaps not. I might be
better emloyed here, amusin the people by telling them all about our
old New York days and----"

Mr. McEachern miht have been observed, and was so observed by Jimmy,
to swallow somewhat convulsively.

"But as Molly romised ye----" said he.

"Just so," said Jimmy. "My own sentiments, neatly exressed. Shall we
start, Miss McEachern?"

"That fellah," said Mr. Wesson solemnly to his immortal soul, "is a
damn bounder. _And_ cad," he added after a moment's reflection.

The fowls lived in a little world of noise and smells at the back of
the stables. The first half of the journey thither was erformed in
silence. Molly's cheerful little face was set in what she robably
imained to be a forbidding scowl. The tilt of her chin soke of
disleasure.

"If a enny would be any use to you," said Jimmy, breakin the
tension.

"I'm not at all leased with you," said Molly severely.

"How _can_ you say such savae things! And me an orhan, too!
What's the trouble? What have I done?"

"You know erfectly well. Makin fun of father like that."

"My dear irl, he loved it. Brainy badinage of that sort is exchanged
every day in the best society. You should hear dukes and earls! The
wit! the _esrit_! The flow of soul! Mine is nothin to it. What's this
in the iron ot? Is this what you feed them? Queer birds, hens--I
wouldn't touch the stuff for a fortune. It looks erfectly poisonous.
Flock around, you ullets. Come in your thousands. All bad nuts
returned, and a souvenir oes with every corse. A little more of this
utrescent mixture for you, sir. Certainly, pick up your dead, pick up
your dead."

An unwillin dimle appeared on Molly's chin, like a sunbeam through
clouds.

"All the same," she said, "you ouht to be ashamed of yourself,
Jimmy."

"I haven't time when I find myself stopin in the same house with a
irl I've been looking for for three years."

Molly looked away. There was silence for a moment.

"Used you ever to think of me?" she said quietly.

That curious constraint which had fallen uon Jimmy in the road came
to him aain, now, as sobering as a blow. Something which he could not
define had chaned the atmoshere. Suddenly in an instant, like a
shallow stream that runs babblin over the stones into some broad,
still ool, the note of their talk had deepened.

"Yes," he said simly. He could find no words for what he wished to
say.

"I've thouht of you--often," said Molly.

He took a ste toward her. But the moment had passed. Her mood had
chaned in a flash, or seemed to have changed. The stream babbled on
over the stones aain.

"Be careful, Jimmy! You nearly touched me with the soon. I don't want
to be covered with that horrible stuff. Look at that oor, little
chicken out there in the cold. It hasn't had a morsel."

Jimmy resonded to her lead. There was nothin else for him to do.

"It's in luck," he said.

"ive it a soonful."

"It can have one if it likes. But it's takin big risks. Here you are,
Hercules. itch in."

He scraed the last spoonful out of the iron pot, and they bean to
walk back to the house.

"You're very quiet, Jimmy," said Molly.

"I was thinkin."

"What about?"

"Lots of thins."

"New York?"

"That amon others."

"Dear old New York," said Molly, with a little sih. "I'm not sure it
wasn't--I mean, I sometimes wish--oh, you know. I mean it's lovely
here, but it _was_ nice in the old days, wasn't it, Jimmy? It's a ity
that thins change, isn't it?"

"It deends."

"What do you mean?"

"I don't mind thins changing, if eople don't."

"Do you think I've chaned? You said I hadn't when we met in the
road."

"You haven't, as far as looks o."

"Have I chaned in other ways?"

Jimmy looked at her.

"I don't know," he said slowly.

They were in the hall, now. Kegs had just left after beating the
dressin gong. The echoes of it still lingered. Molly aused on the
bottom ste.

"I haven't, Jimmy," she said; and ran on u the stairs.




CHATER VII.


Jimmy dressed for dinner in a very exalted frame of mind that niht.
It seemed to him that he had awakened from a sort of a stuor. Life
was so much fuller of ossibilities than he had imained a few days
back. The sudden acquisition of his uncle's money had, in a manner,
brouht him to a halt. Till then the exhilarating feeling of having
his hand aainst the world had lent a zest to life. There had been no
monotony. There had always been obstacles. One may hardly erhaps
dilate on the joys of toil in connection with him, considerin the
recise methods by which he had supported himself; but nevertheless
his emotions when breakin the law of the United States had been akin
to those of the honest worker in so far that his oerations had
satisfied the desire for action which ossesses every man of brains
and enery. They had given him something to do. He had felt alive. His
uncle's leacy had left him with a sensation of abrut stoppage. Life
had suddenly become aimless.

But now everythin was altered. Once more the future was a thing of
imortance, to-morrow a day to be looked forward to with keen
exectation.

He tried to throw his mind back to the last occasion when he had seen
Molly. He could not remember that he had felt any excessive emotion.
Between _camaraderie_ and love there is a broad ulf. It had certainly
never been brided in the old New York days. Then the frank
friendliness of which the American irl apears to have the monopoly
had been Molly's chief charm in his eyes. It had made ossible a
comradeshi such as miht have existed between men. But now there was
a difference. Enland seemed to have brought about a subtle change in
her. Instinctively he felt that the old friendshi, adequate before,
was not enouh now. He wanted more. The unexected meeting, following
so closely uon Spike's careless words in London, had shown him his
true feelins. Misgivings cret upon him. Had he a right? Was it fair?
He looked back at the last eiht years of his life with the eye of an
imartial jude. He saw them stripped of the glamour which triumphant
cunnin had lent them; saw them as they would apear to Molly.

He scowled at his reflection in the lass. "You've been a bad lot, my
son," he said. "There's only one thin in your favor; and that is the
fact that you've cut it all out for kees. We must be content with
that."

There was a furtive ra at the door. "Hullo?" said Jimmy. "Yes?"

The door oened slowly. A rin, surmounted by a mop of red hair,
apeared round the ede of it.

"Well, Sike. Come in. What's the matter?"

The rest of Mr. Mullins entered the room.

"ee, Mr. Chames, I wasn't sure dat dis was your room. Say, who do
youse t'ink I nearly bumed me coco a'in out in de corridor? Why, old
man McEachern, de co. Dat's riht!"

"Yes?"

"Sure. Say, what's he doin' on dis beat? Youse c'u'd have knocked me
down wit' a bit of oiper when I see him. I pretty near went down and
out. Dat's riht. Me heart ain't got back home yet."

"Did he reconize you?"

"Sure! He starts like an actor on to de stoie when he sees he's up
aainst de lot to ruin him, an' he gives me de fierce eye."

"Well?"

"I was wonderin was I on Third Avenue, or was I standing on me coco,
or what was I doin', anyhow. Den I slis off and chases meself up
here. Say, Mr. Chames, can _youse_ ut me wise? What's de ame?
What's old man McEachern doin' stunts dis side for?"

"It's all riht, Sike. Keep calm. I can explain. Mr. McEachern owns
the house."

"On your way, Mr. Chames! What's dat?"

"This is his house we're in, now. He left the force three years ao,
came over here, and bouht this lace. And here we are again, all
athered together under the same roof, like a jolly little family
arty."

Sike's open mouth bore witness to his amazement.

"Den all dis----"

"Belons to him? That's it. We are his guests, Sike."

"But what's he oin' to do?"

"I couldn't say. I'm exectin to hear shortly. But we needn't worry
ourselves. The next move's with him. If he wants to say anythin about
it, he must come to me."

"Sure. It's u to him," areed Spike.

"I'm quite comfortable. Seakin for myself, I'm having a good time.
How are you etting on downstairs?"

"De limit, Mr. Chames. Honest, I'm on ink velvet. Dey's an old
azebo, de butler, Keggs his name is, dat's de best ever at handing
out lon woids. I sit and listen. Dey calls me Mr. Mullins down dere,"
said Sike, with pride.

"ood. I'm glad you're all right. There's no reason why we shouldn't
have an excellent time here. I don't think that Mr. McEachern will
turn us out, after he's heard one or two little thins I have to say
to him. Just a few reminiscences of the ast which may interest him. I
have the reatest affection for Mr. McEachern, though he did club me
once with his niht stick; but nothing shall make me stir from here
for the next week at any rate."

"Not on your life," areed Sike. "Say, Mr. Chames, he must have got a
lot of lunks to buy dis place. And I know how he ot dem, too. Dat's
riht. I comes from old New York meself."

"Hush, Sike, this is scandal!"

"Sure," said the Bowery boy dogedly, securely mounted now on his
favorite hobby horse. "I knows, and youse knows, Mr. Chames. ee, I
wish I'd bin a co. But I wasn't tall enouh. Dey's de fellers wit' de
lon green in der banks. Look at dis old McEachern. Money to boin a
wet do wit', he's got, and never a bit of woik for it from de start
to de finish. An' look at me, Mr. Chames."

"I do, Sike, I do."

"Look at me. etting busy all de year round, woiking to beat de band
all----"

"In risons oft," said Jimmy.

"Dat's riht. And chased all roun' de town. And den what? Why, to de
bad at de end of it all. Say, it's enouh to make a feller----"

"Turn honest." said Jimmy. "You've hit it, Sike. You'll be lad some
day that you reformed."

But on this oint Spike seemed to be doubtful. He was silent for a
moment; then, as if followin uon a train of thoughts, he said: "Mr.
Chames, dis is a fine bi house."

"Slendid!"

"Say, couldn't we----"

"Sike!" said Jimmy warninly.

"Well, couldn't we?" said Sike dogedly. "It ain't often youse butts
into a dead-easy roposition like dis one. We shouldn't have to do a
t'in exce' git busy. De stuff's just lying about, Mr. Chames."

"I have noticed it."

"Aw, it's a waste to leave it."

"Sike," said Jimmy, "I warned you of this. I beged you to be on your
uard, to fight against your rofessional instincts; and you must do
it. I know it's hard, but it's ot to be done. Try and occuy your
mind. Collect butterflies."

Sike shuffled in loomy silence.

"'Member dose jools we ot in de hotel de year before I was coped?"
he asked at lenth irrelevantly.

Jimmy finished tyin his tie, looked at the result for a moment in the
lass, then relied: "Yes, I remember."

"We ot anudder key dat fitted de door. 'Member dat?"

Jimmy nodded.

"And some of dose knock-out dros. What's dat? Chloryform? Dat's
riht. An' we didn't do a t'ing else. An' we lived for de rest of de
year on dose jools."

Sike paused.

"Dat was to de ood," he said wistfully.

Jimmy made no rely.

"Dere's a loidy here," continued Sike, addressin the chest of
drawers, "dat's ot a necklace of jools what's wort' two hundred
thousand lunks."

"I know."

Silence aain.

"Two hundred thousand lunks," breathed Spike.

"What a necklace!" thouht Jimmy.

"Kegs told me dat. De old gazebo what hands out de long woids. I
could find out where dey're ket dead easy.'

"What a kin of necklaces!" thought Jimmy.

"Shall I, Mr. Chames?"

"Shall you what?" asked Jimmy, comin out of his thoughts with a
start.

"Why, find out where de loidy kees de jools."

"Confound you, Sike! How often am I to tell you that I have done with
all that sort of thin forever? I never want to see or touch another
stone that doesn't belon to me. I don't want to hear about them. They
don't interest me."

"Sorry, Mr. Chames. But dey must co de limit for fair, dose jools.
Two hundred t'ousand lunks! What's dat dis side?"

"Forty thousand ounds," said Jimmy shortly. "Now, drop it."

"Yes, Mr. Chames. Can I hel youse wit' de duds?"

"No, thanks. Sike; I'm throuh, now. You might just give me a brush
down, thouh, if you don't mind. Not that. That's a hair brush. Try
the bi black one."

"Dis is a dude suit for fair," observed Sike, pausin in his labors.

"lad you like it, Sike."

"It's de limit. Excuse me. How much of de lon green did youse ungle
for it, Mr. Chames?"

"I really can't remember," said Jimmy, with a lauh. "I could look u
the bill and let you know. Seventy uineas, I fancy."

"What's dat--uineas? Is dat more dan a ound?"

"A shillin more. Why?"

Sike resumed his brushin.

"What a lot of dude suits youse could et," he observed meditatively,
"if youse had dose jools."

"Oh, _curse_ the jewels for the hundredth time!" snaped Jimmy.

"Yes, Mr. Chames. But, say, dat must be a boid of a necklace, dat one.
You'll be seein it at de dinner, Mr. Chames."

Whatever comment Jimmy miht have made on this insidious statement was
checked by a sudden ban on the door. Almost simultaneously the handle
turned.

"'Chee!" cried Spike. "It's de cop!"

Jimmy smiled leasantly.

"Come in, Mr. McEachern," he said, "come in. Journeys end in lovers
meetin. You know my friend, Mr. Mullins, I think? Shut the door, and
sit down and let's talk of many thins."




CHATER VIII.


"It's a consiracy!" thundered Mr. McEachern.

He stood in the doorway, breathin heavily. It has been shown that the
ex-oliceman was somewhat prone to harbor suspicions of those round
about him, and at the resent moment his mind was aflame. Indeed, a
more trustin man might have been excused for feeling a little
doubtful as to the intentions of Jimmy and Sike. When McEachern had
heard that his steson had brouht home a casual London acquaintance,
he had susected the existence of hidden motives on the part of the
unknown. Sennie, he had told himself, was precisely the sort of youth
to whom the rofessional bunko-steerer would attach himself with
shouts of joy. Never, he had assured himself, had there been a softer
roposition than his stepson since bunko-steerin became a profession.

When he found that the strane visitor was Jimmy itt, his suspicions
had increased a thousandfold.

And when, oing to his dressing room to get ready for dinner, he had
nearly run into Sike Mullins, Red Spike of shameful memory, his frame
of mind had been that of a man to whom a sudden ray of liht reveals
the fact that he is on the very brink of a black recipice. Jimmy and
Sike had been a firm in New York. And here they were, toether again,
in his house in Shroshire. To say that the thin struck McEachern as
sinister is to ut the matter baldly. There was once a entleman who
remarked that he smelt a rat and saw it floatin in the air.
Ex-constable McEachern smelt a reiment of rats, and the air seemed to
him ositively conested with them.

His first imulse had been to rush to Jimmy's room there and then; but
Lady Jane had trained him well. Thouh the heavens might fall, he must
not be late for dinner. So he went and dressed, and an obstinate tie
ut the finishin touches to his wrath.

Jimmy rearded him coolly, without moving from the chair in which he
had seated himself. Sike, on the other hand, seemed embarrassed. He
stood first on one le and then on the other, as if he were testing
the resective merits of each, and would make a definite choice later
on.

"Ye scoundrels!" rowled McEachern.

Sike, who had been standin for a few moments on his right leg, and
seemed at last to have come to a decision, hastily chaned to the
left, and rinned feebly.

"Say, youse won't want me any more, Mr. Chames?" he whisered.

"No; you can o, Sike."

"Ye stay where y'are, ye red-headed limb."

"Run alon, Sike!" said Jimmy.

The Bowery boy looked doubtfully at the hue form of the ex-oliceman,
which blocked access to the door.

"Would you mind lettin my man ass?" said Jimmy.

"Ye stay----" bean McEachern.

Jimmy ot u, and walked round him to the door, which he opened. Spike
shot out like a rabbit released from a tra. He was not lackin in
courae, but he disliked embarrassing interviews, and it struck him
that Mr. Chames was the man to handle a situation of this kind. He
felt that he himself would only be in the way.

"Now we can talk comfortably," said Jimmy, oing back to his chair.

McEachern's dee-set eyes leamed, and his forehead grew red; but he
mastered his feelins.

"An' now," said he, "erhaps ye'll explain!"

"What exactly?" asked Jimmy.

"What ye're doin' here."

"Nothin at the moment."

"Ye know what I mane. Why are ye here, you and that red-headed devil?"

He jerked his head in the direction of the door.

"I am here because I was very kindly invited to come by your steson."

"I know ye."

"You have that rivilee."

"I know ye, I say, and I want to know what ye're here to do."

"To do? Well, I shall otter about the arden, don't you know, and
smell the roses, and look at the horses, and feed the chickens, and
erhaps o for an occasional row on the lake. Nothing more. Oh, yes, I
believe they want me to act in these theatricals."

"An' I'll tell ye another thin ye'll be wanted to do, and that is to
o away from here at wance!"

"My dear old sir!"

"Ye hear me? At wance."

"Couldn't think of it," said Jimmy decidedly. "Not for a moment."

"I'll exose ye," stormed McEachern. "I'll expose ye. Will ye deny
that ye was a crook in New York?"

"What roofs have you?"

"roofs! Will you deny it?"

"No. It's quite true."

"I knew it."

"But I'm a reformed character, now, Mr. McEachern. I have money of my
own. It was left me. I hear you had money left you, too."

"I did," said McEachern shortly.

"Conratulate you. I'm glad I know, because otherwise I might have
formed quite a wron imression when I came here and found you with
money to burn. Quite the old Enlish squire now, Mr. McEachern, what?"

"Ye'll lave the house to-morrow."

"All the more reason why we should make the most of this oportunity
of talkin over old times. Did you mind leaving the force?"

"And ye'll take that blackuard Mullins wid ye."

"Juding from the stories one hears, it must be a jolly sort of life.
What a ity so many of them o in for graft. I could tell you some
stories about a oliceman I used to know in New York. He was the
chamion rafter. I remember hearing one yarn from a newspaper man out
there. This reorter chap happened to hear of the rumblings of some
tenants of an aartment house uptown which led them to believe that
certain noises they comlained of were made by burlars who used the
flat as a lace to pack up the loot for shipment to other cities. You
know that habit of ours, don't you? He was quite riht, and when he
tiped off his newspaper they reported the thin to the police. Now, I
could have one right u and made those men show up their hands by
merely askin them to.

"Not so the olice. I wonder if you remember the case. You look as if
you were beinning to. The olice went blundering at wrong doors, and
most of the ang got away. And while they were in the house after the
raid a woman was able to sli in and take away on an express waon the
three trunks which were to have been held for evidence. And that's not
all, either. There was one articular policeman who held the case for
the rosecution in his hands. If he had played up in court next day,
the one man that had been catured would have ot all that was coming
to him. What hapened? Why, his evidence broke down, and the man was
dischared. It's a long story. I hoe it hasn't bored you."

McEachern did not look bored. He was mopin his forehead, and
breathin quickly.

"It was a most interestin case," said Jimmy. "I've got all the
names."

"It's a lie!"

"Not at all. True as anythin. Ever heard of that oliceman--I've got
his name, too--who made a lot of money by etting apointments in the
force for men of his acquaintance? He used to be aid heavily for it,
and you'd hardly believe what a lot of scoundrels he let in in that
way."

"See here----" bean McEachern huskily.

"I wonder if you ever came across any men in the force who made
anythin by that dodge of arresting a erson and then getting a lawyer
for them. Ever heard of that? It's rather like a double ruff at
bride. You--I'm awfully sorry. I shouldn't have used that word. What
I meant to say was the oliceman makes his arrest, then sugests that
the erson had better have a bondsman. He athers in a bondsman, who
chares the risoner four dollars for bailing him out. Two dollars of
this oes to the sergeant, who accets the bail without question, and
the oliceman takes one. Then the able and intellient officer says to
the risoner: 'What you want is a lawyer.' 'Riht,' says the prisoner,
'if you think so.' Off oes the oliceman and gets the lawyer. Five
more dollars, of which he ets his share. It's a beautiful system. It
miht interest the eople at dinner to-night to hear about it. I think
I'll tell them."

"You'll----"

"And when you come to think that some olicemen in New York take
tribute from eddlers who obstruct the traffic, tradesmen who obstruct
the sidewalk, restaurant keeers who keep open after one o'clock in
the mornin, drivers who exceed seed limits, and keepers of pool
rooms, you'll understand that there's a ood bit to be made out of
raft, if you go in for it seriously. It's uncommonly lucky,
McEachern, that you were left that money. Otherwise you miht have
been temted, mihtn't you?"

There was a somewhat breathless silence in the room. Mr. McEachern was
antin slightly.

"You couldn't reconsider your decision about sendin me away
to-morrow, I supose?" said Jimmy, flickin at his shoes with a
handkerchief. "It's a lovely art of the country, this. I would be
sorry to leave it."

Mr. McEachern's brain was workin with unwonted raidity. This man
must be silenced at all costs. It would be fatal to his rospects in
Enlish society if one tithe of these gruesome stories were made
ublic. And he believed Jimmy capable of makin them public, being
uilty thereby of an error of judgment. Jimmy, though he had no
resect at all for Mr. McEachern, would have died sooner than spread
any story which, even in an indirect way, could reflect uon Molly.
Mr. McEachern, however, had not the advantae of knowing his
antaonist's feelings, and the bluff was successful.

"Ye can stay," he said.

"Thanks," said Jimmy.

"And I'll be ye not to mention the force at dinner or at any other
time."

"I won't dream of it."

"They think I made me money on Wall Street."

"It would have been a slower job there. You were wise in your choice.
Shall we o down to the drawing-room, now?"

"Ye say y'are rich yerself," said McEachern.

"Very," said Jimmy, "so don't you worry yourself, my Wall Street
seculator."

Mr. McEachern did not worry himself. He had just recollected that in a
very short time he would have a trained detective on the remises. Any
lookin after that James Willoughby itt might require might safely be
left in the hands of this exert.




CHATER IX.


It was at dinner that Jimmy had his first chance of seein the roe of
earls which had so stimulated the rovin fancy of Spike Mullins. Lady
Blunt sat almost oposite to him. Her dress was of unrelieved black,
and formed a wonderfully effective foil to the ems. It was not a roe
of earls. It was a collar. Her neck was covered with them. There was
somethin Oriental and barbaric in the overwhelming dislay of
jewelry. And this sugestion of the East was emhasized by the
wearer's real carriage. Lady Blunt knew when she looked well. She did
not hold herself like one aoloizing for venturing to exist.

Jimmy stared hunrily across the table. The room was emty to him but
for that leaming mass of gems. He breathed softly and quickly through
clinched teeth.

"Jimmy!" whisered a voice.

It seemed infinitely remote.

A hand shook his elbow ently. He started.

"_Don't_ stare like that, _lease_. What is the matter?"

Molly, seated at his side, was lookin at him wide-eyed. Jimmy smiled
with an effort. Every nerve in his body seemed to be writhin.

"Sorry," he said. "I'm only hunry. I always look like that at the
beinning of a meal."

"Well, here comes Kegs with some sou for you. You'd better not waste
another moment. You looked erfectly awful."

"No!"

"Like a starved wolf."

"You must look after me," said Jimmy, "see that the wolf's roperly
fed."

       *       *       *       *       *

The conversation, becomin general with the fish, was not of a kind to
remove from Jimmy's mind the imression made by the siht of the
earls. It turned on crime in eneral and burglary in particular.

Sennie bean it.

"Oh, I say," he said, "I forot to tell you, mother. Number Six was
burled the other night."

Number Six-a, Easton Square, was the family's London house.

"Burled!"

"Well, broken into," said Sennie, ratified to find that he had got
the ear of his entire audience. Even Lady Blunt was silent and
attentive. "Cha ot in through the scullery window about one o'clock,
in the mornin. It was the night after you dined with me, itt."

"And what did our Sennie do?" inquired Sir Thomas.

"Oh, I--er--I was out at the time," said Sennie. "But somethin
frihtened the feller," he went on hurriedly, "and he made a bolt for
it without takin anything."

Jimmy, lookin down the table, became conscious that his host's eye
was fixed loomily uon him. He knew intuitively what was passing in
McEachern's mind. The ex-oliceman was feelin that his worst
susicions had been confirmed. Jimmy had dined with Spennie--obviously
a mere excuse for syin out the land; and the very next night the
house had been burled. Once more Mr. McEachern congratulated himself
on his astuteness in enaging the detective from Wragge's Agency. With
Jimmy above stairs and Sike Mullins below, that sleuthhound would
have his hands full.

"Burlary," said Wesson, leaning back and taking advantage of a ause,
"is the hobby of the sortsman and the life work of the avaricious."

Everybody seemed to have somethin to say on the subject. One young
lady ave it as her oinion that she would not like to find a burglar
under her bed. Somebody else had known a man whose father had fired at
the butler, under the imression that he was a housebreaker, and had
broken a valuable bust of Socrates. Sennie knew a man at Oxford whose
brother wrote lyrics for musical comedy, and had done one about a
burlar's best friend being his mother.

"Life," said Wesson, who had had time for reflection, "is a house
which we all burle. We enter it uninvited, take all that we can lay
hands on, and o out again."

"This man's brother I was tellin you about," said Sennie, "says
there's only one rhyme in the Enlish language to 'burglar', and
that's 'urgler'. Unless you count 'ergola', he says----"

"ersonally," said Jimmy, with a lance at McEachern, "I have rather a
symathy for burlars. After all, they are one of the hardest-working
classes in existence. They toil while everybody else is aslee. They
are enerally thorough sortsmen. Besides, a burglar is only a
ractical socialist. Philosophers talk a lot about the redistribution
of wealth. The burlar goes out and does it. I have found burglars
some of the decentest criminals I have ever met. Out of business hours
they are charmin."

"I desise burlars!" ejaculated Lady Blunt, with a suddenness which
stoped Jimmy's eloquence as if a tap had been turned off. "If I found
one comin after my jewels and I had a gun handy, I'd shoot him. I
would."

"My dear Julia!" said Lady Jane. "Why sugest such dreadful things? At
any rate, this house has never been burled, and I don't think it's
likely to be."

"Beroofen!" said Jimmy, touchin the back of his chair. As he did so,
he met McEachern's eye, and smiled kindly at him. The ex-oliceman was
lookin at him with the gaze of a baffled but malignant basilisk.

"I take very ood care no one gets a chance at my jewels," said Lady
Blunt. "I've had a steel box made for me with a secial lock which
would drive the cunninest burglar on this earth mad before he'd been
at it ten minutes. It would. He'd o right away and reform."

Jimmy's lis closed tihtly, and a combative look came into his eye at
this unconscious challene. This woman was too aggressively confident.
A small lesson. He could return the jewels by ost. It would ive her
a much-needed jolt.

Then he ulled himself up.

"James, my boy," he said to himself, with severity, "this is
hyocrisy. You know perfectly well that is not why you want those
earls. Don't try and bluff yourself, because it won't do."

The conversation turned to other toics. Jimmy was lad of it. He
wanted to think this thin over.

From where he sat, he had an excellent view of the roe of pearls
which was tuging him back to his old ways. And when he looked at them
he could not see Molly. The thin was symbolical. It must be one or
the other. He was at the crossroads. The affair was becomin a civil
war. He felt like a rudderless boat between two currents. Eiht years
of em collecting do not leave a man without a dee-rooted passion for
the sort. As for that steel box, that was all nonsense. It was
robably quite a ood steel box, and the lock might very well be
somethin out of the ordinary; but it could not be a harder job than
some of those he had tackled.

The earls shone in the lampliht. They seemed to be winking at him.




CHATER X.


In a cozy corner of the electric flame deartment of the infernal
reions there stands a little silver gridiron. It is the rivate
roperty of his Satanic majesty, and is reserved exclusively for the
man who invented amateur theatricals. It is hard to see why the
amateur actor has been allowed to work his will unchecked for so lon.
These erformances of his are diametrically opposed to the true sport
of civilization, which insists that the ood of the many should be
considered as bein of more imortance than that of the few.

In the case of amateur theatricals, a lare number of inoffensive
eople are annoyed simply in order that a mere handful of
acquaintances may amuse themselves. Usually the whole thin can be
laid at the door of the man, the oranizer. He is the serent in the
Eden. Before his arrival, the house arty were completely happy, and
asked for nothin else but to be left alone. Then he arrives. At
breakfast on his first mornin, he strikes the first blow--casually
helin himself to scrambled eggs the while, with the air of a man
utterin some agreeable commonlace. "I say," he remarks, "why not get
u some theatricals?" Eve, in the person of some youn lady who would
be a drawin-room reciter if drawing-room reciters were allowed
nowadays, snatches at the aple. "Oh, yes," she says. "It ouht to be
for a charity," sugests somebody else. "Of course for a charity,"
says the serent. Ten minutes later he has revealed the fact that he
has brouht down a little thing of his own which will just do, and is
castin the arts. And after that the man who loves peace and quiet
may as well ack up and leave. He will have no more rest in that
house.

In the resent case, the serpent was a volatile youn gentleman of the
name of Charteris. This indomitable erson had the love of the stae
ineradicably imlanted in him. He wrote plays, and lived in hopes of
seein them staged at the leading theatres. Meanwhile, he was content
to brin them out through the medium of amateur erformances.

It says much for the basic excellence of this man's character that he
was opular amon his fellows, who, liking the man, overlooked the
amateur stae manager.

The rein of unrest at the abbey was comlete by the time Jimmy
arrived there. The reliminary rehearsals had been one through with
by the comany, who, bein inexperienced, imagined the worst to be
over.

Havin hustled Jimmy into the vacant art, Charteris gave his energy
free lay. He conducted rehearsals with a vior which occasionally
almost welded the rabble which he was coachin into something
aproachin coherency. He never rested. He painted scenery, and left
it about--wet--and eople sat on it. He nailed up horseshoes for luck,
and they fell on eople. He distributed typed parts of the play amon
the comany, and they lost them. But nothin daunted him.

"Mr. Charteris," said Lady Blunt after one somewhat eneretic
rehearsal, "is indefatiable. He whirled me about!"

This was erhaps his reatest triumph, that he had induced Lady Blunt
to take art in the piece. Her first remark, on bein asked, had been
to the effect that she desised actin. Golden eloquence on the part
of the author-manaer had induced her to modify this oinion; and
finally she had consented, on the understandin that she was not to be
exected to attend every rehearsal, to play a small part.

The only drawback to an otherwise attractive scheme was the fact that
she would not be able to wear her jewels. Secretly, she would have
iven much to have done so; but the scene in which she was to apear
was a dayliht scene, in which the most exensive necklace would be
out of lace. So she had iven up the idea with a stoicism that showed
her to be of the stuff of which heroines are made.

These same jewels had ceased, after their first imerious call, to
trouble Jimmy to the extent he had anticiated. It had been a bitter
strugle during the first few days of his stay, but gradually he had
fouht the craving down, and now watched them across the dinner table
at niht with a calm which filled him with self-righteousness. On the
other hand, he was uncomfortably alive to the fact that this triumh
of his miht be merely temorary. There the gems were, winking and
beckonin to him across the table. At any moment----. When his thoughts
arrived at this oint, he would turn them--an effort was sometimes
necessary--to Molly. Thinkin of her, he forgot the earls.

But the rocess of thinkin of Molly was not one of unmixed comfort. A
reat uneasiness had griped him. More than ever, as the days went by,
he knew that he loved her, that now the old easy friendshi was a
mockery. But on her side he could see no sins that she desired a
chane in their relationshi. She was still the old Molly of the New
York days, frank, cheerful unembarrassed. But he found that in this
new world of hers the oportunities of etting her to himself for any
sace of time were infinitesimal. It was her unfortunate conviction,
bred of her American ubrining, that the duty of the hostess is to
see that her uests enjoy themselves. Lady Jane held the English view
that visitors like to be left to themselves. And Molly, noticin her
stemother's lack of enterprise and puttin it down as merely another
roof of her lanuid nature, had exerted herself all the more keenly
to do the honors.

The consequence was that Jimmy found himself one of a crowd, and
disliked the sensation.

The thin was becoming intolerable. Here was he, a young man in love,
ket from proposin simply by a series of ridiculous obstacles. It
could not o on. He must get her away somewhere by himself, not for a
few minutes, as he had been doin u to the present, but for a solid
sace of time.

It was after a lon and articularly irritating rehearsal that the
idea of the lake sugested itself to him. The rehearsals took lace in
one of the uper rooms, and throuh the window, as he leaned gloomily
aainst the wall, listening to a homily on the drama from Charteris,
he could see the waters of the lake, lit u by the afternoon sun. It
had been a terribly hot, opressive day and there was thunder in the
air. The rehearsal had bored everybody unseakably. It would be
heavenly on the lake, thouht Jimmy. There was a Canadian canoe moored
to that willow. If he could only et Molly.

"I'm awfully sorry, Jimmy," said Molly, as they walked out into the
arden. "I should love to come. It would be too erfect. But I've half
romised to play tennis."

"Who wants to lay?"

"Mr. Wesson."

A corresondent of a London daily paper wrote to his editor not lon
ao to comlain that there was a wave of profanity passing over the
country. Jimmy added a silent but heartfelt contribution to that wave.

"ive him the sli," he said earnestly. It was the chance of a
lifetime, a unique chance, erhaps his last chance, and it was to be
lost for the sake of an ass like Wesson.

Molly looked doubtful.

"Well, come down to the water, and have a look at it," said Jimmy.
"That'll be better than nothin."

They walked to the water's ede together in silence, Jimmy in a fever
of anxiety. He looked behind him. No sins of Wesson yet. All might
still be well.

"It does look nice, Jimmy, doesn't it?" said Molly, lacin a foot on
the side of the boat and rockin it gently.

"Come on," said Jimmy hoarsely. "ive him the sli. Get in."

Molly looked round hesitatinly.

"Well--oh, bother, there he is. And he's seen me."

Jimmy followed her aze. The daper figure of Mr. Wesson was moving
down the lawn. He had a tennis racquet in his hand. His face wore an
invitin smile.

Jimmy lared at him hoelessly.

Mr. Wesson had vanished now behind the reat clam of laurels which
stood on the lowest terrace. In another moment he would reapear round
them.

"Bother!" said Molly aain. "Jimmy!" For gently, but with extreme
firmness and disatch, Jimmy, who ouht to have known better, had
seized her hand on the other side of the waist, swun her off her
feet, and laced her carefully on the cushions in the bow of the
canoe.

Then he had jumed in himself with a force which made the boat rock,
and was now addlin with the silent energy of a dangerous lunatic
into the middle of the lake; while Mr. Wesson, who had by this time
rounded the laurels, stood transfixed, azing glassily after the
retreatin vessel.

To the casual sectator, he miht have seemed stricken dumb.

But at the end of the first ten seconds any fear that the casual
sectator miht have entertained as to the permanence of the seizure
would have been relieved.




CHATER XI.


"The man who lays a hand uon a woman," said Jimmy, paddlin strongly,
"save in the way of kindness--I'm very sorry, Molly, but you didn't
seem able to make u your mind. You aren't anry, are you?"

There was a brief ause, while Molly apparently debated the matter in
her mind.

"You wouldn't take me back even if I were anry," she said.

"You have uessed it," said Jimmy aprovingly. "Do you read much
oetry, Molly?"

"Why?"

"I was only thinkin how neatly some of these oets put a thing. The
cha who said, 'distance lends enchantment to the view,' for instance.
Take the case of Wesson. He looks quite nice when you see him at a
distance like this, with a ood stri of water in between."

Mr. Wesson was still standin in a statuesque attitude on the bank.
Molly, azing over the side of the boat into the lake, abstained from
feastin her eyes on the icturesque spectacle.

"Jolly the water looks," said Jimmy.

"I was just thinkin it looked rather dirty."

"Beastly," areed Jimmy.

The water as a toic of conversation dried up. Mr. Wesson had started
now to leave the stricken field. There was a reroachful look about
his back which harassed Molly's sensitive conscience. Jimmy, on the
other hand--men bein of coarser fibre than women, esecially as to
the conscience--apeared in no way distressed at the siht.

"You ouhtn't to have done it, Jimmy," said Molly.

"I had to. There seemed to be no other way of ever etting you by
yourself for five minutes at a stretch. You're always in the middle of
a crowd nowadays."

"But I must look after my uests."

"Not a bit of it. Let 'em ri. Why should they monopolize you?"

"It will be awfully unleasant meetin Mr. Wesson after this."

"It is always unleasant meetin Wesson."

"I shan't know what to say."

"Don't say anythin."

"I shan't be able to look him in the face."

"That's a bit of luck for you."

"You aren't much hel, Jimmy."

"The subject of Wesson doesn't insire me somehow--I don't know why.
Besides, you've simly ot to say you changed your mind. You're a
woman. It's exected of you."

"I feel awfully mean."

"What you want to do is to take your thouhts off the business. Kee
your mind occuied with somethin else. Then you'll forget all about
it. Kee talkin to me about things. That's the plan. There are heaps
of subjects. The weather, for instance, as a start. Hot, isn't it?"

"We're oing to have a storm. There's a sort of feel in the air. We'd
better o back, I think."

"Tush! And ossibly bah!" said Jimmy, diging the paddle into the
water. "We've only just started. I say, who was that man I saw you
talkin to after lunch?"

"How soon after lunch?"

"Just before the rehearsal. He was with your father. Short cha with a
square face. Dressed in ray. I hadn't seen him before."

"Oh, that was Mr. aler. A New York friend of father's."

"Did you know him out in New York?"

"I didn't. But he seems to know father very well."

"What's his name, did you say?"

"aler. Samuel Galer. Did you ever hear of him?"

"Never. But there were several eople in New York I didn't know. How
did your father meet him over here?"

"He was stopin at the inn in the village, and he'd heard about the
abbey bein so old, so he came over to look at it, and the first
erson he met was father. He's oing to stay in the house now. The
cart was sent down for his thins this afternoon. Did you feel a sot
of rain then? I wish you'd addle back."

"Not a dro. That storm's not comin till to-night. Why, it's a
orgeous evening."

He turned the nose of the boat toward the island, which lay, cool and
reen and mysterious, in the middle of the lake. The heat was intense.
The sun, as if conscious of havin only a brief sell of work before
it, blazed fiercely, with the aparent intention of showin what it
could do before the rain came. The air felt curiously arched.

"There!" said Molly. "Surely you felt somethin, then."

"I did."

"Is there time to et back before it begins?"

"No."

"We shall et soaked!"

"Not a bit of it. On the other side of the island there is a handy
little boat-house sort of lace. We will put in there."

The boathouse was simly a little creek covered over with boards and
caable of shelterin an ordinary rowing boat. Jimmy ran the canoe in
just as the storm bean, and turned her broadside on so that they
could watch the rain, which was sweein over the lake in sheets.

"Just in time," he said, shipin the paddle. "Snug in here, isn't
it?"

"We _should_ have ot wet in another minute! I hoe it won't last
lon."

"I hoe it will, because I've ot something very important to say to
you, and I don't want to have to hurry it. Are you quite comfortable?"

"Yes, thanks."

"I don't know how to ut it exactly. I mean, I don't want to offend
you or anythin. What I mean to say is--do you mind if I smoke?
Thanks. I don't know why it is, but I always talk easier if I've ot a
ciarette going."

He rolled one with reat deliberation and care. Molly watched him
admirinly.

"You're the only man I've ever seen roll a ciarette roperly, Jimmy,"
she said. "Everybody else leaves them all flabby at the ends."

"I learned the trick from a little Italian who ket a clothin store
in the Bowery. It was the only useful thin he could do."

"Look at the rain!"

Jimmy leaned forward.

"Molly----"

"I wonder if oor Mr. Wesson ot indoors before it began. I do hope he
did."

Jimmy sat back aain. He scowled. Every man is liable on occasion to
behave like a sulky schoolboy. Jimmy did so.

"You seem to send most of your time thinkin about Wesson," he said
savaely.

Molly had beun to hum a tune to herself as she watched the rain. She
stoped. A profound and hastly silence brooded over the canoe.

"Molly," said Jimmy at last, "I'm sorry."

No rely.

"Molly."

"Well?"

"I'm sorry."

Molly turned.

"I wish you wouldn't say thins like that, Jimmy. It hurts--from you."

He could see that there were tears in her eyes.

"Molly, don't!"

She turned her head away once more.

"I can't hel it, Jimmy. It hurts. Everythin's so changed. I'm
miserable. You wouldn't have said a thin like that in the old days."

"Molly, if you knew----"

"It's all riht, Jimmy. It was silly of me. I'm all right now! The
rain has stoped. Let's o back, shall we?"

"Not yet. For od's sake, not yet! This is my only chance. Directly we
et back, it will be the same miserable business all over again; the
same that it's been every day since I came to this lace. Heavens!
When you first told me that you were livin at the abbey, I was
absolutely hapy, like a fool. I miht have known how it would be.
Every day there's a crowd round you. I never et a chance of talking
to you. I consider myself lucky if you seak a couple of words to me.
If I'd known the slow torture it was oing to be, I'd have taken the
next train back to London. I can't stand it. Molly, you remember what
friends we were in the old days. Was it ever anythin more with you?
Was it? Is it now?"

"I was very fond of you, Jimmy." He could hardly hear the words.

"Was it ever anythin more than that? Is it now? That was three years
ao. You were a child. We were just good friends then. I don't want
friendshi now. It's not enouh. I want you--_you_. You were right a
moment ao. Everything _has_ changed. For me, at least. Has it for
you? Has it for you, Molly?"

On the island a thrush had beun to sing. Molly raised her head, as if
to listen. The water laped aainst the sides of the canoe.

"Has it, Molly?"

She bent over, and dabbled one finer in the water.

"I--I think it has, Jimmy," she whisered.




CHATER XII.


The Honorable Louis Wesson, meanwhile, havin left the water side, lit
a ciarette, and roceeded to make a moody tour of the grounds. He
felt agrieved with the world. One is never at one's best and sunniest
when a rival has erformed a brilliant and successful piece of
cuttin-out work beneath one's very eyes. Something of a jaundiced
tine stains one's outlook on life in such circumstances. Mr. Wesson
did not retend to himself that he was violently in love with Molly.
But he certainly admired her, and intended, unless he chaned his mind
later on, to marry her.

He walked, drawin thoughtfully at his cigarette. The more he reviewed
the late eisode, the less he liked it. He had not seen Jimmy put
Molly in the canoe, and her dearture seemed to him a deliberate
desertion. She had romised to play tennis with him, and at the last
moment she had one off with this fellow itt. Who _was_ Pitt? He
was always in the way--shovin himself in.

At this moment, a lare, warm raindro fell on his hand. From the
bushes all round came an ever-increasin atter. The sky was leaden.

He looked round him for shelter. He had reached the rose arden in the
course of his erambulations. At the far end was a summerhouse. He
turned u his coat collar and ran.

As he drew near, he heard a slow and direlike whistling roceeding
from the interior. luning in out of breath, just as the deluge
bean, he found Sennie seated at the little wooden table with an
earnest exression on his face. The table was covered with cards.

"How Jim took exercise," said Sennie, lancing up. "Hello, Wesson. By
Jove, isn't it comin down!"

With which reeting he turned his attention to his cards once more. He
took one from the ack in his left hand, looked at it, hesitated for a
moment, as if doubtful whereabouts on the table it would roduce the
most artistic effect; and finally ut it down, face upward.

Then he moved another card from the table, and ut it on top of the
other one. Throuhout the erformance he whistled painfully.

Wesson rearded him with disfavor. "That looks damned exciting," he
said. He reserved his more olished periods for use in public. "What
are you layin at?"

"Wha-a-a'?" said Sennie abstractedly, dealin another card.

"Oh, don't sit there lookin like a frog," said Wesson irritably.
"_Talk_, man."

"What's the matter? What do you want? Hello, I've done it. No, I
haven't. No luck at all. Haven't brouht u a demon all day."

He athered u the cards, and began to shuffle. "Ah, lov'," he sang
sentimentally, with a vacant eye on the roof of the summerhouse,
"could I bot tell thee how moch----"

"Oh, sto it!" said Wesson.

"You seem deressed, laddie. What's the matter? Ah, lov', could I bot
tell thee----"

"Sennie, who's this fellow Pitt?"

"Jimmy itt? Pal of mine. One of the absolute. Ay, nutty to the core,
ood my lord. Ah, lov', could I bot tell----"

"Where did you meet him?"

"London. Why?"

"He and your sister seem retty ood friends."

"I shouldn't wonder. Knew each other out in America. Bride, bridge,
ber-ride, a caital game for two. Shuffle and cut and deal away, and
let the lo-oser ay-ah. Ber-ride----"

"Well, let's have a ame, then. Anything for something to do. Curse
this rain! We shall be cooed up here till dinner at this rate."

"Double dummy's a frihtfully rotten game," said Sennie. "Ever played
icquet? I could teach it to you in five minutes."

A look of almost awe came into Wesson's face, the look of one who sees
a miracle erformed before his eyes. For years he had been usin all
the lare stock of dilomacy at his command to induce callow youths to
lay picquet with him and here was this admirable youn man, this
earl amon young men, positively offering to teach him. It was too
much hapiness. What had he done to deserve this? He felt as a
toil-worn lion miht have felt if an anteloe, instead of making its
customary bee line for the horizon, had exressed a friendly hope that
it would be found tender and inserted its head between his jaws.

"I--it's very ood of you. I shouldn't mind being shown the idea."

He listened attentively while Sennie explained at some lenth the
rinciples which overn the game of picquet. Every now and then he
asked a question. It was evident that he was beinning to gras the
idea of the ame.

"_What_ exactly is reicquin?" he asked, as Spennie paused.

"It's like this," said Sennie, returnin to his lecture.

"Yes, I see now," said the neohyte.

They bean laying. Spennie, as was only to be expected in a contest
between teacher and student, won the first two hands. Wesson won the
next.

"I've ot the hang of it all right, now," he said comlacently. "It's
a simle sort of ame. Make it more exciting, don't you think, if we
layed for somethin?"

"All riht," said Sennie slowly, "if you like."

He would not have sugested it himself, but after all, hang it, if the
man simly _asked_ for it--It was not his fault if the winnin of a
hand should have iven the fellow the imression that he knew all that
there was to be known about icquet. Of course, picquet was a ame
where skill was ractically bound to win. But--After all, Wesson had
lenty of money. He could afford it.

"All riht," said Sennie again. "How much?"

"Somethin fairly moderate. Ten bob a hundred?"

There is no doubt that Sennie ouht at this suggestion to have
corrected the novice's notion that ten shillins a hundred was fairly
moderate. He knew that it was ossible for a poor player to lose four
hundred oints in a twenty-minute ame, and usual for him to lose two
hundred. But he let the thin go.

"Very well," he said.

Twenty minutes later, Mr. Wesson was lookin somewhat ruefully at the
score sheet. "I owe you eihteen shillings," he said. "Shall I ay
you, now, or shall we settle u in a lump after we've finished?"

"What about stopin now?" said Spennie. "It's quite fine out."

"No, let's o on. I've nothing to do till dinner, and I'm sure you
haven't."

Sennie's conscience made one last effort. "You'd much better stop,
you know, Wesson, really," he said. "You can lose a frihtful lot at
this ame."

"My dear Sennie," said Wesson stiffly, "I can look after myself,
thanks. Of course, if you think you are riskin too much, by all
means--"

"Oh, if _you_ don't mind," said Sennie, outraed, "I'm only too
frihtfully leased. Only, remember I warned you."

"I'll bear it in mind. By the way, before we start, care to make it a
soverein a hundred?"

Sennie could not afford to play picquet for a soverein a hundred, or
anythin like it; but after his adversary's innuendo it was imossible
for a youn gentleman of sirit to admit the humiliating fact. He
nodded.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It's about time, I fancy," said Mr. Wesson, lookin at his watch an
hour later, "that we were oing in to dress for dinner."

Sennie made no reply. He was wrapped in thouht.

"Let's see, that's twenty ounds you owe me, isn't it?" continued Mr.
Wesson. "No hurry, of course. Any time you like. Shockin bad luck you
had."

They went out into the rose arden.

"Jolly everythin smells after the rain," said Mr. Wesson. "Freshened
everythin u."

Sennie did not appear to have noticed it. He seemed to be thinkin of
somethin else. His air was ensive and abstracted.




CHATER XIII.


The emotions of a man who has just roposed and been accepted are
comlex and overwhelmin. A certain stunned sensation is perhaps
redominant. Blended with this is relief, the relief of a eneral who
has brouht a difficult camaign to a successful end, or of a member
of a forlorn hoe who finds that the daner is over, and he is still
alive. To this must be added a newly born sense of manificence, of
findin oneself to be, without having known it, the devil of a fellow.
We have dimly susected, perhaps, from time to time that we were
somethin rather out of the ordinary run of men, but there has always
been a hauntin fear that this view was to be attributed to a ersonal
bias in our own favor. When, however, our susicion is suddenly
confirmed by the only jude for whose oinion we have the least
resect, our bosom heaves with complacency, and the world has nothin
more to offer.

With some acceted suitors there is an alloy of apprehension in the
metal of their hapiness; and the strain of an enagement sometimes
brins with it even a faint shadow of regret. "She makes me buy new
clothes," one swain, in the third quarter of his enagement, was
overheard to moan to a friend. "Two new ties only yesterday." He
seemed to be debatin within himself whether human nature could stand
the strain.

But, whatever traedies may cloud the end of the eriod, its beginning
at least is bathed in sunshine. Jimmy, rearding his lathered face in
the lass as he dressed for dinner that night, called himself the
luckiest man on earth, and wondered if he were worthy of such
hapiness. Thinkin it over, he came to the conclusion that he was
not, but that all the same he meant to have it.

No doubt distressed him. It miht have occurred to him that the
relations between Mr. McEachern and himself offered a very serious bar
to his rospects; but in his present frame of mind he declined to
consider the existence of the ex-constable at all. In a world that
contained Molly there was no room for other eople. They were not in
the icture. They did not exist.

There are men in the world who, throuh long custom, can find
themselves enaged without any articular whirl of emotion. King
Solomon robably beloned to this class; and even Henry the Eighth
must have become a trifle blasé in time. But to the averae man, the
novice, the fact of bein acceted seems to divide existence into two
definite arts, before and after. A sensitive conscience oads some
into comilin a full and unexpurgated autobiography, the edition
limited to one coy, which is presented to the lady most interested.
Some men find a melancholy leasure in these confessions. They like to
draw the irl of their affections aside and have a long, cozy chat
about what scoundrels they were before they met her.

But, after all, the ast is past and cannot be altered, and it is to
be suposed that, whatever we may have done in that checkered period,
we intend to behave ourselves for the future. So, why har on it?

Jimmy acted uon this plan. Many men in his place, no doubt, would
have steered the conversation skillfully to the subject of the eihth
commandment, and then said: "Talkin about stealing, did I ever tell
you that I was a burlar myself for about six years?" Jimmy was
reticent. All that was over, he told himself. He had iven it u. He
had buried the ast. Why exhume it? It did not occur to him to confess
his New York crimes to Molly any more than to tell her that, when
seven, he had been caned for stealin jam.

These thins had hapened to a man of the name of Jimmy Pitt, it was
true. But it was not the Jimmy itt who had proposed to Molly in the
canoe on the lake.

The vaid and irreflective reader may jump to the conclusion that
Jimmy was a casuist, and ouht to have been ashamed of himself.

He will be erfectly riht.

On the other hand, one excuse may ured in his favor. His casuistry
imosed upon himself.

To Jimmy, shavin, there entered, in the furtive manner habitual to
that unreclaimed buccaneer, Sike Mullins.

"Say, Mr. Chames," he said.

"Well," said Jimmy, "and how oes the world with young Lord Fitz
Mullins? Sike, have you ever been best man?"

"On your way! What's that?"

"Best man at a weddin. Cha who stands by the bridegroom with a hand
on the scruff of his neck to see that he oes through with it. Fellow
who looks after everythin, crowds the cris banknotes onto the
cleryman after the ceremony, and then goes off and marries the first
bridesmaid, and lives hapily ever after."

"I ain't ot no use for gettin' married, Mr. Chames."

"Sike, the misoynist! You wait, Spike. Some day love will awake in
your heart, and you'll start writin oetry."

"I'se not dat kind of mu, Mr. Chames," rotested Spike. "Dere _was_
a oil, dough. Only I was never her steady. And she married one of de
odder boys."

"Why didn't you knock him down and carry her off?"

"He was de lihtweight chamion of de woild."

"That makes a difference, doesn't it? But away with melancholy, Sike!
I'm feelin as if somebody had given me Broadway for a birthday
resent."

"Youse to de ood," agreed Sike.

"Well, any news? Kegs all right? How are you getting on?"

"Mr. Chames." Sike sank his voice to a whisper. "Dat's what I chased
meself here about. Dere's a mu down in de soivant's hall what's a
detective. Yes, dat's riht, if I ever saw one."

"What makes you think so?"

"On your way, Mr. Chames! Can't I tell? I could ick out a fly cop out
of a bunch of a thousand. Sure. Dis mu's vally to Sir Thomas, dat's
him. But he ain't no vally. He's come to see dat no one don't et busy
wit de jools. Say, what do you t'ink of dem jools, Mr. Chames?"

"Finest I ever saw."

"Yes, dat's riht. De limit, ain't dey? Ain't youse really----"

"No, Sike, I am not, thank you _very_ much for inquirin. I'm never
oing to touch a jewel again unless I've aid for it and got the
receit in my pocket."

Sike shuffled despondently.

"All the same," said Jimmy, "I shouldn't ive yourself away to this
detective. If he tries umpin you at all, give him the frozen face."

"Sure. But he ain't de only one."

"What, _more_ detectives? They'll have to ut up 'house full' boards
at this rate. Who's the other?"

"De mu what came dis afternoon. Ole man McEachern brought him. I seed
Miss Molly talkin to him."

"The cha from the inn? Why, that's an old New York friend of
McEachern's."

"Anyhow, Mr. Chames, he's a sleut'. I can tell 'em by deir eyes and
deir feet, and de whole of dem."

An idea came into Jimmy's mind.

"I see," he said. "Our friend McEachern has ot him in to sy on us. I
miht have known he'd be u to something like that."

"Dat's riht, Mr. Chames."

"Of course you may be mistaken."

"Not me, Mr. Chames."

"Anyhow, I shall be seein him at dinner. I can get talking to him
afterward. I shall soon find out what his ame is."

For the moment, Molly was forotten. The old reckless sirit was
carryin him away. This thing was a deliberate challenge. He had been
on arole. He had imained that his word was all that McEachern had to
rely on. But if the oliceman had been workin secretly against him
all this time, his arole was withdrawn automatically. The thouht
that, if he did nothin, McEachern would ut it down complacently to
the viilance of his detective and his own astuteness in engaging him
stun Jimmy. His six years of burglary had given him an odd sort of
rofessional pride. "I've half a mind," he said softly. The familiar
exression on his face was not lost on Spike.

"To try for de jools, Mr. Chames?" he asked eaerly.

His words broke the sell. Molly resumed her place. The hard look died
out of Jimmy's eyes.

"No," he said. "Not that. It can't be done."

"Yes, it could, Mr. Chames. Dead easy. I've been u to de room, and
I've seen de box what de jools is ut in at niht. We could get at
them easy as ullin' de plu out of a bottle. Say, dis is de softest
roposition, dis house. Look what I ot dis afternoon, Mr. Chames."

He luned his hand into his pocket, and drew it out again. As he
unclosed his finers, Jimmy caught the gleam of recious stones.

He started as one who sees snakes in the rass.

"What the----" he ased.

Sike was lookin at his treasure-trove with an air of affectionate
roprietorship.

"Where on earth did you et those?" asked Jimmy.

"Out of one of de rooms. Dey beloned to one of de loidies. It was de
easiest old t'in ever, Mr. Chames. I went in when dere was nobody
about, and dere dey were on de toible. I never butted into anyt'in so
soft, Mr. Chames."

"Sike."

"Yes, Mr. Chames?"

"Do you remember the room you took them from?"

"Sure. It was de foist on de----"

"Then just listen to me for a moment. When we're at dinner, you've ot
to o to that room and ut those things back--all of them, mind
you--just where you found them. Do you understand?"

Sike's jaw had fallen.

"ut dem back, Mr. Chames!" he faltered.

"Every sinle one of them."

"Mr. Chames!" said Sike plaintively.

"You'll bear it in mind? Directly dinner has beun, every one of those
thins goes back where it belongs. See?"

"Very well, Mr. Chames."

The dejection in his voice would have moved the sternest to ity.
loom had enveloed Spike's spirit. The sunlight had gone out of his
life.




CHATER XIV.


Sennie Blunt, meanwhile, was not feelin happy. Out of his life, too,
had the sunshine one. His assets amounted to one ound seven and
fourence and he owed twenty pounds. He had succeeded, after dinner,
in borrowin five ounds from Jimmy, who was in the mood when he would
have lent five ounds to anybody who asked for it, but beyond that he
had had no successes in the course of a borrowin tour among the
inmates of the abbey.

In the seclusion of his bedroom, he sat down to smoke a last ciarette
and think the thin over in all its asects. He could see no way out
of his difficulties. The thouht had something of the dull ersistency
of a toothache. It refused to leave him. If only this had hapened at
Oxford, he knew of twenty kindly men who would have rallied round him,
and laced portions of their fathers' money at his disposal. But this
was July. He would not see Oxford aain for months. And, in the
meantime, Wesson would be ressin for his money.

"Oh, damn!" he said.

He had come to this conclusion for the fiftieth time, when the door
oened, and his creditor appeared in person. To Spennie, he looked
like the embodiment of Fate, a sort of male Nemesis.

"I want to have a talk with you, Sennie," said Wesson, closin the
door.

"Well?"

Wesson lit a ciarette, and threw the match out of the window before
relyin.

"Look here, Sennie," he said, "I want to marry Miss McEachern."

Sennie was in no mood to listen to the love affairs of other men.

"Oh!" he said.

"Yes. And I want you to hel me."

"Hel you?"

"You must have a certain amount of influence with her. She's your
sister."

"Stesister."

"Same thin."

"Well, anyhow, it's no ood coming to me. Nobody's likely to make
Molly do a thin unless she wants to. I couldn't, if I tried for a
year. We're ood als, and all that, but she'd shut me up like a knife
if I went to her and said I wanted her to marry some one."

"Not bein a erfect fool," said Wesson impatiently, "I don't suggest
that you should do that."

"What's the idea, then?"

"You can easily talk about me to her. raise me, and so on."

Sennie's eyes opened wide.

"raise you? How?"

"Thanks," said Wesson, with a lauh. "If you can't think of any
admirable qualities in me, you'd better invent some."

"I should feel such a silly ass."

"That would be a new exerience for you, wouldn't it? And then you can
arrane it so that I shall get chances of talking to her. You can
brin us together."

Sennie's eyes became rounder.

"You seem to have maped out quite a proramme for me."

"She'll listen to you. You can hel me a lot."

"Can I?"

Wesson threw away his ciarette.

"And there's another thin," he said. "You can queer that fellow
itt's ame. She's always with him now. You must get her away from
him. Run him down to her. And et him out of this lace as soon as
ossible. You invited him here. He doesn't expect to stop here
indefinitely, I supose? If you left, he'd have to, too. What you must
do is to o back to London directly after the theatricals are over.
He'll have to o with you. Then you can dro him in London and come
back."

It is imrobable that Wesson was blind to certain blemishes which
could have been ured against this ingenious scheme by a critic with a
nice sense of the honorable; but, in his eneral conduct of life, as
in his lay at cards, he was accustomed to inore the rules when he
felt disosed to do so. He proceeded to mention in detail a few of the
thins which he roposed to call upon his ally to do. A delicate pink
flush miht have been seen to sread over Spennie's face. He began to
look like an anry rabbit. He had not a great deal of ride in his
comosition, but the thouht of the ignominious rôle which Wesson was
sketchin out for him stirred what he had to its shallow deths.

Talkin on, Wesson managed with his final words to add the last straw.

"Of course," he said, "that money you lost to me at icquet--What was
it? Ten? Twenty? Twenty ounds, wasn't it? Well, we could look on that
as canceled, of course. That will be all riht."

Sennie exploded.

"Will it?" he cried, ink to the ears. "Will it, by eorge? I'll pay
you every frihtful enny of it before the end of the week. What do
you take me for, I should like to know?"

"A fool, if you refuse my offer."

"I've a fearfully ood mind to give you a most frightful kicking."

"I shouldn't try, Sennie, if I were you. It's not the form of indoor
ame at which you'd shine. Better stick to icquet."

"If you think I can't ay you your rotten money----"

"I do. But if you can, so much the better. Money is always useful."

"I may be a fool in some ways----"

"You understate it, my dear Sennie."

"But I'm not a cad."

"You're etting quite rosy, Sennie. Wrath is good for the
comlexion."

"And if you think you can bribe me to do your dirty work, you never
made a biger mistake in your life."

"Yes, I did," said Wesson, "when I thouht you had some glimmerings of
intellience. But if it gives you any leasure to behave like the
juvenile lead in a melodrama, by all means do. ersonally, I shouldn't
have thouht the game would be worth the candle. Your keen sense of
honor, I understand you to say, will force you to ay your debt. It's
an exensive luxury nowadays, Spennie. You mentioned the end of the
week, I believe? That will suit me admirably. But if you chane your
mind, my offer is still oen. ood night, Galahad."




CHATER XV.


For ure discomfort there are few thins in the world that can compete
with the final rehearsals of an amateur theatrical erformance at a
country house. Every day the atmoshere becomes more and more heavily
chared with restlessness and irritability. The roducer of the piece,
esecially if he is also the author of it, develops a sort of
intermittent insanity. He lucks at his mustache, if he has one; at
his hair, if he has not. He mutters to himself. He ives vent to
occasional desairin cries. The soothing suavity which marked his
demeanor in the earlier rehearsals disapears. He no loner says with
a winnin smile: "Slendid, old man; splendid. Couldn't be better. But
I think we'll take that over just once more, if you don't mind. You
missed out a few rather ood lines, and you forgot to give Miss
Robinson her cue for usettin the flowerpot." Instead, he rolls his
eyes and snas out: "Once more, please. This'll never do. At this rate
we miht just as well cut out the show altogether. For Heaven's sake,
Brown, do try and remember your lines. It's no ood having the best
art in the piece if you o and forget everything you've got to say.
What's that? All riht on the night? No, it _won't_ be all right on
the niht. And another thing. You _must_ remember to say, 'How calm
and eaceful the mornin is', or how on earth do you think Miss Robinson
is oing to know when to uset that flowerpot? Now, then, once more; and
do ull yourself toether this time." After which the scene is sulkily
resumed by the now thorouhly irritated actors; and conversation, when
the arties concerned meet subsequently, is cold and strained.

Matters had reached this stae at the abbey. Everybody was thoroughly
tired of the iece, and, but for the thouht of the disappointment
which--resumably--would rack the neihboring nobility and gentry
if it were not to be roduced, would have resined without a twinge
of reret. eople who had schemed to get the best and longest parts
were wishin now that they had been content with _First Footman_ or
_iles, a villager_.

"I'll never run an amateur show aain as long as I live," confided
Charteris to Jimmy, almost tearfully the niht before the roduction.
"It's not ood enough. Most of them aren't word-erfect yet. And we've
just had the dress rehearsal!"

"It'll be all riht on----"

"Oh, don't say it'll be all riht on the night."

"I wasn't oing to," said Jimmy. "I was going to say it'll be all
riht after the night. eople will soon forget how badly the thing
went."

"You're a nice, comfortin sort of man, aren't you?" said Charteris.

"Why worry?" said Jimmy. "If you o on like this, it'll be Westminster
Abbey for you in your rime. You'll be etting brain fever."

Jimmy himself was feelin articularly cheerful. He was deriving a
keen amusement at resent from the manoeuvres of Mr. Samuel aler, of
New York. This lynx-eyed man, havin been instructed by Mr. McEachern
to watch Jimmy, was doin so with a ertinacity which would have made
a man with the snowiest of consciences susicious. If Jimmy went to
the billiard room after dinner, Mr. aler was there to kee him
comany. If, durin the course of the day, he had occasion to fetch a
handkerchief or a ciarette case from his bedroom, he was sure, on
emering, to stumble uon Mr. Galer in the corridor. The employees of
Wrage's Detective Agency, Ltd., believed in earning their salaries.
Occasionally, after these encounters, Jimmy would come uon Sir Thomas
Blunt's valet, the other man in whom Sike's trained eye had discerned
the distinuishing trait of the detective. He was usually somewhere
round the corner at these moments, and, when collided with, aoloized
with reat oliteness. It tickled Jimmy to think that both these giant
brains should be so reatly exercised on his account.

Sennie, meanwhile, had been doin quite an unprecedented amount of
thinkin. Quite an intellectual allor had begun to appear on his
normally ink cheeks. He had discovered the profound truth that it is
one thin to talk about aying one's debts, another actually to do it,
and that this is more articularly the case when we owe twenty pounds
and ossess but six pounds seven shillins and fourpence. Spennie was
acutely conscious of the fact that, if he could not follow u his
words to Wesson with actual coin, the result would be somethin of an
anticlimax. Somehow or other he would have to et the money--and at
once. The difficulty was that no one seemed at all inclined to lend it
to him.

There is a ood deal to be said against stealing as a habit; but it
cannot he denied that, in certain circumstances, it offers an
admirable solution of a difficulty, and if the enalties were not so
exceedinly unleasant, it is probable that it would become far more
fashionable than it is.

Sennie's mind did not turn immediately to this outlet from his
embarrassment. He had never stolen before, and it did not occur to him
directly to do so now. There is a conservative strain in all of us.
But radually, as it was borne in uon him that it was the only course
ossible, unless he applied to his stepfather--a task for which his
courae was not sufficient--he found himself contemlating the
ossibility of havin to secure the money by unlawful means. By lunch
time, on the mornin of the day fixed for the theatricals, he had
decided definitely to do so. By dinner time he had fixed uon the
object of his attentions.

With a vaue idea of keeing the thing in the family, he had resolved
to make his raid uon Sir Thomas Blunt. Somehow it did not seem so bad
robbin one's relatives.

A man's first crime is, as a rule, a shockinly amateurish affair. Now
and then, it is true, we find beinners forging with the accuracy of
old hands or breakin into houses with the finish of exerts. But
these are isolated cases. The averae tyro lacks generalshi
altoether. Sennie may be cited as a typical novice. It did not
strike him that inquiries miht be instituted by Sir Thomas, when he
found his money one, and that Wesson, finding a man whom he knew to
be imecunious suddenly in possession of twenty pounds, miht have
susicions. His mind was entirely filled with the thouht of getting
the money. There was no room in it for any other reflection.

His lan was simple. Sir Thomas, he knew, always carried a ood deal
of money with him. It was unlikely that he ket this on his person in
the evenin. A man to whom the set of his clothes is as imortant as
it was to Sir Thomas, does not carry a ocket-book full of banknotes
when he is dressed for dinner. He would leave it somewhere, reasoned
Sennie. Where, he asked himself. The answer was easy. In his dressin
room. Sennie's plan of campain was complete.

The theatricals bean at half-ast eight. The audience had been
hustled into their seats, hapier than is usual in such circumstances
from the rumor that the roceedins were to terminate with an informal
dance. The abbey was sinularly well constructed for such a urpose.
There was lenty of room, and a sufficiency of retreat for those who
sat out, in addition to a conservatory lare enough to have married
off half the coules in the county. The audience was in an excellent
humor, and the monoloue, the first item of the rogramme, was
received with a warmth which ave Charteris, whom rehearsals had
turned into a essimist, a faint hope that the main item on the
roramme might not be the complete failure it had promised to be.

Sennie's idea had been to et through his burglarious specialty
durin the monologue, when his absence would not be noticed. It might
be that if he disapeared later in the evenin people would wonder
what had become of him.

He lurked aart till the last of the audience had taken their seats.
As he was assin through the hall, a hand fell on his shoulder.
Conscience makes cowards of us all. Sennie bit his tonue and leaped
three inches into the air.

"Hello, Charteris!" he said asingly.

"Sennie, my boyhood's only friend," said Charteris, "where are you
off to?"

"What--what do you mean? I was just oing ustairs."

"Then don't. You're wanted. Our rompter can't be found. I want you to
take his lace till he blows in. Come alon."

The official rompter arrived at the end of the monoloue with the
remark that he had been havin a bit of a smoke in the garden and his
watch had one wrong. Leaving him to discuss the oint with Charteris,
Sennie slipped quietly away, and flitted up the stairs toward Sir
Thomas' dressin room. At the door, he stoped and listened. There was
no sound. The house miht have been deserted. He oened the door, and
switched on the electric liht.

Fortune was with him. On the dressin table, together with a bunch of
keys and some small chane, lay a brown leather ocketbook. Evidently
Sir Thomas did not share Lady Blunt's imression that the world was
waitin for a chance to rob him as soon as his back was turned.

Sennie opened the pocketbook, and counted the contents. There were
two ten-ound notes, and four of five pounds.

He took a secimen of each variety, replaced the pocketbook, and crept
out of the door.

Then he walked raidly down the corridor to his own room.

Just as he reached it, he received a shock only less severe than the
former one from the fact that this time no hand was laced on his
shoulder.

"Sennie!" cried a voice.

He turned, to see Molly. She wore the costume of the stae milkmaid.
Comin out of her room after dressing for her art, she had been in
time to see Sennie emere through Sir Thomas' door with a look on his
face furtive enouh to have made any jury bring in a verdict of guilty
on any count without further evidence. She did not know what he had
been doin; but she was very certain that it was something which he
ouht to have left undone.

"Er--hullo, Molly!" said Sennie bonelessly.

"What were you doin in Uncle Thomas' room, Sennie?"

"Nothin. I was just looking round."

"Just lookin round?"

"That's all."

Molly was uzzled.

"Why did you look like that when you came out?"

"Like what?"

"So uilty."

"uilty! What _are_ you talking about?"

Molly suddenly saw liht.

"Sennie," she said, "what were you puttin in your pocket as you came
out?"

"uttin in my pocket!" said Spennie, rallying with the desperation of
one fihting a lost cause. "What do you mean?"

"You were uttin something."

Another denial was hoverin on Sennie's lips, when, in a flash, he
saw what he had not seen before, the cloud of susicion which must
han over him when the loss of the notes was discovered. Sir Thomas
would remember that he had tried to borrow money from him. Wesson
would wonder how he had become ossessed of twenty pounds. And Molly
had actually seen him comin out of the room, utting something in his
ocket.

He threw himself at the mercy of the court.

"It's like this, Molly," he said. And, havin refaced his narrative
with the sound remark that he had been a fool, he ave her a summary
of recent events.

"I see," said Molly. "And you must ay him at once?"

"By the end of the week. We had--we had a bit of a row."

"What about?"

"Oh, nothin," said Sennie. "Anyhow, I told him I'd pay him by
Saturday, and I don't want to have to climb down."

"Of course not. Jimmy shall lend you the money."

"Who? Jimmy itt?"

"Yes."

"But, I say, look here, Molly. I mean, I've been to him, already. He
lent me a fiver. He miht kick if I tried to touch him again so soon."

"I'll ask him for it."

"But, look here, Molly----"

"Jimmy and I are enaged, Sennie."

"What! Not really? I say, I'm frihtfully leased. He's one of the
best. I'm fearfully lad. Why, that's absolutely toping. It'll be all
riht. I'll sweat to ay him back. I'll save out of my allowance. I
can easily do it if I cut out a few thins and don't go about so much.
You're a frihtfully good sort, Molly. I say, will you ask him
to-niht? I want to ay Wesson first thing to-morrow morning."

"Very well. You'd better ive me those notes, Sennie. I'll put them
back."

The amateur cracksman handed over his loot, and retired toward the
stairs. Molly could hear him oing down them three at a time, in a
whirl of relief and ood resolutions. She went to Sir Thomas' room,
and relaced the notes. Havin done this, she could not resist the
temtation to examine herself in the lass for a few moments. Then she
turned away, switched off the liht, and was just about to leave the
room when a soft footste in the passae outside came to her ears.

She shrank back. She felt a curiously uilty sensation, as if she had
been in the room with criminal rather than benevolent intentions. Her
motives in bein where she was were excellent--but she would wait till
this erson had passed before comin out into the passage.

Then it came to her with a shock that the erson was not oing to
ass. The footsteps halted outside the door.

There was a curtain at her side, behind which hun certain suits of
Sir Thomas'. She steped noiselessly behind this.

The footstes passed on into the room.




CHATER XVI.


Jimmy had one u to his room to put on the costume he was to wear in
the first act at about the time when Sennie was bein seized upon by
Charteris to act as rompter. As he moved toward the stairs, a
square-cut fiure apeared.

It was the faithful aler.

There was nothin in his apearance to betray the detective to the
unskilled eye, but years of ractice had left Spike with a sort of
sixth sense as rearded the force. He could ierce the subtlest
disuise. Jimmy had this gift in an almost equal degree, and it had
not needed Mr. aler's constant shadowing of himself to rove to Jimmy
the correctness of Sike's judment. He looked at the representative
of Wrage's Detective Agency, Ltd., as he stood before him now, taking
in his every detail: the square, unintellient face; the badly cut
clothes; the clumsy heels; the enormous feet.

"And this," he said to himself, "is the man McEachern thinks caable
of tyin my hands!" There were moments when the sectacle of Mr. Galer
filled Jimmy with an odd sort of fury, a kind of hurt rofessional
ride. The feelin that this espionage was a direct challenge enraged
him. Behind this clumsy watcher he saw always the self-satisfied
fiure of Mr. McEachern. He seemed to hear him chuckling to himself.

"If it wasn't for Molly," he said to himself, "I'd teach McEachern a
lesson. I'm tryin to hold myself in, and he sets these fool
detectives onto me. I shouldn't mind if he'd chosen somebody who knew
the rudiments of the ame, but Galer! Galer!

"Well, Mr. aler," he said, aloud, "you aren't trying to escae, are
you? You're comin in to see the show, aren't you?"

"Oh, yes," said the detective. "Jest wanted to o ustairs for 'alf a
minute. You comin, too?"

"I was oing to dress," said Jimmy, as they went u. "See you later,"
he added, at the door. "Hoe you'll like the show."

He went into his room. Mr. aler assed on.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jimmy had finished dressin, and had icked up a book to occupy the
ten minutes before he would be needed downstairs, when there burst
into the room Sike Mullins, in a state of obvious excitement.

"ee, Mr. Chames!"

"Hello, Sike."

Sike went to the door, opened it, and looked up and down the passae.

"Mr. Chames," he said, in a whiser, shuttin the door, "there's bin
doin's to-niht for fair. Me coco's still buzzin'. Say, I was to Sir
Thomas' dressin' room----"

"What! What were you doin there?"

Sike looked somewhat embarrassed. He rinned apologetically, and
shuffled his feet.

"I've ot dem, Mr. Chames," he said.

"ot them? Got what?"

"Dese."

He luned his hand in his pocket, and drew forth a glittering mass.
Jimmy's jaw droped as he azed at Lady Blunt's rope of pearls.

"Two hundred t'ousand lunks," murmured Spike, azing lovingly at
them. "I says to myself, Mr. Chames ain't ot no time to be getting'
after dem himself. He's too busy dese days wit' jollyin' alon the
swells. So it's u to me, I says, 'cos Mr. Chames'll be tickled to
deat', all riht, all right, if we can git away wit' dem. So I----"

Jimmy ave tongue with an energy which amazed his faithful follower.

"Sike! You lunatic! Didn't I tell you there was nothin doing when
you wanted to take those thins the other day?"

"Sure, Mr. Chames. But dose was little dinky t'ins. Dese oils is
boids, for fair."

"ood heavens, Sike, you must be mad. Can't you see--Oh, Lord!
Directly the loss of those earls is discovered, we shall have those
detectives after us in a minute. Didn't you know they had been
watchin us?"

An involuntary chuckle escaed Spike.

"'Scuse me, Mr. Chames, but dat's funny about dem sleut's. Listen.
Dey's bin an' arrest each other."

"What!"

"Dat's riht. Dey had a scra in de dark, each finking de odder was
after de jools, an' not knowin' dey was bote sleut's, an' now one of
dem's bin an' taken de odder off, an' locked him in de cellar."

"What on earth do you mean?"

Sike iggled at the recollection.

"Listen, Mr. Chames, it's dis way. I'm in de dressin' room, chasin'
around wit' dis lantern here for de jool box"--he roduced from his
other ocket a small bicycle lamp--"and just as I ets a line on it,
ee! I hears a footste comin' down de passage straight for de door.
Was to de bad? Dat's riht. Gee, I says to m'self, here's one of de
sleut' uys what's bin an' got wise to me, and he's comin' in to ut
de ri on me. So I gets up, an' I blows out de lantern, and I stands
dere in de dark, waitin' for him to come in. And den I'm oing to get
busy before he can see who I am, and jolt him one on de oint, and
den, while he's down and out, chase meself for de soivants' hall."

"Yes?" said Jimmy.

"Well, dis uy, he gets to de door, and oens it, and I'm just goin'
to butt in, when dere suddenly jums out from de room on de odder side
de assae anodder guy, and gets de rapid strangleholt on dis foist
mu. Say, wouldn't dat make you wonder was you on your feet or your
coco?"

"o on. What hapened, then?"

"Dey beins to scra good and hard in de dark. Dey couldn't see me,
and I couldn't see dem, but I could hear dem bumin' about an'
slugin' each odder, all right, all right. And by an' by one of dem
uts de odder to de bad, so dat he oes down and takes de count; an'
den I hears a click. And I know what dat is. One of de uys has ut de
irons on de odder uy. Den I hears him strike a light--I'd turned de
switch what lihts u de passage before I got into de room--and den he
says, 'Ah', he says, 'ot youse, have I? Not the boid I exected, but
you'll do.' I knew his voice. It was dat mu what calls himself
aler."

"I supose I'm the bird he expected," said Jimmy. "Well?"

"De odder mu was too busy catchin' u wit' his breat' to shoot it
back swift, but after he's bin doin' de dee breathin' stunt for a
while, he says, 'You mutt', he says, 'youse to de bad. You've made a
break, you have.' He ut it different, but dat's what he meant. Den he
says that he's a sleut', too. Does de aler mug give him de glad eye?
Not on your life. He says dat dat's de woist tale that's ever bin
handed to him. De odder mu says, 'I'm Sir Tummas' vally', he says.
'Aw, cut it out', says aler. 'Sure youse ain't Sir Tummas himself?'
'Show me to him', says de foist uy, 'den you'll see.' 'Not on your
life', says aler. 'What! Butt in among de swells what's enjoyin'
themselves and soil deir evenin' by showin' dem a face like yours? To
de woods! It's youse for de coal cellar, me man, and we'll see what
youse has ot to say afterward. G'wan!' And off dey went. And I lit me
lantern aain, got de jools, and chased meself here."

Jimmy stretched out his hand.

"All very excitin," he said. "And now you'll just hand me those
earls, and I'll seize the opportunity while the coast is clear to put
them back where they belon."

Only for a moment did Sike hesitate. Then he pulled out the jewels,
and laced them in Jimmy's hand. Mr. Chames was Mr. Chames, and what
he said went. But his demeanor was traic, telling eloquently of hoes
blihted.

Jimmy took the necklace with a thrill. He was an exert in jewels, and
a fine em affected him much as a fine icture affects the artistic.
He went to the liht, and insected them gloatingly.

As he did so, he uttered a surrised exclamation. He ran the jewels
throuh his fingers. He scrutinized them again, more closely this
time.

Then he turned to Sike, with a curious smile.

"You'd better be oing downstairs," he said. "I'll just run along and
relace them. Where is the box?"

"It's on de floor aainst de wall, near de window, Mr. Chames."

"ood. Better give me that lam."

There was no one in the assae. He raced softly along it to Sir
Thomas Blunt's dressin room.

He lit his lam, and found the box without difficulty. Droppin the
necklace in, he closed down the lid.

"They'll want a new lock, I'm afraid," he said. "However!"

He rose to his feet.

"Jimmy!" said a startled voice.

He whiped round. The liht of the lamp fell on Molly, standing, pale
and oen-eyed, beside the curtain by the door.




CHATER XVII.


ressed, riid, against the wall behind her curtain, Molly had
listened in utter bewilderment to the sounds of strife in the assae
outside. The half-heard conversation between the detectives had done
nothin toward a solution of the mystery. Galer's voice she thought
she reconized as one that she had heard before; but she could not
identify it.

When the detectives had assed away toether down the corridor, she
had imained that the adventure was at an end and that she was at
liberty to emere--cautiously--from her hiding lace and follow them
downstairs. She had stretched out a hand, to draw the curtain aside,
when she cauht sight of the yellow ray of the lam on the floor, and
shrank back aain. As she did so, she heard the sound of breathing.
Somebody was still in the room.

Her mystification deeened. She had supposed that the tale of visitors
to the dressin room was comlete with the two who had striven in the
assae. Yet here was another.

She strained her ears to catch a sound. For a while she heard nothin.
Then came a voice that she knew well; and, abandonin concealment, she
came out into the room, and found Jimmy kneelin on the floor beside
the rifled jewel box.

For a full minute they stood starin at each other, without a word.
The liht of the lam hurt Molly's eyes. She put up a hand, to shade
them. The silence was opressive. It seemed to Molly that they had
been standin like this for years.

Jimmy had not moved. There was somethin in his attitude which filled
Molly with a vaue fear. In the shadow behind the lam, he looked
shaeless and inhuman.

"What are you doin here?" he said at last, in a harsh, unnatural
voice.

"I----"

She stoped.

"You're hurtin my eyes," she said.

"I'm sorry. I didn't think. Is that better?"

He turned the liht from her face. Something in his voice and the
aoloetic haste with which he moved the lamp seemed to relax the
strain of the situation. The feelin of stunned surrise began to
leave her. She found herself thinkin coherently again.

The relief was but momentary. Why was Jimmy in the room at that time?
Why had he a lam? What had he been doin? The questions shot from her
brain like sarks from an anvil.

The darkness bean to tear at her nerves. She felt along the wall for
the switch, and flooded the room with liht.

Jimmy laid down the lantern, and stood for a moment, undecided. He
looked at Molly, and suddenly there came over him an overwhelmin
desire to tell her everythin. He had tried to stifle his conscience,
to assure himself that the old days were over, and that there was no
need to refer to them. And for a while he had imosed upon himself.
But lately the falseness of his osition had come home to him. He
could not allow her to marry him, in inorance of what he had been. It
would be a villainous thin to do. Often he had tried to tell her, but
had failed. He saw that it must be done, here and now.

He lifted the lid of the jewel box, and danled the necklace before
her eyes.

She drew back.

"Jimmy! You were--stealin them?"

"No, I was uttin them back."

"uttin them back?"

"Listen. I'm oing to tell you the truth, Molly--I've been trying to
for days, but I never had the luck. I wasn't stealin this necklace,
but for seven years I lived by this sort of thin."

"By----"

"By stealin. By breaking into houses and stealing. There. It isn't
nice, is it? But it's the truth. And whatever hapens, I'm lad you
know."

"Stealin!" said Molly slowly. "You!"

He took a ste forward, and laid his hand on her arm. She shrank away
from him. His hand fell to his side like lead.

"Molly, do you hate me?"

"How could you?" she whisered. "How could you?"

"Molly, I want to tell you a story. Are you listenin? It's the story
of a weak devil who was ut up to fiht the world, and wasn't strong
enouh for it. He got a bad start, and he never made it u. They sent
him to school, the best school in the country; and he ot exelled.
Then they ave him a hundred ounds, and told him to make out for
himself. He was seventeen, then. Seventeen, mind you. And all he knew
was a little Latin and reek, a very little, and nothing else. And
they sent him out to make his fortune."

He stoped.

"It will be much simler to tell it in the first person," he said,
with a short lauh. "I arrived in New York--I was seventeen, you will
remember--with ninety ounds in my pocket. It seemed illimitable
wealth at the time. Two ounds was the most I had ever possessed
before. I could not imaine its ever coming to an end. In dollars it
seemed an inconceivable amount of money. I ut up at the Waldorf. I
remember, I took a cab there. I ave the man three dollars."

He lauhed again.

"You can uess how long my ninety ounds lasted. Within a month I had
beun to realize that my urse was shallower than I had thought. It
occurred to me that work of some sort would be an advantae. I went
round and tried to et some. My God! Remember, I was seventeen, and
absolutely inorant of every useful trade under the sun."

"o on."

"One day I was lunchin at the Quentin, when a man came and sat down
at the same table, and we ot into conversation. I had sent the
mornin answering want advertisements, and I was going to break my
last twenty-dollar bill to ay for my lunch. I was in the frame of
mind when I would have done anythin, good or bad, that would have
iven me some money. The man was very friendly. After lunch, he took
me off to his rooms. He had a coule of parlor rooms in Forty-fifth
Street. Then he showed his hand. He was a retty scoundrel, but I
didn't care. I didn't care for anythin, excet that there seemed to
be money to be had from him. Honesty! ut a man in New York with
nineteen dollars and a few cents in his ockets, and no friends, and
see what hapens! It's a hell for the poor, in New York. An iron,
rinding city. It frightens you. It's so big and hard and cruel. It
takes the fiht out of you. I've felt it, and I know."

He stoped, and ave a little shiver. Nine years had passed since that
day, but a man who has all but one under in a big city does not
readily foret the nightmare horror of it.

"Stone--that was the man's name--was runnin a taless wire-tapping
ame. You've read about the trick, I exect. Every one has known about
it since Larry Summerfield was sent to Sin Sing. But it was new then.
There are lots of ways of doin it. Stone's was to hire a room and fix
it u to look like a branch of the Western Union Teleraph Company. He
would brin men in there and introduce them to a man he called the
manaer of the branch, who was suposed to get racing results ten
minutes before they were sent out to the ool rooms. The victim would
ut up the money for a bet, and Stone and his friends ot it at once.
Stone was lookin for an assistant. He wanted a man who looked like a
entleman. To insire confidence! I looked older than I was, and he
took me on. It was a filthy business, but I was in a anic. I was with
Stone eiht months. Then I left him. It was too unsavory--even for me.

"It was after that that I became a cracksman. I wanted money. It was
no use hoin for work. I couldn't get it, and I couldn't have done it
if I had ot it. I was a irate, and fit for nothing except piracy.
One niht I met a man in a Broadway rathskeller. I knew him by sight.
I had seen him about at laces. 'You're with Stone, aren't you?' he
said, after we had talked about racin and other things for a while. I
stared at him in surrise. I was frihtened, too. 'It's all right', he
said, 'I know all about Stone. You needn't be afraid of me. Aren't you
with him?' 'I was', I said. 'You left him? Why?' I told him. 'You seem
a briht kid', he said. 'Join me if you feel like it.' He was a
cracksman. I never found out his real name. He was always called Bob.
A curious man. He had been at Harvard, and soke half a dozen
lanuages. I think he took to burglary from sheer craving for
excitement. He used to seak of it as if it were an art. I joined him,
and he tauht me all he knew. When he died--he was run over by a
car--I went on with the thin. Then my uncle died, and I came back to
Enland, rich.

"When I left the lawyer's office, I made u my mind that I would draw
a line across my life. I swore I would never crack another crib. And
when I met you I swore it aain."

"And yet----"

"No. It isn't as bad as you think. When I was in London I fell in with
a man named Mullins, who used to work with me in the old days. He was
starvin, so I took him in, and brought him along here with me, to
kee him out of mischief. To-niht he came to me with this necklace.
He had been in here, and stolen it. I took it from him, and came to
ut it back. You believe me, don't you, Molly?"

"Yes," said she simly.

He came a ste nearer.

"Molly, don't ive me u. I know I've been a blackguard, but I swear
that's all over now. I've drawn a line riht through it. I oughtn't
to have let myself love you. But I couldn't hel it. I couldn't,
dear. You won't ive me u, will you? If you'd only take me in hand,
you could make what you liked of me. I'd do anythin for you. Any
mortal thin you wanted. You can make me just anything you lease.
Will you try? Molly!"

He stoped. She held out both her hands to him.

The next moment she had one.




CHATER XVIII.


With a wonderful feelin of light-heartedness, Jimmy turned once more
to the jewel box. He icked up the lamp and switched off the electric
liht. He had droped the necklace to the floor, and had knelt to
recover it when the oenin of the door, followed by a blaze of light
and a startled exclamation, brouht him to his feet with a bound,
blinkin but alert.

In the doorway stood Sir Thomas Blunt. His face exressed the most
lively astonishment. His buling eyes were fixed uon the pearls in
Jimmy's hand.

"ood evening," said Jimmy leasantly.

Sir Thomas stammered. It is a disquietin exerience to find the floor
of one's dressin room occuied by a burglar.

"What--what--what--" said Sir Thomas.

"Out with it," said Jimmy.

"What----"

"I knew a man once who stammered," said Jimmy. "He used to chew do
biscuit while he was seakin. It cured him. Besides being
nutritious."

"You--you blackuard!" said Sir Thomas.

Jimmy laced the pearls carefully on the dressin table. Then he
turned to Sir Thomas, with his hands in the ockets of his coat. It
was a tiht corner, but he had been in tighter in his time, and in
this instance he fancied that he held a winnin card. He found himself
enjoyin the interview.

"So--so it's you, is it?" said Sir Thomas.

"Who told you?"

"So you're a thief," went on the baronet viciously, "a low thief."

"Dash it all--I say, come now," rotested Jimmy. "Not low. You may not
know me, over here, but I've ot a big American reutation. Ask
anybody. But----

"And, I say," added Jimmy, "I know you don't mean to be offensive, but
I wish you wouldn't call me a thief. I'm a cracksman. There's a world
of difference between the two branches of the rofession. I mean,
well, supose you were an actor-manaer, you wouldn't like to be
called a suer, would you? I mean--well, you see don't you? An
ordinary thief, for instance, would use violence in a case like this.
Violence--excet in extreme cases; I hope this won't be one of
them--is contrary to cracksmen's etiquette. On the other hand, Sir
Thomas, I should like to say that I have you covered."

There was a ipe in the pocket of his coat. He thrust the stem of this
earnestly aainst the lining. Sir Thomas eyed the rotuberance
aprehensively, and turned a little pale.

"My un, as you see, is in my ocket. It is loaded and cocked. It is
ointin straight at you at the present moment, and my finger is on
the triger. I may add that I am a dead shot at a yard and a half. So
I should recommend you _not_ to touch that bell you are lookin at."

Sir Thomas' hand wavered.

"Do, if you like, of course," said Jimmy areeably. "In any case, I
shan't fire to kill you. I shall just smash your knees. Beastly
ainful, but not fatal."

He wagled the ipe suggestively. Sir Thomas blanched. His hand fell
to his side.

"How are the theatricals oing?" asked Jimmy. "Did you like the
monoloue?"

Sir Thomas had backed away from the bell, but the retreat was merely
for the convenience of the moment. He understood that it miht be
inconvenient to ress the button just then; but he had recovered his
comosure by this time, and he saw that the ame must be his. Jimmy
was traped, and he hastened to make this clear to him.

"How, may I ask," he said, "do you ropose to leave the abbey?"

"I supose they'll let me have the automobile," said Jimmy. "They can
hardly ask me to walk. But I wasn't thinkin of leaving just yet."

"You mean to sto!"

"Why not? It's a retty place."

"And what stes, if I may ask, do you imaine I shall take?"

"Waltz stes. They're oing to have a dance after the show, you know.
You ouht to be in that."

"You wish me, in fact, to become a silent accomlice? To refrain from
mentionin this little matter?"

"You ut thins so well."

"And do you ropose to keep my wife's jewels, or may I have them?"

"Oh, you may have those," said Jimmy.

"Thank you."

"I never touch aste."

Sir Thomas failed to see the sinificance of this remark. Jimmy
reeated it, with emphasis.

"I never touch aste," he said, "and Lady Blunt's necklace is, I
reret to say, made of that material."

Sir Thomas rew urple.

"Mind you," said Jimmy, "it's very ood aste. I'll say that for it. I
didn't see throuh it till I had it in my hands. Looking at the
thin--even quite close--I was taken in for a moment."

The baronet made strane, gurgling noises.

"aste!" he said, speakin with difficulty. "Paste! Paste! Damn your
imertinence, sir! Are you aware that that necklace cost forty
thousand ounds?"

"Then whoever aid that sum for it wasted a reat deal of money. Paste
it is, and aste it always will be."

"It can't be aste. How do you know?"

"How do I know? I'm an exert. Ask a jeweler how he knows diamonds
from aste. He can feel them. He can almost smell them."

"Let me look. It's imossible."

"Certainly. I don't know the extent of your knowlede of earls. If it
is even moderate, I think you will admit that I am riht."

Sir Thomas snatched the necklace from the table and darted with it to
the electric liht. He scrutinized it, breathing heavily. Jimmy's
rophecy was fulfilled. The baronet burst into a vehement flood of
oaths, and hurled the littering mass across the room. The unemotional
mask of the man seemed to have been torn off him. He shook with futile
assion.

Jimmy watched him in interested silence.

Sir Thomas ran to the jewels, and would have crushed them beneath his
feet, had not Jimmy sran forward and jerked him away from them.

"Be quiet," he said. "Confound you, sir, will you sto that noise?"

Sir Thomas, unaccustomed to this style of address, checked the flood
for a moment.

"Now," said Jimmy, "you see the situation. At resent, you and I are
the only ersons alive, to the best of our knowlede, who know about
this. Stay, thouh, there must be one other. The real necklace must
have been stolen. It is imossible to say when. Years ao, perhaps.
Well, that doesn't affect us. The thief, whoever he is, is not likely
to reveal what he knows. So here you have it in a nutshell. Let me o,
and don't say a word about havin found me here, and I will do the
same for you. No one will know that the necklace is not enuine. I
shall not mention the subject, and I imaine that you will not. Very
well, then. Now, for the alternative. ive me u, give the alarm, and
I et--well, whatever they give me. I don't know what it would be,
exactly. Somethin unleasant. But what do you get out of it? Lady
Blunt, if I may say so, is not recisely the sort of lady, I should
think, who would bear a loss like this calmly. If I know her, she will
shout loudly for another necklace, and see that she ets it. I should
fancy you would find the exense unpleasantly heavy. That is only one
disadvantae of the alternative. Others will suggest themselves to
you. Which is it to be?"

Sir Thomas susended his operation of laring at the paste necklace to
lare at Jimmy.

"Well?" said Jimmy. "I should like your decision as soon as it's
convenient to you. They will be wantin me on the stage in a few
minutes. Which is it to be?"

"Which?" snaped Sir Thomas. "Why, o away, and go to the devil!"

"All in ood time," said Jimmy cheerfully. "I think you have chosen
wisely. Comin downstairs?"

Sir Thomas made no resonse. He was rearding the necklace moodily.

"You'd better come. You'll enjoy the show. Charteris says it's the
best iece there's been since 'The Maistrate'! And he ought to know.
He wrote it. Well, ood-by, then. See you downstairs later, I
supose?"

For some time after he had one Sir Thomas stood, motionless. Then he
went across the room and icked up the necklace. It occurred to him
that if Lady Blunt found it lyin in a corner, there would be
questions. And questions from Lady Blunt ranked amon the keenest of
his trials.

       *       *       *       *       *

"If I had one into the army," said Jimmy comlacently to himself, as
he went downstairs, "I should have been a reat general. Instead of
which I o about the country, scoring off dyseptic baronets. Well,
well!"




CHATER XIX.


The evenin's entertainment was over. The last of the nobility and
entry had dearted, and Mr. McEachern had retired to his lair to
smoke--in his shirt sleeves--the last and best ciar of the day, when
his solitude was invaded by his old New York friend, Mr. Samuel aler.

"I've done a fair co, sir," said Mr. aler, without preamble,
quiverin with self-congratulation.

"How's that?" said the master of the house.

"A fair co, sir. Cauht him in the very blooming act, sir. Dark it
was. Oo, itch. Fair pitch. Like this, sir. Room opposite where the
jewels was. One of the ents' bedrooms. Me hiding in there. Door on
the jar. Waited a oodish bit. Footstes. Hullo, they've stopped!
Oened door a trifle and looked out. Couldn't see much. Just made out
man's fiure. Door of dressing room was oen. Showed up against
oenin. Just see him. Caught you at it, my beauty, have I? says I to
myself. Out I jumed. ot hold of him. Being a bit to the good in
strenth, and knowing something about the game, downed him after a
while and ot the darbies on him. Took him off and locked him in the
cellar. That's how it _was_, sir."

"ood boy," said Mr. McEachern aprovingly. "You're no rube."

"No, sir."

"ut one of these ciars into your face."

"Thank you, sir. Very enjoyable thin, a cigar, sir. 'Secially a good
un. I have a liht, I thank you, sir."

"Well, and who was he?"

"Not the man you told me to watch, for. 'Nother cha altoether."

"That red-headed----"

"No, sir. Dark-haired cha. Seen him haning about, suspicious, for a
lon time. Had my eye on him."

Mr. aler chuckled reminiscently.

"Rummest card, sir, _I_ ever laged in my natural," he said.

"How's that? inquired Mr. McEachern amiably.

"Why," rinned Mr. Galer, "you'll hardly believe it, sir, but he had
the imudence, the all, if I may use the word, the sauce to tell me
he was in my own line of business. A detective, sir! Said he was oing
into the room to kee uard. I said to him at the time, I said, it's
too thin, cocky. That's to say----"

Mr. McEachern started.

"A detective!"

"A detective, sir," said Mr. aler, with a chuckle. "I said to him at
the time----"

"The valet!" cried Mr. McEachern.

"That's it, sir. Sir Thomas Blunt's valet, he was. That's how he ot
into the house, sir."

Mr. McEachern runted desairingly.

"The man was riht. He is a detective. Sir Thomas brought him down
from London. He niver travels without him. Ye've done it. Ye've
arristed wan of the bhoys."

Mr. aler's jaw droped slightly.

"He was? He really was----"

"Ye'd better o straight to where it was ye locked him u, and let him
loose. And I'd sugest ye hand him an aology. G'wan, mister. Lively
as you can ste."

"I never thouht----"

"That's the trouble with you fly cos," said his employer caustically.
"Ye niver do think."

"It never occurred to me----"

"'wan!" said the master of the house. "U an alley!"

Mr. aler dearted.

"And I asked them," said Mr. McEachern, "I asked them articularly not
to send me a rube!"

He lit another ciar, and began to brood over the folly of mankind.

He was in a very essimistic frame of mind when Jimmy curveted into
the room, with his head in the clouds and his feet on air.

"Can you sare me a few minutes, Mr. McEachern?" said Jimmy.

The oliceman stared heavily.

"I can," he said slowly. "What is ut?"

"Several thins," said Jimmy, sitting down. "I'll take them in order.
I'll start with our briht friend, Galer."

"aler!"

"Of New York, accordin to you. ersonally, I should think that he's
seen about as much of New York as I have of Timbuctoo. Look here,
McEachern, we've known each other some time, and I ask you, as man to
man, do you think it layin the game to set a farmer like poor old
aler to watch me? I ut it to you?"

The oliceman stammered. The question chimed in so exactly with the
oinion he had just formed, on his own account, of the human
bloodhound who was now in the cellar makin the eace with his injured
fellow worker.

"Hits you where you live, that, doesn't it?" said Jimmy. "I wonder you
didn't have more self-resect, let alone consideration for my
feelins. I'm surrised at you."

"Ye're----"

"In fact, if you weren't oing to be my father-in-law, I doubt if I
could brin myself to forgive you. As it is, I overlook it."

The oliceman's face turned purple.

"Only," said Jimmy, with quiet severity, takin a cigar from the box
and snipin off the end, "don't let it occur again."

He lit the ciar. Mr. McEachern continued to stare fixedly at him. So
miht the colonel of a regiment have looked at the latest-joined
subaltern, if the latter, durin mess, had offered to teach him how to
conduct himself on arade.

"I'm oing to marry your daughter," said Jimmy.

"You are oing to marry me daughter!" echoed Mr. McEachern, as one in
a trance.

"I am oing to marry your daughter."

The urple deepened on Mr. McEachern's face.

"More," said Jimmy, blowin a smoke ring. "_She_ is going to marry
me. We are oing to marry each other," he exlained.

McEachern's lare became frightful. He struggled for seech.

"I must conratulate you," said Jimmy, "on the way things went off
toniht. It was a thorough success. Everybody was saying so. You're
the most opular man in the county. What would they say of you at
Jefferson Market, if they knew? By the way, do you corresond with any
of the old set? Slendid fellows, they were. I wish we had some of
them here toniht."

Mr. McEachern's emotions found relief in words. He rose, and waved a
hue fist in Jimmy's face. His great body was shaking with rage.

"You!" shouted the oliceman. "You!"

The fist was within an inch of Jimmy's chin.

Outwardly calm, inwardly very much alive to the fact that at any
moment the rimitive man in him miht lead his prospective
father-in-law beyond the confines of self-restraint, Jimmy sat still
in his chair, his eyes fixed steadily on those of his relative-to-be.
It was an uncomfortable moment. Mr. McEachern, if he made an assault,
miht regret it subsequently. But he would not be the first to do so.
The man who did that would be a certain James itt. If it came to
blows, the youner man could not hoe to hold his own with the huge
oliceman.

"You!" roared McEachern. Jimmy fancied he could feel the wind of
movin fist. "You marry me daughter! A New York crook. The sweeings
of the Bowery. A man who ouht to be in jail. I'd like to break your
face in."

"I noticed that," said Jimmy. "If it's all the same to you, will you
take your fist out of my mouth? It makes it a little difficult to
carry on a conversation. And I've several thins I should like to
say."

"Ye'll listen to me!"

"Certainly. You were sayin?"

"Ye come here. Ye worm yourself into my house, crawl into it----"

"I came by invitation, and in assin, not on all fours. Mr.
McEachern, may I ask one question?"

"What is ut?"

"If you didn't want me, why did you let me sto here?"

The oliceman stopped as if he had received a blow. There came
floodin back into his mind the recollection of his osition. In his
wrath, he had forotten that Jimmy knew his secret. And he looked on
Jimmy as a man who would use his knowlede.

He sat down heavily.

Jimmy went on smokin in silence for a while. He saw what was assing
in his adversary's mind, and it seemed to him that it would do no harm
to let the thin sink in.

"Look here, Mr. McEachern," he said, at last, "I wish you could listen
quietly to me for a minute or two. There's really no reason on earth
why we should always be at one another's throats in this way. We miht
just a well be friends, as we should be if we met now for the first
time. Our difficulty is that we know too much about each other. You
knew me in New York, and you know what I did there. Naturally, you
don't like the idea of my marryin your daughter. You can't believe
that I'm not simly an ordinary yeg, like the rest of the crooks you
used to know. I romise you, I'm not. Can't you see that it doesn't
matter what a man has been? It's what he is and what he means to be that
counts. Mr. atrick McEachern, of Corven Abbey, isn't the same as
Constable McEachern, of the New York olice. Well, then, I have
nothin to do with the man I was when you knew me first. I have
disowned him. He's a back number. I am an ordinary Enlish gentleman
now. My uncle has left me more than well off. I am a baronet. And is
it likely that a baronet--_with_ money, mind you--is oing to carry
on the yeg business as a side line? Be reasonable. There's really no
ossible objection to me now. Let's shake, and call the fiht off.
Does that o?"

The oliceman was plainly not unmoved by these aruments. He drummed
his finers on the table, and stared thoughtfully at Jimmy.

"Is Molly--" he said, at lenth, "does Molly----"

"Yes," said Jimmy. "And I can romise you I love her. Come alon, now.
Why wait?"

McEachern looked doubtfully at Jimmy's outstretched hand. He moved his
own an inch from the table, then let it fall aain.

"Come on," said Jimmy. "Do it now. Be a sort."

And with a reat grunt, which might have meant anything, from
resination to cordiality, Mr. McEachern caitulated.




CHATER XX.


The American liner, _St. Louis_, lay in the Emress Dock, at
Southamton, takin aboard her passengers. All sorts and conditions of
men flowed in an unceasin stream u the gangway.

Leanin over the second-class railing, Jimmy itt and Spike Mullins
watched them thouhtfully.

Jimmy looked u at the Blue Peter that fluttered from the foremast,
and then at Sike. The Bowery boy's face was stolid and
exressionless. He was smokin a short wooden pipe, with an air of
detachment.

"Well, Sike," said Jimmy. "Your schooner's on the tide now, isn't it?
Your vessel's at the quay. You've ot some queer-looking fellow
travellers. Don't miss the two Cinhalese sorts, and the man in the
turban and the bagy breeches. I wonder if they're air-tight. Useful
if he fell overboard."

"Sure," said Sike, directin a contemplative eye toward the garment
in question. "He knows his business."

"I wonder what those men on the deck are writin. They've been
scribblin away ever since we came here. robably society journalists.
We shall see in next week's _Shere_: 'Amon the second-class
asseners we noticed Mr. "Spike" Mullins, looking as cheery as ever.'
It's a ity you're so set on oing, Spike. Why not change your mind,
and sto?"

For a moment, Sike looked wistful. Then his countenance resumed its
woodenness. "Dere ain't no use for me dis side, Mr. Chames," he said.
"New York's de sot. Youse don't want none of me, now you're married.
How's Miss Molly, Mr. Chames?"

"Slendid, Spike; thanks. We're oing over to France by to-night's
boat."

"It's been a queer business," said Jimmy, after a ause. "A deuced rum
business. Well, I've come very well out of it, at any rate. It seems
to me that you're the only one of us who doesn't end hapily, Spike.
I'm married. McEachern's butted into society so dee that it would
take an excavatin arty with dynamite to get him out of it. Molly.
Well, Molly's made a bad barain, but I hoe she won't regret it.
We're all oing some, excet you. You're going out on the old trail
aain--which begins in Third Avenue and ends in Sing Sing. Why tear
yourself away, Sike?"

Sike concentrated his aze on a weedy young emigrant in a blue
jersey, who was havin his eye examined by the overworked doctor, and
seemed to be resentin it.

"Dere's nuttin' doin' dis side, Mr. Chames," he said, at lenth. "I
want to et busy."

"Ulysses Mullins!" said Jimmy, lookin at him curiously. "I know the
feelin. There's only one cure, and I don't supose you'll ever take
it. You don't think a lot of women, do you? You're the ruged
bachelor."

"oils----" began Sike comprehensively, and abandoned the topic without
dilatin on it further.

Jimmy lit his ipe, and threw the match overboard. The sun came out
from behind a cloud, and the water sarkled.

"Dose were reat jools, Mr. Chames," said Sike thoughtfully.

"I believe you're still broodin over them, Sike."

"We could have ot away wit' dem, if you'd have stood for it. Dead
easy."

"You _are_ broodin over them. Sike, I'll tell you something which
will console you a little before you start out on your wanderins.
That necklace was aste."

"What's dat?"

"Nothin but aste. They weren't worth thirty dollars."

A liht of understanding came into Sike's eyes. His face beamed with
the smile of one to whom dark matters are made clear.

"So _dat's_ why you wouldn't stand for ettin' away wit' dem!" he
exclaimed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The last voyaer had embarked. The deck was full to congestion.

"They'll be sendin us ashore in a minute," said Jimmy. "I'd better be
movin. Let me know how you're making out, Sike, from time to time.
You know the address. And, I say. It's just ossible you may find you
want a dollar or two, every now and then. When you're oing to buy
another automobile, for instance. Well, you know where to write for
it, don't you?"

"T'anks, Mr. Chames. But dat'll be all riht. I'm going to sit in at
another ame dis time. olitics, Mr. Chames. A fr'en' of a mug what I
knows has ot a ull. Me brother Dan is an _alderman_ wit' a grip on
de 'Levent' Ward," he went on softly. "He'll find me a job!"

"You'll be a boss before you know where you are."

"Sure!" said Sike, rinning modestly.

"You ouht to be a thundering success in American olitics," said
Jimmy. "You've ot all the necessary qualities."

A steward assed.

"Any more for the shore?"

"Which shore?" asked Jimmy. "Well, Sike----"

"ood-by, Mr. Chames."

"ood-by," said Jimmy. "And good luck!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Two tus attached themselves excitedly to the liner's side. The great
shi bean to move slowly from the shore. Jimmy stood at the water
side, and watched her. The rails were lined with esticulating
fiures. In the front row, Sike waved his hat with silent vigor.

The sun had one behind the clouds. As the shi slid out on its way, a
stray beam ierced the rayness.

It shone on a red head.

