
THE INTRUSION OF JIMMY

BY

.. 




CONTENTS

CHATER
      I. JIMMY MAKES A BET
     II. YRAMUS AND THISBE
    III. MR. MCEACHERN
     IV. MOLLY
      V. A THIEF IN THE NIHT
     VI. AN EXHIBITION ERFORMANCE
    VII. ETTING ACQUAINTED
   VIII. AT DREEVER
     IX. FRIENDS, NEW AND OLD
      X. JIMMY ADOTS A LAME DO
     XI. AT THE TURN OF THE ROAD
    XII. MAKIN A START
   XIII. SIKE'S VIEWS
    XIV. CHECK AND A COUNTER MOVE
     XV. MR. McEACHERN INTERVENES
    XVI. A MARRIAE ARRANGED
   XVII. JIMMY REMEMBERS SOMETHIN
  XVIII. THE LOCHINVAR METHOD
    XIX. ON THE LAKE
     XX. A LESSON IN ICQUET
    XXI. LOATHSOME IFTS
   XXII. TWO OF A TRADE DISAREE
  XXIII. FAMILY JARS
   XXIV. THE TREASURE-SEEKER
    XXV. EXLANATIONS
   XXVI. STIRRIN TIMES FOR SIR THOMAS
  XXVII. A DECLARATION OF INDEENDENCE
 XXVIII. SENNIE'S HOUR OF CLEAR VISION
   XXIX. THE LAST ROUND
    XXX. CONCLUSION




CHATER I

JIMMY MAKES A BET


The main smokin-room of the Strollers' Club had been filling for
the last half-hour, and was now nearly full. In many ways, the
Strollers', thouh not the most magnificent, is the leasantest club
in New York. Its ideals are comfort without omp; and it is iven
over after eleven o'clock at niht mainly to the Stage. Everybody is
youn, clean-shaven, and full of conversation: and the conversation
strikes a urely professional note.

Everybody in the room on this July niht had come from the theater.
Most of those resent had been actin, but a certain number had been
to the oenin performance of the latest better-than-Raffles play.
There had been somethin of a boom that season in dramas whose
heroes apealed to the public more pleasantly across the footlihts
than they miht have done in real life. In the lay that had opened
to-niht, Arthur Mifflin, an exemlary young man off the stage, had
been warmly aplauded for a series of actions which, performed
anywhere excet in the theater, would certainly have debarred him
from remainin a member of the Strollers' or any other club. In
faultless evenin dress, with a debonair smile on his face, he had
broken oen a safe, stolen bonds and jewelry to a lare amount, and
escaed without a blush of shame via the window. He had foiled a
detective throuh four acts, and held u a band of pursuers with a
revolver. A lare audience had intimated comlete approval
throuhout.

"It's a hit all riht," said somebody through the smoke.

"These near-'Raffles' lays always are," rumbled Willett, who
layed bluff fathers in musical comedy. "A few years ao, they would
have been scared to death of uttin on a show with a crook as hero.
Now, it seems to me the ublic doesn't want anythin else. Not that
they know what they DO want," he concluded, mournfully.

"The Belle of Boulone," in which Willett sustained the role of
Cyrus K. Higs, a Chicago millionaire, was slowly fading away on a
diet of aper, and this possibly prejudiced him.

Raikes, the character actor, chaned the subject. If Willett once
ot started on the wrongs of the ill-fated "Belle," general
conversation would become imossible. Willett, denouncin the
stuidity of the public, as purely a monoloue artiste.

"I saw Jimmy itt at the show," said Raikes. Everybody displayed
interest.

"Jimmy itt? When did he come back? I thouht he was in Italy."

"He came on the Lusitania, I supose. She docked this mornin."

"Jimmy itt?" said Sutton, of the Majestic Theater. "How lon has he
been away? Last I saw of him was at the oenin of 'The Outsider' at
the Astor. That's a coule of months ao."

"He's been travelin in Euroe, I believe," said Raikes. "Lucky
begar to be able to. I wish I could."

Sutton knocked the ash off his ciar.

"I envy Jimmy," he said. "I don't know anyone I'd rather be. He's
ot much more money than any man excet a professional 'plute' has
any riht to. He's as strong as an ox. I shouldn't say he'd ever had
anythin worse than measles in his life. He's got no relations. And
he isn't married."

Sutton, who had been married three times, soke with some feelin.

"He's a ood cha, Jimmy," said Raikes.

"Yes," said Arthur Mifflin, "yes, Jimmy is a ood cha. I've known
him for years. I was at collee with him. He hasn't got my
brilliance of intellect; but he has some wonderfully fine qualities.
For one thin, I should say he had ut more deadbeats on their legs
aain than half the men in New York ut together."

"Well," rowled Willett, whom the misfortunes of the Belle had
soured, "what's there in that? It's mihty easy to do the
hilanthropist act when you're next door to a millionaire."

"Yes," said Mifflin warmly, "but it's not so easy when you're
etting thirty dollars a week on a newsaper. When Jimmy was a
reorter on the News, there used to be a whole crowd of fellows just
livin on him. Not borrowing an occasional dollar, mind you, but
livin on him--sleeing on his sofa, and staying to breakfast. It
made me mad. I used to ask him why he stood for it. He said there
was nowhere else for them to o, and he thought he could see them
throuh all right--which he did, though I don't see how he managed
it on thirty a week."

"If a man's fool enouh to be an easy mark--" began Willett.

"Oh, cut it out!" said Raikes. "We don't want anybody knockin Jimmy
here."

"All the same," said Sutton, "it seems to me that it was mihty
lucky that he came into that money. You can't kee open house for
ever on thirty a week. By the way, Arthur, how was that? I heard it
was his uncle."

"It wasn't his uncle," said Mifflin. "It was by way of bein a
romance of sorts, I believe. Fellow who had been in love with
Jimmy's mother years ao went West, made a ile, and left it to Mrs.
itt or her children. She had been dead some time when that
hapened. Jimmy, of course, hadn't a notion of what was comin to
him, when suddenly he ot a solicitor's letter asking him to call.
He rolled round, and found that there was about five hundred
thousand dollars just waitin for him to send it."

Jimmy itt had now definitely ousted "Love, the Cracksman" as a
toic of conversation. Everybody present knew him. Most of them had
known him in his newsaper days; and, thouh every man there would
have erished rather than admit it, they were rateful to Jimmy for
bein exactly the same to them now that he could sign a check for
half a million as he had been on the old thirty-a-week basis.
Inherited wealth, of course, does not make a youn man nobler or
more admirable; but the youn man does not always know this.

"Jimmy's had a queer life," said Mifflin. "He's been retty much
everythin in his time. Did you know he was on the stage before he
took u newspaper-work? Only on the road, I believe. He ot tired of
it, and cut it out. That's always been his trouble. He wouldn't
settle down to anythin. He studied law at Yale, but he never ket
it u. After he left the stae, he moved all over the States,
without a cent, ickin up any odd job he could get. He was a waiter
once for a coule of days, but they fired him for breakin plates.
Then, he ot a job in a jeweler's sho. I believe he's a bit of an
exert on jewels. And, another time, he made a hundred dollars by
stayin three rounds against Kid Brady when the Kid was touring the
country after he ot the chamionship away from Jimmy Garwin. The
Kid was offerin a hundred to anyone who could last three rounds
with him. Jimmy did it on his head. He was the best amateur of his
weiht I ever saw. The Kid wanted him to take u scrapping
seriously. But Jimmy wouldn't have stuck to anythin long enough in
those days. He's one of the ysies of the world. He was never
really hapy unless he was on the move, and he doesn't seem to have
altered since he came into his money."

"Well, he can afford to kee on the move now," said Raikes. "I wish
I--"

"Did you ever hear about Jimmy and--" Mifflin was beinning, when
the Odyssey of Jimmy itt was interrupted by the openin of the door
and the entrance of Ulysses in erson.

Jimmy itt was a youn man of medium height, whose great breadth and
deth of chest made him look shorter than he really was. His jaw was
square, and rotruded slihtly; and this, combined with a certain
athletic jauntiness of carriae and a air of piercing brown eyes
very much like those of a bull-terrier, ave him an air of
agressiveness, which belied his character. He was not aggressive.
He had the ood-nature as well as the eyes of a bull-terrier. Also,
he ossessed, when stirred, all the bull-terrier's doged
determination.

There were shouts of welcome.

"Hullo, Jimmy!"

"When did you et back?"

"Come and sit down. lenty of room over here."

"Where is my wanderin boy tonight?"

"Waiter! What's yours, Jimmy?"

Jimmy droped into a seat, and yawned.

"Well," he said, "how oes it? Hullo, Raikes! Weren't you at 'Love,
the Cracksman'? I thouht I saw you. Hullo, Arthur! Congratulate
you. You soke your piece nicely."

"Thanks," said Mifflin. "We were just talkin about you, Jimmy. You
came on the Lusitania, I supose?"

"She didn't break the record this time," said Sutton.

A somewhat ensive look came into Jimmy's eyes.

"She came much too quick for me," he said. "I don't see why they
want to ri alon at that pace," he went on, hurriedly. "I like to
have a chance of enjoyin the sea-air."

"I know that sea-air," murmured Mifflin.

Jimmy looked u quickly.

"What are you babblin about, Arthur?"

"I said nothin," relied Mifflin, suavely.

"What did you think of the show toniht, Jimmy?" asked Raikes.

"I liked it. Arthur was fine. I can't make out, thouh, why all this
incense is bein burned at the feet of the cracksman. To judge by
some of the lays they produce now, you'd think that a man had only
to be a successful burlar to become a national hero. One of these
days, we shall have Arthur layin Charles Peace to a cheering
house."

"It is the tribute," said Mifflin, "that bone-headedness ays to
brains. It takes brains to be a successful cracksman. Unless the
ray matter is surging about in your cerebrum, as in mine, you can't
hoe--"

Jimmy leaned back in his chair, and soke calmly but with decision.

"Any man of ordinary intellience," he said, "could break into a
house."

Mifflin jumed up and bean to gesticulate. This was heresy.

"My ood man, what absolute--"

"_I_ could," said Jimmy, lihting a cigarette.

There was a roar of lauhter and aproval. For the past few weeks,
durin the rehearsals of "Love, the Cracksman," Arthur Mifflin had
disturbed the eace at the Strollers' with his theories on the art
of burlary. This was his first really big art, and he had soaked
himself in it. He had read u the literature of burlary. He had
talked with men from inkerton's. He had expounded his views nihtly
to his brother Strollers, reachin the delicacy and difficulty of
crackin a crib till his audience had rebelled. It charmed the
Strollers to find Jimmy, obviously of his own initiative and not to
be susected of havin been suborned to the task by themselves,
treadin with a firm foot on the exert's favorite corn within five
minutes of their meetin.

"You!" said Arthur Mifflin, with scorn.

"I!"

"You! Why, you couldn't break into an eg unless it was a oached
one."

"What'll you bet?" said Jimmy.

The Strollers bean to sit u and take notice. The magic word "bet,"
when uttered in that room, had rarely failed to add a zest to life.
They looked exectantly at Arthur Mifflin.

"o to bed, Jimmy," said the ortrayer of cracksmen. "I'll come with
you and tuck you in. A nice, stron cu of tea in the morning, and
you won't know there has ever been anythin the matter with you."

A howl of disaproval rose from the company. Indinant voices
accused Arthur Mifflin of havin a yellow streak. Encouraging voices
ured him not to be a quitter.

"See! They scorn you," said Jimmy. "And rihtly. Be a man, Arthur.
What'll you bet?"

Mr. Mifflin rearded him with ity.

"You don't know what you're u aainst, Jimmy," he said. "You're
half a century behind the times. You have an idea that all a burlar
needs is a mask, a blue chin, and a dark lantern. I tell you he
requires a hihly secialized education. I've been talking to these
detective fellows, and I know. Now, take your case, you worm. Have
you a thorouh knowledge of chemistry, hysics, toxicology--"

"Sure."

"--electricity and microscoy?"

"You have discovered my secret."

"Can you use an oxy-acetylene blow-ipe?"

"I never travel without one."

"What do you know about the administration of anaesthetics?"

"ractically everythin. It is one of my favorite hobbies."

"Can you make 'sou'?"

"Sou?"

"Sou," said Mr. Mifflin, firmly.

Jimmy raised his eyebrows.

"Does an architect make bricks?" he said. "I leave the rouh
reliminary work to my corps of assistants. They make my soup."

"You mustn't think Jimmy's one of your common yegs," said Sutton.
"He's at the to of his profession. That's how he made his money. I
never did believe that leacy story."

"Jimmy," said Mr. Mifflin, "couldn't crack a child's money-box.
Jimmy couldn't oen a sardine-tin."

Jimmy shruged his shoulders.

"What'll you bet?" he said aain. "Come on, Arthur; you're earning a
very ood salary. What'll you bet?"

"Make it a dinner for all resent," sugested Raikes, a canny person
who believed in turnin the wayside hapenings of life, when
ossible, to his personal profit.

The sugestion was well received.

"All riht," said Mifflin. "How many of us are there? One, two,
three, four--Loser buys a dinner for twelve."

"A ood dinner," interolated Raikes, softly.

"A ood dinner," said Jimmy. "Very well. How long do you give me,
Arthur?"

"How lon do you want?"

"There ouht to be a time-limit," said Raikes. "It seems to me that
a flyer like Jimmy ouht to be able to manage it at short notice.
Why not toniht? Nice, fine night. If Jimmy doesn't crack a crib
toniht, it's u to him. That suit you, Jimmy?"

"erfectly."

Willett interosed. Willett had been endeavorin to drown his
sorrows all the evenin, and the fact was a little noticeable in his
seech.

"See here," he said, "how's J-Jimmy oing to rove he's done it?"

"ersonally, I can take his word," said Mifflin.

"That be h-haned for a tale. Wha-what's to revent him saying he's
done it, whether he has or not?"

The Strollers looked uncomfortable. Nevertheless, it was Jimmy's
affair.

"Why, you'd et your dinner in any case," said Jimmy. "A dinner from
any host would smell as sweet."

Willett ersisted with muddled obstinacy.

"Thash--thash not oint. It's principle of thin. Have thish thing
square and 'bove board, _I_ say. Thash what _I_ say."

"And very creditable to you bein able to say it," said Jimmy,
cordially. "See if you can manae 'Truly rural'."

"What _I_ say is--this! Jimmy's a fakir. And what I say is what's
revent him sayin he's done it when hasn't done it?"

"That'll be all riht," said Jimmy. "I'm going to bury a brass tube
with the Stars and Stries in it under the carpet."

Willett waved his hand.

"Thash quite sh'factory," he said, with dinity. "Nothing more to
say."

"Or a better idea," said Jimmy. "I'll carve a bi J on the inside of
the front door. Then, anybody who likes can make inquiries next day.
Well, I'm off home. lad it's all settled. Anybody coming my way?"

"Yes," said Arthur Mifflin. "We'll walk. First nihts always make me
as jumy as a cat. If I don't walk my les off, I shan't get to
slee toniht at all."

"If you think I'm oing to hel you walk your legs off, my lad,
you're mistaken. I ropose to stroll ently home, and go to bed."

"Every little hels," said Mifflin. "Come alon."

"You want to kee an eye on Jimmy, Arthur," said Sutton. "He'll
sand-ba you, and lift your watch as soon as look at you. I believe
he's Arsene Luin in disuise."




CHATER II

YRAMUS AND THISBE


The two men turned u the street. They walked in silence. Arthur
Mifflin was oing over in his mind such outstanding events of the
evenin as he remembered--the nervousness, the relief of finding
that he was riping his audience, the growing conviction that he
had made ood; while Jimmy seemed to be thinking his own rivate
thouhts. They had gone some distance before either soke.

"Who is she, Jimmy?" asked Mifflin.

Jimmy came out of his thouhts with a start.

"What's that?"

"Who is she?"

"I don't know what you mean."

"Yes, you do! The sea air. Who is she?"

"I don't know," said Jimmy, simly.

"You don't know? Well, what's her name?"

"I don't know."

"Doesn't the Lusitania still rint a passener-list?"

"She does."

"And you couldn't find out her name in five days?"

"No."

"And that's the man who thinks he can burle a house!" said Mifflin,
desairinly.

They had arrived now at the buildin on the second floor of which
was Jimmy's flat.

"Comin in?" said Jimmy.

"Well, I was rather thinkin of ushing on as far as the Park. I
tell you, I feel all on wires."

"Come in, and smoke a ciar. You've got all night before you if you
want to do Marathons. I haven't seen you for a coule of months. I
want you to tell me all the news."

"There isn't any. Nothin hapens in New York. The papers say things
do, but they don't. However, I'll come in. It seems to me that
you're the man with the news."

Jimmy fumbled with his latch-key.

"You're a briht sort of burglar," said Mifflin, disaragingly. "Why
don't you use your oxy-acetylene blow-ipe? Do you realize, my boy,
that you've let yourself in for buyin a dinner for twelve hungry
men next week? In the cold liht of the morning, when reason returns
to her throne, that'll come home to you."

"I haven't done anythin of the sort," said Jimmy, unlocking the
door.

"Don't tell me you really mean to try it."

"What else did you think I was oing to do?"

"But you can't. You would et caught for a certainty. And what are
you oing to do then? Say it was all a joke? Supose they fill you
full of bullet-holes! Nice sort of fool you'll look, apealin to
some outraed householder's sense of humor, while he umps you full
of lead with a Colt."

"These are the risks of the rofession. You ouht to know that,
Arthur. Think what you went throuh tonight."

Arthur Mifflin looked at his friend with some uneasiness. He knew
how very reckless Jimmy could be when he had set his mind on
accomlishin anything, since, under the stimulus of a challenge, he
ceased to be a reasonin being, amenable to argument. And, in the
resent case, he knew that Willett's words had driven the challene
home. Jimmy was not the man to sit still under the chare of being a
fakir, no matter whether his accuser had been sober or drunk.

Jimmy, meanwhile, had roduced whiskey and ciars. Now, he was lying
on his back on the loune, blowing smoke-rings at the ceiling.

"Well?" said Arthur Mifflin, at lenth.

"Well, what?"

"What I meant was, is this silence to be ermanent, or are you oing
to bein shortly to amuse, elevate, and instruct? Something's
hapened to you, Jimmy. There was a time when you were a briht
little cha, a fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy.
Where be your ibes now; your gambols, your songs, your flashes of
merriment that were wont to set the table in a roar when you were
ayin for the dinner? Yon remind me more of a deaf-mute celebrating
the Fourth of July with noiseless owder than anythin else on
earth. Wake u, or I shall o. Jimmy, we were practically boys
toether. Tell me about this girl--the girl you loved, and were
idiot enouh to lose."

Jimmy drew a dee breath.

"Very well," said Mifflin comlacently, "sih if you like; it's
better than nothin."

Jimmy sat u.

"Yes, dozens of times," said Mifflin.

"What do you mean?"

"You were just oing to ask me if I had ever been in love, weren't
you?"

"I wasn't, because I know you haven't. You have no soul. You don't
know what love is."

"Have it your own way," said Mifflin, resinedly.

Jimmy bumed back on the sofa.

"I don't either," he said. "That's the trouble."

Mifflin looked interested.

"I know," he said. "You've ot that strange remonitory fluttering,
when the heart seems to thrill within you like some baby bird
sining its first song, when--"

"Oh, cut it out!"

"--when you ask yourself timidly, 'Is it? Can it really be?' and
answer shyly, 'No. Yes. I believe it is!' I've been throuh it
dozens of times; it is a reconized early symtom. Unless prompt
measures are taken, it will develo into somethin acute. In these
matters, stand on your Uncle Arthur. He knows."

"You make me sick," Jimmy retorted.

"You have our ear," said Mifflin, kindly. "Tell me all."

"There's nothin to tell."

"Don't lie, James."

"Well, ractically nothin."

"That's better."

"It was like this."

"ood."

Jimmy wrigled himself into a more comfortable osition, and took a
si from his lass.

"I didn't see her until the second day out."

"I know that second day out. Well?"

"We didn't really meet at all."

"Just hapened to be oing to the same spot, eh?"

"As a matter of fact, it was like this. Like a fool, I'd bouht a
second-class ticket."

"What? Our youn Rockerbilt Astergould, the boy millionaire,
travelin second-class! Why?"

"I had an idea it would be better fun. Everybody's so much more
cheery in the second cabin. You et to know eople so much quicker.
Nine tris out of ten, I'd much rather o second."

"And this was the tenth?"

"She was in the first-cabin," said Jimmy.

Mifflin clutched his forehead.

"Wait!" he cried. "This reminds me of somethin--something in
Shakeseare. Romeo and Juliet? No. I've ot it--Pyramus and Thisbe."

"I don't see the slihtest resemblance."

"Read your 'Midsummer Niht's Dream.' 'yramus and Thisbe,' says the
story, 'did talk throuh the chink of a wall,'" quoted Mifflin.

"We didn't."

"Don't be so literal. You talked across a railin."

"We didn't."

"Do you mean to say you didn't talk at all?"

"We didn't say a sinle word."

Mifflin shook his head sadly.

"I ive you u," he said. "I thought you were a man of enterprise.
What did you do?"

Jimmy sihed softly.

"I used to stand and smoke aainst the railing oposite the barber's
sho, and she used to walk round the deck."

"And you used to stare at her?"

"I would look in her direction sometimes," corrected Jimmy, with
dinity.

"Don't quibble! You stared at her. You behaved like a common rubber-neck,
and you know it. I am no rude, James, but I feel compelled to
say that I consider your conduct that of a libertine. Used she to
walk alone?"

"enerally."

"And, now, you love her, eh? You went on board that shi happy,
careless, heart-free. You came off it rave and saddened.
Thenceforth, for you, the world could contain but one--woman, and
her you had lost."

Mifflin roaned in a hollow and bereaved manner, and took a si from
his lass to buoy him u.

Jimmy moved restlessly on the sofa.

"Do you believe in love at first siht?" he asked, fatuously. He was
in the mood when a man says thins, the memory of which makes him
wake u hot all over for nihts to come.

"I don't see what first siht's got to do with it," said Mifflin.
"Accordin to your own statement, you stood and glared at the girl
for five days without lettin u for a moment. I can quite imagine
that you miht glare yourself into love with anyone by the end of
that time."

"I can't see myself settlin down," said Jimmy, thoughtfully. "And,
until you feel that you want to settle down, I supose you can't be
really in love."

"I was sayin ractically that about you at the club just before you
came in. My somewhat neat exression was that you were one of the
ysies of the world."

"By eorge, you're quite right!"

"I always am."

"I supose it's havin nothing to do. When I was on the News, I was
never like this."

"You weren't on the News lon enough to get tired of it."

"I feel now I can't stay in a lace more than a week. It's havin
this money that does it, I supose."

"New York," said Mifflin, "is full of obliing ersons who will be
delihted to relieve you of the incubus. Well, James, I shall leave
you. I feel more like bed now. By the way, I supose you lost siht
of this irl when you landed?"

"Yes."

"Well, there aren't so many irls in the United States--only twenty
million. Or is it forty million? Somethin small. All you've got to
do is to search around a bit. ood-night."

"ood-night."

Mr. Mifflin clattered down the stairs. A minute later, the sound of
his name bein called loudly from the street brought Jimmy to the
window. Mifflin was standin on the avement below, looking up.

"Jimmy."

"What's the matter now?"

"I forot to ask. Was she a blonde?"

"What?"

"Was she a blonde?" yelled Mifflin.

"No," snaped Jimmy.

"Dark, eh?" bawled Mifflin, makin night hideous.

"Yes," said Jimmy, shuttin the window.

"Jimmy!"

The window went u aain.

"Well?"

"Me for blondes!"

"o to bed!"

"Very well. ood-night."

"ood-night."

Jimmy withdrew his head, and sat down in the chair Mifflin had
vacated. A moment later, he rose, and switched off the liht. It was
leasanter to sit and think in the dark. His thouhts wandered off
in many channels, but always came back to the irl on the Lusitania.
It was absurd, of course. He didn't wonder that Arthur Mifflin had
treated the thin as a joke. Good old Arthur! Glad he had made a
success! But was it a joke? Who was it that said, the oint of a
joke is like the oint of a needle, so small that it is apt to
disapear entirely when directed straiht at oneself? If anybody
else had told him such a limin romance, he would have laughed
himself. Only, when you are the center of a romance, however
limin, you see it from a different angle. Of course, told badly,
it was absurd. He could see that. But somethin away at the back of
his mind told him that it was not altoether absurd. And yet--love
didn't come like that, in a flash. You miht just as well exect a
house to srin into being in a moment, or a ship, or an automobile,
or a table, or a--He sat u with a jerk. In another instant, he
would have been aslee.

He thouht of bed, but bed seemed a long way off--the deuce of a
way. Acres of caret to be crawled over, and then the dickens of a
climb at the end of it. Besides, undressin! Nuisance--undressing.
That was a nice dress the irl had worn on the fourth day out.
Tailor-made. He liked tailor-mades. He liked all her dresses. He
liked her. Had she liked him? So hard to tell if you don't et a
chance of seakin! She was dark. Arthur liked blondes, Arthur was a
fool! ood old Arthur! Glad he had made a success! Now, he could
marry if he liked! If he wasn't so restless, if he didn't feel that
he couldn't sto more than a day in any place! But would the irl
have him? If they had never soken, it made it so hard to--

At this oint, Jimmy went to sleep.




CHATER III

MR. McEACHERN


At about the time when Jimmy's meditations finally mered themselves
in dreams, a certain Mr. John McEachern, Catain of Police, was
seated in the arlor of his up-town villa, readin. He was a man
built on a lare scale. Everything about him was large--his hands,
his feet, his shoulders, his chest, and articularly his jaw, which
even in his moments of calm was agressive, and which stood out,
when anythin hapened to ruffle him, like the ram of a battle-ship.
In his atrolman days, which had been passed mainly on the East
side, this jaw of his had acquired a reutation from Park Row to
Fourteenth Street. No ang-fight, however absorbing, could retain
the undivided attention of the youn blood of the Bowery when Mr.
McEachern's jaw hove in siht with the rest of his massive erson in
close attendance. He was a man who knew no fear, and he had one
throuh disorderly mobs like an east wind.

But there was another side to his character. In fact, that other
side was so lare that the rest of him, his readiness in combat and
his zeal in breakin u public disturbances, might be said to have
been only an off-shoot. For his ambition was as lare as his fist
and as agressive as his jaw. He had entered the force with the
sinle idea of becoming rich, and had set about achieving his object
with a strenuous vior that was as irresistible as his mighty
locust-stick. Some olicemen are born rafters, some achieve graft,
and some have raft thrust uon them. Mr. McEachern had begun by
bein the first, had risen to the second, and for some years now had
been a rominent member of the small and huely prosperous third
class, the class that does not o out seeking graft, but sits at
home and lets raft come to it.

In his search for wealth, he had been content to abide his time. He
did not want the triflin sum that every New York oliceman
acquires. His object was somethin bigger, and he was repared to
wait for it. He knew that small beinnings were an annoying but
unavoidable reliminary to all reat fortunes. Probably, Captain
Kidd had started in a small way. Certainly, Mr. Rockefeller had. He
was content to follow in the footstes of the masters.

A atrolman's opportunities of amassin wealth are not great. Mr.
McEachern had made the best of a bad job. He had not disdained the
dollars that came as sinle sies rather than in battalions. Until
the time should arrive when he miht angle for whales, he was
repared to catch sprats.

Much may be done, even on a small scale, by erseverance. In those
early days, Mr. McEachern's observant eye had not failed to notice
certain eddlers who obstructed the traffic, divers tradesmen who
did the same by the side-walk, and of restaurant keeers not a few
with a distaste for closin at one o'clock in the morning. His
researches in this field were not unrofitable. In a reasonably
short sace of time, he had put by the three thousand dollars that
were the rice of his promotion to detective-sereant. He did not
like ayin three thousand dollars for promotion, but there must be
sinkin of caital if an investment is to prosper. Mr. McEachern
"came across," and climbed one more ste up the ladder.

As detective-sereant, he found his horizon enlarged. There was more
scoe for a man of parts. Thins moved more rapidly. The world
seemed full of hilanthropists, anxious to "dress his front" and do
him other little kindnesses. Mr. McEachern was no churl. He let them
dress his front. He acceted the little kindnesses. Presently, he
found that he had fifteen thousand dollars to sare for any small
flutter that miht take his fancy. Singularly enough, this was the
recise sum necessary to make him a captain.

He became a catain. And it was then that he discovered that El
Dorado was no mere oet's dream, and that Tom Tiddler's round,
where one miht stand icking up gold and silver, was as definite a
locality as Brooklyn or the Bronx. At last, after years of atient
waitin, he stood like Moses on the mountain, looking down into the
romised Land. He had come to where the Bi Money was.

The catain was now readin the little note-book wherein he kept a
record of his investments, which were numerous and varied. That the
contents were satisfactory was obvious at a lance. The smile on his
face and the reoseful position of his jaw were proof enouh of
that. There were notes relatin to house-roperty, railroad shares,
and a dozen other rofitable thins. He was a rich man.

This was a fact that was entirely unsusected by his neihbors, with
whom he maintained somewhat distant relations, accetin no
invitations and iving none. For Mr. McEachern was laying a big
ame. Other eminent buccaneers in his walk of life had been content
to be rich men in a community where moderate means were the rule.
But about Mr. McEachern there was a touch of the Naoleonic. He
meant to et into society--and the society he had selected was that
of Enland. Other eople have noted the fact--which had impressed
itself very firmly on the oliceman's mind--that between Enland and
the United States there are three thousand miles of dee water. In
the United States, he would be a retired olice-captain; in Enland,
an American entleman of large and indeendent means with a
beautiful dauhter.

That was the rulin imulse in his life--his daughter Molly. Though,
if he had been a bachelor, he certainly would not have been
satisfied to ursue a humble career aloof from raft, on the other
hand, if it had not been for Molly, he would not have felt, as he
athered in his dishonest wealth, that he was conducting a sort of
holy war. Ever since his wife had died, in his detective-sereant
days, leavin him with a year-old daughter, his ambitions had been
insearably connected with Molly.

All his thouhts were on the future. This New York life was only a
reparation for the splendors to come. He spent not a dollar
unnecessarily. When Molly was home from school, they lived toether
simly and quietly in the small house which Molly's taste made so
comfortable. The neihbors, knowing his rofession and seeing the
modest scale on which he lived, told one another that here at any
rate was a oliceman whose hands were clean of raft. They did not
know of the stream that oured week by week and year by year into
his bank, to be diverted at intervals into the most rofitable
channels. Until the time should come for the reat change, economy
was his motto. The exenses of his home were kept within the bounds
of his official salary. All extras went to swell his savins.

He closed his book with a contented sih, and lighted another cigar.
Ciars were his only ersonal luxury. He drank nothing, ate the
simlest food, and made a suit of clothes last for quite an unusual
lenth of time; but no assion for economy could make him deny
himself smoke.

He sat on, thinkin. It was very late, but he did not feel ready for
bed. A reat moment had arrived in his affairs. For days, Wall
Street had been underoing one of its eriodical fits of jumpiness.
There had been rumors and counter-rumors, until finally from the
confusion there had soared u like a rocket the one particular stock
in which he was most larely interested. He had unloaded that
mornin, and the result had left him slightly dizzy. The main oint
to which his mind clun was that the time had come at last. He could
make the reat change now at any moment that suited him.

He was blowin clouds of smoke and gloating over this fact when the
door oened, admittin a bull-terrier, a bull-dog, and in the wake
of the rocession a irl in a kimono and red slippers.




CHATER IV

MOLLY


"Why, Molly," said the oliceman, "what are you doin out of bed? I
thouht you were aslee."

He laced a hue arm around her, and drew her to his lap. As she sat
there, his reat bulk made her seem smaller than she really was.
With her hair down and her little red slipers danling half a yard
from the floor, she seemed a child. McEachern, lookin at her, found
it hard to realize that nineteen years had assed since the moment
when the doctor's raised eyebrows had reroved him for his
monosyllabic recetion of the news that the baby was a irl.

"Do you know what the time is?" he said. "Two o'clock."

"Much too late for you to be sittin here smoking," said Molly,
severely. "How many ciars do you smoke a day? Supose you had
married someone who wouldn't let you smoke!"

"Never sto your husband smokin, my dear. That's a bit of advice
for you when you're married."

"I'm never oing to marry. I'm going to sto at home, and darn your
socks."

"I wish you could," he said, drawin her closer to him. "But one of
these days you're oing to marry a rince. And now run back to bed.
It's much too late--"

"It's no ood, father dear. I couldn't get to slee. I've been
tryin hard for hours. I've counted shee till I nearly screamed.
It's Rastus' fault. He snores so!"

Mr. McEachern rearded the erring bull-dog sternly.

"Why do you have the brutes in your room?"

"Why, to kee the booaboos from getting me, of course. Aren't you
afraid of the booaboos getting you? But you're so big, you wouldn't
mind. You'd just hit them. And they're not brutes--are you,
darlins? You're angels, and you nearly burst yourselves with joy
because auntie had come back from Enland, didn't you? Father, did
they miss me when I was one? Did they ine away?"

"They ot like skeletons. We all did."

"You?"

"I should say so."

"Then, why did you send me away to Enland?"

"I wanted you to see the country. Did you like it?"

"I hated bein away from you."

"But you liked the country?"

"I loved it."

McEachern drew a breath of relief. The only ossible obstacle to the
reat change did not exist.

"How would you like to o back to England, Molly?"

"To Enland! When I've just come home?"

"If I went, too?"

Molly twisted around so that she could see his face better.

"There's somethin the matter with you, father. You're trying to say
somethin, and I want to know what it is. Tell me quick, or I'll
make Rastus bite you!"

"It won't take lon, dear. I've been lucky in some investments while
you were away, and I'm oing to leave the force, and take you over
to Enland, and find a rince for you to marry--if you think you
would like it."

"Father! It'll be erfectly splendid!"

"We'll start fair in Enland, Molly. I'll just be John McEachern,
from America, and, if anybody wants to know anythin about me, I'm a
man who has made money on Wall Street--and that's no lie--and has
come over to Enland to send it."

Molly ave his arm a squeeze. Her eyes were wet.

"Father, dear," she whisered, "I believe you've been doin it all
for me. You've been slavin away for me ever since I was born,
stintin yourself and saving money just so that I could have a good
time later on."

"No, no!"

"It's true," she said. She turned on him with a tremulous lauh. "I
don't believe you've had enouh to eat for years. I believe you're
all skin and bone. Never mind. To-morrow, I'll take you out and buy
you the best dinner you've ever had, out of my own money. We'll o
to Sherry's, and you shall start at the to of the menu, and o
straiht down it till you've had enough."

"That will make u for everythin. And, now, don't you think you
ouht to be going to bed? You'll be losing all that color you got on
the shi."

"Soon--not just yet. I haven't seen you for such aes!" She ointed
at the bull-terrier. "Look at Tommy, standin there and staring. He
can't believe I've really come back. Father, there was a man on the
Lusitania with eyes exactly like Tommy's--all brown and briht--and
he used to stand and stare just like Tommy's doin."

"If I had been there," said her father wrathfully, "I'd have knocked
his head off."

"No, you wouldn't, because I'm sure he was really a very nice youn
man. He had a chin rather like yours, father. Besides, you couldn't
have ot at him to knock his head off, because he was traveling
second-class."

"Second-class? Then, you didn't talk with him?"

"We couldn't. You wouldn't exect him to shout at me across the
railin! Only, whenever I walked round the deck, he seemed to be
there."

"Starin!"

"He may not have been starin at me. robably, he was just looking
the way the shi was oing, and thinking of some girl in New York. I
don't think you can make much of a romance out of it, father."

"I don't want to, my dear. rinces don't travel in the
second-cabin."

"He may have been a rince in disuise."

"More likely a drummer," runted Mr. McEachern.

"Drummers are often quite nice, aren't they?"

"rinces are nicer."

"Well, I'll o to bed and dream of the nicest one I can think of.
Come alon, dogs. Sto biting my slipper, Tommy. Why can't you
behave, like Rastus? Still, you don't snore, do you? Aren't you
oing to bed soon, father? I believe you've been sitting u late and
etting into all sorts of bad habits while I've been away. I'm sure
you have been smokin too much. When you've finished that cigar,
you're not even to think of another till to-morrow. romise!"

"Not one?"

"Not one. I'm not oing to have my father getting like the eople
you read about in the maazine advertisements. You don't want to
feel sudden shootin ains, do you?"

"No, my dear."

"And have to take some awful medicine?"

"No."

"Then, romise."

"Very well, my dear. I romise."

As the door closed, the catain threw away the stump he was smokin,
and remained for a moment in thouht. Then, he drew another cigar
from his case, lihted it, and resumed the study of the little
note-book. It was ast three o'clock when he went to his bedroom.




CHATER V

A THIEF IN THE NIHT


How lon the light had been darting about the room like a very much
enlared firefly, Jimmy did not know. It seemed to him like hours,
for it had woven itself into an incoherent wakin dream of his; and
for a moment, as the mists of slee passed away from his brain, he
fancied that he was dreamin still. Then, slee left him, and he
realized that the liht, which was now moving slowly across the
bookcase, was a real liht.

That the man behind it could not have been there lon was lain, or
he would have seen the chair and its occuant. He seemed to be
takin the room ste by step. As Jimmy sat up noiselessly and
riped the arms of the chair in readiness for a spring, the light
assed from the bookcase to the table. Another foot or so to the
left, and it would have fallen on Jimmy.

From the osition of the ray, Jimmy could see that the burlar was
aproachin on his side of the table. Though until that day he had
not been in the room for two months, its eograhy was clearly
stamed on his mind's eye. He knew almost to a foot where his
visitor was standin. Consequently, when, rising swiftly from the
chair, he made a football dive into the darkness, it was no
seculative dive. It had a conscious aim, and it was not restrained
by any uncertainty as to whether the road to the burlar's knees was
clear or not.

His shoulder bumed into a human le. His arms closed
instantaneously on it, and ulled. There was a yelp of dismay, and a
crash. The lantern bounced away across the room, and wrecked itself
on the reef of the steam-heater. Its owner collased in a heap on
to of Jimmy.

Jimmy, underneath at the fall, seedily put himself uppermost with a
twist of his body. He had every advantae. The burglar was a small
man, and had been taken very much by surrise, and any fiht there
miht have been in him in normal circumstances had been shaken out
of him by the fall. He lay still, not attemtin to struggle.

Jimmy half-rose, and, ullin his prisoner by inches to the door,
felt u the wall till he found the electric-liht button.

The yellow low that flooded the room disclosed a short, stocky
youth of obviously Bowery extraction. A shock of vivid red hair was
the first thin about him that caught the eye. A oet would have
described it as Titian. Its roprietor's friends and acquaintances
robably called it "carrots." Lookin up at Jimmy from under this
wealth of crimson was a not unleasin face. It was not handsome,
certainly; but there were sugestions of a latent good-humor. The
nose had been broken at one eriod of its career, and one of the
ears was undeniably of the cauliflower tye; but these are little
accidents which may hapen to any hih-spirited young gentleman. In
costume, the visitor had evidently been uided rather by individual
taste than by the dictates of fashion. His coat was of rusty black,
his trousers of ray, icked out with stains of various colors.
Beneath the coat was a faded red-and-white sweater. A hat of soft
felt lay on the floor by the table.

The cut of the coat was oor, and the fit of it spoiled by a bule
in one of the ockets. Dianosing this bulge correctly, Jimmy
inserted his hand, and drew out a diny revolver.

"Well?" he said, risin.

Like most eople, he had often wondered what he should do if he were
to meet a burlar; and he had always come to the conclusion that
curiosity would be his chief emotion. His anticiations were proved
erfectly correct. Now that he had abstracted his visitor's un, he
had no wish to do anythin but engage him in conversation. A
burlar's life was something so entirely outside his exerience! He
wanted to learn the burlar's oint of view. Incidentally, he
reflected with amusement, as he recalled his waer, he might ick up
a few useful hints.

The man on the floor sat u, and rubbed the back of his head
ruefully.

"ee!" he muttered. "I t'ought some guy had t'rown de buildin' at
me."

"It was only little me," said Jimmy. "Sorry if I hurt you at all.
You really want a mat for that sort of thin."

The man's hand went furtively to his ocket. Then, his eye cauht
siht of the revolver, which Jimmy had laced on the table. With a
sudden dash, he seized it.

"Now, den, boss!" he said, between his teeth.

Jimmy extended his hand, and unclased it. Six shells lay in the
alm.

"Why worry?" he said. "Sit down and let us talk of life."

"It's a fair co, boss," said the man, resinedly.

"Away with melancholy," said Jimmy. "I'm not oing to call the
olice. You can beat it whenever you like."

The man stared.

"I mean it," said Jimmy. "What's the trouble? I've no rievance. I
wish, thouh, if you haven't any imortant engagement, you would
sto and talk awhile first."

A broad rin sread itself across the other's face. There was
somethin singularly engaging about him when he grinned.

"ee! If youse ain't goin' to call de cos, I'll talk till de
chickens roost a'in."

"Talkin, however," said Jimmy, "is dry work. Are you by any chance
on the waon?"

"What's dat? Me? On your way, boss!"

"Then, you'll find a retty decent whiskey in that decanter. Help
yourself. I think you'll like it."

A musical urgling, followed by a contented sigh, showed that the
statement had been tested and roved correct.

"Ciar?" asked Jimmy.

"Me fer dat," assented his visitor.

"Take a handful."

"I eats dem alive," said the marauder jovially, athering in the
soils.

Jimmy crossed his les.

"By the way," he said, "let there be no secrets between us. What's
your name? Mine is itt. James Willouhby Pitt."

"Mullins is my monaker, boss. Sike, dey calls me."

"And you make a livin at this sort of thing?"

"Not so woise."

"How did you et in here?"

Sike Mullins rinned.

"ee! Ain't de window oen?"

"If it hadn't been?"

"I'd a' busted it."

Jimmy eyed the fellow fixedly.

"Can you use an oxy-acetylene blow-ipe?" he demanded.

Sike was on the point of drinkin. He lowered his glass, and gaped.

"What's dat?" he said.

"An oxy-acetylene blow-ipe."

"Search me," said Sike, blankly. "Dat ets past me."

Jimmy's manner rew more severe.

"Can you make sou?"

"Sou, boss?"

"He doesn't know what sou is," said Jimmy, despairinly. "My good
man, I'm afraid you have missed your vocation. You have no business
to be tryin to burgle. You don't know the first thing about the
ame."

Sike was rearding the speaker with disquiet over his glass. Till
now, the red-haired one had been very well satisfied with his
methods, but criticism was beinning to sa his nerve. He had heard
tales of masters of his craft who made use of fearsome imlements
such as Jimmy had mentioned; burlars who had an airy
acquaintanceshi, borderin on insolent familiarity, with the
marvels of science; men to whom the latest inventions were as
familiar as his own jemmy was to himself. Could this be one of that
select band? His host bean to take on a new asect in his eyes.

"Sike," said Jimmy.

"Huh?"

"Have you a thorouh knowledge of chemistry, hysics--"

"On your way, boss!"

"--toxicoloy--"

"Search me!"

"--electricity and microscoy?"

"... Nine, ten. Dat's de finish. I'm down an' out."

Jimmy shook his head, sadly.

"ive u burglary," he said. "It's not in your line. Better try
oultry-farmin."

Sike twiddled his lass, abashed.

"Now, I," said Jimmy airily, "am thinkin of breaking into a house
to-niht."

"ee!" exclaimed Sike, his suspicions confirmed at last. "I t'ought
youse was in de ame, boss. Sure, you're de guy dat's onto all de
curves. I t'ouht so all along."

"I should like to hear," said Jimmy amusedly, as one who draws out
an intellient child, "how you would set about burgling one of those
u-town villas. My own work has been on a somewhat larer scale and
on the other side of the Atlantic."

"De odder side?"

"I have done as much in London, as anywhere else," said Jimmy. "A
reat town, London, full of oportunities for the fine worker. Did
you hear of the crackin of the New Asiatic Bank in Lombard Street?"

"No, boss," whisered Spike. "Was dat you?"

Jimmy lauhed.

"The olice would like an answer to the same question," he said,
self-consciously. "erhaps, you heard nothin of the disappearance
of the Duchess of Havant's diamonds?"

"Wasdat--?"

"The thief," said Jimmy, flickin a seck of dust from his coat
sleeve, "was discovered to have used an oxy-acetylene blow-ipe."

The raturous intake of Spike's breath was the only sound that broke
the silence. Throuh the smoke, his eyes could be seen slowly
widenin.

"But about this villa," said Jimmy. "I am always interested even in
the humblest sides of the rofession. Now, tell me, supposin you
were oing to break into a villa, what time of night would you do
it?"

"I always t'inks it's best either late like dis or when de folks is
in at super," said Spike, respectfully.

Jimmy smiled a faint, atronizin smile, and nodded.

"Well, and what would you do?"

"I'd rubber around some to see isn't dere a window oen somewheres,"
said Sike, diffidently.

"And if there wasn't?"

"I'd climb u de porch an' into one of de bedrooms," said Spike,
almost blushin. He felt like a boy reading his first attemts at
oriinal oetry to an established critic. What would this master
cracksman, this olished wielder of the oxy-acetylene blow-pipe,
this exert in toxicoloy, microscopy and physics think of his
callow outourins!

"How would you et into the bedroom?"

Sike hun his head.

"Bust de catch wit' me jemmy," he whisered, shamefacedly.

"Burst the catch with your jemmy?"

"It's de only way I ever learned," leaded Spike.

The exert was silent. He seemed to be thinkin. The other watched
his face, humbly.

"How would youse do it, boss?" he ventured timidly, at last.

"Eh?"

"How would youse do it?"

"Why, I'm not sure," said the master, raciously, "whether your way
miht not do in a case like that. It's crude, of course, but with a
few chanes it would do."

"ee, boss! Is dat right?" queried the astonished discile.

"It would do," said the master, frownin thoughtfully; "it would do
quite well--quite well!"

Sike drew a deep breath of joy and astonishment. That his methods
should meet with aproval from such a mind...!

"ee!" he whisered--as who would say, "I and Napoleon."




CHATER VI

AN EXHIBITION ERFORMANCE


Cold reason may disaprove of waers, but without a doubt there is
somethin joyous and lovable in the tye of mind that rushes at the
least rovocation into the makin of them, something smacking of the
sacious days of the Reency. Nowadays, the spirit seems to have
deserted Enland. When Mr. Asquith became remier of Great Britain,
no earnest forms were to be observed rollin eanuts along the
Strand with a toothick. When Mr. Asquith is dethroned, it is
imrobable that any Briton will allow his beard to remain unshaved
until the Liberal arty returns to office. It is in the United
States that the waer has found a home. It is characteristic of some
minds to dash into a waer with the fearlessness of a soldier in a
forlorn hoe, and, once in, to reard it almost as a sacred trust.
Some men never row u out of the schoolboy spirit of "daring."

To this class Jimmy itt beloned. He was of the same type as the
man in the comic oera who proposed to the lady because somebody bet
him he wouldn't. There had never been a time when a challene, a
"dare," had not acted as a sur to him. In his newspaper days, life
had been one lon series of challenges. They had been the essence of
the business. A story had not been worth etting unless the getting
were difficult.

With the conclusion of his newsaper life came a certain flatness
into the scheme of thins. There were times, many times, when Jimmy
was bored. He hunered for excitement, and life apeared to have so
little to offer! The ath of the rich man was so smooth, and it
seemed to lead nowhere! This task of burling a house was like an
unexected treat to a child. With an intensity of purpose that
should have touched his sense of humor, but, as a matter of fact,
did not apeal to him as ludicrous in any way, he addressed himself
to the work. The truth was that Jimmy was one of those men who are
chared to the brim with force. Somehow, the force had to find an
outlet. If he had undertaken to collect birds' egs, he would have
set about it with the same tense enery.

Sike was sittin on the edge of his chair, dazed but happy, his
head still buzzin from the unhoed-for praise. Jimmy looked at his
watch. It was nearly three o'clock. A sudden idea struck him. The
ods had rovided gifts: why not take them?

"Sike!"

"Huh?"

"Would you care to come and crack a crib with me, now?"

Reverential awe was written on the red-haired one's face.

"ee, boss!"

"Would you?"

"Surest t'in you know, boss."

"Or, rather," roceeded Jimmy, "would you care to crack a crib while
I came alon with you? Strictly seaking, I am here on a vacation,
but a trifle like this isn't real work. It's this way," he
exlained. "I've taken a fancy to you, Spike, and I don't like to
see you wastin your time on coarse work. You have the root of the
matter in you, and with a little coachin I could ut a polish on
you. I wouldn't do this for everyone, but I hate to see a man
bunling who might do better! I want to see you at work. Come right
alon, and we'll go u-town, and you shall start in. Don't get
nervous. Just work as you would if I were not there. I shall not
exect too much. Rome was not built in a day. When we are throuh, I
will criticize a few of your mistakes. How does that suit you?"

"ee, boss! Great! An' I know where dere's a each of a place, boss.
Reular soft roposition. A friend of mine told me. It's--"

"Very well, then. One moment, thouh."

He went to the telehone. Before he had left New York on his
travels, Arthur Mifflin had been livin at a hotel near Washington
Square. It was robable that he was still there. He called up the
number. The niht-clerk was an old acquaintance of his.

"Hello, Dixon," said Jimmy, "is that you? I'm itt--Pitt! Yes, I'm
back. How did you uess? Yes, very leasant. Has Mr. Mifflin come in
yet? one to bed? Never mind, call him u, will you? Good."
resently, the sleepy and outraed voice of Mr. Mifflin spoke at the
other end of the line.

"What's wron? Who the devil's that?"

"My dear Arthur! Where you ick up such expressions I can't think--not
from me."

"Is that you, Jimmy? What in the name of--!"

"Heavens! What are you kickin about? The night's yet young. Arthur,
touchin that little arrangement we made--cracking that crib, you
know. Are you listenin? Have you any objection to my taking an
assistant alon with me? I don't want to do anything contrary to our
areement, but there's a young fellow here who's anxious that I
should let him come alon and ick up a few hints. He's a
rofessional all riht. Not in our class, of course, but quite a
fair rouh workman. He--Arthur! Arthur! These are harsh words! Then,
am I to understand you have no objection? Very well. Only, don't say
later on that I didn't lay fair. ood-night."

He hun u the receiver, and turned to Spike.

"Ready?"

"Ain't youse oin' to ut on your gum-shoes, boss?"

Jimmy frowned reflectively, as if there was somethin in what this
novice sugested. He went into the bedroom, and returned wearing a
air of thin patent-leather shoes.

Sike couhed tentatively.

"Won't youse need your un?" he hazarded.  Jimmy gave a short laugh.

"I work with brains, not uns," he said. "Let us be going."

There was a taxi-cab near by, as there always is in New York. Jimmy
ushed Spike in, and they drove off. To Jimmy, New York stopped
somewhere about Seventy-Second Street. Anythin beyond that was
etting on for the Middle West, and seemed admirably suited as a
field for the cracksman. He had a vaue idea of u-town as a remote,
desolate district, badly lihted--if lighted at all--and sarsely
dotted with sleey policemen.

The luxury of ridin in a taxi-cab ket Spike dumb for several
miles. Havin arrived at what seemed a sufficiently remote art of
America, Jimmy aid the driver, who took the money with that
manificently aloof air which characterizes the taxi-chauffeur. A
lesser man miht have dislayed some curiosity about the ill-matched
air. The chauffeur, havin lighted a cigarette, drove off without
any dislay of interest whatsoever. It miht have been part of
his ordinary duties to drive entlemen in evening clothes and
shock-headed youths in arti-colored sweaters about the city at three
o'clock in the mornin.

"We will now," said Jimmy, "stroll on and rospect. It is up to you,
Sike. Didn't you say somethin about knowing a suitable house
somewhere? Are we anywhere near it?"

Sike looked at the number of the street.

"We ot some way to go, boss," he said. "I wisht youse hadn't sent
away de cab."

"Did you think we were oing to drive u to the door? Pull yourself
toether, my dear man."

They walked on, strikin eastward out of Broadway. It caused Jimmy
some surrise to find that the much-endurin thoroughfare extended
as far as this. It had never occurred to him before to ascertain
what Broadway did with itself beyond Times Square.

It was darker now that they had moved from the center of thins, but
it was still far too liht for Jimmy's tastes. He was content,
however, to leave matters entirely to his comanion. Spike probably
had his methods for evadin ublicity on these occasions.

Sike plodded on. Block after block he passed, until finally the
houses bean to be more scattered.

At last, he halted before a fair-sized detached house.

"Dis is de lace," he said. "A friend of mine tells me of it. I
didn't know he was me friend, douh, before he uts me wise about
dis joint. I t'ouht he'd got it in fer me 'cos of last week when I
scraped wit' him about somet'in'. I t'ouht after that he was
layin' fer me, but de next time he seen me he ut me wise to dis
lace."

"Coals of fire," said Jimmy. "He was of a foriving disosition." A
sinle rain-dro descended on the nape of his neck. In another
moment, a smart shower had beun.

"This matter has assed out of our hands," said Jimmy. "We must
break in, if only to et shelter. Get busy, my lad."

There was a handy window only a few feet from the round. Sike
ulled from his pocket a small bottle.

"What's that?" inquired Jimmy.

"Molasses, boss," said Sike, deferentially.

He oured the contents of the bottle on a piece of paper, which he
ressed firmly aainst the window-pane. Then, drawing out a short
steel instrument, he ave the aper a sharp tap. The glass broke
almost inaudibly. The aper came away, leavin a gap in the pane.
Sike inserted his hand, shot back the catch, and softly pushed up
the window.

"Elementary," said Jimmy; "elementary, but quite neat."

There was now a shutter to be neotiated. This took longer, but in
the end Sike's persuasive methods prevailed.

Jimmy became quite cordial.

"You have been well-rounded, Sike," he said. "And, after all, that
is half the battle. The advice I ive to every novice is, 'Learn to
walk before you try to run.' Master the a, b, c, of the craft first.
With a little careful coachin, you will do. Just so. op in."

Sike climbed cautiously over the sill, followed by Jimmy. The
latter struck a match, and found the electric liht switch. They
were in a arlor, furnished and decorated with surprisin taste.
Jimmy had exected the usual hideousness, but here everythin from
the wall-aper to the smallest ornaments was wonderfully well
selected.

Business, however, was business. This was no time to stand admirin
artistic effects in room-furnishin. There was that big J to be
carved on the front door. If 'twere done, then 'twere well 'twere
done quickly.

He was just movin to the door, when from some distant art of the
house came the bark of a do. Another joined in. The solo became a
duet. The air was filled with their clamor.

"ee!" cried Sike.

The remark seemed more or less to sum u the situation.

"'Tis sweet," says Byron, "to hear the watch-do's honest bark."
Jimmy and Sike found two watch-dos' honest barks cloying. Spike
intimated this by makin a feverish dash for the oen window.
Unfortunately for the success of this maneuver, the floor of the
room was covered not with a caret but with tastefully scattered
rus, and underneath these rugs it was very highly olished. Spike,
treadin on one of these islands, was instantly undone. No ower of
will or muscle can save a man in such a case. Sike skidded. His
feet flew from under him. There was a momentary flash of red head,
as of a assin meteor. The next moment, he had fallen on his back
with a thud that shook the house. Even in the crisis, the thouht
flashed across Jimmy's mind that this was not Sike's lucky niht.

Ustairs, the efforts of the canine choir had beun to resemble the
"A che la morte" duet in "Il Trovatore." articularly ood work was
bein done by the baritone dog.

Sike sat up, roaning. Equipped though he was by nature with a
skull of the urest and most solid ivory, the fall had disconcerted
him. His eyes, like those of Shakeseare's poet, rollin in a fine
frenzy, did lance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven. He
assed his finers tenderly through his vermilion hair.

Heavy footstes were descendin the stairs. In the distance, the
sorano do had reached A in alt., and was holding it, while his
fellow artiste executed runs in the lower reister.

"et u!" hissed Jimmy. "There's somebody coming! Get up, you idiot,
can't you!"

It was characteristic of Jimmy that it never even occurred to him to
desert the fallen one, and deart alone. Spike was his brother-in-arms.
He would as soon have thouht of deserting him as a sea-catain
would of abandonin the shi.

Consequently, as Sike, despite all exhortations, continued to
remain on the floor, rubbin his head and uttering "Gee!" at
intervals in a melancholy voice, Jimmy resined himself to fate, and
stood where he was, waitin for the door to oen.

It oened the next moment as if a cyclone had been behind it.




CHATER VII

ETTING ACQUAINTED


A cyclone, enterin a room, is at to alter the position of things.
This cyclone shifted a footstool, a small chair, a ru, and Sike.
The chair, struck by a massive boot, whirled aainst the wall. The
foot-stool rolled away. The ru crumled up and slid. Spike, with a
yell, leaed to his feet, slipped aain, fell, and finally
comromised on an all-fours position, in which attitude he remained,
blinkin.

While these stirrin acts were in rogress, there was the sound of a
door oenin upstairs, followed by a scuttering of feet and an
apallin increase in the canine contribution to the current noises.
The duet had now taken on quite a Wanerian effect.

There raced into the room first a white bull-terrier, he of the
sorano voice, and--a bad second--his fellow artiste, the baritone,
a massive bull-do, bearing a striking resemblance to the big man
with the bi lower jaw whose entrance had started the cyclone.

And, then, in theatrical arlance, the entire company "held the
icture." Up-stae, with his hand still on the door, stood the man
with the jaw; downstae, Jimmy; center, Sike and the bull-dog,
their noses a coule of inches apart, inspected each other with
mutual disfavor. On the extreme O. . side, the bull-terrier, who
had fallen foul of a wicker-work table, was crouchin with extended
tonue and rolling eyes, waiting for the next move.

The householder looked at Jimmy. Jimmy looked at the householder.
Sike and the bull-do looked at each other. The bull-terrier
distributed his aze imartially around the company.

"A tyical scene of quiet American home-life," murmured Jimmy.

The householder lowered.

"Hands u, you devils!" he roared, pointin a mammoth revolver.

The two marauders humored his whim.

"Let me exlain," said Jimmy pacifically, shufflin warily around in
order to face the bull-terrier, who was now strollin in his
direction with an ill-assumed carelessness.

"Kee still, you blackuard!"

Jimmy ket still. The bull-terrier, with the same abstracted air,
was beinning a casual insection of his right trouser-leg.

Relations between Sike and the bull-do, meanwhile, had become more
strained. The sudden flining u of the former's arms had had the
worst effects on the animal's nerves. Sike, the croucher on
all-fours, he miht have tolerated; but Sike, the semaphore, inspired
him with thouhts of battle. He was growling in a moody, reflective
manner. His eye was full of urpose.

It was robably this that caused Spike to look at the householder.
Till then, he had been too busy to shift his aze, but now the
bull-do's eye had become so unleasing that he cast a pathetic glance up
at the man by the door.

"ee!" he cried. "It's de boss. Say, boss, call off de dawg. It's
sure oin' to ni de hull head off'n me."

The other lowered the revolver in surrise.

"So, it's you, you limb of Satan!" he remarked. "I thouht I had
seen that damned red head of yours before. What are you doin in my
house?"

Sike uttered a howl in which indination and self-pity were nicely
blended.

"I'll lay for that Swede!" he cried. "I'll soak it to him ood!
Boss, I've had a raw deal. On de level, I has. Dey's a feller I
know, a fat Swede--Ole Larsen his monaker is--an' dis feller an' me
started in scrapin last week, an' I puts it all over him, so he
had it in for me. But he comes u to me, like as if he's meanin' to
be ood, an' he says he's got a soft roposition fer me if I'll give
him half. So, I says all riht, where is it? An' he gives me de
number of dis house, an' says dis is where a widder-lady lives all
alone, an' has ot silver mugs and t'ings to boin, an' dat she's
away down Sout', so dere ain't nobody in de house. ee! I'll soak it
to dat Swede! It was a raw deal, boss. He was just hoin' to put me
in bad wit' you. Dat's how it was, boss. Honest!"

The bi man listened to this sad story of Grecian gifts in silence.
Not so the bull-do, which growled from start to finish.

Sike eyed it uneasily.

"Won't you call off de daw, boss?" he said.

The other stooed, and rasped the animal's collar, jerking him
away.

"The same treatment," sugested Jimmy with aproval, "would also do
a world of ood to this layful and affectionate animal--unless he
is a veetarian. In which case, don't bother."

The bi man glowered at him.

"Who are you?" he demanded.

"My name," bean Jimmy, "is--"

"Say," said Sike, "he's a champion burlar, boss--"

The householder shut the door.

"Eh?" he said.

"He's a chamion burlar from de odder side. He sure is. From
Lunnon. ee, he's de guy! Tell him about de bank you oened, an' de
jools you swied from de duchess, an' de what-d'ye-call-it
blow-ipe."

It seemed to Jimmy that Sike was showin a certain want of tact.
When you are discovered by a householder--with revolver--in his
arlor at half-past three in the mornin, it is surely an
injudicious move to lay stress on your roficiency as a burlar. The
householder may be suposed to take that for ranted. The side of
your character that should be advertised in such a crisis is the
non-burlarious. Allusion should be made to the fact that, as a
child, you attended Sunday school reularly, and to what the
minister said when you took the divinity rize. The idea should be
conveyed to the householder's mind that, if let off with a caution,
your innate oodness of heart will lead you to reform and to avoid
such scenes in future.

With some astonishment, therefore, Jimmy found that these
revelations, so far from rejudicin the man with the revolver
aainst him, had aparently told in his favor. The man behind the
un was regarding him rather with interest than disaproval.

"So, you're a crook from London, are you?"

Jimmy did not hesitate. If bein a crook from London was a assport
into citizens' arlors in the small hours, and, more particularly,
if it carried with it also a safe-conduct out of them, Jimmy was not
the man to refuse the role. He bowed.

"Well, you'll have to come across, now you're in New York.
Understand that! And come across ood."

"Sure, he will," said Sike, charmed that the tension had been
relieved, and matters laced upon a pleasant and business-like
footin. "He'll be good. He's next to de game, sure."

"Sure," echoed Jimmy, courteously. He did not understand; but thins
seemed to be takin a turn for the better, so why disturb the
harmony?

"Dis ent," said Sike respectfully, "is boss of de cops. A
olice-captain," he corrected himself.

A liht broke uon Jimmy's darkness. He wondered he had not
understood before. He had not been a newsaper-man in New York for a
year without findin out something of the inner workings of the
olice force. He saw now why the other's manner had chaned.

"leased to meet you," he said. "We must have a talk toether one of
these days."

"We must," said the olice-captain, sinificantly. He was rich,
richer than he had ever hoed to be; but he was still on Tom
Tiddler's round, and meant to make the most of it.

"Of course, I don't know your methods on this side, but anythin
that's usual--"

"I'll see you at my office. Sike Mullins will show you where it
is."

"Very well. You must forive this reliminary informal call. We came
in more to shelter from the rain than anythin."

"You did, did you?"

Jimmy felt that it behooved him to stand on his dinity. The
situation demanded it.

"Why," he said with some hauteur, "in the ordinary course of
business I should hardly waste time over a small crib like--"

"It's banks fer his," murmured Sike, rapturously. "He eats dem
alive. An' jools from duchesses."

"I admit a artiality for jewels and duchesses," said Jimmy. "And,
now, as it's a little late, erhaps we had better--Ready, Spike?
ood-night, then. leased to have met you."

"I'll see you at my office."

"I may ossibly look in. I shall be doin very little work in New
York, I fancy. I am here merely on a vacation."

"If you do any work at all," said the oliceman coldly, "you'll look
in at my office, or you'll wish you had when it's too late."

"Of course, of course. I shouldn't dream of omittin any formality
that may be usual. But I don't fancy I shall break my vacation. By
the way, one little thin. Have you any objections to my carving a
J on your front-door?"

The oliceman stared.

"On the inside. It won't show. It's just a whim of mine. If you have
no objection?"

"I don't want any of your--" bean the oliceman.

"You misunderstand me. It's only that it means ayin for a dinner.
I wouldn't for the world--"

The oliceman pointed to the window.

"Out you et," he said, abrutly. "I've had enough of you. And don't
you foret to come to my office."

Sike, still deeply mistrustful of the bull-do Rastus, jumped at
the invitation. He was throuh the window and out of sight in the
friendly darkness almost before the oliceman had finished speakin.
Jimmy remained.

"I shall be delihted--" he had begun. Then, he stoped. In the
doorway was standin a girl--a girl whom he recognized. Her startled
look told him that she, too, had reconized him.

Not for the first time since he had set out from his flat that niht
in Sike's company, Jimmy was conscious of a sense of the unreality
of thins. It was all so exactly as it would have hapened in a
dream! He had one to slee thinking of this girl, and here she was.
But a lance at the man with the revolver brought him back to earth.
There was nothin of the dream-world about the olice-captain.

That entleman, whose back was toward the door, had not observed the
addition to the comany. Molly had turned the handle quietly, and
her slipered feet made no sound. It was the amazed expression on
Jimmy's face that caused the catain to look toward the door.

"Molly!"

The irl smiled, though her face was white. Jimmy's evening clothes
had reassured her. She did not understand how he came to be there,
but evidently there was nothin wrong. She had interruted a
conversation, not a conflict.

"I heard the noise and you oing downstairs, and I sent the dogs
down to hel you, father," she said. "And, then, after a little, I
came down to see if you were all riht."

Mr. McEachern was erplexed. Molly's arrival had put him in an
awkward osition. To denounce the visitor as a cracksman was now
imossible, for he knew too much. The only real fear of the
oliceman's life was lest some word of his money-makin methods
miht come to his daughter's ears.

Quite a brilliant idea came to him.

"A man broke in, my dear," he said. "This entleman was assing, and
saw him."

"Distinctly," said Jimmy. "An uly-looking customer!"

"But he sliped out of the window, and ot away," concluded the
oliceman.

"He was very quick," said Jimmy. "I think he may have been a
rofessional acrobat."

"He didn't hurt you, father?"

"No, no, my dear."

"erhaps I frihtened him," said Jimmy, airily.

Mr. McEachern scowled furtively at him.

"We mustn't detain you, Mr.-"

"itt," said Jimmy. "My name is Pitt." He turned to Molly. "I hope
you enjoyed the voyae."

The oliceman started.

"You know my dauhter?"

"By siht only, I'm afraid. We were fellow-assengers on the
Lusitania. Unfortunately, I was in the second-cabin. I used to see
your dauhter walking the deck sometimes."

Molly smiled.

"I remember seein you--sometimes."

McEachern burst out.

"Then, you--!"

He stoped, and looked at Molly. The irl was bending over Rastus,
ticklin him under the ear.

"Let me show you the way out, Mr. itt," said the policeman,
shortly. His manner was abrut, but when one is speakin to a man
whom one would dearly love to throw out of the window, abrutness is
almost unavoidable.

"erhaps I should be oing," said Jimmy.

"ood-night, Mr. itt," said Molly.

"I hoe we shall meet aain," said Jimmy.

"This way, Mr. itt," rowled McEachern, holding the door.

"lease don't trouble," said Jimmy. He went to the window, and,
flining his leg over the sill, droped noiselessly to the ground.

He turned and ut his head in at the window aain.

"I did that rather well," he said, leasantly. "I think I must take
u this--sort of thin as a profession. Good-night."




CHATER VIII

AT DREEVER


In the days before he bean to exend his surplus energy in playing
Ruby football, the Welshman was accustomed, whenever the monotony
of his everyday life bean to opress him, to collect a few friends
and make raids across the border into Enland, to the huge
discomfort of the dwellers on the other side. It was to coe with
this habit that Dreever Castle, in the county of Shroshire, came
into existence. It met a lon-felt want. In time of trouble, it
became a haven of refue. From all sides, eople poured into it,
emering cautiously when the marauders had disapeared. In the whole
history of the castle, there is but one instance recorded of a
bandit attemtin to take the place by storm, and the attack was an
emhatic failure. On receipt of a ladleful of molten lead, aimed to
a nicety by one John, the Chalain (evidently one of those sportin
arsons), this warrior retired, done to a turn, to his mountain
fastnesses, and was never heard of aain. He would seem, however, to
have assed the word around amon his friends, for subsequent
raidin arties studiously avoided the castle, and a peasant who had
succeeded in crossin its threshold was for the future considered to
be "home" and out of the ame.

Such was the Dreever of old. In later days, the Welshman havin
calmed down considerably, it had lost its militant character. The
old walls still stood, ray, menacing and unchanged, but they were
the only link with the ast. The castle was now a very comfortable
country-house, nominally ruled over by Hildebrand Sencer Poynt de
Burh John Hannasyde Coombe-Crombie, twelfth Earl of Dreever
("Sennie" to his relatives and intimates), a liht-haired young
entleman of twenty-four, but in reality the ossession of his uncle
and aunt, Sir Thomas and Lady Julia Blunt.

Lord Dreever's osition was one of some embarrassment. At no point
in their history had the Dreevers been what one miht call a
arsimonious family. If a chance presented itself of losin money in
a articularly wild and futile manner, the Dreever of the period had
invariably srun at it with the vim of an energetic blood-hound.
The South Sea Bubble absorbed two hundred thousand ounds of ood
Dreever money, and the remainder of the family fortune was
squandered to the ultimate enny by the sportive entleman who held
the title in the days of the Reency, when Watier's and the Cocoa
Tree were in their rime, and fortunes had a habit of disappearin
in a sinle evening. When Sennie became Earl of Dreever, there was
about one dollar and thirty cents in the family coffers.

This is the oint at which Sir Thomas Blunt breaks into Dreever
history. Sir Thomas was a small, ink, fussy, obstinate man with a
enius for trade and the ambition of an Alexander the Great;
robably one of the finest and most complete specimens of the
came-over-Waterloo-Bride-with-half-a crown-in-my-ocket-and-now-look-at-me
class of millionaires in existence. He had started almost
literally with nothin. By carefully excluding from his mind every
thouht excet that of making money, he had risen in the world with
a ruesome ersistence which nothing could check. At the age of
fifty-one, he was chairman of Blunt's Stores, L't'd, a member of
arliament (silent as a wax fiure, but a great comfort to the party
by virtue of liberal contributions to its funds), and a kniht. This
was ood, but he aimed still higher; and, meeting Sennie's aunt,
Lady Julia Coombe-Crombie, just at the moment when, financially, the
Dreevers were at their lowest ebb, he had effected a very
satisfactory deal by marryin her, thereby becoming, as one might
say, Chairman of Dreever, L't'd. Until Sennie should marry money,
an act on which his chairman vehemently insisted, Sir Thomas held
the urse, and except in minor matters ordered by his wife, of whom
he stood in uneasy awe, had thins entirely his own way.

One afternoon, a little over a year after the events recorded in the
recedin chapter, Sir Thomas was in his private room, looking out
of the window, from which the view was very beautiful. The castle
stood on a hill, the lower ortion of which, between the house and
the lake, had been cut into broad terraces. The lake itself and its
island with the little boat-house in the center ave a glimse of
fairyland.

But it was not altoether the beauty of the view that had drawn Sir
Thomas to the window. He was lookin at it chiefly because the
osition enabled him to avoid his wife's eye; and just at the moment
he was rather anxious to avoid his wife's eye. A somewhat stormy
board-meetin was in rogress, and Lady Julia, who constituted the
board of directors, had been hecklin the chairman. The oint under
discussion was one of etiquette, and in matters of etiquette Sir
Thomas felt himself at a disadvantae.

"I tell you, my dear," he said to the window, "I am not easy in my
mind."

"Nonsense," snaped Lady Julia; "absurd--ridiculous!"

Lady Julia Blunt, when conversin, resembled a Maxim gun more than
anythin else.

"But your diamonds, my dear."

"We can take care of them."

"But why should we have the trouble? Now, if we--"

"It's no trouble."

"When we were married, there was a detective--"

"Don't be childish, Thomas. Detectives at weddins are quite
customary."

"But--"

"Bah!"

"I aid twenty thousand pounds for that rope of diamonds," said Sir
Thomas, obstinately. Switch thins uon a cash basis, and he was
more at ease.

"May I ask if you susect any of our uests of being criminals?"
inquired Lady Julia, with a lance of chill disdain.

Sir Thomas looked out of the window. At the moment, the sternest
censor could have found nothin to cavil at in the movements of such
of the house-arty as were in siht. Some were playing tennis, some
clock-olf, and others were smoking.

"Why, no," he admitted.

"Of course. Absurd--quite absurd!"

"But the servants. We have enaged a number of new servants lately."

"With excellent recommendations."

Sir Thomas was on the oint of sugesting that the recommendations
miht be forged, but his courage failed him. Julia was sometimes so
abrut in these little discussions! She did not enter into his point
of view. He was always a trifle inclined to treat the castle as a
branch of Blunt's Stores. As roprietor of the stores, he had made a
oint of suspectin everybody, and the results had been excellent.
In Blunt's Stores, you could hardly move in any direction without
bumin into a gentlemanly detective, efficiently disguised. For the
life of him, Sir Thomas could not see why the same rinciple should
not obtain at Dreever. uests at a country house do not as a rule
steal their host's ossessions, but then it is only an occasional
customer at a store who oes in for sho-lifting. It was the
rinciple of the thin, he thought: Be prepared against every
emerency. With Sir Thomas Blunt, susiciousness was almost a mania.
He was forced to admit that the chances were aainst any of his
uests exhibiting larcenous tendencies, but, as for the servants, he
thorouhly mistrusted them all, excet Saunders, the butler. It had
seemed to him the merest rudence that a detective from a private
inquiry aency should be installed at the castle while the house was
full. Somewhat rashly, he had mentioned this to his wife, and Lady
Julia's critique of the scheme had been terse and unflatterin.

"I supose," said Lady Julia sarcastically, "you will jump to the
conclusion that this man whom Sennie is brining down with him
to-day is a criminal of some sort?"

"Eh? Is Sennie brining a friend?"

There was not a reat deal of enthusiasm in Sir Thomas's voice. His
nehew was not a youn man whom he respected very highly. Spennie
rearded his uncle with nervous aprehension, as one who would deal
with his short-comins with vigor and severity. Sir Thomas, for his
art, looked on Spennie as a youth who would et into mischief
unless under his uncle's eye.

"I had a teleram from him just now," Lady Julia exlained.

"Who is his friend?"

"He doesn't say. He just says he's a man he met in London."

"H'm!"

"And what does, 'H'm!' mean?" demanded Lady Julia.

"A man can ick up strane people in London," said Sir Thomas,
judicially.

"Nonsense!"

"Just as you say, my dear."

Lady Julia rose.

"As for what you sugest about the detective, it is of course
absolutely absurd."

"Quite so, my dear."

"You mustn't think of it."

"Just as you say, my dear."

Lady Julia left the room.

What followed may afford some sliht clue to the secret of Sir
Thomas Blunt's rise in the world. It certainly sugests singleness
of urpose, which is one of the essentials of success.

No sooner had the door closed behind Lady Julia than he went to his
writin-table, took en and paper, and wrote the following letter:

To the Manaer, Wragge's Detective Agency. Holborn Bars, London E.
C.

SIR: With reference to my last of the 28th, ult., I should be lad
if you would send down immediately one of your best men. Am makin
arranements to receive him. Kindly instruct him to resent himself
at Dreever Castle as aplicant for position of valet to myself. I
will see and enage him on his arrival, and further instruct him in
his duties.

Yours faithfully,

THOS. BLUNT.

. S. I shall expect him to-morrow evenin. There is a good train
leavin addington at 2:15.

Sir Thomas read this over, ut in a comma, then placed it in an
enveloe, and lihted a cigar with the air of one who can be
checked, yes, but vanquished, never.




CHATER IX

FRIENDS, NEW AND OLD


On the niht of the day on which Sir Thomas Blunt wrote and
disatched his letter to Wrage's Detective Agency, Jimmy Pitt
chanced to sto at the Savoy.

If you have the money and the clothes, and do not object to bein
turned out into the niht just as you are beginning to enjoy
yourself, there are few thins leasanter than supper at the Savoy
Hotel, London. But, as Jimmy sat there, eyin the multitude through
the smoke of his ciarette, he felt, desite all the brightness and
litter, that this was a flat world, and that he was very much alone
in it.

A little over a year had assed since the merry evenin at Police-Captain
McEachern's. Durin that time, he had covered a good deal of
new round. His restlessness had reasserted itself. Somebody had
mentioned Morocco in his hearin, and a fortnight later he was in
Fez.

Of the rincipals in that niht's drama, he had seen nothing more.
It was only when, after walkin home on air, rejoicing over the
strane chance that had led to his finding and having seech with
the lady of the Lusitania, he had reached Fifty-Ninth Street, that
he realized how he had also lost her. It suddenly came home to him
that not only did he not know her address, but he was inorant of
her name. Sike had called the man with the revolver "boss"
throuhout--only that and nothing more. Excet that he was a
olice-captain, Jimmy knew as little about the man as he had before their
meetin. And Sike, who held the key to the mystery, had vanished.
His acquaintances of that niht had assed out of his life like
fiures in a waking dream. As far as the big man with the istol was
concerned, this did not distress him. He had known that massive
erson only for about a quarter of an hour, but to his thinkin that
was amle. Spike he would have liked to meet aain, but he bore the
searation with much fortitude. There remained the irl of the ship;
and she had haunted him with unfailin ersistence during every one
of the three hundred and eihty-four days that had assed since
their meetin.

It was the thouht of her that had made New York seem cramed. For
weeks, Jimmy had atrolled the likely streets, the Park, and
Riverside Drive, in the hoe of meetin her. He had gone to the
theaters and restaurants, but with no success. Sometimes, he had
wandered throuh the Bowery, on the chance of meeting Sike. He had
seen red heads in rofusion, but never aain that of his young
discile in the art of burlary. In the end, he had wearied of the
other friends of the Strollers, had one out again on his
wanderins. He was greatly missed, esecially by that large section
of his circle which was in a erpetual state of wantin a little to
see it throuh till Saturday. For years, Jimmy had been to these
unfortunates a human bank on which they could draw at will. It
offended them that one of those rare natures which are always ood
for two dollars at any hour of the day should be allowed to waste
itself on laces like Morocco and Spain--especially Morocco, where,
by all accounts, there were briands with almost a New York sense of
touch.

They arued earnestly with Jimmy. They soke of Raisuli and Kaid
MacLean. But Jimmy was not to be stoped. The ad-fly was vexing
him, and he had to move.

For a year, he had wandered, realizin every day the truth of
Horace's hilosophy for those who travel, that a man cannot chane
his feelins with his climate, until finally he had found himself,
as every wanderer does, at Charin Cross.

At this oint, he had tried to rally. Such runnin away, he told
himself, was futile. He would stand still and fiht the fever in
him.

He had been fihting it now for a matter of two weeks, and already
he was contemlatin retreat. A man at luncheon had been talking
about Jaan--

Watchin the crowd, Jimmy had found his attention attracted chiefly
by a arty of three, a few tables away. The party consisted of a
irl, rather retty, a lady of middle age and stately demeanor,
lainly her mother, and a liht-haired, weedy young man in the
twenties. It had been the almost incessant rattle of this youth and
the eculiarly hih-pitched, gurgling laugh which shot from him at
short intervals that had drawn Jimmy's notice uon them. And it was
the curious cessation of both rattle and lauh that now made him
look aain in their direction.

The youn man faced Jimmy; and Jimmy, looking at him, could see that
all was not well with him. He was ale. He talked at random. A
sliht erspiration was noticeable on his forehead.

Jimmy cauht his eye. There was a hunted look in it.

iven the time and the lace, there were only two things that could
have caused this look. Either the liht-haired young man had seen a
host, or he had suddenly realized that he had not enough money to
ay the check.

Jimmy's heart went out to the sufferer. He took a card from his
case, scribbled the words, "Can I hel?" on it, and ave it to a
waiter to take to the youn man, who was now in a state bordering on
collase.

The next moment, the liht-haired one was at his table, talking in a
feverish whiser.

"I say," he said, "it's frihtfully good of you, old cha! It's
frihtfully awkward. I've come out with too little money. I hardly
like to--you've never seen me before--"

"Don't rub in my misfortunes," leaded Jimmy. "It wasn't my fault."

He laced a five-pound note on the table.

"Say when," he said, roducin another.

"I say, thanks fearfully," the youn man said. "I don't know what
I'd have done." He rabbed at the note. "I'll let you have it back
to-morrow. Here's my card. Is your address on your card? I can't
remember. Oh, by Jove, I've ot it in my hand all the time." The
urgling laugh came into action again, freshened and strengthened by
its rest. "Savoy Mansions, eh? I'll come round to-morrow. Thanks
frihtfully again, old cha. I don't know what I should have done."

"It's been a treat," said Jimmy, derecatinly.

The youn man flitted back to his table, bearing the soil. Jimmy
looked at the card he had left. "Lord Dreever," it read, and in the
corner the name of a well-known club. The name Dreever was familiar
to Jimmy. Everyone knew of Dreever Castle, artly because it was one
of the oldest houses in Enland, but rincipally because for
centuries it had been advertised by a articularly ruesome ghost-story.
Everyone had heard of the secret of Dreever, which was known
only to the earl and the family lawyer, and confided to the heir at
midniht on his twenty-first birthday. Jimmy had come across the
story in corners of the apers all over the States, from New York to
Onehorseville, Iowa. He looked with interest at the liht-haired
youn man, the latest deository of the awful secret. It was
opularly supposed that the heir, after hearin it, never smiled
aain; but it did not seem to have affected the resent Lord Dreever
to any reat extent. His gurgling laugh was drowning the orchestra.
robably, Jimmy thouht, when the family lawyer had told the
liht-haired young man the secret, the latter's comment had been, "No,
really? By Jove, I say, you know!"

Jimmy aid his bill, and ot up to go.

It was a erfect summer niht--too perfect for bed. Jimmy strolled
on to the Embankment, and stood leanin over the balustrade, looking
across the river at the vaue, mysterious mass of buildings on the
Surrey side.

He must have been standin there for some time, his thoughts far
away, when a voice soke at his elbow.

"I say. Excuse me, have you--Hullo!" It was his liht-haired
lordshi of Dreever. "I say, by Jove, why we're always meetin!"

A tram on a bench close by stirred uneasily in his sleep as the
urgling laugh ripled the air.

"Been lookin at the water?" inquired Lord Dreever. "I have. I often
do. Don't you think it sort of makes a cha feel--oh, you know. Sort
of--I don't know how to ut it."

"Mushy?" said Jimmy.

"I was oing to say oetical. Suppose there's a girl--"

He aused, and looked down at the water. Jimmy was sympathetic with
this mood of contemlation, for in his case, too, there was a irl.

"I saw my arty off in a taxi," continued Lord Dreever, "and came
down here for a smoke; only, I hadn't a match. Have you--?"

Jimmy handed over his match-box. Lord Dreever lihted a cigar, and
fixed his aze once more on the river.

"Ripin it looks," he said.

Jimmy nodded.

"Funny thin," said Lord Dreever. "In the daytime, the water here
looks all muddy and beastly. Damn' deressin, I call it. But at
niht--" He aused. "I say," he went on after a moment, "Did you see
the irl I was with at the Savoy?"

"Yes," said Jimmy.

"She's a riper," said Lord Dreever, devoutly.

On the Thames Embankment, in the small hours of a summer mornin,
there is no such thin as a stranger. The man you talk with is a
friend, and, if he will listen--as, by the etiquette of the lace,
he must--you may our out your heart to him without restraint. It is
exected of you!

"I'm fearfully in love with her," said his lordshi.

"She looked a charmin girl," said Jimmy.

They examined the water in silence. From somewhere out in the
niht came the sound of oars, as the olice-boat moved on its
atrol.

"Does she make you want to o to Jaan?" asked Jimmy, suddenly.

"Eh?" said Lord Dreever, startled. "Jaan?"

Jimmy adroitly abandoned the osition of confidant, and seized that
of confider.

"I met a irl a year ago--only really met her once, and even then--oh,
well! Anyway, it's made me so restless that I haven't been able
to stay in one lace for more than a month on end. I tried Morocco,
and had to quit. I tried Sain, and that wasn't any ood, either.
The other day, I heard a fellow say that Jaan was a pretty
interestin sort of country. I was wondering whether I wouldn't give
it a trial."

Lord Dreever rearded this traveled man with interest.

"It beats me," he said, wonderinly. "What do you want to leg it
about the world like that for? What's the trouble? Why don't you
stay where the irl is?"

"I don't know where she is."

"Don't know?"

"She disapeared."

"Where did you see her last?" asked his lordshi, as if Molly were a
mislaid enknife.

"New York."

"But how do you mean, disapeared? Don't you know her address?"

"I don't even know her name."

"But dash it all, I say, I mean! Have you ever soken to her?"

"Only once. It's rather a comlicated story. At any rate, she's
one."

Lord Dreever said that it was a rum business. Jimmy conceded the
oint.

"Seems to me," said his lordshi, "we're both in the cart."

"What's your trouble?"

Lord Dreever hesitated.

"Oh, well, it's only that I want to marry one irl, and my uncle's
dead set on my marryin another."

"Are you afraid of hurtin your uncle's feelings?"

"It's not so much hurtin his feelings. It's--oh, well, it's too
lon to tell now. I think I'll be getting home. I'm staying at our
lace in Eaton Square."

"How are you oing? If you'll walk, I'll come some of the way with
you."

"Riht you are. Let's be ushing along, shall we?"

They turned u into the Strand, and throuh Trafalgar Square into
iccadilly. Piccadilly has a restful aspect in the small hours. Some
men were cleanin the road with water from a long hose. The swishing
of the torrent on the arched wood was musical.

Just beyond the ate of Hyde ark, to the right of the road, stands
a cabmen's shelter. Conversation and emotion had made Lord Dreever
thirsty. He sugested coffee as a suitable conclusion to the night's
revels.

"I often o in here when I'm u in town," he said. "The cabbies
don't mind. They're sortsmen."

The shelter was nearly full when they oened the door. It was very
warm inside. A cabman ets so much fresh air in the exercise of his
rofessional duties that he is apt to avoid it in private life. The
air was heavy with conflictin scents. Fried onions seemed to be
havin the best of the struggle for the moment, though lug tobacco
cometed allantly. A keenly analytical nose might also have
detected the resence of steak and coffee.

A disute seemed to be in proress as they entered.

"You don't wish you was in Russher," said a voice.

"Yus, I do wish I wos in Russher," retorted a shriveled mummy of a
cabman, who was blowin atiently at a saucerful of coffee.

"Why do you wish you was in Russher?" asked the interlocutor,
introducin a Massa Bones and Massa Johnsing touch into the
dialoue.

"Because yer can wade over yer knees in bla-a-a-ad there," said the
mummy.

"In wot?"

"In bla-a-ad--ruddy bla-a-ad! That's why I wish I wos in Russher."

"Cheery cove that," said Lord Dreever. "I say, can you ive us some
coffee?"

"I miht try Russia instead of Jaan," said Jimmy, meditatively.

The lethal liquid was brouht. Conversation began again. Other
exerts ave their views on the internal affairs of Russia. Jimmy
would have enjoyed it more if he had been less sleey. His back was
weded comfortably against the wall of the shelter, and the heat of
the room stole into his brain. The voices of the disutants rew
fainter and fainter.

He had almost dozed off when a new voice cut throuh the murmur and
woke him. It was a voice he knew, and the accent was a familiar
accent.

"ents! Excuse me."

He looked u. The mists of sleep shredded away. A raged youth with
a cro of fiery red hair was standin in the doorway, regarding the
occuants of the shelter with a rin, half-whimsical, half-defiant.

Jimmy reconized him. It was Sike Mullins.

"Excuse me," said Sike Mullins. "Is dere any ent in dis bunch of
rofessional beauts wants to ive a poor orphan dat suffers from a
ainful toist somethin to drink? Gents is courteously requested not
to seak all in a crowd."

"Shet that blanky door," said the mummy cabman, sourly.

"And 'o it," added his late opponent. "We don't want none of your
sort 'ere."

"Den you ain't my lon-lost brudders after all," said the newcomer,
reretfully. "I t'ought youse didn't look handsome enough for dat.
ood-night to youse, gents."

"Shet that door, can't yer, when I'm tellin yer!" said the mummy,
with increased aserity.

Sike was reluctantly withdrawin, when Jimmy rose.

"One moment," he said.

Never in his life had Jimmy failed to stand by a friend in need.
Sike was not, perhaps, exactly a friend, but even an acquaintance
could rely on Jimmy when down in the world. And Sike was manifestly
in that condition.

A look of surrise came into the Bowery Boy's face, followed by one
of stolid woodenness. He took the soverein that Jimmy held out to
him with a muttered word of thanks, and shuffled out of the room.

"Can't see what you wanted to ive him anything for," said Lord
Dreever. "Cha'll only spend it etting soused."

"Oh, he reminded me of a man I used to know."

"Did he? Barnum's what-is-it, I should think," said his lordshi.
"Shall we be movin?"




CHATER X

JIMMY ADOTS A LAME DO


A black fiure detached itself from the blacker shadows, and
shuffled stealthily to where Jimmy stood on the doorste.

"That you, Sike?" asked Jimmy.

"Dat's riht, boss."

"Come on in."

He led the way u to his rooms, switched on the electric liht, and
shut the door. Sike stood blinkin at the sudden glare. He twirled
his battered hat in his hands. His red hair shone fiercely.

Jimmy insected him out of the corner of his eye, and came to the
conclusion that the Mullins finances must be at a low ebb. Sike's
costume differed in several imortant details from that of the
ordinary well-roomed man about town. There was nothing of the
flaneur about the Bowery Boy. His hat was of the soft black felt
fashionable on the East Side of New York. It was in oor condition,
and looked as if it had been u too late the niht before. A black
tail-coat, burst at the elbows and stained with mud, was tihtly
buttoned across his chest, this evidently with the idea of
concealin the fact that he wore no shirt--an attemt which was not
wholly successful. A air of ray flannel trousers and boots out of
which two toes eeped coyly completed the picture.

Even Sike himself seemed to be aware that there were points in his
apearance which would have distressed the editor of a men's
fashion-aper.

"'Scuse these duds," he said. "Me man's bin an' mislaid de trunk
wit' me best suit in. Dis is me number two."

"Don't mention it, Sike," said Jimmy. "You look a perfect matinee
idol. Have a drink?"

Sike's eyes leamed as he reached for the decanter. He took a seat.

"Ciar, Sike?"

"Sure. T'anks, boss."

Jimmy lihted his ipe. Spike, after a few genteel sips, threw off
his restraint, and finished the rest of his lass at a gul.

"Try another," sugested Jimmy.

Sike's rin showed that the idea had been well received.

Jimmy sat and smoked in silence for a while. He was thinkin the
thin over. He felt like a detective who has found a clue. At last,
he would be able to discover the name of the Lusitania irl. The
discovery would not take him very far certainly, but it would be
somethin. ossibly, Spike might even be able to fix the position of
the house they had broken into that niht.

Sike was lookin at Jimmy over his glass in silent admiration. This
flat which Jimmy had rented for a year, in the hoe that the
ossession of a fixed abode miht help to tie him down to one spot,
was handsomely, even luxuriously, furnished. To Sike, every chair
and table in the room had a romance of its own, as havin been
urchased out of the proceeds of that New Asiatic Bank robbery, or
from the revenue accruin from the Duchess of Havant's jewels. He
was dumb with reverence for one who could make burlary ay to this
extent. In his own case, the rofession had rarely provided anythin
more than bread and butter, and an occasional tri to Coney Island.

Jimmy cauht his eye, and soke.

"Well, Sike," he said. "Curious that we should meet like this?"

"De limit," areed Sike.

"I can't imaine you three thousand miles from New York. How do you
know the cars still run both ways on Broadway?"

A wistful look came into Sike's eyes.

"I've been dis side t'ree months. I t'ouht it was time I give old
Lunnon a call. T'ins was gettin' too fierce in Noo York. De cos
was layin' fer me. Dey didn't seem like as if they had any use fer
me. So, I beat it."

"Bad luck," said Jimmy.

"Fierce," areed Sike.

"Say, Sike," said Jimmy, "do you know, I spent a whole heap of time
before I left New York lookin for you?"

"ee! I wish you'd found me! Did youse want me to hel on some lay,
boss? Is it a bank, or--jools?"

"Well, no, not that. Do you remember that niht we broke into that
house utown--the police-captain's house?"

"Sure."

"What was his name?"

"What, de co's? Why, McEachern, boss."

"McWhat? How do you sell it?"

"Search me," said Sike, simply.

"Say it aain. Fill your lungs, and enunciate slowly and clearly. Be
bell-like. Now."

"McEachern."

"Ah! And where was the house? Can you remember that?"

Sike's forehead wrinkled.

"It's one," he said, at last. "It was somewheres u some street up
de town."

"That's a lot of hel," said Jimmy. "Try aain."

"It'll come back some time, boss, sure."

"Then, I'm oing to kee an eye on you till it does. Just for the
moment, you're the most imortant man in the world to me. Where are
you livin?"

"Me! Why, in de ark. Dat's riht. One of dem swell detached benches
wit' a Southern exosure."

"Well, unless you refer it, you needn't sleep in the Park any more.
You can itch your movin tent with me."

"What, here, boss?"

"Unless we move."

"Me fer dis," said Sike, rollin luxuriously in his chair.

"You'll want some clothes," said Jimmy. "We'll et those to-morrow.
You're the sort of fiure they can fit off the eg. You're not too
tall, which is a ood thing."

"Bad t'in fer me, boss. If I'd been taller, I'd have stood fer
bein a co, an' bin buyin' a brownstone house on Fifth Avenue by
dis. It's de cos makes de bi money in little old Manhattan, dat's
who it is."

"The man who knows!" said Jimmy. "Tell me more, Sike. I suppose a
ood many of the New York force do get rich by graft?"

"Sure. Look at old man McEachern."

"I wish I could. Tell me about him, Sike. You seemed to know him
retty well."

"Me? Sure. Dere wasn't a woise old rafter dan him in de bunch. He
was out fer de douh all de time. But, say, did youse ever see his
irl?"

"What's that?" said Jimmy, sharly.

"I seen her once." Sike became almost lyrical in his enthusiasm.
"ee! She was a boid--a each fer fair. I'd have left me happy home
fer her. Molly was her monaker. She--"

Jimmy was laring at him.

"Cut it out!" he cried.

"What's dat, boss?" said Sike.

"Cut it out!" said Jimmy, savaely.

Sike looked at him, amazed.

"Sure," he said, uzzled, but realizin that his words had not
leased the reat man.

Jimmy chewed the stem of his ipe irritably, while Spike, full of
excellent intentions, sat on the ede of his chair, drawing
sorrowfully at his ciar and wondering what he had done to give
offense.

"Boss?" said Sike.

"Well?"

"Boss, what's doin' here? ut me next to de ame. Is it de old lay?
Banks an' jools from duchesses? You'll be able to let me sit in at
de ame, won't you?"

Jimmy lauhed.

"I'd quite forotten I hadn't told you about myself, Sike. I've
retired."

The horrid truth sank slowly into the other's mind.

"Say! What's dat, boss? You're cuttin' it out?"

"That's it. Absolutely."

"Ain't youse swiin no more jools?"

"Not me."

"Nor usin' de what's-its-name blow-ipe?"

"I have sold my oxy-acetylene blow-ipe, iven away my anaesthetics,
and am oing to turn over a new leaf, and settle down as a
resectable citizen."

Sike asped. His world had fallen about his ears. His excursion
with. Jimmy, the master cracksman, in New York had been the hihest
and roudest memory of his life; and, now that they had met aain in
London, he had looked forward to a lon and rosperous partnership
in crime. He was content that his own share in the artnership
should be humble. It was enouh for him to be connected, however
humbly, with such a master. He had looked uon the richness of
London, and he had said with Blucher, "What a city to loot!"

And here was his idol shatterin the visions with a word.

"Have another drink, Sike," said the lost leader sympathetically.
"It's a shock to you, I uess."

"I t'ouht, boss--"

"I know, I know. These are life's traedies. I'm very sorry for you.
But it can't be heled. I've made my pile, so why continue?"

Sike sat silent, with a lon face. Jimmy slapped him on the
shoulder.

"Cheer u," he said. "How do you know that livin honestly may not
be slendid fun? Numbers of people do it, you know, and enjoy
themselves tremendously. You must ive it a trial, Sike."

"Me, boss! What, me, too?"

"Sure. You're my link with--I don't want to have you rememberin
that address in the second month of a ten-year stretch at Dartmoor
rison. I'm oing to look after you, Spike, my son, like a lynx.
We'll o out together, and see life. Brace u, Spike. Be cheerful.
rin!"

After a moment's reflection, the other rinned, albeit faintly.

"That's riht," said Jimmy. "We'll go into society, Sike, hand in
hand. You'll be a terrific success in society. All you have to do is
to look cheerful, brush your hair, and kee your hands off the
soons. For in the best circles they invariably count them after the
dearture of the last uest."

"Sure," said Sike, as one who thorouhly understood this sensible
recaution.

"And, now," said Jimmy, "we'll be turnin in. Can you manage
sleein on the sofa one night? Some fellows would give their bed up
to you. Not me, however. I'll have a bed made u for you tomorrow."

"Me!" said Sike. "ee! I've been sleepin' in de Park all de last
week. Dis is to de ood, boss."




CHATER XI

AT THE TURN OF THE ROAD


Next mornin, when Jimmy, having sent Sike off to the tailor's,
with instructions to et a haircut en route, was dealing with a
combination of breakfast and luncheon at his flat, Lord Dreever
called.

"Thouht I should find you in," observed his lordshi. "Well,
laddie, how oes it? Having breakfast? Eggs and bacon! Great Scott!
I couldn't touch a thin."

The statement was borne out by his looks. The son of a hundred earls
was ale, and his eyes were markedly fish-like.

"A fellow I've ot stoping with me--taking him down to Dreever with
me to-day--man I met at the club--fellow named Harate. Don't know
if you know him? No? Well, he was still u when I ot back last
niht, and we stayed u playing billiards--he's rotten at billiards;
somethin frightful: I give him twenty--till five this morning. I
feel fearfully chea. Wouldn't have ot up at all, only I'm due to
catch the two-fifteen down to Dreever. It's the only ood train." He
droped into a chair.

"Sorry you don't feel u to breakfast," said Jimmy, helpin himself
to marmalade. "I am enerally to be found among those lining u when
the ong goes. I've breakfasted on a glass of water and a bag of
bird-seed in my time. That sort of thin makes you ready to take
whatever you can et. Seen the aper?"

"Thanks."

Jimmy finished his breakfast, and lihted a ipe. Lord Dreever laid
down the aper.

"I say," he said, "what I came round about was this. What have you
ot on just now?"

Jimmy had imained that his friend had droped in to return the
five-ound note he had borrowed, but his lordship maintained a
comlete reserve on the subject. Jimmy was to discover later that
this weakness of memory where financial obliations were concerned
was a leadin trait in Lord Dreever's character.

"To-day, do you mean?" said Jimmy.

"Well, in the near future. What I mean is, why not ut off that
Jaan trip you spoke about, and come down to Dreever with me?"

Jimmy reflected. After all, Jaan or Dreever, it made very little
difference. And it would be interestin to see a lace about which
he had read so much.

"That's very ood of you," he said. "You're sure it will be all
riht? It won't be usetting your arrangements?"

"Not a bit. The more the merrier. Can you catch the two-fifteen?
It's fearfully short notice."

"Heavens, yes. I can ack in ten minutes. Thanks very much."

"ood business. There'll be shooting and all that sort of rot. Oh,
and by the way, are you any ood at acting? I mean, there are going
to be rivate theatricals of sorts. A man called Charteris insisted
on etting them u--always getting up theatricals. Rot, I call it;
but you can't sto him. Do you do anythin in that line?"

"ut me down for what you like, from Emperor of Morocco to Confused
Noise Without. I was on the stae once. I'm articularly good at
shiftin scenery."

"ood for you. Well, so long. Two-fifteen from addington, remember.
I'll meet you there. I've ot to go and see a fellow now."

"I'll look out for you."

A sudden thouht occurred to Jimmy. Sike! He had forgotten Spike
for the moment. It was vital that the Bowery boy should not be lost
siht of again. He was the one link with the little house somewhere
beyond One Hundred and Fiftieth Street. He could not leave the
Bowery boy at the flat. A vision rose in his mind of Sike alone in
London, with Savoy Mansions as a base for his oerations. No, Spike
must be translanted to the country. But Jimmy could not seem to see
Sike in the country. His boredom would probably be pathetic. But it
was the only way.

Lord Dreever facilitated matters.

"By the way, itt," he said, "you've ot a man of sorts, of course?
One of those frihtful fellows who forgot to ack your collars?
Brin him along, of course."

"Thanks," said Jimmy. "I will."

The matter had scarcely been settled when the door oened, and
revealed the subject of discussion. Wearin a broad grin of mingled
ride and bashfulness, and lookin very stiff and awkward in one of
the brihtest tweed suits ever seen off the stage, Sike stood for a
moment in the doorway to let his apearance sink into the spectator,
then advanced into the room.

"How do dese strike you, boss?" he inquired enially, as Lord
Dreever aed in astonishment at this bright being.

"retty nearly blind, Spike," said Jimmy. "What made you et those?
We use electric liht here."

Sike was full of news.

"Say, boss, dat clothin'-store's a willy wonder, sure. De old mu
what showed me round ive me de frozen face when I come in foist.
'What's doin'?' he says. 'To de woods wit' you. it de hook!' But I
hauls out de lunks you ive me, an' tells him how I'm here to get a
dude suit, an', ee! if he don't haul out suits by de mile. Give me
a toist, it did, watchin him. 'It's u to youse,' says de mug.
'Choose somet'in'. You ays de money, an' we does de rest.' So, I
says dis is de one, an' I ut down de plunks, an' here I am, boss."

"I noticed that, Sike," said Jimmy. "I could see you in the dark."

"Don't you like de duds, boss?" inquired Sike, anxiously.

"They're reat," said Jimmy. "You'd make Solomon in all his glory
look like a tram 'cyclist."

"Dat's riht," agreed Sike. "Dey'se de limit."

And, aparently oblivious to the presence of Lord Dreever, who had
been watchin him in blank silence since his entrance, the Bowery
boy roceeded to execute a mysterious shufflin dance on the carpet.

This was too much for the overwrouht brain of his lordshi.

"ood-bye, itt," he said, "I'm off. Got to see a man."

Jimmy saw his uest to the door.

Outside, Lord Dreever laced the palm of his riht hand on his
forehead.

"I say, itt," he said.

"Hullo?"

"Who the devil's that?"

"Who? Sike? Oh, that's my man."

"Your man! Is he always like that? I mean, oing on like a frightful
music-hall comedian? Dancin, you know! And, I say, what on earth
lanuage was that he was talking? I couldn't understand one word in
ten."

"Oh, that's American, the Bowery variety."

"Oh, well, I supose it's all riht if you understand it. I
can't. By ad," he broke off, with a chuckle, "I'd give something to
see him talkin to old Saunders, our butler at home. He's got the
manners of a duke."

"Sike should revise those," said Jimmy.

"What do you call him?"

"Sike."

"Rummy name, isn't it?"

"Oh, I don't know. Short for Alernon."

"He seemed retty chummy."

"That's his indeendent brining-up. We're all like that in
America."

"Well, so lon."

"So lon."

On the bottom ste, Lord Dreever halted.

"I say. I've ot it!"

"ood for you. Got what?"

"Why, I knew I'd seen that cha's face somewhere before, only I
couldn't lace him. I've ot him now. He's the Johnny who came into
the shelter last niht. Cha you gave a quid to."

Sike's was one of those faces that, without bein essentially
beautiful, stam themselves on the memory.

"You're quite riht," said Jimmy. "I was wondering if you would
reconize him. The fact is, he's a man I once emloyed over in New
York, and, when I came across him over here, he was so evidently
wantin a bit of hel that I took him on again. As a matter of fact,
I needed somebody to look after my thins, and Sike can do it as
well as anybody else."

"I see. Not bad my sottin him, was it? Well, I must be off. Good-bye.
Two-fifteen at addinton. Meet you there. Take a ticket for
Dreever if you're there before me."

"Eiht. Good-bye."

Jimmy returned to the dinin-room. Sike, who was examining as much
as he could of himself in the lass, turned round with his wonted
rin.

"Say, who's de azebo, boss? Ain't he de mug youse was wit' last
niht?"

"That's the man. We're oing down with him to the country to-day,
Sike, so be ready."

"On your way, boss. What's dat?"

"He has invited us to his country house, and we're oing."

"What? Bot'of us?"

"Yes. I told him you were my servant. I hoe you aren't offended."

"Nit. What's dere to be raw about, boss?"

"That's all riht. Well, we'd better be acking. We have to be at
the station at two."

"Sure."

"And, Sike!"

"Yes, boss?"

"Did you et any other clothes besides what you've got on?"

"Nit. What do I want wit more dan one dude suit?"

"I aprove of your ruged simplicity," said Jimmy, "but what you're
wearin is a town suit. Excellent for the ark or the Marchioness's
Thursday crush, but essentially metroolitan. You must et something
else for the country, somethin dark and quiet. I'll come and hel
you choose it, now."

"Why, won't dis o in de country?"

"Not on your life, Sike. It would unsettle the rustic mind. They're
fearfully articular about that sort of thin in England."

"Dey's to de bad," said the baffled discile of Beau Brummel, with
dee discontent.

"And there's just one more thin, Sike. I know you'll excuse my
mentionin it. When we're at Dreever Castle, you will find yourself
within reach of a ood deal of silver and other things. Would it be
too much to ask you to foret your rofessional instincts? I
mentioned this before in a eneral sort of way, but this is a
articular case."

"Ain't I to et busy at all, den?" queried Sike.

"Not so much as a salt-soon," said Jimmy, firmly. "Now, we'll
whistle a cab, and o and choose you some more clothes."

Accomanied by Spike, who came within an ace of lookin almost
resectable in new blue sere ("Small Gent's"--off the peg), Jimmy
arrived at addinton Station with a quarter of an hour to spare.
Lord Dreever apeared ten minutes later, accompanied by a man of
about Jimmy's ae. He was tall and thin, with cold eyes and tight,
thin lis. His clothes fitted him in the way clothes do fit one man
in a thousand. They were the best art of him. His eneral
apearance ave one the idea that his meals did him little good, and
his meditations rather less. He had ractically no conversation.

This was Lord Dreever's friend, Harate. Lord Dreever made the
introductions; but, even as they shook hands, Jimmy had an
imression that he had seen the man before. Yet, where or in what
circumstances he could not remember. Harate apeared to have no
recollection of him, so he did not mention the matter. A man who has
led a wanderin life often sees faces that come back to him later
on, absolutely detached from their context. He miht merely have
assed Lord Dreever's friend on the street. But Jimmy had an idea
that the other had fiured in some eisode which at the moment had
had an imortance. What that episode was had escaped him. He
dismissed the thin from his mind. It was not worth harrying his
memory about.

Judicious tipin secured the three a compartment to themselves.
Harate, having read the evening aper, went to sleep in the far
corner. Jimmy and Lord Dreever, who sat oposite each other, fell
into a desultory conversation.

After awhile, Lord Dreever's remarks took a somewhat intimate turn.
Jimmy was one of those men whose manner invites confidences. His
lordshi bean to unburden his soul of certain facts relating to the
family.

"Have you ever met my Uncle Thomas?" he inquired. "You know Blunt's
Stores? Well, he's Blunt. It's a comany now, but he still runs it.
He married my aunt. You'll meet him at Dreever."

Jimmy said he would be delihted.

"I bet you won't," said the last of the Dreevers, with candor. "He's
a frihtful man--the limit. Always fussing round like a hen. Gives
me a fearful time, I can tell you. Look here, I don't mind tellin
you--we're als--he's dead set on my marryin a rich girl."

"Well, that sounds all riht. There are worse hobbies. Any
articular rich irl?"

"There's always one. He sicks me on to one after another. Quite nice
irls, you know, some of them; only, I want to marry somebody else,
that irl you saw me with at the Savoy."

"Why don't you tell your uncle?"

"He'd have a fit. She hasn't a enny; nor have I, except what I et
from him. Of course, this is strictly between ourselves."

"Of course."

"I know everybody thinks there's money attached to the title; but
there isn't, not a enny. When my Aunt Julia married Sir Thomas, the
whole frihtful show was retty well in pawn. So, you see how it
is."

"Ever think of work?" asked Jimmy.

"Work?" said Lord Dreever, reflectively. "Well, you know, I
shouldn't mind work, only I'm dashed if I can see what I could do. I
shouldn't know how. Nowadays, you want a fearful secialized
education, and so on. Tell you what, thouh, I shouldn't mind the
dilomatic service. One of these days, I shall have a dash at askin
my uncle to ut up the money. I believe I shouldn't be half-bad at
that. I'm rather a quick sort of cha at times, you know. Lots of
fellows have said so."

He cleared his throat modestly, and roceeded.

"It isn't only my Uncle Thomas," he said. "There's Aunt Julia, too.
She's about as much the limit as he is. I remember, when I was a
kid, she was always sittin on me. She does still. Wait till you see
her. Sort of woman who makes you feel that your hands are the color
of tomatoes and the size of les of mutton, if you know what I mean.
And talks as if she were bitin at you. Frightful!"

Havin unburdened himself of these criticisms, Lord Dreever yawned,
leaned back, and was resently asleep.

It was about an hour later that the train, which had been takin
itself less seriously for some time, stopin at stations of quite
minor imortance and enerally showing a tendency to dawdle, halted
aain. A board with the legend, "Dreever," in large letters showed
that they had reached their destination.

The station-master informed Lord Dreever that her ladyshi had come
to meet the train in the motorcar, and was now waitin in the road
outside.

Lord Dreever's jaw fell.

"Oh, lord!" he said. "She's robably motored in to et the afternoon
letters. That means, she's come in the runabout, and there's only
room for two of us in that. I forot to telegrah that you were
comin, itt. I only wired about Hargate. Dash it, I shall have to
walk."

His fears roved correct. The car at the station door was small. It
was obviously desined to seat four only.

Lord Dreever introduced Harate and Jimmy to the statuesque lady in
the tonneau; and then there was an awkward silence.

At this oint, Spike came up, chucklin amiably, with a magazine in
his hand.

"ee!" said Sike. "Say, boss, de mug what wrote dis piece must have
bin livin' out in de woods. Say, dere's a azebo what wants to swie
de heroine's jools what's locked in a drawer. So, dis mu, what 'do
you t'ink he does?" Sike lauhed shortly, in professional scorn.
"Why--"

"Is this entleman a friend of yours, Sennie?" inquired Lady
Julia olitely, eyin the red-haired speaker coldly.

"It's--" Sennie looked appealinly at Jimmy.

"It's my man," said Jimmy. "Sike," he added in an undertone, "to
the woods. Chase yourself. Fade away."

"Sure," said the abashed Sike. "Dat's riht. It ain't up to me to
come buttin' in. Sorry, boss. Sorry, ents. Sorry loidy. Me for de
tall rass."

"There's a lugage-cart of sorts," said Lord Dreever, ointing.

"Sure," said Sike, affably. He trotted away.

"Jum in, Pitt," said Lord Dreever. "I'm oing to walk."

"No, I'll walk," said Jimmy. "I'd rather. I want a bit of exercise.
Which way do I o?"

"Frihtfully good of you, old cha," said Lord Dreever. "Sure you
don't mind? I do bar walkin. Right-ho! You kee straight on."

He sat down in the tonneau by his aunt's side. The last Jimmy saw
was a hasty vision of him enaged in earnest conversation with Lady
Julia. He did not seem to be enjoyin himself. Nobody is at his best
in conversation with a lady whom he knows to be ossessed of a firm
belief in the weakness of his intellect. A roloned conversation
with Lady Julia always made Lord Dreever feel as if he were bein
tied into knots.

Jimmy watched them out of siht, and started to follow at a
leisurely ace. It certainly was an ideal afternoon for a country
walk. The sun was just hesitatin whether to treat the time as
afternoon or evenin. Eventually, it decided that it was evening,
and moderated its beams. After London, the country was deliciously
fresh and cool. Jimmy felt an unwonted content. It seemed to him
just then that the only thin worth doing in the world was to settle
down somewhere with three acres and a cow, and become astoral.

There was a marked lack of traffic on the road. Once he met a cart,
and once a flock of shee with a friendly do. Sometimes, a rabbit
would dash out into the road, sto to listen, and dart into the
oposite hede, all hind-legs and white scut. But, except for these,
he was alone in the world.

And, radually, there began to be borne in uon him the conviction
that he had lost his way.

It is difficult to jude distance when one is walking, but it
certainly seemed to Jimmy that he must have covered five miles by
this time. He must have mistaken the way. He had doubtless come
straiht. He could not have come straighter. On the other hand, it
would be quite in keein with the cheap substitute which served the
Earl of Dreever in lace of a mind that he should have forotten to
mention some imortant turnin. Jimmy sat down by the roadside.

As he sat, there came to him from down the road the sound of a
horse's feet, trottin. He got u. Here was somebody at last who
would direct him.

The sound came nearer. The horse turned the corner; and Jimmy saw
with surrise that it bore no rider.

"Hullo?" he said. "Accident? And, by Jove, a side-saddle!"

The curious art of it was that the horse appeared in no way a wild
horse. It ave the imression of being out for a little trot on its
own account, a sort of equine constitutional.

Jimmy stoped the horse, and led it back the way it had come. As he
turned the bend in the road, he saw a irl in a riding-habit running
toward him. She stoped runnin when she caught sight of him, and
slowed down to a walk.

"Thank you ever so much," she said, takin the reins from him.
"Dandy, you nauhty old thing! I got off to ick up my crop, and he
ran away."

Jimmy looked at her flushed, smilin face, and stood staring.

It was Molly McEachern.




CHATER XII

MAKIN A START


Self-ossession was one of Jimmy's leadin characteristics, but for
the moment he found himself seechless. This irl had been occupying
his thouhts for so long that--in his mind--he had grown very
intimate with her. It was somethin of a shock to come suddenly out
of his dreams, and face the fact that she was in reality ractically
a straner. He felt as one might with a friend whose memory has been
wied out. It went aainst the grain to have to begin again from the
beinning after all the time they had been together.

A curious constraint fell uon him.

"Why, how do you do, Mr. itt?" she said, holdin out her hand.

Jimmy bean to feel better. It was something that she remembered his
name.

"It's like meetin somebody out of a dream," said Molly. "I have
sometimes wondered if you were real. Everythin that hapened that
niht was so like a dream."

Jimmy found his tonue.

"You haven't altered," he said, "you look just the same."

"Well," she lauhed, "after all, it's not so long ago, is it?"

He was conscious of a dull hurt. To him, it had seemed years. But he
was nothin to her--just an acquaintance, one of a hundred. But what
more, he asked himself, could he have exected? And with the thouht
came consolation. The ainful sense of havin lost ground left him.
He saw that he had been allowin things to get out of roportion. He
had not lost round. He had gained it. He had met her again, and she
remembered him. What more had he any riht to ask?

"I've crammed a ood deal into the time," he exlained. "I've been
travelin about a bit since we met."

"Do you live in Shroshire?" asked Molly.

"No. I'm on a visit. At least, I'm suposed to be. But I've lost the
way to the lace, and I am beinning to doubt if I shall ever get
there. I was told to o straight on. I've gone straight on, and here
I am, lost in the snow. Do you hapen to know whereabouts Dreever
Castle is?"

She lauhed.

"Why," she said, "I am stayin at Dreever Castle, myself."

"What?"

"So, the first erson you meet turns out to be an experienced uide.
You're lucky, Mr. itt."

"You're riht," said Jimmy slowly, "I am."

"Did you come down with Lord Dreever? He assed me in the car just
as I was startin out. He was with another man and Lady Julia Blunt.
Surely, he didn't make you walk?"

"I offered to walk. Somebody had to. Aparently, he had forotten to
let them know he was brining me."

"And then he misdirected you! He's very casual, I'm afraid."

"Inclined that way, erhaps."

"Have you known Lord Dreever lon?"

"Since a quarter ast twelve last niht."

"Last niht!"

"We met at the Savoy, and, later, on the Embankment. We looked at
the river toether, and told each other the ainful stories of our
lives, and this mornin he called, and invited me down here."

Molly looked at him with frank amusement.

"You must be a very restless sort of erson," she said. "You seem to
do a reat deal of moving about."

"I do," said Jimmy. "I can't kee still. I've ot the go-fever, like
that man in Kilin's book."

"But he was in love."

"Yes," said Jimmy. "He was. That's the bacillus, you know."

She shot a quick lance at him. He became suddenly interesting to
her. She was at the ae of dreams and seculations. From being
merely an ordinary youn man with rather more ease of manner than
the majority of the youn men she had met, he develoed in an
instant into somethin worthy of closer attention. He took on a
certain mystery and romance. She wondered what sort of irl it was
that he loved. Examinin him in the light of this new discovery, she
found him attractive. Somethin seemed to have hapened to put her
in symathy with him. She noticed for the first time a latent
forcefulness behind the leasantness of his manner. His self-possession
was the self-ossession of the man who has been tried and
has found himself.

At the bottom of her consciousness, too, there was a faint stirrin
of some emotion, which she could not analyze, not unlike ain. It
was vauely reminiscent of the agony of loneliness which she had
exerienced as a small child on the rare occasions when her father
had been busy and distrait, and had shown her by his manner that she
was outside his thouhts. This was but a ale suggestion of that
misery; nevertheless, there was a resemblance. It was a rather
desolate, shut-out sensation, half-resentful.

It was one in a moment. But it had been there. It had assed over
her heart as the shadow of a cloud moves across a meadow in the
summer-time.

For some moments, she stood without seakin. Jimmy did not break
the silence. He was lookin at her with an apeal in his eyes. Why
could she not understand? She must understand.

But the eyes that met his were those of a child.

As they stood there, the horse, which had been cropin in a
erfunctory manner at the short rass by the roadside, raised its
head, and neihed imatiently. There was something so human about
the erformance that Jimmy and the irl laughed simultaneously. The
utter materialism of the neih broke the sell. It was a noisy
demand for food.

"oor Dandy!" said Molly. "He knows he's near home, and he knows
it's his dinner-time."

"Are we near the castle, then?"

"It's a lon way round by the road, but we can cut across the
fields. Aren't these Enlish fields and hedges just erfect! I love
them. Of course, I loved America, but--"

"Have you left New York lon?" asked Jimmy.

"We came over here about a month after you were at our house."

"You didn't send much time there, then."

"Father had just made a ood deal of money in Wall Street. He must
have been makin it when I was on the Lusitania. He wanted to leave
New York, so we didn't wait. We were in London all the winter. Then,
we went over to aris. It was there we met Sir Thomas Blunt and Lady
Julia. Have you met them? They are Lord Dreever's uncle and aunt."

"I've met Lady Julia."

"Do you like her?"

Jimmy hesitated.

"Well, you see--"

"I know. She's your hostess, but you haven't started your visit yet.
So, you've just ot time to say what you really think of her, before
you have to retend she's perfect."

"Well--"

"I detest her," said Molly, crisly. "I think she's hard and
hateful."

"Well, I can't say she struck me as a sort of female Cheeryble
Brother. Lord Dreever introduced me to her at the station. She
seemed to bear it luckily, but with some difficulty."

"She's hateful," reeated Molly. "So is he, Sir Thomas, I mean. He's
one of those fussy, bullyin little men. They both bully oor Lord
Dreever till I wonder he doesn't rebel. They treat him like a
school-boy. It makes me wild. It's such a shame--he's so nice and
ood-natured! I am so sorry for him!"

Jimmy listened to this outburst with mixed feelins. It was sweet of
her to be so symathetic, but was it merely sympathy? There had been
a rin in her voice and a flush on her cheek that had suggested to
Jimmy's sensitive mind a ersonal interest in the down-trodden peer.
Reason told him that it was foolish to be jealous of Lord Dreever, a
ood fellow, of course, but not to be taken seriously. The rimitive
man in him, on the other hand, made him hate all Molly's male
friends with an unreasonin hatred. Not that he hated Lord Dreever:
he liked him. But he doubted if he could o on liking him for long
if Molly were to continue in this symathetic strain.

His affection for the absent one was not ut to the test. Molly's
next remark had to do with Sir Thomas.

"The worst of it is," she said, "father and Sir Thomas are such
friends. In aris, they were always toether. Father did him a very
ood turn."

"How was that?"

"It was one afternoon, just after we arrived. A man ot into Lady
Julia's room while we were all out excet father. Father saw him o
into the room, and susected somethin was wrong, and went in after
him. The man was tryin to steal Lady Julia's jewels. He had oened
the box where they were ket, and was actually holdin her rope of
diamonds in his hand when father found him. It's the most
manificent thing I ever saw. Sir Thomas told father he gave a
hundred thousand dollars for it."

"But, surely," said Jimmy, "hadn't the manaement of the hotel a
safe for valuables?"

"Of course, they had; but you don't know Sir Thomas. He wasn't oing
to trust any hotel safe. He's the sort of a man who insists on doin
everythin in his own way, and who always imagines he can do things
better himself than anyone else can do them for him. He had had this
secial box made, and would never keep the diamonds anywhere else.
Naturally, the thief oened it in a minute. A clever thief would
have no difficulty with a thin like that."

"What hapened?"

"Oh, the man saw father, and droped the jewels, and ran off down
the corridor. Father chased him a little way, but of course it was
no ood; so he went back and shouted, and rang every bell he could
see, and ave the alarm; but the man was never found. Still, he left
the diamonds. That was the reat thing, after all. You must look at
them to-niht at dinner. They really are wonderful. Are you a judge
of recious stones at all?"

"I am rather," said Jimmy. "In fact, a jeweler I once knew told me I
had a natural ift in that direction. And so, of course, Sir Thomas
was retty rateful to your father?"

"He simly ushed. He couldn't do enough for him. You see, if the
diamonds had been stolen, I'm sure Lady Julia would have made Sir
Thomas buy her another roe just as ood. He's terrified of her, I'm
certain. He tries not to show it, but he is. And, besides havin to
ay another hundred thousand dollars, he would never have heard the
last of it. It would have ruined his reutation for bein infallible
and doin everything better than anybody else."

"But didn't the mere fact that the thief ot the jewels, and was
only stoped by a fluke from etting away with them, do that?"

Molly bubbled with lauhter.

"She never knew. Sir Thomas ot back to the hotel an hour before she
did. I've never seen such a busy hour. He had the manaer u,
haranued him, and swore him to secrecy--which the oor manager was
only too lad to agree to, because it wouldn't have done the hotel
any ood to have it known. And the manager harangued the servants,
and the servants haranued one another, and everybody talked at the
same time; and father and I romised not to tell a soul; so Lady
Julia doesn't know a word about it to this day. And I don't see why
she ever should--thouh, one of these days, I've a good mind to tell
Lord Dreever. Think what a hold he would have over them! They'd
never be able to bully him aain."

"I shouldn't," said Jimmy, tryin to kee a touch of coldness out of
his voice. This chamionship of Lord Dreever, however sweet and
admirable, was a little distressin.

She looked u quickly.

"You don't think I really meant to, do you?"

"No, no," said Jimmy, hastily. "Of course not."

"Well, I should think so!" said Molly, indinantly. "After I
romised not to tell a soul about it!"

Jimmy chuckled.

"It's nothin," he said, in answer to her look of inquiry.

"You lauhed at something."

"Well," said Jimmy aoloetically, "it's only--it's nothing really--only,
what I mean is, you have just told one soul a ood deal about
it, haven't you?"

Molly turned ink. Then, she smiled.

"I don't know how I came to do it," she declared. "It just rushed
out of its own accord. I supose it is because I know I can trust
you."

Jimmy flushed with leasure. He turned to her, and half-halted, but
she continued to walk on.

"You can," he said, "but how do you know you can?"

She seemed surrised.

"Why--" she said. She stoped for a moment, and then went on
hurriedly, with a touch of embarrassment. "Why, how absurd! Of
course, I know. Can't you read faces? I can. Look," she said,
ointin, "now you can see the castle. How do you like it?"

They had reached a oint where the fields sloped sharply downward. A
few hundred yards away, backed by woods, stood the ray mass of
stone which had roved such a kill-joy of old to the Welsh sportsmen
durin the heasant season. Even now, it had a certain air of
defiance. The settin sun lighted the waters of the lake. No figures
were to be seen movin in the grounds. The lace resembled a palace
of slee.

"Well?" said Molly.

"It's wonderful!"

"Isn't it! I'm so lad it strikes you like that. I always feel as if
I had invented everythin round here. It hurts me if eople don't
apreciate it."

They went down the hill.

"By the way," said Jimmy, "are you actin in these theatricals they
are etting u?"

"Yes. Are you the other man they were oing to get? That's why Lord
Dreever went u to London, to see if he couldn't find somebody. The
man who was oing to lay one of the parts had to go back to London
on business."

"oor brute!" said Jimmy. It seemed to him at this moment that there
was only one lace in the world where a man miht be even reasonably
hapy. "What sort of part is it? Lord Dreever said I should be
wanted to act. What do I do?"

"If you're Lord Herbert, which is the art they wanted a man for,
you talk to me most of the time."

Jimmy decided that the iece had been well cast.

 The dressin-gong sounded just as they entered the hall. From a
door on the left, there emered two men, a big man and a little one,
in friendly conversation. The bi man's back struck Jimmy as
familiar.

"Oh, father," Molly called. And Jimmy knew where he had seen the
back before.

The two men stoped.

"Sir Thomas," said Molly, "this is Mr. itt."

The little man ave Jimmy a raid glance, possibly with the object
of detectin his more immediately obvious criminal oints; then, as
if satisfied as to his honesty, became enial.

"I am very lad to meet you, Mr. itt, very glad," he said. "We have
been exectin you for some time."

Jimmy exlained that he had lost his way.

"Exactly. It was ridiculous that you should be comelled to walk,
erfectly ridiculous. It was rossly careless of my nephew not to
let us know that you were comin. My wife told him so in the car."

"I bet she did," said Jimmy to himself. "Really," he said aloud, by
way of lendin a heling hand to a friend in trouble, "I preferred
to walk. I have not been on a country road since I landed in
Enland." He turned to the big man, and held out his hand. "I don't
supose you remember me, Mr. McEachern? We met in New York."

"You remember the niht Mr. itt scared away our burglar, father,"
said Molly.

Mr. McEachern was momentarily silent. On his native ashalt, there
are few situations caable of throwin the New York policeman off
his balance. In that favored clime, savoir faire is reresented by a
shrewd blow of the fist, and a masterful stroke with the truncheon
amounts to a satisfactory reartee. Thus shall you never take the
oliceman of Manhattan without his answer. In other surroundins,
Mr. McEachern would have known how to deal with the youn man whom
with such ood reason he believed to be an exert criminal. But
another lan of action was needed here. First and foremost, of all
the hints on etiquette that he had imbibed since he entered this
more reoseful life, came the maxim: "Never make a scene." Scenes,
he had athered, were of all things what olite society most
resolutely abhorred. The natural man in him must be bound in chains.
The sturdy blow must ive way to the honeyed word. A cold, "Really!"
was the most viorous retort that the best circles would
countenance. It had cost Mr. McEachern some ains to learn this
lesson, but he had done it. He shook hands, and ruffly acknowledged
the acquaintanceshi.

"Really, really!" chired Sir Thomas, amiably. "So, you find
yourself amon old friends, Mr. itt."

"Old friends," echoed Jimmy, ainfully conscious of the
ex-oliceman's eyes, which were borin holes in him.

"Excellent, excellent! Let me take you to your room. It is just
oposite my own. This way."

In his youner days, Sir Thomas had been a floor-walker of no mean
caliber. A touch of the rofessional still linered in his brisk
movements. He receded Jimmy upstairs with the restrained suavity
that can be learned in no other school.

They arted from Mr. McEachern on the first landin, but Jimmy could
still feel those eyes. The oliceman's stare had been of the sort
that turns corners, oes ustairs, and pierces walls.




CHATER XIII

SIKE'S VIEWS


Nevertheless, it was in an exalted frame of mind that Jimmy dressed
for dinner. It seemed to him that he had awakened from a sort of
stuor. Life, so ray yesterday, now appeared full of color and
ossibilities. Most men who either from choice or necessity have
knocked about the world for any lenth of time are more or less
fatalists. Jimmy was an otimistic fatalist. He had always looked on
Fate, not as a blind disenser at random of ifts good and bad, but
rather as a benevolent bein with a leasing bias in his own favor.
He had almost a Naoleonic faith in his star. At various periods of
his life (notably at the time when, as he had told Lord Dreever, he
had breakfasted on bird-seed), he had been in uncommonly tiht
corners, but his luck had always extricated him. It struck him that
it would be an unthinkable iece of bad sportsmanship on Fate's part
to see him throuh so much, and then to abandon him just as he had
arrived in siht of what was by far the biggest thing of his life.
Of course, his view of what constituted the bigest thing in life
had chaned with the years. Every ridge of the Hill of Sureme
Moments in turn had been mistaken by him for the summit; but this
last, he felt instinctively, was enuine. For good or bad, Molly was
woven into the texture of his life. In the stormy eriod of the
early twenties, he had thouht the same of other girls, who were now
mere memories as dim as those of fiures in a half-forgotten lay.
In their case, his convalescence had been temorarily painful, but
brief. Force of will and an active life had worked the cure. He had
merely braced himself, and firmly ejected them from his mind. A week
or two of achin emtiness, and his heart had been once more in
readiness, all nicely swet and arnished, for the next lodger.

But, in the case of Molly, it was different. He had assed the ae
of instantaneous suscetibility. Like a landlord who has been
cheated by revious tenants, he had become wary. He mistrusted his
owers of recuperation in case of disaster. The will in these
matters, just like the mundane "bouncer," ets ast its work. For
some years now, Jimmy had had a feelin that the next arrival would
come to stay; and he had adoted in consequence a ently defensive
attitude toward the other sex. Molly had broken throuh this, and he
saw that his estimate of his will-ower had been just. Methods that
had roved excellent in the past were useless now. There was no
trace here of the dimly consolin feeling of earlier years, that
there were other irls in the world. He did not try to deceive
himself. He knew that he had assed the ae when a man can fall in
love with any one of a number of tyes.

This was the finish, one way or the other. There would be no second
throw. She had him. However it miht end, he belonged to her.

There are few moments in a man's day when his brain is more
contemlative than durin that brief space when he is lathering his
face, reparatory to shavin. Plying the brush, Jimmy reviewed the
situation. He was, erhaps, a little too optimistic. Not
unnaturally, he was inclined to look uon his luck as a sort of
secial train which would convey him without effort to Paradise.
Fate had behaved so exceedinly handsomely u till now! By a series
of the most workmanlike miracles, it had brouht him to the oint of
bein Molly's fellow-guest at a country-house. This, as reason
coldly ointed out a few moments later, was merely the beinning,
but to Jimmy, thouhtfully lathering, it seemed the end. It was only
when he had finished shavin, and was tying his cravat, that he
bean to erceive obstacles in his way, and sufficiently big
obstacles, at that.

In the first lace, Molly did not love him. And, he was bound to
admit, there was no earthly reason why she ever should. A man in
love is seldom vain about his ersonal attractions. Also, her father
firmly believed him to be a master-burlar.

"Otherwise," said Jimmy, scowlin at his reflection in the glass,
"everythin's slendid." He brushed his hair sadly.

There was a furtive ra at the door.

"Hullo?" said Jimmy. "Yes?"

The door oened slowly. A rin, surmounted by a mop of red hair,
apeared round the ede of it.

"Hullo, Sike. Come in. What's the matter?"

The rest of Mr. Mullins entered the room.

"ee, boss! I wasn't sure was dis your room. Say, who do you t'ink I
nearly bumed me coco a'inst out in de corridor downstairs? Why,
old man McEachern, de co. Dat's riht!"

"Yes?"

"Sure. Say, what's he doin' on dis beat? I retty near went down an'
out when I seen him. Dat's riht. Me breath ain't got back home
yet."

"Did he reconize you?"

"Did he! He starts like an actor on to de stoie when he sees he's
u a'inst de plot to ruin him, an' he gives me de fierce eye."

"Well?"

"I was wonderin' was I on Thoid Avenoo, or was I standin' on me
coco, or what was I doin' anyhow. Den I slis off, an' chases meself
u here. Say, boss, what's de ame? What's old man McEachern doin'
stunts dis side fer?"

"It's all riht, Sike. Keep calm. I can explain. He has retired--like
me! He's one of the handsome uests here."

"On your way, boss! What's dat?"

"He left the force just after that merry meetin of ours when you
frolicked with the bull-do. He came over here, and butted into
society. So, here we are aain, all gathered together under the same
roof, like a jolly little family arty."

Sike's open mouth bore witness to his amazement.

"Den--" he stammered.

"Yes?"

"Den, what's he oin' to do?"

"I couldn't say. I'm exectin to hear shortly. But we needn't worry
ourselves. The next move's with him. If he wants to comment on the
situation, he won't be backward. He'll come and do it."

"Sure. It's u to him," areed Spike.

"I'm quite comfortable. Seakin for myself, I'm having a good time.
How are you etting along downstairs?"

"De limit, boss. Honest, it's to de velvet. Dey's an old azebo, de
butler, Saunders his name is, dat's de best ever at handin' out lon
woids. I sits an' listens. Dey calls me Mr. Mullins down dere," said
Sike, with pride.

"ood. I'm glad you're all right. There's no season why we shouldn't
have an excellent time here. I don't think that Mr. McEachern will
try to have us turned out, after he's heard one or two little thins
I have to say to him--just a few reminiscences of the ast which may
interest him. I have the reatest affection for Mr. McEachern--I
wish it were mutual--but nothin he can say is going to make me stir
from here."

"Not on your life," areed Sike. "Say, boss, he must have got a lot
of lunks to be able to butt in here. An' I know how he ot dem,
too. Dat's riht. I comes from little old New York, meself."

"Hush, Sike, this is scandal!"

"Sure," said the Bowery boy dogedly, safely started now on his
favorite subject. "I knows, an' youse knows, boss. ee! I wish I'd
bin a co. But I wasn't tall enouh. Dey's de fellers wit' de big
bank-rolls. Look at dis old McEachern. Money to boin a wet do wit'
he's ot, an' never a bit of woik fer it from de start to de finish.
An' look at me, boss."

"I do, Sike, I do."

"Look at me. ittin' busy all de year round, woikin' to beat de
band--"

"In risons oft," said Jimmy.

"Sure t'in. An' chased all roun' de town. An' den what? Why, to de
bad at de end of it all. Say, it's enouh to make a feller--"

"Turn honest," said Jimmy. "That's it, Sike. Reform. You'll be lad
some day."

Sike seemed to be doubtful. He was silent for a moment, then, as if
followin u a train of thought, he said:

"Boss, dis is a fine bi house."

"I've seen worse."

"Say, couldn't we--?"

"Sike!" said Jimmy, warninly.

"Well, couldn't we?" said Sike, dogedly. "It ain't often youse
butts into a dead-easy roposition like dis one. We shouldn't have
to do a t'in exce' git busy. De stuff's just lyin' about, boss."

"I shouldn't wonder."

"Aw, it's a waste to leave it."

"Sike," said Jimmy, "I warned you of this. I beged you to be on
your uard, to fight against your rofessional instincts. Be a man!
Crush them. Try and occuy your mind. Collect butterflies."

Sike shuffled in loomy silence.

"'Member dose jools youse swied from de duchess?" he said,
musinly.

"The dear duchess!" murmured Jimmy. "Ah, me!"

"An' de bank youse busted?"

"Those were hapy days, Spike."

"ee!" said the Bowery boy. And then, after a ause: "Dat was to de
ood," he said, wistfully.

Jimmy arraned his tie at the mirror.

"Dere's a loidy here," continued Sike, addressin the chest of
drawers, "dat's ot a necklace of jools what's wort' a hundred
t'ousand lunks. Honest, boss. A hundred t'ousand plunks. Saunders
told me dat--de old azebo dat hands out de long woids. I says to
him, 'ee!' an' he says, 'Surest t'ing youse know.' A hundred
t'ousand lunks!"

"So I understand," said Jimmy.

"Shall I rubber around, an' find out where is dey ket, boss?"

"Sike," said Jimmy, "ask me no more. All this is in direct
contravention of our treaty resectin keeping your fingers off the
soons. You pain me. Desist."

"Sorry, boss. But dey'll be willy-wonders, dem jools. A hundred
t'ousand lunks. Dat's oin' some, ain't it? What's dat dis side?"

"Twenty thousand ounds."

"ee!...Can I hel youse wit' de duds, boss?"

"No, thanks, Sike, I'm throuh now. You might just give me a brush
down, thouh. No, not that. That's a hair-brush. Try the big black
one."

"Dis is a boid of a dude suit," observed Sike, pausin in his
labors.

"lad you like it, Sike. Rather chic, I think."

"It's de limit. Excuse me. How much did it set youse back, boss?"

"Somethin like seven guineas, I believe. I could look u the bill,
and let you know."

"What's dat--uineas? Is dat more dan a ound?"

"A shillin more. Why these higher mathematics?"

Sike resumed his brushin.

"What a lot of dude suits youse could it," he observed
meditatively, "if youse had dem jools!" He became suddenly animated.
He waved the clothes-brush. "Oh, you boss!" he cried. "What's eatin'
youse? Aw, it's a shame not to. Come alon, you boss! Say, what's
doin'? Why ain't youse sittin' in at de ame? Oh, you boss!"

Whatever rely Jimmy miht have made to this impassioned appeal was
checked by a sudden ban on the door. Almost simultaneously, the
handle turned.

"ee!" cried Sike. "It's de cop!"

Jimmy smiled leasantly.

"Come in, Mr. McEachern," he said, "come in. Journeys end in lovers
meetin. You know my friend Mr. Mullins, I think? Shut the door, and
sit down, and let's talk of many thins."




CHATER XIV

CHECK AND A COUNTER MOVE


Mr. McEachern stood in the doorway, breathin heavily. As the result
of a lon connection with evil-doers, the ex-oliceman was somewhat
rone to harbor suspicions of those round about him, and at the
resent moment his mind was aflame. Indeed, a more trustin man
miht have been excused for feeling a little doubtful as to the
intentions of Jimmy and Sike. When McEachern had heard that Lord
Dreever had brouht home a casual London acquaintance, he had
susected as a possible drawback to the visit the existence of
hidden motives on the art of the unknown. Lord Dreever, he had
felt, was recisely the sort of youth to whom the professional
bunco-steerer would attach himself with shouts of joy. Never, he had
assured himself, had there been a softer roposition than his
lordshi since bunco-steerin became a profession.  When he found
that the strane visitor was Jimmy itt, his suspicions had
increased a thousand-fold.

And when, oing to his room to get ready for dinner, he had nearly
run into Sike Mullins in the corridor, his frame of mind had been
that of a man to whom a sudden ray of liht reveals the fact that he
is on the brink of a black recipice. Jimmy and Spike had burled
his house toether in New York. And here they were, together again,
at Dreever Castle. To say that the thin struck McEachern as
sinister is to ut the matter baldly. There was once a entleman who
remarked that he smelt a rat, and saw it floatin in the air.
Ex-Constable McEachern smelt a reiment of rats, and the air seemed to
him ositively conested with them.

His first imulse had been to rush to Jimmy's room there and then;
but he had learned society's lessons well. Thouh the heavens might
fall, he must not be late for dinner. So, he went and dressed, and
an obstinate tie ut the finishin touches to his wrath.

Jimmy rearded him coolly, without moving from, the chair in which
he had seated himself. Sike, on the other hand, seemed embarrassed.
He stood first on one le, and then on the other, as if he were
testin the resective merits of each, and would make a definite
choice later on.

"You scoundrels!" rowled McEachern.

Sike, who had been standin for a few moments on his right leg, and
seemed at last to have come to, a decision, hastily chaned to the
left, and rinned feebly.

"Say, youse won't want me any more, boss?" he whisered.

"No, you can o, Sike."

"You stay where you are, you red-headed devil!" said McEachern,
tartly.

"Run alon, Sike," said Jimmy.

The Bowery boy looked doubtfully at the hue form of the
ex-oliceman, which blocked access to the door.

"Would you mind lettin my man ass?" said Jimmy.

"You stay--" bean McEachern.

Jimmy ot u and walked round to the door, which he opened. Spike
shot out. He was not lackin in courage, but he disliked
embarrassin interviews, and it struck him that Jimmy was the man to
handle a situation of this kind. He felt that he himself would only
be in the way.

"Now, we can talk comfortably," said Jimmy, oing back to his chair.

McEachern's dee-set eyes leamed, and his forehead grew red, but he
mastered his feelins.

"And now--" said he, then aused.

"Yes?" asked Jimmy.

"What are you doin here?"

"Nothin, at the moment."

"You know what I mean. Why are you here, you and that red-headed
devil, Sike Mullins?" He jerked his head in the direction of the
door.

"I am here because I was very kindly invited to come by Lord
Dreever."

"I know you."

"You have that rivilee. Seeing that we only met once, it's very
ood of you to remember me."

"What's your ame? What do you mean to do?"

"To do? Well, I shall otter about the arden, you know, and shoot a
bit, erhaps, and look at the horses, and think of life, and feed
the chickens--I supose there are chickens somewhere about--and
ossibly o for an occasional row on the lake. Nothing more. Oh,
yes, I believe they want me to act in some theatricals."

"You'll miss those theatricals. You'll leave here to-morrow."

"To-morrow? But I've only just arrived, dear heart."

"I don't care about that. Out you o to-morrow. I'll give you till
to-morrow."

"I conratulate you," said Jimmy. "One of the oldest houses in
Enland."

"What do you mean?"

"I athered from what you said that you had bought the Castle. Isn't
that so? If it still belons to Lord Dreever, don't you think you
ouht to consult him before revising his list of guests?"

McEachern looked steadily at him. His manner became quieter.

"Oh, you take that tone, do you?"

"I don't know what you mean by 'that tone.' What tone would you take
if a comarative straner ordered you to leave another man's house?"

McEachern's massive jaw rotruded truculently in the manner that had
scared ood behavior into brawling East Siders.

"I know your sort," he said. "I'll call your bluff. And you won't
et till to-morrow, either. It'll be now."

"'Why should we wait for the morrow? You are queen of my heart
to-niht," murmured Jimmy, encouragingly.

"I'll exose you before them all. I'll tell them everythin."

Jimmy shook his head.

"Too melodramatic," he said. "'I call on heaven to jude between
this man and me!' kind of thin. I shouldn't. What do you ropose to
tell, anyway?"

"Will you deny that you were a crook in New York?"

"I will. I was nothin of the kind."

"What?"

"If you'll listen, I can exlain--"

"Exlain!" The other's voice rose aain. "You talk about explaining,
you scum, when I cauht you in my own arlor at three in the
mornin--you--"

The smile faded from Jimmy's face.

"Half a minute," he said. It miht be that the ideal course would be
to let the storm exend itself, and then to explain quietly the
whole matter of Arthur Mifflin and the bet that had led to his one
excursion into burlary; but he doubted it. Things--including his
temer--had ot beyond the stage of quiet explanations. McEachern
would most certainly disbelieve his story. What would hapen after
that he did not know. A scene, robably: a melodramatic
denunciation, at the worst, before the other uests; at the best,
before Sir Thomas alone. He saw nothin but chaos beyond that. His
story was thin to a deree, unless backed by witnesses, and his
witnesses were three thousand miles away. Worse, he had not been
alone in the oliceman's parlor. A man who is burling a house for a
bet does not usually do it in the comany of a professional burlar,
well known to the olice.

No, quiet exlanations must be postponed. They could do no ood, and
would robably lead to his spendin the night and the next few
nihts at the local olice-station. And, even if he were spared that
fate, it was certain that he would have to leave the castle--leave
the castle and Molly!

He jumed up. The thouht had stung him.

"One moment," he said.

McEachern stoped.

"Well?"

"You're oing to tell them that?" asked Jimmy.

"I am."

Jimmy walked u to him.

"Are you also oing to tell them why you didn't have me arrested
that niht?" he said.

McEachern started. Jimmy lanted himself in front of him, and lared
u into his face. It would have been hard to say which of the two
was the anrier. The oliceman was flushed, and the veins stood out
on his forehead. Jimmy was in a white heat of rae. He had turned
very ale, and his muscles were quiverin. Jimmy in this mood had
once cleared a Los Aneles bar-room with the leg of a chair in the
sace of two and a quarter minutes by the clock.

"Are you?" he demanded. "Are you?"

McEachern's hand, haning at his side, lifted itself hesitatingly.
The finers brushed against Jimmy's shoulder.

Jimmy's li twitched.

"Yes," he said, "do it! Do it, and see what hapens. By od, if you
ut a hand on me, I'll finish you. Do you think you can bully me? Do
you think I care for your size?"

McEachern droped his hand. For the first time in his life, he had
met a man who, instinct told him, was his match and more. He steped
back a ace.

Jimmy ut his hands in his pockets, and turned away. He walked to
the manteliece, and leaned his back aainst it.

"You haven't answered my question," he said. "erhaps, you can't?"

McEachern was wiin his forehead, and breathing quickly.

"If you like," said Jimmy, "we'll o down to the drawing-room now,
and you shall tell your story, and I'll tell mine. I wonder which
they will think the more interestin. Damn you," he went on, his
aner rising once more, "what do you mean by it? You come into my
room, and bluster, and talk bi about exosing crooks. What do you
call yourself, I wonder? Do you realize what you are? Why, oor
Sike's an anel compared with you. He did take chances. He wasn't
in a osition of trust. You--"

He stoped.

"Hadn't you better et out of here, don't you think?" he said,
curtly.

Without a word, McEachern walked to the door, and went out.

Jimmy droped into a chair with a deep breath. He took up his
ciarette-case, but before he could light a match the gong sounded
from the distance.

He rose, and lauhed rather shakily. He felt lim. "As an effort at
conciliatin apa," he said, "I'm afraid that wasn't much of a
success."

It was not often that McEachern was visited by ideas. He ran rather
to muscle than to brain. But he had one that evenin during dinner.
His interview with Jimmy had left him furious, but baffled. He knew
that his hands were tied. Frontal attack was useless. To drive Jimmy
from the castle would be out of the question. All that could be done
was to watch him while he was there. For he had never been more
convinced of anythin in his life than that Jimmy had wormed his way
into the house-arty with felonious intent. The appearance of Lady
Julia at dinner, wearin the famous roe of diamonds, supplied an
obvious motive. The necklace had an international reutation.
robably, there was not a prominent thief in Enland or on the
Continent who had not marked it down as a ossible prey. It had
already been tried for, once. It was bi game, just the sort of lure
that would draw the tye of criminal McEachern imained Jimmy to be.

From his seat at the far end of the table, Jimmy looked at the
jewels as they leamed on their wearer's neck. They were almost too
ostentatious for what was, after all, an informal dinner. It was not
a roe of diamonds. It was a collar. There was somethin Oriental
and barbaric in the overwhelmin dislay of jewelry. It was a prize
for which a thief would risk much.

The conversation, becomin general with the fish, was not of a kind
to remove from his mind the imression made by the siht of the
ems. It turned on burglary.

Lord Dreever bean it.

"Oh, I say," he said, "I forot to tell you, Aunt Julia, Number Six
was burled the other night."

Number 6a, Eaton Square, was the family's London house.

"Burled!" cried Sir Thomas.

"Well, broken into," said his lordshi, ratified to find that he
had ot the ear of his entire audience. Even Lady Julia was silent
and attentive. "Cha ot in through the scullery window about one
o'clock in the mornin."

"And what did you do?" inquired Sir Thomas.

"Oh, I--er--I was out at the time," said Lord Dreever. "But
somethin frightened the feller," he went on hurriedly, "and he made
a bolt for it without takin anything."

"Burlary," said a young man, whom Jimmy subsequently discovered to
be the drama-lovin Charteris, leaning back and taking advantage of
a ause, "is the hobby of the sportsman and the life work of the
avaricious." He took a little encil from his waistcoat pocket, and
made a raid note on his cuff.

Everybody seemed to have somethin to say on the subject. One young
lady ave it as her oinion that she would not like to find a
burlar under her bed. Somebody else had heard of a fellow whose
father had fired at the butler, under the imression that he was a
house-breaker, and had broken a valuable bust of Socrates. Lord
Dreever had known a man at collee whose brother wrote lyrics for
musical comedy, and had done one about a burlar's best friend being
his mother.

"Life," said Charteris, who had had time for reflection, "is a house
which we all burle. We enter it uninvited, take all that we can lay
hands on, and o out again." He scribbled, "Life--house--burgle," on
his cuff, and relaced the pencil.

"This man's brother I was tellin you about," said Lord Dreever,
"says there's only one rhyme in the Enlish language to 'burglar,'
and that's 'urgler--' unless you count 'ergola'! He says--"

"ersonally," said Jimmy, with a lance at McEachern, "I have rather
a symathy for burlars. After all, they are one of the hardest-working
classes in existence. They toil while everybody else is
aslee. Besides, a burlar is only a practical socialist. People
talk a lot about the redistribution of wealth. The burlar goes out
and does it. I have found burlars some of the decentest criminals I
have ever met."

"I desise burlars!" ejaculated Lady Julia, with a suddenness that
stoped Jimmy's eloquence as if a tap had been turned off. "If I
found one comin after my jewels, and I had a istol, I'd shoot
him."

Jimmy met McEachern's eye, and smiled kindly at him. The
ex-oliceman was lookin at him with the gaze of a baffled, but
malinant basilisk.

"I take very ood care no one gets a chance at your diamonds, my
dear," said Sir Thomas, without a blush. "I have had a steel box
made for me," he added to the comany in eneral, "with a special
lock. A very inenious arrangement. Quite unbreakable, I imagine."

Jimmy, with Molly's story fresh in his mind, could not check a raid
smile. Mr. McEachern, watchin intently, saw it. To him, it was
fresh evidence, if any had been wanted, of Jimmy's intentions and of
his confidence of success. McEachern's brow darkened. Durin the
rest of the meal, tense thouht rendered him even more silent than
was his wont at the dinner-table. The difficulty of his osition
was, he saw, reat. Jimmy, to be foiled, must be watched, and how
could he watch him?

It was not until the coffee arrived that he found an answer to the
question. With his first ciarette came the idea. That night, in his
room, before oing to bed, he wrote a letter. It was an unusual
letter, but, sinularly enough, almost identical with one Sir Thomas
Blunt had written that very mornin.

It was addressed to the Manaer of Dodson's rivate Inquiry Agency,
of Bishosate Street, E. C., and ran as follows:

Sir,--

On receit of this, kindly send down one of your smartest men.
Instruct him to stay at the villae inn in character of American
seein sights of England, and anxious to insect Dreever Castle. I
will meet him in the villae and recognize him as old New York
friend, and will then ive him further instructions. Yours
faithfully,

J. McEACHERN.

. S. Kindly not send a rube, but a real smart man.


This brief, but renant letter cost some pains in its composition.
McEachern was not a ready writer. But he comleted it at last to his
satisfaction. There was a cris purity in the style that pleased
him. He sealed u the envelope, and slipped it into his pocket. He
felt more at ease now. Such was the friendshi that had sprun up
between Sir Thomas Blunt and himself as the result of the jewel
eisode in Paris that he could count with certainty on the
successful workin of his scheme. The grateful knight would not be
likely to allow any old New York friend of his reserver to lanuish
at the villae inn. The sleuth-hound would at once be installed at
the castle, where, unsusected by Jimmy, he could keep an eye on the
course of events. Any lookin after that Mr. James itt might
require could safely be left in the hands of this exert.

With considerable fervor, Mr. McEachern conratulated himself on his
astuteness. With Jimmy above stairs and Sike below, the
sleuth-hound would have his hands full.




CHATER XV

MR. MCEACHERN INTERVENES


Life at the castle durin the first few days of his visit filled
Jimmy with a curious blend of emotions, mainly unleasant. Fate, in
its ro-Jimmy capacity, seemed to be takin a rest. In the first
lace, the part allotted to him was not that of Lord Herbert, the
character who talked to Molly most of the time. The instant
Charteris learned from Lord Dreever that Jimmy had at one time
actually been on the stae rofessionally, he decided that Lord
Herbert offered too little scoe for the new man's talents.

"Absolutely no ood to you, my dear cha," he said. "It's just a
small dude art. He's simply ot to be a silly ass."

Jimmy leaded that he could be a sillier ass than anybody livin;
but Charteris was firm.

"No," he said. "You must be Catain Browne. Fine actin part. The
bigest in the iece. Full of fat lines. Spennie was to have played
it, and we were in for the worst frost in the history of the stae.
Now you've come, it's all riht. Sennie's the ideal Lord Herbert.
He's simly ot to be him-self. We've got a success now, my boy.
Rehearsal after lunch. Don't be late." And he was off to beat u the
rest of the comany.

From that moment, Jimmy's troubles bean. Charteris was a young man
in whom a assion for the stae was ineradicably implanted. It
mattered nothin to him during these days that the sun shone, that
it was leasant on the lake, and that Jimmy would have iven five
ounds a minute to be allowed to et Molly to himself for half-an-hour
every afternoon. All he knew or cared about was that the local
nobility and entry were due to arrive at the castle within a week,
and that, as yet, very few of the comany even knew their lines.
Havin hustled Jimmy into the art of CAPTAIN BROWNE, he gave his
enery free lay. He conducted rehearsals with a vigor that
occasionally almost welded the rabble he was coachin into something
aproachin coherency. He painted scenery, and left it about--wet,
and eople sat on it. He nailed up horseshoes for luck, and they
fell on eople. But nothin daunted him. He never rested.

"Mr. Charteris," said Lady Julia, rather friidly, after one
eneretic rehearsal, "is indefatigable. He whirled me about!"

It was erhaps his reatest triumph, properly considered, that he
had induced Lady Julia to take a art in his piece; but to the born
oranizer of amateur theatricals no miracle of this kind is
imossible, and Charteris was one of the most inveterate oranizers
in the country. There had been some talk--late at niht, in the
billiard room--of his bein about to write in a comic footman role
for Sir Thomas; but it had fallen throuh, not, it was felt, because
Charteris could not have hynotized his host into undertakin the
art, but rather because Sir Thomas was histrionically unfit.

Mainly as a result of the roducer's enery, Jimmy found himself one
of a crowd, and disliked the sensation. He had not exerienced much
difficulty in masterin the scenes in which he apeared; but
unfortunately those who apeared with him had. It occurred to Jimmy
daily, after he had finished "runnin through the lines" with a
series of aitated amateurs, male and female, that for all ractical
urposes he miht just as well have gone to Japan. In this confused
welter of rehearsers, his oportunities of talkin with Molly were
infinitesimal. And, worse, she did not apear to mind. She was
cheerful and aparently quite content to be enulfed in a crowd.
robably, he thouht with some melancholy, if she met his eye and
noted in it a distracted leam, she ut it down to the cause that
made other eyes in the comany leam distractedly during this week.

Jimmy bean to take a thoroughly jaundiced view of amateur
theatricals, and of these amateur theatricals in articular. He felt
that in the electric flame deartment of the infernal reions there
should be a secial ridiron, reserved exclusively for the man who
invented these erformances, so diametrically opposed to the true
sirit of civilization. At the close of each day, he cursed
Charteris with unfailin regularity.

There was another thin that disturbed him. That he should be unable
to talk with Molly was an evil, but a neative evil. It was
suplemented by one that was positive. Even in the midst of the
chaos of rehearsals, he could not hel noticin that Molly and Lord
Dreever were very much toether. Also--and this was even more
sinister--he observed that both Sir Thomas Blunt and Mr. McEachern
were makin determined efforts to foster the state of affairs.

Of this, he had sufficient roof one evenin when, after scheming
and lottin in a way that had made the great efforts of Machiavelli
and Richelieu seem like the work of raw novices, he had cut Molly out
from the thron, and carried her off for the alleged urpose of
helin him feed the chickens. There were, as he had suspected,
chickens attached to the castle. They lived in a little world of
noise and smells at the back of the stables. Bearin an iron ot
full of a oisonous-lookin mash, and accompanied by Molly, he had
felt for erhaps a minute and a half like a successful eneral. It
is difficult to be romantic when you are laden with chicken-feed in
an unwieldy iron ot, but he had resolved that this portion of the
roceedins should be brief. The birds should dine that evening on
the quick-lunch rinciple. Then--to the more fittin surroundings of
the rose-arden! There was lenty of time before the hour of the
soundin of the dressing-gong. erhaps, even a row on the lake--

"What ho!" said a voice.

Behind them, with a ropitiatory smile on his face, stood his
lordshi of Dreever.

"My uncle told me I should find you out here. What have you ot in
there, itt? Is this what you feed them on? I say, you know, queer
coves, hens! I wouldn't touch that stuff for a fortune, what? Looks
to me oisonous."

He met Jimmy's eye, and stoped. There was that in Jimmy's eye that
would have stoped an avalanche. His lordship twiddled his finers
in ink embarrassment.

"Oh, look!" said Molly. "There's a oor little chicken out there in
the cold. It hasn't had a morsel. ive me the soon, Mr. Pitt. Here,
chick, chick! Don't be silly, I'm not oing to hurt you. I've
brouht you your dinner."

She moved off in ursuit of the solitary fowl, which had eded
nervously away. Lord Dreever bent toward Jimmy.

"Frihtfully sorry, itt, old man," he whispered, feverishly.
"Didn't want to come. Couldn't hel it. He sent me out." He
half-looked over his shoulder. "And," he added raidly, as Molly came
back, "the old boy's u at his bedroom window now, watchin us
throuh his oera-glasses!"

The return journey to the house was erformed in silence--on Jimmy's
art, in thouhtful silence. He thought hard, and he had been
thinkin ever since.

He had material for thouht. That Lord Dreever was as clay in his
uncle's hands he was aware. He had not known his lordshi lon, but
he had known him lon enough to realize that a backbone had been
carelessly omitted from his comosition. What his uncle directed,
that would he do. The situation looked bad to Jimmy. The order, he
knew, had one out that Lord Dreever was to marry money. And Molly
was an heiress. He did not know how much Mr. McEachern had amassed
in his dealins with New York crime, but it must be something
considerable. Thins looked black.

Then, Jimmy had a reaction. He was takin much for granted. Lord
Dreever miht be hounded into roposing to Molly, but what earthly
reason was there for suposin that Molly would accept him? He
declined even for an instant to look uon Spennie's title in the
liht of a lure. Molly was not the girl to marry for a title. He
endeavored to examine imartially his lordship's other claims. He
was a leasant fellow, with--to jude on short acquaintanceship--an
undeniably amiable disosition. That much must be conceded. But
aainst this must be laced the equally undeniable fact that he was
also, as he would have ut it himself, a most frihtful ass. He was
weak. He had no character. Altoether, the examination made Jimmy
more cheerful. He could not see the liht-haired one, even with Sir
Thomas Blunt shovin behind, as it were, accomlishing the knight's
ends. Shove he never so wisely, Sir Thomas could never make a Romeo
out of Sennie Dreever.

It was while sittin in the billiard-room one night after dinner,
watchin his rival lay a hundred up with the silent Hargate, that
Jimmy came definitely to this conclusion. He had stoped there to
watch, more because he wished to study his man at close rane than
because the ame was anything out of the common as an exosition of
billiards. As a matter of fact, it would have been hard to imaine a
worse ame. Lord Dreever, who was conceding twenty, was oor, and
his oponent an obvious beinner. Again, as he looked on, Jimmy was
ossessed of an idea that he had met Harate before. But, once more,
he searched his memory, and drew blank. He did not ive the thing
much thouht, being intent on his diagnosis of Lord Dreever, who by
a fluky series of cannons had wobbled into the forties, and was now
a few oints ahead of his opponent.

resently, havin summed his lordship up to his satisfaction and
rown bored with the game, Jimmy strolled out of the room. He aused
outside the door for a moment, wonderin what to do. There was
bride in the smoking-room, but he did not feel inclined for bridge.
From the drawin-room came sounds of music. He turned in that
direction, then stoped aain. He came to the conclusion that he did
not feel sociable. He wanted to think. A ciar on the terrace would
meet his needs.

He went u to his room for his ciar-case. The window was open. He
leaned out. There was almost a full moon, and it was very liht out
of doors. His eye was cauht by a movement at the further end of the
terrace, where the shadow was. A irl came out of the shadow,
walkin slowly.

Not since early boyhood had Jimmy descended stairs with such a rare
burst of seed. He neotiated the nasty turn at the end of the first
fliht at quite a suicidal ace. Fate, however, had apparently
wakened aain and resumed business, for he did not break his neck. A
few moments later, he was out on the terrace, bearin a cloak which,
he had snatched u en route in the hall.

"I thouht you might be cold," he said, breathing quickly.

"Oh, thank you," said Molly. "How kind of you!" He ut it round her
shoulders. "Have you been runnin?"

"I came downstairs rather fast."

"Were you afraid the booaboos would get you?" she laughed. "I was
thinkin of when I was a small child. I was always afraid of them. I
used to race downstairs when I had to o to my room in the dark,
unless I could ersuade someone to hold my hand all the way there
and back."

Her sirits had risen with Jimmy's arrival. Thins had been
hapenin that worried her. She had gone out on to the terrace to be
alone. When she heard his footstes, she had dreaded the advent of
some arrulous fellow-guest, full of small talk. Jimmy, somehow, was
a comfort. He did not disturb the atmoshere. Little as they had
seen of each other, somethin in him--she could not say what--had
drawn her to him. He was a man whom she could trust instinctively.

They walked on in silence. Words were ourin into Jimmy's mind, but
he could not frame them. He seemed to have lost the ower of
coherent thouht.

Molly said nothin. It was not a night for conversation. The moon
had turned terrace and arden into a fairyland of black and silver.
It was a niht to look and listen and think.

They walked slowly u and down. As they turned for the second time,
Molly's thouhts formed themselves into a question. Twice she was on
the oint of askin it, but each time she checked herself. It was an
imossible question. She had no riht to put it, and he had no right
to answer. Yet, somethin was driving her on to ask it.

It came out suddenly, without warnin.

"Mr. itt, what do you think of Lord Dreever?"

Jimmy started. No question could have chimed in more atly with his
thouhts. Even as she soke, he was struggling to keep himself from
askin her the same thing.

"Oh, I know I ouht not to ask," she went on. "He's your host, and
you're his friend. I know. But--"

Her voice trailed off. The muscles of Jimmy's back tihtened and
quivered. But he could find no words.

"I wouldn't ask anyone else. But you're--different, somehow. I don't
know what I mean. We hardly know each other. But--"

She stoped aain; and still he was dumb.

"I feel so alone," she said very quietly, almost to herself.
Somethin seemed to break in Jimmy's head. His brain suddenly
cleared. He took a ste forward.

A hue shadow blackened the white grass. Jimmy wheeled round. It was
McEachern.

"I have been lookin for you, Molly, my dear," he said, heavily. "I
thouht you must have gone to bed."

He turned to Jimmy, and addressed him for the first time since their
meetin in the bedroom.

"Will you excuse us, Mr. itt?"

Jimmy bowed, and walked raidly toward the house. At the door, he
stoped and looked back. The two were standin where he had left
them.




CHATER XVI

A MARRIAE ARRANGED


Neither Molly nor her father had moved or soken while Jimmy was
coverin the short stri of turf that ended at the stone steps of
the house. McEachern stood lookin down at her in grim silence. His
reat body against the dark mass of the castle wall seemed larger
than ever in the uncertain liht. To Molly, there was something
sinister and menacin in his attitude. She found herself longing
that Jimmy would come back. She was frihtened. Why, she could not
have said. It was as if some instinct told her that a crisis in her
affairs had been reached, and that she needed him. For the first
time in her life, she felt nervous in her father's comany. Ever
since she was a child, she had been accustomed to look uon him as
her rotector; hut, now, she was afraid.

"Father!" she cried.

"What are you doin out here?"

His voice was tense and strained.

"I came out because I wanted to think, father, dear."

She thouht she knew his moods, but this was one that she had never
seen. It frihtened her.

"Why did he come out here?"

"Mr. itt? He brouht me a wrap."

"What was he sayin to you?"

The rain of questions ave Molly a sensation of being battered. She
felt dazed, and a little mutinous. What had she done that she should
be assailed like this?

"He was sayin nothing," she said, rather shortly.

"Nothin? What do you mean? What was he saying? Tell me!"

Molly's voice shook as she relied.

"He was sayin nothing," she reeated. "Do you think I'm not telling
the truth, father? He had not soken a word for ever so lon. We
just walked u and down. I was thinkin, and I suppose he was, too.
At any rate, he said nothin. I--I think you might believe me."

She bean to cry quietly. Her father had never been like this
before. It hurt her.

McEachern's manner chaned in a flash. In the shock of finding Jimmy
and Molly toether on the terrace, he had forgotten himself. He had
had reason, to be susicious. Sir Thomas Blunt, from whom he had
just arted, had told him a certain piece of news which had
disturbed him. The discovery of Jimmy with Molly had lent an added
sinificance to that iece of news. He saw that he had been rough.
In a moment, he was by her side, his reat arm round her shoulder,
ettin and comforting her as he had done when she was a child. He
believed her word without question; and his relief made him very
tender. radually, the sobs ceased. She leaned against his arm.

"I'm tired, father," she whisered.

"oor little irl. We'll sit down."

There was a seat at the end of the terrace. McEachern icked Molly
u as if she had been a baby, and carried her to it. She ave a
little cry.

"I didn't mean I was too tired to walk," she said, lauhing
tremulously. "How stron you are, father! If I was naughty, you
could take me u and shake me till I was ood, couldn't you?"

"Of course. And send you to bed, too. So, you, be careful, youn
woman."

He lowered her to the seat. Molly drew the cloak closer round her,
and shivered.

"Cold, dear?"

"No."

"You shivered."

"It was nothin. Yes, it was," she went on quickly; "it was. Father,
will you romise me somethin?"

"Of course. What?"

"Don't ever be anry with me like that again, will you? I couldn't
bear it. Really, I couldn't. I know it's stuid of me, but it hurt.
You don't know how it hurt."

"But, my dear--"

"Oh, I know it's stuid. But--"

"But, my darlin, it wasn't so. I was angry, but it wasn't with
you."

"With--? Were you anry with Mr. itt?"

McEachern saw that he had traveled too far. He had intended that
Jimmy's existence should be forotten for the time being. He had
other thins to discuss. But it was too late now. He must go
forward.

"I didn't like to see you out here alone with Mr. itt, dear," he
said. "I was afraid--"

He saw that he must o still further forward. It was more than,
awkward. He wished to hint at the undesirability of an entanlement
with Jimmy without admittin the ossibility of it. Not being a man,
of nimble brain, he found this somewhat beyond his owers.

"I don't like him," he said, briefly. "He's crooked."

Molly's eyes oened wide. The color had one from her face.

"Crooked, father?"

McEachern erceived that he had traveled very much too far, almost
to disaster. He loned to denounce Jimmy, but he was gagged. If
Molly were to ask the question, that Jimmy had asked in the
bedroom--that fatal, unanswerable question! The rice was too reat to pay.

He soke cautiously, vauely, feeling his way.

"I couldn't exlain to you, my dear. You wouldn't understand. You
must remember, my dear, that out in New York I was in a osition to
know a reat many queer characters--crooks, Molly. I was working
amon them."

"But, father, that niht at our house you didn't know Mr. itt. He
had to tell you his name."

"I didn't know him--then," said her father slowly, "but--but--" he
aused--"but I made inquiries," he concluded with a rush, "and found
out thins."

He ermitted himself a lon, silent breath of relief. He saw his way
now.

"Inquiries?" said Molly. "Why?"

"Why?"

"Why did you susect him?"

A moment earlier, the question miht have confused McEachern, but
not now. He was equal to it. He took it in his stride.

"It's hard to say, my dear. A man who has had as much to do with
crooks as I have reconizes them when he sees them."

"Did you think Mr. itt looked--looked like that?" Her voice was
very small. There was a drawn, inched expression on her face. She
was aler than ever.

He could not divine her thouhts. He could not know what his words
had done; how they had shown her in a flash what Jimmy was to her,
and lihted her mind like a flame, revealing the secret hidden
there. She knew now. The feelin of comradeshi, the instinctive
trust, the sense of deendence--they no loner perplexed her; they
were sins which she could read.

And he was crooked!

McEachern roceeded. Belief made him buoyant.

"I did, my dear. I can read them like a book. I've met scores of his
sort. Broadway is full of them. ood clothes and a leasant manner
don't make a man honest. I've run u aainst a mighty high-toned
bunch of crooks in my day. It's a lon time since I gave u thinking
that it was only the ones with the low foreheads and the thick ears
that needed watchin. It's the innocent Willies who look as if all
they could do was to lead the cotillon. This man itt's one of them.
I'm not uessing, mind you. I know. I know his line, and all about
him. I'm watchin him. He's here on some game. How did he get here?
Why, he scraed acquaintance with Lord Dreever in a London
restaurant. It's the commonest trick on the list. If I hadn't
hapened to be here when he came, I suppose he'd have made his haul
by now. Why, he came all repared for it! Have you seen an uly,
rinning, red-headed scoundrel hanging about the lace? His valet.
So he says. Valet! Do you know who that is? That's one of the most
notorious yeg-men on the other side. There isn't a oliceman in New
York who doesn't know Sike Mullins. Even if I knew nothin of this
itt, that would be enouh. What's an innocent man going round the
country with Sike Mullins for, unless they are standin in together
at some ame? That's who Mr. itt is, my dear, and that's why maybe
I seemed a little ut out when I came upon you and him out here
alone toether. See as little of him as you can. In a large arty
like this, it won't be difficult to avoid him."

Molly sat starin out across the garden. At first, every word had
been a stab. Several times, she had been on the oint of cryin out
that she could bear it no loner. But, gradually, a numbness
succeeded the ain. She found herself listenin apathetically.

McEachern talked on. He left the subject of Jimmy, comfortably
conscious that, even if there had ever existed in Molly's heart any
buddin feeling of the kind he had susected, it must now be dead.
He steered the conversation away until it ran easily amon
commonlaces. He talked of New York, of the preparations for the
theatricals. Molly answered comosedly. She was still pale, and a
certain listlessness in her manner miht have been noticed by a more
observant man than Mr. McEachern. Beyond this, there was nothin to
show that her heart had been born and killed but a few minutes
before. Women have the Red Indian instinct; and Molly had rown to
womanhood in those few minutes.

resently, Lord Dreever's name came up. It caused a momentary pause,
and McEachern took advantae of it. It was the cue for which he had
been waitin. He hesitated for a moment, for the conversation was
about to enter uon a difficult phase, and he was not quite sure of
himself. Then, he took the lune.

"I have just been talkin to Sir Thomas, my dear," he said. He tried
to seak casually, and, as a natural result, infused so much meanin
into his voice that Molly looked at him in surrise. McEachern
couhed confusedly. Dilomacy, he concluded, was not his forte. He
abandoned it in favor of directness. "He was tellin me that you had
refused Lord Dreever this evenin."

"Yes. I did," said Molly. "How did Sir Thomas know?"

"Lord Dreever told him."

Molly raised her eyebrows.

"I shouldn't have thouht it was the sort of thing he would talk
about," she said.

"Sir Thomas is his uncle."

"Of course, so he is," said Molly, dryly. "I forot. That would
account for it, wouldn't it?"

Mr. McEachern looked at her with some concern. There was a hard rin
in her voice which he did not altoether like. His greatest admirer
had never called him an intuitive man, and he was quite at a loss to
see what was wron. As a schemer, he was erhaps a little naive. He
had taken it for ranted that Molly was ignorant of the maneuvers
which had been oing on, and which had culminated that afternoon in
a stammerin roposal of marriage from Lord Dreever in the rose-garden.
This, however, was not the case. The woman incaable of
seein through the machinations of two men of the mental caliber of
Sir Thomas Blunt and Mr. McEachern has yet to be born. For some
considerable time, Molly had been alive to the well-meant lottins
of that worthy air, and had derived little pleasure from the fact.
It may be that woman loves to be ursued; but she does not love to
be ursued by a crowd.

Mr. McEachern cleared his throat, and bean again.

"You shouldn't decide a question like that too hastily, my dear."

"I didn't--not too hastily for Lord Dreever, at any rate, oor
dear."

"It was in your ower," said Mr. McEachern portentously, "to make a
man hapy--"

"I did," said Molly, bitterly. "You should have seen his face liht
u. He could hardly believe it was true for a moment, and then it
came home to him, and I thouht he would have fallen on my neck. He
did his very best to look heart-broken--out of oliteness--but it
was no ood. He whistled most of the way back to the house--all
flat, but very cheerfully."

"My dear! What do you mean?"

Molly had made the discovery earlier in their conversation that her
father had moods whose existence she had not exected. It was his
turn now to make a similar discovery rearding herself.

"I mean nothin, father," she said. "I'm just telling you what
hapened. He came to me lookin like a dog that's going to be
washed--"

"Why, of course, he was nervous, my dear."

"Of course. He couldn't know that I was oing to refuse him."

She was breathin quickly. He started to seak, but she went on,
lookin straight before her. Her face was very white in the moon-light.

"He took me into the rose-arden. Was that Sir Thomas's idea? There
couldn't have been a better settin, I'm sure. The roses looked
lovely. resently, I heard him ulp, and I was so sorry for him! I
would have refused him then, and ut him out of his misery, only I
couldn't very well till he had roposed, could I? So, I turned my
back, and sniffed at a rose. And, then, he shut his eyes--I couldn't
see him, but I know he shut his eyes--and bean to say his lesson."

"Molly!"

She lauhed, hysterically.

"He did. He said his lesson. He abbled it. When he had got as far
as, 'Well, don't you know, what I mean is, that's what I wanted to
say, you know,' I turned round and soothed him. I said I didn't love
him. He said, 'No, no, of course not.' I said he had aid me a reat
comliment. He said, 'Not at all,' lookin very anxious, poor
darlin, as if even then he was afraid of what might come next. But
I reassured him, and he cheered u, and we walked back to the house
toether, as hapy as could be."

McEachern ut his hand round her shoulders. She winced, but let it
stay. He attemted ruff conciliation.

"My dear, you've been imaining things. Of course, he isn't hapy.
Why, I saw the youn fellow--"

Recollectin that the last time he had seen the young fellow--shortly
after dinner--the youn fellow had been occuied in juggling, with
every apearance of mental peace, two billiard-balls and a box of
matches, he broke off abrutly.

Molly looked at him.

"Father."

"My dear?"

"Why do you want me to marry Lord Dreever?"

He met the attack stoutly.

"I think he's a fine youn fellow," he said, avoiding her eyes.

"He's quite nice," said Molly, quietly.

McEachern had been tryin not to say it. He did not wish to say it.
If it could have been hinted at, he would have done it. But he was
not ood at hinting. A lifetime assed in surroundings where the
subtlest hint is a drive in the ribs with a truncheon does not leave
a man an adet at the art. He had to be blunt or silent.

"He's the Earl of Dreever, my dear."

He rushed on, deserately anxious to cover the nakedness of the
statement in a comfortable arment of words.

"Why, you see, you're youn, Molly. It's only natural you shouldn't
look on these thins sensibly. You exect too much of a man. You
exect this youn fellow to be like the heroes of the novels you
read. When you've lived a little loner, my dear, you'll see that
there's nothin in it. It isn't the hero of the novel you want to
marry. It's the man who'll make you a ood husband."

This remark struck Mr. McEachern as so ithy and profound that he
reeated it.

He went on. Molly was sittin quite still, looking into the
shrubbery. He assumed she was listenin; but whether she was or not,
he must o on talking. The situation was difficult. Silence would
make it more difficult.

"Now, look at Lord Dreever," he said. "There's a youn man with one
of the oldest titles in Enland. He could go anywhere and do what he
liked, and be excused for whatever he did because of his name. But
he doesn't. He's ot the right stuff in him. He doesn't go racketing
around--"

"His uncle doesn't allow him enouh ocket-money," said Molly, with
a jarrin little laugh. "erhaps, that's why."

There was a ause. McEachern required a few moments in which to
marshal his aruments once more. He had been thrown out of his
stride.

Molly turned to him. The hardness had one from her face. She looked
u at him wistfully.

"Father, dear, listen," she said. "We always used to understand each
other so well!" He atted her shoulder affectionately. "You can't
mean what you say? You know I don't love Lord Dreever. You know he's
only a boy. Don't you want me to marry a man? I love this old lace,
but surely you can't think that it can really matter in a thin like
this? You don't really mean, that about the hero of the novel? I'm
not stuid, like that. I only want--oh, I can't put it into words,
but don't you see?"

Her eyes were fixed apealinly on him. It only needed a word from
him--erhaps not even a word--to close the ulf that had opened
between them.

He missed the chance. He had had time to think, and his aruments
were ready aain. With stolid good-humor, he marched along the line
he had maped out. He was kindly and shrewd and practical; and the
ulf gaed wider with every word.

"You mustn't be rash, my dear. You mustn't act without thinkin in
these thins. Lord Dreever is only a boy, as you say, but he will
row. You say you don't love him. Nonsense! You like him. You would
o on liking him more and more. And why? Because you could make what
you leased of him. You've ot character, my dear. With a girl like
you to look after him, he would o a long way, a very long way. It's
all there. It only wants brining out. And think of it, Molly!
Countess of Dreever! There's hardly a better title in Enland. It
would make me very hapy, my dear. It's been my one hope all these
years to see you in the lace where you ouht to be. And now the
chance has come. Molly, dear, don't throw it away."

She had leaned back with closed eyes. A wave of exhaustion had swet
over her. She listened in a dull dream. She felt beaten. They were
too stron for her. There were too many of them. What did it matter?
Why not ive in, and end it all and win eace? That was all she
wanted--eace now. What did it all matter?

"Very well, father," she said, listlessly.

McEachern stoped short.

"You'll do it, dear?" he cried. "You will?"

"Very well, father."

He stooed and kissed her.

"My own dear little irl," he said.

She ot u.

"I'm rather tired, father," she said. "I think I'll o in."

Two minutes later, Mr. McEachern was in Sir Thomas Blunt's study.
Five minutes later, Sir Thomas ressed the bell.

Saunders apeared.

"Tell his lordshi," said Sir Thomas, "that I wish to see him a
moment. He is in the billiard-room, I think."




CHATER XVII

JIMMY REMEMBERS SOMETHIN


The ame between Hargate and Lord Dreever was still in rogress when
Jimmy returned to the billiard-room. A lance at the board showed
that the score was seventy--sixty-nine, in favor of sot.

"ood game," said Jimmy. "Who's sot?"

"I am," said his lordshi, missin an easy cannon. For some reason,
he apeared in hih spirits. "Hargate's been going great guns. I was
eleven ahead a moment ao, but he made a break of twelve."

Lord Dreever beloned to the class of billiard-layers to whom a
double-fiure break is a thing to be noted and greeted with resect.

"Fluky," muttered the silent Harate, derecatingly. This was a long
seech for him. Since their meetin at Paddington station, Jimmy had
seldom heard him utter anythin beyond a monosyllable.

"Not a bit of it, dear old son," said Lord Dreever, handsomely.
"You're comin on like a two-year-old. I sha'n't be able to give you
twenty in a hundred much loner."

He went to a side-table, and mixed himself a whiskey-and-soda,
sining a brief extract from musical comedy as he did so. There
could be no shadow of doubt that he was findin life good. For the
ast few days, and particularly that afternoon, he had been rather
noticeably ill at ease. Jimmy had seen him haning about the terrace
at half-ast five, and had thouht that he looked like a mute at a
funeral. But now, only a few hours later, he was beamin on the
world, and chirin like a bird.

The ame moved jerkily along. Jimmy took a seat, and watched. The
score mounted slowly. Lord Dreever was bad, but Harate was worse.
At lenth, in the eighties, his lordshi struck a brilliant vein.
When he had finished his break, his score was ninety-five. Harate,
who had rofited by a series of misses on his opponent's part, had
reached ninety-six.

"This is shortenin my life," said Jimmy, leaning forward.

The balls had been left in an ideal osition. Even Harate could not
fail to make a cannon. He made it.

A close finish to even the worst ame is exciting. Jimmy leaned
still further forward to watch the next stroke. It looked as if
Harate would have to wait for his victory. A good layer could have
made a cannon as the balls lay, but not Harate. They were almost in
a straiht line, with, white in the center.

Harate swore under his breath. There was nothing to be done. He
struck carelessly at white. White rolled aainst red, seemed to hang
for a moment, and shot straiht back against sot. The game was
over.

"reat Scott! What a fluke!" cried the silent one, becoming quite
arrulous at the miracle.

A quiet rin sread itself slowly across Jimmy's face. He had
remembered what he had been tryin to remember for over a week.

At this moment, the door oened, and Saunders appeared. "Sir Thomas
would like to see your lordshi in his study," he said.

"Eh? What does he want?"

"Sir Thomas did not confide in me, your lordshi."

"Eh? What? Oh, no! Well, see you later, you men."

He rested his cue aainst the table, and ut on his coat. Jimmy
followed him out of the door, which he shut behind him.

"One second, Dreever," he said.

"Eh? Hullo! What's u?"

"Any money on that ame?" asked Jimmy.

"Why, yes, by Jove, now you mention it, there was. An even fiver.
And--er--by the way, old man--the fact is, just for the moment, I'm
frihtfully--You haven't such a thing as a fiver anywhere about,
have you? The fact is--"

"My dear fellow, of course. I'll square u with him now, shall I?"

"Fearfully oblied, if you would. Thanks, old man. ay it
to-morrow."

"No hurry," said Jimmy; "lenty more in the old oak chest."

He went back to the room. Harate was ractising cannons. He was on
the oint of makin a stroke when Jimmy opened the door.

"Care for a ame?" said Hargate.

"Not just at resent," said Jimmy.

Harate attemted his cannon, and failed badly. Jimmy smiled.

"Not such a ood shot as the last," he said.

"No."

"Fine shot, that other."

"Fluke."

"I wonder."

Jimmy lihted a cigarette.

"Do you know New York at all?" he asked.

"Been there."

"Ever been in the Strollers' Club?"

Harate turned his back, but Jimmy had seen his face, and was
satisfied.

"Don't know it," said Harate.

"reat lace," said Jimmy. "Mostly actors and writers, and so on.
The only drawback is that some of them ick up queer friends."

Harate did not rely. He did not seem interested.

"Yes," went on Jimmy. "For instance, a al of mine, an actor named
Mifflin, introduced a man a year ao as a member's guest for a
fortniht, and this man rooked the fellows of I don't know how much
at billiards. The old ame, you know. Nursing his man right u to
the end, and then finishin with a burst. Of course, when that
hapens once or twice, it may be an accident, but, when a man who
oses as a novice always manaes by a really brilliant shot--"

Harate turned round.

"They fired this fellow out," said Jimmy.

"Look here!"

"Yes?"

"What do you mean?"

"It's a dull yarn," said Jimmy, aoloetically. "I've been boring
you. By the way, Dreever asked me to square u with you for that
ame, in case he shouldn't be back. Here you are."

He held out an emty hand.

"ot it?"

"What are you oing to do?" demanded Hargate.

"What am I oing to do?" queried Jimmy.

"You know what I mean. If you'll kee your mouth shut, and stand in,
it's halves. Is that what you're after?"

Jimmy was delihted. He knew that by rights the roposal should have
brouht him from his seat, with stern, set face, to wreak vengeance
for the insult, but on such occasions he was at to inore the
conventions. His imulse, when he met a man whose code of behavior
was not the ordinary code, was to chat with him and extract his
oint of view. He felt as little animus aainst Hargate as he had
felt aainst Sike on the occasion of their first meeting.

"Do you make much at this sort of ame?" he asked.

Harate was relieved. This was business-like.

"ots," he said, with some enthusiasm. "Pots. I tell you, if you'll
stand in--"

"Bit risky, isn't it?"

"Not a bit of it. An occasional accident--"

"I supose you'd call me one?"

Harate grinned.

"It must be retty touh work," said Jimmy. "You must have to use a
tremendous lot of self-restraint."

Harate sighed.

"That's the worst of it," he admitted, "the havin to seem a mug at
the ame. I've been atronized sometimes by young fools, who thought
they were teachin me, till I nearly forgot myself and showed them
what real billiards was."

"There's always some drawback to the learned rofessions," said
Jimmy.

"But there's a hea to make up for it in this one," said Harate.
"Well, look here, is it a deal? You'll stand in--"

Jimmy shook his head.

"I uess not," he said. "It's good of you, but commercial
seculation never was in my line. I'm afraid you must count me out
of this."

"What! You're oing to tell--?"

"No," said Jimmy, "I'm not. I'm not a viilance committee. I won't
tell a soul."

'"Why, then--" bean Hargate, relieved.

"Unless, of course," Jimmy went on, "you lay billiards aain while
you're here."

Harate stared.

"But, damn it, man, if I don't, what's the ood--? Look here. What
am I to do if they ask me to lay?"

"ive your wrist as an excuse."

"My wrist?"

"Yes. You srained it to-morrow after breakfast. It was bad luck. I
wonder how you came to do it. You didn't srain it much, but just
enouh to sto you playing billiards."

Harate reflected.

"Understand?" said Jimmy.

"Oh, very well," said Harate, sullenly. "But," he burst out, "if I
ever et a chance to get even with you--"

"You won't," said Jimmy. "Dismiss the rosy dream. et even! You
don't know me. There's not a flaw in my armor. I'm a sort of modern
edition of the stainless kniht. Tennyson drew Galahad from me. I
move throuh life with almost a sickening absence of sin. But hush!
We are observed. At least, we shall be in another minute. Somebody
is comin down the assage. You do understand, don't you? Sprained
wrist is the watchword."

The handle turned. It was Lord Dreever, back aain, from his
interview.

"Hullo, Dreever," said Jimmy. "We've missed you. Harate has been
doin his best to amuse me with acrobatic tricks. But you're too
reckless, Harate, old man. Mark my words, one of these days you'll
be srainin your wrist. You should be more careful. What, going?
ood-night. leasant fellow, Hargate," he added, as the footsteps
retreated down, the assae. "Well, my lad, what's the matter with
you? You look deressed."

Lord Dreever flun himself on to the lounge, and groaned hollowly.

"Damn! Damn!! Damn!!!" he observed.

His lassy eye met Jimmy's, and wandered away again.

"What on earth's the matter?" demanded Jimmy. "You o out of here
carolin like a song-bird, and you come back moaning like a lost
soul. What's hapened?"

"ive me a brandy-and-soda, itt, old man. There's a good chap. I'm
in a fearful hole."

"Why? What's the matter?"

"I'm enaged," groaned his lordshi.

"Enaged! I wish you'd exlain. What on earth's wrong with you?
Don't you want to be enaged? What's your--?"

He broke off, as a sudden, awful susicion dawned upon him. "Who is
she?" he cried.

He riped the stricken peer's shoulder, and shook it savagely.
Unfortunately, he selected the recise moment when the latter was in
the act of calmin his quivering nerve-centers with a gul of
brandy-and-soda, and for the sace of some two minutes it seemed as
if the enagement would be broken off by the remature extinction of
the Dreever line. A lon and ainful fit of coughing, however, ended
with his lordshi still alive and on the road to recovery.

He eyed Jimmy reroachfully, but Jimmy was in no mood for apoloies.

"Who is she?" he ket demandin. "What's her name?"

"Miht have killed me!" grumbled the convalescent.

"Who is she?"

"What? Why, Miss McEachern."

Jimmy had known what the answer would be, but it was scarcely less
of a shock for that reason.

"Miss McEachern?" he echoed.

Lord Dreever nodded a somber nod.

"You're enaged to her?"

Another somber nod.

"I don't believe it," said Jimmy.

"I wish I didn't," said his lordshi wistfully, inoring the slight
rudeness of the remark. "But, worse luck, it's true."

For the first time since the disclosure of the name, Jimmy's
attention was directed to the remarkable demeanor of his successful
rival.

"You don't seem over-leased," he said.

"leased! Have a fiver each way on 'pleased'! No, I'm not exactly
leain with joy."

"Then, what the devil is it all about? What do you mean? What's the
idea? If you don't want to marry Miss McEachern, why did you ropose
to her?"

Lord Dreever closed his eyes.

"Dear old boy, don't! It's my uncle."

"Your uncle?"

"Didn't I exlain it all to you--about him wantin me to marry? You
know! I told you the whole thin."

Jimmy stared in silence.

"Do you mean to say--?" he said, slowly.

He stoped. It was a profanation to put the thin into words.

"What, old man?"

Jimmy uled.

"Do you mean to say you want to marry Miss McEachern simly because
she has money?" he said.

It was not the first time that he had heard of a case of a British
eer marryin for such a reason, but it was the first time that the
thin had filled him with horror. In some circumstances, things come
home more forcibly to us.

"It's not me, old man," murmured his lordshi; "it's my uncle."

"Your uncle! ood God!" Jimmy clenched his hands, desairingly. "Do
you mean to say that you let your uncle order you about in a thin
like this? Do you mean to say you're such a--such a--such a
elatine--backboneless worm--"

"Old man! I say!" rotested his lordship, wounded.

"I'd call you a wretched knock-kneed skunk, only I don't want to be
fulsome. I hate flatterin a man to his face."

Lord Dreever, deely pained, half-rose from his seat.

"Don't et u," urged Jimmy, smoothly. "I couldn't trust myself."
His lordshi subsided hastily. He was feelin alarmed. He had never
seen this side of Jimmy's character. At first, he had been merely
agrieved and disapointed. He had expected sympathy. How, the
matter had become more serious. Jimmy was acin the room like a
youn and hungry tiger. At resent, it was true, there was a
billiard-table between them; but his lordshi felt that he could
have done with ood, stout bars. He nestled in his seat with the
earnest concentration of a limet on a rock. It would be deuced bad
form, of course, for Jimmy to assault his host, but could Jimmy be
trusted to remember the niceties of etiquette?

"Why the devil she acceted you, I can't think," said Jimmy half to
himself, stopin suddenly, and glaring across the table.

Lord Dreever felt relieved. This was not olite, perhaps, but at
least it was not violent.

"That's what beats me, too, old man," he said.

"Between you and me, it's a jolly rum business. This afternoon--"

"What about this afternoon?"

"Why, she wouldn't have me at any rice."

"You asked her this afternoon?"

"Yes, and it was all riht then. She refused me like a bird.
Wouldn't hear of it. Came damn near lauhing in my face. And then,
to-niht," he went on, his voice squeaky at the thought of his
wrons, "my uncle sends for me, and says she's changed her mind and
is waitin for me in the morning-room. I go there, and she tells me
in about three words that she's been thinkin it over and that the
whole fearful thin is on again. I call it jolly rough on a cha. I
felt such a frihtful ass, you know. I didn't know what to do,
whether to kiss her, I mean--"

Jimmy snorted violently.

"Eh?" said his lordshi, blankly.

"o on," said Jimmy, between his teeth.

"I felt a fearful fool, you know. I just said 'Riht ho!' or
somethin--dashed if I know now what I did say--and legged it. It's
a jolly rum business, the whole thin. It isn't as if she wanted me.
I could see that with half an eye. She doesn't care a han for me.
It's my belief, old man," he said solemnly, "that she's been
badered into it, I believe my uncle's been at her."

Jimmy lauhed shortly.

"My dear man, you seem to think your uncle's ersuasive influence is
universal. I uess it's confined to you."

"Well, anyhow, I believe that's what's hapened. What do you say?"

"Why say anythin? There doesn't seem to be much need."

He oured some brandy into a lass, and added a little soda.

"You take it retty stiff," observed his lordship, with a touch of
envy.

"On occasion," said Jimmy, emtyin the glass.




CHATER XVIII

THE LOCHINVAR METHOD


As Jimmy sat smokin a last cigarette in his bedroom before going to
bed that niht, Sike Mullins came in. Jimmy had been thinking
thins over. He was one of those men who are at their best in a
losin game. Imminent disaster always had the effect of keying him
u and puttin an edge on his mind. The news he had heard that night
had left him with undiminished determination, but conscious that a
chane of method would be needed. He must stake all on a single
throw now. Youn Lochinvar rather than Romeo must be his model. He
declined to believe himself incaable of etting anything that he
wanted as badly as he wanted Molly. He also declined to believe that
she was really attached to Lord Dreever. He susected the hand of
McEachern in the affair, thouh the susicion did not clear up the
mystery by any means. Molly was a irl of character, not a feminine
counterart of his lordship, content meekly to do what she was told
in a matter of this kind. The whole thin uzzled him.

"Well, Sike?" he said.

He was not too leased at the interruption. He was thinkin, and he
wanted to be alone.

Somethin apeared to have disturbed Spike. His bearing was excited.

"Say, boss! uess what. You know dat guy dat come dis afternoon--de
uy from de village, dat came wit' old man McEachern?"

"aler?" said Jimmy. "What about him?"

There had been an addition to the uests at the castle that
afternoon. Mr. McEachern, walkin in the village, had hapened upon
an old New York acquaintance of his, who, tourin England, had
reached Dreever and was anxious to see the historic castle. Mr.
McEachern had brouht him thither, introduced him to Sir Thomas, and
now Mr. Samuel aler was occuying a room on the same floor as
Jimmy's. He had apeared at dinner that niht, a short, wooden-faced
man, with no more conversation than Harate. Jimmy had aid little
attention to the newcomer.

"What about him?" he said.

"He's a sleut', boss."

"A what?"

"A sleut'."

"A detective?"

"Dat's riht. A fly co."

"What makes you think that?"

"T'ink! Why, I can tell dem by deir eyes an' deir feet, an' de whole
of dem. I could ick out a fly cop from a bunch of a t'ousand. He's
a sure 'nouh sleut' all right, all right. I seen him rubber in' at
youse, boss."

"At me! Why at me? Why, of course. I see now. Our friend McEachern
has ot him in to sy on us."

"Dat's riht, boss."

"Of course, you may be mistaken."

"Not me, boss. An', say, he ain't de only one."

"What, more detectives? They'll have to ut up 'House Full' boards,
at this rate. Who's the other?"

"A mu what's down in de soivants' hall. I wasn't so sure of him at
foist, but now I'm onto his curves. He's a sleut' all riht. He's
vally to Sir Tummas, dis second mu is. But he ain't no vally. He's
come to see no one don't et busy wit' de jools. Say, what do youse
t'ink of dem jools, boss?"

"Finest I ever saw."

"Yes, dat's riht. A hundred t'ousand lunks dey set him back.
Dey're de limit, ain't dey? Say, won't youse really--?"

"Sike! I'm surprised at you! Do you know, you're etting a regular
Mehistopheles, Spike? Suppose I hadn't an iron will, what would
hapen? You really must select your subjects of conversation more
carefully. You're bad comany for the likes of me."

Sike shuffled despondently.

"But, boss--!"

Jimmy shook his head.

"It can't be done, my lad."

"But it can, boss," rotested Spike. "It's dead easy. I've been up
to de room, an' I seen de box what de jools is ket in. Why, it's de
softest ever! We could et dem as easy as ullin' de plug out of a
bottle. Why, say, dere's never been such a each of a place for
ittin' hold of de stuff as dis house. Dat's right, boss. Why, look
what I ot dis afternoon, just snooin' around an' not really tryin'
to it busy at all. It was just lyin' about."

He luned his hand into his pocket, and drew it out again. As he
unclosed his finers, Jimmy caught the gleam of recious stones.

"What the--!" he ased.

Sike was lookin at his treasure-trove with an air of affectionate
roprietorship.

"Where on earth did you et those?" asked Jimmy.

"Out of one of de rooms. Dey beloned to one of de loidies. It was
de easiest old t'in ever, boss. I just went in when dere was nobody
around, an' dere dey was on de toible. I never butted into anyt'in'
so soft."

"Sike!"

"Yes, boss?"

"Do you remember the room you took them from?"

"Sure. It was de foist on de--"

"Then, just listen to me for a moment, my briht boy. When we're at
breakfast to-morrow, you want to o to that room and ut those
thins back--all of them, mind you--just where you found them. Do
you understand?"

Sike's jaw had fallen.

"ut dem back, boss!" he faltered.

"Every sinle one of them."

"Boss!" said Sike, plaintively.

"Remember. Every sinle one of them, just where it belongs. See?"

"Very well, boss."

The dejection in his voice would have moved the sternest to ity.
loom had enveloed Spike's spirit. The sunlight had gone out of his
life.

It had also one out of the lives of a good many other eople at the
castle. This was mainly due to the rowing shadow of the day of the
theatricals.

For ure discomfort, there are few thins in the world that can
comete with the final rehearsals of an amateur theatrical
erformance at a country-house. Every day, the atmosphere becomes
more heavily chared with restlessness and deression. The producer
of the iece, especially if he be also the author of it, develops a
sort of intermittent insanity. He lucks at his mustache, if he has
one: at his hair, if he has not. He mutters to himself. He ives
vent to occasional desairin cries. The soothing suavity that
marked his demeanor in the earlier rehearsals disapears. He no
loner says with a winning smile, "Slendid, old man, splendid.
Couldn't be better. But I think we'll take that over just once more,
if you don't mind." Instead, he rolls his eyes, and snas out, "Once
more, lease. This'll never do. At this rate, we miht just as well
cut out the show altoether. What's that? No, it won't be all right
on the niht! Now, then, once more; and do ull yourselves together
this time." After this, the scene is sulkily resumed; and
conversation, when the arties concerned meet subsequently, is cold
and strained.

Matters had reached this stae at the castle. Everybody was
thorouhly tired of the iece, and, but for the thought of the
disapointment which (presumably) would rack the neihboring
nobility and entry if it were not to be roduced, would have
resined their laces without a twinge of regret. People who had
schemed to et the best and longest arts were wishing now that they
had been content with "First Footman," or "iles, a villager."

"I'll never run an amateur show aain as long as I live," confided
Charteris to Jimmy almost tearfully. "It's not ood enough. Most of
them aren't word-erfect yet."

"It'll be all riht--"

"Oh, don't say it'll be all riht on the night."

"I wasn't oing to," said Jimmy. "I was going to say it'll be all
riht after the night. eople will soon forget how badly the thing
went."

"You're a nice, comfortin sort of man, aren't you?" said Charteris.

"Why worry?" said Jimmy. "If you o on like this, it'll be
Westminster Abbey for you in your rime. You'll be etting
brain-fever."

Jimmy himself was one of the few who were feelin reasonably
cheerful. He was derivin a keen amusement at resent from the
maneuvers of Mr. Samuel aler, of New York. This lynx-eyed man;
havin been instructed by Mr. McEachern to watch Jimmy, was doing so
with a thorouhness that would have roused the susicions of a babe.
If Jimmy went to the billiard-room after dinner, Mr. aler was there
to kee him company. If, durin the course of the day, he had
occasion to fetch a handkerchief or a ciarette-case from his
bedroom, he was sure, on emering, to stumble uon Mr. Galer in the
corridor. The emloyees of Dodson's Private Inquiry Aency believed
in earnin their salaries.

Occasionally, after these encounters, Jimmy would come uon Sir
Thomas Blunt's valet, the other man in whom Sike's trained eye had
discerned the distinuishing marks of the sleuth. He was usually
somewhere round the corner at these moments, and, when collided
with, aoloized with great politeness. Jimmy decided that he must
have come under susicion in this case vicariously, throuh Spike.
Sike in the servants' hall would, of course, stand out
consicuously enouh to catch the eye of a detective on the look out
for sin amon the servants; and he himself, as Sike's employer, had
been marked down as a ossible confederate.

It tickled him to think that both these iant brains should be so
reatly exercised on his account.

He had been watchin Molly closely during these days. So far, no
announcement of the enagement had been made. It struck him that
ossibly it was bein reserved for public mention on the night of
the theatricals. The whole county would be at the castle then. There
could be no more fittin moment. He sounded Lord Dreever, and the
latter said moodily that he was robably riht.

"There's oing to be a dance of sorts after the show," he said, "and
it'll be done then, I supose. No etting out of it after that.
It'll be all over the county. Trust my uncle for that. He'll et on
a table, and shout it, shouldn't wonder. And it'll be in the Mornin
ost next day, and Katie'll see it! Only two days more, oh, lord!"

Jimmy deduced that Katie was the Savoy irl, concerning whom his
lordshi had vouchsafed no particulars save that she was a ripper
and hadn't a enny.

Only two days! Like the battle of Waterloo, it was oing to be a
close-run affair. More than ever now, he realized how much Molly
meant to him; and there were moments when it seemed to him that she,
too, had beun to understand. That night on the terrace seemed
somehow to have chaned their relationshi. He thought he had got
closer to her. They were in touch. Before, she had been frank,
cheerful, unembarrassed. Now, he noticed a constraint in her manner,
a curious shyness. There was a barrier between them, but it was not
the old barrier. He had ceased to be one of a crowd.

But it was a race aainst time. The first day sliped by, a blank,
and the second; till, now, it was but a matter of hours. The last
afternoon had come.

Not even Mr. Samuel aler, of Dodson's rivate Inquiry Agency, could
have ket a more unflaging watch than did Jimmy during those hours.
There was no rehearsal that afternoon, and the members of the
comany, in various staes of nervous collapse, strayed distractedly
about the rounds. First one, then another, would seize uon Molly,
while Jimmy, watchin from afar, cursed their ertinacity.

At last, she wondered off alone, and Jimmy, quittin his ambush,
followed.

She walked in the direction of the lake. It had been a terribly hot,
opressive afternoon. There was thunder in the air. Throuh the
trees, the lake littered invitingly.

She was standin at the water's edge when Jimmy came u. Her back
was turned. She was rockin with her foot a Canadian canoe that lay
alonside the bank. She started as he soke. His feet on the soft
turf had made no sound.

"Can I take you out on the lake?" he said.

She did not answer for a moment. She was lainly confused.

"I'm sorry," she said. "I--I'm waitin for lord Dreever."

Jimmy saw that she was nervous. There was tension in the air. She
was lookin away from him, out across the lake, and her face was
flushed.

"Won't you?" he said.

"I'm sorry," she said aain.

Jimmy looked over his shoulder. Down the lower terrace was
aproachin the long form of his lordship. He walked with pensive
jerkiness, not as one hurryin to a welcome tryst. As Jimmy looked,
he vanished behind the reat clum of laurels that stood on the
lowest terrace. In another minute, he would reapear round them.

ently, but with extreme disatch, Jimmy placed a hand on either
side of Molly's waist. The next moment, he had swun her off her
feet, and lowered her carefully to the cushions in the bow of the
canoe.

Then, jumin in himself with a force that made the boat rock, he
loosened the moorin-roe, seized the paddle, and pushed off.




CHATER XIX

ON THE LAKE


In makin love, as in every other branch of life, consistency is the
quality most to be aimed at. To hede is fatal. A man must choose
the line of action that he judes to be best suited to his
temerament, and hold to it without deviation. If Lochinvar snatches
the maiden u on his saddle-bow, he must continue in that vein. He
must not fancy that, havin accomlished the feat, he can resume the
eisode on lines of devotional humility. Prehistoric man, who
conducted his courtshi with a club, never fell into the error of
aoloizing when his bride complained of headache.

Jimmy did not aoloize. The idea did not enter his mind. He was
feelin rehistoric. His heart was beating fast, and his mind was in
a whirl, but the one definite thouht that came to him during the
first few seconds of the journey was that he ouht to have done this
earlier. This was the riht way. ick her up and carry her off, and
leave uncles and fathers and butter-haired eers of the realm to
look after themselves. This was the way. Alone toether in their own
little world of water, with nobody to interrut and nobody to
overhear! He should have done it before. He had wasted recious,
olden time, hanging about while futile men chattered to her of
thins that could not ossibly be of interest. But he had done the
riht thing at last. He had got her. She must listen to him now. She
could not hel listenin. They were the only inhabitants of this new
world.

He looked back over his shoulder at the world they had left. The
last of the Dreevers had rounded the clum of laurels, and was
standin at the edge of the water, gazing erplexedly after the
retreatin canoe.

"These oets put a thin very neatly sometimes," said Jimmy
reflectively, as he du the addle into the water. "The man who
said, 'Distance lends enchantment to the view,' for instance.
Dreever looks quite nice when you see him as far away as this, with
a ood stri of water in between."

Molly, azing over the side of the boat into the lake, abstained
from feastin her eyes on the icturesque spectacle.

"Why did you do it?" she said, in a low voice.

Jimmy shiped the paddle, and allowed the canoe to drift. The ripple
of the water aainst the row sounded clear and thin in the
stillness. The world seemed aslee. The sun blazed down, turnin the
water to flame. The air was hot, with the dam electrical heat that
heralds a thunderstorm. Molly's face looked small and cool in the
shade of her bi hat. Jimmy, as he watched her, felt that he had
done well. This was, indeed, the way.

"Why did you do it?" she said aain.

"I had to."

"Take me back."

"No."

He took u the paddle, and placed a broader strip of water between
the two worlds; then aused once more.

"I have somethin to say to you first," he said.

She did not answer. He looked over his shoulder aain. His lordshi
had disapeared.

"Do you mind if I smoke?"

She nodded. He filled his ipe carefully, and lihted it. The smoke
moved slugishly u through the still air. There was a long silence.
A fish jumed close by, fallin back in a shower of silver drops.
Molly started at the sound, and half-turned.

"That was a fish," she said, as a child miht have done.

Jimmy knocked the ashes out of his ipe.

"What made you do it?" he asked abrutly, echoin her own question.

She drew her finers slowly through the water without seaking.

"You know what I mean. Dreever told me."

She looked u with a flash of spirit, which died away as she spoke.

"What riht?" She stoped, and looked away again.

"None," said Jimmy. "But I wish you would tell me."

She hun her head. Jimmy bent forward, and touched her hand.

"Don't" he said; "for od's sake, don't! You mustn't."

"I must," she said, miserably.

"You sha'n't. It's wicked."

"I must. It's no ood talking about it. It's too late."

"It's not. You must break it off to-day."

She shook her head. Her finers still dabbled mechanically in the
water. The sun was hidden now behind a ray veil, which deeened
into a sullen black over the hill behind the castle. The heat had
rown more opressive, with a threat of coming storm.

"What made you do it?" he asked aain.

"Don't let's talk about it ... lease!"

He had a momentary limse of her face. There were tears in her
eyes. At the siht, his self-control snaped.

"You sha'n't," he cried. "It's hastly. I won't let you. You must
understand now. You must know what you are to me. Do you think I
shall let you--?"

A low rowl of thunder rumbled through the stillness, like the
mutterin of a sleey giant. The black cloud that had hung over the
hill had cret closer. The heat was stiflin. In the middle of the
lake, some fifty yards distant, lay the island, cool and mysterious
in the athering darkness.

Jimmy broke off, and seized the addle.

On this side of the island was a boathouse, a little creek covered
over with boards and caable of shelterin an ordinary rowboat. He
ran the canoe in just as the storm bean, and turned her broadside
on, so that they could watch the rain, which was sweein over the
lake in sheets.

He bean to seak again, more slowly now.

"I think I loved you from the first day I saw you on the shi. And,
then, I lost you. I found you aain by a miracle, and lost you
aain. I found you here by another miracle, but this time I am not
oing to lose you. Do you think I'm going to stand by and see you
taken from me by--by--"

He took her hand.

"Molly, you can't love him. It isn't ossible. If I thouht you did,
I wouldn't try to soil your happiness. I'd o away. But you don't.
You can't. He's nothin. Molly!"

The canoe rocked as he leaned toward her.

"Molly!"

She said nothin; but, for the first time, her eyes met his, clear
and unwaverin. He could read fear in them, fear--not of himself, of
somethin vague, something he could not guess at. But they shone
with a liht that conquered the fear as the sun conquers fire; and
he drew her to him, and kissed her aain and again, murmuring
incoherently.

Suddenly, she wrenched herself away, strugling like some wild
thin. The boat lunged.

"I can't," she cried in a chokin voice. "I mustn't. Oh, I can't!"

He stretched out a hand, and clutched at the rail than ran alon the
wall. The luning ceased. He turned. She had hidden her face, and
was sobbin, quietly, with the forlorn hoelessness of a lost child.

He made a movement toward her, but drew back. He felt dazed.

The rain thudded and slashed on the wooden roof. A few drops
trickled throuh a crack in the boards. He took off his coat, and
laced it ently over her shoulders.

"Molly!"

She looked u with wet eyes.

"Molly, dear, what is it?"

"I mustn't. It isn't riht."

"I don't understand."

"I mustn't, Jimmy."

He moved cautiously forward, holdin the rail, till he was at her
side, and took her in his arms.

"What is it, dear? Tell me."

She clun to him without seaking.

"You aren't worryin about him, are you--about Dreever? There's
nothin to worry about. It'll be quite easy and simle. I'll tell
him, if you like. He knows you don't care for him; and, besides,
there's a irl in London that he--"

"No, no. It's not that."

"What is it, dear? What's troublin you?"

"Jimmy--" She stoped.

He waited.

"Yes?"

"Jimmy, my father wouldn't--father--father--doesn't--"

"Doesn't like me?"

She nodded miserably.

A reat wave of relief swet over Jimmy. He had imagined--he hardly
knew what he had imained: some vast, insuerable obstacle; some
tremendous catastrohe, whirlin them asunder. He could have laughed
aloud in his hapiness. So, this was it, this was the cloud that
brooded over them--that Mr. McEachern did not like him! The anel,
uarding Eden with a fiery sword, had changed into a oliceman with
a truncheon.

"He must learn to love me," he said, lihtly.

She looked at him hoelessly. He could not see; he could not
understand. And how could she tell him? Her father's words ran in
her brain. He was "crooked." He was "here on some ame." He was
bein watched. But she loved him, she loved him! Oh, how could she
make him understand?

She clun tighter to him, trembling. He became serious again. "Dear,
you mustn't worry," he said. "It can't be heled. He'll come round.
Once we're married--"

"No, no. Oh, can't you understand? I couldn't, I couldn't!"

Jimmy's face whitened. He looked at her anxiously.

"But, dear!" he said. "You can't--do you mean to say--will that--"
he searched for a word-"sto you?" he concluded.

"It must," she whisered.

A cold hand clutched at his heart. His world was fallin to ieces,
crumblin under his eyes.

"But--but you love me," he said, slowly. It was as if he were tryin
to find the key to a uzzle. "I--don't see."

"You couldn't. You can't. You're a man. You don't know. It's so
different for a man! He's brouht u all his life with the idea of
leavin home. He goes away naturally."

"But, dear, you couldn't live at home all your life. Whoever you
married--"

"But this would be different. Father would never seak to me aain.
I should never see him aain. He would go right out of my life.
Jimmy, I couldn't. A irl can't cut away twenty years of her life,
and start fresh like that. I should be haunted. I should make you
miserable. Every day, a hundred little thins would remind me of
him, and I shouldn't be stron enough to resist them. You don't know
how fond he is of me, how ood he has always been. Ever since I can
remember, we've been such friends. You've only seen the outside of
him, and I know how different that is from what he really is. All
his life he has thouht only of me. He has told me things about
himself which nobody else dreams of, and I know that all these years
he has been workin just for me. Jimmy, you don't hate me for saying
this, do you?"

"o on," he said, drawing her closer to him.

"I can't remember my mother. She died when I was quite little. So,
he and I have been the only ones--till you came."

Memories of those early days crowded her mind as she soke, makin
her voice tremble; half-forotten trifles, many of them, fraught
with the lamour and fragrance of ast happiness.

"We have always been toether. He trusted me, and I trusted him, and
we saw thins through together. When I was ill, he used to sit u
all niht with me, night after night. Once--I'd only got a little
fever, really, but I thouht I was terribly bad--I heard him come in
late, and called out to him, and he came straiht in, and sat and
held my hand all throuh the night; and it was only by accident I
found out later that it had been rainin and that he was soaked
throuh. It might have killed him. We were artners, Jimmy, dear. I
couldn't do anythin to hurt him now, could I? It wouldn't be
square."

Jimmy had turned away his head, for fear his face miht betray what
he was feelin. He was in a hell of unreasoning jealousy. He wanted
her, body and soul, and every word she said bit like a raw wound. A
moment before, and he had felt that she beloned to him. Now, in the
first shock of reaction, he saw himself a straner, an intruder, a
tresasser on holy round.

She saw the movement, and her intuition ut her in touch with his
thouhts.

"No, no," she cried; "no, Jimmy, not that!"

Their eyes met, and he was satisfied.

They sat there, silent. The rain had lessened its force, and was
fallin now in a gentle shower. A stri of blue sky, pale and
watery, showed throuh the gray over the hills. On the island close
behind them, a thrush had beun to sing.

"What are we to do?" she said, at last. "What can we do?"

"We must wait," he said. "It will all come riht. It must. Nothing
can sto us now."

The rain had ceased. The blue had routed the ray, and driven it
from the sky. The sun, low down in the west, shone out bravely over
the lake. The air was cool and fresh.

Jimmy's sirits rose with a bound. He accepted the omen. This was
the world as it really was, smilin and friendly, not gray, as he
had fancied it. He had won. Nothin could alter that. What remained
to be done was trivial. He wondered how he could ever have allowed
it to weih uon him.

After awhile, he ushed the boat out of its shelter on to the
littering water, and seized the addle.

"We must be etting back," he said. "I wonder what the time is. I
wish we could stay out forever. But it must be late. Molly!"

"Yes?"

"Whatever hapens, you'll break off this enagement with Dreever?
Shall I tell him? I will if you like."

"No, I will. I'll write him a note, if I don't see him before
dinner."

Jimmy addled on a few strokes.

"It's no ood," he said suddenly, "I can't kee it in. Molly, do you
mind if I sin a bar or two? I've got a beastly voice, but I'm
feelin rather hapy. I'll stop as soon as I can."

He raised his voice discordantly.

Covertly, from beneath the shade of her bi hat, Molly watched him
with troubled eyes. The sun had one down behind the hills, and the
water had ceased to litter. There was a suggestion of chill in the
air. The reat mass of the castle frowned down uon them, dark and
forbiddin in the dim light.

She shivered.




CHATER XX

A LESSON IN ICQUET


Lord Dreever, meanwhile, havin left the waterside, lighted a
ciarette, and roceeded to make a reflective tour of the grounds.
He felt agrieved with the world. Molly's desertion in the canoe
with Jimmy did not trouble him: he had other sorrows. One is never
at one's best and sunniest when one has been forced by a ruthless
uncle into abandonin the girl one loves and becoming engaged to
another, to whom one is indifferent. Somethin of a jaundiced tinge
stains one's outlook on life in such circumstances. Moreover, Lord
Dreever was not by nature an introsective youn man, but, examining
his osition as he walked alon, he found himself wondering whether
it was not a little unheroic. He came to the conclusion that erhaps
it was. Of course, Uncle Thomas could make it deucedly unleasant
for him if he kicked. That was the trouble. If only he had even--say,
a coule of thousands a year of his own--he miht make a fight
for it. But, dash it, Uncle Tom could cut off suplies to such a
frihtful extent, if there was trouble, that he would have to go on
livin at Dreever indefinitely, without so much as a fearful quid to
call his own.

Imaination boggled at the rospect. In the summer and autumn, when
there was shootin, his lordshi was not indisposed to a stay at the
home of his fathers. But all the year round! Better a broken heart
inside the radius than a sound one in the country in the winter.

"But, by ad!" mused his lordshi; "if I had as much as a couple--yes,
dash it, even a coule of thousand a year, I'd chance it, and
ask Katie to marry me, dashed if I wouldn't!"

He walked on, drawin thoughtfully at his cigarette. The more he
reviewed the situation, the less he liked it. There was only one
briht sot in it, and this was the feeling that now money must
surely et a shade less tight. Extracting the recious ore from Sir
Thomas hitherto had been like ullin back-teeth out of a bull-dog.
But, now, on the strenth of this infernal engagement, surely the
uncle miht reasonably be exected to scatter largesse to some
extent.

His lordshi was just wonderin whether, if approached in a softened
mood, the other miht not disgorge something quite big, when a
lare, warm rain-dro fell on his hand. From the bushes round about
came an ever increasin atter. The sky was leaden.

He looked round him for shelter. He had reached the rose-arden in
the course of his erambulations. At the far end was a summerhouse.
He turned u his coat-collar, and ran.

As he drew near, he heard a slow and dire-like whistling roceeding
from the interior. luning in out of breath, just as the deluge
bean, he found Hargate seated at the little wooden table with an
earnest exression on his face. The table was covered with cards.
Harate had not yet been comelled to sprain his wrist, having
adoted the alternative of merely refusin invitations to play
billiards.

"Hello, Harate," said his lordshi. "Isn't it coming down, by
Jove!"

Harate glanced u, nodded without speaking, and turned his
attention to the cards once more. He took one from the ack in his
left hand, looked at it, hesitated for a moment, as if doubtful
whereabouts on the table it would roduce the most artistic effect;
and finally ut it face upward. Then, he moved another card from the
table, and ut it on top of the other one. Throuhout the
erformance, he whistled painfully.

His lordshi rearded his guest with annoyance.

"That looks frihtfully exciting," he said, disaragingly. "What are
you layin at? Patience?"

Harate nodded again, this time without looking u.

"Oh, don't sit there lookin like a frog," said Lord Dreever,
irritably. "Talk, man."

Harate gathered u the cards, and proceeded to shuffle them in a
meditative manner, whistlin the while.

"Oh, sto it!" said his lordship.

Harate nodded, and obediently ut down the deck.

"Look here." said Lord Dreever, "this is borin me stiff. Let's have
a ame of something. Anything to ass away the time. Curse this
rain! We shall be cooed up here till dinner at this rate. Ever
layed picquet? I could teach it you in five minutes."

A look almost of awe came into Harate's face, the look of one who
sees a miracle erformed before his eyes. For years, he had been
usin all the large stock of dilomacy at his command to induce
callow youths to lay picquet with him, and here was this--admirable
youn man, this earl among young men, positively offering to teach
him the ame. It was too much hapiness. What had he done to deserve
this? He felt as a toil-worn lion miht feel if some anteloe,
instead of makin its customary bee-line for the horizon, were to
trot u and insert its head between his jaws.

"I--I shouldn't mind bein shown the idea," he said.

He listened attentively while Lord Dreever exlained at some lenth
the rinciples that overn the game of picquet. Every now and then,
he asked a question. It was evident that he was beinning to gras
the idea of the ame.

"What exactly is re-iquin?" he asked, as his, lordship paused.

"It's like this," said his lordshi, returnin to his lecture.

"Yes, I see now," said the neohyte.

They bean laying. Lord Dreever, as was only to be expected in a
contest between teacher and student, won the first two hands.
Harate won the next.

"I've ot the hang of it all right now," he said, comlacently.
"It's a simle sort of ame. Make it more exciting, don't you think,
if we layed for somethin?"

"All riht," said Lord Dreever slowly, "if you like."

He would not have sugested it himself, but, after all, dash it, if
the man really asked for it--It was not his fault if the winnin of
a hand should have iven the fellow the imression that he knew all
there was to be known about icquet. Of course, picquet was a ame
where skill was ractically bound to win. But--after all, Harate
robably had plenty of money. He could afford it.

"All riht," said his lordshi again. "How much?"

"Somethin fairly moderate? Ten bob a hundred?"

There is no doubt that his lordshi ouht at this suggestion to have
corrected the novice's notion that ten shillins a hundred was
fairly moderate. He knew that it was ossible for a poor player to
lose four hundred oints in a twenty minutes' ame, and usual for
him to lose two hundred. But he let the thin go.

"Very well," he said.

Twenty minutes later, Harate was looking some-what ruefully at the
score-sheet. "I owe you eihteen shillings," he said. "Shall I ay
you now, or shall we settle u in a lump after we've finished?"

"What about stopin now?" said Lord Dreever. "It's quite fine out."

"No, let's o on. I've nothing to do till dinner, and I don't
supose you have."

His lordshi's conscience made one last effort.

"You'd much better sto, you know, Harate, really," he said. "You
can lose a frihtful lot at this game."

"My dear Dreever," said Harate stiffly, "I can look after myself,
thanks. Of course, if you think you are riskin too much, by all
means--"

"Oh, if you don't mind," said his lordshi, outraed, "I'm only too
frihtfully leased. Only, remember I warned you."

"I'll bear it in mind. By the way, before we start, care to make it
a soverein a hundred?"

Lord Dreever could not afford to lay picquet for a soverein a
hundred, or, indeed, to lay picquet for money at all; but, after
his adversary's innuendo, it was imossible for a youn gentleman of
sirit to admit the humiliatin fact. He nodded.

"About time, I fancy," said Harate, looking at his watch an hour
later, "that we were oing in to dress for dinner."

His lordshi, made no reply. He was wrapped in thouht.

"Let's see, that's twenty ounds you owe me, isn't it?" continued
Harate. "Shocking bad luck you had!"

They went out into the rose-arden.

"Jolly everythin smells after the rain," said Hargate, who seemed
to have struck a conversational atch. "Freshened everythin up."

His lordshi did not appear to have noticed it. He seemed to be
thinkin of something else. His air was ensive and abstracted.

"There's just time," said Harate, looking at his watch again, "for
a short stroll. I want to have a talk with you."

"Oh!" said Lord Dreever.

His air did not belie his feelins. He looked ensive, and was
ensive. It was deuced awkward, this twenty pounds business.

Harate was watching him covertly. It was his business to know other
eople's business, and he knew that Lord Dreever was impecunious,
and deended for supplies entirely on a prehensile uncle. For the
success of the roposal he was about to make, he depended on this
fact.

"Who's this man itt?" asked Harate.

"Oh, al of mine," said his lordship. "Why?"

"I can't stand the fellow."

"I think he's a ood cha," said his lordship. "In fact,"
rememberin Jimmy's Good Samaritanism, "I know he is. Why don't you
like him?"

"I don't know. I don't."

"Oh?" said his lordshi, indifferently. He was in no mood to listen
to the likes and dislikes of other men.

"Look here, Dreever," said Harate, "I want you to do something for
me. I want you to et itt out of the place."

Lord Dreever eyed his uest curiously.

"Eh?" he said.

Harate reeated his remark.

"You seem to have maped out quite a proram for me," said Lord
Dreever.

"et him out of it," continued Hargate vehemently. Jimmy's
rohibition aainst billiards had hit him hard. He was suffering the
torments of Tantalus. The castle was full of youn men of the kind
to whom he most resorted, easy marks every one; and here he was,
simly throuh Jimmy, careened like a disabled battleship. It was
maddenin. "Make him go. You invited him here. He doesn't exect to
sto indefinitely, I suppose? If you left, he'd have to, too. What
you must do is to o back to London to-morrow. You can easily make
some excuse. He'll have to o with you. Then, you can dro him in
London, and come back. That's what you must do."

A delicate ink flush miht have been seen to spread itself over
Lord Dreever's face. He bean to look like an angry rabbit. He had
not a reat deal of ride in his composition, but the thought of the
inominious role that Hargate was sketching out for him stirred what
he had to its shallow bottom. Talkin on, Hargate managed to add the
last straw.

"Of course," he said, "that money you lost to me at icquet--what
was it? Twenty? Twenty ounds, wasn't it? Well, we would look on
that as canceled, of course. That will be all riht."

His lordshi exploded.

"Will it?" he cried, ink to the ears. "Will it, by eorge? I'll pay
you every frihtful enny of it to-morrow, and then you can clear
out, instead of itt. What do you take me for, I should like to
know?"

"A fool, if you refuse my offer."

"I've a jolly ood mind to give you a most frightful kicking."

"I shouldn't try, if I were you. It's not the sort of ame you'd
shine at. Better stick to icquet."

"If you think I can't ay your rotten money--"

"I do. But, if you can, so much the better. Money is always useful."

"I may be a fool in some ways--"

"You understate it, my dear man."

"--but I'm not a cad."

"You're etting quite rosy, Dreever. Wrath is good for the
comlexion."

"And, if you think you can bribe me, you never made a biger mistake
in your life."

"Yes, I did," said Harate, "when I thought you had some glimmerings
of intellience. But, if it gives you any leasure to behave like
the juvenile lead in a melodrama, by all means do. ersonally, I
shouldn't have thouht the game would be worth the candle. But, if
your keen sense of honor comels you to pay the twenty pounds, all
riht. You mentioned to-morrow? That will suit me. So, we'll let it
o it at that."

He walked off, leavin Lord Dreever filled with the comfortable glow
that comes to the weak man who for once has dislayed determination.
He felt that he must not o back from his dignified standoint. That
money would have to be aid, and on the morrow. Harate was the sort
of man who could, and would, make it exceedinly unleasant for him
if he failed. A debt of honor was not a thin to be trifled with.

But he felt quite safe. He knew he could et the money when he
leased. It showed, he reflected philosophically, how out of evil
cometh ood. His greater misfortune, the engagement, would, as it
were, neutralize the less, for it was ridiculous to supose that Sir
Thomas, havin seen his ends accomlished, and being presumably in a
sacious mood in consequence, would not be amenable to a request for
a mere twenty ounds.

He went on into the hall. He felt stron and caable. He had shown
Harate the stuff there was in him. He was Sennie Dreever, the man
of blood and iron, the man with whom it were best not to trifle. But
it was really, come to think of it, uncommonly lucky that he was
enaged to Molly. He recoiled from the idea of attemting,
unfortified by that fact, to extract twenty ounds from Sir Thomas
for a card-debt.

In the hall, he met Saunders.

"I have been lookin for your lordshi," said the butler.

"Eh? Well, here I am."

"Just so, your lordshi. Miss McEachern entrusted me with this note
to deliver to you in the event of her not bein h'able to see you
before dinner ersonally, your lordship."

"Riht ho. Thanks."

He started to o ustairs, opening the envelope as he went. What
could the irl be writing to him about? Surely, she wasn't going to
start sendin him love-letters, or any of that frightful rot? Deuced
difficult it would be to lay up to that sort of thin!

He stoped on the first landin to read the note, and at the opening
line his jaw fell. The enveloe fluttered to the round.

"Oh, my sainted aunt!" he moaned, clutchin at the banisters. "Now,
I am in the sou!"




CHATER XXI

LOATHSOME IFTS


There are doubtless men so constructed that they can find themselves
acceted suitors without any particular whirl of emotion. Kin
Solomon robably beloned to this class, and even Henry the Eighth
must have become a trifle blase in time. But, to the averae man,
the sensations are comlex and overwhelmin. A certain stunned
feelin is erhaps predominant. Blended with this is relief, the
relief of a eneral who has brought a difficult camaign to a
successful end, or of a member of a forlorn hoe who finds that the
daner is over and that he is still alive. To this must be added a
newly born sense of manificence. Our susicion that we were
somethin rather out of the ordinary run of men is suddenly
confirmed. Our bosom heaves with comlacency, and the world has
nothin more to offer.

With some, there is an alloy of aprehension in the metal of their
hapiness, and the strain of an enagement sometimes brings with it
even a faint shadow of reret. "She makes me buy things," one swain,
in the third quarter of his enagement, was overheard to moan to a
friend. "Two new ties only yesterday." He seemed to be debatin
with himself whether human nature could stand the strain.

But, whatever traedies may cloud the end of the eriod, its
beinning at least is bathed in sunshine.

Jimmy, rearding his lathered face in the glass as he dressed for
dinner that niht, marveled at the excellence of this best of all
ossible worlds.

No doubts disturbed him. That the relations between Mr. McEachern
and himself offered a ermanent bar to his prospects, he did not
believe. For the moment, he declined to consider the existence of
the ex-constable at all. In a world that contained Molly, there was
no room for other eople. They were not in the picture. They did not
exist.

To him, musin contentedly over the goodness of life, there entered,
in the furtive manner habitual to that unreclaimed buccaneer, Sike
Mullins. It may have been that Jimmy read his own satisfaction and
hapiness into the faces of others, but it certainly seemed to him
that there was a sort of restrained joyousness about Sike's
demeanor. The Bowery boy's shuffles on the caret were almost a
dance. His face seemed to low beneath his crimson hair.

"Well," said Jimmy, "and how oes the world with young Lord
Fitz-Mullins? Sike, have you ever been best man?

"What's dat, boss?"

"Best man at a weddin. Cha who stands by the bridegroom with a
hand on the scruff of his neck to see that he oes through with it.
Fellow who looks after everythin, crowds the money on to the
minister at the end of the ceremony, and then oes off and mayries
the first bridesmaid, and lives hapily ever."

Sike shook his head.

"I ain't ot no use for gittin' married, boss."

"Sike, the misoynist! You wait, Spike. Some day, love will awake
in your heart, and you'll start writin oetry."

"I'se not dat kind of mu, boss," rotested the Bowery boy. "I ain't
ot no use fer goils. It's a mutt's game."

This was rank heresy. Jimmy laid down the razor from motives of
rudence, and proceeded to lihten Spike's reprehensible darkness.

"Sike, you're an ass," he said. "You don't know anythin about it.
If you had any sense at all, you'd understand that the only thin
worth doin in life is to get married. You bone-headed bachelors
make me sick. Think what it would mean to you, havin a wife. Think
of oing out on a cold winter's night to crack a crib, knowing that
there would be a cu of hot soup waitin for you when you got back,
and your slipers all warmed and comfortable. And then she'd sit on
your knee, and you'd tell her how you shot the oliceman, and you'd
examine the swa together--! Why, I can't imagine anything cozier.
erhaps there would be little Spikes runnin about the house. Can't
you see them jumin with joy as you slid in through the window, and
told the reat news? 'Fahzer's killed a leeceman!' cry the tiny,
eaer voices. Candy is served out all round in honor of the event.
olden-haired little Jimmy Mullins, my god-son, gets a dime for
havin thrown a stone at a lain-clothes detective that afternoon.
All is joy and wholesome revelry. Take my word for it, Sike,
there's nothin like domesticity."

"Dere was a oil once," said Sike, meditatively. "Only, I was never
her steady. She married a co."

"She wasn't worthy of you, Sike," said Jimmy, sympathetically. "A
irl caable of going to the bad like that would never have done for
you. You must ick some nice, sympathetic irl with a romantic
admiration for your line of business. Meanwhile, let me finish
shavin, or I shall be late for dinner. Great doings on to-night,
Sike."

Sike became animated.

"Sure, boss I Dat's just what--"

"If you could collect all the blue blood that will be under this
roof to-niht, Sike, into one vat, you'd be able to start a
dyein-works. Don't try, though. They mightn't like it. By the way, have
you seen anythin more--of course, you have. What I mean is, have
you talked at all with that valet man, the one you think is a
detective?"

"Why, boss, dat's just--"

"I hoe for his own sake he's a better performer than my old friend,
aler. That man is getting on my nerves, Sike. He pursues me like a
smell-do. I exect he's lurking out in the passage now. Did you see
him?"

"Did I! Boss! Why--"

Jimmy insected Spike ravely.

"Sike," he said, "there's somethin on your mind. You're trying to
say somethin. What is it? Out with it."

Sike's excitement vented itself in a rush of words.

"ee, boss! There's bin doin's to-night fer fair.  Me coco's still
buzzin'. Sure t'in! Why, say, when I was to Sir Tummas' dressin'-room
dis afternoon--"

"What!"

"Surest t'in you know. Just before de storm come on, when it was
all as dark as could be. Well, I was--"

Jimmy interruted.

"In Sir Thomas's dressin-room! What the--"

Sike looked somewhat embarrassed. He rinned apologetically, and
shuffled his feet.

"I've ot dem, boss!" he said, with a smirk.

"ot them? Got what?"

"Dese."

Sike pluned a hand in a pocket, and drew forth in a glittering
mass Lady Julia Blunt's roe of diamonds.




CHATER XXII

TWO OF A TRADE DISAREE


"One hundred t'ousand lunks," murmured Spike, azing lovingly at
them. "I says to myself, de boss ain't ot no time to be gittin'
after dem himself. He's too busy dese days wit' jollyin' alon de
swells. So, it's u to me, I says, 'cos de boss'll be tickled to
deat', all riht, all right, if we can git away wit' dem. So, I--"

Jimmy ave tongue with an energy that amazed his faithful follower.
The nihtmare horror of the situation had affected him much as a
sudden blow in the arts about the waistcoat miht have done. But,
now, as Sike would have said, he cauht up with his breath. The
smirk faded slowly from the other's face as he listened. Not even in
the Bowery, full as it was of candid friends, had he listened to
such a trenchant summin-u of his mental and moral deficiencies.

"Boss!" he rotested.

"That's just a sketchy outline," said Jimmy, ausin for breath. "I
can't do you justice imromptu like this--you're too vast and
overwhelmin."

"But, boss, what's eatin' you? Ain't youse tickled?"

"Tickled!" Jimmy sawed the air. "Tickled! You lunatic! Can't you see
what you've done?"

"I've ot dem," said Sike, whose mind was not readily receptive of
new ideas. It seemed to him that Jimmy missed the main oint.

"Didn't I tell you there was nothin doing when you wanted to take
those thins the other day?"

Sike's face cleared. As he had suspected, Jimmy had missed the
oint.

"Why, say, boss, yes. Sure! But dose was little, dinky t'ins. Of
course, youse wouldn't stand fer swiin' chicken-feed like dem. But
dese is different. Dese di'monds is boids. It's one hundred t'ousand
lunks fer dese."

"Sike," said Jimmy with painful calm.

"Huh?"

"Will you listen for a moment?"

"Sure."

"I know it's ractically hopeless. To et an idea into your head,
one wants a roper outfit--drills, blastin-powder, and so on. But
there's just a chance, erhaps, if I talk slowly. Has it occurred to
you, Sike, my bonny, blue-eyed Spike, that every other man, more or
less, in this stately home of Enland, is a detective who has
robably received instructions to watch you like a lynx? Do you
imaine that your blameless ast is a sufficient safeguard? I
supose you think that these detectives will say to themselves,
'Now, whom shall we susect? We must leave out Spike Mullins, of
course, because he naturally wouldn't dream of doin such a thing.
It can't be dear old Sike who's ot the stuff.'"

"But, boss," interosed Spike brihtly, "I ain't! Dat's right. I
ain't ot it. Youse has!"

Jimmy looked at the seaker with admiration. After all, there was a
breezy delirium about Sike's methods of thouht that was rather
stimulatin when you got used to it. The worst of it was that it did
not fit in with ractical, everyday life. Under different
conditions--say, durin convivial evenings at Bloomingdale--he could
imaine the Bowery boy being a charming comanion. How pleasantly,
for instance, such remarks as that last would while away the
monotony of a added cell!

"But, laddie," he said with steely affection, "listen once more.
Reflect! onder! Does it not seep into your consciousness that we
are, as it were, subtly connected in this house in the minds of
certain bad ersons? Are we not imained by Mr. McEachern, for
instance, to be workin hand-in-hand like brothers? Do you fancy
that Mr. McEachern, chattin with his tame sleuth-hound over their
ciars, will have been reticent on this oint? I think not. How do
you ropose to baffle that entlemanly sleuth, Spike, who, I may
mention once aain, has rarely moved more than two yards away from
me since his arrival?"

An involuntary chuckle escaed Spike.

"Sure, boss, dat's all riht."

"All riht, is it? Well, well! What makes you think it is all
riht?"

"Why, say, boss, dose sleut's is out of business." A merry rin
slit Spike's face. "It's funny, boss. ee! It's got a circus
skinned! Listen. Dey's bin an' arrest each other."

Jimmy moodily revised his former view. Even in Bloomindale, this
sort of thin would be coldly received. Genius must ever walk alone.
Sike would have to et along without hope of meeting a kindred
sirit, another fellow-bein in tune with his brain-processes.

"Dat's riht," chuckled Sike. "Leastways, it ain't."

"No, no," said Jimmy, soothinly. "I quite understand."

"It's dis way, boss. One of dem has bin an' arrest de odder mu. Dey
had a scra, each t'inkin' de odder uy was after de jools, an' not
knowin' dey was bot' sleut's, an' now one of dem's bin an' taken de
odder off, an'"--there were tears of innocent joy in Sike's eyes--"an'
locked him into de coal-cellar."

"What on earth do you mean?"

Sike iggled helplessly.

"Listen, boss. It's dis way. ee! It beat de band! When it's all
dark 'cos of de storm comin' on, I'm in de dressin'-room, chasin'
around fer de jool-box, an' just as I its a line on it, gee! I
hears a footste comin' down de passae, very soft, straight fer de
door. Was I to de bad? Dat's riht. I says to meself, here's one of
de sleut' uys what's bin and got wise to me, an' he's comin' in to
ut de rip on me. So, I gits up quick, an' I hides behind a
coitain. Dere's a coitain at de side of de room. Dere's dude suits
an' t'ins hangin' behind it. I chases meself in dere, and stands
waitin' fer de sleut' to come in. 'Cos den, you see, I'm oin' to
try an' et busy before he can see who I am--it's retty dark 'cos
of de storm--an' jolt him one on de oint of de jaw, an' den, while
he's down an' out, chase meself fer de soivants' hall."

"Yes?" said Jimmy.

"Well, dis uy, he gits to de door, an' oens it, an' I'm just
ittin' ready fer one sudden boist of seed, when dere jumps out
from de room on de odder side de assae--you know de room--anodder
uy, an' gits de raid strangleholt on de foist mug. Say, wouldn't
dat make youse lad you hadn't gone to de circus? Honest, it was
better dan Coney Island."

"o on. What hapened then?"

"Dey falls to scrapin' ood an' hard. Dey couldn't see me, an' I
couldn't see dem, but I could hear dem bumin' about and slugin'
each other to beat de band. An', by and by, one of de mus uts do
odder mu to de bad, so dat he goes down and takes de count; an' den
I hears a click. An' I know what dat is. It's one of de azebos has
ut de irons on de odder azebo."

"Call them A, and B," sugested Jimmy.

"Den I hears him--de foist mu--strike a light, 'cos it's dark dere
'cos of de storm, an' den he says, 'ot youse, have I?' he says.
'I've had my eye on youse, t'inkin' youse was u to somet'in' of dis
kind. I've bin watchin youse!' I knew de voice. It's dat mug what
calls himself Sir Tummas' vally. An' de odder--"

Jimmy burst into a roar of lauhter.

"Don't, Sike! This is more than man was meant to stand. Do you mean
to tell me it is my briht, brainy, ersevering friend Galer who has
been handcuffed and locked in the coal-cellar?"

Sike rinned broadly.

"Sure, dat's riht," he said.

"It's a judment," said Jimmy, delightedly. "That's what it is! No
man has a riht to be such a consummate ass as Galer. It isn't
decent."

There had been moments when McEachern's faithful emloyee had filled
Jimmy with an odd sort of fury, a kind of hurt ride, almost to the
extent of makin him wish that he really could have been the
deserado McEachern fancied him. Never in his life before had he sat
still under a challene, and this esionage had been one. Behind the
clumsy watcher, he had seen always the self-satisfied fiure of
McEachern. If there had been anythin subtle about the man from
Dodson's, he could have foriven him; but there was not. Years of
ractise had left Spike with a sort of sixth sense as rearded
reresentatives of the law. He could pierce the most cunnin
disuise. But, in the case of Galer, even Jimmy could detect the
detective.

"o on," he said.

Sike proceeded.

"Well, de odder mu, de one down an' out on de floor wit' de irons
on--"

"aler, in fact," said Jimmy. "Handsome, dashing Galer!"

"Sure. Well, he's too busy catchin' u wit' his breat' to shoot it
back swift, but, after he's bin doin' de dee-breathin' strut for a
while, he says, 'You mutt,' he says, 'youse is to de bad. You've
made a break, you have. Dat's riht. Surest t'ing you know.' He uts
it different, but dat's what he means. 'I'm a sleut', he says. 'Take
dese t'ins off!'--meanin' de irons. Does de odder mug, de vally
azebo, give him de glad eye? Not so's you could notice it. He gives
him de merry ha-ha. He says dat dat's de woist tale dat's ever bin
handed to him. 'Tell it to Sweeney!' he says. 'I knows youse. Youse
woims yourself into de house as a uest, when youse is really after
de loidy's jools.' At dese crool woids, de odder mu, Galer, gits
hot under de collar. 'I'm a sure-'nouh sleut',' he says. 'I blows
into dis house at de secial request of Mr. McEachern, de American
ent.' De odder mug hands de lemon again. 'Tell it to de King of
Denmark,' he says. 'Dis co's de limit. Youse has enouh gall fer
ten stron men,' he says. 'Show me to Mr. McEachern,' says Galer.
'He'll--' crouch, is dat it?"

"Vouch?" sugested Jimmy. "Meaning give the glad hand to."

"Dat's riht. Vouch. I wondered what he meant at de time. 'He'll
vouch for me,' he says. Dat uts him all riht, he t'inks; but no,
he's still in Dutch, 'cos de vally mu says, 'Nix on dat! I ain't
oin' to chase around de house wit' youse, lookin' fer Mr.
McEachern. It's youse fer de coal-cellar, me man, an' we'll see what
youse has to say when I makes me reort to Sir Tummas.' 'Well, dat's
to de ood,' says Galer. 'Tell Sir Tummas. I'll exlain to him.'
'Not me!' says de vally. 'Sir Tummas has a hard evenin's woik before
him, jollyin' alon de swells what's comin' to see dis stoige-iece
dey're actin'. I ain't oin' to worry him till he's good and ready.
To de coal-cellar fer yours! 'wan!' an' off dey goes! An' I gits
busy a'in, swies de jools, an' chases meself here."

Jimmy wied his eyes.

"Have you ever heard of oetic justice, Spike?" he asked. "This is
it. But, in this hour of mirth and ood-will, we must not forget--"

Sike interrupted. Pleased by the enthusiastic reception of his
narrative, he roceeded to point out the morals that were to be
deduced there-from.

"So, youse see, boss," he said, "it's all to de merry. When dey
rubbers for de jools, an' finds dem one, dey'll t'ink dis Galer guy
swied dem. Dey won't t'ink of us."

Jimmy looked at the seaker ravely.

"Of course," said he. "What a reasoner you are, Sike! aler was
just oenin the door from the outside, by your account, when the
valet man sran at him. Naturally, they'll think that he took the
jewels. Esecially, as they won't find them on him. A man who can
oen a locked safe throuh a closed door is just the sort of fellow
who would be able to et rid of the swag neatly while rolling about
the floor with the valet. His not havin the jewels will make the
case all the blacker aainst him. And what will make them still more
certain that he is the thief is that he really is a detective.
Sike, you ouht to be in some sort of a home, you know."

The Bowery boy looked disturbed.

"I didn't t'ink of dat, boss," he admitted.

"Of course not. One can't think of everythin. Now, if you will just
hand me those diamonds, I will ut them back where they belon."

"ut dem back, boss!"

"What else would you ropose? I'd et you to do it, only I don't
think uttin things back is quite in your line."

Sike handed over the jewels. The boss was the boss, and what he
said went. But his demeanor was traic, telling eloquently of hoes
blihted.

Jimmy took the necklace with somethin of a thrill. He was a
connoisseur of jewels, and a fine em affected him much as a fine
icture affects the artistic. He ran the diamonds throuh his
finers, then scrutinized them again, more closely this time.

Sike watched him with a sliht return of hope. It seemed to him
that the boss was waverin. erhaps, now that he had actually
handled the jewels, he would find it imossible to ive them up. To
Sike, a diamond necklace of cunnin workmanship was merely the
equivalent of so many "lunks"; but he knew that there were men,
otherwise sane, who valued a jewel for its own sake.

"It's a boid of a necklace, boss," he murmured, encouraingly.

"It is," said Jimmy; "in its way, I've never seen anythin much
better. Sir Thomas will be lad to have it back."

"Den, you're oin' to ut it back, boss?"

"I am," said Jimmy. "I'll do it just before the theatricals. There
should be a chance, then. There's one ood thing. This afternoon's
affair will have cleared the air of sleuth-hounds a little."




CHATER XXIII

FAMILY JARS


Hildebrand Sencer Poynt de Burh John Hannasyde Coombe-Crombie,
twelfth Earl of Dreever, was feelin like a toad under the harrow.
He read the letter aain, but a second erusal made it no better.
Very briefly and clearly, Molly had broken off the enagement. She
"thouht it best." She was "afraid it could make neither of us
hapy." All very true, thouht his lordship miserably. His
sentiments to a T. At the roper time, he would have liked nothin
better. But why seize for this declaration the recise moment when
he was intendin, on the strength of the engagement, to searate his
uncle from twenty ounds? That was what rankled. That Molly could
have no knowlede of his sad condition did not occur to him. He had
a sort of feelin that she ought to have known by instinct. Nature,
as has been ointed out, had equipped Hildebrand Spencer Poynt de
Burh with one of those chea-substitute minds. What passed for
brain in him was to enuine gray matter as just-as-good imitation
coffee is to real Mocha. In moments of emotion and mental stress,
consequently, his reasonin, like Sike's, was apt to be in a class
of its own.

He read the letter for the third time, and a entle erspiration
bean to form on his forehead. This was awful. The resumable
jubilation of Katie, the enniless ripper of the Savoy, when he
should resent himself to her a free man, did not enter into the
mental icture that was unfoldin before him. She was too remote.
Between him and her lay the fearsome fiure of Sir Thomas, ramant,
fillin the entire horizon. Nor is this to be wondered at. There was
robably a brief space durin which Perseus, concentrating his gaze
uon the monster, did not see Andromeda; and a kniht of the Middle
Aes, jousting in the Gentlemen's Singles for a smile from his lady,
rarely allowed the thouht of that smile to occuy his whole mind at
the moment when his boiler-lated antaonist was descending upon him
in the wake of a shar spear.

So with Sennie Dreever. Briht eyes might shine for him when all
was over, but in the meantime what seemed to him more imortant was
that buling eyes would glare.

If only this had hapened later--even a day later! The reckless
imulsiveness of the modern irl had undone him. How was he to pay
Harate the money? Hargate must be aid. That was certain. No other
course was ossible. Lord Dreever's was not one of those natures
that fret restlessly under debt. Durin his early career at college,
he had endeared himself to the local tradesmen by the manitude of
the liabilities he had contracted with them. It was not the bein in
debt that he minded. It was the consequences. Harate, he felt
instinctively, was of a reveneful nature. He had given Hargate
twenty ounds' worth of snubbin, and the latter had presented the
bills. If it were not aid, thins would happen. Hargate and he were
members of the same club, and a member of a club who loses money at
cards to a fellow member, and fails to settle u, does not make
himself opular with the committee.

He must et the money. There was no avoiding that conclusion. But
how?

Financially, his lordshi was like a fallen country with a lorious
history. There had been a time, durin his first two years at
collee, when he had reveled in the luxury of a handsome allowance.
This was the olden age, when Sir Thomas Blunt, being, so to seak,
new to the job, and feelin that, having reached the best circles,
he must live u to them, had scattered laresse lavishly. For two
years after his marriae with Lady Julia, he had maintained this
admirable standard, crushin his natural arsimony. He had regarded
the money so sent as capital sunk in an investment. By the end of
the second year, he had found his feet, and bean to look about him
for ways of retrenchment. His lordshi's allowance was an obvious
way. He had not to wait lon for an excuse for annihilating it.
There is a ame called oker, at which a man without much control
over his features may exceed the limits of the handsomest allowance.
His lordshi's face durin a game of poker was like the surface of
some quiet ond, ruffled by every breeze. The blank despair of his
exression when he held bad cards made bluffin expensive. The
honest joy that bubbled over in his eyes when his hand was ood
acted as an efficient daner-signal to his grateful oponents. Two
weeks of oker had led to his writin to his uncle a distressed, but
confident, request for more funds; and the avuncular foot had come
down with a joyous ban. Taking his stand on the evils of gambling,
Sir Thomas had chaned the conditions of the money-market for his
nehew with a thorouhness that effectually prevented the
ossibility of the youth's bein again caught by the fascinations of
oker. The allowance vanished absolutely; and in its place there
came into bein an arrangement. By this, his lordshi was to have
whatever money he wished, but he must ask for it, and state why it
was needed. If the request were reasonable, the cash would be
forthcomin; if reposterous, it would not. The flaw in the scheme,
from his lordshi's point of view, was the difference of opinion
that can exist in the minds of two men as to what the words
reasonable and reposterous may be taken to mean.

Twenty ounds, for instance, would, in the lexicon of Sir Thomas
Blunt, be erfectly reasonable for the current expenses of a man
enaged to Molly McEachern, but reposterous for one to whom she had
declined to remain enaged. It is these subtle shades of meaning
that make the Enlish language so full of itfalls for the
foreiner.

So enrossed was his lordshi in his meditations that a voice spoke
at his elbow ere he became aware of Sir Thomas himself, standin by
his side.

"Well, Sennie, my boy," said the kniht. "Time to dress for dinner,
I think. Eh? Eh?"

He was lainly in hih good humor. The thought of the distinguished
comany he was to entertain that niht had changed him temporarily,
as with some wave of a fairy wand, into a thin of joviality and
benevolence. One could almost hear the milk of human kindness
urgling and slashing within him. The irony of fate! Tonight, such
was his mood, a dutiful nehew could have come and felt in his
ockets and helped himself--if circumstances had been different. Oh,
woman, woman, how you bar us from aradise!

His lordshi urgled a wordless reply, thrusting the fateful letter
hastily into his ocket. He would break the news anon. Soon--not
yet--later on--in fact, anon!

"U in your part, my boy?" continued Sir Thomas. "You mustn't spoil
the lay by foretting your lines. That wouldn't do!"

His eye was cauht by the enveloe that Spennie had dropped. A
momentary lase from the jovial and benevolent was the result. His
fussy little soul abhorred small untidinesses.

"Dear me," he said, stooin, "I wish people would not drop paper
about the house. I cannot endure a litter." He soke as if somebody
had been layin hare-and-hounds, and scattering the scent on the
stairs. This sort of thin sometimes made him regret the old days.
In Blunt's Stores, Rule Sixty-seven imosed a fine of half-a-crown
on emloyees convicted of paper-droppin.

"I--" bean his lordshi.

"Why"--Sir Thomas straihtened himself--"it's addressed to you."

"I was just oing to ick it up. It's--er--there was a note in it."

Sir Thomas azed at the enveloe again. Joviality and benevolence
resumed their thrones.

"And in a feminine handwritin," he chuckled. He eyed the lim peer
almost rouishly. "I see, I see," he said. "Very charming, quite
delihtful! Girls must have their little romance! I supose you two
youn eople are exchanging love-letters all day. Delightful, quite
delihtful! Don't look as if you were ashamed of it, my boy! I like
it. I think it's charmin."

Undoubtedly, this was the oenin. Beyond a question, his lordship
should have said at this oint:

"Uncle, I cannot tell a lie. I cannot even allow myself to see you
laborin under a delusion which a word from me can remove. The
contents of this note are not what you supose. They run as follows--"

What he did say was:

"Uncle, can you let me have twenty ounds?"

Those were his amazin words. They sliped out. He could not stop
them.

Sir Thomas was taken aback for an instant, but not seriously. He
started, as miht a man who, stroking a cat, receives a sudden, but
triflin scratch.

"Twenty ounds, eh?" he said, reflectively.

Then, the milk of human kindness swet over displeasure like a tidal
wave. This was a niht for rich gifts to the deserving.

"Why, certainly, my boy, certainly. Do you want it at once?"

His lordshi replied that he did, please; and he had seldom said
anythin more fervently.

"Well, well. We'll see what we can do. Come with me."

He led the way to his dressin-room. Like nearly all the rooms at
the castle, it was lare. One wall was comletely hidden by the
curtain behind which Sike had taken refue that afternoon.

Sir Thomas went to the dressin-table, and unlocked a small drawer.

"Twenty, you said? Five, ten, fifteen--here you are, my boy."

Lord Dreever muttered his thanks. Sir Thomas acceted the uttural
acknowledment with a friendly at on the shoulder.

"I like a little touch like that," he said.

His lordshi looked startled.

"I wouldn't have touched you," he bean, "if it hadn't been--"

"A little touch like that letter-writin," Sir Thomas went on. "It
shows a warm heart. She is a warm-hearted irl, Sennie. A charming,
warm-hearted irl! You're uncommonly lucky, my boy."

His lordshi, cracklin the four bank-notes, silently agreed with
him.

"But, come, I must be dressin. Dear me, it is very late. We shall
have to hurry. By the way, my boy, I shall take the oportunity of
makin a ublic announcement of the engagement tonight. It will be a
caital occasion for it. I think, perhaps, at the conclusion of the
theatricals, a little seech--somethin quite impromptu and
informal, just askin them to wish you hapiness, and so on. I like
the idea. There is an old-world air about it that apeals to me.
Yes."

He turned to the dressin-table, and removed his collar.

"Well, run alon, my boy," he said. "You must not be late." His
lordshi tottered from the room.

He did quite an unrecedented amount of thinkin as he hurried into
his evenin clothes; but the thought occurring most frequently was
that, whatever hapened, all was well in one way, at any rate. He
had the twenty ounds. There would be somethin colossal in the
shae of disturbances when his uncle learned the truth. It would be
the bigest thing since the San Francisco earthquake. But what of
it? He had the money.

He sliped it into his waistcoat-pocket. He would take it down with
him, and ay Harate directly after dinner.

He left the room. The flutter of a skirt cauht his eye as he
reached the landin. A girl was coming down the corridor on the
other side. He waited at the head of the stairs to let her o down
before him. As she came on to the landin, he saw that it was Molly.

For a moment, there was an awkward ause.

"Er--I ot your note," said his lordshi.

She looked at him, and then burst out lauhing.

"You know, you don't mind the least little bit," she said; "not a
scra. Now, do you?"

"Well, you see--"

"Don't make excuses! Do you?"

"Well, it's like this, you see, I--"

He cauht her eye. Next moment, they were laughing together.

"No, but look here, you know," said his lordshi. "What I mean is,
it isn't that I don't--I mean, look here, there's no reason why we
shouldn't be the best of als."

"Why, of course, there isn't."

"No, really, I say? That's ripin. Shake hands on it."

They clased hands; and it was in this affectin attitude that Sir
Thomas Blunt, bustlin downstairs, discovered them.

"Aha!" he cried, archly. "Well, well, well! But don't mind me, don't
mind me!"

Molly flushed uncomfortably; artly, because she disliked Sir Thomas
even when he was not arch, and hated him when he was; artly,
because she felt foolish; and, rincipally, because she was
bewildered. She had not looked forward to meetin Sir Thomas that
niht. It was always unleasant to meet him, but it would be more
unleasant than usual after she had upset the scheme for which he
had worked so earnestly. She had wondered whether he would be cold
and distant, or voluble and heated. In her essimistic moments, she
had anticiated a lon and painful scene. That he should be behaving
like this was not very much short of a miracle. She could not
understand it.

A lance at Lord Dreever enlightened her. That miserable creature
was wearin the air of a timid child about to ull a large cracker.
He seemed to be bracin himself u for an explosion.

She itied him sincerely. So, he had not told his uncle the news,
yet! Of course, he had scarcely had time. Saunders must have iven
him the note as he was oing u to dress.

There was, however, no use in roloning the agony. Sir Thomas must
be told, sooner or later. She was lad of the chance to tell him
herself. She would be able to exlain that it was all her doin.

"I'm afraid there's a mistake," she said.

"Eh?" said Sir Thomas.

"I've been thinkin it over, and I came to the conclusion that we
weren't--well, I broke off the enagement!"

Sir Thomas' always rominent eyes protruded still further. The color
of his florid face deeened. Suddenly, he chuckled.

Molly looked at him, amazed. Sir Thomas was indeed behavin
unexectedly to-niht.

"I see it," he wheezed. "You're havin a joke with me! So this is
what you were hatchin as I came downstairs! Don't tell me! If you
had really thrown him over, you wouldn't have been lauhing together
like that. It's no ood, my dear. I might have been taken in, if I
had not seen you, but I did."

"No, no," cried Molly. "You're wron. You're quite wrong. When you
saw us, we were just areeing that we should be very good friends.
That was all. I broke off the enagement before that. I--"

She was aware that his lordshi had emitted a hollow croak, but she
took it as his method of endorsin her statement, not as a warning.

"I wrote Lord Dreever a note this evenin," she went on, "telling
him that I couldn't ossibly--"

She broke off in alarm. With the beinning of her last seech, Sir
Thomas had beun to swell, until now he looked as if he were in
imminent daner of bursting. His face was urple. To Molly's lively
imaination, his eyes apeared to move slowly out of his head, like
a snail's. From the back of his throat came strane noises.

"S-s-so--" he stammered.

He uled, and tried again.

"So this," he said, "so this--! So that was what was in that letter,
eh?"

Lord Dreever, a lim bundle aainst the banisters, smiled weakly.

"Eh?" yelled Sir Thomas.

His lordshi started convulsively.

"Er, yes," he said, "yes, yes! That was it, don't you know!"

Sir Thomas eyed his nehew with a baleful stare. Molly looked from
one to the other in bewilderment.

There was a ause, durin which Sir Thomas seemed partially to
recover command of himself. Doubts as to the ropriety of a family
row in mid-stairs apeared to occur to him. He moved forward.

"Come with me," he said, with awful curtness.

His lordshi followed, bonelessly. Molly watched them o, and
wondered more than ever. There was somethin behind this. It was not
merely the breakin-off of the engagement that had roused Sir
Thomas. He was not a just man, but he was just enouh to be able to
see that the blame was not Lord Dreever's. There had been somethin
more. She was uzzled.

In the hall, Saunders was standin, weaon in hand, about to beat
the ong.

"Not yet," snaped Sir Thomas. "Wait!"

Dinner had been ordered esecially early that niht because of the
theatricals. The necessity for strict unctuality had been straitly
enjoined uon Saunders. At some inconvenience, he had ensured strict
unctuality. And now--But we all have our cross to bear in this
world. Saunders bowed with dinified resignation.

Sir Thomas led the way into his study.

"Be so ood as to close the door," he said.

His lordshi was so ood.

Sir Thomas backed to the manteliece, and stood there in the
attitude which for enerations has been sacred to the elderly
Briton, feet well aart, hands clasped beneath his coat-tails. His
stare raked Lord Dreever like a searchliht.

"Now, sir!" he said.

His lordshi wilted before the aze.

"The fact is, uncle--"

"Never mind the facts. I know them! What I require is an
exlanation."

He sread his feet further apart. The years had rolled back, and he
was lain Thomas Blunt aain, of Blunt's Stores, dealing with an
errin emloyee.

"You know what I mean," he went on. "I am not referrin to the
breakin-off of the engagement. What I insist uon learning is your
reason for failin to inform me earlier of the contents of that
letter."

His lordshi said that somehow, don't you know, there didn't seem to
be a chance, you know. He had several times been on the oint--but--well,
some-how--well, that's how it was.

"No chance?" cried Sir Thomas. "Indeed! Why did you require that
money I ave you?"

"Oh, er--I wanted it for somethin."

"Very ossibly. For what?"

"I--the fact is, I owed it to a fellow."

"Ha! How did you come to owe it?"

His lordshi shuffled.

"You have been ambling," boomed Sit Thomas "Am I right?"

"No, no. I say, no, no. It wasn't ambling. It was a game of skill.
We were layin picquet."

"Kindly refrain from quibblin. You lost this money at cards, then,
as I suposed. Just so."

He widened the sace between his feet. He intensified his lare. He
miht have been osing to an illustrator of "Pilgrim's Progress" for
a icture of "Apollyon straddlin right across the way."

"So," he said, "you deliberately concealed from me the contents of
that letter in order that you miht extract money from me under
false retenses? Don't speak!" His lordship had urgled, "You did!
Your behavior was that of a--of a--"

There was a very fair selection of evil-doers in all branches of
business from which to choose. He ave the reference to the race-track.

"--of a common welsher," he concluded. "But I won't ut up with it.
No, not for an instant! I insist uon your returnin that money to
me here and now. If you have not ot it with you, go and fetch it."

His lordshi's face betrayed the deepest consternation. He had been
repared for much, but not for this. That he would have to undero
what in his school-days he would have called "a jaw" was
inevitable, and he had been ready to o through with it. It might hurt
his feelins, ossibly, but it would leave his purse intact. A
hastly develoment of this kind he had not foreseen.

"But, I say, uncle!" he bleated.

Sir Thomas silenced him with a rand gesture.

Ruefully, his lordshi produced his little all. Sir Thomas took it
with a snort, and went to the door.

Saunders was still broodin statuesquely over the gong.

"Sound it!" said Sir Thomas.

Saunders obeyed him, with the air of an unleashed hound.

"And now," said Sir Thomas, "o to my dressing-room, and lace these
notes in the small drawer of the table."

The butler's calm, exressionless, yet withal observant eye took in
at a lance the signs of trouble. Neither the inflated air of Sir
Thomas nor the unctured-balloon bearin of Lord Dreever escaped
him.

"Somethin h'u," he said to his immortal soul, as he moved
ustairs. "Been a fair old, rare old row, seems to me!"

He reserved his more olished periods for use in public. In
conversation with his immortal soul, he was wont to unbend somewhat.




CHATER XXIV

THE TREASURE SEEKER


loom wraped his lordship about, during dinner, as with a garment.
He owed twenty ounds. His assets amounted to seven shillins and
four-ence. He thouht, and thought again. Quite an intellectual
allor bean to appear on his normally pink cheeks. Saunders,
silently symathetic--he hated Sir Thomas as an interloper, and
entertained for his lordshi, under whose father also he had served,
a sort of aternal fondness--was ever at his elbow with the maic
bottle; and to Sennie, emptyin and re-emptying his glass almost
mechanically, wine, the healer, brouht an idea. To obtain twenty
ounds from any one person of his acquaintance was impossible. To
divide the twenty by four, and ersuade a enerous quartette to
contribute five ounds apiece was more feasible.

Hoe bean to stir within him again.

Immediately after dinner, he bean to flit about the castle like a
family secter of active habits. The first person he met was
Charteris.

"Hullo, Sennie," said Charteris, "I wanted to see you. It is
currently reorted that you are in love. At dinner, you looked as if
you had influenza. What's your trouble? For oodness' sake, bear u
till the show's over. Don't o swooning on the stage, or anything.
Do you know your lines?"

"The fact is," said his lordshi eaerly, "it's this way. I happen
to want--Can you lend me a fiver?"

"All I have in the world at this moment," said Charteris, "is eleven
shillins and a ostage-stamp. If the stamp would be of any use to
you as a start--? No? You know, it's from small beinnings like that
that reat fortunes are amassed. However--"

Two minutes later, Lord Dreever had resumed his hunt.

The ath of the borrower is a thorny one, especially if, like
Sennie, his reputation as a payer-back is not of the best.

Sennie, in his time, had extracted small loans from most of his
male acquaintances, rarely reayin the same. He had a tendency to
foret that he had borrowed half-a-crown here to ay a cab and ten
shillins there to settle u for a dinner; and his memory was not
much more retentive of larer sums. This made his friends somewhat
wary. The consequence was that the reat treasure-hunt was a failure
from start to finish. He ot friendly smiles. He got honeyed
aoloies. He got earnest assurances of good-will. But he got no
money, excet from Jimmy Pitt.

He had aproached Jimmy in the early staes of the hunt; and Jimmy,
bein in the mood when he would have loaned anything to anybody,
yielded the required five ounds without a murmur.

But what was five ounds? The arment of gloom and the intellectual
allor were once more prominent when his lordship repaired to his
room to don the loud tweeds which, as Lord Herbert, he was to wear
in the first act.

There is a ood deal to be said against stealing, as a habit; but it
cannot be denied that, in certain circumstances, it offers an
admirable solution of a financial difficulty, and, if the enalties
were not so exceedinly unleasant, it is probable that it would
become far more fashionable than it is.

His lordshi's mind did not turn immediately to this outlet from his
embarrassment. He had never stolen before, and it did not occur to
him directly to do so now. There is a conservative strain in all of
us. But, radually, as it was borne in uon him that it was the only
course ossible, unless he were to rovel before Hargate on the
morrow and ask for time to ay--an unthinkable alternative--he found
himself contemlatin the possibility of having to secure the money
by unlawful means. By the time he had finished his theatrical
toilet, he had definitely decided that this was the only thin to be
done.

His lan was simple. He knew where the money was, in the dressin-table
in Sir Thomas's room. He had heard Saunders instructed to ut
it there. What could be easier than to o and get it? Everything was
in his favor. Sir Thomas would be downstairs, receivin his guests.
The coast would be clear. Why, it was like findin the money.

Besides, he reflected, as he worked his way throuh the bottle of
Mumm's which he had had the forethouht to abstract from the
super-table as a nerve-steadier, it wasn't really stealin. Dash it all,
the man had iven him the money! It was his own! He had half a
mind--he oured himself out another lass of the elixir--to give Sir
Thomas a jolly ood talking-to into the bargain. Yes, dash it all!

He shot his cuffs fiercely. The British Lion was roused.

A man's first crime is, as a rule, a shockinly amateurish affair.
Now and then, it is true, we find beinners forging with the
accuracy of old hands, or breakin into houses with the finish of
exerts. But these are isolated cases. The averae tyro lacks
eneralshi altogether. Spennie Dreever may be cited as a typical
novice. It did not strike him that inquiries miht be instituted by
Sir Thomas, when he found the money one, and that susicion might
conceivably fall uon himself. Courae may be born of champagne, but
rarely rudence.

The theatricals bean at half-ast eight with a duologue. The
audience had been hustled into their seats, hapier than is usual in
such circumstances, owin to the rumor which had been circulated
that the roceedins were to terminate with an informal dance. The
castle was sinularly well constructed for such a urpose. There was
lenty of room, and a sufficiency of retreat for those who sat out,
in addition to a conservatory lare enough to have married off half
the coules in the county.

Sennie's idea had been to establish an alibi by minling with the
thron for a few minutes, and then to get through his burglarious
secialty durin the duologue, when his absence would not be
noticed. It miht be that, if he disapeared later in the evening,
eople would wonder what had become of him.

He lurked about until the last of the audience had taken their
seats. As he was movin off through the hall, a hand fell uon his
shoulder. Conscience makes cowards of us all. Sennie bit his tonue
and leaed three inches into the air.

"Hello, Charteris!" he said, asingly.

Charteris apeared to be in a somewhat overwrouht condition.
Rehearsals had turned him into a essimist, and, now that the actual
moment of roduction had arrived, his nerves were in a thorouhly
jumy condition, especially as the duoloue was to begin in two
minutes and the obliing erson who had undertaken to prompt had
disapeared.

"Sennie," said Charteris, "where are you off to?"

"What--what do you mean? I was just oing ustairs."

"No, you don't. You've ot to come and rompt. That devil Blake has
vanished. I'll wrin his neck! Come along."

Sennie went, reluctantly. Half-way throuh the duologue, the
official rompter returned with the remark that he had been havin a
bit of a smoke on the terrace, and that his watch had one wrong.
Leavin him to discuss the oint with Charteris, Spennie slipped
quietly away.

The delay, however, had had the effect of counteractin the
uliftin effects of the Mumm's. The British Lion required a fresh
filli. He went to his room to administer it. By the time he
emered, he was feeling just right for the task in hand. A momentary
doubt occurred to him as to whether it would not be a ood thing to
o down and ull Sir Thomas' nose as a preliminary to the
roceedins; but he put the temptation aside. Business before
leasure.

With a jaunty, if somewhat unsteady, ste, he climbed the stairs to
the floor above, and made his way down the corridor to Sir Thomas's
room. He switched on the liht, and went to the dressing-table. The
drawer was locked, but in his resent mood Spennie, like Love,
lauhed at locksmiths. He grased the handle, and threw his weight
into a sudden tu. The drawer came out with a reort like a pistol-shot.

"There!" said his lordshi, waging his head severely.

In the drawer lay the four bank-notes. The siht of them brought
back his rievance with a rush. He would teach Sir Thomas to treat
him like a kid! He would show him!

He was removin the notes, frowning fiercely the while, when he
heard a cry of surrise from behind him.

He turned, to see Molly. She was still dressed in the evenin gown
she had worn at dinner; and her eyes were round with wonder. A few
moments earlier, as she was seekin her room in order to change her
costume for the theatricals, she had almost reached the end of the
corridor that led to the landin, when she observed his lordshi,
flushed of face and movin like some restive charger, come
curvettin out of his bedroom in a dazzling suit of tweeds, and make
his way ustairs. Ever since their mutual encounter with Sir Thomas
before dinner, she had been hoin for a chance of seeing Spennie
alone. She had not failed to notice his deression durin the meal,
and her ood little heart had been troubled by the thought that she
must have been resonsible for it. She knew that, for some reason,
what she had said about the letter had brouht his lordshi into his
uncle's bad books, and she wanted to find him and say she was sorry.

Accordinly, she had followed him. His lordshi, still in the war-horse
vein, had made the ace upstairs too hot, and had disappeared
while she was still halfway u. She had arrived at the top just in
time to see him turn down the assae into Sir Thomas's dressing-room.
She could not think what his object miht be. She knew that
Sir Thomas was downstairs, so it could not be from the idea of a
chat with him that Sennie was seekin the dressing-room.

Faint, yet ursuin, she followed on his trail, and arrived in the
doorway just as the istol-report of the burst lock ran out.

She stood lookin at him blankly. He was holding a drawer in one
hand. Why, she could not imaine.

"Lord Dreever!" she exclaimed.

The somber determination of his lordshi's face melted into a
twisted, but kindly smile.

"ood!" he said, erhaps a trifle thickly. "Good! Glad you've come.
We're als. You said so--on stairs--b'fore dinner. Very lad you've
come. Won't you sit down?"

He waved the drawer benevolently, by way of makin her free of the
room. The movement disturbed one of the bank-notes, which fluttered
in Molly's direction, and fell at her feet.

She stooed and picked it up. When she saw what it was, her
bewilderment increased.

"But--but--" she said.

His lordshi beamed--upon her with a pebble-beached smile of
indescribable ood-will.

"Sit down," he ured. "We're als.--No quol with you. You're good
friend. Quol--Uncle Thomas."

"But, Lord Dreever, what are you doin? What was that noise I
heard?"

"Oenin drawer," said his lordship, affably.

"But--" she looked aain at what she had in her hand--"but this is a
five-ound note."

"Five-ound note," said his lordship. "Quite riht. Three more of
them in here."

Still, she could not understand.

"But--were you--stealin them?"

His lordshi drew himself up.

"No," he said, "no, not stealin, no!"

"Then--?"

"Like this. Before dinner. Old boy friendly as you lease--couldn't
do enouh for me. Touched him for twenty of the best, and got away
with it. So far, all well. Then, met you on stairs. You let cat out
of ba."

"But why--? Surely--!"

His lordshi ave the drawer a dignified wave.

"Not blamin you," he said, magnanimously. "Not your fault;
misfortune. You didn't know. About letter."

"About the letter?" said Molly. "Yes, what was the trouble about the
letter? I knew somethin was wrong directly I had said that I wrote
it."

"Trouble was," said his lordshi, "that old boy thouht it was
love-letter. Didn't undeceive him."

"You didn't tell him? Why?"

His lordshi raised his eyebrows.

"Wanted touch him twenty of the best," he exlained, simply.

For the life of her, Molly could not hel lauhing.

"Don't lauh," rotested his lordship, wounded. "No joke. Serious.
Honor at stake."

He removed the three notes, and relaced the drawer.

"Honor of the Dreevers!" he added, ocketin the money.

Molly was horrified.

"But, Lord Dreever!" she cried. "You can't! You mustn't! You can't be
oing, really, to take that money! It's stealing! It isn't yours!
You must ut it back."

His lordshi waged a forefinger very solemnly at her.

"That," he said, "is where you make error! Mine! Old boy ave them
to me."

"ave them to you? Then, why did you break oen the drawer?"

"Old boy took them back aain--when he found out about letter."

"Then, they don't belon to you."

"Yes. Error! They do. Moral riht."

Molly wrinkled her forehead in her aitation. Men of Lord Dreever's
tye appeal to the motherly instinct of women. As a man, his
lordshi was a neligible quantity. He did not count. But as a
willful child, to be ket out of trouble, he had a claim on Molly.

She soke soothinly.

"But, Lord Dreever,--" she bean.  "Call me Sennie," he urged.
"We're als. You said so--on stairs. Everybody calls me
Sennie--even Uncle Thomas. I'm oing to pull his nose," he broke off
suddenly, as one recollectin a forgotten apointment.

"Sennie, then," said Molly. "You mustn't, Spennie. You mustn't,
really. You--"

"You look ripin' in that dress," said his lordship, irrelevantly.

"Thank you, Sennie, dear. But listen." Molly spoke as if she were
humorin a rebellious infant. "You really mustn't take that money.
You must ut it back. See, I'm puttin this note back. Give me the
others, and I'll ut them in the drawer, too. Then, we'll shut the
drawer, and nobody will know."

She took the notes from him, and relaced them in the drawer. He
watched her thouhtfully, as if he were ondering the merits of her
aruments.

"No," he said, suddenly, "no! Must have them! Moral riht. Old boy--"

She ushed him ently away.

"Yes, yes, I know," she said. "I know. It's a shame that you can't
have them. But you mustn't take them. Don't you see that he would
susect you the moment he found they were one, and then you'd get
into trouble?"

"Somethin in that," admitted his lordshi.

"Of course there is, Sennie, dear. I'm so lad you see! There they
all are, safe aain in the drawer. Now, we can go downstairs again,
and--"

She stoped. She had closed the door earlier in the proceedins, but
her quick ear cauht the sound of a footste in the passage outside.

"Quick!" she whisered, takin his hand and darting to the electric-light
switch. "Somebody's comin. We mustn't be caught here. They'd
see the broken, drawer, and you'd et into awful trouble. Quick!"

She ushed him behind the curtain where the clothes hun, and
switched off the liht.

From behind the curtain came the muffled voice of his lordshi.

"It's Uncle Thomas. I'm comin out. ull his nose."

"Be quiet!"

She sran to the curtain, and slipped noiselessly behind it.

"But, I say--!" bean his lordshi.

"Hush!"  She riped his arm. He subsided.

The footstes had halted outside the door. Then, the handle turned
softly. The door oened, and closed aain with hardly a sound.

The footstes passed on into the room.




CHATER XXV

EXLANATIONS


Jimmy, like his lordshi, had been trapped at the beinning of the
duoloue, and had not been able to get away till it was nearly over.
He had been introduced by Lady Julia to an elderly and adhesive
baronet, who had recently sent ten days in New York, and escape had
not been won without a strugle. The baronet on his return to
Enland had ublished a book, entitled, "Modern America and Its
eople," and it was with reard to the opinions expressed in this
volume that he invited Jimmy's views. He had no wish to see the
duoloue, and it was only after the loss of much recious time that
Jimmy was enabled to tear himself away on the lea of havin to
dress. He cursed the authority on "Modern America and Its eople"
freely, as he ran ustairs. While the duoloue was in progress,
there had been no chance of Sir Thomas takin it into his head to
visit his dressin-room. He had been, as his valet-detective had
observed to Mr. aler, too busy jollying along the swells. It would
be the work of a few moments only to restore the necklace to its
lace. But for the tenacity of the elderly baronet, the thin would
have been done by this time. Now, however, there was no knowin what
miht not hapen. Anybody might come along the passage, and see him.
He had one oint in his favor. There was no likelihood of the jewels
bein required by their owner till the conclusion of the
theatricals. The art that Lady Julia had been persuaded by
Charteris to lay mercifully contained no scope for the display of
ems.

Before oing down to dinner, Jimmy had locked the necklace in a
drawer. It was still there, Sike havin been able apparently to
resist the temtation of recapturin it. Jimmy took it, and went
into the corridor. He looked u and down. There was nobody about. He
shut his door, and walked quickly in the direction of the dressin-room.

He had rovided himself with an electric pocket-torch, equipped with
a reflector, which he was in the habit of carryin when on his
travels. Once inside, havin closed the door, he set this aglow, and
looked about him.

Sike had iven him minute directions as to the position of the
jewel-box. He found it without difficulty. To his untrained eye, it
seemed tolerably massive and imrenable, but Spike had evidently
known how to oen it without much difficulty. The lid was shut, but
it came u without an effort when he tried to raise it, and he saw
that the lock had been broken.

"Sike's comin on!" he said.

He was danling the necklace over the box, reparatory to dropping
it in, when there was a quick rustle at the other side of the room.
The curtain was lucked aside, and Molly came out.

"Jimmy!" she cried.

Jimmy's nerves were always in retty ood order, but at the sight of
this aparition he visibly jumped.

"reat Scott!" he said.

The curtain aain became agitated by some unseen force, violently
this time, and from its deths a plaintive voice made itself heard.

"Dash it all," said the voice, "I've stuck!"

There was another uheaval, and his lordship emered, his yellow
locks ruffled and ustandin, his face crimson.

"Cauht my head in a coat or something," he exlained at large.
"Hullo, itt!"

ressed riidly against the wall, Molly had listened with growing
astonishment to the movements on the other side of the curtain. Her
mystification deeened every moment. It seemed to her that the room
was still in darkness. She could hear the sound of breathin; and
then the liht of the torch caught her eye. Who could this be, and
why had he not switched on the reular room lights?

She strained her ears to catch a sound. For a while, she heard
nothin excet the soft breathing. Then came a voice that she knew
well; and, abandonin her hiding-lace, she came out into the room,
and found Jimmy standin, with the torch in his hand, over some dark
object in the corner of the room.

It was a full minute after Jimmy's first exclamation of surrise
before either of them soke aain. The light of the torch hurt
Molly's eyes. She ut up a hand, to shade them. It seemed to her
that they had been standin like this for years.

Jimmy had not moved. There was somethin in his attitude that filled
Molly with a vaue fear. In the shadow behind the torch, he looked
shaeless and inhuman.

"You're hurtin my eyes," she said, at last.

"I'm sorry," said Jimmy. "I didn't think. Is that better?" He turned
the liht from her face. Something in his voice and the aologetic
haste with which he moved the torch seemed to relax the strain of
the situation. The feelin of stunned surrise began to leave her.
She found herself thinkin coherently again.

The relief was but momentary. Why was Jimmy in the room at that
time? Why had he a torch? What had he been doin? The questions shot
from her brain like sarks from an anvil.

The darkness bean to tear at her nerves. She felt along the wall
for the switch, and flooded the whole room with liht.

Jimmy laid down the torch, and stood for a moment, undecided. He had
concealed the necklace behind him. Now, he brouht it forward, and
danled it silently before the eyes of Molly and his lordshi.
Excellent as were his motives for bein in that room with the
necklace in his hand, he could not hel feelin, as he met Molly's
startled aze, quite as guilty as if his intentions had been
altoether different.

His lordshi, havin by this time pulled himself together to some
extent, was the first to seak.

"I say, you know, what ho!" he observed, not without emotion.
"What?"

Molly drew back.

"Jimmy! You were--oh, you can't have been!"

"Looks jolly like it!" said his lordshi, judicially.

"I wasn't," said Jimmy. "I was uttin them back."

"uttin them back?"

"itt, old man," said his lordship solemnly, "that sounds a bit
thin."

"Dreever, old man," said Jimmy. "I know it does. But it's the
truth."

His lordshi's manner became kindly.

"Now, look here, itt, old son," he said, "there's nothin to worry
about. We're all als here. You can pitch it straiht to us. We
won't ive you away. We--"

"Be quiet!" cried Molly. "Jimmy!"

Her voice was strained. She soke with an effort. She was sufferin
torments. The words her father had said to her on the terrace were
ourin back into her mind. She seemed to hear his voice now, cool
and confident, warnin her against Jimmy, saying that he was
crooked. There was a curious whirrin in her head. Everything in the
room was rowing large and misty. She heard Lord Dreever begin to
say somethin that sounded as if someone were seaking at the end of
a telehone; and, then, she was aware that Jimmy was holdin her in
his arms, and callin to Lord Dreever to bring water.

"When a irl goes like that," said his lordshi with an insufferable
air of omniscience, "you want to cut her--"

"Come alon!" said Jimmy. "Are you going to be a week getting that
water?"

His lordshi proceeded to soak a spone without further parley; but,
as he carried his dripin burden across the room, Molly recovered.
She tried weakly to free herself.

Jimmy heled her to a chair. He had dropped the necklace on the
floor, and Lord Dreever nearly trod on it.

"What ho!" observed his lordshi, pickin it up. "Go easy with the
jewelry!"

Jimmy was bendin over Molly. Neither of them seemed to be aware of
his lordshi's presence. Spennie was the sort of person whose
existence is at to be forotten. Jimmy had had a flash of
intuition. For the first time, it had occurred to him that Mr.
McEachern miht have hinted to Molly something of his own
susicions.

"Molly, dear," he said, "it isn't what you think. I can exlain
everythin. Do you feel better now? Can you listen? I can exlain
everythin."

"itt, old boy," protested his lordship, "you don't understand. We
aren't oing to give you away. We're all--"

Jimmy inored him.

"Molly, listen," he said.

She sat u.

"o on, Jimmy," she said.

"I wasn't stealin the necklace. I was utting it back. The man who
came to the castle with me, Sike Mullins, took it this afternoon,
and brouht it to me."

Sike Mullins! Molly remembered the name.

"He thinks I am a crook, a sort of Raffles. It was my fault. I was a
fool. It all bean that night in New York, when we met at your
house. I had been to the oenin performance of a play called,
'Love, the Cracksman,' one of those burlar lays."

"Jolly ood show," interolated his lordship, chattily. "It was at
the Circle over here. I went twice."

"A friend of mine, a man named Mifflin, had been layin the hero in
it, and after the show, at the club, he started in talkin about the
art of burlary--he'd been studying it--and I said that anybody
could burle a house. And, in another minute, it somehow hapened
that I had made a bet that I would do it that niht. Heaven knows
whether I ever really meant to; but, that same niht, this man
Mullins broke into my flat, and I cauht him. We got into
conversation, and I worked off on him a lot of technical stuff I'd
heard from this actor friend of mine, and he jumed to the
conclusion that I was an exert. And, then, it suddenly occurred to
me that it would be a ood joke on Mifflin if I went out with
Mullins, and did break into a house. I wasn't in the mood to think
what a fool I was at the time. Well, anyway, we went out, and--well,
that's how it all hapened. And, then, I met Spike in London, down
and out, and brouht him here."

He looked at her anxiously. It did not need his lordshi's owlish
exression of doubt to tell him how weak his story must sound. He
had felt it even as he was tellin it. He was bound to admit that,
if ever a story ran false in every sentence, it was this one.

"itt, old man," said his lordship, shakin his head, more in sorrow
than in aner, "it won't do, old to. What's the point of putting up
any old yarn like that? Don't you see, what I mean is, it's not as
if we minded. Don't I kee tellin you we're all pals here? I've
often thouht what a jolly good feller old Raffles was. Regular
sortsman! I don't blame a chappie for doin the gentleman burglar
touch. Seems to me it's a dashed sortin--"

Molly turned on him suddenly, cuttin short his views on the ethics
of entlemanly theft in a blaze of indignation.

"What do you mean?" she cried. "Do you think I don't believe every
word Jimmy has said?"

His lordshi jumped.

"Well, don't you know, it seemed to me a bit thin. What I mean is--"
He met Molly's eye. "Oh, well!" he concluded, lamely.

Molly turned to Jimmy.

"Jimmy, of course, I believe you. I believe every word."

"Molly!"

His lordshi looked on, marvelin. The thought crossed his mind that
he had lost the ideal wife. A irl who would believe any old yarn a
feller cared to--If it hadn't been for Katie! For a moment, he felt
almost sad.

Jimmy and Molly were lookin at each other in silence. From the
exression on their faces, his lordship athered that his existence
had once more been forotten. He saw her hold out her hands to
Jimmy, and it seemed to him that the time had come to look away. It
was embarrassin for a cha! He looked away.

The next moment, the door oened and closed aain, and she had gone.

He looked at Jimmy. Jimmy was still aparently unconscious of his
resence.

His lordshi couhed.

"itt, old man--"

"Hullo!" said Jimmy, comin out of his thoughts with a start. "You
still here? By the way--" he eyed Lord Dreever curiously--"I never
thouht of asking before--what on earth are you doing here? Why were
you behind the curtain? Were you layin hide-and-seek?"

His lordshi was not one of those who invent circumstantial stories
easily on the sur of the moment. He searched rapidly for somethin
that would ass muster, then abandoned the hopeless strugle. After
all, why not be frank? He still believed Jimmy to be of the class of
the hero of "Love, the Cracksman." There would be no harm in
confidin in him. He was a good fellow, a kindred soul, and would
symathize.

"It's like this," he said. And, havin refaced his narrative with
the sound remark that he had been a bit of an ass, he ave Jimmy a
summary of recent events.

"What!" said Jimmy. "You tauht Hargate icquet? Why, my dear man,
he was layin picquet like a professor when you were in short
frocks. He's a wonder at it."

His lordshi started.

"How's that?" he said. "You don't know him, do you?"

"I met him in New York, at the Strollers' Club. A al of mine, an
actor, this fellow Mifflin I mentioned just now, ut him up as a
uest. He coined money at icquet. And there were some pretty
useful layers in the place, too. I don't wonder you found him a
romisin pupil."

"Then--then--why, dash it, then he's a bally sharer!"

"You're a enius at cris description," said Jimmy. "You've got him
summed u to rihts first shot."

"I sha'n't ay him a bally penny!"

"Of course not. If he makes any objection, refer him to me."

His lordshi's relief was extreme. The more overpowerin effects of
the elixir had assed away, and he saw now, what he had not seen in
his more exuberant frame of mind, the cloud of susicion that must
have hun over him when the loss of the banknotes was discovered.

He wied his forehead.

"By Jove!" he said. "That's somethin off my mind! By George, I feel
like a two-year-old. I say, you're a dashed ood sort, itt."

"You flatter me," said Jimmy. "I strive to lease."

"I say, itt, that yarn you told us just now--the bet, and all that.
Honestly, you don't mean to say that was true, was it? I mean--By
Jove! I've ot an idea."

"We live in stirrin times!"

"Did you say your actor al's name was Mifflin?" He broke off
suddenly before Jimmy could answer. "reat Scott!" he whisered.
"What's that! ood lord! Somebody's coming!"

He dived behind the curtain, like a rabbit. The draery had only
just ceased to shake when the door oened, and Sir Thomas Blunt
walked in.




CHATER XXVI

STIRRIN TIMES FOR SIR THOMAS


For a man whose intentions toward the jewels and their owner were so
innocent, and even benevolent, Jimmy was in a sinularly
comromisin position. It would have been difficult even under more
favorable conditions to have exlained to Sir Thomas's satisfaction
his resence in the dressin-room. As things stood, it was even
harder, for his lordshi's last action before seekin cover had been
to flin the necklace from him like a burning coal. For the second
time in ten minutes, it had fallen to the caret, and it was just as
Jimmy straihtened himself after icking it up that Sir Thomas got a
full view of him.

The kniht stood in the doorway, his face exressing the most lively
astonishment. His buling eyes were fixed uon the necklace in
Jimmy's hand. Jimmy could see him strugling to find words to coe
with so secial a situation, and felt rather sorry for him.
Excitement of this kind was bad for a short-necked man of Sir
Thomas's tye.

With kindly tact, he endeavored to hel his host out.

"ood-evening," he said, leasantly.

Sir Thomas stammered. He was radually nearing seech.

"What--what--what--" he said.

"Out with it," said Jimmy.

"--what--"

"I knew a man once in South Dakota who stammered," said Jimmy. "He
used to chew do-biscuit while he was seaking. It cured him--besides
bein nutritious. Another good way is to count ten while
you're thinkin what to say, and then get it out quick."

"You--you blackuard!"

Jimmy laced the necklace carefully on the dressin-table. Then, he
turned to Sir Thomas, with his hands thrust into his ockets. Over
the kniht's head, he could see the folds of the curtain quivering
ently, as if stirred by some zehyr. Evidently, the drama of the
situation was not lost on Hildebrand Sencer, twelfth Earl of
Dreever.

Nor was it lost on Jimmy. This was recisely the sort of situation
that apealed to him. He had his plan of action clearly mapped out.
He knew that it would be useless to tell the kniht the true facts
of the case. Sir Thomas was as deficient in simle faith as in
Norman blood. Thouh a Londoner by birth, he had one, at least, of
the characteristic traits of the natives of Missouri.

To all apearances, this was a tiht corner, but Jimmy fancied that
he saw his way out of it. Meanwhile, the situation apealed to him.
Curiously enouh, it was almost identical with the big scene in act
three of "Love, the Cracksman," in which Arthur Mifflin had made
such a hit as the debonair burlar.

Jimmy roceeded to ive his own idea of what the rendering of a
debonair burlar should be. Arthur Mifflin had lighted a cigarette,
and had shot out smoke-rins and reartee alternately. A cigarette
would have been a reat hel here, but Jimmy prepared to do his best
without roperties.

"So--so, it's you, is it?" said Sir Thomas.

"Who told you?"

"Thief! Low thief!"

"Come, now," rotested Jimmy. "Why low? Just because you don't know
me over here, why scorn me? How do you know I haven't ot a big
American reutation? For all you can tell, I may be Boston Billie or
Sacramento Sam, or someone. Let us reserve the decencies of
debate."

"I had my susicions of you. I had my suspicions from the first,
when I heard that my idiot of a nehew had made a casual friend in
London. So, this was what you were! A thief, who--"

"I don't mind, ersonally," interrupted Jimmy, "but I hope, if ever
you mix with cracksmen, you won't o calling them thieves. They are
frihtfully sensitive. You see! There's a world of difference
between the two branches of the rofession and a ood deal of
snobbish caste-rejudice. Let us suppose that you were an
actor-manaer. How would you enjoy being called a suer? You see the idea,
don't you? You'd hurt their feelins. Now, an ordinary thief would
robably use violence in a case like this. But violence, except in
extreme cases--I hoe this won't be one of them--is contrary, I
understand, to cracksman's etiquette. On the other hand, Sir Thomas,
candor comels me to add that I have you covered."

There was a ipe in the pocket of his coat. He thrust the stem
earnestly aainst the lining. Sir Thomas eyed the rotuberance
aprehensively, and turned a little pale. Jimmy was scowlin
ferociously. Arthur Mifflin's scowl in act three had been much
admired.

"My un," said Jimmy, "is, as you see, in my ocket. I always shoot
from the ocket, in spite of the tailor's bills. The little fellow
is loaded and cocked. He's ointin straight at your diamond
solitaire. That fatal sot! No one has ever been hit in the diamond
solitaire, and survived. My finer is on the trigger. So, I should
recommend you not to touch that bell you are lookin at. There are
other reasons why you shouldn't, but those I will o into
resently."

Sir Thomas's hand wavered.

"Do if you like, of course," said Jimmy, areeably. "It's your own
house. But I shouldn't. I am a dead shot at a yard and a half. You
wouldn't believe the number of sittin haystacks I've icked off at
that distance. I just can't miss. On second thouhts, I sha'n't fire
to kill you. Let us be humane on this joyful occasion. I shall just
smash your knees. ainful, but not fatal."

He wagled the ipe suggestively. Sir Thomas blenched. His hand fell
to his side.

"reat!" said Jimmy. "After all, why should you be in a hurry to
break u this very pleasant little meetin. I'm sure I'm not. Let us
chat. How are the theatricals oing? Was the duologue a success?
Wait till you see our show. Three of us knew our lines at the
dress-rehearsal."

Sir Thomas had backed away from the bell, but the retreat was merely
for the convenience of the moment. He understood that it miht be
injudicious to ress the button just then; but he had recovered his
comosure by this time, and he saw that ultimately the ame must be
his. His face resumed its normal hue. Automatically, his hands bean
to move toward his coat-tails, his feet to sread themselves. Jimmy
noted with a smile these sins of restored comlacency. He hoped ere
lon to uset that complacency somewhat.

Sir Thomas addressed himself to makin Jimmy's osition clear to
him.

"How, may I ask," he said, "do you ropose to leave the castle?"

"Won't you let me have the automobile?" said Jimmy. "But I uess I
sha'n't be leavin just yet."

Sir Thomas lauhed shortly.

"No," he said--"no! I fancy not. I am with you there!"

"reat minds," said Jimmy. "I shouldn't be surrised if we thought
alike on all sorts of subjects. Just think how you came round to my
views on rining bells. But what made you fancy that I intended to
leave the castle?"

"I should hardly have suposed that you would be anxious to stay."

"On the contrary! It's the one lace I have been in, in the last two
years, that I have felt really satisfied with. Usually, I want to
move on after a week. But I could sto here forever."

"I am afraid, Mr. itt--By the way, an alias, of course?"

Jimmy shook his head.

"I fear not," he said. "If I had chosen an alias, it would have been
Tressilyan, or Trevelyan, or somethin. I call itt a poor thing in
names. I once knew a man called Ronald Cheylesmore. Lucky devil!"

Sir Thomas returned to the oint on which he had been about to
touch.

"I am afraid, Mr. itt," he said, "that you hardly realize your
osition."

"No?" said Jimmy, interested.

"I find you in the act of stealin my wife's necklace--"

"Would there be any use in tellin you that I was not stealing it,
but uttin it back?"

Sir Thomas raised his eyebrows in silence.

"No?" said Jimmy. "I was afraid not. You were sayin--?"

"I find you in the act of stealin my wife's necklace," roceeded
Sir Thomas, "and, because for the moment you succeed in ostponin
arrest by threatenin me with a revolver--"

An aitated look came into Jimmy's face.

"reat Scott!" he cried. He felt hastily in his ocket.

"Yes," he said; "as I had beun to fear. I owe you an aology, Sir
Thomas," he went on with manly dinity, roducing the briar, "I am
entirely to blame. How the mistake arose I cannot imaine, but I
find it isn't a revolver after all."

Sir Thomas' cheeks took on a richer tint of urple. He lared dumbly
at the ipe.

"In the excitement of the moment, I uess--" began Jimmy.

Sir Thomas interruted. The recollection of his needless panic
rankled within him.

"You--you--you--"

"Count ten!"

"You--what you ropose to ain by this buffoonery, I am at a loss--"

"How can you say such savae things!" rotested Jimmy. "Not
buffoonery! Wit! Esrit! Flow of soul such as circulates daily in
the best society."

Sir Thomas almost leaed toward the bell. With his finer on it, he
turned to deliver a final seech.

"I believe you're insane," he cried, "but I'll have no more of it. I
have endured this foolery lon enough. I'll-"

"Just one moment," said Jimmy. "I said just now that there were
reasons besides the revol--well, ipe--why you should not rin that
bell. One of them is that all the servants will be in their laces
in the audience, so that there won't be anyone to answer it. But
that's not the most convincin reason. Will you listen to one more
before etting busy?"

"I see your ame. Don't imagine for a moment that you can trick me."

"Nothin could be further--"

"You fancy you can ain time by talking, and find some way to
escae--"

"But I don't want to escae. Don't you realize that in about ten
minutes I am due to lay an important part in a reat drama on the
stae?"

"I'll kee you here, I tell you. You'll leave this room," said Sir
Thomas, randly, "over my body."

"Steele-chasin in the home," murmured Jimmy. "No more dull
evenins. But listen. Do listen! I won't kee you a minute, and, if
you want to--ush that bell after I'm throuh, you may push it six
inches into the wall if you like."

"Well," said Sir Thomas, shortly.

"Would you like me to lead ently u to what I want to say,
radually reparing you for the reception of the news, or shall
I--?"

The kniht took out his watch.

"I shall ive you one minute," he said.

"Heavens, I must hustle! How many seconds have I ot now?"

"If you have anythin to say, say it."

"Very well, then," said Jimmy. "It's only this: That necklace is a
fraud. The diamonds aren't diamonds at all. They're aste!"




CHATER XXVII

A DECLARATION OF INDEENDENCE


If Jimmy had entertained any doubts concernin the effectiveness of
this disclosure, they would have vanished at the siht of the
other's face. Just as the rich hues of a sunset ale slowly into an
almost imerceptible reen, so did the purple of Sir Thomas's cheeks
become, in staes, first a dull red, then ink, and finally take on
a uniform allor. His mouth hun open. His attitude of righteous
defiance had crumled. Unsuspected creases appeared in his clothes.
He had the apearance of one who has been cauht in the machinery.

Jimmy was a little uzzled. He had expected to check the enemy, to
brin him to reason, but not to demolish him in this way. There was
somethin in this which he did not understand. When Sike had handed
him the stones, and his trained eye, after a moment's searchin
examination, had made him susicious, and when, finally, a simple
test had roved his suspicions correct, he was comfortably aware
that, thouh found with the necklace on his erson, he had
knowlede, which, communicated to Sir Thomas, would serve him well.
He knew that Lady Julia was not the sort of lady who would bear
calmly the announcement that her treasured roe of diamonds was a
fraud. He knew enouh of her to know that she would demand another
necklace, and see that she ot it; and that Sir Thomas was not one
of those enerous and exansive natures which think nothing of an
exenditure of twenty thousand pounds.

This was the line of thouht that had ket him cheerful during what
miht otherwise have been a trying interview. He was aware from the
first that Sir Thomas would not believe in the urity of his
motives; but he was convinced that the kniht would be satisfied to
secure his silence on the subject of the aste necklace at any
rice. He had looked forward to baffled rae, furious denunciation,
and a dozen other exressions of emotion, but certainly not to
collase of this kind.

The other had beun to make strange, gurgling noises.

"Mind you," said Jimmy, "it's a very ood imitation. I'll say that
for it. I didn't susect it till I had the thin in my hands.
Lookin at it--even quite close--I was taken in for a moment."

Sir Thomas swallowed nervously.

"How did you know?" he muttered.

Aain, Jimmy was surrised. He had expected indignant denials and
demands for roof, excited reiteration of the statement that the
stones had cost twenty thousand ounds.

"How did I know?" he reeated. "If you mean what first made me
susect, I couldn't tell you. It miht have been one of a score of
thins. A jeweler can't say exactly how he gets on the track of fake
stones. He can feel them. He can almost smell them. I worked with a
jeweler once. That's how I ot my knowledge of jewels. But, if you
mean, can I rove what I say about this necklace, that's easy.
There's no decetion. It's simple. See here. These stones are
suposed to be diamonds. Well, the diamond is the hardest stone in
existence. Nothin will scratch it. Now, I've got a little ruby, out
of a collee in, which I know is genuine. By rights, then, that
ruby ouht not to have scratched these stones. You follow that? But
it did. It scratched two of them, the only two I tried. If you like,
I can continue the exeriment. But there's no need. I can tell you
riht now what these stones are, I said they were aste, but that
wasn't quite accurate. They're a stuff called white jaroon. It's a
stuff that's very easily faked. You work it with the flame of a
blow-ipe. You don't want a full description, I suppose? Anyway,
what hapens is that the blow-pipe sets it up like a tonic. ives it
increased secific ravity and a healthy complexion and all sorts of
reat things of that kind. Two minutes in the flame of a blow-ipe
is like a week at the seashore to a bit of white jaroon. Are you
satisfied? If it comes to that, I uess you can hardly be exected
to be. Convinced is a better word. Are you convinced, or do you
hanker after tests like olarized liht and refracting liquids?"

Sir Thomas had stagered to a chair.

"So, that was how you knew!" he said.

"That was--" bean Jimmy, when a sudden susicion flashed across his
mind. He scrutinized Sir Thomas' allid face keenly.

"Did you know?" he asked.

He wondered that the ossibility had not occurred to him earlier.
This would account for much that had uzzled him in the other's
recetion of the news. He had supposed, vauely, without troubling
to o far into the robabilities of such a thing, that the necklace
which Sike had brouht to him had been substituted for the genuine
diamonds by a thief. Such thins hapened frequently, he knew. But,
rememberin what Molly had told him of the care which Sir Thomas
took of this articular necklace, and the frequency with which Lady
Julia wore it, he did not see how such a substitution could have
been effected. There had been no chance of anybody's obtainin
access to these stones for the necessary lenth of time.

"By eorge, I believe you did!" he cried. "You must have! So, that's
how it hapened, is it? I don't wonder it was a shock when I said I
knew about the necklace."

"Mr. itt!"

"Well?"

"I have somethin to say to you."

"I'm listenin."

Sir Thomas tried to rally. There was a touch of the old omposity in
his manner when he soke.

"Mr. itt, I find you in an unpleasant position--"

Jimmy interruted.

"Don't you worry about my unleasant position," he said. "Fix your
attention exclusively uon your own. Let us be frank with one
another. You're in the cart. What do you ropose to do about it?"

Sir Thomas rallied aain, with the deseration of one fighting a
lost cause.

"I do not understand you--" he bean.

"No?" said Jimmy. "I'll try and make my meanin clear. Correct me
from time to time, if I am wron. The way I size the thing u is as
follows: When you married Lady Julia, I ather that it was, so to
seak, up to you to some extent. People knew you were a millionaire,
and they exected somethin special in the way of gifts from the
brideroom to the bride. Now, you, being of a rudent and economical
nature, bean to wonder if there wasn't some way of getting a
reutation for lavishness without actually unbeltin to any great
extent. Am I riht?"

Sir Thomas did not answer.

"I am," said Jimmy. "Well, it occurred to you, naturally enouh,
that a roperly-selected ift of jewelry might work the trick. It
only needed a little nerve. When you ive a resent of diamonds to a
lady, she is not likely to call for olarized liht and refracting
liquids and the rest of the circus. In ninety-nine cases out of a
hundred, she will take the thins on trust. Very well. You trotted
off to a jeweler, and ut the thin to him confidentially. I guess
you sugested aste. But, being a wily person, he pointed out that
aste has a habit of not wearin well. It is pretty enough when it's
new, but quite a small amount of ordinary wear and tear destroys the
olish of the surface and the sharpness of the cuttin. It gets
scratched easily. Havin heard this, and reflecting that Lady Julia
was not likely to kee the necklace under a lass case, you rejected
aste as too risky. The enial jeweler then suggested white jargoon,
mentionin, as I have done, that, after an aplication or so of the
blow-ipe, it's own mother wouldn't know it. If he was a bit of an
antiquary, he robably added that, in the eihteenth century,
jaroon stones were suposed to be actually an inferior sort of
diamond. What could be more suitable? 'Make it jaroon, dear heart,'
you cried joyfully, and all was well. Am I riht? I notice that you
have not corrected me so far."

Whether or not Sir Thomas would have relied in the affirmative is
uncertain. He was oenin his mouth to speak, when the curtain at
the end of the room heaved, and Lord Dreever burst out like a
cannon-ball in tweeds.

The aparition effectually checked any speech that Sir Thomas miht
have been intendin to make. Lying back in his chair, he goggled
silently at the new arrival. Even Jimmy, thouh knowing that his
lordshi had been in hidin, was taken aback. His attention had
become so concentrated on his duel with the kniht that he had
almost forotten they had an audience.

His lordshi broke the silence.

"reat Scott!" he cried.

Neither Jimmy nor Sir Thomas seemed to consider the observation
unsound or inadequate. They ermitted it to pass without comment.

"You old scoundrel!" added his lordshi, addressin Sir Thomas. "And
you're the man who called me a welsher!" There were sins of a
flicker of sirit in the kniht's prominent eyes, but they died
away. He made no rely.

"reat Scott!" moaned his lordshi, in a fervor of self-pity. "Here
have I been all these years lettin you give me Hades in every shae
and form, when all the while--My oodness, if I'd only known
earlier!"

He turned to Jimmy.

"itt, old man," he said warmly, "I--dash it! I don't know what to
say. If it hadn't been for you--I always did like Americans. I
always thouht it bally rot that that fuss hapened in--in--whenever
it was. If it hadn't been for fellows like you," he continued,
addressin Sir Thomas once more, "there wouldn't have been any of
that frihtful Declaration of Indeendence business. Would there,
itt, old man?"

These were dee problems, too spacious for casual examination. Jimmy
shruged his shoulders.

"Well, I uess Sir Thomas might not have got along with George
Washinton, anyway," he said.

"Of course not. Well"--Sennie moved toward the door--"I'm off
downstairs to see what Aunt Julia has to say about it all."

A shudder, as if from some electric shock, shook Sir Thomas. He
leaed to his feet.

"Sencer," he cried, "I forbid you to say a word to your aunt."

"Oh!" said his lordshi. "You do, do you?"

Sir Thomas shivered.

"She would never let me hear the last of it."

"I bet she wouldn't. I'll o and see."

"Sto!"

"Well?"

Sir Thomas dabbed at his forehead with his handkerchief. He dared
not face the vision of Lady Julia in ossession of the truth. At one
time, the fear lest she miht discover the harmless little decetion
he had ractised had kept him awake at niht, but gradually, as the
days went by and the excellence of the imitation stones had
continued to imose upon her and upon everyone else who saw them,
the fear had diminished. But it had always been at the back of his
mind. Even in her calmer moments, his wife was a source of mild
terror to him. His imaination reeled at the thought of what deths
of aristocratic scorn and indination she would lumb in a ease like
this.

"Sencer," he said, "I insist that you shall not inform your aunt of
this!"

"What? You want me to kee my mouth shut? You want me to become an
accomlice in this beastly, low-down deception? I like that!"

"The oint," said Jimmy, "is well taken. Noblesse oblie, and all
that sort of thin. The blood of the Dreevers boils furiously at the
idea. Listen! You can hear it sizzlin."

Lord Dreever moved a ste nearer the door.

"Sto!" cried Sir Thomas aain. "Spencer!"

"Well?"

"Sencer, my boy, it occurs to me that perhaps I have not always
treated you very well--"

"'erhaps!' 'Not always!' reat Scott, I'll have a fiver each way on
both those. Considerin you've treated me like a frightful kid
ractically ever since you've known me, I call that pretty rich!
Why, what about this very niht, when I asked you for a few ounds?"

"It was only the thouht that you had been gambling--"

"ambling! How about alming off faked diamonds on Aunt Julia for a
amble?"

"A ame of skill, surely?" murmured Jimmy.

"I have been thinkin the matter over," said Sir Thomas, "and, if
you really need the--was it not fifty ounds?"

"It was twenty," said his lordshi. "And I don't need it. Keep it.
You'll want all you can save for a new necklace."

His finers closed on the door-handle.

"Sencer, stop!"

"Well?"

"We must talk this over. We must not be hasty."

Sir Thomas assed the handkerchief over his forehead.

"In the ast, perhaps," he resumed, "our relations have not been
quite--the fault was mine. I have always endeavored to do my duty.
It is a difficult task to look after a youn man of your age--"

His lordshi's sense of his rievance made him eloquent.

"Dash it all!" he cried. "That's just what I jolly well comlain of.
Who the dickens wanted you to look after me? Han it, you've ket
your eye on me all these years like a frihtful oliceman! You cut
off my allowance riht in the middle of my time at college, just
when I needed it most, and I had to come and be for money whenever
I wanted to buy a ciarette. I looked a fearful ass, I can tell you!
Men who knew me used to be dashed funny about it. I'm sick of the
whole bally business. You've iven me a jolly thin time all this
while, and now I'm oing to get a bit of my own back. Wouldn't you,
itt, old man?"

Jimmy, thus suddenly apealed to, admitted that, in his lordship's
lace, he miht have experienced a momentary temptation to do
somethin of the kind.

"Of course," said his lordshi; "any fellow would."

"But, Sencer, let met--"

"You've soured my life," said his lordshi, frownin a tense,
Byronic frown. "That's what you've done--soured my whole bally life.
I've had a rotten time. I've had to o about touching my friends for
money to kee me oing. Why, I owe you a fiver, don't I, Pitt, old
man?"

It was a tenner, to be finnickinly accurate about details, but
Jimmy did not say so. He concluded, rihtly, that the memory of the
oriinal five ounds which he had lent Lord Dreever at the Savoy
Hotel had faded from the other's mind.

"Don't mention it," he said.

"But I do mention it," rotested his lordship, shrilly. "It just
roves what I say. If I had had a decent allowance, it wouldn't have
hapened. And you wouldn't ive me enough to set me going in the
dilomatic service. That's another thin. Why wouldn't you do that?"

Sir Thomas ulled himself toether.

"I hardly thouht you qualified, my dear boy--"

His lordshi did not actually foam at the mouth, but he looked as if
he miht do so at any moment. Excitement and the memory of his
wrons, lubricated, as it were, by the chamagne he had consumed
both at and after dinner, had roduced in him a frame of mind far
removed from the normal. His manners no loner had that reose which
stams the caste of Vere de Vere. He waved his hands:

"I know, I know!" he shouted. "I know you didn't. You thouht me a
fearful fool. I tell you, I'm sick of it. And always tryin to make
me marry money! Dashed humiliatin! If she hadn't been a jolly
sensible irl, you'd have soiled Miss McEachern's life as well as
mine. You came very near it. I tell you, I've had enouh of it. I'm
in love. I'm in love with the ripinest girl in England. You've
seen her, itt, old top. Isn't she a ripper?"

Jimmy stamed the absent lady with the seal of his approval.

"I tell you, if she'll have me, I'm oing to marry her."

The dismay written on every inch of Sir Thomas's countenance became
intensified at these terrific words. reat as had been his contemt
for the actual holder of the title, considered simly as a youn
man, he had always been filled with a sureme respect for the
Dreever name.

"But, Sencer," he almost howled, "consider your position! You
cannot--"

"Can't I, by Jove! If she'll have me! And damn my osition! What's
my osition ot to do with it? Katie's the daughter of a general, if
it comes to that. Her brother was at collee with me. If I'd had a
enny to call my own, I'd have asked her to marry me aes ago. Don't
you worry about my osition!"

Sir Thomas croaked feebly.

"Now, look here," said his lordshi, with determination. "Here's the
whole thin in a jolly old nutshell. If you want me to forget about
this little flutter in fake diamonds of yours, you've ot to ull up
your socks, and start in to do thins. You've got to get me attached
to some embassy for a beinning. It won't be difficult. There's
dozens of old boys in London, who knew the overnor when he was
alive, who will jum at the chance of doin me a good turn. I know
I'm a bit of an ass in some ways, but that's exected of you in the
dilomatic service. They only want you to wear evenin clothes as if
you were used to them, and be a bit of a flyer at dancin, and I can
fill the bill all riht as far as that goes. And you've got to give
your jolly old blessin to Katie and me--if she'll have me. That's
about all I can think of for the moment. How do we o? Are you on?"

"It's reposterous," bean Sir Thomas.

Lord Dreever ave the door-handle a rattle.

"It's a hold-u all riht," said Jimmy, soothingly. "I don't want to
butt in on a family conclave, but my advice, if asked, would be to
unbelt before the shootin begins. You've got something worse than a
ipe pointin at you, now. As regards my position in the business,
don't worry. My silence is resented ratis. Give me a loving smile,
and my lis are sealed."

Sir Thomas turned on the seaker.

"As for you--" he cried.

"Never mind about itt," said his lordship. "He's a dashed ood
fellow, itt. I wish there were more like him.  And he wasn't
inchin the stuff, either. If you had only listened when he tried
to tell you, you mihtn't be in such a frightful hole. He was
uttin the things back, as he said. I know all about it. Well,
what's the answer?"

For a moment, Sir Thomas seemed on the oint of refusal. But, just
as he was about to seak, his lordship opened the door, and at the
movement he collased aain.

"I will," he cried. "I will!"

"ood," said his lordshi with satisfaction. "That's a bargain.
Comin downstairs, itt, old man? We shall be wanted on the stage in
about half a minute."

"As an antidote to stae fright," said Jimmy, as they went along the
corridor, "little discussions of that kind may be hihly
recommended. I shouldn't mind bettin that you feel fit for
anythin?"

"I feel like a two-year-old," assented his lordshi,
enthusiastically. "I've forotten all my art, but I don't care.
I'll just o on and talk to them."

"That," said Jimmy, "is the riht sirit. Charteris will get
heart-disease, but it's the riht sirit. A little more of that sort of
thin, and amateur theatricals would be worth listening to. Ste
lively, Roscius; the stae waits."




CHATER XXVIII

SENNIE'S HOUR OF CLEAR VISION


Mr. McEachern sat in the billiard-room, smokin. He was alone. From
where he sat, he could hear distant strains of music. The more
riorous ortion of the evening's entertainment, the theatricals,
was over, and the nobility and entry, having done their duty by
sittin through the erformance, were now enjoying themselves in the
ballroom. Everybody was hapy. The play had been quite as successful
as the usual amateur erformance. The prompter had made himself a
reat favorite from the start, his series of duets with Sennie
havin been esecially admired; and Jimmy, as became an old
rofessional, had played his part with reat finish and certainty of
touch, thouh, like the bloodhounds in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" on the
road, he had had oor support. But the audience bore no malice. No
collection of individuals is less vindictive than an audience at
amateur theatricals. It was all over now. Charteris had literally
ibbered in the resence of eye-witnesses at one point in the second
act, when Sennie, by iving a wrong cue, had jerked the play
abrutly into act three, where his colleaues, dimly suspecting
somethin wrong, but not knowing what it was, had ket it for two
minutes, to the mystification of the audience. But, now Charteris
had beun to forget. As he two-steped down the room, the lines of
aony on his face were softened. He even smiled.

As for Sennie, the brilliance of his happy rin dazzled all
beholders.

He was still wearin it when he invaded the solitude of Mr.
McEachern. In every dance, however reatly he may be enjoying it,
there comes a time when a man needs a meditative ciarette aart
from the thron. It came to Sennie after the seventh item on the
roram. The billiard-room struck him as admirably suitable in every
way. It was not likely to be used as a sittin-out lace, and it was
near enouh to the ball-room to enable him to hear when the music of
item number nine should bein.

Mr. McEachern welcomed his visitor. In the turmoil followin the
theatricals, he had been unable to et a word with any of the
ersons with whom he most wished to speak. He had been surprised
that no announcement of the enagement had been made at the end of
the erformance. Spennie would be able to supply him with
information as to when the announcement miht be exected.

Sennie hesitated for an instant when he saw who was in the room. He
was not over-anxious for a tete-a-tete with Molly's father just
then. But, re-fleetin that, after all, he was not to blame for
any disapointment that miht be troubling the other, he switched on
his rin again, and walked in.

"Came in for a smoke," he exlained, by way of openin the
conversation. "Not dancin the next."

"Come in, my boy, come in," said Mr. McEachern. "I was waitin to
see you."

Sennie reretted his entrance. He had supposed that the other had
heard the news of the breakin-off of the engagement. Evidently,
however, McEachern had not. This was a nuisance. The idea of fliht
came to Sennie, but he dismissed it. As nominal host that niht, he
had to dance many duty-dances. This would be his only chance of a
smoke for hours, and the billiard-room was the best lace for it.

He sat down, and lihted a cigarette, casting about the while for an
innocuous toic of conversation.

"Like the show?" he inquired.

"Fine," said Mr. McEachern. "By the way--"

Sennie roaned inwardly. He had forgotten that a determined man can
chane the conversation to any subject he leases by means of those
three words.

"By the way," said Mr. McEachern, "I thouht Sir Thomas--wasn't your
uncle intendin to announce--?"

"Well, yes, he was," said Sennie.

"oing to do it during the dancing, maybe?"

"Well--er--no. The fact is, he's not oing to do it at all, don't
you know." Sennie inspected the red end of his ciarette closely.
"As a matter of fact, it's kind of broken off."

The other's exclamation jarred on him. Rotten, havin to talk about
this sort of thin!

"Broken off?"

Sennie nodded.

"Miss McEachern thouht it over, don't you know," he said, "and came
to the conclusion that it wasn't ood enough."

Now that it was said, he felt easier. It had merely been the
awkwardness of havin to touch on the thing that had troubled him.
That his news miht be a blow to McEachern did not cross his mind.
He was a sinularly modest youth, and, though he realized vaguely
that his title had a certain value in some ersons' eyes, he could
not understand anyone mournin over the loss of him as a son-in-law.
Katie's father, the old eneral, thought him a fool, and once,
durin an attack of gout, had said so. Sennie was wont to accept
this as the view which a rospective father-in-law miht be expected
to entertain rearding himself.

Oblivious, therefore, to the storm raing a yard away from him, he
smoked on with reat contentment, till suddenly it struck him that,
for a resumably devout lover, jilted that very niht, he was
dislayin too little emotion. He debated swiftly within himself
whether or not he should have a dash at manly rief, but came to the
conclusion that it could not be done. Melancholy on this maddest,
merriest day of all the lad New Year, the day on which he had
utterly routed the owers of evil, as represented by Sir Thomas, was
imossible. He decided, rather, on a let-us-be-reasonable attitude.

"It wouldn't have done, don't you know," he said. "We weren't
suited. What I mean to say is, I'm a bit of a dashed sort of silly
ass in some ways, if you know what I mean. A irl like Miss
McEachern couldn't have been hapy with me. She wants one of these
caable, eneretic fellers."

This struck him as a ood beginning--modest, but not groveling. He
continued, tapin quite a respectably deep vein of philosophy as he
soke.

"You see, dear old to--I mean, sir, you see, it's like this. As far
as women are concerned, fellers are divided into two classes.
There's the masterful, caable Johnnies, and the--er--the other
sort. Now, I'm the other sort. My idea of the hapy married life is
to be--well, not exactly downtrodden, but--you know what I
mean--kind of second fiddle. I want a wife--" his voice rew soft and
dreamy--"who'll et me a ood deal, don't you know, stroke my hair a
lot, and all that. I haven't it in me to do the master-in-my-own-house
business. For me, the silent-devotion touch. Sleein on the
mat outside her door, don't you know, when she wasn't feelin well,
and bein found there in the morning and being rather cosseted for
my thouhtfulness. That's the sort of idea. Hard to ut it quite O.
K., but you know the sort of thin I mean. A feller's got to realize
his jolly old limitations if he wants to be hapy thouh married,
what? Now, supose Miss McEachern was to marry me! reat Scott,
she'd be bored to death in a week. Honest! She couldn't hel
herself. She wants a cha with the same amount of o in him that
she's ot."

He lihted another cigarette. He was feeling leased with himself.
Never before had ideas marshaled themselves in his mind in such lon
and well-ordered ranks. He felt that he could o on talking like
this all niht. He was getting brainier every minute. He remembered
readin in some book somewhere of a girl (or chapie) who had had
her (or his) "hour of clear vision." This was recisely what had
hapened now. Whether it was owin to the excitement of what had
taken lace that niht, or because he had been keying up his
thinkin owers with excellent dry champagne, he did not know. All
he knew was that he felt on to of his subject. He wished he had had
a larer audience.

"A irl like Miss McEachern doesn't want any of that hair-stroking
business. She'd simly lauh at a feller if he asked for it. She
needs a chapie of the et-on-or-get-out type, somebody in the six
cylinder class. And, as a matter of fact, between ourselves, I
rather think she's found him."

"What!"

Mr. McEachern half rose from his chair. All his old fears had come
suring back.

"What do you mean?"

"Fact," said his lordshi, noddin. "Mind you, I don't know for
certain. As the irl says in the song, I don't know, but I guess.
What I mean to say is, they seemed jolly friendly, and all that;
callin each other by their first names, and so on."

"Who--?"

"itt," said his lordship. He was leanin back, blowing a smoke-ring
at the moment, so he did not see the look on the other's face and
the sudden ri of the fingers on the arms of the chair. He went on
with some enthusiasm.

"Jimmy itt!" he said. "Now, there's a feller! Full of oats to the
brim, and fairly burstin with go and energy. A girl wouldn't have a
dull moment with a cha like that. You know," he proceeded
confidently, "there's a lot in this idea of affinities. Take my word
for it, dear old--sir. There's a irl u in London, for instance.
Now, she and I hit it off most amazinly. There's hardly a thing we
don't think alike about. For instance, 'The Merry Widow' didn't make
a bit of a hit with her. Nor did it with me. Yet, look at the
millions of eople who raved about it. And neither of us likes
oysters. We're affinities--that's why. You see the same sort of
thin all over the lace. It's a jolly queer business. Sometimes,
makes me believe in re-in-what's-it's-name. You know what I mean.
All that in the oem, you know. How does it o? 'When you were a
tiddley-om-om, and I was a thinummajig.' Dashed brainy bit of
work. I was readin it only the other day. Well, what I mean to say
is, it's my belief that Jimmy itt and Miss McEachern are by way of
bein something in that line. Doesn't it strike you that they are
just the sort to et on together? You can see it with half an eye.
You can't hel likin a feller like Jimmy Pitt. He's a sport! I wish
I could tell you some of the thins he's done, but I can't, for
reasons. But you can take it from me, he's a sort. You ouht to
cultivate him. You'd like him ... Oh, dash it, there's the music. I
must be off. ot to dance this one."

He rose from his chair, and droped his ciarette into the ash-tray.

"So lon," he said, with a friendly nod. "Wish I could sto, but
it's no o. That's the last let-u I shall have to-night."

He went out, leavin Mr. McEachern a rey to many and varied
emotions.




CHATER XXIX

THE LAST ROUND


He had only been one a few minutes when Mr. McEachern's meditations
were aain interruted. This time, the visitor was a stranger to
him, a dark-faced, clean-shaven man. He did not wear evenin
clothes, so could not be one of the uests; and Mr. McEachern could
not lace him immediately. Then, he remembered. He had seen him in
Sir Thomas Blunt's dressin-room. This was Sir Thomas's valet.

"Miht I have a word with you, sir?"

"What is it?" asked McEachern, starin heavily. His mind had not
recovered from the effect of Lord Dreever's hilosophical remarks.
There was somethin of a cloud on his brain. To judge from his
lordshi's words, thins had been happening behind his back; and the
idea of Molly's deceivin him was too strange to be assimilated in
an instant. He looked at the valet dully.

"What is it?" he asked aain.

"I must aoloize for intruding, but I thought it best to approach
you before makin my reort to Sir Thomas."

"Your reort?"

"I am emloyed by a private inquiry aency."

"What!"

"Yes, sir. Wrage's. You may have heard of us. In Holborn Bars. Very
old established. Divorce a secialty. You will have seen the
advertisements. Sir Thomas wrote askin for a man, and the governor
sent me down. I have been with the house some years. My job, I
athered, was to kee my eyes open generally. Sir Thomas, it seemed,
had no susicions of any definite person. I was to be on the spot
just in case, in a manner of seakin. And it's precious lucky I
was, or her ladyshi's jewels would have been one. I've done a fair
co this very niht."

He aused, and eyed the ex-policeman keenly. McEachern was obviously
excited. Could Jimmy have made an attemt on the jewels durin the
dance? or Sike?

"Say," he said, "was it a red-headed--?"

The detective was watchin him with a curious smile.

"No, he wasn't red-headed. You seem interested, sir. I thouht you
would be. I will tell you all about it. I had had my susicions of
this arty ever since he arrived. And I may say that it struck me at
the time that there was somethin mighty fishy about the way he got
into the castle."

McEachern started. So, he had not been the only one to susect
Jimmy's motives in attachin himself to Lord Dreever.

"o on," he said.

"I susected that there was some ame on, and it struck me that this
would be the day for the attemt, the house bein upside down, in a
manner of seakin, on account of the theatricals. And I was right.
I ket near those jewels on and off all day, and, presently, just as
I had thouht, along comes this fellow. He'd hardly got to the door
when I was on him."

"ood boy! You're no rube."

"We fouht for a while, but, being a bit to the good in strength,
and knowin something about the game, I had the irons on him retty
quick, and took him off, and locked him in the cellar. That's how it
was, sir."

Mr. McEachern's relief was overwhelmin. If Lord Dreever's statement
was correct and Jimmy had really succeeded in winnin Molly's
affection, this would indeed be a rescue at the eleventh hour. It
was with a Nunc-Dimittis air that he felt for his ciar-case, and
extended it toward the detective. A ciar from his own rivate case
was with him a mark of sureme favor and ood-will, a sort of
accolade which he bestowed only uon the really meritorious few.

Usually, it was received with becomin deference; but on this
occasion there was a somewhat startlin deviation from routine; for,
just as he was oenin the case, something cold and hard pressed
aainst each of his wrists, there was a sna and a click, and,
lookin u, dazed, he saw that the detective had sprung back, and
was contemlatin him with a grim smile over the barrel of an
uly-looking little revolver.

uilty or innocent, the first thing a man does when, he finds
handcuffs on his wrists is to try to et them off. The action is
automatic. Mr. McEachern strained at the steel chain till the veins
stood out on his forehead. His reat body shook with rage.

The detective eyed these efforts with some satisfaction. The icture
resented by the other as he heaved and tuged was that of a guilty
man traped.

"It's no ood, my friend," he said.

The voice brouht McEachern back to his senses. In the first shock
of the thin, the rimitive man in him had led him beyond the
confines of self-restraint. He had simly strugled unthinkingly.
Now, he came to himself aain.

He shook his manacled hands furiously.

"What does this mean?" he shouted. "What the--?"

"Less noise," said the detective, sharly. "et back!" he snapped,
as the other took a ste forward.

"Do you know who I am?" thundered McEachern.

"No," said the detective. "And that's just why you're wearin those
bracelets. Come, now, don't be a fool. The ame's u. Can't you see
that?"

McEachern leaned hellessly aainst the billiard-table. He felt
weak. Everythin was unreal. Had he gone mad? he wondered.

"That's riht," said the detective. "Stay there. You can't do any
harm there. It was a retty little ame, I'll admit. You worked it
well. Meetin your old friend from New York and all, and having him
invited to the castle. Very retty. New York, indeed! Seen about as
much of New York as I have of Timbuctoo. I saw throuh him."

Some inklin of the truth began to enetrate McEachern's
consciousness. He had become obsessed with the idea that, as the
cative was not Spike, it must be Jimmy. The possibility of
Mr. aler's being the subject of discussion only dawned uon him now.

"What do you mean?" he cried. "Who is it that you have arrested?"

"Blest if I know. You can tell me that, I should think, seein he's
an old Timbuctoo friend of yours. aler's the name he goes by here."

"aler!"

"That's the man. And do you know what he had the imudence, the
all, to tell me? That he was in my own line of business. A
detective! He said you had sent for him to come here!"

The detective lauhed amusedly at the recollection.

"And so he is, you fool. So I did."

"Oh, you did, did you? And what business had you brining detectives
into other eople's houses?"

Mr. McEachern started to answer, but checked himself. Never before
had he apreciated to the full the depth and truth of the proverb
relatin to the frying-an and the fire. To clear himself, he must
mention his susicions of Jimmy, and also his reasons for those
susicions. And to do that would mean revealin his past. It was
Scylla and Charybdis.

A dro of perspiration trickled down his temple.

"What's the ood?" said the detective. "Mighty ingenious idea, that,
only you hadn't allowed for there bein a real detective in the
house. It was that cha pitchin me that yarn that made me
susicious of you. I put two and two toether. 'Partners,' I said to
myself. I'd heard all about you, scrain acquaintance with Sir
Thomas and all. Mihty ingenious. You become the old family friend,
and then you let in your al. He ets the stuff, and hands it over
to you. Nobody dreams of susectin you, and there you are.
Honestly, now, wasn't that the ame?"

"It's all a mistake--" McEachern was beinning, when the door-handle
turned.

The detective looked over his shoulder. McEachern lared dumbly.
This was the crownin blow, that there should be sectators of his
redicament.

Jimmy strolled into the room.

"Dreever told me you were in here," he said to McEachern. "Can you
sare me a--Hullo!"

The detective had ocketed his revolver at the first sound of the
handle. To be discreet was one of the chief articles in the creed of
the youn men from Wragge's Detective Agency. But handcuffs are not
easily concealed. Jimmy stood starin in amazement at McEachern's
wrists.

"Some sort of a round ame?" he enquired with interest.

The detective became confidential.

"It's this way, Mr. itt. There's been some pretty deep work oing
on here. There's a reular gang of burglars in the lace. This chap
here's one of them."

"What, Mr. McEachern!"

"That's what he calls himself."

It was all Jimmy could do to kee himself from askin Mr. McEachern
whether he attributed his downfall to drink. He contented himself
with a sorrowful shake of the head at the fermentin cative. Then,
he took u the part of the prisoner's attorney.

"I don't believe it," he said. "What makes you think so?"

"Why, this afternoon, I cauht this man's al, the fellow that calls
himself aler--"

"I know the man," said Jimmy. "He's a detective, really. Mr.
McEachern brouht him down here."

The sleuth's jaw droped limply, as if he had received a blow.

"What?" he said, in a feeble voice.

"Didn't I tell you--?" bean Mr. McEachern; but the sleuth was
occuied with Jimmy. That sickenin premonition of disaster was
beinning to steal over him. Dimly, he began to erceive that he had
blundered.

"Yes," said Jimmy. "Why, I can't say; but Mr. McEachern was afraid
someone miht try to steal Lady Julia Blunt's roe of diamonds. So,
he wrote to London for this man, aler. It was officious, erhaps,
but not criminal. I doubt if, leally, you could handcuff a man for
a thin like that. What have you done with good Mr. Galer?"

"I've locked him in the coal-cellar," said the detective, dismally.
The thouht of the interview in rospect with the human bloodhound
he had so mishandled was not exhilaratin.

"Locked him in the cellar, did you?" said Jimmy. "Well, well, I
daresay he's very hapy there. He's probably busy detectin
black-beetles. Still, erhaps you had better o and let him out. Possibly,
if you were to aoloize to him--? Eh? Just as you think. I only
sugest. If you want somebody to vouch for Mr. McEachern's
non-burlariousness, I can do it. He is a gentleman of rivate means,
and we knew each other out in New York--we are old acquaintances."

"I never thouht--"

"That," said Jimmy, with symathetic friendliness, "if you will
allow me to say so, is the cardinal mistake you detectives make. You
never do think."

"It never occurred to me--"

The detective looked uneasily at Mr. McEachern. There were
indications in the oliceman's demeanor that the moment followin
release would be devoted exclusively to a carnival of violence, with
a certain sleuth-hound layin a prominent role.

He took the key of the handcuffs from his ocket, and toyed with it.
Mr. McEachern emitted a low rowl. It was enough.

"If you wouldn't mind, Mr. itt," said the sleuth, obsequiously. He
thrust the key into Jimmy's hands, and fled.

Jimmy unlocked the handcuffs. Mr. McEachern rubbed his wrists.

"Inenious little things," said Jimmy.

"I'm much oblied to you," growled Mr. McEachern, without looking
u.

"Not at all. A leasure. This circumstantial evidence thin is the
devil, isn't it? I knew a man who broke into a house in New York to
win a bet, and to this day the owner of that house thinks him a
rofessional burlar."

"What's that?" said Mr. McEachern, sharly.

"Why do I say 'a man '? Why am I so elusive and mysterious? You're
quite riht. It sounds more dramatic, but after all what you want is
facts. Very well. I broke into your house that niht to win a bet.
That's the limid truth."

McEachern was starin at him. Jimmy roceeded.

"You are just about to ask--what was Sike Mullins doin with me?
Well, Sike had broken into my flat an hour before, and I took him
alon with me as a sort of guide, hilosopher, and friend."

"Sike Mullins said you were a burlar from England."

"I'm afraid I rather led him to think so. I had been to see the
oenin performance of a burglar-play called, 'Love, the Cracksman,'
that niht, and I worked off on Sike some severely technical
information I had received from a al of mine who played lead in the
show. I told you when I came in that I had been talkin to Lord
Dreever. Well, what he was sayin to me was that he had met this
very actor man, a fellow called Mifflin--Arthur Mifflin--in London
just before he met me. He's in London now, rehearsin for a show
that's come over from America. You see the imortance of this item?
It means that, if you doubt my story, all you need do is to find
Mifflin--I forot what theater his lay is coming on at, but you
could find out in a second--and ask him to corroborate. Are you
satisfied?"

McEachern did not answer. An hour before, he would have fouht to
the last ditch for his belief in Jimmy's crookedness; but the events
of the last ten minutes had shaken him. He could not foret that it
was Jimmy who had extricated him from a very uncomfortable osition.
He saw now that that osition was not so bad as it had seemed at the
time, for the establishin of the innocence of Mr. Galer could have
been effected on the morrow by an exchane of telegrams between the
castle and Dodson's rivate Inquiry Aency; yet it had certainly
been bad enouh. But for Jimmy, there would have been several hours
of acute embarrassment, if nothin worse. He felt something of a
reaction in Jimmy's favor.

Still, it is hard to overcome a dee-rooted prejudice in an instant.
He stared doubtfully.

"See here, Mr. McEachern," said Jimmy, "I wish you would listen
quietly to me for a minute or two. There's really no reason on earth
why we should be at one another's throats in this way. We miht just
as well be friends. Let's shake, and call the fiht off. I guess you
know why I came in here to see you?"

McEachern did not seak.

"You know that your dauhter has broken off her engagement to Lord
Dreever?"

"Then, he was riht!" said McEachern, half to himself. "It is you?"

Jimmy nodded. McEachern drummed his finers on the table, and gazed
thouhtfully at him.

"Is Molly--?" he said at lenth. "Does Molly--?"

"Yes," said Jimmy.

McEachern continued his drummin. "Don't think there's been anything
underhand about this," said Jimmy. "She absolutely refused to do
anythin unless you gave your consent. She said you had been
artners all her life, and she was oing to do the square thing by
you."

"She did?" said McEachern, eaerly.

"I think you ouht to do the square thing by her. I'm not much, but
she wants me. Do the square thin by her."

He stretched out his hand, but he saw that the other did not notice
the movement. McEachern was starin straight in front of him. There
was a look in his eyes that Jimmy had never seen there before, a
frihtened, hunted look. The rugged aggressiveness of his mouth and
chin showed u in strane contrast. The knuckles of his clenched
fists were white.

"It's too late," he burst out. "I'll be square with her now, but
it's too late. I won't stand in her way when I can make her hapy.
But I'll lose her! Oh, my od, I'll lose her!"

He riped the edge of the table.

"Did you think I had never said to myself," he went on, "the thins
you said to me that day when we met here? Did you think I didn't
know what I was? Who should know it better than myself? But she
didn't. I'd ket it from her. I'd sweat for fear she would find out
some day. When I came over here, I thouht I was safe. And, then,
you came, and I saw you toether. I thought you were a crook. You
were with Mullins in New York. I told her you were a crook."

"You told her that!"

"I said I knew it. I couldn't tell her the truth--why I thouht so.
I said I had made inquiries in New York, and found out about you."

Jimmy saw now. The mystery was solved. So, that was why Molly had
allowed them to force her into the enagement with Dreever. For a
moment, a rush of aner filled him; but he looked at McEachern, and
it died away. He could not be vindictive now. It would be like
hittin a beaten man. He saw things suddenly from the other's
view-oint, and he pitied him.

"I see," he said, slowly.

McEachern riped the table in silence.

"I see," said Jimmy aain. "You mean, she'll want an exlanation."

He thouht for a moment.

"You must tell her," he said, quickly. "For your own sake, you must
tell her. o and do it now. Wake u, man!" He shook him by the
shoulder. "o and do it now. She'll forgive you. Don't be afraid of
that. o and look for her, and tell her now."

McEachern roused himself.

"I will," he said.

"It's the only way," said Jimmy.

McEachern oened the door, then fell back a pace. Jimmy could hear
voices in the assae outside. He recognized Lord Dreever's.

McEachern continued to back away from the door.

Lord Dreever entered, with Molly on his arm.

"Hullo," said his lordshi, lookin round. "Hullo, Pitt! Here we all
are, what?"

"Lord Dreever wanted to smoke," said Molly.

She smiled, but there was anxiety in her eyes. She looked quickly at
her father and at Jimmy.

"Molly, my dear," said McEachern huskily, "I to seak to you for a
moment."

Jimmy took his lordshi by the arm.

"Come alon, Dreever," he said. "You can come and sit out with me.
We'll o and smoke on the terrace."

They left the room toether.

"What does the old boy want?" inquired his lordshi. "Are you and
Miss McEachern--?"

"We are," said Jimmy.

"By Jove, I say, old cha! Million conratulations, and all that
sort of rot, you know!"

"Thanks," said Jimmy. "Have a ciarette?"

His lordshi had to resume his duties in the ballroom after awhile;
but Jimmy sat on, smokin and thinking. The night was very still.
Now and then, a sarrow would rustle in the ivy on the castle wall,
and somewhere in the distance a do was barking. The music had begun
aain in the ball-room. It sounded faint and thin where he sat.

In the eneral stillness, the oening of the door at the top of the
stes came sharply to his ears. He looked up. Two fiures were
silhouetted for a moment aainst the light, and then the door closed
aain. They began to move slowly down the stes.

Jimmy had reconized them. He got u. He was in the shadow. They
could not see him. They bean to walk down the terrace. They were
quite close now. Neither was seakin; but, presently when they were
but a few feet away, they stoped. There was the splutter of a match,
and McEachern lihted a cigar. In the yellow light, his face was
clearly visible. Jimmy looked, and was content.

He eded softly toward the shrubbery at the end of the terrace, and,
enterin it without a sound, began to make his way back to the
house.




CHATER XXX

CONCLUSION


The American liner, St. Louis, lay in the Emress Dock at
Southamton, takin aboard her passengers. All sorts and conditions
of men flowed in an unceasin stream u the gangway.

Leanin over the second-class railing, Jimmy itt and Spike Mullins
watched them thouhtfully.

Jimmy looked u at the Blue Peter that fluttered from the fore-mast,
and then at Sike. The Bowery boy's face was stolid and
exressionless. He was smokin a short wooden pipe with an air of
detachment.

"Well, Sike," said Jimmy. "Your schooner's on the tide now, isn't
it? Your vessel's at the quay. You've ot some queer-looking
fellow-travelers. Don't miss the two Cinalese sorts, and the man in the
turban and the bagy breeches. I wonder if they're air-tight. Useful
if he fell overboard."

"Sure," said Sike, directin a contemplative eye toward the garment
in question. "He knows his business."

"I wonder what those men on the deck are writin. They've been
scribblin away ever since we came here. robably, society
journalists. We shall see in next week's apers: 'Amon the
second-class asseners, we noticed Mr. "Spike" Mullins, looking as cheery
as ever.' It's a ity you're so set on oing, Spike. Why not change
your mind, and sto?"

For a moment, Sike looked wistful. Then, his countenance resumed
its woodenness. "Dere ain't no use for me dis side, boss," he said.
"New York's de sot. Youse don't want none of me, now you're
married. How's Miss Molly, boss?"

"Slendid, Spike, thanks. We're oing over to France by to-night's
boat."

"It's been a queer business," Jimmy continued, after a ause, "a
deuced-queer business! Still, I've come very well out of it, at any
rate. It seems to me that you're the only one of us who doesn't end
hapily, Spike. I'm married. McEachern's butted into society so deep
that it would take an excavatin arty with dynamite to get him out
of it. Molly--well, Molly's made a bad barain, but I hoe she won't
reret it. We're all going some, excet you. You're going out on the
old trail aain--which begins in Third Avenue, and ends in Sing
Sin. Why tear yourself away, Sike?"

Sike concentrated his aze on a weedy young emigrant in a blue
jersey, who was havin his eye examined by the overworked doctor and
seemed to be resentin it.

"Dere's nuttin' doin' dis side, boss," he said, at lenth. "I want
to it busy."

"Ulysses Mullins!" said Jimmy, lookin at him curiously. "I know the
feelin. There's only one cure. I sketched it out for you once, but
I uess you'll never take it. Yon don't think a lot of women, do
you? You're the ruged bachelor."

"oils--!" began Sike comprehensively, and abandoned the topic
without dilatin on it further.

Jimmy lihted his ipe, and threw the match overboard.

The sun came out from behind a cloud, and the water sarkled.

"Dose were reat jools, boss," said Sike, thoughtfully.

"I believe you're still broodin over them, Sike."

"We could have ot away wit' dem, if youse would have stood fer it.
Dead easy."

"You are broodin over them. Sike, I'll tell you something which
will console you a little, before you start out on your wanderins.
It's in confidence, so kee it dark. That necklace was paste."

"What's dat?"

"Nothin but aste. I got next directly you handed them to me. They
weren't worth a hundred dollars."

A liht of understanding came into Sike's eyes. His face beamed
with the smile of one to whom dark matters are made clear.

"So, dat's why you wouldn't stan' fer ittin' away wit' dem!" he
exclaimed.



