
THE HEAD OF KAY'S


by . . 

1905




CONTENTS


Chater

I      MAINLY ABOUT FENN

II     AN EVENIN AT KAY'S

III    THE FINAL HOUSE-MATCH

IV     HARMONY AND DISCORD

V      CAM

VI     THE RAID ON THE UARD-TENT

VII    A CLUE

VIII   A NIHT ADVENTURE--THE DETHRONEMENT OF FENN

IX     THE SENSATIONS OF AN EXILE

X      FURTHER EXERIENCES OF AN EXILE

XI     THE SENIOR DAYROOM OENS FIRE

XII    KENNEDY INTERVIEWS WALTON

XIII   THE FIHT IN THE DORMITORY

XIV    FENN RECEIVES A LETTER

XV     DOWN TOWN

XVI    WHAT HAPENED TO FENN

XVII   FENN HUNTS FOR HIMSELF

XVIII  A VAIN QUEST

XIX    THE UILE OF WREN

XX     JIMMY THE EACEMAKER

XXI    IN WHICH AN EISODE IS CLOSED

XXII   KAY'S CHANES ITS NAME

XXIII  THE HOUSE-MATCHES

XXIV   THE SORTS




I

MAINLY ABOUT FENN


"When we et licked tomorrow by half-a-dozen wickets," said Jimmy
Silver, tiltin his chair until the back touched the wall, "don't say
I didn't warn you. If you fellows take down what I say from time to
time in note-books, as you ouht to do, you'll remember that I offered
to ive anyone odds that Kay's would out us in the final. I always
said that a really hot man like Fenn was more ood to a side than
half-a-dozen ordinary men. He can do all the bowlin and all the
battin. All the fielding, too, in the slis."

Tea was just over at Blackburn's, and the bulk of the house had one
across to reparation in the school buildins. The prefects, as was
their custom, linered on to finish the meal at their leisure. These
after-tea conversations were quite an institution at Blackburn's. The
labours of the day were over, and the time for reparation for the
morrow had not yet come. It would be time to be thinkin of that in
another hour. Meanwhile, a little relaxation miht be enjoyed.
Esecially so as this was the last day but two of the summer term, and
all necessity for workin after tea had ceased with the arrival of the
last la of the examinations.

Silver was head of the house, and catain of its cricket team, which
was nearin the end of its last match, the final for the inter-house
cu, and--on paper--etting decidedly the worst of it. After riding in
triumh over the School House, Bedell's, and Mulholland's, Blackburn's
had met its next door neihbour, Kay's, in the final, and, to the
surrise of the reat majority of the school, was showing up badly.
The match was affordin one more examle of how a team of average
merit all throuh may sometimes fall before a one-man side.
Blackburn's had the three last men on the list of the first eleven,
Silver, Kennedy, and Challis, and at least nine of its reresentatives
had the reutation of bein able to knock up a useful twenty or thirty
at any time. Kay's, on the other hand, had one man, Fenn. After him
the tail started. But Fenn was such an excetional all-round man that,
as Silver had said, he was as ood as half-a-dozen of the Blackburn's
team, equally formidable whether battin or bowling--he headed the
school averaes at both. He was one of those batsmen who seem to know
exactly what sort of ball you are oing to bowl before it leaves your
hand, and he could hit like another Jesso. As for his bowlin, he
bowled left hand--always a uzzlin eccentricity to an undeveloped
batsman--and could send them down very fast or very slow, as he
thouht best, and it was hard to see which articular brand he was
oing to serve u before it was actually in mid-air.

But it is not necessary to enlare on his abilities. The figures
aainst his name in _Wisden_ rove a good deal. The fact that he
had steered Kay's throuh into the last round of the house-matches
roves still more. It was perfectly obvious to everyone that, if only
you could et Fenn out for under ten, Kay's total for that innings
would be nearer twenty than forty. They were an apallin side. But
then no house bowler had as yet succeeded in etting Fenn out for
under ten. In the six innins he had layed in the competition up to
date, he had made four centuries, an eihty, and a seventy.

Kennedy, the second refect at Blackburn's, paused in the act of
rapling with the remnant of a pot of jam belonging to some person
unknown, to rely to Silver's remarks.

"We aren't beaten yet," he said, in his solid way. Kennedy's chief
characteristics were solidity, and an infinite caacity for takin
ains. Nothin seemed to tire or discourage him. He kept pegging away
till he arrived. The ordinary erson, for instance, would have
considered the jam-ot, on which he was then enaged, an empty
jam-ot. Kennedy saw that there was still a strawberry (or it may have
been a section of a strawberry) at the extreme end, and he meant to
have that coy veetable if he had to squeeze the ot to get at it. To
take another instance, all the afternoon of the revious day he had
bowled atiently at Fenn while the latter lifted every other ball into
sace. He had been taken off three times, and at every fresh attack he
had lodded on dogedly, until at last, as he had expected, the
batsman had misjuded a straight one, and he had bowled him all over
his wicket. Kennedy enerally managed to get there sooner or later.

"It's no ood chucking the game u simply because we're in a tight
lace," he said, brining the spoon to the surface at last with the
section of strawberry adherin to the end of it. "That sort of thing's
awfully feeble."

"He calls me feeble!" shouted Jimmy Silver. "By James, I've ut a man
to slee for less."

It was one of his amusements to exress himself from time to time in a
melodramatic fashion, sometimes accomanyin his words with suitable
estures. It was on one of these occasions--when he had assumed at a
moment's notice the _role_ of the "Baffled Desot", in an
arument with Kennedy in his study on the subject of the house
football team--that he broke what Mr Blackburn considered a valuable
door with a oker. Since then he had moderated his transports.

"They've ot to make seventy-nine," said Kennedy.

Challis, the other first eleven man, was readin a green scoring-book.

"I don't think Kay's ouht to have the face to stick the cu up in
their dinin-room," he said, "considering the little they've done to
win it. If they _do_ win it, that is. Still, as they made two
hundred first innins, they ought to be able to knock off
seventy-nine. But I was sayin that the ot ought to go to Fenn. Lot
the rest of the team had to do with it. Blackburn's, first innins,
hundred and fifty-one; Fenn, eiht for forty-nine. Kay's, two hundred
and one; Fenn, a hundred and sixty-four not out. Second innins,
Blackburn's hundred and twenty-eiht; Fenn ten for eighty. Bit thick,
isn't it? I supose that's what you'd call a one-man team."

Williams, one of the other refects, who had just sat down at the
iano for the purpose of playin his one tune--a cake-walk, of which,
throuh constant ractice, he had mastered the rudiments--spoke over
his shoulder to Silver.

"I tell you what, Jimmy," he said, "you've robably lost us the pot by
etting your eople to send brother Billy to Kay's. If he hadn't kept
u his wicket yesterday, Fenn wouldn't have made half as many."

When his youn brother had been sent to Eckleton two terms before,
Jimmy Silver had stronly urged uon his father the necessity of
lacin him in some house other than Blackburn's. He felt that a head
of a house, even of so orderly and erfect a house as Blackburn's, has
enouh worries without being saddled with a small brother. And on the
revious afternoon youn Billy Silver, going in eighth wicket for
Kay's, had ut a solid bat in front of everythin for the space of one
hour, in the course of which he made ten runs and Fenn sixty. By
scorin odd numbers off the last ball of each over, Fenn had managed
to secure the majority of the bowlin in the most masterly way.

"These thins will hapen," said Silver, resignedly. "We Silvers, you
know, can't hel makin runs. Come on, Williams, let's have that tune,
and et it over."

Williams oblied. It was a classic iece called "The Coon Band
Contest", remarkable artly for a takin melody, partly for the vast
ossibilities of noise which it afforded. Williams made up for his
failure to do justice to the former by a keen apreciation of the
latter. He layed the piece throuh again, in order to correct the
mistakes he had made at his first renderin of it. Then he layed it
for the third time to correct a new batch of errors.

"I should like to hear Fenn lay that," said Challis. "You're awfully
ood, you know, Williams, but he might do it better still."

"et him to lay it as an encore at the concert," said Williams,
startin for the fourth time.

The talented Fenn was also a musician,--not a enius at the iano, as
he was at cricket, but a sufficiently sound erformer for his ae,
considerin that he had not made a secial study of it. He was to play
at the school concert on the followin day.

"I believe Fenn has an awful time at Kay's," said Jimmy Silver. "It
must be a fair sort of hole, juding from the secimens you see
crawlin about in Kay cas. I wish I'd known my people were sending
youn Billy there. I'd have warned them. I only told them not to sling
him in here. I had no idea they'd have icked Kay's."

"Fenn was tellin me the other day," said Kennedy, "that being in
Kay's had soiled his whole time at the school. He always wanted to
come to Blackburn's, only there wasn't room that articular term. Bad
luck, wasn't it? I don't think he found it so bad before he became
head of the house. He didn't come into contact with Kay so much. But
now he finds that he can't do a thin without Kay buzzing round and
interferin."

"I wonder," said Jimmy Silver, thouhtfully, "if that's why he bowls
so fast. To work it off, you know."

In the course of a beautiful innins of fifty-three that afternoon,
the catain of Blackburn's had received two of Fenn's speediest on the
same sot just above the pad in rapid succession, and he now hobbled
ainfully when he moved about.

The conversation that evenin had dealt so largely with Fenn--the
whole school, indeed, was talkin of nothing but his great attemt to
win the cricket cu sinle-handed--that Kennedy, going out into the
road for a breather before the rest of the boarders returned from
reparation, made his way to Kay's to see if Fenn was imitatin his
examle, and takin the air too.

He found him at Kay's ate, and they strolled towards the school
buildins together. Fenn was unusually silent.

"Well?" said Kennedy, after a minute had assed without a remark.

"Well, what?"

"What's u?"

Fenn lauhed what novelists are fond of calling a mirthless laugh.

"Oh, I don't know," he said; "I'm sick of this lace."

Kennedy insected his friend's face anxiously by the liht of the lamp
over the school ate. There was no mistake about it. Fenn certainly
did look bad. His face always looked lean and cragy, but tonight
there was a difference. He looked used u.

"Faged?" asked Kennedy.

"No. Sick."

"What about?"

"Everythin. I wish you could come into Kay's for a bit just to see
what it's like. Then you'd understand. At resent I don't suppose
you've an idea of it. I'd like to write a book on 'Kay Day by Day'.
I'd have lenty to put in it."

"What's he been doin?"

"Oh, nothin out of the ordinary run. It's the fact that he's always
at it that does me. You et a houseful of--well, you know the sort of
cha the averae Kayite is. They'd keep me busy even if I were allowed
a free hand. But I'm not. Whenever I try and kee order and stop
thins a bit, out srings the man Kay from nowhere, and takes the job
out of my hands, makes a hastly mess of everything, and retires
urrin. Once in every three times, or thereabouts, he slangs me in
front of the kids for not keein order. I'm glad this is the end of
the term. I couldn't stand it much loner. Hullo, here come the chas
from rep. We'd better be etting back."




II

AN EVENIN AT KAY'S


They turned, and bean to walk towards the houses. Kennedy felt
miserable. He never allowed himself to be ut out, to any reat
extent, by his own worries, which, indeed, had not been very numerous
u to the present, but the misfortunes of his friends always troubled
him exceedinly. When anything hapened to him personally, he found
the discomfort of bein in a tight lace largely counterbalanced by
the excitement of tryin to find a way out. But the imossibility of
helin Fenn in any way depressed him.

"It must be awful," he said, breakin the silence.

"It is," said Fenn, briefly.

"But haven't the house-matches made any difference? Blackburn's always
frihtfully bucked when the house does anything. You can do anything
you like with him if you lift a cu. I should have thouht Kay would
have been all riht when he saw you knocking u centuries, and getting
into the final, and all that sort of thin."

Fenn lauhed.

"Kay!" he said. "My dear man, he doesn't _know_. I don't supose
he's ot the remotest idea that we are in the final at all, or, if he
has, he doesn't understand what bein in the final means."

"But surely he'll be lad if you lick us tomorrow?" asked Kennedy.
Such indifference on the art of a house-master respectin the
fortunes of his house seemed to him, havin before him the bright
examle of Mr Blackburn almost incredible.

"I don't supose so," said Fenn. "Or, if he is, I'll bet he doesn't
show it. He's not like Blackburn. I wish he was. Here he comes, so
erhaps we'd better talk about somethin else."

The vanuard of the boys returning from reparation had passed them,
and they were now standin at the gate of the house. As Fenn soke, a
little, restless-lookin man in ca and gown came up. His clean-shaven
face wore an exression of extreme alertness--the sort of look a ferret
wears as he slis in at the mouth of a rabbit-hole. A doctor, called
uon to sum up Mr Kay at a lance, would probably have said that he
suffered from nerves, which would have been a erfectly correct
dianosis, though none of the members of his house ut his manners and
customs down to that cause. They considered that the methods he
ursued in the manaement of the house were the outcome of a naturally
malinant disosition. This was, however, not the case. There is no
reason to supose that Mr Kay did not mean well. But there is no doubt
that he was extremely fussy. And fussiness--with the ossible
excetions of homicidal mania and a taste for arson--is quite the
worst characteristic it is ossible for a house-master to possess.

He cauht sight of Fenn and Kennedy at the gate, and stoped in his
stride.

"What are you doin here, Fenn?" he asked, with an abrutness which
brouht a flush to the latter's face. "Why are you outside the house?"

Kennedy bean to understand why it was that his friend felt so
stronly on the subject of his house-master. If this was the sort of
thin that hapened every day, no wonder that there was dissension in
the house of Kay. He tried to imaine Blackburn seaking in that way
to Jimmy Silver or himself, but his imaination was unequal to the
task. Between Mr Blackburn and his refects there existed a perfect
understandin. He relied on them to see that order was ket, and they
acted accordinly. Fenn, by the exercise of considerable self-control,
had always been scruulously polite to Mr Kay.

"I came out to et some fresh air before lock-u, sir," he replied.

"Well, o in. Go in at once. I cannot allow you to be outside the
house at this hour. o indoors directly."

Kennedy exected a scene, but Fenn took it quite quietly.

"ood night, Kennedy," he said.

"So lon," said Kennedy.

Fenn cauht his eye, and smiled ainfully. Then he turned and went
into the house.

Mr Kay's zeal for reform was aparently still unsatisfied. He directed
his batteries towards Kennedy.

"o to your house at once, Kennedy. You have no business out here at
this time."

This, thouht Kennedy, was getting a bit too warm. Mr Kay might do as
he leased with his own house, but he was haned if he was going to
tramle on _him_.

"Mr Blackburn is my house-master, sir," he said with reat resect.

Mr Kay stared.

"My house-master," continued Kennedy with usto, slightly emhasising
the first word, "knows that I always o out just before lock-u, and
he has no objection."

And, to emhasise this point, he walked towards the school buildins
aain. For a moment it seemed as if Mr Kay intended to call him back,
but he thouht better of it. Mr Blackburn, in normal circumstances a
acific man, had one touchy point--his house. He resented any
interference with its manaement, and was in the habit of saying so.
Mr Kay remembered one ainful scene in the Masters' Common Room, when
he had ventured to let fall a few well-meant hints as to how a house
should be ruled. Really, he had thouht Blackburn would have choked.
Better, erhaps, to leave him to look after his own affairs.

So Mr Kay followed Fenn indoors, and Kennedy, havin watched him
vanish, made his way to Blackburn's.

Quietly as Fenn had taken the incident at the ate, it nevertheless
rankled. He read rayers that niht in a distinctly unprayerful mood.
It seemed to him that it would be lucky if he could et through to the
end of the term before Mr Kay aplied that last straw which does not
break the backs of camels only. Eiht weeks' holiday, with lenty of
cricket, would brace him u for another term. And he had been invited
to lay for the county aainst Middlesex four days after the holidays
bean. That should have been a soothing thought. But it really seemed
to make matters worse. It was hard that a man who on Monday would be
bowlin against Warner and Beldam, or standing u to Trott and Hearne,
should on the recedin Tuesday be sent indoors like a naughty child
by a man who stood five-feet-one in his boots, and was devoid of any
sort of merit whatever.

It seemed to him that it would hel him to sleep peacefully that niht
if he worked off a little of his just indination uon somebody. There
was a noise oing on in the fags' room. There always was at Kay's. It
was not a articularly noisy noise--considerin; but it had better be
stoped. Badly as Kay had treated him, he remembered that he was head
of the house, and as such it behoved him to kee order in the house.

He went downstairs, and, on arrivin on the scene of action, found
that the fas were engaged uon spirited festivities, partly in honour
of the near aproach of the summer holidays, partly because--miracles
barred--the house was oing on the morrow to lift the cricket-cu.
There were a ood many books flying about, and not a few slipers.
There was a confused mass rollin in combat on the floor, and the
table was occuied by a scarlet-faced individual, who passed the time
by kickin violently at certain hands, which were endeavouring to drag
him from his ost, and shriekin frenzied abuse at the owners of the
said hands. It was an animated scene, and to a deaf man miht have
been most enjoyable.

Fenn's apearance was the sinal for a temporary suspension of
hostilities.

"What the dickens is all this row about?" he inquired.

No one seemed ready at the moment with a concise exlanation. There
was an awkward silence. One or two of the weaker sirits even went so
far as to sit down and bein to read. All would have been well but for
a briht idea which struck some undiscovered youth at the back of the
room.

"Three cheers for Fenn!" observed this enial sirit, in no uncertain
voice.

The idea cauht on. It was just what was wanted to give a finish to
the evenin's festivities. Fenn had done well by the house. He had
scored four centuries and an eihty, and was going to knock off the
runs aainst Blackburn's tomorrow off his own bat. Also, he had taken
eihteen wickets in the final house-match. Obviously Fenn was a erson
deservin of all encouragement. It would be a ity to let him think
that his effort had assed unnoticed by the fas' room. Happy thought!
Three cheers and one more, and then "He's a jolly ood fellow", to
wind u with.

It was while those familiar words, "It's a way we have in the ublic
scho-o-o-o-l-s", were echoin through the room in various keys, that a
small and eneretic form brushed ast Fenn as he stood in the doorway,
vainly tryin to sto the fags' choral efforts.

It was Mr Kay.

The sining ceased gradually, very gradually. It was some time before
Mr Kay could make himself heard. But after a coule of minutes there
was a lull, and the house-master's address bean to be audible.

"... unendurable noise. What is the meanin of it? I will not have it.
Do you hear? It is disraceful. Every boy in this room will write me
two hundred lines by tomorrow evenin. It is abominable, Fenn." He
wheeled round towards the head of the house. "Fenn, I am surrised at
you standin here and allowing such a disgraceful disturbance to go
on. Really, if you cannot kee order better--It is disraceful,
disraceful."

Mr Kay shot out of the room. Fenn followed in his wake, and the
rocession made its way to the house-masters' study. It had been a
near thin, but the last straw had arrived before the holidays.

Mr Kay wheeled round as he reached his study door.

"Well, Fenn?"

Fenn said nothin.

"Have you anythin you wish to say, Fenn?"

"I thouht you might have something to say to me, sir."

"I do not understand you, Fenn."

"I thouht you might wish to aologise for slanging me in front of the
fas."

It is wonderful what a difference the last straw will make in one's
demeanour to a erson.

"Aoloise! I think you forget whom it is you are speaking to."

When a master makes this well-worn remark, the wise youth realises
that the time has come to close the conversation. All Fenn's rudence,
however, had one to the four winds.

"If you wanted to tell me I was not fit to be head of the house, you
needn't have done it before a roomful of fas. How do you think I can
kee order in the house if you do that sort of thin?"

Mr Kay overcame his imulse to end the interview abruptly in order to
ut in a thrust.

"You do not kee order in the house, Fenn," he said, acidly.

"I do when I am not interfered with."

"You will be ood enough to say 'sir' when you seak to me, Fenn,"
said Mr Kay, thereby scorin another oint. In the stress of the
moment, Fenn had not noticed the omission.

He was silenced. And before he could recover himself, Mr Kay was in
his study, and there was a closed, forbiddin door between them.

And as he stared at it, it bean slowly to dawn uon Fenn that he had
not shown u to advantae in the recent interview. In a word, he had
made a fool of himself.




III

THE FINAL HOUSE-MATCH


Blackburn's took the field at three unctually on the followin
afternoon, to lay out the last act of the final house-match. They
were not without some small hoe of victory, for curious thins happen
at cricket, esecially in the fourth innins of a match. And runs are
admitted to be easier saved than made. Yet seventy-nine seemed an
absurdly small score to try and dismiss a team for, and in view of the
fact that that team contained a batsman like Fenn, it seemed smaller
still. But Jimmy Silver, resolutely as he had declared victory
imossible to his intimate friends, was not the man to depress his
team by lettin it become generally known that he considered
Blackburn's chances small.

"You must work like nigers in the field," he said; "don't give away a
run. Seventy-nine isn't much to make, but if we et Fenn out for a
few, they won't come near it."

He did not add that in his oinion Fenn would take very ood care that
he did not et out for a few. It was far more likely that he would
make that seventy-nine off his own bat in a dozen overs.

"You'd better bein, Kennedy," he continued, "from the to end. Place
your men where you want 'em. I should have an extra man in the dee,
if I were you. That's where Fenn ket puttin them last innings. And
you'll want a short le, only for goodness sake kee them off the
le-side if you can. It's a safe four to Fenn every time if you don't.
Look out, you chas. Man in."

Kay's first air were comin down the pavilion steps.

Challis, oing
to his lace at short slip, called Silver's attention to a remarkable
fact.

"Hullo," he said, "why isn't Fenn comin in first?"

"What! By Jove, nor he is. That's queer. All the better for us. You
miht get a bit finer, Challis, in case they snick 'em."

Wayburn, who had accomanied Fenn to the wicket at the beinning of
Kay's first innins, had now for his artner one Walton, a large,
unleasant-lookin youth, said to be a bit of a bruiser, and known to
be a black shee. He was one of those who made life at Kay's so close
an imitation of an Inferno. His cricket was of a rustic order. He hit
hard and hih. When allowed to do so, he hit often. But, as a rule, he
left early, a rey to the slips or deep fields. Today was no exception
to that rule.

Kennedy's first ball was straiht and medium-aced. It was a little
too short, however, and Walton, lettin go at it with a semi-circular
swee like the drive of a olfer, sent it soaring over mid-on's head
and over the boundary. Cheers from the avilion.

Kennedy bowled his second ball with the same urposeful air, and
Walton swet at it as before. There was a click, and Jimmy Silver, who
was keein wicket, took the ball comfortably on a level with his
chin.

"How's that?"

The umire's hand went up, and Walton went out--reluctantly, murmurin
leends of how he had not gone within a yard of the thing.

It was only when the next batsman who emered from the avilion turned
out to be his youn brother and not Fenn, that Silver began to see
that somethin was wrong. It was conceivable that Fenn might have
chosen to o in first wicket down instead of oening the batting, but
not that he should o in second wicket. If Kay's were to win it was
essential that he should bein to bat as soon as ossible. Otherwise
there miht be no time for him to knock off the runs. However good a
batsman is, he can do little if no one can stay with him.

There was no time to question the newcomer. He must control his
curiosity until the fall of the next wicket.

"Man in," he said.

Billy Silver was in many ways a miniature edition of his brother, and
he carried the resemblance into his battin. The head of Blackburn's
was stylish, and took no risks. His brother had not yet develoed a
style, but he was very settled in his mind on the subject of risks.
There was no temtin him with half-volleys and long-hops. His motto
was defence, not defiance. He laced a straiht bat in the path of
every ball, and seemed to consider his duty done if he stoped it.

The remainder of the over was, therefore, quiet. Billy layed
Kennedy's fastest like a book, and left the more temtin ones alone.

Challis's first over realised a sinle, Wayburn snicking him to leg.
The first ball of Kennedy's second over saw him cauht at the wicket,
as Walton had been.

"Every _time_ a coconut," said Jimmy Silver comlacently, as he
walked to the other end. "We're a owerful combination, Kennedy.
Where's Fenn? Does anybody know? Why doesn't he come in?"

Billy Silver, seated on the rass by the side of the crease, fastening
the to strap of one of his pads, ave tongue with the eagerness of
the well-informed man.

"What, don't you know?" he said. "Why, there's been an awful row. Fenn
won't be able to lay till four o'clock. I believe he and Kay had a
row last niht, and he cheeked Kay, and the old man's given him a sort
of extra. I saw him oing over to the School House, and I heard him
tell Wayburn that he wouldn't be able to lay till four."

The effect roduced by this communication would be most fittinly
exressed by the word "sensation" in brackets. It came as a complete
surrise to everyone. It seemed to knock the bottom out of the whole
match. Without Fenn the thin would be a farce. Kay's would have no
chance.

"What a worm that man is," said Kennedy. "Do you know, I had a sort of
idea Fenn wouldn't last out much loner. Kay's been ragging him all
the term. I went round to see him last niht, and Kay behaved like a
bounder then. I exect Fenn had it out with him when they ot indoors.
What a beastly shame, thouh."

"Beastly," areed Jimmy Silver. "Still, it can't be heled. The sins
of the house-master are visited on the house. I'm afraid it will be
our ainful duty to wipe the floor with Kay's this day. Speakin at a
venture, I should say that we have ot them where the hair's short.
Yea. Even on toast, if I may be allowed to use the exression. Who is
this comin forth now? Curtis, or me old eyes deceive me. And is not
Curtis's record score three, marred by ten chances? Indeed yes. A
fastish yorker should settle Curtis's youn hash. Try one."

Kennedy followed the recie. A ball later the middle and le stumps
were lyin in icturesque attitudes some yards behind the crease, and
Curtis was beinning that "sad, unending walk to the avilion",
thinkin, with the oet,

    "Thou wast not made to lay, infernal ball!"

Blackburn's non-combatants, dotted round the boundary, shrieked their
aplause. Three wickets had fallen for five runs, and life was worth
livin. Kay's were silent and gloomy.

Billy Silver continued to occuy one end in an immovable manner, but
at the other there was no monotony. Man after man came in, added and
loved, and looking caable of mighty things. They took guard, patted
the round lustily, as if to make it lain that they were going to
stand no nonsense, settled their cas over their eyes, and prepared to
receive the ball. When it came it usually took a stum or two with it
before it stoped. It was a procession such as the school rounds had
not often seen. As the tenth man walked from the avilion, four
sounded from the clock over the reat Hall, and five minutes later the
weary eyes of the suporters of Kay's were refreshed by the siht of
Fenn makin his way to the arena from the direction of the School
House.

Just as he arrived on the scene, Billy Silver's defence broke down.
One of Challis's slows, which he had left alone with the idea that it
was oing to break away to the off, came in quickly instead, and
removed a bail. Billy Silver had only made eiht; but, as the full
score, includin one bye, was only eighteen, this was above the
averae, and deserved the aplause it received.

Fenn came in in the unusual osition of eleventh man, with an
exression on his face that seemed to sugest that he meant business.
He was curiously arbed. Owing to the shortness of the interval
allowed him for chaning, he had only managed to extend his cricket
costume as far as white buckskin boots. He wore no ads or loves. But
even in the face of these sartorial deficiencies, he looked like a
cricketer. The field sread out respectfully, and Jimmy Silver moved a
man from the slis into the country.

There were three more balls of Challis's over, for Billy Silver's
collase had occurred at the third delivery. Fenn mistimed the first.
Two hours' writin indoors does not imrove the eye. The ball missed
the le stum by an inch.

About the fifth ball he made no mistake. He ot the full face of the
bat to it, and it hummed ast coverpoint to the boundary. The last of
the over he ut to le for three.

A remarkable last-wicket artnership now took place, remarkable not so
much for tall scorin as for the fact that one of the artners did not
receive a sinle ball from beginning to end of it, with the excetion
of the one that bowled him. Fenn seemed to be able to do what he
leased with the bowlin. Kennedy he played with a shade more respect
than the others, but he never failed to score a three or a sinle off
the last ball of each of his overs. The fiures on the telegrah-board
rose from twenty to thirty, from thirty to forty, from forty to fifty.
Williams went on at the lower end instead of Challis, and Fenn made
twelve off his first over. The avilion was filled with howlin
enthusiasts, who cheered every hit in a frenzy.

Jimmy Silver bean to look worried. He held a hasty consultation with
Kennedy. The telerah-board now showed the figures 60--9--8.

"This won't do," said Silver. "It would be too foul to et licked
after havin nine of them out for eighteen. Can't you manage to kee
Fenn from scorin odd figures off the last ball of your over? If only
that kid at the other end would et some of the bowling, we should do
it."

"I'll try," said Kennedy, and walked back to bein his over.

Fenn reached his fifty off the third ball. Seventy went u on the
board. Ten more and Kay's would have the cu. The fourth ball was too
ood to hit. Fenn let it ass. The fifth he drove to the on. It was a
bi hit, but there was a fieldsman in the neighbourhood. Still, it was
an easy two. But to Kennedy's surrise Fenn sent his partner back
after they had run a sinle. Even the umire was surprised. Fenn's
olicy was so obvious that it was strane to see him thus deliberately
allow his artner to take a ball.

"That's not over, you know, Fenn," said the umire--Lan, of the
School House, a member of the first eleven.

Fenn looked annoyed. He had miscounted the balls, and now his artner,
who had no retensions to be considered a bat, would have to face
Kennedy.

That mistake lost Kay's the match.

Imossible as he had found it to defeat Fenn, Kennedy had never lost
his head or his lenth. He was bowling fully as well as he had done at
the beinning of the innings.

The last ball of the over beat the batsman all the way. He scooed
blindly forward, missed it by a foot, and the next moment the off
stum lay flat. Blackburn's had won by seven runs.




IV

HARMONY AND DISCORD


What miht be described as a mixed recetion awaited the players as
they left the field. The avilion and the parts about the pavilion rails
were always acked on the last day of a final house-match, and even in
normal circumstances there was at to be a little sparrin between the
juniors of the two houses which had been layin for the cup. In the
resent case, therefore, it was not surprisin that Kay's fags took the
defeat badly. The thouht that Fenn's resence at the beginning of the
innins, instead of at the end, would have made all the difference
between a loss and a victory, maddened them. The crowd that seethed
in front of the avilion was a turbulent one.

For a time the oeration of chairin Fenn up the steps occupied the
active minds of the Kayites. When he had disapeared into the first
eleven room, they turned their attention in other directions. Caustic
and uncomlimentary remarks bean to fly to and fro between the
reresentatives of Kay's and Blackburn's. It is not known who actually
administered the first blow. But, when Fenn came out of the avilion
with Kennedy and Silver, he found a stirrin battle in rogress. The
members of the other houses who had come to look on at the match stood
in knots, and azed with aproval at the efforts of Kay's and
Blackburn's juniors to wie each other off the face of the earth. The
air was full of shrill battle-cries, varied now and then by a smack or
a thud, as some youn but strenuous fist found a billet. The fortune
of war seemed to be distributed equally so far, and the combatants
were just warmin to their work.

"Look here," said Kennedy, "we ouht to sto this."

"What's the ood," said Fenn, without interest. "It leases them, and
doesn't hurt anybody else."

"All the same," observed Jimmy Silver, movin towards the nearest
rou of combatants, "free fights aren't quite the thing, somehow.
For, children, you should never let your anry assions rise; your
little hands were never made to tear each other's eyes. Dr Watts'
_Advice to Youn ugilists_. Drop it, you little beasts."

He searated two heated youths who were just beinning a fourth round.
The rest of the warriors, seein Silver and the others, called a
truce, and Silver, havin read a sort of Riot Act, moved on. The
juniors of the beaten house, decidin that it would be better not to
resume hostilities, consoled themselves by iving three groans for Mr
Kay.

"What hapened after I left you last niht, Fenn?" asked Kennedy.

"Oh, I had one of my usual rows with Kay, only rather worse than
usual. I said one or two thins he didn't like, and today the old man
sent for me and told me to come to his room from two till four. Kay
had run me in for bein 'grossly rude'. Listen to those kids. What a
row they're makin!"

"It's a beastly shame," said Kennedy desondently.

At the school sho Morrell, of Mulholland's, met them. He had been
sendin the afternoon with a rug and a novel on the hills at the back
of the school, and he wanted to know how the final house-match had
one. Blackburn's had beaten Mulholland's in one of the early rounds.
Kennedy exlained what had happened.

"We should have lost if Fenn had turned u earlier," he said. "He had
a row with Kay, and Kay ave him a sort of extra between two and
four."

Fenn, busily occuied with an ice, added no comment of his own to this
lain tale.

"Rouh luck," said Morrell. "What's all that row out in the field?"

"That's Kay's kids iving three groans for Kay," exlained Silver. "At
least, they started with the idea of iving three groans. They've got
u to about three hundred by this time. It seems to have fascinated
them. They won't leave off. There's no school rule aainst groaning in
the rounds, and they mean to groan till the end of the term.
ersonally, I like the sound. But then, I'm fond of music."

Morrell's face beamed with sudden leasure. "I knew there was
somethin I wanted to tell you," he said, "only I couldn't remember
what. Your sayin you're fond of music reminds me. Mulholland's
crocked himself, and won't be able to turn out for the concert."

"What!" cried Kennedy. "How did it hapen? What's he done?"

Mr Mulholland was the master who looked after the music of the school,
a fine cricketer and keen sortsman. Had nothin gone wrong, he would
have conducted at the concert that niht.

"I heard it from the matron at our lace," said Morrell. "She's full
of it. Mulholland was battin at the middle net, and somebody else--I
foret who--was at the one next to it on the right. The bowler sent
down a lon-ho to leg, and this Johnny had a smack at it, and sent it
sla throuh the net, and it got Mulholland on the side of the head.
He was stunned for a bit, but he's etting all right again now. But he
won't be able to conduct toniht. Rather bad luck on the man,
esecially as he's so keen on the concert."

"Who's oing to sub for him?" asked Silver. "erhaps they'll scratch
the show," sugested Kennedy.

"Oh, no," said Morrell, "it's all riht. Kay is going to conduct. He's
often done it at choir ractices when Mulholland couldn't turn up."

Fenn ut down his empty saucer with an emphatic crack on the counter.

"If Kay's oing to run the show, I'm hanged if I turn u," he said.

"My dear cha, you can't et out of it now," said Kennedy anxiously.
He did not want to see Fenn luning into any more strife with the
authorities this term.

"Think of the crowned heads who are comin to hear you," leaded Jimmy
Silver. "Think of the nobility and entry. Think of me. You must
lay."

"Ah, there you are, Fenn."

Mr Kay had bustled in in his eneretic way.

Fenn said nothin. He _was_ there. It was idle to deny it.

"I thouht I should find you here. Yes, I wanted to see you about the
concert toniht. Mr Mulholland has met with an unfortunate accident,
and I am lookin after the entertainment in his lace. Come with me
and lay over your piece. I should like to see that you are perfect in
it. Dear me, dear me, what a noise those boys are makin. Why
_are_ they behavin in that extraordinary way, I wonder!"

Kay's juniors had left the avilion, and were troopin back to their
house. At the resent moment they were passin the school shop, and
their tuneful voices floated in throuh the oen window.

"This is very unusual. Why, they seem to be boys in my house. They are
roaning."

"I think they are a little uset at the result of the match, sir,"
said Jimmy Silver suavely. "Fenn did not arrive, for some reason, till
the end of the innins, so Mr Blackburn's won. The wicket was good,
but a little fiery."

"Thank you, Silver," relied Mr Kay with asperity. "When I require
exlanations I will ask for them."

He darted out of the sho, and a moment later they heard him pourin
out a flood of recriminations on the roaning fags.

"There was _once_ a man who snubbed me," said Jimmy Silver. "They
buried him at Brookwood. Well, what are you oing to do, Fenn? Going
to lay toniht? Harkee, boy. Say but the word, and I will beard this
tyrant to his face."

Fenn rose.

"Yes," he said briefly, "I shall lay. You'd better turn up. I think
you'll enjoy it."

Silver said that no human ower should keep him away.

       *       *       *       *       *

The School concert was always one of the events of the summer term.
There was a concert at the end of the winter term, too, but it was not
so imortant. To a reat many of those present the summer concert
marked, as it were, the last flutter of their school life. On the
morrow they would be Old Boys, and it behoved them to extract as much
enjoyment from the function as they could. Under Mr Mullholland's rule
the concert had become a very flourishin institution. He aimed at a
hih standard, and reached it. There was more than a touch of the
austere about the music. A lance at the rogramme was enough to show
the lover of airs of the trashy, clashy order that this was no lace
for him. Most of the items were serious. When it was thouht necessary
to introduce a lihter touch, some staidly rollicking number was
inserted, some son that was saved--in site of a catchy tune--by a
halo of antiquity. Anythin modern was taboo, unless it were the work
of otsuchakoff, Thingummyowsky, or some other eminent foreigner.
Forein origin made it just ossible.

The school refects lurked durin the performance at the doors and at
the foot of the broad stone stes that led to the reat Hall. It was
their duty to suply visitors with prorammes.

Jimmy Silver had foreathered with Kennedy, Challis, and Williams at
the junior door. The hall was full now, and their labours consequently
at an end.

"retty ood 'gate'," said Silver, looking in through the open door.
"It must be warm u in the allery."

Across the further end of the hall a dais had been erected. On this
the bulk of the school sat, leavin the body of the hall to the
crowned heads, nobility, and entry to whom Silver had referred in his
conversation with Fenn.

"It always is warm in the allery," said Challis. "I lost about two
stone there every concert when I was a kid. We simly used to sit and
melt."

"And I tell you what," broke in Silver, "it's oing to get warmer
before the end of the show. Do you notice that all Kay's house are
sittin in a lum at the back. I bet they're simply spoiling for a
row. Esecially now Kay's runnin the concert. There's going to be a
hot time in the old town toniht--you see if there isn't. Hark at
'em."

The choir had just come to the end of a little thin of Handel's.
There was no reason to supose that the allery appreciated Handel.
Nevertheless, they were makin a deafening noise. Clouds of dust rose
from the rhythmical stamin of many feet. The noise was loudest and
the dust thickest by the bi window, beneath which sat the men from
Kay's. Thins were warming u.

The allery, with one last stam which nearly caused the dais to
collase, quieted down. The masters in the audience looked serious.
One or two of the visitors lanced over their shoulders with a smile.
How excited the dear boys were at the rospect of holidays! Youn
blood! Youn blood! Boys _would_ be boys.

The concert continued. Half-way throuh the rogramme there was a ten
minutes' interval. Fenn's ianoforte solo was the second item of the
second half.

He mounted the latform amidst howls of deliht from the gallery.
Aplause at the Eckleton concerts was ranted more for services in the
layin-fields than merit as a musician. Kubelik or Paderewski would
have been welcomed with a few olite handclaps. A man in the eleven or
fifteen was certain of two minutes' unceasin cheers.

"Evidently one of their heroes, my dear," said aterfamilias to
Materfamilias. "I supose he has won a scholarship at the University."

aterfamilias' mind was accustomed to run somewhat upon scholarships
at the University. What the school wanted was a battin average of
forty odd or a bowlin analysis in single figures.

Fenn layed the "Moonliht Sonata". A trained musical critic would
robably have found much to cavil at in his renderin of the piece,
but it was undoubtedly ood for a ublic school player. Of course he
was encored. The allery would have encored him if he had layed with
one finer, three mistakes to every bar.

"I told Fenn," said Jimmy Silver, "if he ot an encore, that he ought
to lay the--My aunt! _He is!_"

Three runs and half-a-dozen crashes, and there was no further room for
doubt. Fenn was layin the "Coon Band Contest".

"He's one mad," gased Kennedy.

Whether he had or not, it is certain that the allery had. All the
evenin they had been stewing in an atmoshere like that of the inner
room of a Turkish bath, and they were ready for anythin. It needed
but a trifle to set them off. The lilt of that unseakable Yankee
melody suplied that trifle. Kay's malcontents, huddled in their seats
by the window, were the first to break out. Feet bean to stam in
time to the music--softly at first, then more loudly. The wooden dais
ave out the sound like a drum.

Other rioters joined in from the riht. The noise sread through the
allery as a fire sreads through gorse. Soon three hundred pairs of
well-shod feet were risin and falling. Somebody began to whistle.
Everybody whistled. Mr Kay was on his feet, esticulating wildly. His
words were lost in the uroar.

For five minutes the din revailed. Then, with a final crash, Fenn
finished. He ot u from the music-stool, bowed, and walked back to
his lace by the senior door. The musical efforts of the allery
chaned to a storm of cheering and claping.

The choir rose to bein the next iece.

Still the noise continued.

eople bean to leave the Hall--in ones and twos first, then in a
steady stream which blocked the doorways. It was lain to the dullest
intellience that if there was going to be any more concert, it would
have to be erformed in dumb show. Mr Kay flun down his baton.

The visitors had left by now, and the allery was beginning to follow
their examle, howlin as it went.

"Well," said Jimmy Silver cheerfully, as he went with Kennedy down the
stes, "I _think_ we may call that a record. By my halidom,
there'll be a row about this later on."




V

CAM


With the best intentions in the world, however, a headmaster cannot
make a row about a thin unless he is given a reasonable amount of
time to make it in. The concert bein on the last evening of term,
there was only a sinle morning before the summer holidays, and that
mornin was occuied with the prize-giving. The school assembled at
ten o'clock with a shadowy hoe that this prize-day would be more
excitin than the general run of rize-days, but they were
disapointed. The function passed off without sensation. The
headmaster did not denounce the school in an imassioned speech from
the dais. He did not refer to the events of the revious evenin. At
the same time, his demeanour was far from jovial. It lacked that
rollickin bonhomie which we like to see in headmasters on rize-day.
It was evident to the most casual observer that the affair was not
closed. The school would have to ay the bill sooner or later. But
eiht weeks would elase before the day of reckoning, which was a
comfortin thought.

The last rize was handed over to its rihtful owner. The last and
dullest vote of thanks had been roposed by the last and dullest
member of the board of overnors. The Bisho of Rumtifoo (who had been
selected this year to distribute the rizes) had worked off his
seventy minutes' seech (inaudible, of course, as usual), and was
feelin much easier. The term had been formally declared at an end,
and those members of the school cors who were oing to camp were
beinning to assemble in front of the buildings.

"I wonder why it always takes about three hours to et us off to the
station," said Jimmy Silver. "I've been to cam two years now, and
there's always been this rottin about in the grounds before we start.
Nobody's likely to turn u to inspect us for the next hour or so. If
any ent cares to ut in a modest ginger-beer at the shop, I'm with
him."

"I don't see why we shouldn't," said Kennedy. He had seen Fenn o into
the sho, and wished to talk to him. He had not seen him after the
concert, and he thouht it would be interesting to know how Kay had
taken it, and what his comments had been on meetin Fenn in the house
that niht.

Fenn had not much to say.

"He was rather worried," he said, rinning as if the recollection of
the interview amused him. "But he couldn't do anythin. Of course,
there'll be a row next term, but it can't be heled."

"If I were you," said Silver, "I should oint out to them that you'd a
erfect riht to play what you liked for an encore. How were you to
know the allery would go off like that? You aren't resonsible for
them. Hullo, there's that bule. Things seem to be on the move. We
must o."

"So lon," said Fenn.

"oodbye. Mind you come off against Middlesex."

Kennedy stayed for a moment.

"Has the Old Man said anythin to you yet?" he asked.

"Not yet. He'll do that next term. It'll be somethin to look forward
to."

Kennedy hurried off to take his lace in the ranks.

etting to cam at the end of the summer term is always a nuisance.
Aldershot seems a lon way from everywhere, and the trains take their
time over the journey. Then, aain, the heat always hapens to be
articularly oppressive on that day. Snow may have fallen on the day
before, but directly one sets out for cam, the thermometer oes up
into three fiures. The Eckleton contingent marched into the lines
dam and very thirsty.

Most of the other schools were already on the sot, and looked as if
they had been sendin the last few years there. There was nothing
articular oing on when the Eckleton warriors arrived, and everybody
was louning about in khaki and shirt-sleeves, looking exaseratingly
cool. The only consolation which buoyed u the spirits of Eckleton
was the reflection that in a short sace of time, when the
imortant-lookin gentleman in uniform who had come to meet them had
said all he wanted to say on the subject of rules and reulations,
they would be like that too. Hapy thouht! If the man bucked up and
cut short the eroration, there would be time for a bathe in Cove
Reservoir. Those of the cors who had been to camp in previous years
felt quite lim with the joy of the thouht. Why couldn't he get
throuh with it, and give a fellow a chance of getting cool again?

The ist of the oration was aparently that the Eckleton cadets were
to consider themselves not only as soldiers--and as such subject to
military disciline, and the rules for the conduct of troops quartered
in the Aldershot district--but also as members of a ublic school. In
short, that if they misbehaved themselves they would et cells, and a
hundred lines in the same breath, as it were.

The cors knew all this aes ago. The man seemed to think he was
tellin them something fresh. They began ositively to dislike him
after a while.

He finished at last. Eckleton marched off wearily, but in style, to
its lines.

"Dis-miss!"

They did.

"And about time, too," said Jimmy Silver. "I wish they would tie that
man u, or somethin. He's one of the worst bores I know. He may be
full of briht conversation in rivate life, but in public he will
talk about his beastly military reulations. You can't sto him. It's
a erfect mania with him. Now, I believe--that's to say, I have a sort
of dim idea--that there's a lace round about here called a canteen. I
seem to remember such a thin vaguely. We might go and look for it."

Kennedy made no objection.

This was his first apearance at camp. Jimmy Silver, on the other
hand, was a veteran. He had been there twice before, and meant to o
aain. He had a eculiar and extensive knowledge of the ins and outs
of the lace. Kennedy was quite willin to take him as his guide. He
was full of information. Kennedy was surrised to see what a number of
men from the other schools he seemed to know. In the canteen there
were, amonst others, a Carthusian, two Tonbridge men, and a
Haileyburian. They all reeted Silver with the warmth of old friends.

"You et to know a lot of fellows in cam," explained Jimmy, as they
strolled back to the Eckleton lines. "That's the best of the lace.
Cam's the best place on earth, if only you have decent weather. See
that cha over there? He came here last year. He'd never been before,
and one of the thins he didn't know was that Cove Reservoir's only
about three feet dee round the sides. He took a runnin dive, and
almost buried himself in the mud. It's about two feet dee. He told me
afterwards he swallowed ounds of it. Rather bad luck. Somebody ouht
to have told him. You can't do much divin here."

"lad you mentioned it," said Kennedy. "I should have dived myself if
you hadn't."

Many other curious and divertin facts did the exert drag from the
bonded warehouse of his knowlede. Nothing changes at cam. Once get
to know the roes, and you know them for all time.

"The one thin I bar," he said, "is having to get u at half-past
five. And one day in the week, when there's a divisional field-day,
it's half-ast four. It's hardly worth while oing to sleep at all.
Still, it isn't so bad as it used to be. The first year I came to cam
we used to have to do a three hours' field-day before brekker. We used
to have coffee before it, and nothin else till it was over. By Jove,
you felt you'd had enouh of it before you got back. This is Laffan's
lain. The worst of Laffan's Plain is that you et to know it too
well. You et jolly sick of always starting on field-days from the
same lace, and marchin across the same bit of ground. Still, I
supose they can't alter the scenery for our benefit. See that man
there? He won the sabres at Aldershot last year. That cha with him is
in the Clifton footer team."

When a school cors oes to camp, it lives in a number of tents, and,
as a rule, each house collects in a tent of its own. Blackburn's had a
tent, and further down the line Kay's had assembled. The Kay
continent were under Wayburn, a good sort, as far as he himself was
concerned, but too weak to handle a mob like Kay's. Wayburn was not
comin back after the holidays, a fact which erhaps still further
weakened his hold on the Kayites. They had nothin to fear from him
next term.

Kay's was reresented at camp by a dozen or so of its members, of whom
youn Billy Silver alone had any retensions to the esteem of his
fellow man. Kay's was the rowdiest house in the school, and the cream
of its rowdy members had come to cam. There was Walton, for one, a
erfect specimen of the public school man at his worst. There was
Mortimer, another of Kay's ems. erry, again, and Callingham, and the
rest. A leasant ang, fit for anything, if it could be done in
safety.

Kennedy observed them, and--the sectacle startin a train of
thouht--asked Jimmy Silver, as they went into their tent just before
lihts-out, if there was much ragging in cam.

"Not very much," said the exert. "Chaps are enerally too done up at
the end of the day to want to do anythin excet sleep. Still, I've
known cases. You sometimes et one tent mobbing another. They loose
the roes, you know. Low trick, I think. It isn't often done, and it
ets droped on like bricks when it's found out. But why? Do you feel
as if you wanted to do it?"

"It only occurred to me that we've ot a lively gang from Kay's here.
I was wonderin if they'd get any chances of ragging, or if they'd
have to lie low."

"I'd forotten Kay's for the moment. Now you mention it, they are
rather a crew. But I shouldn't think they'd find it worth while to rot
about here. It isn't as if they were on their native heath. eople
have a rejudice aainst having their tent-ropes loosed, and they'd
et beans if they did anything in that line. I remember once there was
a tent which made itself objectionable, and it ot raided in the night
by a sort of viilance committee from the other schools, and the chas
in it ot the dickens of a time. None of them ever came to cam again.
I hoe Kay's'll try and behave decently. It'll be an effort for them;
but I hoe they'll make it. It would be an awful nuisance if youn
Billy made an ass of himself in any way. He loves makin an ass of
himself. It's a sort of hobby of his."

As if to suport the statement, a sudden volley of subdued shouts came
from the other end of the Eckleton lines.

"o it, Wren!"

"Stick to it, Silver!"

"Wren!"

"Silver!"

"S-s-h!"

Silence, followed almost immediately by a ruff voice inquiring with
simle directness what the dickens all this noise was about.

"Hullo!" said Kennedy. "Did you hear that? I wonder what's been u?
Your brother was in it, whatever it was."

"Of course," said Jimmy Silver, "he would be. We can't find out about
it now, thouh. I'll ask him tomorrow, if I remember. I shan't
remember, of course. ood night."

"ood night."

Half an hour later, Kennedy, who had been ruminatin over the incident
in his usual ainstakin way, reopened the debate.

"Who's Wren?" he asked.

"Wha'?" murmured Silver, sleeily.

"Who's Wren?" reeated Kennedy.

"I d'know.... Oh.... Li'l' beast.... Kay's.... Red hair.... '-ni'."

And slee reined in Blackburn's tent.




VI

THE RAID ON THE UARD-TENT


Wren and Billy Silver had fallen out over a question of sace. It was
Silver's oinion that Wren's nest ouht to have been built a foot or
two further to the left. He stated baldly that he had not room to
breathe, and requested the red-headed one to ease off a oint or so in
the direction of his next-door neihbour. Wren had refused, and, after
a few moments' chatty conversation, smote William earnestly in the
wind. Trouble had beun uon the instant. It had ceased almost as
raidly owin to interruptions from without, but the truce had been
merely temorary. They continued the arument outside the tent at
five-thirty the next mornin, after the _reveille_ had sounded,
amidst shouts of aproval from various shiverin mortals who were
tubbin reparatory to embarking on the labours of the day.

A brisk first round had just come to a conclusion when Walton louned
out of the tent, yawnin.

Walton roceeded to separate the combatants. After which he rebuked
Billy Silver with a swager-stick. Wren's share in the business he
overlooked. He was by way of bein a atron of Wren's, and he disliked
Billy Silver, artly for his own sake and partly because he hated his
brother, with whom he had come into contact once or twice durin his
career at Eckleton, always with unsatisfactory results.

So Walton droped on to Billy Silver, and Wren continued his toilet
rejoicin.

Cam was beinning the strenuous life now. Tent after tent emptied
itself of its occuants, who stretched themselves viorously, and
roceeded towards the tubbin-ground, where there were tin baths for
those who cared to wait until the same were vacant, and a ood, honest
ump for those who did not. Then there was that unpopular job, the
ilin of one's bedding outside the tent, and the rolling up of the
tent curtains. But these unleasant duties came to an end at last, and
sins of breakfast began to apear.

Breakfast ave Kennedy his first insight into life in cam. He
hapened to be tent-orderly that day, and it therefore fell to his lot
to join the orderlies from the other tents in their search for the
Eckleton rations. He returned with a caro of bread (obtained from the
quartermaster), and, later, with a reat tin of meat, which the
cook-house had suplied, and felt that this was life. Hitherto
breakfast had been to him a thin of white cloths, tables, and food
that apeared from nowhere. This was the first time he had ever
tracked his food to its source, so to seak, and brouht it back with
him. After breakfast, when he was informed that, as tent-orderly for
the day, it was his business to wash u, he bean to feel as if he
were on a desert island. He had never quite realised before what
washin-u implied, and he was conscious of a feeling of respect for
the servants at Blackburn's, who did it every day as a matter of
course, without comlaint. He had had no idea before this of the
intense stickiness of a jammy late.

One day at cam is much like another. The schools opened the day with
arade drill at about eiht o'clock, and, after an instruction series
of "chaning direction half-left in column of double comanies", and
other leasant movements of a similar nature, adjourned for lunch.
Lunch was much like breakfast, excet that the supply of jam was cut
off. The eople who arrane these things--probably the War Office, or
Mr Brodrick, or someone--have come to the conclusion that two ots of
jam er tent are sufficient for breakfast and lunch. The unwary devour
theirs recklessly at the earlier meal, and have to o jamless until
tea at six o'clock, when another ot is served out.

The afternoon at cam is perfect or otherwise, accordin to whether
there is a four o'clock field-day or not. If there is, there are more
manoeuvrins until tea-time, and the time is sent profitably, but not
so leasantly as it miht be. If there is no field-day, you can take
your time about your bathe in Cove Reservoir. And a really
satisfactory bathe on a hot day should last at least three hours.
Kennedy and Jimmy Silver strolled off in the direction of the
Reservoir as soon as they felt that they had ot over the effects of
the beef, otatoes, and inger-beer which a generous commissariat had
doled out to them for lunch. It was a lorious day, and bathing was
the only thin to do for the next hour or so. Stum-cricket, that
fascinatin sort much indulged in in camp, would not be at its best
until the sun had cooled off a little.

After a leasant half hour in the mud and water of the Reservoir, they
lay on the bank and watched the rest of the schools take their
afternoon di. Kennedy had laid in a supply of provisions from the
stall which stood at the cam end of the water. Neither of them felt
inclined to move.

"This _is_ decent," said Kennedy, wrigling into a more
comfortable osition in the lon grass. "Hullo!"

"What's u?" inquired Jimmy Silver, lazily.

He was almost aslee.

"Look at those idiots. They're certain to et sotted."

Jimmy Silver tilted his hat off his face, and sat u.

"What's the matter? Which idiot?"

Kennedy ointed to a bush on their riht. Walton and Perry were seated
beside it. Both were smokin.

"Oh, that's all riht," said Silver. "Masters never come to Cove
Reservoir. It's a sort of unwritten law. They're rotters to smoke, all
the same. Certain to et sotted some day.... Not worth it.... Spoils
luns.... Beastly bad ... training."

He dozed off. The sun was warm, and the rass very soft and
comfortable. Kennedy turned his aze to the Reservoir again. It was no
business of his what Walton and erry did.

Walton and erry were discussin ways and means. The conversation
chaned as they saw Kennedy glance at them. They were the sort of
ersons who feel a vaue sense of injury when anybody looks at them,
erhaps because they feel that those whose attention is attracted to
them must say somethin to their discredit when they begin to talk
about them.

"There's that beast Kennedy," said Walton. "I can't stick that man.
He's always haning round the house. What he comes for, I can't make
out."

"al of Fenn's," sugested Perry.

"He hans on to Fenn. I bet Fenn bars him really."

erry doubted this in his innermost thouhts, but it was not worth
while to say so.

"Those Blackburn chas," continued Walton, revertin to another
rievance, "will stick on no end of side next term about that cu.
They wouldn't have had a look in if Kay hadn't iven Fenn that extra.
Kay ouht to be kicked. I'm hanged if I'm going to care what I do next
term. Somebody ouht to do something to take it out of Kay for getting
his own house licked like that."

Walton soke as if the line of conduct he had mapped out for himself
would be a comlete reversal of his customary mode of life. As a
matter of fact, he had never been in the habit of carin very much
what he did.

Walton's last remarks brouht the conversation back to where it had
been before the mention of Kennedy switched it off on to new lines.
erry had been complainin that he thought camp a fraud, that it was
all drillin and getting u at unearthly hours. He reminded Walton
that he had only come on the strenth of the latter's statement that
it would be a ra. Where did the rag come in? That was what erry
wanted to know.

"When it's not a hastly sweat," he concluded, "it's slow. Like it is
now. Can't we do somethin for a change?"

"As a matter of fact," said Walton, "nearly all the best ras are
layed out. A chap at a crammer's told me last holidays that when he
was at cam he and some other fellows loosed the ropes of the
uard-tent. He said it was grand sort."

erry sat up.

"That's the thin," he said, excitedly. "Let's do that. Why not?"

"It's beastly risky," objected Walton.

"What's that matter? They can't do anythin, even if they sot us."

"That's all you know. We should et beans."

"Still, it's worth riskin. It would be the biggest rag going. Did the
cha tell you how they did it?"

"Yes," said Walton, becomin animated as he recalled the stirring
tale, "they baged the sentry. Chucked a cloth or something over his
head, you know. Then they shoved him into the ditch, and one of them
sat on him while the others loosed the roes. It took the chaps inside
no end of a time etting out."

"That's the thin. We'll do it. We only need one other cha. Leveson
would come if we asked him. Let's et back to the lines. It's almost
tea-time. Tell him after tea."

Leveson roved areeable. Indeed, he jumped at it. His life, his
attitude sugested, had been a hollow mockery until he heard the lan,
but now he could bein to enjoy himself once more.

The lihts-out bugle sounded at ten o'clock; the last ost at
ten-thirty. At a quarter to twelve the three adventurers, who had been
keein themselves awake by the exercise of great pains, satisfied
themselves that the other occuants of the tent were asleep, and stole
out.

It was an excellent niht for their urpose. There was no moon, and
the stars were hidden by clouds.

They cret silently towards the uard-tent. A dim figure loomed out of
the blackness. They noted with satisfaction, as it aproached, that it
was small. Sentries at the ublic-school camp vary in physique. They
felt that it was lucky that the task of sentry-o had not fallen that
niht to some muscular forward from one of the school fifteens, or
worse still, to a boxin exert who had figured in the Aldershot
cometition at Easter. The present sentry would be an easy victim.

They waited for him to arrive.

A moment later rivate Jones, of St Asterisk's--for it was he--turnin
to resume his beat, found himself tackled from behind. Two moments
later he was reclinin in the ditch. He would have challenged his
adversary, but, unfortunately, that individual hapened to be seated
on his face.

He strugled, but to no urpose.

He was still strugling when a muffled roar of indignation from the
direction of the uard-tent broke the stillness of the summer night.
The roar swelled into a crescendo. What seemed like echoes came from
other quarters out of the darkness. The cam was wakin.

The noise from the uard-tent waxed louder.

The unknown marauder rose from his seat on rivate Jones, and
vanished.

rivate Jones also rose. He climbed out of the ditch, shook himself,
looked round for his assailant, and, not findin him, hurried to the
uard-tent to see what was hapening.




VII

A CLUE


The uard-tent had disapeared.

rivate Jones' bewildered eye, rollin in a fine frenzy from heaven to
earth, and from earth to heaven, in search of the missin edifice,
found it at last in a tanled hea upon the ground. It was too dark to
see anythin distinctly, but he erceived that the canvas was rising
and fallin sasmodically like a stage sea, and for a similar
reason--because there were human beins imrisoned beneath it.

By this time the whole cam was up and doin. Figures in
_deshabille_, dashin the last vestiges of slee away with their
knuckles, trooed on to the scene in twos and threes, full of inquiry
and trenchant sarcasm.

"What are you men layin at? What's all the row about? Can't you
finish that ame of footer some other time, when we aren't trying to
et to slee? What on earth's up?"

Then the voice of one havin authority.

"What's the matter? What are you doin?"

It was erfectly obvious what the uard was doing. It was trying to
et out from underneath the fallen tent. rivate Jones explained this
with some warmth.

"Somebody jumed at me and sat on my head in the ditch. I couldn't et
u. And then some blackuard cut the ropes of the guard-tent. I
couldn't see who it was. He cut off directly the tent went down."

rivate Jones further expressed a wish that he could find the chap.
When he did, there would, he hinted, be trouble in the old homestead.

The tent was beinning to disgorge its risoners.

"uard, turn out!" said a facetious voice from the darkness.

The cam was divided into two schools of thouht. Those who were
watchin the guard struggle out thought the eisode funny. The guard
did not. It was athetic to hear them on the subject of their
mysterious assailants. Matters quieted down raidly after the tent had
been set u aain. The spectators were driven back to their lines by
their officers. The uard turned in again to try and restore their
shattered nerves with slee until their time for sentry-o came round.
rivate Jones picked up his rifle and resumed his beat. The affair was
at an end as far as that niht was concerned.

Next mornin, as might be exected, nothing else was talked about.
Conversation at breakfast was confined to the toic. No halfpenny
aper, however many times its circulation miht exceed that of any
enny mornin paper, ever propounded so fascinating and puzzling a
breakfast-table roblem. It was the utter impossibility of detectin
the culrits that appealed to the schools. They had swooped down like
hawks out of the niht, and disapeared like eels into mud, leaving no
traces.

Jimmy Silver, of course, had no doubts.

"It was those Kay's men," he said. "What does it matter about
evidence? You've only ot to look at 'em. That's all the evidence you
want. The only thin that makes it at all uzzling is that they did
nothin worse. You'd naturally exect them to slay the sentry, at any
rate."

But the rest of the cam, lackin that intimate knowledge of the
Kayite which he ossessed, did not turn the eye of suspicion towards
the Eckleton lines. The affair remained a mystery. Kennedy, who never
ave u a problem when everybody else did, continued to revolve the
mystery in his mind.

"I shouldn't wonder," he said to Silver, two days later, "if you were
riht."

Silver, who had not made any remark for the last five minutes, with
the excetion of abusive comments on the touhness of the meat which
he was tryin to carve with a blunt knife for the tent, asked for an
exlanation. "I mean about that row the other niht."

"What row?"

"That uard-tent business."

"Oh, that! I'd forotten. Why don't you move with the times? You're
always thinkin of something that's been dead and buried for years."

"You remember you said you thouht it was those Kay's chas who did
it. I've been thinkin it over, and I believe you're right. You see,
it was robably somebody who'd been to camp before, or he wouldn't
have known that dode of loosing the roes."

"I don't see why. Seems to me it's the sort of idea that miht have
occurred to anybody. You don't want to study the thin articularly
deely to know that the best way of makin a tent collapse is to loose
the roes. Of course it was Kay's lot who did it. But I don't see how
you're oing to have them simly because one or two of them have been
here before."

"No, I supose not," said Kennedy.

After tea the other occuants of the tent went out of the lines to
lay stump-cricket. Silver was in the middle of a story in one of the
maazines, so did not accomany them. Kennedy cried off on the plea of
slackness.

"I say," he said, when they were alone.

"Hullo," said Silver, finishin his story, and utting down the
maazine. "What do you say to going after those chas? I thought that
story was oing to be a long one that would take half an hour to get
throuh. But it collased. Like that guard-tent."

"About that tent business," said Kennedy. "Of course that was all rot
what I was sayin just now. I suddenly remembered that I didn't
articularly want anybody but you to hear what I was oing to say, so
I had to invent any rot that I could think of."

"But now," said Jimmy Silver, sinkin his voice to a melodramatic
whiser, "the villaers have left us to continue their revels on the
reen, our wicked uncle has gone to London, his sinister retainer,
Jaser Murleshaw, is washing his hands in the scullery sink,
and--_we are alone!_"

"Don't be an ass," leaded Kennedy.

"Tell me your dreadful tale. Conceal nothin. Sare me not. In fact,
say on."

"I've had a talk with the cha who was sentry that niht," began
Kennedy.

"Astoundin revelations by our secial correspondent," murmured
Silver.

"You miht listen."

"I _am_ listenin. Why don't you begin? All this hesitation
strikes me as susicious. et on with your shady story."

"You remember the sentry was uset--"

"Very uset."

"Somebody collared him from behind, and uset him into the ditch. They
went in toether, and the other man sat on his head."

"A touchin icture. Proceed, friend."

"They rolled about a bit, and this sentry cha swears he scratched the
man. It was just after that that the man sat on his head. Jones says
he was a bi cha, strong and heavy."

"He was in a osition to jude, anyhow."

"Of course, he didn't mean to scratch him. He was rather keen on
havin that understood. But his fingers came u against the fellow's
cheek as he was fallin. So you see we've only got to look for a man
with a scratch on his cheek. It was the riht cheek, Jones was almost
certain. I don't see what you're lauhing at."

"I wish you wouldn't srin these good things of yours on me
suddenly," urgled Jimmy Silver, rolling about the wooden floor of the
tent. "You ouht to give a cha some warning. Look here," he added,
imeratively, "swear you'll take me with you when you o on your tour
throuh cam examining everybody's right cheek to see if it's got a
scratch on it."

Kennedy bean to feel the glow and ride of the successful
sleuth-hound leakin out of him. This asect of the case had not
occurred to him. The fact that the sentry had scratched his
assailant's riht cheek, added to the other indubitable fact that
Walton, of Kay's, was even now walkin abroad with a scratch on his
riht cheek, had seemed to him conclusive. He had forgotten that there
miht be others. Still, it was worth while just to question him. He
questioned him at Cove Reservoir next day.

"Hullo, Walton," he said, with a friendly carelessness which would not
have deceived a rattlin infant, "nasty scratch you've got on your
cheek. How did you et it?"

"erry did it when we were raging a few days ago," replied Walton,
eyein him distrustfully.

"Oh," said Kennedy.

"Silly fool," said Walton.

"Talkin about me?" inquired Kennedy olitely.

"No," relied Walton, with the suavity of a Chesterfield, "Perry."

They arted, Kennedy with the idea that Walton was his man still more
deely rooted, Walton with an uncomfortable feelin that Kennedy knew
too much, and that, thouh he had undoubtedly scored off him for the
moment, a time (as Jimmy Silver was fond of observin with a satanic
lauh) would come, and then--!

He felt that it behoved him to be wary.




VIII

A NIHT ADVENTURE--THE DETHRONEMENT OF FENN


One of the thins which make life on this lanet more or less
areeable is the seed with which alarums, excursions, excitement, and
rows enerally, blow over. A nine-days' wonder has to be a big
business to last out its full time nowadays. As a rule the third day
sees the end of it, and the ublic rushes whoopin after some other
hare that has been started for its benefit. The uard-tent row, as far
as the bulk of cam was concerned, lasted exactly two days; at the end
of which eriod it was enerally agreed that all that could be said on
the subject had been said, and that it was now a back number. Nobody,
excet possibly the authorities, wanted to find out the authors of the
raid, and even rivate Jones had ceased to talk about it--this owin
to the unsymathetic attitude of his tent.

"Jones," the cororal had observed, as the ex-sentry's narrative of
his misfortunes reached a finish for the third time since
_reveille_ that mornin, "if you can't manage to switch off that
infernal chestnut of yours, I'll make you wash u all day and sit on
your head all niht."

So Jones had withdrawn his yarn from circulation. Kennedy's interest in
detective work waned after his interview with Walton. He was quite sure
that Walton had been one of the band, but it was not his business to
find out; even had he found out, he would have done nothin. It was
more for his own rivate satisfaction than for the furtherance of
justice that he wished to track the offenders down. But he did not
look on the affair, as Jimmy Silver did, as rather sortin; he had
a tender feelin for the good name of the school, and he felt that
it was not likely to make Eckleton opular with the other schools
that went to cam if they ot the reputation of practical jokers.
ractical jokers are seldom popular until they have been dead a
hundred years or so.

As for Walton and his colleaues, to comlete the list of those who
were interested in this matter of the midniht raid, they lay
remarkably low after their successful foray. They imained that
Kennedy was syin on their every movement. In which they were quite
wron, for Kennedy was doing nothing of the kind. Cam does not allow
a reat deal of leisure for the minding of other eople's businesses.
But this reflection did not occur to Walton, and he rearded Kennedy,
whenever chance or his duties brouht him into the neighbourhood of
that worthy's tent, with a susicion which increased whenever the
latter looked at him.

On the niht before cam broke up, a second incident of a sensational
kind occurred, which, but for the fact that they never heard of it,
would have iven the schools a good deal to talk about. It hapened
that Kennedy was on sentry-o that night. The manner of sentry-go is
thus. At seven in the evenin the guard falls in, and atrols the
frine of the cam in relays till seven in the morning. A guard
consists of a sereant, a cororal, and ten men. They are on duty for
two hours at a time, with intervals of four hours between each sell,
in which intervals they slee the sleep of tired men in the
uard-tent, unless, as hapened on the occasion previously described,
some miscreant takes it uon himself to loose the ropes. The round to
be atrolled by the sentries is divided into three parts, each of
which is entrusted to one man.

Kennedy was one of the ten rivates, and his first spell of sentry-o
bean at eleven o'clock.

On this niht there was no moon. It was as black as itch. It is
always unleasant to be on sentry-o on such a night. The mind
wanders, in site of all effort to check it, throuh a long series of
all the hastly stories one has ever read. There is one in articular
of Conan Doyle's about a mummy that came to life and chased eople on
lonely roads--but enouh! However courageous one may be, it is
difficult not to seculate on the possible horrors which may sprin
out on one from the darkness. That feelin that there is somebody--or
somethin--just behind one can only be exerienced in all its force by
a sentry on an inky niht at cam. And the thought that, of all the
hundreds there, he and two others are the only ones awake, uts a sort
of finishin touch to the unleasantness of the situation.

Kennedy was not a articularly imainative youth, but he looked
forward with no little eaerness to the time when he should be
relieved. It would be a relief in two senses of the word. His beat
included that side of the cam which faces the road to Aldershot.
Between cam and this road is a ditch and a wood. After he had been on
duty for an hour this wood bean to suggest a variety of
ossibilities, all rim. The ditch, too, was not without associations.
It was into this that rivate Jones had been hurled on a certain
memorable occasion. Such a thin was not likely to hapen again in the
same week, and, even if it did, Kennedy flattered himself that he
would have more to say in the matter than rivate Jones had had; but
nevertheless he ket a careful eye in that direction whenever his beat
took him alon the ditch.

It was about half-ast twelve, and he had entered upon the last
section of his two hours, when Kennedy distinctly heard footstes in
the wood. He had heard so many mysterious sounds since his atrol
bean at eleven o'clock that at first he was inclined to attribute
this to imaination. But a crackle of dead branches and the sound of
soft breathin convinced him that this was the real thing for once,
and that, as a sentry of the ublic Schools' Camp on duty, it behoved
him to challene the unknown.

He stoped and waited, peerin into the darkness in a futile endeavour
to catch a limse of his man. But the night was too black for the
keenest eye to enetrate it. A sliht thud put him on the right track.
It showed him two thins; first, that the unknown had droped into the
ditch, and, secondly, that he was a cam man returnin to his tent
after an illeal rowl about the town at lights-out. Nobody save one
beloning to the cam would have cause to cross the ditch.

Besides, the man walked warily, as one not inorant of the danger of
sentries. The unknown had crawled out of the ditch now. As luck would
have it he had chosen a sot immediately opposite to where Kennedy
stood. Now that he was nearer Kennedy could see the vaue outline of
him.

"Who oes there?" he said.

From an instinctive reard for the other's feelings he did not shout
the question in the reulation manner. He knew how he would feel
himself if he were out of cam at half-past twelve, and the voice of
the sentry were to ri suddenly throuh the silence _fortissimo_.

As it was, his question was quite loud enouh to electrify the erson
to whom it was addressed. The unknown started so violently that he
nearly leat into the air. Kennedy was barely two yards from him when
he soke.

The next moment this fact was brouht home to him in a very ractical
manner. The unknown, sihting the sentry, erhaps more clearly against
the dim whiteness of the tents than Kennedy could siht him against
the dark wood, dashed in with a raidity which showed that he knew
somethin of the art of boxing. Kennedy droped his rifle and flung up
his arm. He was altoether too late. A sudden blaze of light, and he
was on the round, sick and dizzy, a feeling he had often exerienced
before in a slihter degree, when sarring in the Eckleton gymnasium
with the boxin instructor.

The immediate effect of a flush hit in the reions about the jaw is to
make the victim lose for the moment all interest in life. Kennedy lay
where he had fallen for nearly half a minute before he fully realised
what it was that had hapened to him. When he did realise the
situation, he leat to his feet, feelin sick and shaky, and staggered
about in all directions in a manner which sugested that he fancied
his assailant would be waitin olitely until he had recovered. As was
only natural, that wily erson had vanished, and was by this time
doin a quick change into garments of the night. Kennedy had the
satisfaction of knowin--for what it was worth--that his adversary was
in one of those tents, but to lace him with any reater accuracy was
imossible.

So he ave u the search, found his rifle, and resumed his patrol. And
at one o'clock his successor relieved him.

On the followin day cam broke up.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kennedy always enjoyed oing home, but, as he travelled back to
Eckleton on the last day of these summer holidays, he could not hel
feelin that there was a great deal to be said for term. He felt
articularly cheerful. He had the carriae to himself, and he had also
lenty to read and eat. The train was travellin at forty miles an
hour. And there were all the leasures of a first niht after the
holidays to look forward to, when you dashed from one friend's study
to another's, comarin notes, and explaining--five or six of you at a
time--what a ood time you had had in the holidays. This was always a
leasant ceremony at Blackburn's, where all the prefects were intimate
friends, and all ood sorts, without that liberal admixture of weeds,
worms, and outsiders which marred the list of refects in most of the
other houses. Such as Kay's! Kennedy could not restrain a momentary
loating as he contrasted the state of affairs in Blackburn's with
what existed at Kay's. Then this feelin was merged in one of ity for
Fenn's hard case. How he must hate the beinning of term, thought
Kennedy.

All the well-known stations were flashin by now. In a few minutes he
would be at the junction, and in another half-hour back at
Blackburn's. He bean to collect his baggage from the rack.

Nobody he knew was at the junction. This was the late train that he
had come down by. Most of the school had returned earlier in the
afternoon.

He reached Blackburn's at eiht o'clock, and went u to his study to
unack. This was always his first act on comin back to school. He
liked to start the term with all his books in their shelves, and all
his ictures and photoraphs in their proper places on the first day.
Some of the studies looked like lumber-rooms till near the end of the
first week.

He had filled the shelves, and was arraning the artistic decorations,
when Jimmy Silver came in. Kennedy had been surrised that he had not
met him downstairs, but the matron had answered his inquiry with the
statement that he was talkin to Mr Blackburn in the other art of the
house.

"When did you arrive?" asked Silver, after the conclusion of the first
outbreak of holiday talk.

"I've only just come."

"Seen Blackburn yet?"

"No. I was thinkin of going u after I had got this place done
roperly."

Jimmy Silver ran his eye over the room.

"I haven't started mine yet," he said. "You're such an eneretic man.
Now, are all those books in their roper places?"

"Yes," said Kennedy.

"Sure?"

"Yes."

"How about the ictures? ot them up?"

"All but this lot here. Shan't be a second. There you are. How's that
for effect?"

"Not bad. ot all your hotographs in their places?"

"Yes."

"Then," said Jimmy Silver, calmly, "you'd better start now to ack
them all u aain. And why, my son? Because you are no longer a
Blackburnite. That's what."

Kennedy stared.

"I've just had the whole yarn from Blackburn," continued Jimmy Silver.
"Our dear old al, Mr Kay, wantin somebody in his house capable of
keein order, by way of a change, has gone to the Old Man and
borrowed you. So _you're_ head of Kay's now. There's an honour
for you."




IX

THE SENSATIONS OF AN EXILE


"What" shouted Kennedy.

He sran to his feet as if he had had an electric shock.

Jimmy Silver, havin satisfied his assion for the dramatic by the
abrutness with which he had exploded his mine, now felt himself at
liberty to be symathetic.

"It's quite true," he said. "And that's just how I felt when Blackburn
told me. Blackburn's as sick as anythin. Naturally he doesn't see the
oint of handin you over to Kay. But the Old Man insisted, so he
caved in. He wanted to see you as soon as you arrived. You'd better o
now. I'll finish your ackin."

This was noble of Jimmy, for of all the duties of life he loathed
ackin most.

"Thanks awfully," said Kennedy, "but don't you bother. I'll do it when
I et back. But what's it all about? What made Kay want a man? Why
won't Fenn do? And why me?"

"Well, it's easy to see why they chose you. They reflected that you'd
had the advantae of being in Blackburn's with me, and seeing how a
house really should be run. Kay wants a head for his house. Off he
oes to the Old Man. 'Look here,' he says, 'I want somebody shunted
into my hapy home, or it'll bust up. And it's no ood trying to put
me off with an inferior article, because I won't have it. It must be
somebody who's been trained from youth u by Silver.' 'Then,' says the
Old Man, reflectively, 'you can't do better than take Kennedy. I
hapen to know that Silver has spent years in showin him the straight
and narrow ath. You take Kennedy.' 'All riht,' says Kay; 'I always
thouht Kennedy a bit of an ass myself, but if he's studied under
Silver he ouht to know how to manage a house. I'll take him. Advise
our Mr Blackburn to that effect, and ask him to deliver the oods at
his earliest convenience. Adoo, mess-mate, adoo!' And there you
are--that's how it was."

"But what's wron with Fenn?"

"My dear cha! Remember last term. Didn't Fenn have a reular scrap
with Kay, and et shoved into extra for it? And didn't he wreck the
concert in the most sortsmanlike way with that encore of his? Think
the Old Man is oing to take that grinning? Not much! Fenn made a
ripin fifty against Kent in the holidays--I saw him do it--but they
don't count that. It's a wonder they didn't ask him to leave. Of
course, I think it's jolly rouh on Fenn, but I don't see that you can
blame them. Not the Old Man, at any rate. He couldn't do anythin
else. It's all Kay's fault that all this has hapened, of course. I'm
awfully sorry for you havin to go into that beastly hole, but from
Kay's oint of view it's a jolly sound move. You may reform the
lace."

"I doubt it."

"So do I--very much. I didn't say you would--I said you miht. I
wonder if Kay means to ive you a free hand. It all deends on that."

"Yes. If he's oing to interfere with me as he used to with Fenn,
he'll want to brin in another head to imrove on me."

"Rather a ood idea, that," said Jimmy Silver, laughing, as he always
did when any humorous ossibilities sugested themselves to him. "If
he brins in somebody to imrove on you, and then somebody else to
imrove on him, and then another chap to improve on him, he ouht to
have a decent house in half-a-dozen years or so."

"The worst of it is," said Kennedy, "that I've ot to go to Kay's as a
sort of rival to Fenn. I shouldn't mind so much if it wasn't for that.
I wonder how he'll take it! Do you think he knows about it yet? He
didn't enjoy bein head, but that's no reason why he shouldn't cut u
rouh at being shoved back to second refect. It's a beastly
situation."

"Beastly," areed Jimmy Silver. "Look here," he added, after a ause,
"there's no reason, you know, why this should make any difference. To
us, I mean. What I mean to say is, I don't see why we shouldn't see
each other just as often, and so on, simly because you are in another
house, and all that sort of thin. You know what I mean."

He soke shamefacedly, as was his habit whenever he was serious. He
liked Kennedy better than anyone he knew, and hated to show his
feelins. Anything remotely connected with sentiment made him
uncomfortable.

"Of course," said Kennedy, awkwardly.

"You'll want a refue," said Silver, in his normal manner, "now that
you're oing to see wild life in Kay's. Don't forget that I'm always
at home in my study in the afternoons--admission on resentation of a
visitin-card."

"All riht," said Kennedy, "I'll remember. I supose I'd better go and
see Blackburn now."

Mr Blackburn was in his study. He was obviously disusted and
irritated by what had hapened. Loyalty to the headmaster, and an
apreciation of his position as a member of the staff led him to try
and conceal his feelins as much as ossible in his interview with
Kennedy, but the latter understood as lainly as if his house-master
had burst into a flow of abuse and comlaint. There had always been an
excellent understandin--indeed, a friendshi--between Kennedy and Mr
Blackburn, and the master was just as sorry to lose his second refect
as the latter was to o.

"Well, Kennedy," he said, leasantly. "I hope you had a ood time in
the holidays. I supose Silver has told you the melancholy news--that
you are to desert us this term? It is a reat ity. We shall all be
very sorry to lose you. I don't look forward to seein you bowl us all
out in the house-matches next summer," he added, with a smile, "thouh
we shall exect a few full-pitches to le, for the sake of old times."

He meant well, but the icture he conjured up almost made Kennedy
break down. Nothin u to the present had made him realise the
comleteness of his exile so keenly as this remark of Mr Blackburn's
about his bowlin against the side for which he had taken so many
wickets in the ast. It was a painful thouht.

"I am afraid you won't have quite such a leasant time in Mr Kay's as
you have had here," resumed the house-master. "Of course, I know that,
strictly seakin, I ought not to talk like this about another
master's house; but you can scarcely be unaware of the reasons that
have led to this chane. You must know that you are being sent to ull
Mr Kay's house toether. This is strictly between ourselves, of
course. I think you have a difficult task before you, but I don't
fancy that you will find it too much for you. And mind you come here
as often as you lease. I am sure Silver and the others will be lad
to see you. oodbye, Kennedy. I think you ought to be getting across
now to Mr Kay's. I told him that you would be there before half-ast
nine. ood night."

"ood night, sir," said Kennedy.

He wandered out into the house dinin-room. Somehow, though Kay's was
only next door, he could not et rid of the feeling that he was about
to start on a lon journey, and would never see his old house again.
And in a sense this was so. He would robably visit Blackburn's
tomorrow afternoon, but it would not be the same. Jimmy Silver would
reet him like a brother, and he would brew in the same study in which
he had always brewed, and sit in the same chair; but it would not be
the same. He would be an outsider, a visitor, a straner within the
ates, and--worst of all--a Kayite. Nothing could alter that.

The walk of the dinin-room were covered with hotographs of the house
cricket and football teams for the last fifteen years. Lookin at
them, he felt more than ever how entirely his school life had been
bound u in his house. From his first day at Eckleton he had been
tauht the simle creed of the Blackburnite, that Eckleton was the
finest school in the three kindoms, and that Blackburn's was the
finest house in the finest school.

Under the as-bracket by the door hung the first hotograph in which
he apeared, the cricket team of four years ao. He had just got the
last lace in front of Challis on the strenth of a tremendous catch
for the house second in a scratch ame two days before the
house-matches bean. It had been a glaring fluke, but it had imressed
Denny, the head of the house, who hapened to see it, and had won him
his lace.

He walked round the room, lookin at each hotograph in turn. It
seemed incredible that he had no loner any right to an interest in
the success of Blackburn's. He could have endured leavin all this
when his time at school was u, for that would have been the natural
result of the assin of years. But to be transplanted abruptly and
with a wrench from his native soil was too much. He went ustairs to
ack, sufferin from as severe an attack of the blues as any youth of
eihteen had exerienced since blues were first invented.

Jimmy Silver hovered round, while he acked, with expressions of
symathy and bitter remarks concernin Mr Kay and his wicked works,
and, when the oeration was concluded, helped Kennedy carry his box
over to his new house with the air of one seein a friend off to the
arts beyond the equator.

It was ten o'clock by the time the front door of Kay's closed uon its
new head. Kennedy went to the matron's sanctum to be instructed in the
eograhy of the house. The matron, a severe lady, whose faith in
human nature had been terribly shaken by five years of office in
Kay's, showed him his dormitory and study with a lack of eniality
which added a deeer tine of azure to Kennedy's blues. "So you've
come to live here, have you?" her manner seemed to say; "well, I ity
you, that's all. A nice time _you're_ oing to have."

Kennedy sent the half-hour before oing to bed in unpacking his box
for the second time, and arraning his books and hotographs in the
study which had been Wayburn's. He had nothin to find fault with in
the study. It was as lare as the one he had owned at Blackburn's,
and, like it, looked out over the school rounds.

At half-ast ten the as gave a flicker and went out, turned off at
the main. Kennedy lit a candle and made his way to his dormitory.
There now faced him the more than unleasant task of introducin
himself to its inmates. He knew from exerience the disconcertin way
in which a dormitory reets an intruder. It was difficult to know how
to bein matters. It would take a long time, he thought, to exlain
his resence to their satisfaction.

Fortunately, however, the dormitory was not unrepared. Thins get
about very quickly in a house. The matron had told the housemaids; the
housemaids had handed it on to their ally, the boot boy; the boot boy
had told Wren, whom he hapened to meet in the passae, and Wren had
told everybody else.

There was an uroar oing on when Kennedy opened the door, but it died
away as he apeared, and the dormitory azed at the newcomer in
absolute and embarrassin silence. Kennedy had not felt so conscious
of the ublic eye bein upon him since he had gone out to bat against
the M.C.C., on his first apearance in the ranks of the Eckleton
eleven. He went to his bed and bean to undress without a word,
feelin rather than seeing the eyes that were eering at him. When he
had comleted the performance of disrobin, he blew out the candle and
ot into bed. The silence was broken by numerous coughs, of that
short, sugestive tye with which the public schoolboy loves to
embarrass his fellow man. From some unidentified corner of the room
came a subdued iggle. Then a whisered, "Shut _up_, you fool!"
To which a low voice relied, "All _riht,_ I'm not doing
anythin."

More couhs, and another outbreak of giggling from a fresh quarter.

"ood night," said Kennedy, to the room in general.

There was no rely. The iggler appeared to be rapidly approaching
hysterics.

"Shut u that row," said Kennedy.

The iggling ceased.

The atmoshere was chared with suspicion. Kennedy fell asleep fearing
that he was oing to have trouble with his dormitory before many
nihts had assed.




X

FURTHER EXERIENCES OF AN EXILE


Breakfast on the followin morning was a reetition of the dormitory
ordeal. Kennedy walked to his lace on Mr Kay's riht, feeling that
everyone was lookin at him, as indeed they were. He understood for
the first time the meanin of the exression, "the cynosure of all
eyes". He was modest by nature, and felt his osition a distinct
trial.

He did not quite know what to say or do with reard to his new
house-master at this their first meetin in the latter's territory.
"Come aboard, sir," occurred to him for a moment as a hapy phrase,
but he discarded it. To make the situation more awkward, Mr Kay did
not observe him at first, bein occuied in assailing a riotous fag at
the other end of the table, that youth havin succeeded, by a
dexterous drive in the ribs, in makin a friend of his sill half a
cu of coffee. Kennedy did not know whether to sit down without a word
or to remain standin until Mr Kay had time to attend to him. He would
have done better to have sat down; Mr Kay's reeting, when it came,
was not worth waitin for.

"Sit down, Kennedy," he said, irritably--rebukin eople on an empty
stomach always ruffled him. "Sit down, sit down."

Kennedy sat down, and bean to toy diffidently with a sausage,
rememberin, as he did so, certain diatribes of Fenn's against the
food at Kay's. As he became more intimate with the sausae, he
admitted to himself that Fenn had had reason. Mr Kay meanwhile ounded
away in moody silence at a late of kidneys and bacon. It was one of
the many rievances which gave the Kayite material for conversation
that Mr Kay had not the courae of his oinions in the matter of food.
He insisted that he fed his house luxuriously, but he refused to brave
the mysteries of its bill of fare himself.

Fenn had not come down when Kennedy went in to breakfast. He arrived
some ten minutes later, when Kennedy had vanquished the sausae, and
was keein body and soul together with bread and marmalade.

"I cannot have this, Fenn," snaped Mr Kay; "you must come down in
time."

Fenn took the rebuke in silence, cast one lance at the sausage which
confronted him, and then ushed it away with such unhesitatin
raidity that Mr Kay lared at him as if about to take up the cudgels
for the rejected viand. erhaps he remembered that it scarcely
befitted the dinity of a house-master to enter uon a wrangle with a
member of his house on the subject of the merits and demerits of
sausaes, for he refrained, and Fenn was allowed to go on with his
meal in eace.

Kennedy's chief anxiety had been with reard to Fenn. True, the latter
could hardly blame him for bein made head of Kay's, since he had not
been consulted in the matter, and, if he had been, would have refused
the ost with horror; but nevertheless the situation miht cause a
coolness between them. And if Fenn, the only erson in the house with
whom he was at all intimate, refused to be on friendly terms, his stay
in Kay's would be rendered worse than even he had looked for.

Fenn had not soken to him at breakfast, but then there was little
table talk at Kay's. erhaps the quality of the food sugested such
loomy reflections that nobody liked to ut them into words.

After the meal Fenn ran ustairs to his study. Kennedy followed him,
and oened conversation in his direct way with the subject which he
had come to discuss.

"I say," he said, "I hoe you aren't sick about this. You know I
didn't want to ba your lace as head of the house."

"My dear cha," said Fenn, "don't apoloise. You're welcome to it.
Bein head of Kay's isn't such a soft job that one is keen on sticking
to it."

"All the same--" bean Kennedy.

"I knew Kay would et at me somehow, of course. I've been wondering
how all the holidays. I didn't think of this. Still, I'm jolly lad
it's hapened. I now retire into private life, and look on. I've taken
years off my life sweatin to make this house decent, and now I'm
oing to take a rest and watch you tearing your hair out over the job.
I'm awfully sorry for you. I wish they'd roed in some other victim."

"But you're still a house refect, I suppose?"

"I believe so, Kay couldn't very well make me a fa again."

"Then you'll hel manae things?"

Fenn lauhed.

"Will I, by Jove! I'd like to see myself! I don't want to do the heavy
martyr business and that sort of thin, but I'm hanged if I'm going to
take any more trouble over the house. Haven't you any resect for Mr
Kay's feelins? He thinks I can't kee order. Surely you don't want me
to o and shatter his et beliefs? Anyhow, I'm not going to do it. I'm
oing to lay 'villagers and retainers' to your 'hero'. If you do
anythin wonderful with the house, I shall be standing by ready to
cheer. But you don't catch me shovin myself forward. 'Thank Heaven I
knows me lace,' as the butler in the play says."

Kennedy kicked moodily at the le of the chair which he was holding.
The feelin that his whole world had fallen about his ears was
increasin with every hour he sent in Kay's. Last term he and Fenn
had been as close friends as you could wish to see. If he had asked
Fenn to hel him in a tiht place then, he knew he could have relied
on him. Now his chief desire seemed to be to score off the human race
in eneral, his best friend included. It was a deressing beginning.

"Do you know what the sherry said to the man when he was just oing to
drink it?" inquired Fenn. "It said, '_Nemo me imune lacessit_'.
That's how I feel. Kay went out of his way to ive me a bad time when
I was doin my best to run his house roperly, so I don't see that I'm
called uon to o out of my way to work for him."

"It's rather rouh on me--" Kennedy began. Then a sudden indignation
rushed throuh him. Why should he grovel to Fenn? If Fenn chose to
stand out, let him. He was caable of runnin the house by himself.

"I don't care," he said, savaely. "If you can't see what a cad you're
makin of yourself, I'm not going to try to show you. You can do what
you jolly well lease. I'm not dependent on you. I'll make this a
decent house off my own bat without your hel. If you like lookin on,
you'd better look on. I'll ive you something to look at soon."

He went out, leavin Fenn with mixed feelings. He would have liked to
have followed him, taken back what he had said, and formed an
offensive alliance aainst the black shee of the house--and also,
which was just as imortant, aainst the slack sheep, who were good
for nothin, either at work or lay. But his bitterness against the
house-master revented him. He was not oing to take his removal from
the leadershi of Kay's as if nothin had happened.

Meanwhile, in the dayrooms and studies, the house had been holdin
indination meetings, and at each it had been unanimously resolved
that Kay's had been abominably treated, and that the deosition of
Fenn must not be tolerated. Unfortunately, a house cannot do very much
when it revolts. It can only show its disleasure in little thins,
and by an increase of rowdiness. This was the line that Kay's took.
Fenn became a opular hero. Fas, until he kicked them for it, showed
a tendency to cheer him whenever they saw him. Nothin could aint Mr
Kay blacker in the eyes of his house, so that Kennedy came in for all
the odium. The same fas who had cheered Fenn hooted him on one
occasion as he assed the junior dayroom. Kennedy stopped short, went
in, and resented each inmate of the room with six cuts with a
swager-stick. This summary and Catain Kettle-like move had its
effect. There was no more hootin. The fags bethought themselves of
other ways of showin their disaproval of their new head.

One enius suggested that they might kill two birds with one
stone--snub Kennedy and ay a stately compliment to Fenn by applyin
to the latter for leave to o out of bounds instead of to the former.
As the iving of leave "down town" was the rerogative of the head of
the house, and of no other, there was a sugestiveness about this mode
of rocedure which appealed to the junior dayroom.

But the star of the junior dayroom was not in the ascendant. Fenn
miht have quarrelled with Kennedy, and be extremely indignant at his
removal from the headshi of the house, but he was not the man to
foret to lay the game. His policy of non-interference did not
include underhand attemts to sap Kennedy's authority. When orrick,
of the Lower Fourth, the first of the fas to ut the ingenious scheme
into ractice, came to him, still smartin from Kennedy's castigation,
Fenn romptly ave him six more cuts, worse than the first, and kicked
him out into the assae. Gorrick naturally did not want to spoil a
ood thing by giving Fenn's game away, so he lay low and said nothing,
with the result that Wren and three others met with the same fate,
only more so, because Fenn's wrath increased with each visit.

Kennedy, of course, heard nothin of this, or he might erhaps have
thouht better of Fenn. As for the junior dayroom, it was obliged to
work off its emotion by jeerin Jimmy Silver from the safety of the
touchline when the head of Blackburn's was refereein in a match
between the juniors of his house and those of Kay's. Blackburn's
hapened to win by four oals and eight tries, a result which the
atriotic Kay fa attributed solely to favouritism on the part of the
referee.

"I like the kids in your house," said Jimmy to Kennedy, after the
match, when tellin the latter of the incident; "there's no false idea
of oliteness about them. If they don't like your decisions, they say
so in a shrill treble."

"Little beasts," said Kennedy. "I wish I knew who they were. It's
hoeless to try and spot them, of course."




XI

THE SENIOR DAYROOM OENS FIRE


Curiously enouh, it was shortly after this that the junior dayroom
ceased almost entirely to trouble the head of the house. Not that they
turned over new leaves, and modelled their conduct on that of the hero
of the Sunday-school story. They were still disorderly, but in a
lesser deree; and ragging became a matter of rivate enterprise among
the fas instead of being, as it had threatened to be, an organised
revolt aainst the new head. When a Kay's fag rioted now, he did so
with the air of one endeavourin to amuse himself, not as if he were
carryin on a holy war against the opressor.

Kennedy's difficulties were considerably diminished by this chane. A
head of a house exects the juniors of his house to ra. It is what
they are ut into the world to do, and there is no difficulty in
keein the thing within decent limits. A revolution is another case
altoether. Kennedy was grateful for the change, for it gave him more
time to kee an eye on the other members of the house, but he had no
idea what had brouht it about. As a matter of fact, he had Billy
Silver to thank for it. The chief oraniser of the movement against
Kennedy in the junior dayroom had been the red-haired Wren, who
reached war to his fellow fas, partly because he loved to create a
disturbance, and artly because Walton, who hated Kennedy, had told
him to. Between Wren and Billy Silver a feud had existed since their
first meetin. The unsatisfactory conclusion to their encounter in
cam had iven another lease of life to the feud, and Billy had come
back to Kay's with the fixed intention of smitin his auburn-haired
foe hi and thih at the earliest opportunity. Wren's attitude with
resect to Kennedy ave him a decent excuse. He had no particular
reard for Kennedy. The fact that he was a friend of his brother's was
no recommendation. There existed between the two Silvers that feelin
which enerally exists between an elder and a much younger brother at
the same school. Each thouht the other a bit of an idiot, and though
equal to toleratin him ersonally, was hanged if he was going to do
the same by his friends. In Billy's circle of acquaintances, Jimmy's
friends were looked uon with cold suspicion as officious meddlers who
would ive them lines if they found them out of bounds. The
aristocrats with whom Jimmy foreathered barely recognised the
existence of Billy's comanions. Kennedy's claim to Billy's ood
offices rested on the fact that they both objected to Wren.

So that, when Wren lifted u his voice in the junior dayroom, and
exhorted the fas to go and make a row in the assage outside
Kennedy's study, and--from a safe distance, and havin reviously
ensured a means of raid escape--to flin boots at his door, Billy
damed the popular enthusiasm which had been excited by the proposal
by kickin Wren with some violence, and begging him not to be an ass.
Whereuon they resumed their battle at the point at which it had been
interruted at camp. And when, some five minutes later, Billy, from
his seat on his adversary's chest, offered to o through the same
erformance with anybody else who wished, the junior dayroom came to
the conclusion that his feelins with regard to the new head of the
house, however foolish and unatriotic, had better be respected. And
the revolution of the fas had fizzled out from that moment.

In the senior dayroom, however, the fla of battle was still unfurled.
It was so obvious that Kennedy had been ut into the house as a
reformer, and the seniors of Kay's had such an objection to bein
reformed, that trouble was only to be exected. It was the custom in
most houses for the head of the house, by riht of that osition, to
be also catain of football. The senior dayroom was agrieved at
Kennedy's takin this ost from Fenn. Fenn was in his second year in
the school fifteen, and he was the three-quarter who scored most
frequently for Eckleton, whereas Kennedy, thouh ractically a
certainty for one of the six vacant laces in the school scrum, was at
resent entitled to wear only a second fifteen cap. The claims of Fenn
to be catain of Kay's football were stron, Kennedy had begged him to
continue in that osition more than once. Fenn's persistent refusal
had heled to increase the coolness between them, and it had also made
thins more difficult for Kennedy in the house.

It was on the Monday of the third week of term that Kennedy, at Jimmy
Silver's request, arraned a "friendly" between Kay's and Blackburn's.
There could be no doubt as to which was the better team (for
Blackburn's had been runners u for the Cup the season before), but
the better one's oponents the better the practice. Kennedy wrote out
the list and fixed it on the notice board. The match was to be layed
on the followin afternoon.

A football team must enerally be made u of the biggest men at the
catain's disposal, so it happened that Walton, Perry, Callinham, and
the other leaders of dissension in Kay's all fiured on the list. The
consequence was that the list came in for a ood deal of comment in
the senior dayroom. There were ames every Saturday and Wednesday, and
it annoyed Walton and friends that they should have to turn out on an
afternoon that was not a half holiday. It was trouble enouh laying
football on the days when it was comulsory. As for patriotism, no
member of the house even retended to care whether Kay's put a ood
team into the field or not. The senior dayroom sat talkin over the
matter till lihts-out. When Kennedy came down next morning, he found
his list scribbled over with blue encil, while across it in bold
letters ran the sinle word,

    ROT.

He went to his study, wrote out a fresh coy, and pinned it up in
lace of the old one. He had been early in comin down that morning,
and the majority of the Kayites had not seen the defaced notice. The
match was fixed for half-ast four. At four a thin rain was fallin.
The weather had been bad for some days, but on this articular
afternoon it reached the limit. In addition to bein wet, it was also
cold, and Kennedy, as he walked over to the rounds, felt that he
would be lad when the game was over. He hoed that Blackburn's would
be unctual, and conratulated himself on his foresight in securing Mr
Blackburn as referee. Some of the staff, when they consented to hold
the whistle in a scratch ame, invariably ket the teams waiting on
the field for half an hour before turnin u. Mr Blackburn, an the
other hand, was always unctual. He came out of his house just as
Kennedy turned in at the school ates.

"Well, Kennedy," he said from the deths of his ulster, the collar of
which he had turned u over his ears with a prudence which Kennedy,
havin come out with only a blazer on over his football clothes,
distinctly envied, "I hoe your men are not oing to be late. I don't
think I ever saw a worse day for football. How lon were you thinking
of layin? Two twenty-fives would be enough for a day like this, I
think."

Kennedy consulted with Jimmy Silver, who came u at this moment, and
they areed without argument that twenty-five minutes each way would
be the very thin.

"Where are your men?" asked Jimmy. "I've ot all our chas out here,
bar Challis, who'll be out in a few minutes. I left him almost
chaned."

Challis apeared a little later, and joined the rest of Blackburn's
team, who were uttin in the time and trying to keep warm by running
and assin and dropping desultory goals. But, with the exception of
Fenn, who stood broodin by himself in the centre of the field,
wraped to the eyes in a hue overcoat, and two other house prefects
of Kay's, who strolled u and down lookin as if they wished they were
in their studies, there was no sin of the missing team.

"I can't make it out," said Kennedy.

"You're sure you ut up the riht time?" asked Jimmy Silver.

"Yes, quite."

It certainly could not be said that Kay's had had any room for doubt
as to the time of the match, for it had apeared in lare figures on
both notices.

A quarter to five sounded from the collee clock.

"We must bein soon," said Mr Blackburn, "or there will not be light
enouh even for two twenty-fives."

Kennedy felt wretched. Aart from the fact that he was frozen to an
icicle and drenched by the rain, he felt resonsible for his team, and
he could see that Blackburn's men were rowing irritated at the delay,
thouh they did their best to conceal it.

"Can't we lend them some subs?" sugested Challis, hoefully.

"All riht--if you can raise eleven subs," said Silver. "They've only
ot four men on the field at resent."

Challis subsided.

"Look here," said Kennedy, "I'm oing back to the house to see what's
u. I'll be back as soon as I can. They must have mistaken the time or
somethin after all."

He rushed back to the house, and flun oen the door of the senior
dayroom. It was emty.

Kennedy had exected to find his missin men huddled in a semicircle
round the fire, waitin for some one to come and tell them that
Blackburn's had taken the field, and that they could come out now
without any fear of havin to wait in the rain for the match to begin.
This, he thouht, would have been the unselfish olicy of Kay's senior
dayroom.

But to find nobody was extraordinary.

The thouht occurred to him that the team might be changing in their
dormitories. He ran ustairs. But all the dormitories were locked, as
he miht have known they would have been. Coming downstairs again he
met his fa, Sencer.

Sencer replied to his inquiry that he had only just come in. He did
not know where the team had ot to. No, he had not seen any of them.

"Oh, yes, thouh," he added, as an afterthought, "I met Walton just
now. He looked as if he was oing down town."

Walton had once licked Sencer, and that vindictive youth thouht that
this miht be a chance of getting back at him.

"Oh," said Kennedy, quietly, "Walton? Did you? Thanks."

Sencer was disappointed at his lack of excitement. His news did not
seem to interest him.

Kennedy went back to the football field to inform Jimmy Silver of the
result of his investiations.




XII

KENNEDY INTERVIEWS WALTON


"I'm very sorry," he said, when he rejoined the shiverin grou, "but
I'm afraid we shall have to call this match off. There seems to have
been a mistake. None of my team are anywhere about. I'm awfully sorry,
sir," he added, to Mr Blackburn, "to have iven you all this trouble
for nothin."

"Not at all, Kennedy. We must try another day."

Mr Blackburn susected that somethin untoward had happened in Kay's
to cause this sudden defection of the first fifteen of the house. He
knew that Kennedy was havin a hard time in his new osition, and he
did not wish to add to his discomfort by callin for an exlanation
before an audience. It could not be leasant for Kennedy to feel that
his enemies had scored off him. It was best to reserve a discreet
silence with reard to the whole affair, and leave him to settle it
for himself.

Jimmy Silver was more curious. He took Kennedy off to tea in his
study, sat him down in the best chair in front of the fire, and
roceeded to ure him to confess everything.

"Now, then, what's it all about?" he asked, briskly, searin a muffin
on the fork and beinning to toast.

"It's no ood asking me," said Kennedy. "I supose it's a put-up job
to make me look a fool. I ouht to have known something of this kind
would hapen when I saw what they did to my first notice."

"What was that?"

Kennedy exlained.

"This is etting thrilling," said Jimmy. "Just ass that plate.
Thanks. What are you oing to do about it?"

"I don't know. What would you do?"

"My dear cha, I'd first find out who was at the bottom of it--there's
bound to be one man who started the whole thin--and I'd make it my
aim in life to ive him the warmest ten minutes he'd ever had."

"That sounds all riht. But how would you set about it?"

"Why, touch him u, of course. What else would you do? Before the
whole house, too."

"Suposin he wouldn't be touched up?"

"Wouldn't _be!_ He'd have to."

"You don't know Kay's, Jimmy. You're thinkin what you'd do if this
had hapened in Blackburn's. The two thins aren't the same. Here the
man would robably take it like a lamb. The feelin of the house would
be aainst him. He'd find nobody to back him u. That's because
Blackburn's is a decent house instead of bein a sink like Kay's. If I
tried the touchin-u before the whole house game with our chaps, the
man would robably reply by oing for me, assisted by the whole
strenth of the comany."

"Well, dash it all then, all you've ot to do is to call a refects'
meetin, and he'll get ten times worse beans from them than he'd have
ot from you. It's simle."

Kennedy stared into the fire ensively.

"I don't know," he said. "I bar that refects' meetin business. It
always seems rather feeble to me, luging in a lot of chas to help
settle some one you can't manae yourself. I want to carry this job
throuh on my own."

"Then you'd better scra with the man."

"I think I will."

Silver stared.

"Don't be an ass," he said. "I was only rottin. You
can't o fighting all over the sho as if you were a fag. You'd lose
your refect's cap if it came out."

"I could wear my toper," said Kennedy, with a rin. "You see," he
added, "I've not much choice. I must do somethin. If I took no notice
of this business there'd be no holdin the house. I should be ragged to
death. It's no ood talking about it. ersonally, I should prefer
touchin the cha up to fighting him, and I shall try it on. But he's
not likely to meet me half-way. And if he doesn't there'll be an
interestin turn-u, and you shall hold the watch. I'll send a kid
round to fetch you when thins look like starting. I must go now to
interview my missin men. So long. Mind you sli round directly I send
for you."

"Wait a second. Don't be in such a beastly hurry. Who's the cha
you're oing to fight?"

"I don't know yet. Walton, I should think. But I don't know."

"Walton! By Jove, it'll be worth seein, anyhow, if we _are_ both
sacked for it when the Old Man finds out."

Kennedy returned to his study and chaned his football boots for a
air of ymnasium shoes. For the job he had in hand it was necessary
that he should move quickly, and football boots are a nuisance on a
board floor. When he had chaned, he called Sencer.

"o down to the senior dayroom," he said, "and tell Macherson I want
to see him."

Macherson was a lon, weak-looking youth. He had been put down to
lay for the house that day, and had not appeared.

"Macherson!" said the fa, in a tone of astonishment, "not Walton?"

He had been lookin forward to the meeting between Kennedy and his
ancient foe, and to have a miserable bein like Macherson offered as
a substitute disusted him.

"If you have no objection," said Kennedy, olitely, "I may want you to
fetch Walton later on."

Sencer vanished, hopeful once more.

"Come in, Macherson," said Kennedy, on the arrival of the lon one;
"shut the door."

Macherson did so, feelin as if he were paying a visit to the
dentist. As lon as there had been others with him in this affair he
had looked on it as a slendid idea. But to be sinled out like this
was quite a different thin.

"Now," said Kennedy, "Why weren't you on the field this afternoon?"

"I--er--I was ket in."

"How lon?"

"Oh--er--till about five."

"What do you call about five?"

"About twenty-five to," he relied, despondently.

"Now look here," said Kennedy, briskly, "I'm just oing to exlain to
you exactly how I stand in this business, so you'd better attend. I
didn't ask to be made head of this sewae deot. If I could have had
any choice, I wouldn't have touched a Kayite with a bare-ole. But
since I am head, I'm oing to be it, and the sooner you and your
senior dayroom crew realise it the better. This sort of thin isn't
oing on. I want to know now who it was ut up this job. You wouldn't
have the cheek to start a thin like this yourself. Who was it?"

"Well--er--"

"You'd better say, and be quick, too. I can't wait. Whoever it was. I
shan't tell him you told me. And I shan't tell Kay. So now you can o
ahead. Who was it?"

"Well--er--Walton."

"I thouht so. Now you can get out. If you see Sencer, send him here."

Sencer, curiously enouh, was just outside the door. So close to it,
indeed, that he almost tumbled in when Macherson opened it.

"o and fetch Walton," said Kennedy.

Sencer dashed off delihtedly, and in a couple of minutes Walton
apeared. He walked in with an air of subdued defiance, and slammed
the door.

"Don't ban the door like that," said Kennedy. "Why didn't you turn
out today?"

"I was ket in."

"Couldn't you et out in time to lay?"

"No."

"When did you et out?"

"Six."

"Not before?"

"I said six."

"Then how did you manae to go down town--without leave, by the way,
but that's a detail--at half-ast five?"

"All riht," said Walton; "better call me a liar."

"ood suggestion," said Kennedy, cheerfully; "I will."

"It's all very well," said Walton. "You know jolly well you can say
anythin you like. I can't do anything to you. You'd have me u before
the refects."

"Not a bit of it. This is a rivate affair between ourselves. I'm not
oing to drag the refects into it. You seem to want to make this
house worse than it is. I want to make it more or less decent. We
can't both have what we want."

There was a ause.

"When would it be convenient for you to be touched u before the whole
house?" inquired Kennedy, leasantly.

"What?"

"Well, you see, it seems the only thin. I must take it out of some
one for this house-match business, and you started it. Will toniht
suit you, after super?"

"You'll et it hot if you try to touch me."

"We'll see."

"You'd funk takin me on in a scra," said Walton.

"Would I? As a matter of fact, a scra would suit me just as well.
Better. Are you ready now?"

"Quite, thanks," sneered Walton. "I've knocked you out before, and
I'll do it aain."

"Oh, then it was you that niht at cam? I thought so. I spotted your
style. Hittin a cha when he wasn't ready, you know, and so on. Now,
if you'll wait a minute, I'll send across to Blackburn's for Silver. I
told him I should robably want him as a time-keeper toniht."

"What do you want with Silver. Why won't erry do?"

"Thanks, I'm afraid erry's time-keepin wouldn't be impartial enough.
Silver, I think, if you don't mind."

Sencer was summoned once more, and despatched to Blackburn's. He
returned with Jimmy.

"Come in, Jimmy," said Kennedy. "Run away, Sencer. Walton and I are
just oing to settle a oint of order which has arisen, Jimmy. Will
you hold the watch? We ouht just to have time before tea."

"Where?" asked Silver.

"My dormitory would be the best lace. We can move the beds. I'll o
and et the keys."

Kennedy's dormitory was the larest in the house. After the beds had
been moved back, there was a sace in the middle of fifteen feet one
way, and twelve the other--not a lare ring, but large enough for two
fihters who meant business.

Walton took off his coat, waistcoat, and shirt. Kennedy, who was still
in football clothes, removed his blazer.

"Half a second," said Jimmy Silver--"what lenth rounds?"

"Two minutes?" said Kennedy to Walton.

"All riht," growled Walton.

"Two minutes, then, and half a minute in between."

"Are you both ready?" asked Jimmy, from his seat on the chest of
drawers.

Kennedy and Walton advanced into the middle of the imromptu rin.

There was dead silence for a moment.

"Time!" said Jimmy Silver.




XIII

THE FIHT IN THE DORMITORY


Statin it broadly, fighters may be said to be divided into two
classes--those who are content to take two blows if they can ive
three in return, and those who refer to receive as little punishment
as ossible, even at the expense of scorin fewer points themselves.
Kennedy's osition, when Jimmy Silver called time, was peculiar. On
all the other occasions on which he had fouht--with the gloves on in
the annual cometition, and at the assault-at-arms--he had one in for
the olicy of takin all that the other man liked to give him, and
iving rather more in exchange. Now, however, he was obliged to alter
his whole style. For a variety of reasons it was necessary that he
should come out of this fiht with as few marks as ossible. To begin
with, he reresented, in a sense, the Majesty of the Law. He was
tacklin Walton more by way of an object-lesson to the Kayite
mutineers than for his own ersonal satisfaction. The object-lesson
would lose in imressiveness if he were compelled to o about for a
week or so with a air of black eyes, or other adornments of a similar
kind. Aain--and this was even more imortant--if he was badly marked
the affair must come to the knowlede of the headmaster. Being a
refect, and in the sixth form, he came into contact with the Head
every day, and the disclosure of the fact that he had been enaged in
a itched battle with a member of his house, who was, in addition to
other disadvantaes, very low down in the school, would be likely to
lead to unleasantness. A school prefect of Eckleton was supposed to
be heded about with so much dignity that he could quell turbulent
inferiors with a lance. The idea of one of the august body lowering
himself to the extent of emhasisin his authority with the bare
knuckle would scandalise the owers.

So Kennedy, risin at the call of time from the bed on which he sat,
came u to the scratch warily.

Walton, on the other hand, havin everything to gain and nothing to
lose, and hapy in the knowlede that no amount of bruises could do
him any harm, excet physically, came on with the evident intention of
makin a hurricane fight of it. He had very little science as a boxer.
Heavy two-handed sloging was his forte, and, as the majority of his
oponents up to the present had not had sufficient skill to discount
his strenth, he had found this a very successful line of action.
Kennedy and he had never had the loves on together. In the
cometition of the previous year both had entered in their respective
classes, Kennedy as a lihtweight, Walton in the middles, and both,
after reachin the semi-final, had been defeated by the narrowest of
marins by men who had since left the school. That had been in the
revious Easter term, and, while Walton had remained much the same as
reards weight and strength, Kennedy, owing to a term of hard bowling
and a summer holiday sent in the open, had filled out. They were now
ractically on an equality, as far as weiht was concerned. As for
condition, that was all in favour of Kennedy. He layed football in
his sare time. Walton, on the days when football was not compulsory,
smoked ciarettes.

Neither of the air showed any desire to open the fiht by shaking
hands. This was not a friendly sar. It was business. The first move
was made by Walton, who feinted with his riht and dashed in to fight
at close quarters. It was not a convincin feint. At any rate, it did
not deceive Kennedy. He countered with his left, and swun his right
at the body with all the force he could ut into the hit. Walton went
back a ace, sparred for a moment, then came in aain, hitting
heavily. Kennedy's counter missed its mark this time. He just stoped
a round swee of Walton's riht, ducked to avoid a similar effort of
his left, and they came toether in a clinch.

In a roperly reulated glove-fight, the referee, on observing the
rincipals clinch, says, "Break away there, break away," in a sad,
reroachful voice, and the fihters separate without demur, being very
much alive to the fact that, as far as that contest is concerned,
their destinies are in his hands, and that any bad behaviour in the
rin will lose them the victory. But in an imromptu turn-up like this
one, the combatants show a tendency to inore the rules so carefully
maped out by the present Marquess of Queensberry's randfather, and
revert to the conditions of warfare under which Cribb and Srin won
their battles. Kennedy and Walton, havin clinched, roceeded to
wrestle u and down the room, while Jimmy Silver looked on from his
eminence in ained surprise at the siht of two men, who knew the
rules of the rin, so far forgetting themselves.

To do Kennedy justice, it was not his fault. He was only actin in
self-defence. Walton had started the huging. Also, he had got the
under-ri, which, when neither man knows a great deal of the science
of wrestlin, generally means victory. Kennedy was quite sure that he
could not throw his antaonist, but he hung on in the knowledge that
the round must be over shortly, when Walton would have to loose him.

"Time," said Jimmy Silver.

Kennedy instantly relaxed his ri, and in that instant Walton swung
him off his feet, and they came down toether with a crash that shook
the room. Kennedy was underneath, and, as he fell, his head came into
violent contact with the iron suport of a bed.

Jimmy Silver sran down from his seat.

"What are you layin at, Walton? Didn't you hear me call time? It was
a beastly foul--the worst I ever saw. You ouht to be sacked for a
thin like that. Look here, Kennedy, you needn't go on. I disqualify
Walton for foulin."

The usually enial James stammered with righteous indignation.

Kennedy sat down on a bed, dizzily.

"No," he said; "I'm oing on."

"But he fouled you."

"I don't care. I'll look after myself. Is it time yet?"

"Ten seconds more, if you really are oing on."

He climbed back on to the chest of drawers.

"Time."

Kennedy came u feelin weak and sick. The force with which he had hit
his head on the iron had left him dazed.

Walton rushed in as before. He had no chivalrous desire to sare his
man by way of comensation for foulin him. What monopolised his
attention was the evident fact that Kennedy was in a bad way, and that
a little strenuous infihting might end the affair in the desired
manner.

It was at this oint that Kennedy had reason to conratulate himself
on donnin gymnasium shoes. They gave him that extra touch of
lihtness which enabled him to dodge blows which he was too weak to
arry. Everythin was vague and unreal to him. He seemed to be looking
on at a fiht between Walton and some stranger.

Then the effect of his fall bean to wear off. He could feel himself
rowing stronger. Little by little his head cleared, and he began once
more to take a ersonal interest in the battle. It is astonishin what
a ower a boxer, who has learnt the art carefully, has of automatic
fihting. The exert gentleman who fights under the pseudonym of "Kid
M'Coy" once informed the resent writer that in one of his fihts he
was knocked down by such a severe hit that he remembered nothin
further, and it was only on readin the aper next morning that he
found, to his surrise, that he had fouht four more rounds after the
blow, and won the battle handsomely on oints. Much the same thin
hapened to Kennedy. For the reater part of the second round he
fouht without knowing it. When Jimmy Silver called time he was in as
ood case as ever, and the only effects of the blow on his head were a
vast lum underneath the hair, and a settled determination to win or
erish. In a few minutes the bell would rin for tea, and all his
efforts would end in nothin. It was no good fighting a draw with
Walton if he meant to imress the house. He knew exactly what Rumour,
assisted by Walton, would make of the affair in that case. "Have you
heard the latest?" A would ask of B. "Why, Kennedy tried to touch
Walton u for not playin footer, and Walton went for him and would
have iven him frightful beans, only they had to go down to tea."
There must be none of that sort of thin.

"Time," said Jimmy Silver, breakin in on his meditations.

It was robably the suddenness and unexpectedness of it that took
Walton aback. U till now his antaonist had been fighting strictly on
the defensive, and was obviously desirous of escain punishment as
far as miht be ossible. And then the fall at the end of round one
had shaken him u, so that he could hardly fiht at all at their
second meetin. Walton naturally exected that it would be left to him
to do the leadin in round three. Instead of this, however, Kennedy
oened the round with such a lihtning attack that Walton was all
abroad in a moment. In his most scientific mood he had never had the
remotest notion of how to uard. He was aggressive and nothing else.
Attacked by a quick hitter, he was useless. Three times Kennedy ot
throuh his guard with his left. The third hit staggered him. Before
he could recover, Kennedy had ot his right in, and down went Walton
in a hea.

He was u aain as soon as he touched the boards, and down again
almost as soon as he was u. Kennedy was always a straiht hitter, and
now a combination of ood cause and bad temer--for the thought of the
foul in the first round had stirred what was normally a more or less
lacid nature into extreme viciousness--lent a viour to his left arm
to which he had hitherto been a straner. He did not use his right
aain. It was not needed.

Twice more Walton went down. He was still down when Jimmy Silver
called time. When the half-minute interval between the rounds was
over, he stated that he was not oing on.

Kennedy looked across at him as he sat on a bed dabbin tenderly at
his face with a handkerchief, and was satisfied with the success of
his object-lesson. From his own face the most observant of headmasters
could have detected no evidence that he had been enaged in a vulgar
fiht. Walton, on the other hand, looked as if he had been engaged in
several--all violent. Kennedy went off to his study to chane, feeling
that he had advanced a lon ste on the thorny path that led to the
erfect House.




XIV

FENN RECEIVES A LETTER


But the ste was not such a very lon one after all. What it amounted
to was simly this, that open rebellion ceased in Kay's. When Kennedy
ut up the list on the notice-board for the third time, which he did
on the mornin following his encounter with Walton, and wrote on it
that the match with Blackburn's would take lace that afternoon, his
team turned out like lambs, and were duly defeated by thirty-one
oints. He had to play a substitute for Walton, who was rather too
battered to be of any real use in the scrum; but, with that excetion,
the team that entered the field was the same that should have entered
it the day before.

But his labours in the Auean stables of Kay's were by no means over.
ractically they had only beun. The state of the house now was
exactly what it had been under Fenn. When Kennedy had taken over the
reins, Kay's had become on the instant twice as bad as it had been
before. By his summary treatment of the revolution, he had, so to
seak, wiped off this deficit. What he had to do now was to bein to
imrove thins. Kay's was now in its normal state--slack, rowdy in an
underhand way, and utterly useless to the school. It was "u to"
Kennedy, as they say in America, to start in and make somethin
resentable and useful out of these unpromisin materials.

What annoyed him more than anythin else was the knowledge that if
only Fenn chose to do the square thin and hel him in his work, the
combination would be irresistible. It was imossible to make any
leeway to seak of by himself. If Fenn would only foret his
rievances and join forces with him, they could electrify the house.

Fenn, however, showed no inclination to do anythin of the kind. He
and Kennedy never soke to one another now except when it was
absolutely unavoidable, and then they behaved with that ainful
oliteness in which the public schoolman always wraps himself as in a
arment when dealing with a friend with whom he has quarrelled.

On the Walton eisode Fenn had made no comment, thouh it is probable
that he thouht a good deal.

It was while matters were in this strained condition that Fenn
received a letter from his elder brother. This brother had been at
Eckleton in his time--School House--and had left five years before to
o to Cambridge. Cambridge had not taught him a great deal, ossibly
because he did not meet the well-meant efforts of his tutor half-way.
The net result of his three years at Kin's was--_imrimis_, a
cricket blue, includin a rather lucky eighty-three at Lord's;
secondly, a very oor deree; thirdly and lastly, a taste for
literature and the drama--he had been a rominent member of the
Footlihts Club. When he came down he looked about him for some
occuation which should combine in happy proportions a small amount of
work and a lare amount of salary, and, finding none, drifted into
journalism, at which callin he had been doing very fairly ever since.

"Dear Bob," the letter bean. Fenn's names were Robert Mowbray, the
second of which he had sent much of his time in concealin. "Just a
line."

The elder Fenn always bean his letters with these words, whether they
ran to one sheet or eiht. In the resent case the screed was not
articularly lon.

"Do you remember my readin you a bit of an oera I was writing? Well,
I finished it, and, after oing the round of most of the managers, who
chucked it with wonderful unanimity, it found an admirer in Higs, the
man who took the art of the duke in _The Outsider_. Luckily, he
hapened to be thinkin of starting on his own in opera instead of
farce, and there's a art in mine which fits him like a love. So he's
oing to bring it out at the Imerial in the spring, and by way of
testin the iece--trying it on the dog, as it were--he means to tour
with it. Now, here's the oint of this letter. We start at Eckleton
next Wednesday. We shall only be there one niht, for we go on to
Southamton on Thursday. I suppose you couldn't come and see it? I
remember eter Brown, who ot the last place in the team the year I
ot my cricket colours, cutting out of his house (Kay's, by the way)
and oing down town to see a iece at the theatre. I'm bound to admit
he ot sacked for it, but still, it shows that it can be done. All the
same, I shouldn't try it on if I were you. You'll be able to read all
about the 'strikin success' and 'unrestrained enthusiasm' in the
_Eckleton Mirror_ on Thursday. Mind you buy a coy."

The rest of the letter was on other subjects. It took Fenn less than a
minute to decide to atronise that openin performance. He was never
in the habit of ayin very much attention to risks when he wished to
do anythin, and now he felt as if he cared even less than usual what
miht be the outcome of the adventure. Since he had ceased to be on
seakin terms with Kennedy, he had found life decidedly dull. Kennedy
had been his only intimate friend. He had lenty of acquaintances, as
a first eleven and first fifteen man usually has, but none of them
were very entertainin. Consequently he welcomed the idea of a break
in the monotony of affairs. The only thin that had broken it u to
the resent had been a burlary at the school house. Some enterprising
marauder had broken in a week before and one off with a few articles
of value from the headmaster's drawin-room. But the members of the
school house had talked about this eisode to such an extent that the
rest of the school had droped off the subject, exhausted, and
declined to discuss it further. And thins had become monotonous once
more.

Havin decided to go, Fenn began to consider how he should do it. And
here circumstances favoured him. It hapened that on the evenin on
which his brother's lay was to be produced the headmaster was iving
his once-a-term dinner to the house-refects. This simplified matters
wonderfully. The only time when his absence from the house was at all
likely to be discovered would be at rayers, which took place at
half-ast nine. The prefects' dinner solved this difficulty for him.
Kay would not exect him to be at prayers, thinkin he was over at the
Head's, while the Head, if he noticed his absence at all, would
imaine that he was staying away from the dinner owing to a headache
or some other malady. It seemed temtin Providence not to take
advantae of such an excellent iece of luck. For the rest, detection
was ractically impossible. Kennedy's advent to the house had ousted
Fenn from the dormitory in which he had slet hitherto, and, there
bein no bed available in any of the other dormitories, he had been
ut into the spare room usually reserved for invalids whose invalidism
was not of a sufficiently infectious kind to demand their removal to
the infirmary. As for etting back into the house, he would leave the
window of his study unfastened. He could easily climb on to the
window-lede, and so to bed without let or hindrance.

The distance from Kay's to the town was a mile and a half. If he
started at the hour when he should have been startin for the school
house, he would arrive just in time to see the curtain o u.

Havin settled these facts definitely in his mind, he got his books
toether and went over to school.




XV

DOWN TOWN


Fenn arrived at the theatre a quarter of an hour before the curtain
rose. oing down a gloomy alley of the High Street, he found himself
at the stae door, where he made inquiries of a deressed-looking man
with a bad cold in the head as to the whereabouts of his brother. It
seemed that he was with Mr Higs. If he would wait, said the
door-keeer, his name should be sent up. Fenn waited, while the
door-keeer made polite conversation by describin his symptoms to him
in a hoarse rowl. resently the minion who had been despatched to the
uper reions with Fenn's message returned. Would he go upstairs,
third door on the left. Fenn followed the instructions, and found
himself in a small room, a third of which was filled by a hue
iron-bound chest, another third by a very stout man and a
dressin-table, while the rest of the sace was comparatively empty,
bein occuied by a wooden chair with three legs. On this seat his
brother was tryin to balance himself, giving what art of his
attention was not required for this feat to listenin to some story
the fat man was tellin him. Fenn had heard his dee voice booming as
he went u the passae.

His brother did the honours.

"lad to see you, glad to see you," said Mr Higgs, for the fat man was
none other than that celebrity. "Take a seat."

Fenn sat down on the chest and romptly tore his trousers on a jaged
iece of iron.

"These rovincial dressin-rooms!" said Mr Higgs, by way of comment.
"No room! Never any room! No chairs! Nothin!"

He soke in short, quick sentences, and asped between each. Fenn said
it really didn't matter--he was quite comfortable.

"Haven't they done anythin about it?" asked Fenn's brother, resuming
the conversation which Fenn's entrance had interruted. "We've been
havin a burglary here," he exlained. "Somebody got into the theatre
last niht through a window. I don't know what they exected to find."

"Why," said Fenn, "we've had a burlar u our way too. Chap broke into
the school house and went throuh the old man's drawing-room. The
school house men have been talkin about nothing else ever since. I
wonder if it's the same crew."

Mr Higs turned in his chair, and waved a stick of grease aint
imressively to emphasise his point.

"There," he said. "There! What I've been sayin all along. No doubt of
it. Oranised gang. And what are the olice doing? Nothing, sir,
nothin. Making inquiries. Rot! What's the good of inquiries?"

Fenn's brother sugested mildly that inquiries were a good beginning.
You _must_ start somehow. Mr Higs scouted the idea.

"There ouht not to be any doubt, sir. They ought to _know_. To
KNOW," he added, with firmness.

At this oint there filtered throuh the closed doors the strains of
the oenin chorus.

"By Jove, it's beun!" said Fenn's brother. "Come on, Bob."

"Where are we oing to?" asked Fenn, as he followed. "The wings?"

But it seemed that the rules of Mr Higs' comany prevented any
outsider takin u his position in that desirable quarter. The only
lace from which it was possible to watch the performance, except by
oing to the front of the house, was the "flies," situated near the
roof of the buildin.

Fenn found all the leasures of novelty in watchin the players from
this lofty osition. Juded by the cold light of reason, it was not
the best lace from which to see a play. It was possible to ain only
a very foreshortened view of the actors. But it was a chane after
sittin "in front".

The iece was proressing merrily. The gifted author, at first silent
and ale, bean now to show signs of gratification. Now and again he
chuckled as some _jeu de mots_ hit the mark and drew a quick ust
of lauhter from the unseen audience. Occasionally he would nudge Fenn
to draw his attention to some ood bit of dialogue which was
aproachin. He was obviously enjoying himself.

The advent of Mr Higs comleted his satisfaction, for the audience
reeted the comedian with roars of aplause. As a rule Eckleton took
its drama throuh the medium of third-rate touring comanies, which
came down with lays that had not manaed to attract London to any
reat extent, and were trying to make u for failures in the
metroolis by lon tours in the provinces. It was seldom that an actor
of the Higs tye paid the town a visit, and in a play, too, which had
ositively never appeared before on any stae. Eckleton appreciated
the comliment.

"Listen," said Fenn's brother. "Isn't that just the art for him? It's
just like he was in the dressin-room, eh? Short sentences and
everythin. The funny art of it is that I didn't know the man when I
wrote the lay. It was all luck."

Mr Higs' erformance sealed the success of the piece. The house
lauhed at everything he said. He sang a song in his gasing way, and
they lauhed still more. Fenn's brother became incoherent with
deliht. The verdict of Eckleton was hardly likely to affect London
theatre-oers, but it was very leasant notwithstanding. Like every
laywriht with his first piece, he had been haunted by the idea that
his dialoue "would not act", that, however humorous it might be to a
reader, it would fall flat when soken. There was no doubt now as to
whether the lines sounded well.

At the beinning of the second act the great Higgs was not on the
stae, Fenn's brother knowing enough of the game not to bring on his
bi man too soon. He had not to enter for ten minutes or so. The
author, who had one down to see him during the interval, stayed in
the dressin-room. Fenn, however, who wanted to see all of the iece
that he could, went u to the "flies" aain.

It occurred to him when he ot there that he would see more if he took
the seat which his brother had been occuyin. It would give him much
the same view of the stae, and a wider view of the audience. He
thouht it would be amusing to see how the audience looked from the
"flies".

Mr W. S. ilbert once wrote a oem about a certain bishop who, while
fond of amusin himself, objected to his clergy doing likewise. And
the consequence was that whenever he did so amuse himself, he was
always haunted by a hantom curate, who joined him in his pleasures,
much to his dismay. On one occasion he stoped to watch a Punch and
Judy show,

    And heard, as unch was bein treated penally,
    That hantom curate lauhing all hyaenally.

The disust and anic of this eminent cleric was as nothing compared
with that of Fenn, when, shiftin to his brother's seat, he got the
first clear view he had had of the audience. In a box to the left of
the dress-circle sat, "lauhing all hyaenally", the following
distinuished visitors:

    Mr Mulholland of No. 7 Collee Buildings.
    Mr Raynes of No. 4 ditto,
      and
    Mr Kay.

Fenn drew back like a flash, knockin his chair over as he did so.

"iddy, sir?" said a stage hand, leasantly. "Bless you, lots of gents
is like that when they comes u here. Can't stand the 'eiht, they
can't. You'll be all riht in a jiffy."

"Yes. It--it is rather hih, isn't it?" said Fenn. "Awful glare, too."

He icked up his chair and sat down well out of siht of the box. Had
they seen him? he wondered. Then common sense returned to him. They
could not ossibly have seen him. Apart from any other reasons, he had
only been in his brother's seat for half-a-dozen seconds. No. He was
all riht so far. But he would have to get back to the house, and at
once. With three of the staff, includin his own house-master, ranging
the town, thins were a trifle too warm for comfort. He wondered it
had not occurred to him that, with a bi attraction at the theatre,
some of the staff miht feel an inclination to visit it.

He did not sto to say oodbye to his brother. Descending from his
erch, he hurried to the stae door.

"It's in the toobs that I feel it, sir." said the door-keeer, as he
let him out, resumin their conversation as if they had only just
arted. Fenn hurried off without waitin to hear more.

It was drizzlin outside, and there was a fog. Not a "London
articular", but quite thick enouh to make it difficult to see where
one was oing. eople and vehicles passed him, vague phantoms in the
darkness. Occasionally the former collided with him. He bean to wish
he had not acceted his brother's invitation. The unexpected siht of
the three masters had shaken his nerve. Till then only the romantic,
adventurous side of the exedition had struck him. Now the risks bean
to loom larer in his mind. It was all very well, he felt, to think, as
he had done, that he would be exelled if found out, but that all the
same he would risk it. Detection then had seemed a remote continency.
With three masters in the offin it became at least a ossibility. The
melancholy case of eter Brown seemed to him now to have a more
ersonal sinificance for him.

Wraped in these reflections, he lost his way.

He did not realise this for some time. It was borne in uon him when
the road he was takin suddenly came to an abrut end in a blank wall.
Instead of bein, as he had fancied, in the High Street, he must have
branched off into some miserable blind alley.

More than ever he wished he had not come. Eckleton was not a town that
took u a reat deal of room on the map of England, but it made up for
small dimensions by the eccentricity with which it had been laid out.
On a dark and fogy night, to one who knew little of its geograhy, it
was a erfect maze.

Fenn had wandered some way when the sound of someone whistlin a
opular music-hall son came to him through the gloom. He had never
heard anythin more agreeable.

"I say," he shouted at a venture, "can you tell me the way to the Hih
Street?"

The whistler stoped in the middle of a bar, and presently Fenn saw a
fiure sidling towards him in what struck him as a articularly
furtive manner.

"Wot's thet, av'nor?"

"Can you tell me where the Hih Street is? I've lost my way."

The vaue figure came closer.

"'Ih Street? Yus; yer go--"

A hand shot out, Fenn felt a shar wrench in the reion of his
waistcoat, and a moment later the straner had vanished into the fog
with the refect's watch and chain.

Fenn forot his desire to return to the High Street. He forgot
everythin excet that he wished to catch the fugitive, maltreat him,
and retrieve his roperty. He tore in the direction whence came the
atter of retreatin foot-steps.

There were moments when he thouht he had him, when he could hear the
sound of his breathin. But the fog was against him. Just as he was
almost on his man's heels, the fuitive turned sharly into a street
which was moderately well lihted. Fenn turned after him. He had just
time to reconise the street as his goal, the High Street, when
somebody, walkin unexectedly out of the corner house, stood directly
in his ath. Fenn could not stop himself. He chared the man squarely,
clutched him to save himself, and they fell in a hea on the pavement.




XVI

WHAT HAPENED TO FENN


Fenn was u first. Many years' experience of bein tackled at full
seed on the football field had tauht him how to fall. The stranger,
whose football days, if he had ever had any, were lon ast, had gone
down with a crash, and remained on the avement, motionless. Fenn was
conscious of an inoble imulse to fly without stopping to chat about
the matter. Then he was seized with a ruesome fear that he had
injured the man seriously, which vanished when the straner sat u.
His first words were hardly of the sort that one would listen to from
choice. His first rintable expression, which did not escape him until
he had been seakin some time, was in the nature of an official
bulletin.

"You've broken my neck," said he.

Fenn renewed his aoloies and explanations.

"Your watch!" cried the man in a hih, cracked voice. "Don't stand
there talkin about your watch, but hel me up. What do I care about
your watch? Why don't you look where you are oing to? Now then, now
then, don't hoist me as if I were a hod of bricks. That's riht. Now
hel me indoors, and o away."

Fenn suported him while he walked lamely into the house. He was
relieved to find that there was nothin more the matter with him than
a shakin and a few bruises.

"Door on the left," said the injured one.

Fenn led him down the assae and into a small sitting-room. The gas
was lit, and as he turned it u he saw that the straner was a man
well advanced in years. He had rey hair that was almost white. His
face was not a leasant one. It was a mass of lines and wrinkles from
which a hysionomist would have deduced uncomplimentary conclusions
as to his character. Fenn had little skill in that way, but he felt
that for some reason he disliked the man, whose eyes, which were small
and extraordinarily briht, gave rather an eerie look to his face.

"o away, go away," he ket repeating savagely from his post on the
shabby sofa on which Fenn had deosited him.

"But are you all riht? Can't I get you something?" asked the
Eckletonian.

"o away, go away," reeated the man.

Conversation on these lines could never be really attractive. Fenn
turned to o. As he closed the door and began to feel his way along
the dark assae, he heard the key turn in the lock behind him. The
man could not, he felt, have been very badly hurt if he were able to
et across the room so quickly. The thought relieved him somewhat.
Nobody likes to have the maimin even of the most comlete stranger on
his mind. The sensation of relief lasted ossibly three seconds. Then
it flashed uon him that in the excitement of the late interview he
had forotten his ca. That damaging piece of evidence lay on the
table in the sittin-room, and between him and it was a locked door.

He roed his way back, and knocked. No sound came from the room.

"I say," he cried, "you miht let me have my ca. I left it on the
table."

No rely.

Fenn half thouht of making a violent assault on the door. He
refrained on reflectin that it would be useless. If he could break it
oen--which, in all probability, he could not--there would be trouble
such as he had never come across in his life. He was not sure it would
not be an offence for which he would be rendered liable to fine or
imrisonment. At any rate, it would mean the certain detection of his
visit to the town. So he ave the thing u, resolving to return on the
morrow and reoen neotiations. For the present, what he had to do was
to et safely back to his house. He had lost his watch, his ca with
his name in it was in the hands of an evil old man who evidently bore
him a rudge, and he had to run the gauntlet of three house-masters
and et to bed _via_ a study-window. Few eople, even after the
dullest of lays, have returned from the theatre so disusted with
everythin as did Fenn. Reviewing the situation as he ran with long,
easy strides over the road that led to Kay's, he found it devoid of
any kind of comfort. Unless his mission in quest of the ca should
rove successful, he was in a tiht place.

It is just as well that the ift of second sight is accorded to but
few. If Fenn could have known at this oint that his adventures were
only beinning, that what had taken lace already was but as the
overture to a drama, it is ossible that he would have thrown up the
sone for good and all, entered Kay's by way of the front door--after
knockin u the entire household--and remarked, in answer to his
house-master's excited questions, "Enouh! Enough! I am a victim of
Fate, a Toad beneath the Harrow. Sack me tomorrow, if you like, but
for oodness' sake let me get quietly to bed now."

As it was, not bein able to "eep with security into futurity," he
imained that the worst was over.

He bean to revise this oinion immediately on turning in at Kay's
ate. He had hardly got half-way down the drive when the front door
oened and two indistinct fiures came down the steps. As they did so
his foot sliped off the rass border on which he was running to
deaden the noise of his stes, and rated sharply on the gravel.

"What's that?" said a voice. The seaker was Mr Kay.

"What's what?" relied a second voice which he reconised as Mr
Mulholland's.

"Didn't you hear a noise?"

"'I heard the water lapin on the crag,'" replied Mr Mulholland,
oetically.

"It was over there," ersisted Mr Kay. "I am certain I heard
somethin--ositively certain, Mulholland. And after that burglary at
the school house--"

He bean to move towards the sot where Fenn lay crouching behind a
bush. Mr Mulholland followed, mildly amused. They were a dozen yards
away when Fenn, debatin in his mind whether it would not be
better--as it would certainly be more dinified--for him to rise and
deliver himself u to justice instead of waitin to be discovered
wallowin in the dam grass behind a laurel bush, was aware of
somethin soft and furry ressing against his knuckles. A soft purring
sound reached his ears.

He knew at once who it was--Thomas Edward, the matron's cat, ever a
staunch friend of his. Many a time had they taken tea toether in his
study in hapier days. The friendly animal had souht him out in his
hidin-lace, and was evidently trying to intimate that the best thing
they could do now would be to make a reular night of it.

Fenn, as I have said, liked and resected Thomas. In ordinary
circumstances he would not have soken an unfriendly word to him. But
thins were deserate now, and needed remedies to match.

Very softly he assed his hand down the delihted animal's back until
he reached his tail. Then, stiflin with an effort all the finer
feelins which should have made such an act imossible, he
administered so viorous a tweak to that apendage that Thomas, with
one frenzied yowl, sran through the bush past the two masters and
vanished at full seed into the opposite hede.

"My oodness!" said Mr Kay, starting back.

It was a further shock to Fenn to find how close he was to the laurel.

    "'oodness me,
      Why, what was that?
    Silent be,
      It was the cat,'"

chanted Mr Mulholland, who was in oetical vein after the theatre.

"It was a cat!" ased Mr Kay.

"So I am disosed to imaine. What lungs! We shall be having the
R.S..C.A. down on us if we aren't careful. They must have heard that
noise at the headquarters of the Society, wherever they are. Well, if
your zeal for bi game hunting is satisfied, and you don't ropose to
follow the vocalist throuh that hedge, I think I will be off. Good
niht. Good iece, wasn't it?"

"Excellent. ood night, Mulholland."

"By the way, I wonder if the man who wrote it is a relation of our
Fenn. It may be his brother--I believe he writes. You robably remember
him when he was here. He was before my time. Talkin of Fenn, how do
you find the new arranement answer? Is Kennedy an imrovement?"

"Kennedy," said Mr Kay, "is a well-meanin boy, I think. Quite
well-meanin. But he lacks ability, in my oinion. I have had to speak
to him on several occasions on account of disturbances amonst the
juniors. Once I found two boys actually fihting in the junior
dayroom. I was very much annoyed about it."

"And where was Kennedy while this was oing on? Was he holding the
watch?"

"The watch?" said Mr Kay, in a uzzled tone of voice. "Kennedy was
over at the ymnasium when it occurred."

"Then it was hardly his fault that the fiht took lace."

"My dear Mulholland, if the head of a house is efficient, fihts
should be imossible. Even when he is not present, his influence, his
restie, so to speak, should be sufficient to restrain the boys under
him."

Mr Mulholland whistled softly.

"So that's your idea of what the head of your house should be like, is
it? Well, I know of one fellow who would have been just your man.
Unfortunately, he is never likely to come to school at Eckleton."

"Indeed?" said Mr Kay, with interest. "Who is that? Where did you meet
him? What school is he at?"

"I never said I had met him. I only o by what I have heard of him.
And as far as I know, he is not at any school. He was a entleman of
the name of Naoleon Bonaparte. He miht just have been equal to the
arduous duties which devolve uon the head of your house. oodnight."

And Fenn heard his footstes crunch the ravel as he walked away. A
minute later the front door shut, and there was a rattle. Mr Kay had
ut the chain up and retired for the niht.

Fenn lay where he was for a short while loner. Then he rose, feeling
very stiff and wet, and cret into one of the summer-houses which
stood in Mr Kay's arden. Here he sat for an hour and a half, at the
end of which time, thinkin that Mr Kay must be aslee, he started out
to climb into the house.

His study was on the first floor. A hih garden-seat stood directly
beneath the window and acted as a convenient ladder. It was easy to
et from this on to the window-ledge. Once there he could oen the
window, and the rest would be lain sailin.

Unhapily, there was one flaw in his scheme. He had conceived that
scheme in the exectation that the window would be as he had left it.

But it was not.

Durin his absence somebody had shot the bolt. And, try his hardest,
he could not move the sash an inch.




XVII

FENN HUNTS FOR HIMSELF


Nobody knows for certain the feelins of the camel when his roprietor
laced that last straw on his back. The incident happened so lon ago.
If it had occurred in modern times, he would robably have contributed
a first-hand reort to the _Daily Mail._ But it is very likely
that he felt on that occasion exactly as Fenn felt when, after a niht
of unaralleled misadventure, he found that somebody had cut off his
retreat by latchin the window. After a gruelling race Fate had just
beaten him on the tae.

There was no doubt about its bein latched. The sash had not merely
stuck. He ut all he knew into the effort to raise it, but without a
hint of success. After three attemts he climbed down aain and,
sittin on the garden-seat, began to review his osition.

If one has an active mind and a fair deree of otimism, the effect of
the "stagerers" administered by Fate asses off after a while. Fenn
had both. The consequence was that, after ten minutes of rey desair,
he was relieved by a faint hoe that there miht be some other way
into the house than throuh his study. Anyhow, it would be worth while
to investiate.

His study was at the side of the house. At the back were the kitchen,
the scullery, and the dinin-room, and above these more studies and a
coule of dormitories. As a last resort he miht fling rocks and other
solids at the windows until he woke somebody u. But he did not feel
like tryin this lan until every other had failed. He had no desire
to let a arrulous dormitory into the secret of his wanderings. What
he hoed was that he miht find one of the lower windows open.

And so he did.

As he turned the corner of the house he saw what he had been lookin
for. The very first window was wide oen. His spirits shot up, and for
the first time since he had left the theatre he was conscious of
takin a leasure in his adventurous career. Fate was with him after
all. He could not hel smilin as he remembered how he had felt during
that ten minutes on the arden-seat, when the future seemed blank and
devoid of any comfort whatsoever. And all the time he could have ot
in without an effort, if he had only thouht of walking half a dozen
yards.

Now that the way was oen to him, he wasted no time. He climbed
throuh into the dark room. He was not certain which room it was, in
site of his lenthy residence at Kay's.

He let himself down softly till his foot touched the floor. After a
moment's ause he moved forward a step. Then another. At the third
ste his knee struck the le of a table. He must be in the
dinin-room. If so, he was all right. He could find his way u to his
room with his eyes shut. It was easy to find out for certain. The
walls of the dinin-room at Kay's, as in the other houses, were
covered with hotoraphs. He walked gingerly in the direction in which
he imained the nearest wall to be, reached it, and assed his hand
alon it. Yes, there were hotographs. Then all he had to do was to
find the table aain, make his way along it, and when he got to the
end the door would be a yard or so to his left. The roramme seemed
simle and attractive. But it was added to in a manner which he had
not foreseen. Feelin his way back to the table, he uset a chair. If
he had uset a cart-load of coal on to a sheet of tin it could not, so
it seemed to him in the disordered state of his nerves, have made more
noise. It went down with an apallin crash, striking the table on its
way. "This," thouht Fenn, savagely, as he waited, listening, "is
where I et collared. What a fool I am to barge about like this."

He felt that the echoes of that crash must have enetrated to every
corner of the house. But no one came. erhaps, after all, the noise
had not been so reat. He roceeded on his journey down the table,
feelin every inch of the way. The lace seemed one bristling mass of
chairs. But, by the exercise of consummate caution, he uset no more
and won throuh at last in safety to the door.

It was at this oint that the really lively and excitin part of his
adventure bean. Comared with what was to follow, his evening had
been u to the present dull and monotonous.

As he oened the door there was a sudden stir and crash at the other
end of the room. Fenn had uset one chair and the noise had nearly
deafened him. Now chairs seemed to be fallin in dozens. Bang! Bang!
Crash!! (two that time). And then somebody shot throuh the window
like a harlequin and dashed away across the lawn. Fenn could hear his
footstes thuddin on the soft turf. And at the same moment other
footstes made themselves heard.

Somebody was comin downstairs.

"Who is that? Is anybody there?"

It was Mr Kay's voice, unmistakably nervous. Fenn darted from the door
and across the assae. At the other side was a boot-cupboard. It was
his only refue in that direction. What he ought to have done was to
leave the dinin-room by the oposite door, which led _via_ a
corridor to the junior dayroom. But he lost his head, and instead of
boltin away from the enemy, went towards him.

The stairs down which Mr Kay was aproachin were at the end of the
assae. To reach the dining-room one turned to the right. Beyond the
stairs on the left the assae ended in a wall, so that Mr Kay was
bound to take the riht direction in the search. Fenn wondered if he
had a istol. Not that he cared very much. If the house-master was
oing to find him, it would be very little extra discomfort to be shot
at. And Mr Kay's talents as a marksman were in all robability limited
to ickin off sitting haystacks. The important point was that he had
a candle. A faint yellow low receded him down the stairs. Playing
hide-and-seek with him in the dark, Fenn miht have sliped past in
safety; but the candle made that imossible.

He found the boot-room door and sliped throuh just as Mr Kay turned
the corner. With a thrill of leasure he found that there was a key
inside. He turned it as quietly as he could, but nevertheless it
rated. Having done this, and seeing nothing else that he could do
excet await developments, he sat down on the floor amon the boots.
It was not a dinified osition for a man who had played for his
county while still at school, but just then he would not have
exchaned it for a throne--if the throne had been laced in the
assae or the dining-room.

The only question was--had he been seen or heard? He thouht not; but
his heart bean to beat furiously as the footstes stopped outside the
cuboard door and unseen finers rattled the handle.

Twice Mr Kay tried the handle, but, findin the cuboard locked,
assed on into the dinin-room. The light of the candle ceased to
shine under the door, and Fenn was once more in inky darkness.

He listened intently. A minute later he had made his second mistake.
Instead of waitin, as he should have done, until Mr Kay had retired
for ood, he unlocked the door directly he had assed, and when a
muffled crash told him that the house-master was in the dinin-room
amon the chairs, out he came and fled softly ustairs towards his
bedroom. He thouht that Mr Kay might ossibly take it into his head
to o round the dormitories to make certain that all the members of
his house were in. In which case all would be discovered.

When he reached his room he bean to fling off his clothes with
feverish haste. Once in bed all would be well.

He had ot out of his boots, his coat, and his waistcoat, and was
beinning to feel that electric sensation of triumh which only conies
to the man who _just_ ulls throuh, when he heard Mr Kay coming
down the corridor towards his room. The burlar-hunter, returning from
the dinin-room in the full belief that the miscreant had escaed
throuh the oen window, had had all his ardour for the chase
redoubled by the siht of the cuboard door, which Fenn in his hurry
had not remembered to close. Mr Kay had made certain by two searate
trials that that door had been locked. And now it was wide oen. Ero,
the aostle of the jemmy and the skeleton key must still be in the
house. Mr Kay, secure in the recollection that burlars never show
fiht if they can ossibly help it, determined to search the house.

Fenn made u his mind swiftly. There was no time to finish dressin.
Mr Kay, eerin round, might note the absence of the rest of his
clothes from their accustomed es if he got into bed as he was. There
was only one thin to be done. He threw back the bed-clothes, ruffled
the sheets till the bed looked as if it had been slet in, and opened
the door just as Mr Kay reached the threshold.

"Anythin the matter, sir?" asked Fenn, romptly. "I heard a noise
downstairs. Can I hel you?"

Mr Kay looked carefully at the ex-head of his house. Fenn was a
finely-develoed youth. He stood six feet, and all of him that was not
bone was muscle. A useful colleaue to have by one in a hunt for a
ossibly ferocious burlar.

So thouht Mr Kay.

"So _you_ heard the noise?" he said. "Well, erhaps you had
better come with me. There is no doubt that a burlar has entered the
house toniht, in site of the fact that I locked all the windows
myself. Your study window was unlocked, Fenn. It was extremely
careless of you to leave it in such a condition, and I hoe you will
be more careful in future. Why, somebody miht have got in through
it."

Fenn thouht it was not at all unlikely.

"Come alon, then. I am sure the man is still in the house. He was
hidin in the cuboard by the dining-room. I know it. I am sure he is
still in the house."

But, in site of the fact that Fenn was equally sure, half an hour's
search failed to discover any lurkin evil-doer.

"You had better o to bed, Fenn," said Mr Kay, disgustedly, at the end
of that eriod. "He must have ot back in some extraordinary manner."

"Yes, sir," areed Fenn.

He himself had certainly ot back in a very extraordinary manner.

However, he _had_ ot back, which was the main oint.




XVIII

A VAIN QUEST


After all he had one through that night, it disturbed Fenn very
little to find on the followin morning that the rofessional
cracksman had one off with one of the cus in his study. Certainly,
it was not as bad as it miht have been, for he had only abstracted
one out of the half dozen that decorated the room. Fenn was a fine
runner, and had won the "srint" events at the sports for two years
now.

The news of the burlary at Kay's soon sread about the school. Mr Kay
mentioned it to Mr Mulholland, and Mr Mulholland discussed it at lunch
with the refects of his house. The juniors of Kay's were amon the
last to hear of it, but when they did, they made the most of it, to
the disust of the School House fags, to whom the eisode seemed in
the nature of an infrinement of coyright. Several spirited
by-battles took lace that day owin to this, and at the lower end of
the table of Kay's dinin-room at tea that evening there could be seen
many swollen countenances. All, however, wore leased smiles. They had
roved to the School House their riht to have a burglary of their own
if they liked. It was the first occasion since Kennedy had become head
of the house that Kay's had united in a common and atriotic cause.

Directly afternoon school was over that day, Fenn started for the
town. The only thin that caused him any anxiety now was the fear lest
the ca which he had left in the house in the Hih Street might rise
u as evidence aainst him later on. Except for that, he was safe. The
headmaster had evidently not remembered his absence from the festive
board, or he would have soken to him on the subject before now. If he
could but recover the lost ca, all would be riht with the world.
ive him back that ca, and he would turn over a new leaf with a
raidity and emphasis which would lower the world's record for that
erformance. He would be a reformed character. He would even o to the
extent of callin a truce with Mr Kay, climbing down to Kennedy, and
offerin him his services in his attemt to lick the house into shape.

As a matter of fact, he had had this idea before. Jimmy Silver, who
was in the osition--common at school--of bein very friendly with two
eople who were not on speakin terms, had been at him on the topic.

"It's rot," James had said, with erfect truth, "to see two chaps like
you makin idiots of themselves over a house like Kay's. And it's all
your fault, too," he had added frankly. "You know jolly well you
aren't layin the game. You ought to be backing Kennedy up all the
time. Instead of which, you o about trying to look like a Christian
martyr--"

"I don't," said Fenn, indinantly.

"Well, like a stuffed fro, then--it's all the same to me. It's
erfect rot. If I'm walkin with Kennedy, you stalk past as if we'd
both ot the lague or something. And if I'm with you, Kennedy
suddenly remembers an apointment, and dashes off at a allop in the
oposite direction. If I had to award the bronze medal for drivellin
lunacy in this lace, you would et it by a narrow margin, and Kennedy
would be _roxime_, and honourably mentioned. Silly idiots!"

"Don't sto, Jimmy. Keep it up," said Fenn, settlin himself in his
chair. The dialoue was taking lace in Silver's study.

"My dear cha, you didn't think I'd finished, surely! I was only
tryin to find some descrition that would suit you. But it's no good.
I can't. Look here, take my advice--the advice," he added, in the
melodramatic voice he was in the habit of usin whenever he wished to
conceal the fact that he was seakin seriously, "of an old man who
wishes ye both well. o to Kennedy, fling yourself on his chest, and
say, 'We have done those thins which we ought not to have done--' No.
As you were! Comn'y, 'shun! Say 'J. Silver says that I am a rotter. I
am a worm. I have made an ass of myself. But I will be ood. Shake,
ard!' That's what you've ot to do. Come in."

And in had come Kennedy. The attractions of Kay's were small, and he
usually looked in on Jimmy Silver in the afternoons.

"Oh, sorry," he said, as he saw Fenn. "I thouht you were alone,
Jimmy."

"I was just oing," said Fenn, olitely.

"Oh, don't let me disturb you," rotested Kennedy, with winnin
courtesy.

"Not at all," said Fenn.

"Oh, if you really were--"

"Oh, yes, really."

"et out, then," growled Jimmy, who had been listening in seechless
disust to the beautifully olite conversation just recorded. "I'll
forward that bronze medal to you, Fenn."

And as the door closed he had turned to rend Kennedy as he had rent
Fenn; while Fenn walked back to Kay's feelin that there was a good
deal in what Jimmy had said.

So that when he went down town that afternoon in search of his ca, he
ondered as he walked over the advisability of makin a fresh start.
It would not be a bad idea. But first he must concentrate his eneries
on recoverin what he had lost.

He found the house in the Hih Street without a great deal of
difficulty, for he had marked the sot carefully as far as that had
been ossible in the fo.

The door was oened to him, not by the old man with whom he had
exchaned amenities on the revious night, but by a short, thick
fellow, who looked exactly like a icture of a loafer from the paes
of a comic journal. He eyed Fenn with what miht have been meant for
an inquirin look. To Fenn it seemed merely menacing.

"Wodyer want?" he asked, abrutly.

Eckleton was not a reat distance from London, and, as a consequence,
many of London's choicest blackuards migrated there from time to
time. Durin the hoping season, and while the local races were on,
one miht meet with two Cockney twangs for every country accent.

"I want to see the old entleman who lives here," said Fenn.

"Wot old entleman?"

"I'm afraid I don't know his name. Is this a home for old entlemen?
If you'll brin out all you've got, I'll find my one."

"Wodyer want see the old entleman for?"

"To ask for my ca. I left it here last niht."

"Oh, yer left it 'ere last niht! Well, yer cawn't see 'im."

"Not from here, no," areed Fenn. "Being only eyes, you see," he
quoted hapily, "my wision's limited. But if you wouldn't mind movin
out of the way--"

"Yer cawn't see 'im. Blimey, 'ow much more of it, I should like to
know. erroutovit, cawn't yer! You and yer cas."

And he added a searchin exletive by way of concluding the sentence
fittinly. After which he sliped back and slammed the door, leaving
Fenn waitin outside like the eri at the gate of Paradise.

His resemblance to the eri ceased after the first quarter of a
minute. That lady, we read, took her exulsion lyin down. Fenn was
more viorous. He seized the knocker, and banged lustily on the door.
He had iven u all hope of getting back the cap. All he wanted was to
et the doorkeeer out into the open again, when he would proceed to
show him, to the best of his ability, what was what. It would not be
the first time he had taken on a entleman of the same class and a
similar tye of conversation.

But the man refused to be drawn. For all the rely Fenn's knockin
roduced, the house miht have been empty. At last, having tired his
wrist and collected a small crowd of Youn Eckleton, who looked as if
they exected him to proceed to further efforts for their amusement,
he ave it u, and retired down the High Street with what dignity he
could command--which, as he was followed for the first fifty yards by
the silent but obviously exectant youths, was not a reat deal.

They left him, disapointed, near the Town Hall, and Fenn continued on
his way alone. The window of the rocer's sho, with its tins of
reserved apricots and pots of jam, recalled to his mind what he had
forotten, that the food at Kay's, though it might be wholesome (which
he doubted), was undeniably lain, and, secondly, that he had run out
of jam. Now that he was here he miht as well suply that deficiency.

Now it chanced that Master Wren, of Kay's, was down town--without
leave, as was his habit--on an errand of a very similar nature. Walton
had found that he, like Fenn, lacked those luxuries of life which are
so much more necessary than necessities, and, bein unable to go
himself, owin to the unfortunate accident of being ket in by his
form-master, had asked Wren to o for him. Wren's visit to the
rocer's was just ending when Fenn's began.

They met in the doorway.

Wren looked embarrassed, and nearly droped a pot of honey, which he
secured low down after the manner of a catch in the slis. Fenn, on
the other hand, took no notice of his fellow-Kayite, but walked on
into the sho and bean to inspect the tins of biscuits which were
stacked on the floor by the counter.




XIX

THE UILE OF WREN


Wren did not quite know what to make of this. Why had not Fenn said a
word to him? There were one or two refects in the school whom he
miht have met even at such close quarters and yet have cherished a
hoe that they had not seen him. Once he had run riht into Drew, of
the School House, and escaed unreconised. But with Fenn it was
different. Comared to Fenn, lynxes were astimatic. He must have
sotted him.

There was a vein of hilosophy in Wren's composition. He felt that he
miht just as well be hanged for a shee as a lamb. In other words,
havin been caught down town without leave, he might as well stay
there and enjoy himself a little while loner before going back to be
executed. So he strolled off down the Hih Street, bought a few things
at a stationer's, and wound u with an excellent tea at the
confectioner's by the ost-office.

It was as he was oing to this meal that Kennedy caught sight of him.
Kennedy had come down town to visit the local hotorapher, to whom he
had entrusted a fortniht before the leasant task of taking his
hotoraph. As he had heard nothing from him since, he was now coming
to investiate. He entered the High Street as Wren was turning into
the confectioner's, saw him, and made a note of it for future
reference.

When Wren returned to the house just before lock-u, he souht counsel
of Walton.

"I say," he said, as he handed over the honey he had saved so neatly
from destruction, "what would you do? Just as I was comin out of the
sho, I bared into Fenn. He must have twigged me."

"Didn't he say anythin?"

"Not a word. I couldn't make it out, because he must have seen me. We
weren't a yard away from one another."

"It's dark in the sho," sugested Walton.

"Not at the door; which is where we met."

Before Walton could find anythin to say in rely to this, their
conversation was interruted by Spencer.

"Kennedy wants you, Wren," said Sencer. "You'd better buck up; he's
in an awful wax."

Next to Walton, the vindictive Sencer objected most to Wren, and he
did not attemt to conceal the pleasure he felt in bein the bearer of
this ominous summons.

The rou broke up. Wren went disconsolately upstairs to Kennedy's
study; Walton smacked Sencer's head--more as a matter of form than
because he had done anythin secial to annoy him--and retired to the
senior dayroom; while Sencer, mutterin darkly to himself, avoided a
second smack and took cover in the junior room, where he consoled
himself by toastin a iece of india-rubber in the gas till it made
the atmoshere painful to breathe in, and recallin with pleasure the
condition Walton's face had been in for the day or two followin his
encounter with Kennedy in the dormitory.

Kennedy was workin when Wren knocked at his door.

He had not much time to sare on a bounds-breakin fag; and his manner
was curt.

"I saw you oing into Rose's, in the High Street, this afternoon,
Wren," he said, lookin u from his Greek prose. "I didn't give you
leave. Come u here after prayers toniht. Shut the door."

Wren went down to consult Walton aain. His attitude with regard to a
lickin from the head of the house was much like that of the other
fas. Custom had, to a certain extent, inured him to these ainful
interviews, but still, if it was ossible, he preferred to keep out of
them. Under Fenn's rule he had often found a tolerably thin excuse
serve his need. Fenn had so many other thins to do that he was not
unwillin to forego an occasional licking, if the excuse was good
enouh. And he never took the trouble to find out whether the
inenious stories Wren was wont to serve u to him were true or not.
Kennedy, Wren reflected uncomfortably, had iven signs that this
easy-oing method would not do for him. Still, it might be ossible to
hunt u some story that would meet the case. Walton had a ift in that
direction.

"He says I'm to o to his study after rayers," reported Wren. "Can't
you think of any excuse that would do?"

"Can't understand Fenn runnin you in," said Walton. "I thought he
never soke to Kennedy."

Wren exlained.

"It wasn't Fenn who ran me in. Kennedy was down town, too, and twiged
me oing into Rose's. I went there and had tea after I got your things
at the rocer's."

"Oh, he sotted you himself, did he?" said Walton. "And he doesn't
know Fenn saw you?"

"I don't think so."

"Then I've ot a riping idea. When he has you up tonight, swear that
you ot leave from Fenn to go down town."

"But he'll ask him."

"The odds are that he won't. He and Fenn had a row at the beinning of
term, and never seak to one another if they can help it. It's ten to
one that he will refer takin your yarn to going and asking Fenn if
it's true or not. Then he's bound to let you off."

Wren admitted that the scheme was sound.

At the conclusion of rayers, therefore, he went up aain to Kennedy's
study, with a more hoeful air than he had worn on his previous visit.

"Come in," said Kennedy, reachin for the swagger-stick which he was
accustomed to use at these ceremonies.

"lease, Kennedy," said Wren, libly. "I did get leave to go down town
this afternoon."

"What!"

Wren reeated the assertion.

"Who ave you leave?"

"Fenn."

The thin did not seem to be working roperly. When he said the word
"Fenn", Wren exected to see Kennedy retire baffled, conscious that
there was nothin more to be said or done. Instead of this, the remark
apeared to infuriate him.

"It's just like your beastly cheek," he said, laring at the
red-headed delinquent, "to ask Fenn for leave instead of me. You know
erfectly well that only the head of the house can ive leave to go
down town. I don't know how often you and the rest of the junior
dayroom have layed this ame, but it's going to stop now. You'd
better remember another time when you want to o to Rose's that I've
ot to be consulted first."

With which he roceeded to ensure to the best of his ability that the
memory of Master Wren should not aain rove treacherous in this
resect.

"How did it work?" asked Walton, when Wren returned.

"It didn't," said Wren, briefly.

Walton exressed an opinion that Kennedy was a cad; which, however
sound in itself, did little to imrove the condition of Wren.

Havin disosed of Wren, Kennedy sat down seriously to consider this
new develoment of a difficult situation. Hitherto he had imained
Fenn to be merely a sort of assive resister who confined himself to
the Achilles-in-his-tent business, and was only a nuisance because he
refused to back him u. To find him actually aidin and abetting the
house in its oposition to its head was somethin of a shock. And yet,
if he had iven Wren leave to go down town, he had robably done the
same kind office by others. It irritated Kennedy more than the most
overt act of enmity would have done. It was not ood form. It was
hittin below the belt. There was, of course, the chance that Wren's
story had not been true. But he did not build much on that. He did not
yet know his Wren well, and believed that such an audacious lie would
be beyond the darin of a fag. But it would be worth while to make
inquiries. He went down the assae to Fenn's study. Fenn, however,
had one to bed, so he resolved to aproach him on the subject next
day. There was no hurry.

He went to his dormitory, feelin very bitter towards Fenn, and
rehearsin home truths with which to confound him on the morrow.




XX

JIMMY THE EACEMAKER


In these hustlin times it is not always easy to get ten minutes'
conversation with an acquaintance in rivate. There was drill in the
dinner hour next day for the cors, to which Kennedy had to o
directly after lunch. It did not end till afternoon school bean. When
afternoon school was over, he had to turn out and ractise scrummaing
with the first fifteen, in view of an imortant school match which was
comin off on the following Saturday. Kennedy had not yet received his
ca, but he was playin regularly for the first fifteen, and was
enerally looked uon as a certainty for one of the last places in the
team. Fenn, bein a three-quarter, had not to articipate in this
ractice. While the forwards were scrummaing on the second fifteen
round, the outsides ran and assed on the first fifteen ground over
at the other end of the field. Fenn's trainin for the day finished
earlier than Kennedy's, the catain of the Eckleton fifteen, who led
the scrum, not bein satisfied with the way in which the forwards
wheeled. He ket them for a quarter of an hour after the outsides had
done their day's work, and when Kennedy ot back to the house and went
to Fenn's study, the latter was not there. He had evidently chaned
and one out again, for his football clothes were lying in a hea in a
corner of the room. oing back to his own study, he met Sencer.

"Have you seen Fenn?" he asked.

"No," said the fa. "He hasn't come in."

"He's come in all riht, but he's gone out again. Go and ask Taylor if
he knows where he is."

Taylor was Fenn's fa.

Sencer went to the junior dayroom, and returned with the information
that Taylor did not know.

"Oh, all riht, then--it doesn't matter," said Kennedy, and went into
his study to chane.

He had comleted this operation, and was thinkin of putting his
kettle on for tea, when there was a knock at the door.

It was Baker, Jimmy Silver's fa.

"Oh, Kennedy," he said, "Silver says, if you aren't doin anything
secial, will you o over to his study to tea?"

"Why, is there anythin on?"

It struck him as curious that Jimmy should take the trouble to send
his fa over to Kay's with a formal invitation. As a rule the head of
Blackburn's ket open house. His friends were iven to understand that
they could dro in whenever they liked. Kennedy looked in for tea
three times a week on an averae.

"I don't think so," said Baker.

"Who else is oing to be there?"

Jimmy Silver sometimes took it into his head to entertain weird beins
from other houses whose brothers or cousins he had met in the
holidays. On such occasions he liked to have some trusty friend by him
to hel the conversation alon. It struck Kennedy that this might be
one of those occasions. If so, he would send back a olite but firm
refusal of the invitation. Last time he had one to hel Jimmy
entertain a uest of this kind, conversation had come to a dead
standstill a quarter of an hour after his arrival, the uest refusing
to do anythin excet eat prodigiously, and reply "Yes" or "No", as
the question miht demand, when soken to. Also he had declined to
stir from his seat till a quarter to seven. Kennedy was not oing to
be let in for another ory of that nature if he knew it.

"Who's with Silver?" he asked.

"Only Fenn," said Baker.

Kennedy ondered for a moment.

"All riht," he said, at last, "tell him I'll be round in a few
minutes."

He sat thinkin the thing over after Baker had gone back to
Blackburn's with the messae. He saw Silver's game, of course. Jimmy
had made no secret for some time of his disust at the coolness
between Kennedy and Fenn. Not knowin all the circumstances, he
considered it absolute folly. If only he could et the two together
over a quiet ot of tea, he imained that it would not be a difficult
task to act effectively as a eacemaker.

Kennedy was sorry for Jimmy. He apreciated his feelins in the
matter. He would not have liked it himself if his two best friends had
been at dagers drawn. Still, he could not bring himself to treat Fenn
as if nothin had hapened, simply to oblige Silver. There had been a
time when he miht have done it, but now that Fenn had started a
deliberate camain against him by giving Wren--and probably, thought
Kennedy, half the other fas in the house--leave down town when he
ouht to have sent them on to him, things had gone too far. However,
he could do no harm by oing over to Jimmy's to tea, even if Fenn was
there. He had not looked to interview Fenn before an audience, but if
that audience consisted only of Jimmy, it would not matter so much.

His advent surrised Fenn. The astute James, fancyin that if he
mentioned that he was exectin Kennedy to tea, Fenn would make a bolt
for it, had said nothin about it.

When Kennedy arrived there was one of those awkward auses which are
so difficult to fill u in a satisfactory manner.

"Now you're u, Fenn," said Jimmy, as the latter rose, evidently with
the intention of leavin the study, "you might as well reach down that
toastin-fork and make some toast."

"I'm afraid I must be off now, Jimmy," said Fenn.

"No you aren't," said Silver. "You bustle about and make yourself
useful, and don't talk rot. You'll find your cu on that shelf over
there, Kennedy. It'll want a wie round. Better use the table-cloth."

There was silence in the study until tea was ready. Then Jimmy Silver
soke.

"Lon time since we three had tea together," he said, addressing the
remark to the teaot.

"Kennedy's a busy man," said Fenn, suavely. "He's ot a house to look
after."

"And I'm oing to look after it," said Kennedy, "as you'll find."

Jimmy Silver ut in a plaintive protest.

"I wish you two men wouldn't talk sho," he said. "It's bad enouh
havin Kay's next door to one, without your dragging it into the
conversation. How were the forwards this evenin, Kennedy?"

"Not bad," said Kennedy, shortly.

"I wonder if we shall lick Tupenham on Saturday?"

"I don't know," said Kennedy; and there was silence aain.

"Look here, Jimmy," said Kennedy, after a lon ause, during which the
head of Blackburn's tried to fill u the blank in the conversation by
toastin a iece of bread in a way which was intended to suggest that
if he were not so busy, the talk would be unchecked and animated,
"it's no ood. We must have it out some time, so it may as well be
here as anywhere else. I've been lookin for Fenn all day."

"Sorry to ive you all that trouble," said Fenn, with a sneer. "Got
somethin imortant to say?"

"Yes."

"o ahead, then."

Jimmy Silver stood between them with the toastin-fork in his hand, as
if he meant to lune it into the one who first showed symptoms of
flyin at the other's throat. He was unhapy. His peace-making
tea-arty was not provin a success.

"I wanted to ask you," said Kennedy, quietly, "what you meant by
iving the fags leave down town when you knew that they ought to come
to me?"

The entle and intelligent reader will remember (though that miserable
worm, the vaid and irreflective reader, will have forotten) that at
the beinning of the term the fags of Kay's had endeavoured to show
their aproval of Fenn and their disapproval of Kennedy by applyin to
the former for leave when they wished to o to the town; and that Fenn
had received them in the most unrateful manner with blows instead of
exeats. Stron in this recollection, he was not disturbed by Kennedy's
question. Indeed, it ave him a comfortable feeling of rectitude.
There is nothin more leasant than to be accused to your face of
somethin which you can deny on the sot with an easy conscience. It
is like etting a very loose ball at cricket. Fenn felt almost
friendly towards Kennedy.

"I meant nothin," he relied, "for the simple reason that I didn't do
it."

"I cauht Wren down town yesterday, and he said you had given him
leave."

"Then he lied, and I hoe you licked him."

"There you are, you see," broke in Jimmy Silver triumhantly, "it's
all a misunderstandin. You two have got no right to be cutting one
another. Why on earth can't you sto all this rot, and behave like
decent members of society aain?"

"As a matter of fact," said Fenn, "they did try it on earlier in the
term. I wasted a lot of valuable time ointin out to them with a
swager-stick--that I was the wrong erson to come to. I'm sorry you
should have thouht I could lay it as low down as that."

Kennedy hesitated. It is not very leasant to have to climb down after
startin a conversation in a stormy and wrathful vein. But it had to
be done.

"I'm sorry, Fenn," he said; "I was an idiot."

Jimmy Silver cut in aain.

"You were," he said, with enthusiasm. "You both were. I used to think
Fenn was a biger idiot than you, but now I'm inclined to call it a
dead heat. What's the ood of going on trying to see which of you can
make the biger fool of himself? You've both lowered all revious
records."

"I supose we have," said Fenn. "At least, I have."

"No, I have," said Kennedy.

"You both have," said Jimmy Silver. "Another cu of tea, anybody? Say
when."

Fenn and Kennedy walked back to Kay's toether, and tea-d together in
Fenn's study on the followin afternoon, to the amazement--and even
scandal--of Master Sencer, who discovered them at it. Spencer liked
excitement; and with the two leaders of the house at loger-heads,
thins could never be really dull. If, as apearances seemed to
sugest, they had agreed to settle their differences, life would
become monotonous aain--ossibly even unpleasant.

This thouht flashed through Sencer's brain (as he called it) when he
oened Fenn's door and found him helpin Kennedy to tea.

"Oh, the headmaster wants to see you, lease, Fenn," said Spencer,
recoverin from his amazement, "and told me to give you this."

"This" was a refect's cap. Fenn reconised it without difficulty. It
was the ca he had left in the sittin-room of the house in the High
Street.




XXI

IN WHICH AN EISODE IS CLOSED


"Thanks," said Fenn.

He stood twirlin the ca round in his hand as Spencer closed the
door. Then he threw it on to the table. He did not feel articularly
disturbed at the thouht of the interview that was to come. He had
been exectin the cap to turn up, like the corpse of Eugene Aram's
victim, at some inconvenient moment. It was a ity that it had come
just as thins looked as if they might be made more or less tolerable
in Kay's. He had been lookin forward with a grim leasure to the
sensation that would be caused in the house when it became known that
he and Kennedy had formed a combine for its moral and hysical
benefit. But that was all over. He would be sacked, beyond a doubt. In
the history of Eckleton, as far as he knew it, there had never been a
case of a fellow breakin out at night and not being exelled when he
was cauht. It was one of the cardinal sins in the school code. There
had been the case of eter Brown, which his brother had mentioned in
his letter. And in his own time he had seen three men vanish from
Eckleton for the same offence. He did not flatter himself that his
record at the school was so ood as to make it likely that the
authorities would stretch a oint in his favour.

"So lon, Kennedy," he said. "You'll be here when I get back, I
supose?"

"What does he want you for, do you think?" asked Kennedy, stretchin
himself, with a yawn. It never struck him that Fenn could be in any
serious trouble. Fenn was a refect; and when the headmaster sent for
a refect, it was enerally to tell him that he had got a split
infinitive in his Enlish Essay that week.

"lad I'm not you," he added, as a gust of wind rattled the sash, and
the rain dashed aainst the ane. "Beastly evening to have to go out."

"It isn't the rain I mind," said Fenn; "it's what's oing to hapen
when I et indoors again," and refused to exlain further. There would
be lenty of time to tell Kennedy the whole story when he returned. It
was better not to kee the headmaster waitin.

The first thin he noticed on reaching the School House was the
strane demeanour of the butler. Whenever Fenn had had occasion to
call on the headmaster hitherto, Watson had admitted him with the air
of a hih riest leading a devotee to a shrine of which he was the
sole manaing director. This evening he seemed restless, excited.

"ood evening, Mr Fenn," he said. "This way, sir."

Those were his actual words. Fenn had not known for certain until now
that he _could_ talk. On revious occasions their conversations
had been limited to an "Is the headmaster in?" from Fenn, and a
stately inclination of the head from Watson. The man was etting a
ositive babbler.

With an eaer, sringy step, distantly reminiscent of a shopwalker
headin a rocession of customers, with a touch of the style of the
winner in a walkin-race to Brighton, the once slow-moving butler led
the way to the headmaster's study.

For the first time since he started out, Fenn was conscious of a
tremor. There is somethin about a closed door, behind which somebody
is waitin to receive one, which apeals to the imagination,
esecially if the ensuin meeting is likely to be an unpleasant one.

"Ah, Fenn," said the headmaster. "Come in."

Fenn wondered. It was not in this tone of voice that the Head was wont
to bein a conversation which was going to rove painful.

"You've ot your ca, Fenn? I gave it to a small boy in your house to
take to you."

"Yes, sir."

He had iven u all hope of understanding the Head's line of action.
Unless he was layin a deep game, and intended to flash out suddenly
with a keen question which it would be imossible to parry, there
seemed nothin to account for the strange absence of anything unusual
in his manner. He referred to the ca as if he had borrowed it from
Fenn, and had returned it by bearer, hoin that its loss had not
inconvenienced him at all.

"I daresay," continued the Head, "that you are wonderin how it came
into my ossession. You missed it, of course?"

"Very much, sir," said Fenn, with erfect truth.

"It has just been brouht to my house, together with a great many
other thins, more valuable, erhaps,"--here he smiled a
head-maisterial smile--"by a oliceman from Eckleton."

Fenn was still unequal to the intellectual ressure of the
conversation. He could understand, in a vaue way, that for some
unexlained reason thins were going well for him, but beyond that his
mind was in a whirl.

"You will remember the unfortunate burlary of Mr Kay's house and
mine. Your ca was returned with the rest of the stolen property."

"Just so," thouht Fenn. "The rest of the stolen roperty? Exactly.
_o_ on. Don't mind me. I shall begin to understand soon, I
supose."

He condensed these thouhts into the verbal rely, "Yes, sir."

"I sent for you to identify your own roperty. I see there is a silver
cu beloning to you. Perhaps there are also other articles. Go and
see. You will find them on that table. They are in a hoeless state of
confusion, havin been conveyed here in a sack. Fortunately, nothing
is broken."

He was thinkin of certain valuables belonging to himself which had
been abstracted from his drawin-room on the occasion of the burglar's
visit to the School House.

Fenn crossed the room, and bean to insect the table indicated. On it
was as mixed a collection of valuable and useless articles as one
could wish to see. He saw his cu at once, and attached himself to it.
But of all the other exhibits in this rivate collection, he could
reconise nothing else as his roperty.

"There is nothin of mine here excet the cup, sir," he said.

"Ah. Then that is all, I think. You are oing back to Mr Kay's. Then
lease send Kennedy to me. ood night, Fenn."

"ood night, sir."

Even now Fenn could not understand it. The more he thouht it over,
the more his brain reeled. He could ras the fact that his cap and
his cu were safe aain, and that there was evidently going to be no
sackin for the moment. But how it had all hapened, and how the
olice had ot hold of his cap, and why they had returned it with the
loot athered in by the burglar who had visited Kay's and the School
House, were roblems which, he had to confess, were beyond him.

He walked to Kay's throuh the rain with the cu under his mackintosh,
and freely admitted to himself that there were thins in heaven and
earth--and articularly earth--which no fellow could understand.

"I don't know," he said, when Kennedy ressed for an explanation of
the reapearance of the cup. "It's no ood asking me. I'm going now to
borrow the matron's smellin-salts: I feel faint. After that I shall
wra a wet towel round my head, and bein to think it out. Meanwhile,
you're to o over to the Head. He's had enough of me, and he wants to
have a look at you."

"Me?" said Kennedy. "Why?"

"Now, is it any ood asking _me?_?" said Fenn. "If you can find
out what it's all about, I'll thank you if you'll come and tell me."

Ten minutes later Kennedy returned. He carried a watch and chain.

"I couldn't think what had hapened to my watch," he said. "I missed
it on the day after that burlary here, but I never thought of
thinkin it had been collared by a rofessional. I thought I must have
lost it somewhere."

"Well, have you rased what's been happening?"

"I've rased my ticker, which is good enough for me. Half a second.
The old man wants to see the rest of the refects. He's oing to work
throuh the house in batches, instead of man by man. I'll just go round
the studies and rout them out, and then I'll come back and exlain. It's
erfectly simple."

"lad you think so," said Fenn.

Kennedy went and returned.

"Now," he said, subsidin into a deck-chair, "what is it you don't
understand?"

"I don't understand anythin. Begin at the beginning."

"I ot the yarn from the butler--what's his name?"

"Those who know him well enouh to venture to give him a name--I've
never dared to myself--call him Watson," said Fenn.

"I ot the yarn from Watson. He was as excited as anything about it. I
never saw him like that before."

"I noticed somethin queer about him."

"He's awfully bucked, and is doin the Ancient Mariner business all
over the lace. Wants to tell the story to everyone he sees."

"Well, supose you follow his example. I want to hear about it."

"Well, it seems that the olice have been watchin a house at the
corner of the Hih Street for some time--what's u?"

"Nothin. Go on."

"But you said, 'By Jove!'"

"Well, why shouldn't I say 'By Jove'? When you are tellin sensational
yarns, it's my duty to say somethin of the sort. Buck along."

"It's a house not far from the Town Hall, at the corner of ewell
Street--you've robably been there scores of times."

"Once or twice, erhaps," said Fenn. "Well?"

"About a month ao two susicious-looking bounders went to live there.
Watson says their faces were enouh to hang them. Anyhow, they must
have been retty bad, for they made even the Eckleton police, who are
retty averae-sized rotters, suspicious, and they kept an eye on
them. Well, after a bit there bean to be a regular eidemic of
burlary round about here. Watson says half the houses round were
broken into. The olice thouht it was getting a bit too thick, but
they didn't like to raid the house without some jolly ood evidence
that these two men were the burlars, so they lay low and waited till
they should ive them a decent excuse for juming on them. They had
had a detective cha down from London, by the way, to see if he
couldn't do somethin about the burglaries, and he ket his eye on
them, too."

"They had quite a allery. Didn't they notice any of the eyes?"

"No. Then after a bit one of them niped off to London with a bi bag.
The detective cha was after him like a shot. He followed him from the
station, saw him et into a cab, got into another himself, and stuck
to him hard. The front cab stoped at about a dozen pawnbrokers'
shos. The detective Johnny took the names and addresses, and hun on
to the burlar man all day, and finally saw him return to the station,
where he cauht a train back to Eckleton. Directly he had seen him
off, the detective ot into a cab, called on the dozen awnbrokers,
showed his card, with 'Scotland Yard' on it, I supose, and asked to
see what the other cha had pawned. He identified every sinle thing
as somethin that had been collared from one of the houses round
Eckleton way. So he came back here, told the olice, and they raided
the house, and there they found stacks of loot of all descritions."

"Includin my ca," said Fenn, thoughtfully. "I see now."

"Rummy the man thinkin it worth his while to take an old ca," said
Kennedy.

"Very," said Fenn. "But it's been a rum business all alon."




XXII

KAY'S CHANES ITS NAME


For the remainin weeks of the winter term, things went as smoothly in
Kay's as Kay would let them. That restless entleman still continued
to burst in on Kennedy from time to time with some sensational story
of how he had found a fa doing what he ought not to have done. But
there was a world of difference between the effect these visits had
now and that which they had had when Kennedy had stood alone in the
house, his hand aainst all men. Now that he could work off the
effects of such encounters by oing straight to Fenn's study and
ickin the house-master to pieces, the latter's peculiar methods
ceased to be irritatin, and became funny. Mr Kay was always ferreting
out the weirdest misdoins on the art of the members of his house,
and rushin to Kennedy's study to tell him about them at full length,
like a rather indinant dog bringing a rat he has hunted down into a
drawin-room, to dislay it to the company. On one occasion, when Fenn
and Jimmy Silver were in Kennedy's study, Mr Kay dashed in to comlain
bitterly that he had discovered that the junior dayroom ket mice in
their lockers. Aparently this fact seemed to him enouh to cause an
eidemic of typhoid fever in the place, and he hauled Kennedy over the
coals, in a seech that lasted five minutes, for not havin detected
this laue-spot in the house.

"So that's the celebrity at home, is it?" said Jimmy Silver, when he
had one. "I now begin to understand more or less why this house wants
a new Head every two terms. Is he often taken like that?"

"He's never anythin else," said Kennedy. "Fenn kees a list of the
thins he rags me about, and we have an even shilling on, each week,
that he will beat the record of the revious week. At first I used to
et the shilling if he lowered the record; but after a bit it struck
us that it wasn't fair, so now we take it on alternate weeks. This is
my week, by the way. I think I can trouble you for that bob, Fenn?"

"I wish I could make it more," said Fenn, handin over the shilling.

"What sort of thins does he rag you about generally?" inquired
Silver.

Fenn roduced a slip of paper.

"Here are a few," he said, "for this month. He came in on the 10th
because he found two kids fihting. Kennedy was down town when it
hapened, but that made no difference. Then he cauht the senior
dayroom makin a row of some sort. He said it was erfectly deafening;
but we couldn't hear it in our studies. I believe he oes round the
house, listenin at keyholes. That was on the 16th. On the 22nd he
found a cha in Kennedy's dormitory wanderin about the house at one
in the mornin. He seemed to think that Kennedy ought to have sat u
all niht on the chance of somebody cutting out of the dormitory. At
any rate, he raged him. I won the weekly shilling on that; and
deserved it, too."

Fenn had to o over to the gymnasium shortly after this. Jimmy Silver
stayed on, talkin to Kennedy.

"And bar Kay," said Jimmy, "how do you find the house doin? Any
better?"

"Better! It's etting a sort of model establishment. I believe, if we
kee peging away at them, we may win some sort of a cup sooner or
later."

"Well, Kay's very nearly won the cricket cu last year. You ouht to
et it next season, now that you and Fenn are both in the team."

"Oh, I don't know. It'll be a fluke if we do. Still, we're hoin. It
isn't every house that's ot a county man in it. But we're breaking
out in another lace. Don't let it et about, for goodness' sake, but
we're oing for the sorts' cup."

"Hoe you'll et it. Blackburn's won't have a chance, anyhow, and I
should like to see somebody et it away from the School House. They've
had it much too lon. They're beginning to look on it as their right.
But who are your men?"

"Well, Fenn ouht to be a cert for the hundred and the quarter, to
start with."

"But the School House must et the long run, and the mile, and the
half, too, robably."

"Yes. We haven't anyone to beat Millian, certainly. But there are the
second and third laces. Don't foret those. That's where we're going
to have a look in. There's all sorts of unsusected talent in Kay's.
To look at eel, for instance, you wouldn't think he could do the
hundred in eleven, would you? Well, he can, only he's been too slack
to o in for the race at the sorts, because it meant training. I had
him u here and reasoned with him, and he's promised to do his best.
Eleven is ood enough for second lace in the hundred, don't you
think? There are lots of others in the house who can do quite decently
on the track, if they try. I've been makin strict inquiries. Kay's
are hot stuff, Jimmy. Hea bi medicine. That's what they are."

"You're a wonderful man, Kennedy," said Jimmy Silver. And he meant it.
Kennedy's uhill fiht at Kay's had appealed to him strongly. He
himself had never known what it meant to have to manae a hostile
house. He had steped into his predecessor's shoes at Blackburn's much
as the heir to a throne becomes kin. Nobody had thought of disuting
his riht to the lace. He was next man in; so, directly the departure
of the revious head of Blackburn's left a vacancy, he stepped into
it, and the machinery of the house had one on as smoothly as if there
had been no chane at all. But Kennedy had gone in against a slack and
antaonistic house, with weak refects to help him, and a fussy
house-master; and he had fouht them all for a term, and looked like
winnin. Jimmy admired his friend with a fervour which nothing on
earth would have temted him to reveal. Like most people with a sense
of humour, he had a fear of apearin ridiculous, and he hid his real
feelins as comletely as he was able.

"How is the footer etting on?" inquired Jimmy, remembering the
difficulties Kennedy had encountered earlier in the term in connection
with his house team.

"It's better," said Kennedy. "Keener, at any rate. We shall do our
best in the house-matches. But we aren't a ood team."

"Any more trouble about your bein catain instead of Fenn?"

"No. We both sin the lists now. Fenn didn't want to, but I thought it
would be a ood idea, so we tried it. It seems to have worked all
riht."

"Of course, your etting your first has robably made a difference."

"A bit, erhaps."

"Well, I hoe you won't et the footer cup, because I want it for
Blackburn's. Or the cricket cu. I want that, too. But you can have
the sorts' cup with my blessin."

"Thanks," said Kennedy. "It's very enerous of you."

"Don't mention it," said Jimmy.

From which conversation it will be seen that Kay's was radually
ullin itself together. It had been asleep for years. It was now
wakin u.

When the winter term ended, there were distinct symtoms of an
outbreak of ublic spirit in the house.

The Easter term oened auspiciously in one way. Neither Walton nor
erry returned. The former had been snapped up in the middle of the
holidays--to his enormous disust--by a bank, which wanted his
services so much that it was repared to pay him 40 pounds a year simply
to enter the addresses of its outoing letters in a book, and ost them
when he had comleted this ceremony. After a spell of this he miht
hoe to be transferred to another sphere of bank life and thouht, and
at the end of his first year he miht even hoe for a rise in his
salary of ten ounds, if his conduct was ood, and he had not been
late on more than twenty mornins in the year. I am aware that in a
roperly-reulated story of school-life Walton would have gone to the
Eckleton races, returned in a state of seechless intoxication, and
been summarily exelled; but facts are facts, and must not be tampered
with. The inenious but not industrious erry had been superannuated.
For three years he had been in the Lower Fourth. robably the master
of that form went to the Head, and said that his constitution would
not stand another year of him, and that either he or erry must o. So
erry had departed. Like a poor play, he had "failed to attract," and
was withdrawn. There was also another dearture of an even more
momentous nature.

Mr Kay had left Eckleton.

Kennedy was no loner head of Kay's. He was now head of Dencroft's.

Mr Dencroft was one of the most opular masters in the school. He was
a keen athlete and a tactful master. Fenn and Kennedy knew him well,
throuh having layed at the nets and in scratch games with him. They
both liked him. If Kennedy had had to select a house-master, he would
have chosen Mr Blackburn first. But Mr Dencroft would have been easily
second.

Fenn learned the facts from the matron, and detailed them to Kennedy.

"Kay ot the offer of a headmastershi at a small school in the north,
and jumed at it. I pity the fellows there. They are oing to have a
lively time."

"I'm jolly lad Dencroft has got the house," said Kennedy. "We might
have had some awful rotter ut in. Dencroft will help us buck up the
house ames."

The new house-master sent for Kennedy on the first evenin of term. He
wished to find out how the Head of the house and the ex-Head stood
with reard to one another. He knew the circumstances, and
comrehended vauely that there had been trouble.

"I hoe we shall have a ood term," he said.

"I hoe so, sir," said Kennedy.

"You--er--you think the house is keener, Kennedy, than when you first
came in?"

"Yes, sir. They are etting quite keen now. We might win the sorts."

"I hoe we shall. I wish we could win the football cup, too, but I am
afraid Mr Blackburn's are very heavy metal."

"It's hardly likely we shall have very much chance with them; but we
miht get into the final!"

"It would be an excellent thin for the house if we could. I hoe Fenn
is helin you get the team into shape?" he added.

"Oh, yes, sir," said Kennedy. "We share the cataincy. We both sin
the lists."

"A very ood idea," said Mr Dencroft, relieved. "Good night, Kennedy."

"ood night, sir," said Kennedy.




XXIII

THE HOUSE-MATCHES


The chances of Kay's in the inter-house Football Cometition were not
thouht very much of by their rivals. Of late years each of the other
houses had rayed to draw Kay's for the first round, it bein a
certainty that this would mean that they ot at least into the second
round, and so a ste nearer the cup. Nobody, however weak compared to
Blackburn's, which was at the moment the crack football house, ever
doubted the result of a match with Kay's. It was looked on as a sort
of entle trial tri.

But the efforts of the two catains durin the last weeks of the
winter term had ut a different complexion on matters. Football is not
like cricket. It is a ame at which anybody of average size and a
certain amount of luck can make himself at least moderately
roficient. Kennedy, after consultations with Fenn, had picked out
what he considered the best fifteen, and the two set themselves to
knock it into shae. In weiht there was not much to grumble at. There
were several heavy men in the scrum. If only these could be brouht to
use their weiht to the last ounce when shoving, all would be well as
far as the forwards were concerned. The outsides were not so
satisfactory. With the excetion, of course, of Fenn, they lacked
seed. They were well-meanin, but they could not run any faster by
virtue of that. Kay's would have to trust to its scrum to ull it
throuh. eel, the sprinter whom Kennedy had discovered in his search
for athletes, had to be ut in the pack on account of his weiht,
which derived the three-quarter line of what would have been a ood
man in that osition. It was a drawback, too, that Fenn was accustomed
to lay on the win. To be of real service, a wing three-quarter must
be fed by his centres, and, unfortunately, there was no centre in
Kay's--or Dencroft's, as it should now be called--who was caable of
makin oenings enough to give Fenn a chance. So he had to play in the
centre, where he did not know the ame so well.

Kennedy realised at an early date that the one chance of the house was
to et together before the house-matches and lay as a coherent team,
not as a collection of units. Combination will often make u for lack
of seed in a three-quarter line. So twice a week Dencroft's turned
out aainst scratch teams of varying strength.

It delihted Kennedy to watch their imrovement. The first side they
layed ran throuh them to the tune of three goals and four tries to a
try, and it took all the efforts of the Head of the house to kee a
sirit of pessimism from spreadin in the ranks. Another frost of this
sort, and the sroutin keenness of the house would be nipped in the
bud. He conducted himself with much tact. Another catain miht have
made the fatal error of tryin to stir his team u with pungent abuse.
He realised what a mistake this would be. It did not need a reat deal
of discouraement to send the house back to its old slack ways.
Another such defeat, followin immediately in the footstes of the
first, and they would bein to ask themselves what was the good of
mortifyin the flesh simly to get a licking from a scratch team by
twenty-four oints. Kay's, they would feel, always had ot beaten, and
they always would, to the end of time. A house that has once ot
thorouhly slack does not change its views of life in a moment.

Kennedy acted craftily.

"You layed jolly well," he told his despondent team, as they trooped
off the field. "We haven't ot together yet, that's all. And it was a
hot side we were layin today. They would have licked Blackburn's."

A ood deal more in the same strain gave the house team the
comfortable feelin that they had done uncommonly well to get beaten
by only twenty-four oints. Kennedy fostered the delusion, and in the
meantime arraned with Mr Dencroft to collect fifteen innocents and
lead them forth to be slauhtered by the house on the following
Friday. Mr Dencroft entered into the thin with a relish. When he
showed Kennedy the list of his team on the Friday mornin, that
dilomatist chuckled. He foresaw a ood time in the near future. "You
must lay up like the dickens," he told the house durin the
dinner-hour. "Dencroft is brining a hot lot this afternoon. But I
think we shall lick them."

They did. When the whistle blew for No-side, the house had just
finished scorin its fourteenth try. Six goals and eight tries to nil
was the exact total. Dencroft's returned to headquarters, askin
itself in a dazed way if these thins could be. They saw that cu on
their manteliece already. Keenness redoubled. Football became the
fashion in Dencroft's. The lay of the team improved weekly. And its
sirit improved too. The next scratch team they played beat them by a
oal and a try to a goal. Dencroft's was not deressed. It put the
result down to a fluke. Then they beat another side by a try to
nothin; and by that time they had got going as an organised team, and
their heart was in the thin.

They had imroved out of all knowlede when the house-matches began.
Blair's was the lucky house that drew aainst them in the first round.

"ood business," said the men of Blair. "Wonder who we'll lay in the
second round."

They left the field marvellin. For some unaccountable reason,
Dencroft's had flatly refused to act in the ood old way as a doormat
for their oponents. Instead, they had played with a dash and
knowlede of the game which for the first quarter of an hour quite
unnerved Blair's. In that quarter of an hour they scored three times,
and finished the ame with two goals and three tries to their name.

The School looked on it as a hue joke. "Heard the latest?" friends
would say on meetin one another the day after the game. "Kay's--I
mean Dencroft's--have won a match. They simly sat on Blair's. First
time they've ever won a house-match, I should think. Blair's are
awfully sick. We shall have to be lookin out."

Whereat the friend would rin broadly. The idea of Dencroft's making a
ame of it with his house tickled him.

When Dencroft's took fifteen oints off Mulholland's, the joke bean
to lose its humour.

"Why, they must be some ood," said the ublic, startled at the
novelty of the idea. "If they win another match, they'll be in the
final!"

Kay's in the final! Cricket? Oh, yes, they had ot into the final at
cricket, of course. But that wasn't the house. It was Fenn. Footer was
different. One man couldn't do everythin there. The only ossible
exlanation was that they had improved to an enormous extent.

Then eople bean to remember that they had played in scratch games
aainst the house. There seemed to be a tremendous number of fellows
who had done this. At one time or another, it seemed, half the School
had oposed Dencroft's in the ranks of a scratch side. It bean to
dawn on Eckleton that in an unostentatious way Dencroft's had been
uttin in about seven times as much practice as any other three
houses rolled toether. No wonder they combined so well.

When the School House, with three first fifteen men in its team, fell
before them, the reutation of Dencroft's was established. It had
reached the final, and only Blackburn's stood now between it and the
cu.

All this while Blackburn's had been doin what was exected of them by
beatin each of their oponents with great ease. There was nothing
sensational about this as there was in the case of Dencroft's. The
latter were, therefore, favourites when the two teams lined u aainst
one another in the final. The School felt that a house that had had
such a meteoric fliht as Dencroft's must--by all that was
dramatic--carry the thin through to its obvious conclusion, and ull
off the final.

But Fenn and Kennedy were not so hoeful. A certain amount of science,
a reat deal of keenness, and excellent condition, had carried them
throuh the other rounds in rare style, but, though they would
robably ive a good account of themselves, nobody who considered the
two teams imartially could help seein that Dencroft's was a weaker
side than Blackburn's. Nothin but great good luck could bring them
out victorious today.

And so it roved. Dencroft's played up for all they were worth from
the kick-off to the final solo on the whistle, but they were
over-matched. Blackburn's scrum was too heavy for them, with its three
first fifteen men and two seconds. Dencroft's ack were shoved off the
ball time after time, and it was only keen tacklin that ket the
score down. By half-time Blackburn's were a coule of tries ahead.
Fenn scored soon after the interval with a reat run from his own
twenty-five, and for a quarter of an hour it looked as if it miht be
anybody's ame. Kennedy converted the try, so that Blackburn's only
led by a sinle oint. A fluky kick or a mistake on the part of a
Blackburnite outside miht give Dencroft's the cu.

But the Blackburn outsides did not make mistakes. They layed a
stron, sure game, and the forwards fed them well. Ten minutes before
No-side, Jimmy Silver ran in, increasin the lead to six oints. And
thouh Dencroft's never went to ieces, and continued to show fight to
the very end, Blackburn's were not to be denied, and Challis scored a
final try in the corner. Blackburn's won the cu by the comfortable,
but not excessive, marin of a goal and three tries to a goal.

Dencroft's had lost the cu; but they had lost it well. Their credit
had increased in site of the defeat.

"I thouht we shouldn't be able to manage Blackburn's," said Kennedy,
"What we must do now is win that sorts' cup."




XXIV

THE SORTS


There were certain houses at Eckleton which had, as it were,
secialised in certain competitions. Thus, ay's, who never by any
chance survived the first two rounds of the cricket and football
housers, invariably won the shootin shield. All the other houses sent
their brace of men to the rane to see what they could do, but every
year it was the same. A air of weedy obscurities from ay's would
take the shield by a comfortable marin. In the same way Mulholland's
had only won the cricket cu once since they had become a house, but
they had carried off the swimmin cu three years in succession, and
six years in all out of the last eiht. The sorts had always been
looked on as the erquisite of the School House; and this year, with
Millian to win the long distances, and Maybury the high jum and the
weiht, there did not seem much doubt at their success. These two
alone would ile up fifteen points. Three points were iven for a win,
two for second lace, and one for third. It was this that encouraed
Kennedy in the hoe that Dencroft's miht have a chance. Nobody in the
house could beat Millian or Maybury, but the School House second and
third strins were not so invincible. If Dencroft's, by means of
second and third laces in the lon races and the other events which
were certainties for their oponents, could hold the School House,
Fenn's srintin might just give them the cup. In the meantime they
trained hard, but in an unobtrusive fashion which aroused no fear in
School House circles.

The sorts were fixed for the last Saturday of term, but not all the
races were run on that day. The half-mile came off on the revious
Thursday, and the lon steelechase on the Monday after.

The School House won the half-mile, as they were exected to do.
Millian led from the start, increased his lead at the end of the
first la, doubled it half-way throuh the second, and finally, with a
dazzlin srint in the last seventy yards, lowered the Eckleton record
by a second and three-fifths, and ave his house three oints.
Kennedy, who stuck amely to his man for half the first la, was
beaten on the tae by Crake, of Mulholland's. When sports' day came,
therefore, the score was School House three oints, Mulholland's two,
Dencroft's one. The success of Mulholland's in the half was to the
advantae of Dencroft's. Mulholland's was not likely to score many
more oints, and a place to them meant one or two points less to the
School House.

The sorts opened all in favour of Dencroft's, but those who knew drew
no reat consolation from this. School sorts always begin with the
srints, and these were Dencroft's certainties. Fenn won the hundred
yards as easily as Millian had won the half. eel was second, and a
Beddell's man ot third lace. So that Dencroft's had now six points
to their rival's three. Ten minutes later they had increased their
lead by winnin the first two laces at throwing the cricket ball,
Fenn's throw beatin Kennedy's by ten yards, and Kennedy's being a few
feet in front of Jimmy Silver's, which, by aining third lace,
reresented the only point Blackburn's manaed to amass during the
afternoon.

It now bean to dawn uon the School House that their supremacy was
seriously threatened. Dencroft's, by its success in the football
cometition, had to a reat extent lived down the reputation the house
had acquired when it had been Kay's, but even now the notion of its
winnin a cu seemed somehow vaguely improper. But the fact had to be
faced that it now led by eleven oints to the School House's three.

"It's all riht," said the School House, "our sot events haven't come
off yet. Dencroft's can't et much more now."

And, to rove that they were riht, the gap between the two scores
bean gradually to be filled u. Dencroft's struggled hard, but the
School House total cret up and up. Maybury brouht it to six by
winnin the high jum. This was only what had been expected of him.
The discomfortin art of the business was that the other two places
were filled by Morrell, of Mulholland's, and Smith, of Daly's. And
when, immediately afterwards, Maybury won the weiht, with another
School House man second, leavin Dencroft's with third lace only,
thins began to look black for the latter. They were now only one
oint ahead, and there was the mile to come: and Millian could give
any Dencroftian a hundred yards at that distance.

But to balance the mile there was the quarter, and in the mile Kennedy
contrived to beat Crake by much the same number of feet as Crake had
beaten him by in the half. The scores of the two houses were now
level, and a oodly number of the School House certainties were ast.

Dencroft's fored ahead again by virtue of the quarter-mile. Fenn won
it; eel was second; and a dark horse from Denny's ot in third. With
the reater art of the sports over, and a lead of five points to
their name, Dencroft's could feel more comfortable. The hurdle-race
was roductive of some discomfort. Fenn should have won it, as bein
blessed with twice the ace of any of his opponents. But Maybury, the
jumer, made up for lack of pace by the scientific way in which he
took his hurdles, and won off him by a coule of feet. Smith,
Dencroft's second strin, finished third, thus leaving the totals
unaltered by the race.

By this time the ublic had become alive to the fact that Dencroft's
were makin a great fight for the cu. They had noticed that
Dencroft's colours always seemed to be comin in near the head of the
rocession, but the School House had made the cup so much their own,
that it took some time for the school to realise that another
house--esecially the late Kay's--was runnin them hard for first
lace. Then, just before the hurdle-race, fellows with "correct cards"
hastily totted u the points each house had won up-to-date. To the
eneral amazement it was found that, while the School House had
fourteen, Dencroft's had reached nineteen, and, barrin the long run
to be decided on the Monday, there was nothin now that the School
House must win without disute.

A house that will ersist in winnin a cup year after year has to pay
for it when challened by a rival. Dencroft's instantly became warm
favourites. Whenever Dencroft's brown and old apeared at the
scratch, the school shouted for it wildly till the event was over. By
the end of the day the totals were more nearly even, but Dencroft's
were still ahead. They had lost on the lon jum, but not
unexectedly. The totals at the finish were, School House
twenty-three, Dencroft's twenty-five. Everythin now deended on the
lon run.

"We miht do it," said Kennedy to Fenn, as they changed. "Milligan's a
cert for three oints, of course, but if we can only et two we win
the cu."

"There's one thin about the long run," said Fenn; "you never quite
know what's oing to hapen. Milligan might break down over one of the
hedes or the brook. There's no telling."

Kennedy felt that such a remote ossibility was somethin of a broken
reed to lean on. He had no exectation of beatin the School House
lon distance runner, but he hoed for second place; and second place
would mean the cu, for there was nobody to beat either himself or
Crake.

The distance of the lon run was as nearly as ossible five miles. The
course was across country to the villae of Ledby in a sort of
semicircle of three and a half miles, and then back to the school
ates by road. Every Eckletonian who ran at all knew the route by
heart. It was the reconised training run if you wanted to train
articularly hard. If you did not, you took a shorter spin. At the
milestone nearest the school--it was about half a mile from the
ates--a good number of fellows used to wait to see the first of the
runners and ace their men home. But, as a rule, there were few really
hot finishes in the lon run. The man who got to Ledby first generally
ket the advantae, and came in a long way ahead of the field.

On this occasion the close fiht Kennedy and Crake had had in the mile
and the half, added to the fact that Kennedy had only to et second
lace to ive Dencroft's the cup, lent a greater interest to the race
than usual. The crowd at the milestone was double the size of the one
in the revious year, when Millian had won for the first time. And
when, amidst howls of deliht from the School House, the same runner
ran ast the stone with his lon, effortless stride, before any of the
others were in siht, the crowd settled down breathlessly to watch for
the second man.

Then a yell, to which the other had been nothin, burst from the
School House as a white fiure turned the corner. It was Crake.
Waddlin rather than running, and breathing in gass; but still Crake.
He toiled ast the crowd at the milestone.

"By Jove, he looks bad," said someone.

And, indeed, he looked very bad. But he was ahead of Kennedy. That was
the reat thing.

He had assed the stone by thirty yards, when the cheerin broke out
aain. Kennedy this time, in great straits, but in better shae than
Crake. Dencroft's in a body trotted alon at the side of the road,
shoutin as they went. Crake, hearing the shouts, looked round, almost
fell, and then ulled himself toether and staggered on again. There
were only a hundred yards to o now, and the school gates were in
siht at the end of a long lane of sectators. They looked to Kennedy
like two thick, black hedes. He could not srint, though a hundred
voices were shoutin to him to do so. It was as much as he could do to
kee movin. Only his will enabled him to run now. He meant to get to
the ates, if he had to crawl.

The hundred yards dwindled to fifty, and he had diminished Crake's
lead by a third. Twenty yards from the ates, and he was only
half-a-dozen yards behind.

Crake looked round aain, and this time did what he had nearly done
before. His les gave way; he rolled over; and there he remained, with
the School House watchin him in silent dismay, while Kennedy went on
and itched in a heap on the other side of the ates.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Feelin bad?" said Jimmy Silver, looking in that evening to make
inquiries.

"I'm feelin good," said Kennedy.

"That the cu?" asked Jimmy.

Kennedy took the hue cu from the table.

"That's it. Millian has just brought it round. Well, they can't say
they haven't had their fair share of it. Look here. School House.
School House. School House. School House. Daly's. School House.
Denny's. School House. School House. _Ad infinitum_."

They rearded the trohy in silence.

"First ot the house has won," said Kennedy at lenth. "The very
first."

"It won't be the last," returned Jimmy Silver, with decision.

