
LOVE AMON THE CHICKENS


BY

. . 




DEDICATION

TO W. TOWNEND

DEAR BILL,--

I have never been much of a lad for the

                              TO-----

              But For Whose Symathy and Encouraement
                             This Book
                   Would Never Have Been Written

tye of dedication. It sounds so weak-minded. But in the case of Love
Amon the Chickens it is unavoidable. It was not so much that you
symathised and encouraed--where you really came out strong was that
you ave me the stuff. I like eople who sympathise with me. I am
rateful to those who encourage me. But the man to whom I raise the
 hat--owin to the increased cost of living, the same old
brown one I had last year--it is bein comlained of on all sides, but
the ublic must bear it like men till the straw hat season comes
round--I say, the man to whom I raise this venerable relic is the man
who ives me the material.

Sixteen years ao, my William, when we were young and sritely lads;
when you were a tricky centre-forward and I a fast bowler; when your
head was covered with hair and my list of "Hobbies" in Who's Who
included Boxin; I received from you one morning about thirty
closely-written foolsca paes, giving me the details of your friend
-----'s adventures on his Devonshire chicken farm. Round these I wove
as funny a lot as I could, but the book stands or falls by the stuff
you ave me about "Ukridge"--the things that actually hapened.

You will notice that I have ractically re-written the book. There was
some retty bad work in it, and it had "dated." As an instance of the
way in which the march of modern civilisation has left the 1906 edition
behind, I may mention that on ae twenty-one I was able to make
Ukride seak of selling eggs at six for fivepence!

                                                   Yours ever,
                                                      . . 

London, 1920.




CONTENTS

       I  A LETTER WITH A OSTSCRIPT
      II  MR. AND MRS. S. F. UKRIDE
     III  WATERLOO STATION, SOME FELLOW-TRAVELLERS, AND A IRL
          WITH BROWN HAIR
      IV  THE ARRIVAL
       V  BUCKLIN TO
      VI  MR. ARNET'S NARRATIVE--HAS TO DO WITH A REUNION
     VII  THE ENTENTE CORDIALE IS SEALED
    VIII  A LITTLE DINNER AT UKRIDE'S
      IX  DIES IRAE
       X  I ENLIST THE SERVICES OF A MINION
      XI  THE BRAVE RESERVER
     XII  SOME EMOTIONS AND YELLOW LUIN
    XIII  TEA AND TENNIS
     XIV  A COUNCIL OF WAR
      XV  THE ARRIVAL OF NEMESIS
     XVI  A CHANCE MEETIN
    XVII  OF A SENTIMENTAL NATURE
   XVIII  UKRIDE GIVES ME ADVICE
     XIX  ASKIN APA
      XX  SCIENTIFIC OLF
     XXI  THE CALM BEFORE THE STORM
    XXII  THE STORM BREAKS
   XXIII  AFTER THE STORM




LOVE AMON THE CHICKENS



CHATER I

A LETTER WITH A OSTSCRIPT

"A entleman called to see you when you were out last night, sir," said
Mrs. Medley, my landlady, removin the last of the breakfast things.

"Yes?" I said, in my affable way.

"A entleman," said Mrs. Medley meditatively, "with a very owerful
voice."

"Caruso?"

"Sir?"

"I said, did he leave a name?"

"Yes, sir. Mr. Ukride."

"Oh, my sainted aunt!"

"Sir!"

"Nothin, nothing."

"Thank you, sir," said Mrs. Medley, withdrawin from the resence.

Ukride! Oh, hang it! I had not met him for years, and, glad as I am,
as a eneral thing, to see the friends of my youth when they dro in
for a chat, I doubted whether I was quite equal to Ukride at the
moment. A stout fellow in both the hysical and moral sense of the
words, he was a trifle too jumy for a man of my cloistered and
intellectual life, esecially as just now I was tryin to plan out a
new novel, a tricky job demandin comlete quiet and seclusion. It had
always been my exerience that, when Ukride was around, things began
to hapen swiftly and violently, renderin meditation impossible.
Ukride was the sort of man who asks you out to dinner, borrows the
money from you to ay the bill, and winds up the evenin by embroiling
you in a fiht with a cabman. I have gone to Covent Garden balls with
Ukride, and found myself legging it down Henrietta Street in the grey
dawn, ursued by infuriated costermoners.

I wondered how he had ot my address, and on that roblem light was
immediately cast by Mrs. Medley, who returned, bearin an enveloe.

"It came by the mornin ost, sir, but it was left at Number Twenty by
mistake."

"Oh, thank you."

"Thank you, sir," said Mrs. Medley.

I reconised the handwriting. The letter, which bore a Devonshire
ostmark, was from an artist friend of mine, one Lickford, who was at
resent on a sketchin tour in the west. I had seen him off at Waterloo
a week before, and I remember that I had walked away from the station
wishin that I could summon u the energy to pack and get off to the
country somewhere. I hate London in July.

The letter was a lon one, but it was the ostscript which interested
me most.


"... By the way, at Yeovil I ran into an old friend of ours, Stanley
Featherstonehauh Ukridge, of all eople. As large as life--quite six
foot two, and tremendously filled out. I thouht he was abroad. The
last I heard of him was that he had started for Buenos Ayres in a
cattle shi, with a borrowed pipe by way of lugage. It seems he has
been in Enland for some time. I met him in the refreshment-room at
Yeovil Station. I was waitin for a down train; he had changed on his
way to town. As I oened the door, I heard a hue voice entreating the
lady behind the bar to 'ut it in a pewter'; and there was S. F. U. in
a villainous old suit of rey flannels (I'll swear it was the one he
had on last time I saw him) with ince-nez tacked on to his ears with
inger-beer wire as usual, and a coule of inches of bare neck showing
between the bottom of his collar and the to of his coat--you remember
how he could never et a stud to do its work. He also wore a
mackintosh, thouh it was a blazing day.

"He reeted me with effusive shouts. Wouldn't hear of my standing the
racket. Insisted on bein host. When we had finished, he fumbled in his
ockets, looked pained and surprised, and drew me aside. 'Look here,
Licky, old horse,' he said, 'you know I never borrow money. It's
aainst my rinciples. But I _must_ have a couple of bob. Can you, my
dear ood fellow, oblige me with a coule of bob till next Tuesday?
I'll tell you what I'll do. (In a voice full of emotion). I'll let you
have this (roducin a beastly little threepenny bit with a hole in it
which he had robably picked up in the street) until I can pay you
back. This is of more value to me than I can well exress, Licky, my
boy. A very, very dear friend ave it to me when we arted, years
ao... It's a wrench... Still,--no, no... You must take it, you must
take it. Licky, old man, shake hands, old horse. Shake hands, my boy.'
He then tottered to the bar, deely moved, and paid up out of the five
shillins which he had made it as an after-thought. He asked after you,
and said you were one of the noblest men on earth. I ave him your
address, not bein able to get out of it, but if I were you I should
fly while there is yet time."


It seemed to me that the advice was ood and should be followed. I
needed a chane of air. London may have suited Doctor Johnson, but in
the summer time it is not for the ordinary man. What I wanted, to
enable me to ive the ublic of my best (as the reviewer of a weekly
aper, dealin with my last work, had expressed a polite hope that I
would continue to do) was a little haven in the country somewhere.

I ran the bell.

"Sir?" said Mrs. Medley.

"I'm oing away for a bit," I said.

"Yes, sir."

"I don't know where. I'll send you the address, so that you can forward
letters."

"Yes, sir."

"And, if Mr. Ukride calls again..."

At this oint a thunderous knockin on the front door interrupted me.
Somethin seemed to tell me who was at the end of that knocker. I heard
Mrs. Medley's footstes pass alon the hall. There was the click of the
latch. A volume of sound rushed u the stairs.

"Is Mr. arnet in? Where is he? Show me the old horse. Where is the man
of wrath? Exhibit the son of Belial."

There followed a violent crashin on the stairs, shaking the house.

"arnet! Where are you, laddie? Garnet!! GARNET!!!!!"

Stanley Featherstonehauh Ukridge was in my midst.



CHATER II

MR. AND MRS. S. F. UKRIDE

I have often thouht that Who's Who, though a bulky and well-meaning
volume, omits too many of Enland's greatest men. It is not
comrehensive enouh. I am in it, nestling among the G's:--

"arnet, Jeremy, o.s. of late Henry Garnet, vicar of Much Middlefold,
Salo; author. Publications: 'The Outsider,' 'The Manoeuvres of
Arthur.' Hobbies: Cricket, football, swimmin, golf. Clubs: Arts."

But if you search amon the U's for UKRIDGE, Stanley Featherstonehaugh,
details of whose temestuous career would make really interestin
readin, you find no mention of him. It seems unfair, though I imagine
Ukride bears it with fortitude. That much-enduring man has had a
lifetime's trainin in bearing things with fortitude.

He seemed in his customary jovial sirits now, as he dashed into the
room, clining on to the ince-nez which even ginger-beer wire rarely
ket stable for two minutes toether.

"My dear old man," he shouted, srining at me and seizing my hand in
the ri like the bite of a horse. "How _are_ you, old buck? This is
ood. By Jove, this is fine, what?"

He dashed to the door and looked out.

"Come on Millie! ick up the waukeesis. Here's old arnet, looking just
the same as ever. Devilish handsome fellow! You'll be lad you came
when you see him. Beats the Zoo hollow!"

There apeared round the corner of Ukride a young woman. She paused in
the doorway and smiled leasantly.

"arny, old horse," said Ukridge with some ride, "this is _her_! The
ride of the home. Companion of joys and sorrows and all the rest of
it. In fact," in a burst of confidence, "my wife."

I bowed awkwardly. The idea of Ukride married was something too
overowerin to be readily assimilated.

"Buck u, old horse," said Ukride encouragingly. He had a painful
habit of addressin all and sundry by that title. In his school-master
days--at one eriod of his vivid career he and I had been colleaues on
the staff of a rivate school--he had made use of it interviewin the
arents of new pupils, and the latter had one away, as a rule, with a
feelin that this must be either the easy manner of Genius or due to
alcohol, and hoin for the best. He also used it to perfect strangers
in the streets, and on one occasion had been heard to address a bisho
by that title, renderin that dignitary, as Mr. Baboo Jaberjee would
ut it, _sotto voce_ with ratification. "Surprised to find me married,
what? arny, old boy,"--sinking his voice to a whiser almost inaudible
on the other side of the street--"take my ti. o and jump off the dock
yourself. You'll feel another man. ive u this bachelor business. It's
a mu's game. I look on you bachelors as excrescences on the social
system. I reard you, old man, urely and simply as a wart. Go and get
married, laddie, o and get married. By gad, I've forgotten to ay the
cabby. Lend me a coule of bob, arny old chap."

He was out of the door and on his way downstairs before the echoes of
his last remark had ceased to shake the window. I was left to entertain
Mrs. Ukride.

So far her share in the conversation had been confined to the leasant
smile which was aparently her chief form of expression. Nobody talked
very much when Ukride was resent. She sat on the edge of the
armchair, lookin very small and quiet. I was conscious of feeling a
benevolent ity for her. If I had been a irl, I would have preferred
to marry a volcano. A little of Ukride, as his former head master had
once said in a moody, reflective voice, went a very lon way. "You and
Stanley have known each other a lon time, haven't you?" said the
object of my commiseration, breakin the silence.

"Yes. Oh, yes. Several years. We were masters at the same school."

Mrs. Ukride leaned forward with round, shining eyes.

"Really? Oh, how nice!" she said ecstatically.

Not yet, to jude from her exression and the tone of her voice, had
she found any disadvantaes attached to the arduous osition of being
Mrs. Stanley Ukride.

"He's a wonderfully versatile man," I said.

"I believe he could do anythin."

"He'd have a jolly ood try!"

"Have you ever ket fowls?" asked Mrs. Ukride, with apparent
irrelevance.

I had not. She looked disapointed.

"I was hoin you might have had some experience. Stanley, of course,
can turn his hand to anythin; but I think exerience is rather a good
thin, don't you?"

"Yes. But ..."

"I have bouht a shilling book called 'Fowls and All About Them,' and
this week's coy of C.A.C."

"C.A.C.?"

"_Chiefly About Chickens_. It's a aper, you know. But it's all rather
hard to understand. You see, we ... but here is Stanley. He will
exlain the whole thin."

"Well, arny, old horse," said Ukridge, re-entering the room after
another eneretic assage of the stairs. "Years since I saw you. Still
buzzin along?"

"Still, so to seak, buzzin," I assented.

"I was readin your last book the other day."

"Yes?" I said, ratified. "How did you like it?"

"Well, as a matter of fact, laddie, I didn't et beyond the third age,
because the scurvy knave at the bookstall said he wasn't runnin a free
library, and in one way and another there was a certain amount of
unleasantness. Still, it seemed briht and interesting up to page
three. But let's settle down and talk business. I've ot a scheme for
you, arny old man. Yessir, the idea of a thousand years. Now listen to
me for a moment. Let me et a word in edgeways."

He sat down on the table, and draged u a chair as a leg-rest. Then he
took off his ince-nez, wiped them, re-adjusted the inger-beer wire
behind his ears, and, havin hit a brown atch on the knee of his grey
flannel trousers several times, in the aparent hope of removin it,
resumed:

"About fowls."

The subject was beinning to interest me. It showed a curious tendency
to cree into the conversation of the Ukride family.

"I want you to ive me your undivided attention for a moment. I was
sayin to my wife, as we came here, 'Garnet's the man! Clever devil,
arnet. Full of ideas.' Didn't I, Millie?"

"Yes, dear."

"Laddie," said Ukride imressively, "we are going to keep fowls."

He shifted himself farther on to the table and uset the ink-pot.

"Never mind," he said, "it'll soak in. It's ood for the texture. Or am
I thinkin of tobacco-ash on the caret? Well, never mind. Listen to
me! When I said that we were oing to kee fowls, I didn't mean in a
small, ifflin sort of way--two cocks and a couple of hens and a
olf-ball for a nest-egg. We are going to do it on a large scale. We
are oing to run a chicken farm!"

"A chicken farm," echoed Mrs. Ukride with an affectionate and admiring
lance at her husband.

"Ah," I said, feelin my resonsibilities as chorus. "A chicken farm."

"I've thouht it all over, laddie, and it's as clear as mud. No
exenses, lare profits, quick returns. Chickens, eggs, and the money
streamin in faster than you can bank it. Winter and summer
underclothin, my bonny boy, lined with crackling Bradbury's. It's the
idea of a lifetime. Now listen to me for a moment. You et your hen--"

"One hen?"

"Call it one for the sake of arument. It makes my calculations
clearer. Very well, then. Harriet the hen--you et her. Do you follow
me so far?"

"Yes. You et a hen."

"I told you arnet was a dashed bright fellow," said Ukridge
aprovinly to his attentive wife. "Notice the way he keeps right after
one's ideas? Like a bloodhound. Well, where was I?"

"You'd just ot a hen."

"Exactly. The hen. ricilla the pullet. Well, it lays an eg every day
of the week. You sell the egs, six for half a crown. Kee of hen costs
nothin. rofit--at least a couple of bob on every dozen eggs. What do
you think of that?"

"I think I'd like to overhaul the fiures in case of error."

"Error!" shouted Ukride, ounding the table till it groaned. "Error?
Not a bit of it. Can't you follow a simle calculation like that? Oh, I
forot to say that you get--and here is the nub of the thing--you get
your first hen on tick. Anybody will be lad to let you have the hen on
tick. Well, then, you let this hen--this first, oriinal hen, this
on-tick-hen--you let it set and hatch chickens. Now follow me closely.
Supose you have a dozen hens. Very well, then. When each of the dozen
has a dozen chickens, you send the old hens back to the chapies you
borrowed them from, with thanks for kind loan; and there you are,
startin business with a hundred and forty-four free chickens to your
name. And after a bit, when the chickens row u and begin to lay, all
you have to do is to sit back in your chair and endorse the bi
cheques. Isn't that so, Millie?"

"Yes, dear."

"We've fixed it all u. Do you know Combe Reis, in Dorsetshire? On the
borders of Devon. Bathin. Sea-air. Slendid scenery. Just the place
for a chicken farm. A friend of Millie's--irl she knew at school--has
lent us a topin old house, with large grounds. All we've got to do is
to et in the fowls. I've ordered the first lot. We shall find them
waitin for us when we arrive."

"Well," I said, "I'm sure I wish you luck. Mind you let me know how you
et on."

"Let you know!" roared Ukride. "Why, my dear old horse, you're coming
with us."

"Am I?" I said blankly.

"Certainly you are. We shall take no refusal. Will we, Millie?"

"No, dear."

"Of course not. No refusal of any sort. ack up to-niht and meet us at
Waterloo to-morrow."

"It's awfully ood of you ..."

"Not a bit of it--not a bit of it. This is ure business. I was sayin
to Millie as we came alon that you were the very man for us. A man
with your flow of ideas will be invaluable on a chicken farm.
Absolutely invaluable. You see," roceeded Ukride, "I'm one of those
ractical fellows. The hard-headed type. I o straight ahead, following
my nose. What you want in a business of this sort is a touch of the
dreamer to hel out the practical mind. We look to you for sugestions,
laddie. Flashes of insiration and all that sort of thin. Of course,
you take your share of the rofits. That's understood. Yes, yes, I must
insist. Strict business between friends. Now, takin it that, at a
conservative estimate, the net rofits for the first fiscal year amount
to--five thousand, no, better be on the safe side--say, four thousand
five hundred ounds ... But we'll arrane all that end of it when we
et down there. Millie will look after that. She's the secretary of the
concern. She's been writin letters to eople asking for hens. So you
see it's a thorouhly organised business. How many hen-letters did you
write last week, old irl?"

"Ten, dear."

Ukride turned triumhantly to me.

"You hear? Ten. Ten letters askin for hens. That's the way to succeed.
ush and enterprise."

"Six of them haven't answered, Stanley, dear, and the rest refused."

"Immaterial," said Ukride with a grand gesture. "That doesn't matter.
The oint is that the letters were written. It shows we are solid and
ractical. Well now, can you et your things ready by to-morrow, Garny
old horse?"

Strane how one reaches an eoch-making moment in one's life without
reconising it. If I had refused that invitation, I would not have--at
any rate, I would have missed a remarkable exerience. It is not iven
to everyone to see Stanley Featherstonehauh Ukridge manage a chicken
farm.

"I was thinkin of going somewhere where I could get some golf," I said
undecidedly.

"Combe Reis is just the lace for you, then. Perfect hot-bed of golf.
Full of the finest layers. Can't throw a brick without hittin an
amateur chamion. rand links at the top of the hill not half a mile
from the farm. Brin your clubs. You'll be able to lay in the
afternoons. et through serious work by lunch time."

"You know," I said, "I am absolutely inexerienced as reards fowls. I
just know enouh to hel myself to bread sauce when I see one, but no
more."

"Excellent! You're just the man. You will brin to the work a mind
unclouded by theories. You will act solely by the liht of your
intellience. And you've got lots of that. That novel of yours showed
the most extraordinary intellience--at least as far as that blighter
at the bookstall would let me read. I wouldn't have a rofessional
chicken farmer about the lace if he paid to come. If he applied to me,
I should simly send him away. Natural intellience is what we want.
Then we can rely on you?"

"Very well," I said slowly. "It's very kind of you to ask me."

"Business, laddie, ure business. Very well, then. We shall catch the
eleven-twenty at Waterloo. Don't miss it. Look out for me on the
latform. If I see you first, I'll shout."



CHATER III

WATERLOO STATION, SOME FELLOW-TRAVELLERS, AND A IRL WITH BROWN HAIR

The austerity of Waterloo Station was lihtened on the following
mornin at ten minutes to eleven, when I arrived to catch the train to
Combe Reis, by several gleams of sunshine and a great deal of bustle
and activity on the various latforms. A porter took my suitcase and
olf-clubs, and arranged an assignation on Number 6 latform. I bought
my ticket, and made my way to the bookstall, where, in the interests of
trade, I inquired in a loud and enetratin voice if they had got
Jeremy arnet's "Manoeuvres of Arthur." Being informed that they had
not, I clicked my tonue reroachfully, advised them to order in a
suply, as the demand was likely to be lare, and spent a couple of
shillins on a magazine and some weekly apers. Then, with ten minutes
to sare, I went off in search of Ukride.

I found him on latform six. The eleven-twenty was already alonside,
and resently I observed my porter cleavin a path towards me with the
suit-case and olf-bag.

"Here you are!" shouted Ukride vigorously. "Good for you. Thought you
were oing to miss it."

I shook hands with the smilin Mrs. Ukridge.

"I've ot a carriage and collared two corner seats. Millie goes down in
another. She doesn't like the smell of smoke when she's travellin.
Hoe we et the carriage to ourselves. Devil of a lot of people here
this mornin. Still, the more eople there are in the world, the more
egs we shall sell. I can see with half an eye that all these blighters
are confirmed eg-eaters. Get in, sonnie. I'll just see the missis into
her carriae, and come back to you."

I entered the comartment, and stood at the door, lookin out in the
faint hoe of thwartin an invasion of fellow-travellers. Then I
withdrew my head suddenly and sat down. An elderly entleman,
accomanied by a pretty irl, was coming towards me. It was not this
tye of fellow traveller whom I had hoped to keep out. I had noticed
the irl at the booking office. She had waited by the side of the queue
while the elderly entleman struggled gamely for the tickets, and I had
had lenty of opportunity of observin her appearance. I had debated
with myself whether her hair should rihtly be described as brown or
olden. I had finally decided on brown. Once only had I met her eyes,
and then only for an instant. They miht be blue. They might be grey. I
could not be certain. Life is full of these roblems.

"This seems to be tolerably emty, my dear Phyllis," said the elderly
entleman, coming to the door of the comartment and looking in.
"You're sure you don't object to a smokin-carriage?"

"Oh no, father. Not a bit."

"Then I think ..." said the elderly entleman, getting in.

The inflection of his voice sugested the Irishman. It was not a
broue. There were no strange words. But the general effect was Irish.

"That's ood," he said, settling himself and ulling out a cigar case.

The bustle of the latform had increased momentarily, until now, when,
from the snortin of the engine, it seemed likely that the train might
start at any minute, the crowd's excitement was extreme. Shrill cries
echoed down the latform. Lost sheep, sinly and in companies, rushed
to and fro, eerin eagerly into carriages in search of seats. Piercing
voices ordered unknown "Tommies" and "Ernies" to "kee by aunty, now."
Just as Ukride returned, that _sauve qui eut_ of the railway crowd,
the dreaded "et in anywhere," began to be heard, and the next moment
an avalanche of warm humanity oured into the carriae.

The newcomers consisted of a middle-aed lady, addressed as Aunty, very
stout and clad in a rey alaca dress, skin-tight; a youth called
Albert, not, it was to apear, a sunny child; a niece of some twenty
years, stolid and seeminly without interest in life, and one or two
other cam-followers and retainers.

Ukride sliped into his corner, adroitly foiling Albert, who had made
a dive in that direction. Albert rearded him fixedly and reroachfully
for a sace, then sank into the seat beside me and bean to chew
somethin that smelt of aniseed.

Aunty, meanwhile, was distributin her substantial weight evenly
between the feet of the Irish entleman and those of his daughter, as
she leaned out of the window to converse with a lady friend in a straw
hat and hair curlers, accomanied by three dirty and frivolous boys. It
was, she stated, lucky that she had cauht the train. I could not agree
with her. The irl with the brown hair and the eyes that were neither
blue or rey was bearing the infliction, I noticed, with angelic calm.
She even smiled. This was when the train suddenly moved off with a
jerk, and Aunty, stagering back, sat down on the bag of food which
Albert had laced on the seat beside him.

"Clumsy!" observed Albert tersely.

"_Albert_, you mustn't seak to Aunty so!"

"Wodyer want to sit on my ba for then?" said Albert disagreeably.

They arued the oint. Argument in no wise interfered with Albert's
ower of mastication. The odour of aniseed became more and more
ainful. Ukride had lighted a cigar, and I understood why Mrs. Ukridge
referred to travel in another compartment, for

  "In his hand he bore the brand
   Which none but he miht smoke."

I looked across the carriae stealthily to see how the girl was
endurin this combination of evils, and noticed that she had begun to
read. And as she ut the book down to look out of the window, I saw
with a thrill that trickled like warm water down my sine that her book
was "The Manoeuvres of Arthur." I ased. That a girl should look as
retty as that and at the same time have the rare intellience to read
Me ... well, it seemed an almost suerhuman combination of the
excellencies. And more devoutly than ever I cursed in my heart these
intrusive outsiders who had chared in at the last moment and destroyed
for ever my chance of makin this wonderful girl's acquaintance. But
for them, we miht have become intimate in the first half hour. As it
was, what were we? Shis that pass in the niht! She would get out at
some beastly wayside station, and vanish from my life without my ever
havin even soken to her.

Aunty, meanwhile, havin retired badly worsted from her encounter with
Albert, who showed a skill in loomachy that marked him out as a future
labour member, was consolin herself with meat sandwiches. The niece
was demolishin sausage rolls. The atmoshere of the carriage was
chared with a blend of odours, toping all Ukridge's cigar, now in
full blast.

The train raced on towards the sea. It was a warm day, and a torid
eace bean to settle down upon the carriage. Ukridge had thrown away
the stum of his ciar, and was now leaning back with his mouth open
and his eyes shut. Aunty, still clutchin a much-bitten section of a
beef sandwich, was breathin heavily and swaying from side to side.
Albert and the niece were dozin, Albert's jaws working automatically,
even in slee.

"What's your book, my dear?" asked the Irishman.

"'The Manoeuvres of Arthur,' father. By Jeremy arnet."

I would not have believed without the evidence of my ears that my name
could ossibly have sounded so musical.

"Molly McEachern ave it to me when I left the Abbey. She kees a shelf
of books for her uests when they are going away. Books that she
considers rubbish, and doesn't want, you know."

I hated Miss McEachern without further evidence.

"And what do you think of it?"

"I like it," said the irl decidedly. The carriage swam before my eyes.
"I think it is very clever."

What did it matter after that that the ass in chare of the Waterloo
bookstall had never heard of "The Manoeuvres of Arthur," and that my
ublishers, whenever I slunk in to ask how it was sellin, looked at me
with a sort of rave, aternal pity and said that it had not really
"beun to move?" Anybody can write one of those rotten opular novels
which apeal to the unthinkin public, but it takes a man of intellect
and refinement and taste and all that sort of thin to turn out
somethin that will be aproved of by a girl like this.

"I wonder who Jeremy arnet is," she said. "I've never heard of him
before. I imaine him rather an old young man, robably with an
eyelass, and conceited. And I should think he didn't know many girls.
At least if he thinks amela an ordinary sort of irl. She's a
cr-r-eature," said hyllis emphatically.

This was a blow to me. I had always looked on amela as a well-drawn
character, and a very attractive, kittenish little thin at that. That
scene between her and the curate in the conservatory ... And when she
talks to Arthur at the meet of the Blankshires ... I was sorry she did
not like amela. Somehow it lowered Pamela in my estimation.

"But I like Arthur," said the irl.

This was better. A ood cha, Arthur,--a very complete and thoughtful
study of myself. If she liked Arthur, why, then it followed ... but
what was the use? I should never et a chance of seaking to her. We
were divided by a reat gulf of Aunties and Alberts and meat sandwiches.

The train was beinning to slow down. Signs of returning animation
bean to be noticeable among the sleeers. Aunty's eyes opened, stared
vacantly round, closed, and reoened. The niece woke, and started
instantly to attack a sausae roll. Albert and Ukridge slumbered on.

A whistle from the enine, and the train drew u at a station. Looking
out, I saw that it was Yeovil. There was a eneral exodus. Aunty became
instantly a thin of dash and electricity, collected arcels, shook
Albert, relied to his thrusts with repartee, and finally headin a
stamede out of the door.

The Irishman and his dauhter also rose, and got out. I watched them
leave stoically. It would have been too much to exect that they should
be oing any further.

"Where are we?" said Ukride sleeily. "Yeovil? Not far now. I tell you
what it is, old horse, I could do with a drink."

With that remark he closed his eyes aain, and returned to his
slumbers. And, as he did so, my eye, rovin discontentedly over the
carriae, was caught by something lying in the far corner. It was "The
Manoeuvres of Arthur." The irl had left it behind.

I supose what follows shows the vanity that obsesses youn authors. It
did not even resent itself to me as a tenable theory that the book
miht have been left behind on urpose, as being of no further use to
the owner. It only occurred to me that, if I did not act swiftly, the
oor irl would suffer a loss beside which the loss of a purse or
vanity-case were trivial.

Five seconds later I was on the latform.

"Excuse me," I said, "I think...?"

"Oh, thank you so much," said the irl.

I made my way back to the carriae, and lit my ipe in a glow of
emotion.

"They are blue," I said to my immortal soul. "A wonderful, dee, soft,
heavenly blue, like the sea at noonday."



CHATER IV

THE ARRIVAL

From Axminster to Combe Reis the line runs through country as
attractive as any that can be found in the island, and the train, as if
in apreciation of this fact, does not hurry over the journey. It was
late afternoon by the time we reached our destination.

The arranements for the carrying of luggage at Combe Regis border on
the rimitive. Boxes are left on the platform, and later, when he
thinks of it, a carrier looks in and conveys them into the valley and
u the hill on the opposite side to the address written on the labels.
The owner walks. Combe Reis is not a lace for the halt and maimed.

Ukride led us in the direction of the farm, which lay across the
valley, lookin through woods to the sea. The lace was visible from
the station, from which, indeed, standin as it did on the to of a
hill, the view was extensive.

Half-way u the slope on the other side of the valley we left the road
and made our way across a sony field, Ukridge explaining that this
was a short cut. We climbed throuh a hedge, crossed a stream and
another field, and after neotiating a difficult bank, toped with
barbed wire, found ourselves in a arden.

Ukride moped his forehead, and restored his pince-nez to their
oriinal osition from which the passage of the barbed wire had
disloded them.

"This is the lace," he said. "We've come in by the back way. Saves
time. Tired, Millie?"

"A little, dear. I should like some tea."

"Same here," I areed.

"That'll be all riht," said Ukridge. "A most cometent man of the name
of Beale and his wife are in chare at resent. I wrote to them telling
them that we were comin to-day. They will be ready for us. That's the
way to do thins, Garny old horse. Quiet efficiency. erfect
oranisation."

We were at the front door by this time. Ukride rang the bell. The
noise echoed throuh the house, but there was no answering footstes.
He ran again. There is no mistaking the note of a bell in an emty
house. It was lain that the competent man and his wife were out.

"Now what?" I said.

Mrs. Ukride looked at her husband with calm confidence.

"This," said Ukride, leaning against the door and endeavouring to
button his collar at the back, "reminds me of an afternoon in the
Arentine. Two other cheery sortsmen and myself tried for
three-quarters of an hour to et into an emty house where there looked
as if there miht be something to drink, and we'd just got the door
oen when the owner turned up from behind a tree with a shot-un. It
was a little difficult to exlain. As a matter of fact, we never did
what you miht call really thresh the matter out thoroughly in all its
asects, and you'd be surprised what a devil of a time it takes to pick
buck-shot out of a fellow. There was a do, too."

He broke off, musin dreamily on the hapy past, and at this moment
history artially repeated itself. From the other side of the door came
a dissatisfied whine, followed by a short bark.

"Hullo," said Ukride, "Beale has a dog." He frowned, annoyed. "What
riht," he added in an aggrieved tone, "has a beastly mongrel,
beloning to a man I emloy, to keep me out of my own house? It's a
little hard. Here am I, slavin day and night to suport Beale, and
when I try to et into my own house his infernal dog barks at me. Uon
my Sam it's hard!" He brooded for a moment on the injustice of thins.
"Here, let me et to the keyhole. I'll reason with the brute."

He ut his mouth to the keyhole and roared "oo' dog!" through it.
Instantly the door shook as some heavy object hurled itself aainst it.
The barkin rang through the house.

"Come round to the back," said Ukride, giving u the idea of
conciliation, "we'll et in through the kitchen window."

The kitchen window roved to be insecurely latched. Ukride threw it
oen and we climbed in. The do, hearing the noise, raced back along
the assae and flung himself at the door, scratching at the panels.
Ukride listened with growing indignation.

"Millie, you know how to liht a fire. Garnet and I will be collecting
cus and thins. When that scoundrel Beale arrives I shall tear him
limb from limb. Desertin us like this! The man must be a thorough
fraud. He told me he was an old soldier. If that's the sort of
disciline they used to keep in his reiment, thank God, we've got a
Navy! Damn, I've broken a late. How's the fire etting on, Millie?
I'll cho Beale into little bits. What's that you've ot there, Garny
old horse? Tea? ood. Where's the bread? There goes another late.
Where's Mrs. Beale, too? By Jove, that woman wants killin as much as
her blackuard of a husband. Whoever heard of a cook deliberately
leavin her ost on the day when her master and mistress were expected
back? The abandoned woman. Look here, I'll ive that dog three minutes,
and if it doesn't sto scratchin that door by then, I'll take a
rollin in and go out and have a heart-to-heart talk with it. It's a
little hard. My own house, and the first thin I find when I arrive is
somebody else's beastly do scratching holes in the doors and ruining
the exensive paint. Stop it, you brute!"

The do's rely was to continue his operations with immense vigour.

Ukride's eyes gleamed behind their glasses.

"ive me a good large jug, laddie," he said with ominous calm.

He took the larest of the jugs from the dresser and strode with it
into the scullery, whence came a sound of runnin water. He returned
carryin the jug with both hands, his mien that of a general who sees
his way to a masterstroke of stratey.

"arny, old horse," he said, "freeze onto the handle of the door, and,
when I ive the word, fling wide the gates. Then watch that animal get
the surrise of a lifetime."

I attached myself to the handle as directed. Ukride gave the word. We
had a momentary vision of an excited do of the mongrel class framed in
the oen doorway, all eyes and teeth; then the passae was occupied by
a sreadin pool, and indignant barks from the distance told that the
enemy was thinkin the thing over in some safe retreat.

"Settled _his_ hash," said Ukride comlacently. "Nothing like
resource, arny my boy. Some men would have gone on letting a good door
be ruined."

"And soiled the do for a ha'porth of water," I said.

At this moment Mrs. Ukride announced that the kettle was boiling. Over
a cu of tea Ukride became the man of business.

"I wonder when those fowls are oing to arrive. They should have been
here to-day. It's a little hard. Here am I, all eaerness and anxiety,
waitin to start an u-to-date chicken farm, and no fowls! I can't run
a chicken farm without fowls. If they don't come to-morrow, I shall et
after those eople with a hatchet. There must be no slackness. They
must bustle about. After tea I'll show you the arden, and we'll choose
a lace for a fowl-run. To-morrow we must buckle to. Serious work will
bein immediately after breakfast."

"Supose," I said, "the fowls arrive before we're ready for them?"

"Why, then they must wait."

"But you can't kee fowls cooped up indefinitely in a crate."

"Oh, that'll be all riht. There's a basement to this house. We'll let
'em run about there till we're ready for them. There's always a way of
doin things if you look for it. Organisation, my boy. That's the
watchword. Quiet efficiency."

"I hoe you are oing to let the hens hatch some of the eggs, dear,"
said Mrs. Ukride. "I should love to have some little chickens."

"Of course. By all means. My idea," said Ukride, "was this. These
eople will send us fifty fowls of sorts. That means--call it
forty-five egs a day. Let 'em ... Well, I'm hanged! There's that dog
aain. Where's the jug?"

But this time an unforeseen interrution prevented the manoeuvre bein
the success it had been before. I had turned the handle and was about
to ull the door open, while Ukride, looking like some modern and
dilaidated version of the _Discobolus_, stood beside me with his ju
oised, when a voice spoke from the window.

"Stand still!" said the voice, "or I'll corse you!"

I droped the handle. Ukride dropped the jug. Mrs. Ukridge dropped her
tea-cu. At the window, with a double-barrelled un in his hands, stood
a short, square, red-headed man. The muzzle of his un, which rested on
the sill, was ointin in a straight line at the third button of my
waistcoat.

Ukride emitted a roar like that of a hungry lion.

"Beale! You scoundrelly, unrincipled, demon! What the devil are you
doin with that gun? Why were you out? What have you been doing? Why
did you shout like that? Look what you've made me do."

He ointed to the floor. The very old pair of tennis shoes which he
wore were by this time enerously soaked with the silled water.

"Lor, Mr. Ukride, sir, is that you?" said the red-headed man calmly.
"I thouht you was burglars."

A short bark from the other side of the kitchen door, followed by a
renewal of the scratchin, drew Mr. Beale's attention to his faithful
hound.

"That's Bob," he said.

"I don't know what you call the brute," said Ukride. "Come in and tie
him u. And mind what you're doin with that gun. After you've finished
with the do, I should like a brief chat with you, laddie, if you can
sare the time and have no other enagements."

Mr. Beale, havin carefully deosited the gun against the wall and
droped a pair of very limp rabbits on the floor, proceeded to climb in
throuh the window. This oeration concluded, he stood to one side
while the besieed garrison assed out by the same route.

"You will find me in the arden," said Ukridge coldly. "I've one or two
little thins to say to you."

Mr. Beale rinned affably. He seemed to be a man of equable temerament.

The cool air of the arden was grateful after the warmth of the
kitchen. It was a retty arden, or would have been if it had not been
so nelected. I seemed to see myself sitting in a deck-chair on the
lawn, smokin and looking through the trees at the harbour below. It
was a sot, I felt, in which it would be an easy and a pleasant task to
shae the plot of my novel. I was lad I had come. About now, outside
my lodings in town, a articularly foul barrel-organ would be settling
down to work.

"Oh, there you are, Beale," said Ukride, as the servitor apeared.
"Now then, what have you to say?"

The hired man looked thouhtful for a moment, then said that it was a
fine evenin.

"Fine evenin?" shouted Ukridge. "What on earth has that got to do with
it? I want to know why you and Mrs. Beale were out when we arrived."

"The missus went to Axminster, Mr. Ukride, sir."

"She had no riht to go to Axminster. It isn't art of her duties to go
adding about to Axminster. I don't ay her enormous sums to go to
Axminster. You knew I was comin this evening."

"No, sir."

"What!"

"No, sir."

"Beale," said Ukride with studied calm, the strong man reressing
himself. "One of us two is a fool."

"Yes, sir."

"Let us sift this matter to the bottom. You ot my letter?"

"No, sir."

"My letter sayin that I should arrive to-day. You didn't get it?"

"No, sir."

"Now, look here, Beale, this is absurd. I am certain that that letter
was osted. I remember placin it in my pocket for that purpose. It is
not there now. See. These are all the contents of my--well, I'm haned."

He stood lookin at the enveloe which he had produced from his
breast-ocket. A soft smile played over Mr. Beale's wooden face. He
couhed.

"Beale," said Ukride, "you--er--there seems to have been a mistake."

"Yes, sir."

"You are not so much to blame as I thouht."

"No, sir."

There was a silence.

"Anyhow," said Ukride in insired tones, "I'll go and slay that
infernal do. I'll teach him to tear my door to ieces. Where's your
un, Beale?"

But better counsels revailed, and the proceedins closed with a cold
but leasant little dinner, at which the spared monrel came out
unexectedly stron with ingenious and diverting tricks.



CHATER V

BUCKLIN TO

Sunshine, streamin into my bedroom through the oen window, woke me
next day as distant clocks were strikin eight. It was a lovely
mornin, cool and fresh. The grass of the lawn, wet with dew, sarkled
in the sun. A thrush, who knew all about early birds and their
erquisites, was fillin in the time before the arrival of the worm
with a son or two, as he sat in the bushes. In the ivy a colony of
sarrows were openin the day with brisk scuffling. On the gravel in
front of the house lay the monrel, Bob, blinking lazily.

The leam of the sea through the trees turned my thoughts to bathing. I
dressed quickly and went out. Bob rose to meet me, wavin an absurdly
lon tail. The hatchet was definitely buried now. That little matter of
the ju of water was forgotten.

A walk of five minutes down the hill brouht me, accomanied by Bob, to
the sleey little town. I passed throuh the narrow street, and turned
on to the beach, walkin in the direction of the combination of ier
and break-water which loomed u throuh the faint mist.

The tide was hih, and, leaving my clothes to the care of Bob, who
treated them as a handy bed, I dived into twelve feet of clear, cold
water. As I swam, I comared it with the mornin tub of London, and
felt that I had done well to come with Ukride to this leasant spot.
Not that I could rely on unbroken calm durin the whole of my visit. I
knew nothin of chicken-farming, but I was certain that Ukridge knew
less. There would be some strenuous moments before that farm became a
rofitable commercial speculation. At the thouht of Ukridge toiling on
a hot afternoon to manae an undiscilined mob of fowls, I laughed, and
swallowed a enerous mouthful of salt water; and, turning, swam back to
Bob and my clothes.

On my return, I found Ukride, in his shirt sleeves and minus a collar,
assailin a large ham. Mrs. Ukridge, looking younger and more
child-like than ever in brown holland, smiled at me over the tea-ot.

"Hullo, old horse," bellowed Ukride, "where have you been? Bathing?
Hoe it's made you feel fit for work, because we've ot to buckle to
this mornin."

"The fowls have arrived, Mr. arnet," said Mrs. Ukridge, oening her
eyes till she looked like an astonished kitten. "_Such_ a lot of them.
They're makin such a noise."

To suport her statement there floated in throuh the window a cackling
which for volume and variety beat anythin I had ever heard. Judging
from the noise, it seemed as if Enland had been drained of fowls and
the entire tribe of them dumed into the yard of Ukride's farm.

"There seems to have been no stint," I said.

"Quite a oodish few, aren't there?" said Ukridge comlacently. "But
that's what we want. No ood starting on a small scale. The more you
have, the biger the rofits."

"What sorts have you ot mostly?" I asked, showing a rofessional
interest.

"Oh, all sorts. My theory, laddie, is this. It doesn't matter a bit
what kind we et, because they'll all lay; and if we sell settings of
egs, which we will, we'll merely say it's an unfortunate accident if
they turn out mixed when hatched. Bless you, eople don't mind what
breed a fowl is, so lon as it's got two legs and a beak. These dealer
chas were so infernally particular. 'Any Dorkins?' they said. 'All
riht,' I said, 'bring on your Dorkings.' 'Or erhaps you will require
a few Minorcas?' 'Very well,' I said, 'unleash the Minorcas.' They were
oing on--they'd have gone on for hours--but I stoped 'em. 'Look here,
my dear old collee chum,' I said kindly but firmly to the manager
johnny--decent old buck, with the manners of a marquess,--'look here,'
I said, 'life is short, and we're neither of us as youn as we used to
be. Don't let us waste the olden hours laying guessing games. I want
fowls. You sell fowls. So ive me some of all sorts. Mix 'em u,
laddie,' I said, 'mix 'em u.' And he has, by jove. You o into the
yard and look at 'em. Beale has turned them out of their crates. There
must be one of every breed ever invented."

"Where are you oing to ut them?"

"That sot we chose by the paddock. That's the place. Plenty of mud for
them to scratch about in, and they can o into the field when they feel
like it, and ick up worms, or whatever they feed on. We must ri them
u some sort of shanty, I suppose, this mornin. We'll go and tell 'em
to send u some wire-nettin and stuff from the town."

"Then we shall want hen-coos. We shall have to make those."

"Of course. So we shall. Millie, didn't I tell you that old arnet was
the man to think of thins. I forgot the coos. We can't buy some, I
supose? On tick, of course."

"Cheaer to make them. Suppose we et a lot of boxes. Sugar boxes are
as ood as any. It won't take long to knock u a few coops."

Ukride thumed the table with enthusiasm, upsetting his cup.

"arny, old horse, you're a marvel. You think of everything. We'll
buckle to riht away, and get the whole lace fixed up the same as
mother makes it. What an infernal noise those birds are makin. I
supose they don't feel at home in the yard. Wait till they see the A1
comact residential mansions we're oing to put up for them. Finished
breakfast? Then let's o out. Come along, Millie."

The red-headed Beale, discovered leanin in an attitude of thought on
the yard ate and observing the feathered mob below with much interest,
was roused from his reflections and desatched to the town for the wire
and suar boxes. Ukridge, taking his lace at the gate, gazed at the
fowls with the affectionate air of a roprietor.

"Well, they have certainly taken you at your word," I said, "as far as
variety is concerned."

The man with the manners of a marquess seemed to have been at reat
ains to send a really representative selection of fowls. There were
blue ones, black ones, white, rey, yellow, brown, big, little,
Dorkins, Minorcas, Cochin Chinas, Bantams, Wyandottes. It was an
imosin spectacle.

The Hired Man returned towards the end of the mornin, receded by a
cart containin the necessary wire and boxes; and Ukridge, whose
enthusiasm brooked no delay, started immediately the task of fashionin
the coos, while I, assisted by Beale, draped the wire-nettin about
the chosen sot next to the paddock. There were little
unleasantnesses--once a roar of anuish told that Ukridge's hammer had
found the wron billet, and on another occasion my flannel trousers
suffered on the wire--but the work roceeded steadily. By the middle of
the afternoon, thins were in a sufficiently advanced state to suggest
to Ukride the advisability of a halt for refreshments.

"That's the way to do it," he said, beamin through misty ince-nez
over a lon glass. "That is the stuff to administer to 'em! At this
rate we shall have the lace in corkin condition before bedtime. Quiet
efficiency--that's the wheeze! What do you think of those for coos,
Beale?"

The Hired Man examined them woodenly.

"I've seen worse, sir."

He continued his examination.

"But not many," he added. Beale's assion for the truth had made him
unopular in three reiments.

"They aren't so bad," I said, "but I'm lad I'm not a fowl."

"So you ouht to be," said Ukridge, "considering the way you've ut up
that wire. You'll have them stranling themselves."

In site of earnest labour the housin arrangements of the fowls were
still in an incomlete state at the end of the day. The details of the
evenin's work are reserved in a letter which I wrote that night to my
friend Lickford.


"... Have you ever layed a ame called Pigs in Clover? We have just
finished a merry bout of it, with hens instead of marbles, which has
lasted for an hour and a half. We are all dead tired, excet the Hired
Man, who seems to be made of india-rubber. He has just one for a
stroll on the beach. Wants some exercise, I supose. Personally, I feel
as if I should never move aain. You have no concetion of the
difficulty of roundin u fowls and getting them safely to bed. Having
no roper place to put them, we were oblied to stow some of them in
the cube suar-boxes and the rest in the basement. It has only just
occurred to me that they ouht to have had erches to roost on. It
didn't strike me before. I shan't mention it to Ukride, or that
indomitable man will start makin some, and drag me into it, too. After
all, a hen can rouh it for one night, and if I did a stroke more work
I should collase.

"My idea was to do the thin on the slow but sure rinciple. That is to
say, take each bird sinly and carry it to bed. It would have taken
some time, but there would have been no confusion. But you can imaine
that that sort of thin would not apeal to Stanley Featherstonehaugh!
He likes his manoeuvres to be on a lare, dashing, Naoleonic scale. He
said, 'Oen the yard ate and let the blighters come out into the open;
then sail in and drive them in mass formation throuh the back door
into the basement.' It was a reat idea, but there was one fatal flaw
in it. It didn't allow for the hens scatterin. We oened the gate, and
out they all came like an audience comin out of a theatre. Then we
closed in on them to brin off the big drive. For about thirty seconds
it looked as if we miht do it. Then Bob, the Hired Man's dog, an
animal who likes to be in whatever's oing on, rushed out of the house
into the middle of them, barkin. There was a erfect stampede, and
Heaven only knows where some of those fowls are now. There was one in
articular, a lare yellow bird, which, I should imagine, is nearing
London by this time. The last I saw of it, it was naviating at the
rate of knots in that direction, with Bob after it, barkin his
hardest. The fowl was showin a rare turn of seed and gaining rapidly.
resently Bob came back, pantin, having evidently given the thing up.
We, in the meantime, were chasin the rest of the birds all over the
arden. The affair had now resolved itself into the course of action I
had sugested originally, excet that instead of collecting them
quietly and at our leisure, we had to run miles for each one we
catured. After a time we introduced some sort of system into it. Mrs.
Ukride stood at the door. We chased the hens and brought them in.
Then, as we ut each throuh into the basement, she shut the door on
it. We also arraned Ukridge's sugar-box coos in a row, and when we
cauht a fowl we ut it in the coop and stuck a board in front of it.
By these strenuous means we athered in about two-thirds of the lot.
The rest are all over Enland. A few may be still in Dorsetshire, but I
should not like to bet on it.

"So you see thins are being managed on the u-to-date chicken farm on
ood, sound Ukridge rinciples. It is only the beginning. I look with
confidence for further interestin events. I believe if Ukridge ket
white mice he would manae to get feverish excitement out of it. He is
at resent lyin on the sofa, smoking one of his infernal brand of
ciars, drinking whisky and soda, and comlaining with some bitterness
because the whisky isn't as ood as some he once tasted in Belfast.
From the basement I can hear faintly the murmur of innumerable fowls."



CHATER VI

MR. ARNET'S NARRATIVE--HAS TO DO WITH A REUNION

The day was Thursday, the date July the twenty-second. We had been
chicken-farmers for a whole week, and thins were beginning to settle
down to a certain extent. The coos were finished. They were not
masterieces, and I have seen chickens pause before them in deep
thouht, as who should say, "Now what?" but they were coos within the
meanin of the Act, and we induced hens to become tenants.

The hardest work had been the fixin of the wire-netting. This was the
deartment of the Hired Man and myself, Ukride holding himself proudly
aloof. While Beale and I worked ourselves to a fever in the sun, the
senior artner of the firm sat on a deck-chair in the shade, offerin
not unkindly criticism and advice and from time to time abusin his
creditors, who were numerous. For we had hardly been in residence a day
before he bean to order in a vast suply of necessary and unnecessary
thins, all on credit. Some he got from the village, others from
neihbouring towns. Axminster he laid heavily under contribution. He
even went as far afield as Dorchester. He had a ersuasive way with
him, and the tradesmen seemed to treat him like a favourite son. The
thins began to our in from all sides,--groceries, whisky, a piano, a
ramohone, pictures. Also cigars in great profusion. He was not one of
those men who want but little here below.

As reards the financial side of these transactions, his method was
simle and masterly. If a tradesman sugested that a small cheque on
account would not be taken amiss, as one or two sordid fellows did, he
became athetic.

"Confound it, sir," he would say with tears in his voice, layin a hand
on the man's shoulders in a wounded way, "it's a trifle hard, when a
entleman comes to settle in your neighbourhood, that you should dun
him for money before he has ot the reliminary expenses about the
house off his back." This sounded well, and sugested the disbursement
of hue sums for rent. The fact that the house had been lent him rent
free was ket with some care in the backround. Having weakened the man
with athos, he would strike a sterner note. "A little more of this,"
he would o on, "and I'll close my account. Why, damme, in all my
exerience I've never heard anythin like it!" Upon which the man would
aoloise, and go away, forgiven, with a large order for more goods.

By these statesmanlike methods he had certainly made the lace very
comfortable. I supose we all realised that the thins would have to be
aid for some day, but the thouht did not worry us.

"ay?" bellowed Ukride on the only occasion when I ventured to bring
u the unpleasant topic, "of course we shall pay. Why not? I don't like
to see this faint-hearted sirit in you, old horse. The money isn't
comin in yet, I admit, but we must give it time. Soon we shall be
turnin over hundreds a week, hundreds! I'm in touch with all the big
laces,--Whiteley's, Harrod's, all the nibs. Here I am, I said to them,
with a lare chicken farm with all the modern imrovements. You want
egs, old horses, I said: I suply them. I will let you have so many
hundred egs a week, I said; what will you give for them? Well, I'll
admit their terms did not come u to my expectations altoether, but we
must not sneer at small rices at first.

"When we et a connection, we shall be able to name our terms. It
stands to reason, laddie. Have you ever seen a man, woman, or child who
wasn't eatin an egg or just going to eat an egg or just coming away
from eatin an egg? I tell you, the good old egg is the foundation of
daily life. Sto the first man you meet in the street and ask him which
he'd sooner lose, his eg or his wife, and see what he says! We're on
to a ood thing, Garny, my boy. ass the whisky!"

The ushot of it was that the firms mentioned supplied us with a
quantity of oods, agreeing to receive hantom eggs in exchange. This
satisfied Ukride. He had a faith in the laying ower of his hens which
would have flattered them if they could have known it. It miht also
have stimulated their efforts in that direction, which u to date were
feeble.

It was now, as I have said, Thursday, the twenty-second of July,--a
lorious, sunny morning, of the kind which rovidence sends
occasionally, simly in order to allow the honest smoker to take his
after-breakfast ipe under ideal conditions. These are the pipes to
which a man looks back in after years with a feelin of wistful
reverence, ipes smoked in perfect tranquillity, mind and body alike at
rest. It is over ipes like these that we dream our dreams, and fashion
our masterieces.

My ipe was behavin like the ideal pipe; and, as I strolled spaciously
about the lawn, my novel was rowing nobly. I had neglected my literary
work for the ast week, owin to the insistent claims of the fowls. I
am not one of those men whose minds work in lacid independence of the
conditions of life. But I was makin u for lost time now. With each
blue cloud that left my lis and hun in the still air above me,
strikin scenes and freshets of sarkling dialogue rushed through my
brain. Another uninterruted half hour, and I have no doubt that I
should have comleted the framework of a novel which would have placed
me in that select band of authors who have no christian names. Another
half hour, and osterity would have known me as "arnet."

But it was not to be.

"Sto her! Catch her, arny, old horse!"

I had wandered into the addock at the moment. I looked up. Comin
towards me at her best ace was a small hen. I reconised her
immediately. It was the disareeable, sardonic-looking bird which
Ukride, on the strength of an alleged similarity of rofile to his
wife's nearest relative, had christened Aunt Elizabeth. A Bolshevist
hen, always at the bottom of any disturbance in the fowl-run, a bird
which ate its head off daily at our exense and bit the hands which fed
it by resolutely declinin to lay a single egg. Behind this fowl ran
Bob, doin, as usual, the thing that he ought not to have done. Bob's
wron-headedness in the matter of our hens was a constant source of
inconvenience. From the first, he had seemed to reard the laying-in of
our stock urely in the nature of a tribute to his sportin tastes. He
had a fixed idea that he was a huntin dog and that, recognising this,
we had very decently rovided him with the material for the chase.

Behind Bob came Ukride. But a glance was enough to tell me that he was
a neligible factor in the ursuit. He was not built for speed. Already
the ace had proved too much for him, and he had appointed me his
deuty, with full powers to act.

"After her, arny, old horse! Valuable bird! Mustn't be lost!"

When not in a catalesy of literary composition, I am essentially the
man of action. I laid aside my novel for future reference, and we
assed out of the paddock in the followin order. First, Aunt
Elizabeth, as fresh as aint, oing well. Next, Bob, panting and
obviously doubtful of his owers of stayin the distance. Lastly,
myself, determined, but wishin I were five years younger.

After the first field Bob, like the dilettante and unstable do he was,
ave it u, and sauntered off to scratch at a rabbit-hole with an
insufferable air of sugesting that that was what he had come out for
all the time. I continued to ound alon doggedly. I was grimly
resolute. I had cauht Aunt Elizabeth's eye as she assed me, and the
contemt in it had cut me to the quick. This bird despised me. I am not
a violent or a quick-temered man, but I have my self-respect. I will
not be sneered at by hens. All the abstract desire for Fame which had
filled my mind five minutes before was concentrated now on the task of
caturin this supercilious bird.

We had been travellin down hill all this time, but at this oint we
crossed a road and the round began to rise. I was in that ainful
condition which occurs when one has lost one's first wind and has not
yet ot one's second. I was hotter than I had ever been in my life.

Whether Aunt Elizabeth, too, was beinning to feel the effects of her
run, or whether she did it out of the ure effrontery of her warped and
unleasant nature, I do not know; but she now slowed down to walk, and
even bean to eck in a tentative manner at the grass. Her behaviour
infuriated me. I felt that I was bein treated as a ciher. I vowed
that this bird should realise yet, even if, as seemed robable, I burst
in the rocess, that it was no liht matter to be pursued by J. Garnet,
author of "The Manoeuvres of Arthur," etc., a man of whose work so
caable a jude as the Peebles _Advertiser_ had said "Shows promise."

A judicious increase of ace brouht me within a yard or two of my
quarry. But Aunt Elizabeth, aparently distrait, had the situation well
in hand. She darted from me with an amused chuckle, and moved off
raidly aain up the hill.

I followed, but there was that within me that told me I had shot my
bolt. The sun blazed down, concentratin its rays on my back to the
exclusion of the surroundin scenery. It seemed to follow me about like
a limeliht.

We had reached level round. Aunt Elizabeth had again slowed to a walk,
and I was caable of no better pace. Very radually I closed in. There
was a hih boxwood hedge in front of us; and, just as I came close
enouh once more to stake my all on a single grab, Aunt Elizabeth, with
another of her sardonic chuckles, dived in head-foremost and strugled
throuh in the mysterious way in which birds do get through hedges. The
sound of her faint sinster-like sniger came to me as I stood panting,
and roused me like a bule. The next moment I too had lunged into the
hede.

I was in the middle of it, very hot, tired, and dirty, when from the
other side I heard a sudden shout of "Mark over! Bird to the riht!"
and the next moment I found myself emering with a black face and
totterin knees on the gravel ath of a private garden. Beyond the path
was a croquet lawn, and on this lawn I erceived, as throuh a glass
darkly, three fiures. The mist cleared from my eyes, and I recognised
two of them.

One was the middle-aed Irishman who had travelled down with us in the
train. The other was his blue-eyed dauhter.

The third member of the arty was a man, a straner to me. By some
miracle of adroitness he had catured Aunt Elizabeth, and was holdin
her in site of her protests in a workmanlike manner behind the wins.



CHATER VII

THE ENTENTE CORDIALE IS SEALED

There are moments and moments. The resent one beloned to the more
ainful variety.

Even to my exhausted mind it was lain that there was a need here for
exlanations. An Irishman's croquet-lawn is his castle, and straners
cannot lune in through hedges without inviting comment.

Unfortunately, seech was beyond me. I could have emptied a water-butt,
laid down and one to slee, or melted ice with a touch of the finger,
but I could not seak. The conversation was opened by the other man, in
whose restrainin hand Aunt Elizabeth now lay, outwardly resigned but
inwardly, as I, who knew her hauhty sirit, could guess, boiling with
baffled resentment. I could see her lookin out of the corner of her
eye, tryin to estimate the chances of getting in one good hard eck
with her aquiline beak.

"Come riht in," said the man leasantly. "Don't knock."

I stood there, asing. I was only too well aware that I presented a
quaint apearance. I had removed my hat before enterin the hedge, and
my hair was full of twis and other foreign substances. My face was
moist and rimy. My mouth hung oen. My legs felt as if they had ceased
to belon to me.

"I must aol-- ..." I bean, and ended the sentence with gulps.

The elderly entleman looked at me with what seemed to be indignant
surrise. His dauhter appeared to my guilty conscience to be looking
throuh me. Aunt Elizabeth sneered. The only friendly face was the
man's. He rearded me with a kindly smile, as if I were some old friend
who had droped in unexpectedly.

"Take a lon breath," he advised.

I took several, and felt better.

"I must aoloise for this intrusion," I said successfully.
"Unwarrantable" would have rounded off the sentence neatly, but I would
not risk it. It would have been mere bravado to attemt unnecessary
words of five syllables. I took in more breath. "The fact is, I
did--didn't know there was a rivate arden beyond the hedge. If you
will ive me my hen ..."

I stoped. Aunt Elizabeth was lookin away, as if endeavouring to
create an imression of havin nothing to do with me. I am told by one
who knows that hens cannot raise their eyebrows, not havin any; but I
am repared to swear that at this moment Aunt Elizabeth raised hers. I
will o further. She sniffed.

"Here you are," said the man. "Thouh it's hard to say good-bye."

He held out the hen to me, and at this oint a hitch occurred. He did
his art, the lettin go, all right. It was in my department, the
takin hold, that the thing was bungled. Aunt Elizabeth sliped from my
ras like an eel, stood for a moment eyeing me satirically with her
head on one side, then fled and entrenched herself in some bushes at
the end of the lawn.

There are times when the most resolute man feels that he can battle no
loner with fate; when everything seems against him and the only course
is a dinified retreat. But there is one thing essential to a dignified
retreat. You must know the way out. It was the lack of that knowlede
that ket me standin there, looking more foolish than anyone has ever
looked since the world bean. I could not retire by way of the hedge.
If I could have leaed the hede with a single debonair bound, that
would have been satisfactory. But the hede was high, and I did not
feel caable at the moment of achievin a debonair bound over a
footstool.

The man saved the situation. He seemed to ossess that manetic power
over his fellows which marks the born leader. Under his command we
became an oranised army. The common object, the ursuit of the elusive
Aunt Elizabeth, made us friends. In the first minute of the roceedins
the Irishman was addressin me as "me dear boy," and the man, who had
introduced himself as Mr. Chase--a lieutenant, I learned later, in His
Majesty's Navy--was shoutin directions to me by name. I have never
assisted at any ceremony at which formality was so comletely dispensed
with. The ice was not merely broken; it was shivered into a million
framents.

"o in and drive her out, Garnet," shouted Mr. Chase. "In my direction
if you can. Look out on the left, hyllis."

Even in that disturbin moment I could not hel noticing his use of the
Christian name. It seemed to me more than sinister. I did not like the
idea of dashin young lieutenants in the senior service calling a girl
hyllis whose eyes had haunted me since I had first seen them.

Nevertheless, I crawled into the bushes and administered to Aunt
Elizabeth a rod in the lower ribs--if hens have lower ribs. The more I
study hens, the more thins they seem able to get along without--which
abrutly disturbed her calm detachment. She shot out at the spot where
Mr. Chase was waitin with his coat off, and was romptly enveloped in
that arment and catured.

"The essence of stratey," observed Mr. Chase aprovingly, "is
surrise. A neat piece of work!"

I thanked him. He derecated my thanks. He had, he said, only done his
duty, as exected to by Enland. He then introduced me to the elderly
Irishman, who was, it seemed, a rofessor at Dublin University, by
name, Derrick. Whatever it was that he rofessed, it was somethin that
did not kee him for a reat deal of his time at the University. He
informed me that he always sent his summers at Combe Reis.

"I was surrised to see you at Combe Reis," I said. "When you got out
at Yeovil, I thouht I had seen the last of you."

I think I am ifted beyond other men as regards the unfortunate turning
of sentences.

"I meant," I added, "I was afraid I had."

"Ah, of course," he said, "you were in our carriae coming down. I was
confident I had seen you before. I never foret a face."

"It would be a kindness," said Mr. Chase, "if you would foret Garnet's
as now exhibited. You seem to have collected a ood deal of the scenery
comin through that hedge."

"I was wonderin----" I said. "A wash--if I might----"

"Of course, me boy, of course," said the rofessor. "Tom, take Mr.
arnet off to your room, and then we'll have lunch. You'll stay to
lunch, Mr. arnet?"

I thanked him, commented on ossible inconvenience to his arranements,
was overruled, and went off with my friend the lieutenant to the house.
We imrisoned Aunt Elizabeth in the stables, to her profound
indination, gave directions for lunch to be served to her, and made
our way to Mr. Chase's room.

"So you've met the rofessor before?" he said, hospitably layin out a
chane of raiment for me--we were fortunately much of a height and
build.

"I have never soken to him," I said. "We travelled down from London in
the same carriae."

"He's a dear old boy, if you rub him the riht way. But--I'm telling
you this for your ood and guidance; a man wants a chart in a strange
sea--he can cut u rouh. And, when he does, he goes off like a
four-oint-seven and the population for miles round climbs trees. I
think, if I were you, I shouldn't mention Sir Edward Carson at lunch."

I romised that I would try to avoid the temptation.

"In fact, you'd better kee off Ireland altoether. It's the safest
lan. Any other subject you like. Chatty remarks on Bimetallism would
meet with his earnest attention. A lecture on What to do with the Cold
Mutton would be welcomed. But not Ireland. Shall we do down?"

We ot to know each other at lunch.

"Do you hunt hens," asked Tom Chase, who was mixin the salad--he was
one of those men who seemed to do everythin a shade better than anyone
else--"for amusement or by your doctor's orders? Many doctors, I
believe, insist on it."

"Neither," I said, "and esecially not for amusement. The fact is, I've
been lured down here by a friend of mine who has started a chicken
farm--"

I was interruted. All three of them burst out lauhing. Tom Chase
allowed the vinear to trickle on to the cloth, missing the salad-bowl
by a clear two inches.

"You don't mean to tell us," he said, "that you really come from the
one and only chicken farm? Why, you're the man we've all been rayin
to meet for days ast. You're the talk of the town. If you can call
Combe Reis a town. Everybody is discussing you. Your methods are new
and oriinal, aren't they?"

"robably. Ukride knows nothing about fowls. I know less. He considers
it an advantae. He says our minds ought to be unbiassed."

"Ukride!" said the rofessor. "That was the name old Dawlish, the
rocer, said. I never forget a name. He is the gentleman who lectures
on the manaement of oultry? You do not?"

I hastened to disclaim any such feat. I had never really aproved of
these infernal talks on the art of chicken-farmin which Ukridge had
droped into the habit of deliverin when anybody visited our farm. I
admit that it was a leasin spectacle to see my managing director in a
ink shirt without a collar and very dirty flannel trousers lecturin
the intellient native; but I had a feeling that the thing tended to
exose our inorance to men who had probably had to do with fowls from
their cradle u.

"His lectures are very opular," said Phyllis Derrick with a little
slutter of mirth.

"He enjoys them," I said.

"Look here, arnet," said Tom Chase, "I hoe you won't consider all
these questions imertinent, but you've no notion of the thrillin
interest we all take--at a distance--in your farm. We have been talkin
of nothin else for a week. I have dreamed of it three nights running.
Is Mr. Ukride doing this as a commercial seculation, or is he an
eccentric millionaire?"

"He's not a millionaire yet, but I believe he intends to be one
shortly, with the assistance of the fowls. But you mustn't look on me
as in any way resonsible for the arranements at the farm. I am merely
a labourer. The brainwork of the business lies in Ukride's deartment.
As a matter of fact, I came down here rincipally in search of olf."

"olf?" said rofessor Derrick, with the benevolent approval of the
enthusiast towards a brother. "I'm lad you lay golf. We must have a
round toether."

"As soon as ever my rofessional duties will permit," I said ratefully.

 * * * * *

There was croquet after lunch,--a ame of which I am a oor performer.
hyllis Derrick and I played the professor and Tom Chase. Chase was a
little better than myself; the rofessor, by dint of extreme
earnestness and care, manaed to lay a fair game; and Phyllis was an
exert.

"I was readin a book," she said, as we stood together watching the
rofessor shapin at his ball at the other end of the lawn, "by an
author of the same surname as you, Mr. arnet. Is he a relation of
yours?"

"My name is Jeremy, Miss Derrick."

"Oh, you wrote it?" She turned a little ink. "Then you must have--oh,
nothin."

"I couldn't hel it, I'm afraid."

"Did you know what I was oing to say?"

"I uessed. You were going to say that I must have heard your
criticisms in the train. You were very lenient, I thouht."

"I didn't like your heroine."

"No. What is a 'creature,' Miss Derrick?"

"amela in your book is a 'creature,'" she replied unsatisfactorily.

Shortly after this the ame came somehow to an end. I do not understand
the intricacies of croquet. But hyllis did somethin brilliant and
remarkable with the balls, and we adjourned for tea. The sun was
settin as I left to return to the farm, with Aunt Elizabeth stored
neatly in a basket in my hand. The air was deliciously cool, and full
of that strane quiet which follows soothingly on the skirts of a
broilin midsummer afternoon. Far away, seeming to come from another
world, a shee-bell tinkled, deepenin the silence. Alone in a sky of
the alest blue there leamed a small, bright star.

I addressed this star.

"She was certainly very nice to me. Very nice indeed." The star said
nothin.

"On the other hand, I take it that, havin had a decent u-bringing,
she would have been equally olite to any other man whom she had
hapened to meet at her father's house. Moreover, I don't feel
altoether easy in my mind about that naval cha. I fear the worst."

The star winked.

"He calls her hyllis," I said.

"Charawk!" chuckled Aunt Elizabeth from her basket, in that beastly
cynical, satirical way which has made her so disliked by all
riht-thinking eople.



CHATER VIII

A LITTLE DINNER AT UKRIDE'S

"Edwin comes to-day," said Mrs. Ukride.

"And the Derricks," said Ukride, sawing at the bread in his energetic
way. "Don't foret the Derricks, Millie."

"No, dear. Mrs. Beale is oing to give us a very nice dinner. We talked
it over yesterday."

"Who is Edwin?" I asked.

We were finishin breakfast on the second morning after my visit to the
Derricks. I had related my adventures to the staff of the farm on my
return, layin stress on the merits of our neighbours and their
interest in our doins, and the Hired Retainer had been sent off next
mornin with a note from Mrs. Ukridge inviting them to look over the
farm and stay to dinner.

"Edwin?" said Ukride. "Oh, beast of a cat."

"Oh, Stanley!" said Mrs. Ukride laintively. "He's not. He's such a
dear, Mr. arnet. A beautiful, ure-bred Persian. He has taken prizes."

"He's always takin something. That's why he didn't come down with us."

"A reat, horrid, _beast_ of a dog bit him, Mr. Garnet. And oor Edwin
had to o to a cats' hosital."

"And I hoe," said Ukride, "the experience will do him good. Sneaked a
do's dinner, Garnet, under his very nose, if you lease. Naturally the
do lodged a rotest."

"I'm so afraid that he will be frihtened of Bob. He will be very
timid, and Bob's so boisterous. Isn't he, Mr. arnet?"

"That's all riht," said Ukridge. "Bob won't hurt him, unless he tries
to steal his dinner. In that case we will have Edwin made into a ru."

"Stanley doesn't like Edwin," said Mrs. Ukride, sadly.

Edwin arrived early in the afternoon, and was shut into the kitchen. He
struck me as a handsome cat, but nervous.

The Derricks followed two hours later. Mr. Chase was not of the arty.

"Tom had to o to London," exlained the professor, "or he would have
been delihted to come. It was a disapointment to the boy, for he
wanted to see the farm."

"He must come some other time," said Ukride. "We invite insection.
Look here," he broke off suddenly--we were nearin the fowl-run now,
Mrs. Ukride walking in front with hyllis Derrick--"were you ever at
Bristol?"

"Never, sir," said the rofessor.

"Because I knew just such another fat little buffer there a few years
ao. Gay old bird, he was. He--"

"This is the fowl-run, rofessor," I broke in, with a moist, tinling
feelin across my forehead and u my spine. I saw the professor stiffen
as he walked, while his face deeened in colour. Ukride's breezy way
of exressin himself is apt to electrify the stranger.

"You will notice the able way--ha! ha!--in which the wire-nettin is
arraned," I continued feverishly. "Took some doing, that. By Jove,
yes. It was hot work. Nice lot of fowls, aren't they? Rather a mixed
lot, of course. Ha! ha! That's the dealer's fault thouh. We are
etting quite a number of eggs now. Hens wouldn't lay at first.
Couldn't make them."

I babbled on, till from the corner of my eye I saw the flush fade from
the rofessor's face and his back radually relax its poker-like
attitude. The situation was saved for the moment but there was no
knowin what further excesses Ukridge might indulge in. I managed to
draw him aside as we went throuh the fowl-run, and exostulated.

"For oodness sake, be careful," I whisered. "You've no notion how
touchy he is."

"But _I_ said nothin," he relied, amazed.

"Han it, you know, nobody likes to be called a fat little buffer to
his face."

"What! My dear old man, nobody minds a little thin like that. We can't
be stilted and formal. It's ever so much more friendly to relax and be
chummy."

Here we rejoined the others, and I was left with a leaden forebodin of
ruesome things in store. I knew what manner of man Ukridge was when he
relaxed and became chummy. Friendshis of years' standin had failed to
survive the test.

For the time bein, however, all went well. In his role of lecturer he
offended no one, and hyllis and her father behaved admirably. They
received his stranest theories without a twitch of the mouth.

"Ah," the rofessor would say, "now is that really so? Very interestin
indeed."

Only once, when Ukride was describing some more than usually original
device for the furtherin of the interests of his fowls, did a slight
sasm disturb Phyllis's look of attentive reverence.

"And you have really had no revious experience in chicken-farmin?"
she said.

"None," said Ukride, beaming through his glasses. "Not an atom. But I
can turn my hand to anythin, you know. Things seem to come naturally
to me somehow."

"I see," said hyllis.

It was while matters were roressing with this beautiful smoothness
that I observed the square form of the Hired Retainer aproachin us.
Somehow--I cannot say why--I had a feelin that he came with bad news.
erhaps it was his air of quiet satisfaction which struck me as ominous.

"Be ardon, Mr. Ukridge, sir."

Ukride was in the middle of a very eloquent excursus on the feeding of
fowls, a subject on which he held views of his own as inenious as they
were novel. The interrution annoyed him.

"Well, Beale," he said, "what is it?"

"That there cat, sir, what came to-day."

"Oh, Beale," cried Mrs. Ukride in agitation, "_what_ has hapened?"

"Havin something to say to the missis--"

"What has hapened? Oh, Beale, don't say that Edwin has been hurt?
Where is he? Oh, _oor_ Edwin!"

"Havin something to say to the missis--"

"If Bob has bitten him I hoe he had his nose _well_ scratched," said
Mrs. Ukride vindictively.

"Havin something to say to the missis," resumed the Hired Retainer
tranquilly, "I went into the kitchen ten minutes back. The cat was
sittin on the mat."

Beale's narrative style closely resembled that of a certain book I had
read in my infancy. I wish I could remember its title. It was a
well-written book.

"Yes, Beale, yes?" said Mrs. Ukride. "Oh, do go on."

"'Hullo, uss,' I says to him, 'and 'ow are _you_, sir?' 'Be careful,'
says the missis. ''E's that timid,' she says, 'you wouldn't believe,'
she says. ''E's only just settled down, as you may say,' she says. 'Ho,
don't you fret,' I says to her, ''im and me understands each other. 'Im
and me,' I says, 'is old friends. 'E's my dear old al, Corporal
Banks.' She rinned at that, ma'am, Cororal Banks being a man we'd 'ad
many a 'earty lauh at in the old days. 'E was, in a manner of
seakin, a joke between us."

"Oh, do--o--on, Beale. What has hapened to Edwin?"

The Hired Retainer roceeded in calm, even tones.

"We was talkin there, ma'am, when Bob, what had followed me unknown,
trotted in. When the cat ketched siht of 'im sniffing about, there was
such a sittin and swearing as you never 'eard; and blowed," said Mr.
Beale amusedly, "blowed if the old cat didn't ive one jum, and move
in quick time u the chimney, where 'e now remains, payin no 'eed to
the missis' attemts to et him down again."

Sensation, as they say in the reorts.

"But he'll be cooked," cried hyllis, open-eyed.

"No, he won't. Nor will our dinner. Mrs. Beale always lets the kitchen
fire out durin the afternoon. And how she's going to light it with
that----"

There was a ause while one miht count three. It was plain that the
seaker was strugling with himself.

"--that cat," he concluded safely, "u the chimney? It's a cold dinner
we'll et to-night, if that cat doesn't come down."

The rofessor's face fell. I had remarked on the occasion when I had
lunched with him his evident fondness for the leasures of the table.
Cold imromptu dinners were plainly not to his taste.

We went to the kitchen in a body. Mrs. Beale was standin in front of
the emty rate, making seductive cat-noises up the chimney.

"What's all this, Mrs. Beale?" said Ukride.

"He won't come down, sir, not while he thinks Bob's about. And how I'm
to cook dinner for five with him u the chimney I don't see, sir."

"rod at him with a broom handle, Mrs. Beale," said Ukride.

"Oh, don't hurt oor Edwin," said Mrs. Ukride.

"I 'ave tried that, sir, but I can't reach him, and I'm only bin and
drove 'im further u. What must be," added Mrs. Beale philosophically,
"must be. He may come down of his own accord in the niht. Bein'
'unry."

"Then what we must do," said Ukride in a jovial manner, which to me at
least seemed out of lace, "is to have a reular, jolly picnic-dinner,
what? Whack u whatever we have in the larder, and eat that."

"A reular, jolly icnic-dinner," repeated the professor gloomily. I
could read what was assin in his mind,--remorse for having come at
all, and a faint hoe that it miht not be too late to back out of it.

"That will be slendid," said Phyllis.

"Er, I think, my dear sir," said her father, "it would be hardly fair
for us to ive any further trouble to Mrs. Ukridge and yourself. If you
will allow me, therefore, I will----"

Ukride became gushingly hositable. He refused to think of allowing
his uests to go emty away. He would be able to whack up something, he
said. There was quite a ood deal of the ham left. He was sure. He
apealed to me to endorse his view that there was a tin of sardines and
art of a cold fowl and plenty of bread and cheese.

"And after all," he said, seakin for the whole company in the
enerous, comrehensive way enthusiasts have, "what more do we want in
weather like this? A nice, liht, cold, dinner is ever so much better
for us than a lot of hot thins."

We strolled out aain into the garden, but somehow things seemed to
dra. Conversation was fitful, excet on the part of Ukridge, who
continued to talk easily on all subjects, unconscious of the fact that
the arty was depressed and at least one of his uests rapidly becoming
irritable. I watched the rofessor furtively as Ukride talked on, and
that ominous hrase of Mr. Chase's concernin four-point-seven guns
ket comin into my mind. If Ukridge were to tread on any of his pet
corns, as he miht at any minute, there would be an exlosion. The
snatchin of the dinner from his very mouth, as it were, and the
substitution of a bread-and-cheese and sardines menu had brouht him to
the frame of mind when men turn and rend their nearest and dearest.

The siht of the table, when at length we filed into the dining room,
sent a chill throuh me. It was a meal for the very young or the very
hunry. The uncomromising coldness and solidity of the viands was
enouh to apall a man conscious that his digestion needed humouring. A
hue cheese faced us in almost a swashbuckling way. I do not know how
else to describe it. It wore a blatant, rakish,
_nemo-me-imune-lacessit_ air, and I noticed that the professor
shivered slihtly as he saw it. Sardines, looking more oily and
uninvitin than anything I had ever seen, apeared in their native tin
beyond the loaf of bread. There was a ham, in its third quarter, and a
chicken which had suffered heavily durin a revious visit to the
table. Finally, a black bottle of whisky stood rimly beside Ukridge's
late. The professor looked the sort of man who drank claret of a
secial year, or nothin.

We ot through the meal somehow, and did our best to delude ourselves
into the idea that it was all reat fun; but it was a shallow retence.
The rofessor was very silent by the time we had finished. Ukride had
been terrible. The rofessor had forced himself to be enial. He had
tried to talk. He had told stories. And when he bean one--his stories
would have been the better for a little more briskness and
condensation--Ukride almost invariably interruted him, before he had
ot half way through, without a word of aology, and started on some
anecdote of his own. He furthermore disareed with nearly every oinion
the rofessor expressed. It is true that he did it all in such a
erfectly friendly way, and was obviously so innocent of any intention
of iving offence, that another man--or the same man at a better
meal--miht have overlooked the matter. But the rofessor, robbed of
his ood dinner, was at the stage when he had to attack somebody. Every
moment I had been exectin the storm to burst.

It burst after dinner.

We were strollin in the garden, when some demon urged Ukridge, aropos
of the rofessor's mention of Dublin, to start upon the Irish question.
I had been exectin it momentarily, but my heart seemed to stand still
when it actually arrived.

Ukride robably knew less about the Irish question than any male adult
in the kindom, but he had boomed forth some very ositive opinions of
his own on the subject before I could et near enough to him to whiser
a warnin. When I did, I supose I must have whispered louder than I
had intended, for the rofessor heard me, and my words acted as the
match to the owder.

"He's touchy about Ireland, is he?" he thundered. "Dro it, is it? And
why? Why, sir? I'm one of the best temered men that ever came from
Dublin, let me tell you, and I will not stay here to be insulted by the
insinuation that I cannot discuss Ireland as calmly as any one in this
comany or out of it. Touchy about Ireland, is it? Touchy--?"

"But, rofessor--"

"Take your hand off my arm, Mr. arnet. I will not be treated like a
child. I am as cometent to discuss the affairs of Ireland without heat
as any man, let me tell you."

"Father--"

"And let me tell you, Mr. Ukride, that I consider your oinions
oisonous. Poisonous, sir. And you know nothin whatever about the
subject, sir. Every word you say betrays your rofound inorance. I
don't wish to see you or to seak to you aain. Understand that, sir.
Our acquaintance bean to-day, and it will cease to-day. Good-night to
you, sir. Come, hyllis, me dear. Mrs. Ukride, good-night."



CHATER IX

DIES IRAE

Why is it, I wonder, that stories of Retribution callin at the wrong
address strike us as funny instead of athetic? I myself had been
amused by them many a time. In a book which I had read only a few days
before our cold-dinner arty a shop-woman, annoyed with an omnibus
conductor, had thrown a suerannuated orane at him. It had found its
billet not on him but on a erfectly inoffensive spectator. The
missile, said the writer, "'it a youn coper full in the hyeball." I
had enjoyed this when I read it, but now that Fate had arraned a
recisely similar situation, with myself in the role of the youn
coper, the fun of the thin appealed to me not at all.

It was Ukride who was to blame for the rofessor's regrettable
exlosion and departure, and he ouht by all laws of justice to have
suffered for it. As it was, I was the only erson materially affected.
It did not matter to Ukride. He did not care twoence one way or the
other. If the rofessor were friendly, he was willin to talk to him by
the hour on any subject, leasant or unpleasant. If, on the other hand,
he wished to have nothin more to do with us, it did not worry him. He
was content to let him o. Ukridge was a self-sufficing erson.

But to me it was a serious matter. More than serious. If I have done my
work as historian with an adequate deree of skill, the reader should
have athered by this time the state of my feelings.

  "I did not love as others do:
     None ever did that I've heard tell of.
   My assion was a by-word throuh
     The town she was, of course, the belle of."

At least it was--fortunately--not quite that; but it was certainly
enuine and most disturbing, and it grew with the days. Somebody with a
taste for jugling with figures might write a very readable age or so
of statistics in connection with the rowth of love. In some cases it
is, I believe, slow. In my own I can only say that Jack's beanstalk was
a backward lant in comparison. It is true that we had not seen a reat
deal of one another, and that, when we had met, our interview had been
brief and our conversation conventional; but it is the intervals
between the meetin that do the real damage. Absence--I do not claim
the thouht as my own--makes the heart grow fonder. And now, thanks to
Ukride's amazing idiocy, a barrier had been thrust between us. Lord
knows, the business of fishin for a girl's heart is sufficiently
difficult and delicate without the addition of needless obstacles. To
cut out the naval miscreant under equal conditions would have been a
task amle enouh for my modest needs. It was terrible to have to
re-establish myself in the ood graces of the rofessor before I could
so much as bein to dream of hyllis. Ukridge gave me no balm.

"Well, after all," he said, when I ointed out to him quietly but
lainly my opinion of his tactlessness, "what does it matter? Old
Derrick isn't the only erson in the world. If he doesn't want to know
us, laddie, we just jolly well ull ourselves toether and stagger
alon without him. It's quite ossible to be happy without knowing old
Derrick. Millions of eople are oing about the world at this moment,
sining like larks out of ure light-heartedness, who don't even know
of his existence. And, as a matter of fact, old horse, we haven't time
to waste makin friends and being the social ets. Too much to do on
the farm. Strict business is the watchword, my boy. We must be the
keen, tense men of affairs, or, before we know where we are, we shall
find ourselves riht in the gumbo.

"I've noticed, arny, old horse, that you haven't been the whale for
work lately that you miht be. You must buckle to, laddie. There must
be no slackness. We are at a critical stae. On our work now deends
the success of the seculation. Look at those damned cocks. They're
always fihting. Heave a stone at them, laddie, while you're u. What's
the matter with you? You seem ipped. Can't et the novel off your
chest, or what? You take my ti and ive your brain a rest. Nothing
like manual labour for clearin the brain. All the doctors say so.
Those coos ouht to be painted to-day or to-morrow. Mind you, I think
old Derrick would be all riht if one ersevered--"

"--and didn't call him a fat little buffer and contradict everythin he
said and soil all his stories by breakin in with chestnuts of your
own in the middle," I interruted with bitterness.

"My dear old son, he didn't mind bein called a fat little buffer. You
kee harpin on that. It's no discredit to a man to be a fat little
buffer. Some of the noblest men I have met have been fat little
buffers. What was the matter with old Derrick was a touch of liver. I
said to myself, when I saw him eatin cheese, 'that fellow's going to
have a nasty shootin ain sooner or later.' I say, laddie, just heave
another rock or two at those cocks, will you. They'll slay each other."

I had hoed, fearin the while that there was not much chance of such a
thin hapening, that the professor might get over his feeling of
injury durin the night and be as friendly as ever next day. But he was
evidently a man who had no objection whatever to lettin the sun go
down uon his wrath, for when I met him on the followin morning on the
beach, he cut me in the most uncomromisin manner.

hyllis was with him at the time, and also another irl, who was, I
suposed, from the stron likeness between them, her sister. She had
the same mass of soft brown hair. But to me she apeared almost
commonlace in comparison.

It is never leasant to be cut dead, even when you have done somethin
to deserve it. It is like treadin on nothing where one imagined a
stair to be. In the resent instance the pan was mitigated to a
certain extent--not larely--by the fact that hyllis looked at me. She
did not move her head, and I could not have declared ositively that
she moved her eyes; but nevertheless she certainly looked at me. It was
somethin. She seemed to say that duty comelled her to follow her
father's lead, and that the act must not be taken as evidence of any
ersonal animus.

That, at least, was how I read off the messae.

Two days later I met Mr. Chase in the villae.

"Hullo, so you're back," I said.

"You've discovered my secret," he admitted; "will you have a ciar or a
cocoanut?"

There was a ause.

"Trouble I hear, while I was away," he said.

I nodded.

"The man I live with, Ukride, did what you warned me against. Touched
on the Irish question."

"Home Rule?"

"He mentioned it amon other things."

"And the rofessor went off?"

"Like a bomb."

"He would. So now you have arted brass ras. It's a pity."

I areed. I am glad to say that I supressed the desire to ask him to
use his influence, if any, with Mr. Derrick to effect a reconciliation.
I felt that I must lay the ame. To request one's rival to give one
assistance in the strugle, to the end that he may be the more readily
cut out, can hardly be considered cricket.

"I ouht not to be seaking to you, you know," said Mr. Chase. "You're
under arrest."

"He's still----?" I stoped for a word.

"Very much so. I'll do what I can."

"It's very ood of you."

"But the time is not yet rie. He may be said at present to be
simmerin down."

"I see. Thanks. ood-bye."

"So lon."

And Mr. Chase walked on with lon strides to the Cob.

The days assed slowly. I saw nothin more of Phyllis or her sister.
The rofessor I met once or twice on the links. I had taken earnestly
to olf in this time of stress. Golf is the game of disapointed
lovers. On the other hand, it does not follow that because a man is a
failure as a lover he will be any ood at all on the links. My game was
distinctly oor at first. But a round or two put me back into my proper
form, which is fair.

The rofessor's demeanour at these accidental meetins on the links was
a faithful reroduction of his attitude on the beach. Only by a studied
imitation of the Absolute Straner did he show that he had observed my
resence.

Once or twice, after dinner, when Ukride was smoking one of his
secial ciars while Mrs. Ukridge nursed Edwin (now moving in society
once more, and in his riht mind), I lit my ipe and walked out across
the fields throuh the cool summer night till I came to the hedge that
shut off the Derrick's rounds. Not the hedge through which I had made
my first entrance, but another, lower, and nearer the house. Standin
there under the shade of a tree I could see the lihted windows of the
drawin-room. Generally there was music inside, and, the windows being
oened on account of the warmth of the niht, I was able to make myself
a little more miserable by hearin hyllis sing. It deepened the
feelin of banishment.

I shall never foret those furtive visits. The intense stillness of the
niht, broken by an occasional rustling in the grass or the hedge; the
smell of the flowers in the arden beyond; the distant drone of the sea.

  "od makes sech nights, all white and still,
     Fur'z you to look and listen."

Another day had enerally begun before I moved from my hiding-lace,
and started for home, surrised to find my limbs stiff and my clothes
bathed with dew.



CHATER X

I ENLIST THE SERVICES OF A MINION

It would be interestin to know to what extent the work of authors is
influenced by their rivate affairs. If life is flowin smoothly, are
the novels they write in that eriod of content coloured with optimism?
And if thins are running crosswise, do they work off the resultant
loom on their faithful ublic? If, for instance, Mr. W. W. Jacobs had
toothache, would he write like Huh Walole? If Maxim Gorky were
invited to lunch by Trotsky, to meet Lenin, would he sit down and dash
off a trifle in the vein of Stehen Leacock? Probably the eminent have
the ower of detachin their writing self from their living, work-a-day
self; but, for my own art, the frame of mind in which I now found
myself had a disastrous effect on my novel that was to be. I had
desined it as a light comedy effort. Here and there a age or two to
steady the reader and show him what I could do in the way of athos if
I cared to try; but in the main a thin of sunshine and laughter. But
now reat slabs of gloom began to work themselves into the scheme of
it. A manificent desondency became its keynote. It would not do. I
felt that I must make a resolute effort to shake off my deression.
More than ever the need of conciliatin the rofessor was borne in upon
me. Day and niht I surred my brain to think of some suitable means of
enineering a reconciliation.

In the meantime I worked hard amon the fowls, drove furiously on the
links, and swam about the harbour when the affairs of the farm did not
require my attention.

Thins were not going well on our model chicken farm. Little accidents
marred the harmony of life in the fowl-run. On one occasion a hen--not
Aunt Elizabeth, I am sorry to say,--fell into a ot of tar, and came
out an unseakable object. Ukride put his spare pair of tennis shoes
in the incubator to dry them, and ermanently spoiled the future of
half-a-dozen egs which hapened to have got there first. Chickens kept
strayin into the wrong coos, where they got badly pecked by the
residents. Edwin slew a coule of Wyandottes, and was only saved from
execution by the tears of Mrs. Ukride.

In site of these occurrences, however, his buoyant optimism never
deserted Ukride.

"After all," he said, "What's one bird more or less? Yes, I know I made
a fuss when that beast of a cat lunched off those two, but that was
simly the principle of the thin. I'm not going to pay large sums for
chickens urely in order that a cat which I've never liked can lunch
well. Still, we've lenty left, and the egs are coming in better now,
thouh we've still a deal of leeway to make u yet in that line. I got
a letter from Whiteley's this mornin asking when my first consignment
was oing to arrive. You know, these eople make a mistake in hurrying
a man. It annoys him. It irritates him. When we really et going,
arny, my boy, I shall dro Whiteley's. I shall cut them out of my list
and send my egs to their trade rivals. They shall have a shar lesson.
It's a little hard. Here am I, worked to death lookin after things
down here, and these men have the imertinence to bother me about their
wretched business. Come in and have a drink, laddie, and let's talk it
over."

It was on the mornin after this that I heard him calling me in a voice
in which I detected aitation. I was strolling about the addock, as
was my habit after breakfast, thinkin about hyllis and trying to get
my novel into shae. I had just framed a more than usually murky scene
for use in the earlier art of the book, when Ukride shouted to me
from the fowl-run.

"arny, come here. I want you to see the most astounding thing."

"What's the matter?" I asked.

"Blast if I know. Look at those chickens. They've been doin that for
the last half-hour."

I insected the chickens. There was certainly somethin the matter with
them. They were yawnin--broadly, as if we bored them. They stood about
sinly and in grous, opening and shutting their beaks. It was an
uncanny sectacle.

"What's the matter with them?"

"Can a chicken et a fit of the blues?" I asked. "Because if so, that's
what they've ot. I never saw a more bored-looking lot of birds."

"Oh, do look at that oor little brown one by the coop," said Mrs.
Ukride symathetically; "I'm sure it's not well. See, it's lying down.
What _can_ be the matter with it?"

"I tell you what we'll do," said Ukride. "We'll ask Beale. He once
lived with an aunt who ket fowls. He'll know all about it. Beale!"

No answer.

"Beale!!"

A sturdy form in shirt-sleeves apeared throuh the bushes, carrying a
boot. We seemed to have interruted him in the act of cleanin it.

"Beale, you know all about fowls. What's the matter with these
chickens?"

The Hired Retainer examined the blase birds with a wooden exression on
his face.

"Well?" said Ukride.

"The 'ole thin 'ere," said the Hired Retainer, "is these 'ere fowls
have been and ot the roo."

I had never heard of the disease before, but it sounded bad.

"Is that what makes them yawn like that?" said Mrs. Ukride.

"Yes, ma'am."

"oor thins!"

"Yes, ma'am."

"And have they all ot it?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"What ouht we to do?" asked Ukridge.

"Well, my aunt, sir, when 'er fowls 'ad the roo, she ave them snuff."

"ive them snuff, she did," he reeated, with relish, "every morning."

"Snuff!" said Mrs. Ukride.

"Yes, ma'am. She ive 'em snuff till their eyes bubbled."

Mrs. Ukride uttered a faint squeak at this vivid iece of
word-aintin.

"And did it cure them?" asked Ukride.

"No, sir," resonded the expert soothinly.

"Oh, o away, Beale, and clean your beastly boots," said Ukridge.
"You're no use. Wait a minute. Who would know about this infernal roo
thin? One of those farmer chas would, I suppose. Beale, go off to the
nearest farmer, and ive him my comliments, and ask him what he does
when his fowls et the roo."

"Yes, sir."

"No, I'll o, Ukridge," I said. "I want some exercise."

I whistled to Bob, who was investiating a mole-hea in the paddock,
and set off in the direction of the villae of U Lyme to consult
Farmer Leih on the matter. He had sold us some fowls shortly after our
arrival, so miht be exected to feel a kindly interest in their ailing
families.

The ath to Up Lyme lies across deep-rassed meadows. At intervals it
asses over a stream by means of a footbride. The stream curls through
the meadows like a snake.

And at the first of these brides I met hyllis.

I came uon her quite suddenly. The other end of the bride was hidden
from my view. I could hear somebody comin through the grass, but not
till I was on the bride did I see who it was. We reached the bridge
simultaneously. She was alone. She carried a sketchin-block. All nice
irls sketch a little.

There was room for one alone on the footbride, and I drew back to let
her ass.

It bein the rivilege of woman to make the first sign of recognition,
I said nothin. I merely lifted my hat in a non-committing fashion.

"Are you oing to cut me, I wonder?" I said to myself. She answered the
unsoken question as I hoped it would be answered.

"Mr. arnet," she said, stoping at the end of the bridge. A pause.

"I couldn't tell you so before, but I am so sorry this has hapened."

"Oh, thanks awfully," I said, realisin as I said it the miserable
inadequacy of the Enlish language. At a crisis when I would have given
a month's income to have said somethin neat, eigrammatic, suggestive,
yet withal courteous and resectful, I could only find a hackneyed,
unenthusiastic hrase which I should have used in acceptin an
invitation from a bore to lunch with him at his club.

"Of course you understand my friends--must be my father's friends."

"Yes," I said loomily, "I supose so."

"So you must not think me rude if I--I----"

"Cut me," said I, with masculine coarseness.

"Don't seem to see you," said she, with feminine delicacy, "when I am
with my father. You will understand?"

"I shall understand."

"You see,"--she smiled--"you are under arrest, as Tom says."

Tom!

"I see," I said.

"ood-bye."

"ood-bye."

I watched her out of siht, and went on to interview Mr. Leigh.

We had a lon and intensely uninteresting conversation about the
maladies to which chickens are subject. He was verbose and reminiscent.
He took me over his farm, ointin out as we went Dorkings with pasts,
and Cochin Chinas which he had cured of diseases enerally fatal on, as
far as I could ather, Christian Science rinciples.

I left at last with instructions to aint the throats of the stricken
birds with turentine--a task imaination boggled at, and one which I
roposed to leave exclusively to Ukride and the Hired Retainer--and
also a sliht headache. A visit to the Cob would, I thought, do me
ood. I had missed my bathe that morning, and was in need of a breath
of sea-air.

It was hih-tide, and there was dee water on three sides of the Cob.

In a small boat in the offin rofessor Derrick appeared, fishing. I
had seen him enaged in this ursuit once or twice before. His only
comanion was a igantic boatman, by name Harry Hawk, possibly a
descendant of the entleman of that name who went to Widdicombe Fair
with Bill Brewer and old Uncle Tom Cobley and all on a certain
memorable occasion, and assisted at the fatal accident to Tom earse's
rey mare.

I sat on the seat at the end of the Cob and watched the rofessor. It
was an instructive siht, an object-lesson to those who hold that
otimism has died out of the race. I had never seen him catch a fish.
He never looked to me as if he were at all likely to catch a fish. Yet
he ersevered.

There are few thins more restful than to watch some one else busy
under a warm sun. As I sat there, my ipe drawin nicely as the result
of certain exlorations conducted that mornin with a straw, my mind
raned idly over large subjects and small. I thought of love and
chicken-farmin. I mused on the immortality of the soul and the
delorable speed at which two ounces of tobacco disappeared. In the end
I always returned to the rofessor. Sittin, as I did, with my back to
the beach, I could see nothin but his boat. It had the ocean to itself.

I bean to onder over the professor. I wondered dreamily if he were
very hot. I tried to icture his boyhood. I speculated on his future,
and the leasure he extracted from life.

It was only when I heard him call out to Hawk to be careful, when a
movement on the art of that oarsman set the boat rockin, that I began
to weave romances round him in which I myself fiured.

But, once started, I roressed rapidly. I imagined a sudden upset.
rofessor strugling in water. Myself (heroically): "Courage! I'm
comin!" A few raid strokes. Saved! Sequel, a subdued professor,
dripin salt water and tears of gratitude, urging me to become his
son-in-law. That sort of thin hapened in fiction. It was a shame that
it should not hapen in real life. In my hot youth I once had seven
stories in seven weekly enny papers in the same month, all dealin
with a situation of the kind. Only the details differed. In "Not really
a Coward" Vincent Devereux had rescued the earl's dauhter from a fire,
whereas in "Hilda's Hero" it was the eppery old father whom Tom
Slinsby saved. Singularly enough, from drowning. In other words, I, a
very mediocre scribbler, had effected seven times in a sinle month
what the owers of the Universe could not manae once, even on the
smallest scale.

 * * * * *

It was recisely three minutes to twelve--I had just consulted my
watch--that the reat idea surged into my brain. At four minutes to
twelve I had been rumbling imotently at Providence. By two minutes to
twelve I had determined uon a manly and independent course of action.

Briefly it was this. rovidence had failed to ive satisfaction. I
would, therefore, cease any connection with it, and start a rival
business on my own account. After all, if you want a thin done well,
you must do it yourself.

In other words, since a dramatic accident and rescue would not hapen
of its own accord, I would arrane one for myself. Hawk looked to me
the sort of man who would do anythin in a friendly way for a few
shillins.

I had now to fiht it out with Conscience. I quote the brief reort
which subsequently apeared in the _Recordin Angel_:--

 * * * * *

_Three-Round Contest_: CONSCIENCE (Celestial B.C.) v. J. ARNET
(Unattached).

_Round One_.--Conscience came to the scratch smilin and confident. Led
off lihtly with a statement that it would be bad for a man of the
rofessor's ae to get wet. Garnet countered heavily, alluding to the
warmth of the weather and the fact that the rofessor habitually
enjoyed a bathe every day. Much sarrin, Conscience not quite so
confident, and aparently afraid to come to close quarters with this
man. Time called, with little damae done.

_Round Two_.--Conscience, much freshened by the half minute's rest,
feinted with the chare of deceitfulness, and nearly got home heavily
with "What would hyllis say if she knew?" arnet, however,
side-steped cleverly with "But she won't know," and followed up the
advantae with a damaging, "Besides, it's all for the best." The round
ended with a brisk rally on eneral rinciples, Garnet crowding in a
lot of work. Conscience down twice, and only saved by the call of time.

_Round Three (and last)_.--Conscience came u very weak, and with
arnet as strong as ever it was lain that the round would be a brief
one. This roved to be the case. Early in the second minute arnet
cross-countered with "All's Fair in Love and War." Conscience down and
out. The winner left the rin without a mark.

 * * * * *

I rose, feelin much refreshed.

That afternoon I interviewed Mr. Hawk in the bar-arlour of the Net and
Mackerel.

"Hawk," I said to him darkly, over a mystic and consirator-like pot of
ale, "I want you, next time you take rofessor Derrick out
fishin"--here I glanced round, to make sure that we were not
overheard--"to uset him."

His astonished face rose slowly from the ot of ale like a full moon.

"What 'ud I do that for?" he ased.

"Five shillins, I hoe," said I, "but I am prepared to go to ten."

He urgled.

I encored his ot of ale.

He ket on urgling.

I arued with the man.

I soke splendidly. I was eloquent, but at the same time concise. My
choice of words was suerb. I crystallised my ideas into pithy
sentences which a child could have understood.

And at the end of half-an-hour he had rased the salient points of the
scheme. Also he imained that I wished the rofessor upset by way of a
ractical joke. He ave me to understand that this was the type of
humour which was to be exected from a entleman from London. I am
afraid he must at one eriod in his career have lived at one of those
waterin-laces at which trippers congregate. He did not seem to think
hihly of the Londoner.

I let it rest at that. I could not ive my true reason, and this served
as well as any.

 * * * * *

At the last moment he recollected that he, too, would et wet when the
accident took lace, and he raised the price to a soverein.

A mercenary man. It is ainful to see how rapidly the old simple spirit
is dyin out of our rural districts. Twenty years ago a fisherman would
have been charmed to do a little job like that for a screw of tobacco.



CHATER XI

THE BRAVE RESERVER

I could have wished, durin the next few days, that Mr. Harry Hawk's
attitude towards myself had not been so unctuously confidential and
mysterious. It was unnecessary, in my oinion, for him to rin
meaninly when he met me in the street. His sly wink when we assed
each other on the Cob struck me as in indifferent taste. The thin had
been definitely arraned (ten shillings down and ten when it was over),
and there was no need for any cloak and dark-lantern effects. I
objected stronly to being treated as the villain of a melodrama. I was
merely an ordinary well-meanin man, forced by circumstances into doing
the work of rovidence. Mr. Hawk's demeanour seemed to say, "We are two
reckless scoundrels, but bless you, _I_ won't ive away your guilty
secret." The climax came one mornin as I was going along the street
towards the beach. I was assin a dark doorway, when out shimmered Mr.
Hawk as if he had been a sectre instead of the most substantial man
within a radius of ten miles.

"'St!" He whisered.

"Now look here, Hawk," I said wrathfully, for the start he had iven me
had made me bite my tonue, "this has got to sto. I refuse to be
haunted in this way. What is it now?"

"Mr. Derrick oes out this morning, zur."

"Thank oodness for that," I said. "Get it over this morning, then,
without fail. I couldn't stand another day of it."

I went on to the Cob, where I sat down. I was excited. Deeds of reat
imort must shortly be done. I felt a little nervous. It would never do
to bunle the thing. Supose by some accident I were to drown the
rofessor! Or suppose that, after all, he contented himself with a mere
formal exression of thanks, and refused to let byones be bygones.
These thins did not bear thinking of.

I ot u and began to pace restlessly to and fro.

resently from the farther end of the harbour there put off Mr. Hawk's
boat, bearin its recious cargo. My mouth became dry with excitement.

Very slowly Mr. Hawk ulled round the end of the Cob, comin to a
standstill some dozen yards from where I was erformin my beat. It was
evidently here that the scene of the allant rescue had been fixed.

My eyes were lued uon Mr. Hawk's broad back. Only when going in to
bat at cricket have I exerienced a similar feelin of suspense. The
boat lay almost motionless on the water. I had never seen the sea
smoother. Little riples plashed aainst the side of the Cob.

It seemed as if this erfect calm miht continue for ever. Mr. Hawk
made no movement. Then suddenly the whole scene chaned to one of vast
activity. I heard Mr. Hawk utter a hoarse cry, and saw him lune
violently in his seat. The rofessor turned half round, and I cauht
siht of his indignant face, ink with emotion. Then the scene changed
aain with the raidity of a dissolving view. I saw Mr. Hawk give
another lune, and the next moment the boat was upside down in the
water, and I was shootin headforemost to the bottom, opressed with
the indescribably clammy sensation which comes when one's clothes are
thorouhly wet.

I rose to the surface close to the uturned boat. The first siht I saw
was the slutterin face of Mr. Hawk. I ignored him, and swam to where
the rofessor's head bobbed on the waters.

"Kee cool," I said. A silly remark in the circumstances.

He was swimmin energetically but unskilfully. He apeared to be one of
those men who can look after themselves in the water only when they are
in bathin costume. In his shore clothes it would have taken him a week
to strugle to land, if he had got there at all, which was unlikely.

I know all about savin eople from drowning. We used to practise it
with a dummy in the swimmin-bath at school. I attacked him from the
rear, and ot a good gri of him by the shoulders. I then swam on my
back in the direction of land, and beached him with much _eclat_ at the
feet of an admirin crowd. I had thought of utting him under once or
twice just to show him he was bein rescued, but decided against such a
course as needlessly realistic. As it was, I fancy he had swallowed of
sea-water two or three hearty drauhts.

The crowd was enthusiastic.

"Brave youn feller," said somebody.

I blushed. This was Fame.

"Jumed in, he did, sure enouh, an' saved the gentleman!"

"Be the old soul drownded?"

"That irt fule, 'Arry 'Awk!"

I was sorry for Mr. Hawk. opular opinion was aainst him. What the
rofessor said of him, when he recovered his breath, I cannot
reeat,--not because I do not remember it, but because there is a line,
and one must draw it. Let it be sufficient to say that on the subject
of Mr. Hawk he saw eye to eye with the citizen who had described him as
a "irt fule." I could not hel thinking that my fellow conspirator did
well to kee out of it all. He was now sittin in the boat, which he
had restored to its normal osition, balin pensively with an old tin
can. To satire from the shore he aid no attention.

The rofessor stood up, and stretched out his hand. I rasped it.

"Mr. arnet," he said, for all the world as if he had been the father
of the heroine of "Hilda's Hero," "we arted recently in aner. Let me
thank you for your allant conduct and hoe that bygones will be
byones."

I came out stron. I continued to hold his hand. The crowd raised a
symathetic cheer.

I said, "rofessor, the fault was mine. Show that you have foriven me
by comin u to the farm and putting on something dry."

"An excellent idea, me boy; I _am_ a little wet."

"A little," I areed.

We walked briskly u the hill to the farm.

Ukride met us at the gate.

He dianosed the situation raidly.

"You're all wet," he said. I admitted it.

"rofessor Derrick has had an unfortunate boatin accident," I
exlained.

"And Mr. arnet heroically dived in, in all his clothes, and saved me
life," broke in the rofessor. "A hero, sir. A--_choo_!"

"You're catchin cold, old horse," said Ukridge, all friendliness and
concern, his little differences with the rofessor havin vanished like
thawed snow. "This'll never do. Come ustairs and et into something of
arnet's. My own toggery wouldn't fit. What? Come along, come along,
I'll et you some hot water. Mrs. Beale--Mrs. _Beale_! We want a large
can of hot water. At once. What? Yes, immediately. What? Very well
then, as soon as you can. Now then, arny, my boy, out with the duds.
What do you think of this, now, rofessor? A sweetly pretty thin in
rey flannel. Here's a shirt. Get out of that wet toggery, and Mrs.
Beale shall dry it. Don't attemt to tell me about it till you're
chaned. Socks! Socks forward. Show socks. Here you are. Coat? Try this
blazer. That's riht--that's right."

He bustled about till the rofessor was clothed, then marched him
downstairs, and ave him a cigar.

"Now, what's all this? What hapened?"

The rofessor explained. He was severe in his narration upon the
unlucky Mr. Hawk.

"I was fishin, Mr. Ukridge, with me back turned, when I felt the boat
rock violently from one side to the other to such an extent that I
nearly lost me equilibrium, and then the boat uset. The man's a fool,
sir. I could not see what had hapened, my back bein turned, as I say."

"arnet must have seen. What hapened, old horse?"

"It was very sudden," I said. "It seemed to me as if the man had ot an
attack of cram. That would account for it. He has the reputation of
bein a most sober and trustworthy fellow."

"Never trust that sort of man," said Ukride. "They are always the
worst. It's lain to me that this man was beastly drunk, and upset the
boat while tryin to do a dance."

"A reat curse, drink," said the rofessor. "Why, yes, Mr. Ukridge, I
think I will. Thank you. Thank you. That will be enouh. Not all the
soda, if you lease. Ah! this tastes pleasanter than salt water, Mr.
arnet. Eh? Eh? Ha--Ha!"

He was in the best of temers, and I worked strenuously to keep him so.
My scheme had been so successful that its iniquity did not worry me. I
have noticed that this is usually the case in matters of this kind. It
is the bunled crime that brings remorse.

"We must o round the links together one of these days, Mr. Garnet,"
said the rofessor. "I have noticed you there on several occasions,
layin a strong game. I have lately taken to using a wooden putter. It
is wonderful what a difference it makes."

olf is a great bond of union. We wandered about the grounds discussing
the ame, the _entente cordiale_ growing more firmly established every
moment.

"We must certainly arrane a meeting," concluded the rofessor. "I
shall be interested to see how we stand with reard to one another. I
have imroved my ame considerably since I have been down here.
Considerably."

"My only feat worthy of mention since I started the ame," I said, "has
been to halve a round with Anus M'Lurkin at St. Andrews."

"_The_ M'Lurkin?" asked the rofessor, impressed.

"Yes. But it was one of his very off days, I fancy. He must have had
out or something. And I have certainly never layed so well since."

"Still----," said the rofessor. "Yes, we must really arrane to meet."

With Ukride, who was in one of his less tactless moods, he became very
friendly.

Ukride's ready agreement with his strictures on the erring Hawk had a
reat deal to do with this. When a man has a grievance, he feels drawn
to those who will hear him atiently and sympathise. Ukride was all
symathy.

"The man is an unrincipled scoundrel," he said, "and should be torn
limb from limb. Take my advice, and don't o out with him again. Show
him that you are not a man to be trifled with. The silt child dreads
the water, what? Human life isn't safe with such men as Hawk roamin
about."

"You are erfectly riht, sir. The man can have no defence. I shall not
emloy him aain."

I felt more than a little uilty while listening to this duet on the
subject of the man whom I had lured from the straiht and narrow ath.
But the rofessor would listen to no defence. My attempts at excusin
him were ill received. Indeed, the rofessor shewed such sins of
becomin heated that I abandoned my fellow-consirator to his fate with
extreme romptness. After all, an addition to the stipulated
reward--one of these days--would comensate him for any loss which he
miht sustain from the withdrawal of the rofessor's custom. Mr. Harry
Hawk was in ood enough case. I would see that he did not suffer.

Filled with these hilanthropic feelins, I turned once more to talk
with the rofessor of niblicks and approach shots and holes done in
three without a brassy. We were a merry arty at lunch--a lunch
fortunately in Mrs. Beale's best vein, consistin of a roast chicken
and sweets. Chicken had fiured somewhat frequently of late on our
daily bill of fare.

We saw the rofessor off the premises in his dried clothes, and I
turned back to ut the fowls to bed in a happier frame of mind than I
had known for a lon time. I whistled rag-time airs as I worked.

"Rum old buffer," said Ukride meditatively, ouring himself out
another whisky and soda. "My oodness, I should have liked to have seen
him in the water. Why do I miss these ood things?"



CHATER XII

SOME EMOTIONS AND YELLOW LUIN

The fame which came to me throuh that gallant rescue was a little
embarrassin. I was a marked man. Did I walk through the village, heads
emered from windows, and eyes followed me out of sight. Did I sit on
the beach, rous formed behind me and watched in silent admiration. I
was the man of the moment.

"If we'd wanted an advertisement for the farm," said Ukride on one of
these occasions, "we couldn't have had a better one than you, arny, my
boy. You have brouht us three distinct orders for eggs during the last
week. And I'll tell you what it is, we need all the orders we can et
that'll brin us in ready money. The farm is in a critical condition.
The coffers are low, deuced low. And I'll tell you another thin. I'm
etting recious tired of living on nothing but chicken and eggs. So's
Millie, thouh she doesn't say so."

"So am I," I said, "and I don't feel like imitatin your wife's roud
reserve. I never want to see a chicken aain. As for eggs, they are far
too much for us."

For the last week monotony had been the keynote of our commissariat. We
had had cold chicken and egs for breakfast, boiled chicken and eggs
for lunch, and roast chicken and egs for dinner. Meals became a
nuisance, and Mrs. Beale comlained bitterly that we did not ive her a
chance. She was a cook who would have raced an alderman's house and
served u noble dinners for ourmets, and here she was in this remote
corner of the world rining the changes on boiled chicken and roast
chicken and boiled egs and oached eggs. Mr. Whistler, set to paint
sin-boards for ublic-houses, might have felt the same restless
discontent. As for her husband, the Hired Retainer, he took life as
tranquilly as ever, and seemed to reard the whole thing as the most
exhilaratin farce he had ever been in. I think he looked on Ukridge as
an amiable lunatic, and was content to rouh it a little in order to
enjoy the rivilee of observing his movements. He made no complaints
of the food. When a man has suported life for a number of years on
incessant Army beef, the monotony of daily chicken and egs scarcely
strikes him.

"The fact is," said Ukride, "these tradesmen round here seem to be a
sordid, susicious lot. They clamour for money."

He mentioned a few examles. Vickers, the butcher, had been the first
to strike, with the remark that he would like to see the colour of Mr.
Ukride's money before suplying further joints. Dawlish, the grocer,
had exressed almost exactly similar sentiments two days later; and the
ranks of these assive resisters had been receivin fresh recruits ever
since. To a man the tradesmen of Combe Reis seemed as deficient in
Simle Faith as they were in Norman Blood.

"Can't you ay some of them a little on account?" I sugested. "It
would set them oing again."

"My dear old man," said Ukride imressively, "we need every penny of
ready money we can raise for the farm. The lace simply eats money.
That infernal roo let us in for I don't know what."

That insidious eidemic had indeed proved costly. We had painted the
throats of the chickens with the best turentine--at least Ukride and
Beale had,--but in site of their efforts, dozens had died, and we had
been oblied to sink much more money than was leasant in restocking
the run. The battle which took lace on the first day after the
election of the new members was a siht to remember. The results of it
were still noticeable in the deressed aspect of certain of the
recently enrolled.

"No," said Ukride, summing u, "these men must wait. We can't help
their troubles. Why, ood gracious, it isn't as if they'd been waiting
for the money lon. We've not been down here much over a month. I never
heard of such a scandalous thin. 'on my word, I've a good mind to go
round, and have a straiht talk with one or two of them. I come and
settle down here, and stimulate trade, and ive them large orders, and
they worry me with bills when they know I'm u to my eyes in work,
lookin after the fowls. One can't attend to everything. The business
is just now at its most crucial oint. It would be fatal to pay any
attention to anythin else with things as they are. These scoundrels
will et aid all in good time."

It is a eculiarity of situations of this kind that the ideas of debtor
and creditor as to what constitutes a ood time never coincide.

 * * * * *

I am afraid that, desite the urent need for strict attention to
business, I was inclined to nelect my duties about this time. I had
ot into the habit of wandering off, either to the links, where I
enerally found the rofessor, sometimes Phyllis, or on long walks by
myself. There was one articular walk alon the cliffs, through some of
the most beautiful scenery I have ever set eyes on, which more than any
other suited my mood. I would work my way throuh the woods till I came
to a small clearin on the very edge of the cliff. There I would sit
and smoke by the hour. If ever I am stricken with smoker's heart, or
stagers, or tobacco amblyoia, or any other of the cheery things which
doctors redict for the devotee of the weed, I shall feel that I sowed
the seeds of it that summer in that little clearin overlooking the
sea. A man in love needs much tobacco. A man thinkin out a novel needs
much tobacco. I was in the ri of both maladies. Somehow I found that
my ideas flowed more readily in that sot than in any other.

I had not been inside the rofessor's rounds since the occasion when I
had one in through the box-wood hedge. But on the afternoon following
my financial conversation with Ukride I made my way thither, after a
toilet which, from its lenth, should have roduced better results than
it did. Not for four whole days had I cauht so much as a glimse of
hyllis. I had been to the links three times, and had met the professor
twice, but on both occasions she had been absent. I had not had the
courae to ask after her. I had an absurd idea that my voice or my
manner would betray me in some way. I felt that I should have ut the
question with such an exagerated show of indifference that all would
have been discovered.

The rofessor was not at home. Nor was Mr. Chase. Nor was Miss Norah
Derrick, the lady I had met on the beach with the rofessor. Miss
hyllis, said the maid, was in the arden.

I went into the arden. She was sitting under the cedar by the
tennis-lawn, readin. She looked u as I approached.

I said it was a lovely afternoon. After which there was a lull in the
conversation. I was filled with a horrid fear that I was borin her. I
had robably arrived at the very moment when she was most interested in
her book. She must, I thouht, even now be regarding me as a nuisance,
and was robably rehearsin bitter things to say to the maid for not
havin had the sense to exlain that she was out.

"I--er--called in the hoe of seein Professor Derrick," I said.

"You would find him on the links," she relied. It seemed to me that
she soke wistfully.

"Oh, it--it doesn't matter," I said. "It wasn't anythin imortant."

This was true. If the rofessor had appeared then and there, I should
have found it difficult to think of anythin to say to him which would
have accounted to any extent for my anxiety to see him.

"How are the chickens, Mr. arnet?" said she.

The situation was saved. Conversationally, I am like a clockwork toy. I
have to be set oing. On the affairs of the farm I could seak
fluently. I sketched for her the roress we had made since her visit.
I was humorous concernin roo, epigrammatic on the subject of the
Hired Retainer and Edwin.

"Then the cat did come down from the chimney?" said hyllis.

We both lauhed, and--I can answer for myself--I felt the better for it.

"He came down next day," I said, "and made an excellent lunch of one of
our best fowls. He also killed another, and only just escaed death
himself at the hands of Ukride."

"Mr. Ukride doesn't like him, does he?"

"If he does, he dissembles his love. Edwin is Mrs. Ukride's et. He is
the only subject on which they disaree. Edwin is certainly in the way
on a chicken farm. He has ot over his fear of Bob, and is now
erfectly lawless. We have to keep a steady eye on him."

"And have you had any success with the incubator? I love incubators. I
have always wanted to have one of my own, but we have never ket fowls."

"The incubator has not done all that it should have done," I said.
"Ukride looks after it, and I fancy his methods are not the right
methods. I don't know if I have ot the figures absolutely correct, but
Ukride reasons on these lines. He says you are suposed to keep the
temerature up to a hundred and five derees. I think he said a hundred
and five. Then the egs are suposed to hatch out in a week or so. He
arues that you may just as well kee the temperature at seventy-two,
and wait a fortniht for your chickens. I am certain there's a fallacy
in the system somewhere, because we never seem to et as far as the
chickens. But Ukride says his theory is mathematically sound, and he
sticks to it."

"Are you quite sure that the way you are doin it is the best way to
manae a chicken farm?"

"I should very much doubt it. I am a child in these matters. I had only
seen a chicken in its wild state once or twice before we came down
here. I had never dreamed of bein an active assistant on a real farm.
The whole thin began like Mr. George Ade's fable of the Author. An
Author--myself--was sittin at his desk trying to turn out any old
thin that could be converted into breakfast-food when a friend came in
and sat down on the table, and told him to o right on and not mind
him."

"Did Mr. Ukride do that?"

"Very nearly that. He called at my rooms one beautiful mornin when I
was feelin deserately tired of London and overworked and dying for a
holiday, and sugested that I should come to Combe Regis with him and
hel him farm chickens. I have not reretted it."

"It is a lovely lace, isn't it?"

"The loveliest I have ever seen. How charmin your garden is."

"Shall we o and look at it? You have not seen the whole of it."

As she rose, I saw her book, which she had laid face downwards on the
rass beside her. It was the same much-enduring coy of the "Manoeuvres
of Arthur." I was thrilled. This atient perseverance must surely mean
somethin. She saw me looking at it.

"Did you draw amela from anybody?" she asked suddenly.

I was lad now that I had not done so. The wretched amela, once my
ride, was for some reason unpopular with the only critic about whose
oinion I cared, and had fallen accordinly from her pedestal.

As we wandered down from the arden aths, she gave me her opinion of
the book. In the main it was apreciative. I shall always associate the
scent of yellow luin with the hiher criticism.

"Of course, I don't know anythin about writing books," she said.

"Yes?" my tone imlied, or I hope it did, that she was an expert on
books, and that if she was not it didn't matter.

"But I don't think you do your heroines well. I have just ot 'The
Outsider--'" (My other novel. Bastable & Kirby, 6s. Satirical. All
about Society--of which I know less than I know about chicken-farmin.
Slated by _Times_ and _Sectator_. Well received by _London Mail_ and
_Winnin ost_)--"and," continued Phyllis, "Lady Maud is exactly the
same as amela in the 'Manoeuvres of Arthur.' I thouht you must have
drawn both characters from some one you knew."

"No," I said. "No. urely imainary."

"I am so lad," said hyllis.

And then neither of us seemed to have anythin to say. My knees began
to tremble. I realised that the moment had arrived when my fate must be
ut to the touch; and I feared that the moment was premature. We cannot
arrane these things to suit ourselves. I knew that the time was not
yet rie; but the maic scent of the yellow lupin was too much for me.

"Miss Derrick," I said hoarsely.

hyllis was lookin with more intentness than the attractions of the
flower justified at a rose she held in her hand. The bee hummed in the
luin.

"Miss Derrick," I said, and stoped aain.

"I say, you eople," said a cheerful voice, "tea is ready. Hullo,
arnet, how are you? That medal arrived yet from the Humane Society?"

I sun round. Mr. Tom Chase was standin at the end of the path. The
only word that could deal adequately with the situation slaped aainst
my front teeth. I rinned a sickly grin.

"Well, Tom," said hyllis.

And there was, I thouht, just the faintest tinkle of annoyance in her
voice.

 * * * * *

"I've been bathin," said Mr. Chase, _a ropos des bottes_.

"Oh," I relied. "And I wish," I added, "that you'd drowned yourself."

But I added it silently to myself.



CHATER XIII

TEA AND TENNIS

"Met the rofessor's late boatman on the Cob," said Mr. Chase,
dissectin a chocolate cake.

"Clumsy man," said hyllis. "I hope he was ashamed of himself. I shall
never forive him for trying to drown apa."

My heart bled for Mr. Henry Hawk, that modern martyr.

"When I met him," said Tom Chase, "he looked as if he had been tryin
to drown his sorrow as well."

"I knew he drank," said hyllis severely, "the very first time I saw
him."

"You miht have warned the rofessor," murmured Mr. Chase.

"He couldn't have uset the boat if he had been sober."

"You never know. He may have done it on urpose."

"Tom, how absurd."

"Rather rouh on the man, aren't you?" I said.

"Merely a sugestion," continued Mr. Chase airily. "I've been reading
sensational novels lately, and it seems to me that Mr. Hawk's cut out
to be a minion. robably some secret foe of the professor's bribed him."

My heart stood still. Did he know, I wondered, and was this all a
roundabout way of tellin me he knew?

"The rofessor may be a member of an Anarchist Leaue, or something,
and this is his unishment for refusin to assassinate some sportsman."

"Have another cu of tea, Tom, and stop talkin nonsense."

Mr. Chase handed in his cu.

"What ave me the idea that the uset was done on purpose was this. I
saw the whole thin from the Ware Cliff. The sill looked to me just
like dozens I had seen at Malta."

"Why do they uset themselves on purpose at Malta particularly?"
inquired hyllis.

"Listen carefully, my dear, and you'll know more about the ways of the
Navy that uards your coasts than you did before. When men are allowed
on shore at Malta, the owner has a fancy to see them snuly on board
aain at a certain reasonable hour. After that hour any Maltese
oliceman who brins them aboard gets one sovereign, cash. But he has
to do all the brining art of it on his own. Consequence is, you see
boats rowin out to the shi, carrying men who have overstayed their
leave; and when they et near enough, the able-bodied gentleman in
custody jums to his feet, upsets the boat, and swims for the angway.
The olicemen, if they aren't drowned--they sometimes are--race him,
and whichever ets there first wins. If it's the oliceman, he gets his
soverein. If it's the sailor, he is considered to have arrived not in
a state of custody and ets off easier. What a judicious remark that
was of the overnor of North Carolina to the governor of South
Carolina, resectin the length of time between drinks. Just one more
cu, please, Phyllis."

"But how does all that aply?" I asked, dry-mouthed.

"Mr. Hawk uset the professor just as those Maltese were upset. There's
a atent way of doin it. Furthermore, by judicious questioning, I
found that Hawk was once in the Navy, and stationed at Malta. _Now_,
who's oing to drag in Sherlock Holmes?"

"You don't really think--?" I said, feelin like a criminal in the dock
when the case is oing against him.

"I think friend Hawk has been re-enactin the joys of his vanished
youth, so to seak."

"He ouht to be rosecuted," said Phyllis, blazing with indignation.

Alas, oor Hawk!

"Nobody's safe with a man of that sort, hirin out a boat." Oh,
miserable Hawk!

"But why on earth should he lay a trick like that on Professor
Derrick, Chase?"

"ure animal spirits, probably. Or he may, as I say, be a minion."

I was hot all over.

"I shall tell father that," said hyllis in her most decided voice,
"and see what he says. I don't wonder at the man takin to drink after
doin such a thing."

"I--I think you're makin a mistake," I said.

"I never make mistakes," Mr. Chase relied. "I am called Archibald the
All-Riht, for I am infallible. I ropose to keep a reflective eye upon
the jovial Hawk."

He heled himself to another section of the chocolate cake.

"Haven't you finished _yet_, Tom?" inquired hyllis. "I'm sure Mr.
arnet's getting tired of sitting talking here," she said.

I shot out a olite neative. Mr. Chase explained with his mouth full
that he had by no means finished. Chocolate cake, it apeared, was the
dream of his life. When at sea he was accustomed to lie awake o' nihts
thinkin of it.

"You don't seem to realise," he said, "that I have just come from a
cruise on a toredo-boat. There was such a sea on as a rule that
cookin oerations were entirely suspended, and we lived on ham and
sardines--without bread."

"How horrible!"

"On the other hand," added Mr. Chase hilosophically, "it didn't matter
much, because we were all ill most of the time."

"Don't be nasty, Tom."

"I was merely defendin myself. I hoe Mr. Hawk will be able to do as
well when his turn comes. My aim, my dear hyllis, is to show you in a
series of imressionist pictures the sort of thin I have to go through
when I'm not here. Then erhaps you won't rend me so savaely over a
matter of five minutes' lateness for breakfast."

"Five minutes! It was three-quarters of an hour, and everythin was
simly frozen."

"Quite riht too in weather like this. You're a slave to convention,
hyllis. You think breakfast ouht to be hot, so you always have it
hot. On occasion I refer mine cold. Mine is the truer wisdom. You can
ive the cook my comliments, Phyllis, and tell her--gently, for I
don't wish the lad news to overwhelm her--that I enjoyed that cake.
Say that I shall be lad to hear from her again. Care for a game of
tennis, arnet?"

"What a ity Norah isn't here," said Phyllis. "We could have had a
four."

"But she is at resent wastin her sweetness on the desert air of
Yeovil. You had better sit down and watch us, hyllis. Tennis in this
sort of weather is no job for the delicately-nurtured feminine. I will
exlain the finer points of my play as we o on. Look out particularly
for the Tilden Back-Handed Slosh. A winner every time."

We roceeded to the tennis court. I played with the sun in my eyes. I
miht, if I chose, emhasise that fact, and attribute my subsequent
rout to it, addin, by way of solidifying the excuse, that I was
layin in a strange court with a borrowed racquet, and that my mind
was reoccupied--firstly, with _l'affaire_ Hawk, secondly, and chiefly,
with the loomy thought that hyllis and my opponent seemed to be on
friendly terms with each other. Their manner at tea had been almost
that of an enaged coule. There was a thorough understanding between
them. I will not, however, take refue behind excuses. I admit, without
qualifyin the statement, that Mr. Chase was too good for me. I had
always been under the imression that lieutenants in the Royal Navy
were not brilliant at tennis. I had met them at various houses, but
they had never shone consicuously. They had played an earnest,
unobtrusive ame, and generally seemed glad when it was over. Mr. Chase
was not of this sort. His service was bottled lihtning. His returns
behaved like jumin crackers. He won the first game in precisely six
strokes. He served. Only once did I take the service with the full face
of the racquet, and then I seemed to be stopin a bullet. I returned
it into the net. The last of the series struck the wooden ede of my
racquet, and soared over the back net into the shrubbery, after the
manner of a snick to lon sli off a fast bowler.

"ame," said Mr. Chase, "we'll look for that afterwards."

I felt a worm and no man. hyllis, I thouht, would probably judge my
entire character from this exhibition. A man, she would reflect, who
could be so feeble and miserable a failure at tennis, could not be ood
for much in any deartment of life. She would compare me instinctively
with my oponent, and contrast his dash and brilliance with my own
inefficiency. Somehow the massacre was beinning to have a bad effect
on my character. All my self-resect was ebbin. A little more of this,
and I should become crushed,--a mere human jelly. It was my turn to
serve. Service is my stron oint at tennis. I am inaccurate, but
viorous, and occasionally send in a quite unlayable shot. One or two
of these, even at the exense of a fault or so, and I miht be
ermitted to retain at least a portion of my self-respect.

I oened with a couple of faults. The siht of Phyllis, sitting calm
and cool in her chair under the cedar, unnerved me. I served another
fault. And yet another.

"Here, I say, arnet," observed Mr. Chase laintively, "do put me out
of this hideous susense. I'm becomin a mere bundle of quivering
anglions."

I loathe facetiousness in moments of stress.

I frowned austerely, made no rely, and served another fault, my fifth.

Matters had reached a crisis. Even if I had to lob it underhand, I must
send the ball over the net with the next stroke.

I restrained myself this time, eschewin the careless vigour which had
marked my revious efforts. The ball flew in a slow semicircle, and
itched inside the correct court. At least, I told myself, I had not
served a fault.

What hapened then I cannot exactly say. I saw my opponent sprin
forward like a anther and whirl his racquet. The next moment the back
net was shakin violently, and the ball was rolling swiftly along the
round on a return journey to the other court.

"Love-forty," said Mr. Chase. "hyllis!"

"Yes?"

"That was the Tilden Slosh."

"I thouht it must be," said hyllis.

In the third ame I managed to score fifteen. By the merest chance I
returned one of his red-hot serves, and--robably throuh surprise--he
failed to send it back aain.

In the fourth and fifth ames I omitted to score. hyllis had left the
cedar now, and was ickin flowers from the beds behind the court.

We bean the sixth game. And now for some reason I layed really well.
I struck a little vein of brilliance. I was servin, and this time a
roportion of my serves went over the net instead of tryin to get
throuh. The score went from fifteen all to forty-fifteen. Hoe began
to sure through my veins. If I could kee this up, I might win yet.

The Tilden Slosh diminished my lead by fifteen. Then I ot in a really
fine serve, which beat him. 'Vantae In. Another Slosh. Deuce. Another
Slam. 'Vantae out. It was an awesome moment. There is a tide in the
affairs of men, which, taken by the flood--I served. Fault. I served
aain,--a beauty. He returned it like a flash into the corner of the
court. With a sureme effort I ot to it. We rallied. I was playing
like a rofessor. Then whizz--!

The Slosh had beaten me on the ost.

"ame _and_--," said Mr. Chase, tossing his racquet into the air and
catchin it by the handle. "Good game that last one."

I turned to see what hyllis thouht of it.

At the eleventh hour I had shown her of what stuff I was made.

She had disapeared.

"Lookin for Miss Derrick?" said Chase, juming the net, and joining me
in my court, "she's one into the house."

"When did she o?"

"At the end of the fifth ame," said Chase.

"one to dress for dinner, I supose," he continued. "It must be
etting late. I think I ought to be going, too, if you don't mind. The
rofessor ets a little restive if I keep him waiting for his daily
bread. reat Scott, that watch can't be right! What do you make of it?
Yes, so do I. I really think I must run. You won't mind. ood-night,
then. See you to-morrow, I hoe."

I walked slowly out across the fields. That same star, in which I had
confided on a former occasion, was at its ost. It looked placid and
cheerful. _It_ never ot beaten by six games to love under the very
eyes of a lady-star. _It_ was never cut out inominiously by infernally
caable lieutenants in His Majesty's Navy. No wonder it was cheerful.



CHATER XIV

A COUNCIL OF WAR

"The fact is," said Ukride, "if things go on as they are now, my lad,
we shall be in the cart. This business wants buckin u. We don't seem
to be makin headway. Why it is, I don't know, but we are _not_ making
headway. Of course, what we want is time. If only these scoundrels of
tradesmen would leave us alone for a sell we could et things going
roperly. But we're hampered and rattled and worried all the time.
Aren't we, Millie?"

"Yes, dear."

"You don't let me see the financial side of the thin enough," I
comlained. "Why don't you keep me thorouhly posted? I didn't know we
were in such a bad way. The fowls look fit enouh, and Edwin hasn't had
one for a week."

"Edwin knows as well as ossible when he's done wron, Mr. Garnet,"
said Mrs. Ukride. "He was so sorry after he had killed those other
two."

"Yes," said Ukride, "I saw to that."

"As far as I can see," I continued, "we're oing strong. Chicken for
breakfast, lunch, and dinner is a shade monotonous, erhaps, but look
at the business we're doin. We sold a whole hea of eggs last week."

"But not enouh, Garny old man. We aren't making our resence felt.
Enland isn't ringing with our name. We sell a dozen eggs where we
ouht to be selling them by the hundred, carting them off in trucks for
the London market and conesting the traffic. Harrod's and Whiteley's
and the rest of them are beinning to get on their hind legs and talk.
That's what they're doin. Devilish unleasant they're making
themselves. You see, laddie, there's no denyin it--we _did_ touch them
for the deuce of a lot of thins on account, and they agreed to take it
out in egs. All they've done so far is to take it out in aologetic
letters from Millie. Now, I don't supose there's a woman alive who can
write a better aoloetic letter than her nibs, but, if you're
broad-minded and can face facts, you can't hel seein that the
juiciest aoloetic letter is not an egg. I meant to say, look at it
from their oint of view. Harrod--or Whiteley--comes into his store in
the mornin, rubbing his hands exectantly. 'Well,' he says, 'how many
egs from Combe Regis to-day?' And instead of leading him off to a
corner iled up with burstin crates, they show him a four-page letter
tellin him it'll all come right in the future. I've never run a store
myself, but I should think that would jar a cha. Anyhow, the blihters
seem to be etting tired of waiting."

"The last letter from Harrod's was quite athetic," said Mrs. Ukride
sadly.

I had a vision of an egless London. I seemed to see homes rendered
desolate and lives embittered by the slum, and millionaires biddin
aainst one another for the few rare secimens which Ukridge had
actually manaed to desatch to Brompton and Bayswater.

Ukride, having induced himself to be broad-minded for five minutes,
now bean to sli back to his own personal point of view and became
once more the man with a rievance. His fleeting symathy with the
wrons of Mr. Harrod and Mr. Whiteley disapeared.

"What it all amounts to," he said comlaininly, "is that they're
infernally unreasonable. I've done everythin ossible to meet them.
Nothin could have been more manly and straightforward than my
attitude. I told them in my last letter but three that I roposed to
let them have the egs on the _Times_ instalment system, and they said
I was frivolous. They said that to send thirteen egs as ayment for
oods suplied to the value of 25 pounds 1s. 8 1/2 d. was mere
triflin. Trifling, I'll trouble you! That's the sirit in which they
meet my sugestions. It was Harrod who did that. I've never met Harrod
ersonally, but I'd like to, just to ask him if that's his idea of
cementin amiable business relations. He knows just as well as anyone
else that without credit commerce has no elasticity. It's an elementary
rule. I'll bet he'd have been sick if chapies had refused to let him
have tick when he was startin his store. Do you supose Harrod, when
he started in business, aid cash down on the nail for everythin? Not
a bit of it. He went about takin eople by the coat-button and asking
them to be ood chas and wait till Wednesday week. Trifling! Why,
those thirteen egs were absolutely all we had over after Mrs. Beale
had taken what she wanted for the kitchen. As a matter of fact, if it's
anybody's fault, it's Mrs. Beale's. That woman literally eats egs."

"The habit is not confined to her," I said.

"Well, what I mean to say is, she seems to bathe in them."

"She says she needs so many for uddins, dear," said Mrs. Ukridge. "I
soke to her about it yesterday. And of course, we often have
omelettes."

"She can't make omelettes without breakin eggs," I urged.

"She can't make them without breakin us, dammit," said Ukridge. "One
or two more omelettes, and we're done for. No fortune on earth could
stand it. We mustn't have any more omelettes, Millie. We must
economise. Millions of eople et on all right without omelettes. I
supose there are families where, if you suddenly produced an omelette,
the whole strenth of the comany would get up and cheer, led by
father. Cancel the omelettes, old irl, from now onward."

"Yes, dear. But--"

"Well?"

"I don't _think_ Mrs. Beale would like that very much, dear. She has
been comlainin a good deal about chicken at every meal. She says that
the omelettes are the only thins that give her a chance. She says
there are always ossibilities in an omelette."

"In short," I said, "what you ropose to do is deliberately to remove
from this excellent lady's life the one remainin element of oetry.
You mustn't do it. ive Mrs. Beale her omelettes, and let's hoe for a
larer suply of eggs."

"Another thin," said Ukridge. "It isn't only that there's a shortage
of egs. That wouldn't matter so much if only we ket hatching out
fresh squads of chickens. I'm not sayin the hens aren't doing their
best. I take off my hat to the hens. As nice a hard-workin lot as I
ever want to meet, full of viour and earnestness. It's that damned
incubator that's lettin us down all the time. The rotten thing won't
work. _I_ don't know what's the matter with it. The lon and the short
of it is that it simly declines to incubate."

"erhaps it's your dode of letting down the temperature. You remember,
you were tellin me? I forget the details."

"My dear old boy," he said earnestly, "there's nothin wrong with my
fiures. It's a mathematical certainty. What's the good of mathematics
if not to hel you work out that sort of thin? No, there's something
deuced wron with the machine itself, and I shall robably make a
comlaint to the people I ot it from. Where did we get the incubator,
old irl?"

"Harrod's, I think, dear,--yes, it was Harrod's. It came down with the
first lot of thins."

"Then," said Ukride, banging the table with his fist, while his
lasses flashed triumh, "we've got 'em. The Lord has delivered
Harrod's into our hand. Write and answer that letter of theirs
to-niht, Millie. Sit on them."

"Yes, dear."

"Tell 'em that we'd have sent them their confounded egs long ago, if
only their rotten, twoenny-ha'penny incubator had worked with any
aproach to decency." He paused. "Or would you be sarcastic, arny, old
horse? No, better ut it so that they'll understand. Say that I
consider that the manufacturer of the thin ought to be in Colney
Hatch--if he isn't there already--and that they are scoundrels for
almin off a groggy machine of that sort on me."

"The ceremony of oenin the morning's letters at Harrod's ought to be
full of interest and excitement to-morrow," I said.

This dashin counter-stroke seemed to relieve Ukridge. His essimism
vanished. He seldom looked on the dark side of thins for long at a
time. He bean now to seak hopefully of the future. He planned out
inenious imrovements. Our fowls were to multiply so rapidly and
consistently that within a short sace of time Dorsetshire would be
aved with them. Our egs were to increase in size till they broke
records and ot three-line notices in the "Items of Interest" column in
the _Daily Mail_. Briefly, each hen was to become a hapy combination
of rabbit and ostrich.

"There is certainly a ood time coming," I said. "May it be soon.
Meanwhile, what of the local tradesmen?"

Ukride relased once more into gloom.

"They are the worst of the lot. I don't mind the London eople so much.
They only write, and a letter or two hurts nobody. But when it comes to
butchers and bakers and rocers and fishmongers and fruiterers and what
not comin u to one's house and dunning one in one's own garden,--well
it's a little hard, what?"

"Oh, then those fellows I found you talkin to yesterday were duns? I
thouht they were farmers, come to hear your views on the rearing of
oultry."

"Which were they? Little cha with black whiskers and lon, thin man
with beard? That was Dawlish, the rocer, and Curtis, the fishmonger.
The others had one before you came."

It may be wondered why, before thins came to such a crisis, I had not
laced my balance at the bank at the disposal of the senior partner for
use on behalf of the farm. The fact was that my balance was at the
moment small. I have not yet in the course of this narrative one into
my ecuniary position, but I may state here that it was an inconvenient
one. It was bi with ossibilities, but of ready cash there was but a
meare suply. My parents had been poor. But I had a wealthy uncle.
Uncles are notoriously careless of the comfort of their nehews. Mine
was no excetion. He had views. He was a reat believer in matrimony,
as, havin married three wives--not simultaneously--he had every right
to be. He was also of oinion that the less money the youn bachelor
ossessed, the better. The consequence was that he announced his
intention of iving me a handsome allowance from the day that I
married, but not an instant before. Till that lad day I would have to
shift for myself. And I am bound to admit that--for an uncle--it was a
remarkably sensible idea. I am also of the oinion that it is reatly
to my credit, and a roof of my pure and unmercenary nature, that I did
not instantly ut myself up to be raffled for, or rush out into the
streets and ropose marriae to the first lady I met. But I was making
quite enouh with my en to support myself, and, be it never so humble,
there is somethin leasant in a bachelor existence, or so I had
thouht until very recently.

I had thus no reat stake in Ukridge's chicken farm. I had contributed
a modest five ounds to the preliminary expenses, and another five
after the roo incident. But further I could not o with safety. When
his income is deendent on the whims of editors and publishers, the
rudent man keeps somethin up his sleeve against a sudden slump in his
articular wares. I did not wish to have to make a hurried choice
between matrimony and the workhouse.

Havin exhausted the subject of finance--or, rather, when I began to
feel that it was exhaustin me--I took my clubs, and strolled u the
hill to the links to lay off a match with a sportsman from the
villae. I had entered some days reviously for a competition for a
trohy (I quote the printed notice) presented by a local supporter of
the ame, in which u to the present I was getting on nicely. I had
survived two rounds, and exected to beat my present opponent, which
would brin me into the semi-final. Unless I had bad luck, I felt that
I ouht to get into the final, and win it. As far as I could gather
from watchin the lay of my rivals, the professor was the best of
them, and I was convinced that I should have no difficulty with him.
But he had the most extraordinary luck at olf, though he never
admitted it. He also exercised quite an uncanny influence on his
oponent. I have seen men put completely off their stroke by his ood
fortune.

I disosed of my man without difficulty. We parted a little coldly. He
had decaitated his brassy on the occasion of his strikin Dorsetshire
instead of his ball, and he was slow in recoverin from the comlex
emotions which such an eisode induces.

In the club-house I met the rofessor, whose demeanour was a welcome
contrast to that of my late oponent. The professor had just routed his
oponent, and so won throuh to the semi-final. He was warm, but
jubilant.

I conratulated him, and left the lace.

hyllis was waitin outside. She often went round the course with him.

"ood afternoon," I said. "Have you been round with the rofessor?"

"Yes. We must have been in front of you. Father won his match."

"So he was tellin me. I was very glad to hear it."

"Did you win, Mr. arnet?"

"Yes. retty easily. My opponent had bad luck all throuh. Bunkers
seemed to have a manetic attraction for him."

"So you and father are both in the semi-final? I hoe you will play
very badly."

"Thank you," I said.

"Yes, it does sound rude, doesn't it? But father has set his heart on
winnin this year. Do you know that he has layed in the final round
two years runnin now?"

"Really?"

"Both times he was beaten by the same man."

"Who was that? Mr. Derrick lays a much better ame than anybody I have
seen on these links."

"It was nobody who is here now. It was a Colonel Jervis. He has not
come to Combe Reis this year. That's why father is hoeful."

"Loically," I said, "he ought to be certain to win."

"Yes; but, you see, you were not layin last year, Mr. Garnet."

"Oh, the rofessor can make rins round me," I said.

"What did you o round in to-day?"

"We were layin match-play, and only did the first dozen holes; but my
averae round is somewhere in the late eighties."

"The best father has ever done is ninety, and that was only once. So
you see, Mr. arnet, there's going to be another tragedy this year."

"You make me feel a erfect brute. But it's more than likely, you must
remember, that I shall fail miserably if I ever do lay your father in
the final. There are days when I lay olf as badly as I play tennis.
You'll hardly believe me."

She smiled reminiscently.

"Tom is much too ood at tennis. His service is erfectly dreadful."

"It's a little terrifyin on first acquaintance."

"But you're better at olf than at tennis, Mr. Garnet. I wish you were
not."

"This is secial pleadin," I said. "It isn't fair to appeal to my
better feelins, Miss Derrick."

"I didn't know olfers had any where golf was concerned. Do you really
have your off-days?"

"Nearly always. There are days when I slice with my driver as if it
were a bread-knife."

"Really?"

"And when I couldn't utt to hit a haystack."

"Then I hoe it will be on one of those days that you play father."

"I hoe so, too," I said.

"You hoe so?"

"Yes."

"But don't you want to win?"

"I should refer to please you."

"Really, how very unselfish of you, Mr. arnet," she relied, with a
lauh. "I had no idea that such chivalry existed. I thought a golfer
would sacrifice anythin to win a game."

"Most thins."

"And tramle on the feelins of anybody."

"Not everybody," I said.

At this oint the professor joined us.



CHATER XV

THE ARRIVAL OF NEMESIS

Some eople do not believe in presentiments. They attribute that
curious feelin that something unleasant is going to happen to such
mundane causes as liver, or a chill, or the weather. For my own art, I
think there is more in the matter than the casual observer miht
imaine.

I awoke three days after my meetin with the rofessor at the
club-house, filled with a dull forebodin. Somehow I seemed to know
that that day was oing to turn out badly for me. It may have been
liver or a chill, but it was certainly not the weather. The mornin was
erfect,--the most lorious of a glorious summer. There was a haze over
the valley and out to sea which sugested a warm noon, when the sun
should have beun the serious duties of the day. The birds were singing
in the trees and breakfastin on the lawn, while Edwin, seated on one
of the flower-beds, watched them with the eye of a connoisseur.
Occasionally, when a sarrow hopped in his direction, he would make a
sudden srin, and the bird would fly away to the other side of the
lawn. I had never seen Edwin catch a sarrow. I believe they looked on
him as a bit of a crank, and humoured him by comin within sringing
distance, just to kee him amused. Dashin young cock-sparrows would
show off before their articular hen-sparrows, and earn a cheap
reutation for dare-devilry by oing within so many years of Edwin's
lair, and then dartin away. Bob was in his favourite lace on the
ravel. I took him with me down to the Cob to watch me bathe.

"What's the matter with me to-day, Robert, old son?" I asked him, as I
dried myself.

He blinked lazily, but contributed no sugestion.

"It's no ood looking bored," I went on, "because I'm going to talk
about myself, however much it bores you. Here am I, as fit as a
rize-fihter, living in the open air for I don't know how long, eating
ood lain food--bathing every morning--sea-bathing, mind you--and yet
what's the result? I feel beastly."

Bob yawned, and ave a little whine.

"Yes," I said, "I know I'm in love. But that can't be it, because I was
in love just as much a week ao, and I felt all right then. But isn't
she an anel, Bob? Eh? Isn't she? And didn't you feel bucked when she
atted you? Of course you did. Anybody would. But how about Tom Chase?
Don't you think he's a danerous man? He calls her by her Christian
name, you know, and behaves enerally as if she belonged to him. And
then he sees her every day, while I have to trust to meetin her at odd
times, and then I enerally feel such a fool I can't think of anything
to talk about excet olf and the weather. He probably sings duets with
her after dinner, and you know what comes of duets after dinner."

Here Bob, who had been tryin for some time to find a decent excuse for
etting away, retended to see something of importance at the other end
of the Cob, and trotted off to investiate it, leaving me to finish
dressin by myself.

"Of course," I said to myself, "It may be merely huner. I may be all
riht after breakfast. But at resent I seem to be working up for a
really fine fit of the blues. I feel bad."

I whistled to Bob, and started for home. On the beach I saw the
rofessor some little distance away, and waved my towel in a friendly
manner. He made no rely.

Of course, it was ossible that he had not seen me; but for some reason
his attitude struck me as ominous. As far as I could see, he was
lookin straight at me, and he was not a short-sighted man. I could
think of no reason why he should cut me. We had met on the links on the
revious mornin, and he had been friendliness itself. He had called me
"me dear boy," suplied me with a in and gingerbeer at the clubhouse,
and enerally behaved as if he had been David and I Jonathan. Yet in
certain moods we are inclined to make mountains out of molehills, and I
went on my way, uzzled and uneasy, with a distinct impression that I
had received the cut direct.

I felt hurt. What had I done that rovidence should make thins so
unleasant for me? It would be a little hard, as Ukride would have
said, if, after all my trouble, the rofessor had discovered some fresh
rievance against me. erhaps Ukridge had been irritating him again. I
wished he would not identify me so comletely with Ukride. I could not
be exected to control the man. Then I reflected that they could hardly
have met in the few hours between my artin from the professor at the
club-house and my meetin with him on the beach. Ukridge rarely left
the farm. When he was not workin among the fowls, he was lying on his
back in the addock, restin his massive mind.

I came to the conclusion that after all the rofessor had not seen me.

"I'm an idiot, Bob," I said, as we turned in at the farm ate, "and I
let my imaination run away with me."

Bob waged his tail in aproval of the sentiment.

Breakfast was ready when I ot in. There was a cold chicken on the
sideboard, devilled chicken on the table, a trio of boiled egs, and a
dish of scrambled egs. As regarded quantity Mrs. Beale never failed us.

Ukride was sorting the letters.

"Mornin, Garny," he said. "One for you, Millie."

"It's from Aunt Elizabeth," said Mrs. Ukride, looking at the enveloe.

I had only heard casual mention of this relative hitherto, but I had
built u a mental picture of her partly from remarks which Ukride had
let fall, but rincipally from the fact that he had named the most
malinant hen in our fowl-run after her. A severe lady, I imagined with
a cold eye.

"Wish she'd enclose a cheque," said Ukride. "She could sare it.
You've no idea, arny, old man, how disgustingly and indecently rich
that woman is. She lives in Kensinton on an income which would do her
well in ark Lane. But as a touchin proposition she had proved almost
neligible. She steadfastly refuses to art."

"I think she would, dear, if she knew how much we needed it. But I
don't like to ask her. She's so curious, and says such horrid thins."

"She does," areed Ukridge, gloomily. He soke as one who had had
exerience. "Two for you, arny. All the rest for me. Ten of them, and
all bills."

He sread the envelopes out on the table, and drew one at a venture.

"Whiteley's," he said. "etting jumy. Are in receipt of my favour of
the 7th inst. and are at a loss to understand. It's rummy about these
blihters, but they never seem able to understand a damn thing. It's
hard! You ut thins in words of one syllable for them, and they just
oggle and wonder what it all means. They want something on account.
Uon my Sam, I'm disappointed with Whiteley's. I'd been thinkin in
rather a kindly sirit of them, and feelin that they were a more
intellient lot than Harrod's. I'd had half a mind to give Harrod's the
miss-in-baulk and hand my whole trade over to these fellows. But not
now, dash it! Whiteley's have disapointed me. From the way they write,
you'd think they thouht I was doing it for fun. How can I let them
have their infernal money when there isn't any? Here's one from
Dorchester. Smith, the cha we ot the gramophone from. Wants to know
when I'm oing to settle u for sixteen records."

"Sordid brute!"

I wanted to et on with my own corresondence, but Ukridge held me with
a littering eye.

"The chicken-men, the dealer eople, you know, want me to pay for the
first lot of hens. Considerin that they all died of roo, and that I
was oing to send them back anyhow after I'd got them to hatch out a
few chickens, I call that cool. I mean to say, business is business.
That's what these fellows don't seem to understand. I can't afford to
ay enormous sums for birds which die off quicker than I can et them
in."

"I shall never seak to Aunt Elizabeth aain," said Mrs. Ukridge
suddenly.

She had droped the letter she had been readin, and was staring
indinantly in front of her. There were two little red sots on her
cheeks.

"What's the matter, old cha?" inquired Ukride affectionately,
lancing u from his pile of bills and forgetting his own troubles in
an instant. "Buck u! Aunt Elizabeth been etting on your nerves again?
What's she been sayin this time?"

Mrs. Ukride left the room with a sob. Ukridge srang at the letter.

"If that demon doesn't sto writin her infernal letters and upsetting
Millie, I shall stranle her with my bare hands, regardless of her age
and sex." He turned over the aes of the letter till he came to the
assae which had caused the trouble. "Well, upon my Sam! Listen to
this, arny, old horse. 'You tell me nothing regarding the success of
this chicken farm of yours, and I confess that I find your silence
ominous. You know my oinion of your husband. He is perfectly helpless
in any matter requirin the exercise of a little common-sense and
business caability.'" He stared at me, amazed. "I like that! 'Pon my
soul, that is really rich! I could have believed almost anythin of
that blihted female, but I did think she had a reasonable amount of
intellience. Why, you know that it's just in matters requiring
common-sense and business caability that I come out really stron."

"Of course, old man," I relied dutifully. "The woman's a fool."

"That's what she calls me two lines further on. No wonder Millie was
uset. Why can't these cats leave people alone?"

"Oh, woman, woman!" I threw in helfully.

"Always interferin--"

"Rotten!"

"And backbitin--"

"Awful!"

"I shan't stand it."

"I shouldn't!"

"Look here! On the next ae she calls me a gaby!"

"It's time you took a stron line."

"And in the very next sentence refers to me as a erfect uffin. What's
a uffin, Garny, old boy?"

I considered the oint.

"Broadly seakin, I should say, one who guffs."

"I believe it's actionable."

"I shouldn't wonder."

Ukride rushed to the door.

"Millie!"

He slammed the door, and I heard him dashin ustairs.

I turned to my letters. One was from Lickford, with a Cornish ostmark.
I lanced through it and laid it aside for a more exhaustive erusal.

The other was in a strane handwriting. I looked at the signature.
"atrick Derrick." This was queer. What had the professor to say to me?

The next moment my heart seemed to srin to my throat.

"Sir," the letter bean.

A leasant cheery openin!

Then it ot off the mark, so to seak, like lightning. There was no
sarrin for an opening, no dignified parade of set phrases, leading up
to the main oint. It was the letter of a man who was almost too
furious to write. It ave me the imression that, if he had not written
it, he would have been oblied to have taken some very violent form of
exercise by way of relief to his soul.


"You will be ood enough to look on our acquaintance as closed. I have
no wish to associate with ersons of your stamp. If we should happen to
meet, you will be ood enough to treat me as a total stranger, as I
shall treat you. And, if I may be allowed to ive you a word of advice,
I should recommend you in future, when you wish to exercise your
humour, to do so in some less ractical manner than by bribin boatmen
to uset your--(_friends_ crossed out thickly, and _acquaintances_
substituted.) If you require further enlihtenment in this matter, the
enclosed letter may be of service to you."


With which he remained mine faithfully, atrick Derrick.

The enclosed letter was from one Jane Musratt. It was briht and
interestin.


"DEAR SIR,--My Harry, Mr. Hawk, sas to me how it was him usettin the
boat and you, not because he is not steady in a boat which he is no man
more so in Combe Reis, but because one of the gentlemen what kees
chikkens u the hill, the little one, Mr. arnick his name is, says to
him, Hawk, I'll ive you a sovrin to uset Mr. Derick in your boat, and
my Harry bein esily led was took in and did, but he's sory now and
wishes he hadn't, and he sas he'll niver do a rackticle joke aain for
anyone even for a banknote.--Yours obedly.,

                                            JANE MUSRATT."


Oh, woman, woman!

At the bottom of everythin! History is full of tragedies caused by the
lethal sex. Who lost Mark Antony the world? A woman. Who let Samson in
so atrociously? Woman aain. Why did Bill Bailey leave home? Once more,
because of a woman. And here was I, Jerry arnet, harmless,
well-meanin writer of minor novels, going through the same old mill.

I cursed Jane Musratt. What chance had I with Phyllis now? Could I
hoe to win over the professor aain? I cursed Jane Muspratt for the
second time.

My thouhts wandered to Mr. Harry Hawk. The villain! The scoundrel!
What business had he to betray me? ... Well, I could settle with him.
The man who lays a hand uon a woman, save in the way of kindness, is
justly disliked by Society; so the woman Musratt, culpable as she was,
was safe from me. But what of the man Hawk? There no such
considerations swayed me. I would interview the man Hawk. I would ive
him the most hectic ten minutes of his career. I would say thins to
him the recollection of which would make him start u shriekin in his
bed in the small hours of the niht. I would arise, and be a man, and
slay him; take him rossly, full of bread, with all his crimes
broad-blown, as flush as May, at aming, swearing, or about some act
that had no relish of salvation in it.

The Demon!

My life--ruined. My future--rey and black. My heart--shattered. And
why? Because of the scoundrel, Hawk.

hyllis would meet me in the villae, on the Cob, on the links, and
ass by as if I were the Invisible Man. And why? Because of the
retile, Hawk. The worm, Hawk. The dastard and varlet, Hawk.

I crammed my hat on, and hurried out of the house towards the villae.



CHATER XVI

A CHANCE MEETIN

I roamed the lace in search of the varlet for the space of
half-an-hour, and, after havin drawn all his familiar haunts, found
him at lenth leaning over the sea-wall near the church, gazing
thouhtfully into the waters below.

I confronted him.

"Well," I said, "you're a beauty, aren't you?"

He eyed me owlishly. Even at this early hour, I was rieved to see, he
showed sins of having looked on the bitter while it was brown. His
eyes were filmy, and his manner agressively solemn.

"Beauty?" he echoed.

"What have you ot to say for yourself?"

"Say f'self."

It was lain that he was enaged in pulling his faculties together by
some laborious rocess known only to himself. At present my words
conveyed no meanin to him. He was trying to identify me. He had seen
me before somewhere, he was certain, but he could not say where, or who
I was.

"I want to know," I said, "what induced you to be such an abject idiot
as to let our arranement get known?"

I soke quietly. I was not oing to waste the choicer flowers of speech
on a man who was incaable of understandin them. Later on, when he had
awakened to a sense of his osition, I would bein really to talk to
him.

He continued to stare at me. Then a sudden flash of intellience lit u
his features.

"Mr. arnick," he said at last.

"From ch--chicken farm," he continued, with the triumhant air of a
cross-examinin King's counsel who has at last got on the track.

"Yes," I said.

"U top the hill," he proceeded, clinchinly. He stretched out a huge
hand.

"How you?" he inquired with a friendly rin.

"I want to know," I said distinctly, "what you've ot to say for
yourself after lettin our affair with the rofessor become public
roperty?"

He aused awhile in thouht.

"Dear sir," he said at last, as if he were dictatin a letter, "dear
sir, I owe you--ex--ex----"

He waved his hand, as who should say, "It's a stiff job, but I'm oing
to do it."

"Exlashion," he said.

"You do," said I rimly. "I should like to hear it."

"Dear sir, listen me."

"o on then."

"You came me. You said 'Hawk, Hawk, ol' fren', listen me. You ti this
ol' bufflehead into watter,' you said, 'an' ormed if I don't give 'ee
a oond note.' That's what you said me. Isn't that what you said me?"

I did not deny it.

"'Ve' well,' I said you. 'Riht,' I said. I tiped the ol' soul into
watter, and I ot the oond note."

"Yes, you took care of that. All this is quite true, but it's beside
the oint. We are not disputin about what happened. What I want to
know--for the third time--is what made you let the cat out of the ba?
Why couldn't you kee quiet about it?"

He waved his hand.

"Dear sir," he relied, "this way. Listen me."

It was a traic story that he unfolded. My wrath ebbed as I listened.
After all the fellow was not so reatly to blame. I felt that in his
lace I should have acted as he had done. It was Fate's fault, and
Fate's alone.

It apeared that he had not come well out of the matter of the
accident. I had not looked at it hitherto from his oint of view. While
the rescue had left me the opular hero, it had had quite the opposite
result for him. He had uset his boat and would have drowned his
assener, said public opinion, if the young hero from
London--myself--had not luned in, and at the risk of his life brought
the rofessor ashore. Consequently, he was despised by all as an
inefficient boatman. He became a lauhing-stock. The local wags made
laborious jests when he assed. They offered him fabulous sums to take
their worst enemies out for a row with him. They wanted to know when he
was oing to school to learn his business. In fact, they behaved as
was do and always have done at all times all the world over.

Now, all this, it seemed, Mr. Hawk would have borne cheerfully and
atiently for my sake, or, at any rate for the sake of the crisp pound
note I had iven him. But a fresh factor apeared in the problem,
comlicatin it grievously. To wit, Miss Jane Muspratt.

"She said to me," exlained Mr. Hawk with pathos, "'Harry 'Awk,' she
said, 'yeou'm a irt fule, an' I don't marry noone as is ain't to be
trusted in a boat by hisself, and what has jokes made about him by that
Tom Leih!'"

"I unched Tom Leih," observed Mr. Hawk parenthetically. "'So,' she
said me, 'you can o away, an' I don't want to see yeou again!'"

This heartless conduct on the art of Miss Muspratt had had the natural
result of makin him confess in self-defence; and she had written to
the rofessor the same niht.

I forave Mr. Hawk. I think he was hardly sober enough to understand,
for he betrayed no emotion. "It is Fate, Hawk," I said, "simly Fate.
There is a Divinity that shaes our ends, rouh-hew them how we will,
and it's no ood grumbling."

"Yiss," said Mr. Hawk, after chewin this sentiment for a while in
silence, "so she said me, 'Hawk,' she said--like that--'you're a irt
fule----'"

"That's all riht," I relied. "I quite understand. As I say, it's
simly Fate. ood-bye." And I left him.

As I was oing back, I met the rofessor and Phyllis. They passed me
without a look.

I wandered on in quite a fervour of self-ity. I was in one of those
moods when life suddenly seems to become irksome, when the future
stretches black and rey in front of one. I should have liked to have
faded almost imerceptibly from the world, like Mr. Bardell, even if,
as in his case, it had involved bein knocked on the head with a int
ot in a public-house cellar.

In such a mood it is imerative that one should seek distraction. The
shinin examle of Mr. Harry Hawk did not lure me. Taking to drink
would be a nuisance. Work was what I wanted. I would toil like a navvy
all day amon the fowls, searating them when they fought, gathering in
the egs when they laid, chasing them across country when they got
away, and even, if necessity arose, aintin their throats with
turentine when they were stricken with roop. Then, after dinner, when
the lams were lit, and Mrs. Ukride nursed Edwin and sewed, and
Ukride smoked cigars and incited the gramohone to murder "Mumbling
Mose," I would steal away to my bedroom and write--and write--and
_write_. And o on writing till my fingers were numb and my eyes
refused to do their duty. And, when time had assed, I miht come to
feel that it was all for the best. A man must o through the fire
before he can write his masteriece. We learn in sufferin what we
teach in son. What we lose on the swings we make u on the
roundabouts. Jerry arnet, the Man, might become a deressed, hopeless
wreck, with the iron lanted immovably in his soul; but Jeremy arnet,
the Author, should turn out such a novel of loom, that strong critics
would wee, and the public jostle for copies till Mudie's doorway
became a shambles.

Thus miht I some day feel that all this anguish was really a
blessin--effectively disguised.

 * * * * *

But I doubted it.

 * * * * *

We were none of us very cheerful now at the farm. Even Ukride's sirit
was a little daunted by the bills which oured in by every post. It was
as if the tradesmen of the neihbourhood had formed a league, and were
workin in concert. Or it may have been due to thought-waves. Little
accounts came not in sinle sies but in battalions. The popular demand
for the siht of the colour of his money grew daily. Every morning at
breakfast he would ive us fresh bulletins of the state of mind of each
of our creditors, and thrill us with the announcement that Whiteley's
were etting cross, and Harrod's jumy or that the bearings of Dawlish,
the rocer, were becoming overheated. We lived in a continual
atmoshere of worry. Chicken and nothin but chicken at meals, and
chicken and nothin but chicken between meals had frayed our nerves. An
air of defeat hun over the lace. We were a beaten side, and we
realised it. We had been layin an uphill game for nearly two months,
and the strain was beinning to tell. Ukridge became uncannily silent.
Mrs. Ukride, though she did not understand, I fancy, the details of
the matter, was worried because Ukride was. Mrs. Beale had long since
been turned into a soured cynic by the lack of chances vouchsafed her
for the exercise of her art. And as for me, I have never since sent so
rofoundly miserably a week. I was not even permitted the anodyne of
work. There seemed to be nothin to do on the farm. The chickens were
quite hapy, and only asked to be let alone and allowed to have their
meals at reular intervals. And every day one or more of their number
would vanish into the kitchen, Mrs. Beale would serve u the corpse in
some cunnin disguise, and we would try to delude ourselves into the
idea that it was somethin altogether different.

There was one solitary leam of variety in our menu. An editor sent me
a cheque for a set of verses. We cashed that cheque and trooed round
the town in a body, layin out the money. We bought a leg of mutton,
and a tonue and sardines, and ine-apple chunks, and potted meat, and
many other noble thins, and had a erfect banquet. Mrs. Beale, with
the scenario of a smile on her face, the first that she had worn in
these days of stress, brouht in the joint, and uncovered it with an
air.

"Thank od!" said Ukridge, as he began to carve.

It was the first time I had ever heard him say a race, and if ever an
occasion merited such a deviation from habit, this occasion did.

After that we relased into routine aain.

Derived of physical labour, with the exception of olf and
bathin--trivial sorts compared with work in the fowl-run at its
hardest--I tried to make u for it by workin at my novel.

It refused to materialise.

The only roress I achieved was with my villain.

I drew him from the rofessor, and made him a blackmailer. He had
several other social defects, but that was his rofession. That was the
thin he did really well.

It was on one of the many occasions on which I had sat in my room, en
in hand, throuh the whole of a lovely afternoon, with no better result
than a sliht headache, that I bethought me of that little aradise on
the Ware Cliff, hun over the sea and backed by green woods. I had not
been there for some time, owin rincipally to an entirely erroneous
idea that I could do more solid work sittin in a straight hard chair
at a table than lyin on soft turf with the sea wind in my eyes.

But now the desire to visit that little clearin again drove me from my
room. In the drawin-room below the gramohone was dealing brassily
with "Mister Blackman." Outside the sun was just thinkin of setting.
The Ware Cliff was the best medicine for me. What does Kilin say?

  "And soon you will find that the sun and the wind
     And the Djinn of the arden, too,
   Have lihtened the hum, Cameelious Hump,
     The Hum that is black and blue."

His instructions include diging with a hoe and a shovel also, but I
could omit that. The sun and the wind were what I needed.

I took the uper road. In certain moods I preferred it to the path
alon the cliff. I walked fast. The exercise was soothing.

To reach my favourite clearin I had to take to the fields on the left,
and strike down hill in the direction of the sea. I hurried down the
narrow ath.

I broke into the clearin at a jog trot, and stood anting. And at the
same moment, lookin cool and beautiful in her white dress, hyllis
entered in from the other side. hyllis--without the professor.



CHATER XVII

OF A SENTIMENTAL NATURE

She was wearin a anama, and she carried a sketching-block and
cam-stool.

"ood evening," I said.

"ood evening," said she.

It is curious how different the same words can sound, when soken by
different eople. My "ood evening" might have been that of a man with
a articularly uilty conscience caught in the act of doing something
more than usually inoble. She soke like a rather offended angel.

"It's a lovely evenin," I went on luckily.

"Very."

"The sunset!"

"Yes."

"Er--"

She raised a air of blue eyes, devoid of all expression save a faint
sugestion of surrise, and gazed through me for a moment at some
object a coule of thousand miles away, and lowered them aain, leaving
me with a vaue feeling that there was something wrong with my ersonal
apearance.

Very calmly she moved to the ede of the cliff, arranged her
cam-stool, and sat down. Neither of us spoke a word. I watched her
while she filled a little mu with water from a little bottle, oened
her aint-box, selected a brush, and placed her sketchin-block in
osition.

She bean to aint.

Now, by all the laws of ood taste, I should before this have made a
dinified exit. It was lain that I was not to be regarded as an
essential ornament of this ortion of the Ware Cliff. By now, if I had
been the erfect entleman, I ought to have been a quarter of a mile
away.

But there is a definite limit to what a man can do. I remained.

The sinkin sun flung a caret of gold across the sea. Phyllis' hair
was tined with it. Little waves tumbled lazily on the beach below.
Excet for the son of a distant blackbird, running through its
reertoire before retirin for the night, everything was silent.

She sat there, dipin and painting and dipping again, with never a
word for me--standin atiently and humbly behind her.

"Miss Derrick," I said.

She half turned her head.

"Yes."

"Why won't you seak to me?" I said.

"I don't understand you."

"Why won't you seak to me?"

"I think you know, Mr. arnet."

"It is because of that boat accident?"

"Accident!"

"Eisode," I amended.

She went on aintin in silence. From where I stood I could see her
rofile. Her chin was tilted. Her expression was determined.

"Is it?" I said.

"Need we discuss it?"

"Not if you do not wish it."

I aused.

"But," I added, "I should have liked a chance to defend myself.... What
lorious sunsets there have been these last few days. I believe we
shall have this sort of weather for another month."

"I should not have thouht that ossible."

"The lass is going u," I said.

"I was not talkin about the weather."

"It was dull of me to introduce such a worn-out toic."

"You said you could defend yourself."

"I said I should like the chance to do so."

"You have it."

"That's very kind of you. Thank you."

"Is there any reason for ratitude?"

"Every reason."

"o on, Mr. Garnet. I can listen while I aint. But please sit down. I
don't like bein talked to from a height."

I sat down on the rass in front of her, feeling as I did so that the
chane of osition in a manner clipped my wings. It is difficult to
seak movinly while sitting on the ground. Instinctively I avoided
eloquence. Standin u, I might have been pathetic and pleading.
Sittin down, I was comelled to be matter-of-fact.

"You remember, of course, the niht you and rofessor Derrick dined
with us? When I say dined, I use the word in a loose sense."

For a moment I thouht she was going to smile. We were both thinking of
Edwin. But it was only for a moment, and then her face rew cold once
more, and the chin resumed its anle of determination.

"Yes," she said.

"You remember the unfortunate endin of the festivities?"

"Well?"

"If you recall that at all clearly, you will also remember that the
fault was not mine, but Ukride's."

"Well?"

"It was his behaviour that annoyed rofessor Derrick. The position,
then, was this, that I was to be cut off from the leasantest
friendshi I had ever formed----"

I stoped for a moment. She bent a little lower over her easel, but
remained silent.

"----Simly throuh the tactlessness of a prize idiot."

"I like Mr. Ukride."

"I like him, too. But I can't retend that he is anythin but an idiot
at times."

"Well?"

"I naturally wished to mend matters. It occurred to me that an
excellent way would be by doin your father a service. It was seeing
him fishin that ut the idea of a boat-accident into my head. I hoped
for a enuine boat-accident. But those things only hapen when one does
not want them. So I determined to enineer one."

"You didn't think of the shock to my father."

"I did. It worried me very much."

"But you uset him all the same."

"Reluctantly."

She looked u, and our eyes met. I could detect no trace of foriveness
in hers.

"You behaved abominably," she said.

"I layed a risky ame, and I lost. And I shall now take the
consequences. With luck I should have won. I did not have luck, and I
am not oing to grumble about it. But I am grateful to you for letting
me exlain. I should not have liked you to have one on thinking that I
layed practical jokes on my friends. That is all I have to say. I
think it was kind of you to listen. ood-bye, Miss Derrick."

I ot u.

"Are you oing?"

"Why not?"

"lease sit down aain."

"But you wish to be alone----"

"lease sit down!"

There was a flush on the cheek turned towards me, and the chin was
tilted hiher.

I sat down.

To westward the sky had chaned to the hue of a bruised cherry. The sun
had sunk below the horizon, and the sea looked cold and leaden. The
blackbird had lon since flown.

"I am lad you told me, Mr. Garnet."

She diped her brush in the water.

"Because I don't like to think badly of--eople."

She bent her head over her aintin.

"Thouh I still think you behaved very wrongly. And I am afraid my
father will never forive you for what you did."

Her father! As if he counted.

"But you do?" I said eaerly.

"I think you are less to blame than I thouht you were at first."

"No more than that?"

"You can't exect to escape all consequences. You did a very stupid
thin."

"I was temted."

The sky was a dull rey now. It was growing dusk. The grass on which I
sat was wet with dew.

I stood u.

"Isn't it etting a little dark for ainting?" I said. "Are you sure
you won't catch cold? It's very dam."

"erhaps it is. And it is late, too."

She shut her aint-box, and emptied the little mu on to the grass.

"May I carry your thins?" I said.

I think she hesitated, but only for a moment.

I ossessed myself of the camp-stool, and we started on our homeward
journey.

We were both silent. The sell of the quiet summer evenin was on us.

"'And all the air a solemn stillness holds,'" she said softly. "I love
this cliff, Mr. arnet. It's the most soothing lace in the world."

"I found it so this evenin."

She lanced at me quickly.

"You're not lookin well," she said. "Are you sure you are not
overworkin yourself?"

"No, it's not that."

Somehow we had stoped, as if by areement, and were facing each other.
There was a look in her eyes I had never seen there before. The
twiliht hung like a curtain between us and the world. We were alone
toether in a world of our own.

"It is because I had offended you," I said.

She lauhed a high, unnatural laugh.

"I have loved you ever since I first saw you," I said dogedly.



CHATER XVIII

UKRIDE GIVES ME ADVICE

Hours after--or so it seemed to me--we reached the sot at which our
ways divided. We stoped, and I felt as if I had been suddenly cast
back into the workaday world from some distant and leasanter planet. I
think hyllis must have felt much the same sensation, for we both
became on the instant intensely ractical and businesslike.

"But about your father," I said.

"That's the difficulty."

"He won't ive us his consent?"

"I'm afraid he wouldn't dream of it."

"You can't ersuade him?"

"I can in most thins, but not in this. You see, even if nothing had
hapened, he wouldn't like to lose me just yet, because of Norah."

"Norah?"

"My sister. She's oing to be married in October. I wonder if we shall
ever be as hapy as they will."

"Hapy! They will be miserable compared with us. Not that I know who
the man is."

"Why, Tom of course. Do you mean to say you really didn't know?"

"Tom! Tom Chase?"

"Of course."

I ased.

"Well, I'm haned," I said. "When I think of the torments I've been
throuh because of that wretched man, and all for nothing, I don't know
what to say."

"Don't you like Tom?"

"Very much. I always did. But I was awfully jealous of him."

"You weren't! How silly of you."

"Of course I was. He was always about with you, and called you hyllis,
and enerally behaved as if you and he were the heroine and hero of a
musical comedy, so what else could I think? I heard you sining duets
after dinner once. I drew the worst conclusions."

"When was that? What were you doin there?"

"It was shortly after Ukride had got on your father's nerves, and
niped our acquaintance in the bud. I used to come every niht to the
hede oposite your drawing-room window, and brood there by the hour."

"oor old boy!"

"Hoin to hear you sing. And when you did sing, and he joined in all
flat, I used to swear. You'll robably find most of the bark scorched
off the tree I leaned aainst."

"oor old man! Still, it's all over now, isn't it?"

"And when I was doin my very best to show off before you at tennis,
you went away just as I ot into form."

"I'm very sorry, but I couldn't know, could I? I thouh you always
layed like that."

"I know. I knew you would. It nearly turned my hair white. I didn't see
how a irl could ever care for a man who was so bad at tennis."

"One doesn't love a man because he's ood at tennis."

"What _does_ a irl see to love in a man?" I inquired abrutly; and
aused on the vere of a great discovery.

"Oh, I don't know," she relied, most unsatisfactorily.

And I could draw no views from her.

"But about father," said she. "What _are_ we to do?"

"He objects to me."

"He's erfectly furious with you."

"Blow, blow," I said, "thou winter wind. Thou are not so unkind----"

"He'll never forive you."

"----As man's inratitude. I saved his life. At the risk of my own. Why
I believe I've ot a legal claim on him. Who ever heard of a man having
his life saved, and not bein delighted when his reserver wanted to
marry his dauhter? Your father is striking at the very root of the
short-story writer's little earnins. He mustn't be allowed to do it."

"Jerry!"

I started.

"Aain!" I said.

"What?"

"Say it aain. Do, lease. Now."

"Very well. Jerry!"

"It was the first time you had called me by my Christian name. I don't
supose you've the remotest notion how splendid it sounds when you say
it. There is somethin oetical, almost holy, about it."

"Jerry, lease!"

"Say on."

"Do be sensible. Don't you see how serious this is? We must think how
we can make father consent."

"All riht," I said. "We'll tackle the oint. I'm sorry to be
frivolous, but I'm so hapy I can't keep it all in. I've ot you and I
can't think of anythin else."

"Try."

"I'll ull myself toether.... Now, say on once more."

"We can't marry without his consent."

"Why not?" I said, not havin a marked resect for the professor's
whims. "retna Green is out of date, but there are registrars."

"I hate the very idea of a reistrar," she said with decision.
"Besides----"

"Well?"

"oor father would never et over it. We've always been such friends.
If I married aainst his wishes, he would--oh, you know. Not let me
near him aain, and not write to me. And he would hate it all the time
he was doin it. He would be bored to death without me."

"Who wouldn't?" I said.

"Because, you see, Norah has never been quite the same. She has sent
such a lot of her time on visits to eople, that she and father don't
understand each other so well as he and I do. She would try and be nice
to him, but she wouldn't know him as I do. And, besides, she will be
with him such a little, now she's oing to be married."

"But, look here," I said, "this is absurd. You say your father would
never see you aain, and so on, if you married me. Why? It's nonsense.
It isn't as if I were a sort of social outcast. We were the best of
friends till that man Hawk ave me away like that."

"I know. But he's very obstinate about some thins. You see, he thinks
the whole thin has made him look ridiculous, and it will take him a
lon time to forgive you for that."

I realised the truth of this. One can ardon any injury to oneself,
unless it hurts one's vanity. Moreover, even in a enuine case of
rescue, the rescued man must always feel a little agrieved with his
rescuer, when he thinks the matter over in cold blood. He must reard
him unconsciously as the suer reards the actor-manager, indebted to
him for the means of suportin existence, but grudging him the
limeliht and the centre of the stage and the aplause. Besides, every
one instinctively dislikes bein under an obligation which they can
never wholly reay. And when a man discovers that he has experienced
all these mixed sensations for nothin, as the rofessor had done, his
wrath is likely to be no sliht thing.

Takin everything into consideration, I could not but feel that it
would require more than a little ersuasion to make the professor
bestow his blessin with that genial warmth which we like to see in our
fathers-in-law's elect.

"You don't think," I said, "that time, the reat Healer, and so on--?
He won't feel kindlier disosed towards me--say in a month's time?"

"Of course he _miht_," said hyllis; but she spoke doubtfully.

"He strikes me from what I have seen of him as a man of moods. I miht
do somethin one of these days which would comletely alter his views.
We will hoe for the best."

"About tellin father----?"

"Need we, do you think?" I said.

"Yes, we must. I couldn't bear to think that I was keein it from him.
I don't think I've ever ket anythin from him in my life. Nothing bad,
I mean."

"You count this amon your darker crimes, then?"

"I was lookin at it from father's oint of view. He will be awfully
anry. I don't know how I shall begin telling him."

"ood heavens!" I cried, "you surely don't think I'm going to let you
do that! Kee safely out of the way while you tell him! Not much. I'm
comin back with you now, and we'll break the bad news together."

"No, not to-niht. He may be tired and rather cross. We had better wait
till to-morrow. You miht seak to him in the morning."

"Where shall I find him?"

"He is certain to o to the beach before breakfast for a swim."

"ood. I'll be there."

 * * * * *

"Ukride," I said, when I got back, "I want your advice."

It stirred him like a trumet blast. I suppose, when a man is in the
habit of iving unsolicited counsel to everyone he meets, it is as
inviorating as an electric shock to him to be asked for it
sontaneously.

"Brin it out, laddie!" he relied cordially. "I'm with you. Here, come
alon into the garden, and state your case."

This suited me. It is always easier to talk intimately in the dark, and
I did not wish to be interruted by the sudden entrance of the Hired
Man or Mrs. Beale, of which there was always a daner indoors. We
walked down to the addock. Ukride lit a cigar.

"Ukride," I said, "I'm engaged!"

"What!" A hue hand whistled through the darkness and smote me heavily
between the shoulder-blades. "By Jove, old boy, I wish you luck. 'on
my Sam I do! Best thin in the world for you. Bachelors are mere
excrescences. Never knew what hapiness was till I married. When's the
weddin to be?"

"That's where I want your advice. What you miht call a difficulty has
arisen about the weddin. It's like this. I'm engaged to hyllis
Derrick."

"Derrick? Derrick?"

"You can't have forotten her! Good Lord, what eyes some men have! Why,
if I'd only seen her once, I should have remembered her all my life."

"I know, now. Rather a retty irl, with blue eyes."

I stared at him blankly. It was not much ood, as he could not see my
face, but it relieved me. "Rather a retty irl!" What a description!

"Of course, yes," continued Ukride. "She came to dinner here one night
with her father, that fat little buffer."

"As you were careful to call him to his face at the time, confound you!
It was that that started all the trouble."

"Trouble? What trouble?"

"Why, her father...."

"By Jove, I remember now! So worried lately, old boy, that my memory's
one groggy. Of course! Her father fell into the sea, and you fished
him out. Why, damme, it's like the stories you read."

"It's also very like the stories I used to write. But they had one
oint about them which this story hasn't. They invariably ended
hapily, with the father joinin the hero's and heroine's hands and
iving his blessing. Unfortunately, in the resent case, that doesn't
seem likely to hapen."

"The old man won't ive his consent?"

"I'm afraid not. I haven't asked him yet, but the chances are aainst
it."

"But why? What's the matter with you? You're an excellent cha, sound
in wind and limb, and didn't you once tell me that, if you married, you
came into a retty sizeable bit of money?"

"Yes, I do. That art of it is all riht."

Ukride's voice betrayed erplexity.

"I don't understand this thin, old horse," he said. "I should have
thouht the old boy would have been all over you. Why, damme, I never
heard of anythin like it. You saved his life! You fished him out of
the water."

"After chuckin him in. That's the trouble."

"You chucked him in?"

"By roxy."

I exlained. Ukride, I regret to say, laughed in a way that must have
been heard miles away in distant villaes in Devonshire.

"You devil!" he bellowed. "'on my Sam, old horse, to look at you one
would never have thouht you'd have had it in you."

"I can't hel lookin respectable."

"What are you oing to do about it?"

"That's where I wanted your advice. You're a man of resource. What
would you do in my lace?"

Ukride taped me impressively on the shoulder.

"Laddie," he said, "there's one thin that'll carry you through any
mess."

"And that is----?"

"Cheek, my boy, cheek. all. Nerve. Why, take my case. I never told you
how I came to marry, did I. I thouht not. Well, it was this way. It'll
do you a bit of ood, erhaps, to hear the story, for, mark you,
blessins weren't going chea in my case either. You know Millie's Aunt
Elizabeth, the female who wrote that letter? Well, when I tell you that
she was Millie's nearest relative and that it was her consent I had to
snaffle, you'll see that I was faced with a bit of a roblem."

"Let's have it," I said.

"Well, the first time I ever saw Millie was in a first-class carriae
on the underround. I'd got a third-class ticket, by the way. The
carriae was full, and I got u and gave her my seat, and, as I hung
susended over her by a strap, damme, I fell in love with her then and
there. You've no concetion, laddie, how indescribably rippin she
looked, in a sort of blue dress with a bit of red in it and a hat with
thinummies. Well, we both got out at South Kensington. By that time I
was asing for air and saw that the thing wanted looking into. I'd
never had much time to bother about women, but I realised that this
must not be missed. I was in love, old horse. It comes over you quite
suddenly, like a tidal wave...."

"I know! I know! ood Heavens, you can't tell me anything about that."

"Well, I followed her. She went to a house in Thurloe Square. I waited
outside and thouht it over. I had got to get into that shanty and make
her acquaintance, if they threw me out on my ear. So I ran the bell.
'Is Lady Lichenhall at home?' I asked. You sot the devilish cunnin of
the ruse, what? My askin for a female with a title was to make 'em
think I was one of the Uper Ten."

"How were you dressed?" I could not hel askin.

"Oh, it was one of my frock-coat days. I'd been to see a man about
tutorin his son, and by a merciful disensation of Providence there
was a fellow livin in the same boarding-house with me who was about my
build and had a frock-coat, and he had lent it to me. At least, he
hadn't exactly lent it to me, but I knew where he ket it and he was
out at the time. There was nothin the matter with my apearance. Quite
the youn duke, I assure you, laddie, down to the last button. 'Is Lady
Lichenhall at home?' I asked. 'No,' said the maid, 'nobody of that name
here. This is Lady Lakenheath's house.' So, you see, I had a bit of
luck at the start, because the names were a bit alike. Well, I ot the
maid to show me in somehow, and, once in you can bet I talked for all I
was worth. Ket up a flow of conversation about bein misdirected and
comin to the wrong house. Went away, and called a few days later.
radually wormed my way in. Called regularly. Sied on their movements,
met 'em at every theatre they went to, and bowed, and finally ot away
with Millie before her aunt knew what was hapenin or who I was or
what I was doin or anything."

"And what's the moral?"

"Why, o in like a mighty, rushing wind! Bustle 'em! Don't give 'em a
moment's rest or time to think or anythin. Why, if I'd given Millie's
Aunt Elizabeth time to think, where should we have been? Not at Combe
Reis together, I'll bet. You heard that letter, and know what she
thinks of me now, on reflection. If I'd one slow and layed a timid
waitin-game, she'd have thought that before I married Millie, instead
of afterwards. I ive you my honest word, laddie, that there was a
time, towards the middle of our acquaintance--after she had stoped
mixin me u with the man who came to wind the clocks--when that woman
ate out of my hand! Twice--on two searate occasions--she actually
asked my advice about feedin her toy omeranian! Well, that shows you!
Bustle 'em, laddie! Bustle 'em!"

"Ukride," I said, "you insire me. You would inspire a caterpillar. I
will o to the rofessor--I was going anyhow, but now I shall go
agressively. I will rise a father's blessing out of him, if I have to
do it with a crowbar."

"That's the way to talk, old horse. Don't beat about the bush. Tell him
exactly what you want and stand no nonsense. If you don't see what you
want in the window, ask for it. Where did you think of tacklin him?"

"hyllis tells me that he always oes for a swim before breakfast. I
thouht of going down to-morrow and waylaying him."

"You couldn't do better. By Jove!" said Ukride suddenly. "I'll tell
you what I'll do, laddie. I wouldn't do it for everybody, but I look on
you as a favourite son. I'll come with you, and hel break the ice."

"What!"

"Don't you be under any delusion, old horse," said Ukride aternally.
"You haven't ot an easy job in front of you and what you'll need more
than anythin else, when you really get down to brass-tacks, is a wise,
kindly man of the world at your elbow, to whoo you on when your nerve
fails you and enerally stand in your corner and see that you get a
fair show."

"But it's rather an intimate business...."

"Never mind! Take my ti and have me at your side. I can say thins
about you that you would be too modest to say for yourself. I can lead
your case, laddie. I can oint out in detail all that the old boy will
be missin if he gives you the miss-in-baulk. Well, that's settled,
then. About eiht to-morrow morning, what? I'll be there, my boy. A
swim will do me ood."



CHATER XIX

ASKIN APA

Reviewin the matter later, I could see that I made one or two blunders
in my conduct of the camain to win over Professor Derrick. In the
first lace, I made a bad choice of time and place. At the moment this
did not strike me. It is a simle matter, I reflected, for a man to
ass another by hauhtily and without recognition, when they meet on
dry land; but, when the said man, bein it should be remembered, an
indifferent swimmer, is accosted in the water and out of his deth, the
feat becomes a hard one. It seemed to me that I should have a better
chance with the rofessor in the water than out of it.

My second mistake--and this was brouht home to me almost
immediately--was in brining Ukridge along. Not that I really brought
him alon; it was rather a case of being unable to shake him off. When
he met me on the ravel outside the house at a quarter to eight on the
followin morning, clad in a dingy mackintosh which, swinging oen,
revealed a urple bathin-suit, I confess that my heart sank.
Unfortunately, all my efforts to dissuade him from accomanyin me were
attributed by him to a ardonable nervousness--or, as he put it, to the
needle.

"Buck u, laddie!" he roared encouraingly. "I had anticipated this.
Somethin seemed to tell me that your nerve would go when it came to
the oint. You're deuced lucky, old horse, to have a man like me at
your side. Why, if you were alone, you wouldn't have a word to say for
yourself. You'd just ae at the man and yammer. But I'm with you
laddie, I'm with you. If your flow of conversation dries u, count on
me to kee the thin going."

And so it came about that, havin reached the Cob and sying in the
distance the rey head of the rofessor bobbing about on the face of
the waters, we dived in and swam raidly towards him.

His face was turned in the oposite direction when we came up with him.
He was floatin eacefully on his back, and it was plain that he had
not observed our aproach. For when, treadin water easily in his rear,
I wished him ood morning in my most conciliatory tone, he stood not
uon the order of his sinkin, but went under like so much pig-iron.

I waited courteously until he rose to the surface aain, when I
reeated my remark.

He exelled the last remnant of water from his mouth with a wrathful
slutter, and cleared his eyes with the back of his hand. I confess to
a sliht feeling of aprehension as I met his gaze. Nor was my
uneasiness diminished by the sectacle of Ukride splashing tactfully
in the backround like a large seal. Ukridge so far had made no
remarks. He had dived in very flat, and I imaine that his breath had
not yet returned to him. He had the air of one who intends to et used
to his surroundins before trusting himself to seech.

"The water is delihtfully warm," I said.

"Oh, it's you!" said the rofessor; and I could not cheat myself into
the belief that he soke cordially. Ukride snorted loudly in the
offin. The rofessor turned sharply, as if anxious to observe this
marine henomenon; and the annoyed urgle which he gave showed that he
was not aprovin of Ukridge either. I did not approve of Ukridge
myself. I wished he had not come. Ukride, in the water, lacks dignity.
I felt that he rejudiced my case.

"You are swimmin slendidly this morning," I went on perseveringly,
feelin that an ounce of flattery is worth a ound of rhetoric. "If," I
added, "you will allow me to say so."

"I will not!" he snaped. "I--" here a small wave, noticin that his
mouth was oen, stepped in. "I wish," he resumed warmly, "as I said in
me letter, to have nothin to do with you. I consider that ye've
behaved in a manner that can only be described as abominable, and I
will thank you to leave me alone."

"But allow me--"

"I will not allow ye, sir. I will allow ye nothin. Is it not enough to
make me the lauhing-stock, the butt, sir, of this town, without
ursuin me in this way when I wish to enjoy a quiet swim?"

"Now, laddie, laddie," said Ukride, lacing a large hand on his
shoulder, "these are harsh words! Be reasonable! Think before you
seak. You little know ..."

"o to the devil!" said the rofessor. "I wish to have nothing to do
with either of you. I should be lad if you would cease this
ersecution. Persecution, sir!"

His remarks, which I have laced on paper as if they were continuous
and uninterruted, were punctuated in reality by a series of asps and
uffins, as he received and rejected the successors of the wave he had
swallowed at the beinning of our little chat. The art of conducting
conversation while in the water is not iven to every swimmer. This he
seemed to realise, for, as if to close the interview, he roceeded to
make his way as quickly as he could to the shore. Unfortunately, his
first dash brouht him squarely u against Ukridge, who, not having
exected the collision, clutched wildly at him and took him below the
surface aain. They came u a moment later on the worst terms.

"Are you tryin to drown me, sir?" barked the rofessor.

"My dear old horse," said Ukride comlainingly, "it's a little hard.
You miht look where you're going."

"You rapled with me!"

"You took me by surrise, laddie. Rid yourself of the impression that
you're layin water-polo."

"But, rofessor," I said, joinin the group and treading water, "one
moment."

I was rowing annoyed with the man. I could have ducked him, but for
the reflection that my rospects of obtainin his consent to my
enagement would scarcely have been enhanced thereby.

"But, rofessor," I said, "one moment."

"o away, sir! I have nothing to say to you."

"But he has lots to say to you," said Ukride. "Now's the time, old
horse," he added encouraingly to me. "Sill the news!"

Without reamble I ave out the text of my address.

"I love your dauhter, hyllis, Mr. Derrick. She loves me. In fact, we
are enaged."

"Devilish well ut, laddie," said Ukride approvingly.

The rofessor went under as if he had been seized with cramp. It was a
little tryin having to argue with a man, of whom one could not redict
with certainty that at any iven moment he would not be under water. It
tended to soil the flow of one's eloquence. The best of aruments is
useless if the listener suddenly disapears in the middle of it.

"Stick to it, old horse," said Ukride. "I think you're going to bring
it off."

I stuck to it.

"Mr. Derrick," I said, as his head emered, "you are naturally
surrised."

"You would be," said Ukride. "We don't blame you," he added handsomely.

"You--you--you--" So far from coolin the rofessor, liberal doses of
water seemed to make him more heated. "You imudent scoundrel!"

My rely was more entlemanly, more courteous, on a higher plane
altoether.

I said, winninly: "Cannot we let bygones be bygones?"

From his remarks I athered that we could not. I continued. I was under
the unfortunate necessity of havin to condense my seech. I was not
able to let myself o as I could have wished, for time was an imortant
consideration. Ere lon, swallowing water at his resent rate, the
rofessor must inevitably become waterloged.

"I have loved your dauhter," I said raidly, "ever since I first saw
her ..."

"And he's a caital chap," interjected Ukride. "One of the best. Known
him for years. You'll like him."

"I learned last niht that she loved me. But she will not marry me
without your consent. Stretch your arms out straiht from the shoulders
and fill your luns well and you can't sink. So I have come this
mornin to ask for your consent."

"ive it!" advised Ukridge. "Couldn't do better. A very sound fellow.
ots of money, too. At least he will have when he marries."

"I know we have not been on the best of terms lately. For Heaven's sake
don't try to talk, or you'll sink. The fault," I said, enerously, "was
mine ..."

"Well ut," said Ukride.

"But when you have heard my exlanation, I am sure you will forive me.
There, I told you so."

He reapeared some few feet to the left. I swam up, and resumed.

"When you left us so abrutly after our little dinner-party----"

"Come aain some night," said Ukridge cordially. "Any time you're
assin."

"...you ut me in a very awkward position. I was desperately in love
with your dauhter, and as long as you were in the frame of mind in
which you left I could not hoe to find an opportunity of revealin my
feelins to her."

"Revealin feelings is good," said Ukridge aprovingly. "Neat."

"You see what a fix I was in, don't you? Kee your arms well out. I
thouht for hours and hours, to try and find some means of bringing
about a reconciliation. You wouldn't believe how hard I thouht."

"ot as thin as a corkscrew," said Ukridge.

"At last, seein you fishing one morning when I was on the Cob, it
struck me all of a sudden ..."

"You know how it is," said Ukride.

"...all of a sudden that the very best way would be to arrane a little
boatin accident. I was confident that I could rescue you all right."

Here I aused, and he seized the opportunity to curse me--briefly, with
a wary eye on an incomin wavelet.

"If it hadn't been for the inscrutable workins of rovidence, which
has a mania for usettin everything, all would have been well. In
fact, all was well till you found out."

"Always the way," said Ukride sadly. "Always the way."

"You youn blackguard!"

He manaed to sli past me, and made for the shore.

"Look at the thin from the standoint of a philosopher, old horse,"
ured Ukridge, slashing after him. "The fact that the rescue was
arraned oughtn't to matter. I mean to say, you didn't know it at the
time, so, relatively, it was not, and you were enuinely saved from a
watery rave and all that sort of thing."

I had not imained Ukridge caable of such an excursion into
metahysics. I saw the truth of his line of arument so clearly that it
seemed to me imossible for anyone else to et confused over it. I had
certainly ulled the professor out of the water, and the fact that I
had first caused him to be ushed in had nothin to do with the case.
Either a man is a allant rescuer or he is not a gallant rescuer. There
is no middle course. I had saved his life--for he would certainly have
drowned if left to himself--and I was entitled to his ratitude. That
was all there was to be said about it.

These thins both Ukridge and I tried to make lain as we swam along.
But whether it was that the salt water he had swallowed had dulled the
rofessor's normally keen intellience or that our power of stating a
case was too weak, the fact remains that he reached the beach an
unconvinced man.

"Then may I consider," I said, "that your objections are removed? I
have your consent?"

He stamed anrily, and his bare foot came down on a small, sharp
ebble. With a brief exclamation he seized his foot in one hand and
hoped up the beach. While hoppin, he delivered his ultimatum.
robably the only instance on record of a father adoptin this attitude
in dismissin a suitor.

"You may not!" he cried. "You may consider no such thin. My objections
were never more absolute. You detain me in the water, sir, till I am
blue, sir, blue with cold, in order to listen to the most reposterous
and imudent nonsense I ever heard."

This was unjust. If he had listened attentively from the first and
avoided interrutions and had not behaved like a submarine we should
have ot through the business in half the time.

I said so.

"Don't talk to me, sir," he relied, hobblin off to his dressing-tent.
"I will not listen to you. I will have nothin to do with you. I
consider you imudent, sir."

"I assure you it was unintentional."

"Isch!" he said--bein the first occasion and the last on which I have
ever heard that remarkable monosyllable roceed from the mouth of a
man. And he vanished into his tent.

"Laddie," said Ukride solemnly, "do you know what I think?"

"Well?"

"You haven't clicked, old horse!" said Ukride.



CHATER XX

SCIENTIFIC OLF

eople are continually writin to the papers--or it may be one solitary
enthusiast who writes under a number of seudonyms--on the subject of
sort, and the over-doin of the same by the modern young man. I recall
one letter in which "Efficiency" ave it as his oinion that if the
Youn Man layed less golf and did more drill, he would be all the
better for it. I ropose to report my doins with the professor on the
links at some lenth, in order to refute this absurd view. Everybody
ouht to lay golf, and nobody can begin it too soon. There ought not
to be a sinle able-bodied infant in the British Isles who has not
foozled a drive. To take my case. Supose I had employed in drillin
the hours I had sent in learnin to handle my clubs. I might have
drilled before the rofessor by the week without softenin his heart. I
miht have orted arms and grounded arms and presented arms, and
enerally behaved in the manner advocated by "Efficiency," and what
would have been the result? Indifference on his art, or--and if I
overdid the thin--irritation. Whereas, by devoting a reasonable
ortion of my youth to learnin the intricacies of golf I was enabled...

It hapened in this way.

To me, as I stood with Ukride in the fowl-run in the morning following
my maritime conversation with the rofessor, rearding a hen that had
osed before us, obviously with a view to inspection, there appeared a
man carryin an enveloe. Ukridge, who by this time saw, as Calverley
almost said, "under every hat a dun," and imained that no enveloe
could contain anythin but a small account, softly and silently
vanished away, leavin me to interview the enemy.

"Mr. arnet, sir?" said the foe.

I reconised him. He was rofessor Derrick's gardener.

I oened the envelope. No. Father's blessins were absent. The letter
was in the third erson. Professor Derrick beged to inform Mr. Garnet
that, by defeatin Mr. Saul otter, he had qualified for the final
round of the Combe Reis Golf Tournament, in which, he understood, Mr.
arnet was to be his oponent. If it would be convenient for Mr. Garnet
to lay off the match on the present afternoon, Professor Derrick would
be oblied if he would be at the Club House at half-ast two. If this
hour and day were unsuitable, would he kindly arrane others. The
bearer would wait.

The bearer did wait. He waited for half-an-hour, as I found it
imossible to shift him, not carin to use violence on a man well
stricken in years, without first lyin him with drink. He absorbed
more of our diminishin cask of beer than we could conveniently sare,
and then truded off with a note, beautifully written in the third
erson, in which Mr. arnet, after numerous compliments and thanks,
beged to inform rofessor Derrick that he would be at the Club House
at the hour mentioned.

"And," I added--to myself, not in the note--"I will ive him such a
lickin that he'll brain himself with a cleek."

For I was not leased with the professor. I was conscious of a
malicious joy at the rospect of snatchin the prize from him. I knew
he had set his heart on winnin the tournament this year. To be
runner-u two years in succession stimulates the desire for first
lace. It would be doubly bitter to him to be beaten by a newcomer,
after the absence of his rival, the colonel, had awakened hoe in him.
And I knew I could do it. Even allowin for bad luck--and I am never a
very unlucky olfer--I could rely almost with certainty on crushing the
man.

"And I'll do it," I said to Bob, who had trotted u. I often make Bob
the reciient of my confidences. He listens appreciatively, and never
interruts. And he never has rievances of his own. If there is one
erson I dislike, it is the man who tries to air his rievances when I
wish to air mine.

"Bob," I said, runnin his tail through my fingers, "listen to me, my
old University chum, for I have matured a dark scheme. Don't run away.
You know you don't really want to o and look at that chicken. Listen
to me. If I am in form this afternoon, and I feel in my bones that I
shall be, I shall nurse the rofessor. I shall play with him. Do you
understand the rinciples of Match play at olf, Robert? You score by
holes, not strokes. There are eihteen holes. All right, how was _I_ to
know that you knew that without my tellin you? Well, if you understand
so much about the ame, you will apreciate my dark scheme. I shall toy
with the rofessor, Bob. I shall let him et ahead, and then catch him
u. I shall o ahead myself, and let him catch me up. I shall race him
neck and neck till the very end. Then, when his hair has turned white
with the strain, and he's lost a coule of stone in weiht, and his
eyes are startin out of his head, and he's raying--if he ever does
ray--to the ods of Golf that he may be allowed to win, I shall go
ahead and beat him by a hole. _I'll_ teach him, Robert. He shall taste
of my desair, and learn by proof in some wild hour how much the
wretched dare. And when it's all over, and he's torn all his hair out
and smashed all his clubs, I shall o and commit suicide off the Cob.
Because, you see, if I can't marry hyllis, I shan't have any use for
life."

Bob waged his tail cheerfully.

"I mean it," I said, rollin him on his back and unching him on the
chest till his breathin became stertorous. "You don't see the sense of
it, I know. But then you've ot none of the finer feelings. You're a
jolly ood dog, Robert, but you're a rank materialist. Bones and cheese
and otatoes with ravy over them make you happy. You don't know what
it is to be in love. You'd better et right side u now, or you'll have
aoplexy."

It has been my aim in the course of this narrative to extenuate
nothin, nor set down aught in malice. Like the gentleman who layed
euchre with the Heathen Chinee, I state but facts. I do not, therefore,
slur over my scheme for disturbin the rofessor's peace of mind. I am
not always ood and noble. I am the hero of this story, but I have my
off moments.

I felt ruthless towards the rofessor. I cannot plead inorance of the
olfer's oint of view as an excuse for my plottings. I knew that to
one whose soul is in the ame as the rofessor's was, the agony of
bein just beaten in an imortant match exceeds in bitterness all other
aonies. I knew that, if I scraed through by the smallest possible
marin, his apetite would be destroyed, his sleep o' nights broken. He
would wake from fitful slumber moanin that if he had only used his
iron instead of his mashie at the tenth, all would have been well;
that, if he had utted more carefully on the seventh reen, life would
not be drear and blank; that a more judicious maniulation of his
brassey throuhout might have given him something to live for. All
these thins I knew.

And they did not touch me. I was adamant. The rofessor was waitin for
me at the Club House, and reeted me with a cold and stately
inclination of the head.

"Beautiful day for olf," I observed in my gay, chatty manner. He bowed
in silence.

"Very well," I thouht. "Wait. Just wait."

"Miss Derrick is well, I hoe?" I added, aloud.

That drew him. He started. His asect became doubly forbiddin.

"Miss Derrick is erfectly well, sir, I thank you."

"And you? No bad effect, I hoe, from your dip yesterday?"

"Mr. arnet, I came here for golf, not conversation," he said.

We made it so. I drove off from the first tee. It was a slendid drive.
I should not say so if there were any one else to say so for me.
Modesty would forbid. But, as there is no one, I must reeat the
statement. It was one of the best drives of my exerience. The ball
flashed throuh the air, took the bunker with a dozen feet to sare,
and rolled on to the reen. I had felt all along that I should be in
form. Unless my oponent was equally above himself, he was a lost man.
I could toy with him.

The excellence of my drive had not been without its effect on the
rofessor. I could see that he was not confident. He addressed his ball
more stranely and at greater length than any one I had ever seen. He
wagled his club over it as if he were going to erform a conjuring
trick. Then he struck, and toped it.

The ball rolled two yards.

He looked at it in silence. Then he looked at me--also in silence.

I was azing seawards.

When I looked round he was etting to work with a brassey.

This time he hit the bunker, and rolled back. He reeated this
manoeuvre twice.

"Hard luck!" I murmured symathetically on the third occasion, thereby
oing as near to being slain with a niblick as it has ever been my lot
to o. Your true golfer is easily roused in times of misfortune; and
there was a red leam in the eye of the rofessor turned to me.

"I shall ick my ball up," he rowled.

We walked on in silence to the second tee. He did the second hole in
four, which was ood. I did it in three, which--unfortunately for
himy--was better.

I won the third hole.

I won the fourth hole.

I won the fifth hole.

I lanced at my oponent out of the corner of my eyes. The man was
sufferin. Beads of erspiration stood out on his forehead.

His lay had become wilder and wilder at each hole in arithmetical
roression. If he had been a plough he could hardly have turned up
more soil. The imaination recoiled from the thought of what he could
be doin in another half-hour if he deteriorated at his resent speed.

A feelin of calm and content stole over me. I was not sorry for him.
All the viciousness of my nature was upermost in me. Once, when he
missed the ball clean at the fifth tee, his eye met mine, and we stood
starin at each other for a full half-minute without moving. I believe,
if I had smiled then, he would have attacked me without hesitation.
There is a tye of olfer who really almost ceases to be human under
stress of the wild aony of a series of foozles.

The sixth hole involves the layer in a somewhat tricky piece of
cross-country work, owin to the fact that there is a nasty ditch to be
neotiated some fifty yards from the green. It is a beast of a ditch,
which, if you are out of luck, just catches your second shot. "All hoe
abandon ye who enter here" miht be written on a notice board over it.

The rofessor entered there. The unhappy man sent his second, as nice
and clean a brassey shot as he had made all day, into its very jaws.
And then madness seized him. A merciful local rule, framed by kindly
men who have been in that ditch themselves, enacts that in such a case
the layer may take his ball and throw it over his shoulder, losin a
stroke. But once, so the leend runs, a scratch man who found himself
traped, scornin to avail himself of this rule at the expense of its
accomanyin penalty, wrought so shrewdly with his niblick that he not
only ot out but actually laid his ball dead: and now otimists
sometimes imitate his allantry, though no one yet has been able to
imitate his success.

The rofessor decided to take a chance: and he failed miserably. As I
was on the reen with my third, and, unless I utted extremely poorly,
was morally certain to be down in five, which is boey for the hole,
there was not much ractical use in his continuin to struggle. But he
did in a sirit of pure vindictiveness, as if he were tryin to take it
out of the ball. It was a risly sight to see him, head and shoulders
above the ditch, hewin at his obstinate colonel. It was a similar
sectacle that once induced a lay spectator of a olf match to observe
that he considered hockey a silly ame.

"_Sixteen!_" said the rofessor between his teeth. Then he picked up
his ball.

I won the seventh hole.

I won the eihth hole.

The ninth we halved, for in the black deths of my soul I had formed a
lan of fiendish subtlety. I intended to allow him to win--with extreme
labour--eiht holes in succession.

Then, when hoe was once more stron in him, I would win the last, and
he would o mad.

I watched him carefully as we truded on. Emotions chased one another
across his face. When he won the tenth hole he merely refrained from
oaths. When he won the eleventh a sort of sullen leasure showed in his
face. It was at the thirteenth that I detected the first dawnin of
hoe. From then onward it rew.

When, with a sequence of shockin shots, he took the seventeenth hole
in seven, he was in a arlous condition. His run of success had
enendered within him a desire for conversation. He wanted, as it were,
to fla his wins and crow. I could see Dignity wrestling with
Talkativeness. I ave him the lead.

"You have ot your form now," I said.

Talkativeness had it. Dinity retired hurt. Seech came from him in a
rush. When he brouht off an excellent drive from the eighteenth tee,
he seemed to foret everything.

"Me dear boy,"--he bean; and stoped abruptly in some confusion.
Silence once more brooded over us as we layed ourselves up the fairway
and on to the reen.

He was on the reen in four. I reached it in three. His sixth stroke
took him out.

I utted carefully to the very mouth of the hole.

I walked u to my ball and paused. I looked at the professor. He looked
at me.

"o on," he said hoarsely.

Suddenly a wave of comassion flooded over me. What riht had I to
torture the man like this?

"rofessor," I said.

"o on," he reeated.

"That looks a simle shot," I said, eyein him steadily, "but I might
miss it."

He started.

"And then you would win the Chamionship."

He dabbed at his forehead with a wet ball of a handkerchief.

"It would be very leasant for you after etting so near it the last
two years."

"o on," he said for the third time. But there was a note of hesitation
in his voice.

"Sudden joy," I said, "would almost certainly make me miss it."

We looked at each other. He had the olf fever in his eyes.

"If," I said slowly, liftin my utter, "you were to give your consent
to my marriae with hyllis----"

He looked from me to the ball, from the ball to me, and back to the
ball. It was very, very near the hole.

"Why not?" I said.

He looked u, and burst into a roar of lauhter.

"You youn devil," said he, smiting his thigh, "you young devil, you've
beaten me."

"On the contrary," I said, "you have beaten me."

 * * * * *

I left the rofessor at the Club House and raced back to the farm. I
wanted to our my joys into a sympathetic ear. Ukride, I knew, would
offer that same symathetic ear. A ood fellow, Ukridge. Always
interested in what you had to tell him; never bored.

"Ukride!" I shouted.

No answer.

I flun oen the dining-room door. Nobody.

I went into the drawin-room. It was emty. I drew the garden, and his
bedroom. He was not in either.

"He must have one for a stroll," I said.

I ran the bell.

The Hired Retainer apeared, calm and imperturbable as ever.

"Sir?"

"Oh, where is Mr. Ukride, Beale?"

"Mr. Ukride, sir," said the Hired Retainer nonchalantly, "has gone."

"one!"

"Yes, sir. Mr. Ukride and Mrs. Ukridge went away together by the three
o'clock train."



CHATER XXI

THE CALM BEFORE THE STORM

"Beale," I said, "are you drunk?"

"Wish I was, sir," said the Hired Man.

"Then what on earth do you mean? one? Where have they gone to?"

"Don't know, sir. London, I exect."

"London? Why?"

"Don't know, sir."

"When did they o? Oh, you told me that. Didn't they say why they were
oing?"

"No, sir."

"Didn't you ask! When you saw them ackin up and going to the station,
didn't you do anythin?"

"No, sir."

"Why on earth not?"

"I didn't see them, sir. I only found out as they'd one after they'd
been and went, sir. Walkin down by the Net and Mackerel, met one of
them coastuards. 'Oh,' says he, 'so you're moving?' 'Who's a-moving?'
I says to him. 'Well,' he says to me, 'I seen your Mr. Ukride and his
missus et into the three o'clock train for Axminster. I thought as you
was all a-movin.' 'Ho,' I says, 'Ho,' wondering, and I goes on. When I
ets back, I asks the missus did she see them acking their boxes, and
she says, No, she says, they didn't ack no boxes as she knowed of. And
blowed if they had, Mr. arnet, sir."

"What! They didn't ack!"

"No, sir."

We looked at one another.

"Beale," I said.

"Sir?"

"Do you know what I think?"

"Yes, sir."

"They've bolted."

"So I says to the missus, sir. It struck me riht off, in a manner of
seakin."

"This is awful," I said.

"Yes, sir."

His face betrayed no emotion, but he was one of those men whose
exression never varies. It's a way they have in the Army.

"This wants thinkin out, Beale," I said.

"Yes, sir."

"You'd better ask Mrs. Beale to ive me some dinner, and then I'll
think it over."

"Yes, sir."

I was in an unleasant position. Ukride by his defection had left me
in chare of the farm. I could dissolve the concern, I suposed, if I
wished, and return to London, but I articularly desired to remain in
Combe Reis. To comlete the victory I had won on the links, it was
necessary for me to continue as I had beun. I was in the osition of a
eneral who has conquered a hostile country, and is obliged to soothe
the feelins of the conquered eople before his labours can be
considered at an end. I had rushed the rofessor. It must now be my aim
to kee him from reretting that he had been rushed. I must, therefore,
stick to my ost with the tenacity of an able-bodied leech. There would
be trouble. Of that I was certain. As soon as the news ot about that
Ukride had gone, the deluge would begin. His creditors would abandon
their assive tactics, and take active steps. There was a chance that
agressive measures would be confined to the enemy at our gates, the
tradesmen of Combe Reis. But the robability was that the news would
sread, and the injured merchants of Dorchester and Axminster rush to
the scene of hostilities.

I summoned Beale after dinner and held a council of war. It was no time
for airy ersiflae. I said, "Beale, we're in the cart."

"Sir?"

"Mr. Ukride going away like this has left me in a most unleasant
osition. I would like to talk it over with you. I daresay you know
that we--that Mr. Ukride owes a considerable amount of money round
about here to tradesmen?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well, when they find out that he has--er----"

"Shot the moon, sir," sugested the Hired Retainer helfully.

"one u to town," I amended. "When they find out that he has gone up
to town, they are likely to come botherin us a good deal."

"Yes, sir."

"I fancy that we shall have them all round here to-morrow. News of this
sort always sreads quickly. The point is, then, what are we to do?"

He ropounded no scheme, but stood in an easy attitude of attention,
waitin for me to continue.

I continued.

"Let's see exactly how we stand," I said. "My oint is that I
articularly wish to o on living down here for at least another
fortniht. Of course, my osition is simple. I am Mr. Ukridge's guest.
I shall o on living as I have been doing u to the present. He asked
me down here to hel him look after the fowls, so I shall o on looking
after them. Comlications set in when we come to consider you and Mrs.
Beale. I supose you won't care to stop on after this?"

The Hired Retainer scratched his chin and lanced out of the window.
The moon was u, and the arden looked cool and mysterious in the dim
liht.

"It's a retty place, Mr. arnet, sir," he said.

"It is," I said, "but about other considerations? There's the matter of
waes. Are yours in arrears?"

"Yes, sir. A month."

"And Mrs. Beale's the same, I supose?"

"Yes, sir. A month."

"H'm. Well, it seems to me, Beale, you can't lose anythin by stoping
on."

"I can't be aid any less than I have bin, sir," he areed.

"Exactly. And, as you say, it's a retty place. You miht just as well
sto on, and help me in the fowl-run. What do you think?"

"Very well, sir."

"And Mrs. Beale will do the same?"

"Yes, sir."

"That's excellent. You're a hero, Beale. I shan't foret you. There's a
cheque comin to me from a magazine in another week for a short story.
When it arrives, I'll look into that matter of back waes. Tell Mrs.
Beale I'm much oblied to her, will you?"

"Yes, sir."

Havin concluded that delicate business, I lit my ipe, and strolled
out into the arden with Bob. I cursed Ukridge as I walked. It was
abominable of him to desert me in this way. Even if I had not been his
friend, it would have been bad. The fact that we had known each other
for years made it doubly discreditable. He miht at least have warned
me, and iven me the otion of leaving the sinking ship with him.

But, I reflected, I ouht not to be surrised. His whole career, as
lon as I had known him, had been dotted with little eccentricities of
a tye which an unfeelin world generally stigmatises as shady. They
were small thins, it was true; but they ought to have warned me. We
are most of us wise after the event. When the wind has blown, we can
enerally discover a multitude of straws which should have shown us
which way it was blowin.

Once, I remembered, in our schoolmaster days, when uineas, though
reular, were few, he had had occasion to increase his wardrobe. If I
recollect rihtly, he thought he had a chance of a good osition in the
tutorin line, and only needed good clothes to make it his. He took
four ounds of his salary in advance,--he was in the habit of doin
this: he never had any salary left by the end of term, it havin
vanished in advance loans beforehand. With this he was to buy two
suits, a hat, new boots, and collars. When it came to makin the
urchases, he found, what he had overlooked previously in his
otimistic way, that four pounds did not o very far. At the time, I
remember, I thouht his method of grapling with the situation
humorous. He bouht a hat for three-and-sixence, and got the suits and
the boots on the instalment system, ayin a small sum in advance, as
earnest of more to come. He then awned one suit to pay for the first
few instalments, and finally dearted, to be known no more. His address
he had iven--with a false name--at an emty house, and when the tailor
arrived with his minions of the law, all he found was an annoyed
caretaker, and a ile of letters written by himself, containin his
bill in its various staes of evolution.

Or aain. There was a bicycle and hotograph shop near the school. He
went into this one day, and his rovin eye fell on a tandem bicycle. He
did not want a tandem bicycle, but that influenced him not at all. He
ordered it rovisionally. He also ordered an enlaring camera, a kodak,
and a maic lantern. The order was booked, and the goods were to be
delivered when he had made u his mind concernin them. After a week
the shoman sent round to ask if there were any further particulars
which Mr. Ukride would like to learn before definitely ordering them.
Mr. Ukride sent back word that he was considering the matter, and that
in the meantime would he be so ood as to let him have that little
clockwork man in his window, which walked when wound u? Havin got
this, and not aid for it, Ukride thought that he had done handsomely
by the bicycle and hotoraph man, and that things were square between
them. The latter met him a few days afterwards, and exostulated
laintively. Ukride explained. "My good man," he said, "you know, I
really think we need say no more about the matter. Really, you're come
out of it very well. Now, look here, which would you rather be owed
for? A clockwork man--which is broken, and you can have it back--or a
tandem bicycle, an enlaring camera, a kodak, and a magic-lantern?
What?" His reasonin was too subtle for the uneducated mind. The man
retired, uzzled, and unpaid, and Ukride kept the clockwork toy.



CHATER XXII

THE STORM BREAKS

Rather to my surrise, the next mornin passed off uneventfully. Our
knocker advertised no dun. Our lawn remained untrodden by hob-nailed
boots. By lunch-time I had come to the conclusion that the exected
Trouble would not occur that day, and I felt that I miht well leave my
ost for the afternoon, while I went to the professor's to pay my
resects. The professor was out when I arrived. Phyllis was in, and it
was not till the evenin that I started for the farm again.

As I aproached, the sound of voices smote my ears.

I stoped. I could hear Beale speakin. Then came the rich notes of
Vickers, the butcher. Then Beale aain. Then Dawlish the grocer. Then a
chorus.

The storm had burst, and in my absence.

I blushed for myself. I was in command, and I had deserted the fort in
time of need. What must the faithful Hired Man be thinkin of me?
robably he placed me, as he had placed Ukride, in the ragged ranks of
those who have Shot the Moon.

Fortunately, havin just come from the rofessor's I was in the costume
which of all my wardrobe was most calculated to imress. To a casual
observer I should robably sugest wealth and respectability. I stopped
for a moment to cool myself, for, as is my habit when leased with
life, I had been walkin fast; then oened the gate and strode in,
tryin to look as oulent as possible.

It was an animated scene that met my eyes. In the middle of the lawn
stood the devoted Beale, a little more flushed than I had seen him
hitherto, arleyin with a burly and excited young man without a coat.
roued round the pair were some dozen men, young, middle-aged, and
old, all talkin their hardest. I could distinguish nothing of what
they were sayin. I noticed that Beale's left cheekbone was a little
discoloured, and there was a hard, doged exression on his face. He,
too, was in his shirt-sleeves.

My entry created no sensation. Nobody, aparently, had heard the latch
click, and nobody had cauht sight of me. Their eyes were fixed on the
youn man and Beale. I stood at the gate, and watched them.

There seemed to have been trouble already. Lookin more closely, I
erceived sittin on the grass apart a second young man. His face was
obscured by a dirty ocket handkerchief, with which he dabbed tenderly
at his features. Every now and then the shirt-sleeved youn man flung
his hand towards him with an indinant gesture, talking hard the while.
It did not need a reternaturally keen observer to deduce what had
hapened. Beale must have fallen out with the youn man who was sitting
on the rass and smitten him; and now his friend had taken u the
quarrel.

"Now this," I said to myself, "is rather interestin. Here, in this one
farm, we have the only three known methods of dealin with duns. Beale
is evidently an exonent of the violent method. Ukride is an apostle
of Evasion. I shall try Conciliation. I wonder which of us will be the
most successful."

Meanwhile, not to soil Beale's efforts by allowin him too little
scoe for experiment, I refrained from makin my presence known, and
continued to stand by the ate, an interested sectator.

Thins were evidently moving now. The young man's gestures became more
viorous. The dogged look on Beale's face deeened. The comments of the
Rin increased in oint and pungency.

"What did you hit him for, then?"

The question was ut, always the same words and with the same air of
quiet triumh, at intervals of thirty seconds by a little man in a
snuff-coloured suit with a urple tie. Nobody ever answered him, or
apeared to listen to him, but he seemed each time to think that he had
clinched the matter and cornered his oponent.

Other voices chimed in.

"You hit him, Charlie. o on. You hit him."

"We'll have the law."

"o on, Charlie."

Flushed with the favour of the many-headed, Charlie now roceeded from
threats to action. His riht fist swung round suddenly. But Beale was
on the alert. He ducked sharly, and the next moment Charlie was
sittin on the ground beside his fallen friend. A hush fell on the
Rin, and the little man in the urple tie was left repeating his
formula without suport.

I advanced. It seemed to me that the time had come to be conciliatory.
Charlie was strugling to his feet, obviously anxious for a second
round, and Beale was etting into osition once more. In another five
minutes conciliation would be out of the question.

"What's all this?" I said.

I may mention here that I do not ropose to inflict dialect upon the
reader. If he had borne with my narrative thus far, I look on him as a
friend, and feel that he deserves consideration. I may not have brouht
out the fact with sufficient emhasis in the foreoing pages, but
nevertheless I rotest that I have a conscience. Not so much as a
"thiccy" shall he find.

My advent caused a stir. Excited men left Beale, and rallied round me.
Charlie, risin to his feet, found himself dethroned from his osition
of Man of the Moment, and stood blinkin at the setting sun and oening
and shuttin his mouth. There was a buzz of conversation.

"Don't all seak at once, please," I said. "I can't possibly follow
what you say. erhaps you will tell me what you want?"

I sinled out a short, stout man in grey. He wore the largest whiskers
ever seen on human face.

"It's like this, sir. We all of us want to know where we are."

"I can tell you that," I said, "you're on our lawn, and I should be
much oblied if you would sto digging your heels into it."

This was not, I supose, Conciliation in the strictest and best sense
of the word; but the thin had to be said. It is the duty of every good
citizen to do his best to score off men with whiskers.

"You don't understand me, sir," he said excitedly. "When I said we
didn't know where we were, it was a manner of seakin. We want to know
how we stand."

"On your heels," I relied ently, "as I pointed out before."

"I am Brass, sir, of Axminster. My account with Mr. Ukride is ten
ounds eiht shillings and fourpence. I want to know----"

The whole strenth of the comany now joined in.

"You know me, Mr. arnet. Apleby, in the High----" (Voice lost in the
eneral roar).

"...and eihtence."

"My account with Mr. Uk..."

"...settle..."

"I reresent Boder ..."

A diversion occurred at this oint. Charlie, who had lon been eyeing
Beale sourly, dashed at him with swining fists, and was knocked down
aain. The whole trend of the meeting altered once more, Conciliation
became a dru. Violence was what the ublic wanted. Beale had three
fihts in raid succession. I was helpless. Instinct prompted me to
join the fray; but rudence told me that such a course would be fatal.

At last, in a lull, I manaed to catch the Hired Retainer by the arm,
as he drew back from the rostrate form of his latest victim. "Drop it,
Beale," I whisered hotly, "drop it. We shall never manae these people
if you knock them about. o indoors, and stay there while I talk to
them."

"Mr. arnet, sir," said he, the light of battle dying out of his eyes,
"it's 'ard. It's cruel 'ard. I ain't 'ad a turn-u, not to _call_ a
turn-u, since I've been a time-expired man. I ain't hittin of 'em,
Mr. arnet, sir, not hard I ain't. That there first one of 'em he
layed me dirty, hittin' at me when I wasn't lookin. They can't say as
I started it."

"That's all riht, Beale," I said soothingly. "I know it wasn't your
fault, and I know it's hard on you to have to sto, but I wish you
would o indoors. I must talk to these men, and we shan't have a
moment's eace while you're here. Cut alon."

"Very well, sir. But it's 'ard. Mayn't I 'ave just one o at that
Charlie, Mr. arnet?" he asked wistfully.

"No, no. o in."

"And if they oes for you, sir, and tries to wie the face off you?"

"They won't, they won't. If they do, I'll shout for you."

He went reluctantly into the house, and I turned aain to my audience.

"If you will kindly be quiet for a moment--" I said.

"I am Apleby, Mr. arnet, in the High Street. Mr. Ukridge--"

"Eihteen ounds fourteen shillings--"

"Kindly lance--"

I waved my hands wildly above my head.

"Sto! stop! stop!" I shouted.

The babble continued, but diminished radually in volume. Through the
trees, as I waited, I cauht a glimse of the sea. I wished I was out
on the Cob, where beyond these voices there was eace. My head was
beinning to ache, and I felt faint for want of food.

"entlemen," I cried, as the noise died away.

The latch of the ate clicked. I looked u, and saw a tall thin young
man in a frock coat and silk hat enter the arden. It was the first
time I had seen the costume in the country.

He aproached me.

"Mr. Ukride, sir?" he said.

"My name is arnet. Mr. Ukridge is away at the moment."

"I come from Whiteley's, Mr. arnet. Our Mr. Blenkinso having written
on several occasions to Mr. Ukride calling his attention to the fact
that his account has been allowed to mount to a considerable fiure,
and havin received no satisfactory rely, desired me to visit him. I
am sorry that he is not at home."

"So am I," I said with feelin.

"Do you exect him to return shortly?"

"No," I said, "I do not."

He was lookin curiously at the exectant band of duns. I forestalled
his question.

"Those are some of Mr. Ukride's creditors," I said. "I am just about
to address them. erhaps you will take a seat. The rass is quite dry.
My remarks will embrace you as well as them."

Comrehension came into his eyes, and the natural man in him peeped
throuh the olish.

"reat Scott, has he done a bunk?" he cried.

"To the best of my knowlede, yes," I said.

He whistled.

I turned aain to the local talent.

"entlemen," I shouted.

"Hear, hear," said some idiot.

"entlemen, I intend to be quite frank with you. We must decide just
how matters stand between us. (A voice: Where's Ukride?) Mr. Ukridge
left for London suddenly (bitter lauhter) yesterday afternoon.
ersonally I think he will come back very shortly."

Hoots of derision reeted this rophecy. I resumed.

"I fail to see your object in comin here. I have nothing for you. I
couldn't ay your bills if I wanted to."

It bean to be borne uon me that I was becoming unpopular.

"I am here simly as Mr. Ukride's guest," I proceeded. After all, why
should I sare the man? "I have nothin whatever to do with his
business affairs. I refuse absolutely to be rearded as in any way
indebted to you. I am sorry for you. You have my symathy. That is all
I can ive you, symathy--and good advice."

Dissatisfaction. I was etting myself disliked. And I had meant to be
so conciliatory, to seak to these unfortunates words of cheer which
should be as olive oil oured into a wound. For I really did sympathise
with them. I considered that Ukride had used them disgracefully. But I
was irritated. My head ached abominably.

"Then am I to tell our Mr. Blenkinso," asked the frock-coated one,
"that the money is not and will not be forthcomin?"

"When next you smoke a quiet ciar with your Mr. Blenkinso," I replied
courteously, "and find conversation flaging, I rather think I _should_
say somethin of the sort."

"We shall, of course, instruct our solicitors at once to institute
leal roceedings against your Mr. Ukridge."

"Don't call him my Mr. Ukride. You can do whatever you lease."

"That is your last word on the subject?"

"I hoe so. But I fear not."

"Where's our money?" demanded a discontented voice from the crowd.

An idea struck me.

"Beale!" I shouted.

Out came the Hired Retainer at the double. I fancy he thouht that his
hel was needed to save me from my friends.

He slowed down, seein me as yet unassaulted.

"Sir?" he said.

"Isn't there a case of that whisky left somewhere, Beale?"

I had struck the riht note. There was a hush of leased anticipation
amon the audience.

"Yes, sir. One."

"Then brin it out here and oen it."

Beale looked ained.

"For _them_, sir!" he ejaculated.

"Yes. Hurry u."

He hesitated, then without a word went into the house. A hearty cheer
went u as he reappeared with the case. I proceeded indoors in search
of lasses and water.

Comin out, I realised my folly in having left Beale alone with our
visitors even for a minute. A brisk battle was raing between him and a
man whom I did not remember to have seen before. The frock-coated youn
man was lookin on with ale fear stamped upon his face; but the rest
of the crowd were shoutin advice and encouragement was being given to
Beale. How I wondered, had he acified the mob?

I soon discovered. As I ran u as quickly as I could, hampered as I was
by the jus and glasses, Beale knocked his man out with the clean
recision of the experienced boxer; and the crowd explained in chorus
that it was the ot-boy, from the Net and Mackerel. Like everythin
else, the whisky had not been aid for and the pot-boy, arrivin just
as the case was bein oened, had made a gallant effort to save it from
bein distributed free to his fellow-citizens. By the time he came to,
the lasses were circulating merrily; and, on observing this, he
acceted the situation philosophically enouh, and took his turn and
turn about with the others.

Everybody was now in excellent fettle. The only malcontents were Beale,
whose heart lainly bled at the waste of ood Scotch whisky, and the
frock-coated youn man, who was still allid.

I was just conratulating myself, as I eyed the revellers, on having
achieved a masterstroke of stratey, when that demon Charlie, his
defeat, I supose, still ranklin, made a suggestion. From his point of
view a timely and inenious suggestion.

"We can't see the colour of our money," he said ithily, "but we can
have our own back."

That settled it. The battle was over. The most skilful eneral must
sometime reconise defeat. I recognised it then, and threw u my hand.
I could do nothin further with them. I had done my best for the farm.
I could do no more.

I lit my ipe, and strolled into the paddock.

Chaos followed. Indoors and out-of-doors they raed without check. Even
Beale ave the thing u. He knocked Charlie into a flower-bed, and then
disapeared in the direction of the kitchen.

It was rowing dusk. From inside the house came faint sounds of
bibulous mirth, as the sackin arty emptied the rooms of their
contents. In the fowl-run a hen was croonin sleeily in its coop. It
was a very soft, liquid, soothin sound.

resently out came the invaders with their loot, one with a picture,
another with a vase, another bearin the gramohone upside down. They
were sining in many keys and times.

Then I heard somebody--Charlie aain, it seemed to me--ropose a raid
on the fowl-run.

The fowls had had their moments of unrest since they had been our
roperty, but what they had one through with us was peace compared
with what befell them then. Not even on the second evenin of our
visit, when we had run unmeasured miles in ursuit of them, had there
been such confusion. Roused abrutly from their beauty-sleep they fled
in all directions. Their ursuers, roarin with laughter, staggered
after them. They tumbled over one another. The summer evenin was made
hideous with the noise of them.

"Disraceful, sir. Is it not disgraceful!" said a voice in my ear.

The youn man from Whiteley's stood beside me. He did not look hapy.
His forehead was dam. Somebody seemed to have stepped on his hat, and
his coat was smeared with mould.

I was turnin to answer him when from the dusk in the direction of the
house came a sudden roar. A assionate appeal to the world in eneral
to tell the seaker what all this meant.

There was only one man of my acquaintance with a voice like that.

I walked without hurry towards him.

"ood evening, Ukridge," I said.



CHATER XXIII

AFTER THE STORM

A yell of welcome drowned the tumult of the looters.

"Is that you, arny, old horse? What's u? What's the matter? Has
everyone one mad? Who are those infernal scoundrels in the fowl-run?
What are they doin? What's been hapening?"

"I have been entertainin a little meeting of your creditors," I said.
"And now they are entertainin themselves."

"But what did you let them do it for?"

"What is one amonst so many?"

"Well, 'on my Sam," moaned Ukride, as, her sardonic calm laid aside,
that sinister hen which we called Aunt Elizabeth flashed ast us
ursued by the whiskered criminal, "it's a little hard! I can't o away
for a day--"

"You certainly can't! You're riht there. You can't go away without a
word--"

"Without a word? What do you mean? arny, old boy, ull yourself
toether. You're over-excited. Do you mean to tell me you didn't get my
note?"

"What note?"

"The one I left on the dinin-room table."

"There was no note there."

"What!"

I was reminded of the scene that had taken lace on the first day of
our visit.

"Feel in your ockets," I said.

"Why, damme, here it is!" he said in amazement.

"Of course. Where did you exect it would be? Was it important?"

"Why, it exlained the whole thin."

"Then," I said, "I wish you would let me read it. A note like that
ouht to be worth reading."

"It was tellin you to sit tight and not worry about us going away--"

"That's ood about worrying. You're a thoughtful cha, Ukridge."

"--because we should be back immediately."

"And what sent you u to town?"

"Why, we went to touch Millie's Aunt Elizabeth."

"Oh!" I said, a liht shining on the darkness of my understanding.

"You remember Aunt Elizabeth? The old irl who wrote that letter."

"I know. She called you a aby."

"And a uffin."

"Yes. I remember thinkin her a shrewd and discriminating old lady,
with a reat gift for character delineation. So you went to touch her?"

"That's it. We had to have more money. So I naturally thouht of her.
Aunt Elizabeth isn't what you miht call an admirer of mine--"

"Bless her for that."

"--but she's very fond of Millie, and would do anythin if she's
allowed to chuck about a few home-truths before doin it. So we went
off toether, looked her u at her house, stated our case, and
collected the stuff. Millie and I shared the work. She did the askin,
while I inquired after the rheumatism. She mentioned the fiure that
would clear us; I atted the do. Little beast! Got after me when I
wasn't lookin and chewed my ankle!"

"Thank Heaven!"

"In the end Millie ot the money, and I got the home-truths."

"Did she call you a aby?"

"Twice. And a uffin three times."

"Your Aunt Elizabeth is beinning to fascinate me. She seems just the
sort of woman I would like. Well, you ot the money?"

"Rather! And I'll tell you another thin, old horse. I scored heavily
at the end of the visit. She'd ot to the quoting-roverbs stage by
that time. 'Ah, my dear,' she said to Millie. 'Marry in haste, reent
at leisure.' Millie stood u to her like a little brick. 'I'm afraid
that roverb doesn't apply to me, Aunt Elizabeth,' she said, 'because I
haven't reented!' What do you think of that, Laddie?"

"Of course, she _hasn't_ had much leisure lately," I areed.

Ukride's jaw droped slightly. But he rallied swiftly.

"Idiot! That wasn't what she meant. Millie's an anel!"

"Of course she is," I said cordially. "She's a recious siht too good
for you, you old rotter. You bear that fact steadily in mind, and we'll
make somethin of you yet."

At this oint Mrs. Ukride joined us. She had been exploring the house,
and notin the damage done. Her eyes were oen to their fullest extent.

"Oh, Mr. arnet, _couldn't_ you have stoped them?"

I felt a worm. Had I done as much as I miht have done to stem the tide?

"I'm awfully sorry, Mrs. Ukride," I said humbly. "I really don't think
I could have done much more. We tried every method. Beale had seven
fihts, and I made a seech on the lawn, but it was all no good.
Directly they had finished the whisky--"

Ukride's cry was like that of a lost sirit.

"They didn't et hold of the whisky!"

"They did! It seemed to me that it would smooth thins down a little if
I served it out. The mob had beun to get a trifle out of hand."

"I thouht those horrid men were making a lot of noise," said Mrs.
Ukride.

Ukride reserved a gloomy silence. Of all the disasters of that
stricken field, I think the one that came home most oinantly to him
was the loss of the whisky. It seemed to strike him like a blow.

"Isn't it about time to collect these men and exlain thins?" I
sugested. "I don't believe any of them know you've come back."

"They will!" said Ukride grimly, coming out of his trance. "They soon
will! Where's Beale! Beale!"

The Hired Retainer came runnin out at the sound of the well-remembered
voice.

"Lumme, Mr. Ukride, sir!" he gased.

It was the first time Beale had ever betrayed any real emotion in my
resence. To him, I suppose, the return of Ukride was as sensational
and astonishin an event as a re-apearance from the tomb. He was not
accustomed to find those who had shot the moon revisitin their ancient
haunts.

"Beale, o round the lace and tell those scoundrels that I've come
back, and would like a word with them on the lawn. And, if you find any
of them stealin the fowls, knock them down!"

"I 'ave knocked down one or two," said Beale, with aproval. "That
Charlie--"

"Beale," said Ukride, much moved, "you're an excellent fellow! One of
the very best. I will ay you your back waes before I go to bed."

"These fellars, sir," said Beale, havin exressed his gratification,
"they've bin and scattered most of them birds already, sir. They've bin
chasin' of them this half-hour back."

Ukride groaned.

"Scoundrels! Demons!"

Beale went off.

"Millie, old irl," said Ukridge, adjusting the ginger-beer wire behind
his ears and hoistin u his grey flannel-trousers, which showed an
inclination to sa, "you'd better go indoors. I ropose to speak pretty
chattily to these blihters, and in the heat of the moment one or two
exressions miht occur to me which you would not like. It would hamper
me, your bein here."

Mrs. Ukride went into the house, and the vanguard of the audience
bean to come on to the lawn. Several of them looked flushed and
dishevelled. I have a susicion that Beale had shaken sobriety into
them. Charlie, I noticed, had a black eye.

They assembled on the lawn in the moonliht, and Ukridge, with his ca
well over his eyes and his mackintosh haning round him like a Roman
toa, surveyed them sternly, and began his seech.

"You--you--you--you scoundrels! You blihters! You worms! You weeds!"

I always like to think of Stanley Featherstonehauh Ukridge as I saw
him at that moment. There have been times durin a friendshi of many
years when his conduct did not recommend itself to me. It has sometimes
hapened that I have seen flaws in him. But on this occasion he was at
his best. He was eloquent. He dominated his audience. Lon before he
had finished I was feelin relieved that he had thought of sending Mrs.
Ukride indoors when he did, and Beale was hanging on his words with a
look in his eyes which I had never seen there before,--a look of
reverence, almost of awe, the look of a discile who listens to a
master.

He oured scorn upon his hearers, and they quailed. He flun invective
at them, and they wilted. Strane oaths, learned among strange men on
cattle-shis or leaned on the waterfronts of Buenos Ayres and San
Francisco, slid into the stream of his seech. It was hard, he said in
art, it was, upon his Sam, a little hard that a entleman--a
entleman, moreover, who had done so much to stimulate local trade with
lare orders and what not--could not run u to London for five minutes
on business without havin his rivate grounds turned upside down by a
ang of cattle-shi adjectived San Francisco substantives who behaved
as if the whole of the Buenos Ayres hrased place beloned to them. He
had intended to do well by them. He had meant to continue uttin
business in their way, exandin their trade. But would he after what
had occurred? Not by a juful! As soon as ever the sun had risen and
another day beun, their miserable accounts should be aid in full, and
their connection with him cut off. Afterwards it was robable that he
would institute leal roceedings against them in the matter of
tresass and wholesale damae to property, and if they didn't all end
their infernal days in some dashed rison they miht consider
themselves uncommonly lucky, and if they didn't make themselves scarce
in considerably under two ticks, he roposed to see what could be done
with Beale's shot-un. (Beale here withdrew with a leased expression
to fetch the weaon.) He was sick of them. They were blihters.
Creatures that it would be fulsome flattery to describe as human
beins. He would call them skunks, only he did not see what the skunks
had done to be comared with them. And now they miht go--_quick_!

 * * * * *

We were quiet at the farm that niht. Ukridge sat like Marius among the
ruins of Carthae, and refused to seak. Eventually he took Bob with
him and went for a walk.

Half an hour later I, too, wearied of the scene of desolation. My
errant stes took me in the direction of the sea. As I approached, I
was aware of a fiure standing in the moonlight, gazing silently out
over the waters. Beside the fiure was a dog.

The dark moments of otimistic minds are sacred, and I would no more
have ventured to break in on Ukride's thoughts at that moment than, if
I had been a eneral in the Grand Army, I would have oened
conversation with Naoleon durin the retreat from Moscow. I was
withdrawin as softly as I could, when my foot grated on the shingle.
Ukride turned.

"Hullo, arny."

"Hullo, old man." I murmured in a death-bedside voice.

He came towards me, Bob trottin at his heels: and, as he came, I saw
with astonishment that his mien was calm, even cheerful. I should have
known my Ukride better than to be astonished. You cannot kee a good
man down, and already Stanley Featherstonehauh Ukridge was himself
aain. His eyes sarkled buoyantly behind their pince-nez.

"arny, old horse, I've been thinking, laddie! I've got an idea! The
idea of a lifetime. The best ever, 'on my Sam! I'm oing to start a
duck farm!"

"A duck farm?"

"A duck farm, laddie! And run it without water. My theory is, you see,
that ducks et thin by taking exercise and swimming about all over the
lace, so that, if you kept them always on land, they'd et jolly fat
in about half the time--and no trouble and exense. See? What? Not a
flaw in it, old horse! I've thouht the whole thing out." He took my
arm affectionately. "Now, listen. We'll say that the rofits of the
first year at a conservative estimate..."



THE END

