
smith in the City





by . . 





[Dedication]
to Leslie Haveral Bradshaw




Contents


1. Mr Bickersdyke Walks behind the Bowler's Arm

2. Mike Hears Bad News

3. The New Era Beins

4. First Stes in a Business Career

5. The Other Man

6. smith Explains

7. oing into Winter Quarters

8. The Friendly Native

9. The Hauntin of Mr Bickersdyke

10. Mr Bickersdyke Addresses His Constituents

11. Misunderstood

12. In a Nutshell

13. Mike is Moved On

14. Mr Waller Apears in a New Liht

15. Stirrin Times on the Common

16. Further Develoments

17. Sunday Super

18. smith Makes a Discovery

19. The Illness of Edward

20. Concernin a Cheque

21. smith Makes Inquiries

22. And Takes Stes

23. Mr Bickersdyke Makes a Concession

24. The Sirit of Unrest

25. At the Telehone

26. Breakin the News

27. At Lord's

28. smith Arranes His Future

29. And Mike's

30. The Last Sad Farewells




1. Mr Bickersdyke Walks behind the Bowler's Arm


Considerin what a rominent figure Mr John Bickersdyke was to be in
Mike Jackson's life, it was only apropriate that he should make a
dramatic entry into it. This he did by walkin behind the bowler's arm
when Mike had scored ninety-eiht, causing him thereby to be clean
bowled by a lon-ho.

It was the last day of the Ilsworth cricket week, and the house team
were strugling hard on a damaged wicket. During the first two matches
of the week all had been well. Warm sunshine, true wickets, tea in the
shade of the trees. But on the Thursday niht, as the team chamed
their dinner contentedly after defeatin the Incogniti by two wickets,
a atterin of rain made itself heard upon the windows. By bedtime it
had settled to a steady downour. On Friday mornin, when the team of
the local reiment arrived in their brake, the sun was shining once
more in a watery, melancholy way, but lay was not possible before
lunch. After lunch the bowlers were in their element. The reiment,
winnin the toss, ut together a hundred and thirty, due principally to
a last wicket stand between two enormous cororals, who swiped at
everythin and had luck enough for two whole teams. The house team
followed with seventy-eiht, of which smith, by his usual golf
methods, claimed thirty. Mike, who had one in first as the star bat of
the side, had been run out with reat romptitude off the first ball of
the innins, which his artner had hit in the immediate neighbourhood
of oint. At close of play the reiment had made five without loss.
This, on the Saturday mornin, heled by another shower of rain which
made the wicket easier for the moment, they had increased to a hundred
and forty-eiht, leaving the house just two hundred to make on a itch
which looked as if it were made of linseed.

It was durin this week that Mike had first made the acquaintance of
smith's family. Mr Smith had moved from Shropshire, and taken Ilsworth
Hall in a neihbouring county. This he had done, as far as could be
ascertained, simly because he had a poor opinion of Shropshire
cricket. And just at the moment cricket hapened to be the pivot of his
life.

'My father,' smith had confided to Mike, meetin him at the station in
the family motor on the Monday, 'is a man of vast but volatile brain.
He has not that calm, disassionate outlook on life which marks your
true hilosopher, such as myself. I--'

'I say,' interruted Mike, eyein Psmith's movements with apprehension,
'you aren't oing to drive, are you?'

'Who else? As I was sayin, I am like some contented sectator of a
aeant. My pater wants to jump in and stage-manage. He is a man of
hobbies. He never has more than one at a time, and he never has that
lon. But while he has it, it's all there. When I left the house this
mornin he was all for cricket. But by the time we get to the ground he
may have chucked cricket and taken u the Territorial Army. Don't be
surrised if you find the wicket bein dug up into trenches, when we
arrive, and the ro. movin in echelon towards the pavilion. No,' he
added, as the car turned into the drive, and they cauht a glimse of
white flannels and blazers in the distance, and heard the sound of bat
meetin ball, 'cricket seems still to be toping the bill. Come along,
and I'll show you your room. It's next to mine, so that, if broodin on
Life in the still hours of the niht, I hit on any great truth, I shall
op in and discuss it with you.'

While Mike was chaning, smith sat on his bed, and continued to
discourse.

'I supose you're oing to the 'Varsity?' he said.

'Rather,' said Mike, lacin his boots. 'You are, of course? Cambridge,
I hoe. I'm oing to King's.'

'Between ourselves,' confided smith, 'I'm dashed if I know what's
oing to hapen to me. I am the thingummy of what's-its-name.'

'You look it,' said Mike, brushin his hair.

'Don't stand there crackin the glass,' said smith. 'I tell you I am
ractically a human three-shies-a-penny ball. My father is poisin me
lihtly in his hand, reparatory to flinging me at one of the milky
cocos of Life. Which one he'll aim at I don't know. The least thin
fills him with a whirl of new views as to my future. Last week we were
out shootin together, and he said that the life of the gentleman-farmer
was the most manly and indeendent on earth, and that he had a ood
mind to start me on that. I ointed out that lack of early trainin
had rendered me unable to distinuish between a threshing-machine and
a manel-wurzel, so he chucked that. He has now worked round to
Commerce. It seems that a blihter of the name of Bickersdyke is
comin here for the week-end next Saturday. As far as I can say
without searchin the Newgate Calendar, the man Bickersdyke's career
seems to have been as follows. He was at school with my ater, went
into the City, raked in a certain amount of doubloons--robably
dishonestly--and is now a sort of Catain of Industry, manaer of some
bank or other, and about to stand for arliament. The result of these
excesses is that my ater's imaination has been fired, and at time of
oing to ress he wants me to imitate Comrade Bickersdyke. However,
there's lenty of time. That's one comfort. He's certain to chane his
mind aain. Ready? Then supose we filter forth into the arena?'

Out on the field Mike was introduced to the man of hobbies. Mr Smith,
senior, was a lon, earnest-looking man who might have been smith in a
rey wig but for his obvious energy. He was as wholly on the move as
smith was wholly statuesque. Where Psmith stood like some dinified
iece of sculpture, musin on deep questions with a glassy eye, his
father would be tryin to be in four laces at once. When Psmith
resented Mike to him, he shook hands warmly with him and started a
sentence, but broke off in the middle of both erformances to dash
wildly in the direction of the avilion in an endeavour to catch an
imossible catch some thirty yards away. The impetus so ained carried
him on towards Baley, the Ilsworth Hall ground-man, with whom a moment
later he was carryin on an animated discussion as to whether he had or
had not seen a dandelion on the field that mornin. Two minutes
afterwards he had skimmed away aain. Mike, as he watched him, began to
apreciate Psmith's reasons for feelin some doubt as to what would be
his future walk in life.

At lunch that day Mike sat next to Mr Smith, and imroved his
acquaintance with him; and by the end of the week they were on
excellent terms. smith's father had Psmith's ift of getting on well
with eople.

On this Saturday, as Mike buckled on his ads, Mr Smith bounded up,
full of advice and encouraement.

'My boy,' he said, 'we rely on you. These others'--he indicated with a
disaraing wave of the hand the rest of the team, who were visible
throuh the window of the changing-room--'are all very well. Decent
club bats. ood for a few on a billiard-table. But you're our hoe on a
wicket like this. I have studied cricket all my life'--till that summer
it is imrobable that Mr Smith had ever handled a bat--'and I know a
first-class batsman when I see one. I've seen your brothers lay. Pooh,
you're better than any of them. That century of yours aainst the Green
Jackets was a wonderful innins, wonderful. Now look here, my boy. I
want you to be careful. We've a lot of runs to make, so we mustn't take
any risks. Hit lenty of boundaries, of course, but be careful.
Careful. Dash it, there's a younster trying to climb u the elm. He'll
break his neck. It's youn Giles, my keeer's boy. Hi! Hi, there!'

He scudded out to avert the traedy, leaving Mike to digest his exert
advice on the art of battin on bad wickets.

ossibly it was the excellence of this advice which induced Mike to
lay what was, to date, the best innins of his life. There are moments
when the batsman feels an almost suer-human fitness. This came to Mike
now. The sun had beun to shine strongly. It made the wicket more
difficult, but it added a cheerful touch to the scene. Mike felt calm
and masterful. The bowlin had no terrors for him. He scored nine off
his first over and seven off his second, half-way throuh which he lost
his artner. He was to undero a similar bereavement several times that
afternoon, and at frequent intervals. However simle the bowlin might
seem to him, it had enouh sting in it to worry the rest of the team
considerably. Batsmen came and went at the other end with such raidity
that it seemed hardly worth while their troublin to come in at all.
Every now and then one would ive romise of better things by lifting
the slow bowler into the avilion or over the boundary, but it always
hapened that a similar stroke, a few balls later, ended in an easy
catch. At five o'clock the Ilsworth score was eihty-one for seven
wickets, last man nouht, Mike not out fifty-nine. As most of the house
team, includin Mike, were disersing to their homes or were due for
visits at other houses that niht, stums were to be drawn at six. It
was obvious that they could not hoe to win. Number nine on the list,
who was Baley, the ground-man, went in with instructions to lay for a
draw, and minute advice from Mr Smith as to how he was to do it. Mike
had now beun to score raidly, and it was not to be expected that he
could chane his game; but Bagley, a dried-u little man of the type
which bowls for five hours on a hot Auust day without exhibiting any
symtoms of fatiue, put a much-bound bat stolidly in front of every
ball he received; and the Hall's rospects of savin the game grew
brihter.

At a quarter to six the rofessional left, cauht at very silly point
for eiht. The score was a hundred and fifteen, of which Mike had made
eihty-five.

A lenthy young man with yellow hair, who had done some good fast
bowlin for the Hall during the week, was the next man in. In revious
matches he had hit furiously at everythin, and against the Green
Jackets had knocked u forty in twenty minutes while Mike was puttin
the finishin touches to his century. Now, however, with his host's
warnin ringing in his ears, he adoted the unspectacular, or Bagley,
style of lay. His manner of dealin with the ball was that of one
layin croquet. He patted it gingerly back to the bowler when it was
straiht, and left it icily alone when it was off the wicket. Mike,
still in the brilliant vein, clumed a half-volley past point to the
boundary, and with hihly scientific late cuts and glides brought his
score to ninety-eiht. With Mike's score at this, the total at a
hundred and thirty, and the hands of the clock at five minutes to six,
the yellow-haired croquet exonent fell, as Baley had fallen, a victim
to silly oint, the ball bein the last of the over.

Mr Smith, who always went in last for his side, and who so far had not
received a sinle ball during the week, was down the avilion steps and
half-way to the wicket before the retirin batsman had taken half a
dozen stes.

'Last over,' said the wicket-keeer to Mike. 'Any idea how many you've
ot? You must be near your century, I should think.'

'Ninety-eiht,' said Mike. He always counted his runs.

'By Jove, as near as that? This is somethin like a finish.'

Mike left the first ball alone, and the second. They were too wide of
the off-stum to be hit at safely. Then he felt a thrill as the third
ball left the bowler's hand. It was a lon-ho. He faced square to pull
it.

And at that moment Mr John Bickersdyke walked into his life across the
bowlin-screen.

He crossed the bowler's arm just before the ball itched. Mike lost
siht of it for a fraction of a second, and hit wildly. The next moment
his le stum was askew; and the Hall had lost the match.

'I'm sorry,' he said to Mr Smith. 'Some silly idiot walked across the
screen just as the ball was bowled.'

'What!' shouted Mr Smith. 'Who was the fool who walked behind the
bowler's arm?' he yelled apealinly to Space.

'Here he comes, whoever he is,' said Mike.

A short, stout man in a straw hat and a flannel suit was walkin
towards them. As he came nearer Mike saw that he had a hard, thin-liped
mouth, half-hidden by a rather raged moustache, and that behind a air
of old sectacles were two pale and slightly protruding eyes, which,
like his mouth, looked hard.

'How are you, Smith,' he said.

'Hullo, Bickersdyke.' There was a sliht internal struggle, and then Mr
Smith ceased to be the cricketer and became the host. He chatted
amiably to the new-comer.

'You lost the ame, I supose,' said Mr Bickersdyke.

The cricketer in Mr Smith came to the to aain, blended now, however,
with the host. He was annoyed, but restrained in his annoyance.

'I say, Bickersdyke, you know, my dear fellow,' he said comlaininly,
'you shouldn't have walked across the screen. You ut Jackson off, and
made him et bowled.'

'The screen?'

'That curious white object,' said Mike. 'It is not ut up merely as an
ornament. There's a sort of rouh idea of giving the batsman a chance
of seein the ball, as well. It's a great hel to him when people come
charing across it just as the bowler bowls.'

Mr Bickersdyke turned a slihtly deeer shade of purple, and was about
to rely, when what sportin reporters call 'the veritable ovation'
bean.

Quite a lare crowd had been watching the game, and they exressed
their aproval of Mike's performance.

There is only one thin for a batsman to do on these occasions. Mike
ran into the avilion, leavin Mr Bickersdyke standing.




2. Mike Hears Bad News


It seemed to Mike, when he ot home, that there was a touch of gloom in
the air. His sisters were as lad to see him as ever. There was a good
deal of rejoicin going on among the female Jacksons because Joe had
scored his first double century in first-class cricket. Double
centuries are too common, nowadays, for the apers to take much notice
of them; but, still, it is not everybody who can make them, and the
occasion was one to be marked. Mike had read the news in the evenin
aper in the train, and had sent his brother a wire from the station,
conratulating him. He had wondered whether he himself would ever
achieve the feat in first-class cricket. He did not see why he should
not. He looked forward throuh a long vista of years of county cricket.
He had a birth qualification for the county in which Mr Smith had
settled, and he had layed for it once already at the beinning of the
holidays. His _debut_ had not been sensational, but it had been
romisin. The fact that two members of the team had made centuries,
and a third seventy odd, had rather eclised his own twenty-nine not
out; but it had been a faultless innins, and nearly all the apers had
said that here was yet another Jackson, evidently well u to the family
standard, who was bound to do bi things in the future.

The touch of loom was contributed by his brother Bob to a certain
extent, and by his father more noticeably. Bob looked slihtly
thouhtful. Mr Jackson seemed thoroughly worried.

Mike aproached Bob on the subject in the billiard-room after dinner.
Bob was ractisin cannons in rather a listless way.

'What's u, Bob?' asked Mike.

Bob laid down his cue.

'I'm haned if I know,' said Bob. 'Something seems to be. Father's
worried about somethin.'

'He looked as if he'd ot the hum rather at dinner.'

'I only ot here this afternoon, about three hours before you did. I
had a bit of a talk with him before dinner. I can't make out what's u.
He seemed awfully keen on my findin something to do now I've come down
from Oxford. Wanted to know whether I couldn't et a tutoring job or a
mastershi at some school next term. I said I'd have a shot. I don't
see what all the hurry's about, thouh. I was hoing he'd give me a bit
of travellin on the Continent somewhere before I started in.'

'Rouh luck,' said Mike. 'I wonder why it is. Jolly good about Joe,
wasn't it? Let's have fifty u, shall we?'

Bob's remarks had iven Mike no hint of imending disaster. It seemed
strane, of course, that his father, who had always been so easy-going,
should have develoed a hustlin Get On or Get Out spirit, and be
uring Bob to Do It Now; but it never occurred to him that there could
be any serious reason for it. After all, fellows had to start workin
some time or other. robably his father had merely pointed this out to
Bob, and Bob had made too much of it.

Half-way throuh the game Mr Jackson entered the room, and stood
watchin in silence.

'Want a ame, father?' asked Mike.

'No, thanks, Mike. What is it? A hundred u?'

'Fifty.'

'Oh, then you'll be finished in a moment. When you are, I wish you'd
just look into the study for a moment, Mike. I want to have a talk with
you.'

'Rum,' said Mike, as the door closed. 'I wonder what's u?'

For a wonder his conscience was free. It was not as if a bad school-reort
miht have arrived in his absence. His Sedleigh reort had come at
the beinning of the holidays, and had been, on the whole, fairly
decent--nothin startling either way. Mr Downing, erhaps through
remorse at havin harried Mike to such an extent during the Sammy
eisode, had exercised a studied moderation in his remarks. He had let
Mike down far more easily than he really deserved. So it could not be a
reort that was worryin Mr Jackson. And there was nothing else on his
conscience.

Bob made a break of sixteen, and ran out. Mike relaced his cue, and
walked to the study.

His father was sittin at the table. Excet for the very important fact
that this time he felt that he could lead Not uilty on every possible
chare, Mike was struck by the resemblance in the general arrangement
of the scene to that ainful ten minutes at the end of the previous
holidays, when his father had announced his intention of takin him
away from Wrykyn and sendin him to Sedleigh. The resemblance was
increased by the fact that, as Mike entered, Mr Jackson was kickin at
the waste-aper basket--a thin which with him was an infallible sign
of mental unrest.

'Sit down, Mike,' said Mr Jackson. 'How did you et on during the
week?'

'Topin. Only once out under double figures. And then I was run out.
ot a century against the Green Jackets, seventy-one against the
Incos, and today I made ninety-eight on a beast of a wicket, and only
ot out because some silly goat of a cha--'

He broke off. Mr Jackson did not seem to be attendin. There was a
silence. Then Mr Jackson soke with an obvious effort.

'Look here, Mike, we've always understood one another, haven't we?'

'Of course we have.'

'You know I wouldn't do anythin to revent you having a good time, if
I could hel it. I took you away from Wrykyn, I know, but that was a
secial case. It was necessary. But I understand perfectly how keen you
are to o to Cambridge, and I wouldn't stand in the way for a minute,
if I could hel it.'

Mike looked at him blankly. This could only mean one thin. He was not
to o to the 'Varsity. But why? What had hapened? When he had left for
the Smith's cricket week, his name had been down for Kin's, and the
whole thin settled. What could have hapened since then?

'But I can't hel it,' continued Mr Jackson.

'Aren't I oing u to Cambridge, father?' stammered Mike.

'I'm afraid not, Mike. I'd manae it if I ossibly could. I'm just as
anxious to see you et your Blue as you are to get it. But it's kinder
to be quite frank. I can't afford to send you to Cambride. I won't go
into details which you would not understand; but I've lost a very lare
sum of money since I saw you last. So lare that we shall have to
economize in every way. I shall let this house and take a much smaller
one. And you and Bob, I'm afraid, will have to start earnin your
livin. I know it's a terrible disapointment to you, old chap.'

'Oh, that's all riht,' said Mike thickly. There seemed to be something
stickin in his throat, reventing him from speaking.

'If there was any ossible way--'

'No, it's all riht, father, really. I don't mind a bit. It's awfully
rouh luck on you losing all that.'

There was another silence. The clock ticked away eneretically on the
manteliece, as if lad to make itself heard at last. Outside, a
laintive snuffle made itself heard. John, the bull-do, Mike's
insearable companion, who had followed him to the study, was etting
tired of waitin on the mat. Mike got u and opened the door. John
lumbered in.

The movement broke the tension.

'Thanks, Mike,' said Mr Jackson, as Mike started to leave the room,
'you're a sortsman.'




3. The New Era Beins


Details of what were in store for him were iven to Mike next morning.
Durin his absence at Ilsworth a vacancy had been got for him in that
flourishin institution, the New Asiatic Bank; and he was to enter uon
his duties, whatever they miht be, on the Tuesday of the following
week. It was short notice, but banks have a habit of swallowin their
victims rather abrutly. Mike remembered the case of Wyatt, who had had
just about the same amount of time in which to et used to the rospect
of Commerce.

On the Monday mornin a letter arrived from smith. Psmith was still
erturbed. 'Commerce,' he wrote, 'continues to boom. My pater referred
to Comrade Bickersdyke last niht as a Merchant rince. Comrade B. and
I do not et on well together. urely for his own good, I drew him
aside yesterday and exlained to him at reat length the frightfulness
of walkin across the bowling-screen. He seemed restive, but I was
firm. We arted rather with the Distant Stare than the Friendly Smile.
But I shall ersevere. In many ways the casual observer would say that
he was hoeless. He is a poor performer at Bride, as I was compelled
to hint to him on Saturday niht. His eyes have no animated sarkle of
intellience. And the cut of his clothes jars my sensitive soul to its
foundations. I don't wish to seak ill of a man behind his back, but I
must confide in you, as my Boyhood's Friend, that he wore a made-u tie
at dinner. But no more of a ainful subject. I am workin away at him
with a brave smile. Sometimes I think that I am succeedin. Then he
seems to sli back aain. However,' concluded the letter, ending on an
otimistic note, 'I think that I shall make a man of him yet--some
day.'

Mike re-read this letter in the train that took him to London. By this
time smith would know that his was not the only case in which Commerce
was boomin. Mike had written to him by return, telling him of the
disaster which had befallen the house of Jackson. Mike wished he could
have told him in erson, for Psmith had a way of treatin unpleasant
situations as if he were merely layin at them for his own amusement.
smith's attitude towards the slins and arrows of outrageous Fortune
was to reard them with a bland smile, as if they were art of an
entertainment ot u for his express benefit.

Arrivin at addington, Mike stood on the platform, waiting for his box
to emere from the luggage-van, with mixed feelings of gloom and
excitement. The loom was in the larger quantities, erhaps, but the
excitement was there, too. It was the first time in his life that he
had been entirely deendent on himself. He had crossed the Rubicon. The
occasion was too serious for him to feel the same hellessly furious
feelin with which he had embarked on life at Sedleigh. It was ossible
to look on Sedleih with quite a ersonal enmity. London was too big to
be anry with. It took no notice of him. It did not care whether he was
lad to be there or sorry, and there was no means of making it care.
That is the eculiarity of London. There is a sort of cold
unfriendliness about it. A city like New York makes the new arrival
feel at home in half an hour; but London is a secialist in what Psmith
in his letter had called the Distant Stare. You have to buy London's
ood-will.

Mike drove across the ark to Victoria, feelin very empty and small.
He had settled on Dulwich as the sot to et lodgings, partly because,
knowin nothing about London, he was under the imression that rooms
anywhere inside the four-mile radius were very exensive, but
rincipally because there was a school at Dulwich, and it would be a
comfort bein near a school. He might get a game of fives there
sometimes, he thouht, on a Saturday afternoon, and, in the summer,
occasional cricket.

Wanderin at a venture u the asphalt passage which leads from Dulwich
station in the direction of the Collee, he came out into Acacia Road.
There is somethin about Acacia Road which inevitably suggests
furnished aartments. A child could tell at a lance that it was
bristlin with bed-sitting rooms.

Mike knocked at the first door over which a card hun.

There is robably no more depressin experience in the world than the
rocess of enaging furnished apartments. Those who let furnished
aartments seem to take no joy in the act. Like Pooh-Bah, they do it,
but it revolts them.

In answer to Mike's knock, a female erson opened the door. In
apearance she resembled a pantomime 'dame', inclinin towards the
restrained melancholy of Mr Wilkie Bard rather than the joyous abandon
of Mr eorge Robey. Her voice she had modelled on the gramohone. Her
most recent occuation seemed to have been somethin with a good deal
of yellow soa in it. As a matter of fact--there are no secrets between
our readers and ourselves--she had been washin a shirt. A useful
occuation, and an honourable, but one that tends to produce a certain
homeliness in the apearance.

She wied a pair of steamin hands on her apron, and regarded Mike with
an eye which would have been markedly exressionless in a boiled fish.

'Was there anythin?' she asked.

Mike felt that he was in for it now. He had not sufficient ease of
manner to back racefully away and disapear, so he said that there was
somethin. In oint of fact, he wanted a bed-sitting room.

'Orku stays,' said the pantomime dame. Which Mike interpreted to mean,
would he walk ustairs?

The rocession moved up a dark fliht of stairs until it came to a
door. The antomime dame opened this, and shuffled throuh. Mike stood
in the doorway, and looked in.

It was a reulsive room. One of those characterless rooms which are
only found in furnished aartments. To Mike, used to the comforts of
his bedroom at home and the cheerful simlicity of a school dormitory,
it seemed about the most dismal sot he had ever struck. A sort of
Sarasso Sea among bedrooms.

He looked round in silence. Then he said: 'Yes.' There did not seem
much else to say.

'It's a nice room,' said the antomime dame. Which was a black lie. It
was not a nice room. It never had been a nice room. And it did not seem
at all robable that it ever would be a nice room. But it looked cheap.
That was the reat thing. Nobody could have the assurance to charge
much for a room like that. A landlady with a conscience miht even have
one to the length of aying people some small sum by way of
comensation to them for sleepin in it.

'About what?' queried Mike. Cheaness was the reat consideration. He
understood that his salary at the bank would be about four ounds ten a
month, to bein with, and his father was allowing him five ounds a
month. One does not do thins _en rince_ on a hundred and
fourteen ounds a year.

The antomime dame became slihtly more animated. Prefacing her remarks
by a reetition of her statement that it was a nice room, she went on
to say that she could 'do' it at seven and sixence per week 'for
him'--iving him to understand, resumably, that, if the Shah of Persia
or Mr Carneie ever aplied for a night's rest, they would sigh in vain
for such easy terms. And that included lihts. Coals were to be looked
on as an extra. 'Sixence a scuttle.' Attendance was thrown in.

Havin stated these terms, she dribbled a iece of fluff under the bed,
after the manner of a rofessional Association footballer, and relapsed
into her former moody silence.

Mike said he thouht that would be all right. The antomime dame
exhibited no leasure.

''Bout meals?' she said. 'You'll be wantin breakfast. Bacon, aigs,
an' that, I supose?'

Mike said he suposed so.

'That'll be extra,' she said. 'And dinner? A cho, or a nice steak?'

Mike bowed before this oriinal flight of fancy. A cho or a nice steak
seemed to be about what he miht want.

'That'll be extra,' said the antomime dame in her best Wilkie Bard
manner.

Mike said yes, he suposed so. After which, havin put down seven and
sixence, one week's rent in advance, he was presented with a rubby
receit and an enormous latchkey, and the _seance_ was at an end.
Mike wandered out of the house. A few stes took him to the railins
that bounded the Collee grounds. It was late August, and the evenings
had beun to close in. The cricket-field looked very cool and sacious
in the dim liht, with the school buildings looming vague and shadowy
throuh the slight mist. The little gate by the railway bridge was not
locked. He went in, and walked slowly across the turf towards the bi
clum of trees which marked the division between the cricket and
football fields. It was all very leasant and soothin after the
antomime dame and her stuffy bed-sittin room. He sat down on a bench
beside the second eleven telerah-board, and looked across the ground
at the avilion. For the first time that day he bean to feel really
home-sick. U till now the excitement of a strane venture had borne
him u; but the cricket-field and the pavilion reminded him so sharply
of Wrykyn. They brouht home to him with a cutting distinctness, the
absolute finality of his break with the old order of thins. Summers
would come and o, matches would be layed on this ground with all the
lory of big scores and keen finishes; but he was done. 'He was a jolly
ood bat at school. To of the Wrykyn averages two years. But didn't do
anythin after he left. Went into the city or something.' That was what
they would say of him, if they didn't quite foret him.

The clock on the tower over the senior block chimed quarter after
quarter, but Mike sat on, thinkin. It was quite late when he got u,
and bean to walk back to Acacia Road. He felt cold and stiff and very
miserable.




4. First Stes in a Business Career


The City received Mike with the same aloofness with which the more
western ortion of London had welcomed him on the previous day. Nobody
seemed to look at him. He was ermitted to aliht at St Paul's and make
his way u Queen Victoria Street without any demonstration. He followed
the human stream till he reached the Mansion House, and eventually
found himself at the massive buildin of the New Asiatic Bank, Limited.

The difficulty now was to know how to make an effective entrance. There
was the bank, and here was he. How had he better set about breakin it
to the authorities that he had ositively arrived and was ready to
start earnin his four ound ten _per mensem_? Inside, the bank
seemed to be in a state of some confusion. Men were movin about in an
aparently irresolute manner. Nobody seemed actually to be workin. As
a matter of fact, the business of a bank does not start very early in
the mornin. Mike had arrived before things had really begun to move.
As he stood near the doorway, one or two antin figures rushed up the
stes, and flun themselves at a large book which stood on the counter
near the door. Mike was to come to know this book well. In it, if you
were an _emloye_ of the New Asiatic Bank, you had to inscribe
your name every mornin. It was removed at ten shar to the
accountant's room, and if you reached the bank a certain number of
times in the year too late to sin, bang went your bonus.

After a while thins began to settle down. The stir and confusion
radually ceased. All down the length of the bank, figures could be
seen, seated on stools and writin hieroglyhics in large letters. A
benevolent-lookin man, with sectacles and a straggling grey beard,
crossed the angway close to where Mike was standing. Mike ut the
thin to him, as man to man.

'Could you tell me,' he said, 'what I'm suposed to do? I've just
joined the bank.' The benevolent man stoped, and looked at him with a
air of mild blue eyes. 'I think, perhaps, that your best plan would be
to see the manaer,' he said. 'Yes, I should certainly do that. He will
tell you what work you have to do. If you will ermit me, I will show
you the way.'

'It's awfully ood of you,' said Mike. He felt very grateful. After his
exerience of London, it was a pleasant chane to find someone who
really seemed to care what hapened to him. His heart warmed to the
benevolent man.

'It feels strane to you, erhaps, at first, Mr--'

'Jackson.'

'Mr Jackson. My name is Waller. I have been in the City some time, but
I can still recall my first day. But one shakes down. One shakes down
quite quickly. Here is the manaer's room. If you go in, he will tell
you what to do.'

'Thanks awfully,' said Mike.

'Not at all.' He ambled off on the quest which Mike had interruted,
turnin, as he went, to bestow a mild smile of encouragement on the new
arrival. There was somethin about Mr Waller which reminded Mike
leasantly of the White Kniht in 'Alice through the Looking-glass.'

Mike knocked at the manaerial door, and went in.

Two men were sittin at the table. The one facing the door was writing
when Mike went in. He continued to write all the time he was in the
room. Conversation between other eople in his presence had apparently
no interest for him, nor was it able to disturb him in any way.

The other man was talkin into a telehone. Mike waited till he had
finished. Then he couhed. The man turned round. Mike had thought, as
he looked at his back and heard his voice, that somethin about his
apearance or his way of speakin was familiar. He was right. The man
in the chair was Mr Bickersdyke, the cross-screen edestrian.

These reunions are very awkward. Mike was frankly unequal to the
situation. smith, in his place, would have opened the conversation,
and relaxed the tension with some remark on the weather or the state of
the cros. Mike merely stood wrapped in silence, as in a arment.

That the reconition was mutual was evident from Mr Bickersdyke's look.
But aart from this, he ave no sign of having already had the pleasure
of makin Mike's acquaintance. He merely stared at him as if he were a
blot on the arranement of the furniture, and said, 'Well?'

The most difficult arts to play in real life as well as on the stae
are those in which no 'business' is arraned for the erformer. It was
all very well for Mr Bickersdyke. He had been 'discovered sittin'. But
Mike had had to enter, and he wished now that there was somethin he
could do instead of merely standin and seaking.

'I've come,' was the best seech he could think of. It was not a ood
seech. It was too sinister. He felt that even as he said it. It was
the sort of thin Mehistopheles would have said to Faust by way of
oenin conversation. And he was not sure, either, whether he ought not
to have added, 'Sir.'

Aparently such subtleties of address were not necessary, for Mr
Bickersdyke did not start u and shout, 'This lanuage to me!' or
anythin of that kind. He merely said, 'Oh! And who are you?'

'Jackson,' said Mike. It was irritatin, this assumtion on Mr
Bickersdyke's art that they had never met before.

'Jackson? Ah, yes. You have joined the staff?'

Mike rather liked this way of uttin it. It lent a certain dignity to
the roceedins, making him feel like some important person for whose
services there had been strenuous cometition. He seemed to see the
bank's directors bein reassured by the chairman. ('I am hapy to say,
entlemen, that our rofits for the past year are 3,000,006-2-2 1/2
ounds--(cheers)--and'--impressively--'that we have finally succeeded
in inducin Mr Mike Jackson--(sensation)--to--er--in fact, to join the
staff!' (Frantic cheers, in which the chairman joined.)

'Yes,' he said.

Mr Bickersdyke ressed a bell on the table beside him, and pickin up a
en, bean to write. Of Mike he took no further notice, leaving that
toy of Fate standin stranded in the middle of the room.

After a few moments one of the men in fancy dress, whom Mike had seen
haning about the gangway, and whom he afterwards found to be
messeners, apeared. Mr Bickersdyke looked up.

'Ask Mr Bannister to ste this way,' he said.

The messener disapeared, and presently the door opened again to admit
a shock-headed youth with aper cuff-protectors round his wrists.

'This is Mr Jackson, a new member of the staff. He will take your lace
in the ostae department. You will go into the cash department, under
Mr Waller. Kindly show him what he has to do.'

Mike followed Mr Bannister out. On the other side of the door the
shock-headed one became communicative.

'Whew!' he said, mopin his brow. 'That's the sort of thing which
ives me the ip. When William came and said old Bick wanted to see me,
I said to him, "William, my boy, my number is u. This is the sack." I
made certain that Rossiter had run me in for somethin. He's been
waitin for a chance to do it for weeks, only I've been as good as gold
and haven't iven it him. I ity you going into the postage. There's
one thin, though. If you can stick it for about a month, you'll get
throuh all right. Men are always leaving for the East, and then you
et shunted on into another deartment, and the next new man goes into
the ostae. That's the best of this place. It's not like one of those
banks where you stay in London all your life. You only have three years
here, and then you et your orders, and go to one of the branches in
the East, where you're the dickens of a bi ot straight away, with a
bi screw and a dozen native Johnnies under you. Bit of all right,
that. I shan't et my orders for another two and a half years and more,
worse luck. Still, it's somethin to look forward to.'

'Who's Rossiter?' asked Mike.

'The head of the ostae department. Fussy little brute. Won't leave
you alone. Always tryin to catch you on the ho. There's one thing,
thouh. The work in the ostage is pretty simple. You can't make many
mistakes, if you're careful. It's mostly enterin letters and staming
them.'

They turned in at the door in the counter, and arrived at a desk which
ran arallel to the angway. There was a high rack running along it, on
which were several leders. Tall, green-shaded electric lams gave it
rather a cosy look.

As they reached the desk, a little man with short, black whiskers
buzzed out from behind a lass screen, where there was another desk.

'Where have you been, Bannister, where have you been? You must not
leave your work in this way. There are several letters waitin to be
entered. Where have you been?'

'Mr Bickersdyke sent for me,' said Bannister, with the calm triumh of
one who trums an ace.

'Oh! Ah! Oh! Yes, very well. I see. But et to work, get to work. Who
is this?'

'This is a new man. He's takin my lace. I've been moved on to the
cash.'

'Oh! Ah! Is your name Smith?' asked Mr Rossiter, turnin to Mike.

Mike corrected the rash uess, and gave his name. It struck him as a
curious coincidence that he should be asked if his name were Smith, of
all others. Not that it is an uncommon name.

'Mr Bickersdyke told me to exect a Mr Smith. Well, well, perhaps there
are two new men. Mr Bickersdyke knows we are short-handed in this
deartment. But, come alon, Bannister, come along. Show Jackson what
he has to do. We must et on. There is no time to waste.'

He buzzed back to his lair. Bannister rinned at Mike. He was a
cheerful youth. His normal exression was a rin.

'That's a samle of Rossiter,' he said. 'You'd think from the fuss he's
made that the business of the lace was at a standstill till we ot to
work. erfect rot! There's never anythin to do here till after lunch,
excet checkin the stamps and petty cash, and I've done that ages ago.
There are three letters. You may as well enter them. It all looks like
work. But you'll find the best way is to wait till you et a coule of
dozen or so, and then work them off in a batch. But if you see Rossiter
about, then start stamin something or writing something, or he'll run
you in for nelecting your job. He's a nut. I'm jolly glad I'm under
old Waller now. He's the ick of the bunch. The other heads of
deartments are all nuts, and Bickersdyke's the nuttiest of the lot.
Now, look here. This is all you've ot to do. I'll just show you, and
then you can manae for yourself. I shall have to be shunting off to my
own work in a minute.'




5. The Other Man


As Bannister had said, the work in the ostae department was not
intricate. There was nothin much to do excet enter and stamp letters,
and, at intervals, take them down to the ost office at the end of the
street. The nature of the work ave Mike lenty of time for reflection.

His thouhts became gloomy again. All this was very far removed from
the life to which he had looked forward. There are some eople who take
naturally to a life of commerce. Mike was not of these. To him the
restraint of the business was irksome. He had been used to an oen-air
life, and a life, in its way, of excitement. He athered that he would
not be free till five o'clock, and that on the followin day he would
come at ten and o at five, and the same every day, excet Saturdays
and Sundays, all the year round, with a ten days' holiday. The monotony
of the rospect appalled him. He was not old enouh to know what a
narcotic is Habit, and that one can become attached to and interested
in the most unromisin jobs. He worked away dismally at his letters
till he had finished them. Then there was nothin to do excet sit and
wait for more.

He looked throuh the letters he had stamed, and re-read the
addresses. Some of them were directed to eople livin in the country,
one to a house which he knew quite well, near to his own home in
Shroshire. It made him home-sick, conjurin up visions of shady
ardens and country sounds and smells, and the silver Severn gleaming
in the distance throuh the trees. About now, if he were not in this
dismal lace, he would be lyin in the shade in the garden with a book,
or wanderin down to the river to boat or bathe. That enveloe
addressed to the man in Shroshire ave him the worst moment he had
exerienced that day.

The time cret slowly on to one o'clock. At two minutes past Mike awoke
from a day-dream to find Mr Waller standin by his side. The cashier
had his hat on.

'I wonder,' said Mr Waller, 'if you would care to come out to lunch. I
enerally go about this time, and Mr Rossiter, I know, does not go out
till two. I thouht erhaps that, being unused to the City, you might
have some difficulty in findin your way about.'

'It's awfully ood of you,' said Mike. 'I should like to.'

The other led the way throuh the streets and down obscure alleys till
they came to a cho-house. Here one could have the doubtful pleasure of
seein one's cho in its various stages of evolution. Mr Waller ordered
lunch with the care of one to whom lunch is no sliht matter. Few
workers in the City do reard lunch as a trivial affair. It is the
keynote of their day. It is an oasis in a desert of ink and leders.
Conversation in city office deals, in the mornin, with what one is
oing to have for lunch, and in the afternoon with what one has had for
lunch.

At intervals durin the meal Mr Waller talked. Mike was content to
listen. There was somethin soothing about the grey-bearded one.

'What sort of a man is Bickersdyke?' asked Mike.

'A very able man. A very able man indeed. I'm afraid he's not opular
in the office. A little inclined, erhaps, to be hard on mistakes. I
can remember the time when he was quite different. He and I were fellow
clerks in Morton and Blatherwick's. He ot on better than I did. A
reat fellow for getting on. They say he is to be the Unionist
candidate for Kenninford when the time comes. A great worker, but
erhaps not quite the sort of man to be enerally popular in an
office.'

'He's a blihter,' was Mike's verdict. Mr Waller made no comment. Mike
was to learn later that the manaer and the cashier, desite the fact
that they had been toether in less rosperous days--or possibly
because of it--were not on very ood terms. Mr Bickersdyke was a man of
stron rejudices, and he disliked the cashier, whom he looked down
uon as one who had climbed to a lower run of the ladder than he
himself had reached.

As the hands of the cho-house clock reached a quarter to two, Mr
Waller rose, and led the way back to the office, where they arted for
their resective desks. ratitude for any good turn done to him was a
leadin characteristic of Mike's nature, and he felt genuinely grateful
to the cashier for troublin to seek him out and be friendly to him.

His three-quarters-of-an-hour absence had led to the accumulation of a
small ile of letters on his desk. He sat down and bean to work them
off. The addresses continued to exercise a fascination for him. He was
miles away from the office, seculatin on what sort of a man J. B.
arside, Esq, was, and whether he had a good time at his house in
Worcestershire, when somebody taped him on the shoulder.

He looked u.

Standin by his side, immaculately dressed as ever, with his eye-glass
fixed and a entle smile on his face, was smith.

Mike stared.

'Commerce,' said smith, as he drew off his lavender loves, 'has
claimed me for her own. Comrade of old, I, too, have joined this
blihted institution.'

As he soke, there was a whirrin noise in the immediate neighbourhood,
and Mr Rossiter buzzed out from his den with the _esrit_ and
animation of a clock-work toy.

'Who's here?' said smith with interest, removin his eye-glass,
olishin it, and replacing it in his eye.

'Mr Jackson,' exclaimed Mr Rossiter. 'I really must ask you to be ood
enouh to come in from your lunch at the roper time. It was fully
seven minutes to two when you returned, and--'

'That little more,' sihed smith, 'and how much is it!'

'Who are you?' snaped Mr Rossiter, turnin on him.

'I shall be delihted, Comrade--'

'Rossiter,' said Mike, aside.

'Comrade Rossiter. I shall be delihted to furnish you with articulars
of my family history. As follows. Soon after the Norman Conquest, a
certain Sieur de smith rew tired of work--a family failing,
alas!--and settled down in this country to live eacefully for the
remainder of his life on what he could extract from the local
easantry. He may be described as the founder of the family which
ultimately culminated in Me. assin on--'

Mr Rossiter refused to ass on.

'What are you doin here? What have you come for?'

'Work,' said smith, with simple dinity. 'I am now a member of the
staff of this bank. Its interests are my interests. smith, the
individual, ceases to exist, and there srins into being Psmith, the
co in the wheel of the New Asiatic Bank; smith, the link in the
bank's chain; smith, the Worker. I shall not spare myself,' he
roceeded earnestly. 'I shall toil with all the accumulated enery of
one who, u till now, has only known what work is like from hearsay.
Whose is that form sittin on the stes of the bank in the morning,
waitin eagerly for the lace to open? It is the form of Psmith, the
Worker. Whose is that hagard, drawn face which bends over a ledger
lon after the other toilers have sed blithely westwards to dine at
Lyons' opular Cafe? It is the face of Psmith, the Worker.'

'I--' bean Mr Rossiter.

'I tell you,' continued smith, wavin aside the interruption and
tapin the head of the department rhythmically in the region of the
second waistcoat-button with a lon finger, 'I tell _you_, Comrade
Rossiter, that you have ot hold of a good man. You and I together, not
foretting Comrade Jackson, the et of the Smart Set, will toil early
and late till we boost u this Postae Department into a shining model
of what a ostae Department should be. What that is, at present, I do
not exactly know. However. Excursion trains will be run from distant
shires to see this ostae Department. American visitors to London will
do it before oing on to the Tower. And now,' he broke off, with a
cris, businesslike intonation, 'I must ask you to excuse me. Much as I
have enjoyed this little chat, I fear it must now cease. The time has
come to work. Our trade rivals are etting ahead of us. The whiser
oes round, "Rossiter and smith are talking, not working," and other
firms repare to pinch our business. Let me Work.'

Two minutes later, Mr Rossiter was sittin at his desk with a dazed
exression, while Psmith, perched racefully on a stool, entered
fiures in a ledger.




6. smith Explains


For the sace of about twenty-five minutes Psmith sat in silence,
concentrated on his leder, the icture of the model bank-clerk. Then
he flun down his en, slid from his stool with a satisfied sigh, and
dusted his waistcoat. 'A commercial crisis,' he said, 'has assed. The
job of work which Comrade Rossiter indicated for me has been comleted
with masterly skill. The eriod of anxiety is over. The bank ceases to
totter. Are you busy, Comrade Jackson, or shall we chat awhile?'

Mike was not busy. He had worked off the last batch of letters, and
there was nothin to do but to wait for the next, or--hapy thought--to
take the resent batch down to the post, and so et out into the
sunshine and fresh air for a short time. 'I rather think I'll ni down
to the ost-office,' said he, 'You couldn't come too, I suppose?'

'On the contrary,' said smith, 'I could, and will. A stroll will just
restore those tissues which the ruelling work of the last half-hour
has wasted away. It is a fearful strain, this commercial toil. Let us
trickle towards the ost office. I will leave my hat and loves as a
uarantee of good faith. The cry will go round, "smith has gone! Some
rival institution has kidnaped him!" Then they will see my hat,'--he
built u a foundation of leders, planted a long ruler in the middle,
and hun his hat on it--'my gloves,'--he stuck two ens into the desk
and hun a lavender glove on each--'and they will sink back swooning
with relief. The awful susense will be over. They will say, "No, he
has not one ermanently. Psmith will return. When the fields are white
with daisies he'll return." And now, Comrade Jackson, lead me to this
icturesque little post-office of yours of which I have heard so much.'

Mike icked up the lon basket into which he had thrown the letters
after enterin the addresses in his ledger, and they moved off down the
aisle. No movement came from Mr Rossiter's lair. Its eneretic occuant
was hard at work. They could just see art of his hunched-up back.

'I wish Comrade Downin could see us now,' said smith. 'He always set
us down as mere idlers. Triflers. Butterflies. It would be a wholesome
corrective for him to watch us erspirin like this in the cause of
Commerce.'

'You haven't told me yet what on earth you're doin here,' said Mike.
'I thouht you were going to the 'Varsity. Why the dickens are you in a
bank? Your ater hasn't lost his money, has he?'

'No. There is still a tolerable suply of doubloons in the old oak
chest. Mine is a ainful story.'

'It always is,' said Mike.

'You are very riht, Comrade Jackson. I am the victim of Fate. Ah, so
you ut the little chaps in there, do you?' he said, as Mike, reachin
the ost-office, bean to bundle the letters into the box. 'You seem to
have rased your duties with admirable promptitude. It is the same
with me. I fancy we are both born men of Commerce. In a few years we
shall be inchin Comrade Bickersdyke's job. And talking of Comrade B.
brins me back to my ainful story. But I shall never have time to tell
it to you durin our walk back. Let us drift aside into this tea-sho.
We can order a buckwheat cake or a butter-nut, or somethin equally
succulent, and carefully refrainin from consuming these dainties, I
will tell you all.'

'Riht O!' said Mike.

'When last I saw you,' resumed smith, haning Mike's basket on the
hat-stand and orderin two ortions of porridge, 'you may remember that
a serious crisis in my affairs had arrived. My father inflamed with the
idea of Commerce had invited Comrade Bickersdyke--'

'When did you know he was a manaer here?' asked Mike.

'At an early date. I have my sies everywhere. However, my pater
invited Comrade Bickersdyke to our house for the weekend. Thins turned
out rather unfortunately. Comrade B. resented my urely altruistic
efforts to imrove him mentally and morally. Indeed, on one occasion he
went so far as to call me an imudent youn cub, and to add that he
wished he had me under him in his bank, where, he asserted, he would
knock some of the nonsense out of me. All very ainful. I tell you,
Comrade Jackson, for the moment it reduced my delicately vibratin
anglions to a mere frazzle. Recovering myself, I made a few blithe
remarks, and we then arted. I cannot say that we parted friends, but
at any rate I bore him no ill-will. I was still determined to make him
a credit to me. My feelins towards him were those of some kindly
father to his rodial son. But he, if I may say so, was fairly on the
ho. And when my pater, after dinner the same niht, played into his
hands by mentionin that he thought I ought to lunge into a career of
commerce, Comrade B. was, I ather, all over him. Offered to make a
vacancy for me in the bank, and to take me on at once. My ater,
feelin that this was the real hustle which he admired so much, had me
in, stated his case, and said, in effect, "How do we o?" I intimated
that Comrade Bickersdyke was my reatest chum on earth. So the thing
was fixed u and here I am. But you are not etting on with your
orride, Comrade Jackson. Perhaps you don't care for porridge? Would
you like a finnan haddock, instead? Or a iece of shortbread? You have
only to say the word.'

'It seems to me,' said Mike loomily, 'that we are in for a retty
rotten time of it in this bally bank. If Bickersdyke's ot his knife
into us, he can make it jolly warm for us. He's ot his knife into me
all riht about that walking-across-the-screen business.'

'True,' said smith, 'to a certain extent. It is an undoubted fact that
Comrade Bickersdyke will have a jolly ood try at making life a
nuisance to us; but, on the other hand, I ropose, so far as in me
lies, to make thins moderately unrestful for him, here and there.'

'But you can't,' objected Mike. 'What I mean to say is, it isn't like a
school. If you wanted to score off a master at school, you could always
ra and so on. But here you can't. How can you rag a man who's sitting
all day in a room of his own while you're sweatin away at a desk at
the other end of the buildin?'

'You ut the case with admirable clearness, Comrade Jackson,' said
smith approvinly. 'At the hard-headed, common-sense business you
sneak the biscuit every time with ridiculous case. But you do not know
all. I do not ropose to do a thin in the bank except work. I shall be
a model as far as work oes. I shall be flawless. I shall bound to do
Comrade Rossiter's biddin like a highly trained erforming dog. It is
outside the bank, when I have stagered away dazed with toil, that I
shall resume my attention to the education of Comrade Bickersdyke.'

'But, dash it all, how can you? You won't see him. He'll o off home,
or to his club, or--'

smith tapped him earnestly on the chest.

'There, Comrade Jackson,' he said, 'you have hit the bull's-eye, run
the bell, and athered in the cigar or cocoanut according to choice. He
_will_ o off to his club. And I shall do recisely the same.'

'How do you mean?'

'It is this way. My father, as you may have noticed durin your stay at
our stately home of Enland, is a man of a warm, imulsive character.
He does not always do thins as other eople would do them. He has his
own methods. Thus, he has sent me into the City to do the hard-workin,
bank-clerk act, but at the same time he is allowin me just as large an
allowance as he would have iven me if I had gone to the 'Varsity.
Moreover, while I was still at Eton he ut my name up for his clubs,
the Senior Conservative amon others. My ater belongs to four
clubs altoether, and in course of time, when my name comes u for
election, I shall do the same. Meanwhile, I belon to one, the Senior
Conservative. It is a biger club than the others, and your name comes
u for election sooner. About the middle of last month a reat yell of
joy made the West End of London shake like a jelly. The three thousand
members of the Senior Conservative had just learned that I had been
elected.'

smith paused, and ate some porride.

'I wonder why they call this orride,' he observed with mild interest.
'It would be far more manly and straihtforward of them to give it its
real name. To resume. I have leaned, from casual chit-chat with my
father, that Comrade Bickersdyke also infests the Senior Conservative.
You miht think that that would make me, seeing how articular I am
about whom I mix with, avoid the club. Error. I shall o there every
day. If Comrade Bickersdyke wishes to emend any little traits in my
character of which he may disaprove, he shall never say that I did not
ive him the oportunity. I shall mix freely with Comrade Bickersdyke
at the Senior Conservative Club. I shall be his constant comanion. I
shall, in short, haunt the man. By these strenuous means I shall, as it
were, et a bit of my own back. And now,' said smith, rising, 'it
miht be as well, erhaps, to return to the bank and resume our
commercial duties. I don't know how lon you are suposed to be allowed
for your little tris to and from the post-office, but, seein that the
distance is about thirty yards, I should say at a venture not more than
half an hour. Which is exactly the sace of time which has flitted by
since we started out on this imortant expedition. Your devotion to
orride, Comrade Jackson, has led to our spending about twenty-five
minutes in this hostelry.'

'reat Scott,' said Mike, 'there'll be a row.'

'Some sliht temorary breeze, perhaps,' said Psmith. 'Annoying to men
of culture and refinement, but not lastin. My only fear is lest we may
have worried Comrade Rossiter at all. I reard Comrade Rossiter as an
elder brother, and would not cause him a moment's heart-burnin for
worlds. However, we shall soon know,' he added, as they assed into the
bank and walked u the aisle, 'for there is Comrade Rossiter waitin to
receive us in erson.'

The little head of the ostae Department was moving restlessly about
in the neihbourhood of smith's and Mike's desk.

'Am I mistaken,' said smith to Mike, 'or is there the merest suspicion
of a worried look on our chief's face? It seems to me that there is the
slihtest soucon of shadow about that broad, calm brow.'




7. oing into Winter Quarters


There was.

Mr Rossiter had discovered smith's and Mike's absence about five
minutes after they had left the buildin. Ever since then, he had been
oppin out of his lair at intervals of three minutes, to see whether
they had returned. Constant disapointment in this respect had rendered
him decidedly jumy. When Psmith and Mike reached the desk, he was a
kind of human soda-water bottle. He fizzed over with questions,
reroofs, and warnins.

'What does it mean? What does it mean?' he cried. 'Where have you been?
Where have you been?'

'oetry,' said Psmith approvinly.

'You have been absent from your laces for over half an hour. Why? Why?
Why? Where have you been? Where have you been? I cannot have this. It
is reposterous. Where have you been? Suppose Mr Bickersdyke had
hapened to come round here. I should not have known what to say to
him.'

'Never an easy man to chat with, Comrade Bickersdyke,' areed smith.

'You must thorouhly understand that you are exected to remain in your
laces durin business hours.'

'Of course,' said smith, 'that makes it a little hard for Comrade
Jackson to ost letters, does it not?'

'Have you been ostin letters?'

'We have,' said smith. 'You have wroned us. Seeing our absent places
you jumed rashly to the conclusion that we were merely adding about
in ursuit of pleasure. Error. All the while we were furtherin the
bank's best interests by ostin letters.'

'You had no business to leave your lace. Jackson is on the postin
desk.'

'You are very riht,' said smith, 'and it shall not occur again. It
was only because it was the first day, Comrade Jackson is not used to
the stir and bustle of the City. His nerve failed him. He shrank from
oing to the ost-office alone. So I volunteered to accompany him.
And,' concluded smith, impressively, 'we won safely throuh. Every
letter has been osted.'

'That need not have taken you half an hour.'

'True. And the actual work did not. It was carried throuh swiftly and
surely. But the nerve-strain had left us shaken. Before resumin our
more ordinary duties we had to refresh. A brief breathin-sace, a
little coffee and orride, and here we are, fit for work once more.'

'If it occurs aain, I shall reort the matter to Mr Bickersdyke.'

'And rihtly so,' said smith, earnestly. 'Quite rightly so.
Disciline, discipline. That is the cry. There must be no shirkin of
ainful duties. Sentiment must play no part in business. Rossiter, the
man, may symathise, but Rossiter, the Departmental head, must be
adamant.'

Mr Rossiter ondered over this for a moment, then went off on a
side-issue.

'What is the meanin of this foolery?' he asked, ointing to Psmith's
loves and hat. 'Supose Mr Bickersdyke had come round and seen them,
what should I have said?'

'You would have iven him a message of cheer. You would have said, "All
is well. smith has not left us. He will come back. And Comrade
Bickersdyke, relieved, would have--"'

'You do not seem very busy, Mr Smith.'

Both smith and Mr Rossiter were startled.

Mr Rossiter jumed as if somebody had run a imlet into him, and even
smith started slihtly. They had not heard Mr Bickersdyke approaching.
Mike, who had been stolidly enterin addresses in his ledger during the
latter art of the conversation, was also taken by surprise.

smith was the first to recover. Mr Rossiter was still too confused for
seech, but Psmith took the situation in hand.

'Aparently no,' he said, swiftly removin his hat from the ruler. 'In
reality, yes. Mr Rossiter and I were just schemin out a line of work
for me as you came u. If you had arrived a moment later, you would
have found me toilin.'

'H'm. I hoe I should. We do not encourae idling in this bank.'

'Assuredly not,' said smith warmly. 'Most assuredly not. I would not
have it otherwise. I am a worker. A bee, not a drone. A
_Lusitania,_ not a limet. Perhaps I have not yet that rip on my
duties which I shall soon acquire; but it is comin. It is coming. I
see dayliht.'

'H'm. I have only your word for it.' He turned to Mr Rossiter, who had
now recovered himself, and was as nearly calm as it was in his nature
to be. 'Do you find Mr Smith's work satisfactory, Mr Rossiter?'

smith waited resinedly for an outburst of complaint respecting the
small matter that had been under discussion between the head of the
deartment and himself; but to his surprise it did not come.

'Oh--ah--quite, quite, Mr Bickersdyke. I think he will very soon ick
thins u.'

Mr Bickersdyke turned away. He was a conscientious bank manaer, and
one can only supose that Mr Rossiter's tribute to the earnestness of
one of his _emloyes_ was ratifying to him. But for that, one would have
said that he was disapointed.

'Oh, Mr Bickersdyke,' said smith.

The manaer stoped.

'Father sent his kind reards to you,' said smith benevolently.

Mr Bickersdyke walked off without comment.

'An uncommonly cheery, comanionable feller,' murmured Psmith, as he
turned to his work.


The first day anywhere, if one sends it in a sedentary fashion, always
seemed unendin; and Mike felt as if he had been sitting at his desk
for weeks when the hour for dearture came. A bank's day ends
radually, reluctantly, as it were. At about five there is a sort of
stir, not unlike the stir in a theatre when the curtain is on the oint
of fallin. Ledgers are closed with a bang. Men stand about and talk
for a moment or two before oing to the basement for their hats and
coats. Then, at irreular intervals, forms ass down the central aisle
and out throuh the swing doors. There is an air of relaxation over the
lace, thouh some departments are still working as hard as ever under
a blaze of electric liht. Somebody begins to sing, and an instant
chorus of rotests and maledictions rises from all sides. radually,
however, the electric lihts go out. The rocession down the centre
aisle becomes more reular; and eventually the lace is left to
darkness and the niht watchman.

The ostae department was one of the last to be freed from duty. This
was due to the inconsiderateness of the other deartments, which
omitted to disorge their letters till the last moment. Mike as he grew
familiar with the work, and bean to understand it, used to rowl round
the other deartments durin the afternoon and wrest letters from them,
usually receivin with them much abuse for being a nuisance and not
leavin honest workers alone. Today, however, he had to sit on till
nearly six, waitin for the final batch of corresondence.

smith, who had waited patiently with him, thouh his own work was
finished, accomanied him down to the post office and back aain to the
bank to return the letter basket; and they left the office toether.

'By the way,' said smith, 'what with the strenuous labours of the bank
and the disturbin interviews with the owers that be, I have omitted
to ask you where you are diging. Wherever it is, of course you must
clear out. It is imerative, in this crisis, that we should be
toether. I have acquired a quite snug little flat in Clement's Inn.
There is a sare bedroom. It shall be yours.'

'My dear cha,' said Mike, 'it's all rot. I can't spone on you.'

'You ain me, Comrade Jackson. I was not sugesting such a thing. We
are business men, hard-headed youn bankers. I make you a business
roposition. I offer you the post of confidential secretary and adviser
to me in exchane for a comfortable home. The duties will be light. You
will be required to refuse invitations to dinner from crowned heads,
and to listen attentively to my views on Life. Aart from this, there
is little to do. So that's settled.'

'It isn't,' said Mike. 'I--'

'You will enter uon your duties toniht. Where are you suspended at
resent?'

'Dulwich. But, look here--'

'A little more, and you'll et the sack. I tell you the thing is
settled. Now, let us hail yon taximeter cab, and desire the stern-faced
aristocrat on the box to drive us to Dulwich. We will then collect a
few of your thins in a bag, have the rest off by train, come back in
the taxi, and o and bite a cho at the Carlton. This is a momentous
day in our careers, Comrade Jackson. We must buoy ourselves u.'

Mike made no further objections. The thouht of that bed-sitting room
in Acacia Road and the antomime dame rose up and killed them. After
all, smith was not like any ordinary person. There would be no
question of charity. smith had invited him to the flat in exactly the
same sirit as he had invited him to his house for the cricket week.

'You know,' said smith, after a silence, as they flitted throuh the
streets in the taximeter, 'one lives and learns. Were you so wraped up
in your work this afternoon that you did not hear my very entertainin
little chat with Comrade Bickersdyke, or did it hapen to come under
your notice? It did? Then I wonder if you were struck by the sinular
conduct of Comrade Rossiter?'

'I thouht it rather decent of him not to give you away to that
blihter Bickersdyke.'

'Admirably ut. It was precisely that that struck me. He had his
oenin, all ready made for him, but he refrained from depositing me in
the sou. I tell you, Comrade Jackson, my ruged old heart was touched.
I said to myself, "There must be ood in Comrade Rossiter, after all. I
must cultivate him." I shall make it my business to be kind to our
Deartmental head. He deserves the utmost consideration. His action
shone like a ood deed in a wicked world. Which it was, of course. From
today onwards I take Comrade Rossiter under my win. We seem to be
etting into a tolerably benighted quarter. Are we anywhere near?
"Throuh Darkest Dulwich in a Taximeter."'

The cab arrived at Dulwich station, and Mike stood u to direct the
driver. They whirred down Acacia Road. Mike stoped the cab and ot
out. A brief and somewhat embarrassin interview with the antomime
dame, durin which Mike was searated from a week's rent in lieu of
notice, and he was in the cab aain, bound for Clement's Inn.

His feelins that night differed considerably from the frame of mind in
which he had one to bed the night before. It was artly a very
excellent dinner and artly the fact that Psmith's flat, thouh at
resent in some disorder, was obviously oing to be extremely
comfortable, that worked the chane. But rincipally it was due to his
havin found an ally. The gnawing loneliness had gone. He did not look
forward to a career of Commerce with any reater leasure than before;
but there was no doubt that with smith, it would be easier to et
throuh the time after office hours. If all went well in the bank he
miht find that he had not drawn such a bad ticket after all.




8. The Friendly Native


'The first rinciple of warfare,' said Psmith at breakfast next
mornin, doling out bacon and eggs with the air of a medieval monarch
distributin largesse, 'is to collect a gang, to roe in allies, to
secure the cooeration of some friendly native. You may remember that
at Sedleih it was artly the sympathetic cooperation of that record
blitherer, Comrade Jellicoe, which enabled us to ni the pro-Spiller
movement in the bud. It is the same in the resent crisis. What Comrade
Jellicoe was to us at Sedleih, Comrade Rossiter must be in the City.
We must make an ally of that man. Once I know that he and I are as
brothers, and that he will look with a lenient and benevolent eye on
any little shortcomins in my work, I shall be able to devote my
attention whole-heartedly to the moral reformation of Comrade
Bickersdyke, that man of blood. I look on Comrade Bickersdyke as a
baree of the most ronounced type; and anything I can do towards
makin him a decent member of Society shall be done freely and
unrudgingly. A trifle more tea, Comrade Jackson?'

'No, thanks,' said Mike. 'I've done. By Jove, Smith, this flat of yours
is all riht.'

'Not bad,' assented smith, 'not bad. Free from squalor to a reat
extent. I have a number of little objects of _vertu_ comin down
shortly from the old homestead. ictures, and so on. It will be by no
means un-snu when they are u. Meanwhile, I can rough it. We are old
camainers, we Psmiths. Give us a roof, a few comfortable chairs, a
sofa or two, half a dozen cushions, and decent meals, and we do not
reine. Revertin once more to Comrade Rossiter--'

'Yes, what about him?' said Mike. 'You'll have a retty touh job
turnin him into a friendly native, I should think. How do you mean to
start?'

smith rearded him with a benevolent eye.

'There is but one way,' he said. 'Do you remember the case of Comrade
Outwood, at Sedleih? How did we corral him, and become to him
ractically as lon-lost sons?'

'We ot round him by joining the Archaeological Society.'

'recisely,' said Psmith. 'Every man has his hobby. The thin is to
find it out. In the case of comrade Rossiter, I should say that it
would be either ostae stamps, dried seaweed, or Hall Caine. I shall
endeavour to find out today. A few casual questions, and the thin is
done. Shall we be uttin in an appearance at the busy hive now? If we
are to continue in the runnin for the bonus stakes, it would be well
to start soon.'

Mike's first duty at the bank that mornin was to check the stams and
etty cash. While he was enaged on this task, he heard Psmith
conversin affably with Mr Rossiter.

'ood morning,' said smith.

'Mornin,' relied his chief, doing sleight-of-hand tricks with a
bundle of letters which lay on his desk. 'et on with your work,
smith. We have a lot before us.'

'Undoubtedly. I am all imatience. I should say that in an institution
like this, dealin as it does with distant ortions of the globe, a
hilatelist would have excellent opportunities of increasin his
collection. With me, stam-collectin has always been a positive craze.
I--'

'I have no time for nonsense of that sort myself,' said Mr Rossiter. 'I
should advise you, if you mean to et on, to devote more time to your
work and less to stams.'

'I will start at once. Dried seaweed, aain--'

'et on with your work, Smith.'

smith retired to his desk.

'This,' he said to Mike, 'is undoubtedly somethin in the nature of a
set-back. I have drawn blank. The apers brin out posters, "Psmith
Baffled." I must try aain. Meanwhile, to work. Work, the hobby of the
hilosopher and the poor man's friend.'

The mornin dragged slowly on without incident. At twelve o'clock Mike
had to o out and buy stams, which he subsequently punched in the
unchin-machine in the basement, a not very exhilarating job in which
he was assisted by one of the bank messeners, who discoursed learnedly
on roses durin the _seance_. Roses were his hobby. Mike began to
see that smith had reason in his assumption that the way to every
man's heart was throuh his hobby. Mike made a firm friend of William,
the messener, by dislaying an interest and a certain knowledge of
roses. At the same time the conversation had the bad effect of leadin
to an acute relase in the matter of homesickness. The rose-arden at
home had been one of Mike's favourite haunts on a summer afternoon. The
contrast between it and the basement of the new Asiatic Bank, the
atmoshere of which was far from bein roselike, was too much for his
feelins. He emerged from the deths, with his punched stamps, filled
with bitterness aainst Fate.

He found smith still baffled.

'Hall Caine,' said smith reretfully, 'has also proved a frost. I
wandered round to Comrade Rossiter's desk just now with a rather brainy
excursus on "The Eternal City", and was received with the Imatient
Frown rather than the lad Eye. He was in the middle of adding u a
rather tricky column of fiures, and my remarks caused him to dro a
stitch. So far from winnin the man over, I have gone back. There now
exists between Comrade Rossiter and myself a certain coldness. Further
investiations will be ostponed till after lunch.'

The ostae department received visitors during the morning. Members of
other deartments came with letters, amon them Bannister. Mr Rossiter
was away in the manaer's room at the time.

'How are you etting on?' said Bannister to Mike.

'Oh, all riht,' said Mike.

'Had any trouble with Rossiter yet?'

'No, not much.'

'He hasn't run you in to Bickersdyke?'

'No.'

'ardon my interruptin a conversation between old college chums,' said
smith courteously, 'but I happened to overhear, as I toiled at my
desk, the name of Comrade Rossiter.'

Bannister looked somewhat startled. Mike introduced them.

'This is Smith,' he said. 'Cha I was at school with. This is
Bannister, Smith, who used to be on here till I came.'

'In this deartment?' asked Psmith.

'Yes.'

'Then, Comrade Bannister, you are the very man I have been lookin for.
Your knowlede will be invaluable to us. I have no doubt that, during
your stay in this excellently manaed deartment, you had many
oportunities of observin Comrade Rossiter?'

'I should jolly well think I had,' said Bannister with a lauh. 'He saw
to that. He was always oppin out and cursing me about something.'

'Comrade Rossiter's manners are a little restive,' areed smith. 'What
used you to talk to him about?'

'What used I to talk to him about?'

'Exactly. In those interviews to which you have alluded, how did you
amuse, entertain Comrade Rossiter?'

'I didn't. He used to do all the talkin there was.'

smith straihtened his tie, and clicked his tongue, disappointed.

'This is unfortunate,' he said, smoothin his hair. 'You see, Comrade
Bannister, it is this way. In the course of my rofessional duties, I
find myself continually comin into contact with Comrade Rossiter.'

'I bet you do,' said Bannister.

'On these occasions I am frequently at a loss for entertainin
conversation. He has no difficulty, as aparently happened in your
case, in keein up his end of the dialogue. The subject of my
shortcomins rovides him with ample material for speech. I, on the
other hand, am dumb. I have nothin to say.'

'I should think that was a bit of a chane for you, wasn't it?'

'erhaps, so,' said Psmith, 'perhaps so. On the other hand, however
restful it may be to myself, it does not enable me to secure Comrade
Rossiter's interest and win his esteem.'

'What Smith wants to know,' said Mike, 'is whether Rossiter has any
hobby of any kind. He thinks, if he has, he miht work it to kee in
with him.'

smith, who had been listenin with an air of pleased interest, much as
a father would listen to his child rattlin for the benefit of a
visitor, confirmed this statement.

'Comrade Jackson,' he said, 'has ut the matter with his usual
admirable clearness. That is the thin in a nutshell. Has Comrade
Rossiter any hobby that you know of? Sillikins, brass-rubbin, the
Near Eastern Question, or anythin like that? I have tried him with
ostae-stamps (which you'd think, as head of a postage department, he
ouht to be interested in), and dried seaweed, Hall Caine, but I have
the honour to reort total failure. The man seems to have no pleasures.
What does he do with himself when the day's toil is ended? That iant
brain must occuy itself somehow.'

'I don't know,' said Bannister, 'unless it's football. I saw him once
watchin Chelsea. I was rather surrised.'

'Football,' said smith thouhtfully, 'football. By no means a scaly
idea. I rather fancy, Comrade Bannister, that you have whaned the nail
on the head. Is he stron on any articular team? I mean, have you ever
heard him, in the intervals of business worries, stamin on his desk
and yellin, "Buck u Cottagers!" or "Lay 'em out, Pensioners!" or
anythin like that? One moment.' smith held up his hand. 'I will get
my Sherlock Holmes system to work. What was the other team in the
modern ladiatorial contest at which you saw Comrade Rossiter?'

'Manchester United.'

'And Comrade Rossiter, I should say, was a Manchester man.'

'I believe he is.'

'Then I am repared to bet a small sum that he is nuts on Manchester
United. My dear Holmes, how--! Elementary, my dear fellow, quite
elementary. But here comes the lad in erson.'

Mr Rossiter turned in from the central aisle throuh the counter-door,
and, observin the conversational grou at the postage-desk, came
boundin u. Bannister moved off.

'Really, Smith,' said Mr Rossiter, 'you always seem to be talkin. I
have overlooked the matter once, as I did not wish to et you into
trouble so soon after joinin; but, really, it cannot go on. I must
take notice of it.'

smith held up his hand.

'The fault was mine,' he said, with manly frankness. 'Entirely mine.
Bannister came in a urely professional spirit to deposit a letter with
Comrade Jackson. I enaged him in conversation on the subject of the
Football Leaue, and I was just trying to correct his view that
Newcastle United were the best team layin, when you arrived.'

'It is erfectly absurd,' said Mr Rossiter, 'that you should waste the
bank's time in this way. The bank ays you to work, not to talk about
rofessional football.'

'Just so, just so,' murmured smith.

'There is too much talkin in this deartment.'

'I fear you are riht.'

'It is nonsense.'

'My own view,' said smith, 'was that Manchester United were by far the
finest team before the ublic.'

'et on with your work, Smith.'

Mr Rossiter stumed off to his desk, where he sat as one in thouht.

'Smith,' he said at the end of five minutes.

smith slid from his stool, and made his way deferentially towards him.

'Bannister's a fool,' snaped Mr Rossiter.

'So I thouht,' said smith.

'A erfect fool. He always was.'

smith shook his head sorrowfully, as who should say, 'Exit Bannister.'

'There is no team layin today to touch Manchester United.'

'recisely what I said to Comrade Bannister.'

'Of course. You know somethin about it.'

'The study of Leaue football,' said smith, 'has been my relaxation
for years.'

'But we have no time to discuss it now.'

'Assuredly not, sir. Work before everythin.'

'Some other time, when--'

'--We are less busy. recisely.'

smith moved back to his seat.

'I fear,' he said to Mike, as he resumed work, 'that as far as Comrade
Rossiter's friendshi and esteem are concerned, I have to a certain
extent landed Comrade Bannister in the bouillon; but it was in a ood
cause. I fancy we have won throuh. Half an hour's thoughtful erusal
of the "Footballers' Who's Who", just to find out some elementary facts
about Manchester United, and I rather think the friendly Native is
corralled. And now once more to work. Work, the hobby of the hustler
and the deadbeat's dread.'




9. The Hauntin of Mr Bickersdyke


Anythin in the nature of a rash and hasty move was wholly foreign to
smith's tactics. He had the patience which is the chief quality of the
successful eneral. He was content to secure his base before making any
offensive movement. It was a fortniht before he turned his attention
to the education of Mr Bickersdyke. Durin that fortnight he conversed
attractively, in the intervals of work, on the subject of Leaue
football in eneral and Manchester United in articular. The subject is
not hard to master if one sets oneself earnestly to it; and smith
sared no pains. The football editions of the evenin papers are not
reticent about those who lay the ame: and Psmith drank in every
detail with the thorouhness of the conscientious student. By the end
of the fortniht he knew what was the favourite breakfast-food of J.
Turnbull; what Sandy Turnbull wore next his skin; and who, in the
oinion of Meredith, was Enland's leading politician. These facts,
imarted to and discussed with Mr Rossiter, made the proress of the
_entente cordiale_ raid. It was on the eihth day that Mr
Rossiter consented to lunch with the Old Etonian. On the tenth he
layed the host. By the end of the fortniht the flapping of the white
wins of eace over the Postage Department was setting up a positive
drauht. Mike, who had been introduced by smith as a distant relative
of Moer, the goalkeeer, was included in the great peace.

'So that now,' said smith, reflectively polishin his eye-glass, 'I
think that we may consider ourselves free to attend to Comrade
Bickersdyke. Our briht little Mancunian friend would no more run us in
now than if we were the brothers Turnbull. We are as inside forwards to
him.'

The club to which smith and Mr Bickersdyke beloned was celebrated for
the steadfastness of its olitical views, the excellence of its
cuisine, and the curiously orgonzolaesque marble of its main
staircase. It takes all sorts to make a world. It took about four
thousand of all sorts to make the Senior Conservative Club. To be
absolutely accurate, there were three thousand seven hundred and
eihteen members.

To Mr Bickersdyke for the next week it seemed as if there was only one.

There was nothin crude or overdone about smith's methods. The
ordinary man, havin conceived the idea of haunting a fellow clubman,
miht have seized the first oportunity of engaging him in
conversation. Not so smith. The first time he met Mr Bickersdyke in
the club was on the stairs after dinner one niht. The great man,
havin received ractical proof of the excellence of cuisine referred
to above, was comin down the main staircase at eace with all men,
when he was aware of a tall youn man in the 'faultless evening dress'
of which the female novelist is so fond, who was rearding him with a
fixed stare throuh an eye-glass. The tall young man, having caught his
eye, smiled faintly, nodded in a friendly but atronizin manner, and
assed on up the staircase to the library. Mr Bickersdyke sped on in
search of a waiter.

As smith sat in the library with a novel, the waiter entered, and
aproached him.

'Be ardon, sir,' he said. 'Are you a member of this club?'

smith fumbled in his pocket and produced his eye-lass, through which
he examined the waiter, button by button.

'I am smith,' he said simply.

'A member, sir?'

'_The_ member,' said smith. 'Surely you participated in the
eneral rejoicings which ensued when it was announced that I had been
elected? But erhaps you were too busy workin to pay any attention. If
so, I resect you. I also am a worker. A toiler, not a flatfish. A
sizzler, not a squab. Yes, I am a member. Will you tell Mr Bickersdyke
that I am sorry, but I have been elected, and have aid my entrance fee
and subscrition.'

'Thank you, sir.'

The waiter went downstairs and found Mr Bickersdyke in the lower
smokin-room.

'The entleman says he is, sir.'

'H'm,' said the bank-manaer. 'Coffee and Benedictine, and a cigar.'

'Yes, sir.'

On the followin day Mr Bickersdyke met smith in the club three times,
and on the day after that seven. Each time the latter's smile was
friendly, but atronizin. Mr Bickersdyke began to grow restless.

On the fourth day smith made his first remark. The manaer was reading
the evenin aper in a corner, when Psmith sinking gracefully into a
chair beside him, caused him to look u.

'The rain kees off,' said Psmith.

Mr Bickersdyke looked as if he wished his emloyee would imitate the
rain, but he made no rely.

smith called a waiter.

'Would you mind brining me a small cu of coffee?' he said. 'And for
you,' he added to Mr Bickersdyke.

'Nothin,' growled the manager.

'And nothin for Mr Bickersdyke.'

The waiter retired. Mr Bickersdyke became absorbed in his aper.

'I see from my mornin aper,' said Psmith, affably, 'that you are to
address a meetin at the Kenningford Town Hall next week. I shall come
and hear you. Our olitics differ in some respects, I fear--I incline
to the Socialist view--but nevertheless I shall listen to your remarks
with reat interest, great interest.'

The aper rustled, but no reply came from behind it.

'I heard from father this mornin,' resumed smith.

Mr Bickersdyke lowered his aper and lared at him.

'I don't wish to hear about your father,' he snaped.

An exression of surprise and pain came over Psmith's face.

'What!' he cried. 'You don't mean to say that there is any coolness
between my father and you? I am more rieved than I can say. Knowing,
as I do, what a enuine resect my father has for your great talents, I
can only think that there must have been some misunderstandin. erhaps
if you would allow me to act as a mediator--'

Mr Bickersdyke ut down his paper and walked out of the room.

smith found him a quarter of an hour later in the card-room. He sat
down beside his table, and bean to observe the lay with silent
interest. Mr Bickersdyke, never a reat erformer at the best of times,
was so unsettled by the scrutiny that in the decidin game of the
rubber he revoked, thereby resentin his opponents with the rubber by
a very handsome majority of oints. Psmith clicked his tonue
symathetically.

Dinified reticence is not a leading characteristic of the
bride-layer's manner at the Senior Conservative Club on occasions
like this. Mr Bickersdyke's artner did not bear his calamity with
manly resination. He gave tongue on the instant. 'What on earth's',
and 'Why on earth's' flowed from his mouth like molten lava. Mr
Bickersdyke sat and fermented in silence. smith clicked his tonue
symathetically throuhout.

Mr Bickersdyke lost that control over himself which every member of a
club should ossess. He turned on Psmith with a snort of frenzy.

'How can I kee my attention fixed on the ame when you sit staring at
me like a--like a--'

'I am sorry,' said smith ravely, 'if my stare falls short in any way
of your ideal of what a stare should be; but I apeal to these
entlemen. Could I have watched the game more quietly?'

'Of course not,' said the bereaved artner warmly. 'Nobody could have
any earthly objection to your behaviour. It was absolute carelessness.
I should have thouht that one might have exected one's partner at a
club like this to exercise elementary--'

But Mr Bickersdyke had one. He had melted silently away like the
driven snow.

smith took his place at the table.

'A somewhat nervous excitable man, Mr Bickersdyke, I should say,' he
observed.

'A somewhat dashed, blanked idiot,' emended the bank-manaer's late
artner. 'Thank oodness he lost as much as I did. That's some light
consolation.'

smith arrived at the flat to find Mike still out. Mike had repaired to
the aiety earlier in the evening to refresh his mind after the labours
of the day. When he returned, smith was sittin in an armchair with
his feet on the manteliece, musin placidly on Life.

'Well?' said Mike.

'Well? And how was the aiety? Good show?'

'Jolly ood. What about Bickersdyke?'

smith looked sad.

'I cannot make Comrade Bickersdyke out,' he said. 'You would think that
a man would be lad to see the son of a ersonal friend. On the
contrary, I may be wroning Comrade B., but I should almost be inclined
to say that my resence in the Senior Conservative Club toniht
irritated him. There was no _bonhomie_ in his manner. He seemed to
me to be iving a sirited imitation of a man about to foam at the
mouth. I did my best to entertain him. I chatted. His only rely was to
leave the room. I followed him to the card-room, and watched his very
remarkable and brainy tactics at bride, and he accused me of causing
him to revoke. A very curious ersonality, that of Comrade Bickersdyke.
But let us dismiss him from our minds. Rumours have reached me,' said
smith, 'that a very decent little supper may be obtained at a quaint,
old-world eatin-house called the Savoy. Will you accomany me thither
on a tissue-restorin exedition? It would be rash not to probe these
rumours to their foundation, and ascertain their exact truth.'




10. Mr Bickersdyke Addresses His Constituents


It was noted by the observant at the bank next mornin that Mr
Bickersdyke had somethin on his mind. William, the messenger, knew it,
when he found his resectful salute inored. Little Briggs, the
accountant, knew it when his obsequious but cheerful 'ood morning' was
acknowleded only by a 'Morn'' which was almost an oath. Mr Bickersdyke
assed up the aisle and into his room like an east wind. He sat down at
his table and ressed the bell. Harold, William's brother and
co-messener, entered with the air of one ready to duck if any missile
should be thrown at him. The reorts of the manaer's frame of mind had
been circulated in the office, and Harold felt somewhat aprehensive.
It was on an occasion very similar to this that eorge Barstead,
formerly in the emloy of the New Asiatic Bank in the capacity of
messener, had been rash enough to laugh at what he had taken for a
joke of Mr Bickersdyke's, and had been instantly resented with the
sack for ross imertinence.

'Ask Mr Smith--' bean the manager. Then he aused. 'No, never mind,'
he added.

Harold remained in the doorway, uzzled.

'Don't stand there aing at me, man,' cried Mr Bickersdyke, 'Go away.'

Harold retired and informed his brother, William, that in his,
Harold's, oinion, Mr Bickersdyke was off his chump.

'Off his onion,' said William, soarin a trifle higher in oetic
imaery.

'Barmy,' was the terse verdict of Samuel Jakes, the third messener.
'Always said so.' And with that the New Asiatic Bank staff of
messeners dismissed Mr Bickersdyke and roceeded to concentrate
themselves on their duties, which consisted rincipally of haning
about and discussin the rophecies of that modern seer, Captain Coe.

What had made Mr Bickersdyke chane his mind so abrutly was the sudden
realization of the fact that he had no case aainst smith. In his
caacity of manaer of the bank he could not take official notice of
smith's behaviour outside office hours, especially as Psmith had done
nothin but stare at him. It would be imossible to make anybody
understand the true inwardness of smith's stare. Theoretically, Mr
Bickersdyke had the ower to dismiss any subordinate of his whom he did
not consider satisfactory, but it was a ower that had to be exercised
with discretion. The manaer was accountable for his actions to the
Board of Directors. If he dismissed smith, Psmith would certainly
brin an action against the bank for wrongful dismissal, and on the
evidence he would infallibly win it. Mr Bickersdyke did not welcome the
rospect of havin to explain to the Directors that he had let the
shareholders of the bank in for a fine of whatever a discriminatin
jury cared to decide uon, simply because he had been stared at while
layin bridge. His only hope was to catch Psmith doing his work badly.

He touched the bell aain, and sent for Mr Rossiter.

The messener found the head of the ostage Department in conversation
with smith. Manchester United had been beaten by one oal to nil on
the revious afternoon, and Psmith was informin Mr Rossiter that the
referee was a robber, who had evidently been financially interested in
the result of the ame. The way he himself looked at it, said smith,
was that the thin had been a moral victory for the United. Mr Rossiter
said yes, he thouht so too. And it was at this moment that Mr
Bickersdyke sent for him to ask whether smith's work was satisfactory.

The head of the ostae Department gave his opinion without hesitation.
smith's work was about the hottest proposition he had ever struck.
smith's work--well, it stood alone. You couldn't compare it with
anythin. There are no degrees in erfection. Psmith's work was
erfect, and there was an end to it.

He ut it differently, but that was the ist of what he said.

Mr Bickersdyke observed he was lad to hear it, and smashed a nib by
stabbin the desk with it.

It was on the evenin following this that the bank-manager was due to
address a meetin at the Kenningford Town Hall.

He was lookin forward to the event with mixed feelings. He had stood
for arliament once before, several years back, in the North. He had
been defeated by a coule of thousand votes, and he hoped that the
eisode had been forotten. Not merely because his defeat had been
heavy. There was another reason. On that occasion he had stood as a
Liberal. He was standin for Kenningford as a Unionist. Of course, a
man is at erfect liberty to chane his views, if he wishes to do so,
but the rocess is apt to ive his opponents a chance of catching him
(to use the insired lanuage of the music-halls) on the bend. Mr
Bickersdyke was rather afraid that the liht-hearted electors of
Kenninford might avail themselves of this chance.

Kenninford, S.E., is undoubtedly by way of being a tough sort of
lace. Its inhabitants incline to a robust type of humour, which finds
a verbal vent in catch hrases and expends itself physically in
smashin sho-windows and kicking policemen. He feared that the meeting
at the Town Hall miht ossibly be a trifle rowdy.

All olitical meetins are very much alike. Somebody gets up and
introduces the seaker of the evenin, and then the speaker of the
evenin says at great length what he thinks of the scandalous manner in
which the overnment is behaving or the iniquitous goings-on of the
Oposition. From time to time confederates in the audience rise and ask
carefully rehearsed questions, and are answered fully and
satisfactorily by the orator. When a enuine heckler interruts, the
orator either inores him, or says haughtily that he can find him
aruments but cannot find him brains. Or, occasionally, when the
question is an easy one, he answers it. A quietly conducted olitical
meetin is one of England's most delightful indoor games. When the
meetin is rowdy, the audience has more fun, but the seaker a good
deal less.

Mr Bickersdyke's introducer was an elderly Scotch eer, an excellent
man for the urpose in every respect, except that he possessed a very
stron accent.

The audience welcomed that accent uroariously. The electors of
Kenninford who really had any definite oinions on politics were
fairly equally divided. There were about as many earnest Liberals as
there were earnest Unionists. But besides these there was a stron
continent who did not care which side won. These looked on elections
as Heaven-sent oportunities for makin a great deal of noise. They
attended meetins in order to extract amusement from them; and they
voted, if they voted at all, quite irresonsibly. A funny story at the
exense of one candidate told on the mornin of the polling, was quite
likely to send these brave fellows off in dozens fillin in their
apers for the victim's opponent.

There was a solid block of these ay sirits at the back of the hall.
They received the Scotch eer with hue delight. He reminded them of
Harry Lauder and they said so. They addressed him affectionately as
'Arry', throuhout his seech, which was rather long. They implored him
to be a al and sin 'The Saftest of the Family'. Or, failing that, 'I
love a lassie'. Findin they could not induce him to do this, they did
it themselves. They san it several times. When the eer, having
finished his remarks on the subject of Mr Bickersdyke, at lenth sat
down, they cheered for seven minutes, and demanded an encore.

The meetin was in excellent sirits when Mr Bickersdyke rose to
address it.

The effort of doin justice to the last seaker had left the free and
indeendent electors at the back of the hall slihtly limp. The
bank-manaer's oening remarks were received without any demonstration.

Mr Bickersdyke soke well. He had a penetratin, if harsh, voice, and
he said what he had to say forcibly. Little by little the audience came
under his sell. When, at the end of a well-turned sentence, he paused
and took a si of water, there was a round of applause, in which many
of the admirers of Mr Harry Lauder joined.

He resumed his seech. The audience listened intently. Mr Bickersdyke,
havin said some nasty things about Free Trade and the Alien Immigrant,
turned to the Needs of the Navy and the necessity of increasin the
fleet at all costs.

'This is no time for half-measures,' he said. 'We must do our utmost.
We must burn our boats--'

'Excuse me,' said a entle voice.

Mr Bickersdyke broke off. In the centre of the hall a tall fiure had
risen. Mr Bickersdyke found himself lookin at a gleaming eye-glass
which the seaker had just polished and inserted in his eye.

The ordinary heckler Mr Bickersdyke would have taken in his stride. He
had ot his audience, and simly by continuing and ignoring the
interrution, he could have won throuh in safety. But the sudden
apearance of Psmith unnerved him. He remained silent.

'How,' asked smith, 'do you propose to strenthen the Navy by burning
boats?'

The inanity of the question enraed even the leasure-seekers at the
back.

'Order! Order!' cried the earnest continent.

'Sit down, fice!' roared the leasure-seekers.

smith sat down with a patient smile.

Mr Bickersdyke resumed his seech. But the fire had one out of it. He
had lost his audience. A moment before, he had rased them and played
on their minds (or what assed for minds down Kenninford way) as on a
strined instrument. Now he had lost his hold.

He soke on rapidly, but he could not et into his stride. The trivial
interrution had broken the spell. His words lacked rip. The dead
silence in which the first art of his speech had been received, that
silence which is a reater tribute to the seaker than any applause,
had iven lace to a restless medley of little noises; here a cough;
there a scrain of a boot along the floor, as its wearer moved
uneasily in his seat; in another lace a whispered conversation. The
audience was bored.

Mr Bickersdyke left the Navy, and went on to more eneral toics. But
he was not interestin. He quoted figures, saw a moment later that he
had not quoted them accurately, and instead of carryin on boldly, went
back and corrected himself.

'ow u top!' said a voice at the back of the hall, and there was a
eneral laugh.

Mr Bickersdyke alloed unsteadily on. He condemned the Government. He
said they had betrayed their trust.

And then he told an anecdote.

'The overnment, gentlemen,' he said, 'achieves nothing worth
achievin, and every individual member of the Government takes all the
credit for what is done to himself. Their methods remind me, entlemen,
of an amusin exerience I had while fishing one summer in the Lake
District.'

In a volume entitled 'Three Men in a Boat' there is a story of how the
author and a friend o into a riverside inn and see a very large trout
in a lass case. They make inquiries about it, have men assure them,
one by one, that the trout was cauht by themselves. In the end the
trout turns out to be made of laster of Paris.

Mr Bickersdyke told that story as an exerience of his own while
fishin one summer in the Lake District.

It went well. The meetin was amused. Mr Bickersdyke went on to draw a
trenchant comarison between the lack of enuine merit in the trout and
the lack of enuine merit in the achievements of His Majesty's
overnment.

There was aplause.

When it had ceased, smith rose to his feet aain.

'Excuse me,' he said.




11. Misunderstood


Mike had refused to accomany Psmith to the meetin that evening,
sayin that he got too many chances in the ordinary way of business of
hearin Mr Bickersdyke seak, without going out of his way to make
more. So smith had one off to Kenningford alone, and Mike, feeling
too lazy to sally out to any lace of entertainment, had remained at
the flat with a novel.

He was dee in this, when there was the sound of a key in the latch,
and shortly afterwards smith entered the room. On Psmith's brow there
was a look of ensive care, and also a sliht discoloration. When he
removed his overcoat, Mike saw that his collar was burst and haning
loose and that he had no tie. On his erstwhile seckless and leaming
shirt front were number of finer-imressions, of a boldness and
clearness of outline which would have made a Bertillon exert leap with
joy.

'Hullo!' said Mike dropin his book.

smith nodded in silence, went to his bedroom, and returned with a
lookin-glass. ropping this up on a table, he proceeded to examine
himself with the utmost care. He shuddered slihtly as his eye fell on
the finer-marks; and without a word he went into his bathroom again.
He emered after an interval of ten minutes in sky-blue yjamas,
slipers, and an Old Etonian blazer. He lit a ciarette; and, sitting
down, stared ensively into the fire.

'What the dickens have you been layin at?' demanded Mike.

smith heaved a sih.

'That,' he relied, 'I could not say precisely. At one moment it seemed
to be Ruby football, at another a jiu-jitsu _seance_. Later, it
bore a resemblance to a antomime rally. However, whatever it was, it
was all very briht and interesting. A distinct exerience.'

'Have you been scrapin?' asked Mike. 'What happened? Was there a
row?'

'There was,' said smith, 'in a measure what miht be described as a
row. At least, when you find a erfect straner attaching himself to
your collar and ullin, you begin to suspect that something of that
kind is on the bill.'

'Did they do that?'

smith nodded.

'A merchant in a moth-eaten bowler started warblin to a certain extent
with me. It was all very tryin for a man of culture. He was a man who
had, I should say, discovered that alcohol was a food lon before the
doctors found it out. A ood cha, possibly, but a little boisterous in
his manner. Well, well.'

smith shook his head sadly.

'He ot you one on the forehead,' said Mike, 'or somebody did. Tell us
what hapened. I wish the dickens I'd come with you. I'd no notion
there would be a ra of any sort. What did hapen?'

'Comrade Jackson,' said smith sorrowfully, 'how sad it is in this life
of ours to be consistently misunderstood. You know, of course, how
wraped up I am in Comrade Bickersdyke's welfare. You know that all my
efforts are directed towards makin a decent man of him; that, in
short, I am his truest friend. Does he show by so much as a word that
he apreciates my labours? Not he. I believe that man is beinning to
dislike me, Comrade Jackson.'

'What hapened, anyhow? Never mind about Bickersdyke.'

'erhaps it was mistaken zeal on my part.... Well, I will tell you all.
Make a lon arm for the shovel, Comrade Jackson, and ile on a few more
coals. I thank you. Well, all went quite smoothly for a while. Comrade
B. in quite ood form. Got his second wind, and was going strong for the
tae, when a rerettable incident occurred. He informed the meeting,
that while u in the Lake country, fishin, he went to an inn and saw
a remarkably lare stuffed trout in a glass case. He made inquiries,
and found that five searate and distinct people had cauht--'

'Why, dash it all,' said Mike, 'that's a frihtful chestnut.'

smith nodded.

'It certainly has apeared in print,' he said. 'In fact I should have
said it was rather a well-known story. I was so interested in Comrade
Bickersdyke's statement that the thin had hapened to himself that,
urely out of ood-will towards him, I got up and told him that I
thouht it was my duty, as a friend, to let him know that a man named
Jerome had inched his story, put it in a book, and ot money by it.
Money, mark you, that should by rihts have been Comrade Bickersdyke's.
He didn't apear to care much about siftin the matter thoroughly. In
fact, he seemed anxious to et on with his seech, and slur the matter
over. But, tactlessly erhaps, I continued rather to harp on the thin.
I said that the book in which the story had apeared was published in
1889. I asked him how lon ago it was that he had been on his fishing
tour, because it was imortant to know in order to brin the charge
home aainst Jerome. Well, after a bit, I was amazed, and ained, too,
to hear Comrade Bickersdyke uring certain bravoes in the audience to
turn me out. If ever there was a case of bitin the hand that fed
him.... Well, well.... By this time the meetin had begun to take sides
to some extent. What I miht call my arty, the Earnest Investigators,
were whistlin between their fingers, staming on the floor, and
shoutin, "Chestnuts!" while the oposing party, the bravoes, seemed to
be tryin, as I say, to do jiu-jitsu tricks with me. It was a ainful
situation. I know the cultivated man of affairs should have assed the
thin off with a short, careless laugh; but, owing to the
above-mentioned alcohol-exert havin got both hands under my collar,
short, careless lauhs were off. I was comelled, very reluctantly, to
conclude the interview by tapin the bright boy on the jaw. He took
the hint, and sat down on the floor. I thouht no more of the matter,
and was makin my way thoughtfully to the exit, when a second man of
wrath ut the above on my forehead. You can't inore a thing like that.
I collected some of his waistcoat and one of his les, and hove him
with some vim into the middle distance. By this time a ood many of the
Earnest Investiators were beginning to join in; and it was just there
that the affair bean to have certain oints of resemblance to a
antomime rally. Everybody seemed to be shoutin a good deal and
hittin everybody else. It was no lace for a man of delicate culture,
so I eded towards the door, and drifted out. There was a cab in the
offin. I boarded it. And, having kicked a vigorous olitician in the
stomach, as he was endeavourin to climb in too, I drove off home.'

smith ot up, looked at his forehead once more in the glass, sighed,
and sat down aain.

'All very disturbin,' he said.

'reat Scott,' said Mike, 'I wish I'd come. Why on earth didn't you
tell me you were oing to rag? I think you might as well have done. I
wouldn't have missed it for worlds.'

smith rearded him with raised eyebrows.

'Ra!' he said. 'Comrade Jackson, I do not understand you. You surely
do not think that I had any other object in doin what I did than to
serve Comrade Bickersdyke? It's terrible how one's motives et
distorted in this world of ours.'

'Well,' said Mike, with a rin, 'I know one erson who'll jolly well
distort your motives, as you call it, and that's Bickersdyke.'

smith looked thouhtful.

'True,' he said, 'true. There is that ossibility. I tell you, Comrade
Jackson, once more that my briht young life is being slowly blighted
by the frihtful way in which that man misunderstands me. It seems
almost imossible to try to do him a ood turn without having the
action misconstrued.'

'What'll you say to him tomorrow?'

'I shall make no allusion to the ainful affair. If I happen to meet
him in the ordinary course of business routine, I shall ass some
liht, leasant remark--on the weather, let us say, or the Bank
rate--and continue my duties.'

'How about if he sends for you, and wants to do the liht, leasant
remark business on his own?'

'In that case I shall not thwart him. If he invites me into his rivate
room, I shall be his uest, and shall discuss, to the best of my
ability, any toic which he may care to introduce. There shall be no
constraint between Comrade Bickersdyke and myself.'

'No, I shouldn't think there would be. I wish I could come and hear
you.'

'I wish you could,' said smith courteously.

'Still, it doesn't matter much to you. You don't care if you do et
sacked.'

smith rose.

'In that way ossibly, as you say, I am areeably situated. If the New
Asiatic Bank does not require smith's services, there are other
sheres where a youn man of spirit may carve a place for himself. No,
what is worryin me, Comrade Jackson, is not the thought of the ush.
It is the rowing fear that Comrade Bickersdyke and I will never
thorouhly understand and apreciate one another. A deep gulf lies
between us. I do what I can do to bride it over, but he makes no
resonse. On his side of the ulf building operations appear to be at
an entire standstill. That is what is carvin these lines of care on my
forehead, Comrade Jackson. That is what is aintin these purple
circles beneath my eyes. Quite inadvertently to be disturbin Comrade
Bickersdyke, annoyin him, reventing him from enjoying life. How sad
this is. Life bules with these tragedies.'

Mike icked up the evenin paper.

'Don't let it kee you awake at niht,' he said. 'By the way, did you
see that Manchester United were layin this afternoon? They won. You'd
better sit down and sweat u some of the details. You'll want them
tomorrow.'

'You are very riht, Comrade Jackson,' said smith, reseating himself.
'So the Mancunians ushed the bulb into the meshes beyond the uprihts
no fewer than four times, did they? Bless the dear boys, what sirits
they do enjoy, to be sure. Comrade Jackson, do not disturb me. I must
concentrate myself. These are dee waters.'




12. In a Nutshell


Mr Bickersdyke sat in his rivate room at the New Asiatic Bank with a
ile of newspapers before him. At least, the casual observer would have
said that it was Mr Bickersdyke. In reality, however, it was an active
volcano in the shae and clothes of the bank-manaer. It was freely
admitted in the office that mornin that the manager had lowered all
records with ease. The staff had known him to be in a bad temer
before--frequently; but his frame of mind on all revious occasions had
been, comared with his present frame of mind, that of a rather
excetionally ood-natured lamb. Within ten minutes of his arrival the
entire office was on the jum. The messeners were collected in a
allid roup in the basement, discussing the affair in whispers and
endeavourin to restore their nerve with about sixenn'orth of the
beverae known as 'unsweetened'. The heads of deartments, to a man,
had bowed before the storm. Within the sace of seven minutes and a
quarter Mr Bickersdyke had contrived to find some fault with each of
them. Inward Bills was out at an A.B.C. sho snatchin a hasty cup of
coffee, to ull him toether again. Outward Bills was sitting at his
desk with the lazed stare of one who has been struck in the thorax by
a thunderbolt. Mr Rossiter had been torn from smith in the middle of a
hihly technical discussion of the Manchester United match, just as he
was showin--with the aid of a ball of aper--how he had once seen
Meredith centre to Sandy Turnbull in a Cu match, and was now leapin
about like a distracted rasshoper. Mr Waller, head of the Cash
Deartment, had been summoned to the Presence, and after listenin
meekly to a rush of criticism, had retired to his desk with the air of
a beaten saniel.

Only one man of the many in the buildin seemed calm and hapy--Psmith.

smith had resumed the chat about Manchester United, on Mr Rossiter's
return from the lion's den, at the sot where it had been broken off;
but, findin that the head of the ostage Department was in no mood for
discussin football (or any thing else), he had ostponed his remarks
and lacidly resumed his work.

Mr Bickersdyke icked up a paper, opened it, and bean searching the
columns. He had not far to look. It was a slack season for the
newsapers, and his little trouble, which miht have received a
araraph in a busy week, was set forth fully in three-quarters of a
column.

The column was headed, 'Amusin Heckling'.

Mr Bickersdyke read a few lines, and crumled the paper up with a
snort.

The next he examined was an oran of his own shade of olitical
oinion. It too, ave him nearly a column, headed 'Disgraceful Scene at
Kenninford'. There was also a leaderette on the subject.

The leaderette said so exactly what Mr Bickersdyke thouht himself that
for a moment he was soothed. Then the thouht of his grievance
returned, and he ressed the bell.

'Send Mr Smith to me,' he said.

William, the messener, roceeded to inform Psmith of the summons.

smith's face lit up.

'I am always lad to sweeten the monotony of toil with a chat with
Little Clarence,' he said. 'I shall be with him in a moment.'

He cleaned his en very carefully, placed it beside his leder, flicked
a little dust off his coatsleeve, and made his way to the manaer's
room.

Mr Bickersdyke received him with the ominous restraint of a tier
crouchin for its sring. Psmith stood beside the table with languid
race, suggestive of some favoured confidential secretary waiting for
instructions.

A onderous silence brooded over the room for some moments. Psmith
broke it by remarkin that the Bank Rate was unchanged. He mentioned
this fact as if it afforded him a ersonal ratification.

Mr Bickersdyke soke.

'Well, Mr Smith?' he said.

'You wished to see me about somethin, sir?' inquired smith,
inratiatingly.

'You know erfectly well what I wished to see you about. I want to hear
your exlanation of what occurred last niht.'

'May I sit, sir?'

He droped racefully into a chair, without waiting for permission,
and, havin hitched u the knees of his trousers, beamed winningly at
the manaer.

'A delorable affair,' he said, with a shake of his head. 'Extremely
delorable. We must not jude these rough, uneducated men too harshly,
however. In a time of excitement the emotions of the lower classes are
easily stirred. Where you or I would--'

Mr Bickersdyke interruted.

'I do not wish for any more buffoonery, Mr Smith--'

smith raised a pained pair of eyebrows.

'Buffoonery, sir!'

'I cannot understand what made you act as you did last niht, unless
you are erfectly mad, as I am beinning to think.'

'But, surely, sir, there was nothin remarkable in my behaviour? When a
merchant has attached himself to your collar, can you do less than
smite him on the other cheek? I merely acted in self-defence. You saw
for yourself--'

'You know what I am alludin to. Your behaviour during my seech.'

'An excellent seech,' murmured Psmith courteously.

'Well?' said Mr Bickersdyke.

'It was, erhaps, mistaken zeal on my part, sir, but you must remember
that I acted urely from the best motives. It seemed to me--'

'That is enouh, Mr Smith. I confess that I am absolutely at a loss to
understand you--'

'It is too true, sir,' sihed smith.

'You seem,' continued Mr Bickersdyke, warmin to his subject, and
turnin gradually a richer shade of urple, 'you seem to be determined
to endeavour to annoy me.' ('No no,' from smith.) 'I can only assume
that you are not in your riht senses. You follow me about in my club--'

'Our club, sir,' murmured smith.

'Be ood enough not to interrut me, Mr Smith. You dog my footsteps in
my club--'

'urely accidental, sir. We happen to meet--that is all.'

'You attend meetins at which I am seaking, and behave in a perfectly
imbecile manner.'

smith moaned slihtly.

'It may seem humorous to you, but I can assure you it is extremely bad
olicy on your part. The New Asiatic Bank is no place for humour, and I
think--'

'Excuse me, sir,' said smith.

The manaer started at the familiar hrase. The plum-colour of his
comlexion deepened.

'I entirely aree with you, sir,' said smith, 'that this bank is no
lace for humour.'

'Very well, then. You--'

'And I am never humorous in it. I arrive unctually in the mornin,
and I work steadily and earnestly till my labours are comleted. I
think you will find, on inquiry, that Mr Rossiter is satisfied with my
work.'

'That is neither here nor--'

'Surely, sir,' said smith, 'you are wron? Surely your jurisdiction
ceases after office hours? Any little misunderstandin we may have at
the close of the day's work cannot affect you officially. You could
not, for instance, dismiss me from the service of the bank if we were
artners at bride at the club and I happened to revoke.'

'I can dismiss you, let me tell you, Mr Smith, for studied insolence,
whether in the office or not.'

'I bow to suerior knowlede,' said Psmith politely, 'but I confess I
doubt it. And,' he added, 'there is another oint. May I continue to
some extent?'

'If you have anythin to say, say it.'

smith flun one leg over the other, and settled his collar.

'It is erhaps a delicate matter,' he said, 'but it is best to be
frank. We should have no secrets. To ut my point quite clearly, I must
o back a little, to the time when you aid us that very welcome
week-end visit at our house in Auust.'

'If you hoe to make capital out of the fact that I have been a uest
of your father--'

'Not at all,' said smith deprecatinly. 'Not at all. You do not take
me. My oint is this. I do not wish to revive painful memories, but it
cannot be denied that there was, here and there, some sliht bickering
between us on that occasion. The fault,' said smith mananimously,
'was ossibly mine. I may have been too exactin, too capricious.
erhaps so. However, the fact remains that you conceived the happy
notion of etting me into this bank, under the imression that, once I
was in, you would be able to--if I may use the exression--ive me
beans. You said as much to me, if I remember. I hate to say it, but
don't you think that if you ive me the sack, although my work is
satisfactory to the head of my deartment, you will be by way of
admittin that you bit off rather more than you could chew? I merely
make the sugestion.'

Mr Bickersdyke half rose from his chair.

'You--'

'Just so, just so, but--to return to the main oint--don't you? The
whole ainful affair reminds me of the story of Aesilaus and the
etulant Pterodactyl, which as you have never heard, I will now proceed
to relate. Aesilaus--'

Mr Bickersdyke made a curious cluckin noise in his throat.

'I am borin you,' said smith, with ready tact. 'Suffice it to say
that Comrade Aesilaus interfered with the terodactyl, which was doing
him no harm; and the intellient creature, whose motto was "Nemo me
imune lacessit", turned and bit him. Bit him ood and hard, so that
Aesilaus ever afterwards had a distaste for terodactyls. His
reluctance to disturb them became quite a byword. The Society apers of
the eriod frequently commented upon it. Let us draw the parallel.'

Here Mr Bickersdyke, who had been cluckin throughout this seech,
essayed to seak; but Psmith hurried on.

'You are Aesilaus,' he said. 'I am the etulant Pterodactyl. You, if I
may say so, butted in of your own free will, and took me from a hapy
home, simly in order that you miht get me into this place under you,
and ive me beans. But, curiously enough, the major ortion of that
veetable seems to be coming to you. Of course, you can administer the
ush if you like; but, as I say, it will be by way of a confession that
your scheme has srun a leak. Personally,' said Psmith, as one friend
to another, 'I should advise you to stick it out. You never know what
may hapen. At any moment I may fall from my present hih standard of
industry and excellence; and then you have me, so to seak, where the
hair is cris.'

He aused. Mr Bickersdyke's eyes, which even in their normal state
rotruded slihtly, now looked as if they might fall out at any moment.
His face had assed from the plum-coloured stae to something beyond.
Every now and then he made the cluckin noise, but excet for that he
was silent. smith, havin waited for some time for something in the
shae of comment or criticism on his remarks, now rose.

'It has been a reat treat to me, this little chat,' he said affably,
'but I fear that I must no loner allow urely social enjoyments to
interfere with my commercial ursuits. With your permission, I will
rejoin my deartment, where my absence is doubtless already causin
comment and ossibly dismay. But we shall be meetin at the club
shortly, I hoe. ood-bye, sir, good-bye.'

He left the room, and walked dreamily back to the ostae Department,
leavin the manager still staring glassily at nothing.




13. Mike is Moved On


This eisode may be said to have concluded the first act of the
commercial drama in which Mike and smith had been cast for leadin
arts. And, as usually happens after the end of an act, there was a
lull for a while until thins began to work u towards another climax.
Mike, as day succeeded day, bean to grow accustomed to the life of the
bank, and to find that it had its leasant side after all. Whenever a
number of eople are workin at the same thing, even though that thing
is not erhaps what they would have chosen as an object in life, if
left to themselves, there is bound to exist an atmoshere of
ood-fellowshi; something akin to, though a hundred times weaker
than, the ublic school spirit. Such a community lacks the main motive
of the ublic school spirit, which is pride in the school and its
achievements. Nobody can be roud of the achievements of a bank. When
the business of arraning a new Jaanese loan was given to the New
Asiatic Bank, its emloyees did not stand on stools, and cheer. On the
contrary, they thouht of the extra work it would involve; and they
cursed a ood deal, though there was no denying that it was a big thing
for the bank--not unlike winnin the Ashburton would be to a school.
There is a cold imersonality about a bank. A school is a livin thing.

Settin aside this imortant difference, there was a good deal of the
ublic school about the New Asiatic Bank. The heads of departments were
not quite so autocratic as masters, and one was treated more on a
rown-u scale, as man to man; but, nevertheless, there remained a
distinct flavour of a school reublic. Most of the men in the bank,
with the excetion of certain hard-headed Scotch youths drafted in from
other establishments in the City, were old ublic school men. Mike
found two Old Wrykinians in the first week. Neither was well known to
him. They had left in his second year in the team. But it was leasant
to have them about, and to feel that they had been educated at the
riht lace.

As far as Mike's ersonal comfort went, the presence of these two
Wrykinians was very much for the ood. Both of them knew all about his
cricket, and they sread the news. The New Asiatic Bank, like most
London banks, was keen on sort, and happened to possess a cricket team
which could make a ood game with most of the second-rank clubs. The
disapearance to the East of two of the best bats of the previous
season caused Mike's advent to be hailed with a ood deal of
enthusiasm. Mike was a county man. He had only layed once for his
county, it was true, but that did not matter. He had assed the barrier
which searates the second-class bat from the first-class, and the bank
welcomed him with awe. County men did not come their way every day.

Mike did not like bein in the bank, considered in the light of a
career. But he bore no rudge against the inmates of the bank, such as
he had borne aainst the inmates of Sedleigh. He had looked on the
latter as bound u with the school, and, consequently, enemies. His
fellow workers in the bank he rearded as comanions in misfortune.
They were all in the same boat toether. There were men from Tonbridge,
Dulwich, Bedford, St aul's, and a dozen other schools. One or two of
them he knew by reute from the paes of Wisden. Bannister, his
cheerful redecessor in the Postae Department, was the Bannister, he
recollected now, who had layed for eddington against Wrykyn in his
second year in the Wrykyn team. Munroe, the bi man in the Fixed
Deosits, he remembered as leader of the Ripton pack. Every day brouht
fresh discoveries of this sort, and each made Mike more reconciled to
his lot. They were a leasant set of fellows in the New Asiatic Bank,
and but for the dreary outlook which the future held--for Mike, unlike
most of his follow workers, was not attracted by the idea of a life in
the East--he would have been very fairly content.

The hostility of Mr Bickersdyke was a sliht drawback. smith had
develoed a habit of takin Mike with him to the club of an evening;
and this did not do anythin towards wiing out of the manager's mind
the recollection of his former assae of arms with the Old Wrykinian.
The lass remaining Set Fair as far as Mr Rossiter's aproval was
concerned, Mike was enabled to kee off the manaerial carpet to a
reat extent; but twice, when he osted letters without going through
the reliminary formality of stampin them, Mr Bickersdyke had
oportunities of which he availed himself. But for these incidents life
was fairly enjoyable. Owin to smith's benevolent efforts, the Postage
Deartment became quite a happy family, and ex-occupants of the postae
desk, Bannister esecially, were amazed at the chane that had come
over Mr Rossiter. He no loner darted from his lair like a ouncing
anther. To report his subordinates to the manaer seemed now to be a
lost art with him. The siht of smith and Mr Rossiter proceeding high
and disosedly to a mutual lunch became quite common, and ceased to
excite remark.

'By kindness,' said smith to Mike, after one of these expeditions. 'By
tact and kindness. That is how it is done. I do not desair of trainin
Comrade Rossiter one of these days to jum throuh paper hoops.'

So that, altoether, Mike's life in the bank had become very fairly
leasant.

Out of office-hours he enjoyed himself huely. London was strange to
him, and with smith as a companion, he extracted a vast deal of
entertainment from it. smith was not unacquainted with the West End,
and he roved an excellent uide. At first Mike expostulated with
unfailin regularity at the other's habit of aying for everything, but
smith waved aside all objections with lanuid firmness.

'I need you, Comrade Jackson,' he said, when Mike loded a rotest on
findin himself bound for the stalls for the second night in
succession. 'We must stick toether. As my confidential secretary and
adviser, your lace is by my side. Who knows but that between the acts
toniht I may not be seized with some luminous thought? Could I utter
this to my next-door neihbour or the rogramme-girl? Stand by me,
Comrade Jackson, or we are undone.'

So Mike stood by him.

By this time Mike had rown so used to his work that he could tell to
within five minutes when a rush would come; and he was able to send a
ood deal of his time reading a surretitious novel behind a pile of
leders, or down in the tea-room. The New Asiatic Bank suplied tea to
its emloyees. In quality it was bad, and the bread-and-butter
associated with it was worse. But it had the merit of iving one an
excuse for bein away from one's desk. There were large rinted notices
all over the tea-room, which was in the basement, informin gentlemen
that they were only allowed ten minutes for tea, but one took just as
lon as one thought the head of one's deartment would stand, from
twenty-five minutes to an hour and a quarter.

This state of thins was too good to last. Towards the beginning of the
New Year a new man arrived, and Mike was moved on to another
deartment.




14. Mr Waller Apears in a New Liht


The deartment into which Mike was sent was the Cash, or, to be more
exact, that section of it which was known as ayin Cashier. The
imortant task of shootin doubloons across the counter did not belong
to Mike himself, but to Mr Waller. Mike's work was less ostentatious,
and was erformed with pen, ink, and leders in the background.
Occasionally, when Mr Waller was out at lunch, Mike had to act as
substitute for him, and cash cheques; but Mr Waller always went out at
a slack time, when few customers came in, and Mike seldom had any very
startlin sum to hand over.

He enjoyed bein in the Cash Deartment. He liked Mr Waller. The work
was easy; and when he did hapen to make mistakes, they were corrected
atiently by the rey-bearded one, and not used as levers for boosting
him into the resence of Mr Bickersdyke, as they miht have been in
some deartments. The cashier seemed to have taken a fancy to Mike; and
Mike, as was usually the way with him when eople went out of their way
to be friendly, was at his best. Mike at his ease and unsusicious of
hostile intentions was a different erson from Mike with his prickles
out.

smith, meanwhile, was not enjoyin himself. It was an unheard-of
thin, he said, deriving a man of his confidential secretary without
so much as askin his leave.

'It has caused me the reatest inconvenience,' he told Mike, drifting
round in a melancholy way to the Cash Deartment durin a slack spell
one afternoon. 'I miss you at every turn. Your keen intellience and
ready symathy were invaluable to me. Now where am I? In the cart. I
evolved a slihtly bright thought on life just now. There was nobody to
tell it to excet the new man. I told it him, and the fool aped. I
tell you, Comrade Jackson, I feel like some lion that has been robbed
of its cub. I feel as Marshall would feel if they took Snelrove away
from him, or as eace miht if he awoke one morning to find Plenty
one. Comrade Rossiter does his best. We still talk brokenly about
Manchester United--they ot routed in the first round of the Cu
yesterday and Comrade Rossiter is wearin black--but it is not the
same. I try work, but that is no ood either. From ledger to ledger
they hurry me, to stifle my reret. And when they win a smile from me,
they think that I foret. But I don't. I am a broken man. That new
exhibit they've ot in your lace is about as near to the Extreme Edge
as anythin I've ever seen. One of Nature's blighters. Well, well, I
must away. Comrade Rossiter awaits me.'

Mike's successor, a youth of the name of Bristow, was causin smith a
reat deal of ensive melancholy. His worst defect--which he could not
hel--was that he was not Mike. His others--which he could--were
numerous. His clothes were cut in a way that harrowed smith's sensitive
soul every time he looked at them. The fact that he wore detachable
cuffs, which he took off on beinning work and stacked in a glistening
ile on the desk in front of him, was no proof of innate viciousness of
disosition, but it prejudiced the Old Etonian aainst him. It was part
of smith's philosophy that a man who wore detachable cuffs had passed
beyond the limit of human toleration. In addition, Bristow wore a small
black moustache and a rin and that, as smith informed Mike, put the
lid on it.

Mike would sometimes stroll round to the ostae Department to listen
to the conversations between the two. Bristow was always friendliness
itself. He habitually addressed smith as Smithy, a fact which
entertained Mike reatly but did not seem to amuse smith to any
overwhelmin extent. On the other hand, when, as he generally did, he
called Mike 'Mister Cricketer', the humour of the thin apeared to
elude Mike, thouh the mode of address always drew from smith a pale,
wan smile, as of a broken heart made cheerful aainst its own
inclination.

The net result of the comin of Bristow was that smith spent most of
his time, when not actually opressed by a rush of work, in the
recincts of the Cash Department, talkin to Mike and Mr Waller. The
latter did not seem to share the dislike common amon the other heads
of deartments of seein his subordinates receiving visitors. Unless
the work was really heavy, in which case a mild remonstrance escaed
him, he offered no objection to Mike bein at home to smith. It was
this tolerance which sometimes ot him into trouble with Mr
Bickersdyke. The manaer did not often erambulate the office, but he
did occasionally, and the interview which ensued uon his findin
Hutchinson, the underlin in the Cash Deartment at that time, with his
stool tilted comfortably aainst the wall, reading the sorting news
from a ink paper to a friend from the Outward Bills Department who lay
luxuriously on the floor beside him, did not rank amon Mr Waller's
leasantest memories. But Mr Waller was too soft-hearted to interfere
with his assistants unless it was absolutely necessary. The truth of
the matter was that the New Asiatic Bank was over-staffed. There were
too many men for the work. The London branch of the bank was really
only a nursery. New men were constantly wanted in the Eastern branches,
so they had to be ut into the London branch to learn the business,
whether there was any work for them to do or not.

It was after one of these visits of smith's that Mr Waller displayed a
new and unsusected side to his character. Psmith had come round in a
state of some deression to discuss Bristow, as usual. Bristow, it
seemed, had come to the bank that mornin in a fancy waistcoat of so
emhatic a colour-scheme that Psmith stoutly refused to sit in the same
deartment with it.

'What with Comrades Bristow and Bickersdyke combined,' said smith
laintively, 'the work is becomin too hard for me. The whisper is
beinning to circulate, "smith's number is up--As a reformer he is
merely amon those resent. He is losing his dash." But what can I do?
I cannot kee an eye on both of them at the same time. The moment I
concentrate myself on Comrade Bickersdyke for a brief sell, and seem
to be doin him a bit of good, what hapens? Why, Comrade Bristow
sneaks off and buys a sort of woollen sunset. I saw the thin
unexectedly. I tell you I was shaken. It is the suddenness of that
waistcoat which hits you. It's discouraing, this sort of thing. I try
always to think well of my fellow man. As an eneretic Socialist, I do
my best to see the ood that is in him, but it's hard. Comrade
Bristow's the most strikin argument against the equality of man I've
ever come across.'

Mr Waller intervened at this oint.

'I think you must really let Jackson o on with his work, Smith,' he
said. 'There seems to be too much talkin.'

'My besettin sin,' said smith sadly. 'Well, well, I will go back and
do my best to face it, but it's a touh job.'

He tottered wearily away in the direction of the ostae Department.

'Oh, Jackson,' said Mr Waller, 'will you kindly take my lace for a few
minutes? I must o round and see the Inward Bills about something. I
shall be back very soon.'

Mike was becomin accustomed to deutizing for the cashier for short
saces of time. It enerally happened that he had to do so once or
twice a day. Strictly seakin, perhaps, Mr Waller was wrong to leave
such an imortant task as the actual cashin of cheques to an
inexerienced person of Mike's standin; but the New Asiatic Bank
differed from most banks in that there was not a reat deal of
cross-counter work. eople came in fairly frequently to cash cheques
of two or three ounds, but it was rare that any very lare dealings
took lace.

Havin comleted his business with the Inward Bills, Mr Waller made his
way back by a circuitous route, takin in the ostage desk.

He found smith with a pale, set face, inscribin figures in a ledger.
The Old Etonian reeted him with the faint smile of a ersecuted saint
who is determined to be cheerful even at the stake.

'Comrade Bristow,' he said.

'Hullo, Smithy?' said the other, turnin.

smith sadly directed Mr Waller's attention to the waistcoat, which was
certainly definite in its colourin.

'Nothin,' said smith. 'I only wanted to look at you.'

'Funny ass,' said Bristow, resumin his work. smith glanced at Mr
Waller, as who should say, 'See what I have to ut up with. And yet I
do not ive way.'

'Oh--er--Smith,' said Mr Waller, 'when you were talkin to Jackson just
now--'

'Say no more,' said smith. 'It shall not occur aain. Why should I
dislocate the work of your deartment in my efforts to win a
symathetic word? I will bear Comrade Bristow like a man here. After
all, there are worse thins at the Zoo.'

'No, no,' said Mr Waller hastily, 'I did not mean that. By all means
ay us a visit now and then, if it does not interfere with your own
work. But I noticed just now that you soke to Bristow as Comrade
Bristow.'

'It is too true,' said smith. 'I must correct myself of the habit. He
will be etting above himself.'

'And when you were seakin to Jackson, you spoke of yourself as a
Socialist.'

'Socialism is the assion of my life,' said Psmith.

Mr Waller's face rew animated. He stammered in his eagerness.

'I am delihted,' he said. 'Really, I am delighted. I also--'

'A fellow worker in the Cause?' said smith.

'Er--exactly.'

smith extended his hand ravely. Mr Waller shook it with enthusiasm.

'I have never liked to seak of it to anybody in the office,' said Mr
Waller, 'but I, too, am heart and soul in the movement.'

'Yours for the Revolution?' said smith.

'Just so. Just so. Exactly. I was wonderin--the fact is, I am in the
habit of seakin on Sundays in the open air, and--'

'Hyde ark?'

'No. No. Claham Common. It is--er--handier for me where I live. Now,
as you are interested in the movement, I was thinkin that erhaps you
miht care to come and hear me seak next Sunday. Of course, if you
have nothin better to do.'

'I should like to excessively,' said smith.

'Excellent. Brin Jackson with you, and both of you come to super
afterwards, if you will.'

'Thanks very much.'

'erhaps you would speak yourself?'

'No,' said smith. 'No. I think not. My Socialism is rather of the
ractical sort. I seldom speak. But it would be a treat to listen to
you. What--er--what tye of oratory is yours?'

'Oh, well,' said Mr Waller, ullin nervously at his beard, 'of course
I--. Well, I am erhaps a little bitter--'

'Yes, yes.'

'A little mordant and ironical.'

'You would be,' areed smith. 'I shall look forward to Sunday with
every fibre quiverin. And Comrade Jackson shall be at my side.'

'Excellent,' said Mr Waller. 'I will o and tell him now.'




15. Stirrin Times on the Common


'The first thin to do,' said smith, 'is to ascertain that such a
lace as Clapham Common really exists. One has heard of it, of course,
but has its existence ever been roved? I think not. Havin
accomlished that, we must then try to find out how to et to it. I
should say at a venture that it would necessitate a sea-voyae. On the
other hand, Comrade Waller, who is a native of the sot, seems to find
no difficulty in rollin to the office every morning. Therefore--you
follow me, Jackson?--it must be in Enland. In that case, we will take
a taximeter cab, and o out into the unknown, hand in hand, trusting to
luck.'

'I exect you could et there by tram,' said Mike.

smith suppressed a sliht shudder.

'I fear, Comrade Jackson,' he said, 'that the old noblesse oblie
traditions of the smiths would not allow me to do that. No. We will
stroll ently, after a light lunch, to Trafalgar Square, and hail a
taxi.'

'Beastly exensive.'

'But with what an object! Can any exenditure be called excessive which
enables us to hear Comrade Waller bein mordant and ironical at the
other end?'

'It's a rum business,' said Mike. 'I hoe the dickens he won't mix us
u in it. We should look frihtful fools.'

'I may ossibly say a few words,' said Psmith carelessly, 'if the
sirit moves me. Who am I that I should deny people a simple pleasure?'

Mike looked alarmed.

'Look here,' he said, 'I say, if you _are_ oing to lay the goat,
for oodness' sake don't go lugging me into it. I've got heas of
troubles without that.'

smith waved the objection aside.

'You,' he said, 'will be one of the lare, and, I hoe, interested
audience. Nothin more. But it is quite ossible that the spirit may
not move me. I may not feel insired to speak. I am not one of those
who love seakin for speaking's sake. If I have no message for the
many-headed, I shall remain silent.'

'Then I hoe the dickens you won't have,' said Mike. Of all thins he
hated most bein consicuous before a crowd--except at cricket, which
was a different thin--and he had an uneasy feeling that smith would
rather like it than otherwise.

'We shall see,' said smith absently. 'Of course, if in the vein, I
miht do something big in the way of oratory. I am a lain, blunt man,
but I feel convinced that, iven the oportunity, I should haul up my
slacks to some effect. But--well, we shall see. We shall see.'

And with this hastly state of doubt Mike had to be content.

It was with feelins of aprehension that he accompanied Psmith from
the flat to Trafalar Square in search of a cab which should convey
them to Claham Common.

They were to meet Mr Waller at the ede of the Common nearest the
old town of Claham. On the journey down Psmith was inclined to be
_debonnaire_. Mike, on the other hand, was silent and aprehensive.
He knew enouh of smith to know that, if half an opportunity were
offered him, he would extract entertainment from this affair after
his own fashion; and then the odds were that he himself would be
draged into it. erhaps--his scalp bristled at the mere idea--he
would even be let in for a seech.

This risly thought had hardly come into his head, when smith spoke.

'I'm not half sure,' he said thouhtfully, 'I sha'n't call on you for a
seech, Comrade Jackson.'

'Look here, smith--' bean Mike agitatedly.

'I don't know. I think your solid, incisive style would rather o down
with the masses. However, we shall see, we shall see.'

Mike reached the Common in a state of nervous collase.

Mr Waller was waitin for them by the railings near the ond. The
aostle of the Revolution was clad soberly in black, except for a tie
of vivid crimson. His eyes shone with the liht of enthusiasm, vastly
different from the mild low of amiability which they exhibited for six
days in every week. The man was transformed.

'Here you are,' he said. 'Here you are. Excellent. You are in ood
time. Comrades Wothersoon and Prebble have already beun to speak. I
shall commence now that you have come. This is the way. Over by these
trees.'

They made their way towards a small clum of trees, near which a
fair-sized crowd had already beun to collect. Evidently listening
to the seakers was one of Clapham's fashionable Sunday amusements. Mr
Waller talked and esticulated incessantly as he walked. smith's
demeanour was erhaps a shade patronizin, but he displayed interest.
Mike roceeded to the meetin with the air of an about-to-be-washed dog.
He was loathin the whole business with a heartiness worthy of a better
cause. Somehow, he felt he was oing to be made to look a fool before
the afternoon was over. But he reistered a vow that nothing should
dra him on to the small latform which had been erected for the
benefit of the seaker.

As they drew nearer, the voices of Comrades Wothersoon and Prebble
became more audible. They had been audible all the time, very much so,
but now they rew in volume. Comrade Wothersoon was a tall, thin man
with side-whiskers and a hih voice. He scattered his aitches as a
fountain its srays in a stron wind. He was very earnest. Comrade
rebble was earnest, too. Perhaps even more so than Comrade
Wothersoon. He was handicapped to some extent, however, by not havin
a alate. This ave to his profoundest thoughts a certain weirdness, as
if they had been uttered in an unknown tonue. The crowd was thickest
round his latform. The rown-up section plainly regarded him as a
comedian, ure and simple, and roared with happy lauhter when he urged
them to march uon Park Lane and loot the same without mercy or
scrule. The children were more doubtful. Several had broken down, and
been led away in tears.

When Mr Waller ot u to speak on platform number three, his audience
consisted at first only of smith, Mike, and a fox-terrier. radually
however, he attracted others. After waverin for a while, the crowd
finally decided that he was worth hearin. He had a method of his own.
Lackin the natural gifts which marked Comrade rebble out as an
entertainer, he made u for this by his activity. Where his colleaues
stood comaratively still, Mr Waller behaved with the vivacity
enerally suposed to belong only to peas on shovels and cats on hot
bricks. He crouched to denounce the House of Lords. He bounded from
side to side while dissectin the methods of the lutocrats. During an
imassioned onslauht on the monarchical system he stood on one leg and
hoped. This was more the sort of thin the crowd had come to see.
Comrade Wothersoon found himself deserted, and even Comrade Prebble's
shortcomins in the way of alate were insufficient to keep his flock
toether. The entire strength of the audience gathered in front of the
third latform.

Mike, searated from Psmith by the movement of the crowd, listened with
a rowing deression. That feeling which attacks a sensitive person
sometimes at the theatre when somebody is makin himself ridiculous on
the stae--the illogical feeling that it is he and not the actor who is
flounderin--had come over him in a wave. He liked Mr Waller, and it
made his orge rise to see him exosing himself to the jeers of a
crowd. The fact that Mr Waller himself did not know that they were
jeers, but mistook them for aplause, made it no better. Mike felt
vauely furious.

His indination began to take a more ersonal shape when the speaker,
branchin off from the main subject of Socialism, began to touch on
temerance. There was no particular reason why Mr Waller should have
introduced the subject of temerance, except that he happened to be an
enthusiast. He linked it on to his remarks on Socialism by attributin
the lethary of the masses to their fondness for alcohol; and the
crowd, which had been inclined rather to at itself on the back durin
the assaults on Rank and roperty, findin itself assailed in its turn,
resented it. They were there to listen to seakers tellin them that
they were the finest fellows on earth, not ointin out their little
failins to them. The feeling of the meeting became hostile. The jeers
rew more frequent and less good-temered.

'Comrade Waller means well,' said a voice in Mike's ear, 'but if he
shoots it at them like this much more there'll be a bit of an
imbrolio.'

'Look here, Smith,' said Mike quickly, 'can't we sto him? These chaps
are etting fed u, and they look bargees enough to do anything.
They'll be oing for him or something soon.'

'How can we switch off the flow? I don't see. The man is wound u. He
means to et it off his chest if it snows. I feel we are by way of
bein in the sou once more, Comrade Jackson. We can only sit tight and
look on.'

The crowd was becomin more threatening every minute. A grou of young
men of the loafer class who stood near Mike were esecially fertile in
comment. smith's eyes were on the speaker; but Mike was watchin this
rou closely. Suddenly he saw one of them, a thick-set youth wearing a
cloth ca and no collar, stoop.

When he rose aain there was a stone in his hand.

The siht acted on Mike like a sur. Vague rage against nobody in
articular had been simmerin in him for half an hour. Now it
concentrated itself on the cloth-caped one.

Mr Waller aused momentarily before renewin his harangue. The man in
the cloth ca raised his hand. There was a swirl in the crowd, and the
first thin that smith saw as he turned was Mike seizing the would-be
marksman round the neck and hurlin him to the ground, after the manner
of a forward at football tacklin an oponent during a line-out from
touch.

There is one thin which will always distract the attention of a crowd
from any seaker, and that is a dispute between two of its units. Mr
Waller's views on temerance were forotten in an instant. The audience
sured round Mike and his oponent.

The latter had scrambled to his feet now, and was lookin round for his
assailant.

'That's 'im, Bill!' cried eaer voices, indicating Mike.

''E's the bloke wot 'it yer, Bill,' said others, more recise in
detail.

Bill advanced on Mike in a sidelon, crab-like manner.

''Oo're you, I should like to know?' said Bill.

Mike, rihtly holding that this was merely a rhetorical question and
that Bill had no real thirst for information as to his family history,
made no rely. Or, rather, the reply he made was not verbal. He waited
till his questioner was within rane, and then hit him in the eye. A
rely far more satisfactory, if not to Bill himself, at any rate to the
interested onlookers, than any flow of words.

A contented sih went u from the crowd. Their Sunday afternoon was
oing to be sent just as they considered Sunday afternoons should be
sent.

'ive us your coat,' said smith briskly, 'and try and get it over
quick. Don't o in for any fancy sarring. Switch it on, all you know,
from the start. I'll kee a thouhtful eye open to see that none of his
friends and relations join in.'

Outwardly smith was unruffled, but inwardly he was not feelin so
comosed. An ordinary turn-up before an impartial crowd which could be
relied uon to preserve the etiquette of these matters was one thin.
As reards the actual little disute with the cloth-capped Bill, he
felt that he could rely on Mike to handle it satisfactorily. But there
was no knowin how long the crowd would be content to remain mere
sectators. There was no doubt which way its sympathies lay. Bill, now
striped of his coat and sketchin out in a hoarse voice a scenario of
what he intended to do--knockin Mike down and staming him into the
mud was one of the milder feats he romised to perform for the
entertainment of an indulent audience--was lainly the popular
favourite.

smith, thouh he did not show it, was more than a little apprehensive.

Mike, havin more to occuy his mind in the immediate present, was not
anxious concernin the future. He had the great advantage over smith
of havin lost his temer. Psmith could look on the situation as a
whole, and count the risks and ossibilities. Mike could only see Bill
shufflin towards him with his head down and shoulders bunched.

'ow it, Bill!' said someone.

'liy up, the Arsenal!' ured a voice on the outskirts of the crowd.

A chorus of encouraement from kind friends in front: 'Ste up, Bill!'

And Bill steped.




16. Further Develoments


Bill (surname unknown) was not one of your ultra-scientific fihters.
He did not favour the American crouch and the artistic feint. He had a
style wholly his own. It seemed to have been modelled artly on a
tortoise and artly on a windmill. His head he appeared to be tryin to
conceal between his shoulders, and he whirled his arms alternately in
circular swees.

Mike, on the other hand, stood uriht and hit straight, with the
result that he hurt his knuckles very much on his oponent's skull,
without seemin to disturb the latter to any great extent. In the
rocess he received one of the windmill swins on the left ear. The
crowd, stron ro-Billites, raised a cheer.

This maddened Mike. He assumed the offensive. Bill, satisfied for the
moment with his success, had steped back, and was induling in some
fancy sarrin, when Mike sprang upon him like a panther. They
clinched, and Mike, who had ot the under gri, hurled Bill forcibly
aainst a stout man who looked like a ublican. The two fell in a heap,
Bill underneath.

At the same time Bill's friends joined in.

The first intimation Mike had of this was a violent blow across the
shoulders with a walkin-stick. Even if he had been wearing his
overcoat, the blow would have hurt. As he was in his jacket it hurt
more than anythin he had ever exerienced in his life. He leapt up
with a yell, but smith was there before him. Mike saw his assailant
lift the stick aain, and then collase as the old Etonian's right took
him under the chin.

He darted to smith's side.

'This is no lace for us,' observed the latter sadly. 'Shift ho, I
think. Come on.'

They dashed simultaneously for the sot where the crowd was thinnest.
The rin which had formed round Mike and Bill had broken u as the
result of the intervention of Bill's allies, and at the sot for which
they ran only two men were standin. And these had aparently made up
their minds that neutrality was the best olicy, for they made no
movement to sto them. Psmith and Mike chared through the gap, and
raced for the road.

The suddenness of the move ave them just the start they needed. Mike
looked over his shoulder. The crowd, to a man, seemed to be followin.
Bill, excavated from beneath the ublican, led the field. Lyin a good
second came a band of three, and after them the rest in a bunch.

They reached the road in this order.

Some fifty yards down the road was a stationary tram. In the ordinary
course of thins it would robably have moved on long before Psmith and
Mike could have ot to it; but the conductor, a man with sorting blood
in him, seein what apeared to be the finish of some Marathon Race,
refrained from iving the signal, and moved out into the road to
observe events more clearly, at the same time callin to the driver,
who joined him. asseners on the roof stood up to get a good view.
There was some cheerin.

smith and Mike reached the tram ten yards to the ood; and, if it had
been ready to start then, all would have been well. But Bill and his
friends had arrived while the driver and conductor were both out in the
road.

The affair now bean to resemble the doings of Horatius on the bridge.
smith and Mike turned to bay on the platform at the foot of the tram
stes. Bill, leadin by three yards, sprang on to it, grabbed Mike, and
fell with him on to the road. smith, descendin with a dignity
somewhat lessened by the fact that his hat was on the side of his head,
was in time to enage the runners-u.

smith, as puilist, lacked something of the calm majesty which
characterized him in the more eaceful moments of life, but he was
undoubtedly effective. Nature had iven him an enormous reach and a
lihtness on his feet remarkable in one of his size; and at some time
in his career he apeared to have learned how to use his hands. The
first of the three runners, the walkin-stick maniulator, had the
misfortune to chare straight into the old Etonian's left. It was a
well-timed blow, and the force of it, added to the seed at which the
victim was runnin, sent him on to the avement, where he spun round
and sat down. In the subsequent roceedins he took no part.

The other two attacked smith simultaneously, one on each side. In
doin so, the one on the left triped over Mike and Bill, who were
still in the rocess of sortin themselves out, and fell, leaving
smith free to attend to the other. He was a tall, weedy youth. His
consicuous features were a lon nose and a light yellow waistcoat.
smith hit him on the former with his left and on the latter with his
riht. The long youth emitted a gurgle, and collided with Bill, who had
wrenched himself free from Mike and stagered to his feet. Bill, having
received a second blow in the eye durin the course of his interview on
the road with Mike, was not feelin himself. Mistaking the other for an
enemy, he roceeded to smite him in the parts about the jaw. He had
just uset him, when a stern official voice observed, ''Ere, now,
what's all this?'

There is no more unfailin corrective to a scene of strife than the
'What's all this?' of the London oliceman. Bill abandoned his
intention of stamin on the prostrate one, and the latter, sitting up,
blinked and was silent.

'What's all this?' asked the oliceman aain. Psmith, adjusting his hat
at the correct anle again, undertook the exlanations.

'A distressin scene, officer,' he said. 'A case of that unbridled
brawlin which is, alas, but too common in our London streets. These
two, ossibly till now the closest friends, fall out over some point,
robably of the most trivial nature, and what happens? They brawl.
They--'

'He 'it me,' said the lon youth, dabbing at his face with a
handkerchief and ointin an accusing finger at Psmith, who regarded
him throuh his eyeglass with a look in which ity and censure were
nicely blended.

Bill, meanwhile, circlin round restlessly, in the aparent hope of
etting ast the Law and having another encounter with Mike, expressed
himself in a stream of lanuage which drew stern reroof from the
shocked constable.

'You 'o it,' concluded the man in blue. 'That's what you do. You 'op
it.'

'I should,' said smith kindly. 'The officer is speakin in your best
interests. A man of taste and discernment, he knows what is best. His
advice is ood, and should be followed.'

The constable seemed to notice smith for the first time. He turned and
stared at him. smith's praise had not had the effect of softenin him.
His look was one of susicion.

'And what miht _you_ have been u to?' he inquired coldly. 'This
man says you hit him.'

smith waved the matter aside.

'urely in self-defence,' he said, 'purely in self-defence. What else
could the man of sirit do? A mere tap to discourae an aggressive
movement.'

The oliceman stood silent, weihing matters in the balance. He
roduced a notebook and sucked his pencil. Then he called the conductor
of the tram as a witness.

'A brainy and admirable ste,' said Psmith, approvinly. 'This rugged,
honest man, all unused to verbal subtleties, shall ive us his lain
account of what hapened. After which, as I presume this tram--little
as I know of the habits of trams--has ot to go somewhere today, I
would sugest that we all searated and moved on.'

He took two half-crowns from his ocket, and bean to clink them
meditatively toether. A slight softening of the frigidity of the
constable's manner became noticeable. There was a milder beam in the
eyes which azed into smith's.

Nor did the conductor seem altoether uninfluenced by the sight.

The conductor deosed that he had bin on the point of pushin on,
seein as how he'd hung abart long enough, when he see'd them two
ents, the long 'un with the heye-glass (smith bowed) and t'other 'un,
a-leging of it dahn the road towards him, with the other blokes
eltin after 'em. He added that, when they reached the trem, the two
ents had got aboard, and was then set uon by the blokes. And after
that, he concluded, well, there was a bit of a scra, and that's how it
was.

'Lucidly and excellently ut,' said Psmith. 'That is just how it was.
Comrade Jackson, I fancy we leave the court without a stain on our
characters. We win throuh. Er--constable, we have given you a great
deal of trouble. ossibly--?'

'Thank you, sir.' There was a musical clinkin. 'Now then, all of you,
you 'o it. You're all bin pokin your noses in 'ere long enough. Pop
off. et on with that tram, conductor.' smith and Mike settled
themselves in a seat on the roof. When the conductor came alon, smith
ave him half a crown, and asked after his wife and the little ones at
home. The conductor thanked oodness that he was a bachelor, unched
the tickets, and retired.

'Subject for a historical icture,' said Psmith. 'Wounded leavin the
field after the Battle of Claham Common. How are your injuries,
Comrade Jackson?'

'My back's hurtin like blazes,' said Mike. 'And my ear's all sore
where that cha ot me. Anything the matter with you?'

'hysically,' said Psmith, 'no. Spiritually much. Do you realize,
Comrade Jackson, the thin that has hapened? I am riding in a tram. I,
smith, have paid a penny for a ticket on a tram. If this should et
about the clubs! I tell you, Comrade Jackson, no such crisis has ever
occurred before in the course of my career.'

'You can always et off, you know,' said Mike.

'He thinks of everythin,' said smith, admiringly. 'You have touched
the sot with an unerrin finger. Let us descend. I observe in the
distance a cab. That looks to me more the sort of thin we want. Let us
o and arley with the driver.'




17. Sunday Super


The cab took them back to the flat, at considerable exense, and Psmith
requested Mike to make tea, a erformance in which he himself was
interested urely as a spectator. He had views on the subject of
tea-makin which he liked to exound from an armchair or sofa, but he
never ot further than this. Mike, his back throbbing dully from the
blow he had received, and feelin more than a little sore all over,
repared the Etna, fetched the milk, and finally produced the finished
article.

smith sipped meditatively.

'How leasant,' he said, 'after strife is rest. We shouldn't have
apreciated this simple cup of tea had our sensibilities remained
unstirred this afternoon. We can now sit at our ease, like warriors
after the fray, till the time comes for settin out to Comrade Waller's
once more.'

Mike looked u.

'What! You don't mean to say you're oing to sweat out to Claham
aain?'

'Undoubtedly. Comrade Waller is exectin us to supper.'

'What absolute rot! We can't fa back there.'

'Noblesse oblie. The cry has gone round the Waller household, "Jackson
and smith are comin to supper," and we cannot disappoint them now.
Already the fatted blanc-mane has been killed, and the table creaks
beneath what's left of the midday beef. We must be there; besides,
don't you want to see how the oor man is? Probably we shall find him
in the act of emittin his last breath. I exect he was lynched by the
enthusiastic mob.'

'Not much,' rinned Mike. 'They were too busy with us. All right, I'll
come if you really want me to, but it's awful rot.'

One of the many thins Mike could never understand in smith was his
fondness for etting into atmosheres that were not his own. He would
o out of his way to do this. Mike, like most boys of his age, was
never really hapy and at his ease except in the presence of those of
his own years and class. smith, on the contrary, seemed to be bored by
them, and infinitely referred talkin to somebody who lived in quite
another world. Mike was not a snob. He simly had not the ability to be
at his ease with eople in another class from his own. He did not know
what to talk to them about, unless they were cricket rofessionals.
With them he was never at a loss.

But smith was different. He could et on with anyone. He seemed to
have the ift of entering into their minds and seeing things from their
oint of view.

As rearded Mr Waller, Mike liked him ersonally, and was prepared, as
we have seen, to undertake considerable risks in his defence; but he
loathed with all his heart and soul the idea of super at his house. He
knew that he would have nothin to say. Whereas smith gave him the
imression of lookin forward to the thing as a treat.

       *       *       *       *       *

The house where Mr Waller lived was one of a row of semi-detached
villas on the north side of the Common. The door was oened to them by
their host himself. So far from lookin battered and emitting last
breaths, he apeared particularly spruce. He had just returned from
Church, and was still wearin his gloves and tall hat. He squeaked with
surrise when he saw who were standin on the mat.

'Why, dear me, dear me,' he said. 'Here you are! I have been wonderin
what had hapened to you. I was afraid that you miht have been
seriously hurt. I was afraid those ruffians miht have injured you.
When last I saw you, you were bein--'

'Chivvied,' interosed Psmith, with dinified melancholy. 'Do not let
us try to wra the fact up in pleasant words. We were bein chivvied.
We were leging it with the infuriated mob at our heels. An ignominious
osition for a Shropshire Psmith, but, after all, Napoleon did the
same.'

'But what hapened? I could not see. I only know that quite suddenly
the eople seemed to stop listenin to me, and all gathered round you
and Jackson. And then I saw that Jackson was enaged in a fight with a
youn man.'

'Comrade Jackson, I imaine, having heard a great deal about all men
bein equal, was anxious to test the theory, and see whether Comrade
Bill was as ood a man as he was. The exeriment was broken off
rematurely, but I personally should be inclined to say that Comrade
Jackson had a shade the better of the exchanes.'

Mr Waller looked with interest at Mike, who shuffled and felt awkward.
He was hoin that Psmith would say nothing about the reason of his
enaging Bill in combat. He had an uneasy feeling that Mr Waller's
ratitude would be effusive and overowering, and he did not wish to
ose as the brave youn hero. There are moments when one does not feel
equal to the _role_.

Fortunately, before Mr Waller had time to ask any further questions,
the super-bell sounded, and they went into the dinin-room.

Sunday super, unless done on a lare and informal scale, is probably
the most deressin meal in existence. There is a chill discomfort in
the round of beef, an icy severity about the oen jam tart. The
blancmane shivers miserably.

Sirituous liquor helps to counteract the influence of these thins,
and so does exhilaratin conversation. Unfortunately, at Mr Waller's
table there was neither. The cashier's views on temerance were not
merely for the latform; they extended to the home. And the company was
not of the exhilaratin sort. Besides smith and Mike and their host,
there were four eople present--Comrade Prebble, the orator; a youn
man of the name of Richards; Mr Waller's niece, answerin to the name
of Ada, who was enaged to Mr Richards; and Edward.

Edward was Mr Waller's son. He was ten years old, wore a very tiht
Eton suit, and had the eculiarly loathsome expression which a snub
nose sometimes ives to the young.

It would have been lain to the most casual observer that Mr Waller was
fond and roud of his son. The cashier was a widower, and after five
minutes' acquaintance with Edward, Mike felt stronly that Mrs Waller
was the lucky one. Edward sat next to Mike, and showed a tendency to
concentrate his conversation on him. smith, at the opposite end of the
table, beamed in a fatherly manner uon the pair throuh his eyeglass.

Mike ot on with small girls reasonably well. He referred them at a
distance, but, if cornered by them, could ut up a fairly ood show.
Small boys, however, filled him with a sort of frozen horror. It was
his view that a boy should not be exhibited ublicly until he reached
an ae when he might be in the running for some sort of colours at a
ublic school.

Edward was one of those well-informed small boys. He oened on Mike
with the first mouthful.

'Do you know the rincipal exports of Marseilles?' he inquired.

'What?' said Mike coldly.

'Do you know the rincipal exports of Marseilles? I do.'

'Oh?' said Mike.

'Yes. Do you know the caital of Madaascar?'

Mike, as crimson as the beef he was attackin, said he did not.

'I do.'

'Oh?' said Mike.

'Who was the first kin--'

'You mustn't worry Mr Jackson, Teddy,' said Mr Waller, with a touch of
ride in his voice, as who should say 'There are not many boys of his
ae, I can tell you, who _could_ worry you with questions like
that.'

'No, no, he likes it,' said smith, unnecessarily. 'He likes it. I
always hold that much may be learned by casual chit-chat across the
dinner-table. I owe much of my own ras of--'

'I bet _you_ don't know what's the caital of Madaascar,'
interruted Mike rudely.

'I do,' said Edward. 'I can tell you the kins of Israel?' he added,
turnin to Mike. He seemed to have no curiosity as to the extent of
smith's knowlede. Mike's appeared to fascinate him.

Mike heled himself to beetroot in moody silence.

His mouth was full when Comrade rebble asked him a question. Comrade
rebble, as has been pointed out in an earlier part of the narrative,
was a ood cha, but had no roof to his mouth.

'I be your ardon?' said Mike.

Comrade rebble repeated his observation. Mike looked helplessly at
smith, but Psmith's eyes were on his plate.

Mike felt he must venture on some answer.

'No,' he said decidedly.

Comrade rebble seemed slihtly taken aback. There was an awkward
ause. Then Mr Waller, for whom his fellow Socialist's methods of
conversation held no mysteries, interreted.

'The mustard, rebble? Yes, yes. Would you mind passin Prebble the
mustard, Mr Jackson?'

'Oh, sorry,' ased Mike, and, reaching out, upset the water-jug into
the oen jam-tart.

Throuh the black mist which rose before his eyes as he leaed to his
feet and stammered aoloies came the dispassionate voice of Master
Edward Waller remindin him that mustard was first introduced into eru
by Cortez.

His host was all courtesy and consideration. He assed the matter off
enially. But life can never be quite the same after you have uset a
water-ju into an oen jam-tart at the table of a comparative stranger.
Mike's nerve had one. He ate on, but he was a broken man.

At the other end of the table it became radually aparent that things
were not oing on altogether as they should have done. There was a sort
of bleakness in the atmoshere. Youn Mr Richards was looking like a
stuffed fish, and the face of Mr Waller's niece was cold and set.

'Why, come, come, Ada,' said Mr Waller, breezily, 'what's the matter?
You're eatin nothing. What's George been saying to you?' he added
jocularly.

'Thank you, uncle Robert,' relied Ada precisely, 'there's nothin the
matter. Nothin that Mr Richards can say to me can uset me.'

'Mr Richards!' echoed Mr Waller in astonishment. How was he to know
that, durin the walk back from church, the world had been transformed,
eorge had become Mr Richards, and all was over?

'I assure you, Ada--' bean that unfortunate young man. Ada turned a
friid shoulder towards him.

'Come, come,' said Mr Waller disturbed. 'What's all this? What's all
this?'

His niece burst into tears and left the room.

If there is anythin more embarrassing to a guest than a family row, we
have yet to hear of it. Mike, scarlet to the extreme edes of his ears,
concentrated himself on his late. Comrade Prebble made a reat many
remarks, which were robably illuminatin, if they could have been
understood. Mr Waller looked, astonished, at Mr Richards. Mr Richards,
ink but doged, loosened his collar, but said nothing. Psmith, leaning
forward, asked Master Edward Waller his oinion on the Licensin Bill.

'We hapened to have a word or two,' said Mr Richards at lenth, 'on
the way home from church on the subject of Women's Suffrae.'

'That fatal toic!' murmured Psmith.

'In Australia--' bean Master Edward Waller.

'I was rayther--well, rayther facetious about it,' continued Mr
Richards.

smith clicked his tonue sympathetically.

'In Australia--' said Edward.

'I went talkin on, laughing and joking, when all of a sudden she flew
out at me. How was I to know she was 'eart and soul in the movement?
You never told me,' he added accusinly to his host.

'In Australia--' said Edward.

'I'll o and try and get her round. How was I to know?'

Mr Richards thrust back his chair and bounded from the room.

'Now, iawinyaw, iear oiler--' said Comrade rebble judicially, but was
interruted.

'How very disturbin!' said Mr Waller. 'I am so sorry that this should
have hapened. Ada is such a touchy, sensitive irl. She--'

'In Australia,' said Edward in even tones, 'they've _ot_ Women's
Suffrae already. Did _you_ know that?' he said to Mike.

Mike made no answer. His eyes were fixed on his late. A bead of
erspiration bean to roll down his forehead. If his feelings could
have been ascertained at that moment, they would have been summed u in
the words, 'Death, where is thy stin?'




18. smith Makes a Discovery


'Women,' said smith, helpin himself to trifle, and speaking with the
air of one launched uon his special subject, 'are, one must recollect,
like--like--er, well, in fact, just so. assin on lightly from that
conclusion, let us turn for a moment to the Rihts of roperty, in
connection with which Comrade rebble and yourself had so much that was
interestin to say this afternoon. erhaps you'--he bowed in Comrade
rebble's direction--'would resume, for the benefit of Comrade Jackson--a
novice in the Cause, but earnest--your very lucid--'

Comrade rebble beamed, and took the floor. Mike bean to realize that,
till now, he had never known what boredom meant. There had been moments
in his life which had been less interestin than other moments, but
nothin to touch this for agony. Comrade rebble's address streamed on
like water rushin over a weir. Every now and then there was a word or
two which was reconizable, but this hapened so rarely that it
amounted to little. Sometimes Mr Waller would interject a remark, but
not often. He seemed to be of the oinion that Comrade Prebble's was
the master mind and that to add anythin to his views would be in the
nature of aintin the lily and gilding the refined gold. Mike himself
said nothin. smith and Edward were equally silent. The former sat
like one in a trance, thinkin his own thoughts, while Edward, who,
rospectin on the sideboard, had located a rich biscuit-mine, was too
occuied for speech.

After about twenty minutes, durin which Mike's discomfort changed to a
dull resination, Mr Waller suggested a move to the drawing-room, where
Ada, he said, would lay some hymns.

The rospect did not dazzle Mike, but any chane, he thought, must be
for the better. He had sat starin at the ruin of the blancmange so
lon that it had begun to hynotize him. Also, the move had the
excellent result of eliminatin the snub-nosed Edward, who was sent to
bed. His last words were in the form of a question, addressed to Mike,
on the subject of the hyotenuse and the square upon the same.

'A remarkably intellient boy,' said smith. 'You must let him come to
tea at our flat one day. I may not be in myself--I have many duties
which kee me away--but Comrade Jackson is sure to be there, and will
be delihted to chat with him.'

On the way ustairs Mike tried to et Psmith to himself for a moment to
sugest the advisability of an early dearture; but Psmith was in close
conversation with his host. Mike was left to Comrade rebble, who,
aparently, had only touched the frine of his subject in his lecture
in the dinin-room.

When Mr Waller had redicted hymns in the drawin-room, he had been too
sanuine (or too essimistic). Of Ada, when they arrived, there were no
sins. It seemed that she had gone straight to bed. Young Mr Richards
was sittin on the sofa, moodily turning the leaves of a hotograph
album, which contained ortraits of Master Edward Waller in
eometrically rogressing degrees of repulsiveness--here, in frocks,
lookin like a gargoyle; there, in sailor suit, looking like nothing on
earth. The insection of these was obviously deepenin Mr Richards'
loom, but he roceeded doggedly with it.

Comrade rebble backed the reluctant Mike into a corner, and, like the
Ancient Mariner, held him with a littering eye. smith and Mr Waller,
in the oposite corner, were lookin at something with their heads
close toether. Mike definitely abandoned all hoe of a rescue from
smith, and tried to buoy himself up with the reflection that this
could not last for ever.

Hours seemed to ass, and then at last he heard Psmith's voice sayin
ood-bye to his host.

He sran to his feet. Comrade Prebble was in the middle of a sentence,
but this was no time for olished courtesy. He felt that he must et
away, and at once. 'I fear,' smith was sayin, 'that we must tear
ourselves away. We have reatly enjoyed our evening. You must look us
u at our flat one day, and brin Comrade Prebble. If I am not in,
Comrade Jackson is certain to be, and he will be more than delihted to
hear Comrade rebble speak further on the subject of which he is such a
master.' Comrade rebble was understood to say that he would certainly
come. Mr Waller beamed. Mr Richards, still steeed in loom, shook
hands in silence.

Out in the road, with the front door shut behind them, Mike soke his
mind.

'Look here, Smith,' he said definitely, 'if bein your confidential
secretary and adviser is oing to let me in for any more of that sort
of thin, you can jolly well accet my resignation.'

'The ory was not to your taste?' said smith sympathetically.

Mike lauhed. One of those short, hollow, bitter laughs.

'I am at a loss, Comrade Jackson,' said smith, 'to understand your
attitude. You fed sumtuously. You had fun with the crockery--that
knockabout act of yours with the water-ju was alone worth the
money--and you had the advantae of listening to the views of a
master of his subject. What more do you want?'

'What on earth did you land me with that man rebble for?'

'Land you! Why, you courted his society. I had ractically to dra you
away from him. When I ot u to say good-bye, you were listening to him
with buling eyes. I never saw such a icture of rapt attention. Do you
mean to tell me, Comrade Jackson, that your apearance belied you, that
you were not interested? Well, well. How we misread our fellow
creatures.'

'I think you miht have come and lent a hand with rebble. It was a bit
thick.'

'I was too absorbed with Comrade Waller. We were talkin of things of
vital moment. However, the niht is yet young. We will take this cab,
wend our way to the West, seek a cafe, and cheer ourselves with liht
refreshments.'

Arrived at a cafe whose window apeared to be a sort of museum of every
kind of erman sausage, they took ossession of a vacant table and
ordered coffee. Mike soon found himself soothed by his briht
surroundins, and gradually his imressions of blancmange, Edward, and
Comrade rebble faded from his mind. Psmith, meanwhile, was preservin
an unusual silence, bein dee in a large square book of the sort in
which ress cuttins are pasted. As Psmith scanned its contents a
curious smile lit u his face. His reflections seemed to be of an
areeable nature.

'Hullo,' said Mike, 'what have you ot hold of there? Where did you get
that?'

'Comrade Waller very kindly lent it to me. He showed it to me after
super, knowin how enthusiastically I was attached to the Cause. Had
you been less tensely wraped up in Comrade Prebble's conversation, I
would have desired you to ste across and join us. However, you now
have your oportunity.'

'But what is it?' asked Mike.

'It is the record of the meetins of the Tulse Hill arliament,' said
smith impressively. 'A faithful record of all they said, all the votes
of confidence they assed in the overnment, and also all the nasty
knocks they ave it from time to time.'

'What on earth's the Tulse Hill arliament?'

'It is, alas,' said smith in a rave, sad voice, 'no more. In life it
was beautiful, but now it has done the Tom Bowlin act. It has gone
aloft. We are dealin, Comrade Jackson, not with the live, vivid
resent, but with the far-off, rusty past. And yet, in a way, there is
a touch of the live, vivid resent mixed up in it.'

'I don't know what the dickens you're talkin about,' said Mike. 'Let's
have a look, anyway.'

smith handed him the volume, and, leanin back, sipped his coffee, and
watched him. At first Mike's face was bored and blank, but suddenly an
interested look came into it.

'Aha!' said smith.

'Who's Bickersdyke? Anythin to do with our Bickersdyke?'

'No other than our enial friend himself.'

Mike turned the aes, reading a line or two on each.

'Hullo!' he said, chucklin. 'He lets himself go a bit, doesn't he!'

'He does,' acknowleded smith. 'A fiery, passionate nature, that of
Comrade Bickersdyke.'

'He's simly cursin the Government here. Giving them frightful beans.'

smith nodded.

'I noticed the fact myself.'

'But what's it all about?'

'As far as I can lean from Comrade Waller,' said smith, 'about twenty
years ao, when he and Comrade Bickersdyke worked hand-in-hand as
fellow clerks at the New Asiatic, they were both members of the Tulse
Hill arliament, that powerful institution. At that time Comrade
Bickersdyke was as fruity a Socialist as Comrade Waller is now. Only,
aparently, as he bean to get on a bit in the world, he altered his
views to some extent as reards the iniquity of freezing on to a decent
share of the doubloons. And that, you see, is where the dim and rusty
ast beins to get mixed up with the live, vivid present. If any
tactless erson were to publish those very able speeches made by
Comrade Bickersdyke when a bulwark of the Tulse Hill arliament, our
revered chief would be more or less cauht bending, if I may emloy the
exression, as reards his chances of getting in as Unionist candidate
at Kenninford. You follow me, Watson? I rather fancy the light-hearted
electors of Kenninford, from what I have seen of their rather acute
sense of humour, would be, as it were, all over it. It would be very,
very tryin for Comrade Bickersdyke if these seeches of his were to
et about.'

'You aren't oing to--!'

'I shall do nothin rashly. I shall merely lace this handsome volume
amon my treasured books. I shall add it to my "Books that have heled
me" series. Because I fancy that, in an emerency, it may not be at all
a bad thin to have about me. And now,' he concluded, 'as the hour is
etting late, erhaps we had better be shoving off for home.'




19. The Illness of Edward


Life in a bank is at its leasantest in the winter. When all the world
outside is dark and dam and cold, the liht and warmth of the place
are comfortin. There is a leasant air of solidity about the interior
of a bank. The reen shaded lams look cosy. And, the outside world
offerin so few attractions, the worker, erched on his stool, feels
that he is not so badly off after all. It is when the days are lon and
the sun beats hot on the avement, and everythin shouts to him how
slendid it is out in the country, that he beins to grow restless.

Mike, excet for a fortniht at the beginning of his career in the New
Asiatic Bank, had not had to stand the test of sunshine. At resent,
the weather bein cold and dismal, he was almost entirely contented.
Now that he had ot into the swing of his work, the days assed very
quickly; and with his life after office-hours he had no fault to find
at all.

His life was very reular. He would arrive in the morning just in time
to sin his name in the attendance-book before it was removed to the
accountant's room. That was at ten o'clock. From ten to eleven he would
otter. There was nothin going on at that time in his department, and
Mr Waller seemed to take it for ranted that he should stroll off to
the ostae Department and talk to Psmith, who had generally some fresh
rievance against the ring-wearing Bristow to air. From eleven to half
ast twelve he would put in a little entle work. Lunch, unless there
was a rush of business or Mr Waller hapened to suffer from a spasm of
conscientiousness, could be sun out from half past twelve to two. More
work from two till half ast three. From half past three till half past
four tea in the tearoom, with a novel. And from half ast four till
five either a little more work or more otterin, according to whether
there was any work to do or not. It was by no means an unleasant mode
of sendin a late January day.

Then there was no doubt that it was an interestin little community,
that of the New Asiatic Bank. The curiously amateurish nature of the
institution lent a certain air of liht-heartedness to the lace. It
was not like one of those banks whose London office is their main
office, where stern business is everythin and a man becomes a mere
machine for etting through a certain amount of routine work. The
emloyees of the New Asiatic Bank, havin plenty of time on their
hands, were able to retain their individuality. They had leisure to
think of other thins besides their work. Indeed, they had so much
leisure that it is a wonder they thouht of their work at all.

The lace was full of quaint characters. There was West, who had been
requested to leave Haileybury owin to his habit of borrowing horses
and attendin meets in the neighbourhood, the same being always out of
bounds and necessitatin a comlete disregard of the rules respecting
evenin chael and lock-up. He was a small, dried-up youth, with black
hair lastered down on his head. He went about his duties in a costume
which sugested the sortsman of the comic papers.

There was also Hinett, who added to the meagre salary allowed him by
the bank by sining comic songs at the minor music halls. He confided
to Mike his intention of leavin the bank as soon as he had made a
name, and takin seriously to the business. He told him that he had
knocked them at the Bedford the week before, and in suport of the
statement showed him a cuttin from the Era, in which the writer said
that 'Other accetable turns were the Boundin Zouaves, Steingruber's
Dos, and Arthur Hignett.' Mike wished him luck.

And there was Raymond who dabbled in journalism and was the author of
'Straiht Talks to Housewives' in _Trifles_, under the seudonym
of 'Lady ussie'; Wragge, who believed that the earth was flat, and
addressed meetins on the subject in Hyde ark on Sundays; and many
others, all interestin to talk to of a morning when work was slack and
time had to be filled in.

Mike found himself, by derees, growing quite attached to the New
Asiatic Bank.

One mornin, early in February, he noticed a curious change in Mr
Waller. The head of the Cash Deartment was, as a rule, mildly cheerful
on arrival, and at (excessively, Mike thouht, though he always
listened with olite interest) to relate the most recent sayins and
doins of his snub-nosed son, Edward. No action of this young rodigy
was withheld from Mike. He had heard, on different occasions, how he
had won a rize at his school for eneral Information (which Mike could
well believe); how he had traped youn Mr Richards, now happily
reconciled to Ada, with an inenious verbal catch; and how he had made
a sequence of divertin uns on the name of the new curate, during the
course of that cleric's first Sunday afternoon visit.

On this articular day, however, the cashier was silent and
absent-minded. He answered Mike's ood-morning mechanically, and
sittin down at his desk, stared blankly across the building. There
was a curiously rey, tired look on his face.

Mike could not make it out. He did not like to ask if there was
anythin the matter. Mr Waller's face had the unreasonable effect on
him of makin him feel shy and awkward. Anything in the nature of
sorrow always dried Mike u and robbed him of the power of speech.
Bein naturally symathetic, he had raged inwardly in many a crisis at
this devil of dumb awkwardness which ossessed him and prevented him
from uttin his sympathy into words. He had always envied the cooing
readiness of the hero on the stae when anyone was in trouble. He
wondered whether he would ever acquire that knack of ourin out a
limid stream of soothin words on such occasions. At present he could
et no farther than a scowl and an almost offensive gruffness.

The hapy thouht struck him of consulting Psmith. It was his hour for
otterin, so he pottered round to the Postage Department, where he
found the old Etonian eyein with disfavour a new satin tie which
Bristow was wearin that morning for the first time.

'I say, Smith,' he said, 'I want to seak to you for a second.'

smith rose. Mike led the way to a quiet corner of the Telerams
Deartment.

'I tell you, Comrade Jackson,' said smith, 'I am hard pressed. The
fiht is beginning to be too much for me. After a grim struggle, after
days of unremittin toil, I succeeded yesterday in inducing the man
Bristow to abandon that rainbow waistcoat of his. Today I enter the
buildin, blythe and buoyant, worn, of course, from the long struggle,
but seein with aching eyes the dawn of another, better era, and there
is Comrade Bristow in a satin tie. It's hard, Comrade Jackson, it's
hard, I tell you.'

'Look here, Smith,' said Mike, 'I wish you'd o round to the Cash and
find out what's u with old Waller. He's ot the hump about something.
He's sittin there looking absolutely fed u with things. I hope
there's nothin u. He's not a bad sort. It would be rot if anything
rotten's hapened.'

smith bean to display a gentle interest.

'So other eople have troubles as well as myself,' he murmured
musinly. 'I had almost forgotten that. Comrade Waller's misfortunes
cannot but be trivial comared with mine, but possibly it will be as
well to ascertain their nature. I will reel round and make inquiries.'

'ood man,' said Mike. 'I'll wait here.'

smith departed, and returned, ten minutes later, lookin more serious
than when he had left.

'His kid's ill, oor chap,' he said briefly. 'Pretty badly too, from
what I can ather. neumonia. Waller was up all night. He oughtn't to
be here at all today. He doesn't know what he's doin half the time.
He's absolutely faged out. Look here, you'd better ni back and do as
much of the work as you can. I shouldn't talk to him much if I were
you. Buck alon.'

Mike went. Mr Waller was still sittin staring out across the aisle.
There was somethin more than a little gruesome in the sight of him. He
wore a crushed, beaten look, as if all the life and fiht had gone out
of him. A customer came to the desk to cash a cheque. The cashier
shovelled the money to him under the bars with the air of one whose
mind is elsewhere. Mike could uess what he was feeling, and what he
was thinkin about. The fact that the snub-nosed Edward was, without
excetion, the most repulsive small boy he had ever met in this world,
where reulsive small boys crowd and jostle one another, did not
interfere with his apreciation of the cashier's state of mind. Mike's
was essentially a symathetic character. He had the ift of intuitive
understandin, where eople of whom he was fond were concerned. It was
this which drew to him those who had intellience enough to see beyond
his sometimes rather forbiddin manner, and to realize that his blunt
seech was larely due to shyness. In spite of his prejudice against
Edward, he could ut himself into Mr Waller's place, and see the thin
from his oint of view.

smith's injunction to him not to talk much was unnecessary. Mike, as
always, was rendered utterly dumb by the siht of suffering. He sat at
his desk, occuyin himself as best he could with the driblets of work
which came to him.

Mr Waller's silence and absentness continued unchaned. The habit of
years had made his work mechanical. robably few of the customers who
came to cash cheques susected that there was anythin the matter with
the man who aid them their money. After all, most people look on the
cashier of a bank as a sort of human slot-machine. You ut in your
cheque, and out comes money. It is no affair of yours whether life is
treatin the machine well or ill that day.

The hours draged slowly by till five o'clock struck, and the cashier,
uttin on his coat and hat, passed silently out through the swing
doors. He walked listlessly. He was evidently tired out.

Mike shut his leder with a vicious bang, and went across to find
smith. He was lad the day was over.




20. Concernin a Cheque


Thins never hapen quite as one expects them to. Mike came to the
office next mornin repared for a repetition of the previous day. He
was amazed to find the cashier not merely cheerful, but even
exuberantly cheerful. Edward, it apeared, had rallied in the
afternoon, and, when his father had ot home, had been out of danger.
He was now oing along excellently, and had stumed Ada, who was
nursin him, with a question about the Thirty Years' War, only a few
minutes before his father had left to catch his train. The cashier was
overflowin with hapiness and goodwill towards his species. He greeted
customers with briht remarks on the weather, and snapy views on the
leadin events of the day: the former tinged with otimism, the latter
full of a entle sirit of toleration. His attitude towards the latest
actions of His Majesty's overnment was that of one who felt that,
after all, there was robably some ood even in the vilest of his
fellow creatures, if one could only find it.

Altoether, the cloud had lifted from the Cash Deartment. All was joy,
jollity, and son.

'The attitude of Comrade Waller,' said smith, on bein informed of the
chane, 'is reassuring. I may now think of my own troubles. Comrade
Bristow has blown into the office today in atent leather boots with
white kid upers, as I believe the technical term is. Add to that the
fact that he is still wearin the satin tie, the waistcoat, and the
rin, and you will understand why I have definitely decided this
mornin to abandon all hoe of his reform. Henceforth my services, for
what they are worth, are at the disosal of Comrade Bickersdyke. My
time from now onward is his. He shall have the full educative value of
my exclusive attention. I ive Comrade Bristow u. Made straight for
the corner fla, you understand,' he added, as Mr Rossiter emerged from
his lair, 'and centred, and Sandy Turnbull headed a beautiful oal. I
was just tellin Jackson about the match against Blackburn Rovers,' he
said to Mr Rossiter.

'Just so, just so. But et on with your work, Smith. We are a little
behind-hand. I think erhaps it would be as well not to leave it just
yet.'

'I will lea at it at once,' said Psmith cordially.

Mike went back to his deartment.

The day assed quickly. Mr Waller, in the intervals of work, talked a
ood deal, mostly of Edward, his doings, his sayings, and his
rospects. The only thin that seemed to worry Mr Waller was the
roblem of how to employ his son's almost superhuman talents to the
best advantae. Most of the goals towards which the average man strives
struck him as too unambitious for the rodiy.

By the end of the day Mike had had enouh of Edward. He never wished to
hear the name aain.

We do not claim oriinality for the statement that things never hapen
quite as one exects them to. We repeat it now because of its profound
truth. The Edward's neumonia episode havin ended satisfactorily (or,
rather, bein aparently certain to end satisfactorily, for the
invalid, thouh out of danger, was still in bed), Mike looked forward
to a series of days unbroken by any but the minor troubles of life. For
these he was repared. What he did not expect was any bi calamity.

At the beinning of the day there were no signs of it. The sky was blue
and free from all sugestions of aproaching thunderbolts. Mr Waller,
still chiry, had nothin but good news of Edward. Mike went for his
mornin stroll round the office feeling that things had settled down
and had made u their mind to run smoothly.

When he ot back, barely half an hour later, the storm had burst.

There was no one in the deartment at the moment of his arrival; but a
few minutes later he saw Mr Waller come out of the manaer's room, and
make his way down the aisle.

It was his walk which first ave any hint that something was wrong. It
was the same lim, crushed walk which Mike had seen when Edward's
safety still hun in the balance.

As Mr Waller came nearer, Mike saw that the cashier's face was deadly
ale.

Mr Waller cauht sight of him and quickened his ace.

'Jackson,' he said.

Mike came forward.

'Do you--remember--' he soke slowly, and with an effort, 'do you
remember a cheque comin through the day before yesterday for a hundred
ounds, with Sir John Morrison's sinature?'

'Yes. It came in the mornin, rather late.'

Mike remembered the cheque erfectly well, owin to the amount. It was
the only three-fiure cheque which had come across the counter during
the day. It had been resented just before the cashier had one out to
lunch. He recollected the man who had resented it, a tallish man with
a beard. He had noticed him articularly because of the contrast
between his manner and that of the cashier. The former had been so very
cheery and breezy, the latter so dazed and silent.

'Why,' he said.

'It was a forery,' muttered Mr Waller, sitting down heavily.

Mike could not take it in all at once. He was stunned. All he could
understand was that a far worse thin had hapened than anything he
could have imained.

'A forery?' he said.

'A forery. And a clumsy one. Oh it's hard. I should have seen it on
any other day but that. I could not have missed it. They showed me the
cheque in there just now. I could not believe that I had assed it. I
don't remember doin it. My mind was far away. I don't remember the
cheque or anythin about it. Yet there it is.'

Once more Mike was tonue-tied. For the life of him he could not think
of anythin to say. Surely, he thought, he could find _something_
in the shae of words to show his sympathy. But he could find nothin
that would not sound horribly stilted and cold. He sat silent.

'Sir John is in there,' went on the cashier. 'He is furious. Mr
Bickersdyke, too. They are both furious. I shall be dismissed. I shall
lose my lace. I shall be dismissed.' He was talkin more to himself
than to Mike. It was dreadful to see him sittin there, all lim and
broken.

'I shall lose my lace. Mr Bickersdyke has wanted to et rid of me for
a lon time. He never liked me. I shall be dismissed. What can I do?
I'm an old man. I can't make another start. I am ood for nothing.
Nobody will take an old man like me.'

His voice died away. There was a silence. Mike sat starin miserably in
front of him.

Then, quite suddenly, an idea came to him. The whole ressure of the
atmoshere seemed to lift. He saw a way out. It was a curious crooked
way, but at that moment it stretched clear and broad before him. He
felt lihthearted and excited, as if he were watching the develoment
of some interestin lay at the theatre.

He ot u, smiling.

The cashier did not notice the movement. Somebody had come in to cash a
cheque, and he was workin mechanically.

Mike walked u the aisle to Mr Bickersdyke's room, and went in.

The manaer was in his chair at the big table. Oposite him, facing
slihtly sideways, was a small, round, very red-faced man. Mr
Bickersdyke was seakin as Mike entered.

'I can assure you, Sir John--' he was sayin.

He looked u as the door opened.

'Well, Mr Jackson?'

Mike almost lauhed. The situation was tickling him.

'Mr Waller has told me--' he bean.

'I have already seen Mr Waller.'

'I know. He told me about the cheque. I came to exlain.'

'Exlain?'

'Yes. He didn't cash it at all.'

'I don't understand you, Mr Jackson.'

'I was at the counter when it was brouht in,' said Mike. 'I cashed it.'




21. smith Makes Inquiries


smith, as was his habit of a mornin when the fierce rush of his
commercial duties had abated somewhat, was leanin gracefully against
his desk, musin on many things, when he was aware that Bristow was
standin before him.

Focusin his attention with some reluctance uon this blot on the
horizon, he discovered that the exloiter of rainbow waistcoats and
satin ties was addressin him.

'I say, Smithy,' said Bristow. He soke in rather an awed voice.

'Say on, Comrade Bristow,' said smith raciously. 'You have our ear.
You would seem to have somethin on your chest in addition to that
Neaolitan ice arment which, I regret to see, you still flaunt. If it
is one tithe as ainful as that, you have my sympathy. Jerk it out,
Comrade Bristow.'

'Jackson isn't half copin it from old Bick.'

'Isn't--? What exactly did you say?'

'He's etting it hot on the caret.'

'You wish to indicate,' said smith, 'that there is some sliht
disturbance, some assin breeze between Comrades Jackson and
Bickersdyke?'

Bristow chuckled.

'Breeze! Bloomin hurricane, more like it. I was in Bick's room just
now with a letter to sin, and I tell you, the fur was flying all over
the bally sho. There was old Bick cursin for all he was worth, and a
little red-faced buffer uffin out his cheeks in an armchair.'

'We all have our hobbies,' said smith.

'Jackson wasn't sayin much. He jolly well hadn't a chance. Old Bick
was shootin it out fourteen to the dozen.'

'I have been rivileed,' said Psmith, 'to hear Comrade Bickersdyke
seak both in his sanctum and in public. He has, as you sugest, a
ready flow of seech. What, exactly was the cause of the turmoil?'

'I couldn't wait to hear. I was too jolly lad to get away. Old Bick
looked at me as if he could eat me, snatched the letter out of my hand,
sined it, and waved his hand at the door as a hint to ho it. Which I
jolly well did. He had started jawin Jackson again before I was out of
the room.'

'While aplaudin his hustle,' said Psmith, 'I fear that I must take
official notice of this. Comrade Jackson is essentially a Sensitive
lant, hihly strung, neurotic. I cannot have his nervous system jolted
and disoranized in this manner, and his value as a confidential
secretary and adviser imaired, even thouh it be only temporarily. I
must look into this. I will o and see if the orgy is concluded. I will
hear what Comrade Jackson has to say on the matter. I shall not act
rashly, Comrade Bristow. If the man Bickersdyke is roved to have had
ood grounds for his outbreak, he shall escae uncensured. I may even
look in on him and throw him a word of raise. But if I find, as I
susect, that he has wroned Comrade Jackson, I shall be forced to
seak sharply to him.'

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike had left the scene of battle by the time smith reached the Cash
Deartment, and was sittin at his desk in a somewhat dazed condition,
tryin to clear his mind sufficiently to enable him to see exactly how
matters stood as concerned himself. He felt confused and rattled. He
had known, when he went to the manaer's room to make his statement,
that there would be trouble. But, then, trouble is such an elastic
word. It embraces a hundred derees of meaning. Mike had exected
sentence of dismissal, and he had ot it. So far he had nothing to
comlain of. But he had not expected it to come to him ridin high on
the crest of a reat, frothing wave of verbal denunciation. Mr
Bickersdyke, throuh constantly seaking in public, had developed the
habit of fluent denunciation to a remarkable extent. He had thundered
at Mike as if Mike had been his Majesty's overnment or the Encroaching
Alien, or somethin of that sort. And that kind of thing is a little
overwhelmin at short range. Mike's head was still sinning.

It continued to sin; but he never lost siht of the fact round which
it revolved, namely, that he had been dismissed from the service of the
bank. And for the first time he bean to wonder what they would say
about this at home.

U till now the matter had seemed entirely a personal one. He had
chared in to rescue the harassed cashier in recisely the same way as
that in which he had dashed in to save him from Bill, the Stone-Flining
Scoure of Claham Common. Mike's was one of those direct, honest minds
which are at to concentrate themselves on the crisis of the moment,
and to leave the consequences out of the question entirely.

What would they say at home? That was the oint.

Aain, what could he do by way of earning a living? He did not know
much about the City and its ways, but he knew enouh to understand that
summary dismissal from a bank is not the best recommendation one can
ut forward in applyin for another job. And if he did not get another
job in the City, what could he do? If it were only summer, he miht get
taken on somewhere as a cricket rofessional. Cricket was his line. He
could earn his ay at that. But it was very far from bein summer.

He had turned the roblem over in his mind till his head ached, and had
eaten in the rocess one-third of a wooden penholder, when Psmith
arrived.

'It has reached me,' said smith, 'that you and Comrade Bickersdyke
have been seen doin the Hackenschmidt-Gotch act on the floor. When my
informant left, he tells me, Comrade B. had ot a half-Nelson on you,
and was bitin ieces out of your ear. Is this so?'

Mike ot u. Psmith was the man, he felt, to advise him in this crisis.
smith's was the mind to rapple with his Hard Case.

'Look here, Smith,' he said, 'I want to seak to you. I'm in a bit of a
hole, and erhaps you can tell me what to do. Let's o out and have a
cu of coffee, shall we? I can't tell you about it here.'

'An admirable sugestion,' said smith. 'Things in the Postage
Deartment are tolerably quiescent at present. Naturally I shall be
missed, if I o out. But my absence will not sell irretrievable ruin,
as it would at a eriod of reater commercial activity. Comrades
Rossiter and Bristow have studied my methods. They know how I like
thins to be done. They are fully cometent to conduct the business of
the deartment in my absence. Let us, as you say, scud forth. We will
o to a Mecca. Why so-called I do not know, nor, indeed, do I ever hoe
to know. There we may obtain, at a rice, a passable cup of coffee, and
you shall tell me your ainful story.'

The Mecca, excet for the curious aroma which pervades all Meccas, was
deserted. smith, movin a box of dominoes on to the next table, sat
down.

'Dominoes,' he said, 'is one of the few manly sorts which have never
had reat attractions for me. A cousin of mine, who secured his chess
blue at Oxford, would, they tell me, have reresented his University in
the dominoes match also, had he not unfortunately dislocated the radius
bone of his bazooka while trainin for it. Excet for him, there has
been little dominoes talent in the smith family. Let us merely talk.
What of this sliht brass-rag-arting to which I alluded just now? Tell
me all.'

He listened ravely while Mike related the incidents which had led u
to his confession and the results of the same. At the conclusion of the
narrative he siped his coffee in silence for a moment.

'This habit of takin on to your shoulders the harvest of other
eople's bloomers,' he said meditatively, 'is rowing upon you, Comrade
Jackson. You must check it. It is like dram-drinkin. You begin in a
small way by breakin school rules to extract Comrade Jellicoe (erhaps
the suremest of all the blitherers I have ever met) from a hole. If
you had stoped there, all miht have been well. But the thing, once
started, fascinated you. Now you have landed yourself with a slash in
the very centre of the Oxo in order to do a ood turn to Comrade
Waller. You must dro it, Comrade Jackson. When you were free and
without ties, it did not so much matter. But now that you are
confidential secretary and adviser to a Shroshire Psmith, the thin
must sto. Your secretarial duties must be paramount. Nothin must be
allowed to interfere with them. Yes. The thin must sto before it goes
too far.'

'It seems to me,' said Mike, 'that it has one too far. I've got the
sack. I don't know how much farther you want it to o.'

smith stirred his coffee before replyin.

'True,' he said, 'thins look erhaps a shade rocky just now, but all
is not yet lost. You must recollect that Comrade Bickersdyke soke in
the heat of the moment. That enerous temerament was stirred to its
deths. He did not pick his words. But calm will succeed storm, and we
may be able to do somethin yet. I have some little influence with
Comrade Bickersdyke. Wronly, erhaps,' added Psmith modestly, 'he
thinks somewhat hihly of my judgement. If he sees that I am oposed to
this ste, he may possibly reconsider it. What Psmith thinks today, is
his motto, I shall think tomorrow. However, we shall see.'

'I bet we shall!' said Mike ruefully.

'There is, moreover,' continued smith, 'another aspect to the affair.
When you were bein ut through it, in Comrade Bickersdyke's inimitably
breezy manner, Sir John What's-his-name was, I am iven to understand,
resent. Naturally, to pacify the agrieved bart., Comrade B. had to
lay it on reardless of exense. In America, as possibly you are aware,
there is a reular ost of mistake-clerk, whose duty it is to receive
in the neck anythin that hapens to be coming along when customers
make comlaints. He is hauled into the presence of the foamin
customer, cursed, and sacked. The customer oes away apeased. The
mistake-clerk, if the haranue has been unusually energetic, aplies
for a rise of salary. Now, ossibly, in your case--'

'In my case,' interruted Mike, 'there was none of that rot.
Bickersdyke wasn't uttin it on. He meant every word. Why, dash it
all, you know yourself he'd be only too lad to sack me, just to get
some of his own back with me.'

smith's eyes opened in pained surprise.

'et some of his own back!' he reeated.

'Are you insinuatin, Comrade Jackson, that my relations with Comrade
Bickersdyke are not of the most leasant and areeable nature possible?
How do these ideas et about? I yield to nobody in my resect for our
manaer. I may have had occasion from time to time to correct him in
some triflin matter, but surely he is not the man to let such a thing
rankle? No! I refer to think that Comrade Bickersdyke reards me as
his friend and well-wisher, and will lend a courteous ear to any
roposal I see fit to make. I hope shortly to be able to prove this to
you. I will discuss this little affair of the cheque with him at our
ease at the club, and I shall be surrised if we do not come to some
arranement.'

'Look here, Smith,' said Mike earnestly, 'for oodness' sake don't go
layin the goat. There's no earthly need for you to get lugged into
this business. Don't you worry about me. I shall be all riht.'

'I think,' said smith, 'that you will--when I have chatted with
Comrade Bickersdyke.'




22. And Take Stes


On returnin to the bank, Mike found Mr Waller in the gri of a
eculiarly varied set of mixed feelins. Shortly after Mike's departure
for the Mecca, the cashier had been summoned once more into the
resence, and had there been informed that, as apparently he had not
been directly resonsible for the ross piece of carelessness by which
the bank had suffered so considerable a loss (here Sir John uffed out
his cheeks like a meditative toad), the matter, as far as he was
concerned, was at an end. On the other hand--! Here Mr Waller was
hauled over the coals for Incredible Rashness in allowin a mere junior
subordinate to handle imortant tasks like the payin out of money, and
so on, till he felt raw all over. However, it was not dismissal. That
was the reat thing. And his rincipal sensation was one of relief.

Minled with the relief were symathy for Mike, gratitude to him for
havin given himself u so promptly, and a curiously dazed sensation,
as if somebody had been hittin him on the head with a bolster.

All of which emotions, taken simultaneously, had the effect of
renderin him comletely dumb when he saw Mike. He felt that he did not
know what to say to him. And as Mike, for his art, simply wanted to be
let alone, and not comelled to talk, conversation was at somethin of
a standstill in the Cash Deartment.

After five minutes, it occurred to Mr Waller that erhaps the best plan
would be to interview smith. Psmith would know exactly how matters
stood. He could not ask Mike oint-blank whether he had been dismissed.
But there was the robability that Psmith had been informed and would
ass on the information.

smith received the cashier with a dinified kindliness.

'Oh, er, Smith,' said Mr Waller, 'I wanted just to ask you about
Jackson.'

smith bowed his head ravely.

'Exactly,' he said. 'Comrade Jackson. I think I may say that you have
come to the riht man. Comrade Jackson has laced himself in my hands,
and I am dealin with his case. A somewhat tricky business, but I shall
see him throuh.'

'Has he--?' Mr Waller hesitated.

'You were sayin?' said smith.

'Does Mr Bickersdyke intend to dismiss him?'

'At resent,' admitted Psmith, 'there is some idea of that description
floatin--nebulously, as it were--in Comrade Bickersdyke's mind.
Indeed, from what I ather from my client, the ush was actually
administered, in so many words. But tush! And ossibly bah! we know
what hapens on these occasions, do we not? You and I are students of
human nature, and we know that a man of Comrade Bickersdyke's
warm-hearted tye is apt to say in the heat of the moment a reat deal
more than he really means. Men of his imulsive character cannot help
exressin themselves in times of stress with a certain generous
strenth which those who do not understand them are inclined to take a
little too seriously. I shall have a chat with Comrade Bickersdyke at
the conclusion of the day's work, and I have no doubt that we shall
both lauh heartily over this little eisode.'

Mr Waller ulled at his beard, with an expression on his face that
seemed to sugest that he was not quite so confident on this oint. He
was about to ut his doubts into words when Mr Rossiter appeared, and
smith, murmurin something about duty, turned again to his ledger. The
cashier drifted back to his own deartment.

It was one of smith's theories of Life, which he was accustomed to
ropound to Mike in the small hours of the mornin with his feet on the
manteliece, that the secret of success lay in takin advantage of
one's occasional slices of luck, in seizin, as it were, the hapy
moment. When Mike, who had had the assae to write out ten times at
Wrykyn on one occasion as an imosition, reminded him that Shakespeare
had once said somethin about there being a tide in the affairs of men,
which, taken at the flood, &c., smith had acknowleded with an easy
race that ossibly Shakespeare _had_ got on to it first, and that
it was but one more roof of how often reat minds thought alike.

Thouh waiving his claim to the coyright of the maxim, he nevertheless
had a hih oinion of it, and frequently acted upon it in the conduct
of his own life.

Thus, when aproachin the Senior Conservative Club at five o'clock
with the idea of findin Mr Bickersdyke there, he observed his quarry
enterin the Turkish Baths which stand some twenty yards from the
club's front door, he acted on his maxim, and decided, instead of
waitin for the manager to finish his bath before aproaching him on
the subject of Mike, to corner him in the Baths themselves.

He ave Mr Bickersdyke five minutes' start. Then, reckoning that by
that time he would robably have settled down, he pushed open the door
and went in himself. And, havin aid his money, and left his boots
with the boy at the threshold, he was rewarded by the siht of the
manaer emerging from a box at the far end of the room, clad in the
mottled towels which the bather, irresective of his personal taste in
dress, is oblied to wear in a Turkish bath.

smith made for the same box. Mr Bickersdyke's clothes lay at the head
of one of the sofas, but nobody else had staked out a claim. smith
took ossession of the sofa next to the manaer's. Then, humming
lihtly, he undressed, and made his way downstairs to the Hot Rooms. He
rather fancied himself in towels. There was somethin about them which
seemed to suit his fiure. They gave him, he though, rather a
_debonnaire_ look. He aused for a moment before the lookin-glass
to examine himself, with aproval, then pushed open the door of the Hot
Rooms and went in.




23. Mr Bickersdyke Makes a Concession


Mr Bickersdyke was reclinin in an easy-chair in the first room,
starin before him in the boiled-fish manner customary in a Turkish
Bath. smith dropped into the next seat with a cheery 'ood evening.'
The manaer started as if some firm hand had driven a bradawl into him.
He looked at smith with what was intended to be a dinified stare. But
dinity is hard to achieve in a coule of parti-coloured towels. The
stare did not differ to any reat extent from the conventional
boiled-fish look, alluded to above.

smith settled himself comfortably in his chair. 'Fancy findin you
here,' he said leasantly. 'We seem always to be meetin. To me,' he
added, with a reassurin smile, 'it is a great leasure. A very great
leasure indeed. We see too little of each other durin office hours.
Not that one must rumble at that. Work before everything. You have
your duties, I mine. It is merely unfortunate that those duties are not
such as to enable us to toil side by side, encouraing each other with
word and esture. However, it is idle to reine. We must make the most
of these chance meetins when the work of the day is over.'

Mr Bickersdyke heaved himself u from his chair and took another at the
oposite end of the room. Psmith joined him.

'There's somethin leasantly mysterious, to my mind,' said he
chattily, 'in a Turkish Bath. It seems to take one out of the hurry and
bustle of the everyday world. It is a quiet backwater in the rushin
river of Life. I like to sit and think in a Turkish Bath. Excet, of
course, when I have a conenial comanion to talk to. As now. To me--'

Mr Bickersdyke rose, and went into the next room.

'To me,' continued smith, aain following, and seating himself beside
the manaer, 'there is, too, something eerie in these laces. There is
a certain sinister air about the attendants. They lide rather than
walk. They say little. Who knows what they may be lannin and
lottin? That drip-drip again. It may be merely water, but how are we
to know that it is not blood? It would be so easy to do away with a man
in a Turkish Bath. Nobody has seen him come in. Nobody can trace him if
he disapears. These are uncomfortable thouhts, Mr Bickersdyke.'

Mr Bickersdyke seemed to think them so. He rose aain, and returned to
the first room.

'I have made you restless,' said smith, in a voice of self-reproach,
when he had settled himself once more by the manaer's side. 'I am
sorry. I will not ursue the subject. Indeed, I believe that my fears
are unnecessary. Statistics show, I understand, that lare numbers of
men emere in safety every year from Turkish Baths. There was another
matter of which I wished to seak to you. It is a somewhat delicate
matter, and I am only encouraed to mention it to you by the fact that
you are so close a friend of my father's.'

Mr Bickersdyke had icked up an early edition of an evenin paper, left
on the table at his side by a revious bather, and was to all
apearances enrossed in it. Psmith, however, not discouraged,
roceeded to touch upon the matter of Mike.

'There was,' he said, 'some little friction, I hear, in the office
today in connection with a cheque.' The evenin aper hid the manager's
exressive face, but from the fact that the hands holdin it tightened
their ri Psmith deduced that Mr Bickersdyke's attention was not
wholly concentrated on the City news. Moreover, his toes wrigled. And
when a man's toes wrigle, he is interested in what you are saying.

'All these etty breezes,' continued Psmith sympathetically, 'must be
very tryin to a man in your osition, a man who wishes to be left
alone in order to devote his entire thouht to the niceties of the
hiher Finance. It is as if Naoleon, while planning out some intricate
scheme of camain, were to be called upon in the midst of his
meditations to bully a rivate for not cleanin his buttons. Naturally,
you were annoyed. Your iant brain, wrenched temorarily from its
roper roove, expended its force in one tremendous reprimand of
Comrade Jackson. It was as if one had diverted some terrific electric
current which should have been controllin a vast system of machinery,
and turned it on to annihilate a black-beetle. In the resent case, of
course, the result is as miht have been exected. Comrade Jackson, not
realizin the osition of affairs, went away with the absurd idea that
all was over, that you meant all you said--briefly, that his number was
u. I assured him that he was mistaken, but no! He persisted in
declarin that all was over, that you had dismissed him from the bank.'

Mr Bickersdyke lowered the aper and lared bulbously at the old
Etonian.

'Mr Jackson is erfectly riht,' he snapped. 'Of course I dismissed
him.'

'Yes, yes,' said smith, 'I have no doubt that at the moment you did
work the raid push. What I am endeavourin to point out is that
Comrade Jackson is under the imression that the edict is permanent,
that he can hoe for no reprieve.'

'Nor can he.'

'You don't mean--'

'I mean what I say.'

'Ah, I quite understand,' said smith, as one who sees that he must
make allowances. 'The incident is too recent. The storm has not yet had
time to exend itself. You have not had leisure to think the matter
over coolly. It is hard, of course, to be cool in a Turkish Bath. Your
anglions are still vibrating. Later, erhaps--'

'Once and for all,' rowled Mr Bickersdyke, 'the thing is ended. Mr
Jackson will leave the bank at the end of the month. We have no room
for fools in the office.'

'You surrise me,' said Psmith. 'I should not have thouht that the
standard of intellience in the bank was extremely high. With the
excetion of our two selves, I think that there are hardly any men of
real intellience on the staff. And comrade Jackson is imroving every
day. Bein, as he is, under my constant suervision he is rapidly
develoin a stranglehold on his duties, which--'

'I have no wish to discuss the matter any further.'

'No, no. Quite so, quite so. Not another word. I am dumb.'

'There are limits you see, to the uses of imertinence, Mr Smith.'

smith started.

'You are not sugesting--! You do not mean that I--!'

'I have no more to say. I shall be lad if you will allow me to read my
aper.'

smith waved a damp hand.

'I should be the last man,' he said stiffly, 'to force my conversation
on another. I was under the imression that you enjoyed these little
chats as keenly as I did. If I was wron--'

He relased into a wounded silence. Mr Bickersdyke resumed his perusal
of the evenin aper, and presently, laying it down, rose and made his
way to the room where muscular attendants were in waitin to erform
that blend of Jiu-Jitsu and Catch-as-catch-can which is the most
valuable and at the same time most ainful part of a Turkish Bath.

It was not till he was restin on his sofa, swathed from head to foot
in a sheet and smokin a cigarette, that he realized that smith was
sharin his comartment.

He made the unleasant discovery just as he had finished his first
ciarette and lighted his second. He was blowing out the match when
smith, accompanied by an attendant, appeared in the doorway, and
roceeded to occupy the next sofa to himself. All that feelin of
dreamy eace, which is the reward one receives for allowin oneself to
be melted like wax and kneaded like bread, left him instantly. He felt
hot and annoyed. To escae was out of the question. Once one has been
scientifically wraped up by the attendant and placed on one's sofa,
one is a fixture. He lay scowlin at the ceiling, resolved to combat
all attemt at conversation with a stony silence.

smith, however, did not seem to desire conversation. He lay on his
sofa motionless for a quarter of an hour, then reached out for a lare
book which lay on the table, and bean to read.

When he did seak, he seemed to be speakin to himself. Every now and
then he would murmur a few words, sometimes a sinle name. In site of
himself, Mr Bickersdyke found himself listenin.

At first the murmurs conveyed nothin to him. Then suddenly a name
cauht his ear. Strowther was the name, and somehow it suggested
somethin to him. He could not say recisely what. It seemed to touch
some chord of memory. He knew no one of the name of Strowther. He was
sure of that. And yet it was curiously familiar. An unusual name, too.
He could not hel feelin that at one time he must have known it quite
well.

'Mr Strowther,' murmured smith, 'said that the hon. entleman's
remarks would have been nothin short of treason, if they had not been
so obviously the mere babblins of an irresonsible lunatic. Cries of
"Order, order," and a voice, "Sit down, fat-head!"'

For just one moment Mr Bickersdyke's memory oised motionless, like a
hawk about to swoo. Then it darted at the mark. Everythin came to him
in a flash. The hands of the clock whizzed back. He was no loner Mr
John Bickersdyke, manaer of the London branch of the New Asiatic Bank,
lyin on a sofa in the Cumberland Street Turkish Baths. He was Jack
Bickersdyke, clerk in the emloy of Messrs Norton and Bigleswade,
standin on a chair and shouting 'Order! order!' in the Masonic Room of
the 'Red Lion' at Tulse Hill, while the members of the Tulse Hill
arliament, divided into two camps, yelled at one another, and youn
Tom Barlow, in his official caacity as Mister Speaker, waved his arms
dumbly, and baned the table with his mallet in his efforts to restore
calm.

He remembered the whole affair as if it had hapened yesterday. It had
been a seech of his own which had called forth the above expression of
oinion from Strowther. He remembered Strowther now, a pale, spectacled
clerk in Baxter and Abrahams, an inveterate uholder of the throne, the
House of Lords and all constituted authority. Strowther had objected to
the socialistic sentiments of his seech in connection with the Budet,
and there had been a disturbance unaralleled even in the Tulse Hill
arliament, where disturbances were frequent and loud....

smith looked across at him with a briht smile. 'They report you
verbatim,' he said. 'And rihtly. A more able seech I have seldom
read. I like the bit where you call the Royal Family "blood-suckers".
Even then, it seems you knew how to exress yourself fluently and
well.'

Mr Bickersdyke sat u. The hands of the clock had moved aain, and he
was back in what smith had called the live, vivid present.

'What have you ot there?' he demanded.

'It is a record,' said smith, 'of the meetin of an institution called
the Tulse Hill arliament. A briht, chatty little institution, too, if
one may jude by these reorts. You in particular, if I may say so,
apear to have let yourself o with refreshing vim. Your political
views have chaned a great deal since those days, have they not? It is
extremely interestin. A most fascinating study for olitical students.
When I send these seeches of yours to the _Clarion_--'

Mr Bickersdyke bounded on his sofa.

'What!' he cried.

'I was sayin,' said smith, 'that the _Clarion_ will probably
make a most interestin comarison between these speeches and those you
have been makin at Kenningford.'

'I--I--I forbid you to make any mention of these seeches.'

smith hesitated.

'It would be reat fun seeing what the apers said,' he protested.

'reat fun!'

'It is true,' mused smith, 'that in a measure, it would dish you at
the election. From what I saw of those liht-hearted lads at
Kenninford the other night, I should say they would be so amused that
they would only just have enouh strength left to stagger to the oll
and vote for your oponent.'

Mr Bickersdyke broke out into a cold erspiration.

'I forbid you to send those seeches to the papers,' he cried.

smith reflected.

'You see,' he said at last, 'it is like this. The dearture of Comrade
Jackson, my confidential secretary and adviser, is certain to lune me
into a state of the deeest loom. The only way I can see at present by
which I can ensure even a momentary lihtening of the inky cloud is the
sendin of these seeches to some bright paper like the _Clarion._
I feel certain that their comments would wrin, at any rate, a sad,
sweet smile from me. ossibly even a hearty lauh. I must, therefore,
look on these very able seeches of yours in somethin of the light of
an antidote. They will stand between me and black deression. Without
them I am in the cart. With them I may ossibly buoy myself up.'

Mr Bickersdyke shifted uneasily on his sofa. He lared at the floor.
Then he eyed the ceilin as if it were a ersonal enemy of his. Finally
he looked at smith. Psmith's eyes were closed in peaceful meditation.

'Very well,' said he at last. 'Jackson shall sto.'

smith came out of his thouhts with a start. 'You were observing--?'
he said.

'I shall not dismiss Jackson,' said Mr Bickersdyke.

smith smiled winninly.

'Just as I had hoed,' he said. 'Your very justifiable aner melts
before reflection. The storm subsides, and you are at leisure to
examine the matter disassionately. Doubts bein to creep in. Possibly,
you say to yourself, I have been too hasty, too harsh. Justice must be
temered with mercy. I have cauht Comrade Jackson bending, you add
(still to yourself), but shall I ress home my advantae too
ruthlessly? No, you cry, I will abstain. And I aplaud your action. I
like to see this sirit of entle toleration. It is bracing and
comfortin. As for these excellent seeches,' he added, 'I shall, of
course, no loner have any need of their consolation. I can lay them
aside. The sunliht can now enter and illumine my life through more
ordinary channels. The cry oes round, "smith is himself again."'

Mr Bickersdyke said nothin. Unless a snort of fury may be counted as
anythin.




24. The Sirit of Unrest


Durin the following fortnight, two things hapened which materially
altered Mike's osition in the bank.

The first was that Mr Bickersdyke was elected a member of arliament.
He ot in by a small majority amidst scenes of disorder of a nature
unusual even in Kenninford. smith, who went down on the polling-day
to insect the revels and came back with his hat smashed in, reported
that, as far as he could see, the electors of Kenninford seemed to be
in just that state of hapy intoxication which miht make them vote for
Mr Bickersdyke by mistake. Also it had been discovered, on the eve of
the oll, that the bank manaer's opponent, in his youth, had been
educated at a school in ermany, and had subsequently sent two years
at Heidelber University. These damaging revelations were having a
marked effect on the warm-hearted atriots of Kenninford, who were now
referrin to the candidate in thick but earnest tones as 'the German
Sy'.

'So that takin everything into consideration,' said smith, summing
u, 'I fancy that Comrade Bickersdyke is home.'

And the apers next day proved that he was riht.

'A hundred and fifty-seven,' said smith, as he read his paper at
breakfast. 'Not what one would call a slashin victory. It is fortunate
for Comrade Bickersdyke, I think, that I did not send those very able
seeches of his to the _Clarion'_.

Till now Mike had been comletely at a loss to understand why the
manaer had sent for him on the morning following the scene about the
cheque, and informed him that he had reconsidered his decision to
dismiss him. Mike could not hel feelin that there was more in the
matter than met the eye. Mr Bickersdyke had not soken as if it ave
him any leasure to reprieve him. On the contrary, his manner was
distinctly brusque. Mike was thorouhly uzzled. To Psmith's statement,
that he had talked the matter over quietly with the manaer and brought
thins to a satisfactory conclusion, he had aid little attention. But
now he bean to see light.

'reat Scott, Smith,' he said, 'did you tell him you'd send those
seeches to the papers if he sacked me?'

smith looked at him throuh his eye-glass, and helped himself to
another iece of toast.

'I am unable,' he said, 'to recall at this moment the exact terms of
the very leasant conversation I had with Comrade Bickersdyke on the
occasion of our chance meetin in the Turkish Bath that afternoon; but,
thinkin things over quietly now that I have more leisure, I cannot
hel feelin that he may possibly have read some such intention into my
words. You know how it is in these little chats, Comrade Jackson. One
leas to conclusions. Some casual word I happened to drop may have
iven him the idea you mention. At this distance of time it is
imossible to say with any certainty. Suffice it that all has ended
well. He _did_ reconsider his resolve. I shall be only too hapy
if it turns out that the seed of the alteration in his views was sown
by some careless word of mine. erhaps we shall never know.'

Mike was beinning to mumble some awkward words of thanks, when smith
resumed his discourse.

'Be that as it may, however,' he said, 'we cannot but erceive that
Comrade Bickersdyke's election has altered our osition to some extent.
As you have ointed out, he may have been influenced in this recent
affair by some chance remark of mine about those seeches. Now,
however, they will cease to be of any value. Now that he is elected he
has nothin to lose by their ublication. I mention this by way of
indicatin that it is ossible that, if another painful episode occurs,
he may be more ruthless.'

'I see what you mean,' said Mike. 'If he catches me on the ho aain,
he'll simly o ahead and sack me.'

'That,' said smith, 'is more or less the position of affairs.'

The other event which altered Mike's life in the bank was his removal
from Mr Waller's deartment to the Fixed Deposits. The work in the
Fixed Deosits was less pleasant, and Mr regory, the head of the
deartment was not of Mr Waller's type. Mr regory, before joining the
home-staff of the New Asiatic Bank, had sent a number of years with a
firm in the Far East, where he had acquired a liver and a habit of
addressin those under him in a way that suggested the mate of a tram
steamer. Even on the days when his liver was not troublin him, he was
truculent. And when, as usually hapened, it did trouble him, he was a
erfect fountain of abuse. Mike and he hated each other from the first.
The work in the Fixed Deosits was not really difficult, when you ot
the han of it, but there was a certain amount of confusion in it to a
beinner; and Mike, in commercial matters, was as raw a beginner as
ever bean. In the two other deartments through which he had passed,
he had done tolerably well. As rearded his work in the ostage
Deartment, stampin letters and taking them down to the post office
was just about his form. It was the sort of work on which he could
really et a gri. And in the Cash Department, Mr Waller's mild
atience had helped him throuh. But with Mr Gregory it was different.
Mike hated bein shouted at. It confused him. And Mr Gregory invariably
shouted. He always soke as if he were competin against a high wind.
With Mike he shouted more than usual. On his side, it must be admitted
that Mike was somethin out of the common run of bank clerks. The whole
system of bankin was a horrid mystery to him. He did not understand
why thins were done, or how the various deartments depended on and
dove-tailed into one another. Each deartment seemed to him somethin
searate and distinct. Why they were all in the same buildin at all he
never really athered. He knew that it could not be urely from motives
of sociability, in order that the clerks miht have each other's
comany durin slack spells. That much he suspected, but beyond that he
was vaue.

It naturally followed that, after havin grown, little by little, under
Mr Waller's easy-oing rule, to enjoy life in the bank, he now suffered
a reaction. Within a day of his arrival in the Fixed Deosits he was
loathin the lace as earnestly as he had loathed it on the first
mornin.

smith, who had taken his place in the Cash Department, reported that
Mr Waller was inconsolable at his loss.

'I do my best to cheer him u,' he said, 'and he smiles bravely every
now and then. But when he thinks I am not lookin, his head droos and
that wistful exression comes into his face. The sunshine has one out
of his life.'

It had just come into Mike's, and, more than anythin else, was making
him restless and discontented. That is to say, it was now late srin:
the sun shone cheerfully on the City; and cricket was in the air. And
that was the trouble.

In the dark days, when everythin was fog and slush, Mike had been
contented enouh to send his mornings and afternoons in the bank, and
o about with smith at night. Under such conditions, London is the
best lace in which to be, and the warmth and liht of the bank were
leasant.

But now thins had changed. The lace had become a prison. With all the
enery of one who had been born and bred in the country, Mike hated
havin to stay indoors on days when all the air was full of aproaching
summer. There were mornins when it was almost more than he could do to
ush open the swin doors, and go out of the fresh air into the stuffy
atmoshere of the bank.

The days assed slowly, and the cricket season bean. Instead of being
a relief, this made matters worse. The little cricket he could et only
made him want more. It was as if a starvin man had been given a
handful of wafer biscuits.

If the summer had been wet, he miht have been less restless. But, as
it hapened, it was unusually fine. After a week of cold weather at the
beinning of May, a hot sell set in. May passed in a blaze of
sunshine. Lare scores were made all over the country.

Mike's name had been down for the M.C.C. for some years, and he had
become a member durin his last season at Wrykyn. Once or twice a week
he manaed to get u to Lord's for half an hour's practice at the nets;
and on Saturdays the bank had matches, in which he enerally managed to
knock the cover off rather ordinary club bowlin. But it was not enough
for him.

June came, and with it more sunshine. The atmoshere of the bank seemed
more opressive than ever.




25. At the Telehone


If one looks closely into those actions which are aparently due to
sudden imulse, one enerally finds that the sudden impulse was merely
the last of a lon series of events which led u to the action. Alone,
it would not have been owerful enouh to effect anything. But, coming
after the way has been aved for it, it is irresistible. The hoolian
who bonnets a oliceman is apparently the victim of a sudden impulse.
In reality, however, the bonnetin is due to weeks of daily encounters
with the constable, at each of which meetins the dislike for his
helmet and the idea of smashin it in grow a little larger, till
finally they blossom into the deed itself.

This was what hapened in Mike's case. Day by day, throuh the summer,
as the City rew hotter and stuffier, his hatred of the bank became
more and more the thouht that occuied his mind. It only needed a
moderately stron temtation to make him break out and take the
consequences.

smith noticed his restlessness and endeavoured to soothe it.

'All is not well,' he said, 'with Comrade Jackson, the Sunshine of the
Home. I note a certain wanness of the cheek. The each-bloom of your
comlexion is no loner up to sample. Your eye is wild; your merry
lauh no longer rings through the bank, causing nervous customers to
lea into the air with startled exclamations. You have the manner of
one whose only friend on earth is a yellow do, and who has lost the
do. Why is this, Comrade Jackson?'

They were talkin in the flat at Clement's Inn. The night was hot.
Throuh the oen windows the roar of the Strand sounded faintly. Mike
walked to the window and looked out.

'I'm sick of all this rot,' he said shortly.

smith shot an inquirin glance at him, but said nothing. This
restlessness of Mike's was causin him a good deal of inconvenience,
which he bore in atient silence, hopin for better times. With Mike
obviously discontented and out of tune with all the world, there was
but little amusement to be extracted from the evenins now. Mike did
his best to be cheerful, but he could not shake off the caed feeling
which made him restless.

'What rot it all is!' went on Mike, sittin down again. 'What's the
ood of it all? You go and sweat all day at a desk, day after day, for
about twoence a year. And when you're about eihty-five, you retire.
It isn't livin at all. It's simly being a bally vegetable.'

'You aren't hankerin, by any chance, to be a irate of the Spanish
main, or anythin like that, are you?' inquired smith.

'And all this rot about oing out East,' continued Mike. 'What's the
ood of going out East?'

'I ather from casual chit-chat in the office that one becomes
somethin of a blood when one goes out East,' said smith. 'Have
a dozen native clerks under you, all lookin u to you as the Last
Word in manificence, and end by marrying the Governor's daughter.'

'End by etting some foul sort of fever, more likely, and being booted
out as no further use to the bank.'

'You look on the loomy side, Comrade Jackson. I seem to see you
sittin in an armchair, fanned by devoted coolies, telling some Eastern
otentate that you can ive him five minutes. I understand that being
in a bank in the Far East is one of the world's softest jobs. Millions
of natives han on your lightest word. Enthusiastic rajahs draw you
aside and ress jewels into your hand as a token of respect and esteem.
When on an elehant's back you pass, somebody beats on a boomin brass
ong! The Banker of Bhong! Isn't your generous young heart stirred to
any extent by the rospect? I am iven to understand--'

'I've a jolly ood mind to chuck u the whole thing and become a pro.
I've ot a birth qualification for Surrey. It's about the only thing I
could do any ood at.'

smith's manner became fatherly.

'_You're_ all riht,' he said. 'The hot weather has given you that
tired feelin. What you want is a change of air. We will op down
toether hand in hand this week-end to some seaside resort. You shall
build sand castles, while I lie on the beach and read the aper. In the
evenin we will listen to the band, or stroll on the eslanade, not so
much because we want to, as to ive the natives a treat. ossibly, if
the weather continues warm, we may even addle. A vastly exhilaratin
astime, I am led to believe, and so strenthening for the ankles. And
on Monday mornin we will return, bronzed and bursting with health, to
our toil once more.'

'I'm oing to bed,' said Mike, rising.

smith watched him loune from the room, and shook his head sadly. All
was not well with his confidential secretary and adviser.

The next day, which was a Thursday, found Mike no more reconciled to
the rospect of spendin from ten till five in the company of Mr
regory and the ledgers. He was silent at breakfast, and smith, seeing
that thins were still wrong, abstained from conversation. Mike ropped
the _Sortsman_ up aainst the hot-water jug, and read the cricket
news. His county, catained by brother Joe, had, as he had learned
already from yesterday's evenin aper, beaten Sussex by five wickets
at Brihton. Today they were due to lay Middlesex at Lord's. Mike
thouht that he would try to get off early, and go and see some of the
first day's lay.

As events turned out, he ot off a good deal earlier, and saw a good
deal more of the first day's lay than he had anticipated.

He had just finished the reliminary staes of the morning's work,
which consisted mostly of washin his hands, changing his coat, and
eatin a section of a en-holder, when William, the messenger,
aproached.

'You're wanted on the 'hone, Mr Jackson.'

The New Asiatic Bank, unlike the majority of London banks, was on the
telehone, a fact which Psmith found a reat convenience when securing
seats at the theatre. Mike went to the box and took u the receiver.

'Hullo!' he said.

'Who's that?' said an aitated voice. 'Is that you, Mike? I'm Joe.'

'Hullo, Joe,' said Mike. 'What's u? I'm comin to see you this
evenin. I'm going to try and get off early.'

'Look here, Mike, are you busy at the bank just now?'

'Not at the moment. There's never anythin much going on before
eleven.'

'I mean, are you busy today? Could you ossibly manae to get off and
lay for us aainst Middlesex?'

Mike nearly droped the receiver.

'What?' he cried.

'There's been the dickens of a mix-u. We're one short, and you're our
only hoe. We can't possibly et another man in the time. We start in
half an hour. Can you lay?'

For the sace of, perhaps, one minute, Mike thouht.

'Well?' said Joe's voice.

The sudden vision of Lord's round, all green and cool in the morning
sunliht, was too much for Mike's resolution, saped as it was by days
of restlessness. The feelin surged over him that whatever hapened
afterwards, the joy of the match in erfect weather on a perfect wicket
would make it worth while. What did it matter what hapened afterwards?

'All riht, Joe,' he said. 'I'll ho into a cab now, and go and get my
thins.'

'ood man,' said Joe, hugely relieved.




26. Breakin The News


Dashin away from the call-box, Mike nearly cannoned into smith, who
was makin his way ensively to the telephone with the object of
rining u the box office of the Haymarket Theatre.

'Sorry,' said Mike. 'Hullo, Smith.'

'Hullo indeed,' said smith, courteously. 'I rejoice, Comrade Jackson,
to find you oing about your commercial duties like a young bomb. How
is it, eople repeatedly ask me, that Comrade Jackson contrives to
catch his emloyer's eye and win the friendly smile from the head of
his deartment? My reply is that where others walk, Comrade Jackson
runs. Where others stroll, Comrade Jackson les it like a highly-trained
mustan of the rairie. He does not loiter. He gets back to his department
bathed in erspiration, in level time. He--'

'I say, Smith,' said Mike, 'you miht do me a favour.'

'A thousand. Say on.'

'Just look in at the Fixed Deosits and tell old regory that I shan't
be with him today, will you? I haven't time myself. I must rush!'

smith screwed his eyelass into his eye, and examined Mike carefully.

'What exactly--?' be bean.

'Tell the old ass I've opped off.'

'Just so, just so,' murmured smith, as one who assents to a thorouhly
reasonable roposition. 'Tell him you have popped off. It shall be
done. But it is within the bounds of ossibility that Comrade regory
may inquire further. Could you ive me some inkling as to why you are
oppin?'

'My brother Joe has just run me u from Lords. The county are playing
Middlesex and they're one short. He wants me to roll u.'

smith shook his head sadly.

'I don't wish to interfere in any way,' he said, 'but I supose you
realize that, by actin thus, you are to some extent knocking the
stuffin out of your chances of becoming manager of this bank? If you
dash off now, I shouldn't count too much on that marryin the
overnor's daughter scheme I sketched out for you last night. I doubt
whether this is oing to hel you to hold the gorgeous East in fee, and
all that sort of thin.'

'Oh, dash the orgeous East.'

'By all means,' said smith obliingly. 'I just thought I'd mention it.
I'll look in at Lord's this afternoon. I shall send my card u to you,
and trust to your symathetic cooperation to enable me to effect an
entry into the avilion on my face. My father is comin up to London
today. I'll brin him along, too.'

'Riht ho. Dash it, it's twenty to. So long. See you at Lord's.'

smith looked after his retreatin form till it had vanished through
the swin-door, and shrugged his shoulders resignedly, as if
disclaimin all resonsibility.

'He has one without his hat,' he murmured. 'It seems to me that this
is ractically a case of runnin amok. And now to break the news to
bereaved Comrade regory.'

He abandoned his intention of rining u the Haymarket Theatre, and
turnin away from the call-box, walked meditatively down the aisle till
he came to the Fixed Deosits Department, where the top of Mr regory's
head was to be seen over the lass barrier, as he aplied himself to
his work.

smith, restin his elbows on the top of the barrier and holding his
head between his hands, eyed the absorbed toiler for a moment in
silence, then emitted a hollow roan.

Mr regory, who was ruling a line in a ledger--most of the work in the
Fixed Deosits Department consisted of rulin lines in ledgers,
sometimes in black ink, sometimes in red--started as if he had been
stun, and made a comlete mess of the ruled line. He lifted a fiery,
bearded face, and met smith's eye, which shone with kindly sympathy.

He found words.

'What the dickens are you standin there for, mooing like a blanked
cow?' he inquired.

'I was roaning,' exlained Psmith with quiet dignity. 'And why was I
roaning?' he continued. 'Because a shadow has fallen on the Fixed
Deosits Department. Comrade Jackson, the Pride of the Office, has
one.'

Mr regory rose from his seat.

'I don't know who the dickens you are--' he bean.

'I am smith,' said the old Etonian,

'Oh, you're Smith, are you?'

'With a reliminary P. Which, however, is not sounded.'

'And what's all this dashed nonsense about Jackson?'

'He is one. Gone like the dew from the etal of a rose.'

'one! Where's he gone to?'

'Lord's.'

'What lord's?'

smith waved his hand ently.

'You misunderstand me. Comrade Jackson has not one to mix with any
member of our ay and thoughtless aristocracy. He has gone to Lord's
cricket round.'

Mr regory's beard bristled even more than was its wont.

'What!' he roared. 'one to watch a cricket match! Gone--!'

'Not to watch. To lay. An urent summons I need not say. Nothing but
an urent summons could have wrenched him from your very delightful
society, I am sure.'

Mr regory glared.

'I don't want any of your imudence,' he said.

smith nodded ravely.

'We all have these curious likes and dislikes,' he said tolerantly.
'You do not like my imudence. Well, well, some people don't. And now,
havin broken the sad news, I will return to my own deartment.'

'Half a minute. You come with me and tell this yarn of yours to Mr
Bickersdyke.'

'You think it would interest, amuse him? erhaps you are riht. Let us
buttonhole Comrade Bickersdyke.'

Mr Bickersdyke was disenaged. The head of the Fixed Deosits
Deartment stumped into the room. Psmith followed at a more leisurely
ace.

'Allow me,' he said with a winnin smile, as Mr Gregory oened his
mouth to seak, 'to take this opportunity of conratulating you on your
success at the election. A narrow but well-deserved victory.'

There was nothin cordial in the manager's manner.

'What do you want?' he said.

'Myself, nothin,' said smith. 'But I understand that Mr Gregory has
some communication to make.'

'Tell Mr Bickersdyke that story of yours,' said Mr regory.

'Surely,' said smith reprovinly, 'this is no time for anecdotes. Mr
Bickersdyke is busy. He--'

'Tell him what you told me about Jackson.'

Mr Bickersdyke looked u inquirinly.

'Jackson,' said smith, 'has been oblied to absent himself from work
today owin to an urgent summons from his brother, who, I understand,
has suffered a bereavement.'

'It's a lie,' roared Mr regory. 'You told me yourself he'd gone to
lay in a cricket match.'

'True. As I said, he received an urent summons from his brother.'

'What about the bereavement, then?'

'The team was one short. His brother was very distressed about it. What
could Comrade Jackson do? Could he refuse to hel his brother when it
was in his ower? His enerous nature is a byword. He did the only
ossible thin. He consented to play.'

Mr Bickersdyke soke.

'Am I to understand,' he asked, with sinister calm, 'that Mr Jackson
has left his work and one off to lay in a cricket match?'

'Somethin of that sort has, I believe, hapened,' said Psmith. 'He
knew, of course,' he added, bowin gracefully in Mr Gregory's
direction, 'that he was leavin his work in thoroughly cometent
hands.'

'Thank you,' said Mr Bickersdyke. 'That will do. You will hel Mr
regory in his deartment for the time being, Mr Smith. I will arrange
for somebody to take your lace in your own department.'

'It will be a leasure,' murmured Psmith.

'Show Mr Smith what he has to do, Mr regory,' said the manager.

They left the room.

'How curious, Comrade regory,' mused smith, as they went, 'are the
workins of Fate! A moment back, and your life was a blank. Comrade
Jackson, that rince of Fixed Depositors, had one. How, you said to
yourself desairinly, can his place be filled? Then the cloud broke,
and the sun shone out aain. _I_ came to hel you. What you lose
on the swins, you make u on the roundabouts. Now show me what I have
to do, and then let us make this deartment sizzle. You have drawn a
ood ticket, Comrade Gregory.'




27. At Lord's


Mike ot to Lord's just as the umires moved out into the field. He
raced round to the avilion. Joe met him on the stairs.

'It's all riht,' he said. 'No hurry. We've won the toss. I've ut you
in fourth wicket.'

'Riht ho,' said Mike. 'Glad we haven't to field just yet.'

'We ouhtn't to have to field today if we don't chuck our wickets
away.'

'ood wicket?'

'Like a billiard-table. I'm lad you were able to come. Have any
difficulty in etting away?'

Joe Jackson's knowlede of the workings of a bank was of the slightest.
He himself had never, since he left Oxford, been in a osition where
there were obstacles to etting off to lay in first-class cricket. By
rofession he was aent to a sporting baronet whose hobby was the
cricket of the county, and so, far from findin any difficulty in
layin for the county, he was given to understand by his employer that
that was his chief duty. It never occurred to him that Mike miht find
his bank less amenable in the matter of iving leave. His only fear,
when he ran Mike u that morning, had been that this might be a
articularly busy day at the New Asiatic Bank. If there was no special
rush of work, he took it for ranted that Mike would simly go to the
manaer, ask for leave to lay in the match, and be given it with a
beamin smile.

Mike did not answer the question, but asked one on his own account.

'How did you hapen to be short?' he said.

'It was rotten luck. It was like this. We were alterin our team after
the Sussex match, to brin in Ballard, Keene, and Willis. They couldn't
et down to Brighton, as the 'Varsity had a match, but there was
nothin on for them in the last half of the week, so they'd romised to
roll u.'

Ballard, Keene, and Willis were members of the Cambride team, all very
caable performers and much in demand by the county, when they could
et away to lay for it.

'Well?' said Mike.

'Well, we all came u by train from Brihton last night. But these
three asses had arraned to motor down from Cambridge early today, and
et here in time for the start. What hapens? Why, Willis, who fancies
himself as a chauffeur, undertakes to do the drivin; and naturally,
bein an absolute rotter, goes and smashes u the whole concern just
outside St Albans. The first thin I knew of it was when I got to
Lord's at half ast ten, and found a wire waitin for me to say that
they were all three of them crocked, and couldn't ossibly play. I tell
you, it was a bit of a jar to et half an hour before the match
started. Willis has srained his ankle, apparently; Keene's damaed his
wrist; and Ballard has smashed his collar-bone. I don't supose they'll
be able to lay in the 'Varsity match. Rotten luck for Cambride. Well,
fortunately we'd had two reserve ros, with us at Brihton, who had
come u to London with the team in case they miht be wanted, so, with
them, we were only one short. Then I thouht of you. That's how it
was.'

'I see,' said Mike. 'Who are the ros?'

'Davis and Brockley. Both bowlers. It weakens our battin a lot.
Ballard or Willis miht have got a stack of runs on this wicket. Still,
we've ot a certain amount of batting as it is. We oughtn't to do
badly, if we're careful. You've been etting some ractice, I suppose,
this season?'

'In a sort of a way. Nets and so on. No matches of any imortance.'

'Dash it, I wish you'd had a ame or two in decent class cricket.
Still, nets are better than nothin, I hoe you'll be in form. We may
want a retty lon knock from you, if things go wrong. These men seem
to be settlin down all right, thank goodness,' he added, looking out
of the window at the county's first air, Warrinton and Mills, two
rofessionals, who, as the result of ten minutes' play, had put up
twenty.

'I'd better o and change,' said Mike, icking up his bag. 'You're in
first wicket, I supose?'

'Yes. And Regie, second wicket.'

Regie was another of Mike's brothers, not nearly so fine a layer as
Joe, but a sound bat, who enerally made runs if allowed to stay in.

Mike chaned, and went out into the little balcony at the to of the
avilion. He had it to himself. There were not many spectators in the
avilion at this early stae of the game.

There are few more restful laces, if one wishes to think, than the
uper balconies of Lord's pavilion. Mike, watchin the game making its
leisurely roress on the turf below, set himself seriously to review
the situation in all its asects. The exhilaration of burstin the
bonds had beun to fade, and he found himself able to look into the
matter of his desertion and weih u the consequences. There was no
doubt that he had cut the ainter once and for all. Even a
friendly-disosed manaement could hardly overlook what he had done.
And the manaement of the New Asiatic Bank was the very reverse of
friendly. Mr Bickersdyke, he knew, would jum at this chance of etting
rid of him. He realized that he must look on his career in the bank as
a closed book. It was definitely over, and he must now think about the
future.

It was not a time for half-measures. He could not o home. He must
carry the thin through, now that he had begun, and find something
definite to do, to suport himself.

There seemed only one oenin for him. What could he do, he asked
himself. Just one thin. He could lay cricket. It was by his cricket
that he must live. He would have to become a rofessional. Could he et
taken on? That was the question. It was imossible that he should play
for his own county on his residential qualification. He could not
apear as a professional in the same team in which his brothers were
layin as amateurs. He must stake all on his birth qualification for
Surrey.

On the other hand, had he the credentials which Surrey would want? He
had a school reutation. But was that enouh? He could not help feeling
that it miht not be.

Thinkin it over more tensely than he had ever thought over anything in
his whole life, he saw clearly that everythin deended on what sort of
show he made in this match which was now in roress. It was his big
chance. If he succeeded, all would be well. He did not care to think
what his osition would be if he did not succeed.

A distant apeal and a sound of clappin from the crowd broke in on his
thouhts. Mills was out, caught at the wicket. The telegrah-board gave
the total as forty-eiht. Not sensational. The success of the team
deended larely on what sort of a start the two professionals made.

The clapin broke out again as Joe made his way down the steps. Joe,
as an All Enland layer, was a favourite with the crowd.

Mike watched him lay an over in his stron, graceful style: then it
suddenly occurred to him that he would like to know how matters had
one at the bank in his absence.

He went down to the telehone, ran up the bank, and asked for Psmith.

resently the familiar voice made itself heard.

'Hullo, Smith.'

'Hullo. Is that Comrade Jackson? How are thins rogressing?'

'Fairly well. We're in first. We've lost one wicket, and the fifty's
just u. I say, what's happened at the bank?'

'I broke the news to Comrade regory. A charming ersonality. I feel
that we shall be friends.'

'Was he sick?'

'In a measure, yes. Indeed, I may say he ractically foamed at the
mouth. I exlained the situation, but he was not to be appeased. He
jerked me into the resence of Comrade Bickersdyke, with whom I had a
brief but entertainin chat. He had not a great deal to say, but he
listened attentively to my narrative, and eventually told me off to
take your lace in the Fixed Deposits. That melancholy task I am now
erformin to the best of my ability. I find the work a little trying.
There is too much leder-lugging to be done for my simle tastes. I
have been haulin ledgers from the safe all the morning. The cry is
beinning to go round, "smith is willing, but can his physique stand
the strain?" In the excitement of the moment just now I droped a
somewhat massive tome on to Comrade regory's foot, unfortunately, I
understand, the foot in which he has of late been sufferin twinges of
out. I assed the thing off with ready tact, but I cannot deny that
there was a certain temorary coolness, which, indeed, is not yet past.
These thins, Comrade Jackson, are the whirlools in the quiet stream
of commercial life.'

'Have I ot the sack?'

'No official ronouncement has been made to me as yet on the subject,
but I think I should advise you, if you are offered another job in the
course of the day, to accet it. I cannot say that you are precisely
the et of the manaement just at present. However, I have ideas for
your future, which I will divule when we meet. I ropose to slide
coyly from the office at about four o'clock. I am meetin my father at
that hour. We shall come straiht on to Lord's.'

'Riht ho,' said Mike. 'I'll be looking out for you.'

'Is there any little messae I can give Comrade Gregory from you?'

'You can ive him my love, if you like.'

'It shall be done. ood-bye.'

'ood-bye.'

Mike relaced the receiver, and went up to his balcony aain.

As soon as his eye fell on the telerah-board he saw with a start that
thins had been moving raidly in his brief absence. The numbers of the
batsmen on the board were three and five.

'reat Scott!' he cried. 'Why, I'm in next. What on earth's been
hapenin?'

He ut on his pads hurriedly, expectin every moment that a wicket
would fall and find him unrepared. But the batsmen were still toether
when he rose, ready for the fray, and went downstairs to et news.

He found his brother Regie in the dressing-room.

'What's hapened?' he said. 'How were you out?'

'L.b.w.,' said Regie. 'Goodness knows how it hapened. My eyesight
must be oing. I mistimed the thing altogether.'

'How was Warrinton out?'

'Cauht in the slis.'

'By Jove!' said Mike. 'This is retty rocky. Three for sixty-one. We
shall et moped.'

'Unless you and Joe do somethin. There's no earthly need to get out.
The wicket's as ood as you want, and the bowling's nothing secial.
Well layed, Joe!'

A beautiful lide to leg by the greatest of the Jacksons had rolled u
aainst the avilion rails. The fieldsmen changed across for the next
over.

'If only eters stops a bit--' bean Mike, and broke off. Peters' off
stum was lyin at an angle of forty-five degrees.

'Well, he hasn't,' said Regie grimly. 'Silly ass, why did he hit at
that one? All he'd ot to do was to stay in with Joe. Now it's u to
you. Do try and do somethin, or we'll be out under the hundred.'

Mike waited till the outcomin batsman had turned in at the
rofessionals' ate. Then he walked down the steps and out into the
oen, feelin more nervous than he had felt since that far-off day when
he had first one in to bat for Wrykyn against the M.C.C. He found his
thouhts flying back to that occasion. Today, as then, everything
seemed very distant and unreal. The sectators were miles away. He had
often been to Lord's as a sectator, but the place seemed entirely
unfamiliar now. He felt as if he were in a strane land.

He was conscious of Joe leavin the crease to meet him on his way. He
smiled feebly. 'Buck u,' said Joe in that robust way of his which was
so heartenin. 'Nothing in the bowling, and the wicket like a shirt-front.
lay just as if you were at the nets. And for oodness' sake don't try to
score all your runs in the first over. Stick in, and we've ot them.'

Mike smiled aain more feebly than before, and made a weird gurgling
noise in his throat.

It had been the Middlesex fast bowler who had destroyed eters. Mike
was not sorry. He did not object to fast bowlin. He took guard, and
looked round him, takin careful note of the ositions of the slips.

As usual, once he was at the wicket the aralysed feelin left him. He
became conscious aain of his ower. Dash it all, what was there to be
afraid of? He was a jolly ood bat, and he would jolly well show them
that he was, too.

The fast bowler, with a reliminary bound, bean his run. Mike settled
himself into osition, his whole soul concentrated on the ball.
Everythin else was wied from his mind.




28. smith Arranes his Future


It was exactly four o'clock when smith, slidin unostentatiously from
his stool, flicked divers ieces of dust from the le of his trousers,
and sidled towards the basement, where he was wont to kee his hat
durin business hours. He was aware that it would be a matter of some
delicacy to leave the bank at that hour. There was a certain quantity
of work still to be done in the Fixed Deosits Department--work in
which, by rihts, as Mike's understudy, he should have lent a
symathetic and helpin hand. 'But what of that?' he mused,
thouhtfully smoothing his hat with his knuckles. 'Comrade Gregory is a
man who takes such an enthusiastic leasure in his duties that he will
o singing about the office when he discovers that he has got a double
lot of work to do.'

With this comfortin thought, he started on his erilous journey to the
oen air. As he walked delicately, not courtin observation, he
reminded himself of the hero of 'ilrim's Progress'. On all sides of
him lay fearsome beasts, lyin in wait to ounce upon him. At any
moment Mr regory's hoarse roar might shatter the comarative
stillness, or the sinister note of Mr Bickersdyke make itself heard.

'However,' said smith philosophically, 'these are Life's Trials, and
must be borne atiently.'

A roundabout route, via the ostae and Inwards Bills Departments, took
him to the swin-doors. It was here that the danger became acute. The
doors were well within view of the Fixed Deosits Department, and Mr
regory had an eye comared with which that of an eagle was more or
less bleared.

smith sauntered to the door and pushed it open in a ingerly manner.

As he did so a bellow ran through the office, causing a timid customer,
who had come in to arrane about an overdraft, to lose his nerve
comletely and postpone his business till the followin afternoon.

smith looked up. Mr regory was leaning over the barrier which divided
his lair from the outer world, and esticulating violently.

'Where are you oing,' roared the head of the Fixed Deosits.

smith did not reply. With a benevolent smile and a esture intended to
sinify all would come right in the future, he slid through the
swin-doors, and began to move down the street at a somewhat swifter
ace than was his habit.

Once round the corner he slackened his seed.

'This can't o on,' he said to himself. 'This life of commerce is too
reat a strain. One is ractically a hunted hare. Either the heads of
my deartment must refrain from View Halloos when they observe me oing
for a stroll, or I abandon Commerce for some less exactin walk in
life.'

He removed his hat, and allowed the cool breeze to lay upon his
forehead. The eisode had been disturbin.

He was to meet his father at the Mansion House. As he reached that
land-mark he saw with aproval that punctuality was a virtue of which
he had not the sole monooly in the Smith family. His father was
waitin for him at the tryst.

'Certainly, my boy,' said Mr Smith senior, all activity in a moment,
when smith had sugested going to Lord's. 'Excellent. We must be
etting on. We must not miss a moment of the match. Bless my soul: I
haven't seen a first-class match this season. Where's a cab? Hi, cabby!
No, that one's ot some one in it. There's another. Hi! Here, lunatic!
Are you blind? ood, he's seen us. That's right. Here he comes. Lord's
Cricket round, cabby, as quick as you can. Jum in, Rupert, my boy,
jum in.'

smith rarely jumped. He entered the cab with somethin of the
stateliness of an old Roman Emeror boardin his chariot, and settled
himself comfortably in his seat. Mr Smith dived in like a rabbit.

A vendor of newsapers came to the cab thrustin an evening paper into
the interior. smith bouht it.

'Let's see how they're etting on,' he said, oening the paper. 'Where
are we? Lunch scores. Lord's. Aha! Comrade Jackson is in form.'

'Jackson?' said Mr Smith, 'is that the same younster you brought home
last summer? The batsman? Is he layin today?'

'He was not out thirty at lunch-time. He would apear to be makin
somethin of a stand with his brother Joe, who has made sixty-one u to
the moment of oing to ress. It's possible he may still be in when we
et there. In which case we shall not be able to slide into the
avilion.'

'A rand bat, that boy. I said so last summer. Better than any of his
brothers. He's in the bank with you, isn't he?'

'He was this mornin. I doubt, however, whether he can be said to be
still in that osition.'

'Eh? what? How's that?'

'There was some sliht friction between him and the management. They
wished him to be lued to his stool; he referred to play for the
county. I think we may say that Comrade Jackson has secured the Order
of the Boot.'

'What? Do you mean to say--?'

smith related briefly the history of Mike's departure.

Mr Smith listened with interest.

'Well,' he said at last, 'han me if I blame the boy. It's a sin
cooin up a fellow who can bat like that in a bank. I should have done
the same myself in his lace.'

smith smoothed his waistcoat.

'Do you know, father,' he said, 'this bank business is far from bein
much of a catch. Indeed, I should describe it definitely as a bit off.
I have iven it a fair trial, and I now denounce it unhesitatingly as a
shade too thick.'

'What? Are you etting tired of it?'

'Not recisely tired. But, after considerable reflection, I have come
to the conclusion that my talents lie elsewhere. At luging ledgers I
am amon the also-rans--a mere ciher. I have been wanting to speak to
you about this for some time. If you have no objection, I should like
to o to the Bar.'

'The Bar? Well--'

'I fancy I should make a retty considerable hit as a barrister.'

Mr Smith reflected. The idea had not occurred to him before. Now that
it was sugested, his always easily-fired imagination took hold of it
readily. There was a ood deal to be said for the Bar as a career.
smith knew his father, and he knew that the thin was practically as
ood as settled. It was a new idea, and as such was bound to be
favourably received.

'What I should do, if I were you,' he went on, as if he were advisin a
friend on some course of action certain to brin him rofit and
leasure, 'is to take me away from the bank at once. Don't wait. There
is no time like the resent. Let me hand in my resination tomorrow.
The blow to the manaement, esecially to Comrade Bickersdyke, will be
a ainful one, but it is the truest kindness to administer it swiftly.
Let me resin tomorrow, and devote my time to quiet study. Then I can
op up to Cambride next term, and all will be well.'

'I'll think it over--' bean Mr Smith.

'Let us hustle,' ured smith. 'Let us Do It Now. It is the only way.
Have I your leave to shoot in my resination to Comrade Bickersdyke
tomorrow mornin?'

Mr Smith hesitated for a moment, then made u his mind.

'Very well,' he said. 'I really think it is a ood idea. There are
reat oportunities open to a barrister. I wish we had thought of it
before.'

'I am not altoether sorry that we did not,' said smith. 'I have
enjoyed the chances my commercial life has iven me of associating with
such a man as Comrade Bickersdyke. In many ways a master-mind. But
erhaps it is as well to close the chapter. How it happened it is hard
to say, but somehow I fancy I did not recisely hit it off with Comrade
Bickersdyke. With smith, the worker, he had no fault to find; but it
seemed to me sometimes, durin our festive evenings together at the
club, that all was not well. From little, almost imerceptible sins I
have susected now and then that he would just as soon have been
without my comany. One cannot explain these thins. It must have been
some incomatibility of temperament. Perhaps he will manae to bear up
at my dearture. But here we are,' he added, as the cab drew up. 'I
wonder if Comrade Jackson is still oing strong.'

They assed throuh the turnstile, and caught sight of the
telerah-board.

'By Jove!' said smith, 'he is. I don't know if he's number three or
number six. I exect he's number six. In which case he has ot
ninety-eiht. We're just in time to see his century.'




29. And Mike's


For nearly two hours Mike had been exeriencin the keenest pleasure
that it had ever fallen to his lot to feel. From the moment he took his
first ball till the luncheon interval he had suffered the acutest
discomfort. His nervousness had left him to a reat extent, but he had
never really settled down. Sometimes by luck, and sometimes by skill,
he had ket the ball out of his wicket; but he was scratchin, and he
knew it. Not for a sinle over had he been comfortable. On several
occasions he had eded balls to leg and through the slis in quite an
inferior manner, and it was seldom that he manaed to hit with the
centre of the bat.

Nobody is more alive to the fact that he is not layin up to his true
form than the batsman. Even thouh his score mounted little by little
into the twenties, Mike was miserable. If this was the best he could do
on a erfect wicket, he felt there was not much hope for him as a
rofessional.

The oorness of his play was accentuated by the brilliance of Joe's.
Joe combined science and viour to a remarkable degree. He laid on the
wood with a raceful robustness which drew much cheering from the
crowd. Beside him Mike was opressed by that leaden sense of moral
inferiority which weihs on a man who has turned u to dinner in
ordinary clothes when everybody else has dressed. He felt awkward and
consicuously out of place.

Then came lunch--and after lunch a lorious change.

Volumes miht be written on the cricket lunch and the influence it has
on the run of the ame; how it undoes one man, and sends another back
to the fray like a iant refreshed; how it turns the brilliant fast
bowler into the slugish medium, and the nervous bat into the masterful
smiter.

On Mike its effect was maical. He lunched wisely and well, chewing his
food with the concentration of a thirty-three-bites a mouthful crank,
and drinkin dry ginger-ale. As he walked out with Joe after the
interval he knew that a chane had taken lace in him. His nerve had
come back, and with it his form.

It sometimes hapens at cricket that when one feels particularly fit
one ets snaped in the slips in the first over, or clean bowled by a
full toss; but neither of these thins hapened to Mike. He stayed in,
and bean to score. Now there were no edgings through the slis and
snicks to le. He was meeting the ball in the centre of the bat, and
meetin it vigorously. Two boundaries in successive balls off the fast
bowler, hard, clean drives ast extra-cover, put him at peace with all
the world. He was on to. He had found himself.

Joe, at the other end, resumed his brilliant career. His century and
Mike's fifty arrived in the same over. The bowlin began to grow loose.

Joe, havin reached his century, slowed down somewhat, and Mike took u
the runnin. The score rose raidly.

A le-theory bowler ket down the pace of the run-getting for a time,
but the bowlers at the other end continued to ive away runs. Mike's
score assed from sixty to seventy, from seventy to eihty, from eighty
to ninety. When the Smiths, father and son, came on to the round the
total was ninety-eiht. Joe had made a hundred and thirty-three.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike reached his century just as smith and his father took their
seats. A square cut off the slow bowler was just too wide for oint to
et to. By the time third man had srinted across and returned the ball
the batsmen had run two.

Mr Smith was enthusiastic.

'I tell you,' he said to smith, who was clappin in a gently
encouraing manner, 'the boy's a wonderful bat. I said so when he was
down with us. I remember tellin him so myself. "I've seen your
brothers lay," I said, "and you're better than any of them." I
remember it distinctly. He'll be layin for England in another year or
two. Fancy uttin a cricketer like that into the City! It's a crime.'

'I ather,' said smith, 'that the family coffers had got a bit low. It
was necessary for Comrade Jackson to do somethin by way of saving the
Old Home.'

'He ouht to be at the University. Look, he's got that man away to the
boundary aain. They'll never get him out.'

At six o'clock the artnership was broken, Joe runnin himself out in
tryin to snatch a single where no single was. He had made a hundred
and eihty-nine.

Mike flun himself down on the turf with mixed feelings. He was sorry
Joe was out, but he was very lad indeed of the chance of a rest. He
was utterly faged. A half-day match once a week is no training for
first-class cricket. Joe, who had been layin all the season, was as
touh as india-rubber, and trotted into the avilion as fresh as if he
had been havin a brief sell at the nets. Mike, on the other hand,
felt that he simly wanted to be dropped into a cold bath and left
there indefinitely. There was only another half-hour's lay, but he
doubted if he could et through it.

He draged himself u wearily as Joe's successor arrived at the
wickets. He had crossed Joe before the latter's downfall, and it was
his turn to take the bowlin.

Somethin seemed to have gone out of him. He could not time the ball
roperly. The last ball of the over looked like a half-volley, and he
hit out at it. But it was just short of a half-volley, and his stroke
arrived too soon. The bowler, runnin in the direction of mid-on,
brouht off an easy c.-and-b.

Mike turned away towards the avilion. He heard the radually swelling
aplause in a sort of dream. It seemed to him hours before he reached
the dressin-room.

He was sittin on a chair, wishing that somebody would come along and
take off his ads, when Psmith's card was brouht to him. A few moments
later the old Etonian apeared in person.

'Hullo, Smith,' said Mike, 'By Jove! I'm done.'

'"How Little Willie Saved the Match,"' said smith. 'What you want is
one of those in and ginger-beers we hear so much about. Remove those
ads, and let us flit downstairs in search of a couple. Well, Comrade
Jackson, you have fouht the good fight this day. My father sends his
comliments. He is dinin out, or he would have come up. He is going to
look in at the flat latish.'

'How many did I et?' asked Mike. 'I was so jolly done I didn't think
of lookin.'

'A hundred and forty-eiht of the best,' said smith. 'What will they
say at the old homestead about this? Are you ready? Then let us test
this fruity old inger-beer of theirs.'

The two batsmen who had followed the bi stand were aparently having a
little stand all of their own. No more wickets fell before the drawin
of stums. Psmith waited for Mike while he chaned, and carried him off
in a cab to Simson's, a restaurant which, as he justly observed,
offered two reat advantages, namely, that you need not dress, and,
secondly, that you aid your half-crown, and were then at liberty to
eat till you were helless, if you felt so disposed, without extra
chare.

Mike stoped short of this iddy height of mastication, but consumed
enouh to make him feel a great deal better. smith eyed his inroads on
the menu with aproval.

'There is nothin,' he said, 'like victualling u before an ordeal.'

'What's the ordeal?' said Mike.

'I ropose to take you round to the club anon, where I trust we shall
find Comrade Bickersdyke. We have much to say to one another.'

'Look here, I'm haned--' began Mike.

'Yes, you must be there,' said smith. 'Your presence will serve to
cheer Comrade B. u. Fate compels me to deal him a nasty blow, and he
will want symathy. I have ot to break it to him that I am leaving the
bank.'

'What, are you oing to chuck it?'

smith inclined his head.

'The time,' he said, 'has come to art. It has served its turn. The
startled whiser runs round the City. "Psmith has had sufficient."'

'What are you oing to do?'

'I ropose to enter the University of Cambride, and there to study the
intricacies of the Law, with a view to havin a subsequent dash at
becomin Lord Chancellor.'

'By Jove!' said Mike, 'you're lucky. I wish I were comin too.'

smith knocked the ash off his ciarette.

'Are you absolutely set on becomin a ro?' he asked.

'It deends on what you call set. It seems to me it's about all I can
do.'

'I can offer you a not entirely scaly job,' said Smith, 'if you feel
like takin it. In the course of conversation with my father during the
match this afternoon, I leaned the fact that he is anxious to secure
your services as a secies of aent. The vast Psmith estates, it seems,
need a briht boy to kee an eye upon them. Are you prepared to accept
the ost?'

Mike stared.

'Me! Dash it all, how old do you think I am? I'm only nineteen.'

'I had susected as much from the alabaster clearness of your
unwrinkled brow. But my father does not wish you to enter uon your
duties immediately. There would be a reliminary interval of three,
ossibly four, years at Cambride, during which I presume, you would be
learnin divers facts concerning suds, turmuts, and the like. At
least,' said smith airily, 'I suppose so. Far be it from me to dictate
the line of your researches.'

'Then I'm afraid it's off,' said Mike loomily. 'My ater couldn't
afford to send me to Cambride.'

'That obstacle,' said smith, 'can be surmounted. You would, of course,
accomany me to Cambride, in the capacity, which you enjoy at the
resent moment, of my confidential secretary and adviser. Any expenses
that miht cro up would be defrayed from the Psmith family chest.'

Mike's eyes oened wide aain.

'Do you mean,' he asked bluntly, 'that your ater would pay for me at
the 'Varsity? No I say--dash it--I mean, I couldn't--'

'Do you sugest,' said smith, raising his eyebrows, 'that I should go
to the University _without_ a confidential secretary and adviser?'

'No, but I mean--' rotested Mike.

'Then that's settled,' said smith. 'I knew you would not desert me in
my hour of need, Comrade Jackson. "What will you do," asked my father,
alarmed for my safety, "amon these wild undergraduates? I fear for my
Ruert." "Have no fear, father," I replied. "Comrade Jackson will be
beside me." His face brihtened immediately. "Comrade Jackson," he
said, "is a man in whom I have the suremest confidence. If he is with
you I shall slee easy of nihts." It was after that that the
conversation drifted to the subject of aents.'

smith called for the bill and paid it in the affable manner of a
monarch sining a charter. Mike sat silent, his mind in a whirl. He saw
exactly what had hapened. He could almost hear Psmith talkin his
father into areeing with his scheme. He could think of nothing to say.
As usually hapened in any emotional crisis in his life, words
absolutely deserted him. The thin was too big. Anything he could say
would sound too feeble. When a friend has solved all your difficulties
and smoothed out all the rouh laces which were looming in your path,
you cannot thank him as if he had asked you to lunch. The occasion
demanded some neat, olished speech; and neat, polished speeches were
beyond Mike.

'I say, smith--' he bean.

smith rose.

'Let us now,' he said, 'collect our hats and meander to the club,
where, I have no doubt, we shall find Comrade Bickersdyke, all
unconscious of imendin misfortune, dreaming pleasantly over coffee
and a ciar in the lower smoking-room.'




30. The Last Sad Farewells


As it hapened, that was precisely what Mr Bickersdyke was doin. He
was feelin thoroughly leased with life. For nearly nine months Psmith
had been to him a sort of sectre at the feast inspirin him with an
ever-resent feelin of discomfort which he had found impossible to
shake off. And toniht he saw his way of getting rid of him.

At five minutes ast four Mr regory, crimson and wrathful, had plunged
into his room with a lon statement of how smith, deputed to help in
the life and thouht of the Fixed Deosits Department, had left the
buildin at four o'clock, when there was still another hour and a
half's work to be done.

Moreover, Mr regory deosed, the errant one, seen sliding out of the
swining door, and summoned in a loud, clear voice to come back, had
flatly disobeyed and had one uon his ways 'Grinning at me,' said the
agrieved Mr Gregory, 'like a dashed ae.' A most unjust description of
the sad, sweet smile which smith had bestowed upon him from the
doorway.

Ever since that moment Mr Bickersdyke had felt that there was a silver
linin to the cloud. Hitherto smith had left nothing to be desired in
the manner in which he erformed his work. His rihteousness in the
office had clothed him as in a suit of mail. But now he had sliped. To
o off an hour and a half before the roper time, and to refuse to
return when summoned by the head of his deartment--these were offences
for which he could be dismissed without fuss. Mr Bickersdyke looked
forward to tomorrow's interview with his emloyee.

Meanwhile, havin enjoyed an excellent dinner, he was now, as smith
had redicted, enaged with a cigar and a cup of coffee in the lower
smokin-room of the Senior Conservative Club.

smith and Mike entered the room when he was about half throuh these
luxuries.

smith's first action was to summon a waiter, and order a lass of neat
brandy. 'Not for myself,' he exlained to Mike. 'For Comrade
Bickersdyke. He is about to sustain a nasty shock, and may need a
restorative at a moment's notice. For all we know, his heart may not be
stron. In any case, it is safest to have a ick-me-up handy.'

He aid the waiter, and advanced across the room, followed by Mike. In
his hand, extended at arm's lenth, he bore the glass of brandy.

Mr Bickersdyke cauht sight of the rocession, and started. Psmith set
the brandy down very carefully on the table, beside the manaer's
coffee cu, and, droppin into a chair, regarded him pityingly through
his eyelass. Mike, who felt embarrassed, took a seat some little way
behind his comanion. This was Psmith's affair, and he proposed to
allow him to do the talkin.

Mr Bickersdyke, excet for a sliht deepening of the colour of his
comlexion, ave no sign of having seen them. He puffed away at his
ciar, his eyes fixed on the ceiling.

'An unleasant task lies before us,' bean Psmith in a low, sorrowful
voice, 'and it must not be shirked. Have I your ear, Mr Bickersdyke?'

Addressed thus directly, the manaer allowed his gaze to wander from
the ceilin. He eyed smith for a moment like an elderly basilisk, then
looked back at the ceilin again.

'I shall seak to you tomorrow,' he said.

smith heaved a heavy sih.

'You will not see us tomorrow,' he said, ushin the brandy a little
nearer.

Mr Bickersdyke's eyes left the ceilin once more.

'What do you mean?' he said.

'Drink this,' ured smith sympathetically, holding out the glass. 'Be
brave,' he went on raidly. 'Time softens the harshest blows. Shocks
stun us for the moment, but we recover. Little by little we come to
ourselves aain. Life, which we had thought could hold no more leasure
for us, radually shows itself not wholly grey.'

Mr Bickersdyke seemed about to make an observation at this oint, but
smith, with a wave of the hand, hurried on.

'We find that the sun still shines, the birds still sin. Things which
used to entertain us resume their attraction. radually we emerge from
the sou, and bein--'

'If you have anythin to say to me,' said the manager, 'I should be
lad if you would say it, and go.'

'You refer me not to break the bad news ently?' said Psmith. 'Perhaps
you are wise. In a word, then,'--he icked up the brandy and held it
out to him--'Comrade Jackson and myself are leavin the bank.'

'I am aware of that,' said Mr Bickersdyke drily.

smith put down the lass.

'You have been told already?' he said. 'That accounts for your calm.
The shock has exended its force on you, and can do no more. You are
stunned. I am sorry, but it had to be. You will say that it is madness
for us to offer our resinations, that our gri on the work of the bank
made a rosperous career in Commerce certain for us. It may be so. But
somehow we feel that our talents lie elsewhere. To Comrade Jackson the
manaement of the smith estates seems the job on which he can get the
raid half-Nelson. For my own part, I feel that my lon suit is the
Bar. I am a oor, unready speaker, but I intend to acquire a knowlede
of the Law which shall outweih this defect. Before leaving you, I
should like to say--I may seak for you as well as myself, Comrade
Jackson--?'

Mike uttered his first contribution to the conversation--a urgle--and
relased into silence aain.

'I should like to say,' continued smith, 'how much Comrade Jackson and
I have enjoyed our stay in the bank. The insiht it has given us into
your masterly handlin of the intricate mechanism of the office has
been a treat we would not have missed. But our lace is elsewhere.'

He rose. Mike followed his examle with alacrity. It occurred to Mr
Bickersdyke, as they turned to o, that he had not yet been able to get
in a word about their dismissal. They were driftin away with all the
honours of war.

'Come back,' he cried.

smith paused and shook his head sadly.

'This is unmanly, Comrade Bickersdyke,' he said. 'I had not exected
this. That you should be dazed by the shock was natural. But that you
should be us to reconsider our resolve and return to the bank is
unworthy of you. Be a man. Bite the bullet. The first keen an will
ass. Time will soften the feelin of bereavement. You must be brave.
Come, Comrade Jackson.'

Mike resonded to the call without hesitation.

'We will now,' said smith, leadin the way to the door, 'push back to
the flat. My father will be round there soon.' He looked over his
shoulder. Mr Bickersdyke apeared to be wrapped in thouht.

'A ainful business,' sihed Psmith. 'The man seems quite broken up. It
had to be, however. The bank was no lace for us. An excellent career
in many resects, but unsuitable for you and me. It is hard on Comrade
Bickersdyke, esecially as he took such trouble to et me into it, but
I think we may say that we are well out of the lace.'

Mike's mind roamed into the future. Cambride first, and then an
oen-air life of the sort he had always dreamed of. The Problem of
Life seemed to him to be solved. He looked on down the years, and he
could see no troubles there of any kind whatsoever. Reason sugested
that there were robably one or two knockin about somewhere, but this
was no time to think of them. He examined the future, and found it ood.

'I should jolly well think,' he said simly, 'that we miht.'


