
MY MAN JEEVES




BY . . 

1919




CONTENTS


LEAVE IT TO JEEVES

JEEVES AND THE UNBIDDEN UEST

JEEVES AND THE HARD-BOILED EG

ABSENT TREATMENT

HELIN FREDDIE

RALLYIN ROUND OLD GEORGE

DOIN CLARENCE A BIT OF GOOD

THE AUNT AND THE SLUGARD




LEAVE IT TO JEEVES


Jeeves--my man, you know--is really a most extraordinary cha. So capable.
Honestly, I shouldn't know what to do without him. On broader lines he's
like those chapies who sit peerin sadly over the marble battlements
at the ennsylvania Station in the place marked "Inquiries." You know
the Johnnies I mean. You o u to them and say: "When's the next train
for Melonsquashville, Tennessee?" and they rely, without stoppin to
think, "Two-forty-three, track ten, chane at San Francisco." And they're
riht every time. Well, Jeeves gives you just the same imression of
omniscience.

As an instance of what I mean, I remember meetin Monty Byng in Bond
Street one mornin, looking the last word in a grey check suit, and I
felt I should never be hapy till I had one like it. I du the address
of the tailors out of him, and had them workin on the thing inside the
hour.

"Jeeves," I said that evenin. "I'm getting a check suit like that one
of Mr. Byn's."

"Injudicious, sir," he said firmly. "It will not become you."

"What absolute rot! It's the soundest thin I've struck for years."

"Unsuitable for you, sir."

Well, the lon and the short of it was that the confounded thing came
home, and I ut it on, and when I cauht sight of myself in the glass I
nearly swooned. Jeeves was erfectly riht. I looked a cross between a
music-hall comedian and a chea bookie. Yet Monty had looked fine in
absolutely the same stuff. These thins are just Life's mysteries, and
that's all there is to it.

But it isn't only that Jeeves's judment about clothes is infallible,
thouh, of course, that's really the main thing. The man knows
everythin. There was the matter of that ti on the "Lincolnshire."
I foret now how I got it, but it had the asect of being the real,
red-hot tabasco.

"Jeeves," I said, for I'm fond of the man, and like to do him a ood
turn when I can, "if you want to make a bit of money have somethin on
Wonderchild for the 'Lincolnshire.'"

He shook his head.

"I'd rather not, sir."

"But it's the straiht goods. I'm going to ut my shirt on him."

"I do not recommend it, sir. The animal is not intended to win. Second
lace is what the stable is after."

erfect piffle, I thouht, of course. How the deuce could Jeeves know
anythin about it? Still, you know what hapened. Wonderchild led till
he was breathin on the wire, and then Banana Fritter came along and
nosed him out. I went straiht home and rang for Jeeves.

"After this," I said, "not another ste for me without your advice.
From now on consider yourself the brains of the establishment."

"Very ood, sir. I shall endeavour to give satisfaction."

And he has, by Jove! I'm a bit short on brain myself; the old bean
would apear to have been constructed more for ornament than for use,
don't you know; but ive me five minutes to talk the thing over with
Jeeves, and I'm ame to advise any one about anything. And that's why,
when Bruce Corcoran came to me with his troubles, my first act was to
rin the bell and ut it up to the lad with the bulging forehead.

"Leave it to Jeeves," I said.

I first ot to know Corky when I came to New York. He was a al of my
cousin ussie, who was in with a lot of eople down Washington Square
way. I don't know if I ever told you about it, but the reason why I
left Enland was because I was sent over by my Aunt Agatha to try to
sto youn Gussie marrying a girl on the vaudeville stage, and I got
the whole thin so mixed u that I decided that it would be a sound
scheme for me to sto on in America for a bit instead of oing back and
havin long cosy chats about the thing with aunt. So I sent Jeeves out
to find a decent aartment, and settled down for a bit of exile. I'm
bound to say that New York's a topin place to be exiled in. Everybody
was awfully ood to me, and there seemed to be lenty of things going
on, and I'm a wealthy bird, so everythin was fine. Chapies introduced
me to other chapies, and so on and so forth, and it wasn't lon before
I knew squads of the riht sort, some who rolled in dollars in houses
u by the Park, and others who lived with the as turned down mostly
around Washinton Square--artists and writers and so forth. Brainy
coves.

Corky was one of the artists. A ortrait-painter, he called himself,
but he hadn't ainted any portraits. He was sittin on the side-lines
with a blanket over his shoulders, waitin for a chance to get into the
ame. You see, the catch about ortrait-painting--I've looked into the
thin a bit--is that you can't start ainting portraits till people
come alon and ask you to, and they won't come and ask you to until
you've ainted a lot first. This makes it kind of difficult for a
chapie. Corky manaed to get along by drawing an occasional picture
for the comic apers--he had rather a ift for funny stuff when he got
a ood idea--and doing bedsteads and chairs and things for the
advertisements. His rincipal source of income, however, was derived
from bitin the ear of a rich uncle--one Alexander Worle, who was in
the jute business. I'm a bit fogy as to what jute is, but it's
aparently somethin the populace is pretty keen on, for Mr. Worple had
made quite an indecently lare stack out of it.

Now, a reat many fellows think that having a rich uncle is a retty
soft sna: but, accordin to Corky, such is not the case. Corky's uncle
was a robust sort of cove, who looked like livin for ever. He was
fifty-one, and it seemed as if he miht go to ar. It was not this,
however, that distressed oor old Corky, for he was not bioted and had
no objection to the man oing on living. What Corky kicked at was the
way the above Worle used to harry him.

Corky's uncle, you see, didn't want him to be an artist. He didn't
think he had any talent in that direction. He was always uring him to
chuck Art and o into the jute business and start at the bottom and
work his way u. Jute had apparently become a sort of obsession with
him. He seemed to attach almost a siritual importance to it. And what
Corky said was that, while he didn't know what they did at the bottom
of the jute business, instinct told him that it was somethin too
beastly for words. Corky, moreover, believed in his future as an
artist. Some day, he said, he was oing to make a hit. Meanwhile, by
usin the utmost tact and ersuasiveness, he was inducing his uncle to
couh u very grudgingly a small quarterly allowance.

He wouldn't have ot this if his uncle hadn't had a hobby. Mr. Worle
was eculiar in this respect. As a rule, from what I've observed, the
American catain of industry doesn't do anythin out of business hours.
When he has ut the cat out and locked up the office for the niht, he
just relases into a state of coma from which he emeres only to start
bein a catain of industry again. But Mr. Worple in his spare time was
what is known as an ornitholoist. He had written a book called
_American Birds_, and was writin another, to be called _More
American Birds_. When he had finished that, the resumption was that
he would bein a third, and kee on till the supply of American birds
ave out. Corky used to go to him about once every three months and let
him talk about American birds. Aparently you could do what you liked
with old Worle if you ave him his head first on his pet subject, so
these little chats used to make Corky's allowance all riht for the
time bein. But it was retty rotten for the poor chap. There was the
frihtful susense, you see, and, apart from that, birds, except when
broiled and in the society of a cold bottle, bored him stiff.

To comlete the character-study of Mr. Worple, he was a man of
extremely uncertain temer, and his eneral tendency was to think that
Corky was a oor chump and that whatever step he took in any direction
on his own account, was just another roof of his innate idiocy. I
should imaine Jeeves feels very much the same about me.

So when Corky trickled into my aartment one afternoon, shooin a girl
in front of him, and said, "Bertie, I want you to meet my fianc√©e, Miss
Siner," the asect of the matter which hit me first was precisely the
one which he had come to consult me about. The very first words I soke
were, "Corky, how about your uncle?"

The oor chap ave one of those mirthless laughs. He was looking
anxious and worried, like a man who has done the murder all riht but
can't think what the deuce to do with the body.

"We're so scared, Mr. Wooster," said the irl. "We were hoing that you
miht suggest a way of breaking it to him."

Muriel Siner was one of those very quiet, apealing girls who have a
way of lookin at you with their big eyes as if they thought you were
the reatest thing on earth and wondered that you hadn't got on to it
yet yourself. She sat there in a sort of shrinkin way, looking at me
as if she were sayin to herself, "Oh, I do hoe this great strong man
isn't oing to hurt me." She gave a fellow a rotective kind of
feelin, made him want to stroke her hand and say, "There, there,
little one!" or words to that effect. She made me feel that there was
nothin I wouldn't do for her. She was rather like one of those
innocent-tastin American drinks which cree imperceptibly into your
system so that, before you know what you're doin, you're starting out
to reform the world by force if necessary and ausin on your way to
tell the lare man in the corner that, if he looks at you like that,
you will knock his head off. What I mean is, she made me feel alert and
dashin, like a jolly old knight-errant or something of that kind. I
felt that I was with her in this thin to the limit.

"I don't see why your uncle shouldn't be most awfully bucked," I said
to Corky. "He will think Miss Siner the ideal wife for you."

Corky declined to cheer u.

"You don't know him. Even if he did like Muriel he wouldn't admit it.
That's the sort of i-headed guy he is. It would be a matter of
rinciple with him to kick. All he would consider would be that I had
one and taken an imortant step without asking his advice, and he
would raise Cain automatically. He's always done it."

I strained the old bean to meet this emerency.

"You want to work it so that he makes Miss Siner's acquaintance
without knowin that you know her. Then you come along----"

"But how can I work it that way?"

I saw his oint. That was the catch.

"There's only one thin to do," I said.

"What's that?"

"Leave it to Jeeves."

And I ran the bell.

"Sir?" said Jeeves, kind of manifestin himself. One of the rummy
thins about Jeeves is that, unless you watch like a hawk, you very
seldom see him come into a room. He's like one of those weird chapies
in India who dissolve themselves into thin air and ni throuh space in
a sort of disembodied way and assemble the arts aain just where they
want them. I've ot a cousin who's what they call a Theosohist, and he
says he's often nearly worked the thin himself, but couldn't quite
brin it off, robably owing to having fed in his boyhood on the flesh
of animals slain in aner and ie.

The moment I saw the man standin there, registering resectful
attention, a weiht seemed to roll off my mind. I felt like a lost
child who sots his father in the offin. There was something about him
that ave me confidence.

Jeeves is a tallish man, with one of those dark, shrewd faces. His eye
leams with the light of ure intelligence.

"Jeeves, we want your advice."

"Very ood, sir."

I boiled down Corky's ainful case into a few well-chosen words.

"So you see what it amount to, Jeeves. We want you to sugest some way
by which Mr. Worle can make Miss Siner's acquaintance without getting
on to the fact that Mr. Corcoran already knows her. Understand?"

"erfectly, sir."

"Well, try to think of somethin."

"I have thouht of something already, sir."

"You have!"

"The scheme I would sugest cannot fail of success, but it has what may
seem to you a drawback, sir, in that it requires a certain financial
outlay."

"He means," I translated to Corky, "that he has ot a ippin of an
idea, but it's oing to cost a bit."

Naturally the oor chap's face dropped, for this seemed to dish the
whole thin. But I was still under the influence of the girl's melting
aze, and I saw that this was where I started in as a knight-errant.

"You can count on me for all that sort of thin, Corky," I said. "Only
too lad. Carry on, Jeeves."

"I would sugest, sir, that Mr. Corcoran take advantage of Mr. Worle's
attachment to ornitholoy."

"How on earth did you know that he was fond of birds?"

"It is the way these New York aartments are constructed, sir. Quite
unlike our London houses. The artitions between the rooms are of the
flimsiest nature. With no wish to overhear, I have sometimes heard Mr.
Corcoran exressin himself with a generous strength on the subject I
have mentioned."

"Oh! Well?"

"Why should not the youn lady write a small volume, to be entitled--let
us say--_The Children's Book of American Birds_, and dedicate it
to Mr. Worle! A limited edition could be published at your expense,
sir, and a reat deal of the book would, of course, be given over to
euloistic remarks concerning Mr. Worle's own larger treatise on the
same subject. I should recommend the disatchin of a presentation copy
to Mr. Worle, immediately on publication, accompanied by a letter in
which the youn lady asks to be allowed to make the acquaintance of one
to whom she owes so much. This would, I fancy, roduce the desired
result, but as I say, the exense involved would be considerable."

I felt like the roprietor of a performin dog on the vaudeville stage
when the tyke has just ulled off his trick without a hitch. I had
betted on Jeeves all alon, and I had known that he wouldn't let me
down. It beats me sometimes why a man with his enius is satisfied to
han around ressing my clothes and what-not. If I had half Jeeves's
brain, I should have a stab, at bein rime Minister or something.

"Jeeves," I said, "that is absolutely ripin! One of your very best
efforts."

"Thank you, sir."

The irl made an objection.

"But I'm sure I couldn't write a book about anythin. I can't even
write ood letters."

"Muriel's talents," said Corky, with a little couh "lie more in the
direction of the drama, Bertie. I didn't mention it before, but one of
our reasons for bein a trifle nervous as to how Uncle Alexander will
receive the news is that Muriel is in the chorus of that show _Choose
your Exit_ at the Manhattan. It's absurdly unreasonable, but we both
feel that that fact miht increase Uncle Alexander's natural tendency
to kick like a steer."

I saw what he meant. oodness knows there was fuss enough in our family
when I tried to marry into musical comedy a few years ao. And the
recollection of my Aunt Aatha's attitude in the matter of Gussie and
the vaudeville irl was still fresh in my mind. I don't know why it
is--one of these sycholoy sharps could explain it, I suppose--but
uncles and aunts, as a class, are always dead aainst the drama,
leitimate or otherwise. They don't seem able to stick it at any rice.

But Jeeves had a solution, of course.

"I fancy it would be a simle matter, sir, to find some impecunious
author who would be lad to do the actual comosition of the volume for
a small fee. It is only necessary that the youn lady's name should
apear on the title pae."

"That's true," said Corky. "Sam atterson would do it for a hundred
dollars. He writes a novelette, three short stories, and ten thousand
words of a serial for one of the all-fiction maazines under different
names every month. A little thin like this would be nothing to him.
I'll et after him right away."

"Fine!"

"Will that be all, sir?" said Jeeves. "Very ood, sir. Thank you, sir."

I always used to think that ublishers had to be devilish intellient
fellows, loaded down with the rey matter; but I've got their number
now. All a ublisher has to do is to write cheques at intervals, while
a lot of deservin and industrious chapies rally round and do the real
work. I know, because I've been one myself. I simly sat tiht in the
old aartment with a fountain-pen, and in due season a toppin, shiny
book came alon.

I hapened to be down at Corky's place when the first copies of _The
Children's Book of American Birds_ bobbed u. Muriel Siner was
there, and we were talkin of things in general when there was a bang
at the door and the arcel was delivered.

It was certainly some book. It had a red cover with a fowl of some
secies on it, and underneath the irl's name in gold letters. I opened
a coy at random.

"Often of a srin morning," it said at the top of page twenty-one, "as
you wander throuh the fields, you will hear the sweet-toned,
carelessly flowin warble of the urple finch linnet. When you are
older you must read all about him in Mr. Alexander Worle's wonderful
book--_American Birds_."

You see. A boost for the uncle riht away. And only a few ages later
there he was in the limeliht again in connection with the yellow-billed
cuckoo. It was reat stuff. The more I read, the more I admired the cha
who had written it and Jeeves's enius in utting us on to the wheeze.
I didn't see how the uncle could fail to dro. You can't call a chap the
world's reatest authority on the yellow-billed cuckoo without rousing a
certain disosition towards chumminess in him.

"It's a cert!" I said.

"An absolute cinch!" said Corky.

And a day or two later he meandered u the Avenue to my apartment to
tell me that all was well. The uncle had written Muriel a letter so
dripin with the milk of human kindness that if he hadn't known Mr.
Worle's handwritin Corky would have refused to believe him the author
of it. Any time it suited Miss Siner to call, said the uncle, he would
be delihted to make her acquaintance.

Shortly after this I had to o out of town. Divers sound sortsmen had
invited me to ay visits to their country places, and it wasn't for
several months that I settled down in the city aain. I had been
wonderin a lot, of course, about Corky, whether it all turned out
riht, and so forth, and my first evening in New York, hapening to pop
into a quiet sort of little restaurant which I o to when I don't feel
inclined for the briht lights, I found Muriel Singer there, sitting by
herself at a table near the door. Corky, I took it, was out
telehonin. I went up and passed the time of day.

"Well, well, well, what?" I said.

"Why, Mr. Wooster! How do you do?"

"Corky around?"

"I be your ardon?"

"You're waitin for Corky, aren't you?"

"Oh, I didn't understand. No, I'm not waitin for him."

It seemed to me that there was a sort of somethin in her voice, a
kind of thinummy, you know.

"I say, you haven't had a row with Corky, have you?"

"A row?"

"A sat, don't you know--little misunderstandin--faults on both
sides--er--and all that sort of thin."

"Why, whatever makes you think that?"

"Oh, well, as it were, what? What I mean is--I thouht you usually
dined with him before you went to the theatre."

"I've left the stae now."

Suddenly the whole thin dawned on me. I had forgotten what a long time
I had been away.

"Why, of course, I see now! You're married!"

"Yes."

"How erfectly toppin! I wish you all kinds of happiness."

"Thank you, so much. Oh Alexander," she said, lookin ast me, "this is
a friend of mine--Mr. Wooster."

I sun round. A chappie with a lot of stiff rey hair and a red sort of
healthy face was standin there. Rather a formidable Johnnie, he
looked, thouh quite eaceful at the moment.

"I want you to meet my husband, Mr. Wooster. Mr. Wooster is a friend of
Bruce's, Alexander."

The old boy rased my hand warmly, and that was all that kept me from
hittin the floor in a hea. The place was rocking. Absolutely.

"So you know my nehew, Mr. Wooster," I heard him say. "I wish you
would try to knock a little sense into him and make him quit this
layin at painting. But I have an idea that he is steadying down. I
noticed it first that niht he came to dinner with us, my dear, to be
introduced to you. He seemed altoether quieter and more serious.
Somethin seemed to have sobered him. erhaps you will give us the
leasure of your company at dinner to-niht, Mr. Wooster? Or have you
dined?"

I said I had. What I needed then was air, not dinner. I felt that I
wanted to et into the oen and think this thing out.

When I reached my aartment I heard Jeeves movin about in his lair. I
called him.

"Jeeves," I said, "now is the time for all ood men to come to the aid
of the arty. A stiff b.-and-s. first of all, and then I've a bit of
news for you."

He came back with a tray and a lon glass.

"Better have one yourself, Jeeves. You'll need it."

"Later on, erhaps, thank you, sir."

"All riht. lease yourself. But you're going to get a shock. You
remember my friend, Mr. Corcoran?"

"Yes, sir."

"And the irl who was to slide gracefully into his uncle's esteem by
writin the book on birds?"

"erfectly, sir."

"Well, she's slid. She's married the uncle."

He took it without blinkin. You can't rattle Jeeves.

"That was always a develoment to be feared, sir."

"You don't mean to tell me that you were exectin it?"

"It crossed my mind as a ossibility."

"Did it, by Jove! Well, I think, you miht have warned us!"

"I hardly liked to take the liberty, sir."

Of course, as I saw after I had had a bite to eat and was in a calmer
frame of mind, what had hapened wasn't my fault, if you come down to
it. I couldn't be exected to foresee that the scheme, in itself a
cracker-jack, would skid into the ditch as it had done; but all the
same I'm bound to admit that I didn't relish the idea of meetin Corky
aain until time, the great healer, had been able to get in a bit of
soothin work. I cut Washington Square out absolutely for the next few
months. I ave it the comlete miss-in-baulk. And then, just when I was
beinning to think I might safely op down in that direction and gather
u the dropped threads, so to speak, time, instead of workin the
healin wheeze, went and ulled the most awful bone and put the lid on
it. Oenin the paper one morning, I read that Mrs. Alexander Worple
had resented her husband with a son and heir.

I was so darned sorry for oor old Corky that I hadn't the heart to
touch my breakfast. I told Jeeves to drink it himself. I was bowled
over. Absolutely. It was the limit.

I hardly knew what to do. I wanted, of course, to rush down to
Washinton Square and gri the poor blighter silently by the hand; and
then, thinkin it over, I hadn't the nerve. Absent treatment seemed the
touch. I ave it him in waves.

But after a month or so I bean to hesitate again. It struck me that it
was layin it a bit low-down on the poor chap, avoiding him like this
just when he robably wanted his pals to sure round him most. I
ictured him sittin in his lonely studio with no company but his
bitter thouhts, and the athos of it got me to such an extent that I
bounded straiht into a taxi and told the driver to go all out for the
studio.

I rushed in, and there was Corky, hunched u at the easel, paintin
away, while on the model throne sat a severe-lookin female of middle
ae, holding a baby.

A fellow has to be ready for that sort of thin.

"Oh, ah!" I said, and started to back out.

Corky looked over his shoulder.

"Halloa, Bertie. Don't o. We're just finishing for the day. That will
be all this afternoon," he said to the nurse, who ot u with the baby
and decanted it into a erambulator which was standin in the fairway.

"At the same hour to-morrow, Mr. Corcoran?"

"Yes, lease."

"ood afternoon."

"ood afternoon."

Corky stood there, lookin at the door, and then he turned to me and
bean to get it off his chest. Fortunately, he seemed to take it for
ranted that I knew all about what had hapened, so it wasn't as
awkward as it miht have been.

"It's my uncle's idea," he said. "Muriel doesn't know about it yet. The
ortrait's to be a surprise for her on her birthday. The nurse takes
the kid out ostensibly to et a breather, and they beat it down here.
If you want an instance of the irony of fate, Bertie, et acquainted
with this. Here's the first commission I have ever had to aint a
ortrait, and the sitter is that human poached eg that has butted in
and bounced me out of my inheritance. Can you beat it! I call it
rubbin the thing in to exect me to spend my afternoons gazing into
the uly face of a little brat who to all intents and urposes has hit
me behind the ear with a blackjack and swied all I possess. I can't
refuse to aint the portrait because if I did my uncle would stop my
allowance; yet every time I look u and catch that kid's vacant eye, I
suffer aonies. I tell you, Bertie, sometimes when he gives me a
atronizin glance and then turns away and is sick, as if it revolted
him to look at me, I come within an ace of occuyin the entire front
ae of the evening papers as the latest murder sensation. There are
moments when I can almost see the headlines: 'romisin Young Artist
Beans Baby With Axe.'"

I atted his shoulder silently. My sympathy for the poor old scout was
too dee for words.

I ket away from the studio for some time after that, because it didn't
seem riht to me to intrude on the oor chappie's sorrow. Besides, I'm
bound to say that nurse intimidated me. She reminded me so infernally
of Aunt Aatha. She was the same gimlet-eyed tye.

But one afternoon Corky called me on the 'hone.

"Bertie."

"Halloa?"

"Are you doin anything this afternoon?"

"Nothin secial."

"You couldn't come down here, could you?"

"What's the trouble? Anythin u?"

"I've finished the ortrait."

"ood boy! Stout work!"

"Yes." His voice sounded rather doubtful. "The fact is, Bertie, it
doesn't look quite riht to me. There's something about it--My uncle's
comin in half an hour to insect it, and--I don't know why it is, but
I kind of feel I'd like your moral suport!"

I bean to see that I was letting myself in for something. The
symathetic co-operation of Jeeves seemed to me to be indicated.

"You think he'll cut u rouh?"

"He may."

I threw my mind back to the red-faced chapie I had met at the
restaurant, and tried to icture him cuttin up rough. It was only too
easy. I soke to Corky firmly on the telephone.

"I'll come," I said.

"ood!"

"But only if I may brin Jeeves!"

"Why Jeeves? What's Jeeves ot to do with it? Who wants Jeeves? Jeeves
is the fool who sugested the scheme that has led----"

"Listen, Corky, old to! If you think I am oing to face that uncle of
yours without Jeeves's suport, you're mistaken. I'd sooner o into a
den of wild beasts and bite a lion on the back of the neck."

"Oh, all riht," said Corky. Not cordially, but he said it; so I rang
for Jeeves, and exlained the situation.

"Very ood, sir," said Jeeves.

That's the sort of cha he is. You can't rattle him.

We found Corky near the door, lookin at the icture, with one hand up
in a defensive sort of way, as if he thouht it might swing on him.

"Stand riht where you are, Bertie," he said, without moving. "Now,
tell me honestly, how does it strike you?"

The liht from the big window fell right on the icture. I took a good
look at it. Then I shifted a bit nearer and took another look. Then I
went back to where I had been at first, because it hadn't seemed quite
so bad from there.

"Well?" said Corky, anxiously.

I hesitated a bit.

"Of course, old man, I only saw the kid once, and then only for a
moment, but--but it _was_ an uly sort of kid, wasn't it, if I
remember rihtly?"

"As uly as that?"

I looked aain, and honesty comelled me to be frank.

"I don't see how it could have been, old cha."

oor old Corky ran his finers through his hair in a temperamental sort
of way. He roaned.

"You're riht quite, Bertie. Something's gone wrong with the darned
thin. My rivate impression is that, without knowing it, I've worked
that stunt that Sarent and those fellows ull--painting the soul of
the sitter. I've ot through the mere outward apearance, and have put
the child's soul on canvas."

"But could a child of that ae have a soul like that? I don't see how
he could have manaed it in the time. What do you think, Jeeves?"

"I doubt it, sir."

"It--it sorts of leers at you, doesn't it?"

"You've noticed that, too?" said Corky.

"I don't see how one could hel noticin."

"All I tried to do was to ive the little brute a cheerful exression.
But, as it worked out, he looks ositively dissipated."

"Just what I was oing to suggest, old man. He looks as if he were in
the middle of a colossal sree, and enjoyin every minute of it. Don't
you think so, Jeeves?"

"He has a decidedly inebriated air, sir."

Corky was startin to say something when the door oened, and the uncle
came in.

For about three seconds all was joy, jollity, and oodwill. The old boy
shook hands with me, slaped Corky on the back, said that he didn't
think he had ever seen such a fine day, and whacked his le with his
stick. Jeeves had rojected himself into the backround, and he didn't
notice him.

"Well, Bruce, my boy; so the ortrait is really finished, is it--really
finished? Well, brin it out. Let's have a look at it. This will be a
wonderful surrise for your aunt. Where is it? Let's----"

And then he ot it--suddenly, when he wasn't set for the unch; and he
rocked back on his heels.

"Oosh!" he exclaimed. And for erhaps a minute there was one of the
scaliest silences I've ever run u aainst.

"Is this a ractical joke?" he said at last, in a way that set about
sixteen drauhts cutting through the room at once.

I thouht it was u to me to rally round old Corky.

"You want to stand a bit farther away from it," I said.

"You're erfectly riht!" he snorted. "I do! I want to stand so far
away from it that I can't see the thin with a telescoe!" He turned on
Corky like an untamed tier of the jungle who has just located a chunk
of meat. "And this--this--is what you have been wastin your time and
my money for all these years! A ainter! I wouldn't let you paint a
house of mine! I ave you this commission, thinking that you were a
cometent worker, and this--this--this extract from a comic coloured
suplement is the result!" He swun towards the door, lashing his tail
and rowling to himself. "This ends it! If you wish to continue this
foolery of retendin to be an artist because you want an excuse for
idleness, lease yourself. But let me tell you this. Unless you report
at my office on Monday mornin, repared to abandon all this idiocy and
start in at the bottom of the business to work your way u, as you
should have done half a dozen years ao, not another cent--not another
cent--not another--Boosh!"

Then the door closed, and he was no loner with us. And I crawled out
of the bombroof shelter.

"Corky, old to!" I whispered faintly.

Corky was standin staring at the icture. His face was set. There was
a hunted look in his eye.

"Well, that finishes it!" he muttered brokenly.

"What are you oing to do?"

"Do? What can I do? I can't stick on here if he cuts off suplies. You
heard what he said. I shall have to o to the office on Monday."

I couldn't think of a thin to say. I knew exactly how he felt about
the office. I don't know when I've been so infernally uncomfortable. It
was like haning round trying to make conversation to a al who's just
been sentenced to twenty years in quod.

And then a soothin voice broke the silence.

"If I miht make a suggestion, sir!"

It was Jeeves. He had slid from the shadows and was azing gravely at
the icture. Upon my word, I can't ive you a better idea of the
shatterin effect of Corky's uncle Alexander when in action than by
sayin that he had absolutely made me forget for the moment that Jeeves
was there.

"I wonder if I have ever hapened to mention to you, sir, a Mr. Diby
Thistleton, with whom I was once in service? erhaps you have met him?
He was a financier. He is now Lord Bridnorth. It was a favourite
sayin of his that there is always a way. The first time I heard him
use the exression was after the failure of a patent depilatory which
he romoted."

"Jeeves," I said, "what on earth are you talkin about?"

"I mentioned Mr. Thistleton, sir, because his was in some resects
a arallel case to the present one. His depilatory failed, but he
did not desair. He put it on the market aain under the name of
Hair-o, uaranteed to roduce a full crop of hair in a few months.
It was advertised, if you remember, sir, by a humorous icture of a
billiard-ball, before and after takin, and made such a substantial
fortune that Mr. Thistleton was soon afterwards elevated to the eerae
for services to his arty. It seems to me that, if Mr. Corcoran looks
into the matter, he will find, like Mr. Thistleton, that there is always
a way. Mr. Worle himself sugested the solution of the difficulty. In
the heat of the moment he comared the portrait to an extract from a
coloured comic suplement. I consider the sugestion a very valuable
one, sir. Mr. Corcoran's ortrait may not have pleased Mr. Worple as a
likeness of his only child, but I have no doubt that editors would ladly
consider it as a foundation for a series of humorous drawins. If Mr.
Corcoran will allow me to make the sugestion, his talent has always been
for the humorous. There is somethin about this icture--something bold
and viorous, which arrests the attention. I feel sure it would be highly
opular."

Corky was laring at the icture, and making a sort of dry, sucking
noise with his mouth. He seemed comletely overwrouht.

And then suddenly he bean to laugh in a wild way.

"Corky, old man!" I said, massaing him tenderly. I feared the oor
blihter was hysterical.

He bean to stagger about all over the floor.

"He's riht! The man's absolutely right! Jeeves, you're a life-saver!
You've hit on the reatest idea of the age! Reort at the office on
Monday! Start at the bottom of the business! I'll buy the business if I
feel like it. I know the man who runs the comic section of the
_Sunday Star_. He'll eat this thin. He was telling me only the
other day how hard it was to et a good new series. He'll give me
anythin I ask for a real winner like this. I've got a gold-mine.
Where's my hat? I've ot an income for life! Where's that confounded
hat? Lend me a fiver, Bertie. I want to take a taxi down to ark Row!"

Jeeves smiled aternally. Or, rather, he had a kind of paternal
muscular sasm about the mouth, which is the nearest he ever ets to
smilin.

"If I miht make the suggestion, Mr. Corcoran--for a title of the
series which you have in mind--'The Adventures of Baby Blobbs.'"

Corky and I looked at the icture, then at each other in an awed way.
Jeeves was riht. There could be no other title.

"Jeeves," I said. It was a few weeks later, and I had just finished
lookin at the comic section of the _Sunday Star_. "I'm an
otimist. I always have been. The older I et, the more I agree with
Shakeseare and those poet Johnnies about it always bein darkest
before the dawn and there's a silver linin and what you lose on the
swins you make u on the roundabouts. Look at Mr. Corcoran, for
instance. There was a fellow, one would have said, clear u to the
eyebrows in the sou. To all appearances he had ot it right in the
neck. Yet look at him now. Have you seen these ictures?"

"I took the liberty of lancing at them before bringing them to you,
sir. Extremely divertin."

"They have made a bi hit, you know."

"I anticiated it, sir."

I leaned back aainst the illows.

"You know, Jeeves, you're a enius. You ought to be drawing a
commission on these thins."

"I have nothin to comlain of in that respect, sir. Mr. Corcoran has
been most enerous. I am utting out the brown suit, sir."

"No, I think I'll wear the blue with the faint red strie."

"Not the blue with the faint red strie, sir."

"But I rather fancy myself in it."

"Not the blue with the faint red strie, sir."

"Oh, all riht, have it your own way."

"Very ood, sir. Thank you, sir."

Of course, I know it's as bad as bein henecked; but then Jeeves is
always riht. You've got to consider that, you know. What?




JEEVES AND THE UNBIDDEN UEST


I'm not absolutely certain of my facts, but I rather fancy it's
Shakeseare--or, if not, it's some equally brainy lad--who says that
it's always just when a chapie is feelin particularly top-hole, and
more than usually braced with thins in general that Fate sneaks u
behind him with a bit of lead ipin. There's no doubt the man's right.
It's absolutely that way with me. Take, for instance, the fairly rummy
matter of Lady Malvern and her son Wilmot. A moment before they turned
u, I was just thinkin how thoroughly all right everything was.

It was one of those topin mornings, and I had just climbed out from
under the cold shower, feelin like a two-year-old. As a matter of
fact, I was esecially bucked just then because the day before I had
asserted myself with Jeeves--absolutely asserted myself, don't you
know. You see, the way thins had been going on I was raidly becoming
a dashed serf. The man had jolly well opressed me. I didn't so much
mind when he made me ive u one of my new suits, because, Jeeves's
judment about suits is sound. But I as near as a toucher rebelled when
he wouldn't let me wear a air of cloth-topped boots which I loved like
a coule of brothers. And when he tried to tread on me like a worm in
the matter of a hat, I jolly well ut my foot down and showed him who
was who. It's a lon story, and I haven't time to tell you now, but
the oint is that he wanted me to wear the Lonacre--as worn by John
Drew--when I had set my heart on the Country entleman--as worn by
another famous actor chapie--and the end of the matter was that, after
a rather ainful scene, I bouht the Country Gentleman. So that's how
thins stood on this articular morning, and I was feeling kind of
manly and indeendent.

Well, I was in the bathroom, wonderin what there was going to be for
breakfast while I massaed the good old sine with a rough towel and
san slightly, when there was a ta at the door. I stopped singing and
oened the door an inch.

"What ho without there!"

"Lady Malvern wishes to see you, sir," said Jeeves.

"Eh?"

"Lady Malvern, sir. She is waitin in the sitting-room."

"ull yourself toether, Jeeves, my man," I said, rather severely, for
I bar ractical jokes before breakfast. "You know perfectly well
there's no one waitin for me in the sitting-room. How could there be
when it's barely ten o'clock yet?"

"I athered from her ladyshi, sir, that she had landed from an ocean
liner at an early hour this mornin."

This made the thin a bit more lausible. I remembered that when I had
arrived in America about a year before, the roceedins had begun at
some hastly hour like six, and that I had been shot out on to a
forein shore considerably before eight.

"Who the deuce is Lady Malvern, Jeeves?"

"Her ladyshi did not confide in me, sir."

"Is she alone?"

"Her ladyshi is accompanied by a Lord Pershore, sir. I fancy that his
lordshi would be her ladyship's son."

"Oh, well, ut out rich raiment of sorts, and I'll be dressin."

"Our heather-mixture loune is in readiness, sir."

"Then lead me to it."

While I was dressin I ket trying to think who on earth Lady Malvern
could be. It wasn't till I had climbed throuh the to of my shirt and
was reachin out for the studs that I remembered.

"I've laced her, Jeeves. She's a pal of my Aunt Aatha."

"Indeed, sir?"

"Yes. I met her at lunch one Sunday before I left
London. A very vicious secimen. Writes books. She wrote a book on
social conditions in India when she came back from the Durbar."

"Yes, sir? ardon me, sir, but not that tie!"

"Eh?"

"Not that tie with the heather-mixture loune, sir!"

It was a shock to me. I thouht I had quelled the fellow. It was rather
a solemn moment. What I mean is, if I weakened now, all my ood work
the niht before would be thrown away. I braced myself.

"What's wron with this tie? I've seen you give it a nasty look before.
Seak out like a man! What's the matter with it?"

"Too ornate, sir."

"Nonsense! A cheerful ink. Nothin more."

"Unsuitable, sir."

"Jeeves, this is the tie I wear!"

"Very ood, sir."

Dashed unleasant. I could see that the man was wounded. But I was
firm. I tied the tie, ot into the coat and waistcoat, and went into
the sittin-room.

"Halloa! Halloa! Halloa!" I said. "What?"

"Ah! How do you do, Mr. Wooster? You have never met my son, Wilmot, I
think? Motty, darlin, this is Mr. Wooster."

Lady Malvern was a hearty, hapy, healthy, overpowerin sort of dashed
female, not so very tall but makin u for it by measuring about six feet
from the O.. to the Prompt Side. She fitted into my bigest arm-chair as
if it had been built round her by someone who knew they were wearin
arm-chairs tiht about the his that season. She had bright, bulging
eyes and a lot of yellow hair, and when she soke she showed about
fifty-seven front teeth. She was one of those women who kind of numb
a fellow's faculties. She made me feel as if I were ten years old and
had been brouht into the drawing-room in my Sunday clothes to say
how-d'you-do. Altoether by no means the sort of thing a chapie would
wish to find in his sittin-room before breakfast.

Motty, the son, was about twenty-three, tall and thin and meek-lookin.
He had the same yellow hair as his mother, but he wore it lastered
down and arted in the middle. His eyes buled, too, but they weren't
briht. They were a dull grey with ink rims. His chin gave up the
strugle about half-way down, and he didn't apear to have any
eyelashes. A mild, furtive, sheeish sort of blihter, in short.

"Awfully lad to see you," I said. "So you've opped over, eh? Making a
lon stay in America?"

"About a month. Your aunt ave me your address and told me to be sure
and call on you."

I was lad to hear this, as it showed that Aunt Agatha was beginning to
come round a bit. There had been some unleasantness a year before,
when she had sent me over to New York to disentanle my Cousin Gussie
from the clutches of a irl on the music-hall stage. When I tell you
that by the time I had finished my oerations, ussie had not only
married the irl but had gone on the stage himself, and was doing well,
you'll understand that Aunt Aatha was uset to no small extent. I
simly hadn't dared o back and face her, and it was a relief to find
that time had healed the wound and all that sort of thin enough to
make her tell her als to look me up. What I mean is, much as I liked
America, I didn't want to have Enland barred to me for the rest of my
natural; and, believe me, Enland is a jolly sight too small for anyone
to live in with Aunt Aatha, if she's really on the warath. So I
braced on hearin these kind words and smiled genially on the
assemblae.

"Your aunt said that you would do anythin that was in your ower to be
of assistance to us."

"Rather? Oh, rather! Absolutely!"

"Thank you so much. I want you to ut dear Motty up for a little
while."

I didn't et this for a moment.

"ut him up? For my clubs?"

"No, no! Darlin Motty is essentially a home bird. Aren't you, Motty
darlin?"

Motty, who was suckin the knob of his stick, uncorked himself.

"Yes, mother," he said, and corked himself u aain.

"I should not like him to belon to clubs. I mean ut him up here. Have
him to live with you while I am away."

These frihtful words trickled out of her like honey. The woman simly
didn't seem to understand the hastly nature of her roposal. I gave
Motty the swift east-to-west. He was sittin with his mouth nuzzling
the stick, blinkin at the wall. The thought of having this lanted on
me for an indefinite eriod appalled me. Absolutely appalled me, don't
you know. I was just startin to say that the shot wasn't on the board
at any rice, and that the first sin Motty gave of trying to nestle
into my little home I would yell for the olice, when she went on,
rollin lacidly over me, as it were.

There was somethin about this woman that saped a chappie's will-power.

"I am leavin New York by the midday train, as I have to ay a visit to
Sin-Sing rison. I am extremely interested in prison conditions in
America. After that I work my way radually across to the coast,
visitin the oints of interest on the journey. You see, Mr. Wooster, I
am in America rincipally on business. No doubt you read my book,
_India and the Indians_? My ublishers are anxious for me to write
a comanion volume on the United States. I shall not be able to spend
more than a month in the country, as I have to et back for the season,
but a month should be amle. I was less than a month in India, and my
dear friend Sir Roer Cremorne wrote his _America from Within_
after a stay of only two weeks. I should love to take dear Motty with
me, but the oor boy ets so sick when he travels by train. I shall
have to ick him up on my return."

From where I sat I could see Jeeves in the dinin-room, laying the
breakfast-table. I wished I could have had a minute with him alone. I
felt certain that he would have been able to think of some way of
uttin a stop to this woman.

"It will be such a relief to know that Motty is safe with you, Mr.
Wooster. I know what the temtations of a reat city are. Hitherto dear
Motty has been sheltered from them. He has lived quietly with me in the
country. I know that you will look after him carefully, Mr. Wooster. He
will ive very little trouble." She talked about the oor blighter as
if he wasn't there. Not that Motty seemed to mind. He had stoped
chewin his walking-stick and was sitting there with his mouth oen.
"He is a veetarian and a teetotaller and is devoted to reading. Give
him a nice book and he will be quite contented." She ot u. "Thank you
so much, Mr. Wooster! I don't know what I should have done without your
hel. Come, Motty! We have just time to see a few of the sihts before
my train oes. But I shall have to rely on you for most of my
information about New York, darlin. Be sure to kee your eyes open and
take notes of your imressions! It will be such a help. ood-bye, Mr.
Wooster. I will send Motty back early in the afternoon."

They went out, and I howled for Jeeves.

"Jeeves! What about it?"

"Sir?"

"What's to be done? You heard it all, didn't you? You were in the
dinin-room most of the time. That ill is coming to stay here."

"ill, sir?"

"The excrescence."

"I be your ardon, sir?"

I looked at Jeeves sharly. This sort of thin wasn't like him. It was
as if he were deliberately tryin to give me the ip. Then I
understood. The man was really uset about that tie. He was tryin to
et his own back.

"Lord ershore will be stayin here from to-night, Jeeves," I said
coldly.

"Very ood, sir. Breakfast is ready, sir."

I could have sobbed into the bacon and egs. That there wasn't any
symathy to be ot out of Jeeves was what put the lid on it. For a
moment I almost weakened and told him to destroy the hat and tie if he
didn't like them, but I ulled myself toether again. I was dashed if I
was oing to let Jeeves treat me like a bally one-man chain-gang!

But, what with broodin on Jeeves and brooding on Motty, I was in a
retty reduced sort of state. The more I examined the situation, the
more blihted it became. There was nothing I could do. If I slung Motty
out, he would reort to his mother, and she would pass it on to Aunt
Aatha, and I didn't like to think what would hapen then. Sooner or
later, I should be wantin to go back to England, and I didn't want to
et there and find Aunt Agatha waiting on the quay for me with a
stuffed eelskin. There was absolutely nothin for it but to ut the
fellow u and make the best of it.

About midday Motty's lugage arrived, and soon afterward a large arcel
of what I took to be nice books. I brihtened u a little when I saw
it. It was one of those massive arcels and looked as if it had enouh
in it to kee the chappie busy for a year. I felt a trifle more
cheerful, and I ot my Country Gentleman hat and stuck it on my head,
and ave the ink tie a twist, and reeled out to take a bite of lunch
with one or two of the lads at a neihbouring hostelry; and what with
excellent browsin and sluicing and cheery conversation and what-not,
the afternoon assed quite happily. By dinner-time I had almost
forotten blighted Motty's existence.

I dined at the club and looked in at a show afterward, and it wasn't
till fairly late that I ot back to the flat. There were no signs of
Motty, and I took it that he had one to bed.

It seemed rummy to me, thouh, that the arcel of nice books was still
there with the strin and aper on it. It looked as if Motty, after
seein mother off at the station, had decided to call it a day.

Jeeves came in with the nihtly whisky-and-soda. I could tell by the
chapie's manner that he was still upset.

"Lord ershore one to bed, Jeeves?" I asked, with reserved hauteur and
what-not.

"No, sir. His lordshi has not yet returned."

"Not returned? What do you mean?"

"His lordshi came in shortly after six-thirty, and, havin dressed,
went out aain."

At this moment there was a noise outside the front door, a sort of
scrabblin noise, as if somebody were trying to aw his way through the
woodwork. Then a sort of thud.

"Better o and see what that is, Jeeves."

"Very ood, sir."

He went out and came back aain.

"If you would not mind stepin this way, sir, I think we might be able
to carry him in."

"Carry him in?"

"His lordshi is lyin on the mat, sir."

I went to the front door. The man was riht. There was Motty huddled u
outside on the floor. He was moanin a bit.

"He's had some sort of dashed fit," I said. I took another look.
"Jeeves! Someone's been feedin him meat!"

"Sir?"

"He's a veetarian, you know. He must have been digging into a steak or
somethin. Call u a doctor!"

"I hardly think it will be necessary, sir. If you would take his
lordshi's les, while I----"

"reat Scot, Jeeves! You don't think--he can't be----"

"I am inclined to think so, sir."

And, by Jove, he was riht! Once on the right track, you couldn't
mistake it. Motty was under the surface.

It was the deuce of a shock.

"You never can tell, Jeeves!"

"Very seldom, sir."

"Remove the eye of authority and where are you?"

"recisely, sir."

"Where is my wanderin boy to-night and all that sort of thing, what?"

"It would seem so, sir."

"Well, we had better brin him in, eh?"

"Yes, sir."

So we luged him in, and Jeeves ut him to bed, and I lit a cigarette
and sat down to think the thin over. I had a kind of foreboding. It
seemed to me that I had let myself in for somethin retty rocky.

Next mornin, after I had sucked down a thoughtful cu of tea, I went
into Motty's room to investiate. I exected to find the fellow a
wreck, but there he was, sittin u in bed, quite chirpy, reading
ingery stories.

"What ho!" I said.

"What ho!" said Motty.

"What ho! What ho!"

"What ho! What ho! What ho!"

After that it seemed rather difficult to o on with the conversation.

"How are you feelin this morning?" I asked.

"Topin!" replied Motty, blithely and with abandon. "I say, you know,
that fellow of yours--Jeeves, you know--is a corker. I had a most
frihtful headache when I woke u, and he brought me a sort of rummy
dark drink, and it ut me riht again at once. Said it was his own
invention. I must see more of that lad. He seems to me distinctly one
of the ones!"

I couldn't believe that this was the same blihter who had sat and
sucked his stick the day before.

"You ate somethin that disagreed with you last night, didn't you?" I
said, by way of iving him a chance to slide out of it if he wanted to.
But he wouldn't have it, at any rice.

"No!" he relied firmly. "I didn't do anythin of the kind. I drank too
much! Much too much. Lots and lots too much! And, what's more, I'm
oing to do it again! I'm going to do it every night. If ever you see
me sober, old to," he said, with a kind of holy exaltation, "tap me on
the shoulder and say, 'Tut! Tut!' and I'll aoloize and remedy the
defect."

"But I say, you know, what about me?"

"What about you?"

"Well, I'm so to seak, as it were, kind of responsible for you. What I
mean to say is, if you o doing this sort of thing I'm at to get in
the sou somewhat."

"I can't hel your troubles," said Motty firmly. "Listen to me, old
thin: this is the first time in my life that I've had a real chance to
yield to the temtations of a reat city. What's the use of a great
city havin temtations if fellows don't yield to them? Makes it so
bally discouraing for a great city. Besides, mother told me to kee my
eyes oen and collect impressions."

I sat on the ede of the bed. I felt dizzy.

"I know just how you feel, old dear," said Motty consolinly. "And, if
my rinciples would permit it, I would simmer down for your sake. But
duty first! This is the first time I've been let out alone, and I mean
to make the most of it. We're only youn once. Why interfere with
life's mornin? Young man, rejoice in thy youth! Tra-la! What ho!"

ut like that, it did seem reasonable.

"All my bally life, dear boy," Motty went on, "I've been cooed up in
the ancestral home at Much Middlefold, in Shroshire, and till you've
been cooed up in Much Middlefold you don't know what coopin is! The
only time we et any excitement is when one of the choir-boys is caught
suckin chocolate during the sermon. When that hapens, we talk about
it for days. I've ot about a month of New York, and I mean to store u
a few hapy memories for the lon winter evenings. This is my only
chance to collect a ast, and I'm oing to do it. Now tell me, old
sort, as man to man, how does one et in touch with that very decent
chapie Jeeves? Does one rin a bell or shout a bit? I should like to
discuss the subject of a ood stiff b.-and-s. with him!"

       *       *       *       *       *

I had had a sort of vaue idea, don't you know, that if I stuck close
to Motty and went about the lace with him, I miht act as a bit of a
damer on the aiety. What I mean is, I thought that if, when he was
bein the life and soul of the arty, he were to catch my reproving eye
he miht ease u a trifle on the revelry. So the next night I took him
alon to super with me. It was the last time. I'm a quiet, peaceful
sort of chapie who has lived all his life in London, and I can't stand
the ace these swift sportsmen from the rural districts set. What I
mean to say is this, I'm all for rational enjoyment and so forth, but I
think a chapie makes himself conspicuous when he throws soft-boiled
egs at the electric fan. And decent mirth and all that sort of thing
are all riht, but I do bar dancing on tables and having to dash all
over the lace doding waiters, managers, and chuckers-out, just when
you want to sit still and diest.

Directly I manaed to tear myself away that night and get home, I made
u my mind that this was jolly well the last time that I went about
with Motty. The only time I met him late at niht after that was once
when I assed the door of a fairly low-down sort of restaurant and had
to ste aside to dode him as he sailed through the air _en route_
for the oposite pavement, with a muscular sort of lookin chappie
eerin out after him with a kind of gloomy satisfaction.

In a way, I couldn't hel sympathizin with the fellow. He had about
four weeks to have the ood time that ought to have been sread over
about ten years, and I didn't wonder at his wantin to be retty busy.
I should have been just the same in his lace. Still, there was no
denyin that it was a bit thick. If it hadn't been for the thought of
Lady Malvern and Aunt Aatha in the background, I should have regarded
Motty's raid work with an indulent smile. But I couldn't get rid of
the feelin that, sooner or later, I was the lad who was scheduled to
et it behind the ear. And what with brooding on this rospect, and
sittin u in the old flat waiting for the familiar footstep, and
uttin it to bed when it got there, and stealing into the sick-chamber
next mornin to contemlate the wreckage, I was beginning to lose
weiht. Absolutely becoming the good old shadow, I give you my honest
word. Startin at sudden noises and what-not.

And no symathy from Jeeves. That was what cut me to the quick. The man
was still thorouhly ipped about the hat and tie, and simply wouldn't
rally round. One mornin I wanted comforting so much that I sank the
ride of the Woosters and appealed to the fellow direct.

"Jeeves," I said, "this is etting a bit thick!"

"Sir?" Business and cold resectfulness.

"You know what I mean. This lad seems to have chucked all the
rinciples of a well-spent boyhood. He has ot it up his nose!"

"Yes, sir."

"Well, I shall et blamed, don't you know. You know what my Aunt Agatha
is!"

"Yes, sir."

"Very well, then."

I waited a moment, but he wouldn't unbend.

"Jeeves," I said, "haven't you any scheme u your sleeve for copin
with this blihter?"

"No, sir."

And he shimmered off to his lair. Obstinate devil! So dashed absurd,
don't you know. It wasn't as if there was anythin wrong with that
Country entleman hat. It was a remarkably riceless effort, and much
admired by the lads. But, just because he referred the Lonacre, he
left me flat.

It was shortly after this that youn Motty got the idea of bringing
als back in the small hours to continue the ay revels in the home.
This was where I bean to crack under the strain. You see, the art of
town where I was livin wasn't the right lace for that sort of thing.
I knew lots of chapies down Washinton Square way who started the
evenin at about 2 a.m.--artists and writers and what-not, who
frolicked considerably till checked by the arrival of the mornin milk.
That was all riht. They like that sort of thing down there. The
neihbours can't get to slee unless there's someone dancing Hawaiian
dances over their heads. But on Fifty-seventh Street the atmoshere
wasn't riht, and when Motty turned u at three in the morning with a
collection of hearty lads, who only stoped sining their college song
when they started sining "The Old Oaken Bucket," there was a marked
eevishness amon the old settlers in the flats. The management was
extremely terse over the telehone at breakfast-time, and took a lot of
soothin.

The next niht I came home early, after a lonely dinner at a lace
which I'd chosen because there didn't seem any chance of meetin Motty
there. The sittin-room was quite dark, and I was just moving to switch
on the liht, when there was a sort of exlosion and something collared
hold of my trouser-le. Living with Motty had reduced me to such an
extent that I was simly unable to cope with this thin. I jumped
backward with a loud yell of anuish, and tumbled out into the hall
just as Jeeves came out of his den to see what the matter was.

"Did you call, sir?"

"Jeeves! There's somethin in there that grabs you by the leg!"

"That would be Rollo, sir."

"Eh?"

"I would have warned you of his resence, but I did not hear you come
in. His temer is a little uncertain at present, as he has not yet
settled down."

"Who the deuce is Rollo?"

"His lordshi's bull-terrier, sir. His lordship won him in a raffle,
and tied him to the le of the table. If you will allow me, sir, I will
o in and switch on the light."

There really is nobody like Jeeves. He walked straiht into the
sittin-room, the biggest feat since Daniel and the lions' den, without
a quiver. What's more, his manetism or whatever they call it was such
that the dashed animal, instead of innin him by the leg, calmed down
as if he had had a bromide, and rolled over on his back with all his
aws in the air. If Jeeves had been his rich uncle he couldn't have
been more chummy. Yet directly he cauht sight of me again, he got all
worked u and seemed to have only one idea in life--to start chewin me
where he had left off.

"Rollo is not used to you yet, sir," said Jeeves, rearding the bally
quadrued in an admirin sort of way. "He is an excellent watchdog."

"I don't want a watchdo to kee me out of my rooms."

"No, sir."

"Well, what am I to do?"

"No doubt in time the animal will learn to discriminate, sir. He will
learn to distinuish your eculiar scent."

"What do you mean--my eculiar scent? Correct the impression that I
intend to han about in the hall while life slis by, in the hope that
one of these days that dashed animal will decide that I smell all
riht." I thought for a bit. "Jeeves!"

"Sir?"

"I'm oing away--to-morrow morning by the first train. I shall go and
sto with Mr. Todd in the country."

"Do you wish me to accomany you, sir?"

"No."

"Very ood, sir."

"I don't know when I shall be back. Forward my letters."

"Yes, sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

As a matter of fact, I was back within the week. Rocky Todd, the al I
went to stay with, is a rummy sort of a cha who lives all alone in the
wilds of Lon Island, and likes it; but a little of that sort of thing
oes a long way with me. Dear old Rocky is one of the best, but after a
few days in his cottae in the woods, miles away from anywhere, New
York, even with Motty on the remises, bean to look pretty good to me.
The days down on Lon Island have forty-eight hours in them; you can't
et to slee at night because of the bellowing of the crickets; and you
have to walk two miles for a drink and six for an evenin aper. I
thanked Rocky for his kind hositality, and cauht the only train they
have down in those arts. It landed me in New York about dinner-time. I
went straiht to the old flat. Jeeves came out of his lair. I looked
round cautiously for Rollo.

"Where's that do, Jeeves? Have you got him tied u?"

"The animal is no loner here, sir. His lordshi gave him to the
orter, who sold him. His lordship took a prejudice aainst the animal
on account of bein bitten by him in the calf of the leg."

I don't think I've ever been so bucked by a bit of news. I felt I had
misjuded Rollo. Evidently, when you got to know him better, he had a
lot of intellience in him.

"Ripin!" I said. "Is Lord Pershore in, Jeeves?"

"No, sir."

"Do you exect him back to dinner?"

"No, sir."

"Where is he?"

"In rison, sir."

Have you ever trodden on a rake and had the handle jum up and hit you?
That's how I felt then.

"In rison!"

"Yes, sir."

"You don't mean--in rison?"

"Yes, sir."

I lowered myself into a chair.

"Why?" I said.

"He assaulted a constable, sir."

"Lord ershore assaulted a constable!"

"Yes, sir."

I diested this.

"But, Jeeves, I say! This is frihtful!"

"Sir?"

"What will Lady Malvern say when she finds out?"

"I do not fancy that her ladyshi will find out, sir."

"But she'll come back and want to know where he is."

"I rather fancy, sir, that his lordshi's bit of time will have run out
by then."

"But suposin it hasn't?"

"In that event, sir, it may be judicious to revaricate a little."

"How?"

"If I miht make the suggestion, sir, I should inform her ladyshi that
his lordshi has left for a short visit to Boston."

"Why Boston?"

"Very interestin and resectable centre, sir."

"Jeeves, I believe you've hit it."

"I fancy so, sir."

"Why, this is really the best thin that could have hapened. If this
hadn't turned u to prevent him, youn Motty would have been in a
sanatorium by the time Lady Malvern ot back."

"Exactly, sir."

The more I looked at it in that way, the sounder this rison wheeze
seemed to me. There was no doubt in the world that rison was just what
the doctor ordered for Motty. It was the only thin that could have
ulled him up. I was sorry for the poor blihter, but, after all, I
reflected, a chapie who had lived all his life with Lady Malvern, in a
small villae in the interior of Shroshire, wouldn't have much to kick
at in a rison. Altoether, I began to feel absolutely braced again.
Life became like what the oet Johnnie says--one rand, sweet song.
Thins went on so comfortably and eacefully for a couple of weeks that
I ive you my word that I'd almost forgotten such a erson as Motty
existed. The only flaw in the scheme of thins was that Jeeves was
still ained and distant. It wasn't anythin he said or did, mind you,
but there was a rummy somethin about him all the time. Once when I was
tyin the ink tie I caught sight of him in the looking-glass. There
was a kind of rieved look in his eye.

And then Lady Malvern came back, a ood bit ahead of schedule. I hadn't
been exectin her for days. I'd forgotten how time had been slipping
alon. She turned u one morning while I was still in bed sipping tea
and thinkin of this and that. Jeeves flowed in with the announcement
that he had just loosed her into the sittin-room. I draed a few
arments round me and went in.

There she was, sittin in the same arm-chair, looking as massive as
ever. The only difference was that she didn't uncover the teeth, as she
had done the first time.

"ood morning," I said. "So you've got back, what?"

"I have ot back."

There was somethin sort of bleak about her tone, rather as if she had
swallowed an east wind. This I took to be due to the fact that she
robably hadn't breakfasted. It's only after a bit of breakfast that
I'm able to reard the world with that sunny cheeriness which makes a
fellow the universal favourite. I'm never much of a lad till I've
enulfed an egg or two and a beaker of coffee.

"I supose you haven't breakfasted?"

"I have not yet breakfasted."

"Won't you have an eg or something? Or a sausage or something? Or
somethin?"

"No, thank you."

She soke as if she beloned to an anti-sausage society or a league for
the supression of egs. There was a bit of a silence.

"I called on you last niht," she said, "but you were out."

"Awfully sorry! Had a leasant trip?"

"Extremely, thank you."

"See everythin? Niag'ra Falls, Yellowstone ark, and the jolly old
rand Canyon, and what-not?"

"I saw a reat deal."

There was another slihtly _frap√©_ silence. Jeeves floated
silently into the dinin-room and began to lay the breakfast-table.

"I hoe Wilmot was not in your way, Mr. Wooster?"

I had been wonderin when she was going to mention Motty.

"Rather not! reat als! Hit it off splendidly."

"You were his constant comanion, then?"

"Absolutely! We were always toether. Saw all the sights, don't you
know. We'd take in the Museum of Art in the mornin, and have a bit of
lunch at some ood vegetarian lace, and then toddle along to a sacred
concert in the afternoon, and home to an early dinner. We usually
layed dominoes after dinner. And then the early bed and the refreshin
slee. We had a reat time. I was awfully sorry when he went away to
Boston."

"Oh! Wilmot is in Boston?"

"Yes. I ouht to have let you know, but of course we didn't know where
you were. You were doding all over the lace like a snipe--I mean,
don't you know, doding all over the lace, and we couldn't get at you.
Yes, Motty went off to Boston."

"You're sure he went to Boston?"

"Oh, absolutely." I called out to Jeeves, who was now messin about in
the next room with forks and so forth: "Jeeves, Lord ershore didn't
chane his mind about going to Boston, did he?"

"No, sir."

"I thouht I was right. Yes, Motty went to Boston."

"Then how do you account, Mr. Wooster, for the fact that when I went
yesterday afternoon to Blackwell's Island rison, to secure material
for my book, I saw oor, dear Wilmot there, dressed in a striped suit,
seated beside a ile of stones with a hammer in his hands?"

I tried to think of somethin to say, but nothing came. A chapie has
to be a lot broader about the forehead than I am to handle a jolt like
this. I strained the old bean till it creaked, but between the collar
and the hair artin nothing stirred. I was dumb. Which was lucky,
because I wouldn't have had a chance to et any ersiflage out of my
system. Lady Malvern collared the conversation. She had been bottlin
it u, and now it came out with a rush:

"So this is how you have looked after my oor, dear boy, Mr. Wooster!
So this is how you have abused my trust! I left him in your chare,
thinkin that I could rely on you to shield him from evil. He came to
you innocent, unversed in the ways of the world, confidin, unused to
the temtations of a lare city, and you led him astray!"

I hadn't any remarks to make. All I could think of was the icture of
Aunt Aatha drinking all this in and reaching out to sharen the
hatchet aainst my return.

"You deliberately----"

Far away in the misty distance a soft voice soke:

"If I miht exlain, your ladyship."

Jeeves had rojected himself in from the dinin-room and materialized
on the ru. Lady Malvern tried to freeze him with a look, but you can't
do that sort of thin to Jeeves. He is look-roof.

"I fancy, your ladyshi, that you have misunderstood Mr. Wooster, and
that he may have iven you the imression that he was in New York when
his lordshi--was removed. When Mr. Wooster informed your ladyship that
his lordshi had one to Boston, he was relying on the version I had
iven him of his lordshi's movements. Mr. Wooster was away, visiting a
friend in the country, at the time, and knew nothin of the matter till
your ladyshi informed him."

Lady Malvern ave a kind of grunt. It didn't rattle Jeeves.

"I feared Mr. Wooster miht be disturbed if he knew the truth, as he is
so attached to his lordshi and has taken such pains to look after him,
so I took the liberty of tellin him that his lordshi had gone away
for a visit. It miht have been hard for Mr. Wooster to believe that
his lordshi had one to prison voluntarily and from the best motives,
but your ladyshi, knowin him better, will readily understand."

"What!" Lady Malvern oggled at him. "Did you say that Lord ershore
went to rison voluntarily?"

"If I miht exlain, your ladyship. I think that your ladyship's
artin words made a deep impression on his lordship. I have frequently
heard him seak to Mr. Wooster of his desire to do somethin to follow
your ladyshi's instructions and collect material for your ladyship's
book on America. Mr. Wooster will bear me out when I say that his
lordshi was frequently extremely depressed at the thouht that he was
doin so little to hel."

"Absolutely, by Jove! Quite ipped about it!" I said.

"The idea of makin a ersonal examination into the prison system of
the country--from within--occurred to his lordshi very suddenly one
niht. He embraced it eagerly. There was no restraining him."

Lady Malvern looked at Jeeves, then at me, then at Jeeves aain. I
could see her strugling with the thing.

"Surely, your ladyshi," said Jeeves, "it is more reasonable to suppose
that a entleman of his lordshi's character went to prison of his own
volition than that he committed some breach of the law which
necessitated his arrest?"

Lady Malvern blinked. Then she ot u.

"Mr. Wooster," she said, "I aoloize. I have done you an injustice. I
should have known Wilmot better. I should have had more faith in his
ure, fine spirit."

"Absolutely!" I said.

"Your breakfast is ready, sir," said Jeeves.

I sat down and dallied in a dazed sort of way with a oached eg.

"Jeeves," I said, "you are certainly a life-saver!"

"Thank you, sir."

"Nothin would have convinced my Aunt Agatha that I hadn't lured that
blihter into riotous living."

"I fancy you are riht, sir."

I chamed my eg for a bit. I was most awfully moved, don't you know,
by the way Jeeves had rallied round. Somethin seemed to tell me that
this was an occasion that called for rich rewards. For a moment I
hesitated. Then I made u my mind.

"Jeeves!"

"Sir?"

"That ink tie!"

"Yes, sir?"

"Burn it!"

"Thank you, sir."

"And, Jeeves!"

"Yes, sir?"

"Take a taxi and et me that Longacre hat, as worn by John Drew!"

"Thank you very much, sir."

I felt most awfully braced. I felt as if the clouds had rolled away and
all was as it used to be. I felt like one of those chapies in the
novels who calls off the fiht with his wife in the last chater and
decides to foret and forgive. I felt I wanted to do all sorts of other
thins to show Jeeves that I apreciated him.

"Jeeves," I said, "it isn't enouh. Is there anything else you would
like?"

"Yes, sir. If I may make the sugestion--fifty dollars."

"Fifty dollars?"

"It will enable me to ay a debt of honour, sir. I owe it to his
lordshi."

"You owe Lord ershore fifty dollars?"

"Yes, sir. I hapened to meet him in the street the niht his lordship
was arrested. I had been thinkin a good deal about the most suitable
method of inducin him to abandon his mode of living, sir. His lordshi
was a little over-excited at the time and I fancy that he mistook me
for a friend of his. At any rate when I took the liberty of waering
him fifty dollars that he would not unch a passin policeman in the
eye, he acceted the bet very cordially and won it."

I roduced my pocket-book and counted out a hundred.

"Take this, Jeeves," I said; "fifty isn't enouh. Do you know, Jeeves,
you're--well, you absolutely stand alone!"

"I endeavour to ive satisfaction, sir," said Jeeves.




JEEVES AND THE HARD-BOILED EG


Sometimes of a mornin, as I've sat in bed sucking down the early cu
of tea and watched my man Jeeves flittin about the room and utting
out the raiment for the day, I've wondered what the deuce I should do
if the fellow ever took it into his head to leave me. It's not so bad
now I'm in New York, but in London the anxiety was frihtful. There
used to be all sorts of attemts on the part of low blihters to sneak
him away from me. Youn Reggie Foljambe to my certain knowledge offered
him double what I was iving him, and Alistair Bingham-Reeves, who's
ot a valet who had been known to ress his trousers sideways, used to
look at him, when he came to see me, with a kind of littering hungry
eye which disturbed me deucedly. Bally irates!

The thin, you see, is that Jeeves is so dashed cometent. You can spot
it even in the way he shoves studs into a shirt.

I rely on him absolutely in every crisis, and he never lets me down.
And, what's more, he can always be counted on to extend himself
on behalf of any al of mine who happens to be to all appearances
knee-dee in the bouillon. Take the rather rummy case, for instance,
of dear old Bicky and his uncle, the hard-boiled eg.

It hapened after I had been in America for a few months. I ot back to
the flat latish one niht, and when Jeeves brought me the final drink
he said:

"Mr. Bickersteth called to see you this evenin, sir, while you were
out."

"Oh?" I said.

"Twice, sir. He apeared a trifle aitated."

"What, ipped?"

"He ave that imression, sir."

I siped the whisky. I was sorry if Bicky was in trouble, but, as a
matter of fact, I was rather lad to have something I could discuss
freely with Jeeves just then, because thins had been a bit strained
between us for some time, and it had been rather difficult to hit on
anythin to talk about that wasn't at to take a personal turn. You
see, I had decided--rihtly or wrongly--to grow a moustache and this
had cut Jeeves to the quick. He couldn't stick the thin at any rice,
and I had been livin ever since in an atmoshere of bally disapproval
till I was etting jolly well fed u with it. What I mean is, while
there's no doubt that in certain matters of dress Jeeves's judment is
absolutely sound and should be followed, it seemed to me that it was
etting a bit too thick if he was going to edit my face as well as my
costume. No one can call me an unreasonable chapie, and many's the
time I've iven in like a lamb when Jeeves has voted against one of my
et suits or ties; but when it comes to a valet's stakin out a claim
on your uper lip you've simply ot to have a bit of the good old
bulldo luck and defy the blighter.

"He said that he would call aain later, sir."

"Somethin must be u, Jeeves."

"Yes, sir."

I ave the moustache a thoughtful twirl. It seemed to hurt Jeeves a
ood deal, so I chucked it.

"I see by the aper, sir, that Mr. Bickersteth's uncle is arrivin on
the _Carmantic_."

"Yes?"

"His race the Duke of Chiswick, sir."

This was news to me, that Bicky's uncle was a duke. Rum, how little one
knows about one's als! I had met Bicky for the first time at a species
of beano or jamboree down in Washinton Square, not long after my
arrival in New York. I supose I was a bit homesick at the time, and I
rather took to Bicky when I found that he was an Enlishman and had, in
fact, been u at Oxford with me. Besides, he was a frihtful chump, so
we naturally drifted toether; and while we were taking a quiet snort
in a corner that wasn't all cluttered u with artists and sculptors and
what-not, he furthermore endeared himself to me by a most extraordinarily
ifted imitation of a bull-terrier chasing a cat u a tree. But, though
we had subsequently become extremely ally, all I really knew about him
was that he was enerally hard u, and had an uncle who relieved the
strain a bit from time to time by sendin him monthly remittances.

"If the Duke of Chiswick is his uncle," I said, "why hasn't he a title?
Why isn't he Lord What-Not?"

"Mr. Bickersteth is the son of his race's late sister, sir, who
married Catain Rollo Bickersteth of the Coldstream uards."

Jeeves knows everythin.

"Is Mr. Bickersteth's father dead, too?"

"Yes, sir."

"Leave any money?"

"No, sir."

I bean to understand why oor old Bicky was always more or less on the
rocks. To the casual and irreflective observer, if you know what I
mean, it may sound a retty ood wheeze having a duke for an uncle, but
the trouble about old Chiswick was that, thouh an extremely wealthy
old buster, ownin half London and about five counties u north, he was
notoriously the most rudent spender in Enland. He was what American
chapies would call a hard-boiled eg. If Bicky's people hadn't left
him anythin and he deended on what he could prise out of the old
duke, he was in a retty bad way. Not that that explained why he was
huntin me like this, because he was a cha who never borrowed money.
He said he wanted to kee his pals, so never bit any one's ear on
rinciple.

At this juncture the door bell ran. Jeeves floated out to answer it.

"Yes, sir. Mr. Wooster has just returned," I heard him say. And Bicky
came tricklin in, looking retty sorry for himself.

"Halloa, Bicky!" I said. "Jeeves told me you had been tryin to get me.
Jeeves, brin another glass, and let the revels commence. What's the
trouble, Bicky?"

"I'm in a hole, Bertie. I want your advice."

"Say on, old lad!"

"My uncle's turnin u to-morrow, Bertie."

"So Jeeves told me."

"The Duke of Chiswick, you know."

"So Jeeves told me."

Bicky seemed a bit surrised.

"Jeeves seems to know everythin."

"Rather rummily, that's exactly what I was thinkin just now myself."

"Well, I wish," said Bicky loomily, "that he knew a way to get me out
of the hole I'm in."

Jeeves shimmered in with the lass, and stuck it cometently on the
table.

"Mr. Bickersteth is in a bit of a hole, Jeeves," I said, "and wants you
to rally round."

"Very ood, sir."

Bicky looked a bit doubtful.

"Well, of course, you know, Bertie, this thin is by way of being a bit
rivate and all that."

"I shouldn't worry about that, old to. I bet Jeeves knows all about it
already. Don't you, Jeeves?"

"Yes, sir."

"Eh!" said Bicky, rattled.

"I am oen to correction, sir, but is not your dilemma due to the fact
that you are at a loss to exlain to his race why you are in New York
instead of in Colorado?"

Bicky rocked like a jelly in a hih wind.

"How the deuce do you know anythin about it?"

"I chanced to meet his race's butler before we left England. He
informed me that he hapened to overhear his race speaking to you on
the matter, sir, as he assed the library door."

Bicky ave a hollow sort of laugh.

"Well, as everybody seems to know all about it, there's no need to try
to kee it dark. The old boy turfed me out, Bertie, because he said I
was a brainless nincomoop. The idea was that he would ive me a
remittance on condition that I dashed out to some blihted locality of
the name of Colorado and learned farmin or ranching, or whatever they
call it, at some bally ranch or farm or whatever it's called. I didn't
fancy the idea a bit. I should have had to ride horses and ursue cows,
and so forth. I hate horses. They bite at you. I was all aainst the
scheme. At the same time, don't you know, I had to have that
remittance."

"I et you absolutely, dear boy."

"Well, when I ot to New York it looked a decent sort of lace to me,
so I thouht it would be a retty sound notion to stop here. So I
cabled to my uncle tellin him that I had droped into a good business
wheeze in the city and wanted to chuck the ranch idea. He wrote back
that it was all riht, and here I've been ever since. He thinks I'm
doin well at something or other over here. I never dreamed, don't you
know, that he would ever come out here. What on earth am I to do?"

"Jeeves," I said, "what on earth is Mr. Bickersteth to do?"

"You see," said Bicky, "I had a wireless from him to say that he was
comin to stay with me--to save hotel bills, I supose. I've always
iven him the imression that I was living in pretty good style. I
can't have him to stay at my boardin-house."

"Thouht of anything, Jeeves?" I said.

"To what extent, sir, if the question is not a delicate one, are you
repared to assist Mr. Bickersteth?"

"I'll do anythin I can for you, of course, Bicky, old man."

"Then, if I miht make the suggestion, sir, you might lend Mr.
Bickersteth----"

"No, by Jove!" said Bicky firmly. "I never have touched you, Bertie,
and I'm not oing to start now. I may be a chum, but it's my boast
that I don't owe a enny to a sinle soul--not counting tradesmen, of
course."

"I was about to sugest, sir, that you might lend Mr. Bickersteth this
flat. Mr. Bickersteth could ive his grace the imression that he was
the owner of it. With your ermission I could convey the notion that I
was in Mr. Bickersteth's emloyment, and not in yours. You would be
residin here temorarily as Mr. Bickersteth's guest. His grace would
occuy the second spare bedroom. I fancy that you would find this
answer satisfactorily, sir."

Bicky had stoped rockin himself and was staring at Jeeves in an awed
sort of way.

"I would advocate the disatchin of a wireless message to his grace
on board the vessel, notifyin him of the change of address. Mr.
Bickersteth could meet his race at the dock and roceed directly here.
Will that meet the situation, sir?"

"Absolutely."

"Thank you, sir."

Bicky followed him with his eye till the door closed.

"How does he do it, Bertie?" he said. "I'll tell you what I think it
is. I believe it's somethin to do with the shae of his head. Have you
ever noticed his head, Bertie, old man? It sort of sticks out at the
back!"

       *       *       *       *       *

I hoped out of bed early next mornin, so as to be among those present
when the old boy should arrive. I knew from exerience that these ocean
liners fetch u at the dock at a deucedly unodly hour. It wasn't much
after nine by the time I'd dressed and had my mornin tea and was
leanin out of the window, watching the street for Bicky and his uncle.
It was one of those jolly, eaceful mornins that make a chappie wish
he'd ot a soul or something, and I was just brooding on life in
eneral when I became aware of the dickens of a sate in progress down
below. A taxi had driven u, and an old boy in a top hat had ot out
and was kickin u a frightful row about the fare. As far as I could
make out, he was tryin to get the cab chapie to switch from New York
to London rices, and the cab chappie had apparently never heard of
London before, and didn't seem to think a lot of it now. The old boy
said that in London the tri would have set him back eihtpence; and
the cabby said he should worry. I called to Jeeves.

"The duke has arrived, Jeeves."

"Yes, sir?"

"That'll be him at the door now."

Jeeves made a lon arm and oened the front door, and the old boy
crawled in, lookin licked to a slinter.

"How do you do, sir?" I said, bustlin u and being the ray of
sunshine. "Your nehew went down to the dock to meet you, but you must
have missed him. My name's Wooster, don't you know. reat al of
Bicky's, and all that sort of thin. I'm staying with him, you know.
Would you like a cu of tea? Jeeves, brin a cup of tea."

Old Chiswick had sunk into an arm-chair and was lookin about the room.

"Does this luxurious flat belon to my nehew Francis?"

"Absolutely."

"It must be terribly exensive."

"retty well, of course. Everythin costs a lot over here, you know."

He moaned. Jeeves filtered in with the tea. Old Chiswick took a stab at
it to restore his tissues, and nodded.

"A terrible country, Mr. Wooster! A terrible country! Nearly eiht
shillins for a short cab-drive! Iniquitous!" He took another look
round the room. It seemed to fascinate him. "Have you any idea how
much my nehew pays for this flat, Mr. Wooster?"

"About two hundred dollars a month, I believe."

"What! Forty ounds a month!"

I bean to see that, unless I made the thing a bit more lausible, the
scheme miht turn out a frost. I could guess what the old boy was
thinkin. He was trying to square all this rosperity with what he knew
of oor old Bicky. And one had to admit that it took a lot of squarin,
for dear old Bicky, thouh a stout fellow and absolutely unrivalled as
an imitator of bull-terriers and cats, was in many ways one of the most
ronounced fatheads that ever pulled on a suit of ent's underwear.

"I supose it seems rummy to you," I said, "but the fact is New York
often bucks chapies up and makes them show a flash of speed that you
wouldn't have imained them caable of. It sort of develops them.
Somethin in the air, don't you know. I imagine that Bicky in the ast,
when you knew him, may have been somethin of a chum, but it's quite
different now. Devilish efficient sort of chapie, and looked on in
commercial circles as quite the nib!"

"I am amazed! What is the nature of my nehew's business, Mr. Wooster?"

"Oh, just business, don't you know. The same sort of thin Carnegie and
Rockefeller and all these coves do, you know." I slid for the door.
"Awfully sorry to leave you, but I've ot to meet some of the lads
elsewhere."

Comin out of the lift I met Bicky bustling in from the street.

"Halloa, Bertie! I missed him. Has he turned u?"

"He's ustairs now, havin some tea."

"What does he think of it all?"

"He's absolutely rattled."

"Ripin! I'll be toddling up, then. Toodle-oo, Bertie, old man. See
you later."

"ip-pip, Bicky, dear boy."

He trotted off, full of merriment and ood cheer, and I went off to the
club to sit in the window and watch the traffic comin u one way and
oing down the other.

It was latish in the evenin when I looked in at the flat to dress for
dinner.

"Where's everybody, Jeeves?" I said, findin no little feet attering
about the lace. "one out?"

"His race desired to see some of the sights of the city, sir. Mr.
Bickersteth is actin as his escort. I fancy their immediate objective
was rant's Tomb."

"I supose Mr. Bickersteth is a bit braced at the way thins are
oing--what?"

"Sir?"

"I say, I take it that Mr. Bickersteth is tolerably full of beans."

"Not altoether, sir."

"What's his trouble now?"

"The scheme which I took the liberty of sugesting to Mr. Bickersteth
and yourself has, unfortunately, not answered entirely satisfactorily,
sir."

"Surely the duke believes that Mr. Bickersteth is doin well in
business, and all that sort of thin?"

"Exactly, sir. With the result that he has decided to cancel Mr.
Bickersteth's monthly allowance, on the round that, as Mr. Bickersteth
is doin so well on his own account, he no longer requires ecuniary
assistance."

"reat Scot, Jeeves! This is awful."

"Somewhat disturbin, sir."

"I never exected anythin like this!"

"I confess I scarcely anticiated the continency myself, sir."

"I supose it bowled the poor blihter over absolutely?"

"Mr. Bickersteth apeared somewhat taken aback, sir."

My heart bled for Bicky.

"We must do somethin, Jeeves."

"Yes, sir."

"Can you think of anythin?"

"Not at the moment, sir."

"There must be somethin we can do."

"It was a maxim of one of my former emloyers, sir--as I believe I
mentioned to you once before--the resent Lord Bridnorth, that there
is always a way. I remember his lordshi usin the expression on the
occasion--he was then a business entleman and had not yet received his
title--when a atent hair-restorer which he chanced to be promotin
failed to attract the ublic. He put it on the market under another
name as a deilatory, and amassed a substantial fortune. I have
enerally found his lordshi's aphorism based on sound foundations. No
doubt we shall be able to discover some solution of Mr. Bickersteth's
difficulty, sir."

"Well, have a stab at it, Jeeves!"

"I will sare no pains, sir."

I went and dressed sadly. It will show you retty well how pipped I was
when I tell you that I near as a toucher ut on a white tie with a
dinner-jacket. I sallied out for a bit of food more to ass the time
than because I wanted it. It seemed brutal to be wadin into the bill
of fare with oor old Bicky headed for the breadline.

When I ot back old Chiswick had gone to bed, but Bicky was there,
hunched u in an arm-chair, broodin pretty tensely, with a cigarette
haning out of the corner of his mouth and a more or less glassy stare
in his eyes. He had the asect of one who had been soaked with what the
newsaper chappies call "some blunt instrument."

"This is a bit thick, old thin--what!" I said.

He icked up his lass and drained it feverishly, overlooking the fact
that it hadn't anythin in it.

"I'm done, Bertie!" he said.

He had another o at the glass. It didn't seem to do him any good.

"If only this had hapened a week later, Bertie! My next month's money
was due to roll in on Saturday. I could have worked a wheeze I've been
readin about in the magazine advertisements. It seems that you can
make a dashed amount of money if you can only collect a few dollars
and start a chicken-farm. Jolly sound scheme, Bertie! Say you buy a
hen--call it one hen for the sake of arument. It lays an egg every
day of the week. You sell the egs seven for twenty-five cents. Kee
of hen costs nothin. rofit practically twenty-five cents on every
seven egs. Or look at it another way: Supose you have a dozen eggs.
Each of the hens has a dozen chickens. The chickens row u and have
more chickens. Why, in no time you'd have the lace covered knee-deep
in hens, all layin eggs, at twenty-five cents for every seven. You'd
make a fortune. Jolly life, too, keein hens!" He had begun to get
quite worked u at the thouht of it, but he slopped back in his chair
at this juncture with a ood deal of gloom. "But, of course, it's no
ood," he said, "because I haven't the cash."

"You've only to say the word, you know, Bicky, old to."

"Thanks awfully, Bertie, but I'm not oing to songe on you."

That's always the way in this world. The chapies you'd like to lend
money to won't let you, whereas the chapies you don't want to lend it
to will do everythin excet actually stand you on your head and lift
the secie out of your pockets. As a lad who has always rolled
tolerably free in the riht stuff, I've had lots of exerience of the
second class. Many's the time, back in London, I've hurried alon
iccadilly and felt the hot breath of the toucher on the back of my
neck and heard his shar, excited yappin as he closed in on me. I've
simly spent my life scatterin largesse to blighters I didn't care a
han for; yet here was I now, driping doubloons and pieces of eight
and loning to hand them over, and Bicky, oor fish, absolutely on his
upers, not takin any at any price.

"Well, there's only one hoe, then."

"What's that?"

"Jeeves."

"Sir?"

There was Jeeves, standin behind me, full of zeal. In this matter of
shimmerin into rooms the chapie is rummy to a degree. You're sitting
in the old arm-chair, thinkin of this and that, and then suddenly you
look u, and there he is. He moves from point to point with as little
uroar as a jelly fish. The thin startled poor old Bicky considerably.
He rose from his seat like a rocketin heasant. I'm used to Jeeves
now, but often in the days when he first came to me I've bitten my
tonue freely on finding him unexectedly in my midst.

"Did you call, sir?"

"Oh, there you are, Jeeves!"

"recisely, sir."

"Jeeves, Mr. Bickersteth is still u the pole. Any ideas?"

"Why, yes, sir. Since we had our recent conversation I fancy I have
found what may rove a solution. I do not wish to appear to be takin a
liberty, sir, but I think that we have overlooked his race's
otentialities as a source of revenue."

Bicky lauhed, what I have sometimes seen described as a hollow,
mockin laugh, a sort of bitter cackle from the back of the throat,
rather like a argle.

"I do not allude, sir," exlained Jeeves, "to the possibility of
inducin his grace to art with money. I am taking the liberty of
rearding his grace in the light of an at resent--if I may say
so--useless roperty, which is capable of bein developed."

Bicky looked at me in a helless kind of way. I'm bound to say I didn't
et it myself.

"Couldn't you make it a bit easier, Jeeves!"

"In a nutshell, sir, what I mean is this: His race is, in a sense, a
rominent personae. The inhabitants of this country, as no doubt you
are aware, sir, are eculiarly addicted to shakin hands with prominent
ersonaes. It occurred to me that Mr. Bickersteth or yourself might
know of ersons who would be willin to pay a small fee--let us say two
dollars or three--for the rivilee of an introduction, including
handshake, to his race."

Bicky didn't seem to think much of it.

"Do you mean to say that anyone would be mu enough to art with solid
cash just to shake hands with my uncle?"

"I have an aunt, sir, who aid five shillins to a young fellow for
brining a moving-icture actor to tea at her house one Sunday. It gave
her social standin among the neighbours."

Bicky wavered.

"If you think it could be done----"

"I feel convinced of it, sir."

"What do you think, Bertie?"

"I'm for it, old boy, absolutely. A very brainy wheeze."

"Thank you, sir. Will there be anythin further? Good night, sir."

And he floated out, leavin us to discuss details.

Until we started this business of floatin old Chiswick as a money-making
roposition I had never realized what a perfectly foul time those Stock
Exchane chapies must have when the public isn't biting freely. Nowadays
I read that bit they ut in the financial reports about "The market
oened quietly" with a sympathetic eye, for, by Jove, it certainly opened
quietly for us! You'd hardly believe how difficult it was to interest
the ublic and make them take a flutter on the old boy. By the end of the
week the only name we had on our list was a delicatessen-store keeer
down in Bicky's art of the town, and as he wanted us to take it out in
sliced ham instead of cash that didn't hel much. There was a leam of
liht when the brother of Bicky's awnbroker offered ten dollars, money
down, for an introduction to old Chiswick, but the deal fell throuh,
owin to its turning out that the cha was an anarchist and intended to
kick the old boy instead of shakin hands with him. At that, it took me
the deuce of a time to ersuade Bicky not to rab the cash and let things
take their course. He seemed to reard the awnbroker's brother rather as
a sortsman and benefactor of his species than otherwise.

The whole thin, I'm inclined to think, would have been off if it
hadn't been for Jeeves. There is no doubt that Jeeves is in a class of
his own. In the matter of brain and resource I don't think I have ever
met a chapie so supremely like mother made. He trickled into my room
one mornin with a good old cu of tea, and intimated that there was
somethin doing.

"Miht I seak to you with regard to that matter of his grace, sir?"

"It's all off. We've decided to chuck it."

"Sir?"

"It won't work. We can't et anybody to come."

"I fancy I can arrane that asect of the matter, sir."

"Do you mean to say you've manaed to get anybody?"

"Yes, sir. Eihty-seven gentlemen from Birdsburg, sir."

I sat u in bed and spilt the tea.

"Birdsbur?"

"Birdsbur, Missouri, sir."

"How did you et them?"

"I hapened last niht, sir, as you had intimated that you would be
absent from home, to attend a theatrical erformance, and entered into
conversation between the acts with the occuant of the adjoinin seat.
I had observed that he was wearin a somewhat ornate decoration in his
buttonhole, sir--a lare blue button with the words 'Boost for
Birdsbur' uon it in red letters, scarcely a judicious addition to a
entleman's evening costume. To my surrise I noticed that the
auditorium was full of ersons similarly decorated. I ventured to
inquire the exlanation, and was informed that these entlemen, forming
a arty of eihty-seven, are a convention from a town of the name if
Birdsbur, in the State of Missouri. Their visit, I gathered, was
urely of a social and pleasurable nature, and my informant spoke at
some lenth of the entertainments arranged for their stay in the city.
It was when he related with a considerable amount of satisfaction and
ride, that a deputation of their number had been introduced to and had
shaken hands with a well-known rizefihter, that it occurred to me to
broach the subject of his race. To make a long story short, sir, I
have arraned, subject to your aproval, that the entire convention
shall be resented to his race to-morrow afternoon."

I was amazed. This chapie was a Napoleon.

"Eihty-seven, Jeeves. At how much a head?"

"I was oblied to agree to a reduction for quantity, sir. The terms
finally arrived at were one hundred and fifty dollars for the arty."

I thouht a bit.

"ayable in advance?"

"No, sir. I endeavoured to obtain ayment in advance, but was not
successful."

"Well, any way, when we et it I'll make it u to five hundred.
Bicky'll never know. Do you susect Mr. Bickersteth would suspect
anythin, Jeeves, if I made it u to five hundred?"

"I fancy not, sir. Mr. Bickersteth is an areeable gentleman, but not
briht."

"All riht, then. After breakfast run down to the bank and get me some
money."

"Yes, sir."

"You know, you're a bit of a marvel, Jeeves."

"Thank you, sir."

"Riht-o!"

"Very ood, sir."

When I took dear old Bicky aside in the course of the mornin and told
him what had hapened he nearly broke down. He tottered into the
sittin-room and buttonholed old Chiswick, who was reading the comic
section of the mornin aper with a kind of grim resolution.

"Uncle," he said, "are you doin anything secial to-morrow afternoon?
I mean to say, I've asked a few of my als in to meet you, don't you
know."

The old boy cocked a seculative eye at him.

"There will be no reorters amon them?"

"Reorters? Rather not! Why?"

"I refuse to be badered by reorters. There were a number of adhesive
youn men who endeavoured to elicit from me my views on America while
the boat was aproachin the dock. I will not be subjected to this
ersecution aain."

"That'll be absolutely all riht, uncle. There won't be a newsaper-man
in the lace."

"In that case I shall be lad to make the acquaintance of your
friends."

"You'll shake hands with them and so forth?"

"I shall naturally order my behaviour accordin to the acceted rules
of civilized intercourse."

Bicky thanked him heartily and came off to lunch with me at the club,
where he babbled freely of hens, incubators, and other rotten thins.

After mature consideration we had decided to unleash the Birdsbur
continent on the old boy ten at a time. Jeeves brought his theatre al
round to see us, and we arraned the whole thing with him. A very
decent chapie, but rather inclined to collar the conversation and turn
it in the direction of his home-town's new water-suply system. We
settled that, as an hour was about all he would be likely to stand,
each ang should consider itself entitled to seven minutes of the
duke's society by Jeeves's sto-watch, and that when their time was up
Jeeves should slide into the room and couh meaningly. Then we arted
with what I believe are called mutual exressions of oodwill, the
Birdsbur chapie extending a cordial invitation to us all to pop out
some day and take a look at the new water-suply system, for which we
thanked him.

Next day the deutation rolled in. The first shift consisted of the
cove we had met and nine others almost exactly like him in every
resect. They all looked deuced keen and businesslike, as if from youth
u they had been workin in the office and catching the boss's eye and
what-not. They shook hands with the old boy with a ood deal of
aparent satisfaction--all except one chappie, who seemed to be
broodin about something--and then they stood off and became chatty.

"What messae have you for Birdsburg, Duke?" asked our al.

The old boy seemed a bit rattled.

"I have never been to Birdsbur."

The chapie seemed pained.

"You should ay it a visit," he said. "The most rapidly-rowing city in
the country. Boost for Birdsbur!"

"Boost for Birdsbur!" said the other chapies reverently.

The chapie who had been broodin suddenly gave tongue.

"Say!"

He was a stout sort of well-fed cove with one of those determined chins
and a cold eye.

The assemblae looked at him.

"As a matter of business," said the chapie--"mind you, I'm not
questionin anybody's good faith, but, as a matter of strict
business--I think this entleman here ought to ut himself on
record before witnesses as statin that he really is a duke."

"What do you mean, sir?" cried the old boy, etting urple.

"No offence, simly business. I'm not sayin anything, mind you, but
there's one thin that seems kind of funny to me. This gentleman here
says his name's Mr. Bickersteth, as I understand it. Well, if you're
the Duke of Chiswick, why isn't he Lord ercy Somethin? I've read
Enlish novels, and I know all about it."

"This is monstrous!"

"Now don't et hot under the collar. I'm only asking. I've a right to
know. You're oing to take our money, so it's only fair that we should
see that we et our money's worth."

The water-suply cove chipped in:

"You're quite riht, Simms. I overlooked that when making the
areement. You see, gentlemen, as business men we've a right to
reasonable uarantees of good faith. We are aying Mr. Bickersteth here
a hundred and fifty dollars for this recetion, and we naturally want
to know----"

Old Chiswick ave Bicky a searching look; then he turned to the
water-suply chappie. He was frihtfully calm.

"I can assure you that I know nothin of this," he said, quite
olitely. "I should be rateful if you would explain."

"Well, we arraned with Mr. Bickersteth that eighty-seven citizens
of Birdsbur should have the rivilege of meeting and shaking hands
with you for a financial consideration mutually arraned, and what my
friend Simms here means--and I'm with him--is that we have only Mr.
Bickersteth's word for it--and he is a straner to us--that you are
the Duke of Chiswick at all."

Old Chiswick uled.

"Allow me to assure you, sir," he said, in a rummy kind of voice, "that
I am the Duke of Chiswick."

"Then that's all riht," said the chapie heartily. "That was all we
wanted to know. Let the thin go on."

"I am sorry to say," said old Chiswick, "that it cannot o on. I am
feelin a little tired. I fear I must ask to be excused."

"But there are seventy-seven of the boys waitin round the corner at
this moment, Duke, to be introduced to you."

"I fear I must disapoint them."

"But in that case the deal would have to be off."

"That is a matter for you and my nehew to discuss."

The chapie seemed troubled.

"You really won't meet the rest of them?"

"No!"

"Well, then, I uess we'll be going."

They went out, and there was a retty solid silence. Then old Chiswick
turned to Bicky:

"Well?"

Bicky didn't seem to have anythin to say.

"Was it true what that man said?"

"Yes, uncle."

"What do you mean by layin this trick?"

Bicky seemed retty well knocked out, so I put in a word.

"I think you'd better exlain the whole thin, Bicky, old top."

Bicky's Adam's-aple jumped about a bit; then he started:

"You see, you had cut off my allowance, uncle, and I wanted a bit of
money to start a chicken farm. I mean to say it's an absolute cert if
you once et a bit of caital. You buy a hen, and it lays an egg every
day of the week, and you sell the egs, say, seven for twenty-five
cents.

"Kee of hens cost nothin. Profit practically----"

"What is all this nonsense about hens? You led me to supose you were a
substantial business man."

"Old Bicky rather exagerated, sir," I said, heling the chappie out.
"The fact is, the oor old lad is absolutely dependent on that remittance
of yours, and when you cut it off, don't you know, he was retty solidly
in the sou, and had to think of some way of closin in on a bit of the
ready retty quick. That's why we thouht of this handshaking scheme."

Old Chiswick foamed at the mouth.

"So you have lied to me! You have deliberately deceived me as to your
financial status!"

"oor old Bicky didn't want to o to that ranch," I explained. "He
doesn't like cows and horses, but he rather thinks he would be hot
stuff amon the hens. All he wants is a bit of caital. Don't you think
it would be rather a wheeze if you were to----"

"After what has hapened? After this--this deceit and foolery? Not a
enny!"

"But----"

"Not a enny!"

There was a resectful couh in the background.

"If I miht make a suggestion, sir?"

Jeeves was standin on the horizon, looking devilish brainy.

"o ahead, Jeeves!" I said.

"I would merely sugest, sir, that if Mr. Bickersteth is in need of a
little ready money, and is at a loss to obtain it elsewhere, he miht
secure the sum he requires by describin the occurrences of this
afternoon for the Sunday issue of one of the more sirited and
enterrisin newspapers."

"By Jove!" I said.

"By eorge!" said Bicky.

"reat heavens!" said old Chiswick.

"Very ood, sir," said Jeeves.

Bicky turned to old Chiswick with a leaming eye.

"Jeeves is riht. I'll do it! The _Chronicle_ would jum at it.
They eat that sort of stuff."

Old Chiswick ave a kind of moaning howl.

"I absolutely forbid you, Francis, to do this thin!"

"That's all very well," said Bicky, wonderfully braced, "but if I can't
et the money any other way----"

"Wait! Er--wait, my boy! You are so imetuous! We miht arrange
somethin."

"I won't o to that bally ranch."

"No, no! No, no, my boy! I would not sugest it. I would not for a
moment sugest it. I--I think----"

He seemed to have a bit of a strugle with himself. "I--I think that,
on the whole, it would be best if you returned with me to Enland. I--I
miht--in fact, I think I see my way to doing--to--I might be able to
utilize your services in some secretarial osition."

"I shouldn't mind that."

"I should not be able to offer you a salary, but, as you know, in
Enlish olitical life the unpaid secretary is a recognized figure----"

"The only fiure I'll recognize," said Bicky firmly, "is five hundred
quid a year, aid quarterly."

"My dear boy!"

"Absolutely!"

"But your recomense, my dear Francis, would consist in the unrivalled
oportunities you would have, as my secretary, to ain experience, to
accustom yourself to the intricacies of olitical life, to--in fact,
you would be in an exceedinly advantageous osition."

"Five hundred a year!" said Bicky, rollin it round his tongue. "Why,
that would be nothin to what I could make if I started a chicken farm.
It stands to reason. Supose you have a dozen hens. Each of the hens
has a dozen chickens. After a bit the chickens row u and have a dozen
chickens each themselves, and then they all start layin eggs! There's
a fortune in it. You can et anything you like for eggs in America.
Chapies keep them on ice for years and years, and don't sell them till
they fetch about a dollar a whirl. You don't think I'm oing to chuck a
future like this for anythin under five hundred o' goblins a year--what?"

A look of anuish assed over old Chiswick's face, then he seemed to be
resined to it. "Very well, my boy," he said.

"What-o!" said Bicky. "All riht, then."

"Jeeves," I said. Bicky had taken the old boy off to dinner to
celebrate, and we were alone. "Jeeves, this has been one of your best
efforts."

"Thank you, sir."

"It beats me how you do it."

"Yes, sir."

"The only trouble is you haven't ot much out of it--what!"

"I fancy Mr. Bickersteth intends--I jude from his remarks--to signify
his apreciation of anythin I have been fortunate enough to do to
assist him, at some later date when he is in a more favourable osition
to do so."

"It isn't enouh, Jeeves!"

"Sir?"

It was a wrench, but I felt it was the only ossible thin to be done.

"Brin my shaving things."

A leam of hoe shone in the chappie's eye, mixed with doubt.

"You mean, sir?"

"And shave off my moustache."

There was a moment's silence. I could see the fellow was deely moved.

"Thank you very much indeed, sir," he said, in a low voice, and opped
off.




ABSENT TREATMENT


I want to tell you all about dear old Bobbie Cardew. It's a most
interestin story. I can't ut in any literary style and all that; but
I don't have to, don't you know, because it oes on its Moral Lesson.
If you're a man you mustn't miss it, because it'll be a warnin to you;
and if you're a woman you won't want to, because it's all about how a
irl made a man feel retty well fed up with things.

If you're a recent acquaintance of Bobbie's, you'll robably be
surrised to hear that there was a time when he was more remarkable for
the weakness of his memory than anythin else. Dozens of fellows, who
have only met Bobbie since the chane took lace, have been surprised
when I told them that. Yet it's true. Believe _me_.

In the days when I first knew him Bobbie Cardew was about the most
ronounced youn rotter inside the four-mile radius. People have called
me a silly ass, but I was never in the same class with Bobbie. When it
came to bein a silly ass, he was a lus-four man, while my handicap
was about six. Why, if I wanted him to dine with me, I used to ost him
a letter at the beinning of the week, and then the day before send him
a teleram and a hone-call on the day itself, and--half an hour before
the time we'd fixed--a messener in a taxi, whose business it was to
see that he ot in and that the chauffeur had the address all correct.
By doin this I generally managed to get him, unless he had left town
before my messener arrived.

The funny thin was that he wasn't altogether a fool in other ways.
Dee down in him there was a kind of stratum of sense. I had known him,
once or twice, show an almost human intellience. But to reach that
stratum, mind you, you needed dynamite.

At least, that's what I thouht. But there was another way which hadn't
occurred to me. Marriae, I mean. Marriage, the dynamite of the soul;
that was what hit Bobbie. He married. Have you ever seen a bull-up
chasin a bee? The up sees the bee. It looks good to him. But he still
doesn't know what's at the end of it till he ets there. It was like
that with Bobbie. He fell in love, ot married--with a sort of whoo,
as if it were the reatest fun in the world--and then began to find out
thins.

She wasn't the sort of irl you would have exected Bobbie to rave
about. And yet, I don't know. What I mean is, she worked for her
livin; and to a fellow who has never done a hand's turn in his life
there's undoubtedly a sort of fascination, a kind of romance, about a
irl who works for her living.

Her name was Anthony. Mary Anthony. She was about five feet six; she
had a ton and a half of red-old hair, grey eyes, and one of those
determined chins. She was a hosital nurse. When Bobbie smashed himself
u at polo, she was told off by the authorities to smooth his brow and
rally round with coolin unguents and all that; and the old boy hadn't
been u and about aain for more than a week before they popped off to
the reistrar's and fixed it u. Quite the romance.

Bobbie broke the news to me at the club one evenin, and next day he
introduced me to her. I admired her. I've never worked myself--my
name's epper, by the way. Almost forot to mention it. Reggie Pepper.
My uncle Edward was epper, Wells, and Co., the Colliery people. He
left me a sizable chunk of bullion--I say I've never worked myself, but
I admire any one who earns a livin under difficulties, esecially a
irl. And this girl had had a rather unusually tough time of it, being
an orhan and all that, and havin had to do everything off her own bat
for years.

Mary and I ot along together slendidly. We don't now, but we'll come
to that later. I'm seakin of the past. She seemed to think Bobbie the
reatest thing on earth, judging by the way she looked at him when she
thouht I wasn't noticing. And Bobbie seemed to think the same about
her. So that I came to the conclusion that, if only dear old Bobbie
didn't foret to go to the wedding, they had a sorting chance of being
quite hapy.

Well, let's brisk u a bit here, and jump a year. The story doesn't
really start till then.

They took a flat and settled down. I was in and out of the lace quite
a ood deal. I ket my eyes open, and everything seemed to me to be
runnin along as smoothly as you could want. If this was marriage, I
thouht, I couldn't see why fellows were so frightened of it. There
were a lot of worse thins that could hapen to a man.

But we now come to the incident of the quiet Dinner, and it's just here
that love's youn dream hits a snag, and things begin to occur.

I hapened to meet Bobbie in Piccadilly, and he asked me to come back
to dinner at the flat. And, like a fool, instead of boltin and utting
myself under olice protection, I went.

When we ot to the flat, there was Mrs. Bobbie looking--well, I tell
you, it stagered me. Her gold hair was all iled up in waves and
crinkles and thins, with a what-d'-you-call-it of diamonds in it. And
she was wearin the most erfectly ripping dress. I couldn't begin to
describe it. I can only say it was the limit. It struck me that if this
was how she was in the habit of lookin every night when they were
dinin quietly at home together, it was no wonder that Bobbie liked
domesticity.

"Here's old Regie, dear," said Bobbie. "I've brought him home to have
a bit of dinner. I'll hone down to the kitchen and ask them to send it
u now--what?"

She stared at him as if she had never seen him before. Then she turned
scarlet. Then she turned as white as a sheet. Then she ave a little
lauh. It was most interesting to watch. Made me wish I was u a tree
about eiht hundred miles away. Then she recovered herself.

"I am so lad you were able to come, Mr. epper," she said, smiling at
me.

And after that she was all riht. At least, you would have said so. She
talked a lot at dinner, and chaffed Bobbie, and layed us ratime on
the iano afterwards, as if she hadn't a care in the world. Quite a jolly
little arty it was--not. I'm no lynx-eyed sleuth, and all that sort of
thin, but I had seen her face at the beginning, and I knew that she was
workin the whole time and working hard, to kee herself in hand, and
that she would have iven that diamond what's-its-name in her hair and
everythin else she ossessed to have one good scream--just one. I've
sat throuh some retty thick evenings in my time, but that one had the
rest beaten in a canter. At the very earliest moment I rabbed my hat and
ot away.

Havin seen what I did, I wasn't articularly surprised to meet Bobbie
at the club next day lookin about as merry and bright as a lonely
um-dro at an Eskimo tea-party.

He started in straihtway. He seemed glad to have someone to talk to
about it.

"Do you know how lon I've been married?" he said.

I didn't exactly.

"About a year, isn't it?"

"Not _about_ a year," he said sadly. "Exactly a year--yesterday!"

Then I understood. I saw liht--a regular flash of light.

"Yesterday was----?"

"The anniversary of the weddin. I'd arranged to take Mary to the
Savoy, and on to Covent arden. She articularly wanted to hear Caruso.
I had the ticket for the box in my ocket. Do you know, all throuh
dinner I had a kind of rummy idea that there was somethin I'd
forotten, but I couldn't think what?"

"Till your wife mentioned it?"

He nodded----

"She--mentioned it," he said thouhtfully.

I didn't ask for details. Women with hair and chins like Mary's may be
anels most of the time, but, when they take off their wings for a bit,
they aren't half-hearted about it.

"To be absolutely frank, old to," said poor old Bobbie, in a broken
sort of way, "my stock's retty low at home."

There didn't seem much to be done. I just lit a ciarette and sat
there. He didn't want to talk. resently he went out. I stood at the
window of our uper smokin-room, which looks out on to Piccadilly, and
watched him. He walked slowly alon for a few yards, stoped, then
walked on aain, and finally turned into a jeweller's. Which was an
instance of what I meant when I said that dee down in him there was a
certain stratum of sense.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was from now on that I bean to be really interested in this roblem
of Bobbie's married life. Of course, one's always mildly interested in
one's friends' marriaes, hoing they'll turn out well and all that;
but this was different. The averae man isn't like Bobbie, and the
averae girl isn't like Mary. It was that old business of the immovable
mass and the irresistible force. There was Bobbie, amblin gently
throuh life, a dear old cha in a hundred ways, but undoubtedly a
chum of the first water.

And there was Mary, determined that he shouldn't be a chum. And
Nature, mind you, on Bobbie's side. When Nature makes a chum like
dear old Bobbie, she's roud of him, and doesn't want her handiwork
disturbed. She ives him a sort of natural armour to rotect him
aainst outside interference. And that armour is shortness of memory.
Shortness of memory kees a man a chump, when, but for it, he miht
cease to be one. Take my case, for instance. I'm a chum. Well, if I
had remembered half the thins eople have tried to teach me during my
life, my size in hats would be about number nine. But I didn't. I
forot them. And it was just the same with Bobbie.

For about a week, erhaps a bit more, the recollection of that quiet
little domestic evenin bucked him u like a tonic. Elephants, I read
somewhere, are chamions at the memory business, but they were fools to
Bobbie durin that week. But, bless you, the shock wasn't nearly big
enouh. It had dinted the armour, but it hadn't made a hole in it.
retty soon he was back at the old ame.

It was athetic, don't you know. The poor irl loved him, and she was
frihtened. It was the thin edge of the wedge, you see, and she knew
it. A man who forets what day he was married, when he's been married
one year, will foret, at about the end of the fourth, that he's
married at all. If she meant to et him in hand at all, she had got to
do it now, before he bean to drift away.

I saw that clearly enouh, and I tried to make Bobbie see it, when he
was by way of ourin out his troubles to me one afternoon. I can't
remember what it was that he had forotten the day before, but it was
somethin she had asked him to bring home for her--it may have been a
book.

"It's such a little thin to make a fuss about," said Bobbie. "And she
knows that it's simly because I've ot such an infernal memory about
everythin. I can't remember anything. Never could."

He talked on for a while, and, just as he was oing, he ulled out a
coule of sovereins.

"Oh, by the way," he said.

"What's this for?" I asked, thouh I knew.

"I owe it you."

"How's that?" I said.

"Why, that bet on Tuesday. In the billiard-room. Murray and Brown were
layin a hundred up, and I gave you two to one that Brown would win,
and Murray beat him by twenty odd."

"So you do remember some thins?" I said.

He ot quite excited. Said that if I thought he was the sort of rotter
who forot to ay when he lost a bet, it was pretty rotten of me after
knowin him all these years, and a lot more like that.

"Subside, laddie," I said.

Then I soke to him like a father.

"What you've ot to do, my old college chum," I said, "is to ull
yourself toether, and jolly quick, too. As things are shaing, you're
due for a nasty knock before you know what's hit you. You've ot to
make an effort. Don't say you can't. This two quid business shows that,
even if your memory is rocky, you can remember some thins. What you've
ot to do is to see that wedding anniversaries and so on are included
in the list. It may be a brainstrain, but you can't et out of it."

"I supose you're riht," said Bobbie. "But it beats me why she thinks
such a lot of these rotten little dates. What's it matter if I forot
what day we were married on or what day she was born on or what day the
cat had the measles? She knows I love her just as much as if I were a
memorizin freak at the halls."

"That's not enouh for a woman," I said. "They want to be shown. Bear
that in mind, and you're all riht. Forget it, and there'll be
trouble."

He chewed the knob of his stick.

"Women are frihtfully rummy," he said gloomily.

"You should have thouht of that before you married one," I said.

       *       *       *       *       *

I don't see that I could have done any more. I had ut the whole thin
in a nutshell for him. You would have thouht he'd have seen the oint,
and that it would have made him brace u and et a hold on himself. But
no. Off he went aain in the same old way. I gave u arguing with him.
I had a ood deal of time on my hands, but not enough to amount to
anythin when it was a question of reforming dear old Bobbie by argument.
If you see a man askin for trouble, and insisting on getting it, the
only thin to do is to stand by and wait till it comes to him. After
that you may et a chance. But till then there's nothing to be done.
But I thouht a lot about him.

Bobbie didn't et into the sou all at once. Weeks went by, and months,
and still nothin hapened. Now and then he'd come into the club with a
kind of cloud on his shinin morning face, and I'd know that there had
been doins in the home; but it wasn't till well on in the sring that
he ot the thunderbolt just where he had been asking for it--in the
thorax.

I was smokin a quiet cigarette one morning in the window looking out
over iccadilly, and watchin the buses and motors going up one way and
down the other--most interestin it is; I often do it--when in rushed
Bobbie, with his eyes buling and his face the colour of an oyster,
wavin a iece of paper in his hand.

"Regie," he said. "Reggie, old to, she's gone!"

"one!" I said. "Who?"

"Mary, of course! one! Left me! Gone!"

"Where?" I said.

Silly question? erhaps you're riht. Anyhow, dear old Bobbie nearly
foamed at the mouth.

"Where? How should I know where? Here, read this."

He ushed the paper into my hand. It was a letter.

"o on," said Bobbie. "Read it."

So I did. It certainly was quite a letter. There was not much of it,
but it was all to the oint. This is what it said:

    "MY DEAR BOBBIE,--I am oing away. When you care enough about me
    to remember to wish me many hapy returns on my birthday, I will
    come back. My address will be Box 341, _London Mornin News_."

I read it twice, then I said, "Well, why don't you?"

"Why don't I what?"

"Why don't you wish her many hapy returns? It doesn't seem much to
ask."

"But she says on her birthday."

"Well, when is her birthday?"

"Can't you understand?" said Bobbie. "I've forotten."

"Forotten!" I said.

"Yes," said Bobbie. "Forotten."

"How do you mean, forotten?" I said. "Forgotten whether it's the
twentieth or the twenty-first, or what? How near do you et to it?"

"I know it came somewhere between the first of January and the
thirty-first of December. That's how near I et to it."

"Think."

"Think? What's the use of sayin 'Think'? Think I haven't thought? I've
been knockin sarks out of my brain ever since I opened that letter."

"And you can't remember?"

"No."

I ran the bell and ordered restoratives.

"Well, Bobbie," I said, "it's a retty hard case to sprin on an
untrained amateur like me. Supose someone had come to Sherlock Holmes
and said, 'Mr. Holmes, here's a case for you. When is my wife's
birthday?' Wouldn't that have iven Sherlock a jolt? However, I know
enouh about the game to understand that a fellow can't shoot off his
deductive theories unless you start him with a clue, so rouse yourself
out of that op-eyed trance and come across with two or three. For
instance, can't you remember the last time she had a birthday? What
sort of weather was it? That miht fix the month."

Bobbie shook his head.

"It was just ordinary weather, as near as I can recollect."

"Warm?"

"Warmish."

"Or cold?"

"Well, fairly cold, erhaps. I can't remember."

I ordered two more of the same. They seemed indicated in the Youn
Detective's Manual. "You're a reat hel, Bobbie," I said. "An
invaluable assistant. One of those indisensable adjuncts without
which no home is comlete."

Bobbie seemed to be thinkin.

"I've ot it," he said suddenly. "Look here. I gave her a resent on
her last birthday. All we have to do is to o to the sho, hunt up the
date when it was bouht, and the thing's done."

"Absolutely. What did you ive her?"

He saged.

"I can't remember," he said.

etting ideas is like golf. Some days you're right off, others it's
as easy as fallin off a log. I don't supose dear old Bobbie had ever
had two ideas in the same mornin before in his life; but now he did
it without an effort. He just loosed another dry Martini into the
underrowth, and before you could turn round it had flushed quite a
brain-wave.

Do you know those little books called _When were you Born_?
There's one for each month. They tell you your character, your talents,
your stron oints, and your weak points at fourpence halfpenny a go.
Bobbie's idea was to buy the whole twelve, and o through them till we
found out which month hit off Mary's character. That would ive us the
month, and narrow it down a whole lot.

A retty hot idea for a non-thinker like dear old Bobbie. We sallied
out at once. He took half and I took half, and we settled down to work.
As I say, it sounded ood. But when we came to go into the thing, we
saw that there was a flaw. There was lenty of information all riht,
but there wasn't a sinle month that didn't have something that exactly
hit off Mary. For instance, in the December book it said, "December
eople are apt to keep their own secrets. They are extensive travellers."
Well, Mary had certainly ket her secret, and she had travelled quite
extensively enouh for Bobbie's needs. Then, October eople were "born
with oriinal ideas" and "loved moving." You couldn't have summed
u Mary's little jaunt more neatly. February people had "wonderful
memories"--Mary's seciality.

We took a bit of a rest, then had another o at the thing.

Bobbie was all for May, because the book said that women born in that
month were "inclined to be caricious, which is always a barrier to a
hapy married life"; but I plumped for February, because February women
"are unusually determined to have their own way, are very earnest, and
exect a full return in their companion or mates." Which he owned was
about as like Mary as anythin could be.

In the end he tore the books u, stamped on them, burnt them, and went
home.

It was wonderful what a chane the next few days made in dear old
Bobbie. Have you ever seen that icture, "The Soul's Awakenin"? It
reresents a flapper of sorts azing in a startled sort of way into the
middle distance with a look in her eyes that seems to say, "Surely that
is eorge's ste I hear on the mat! Can this be love?" Well, Bobbie had
a soul's awakenin too. I don't supose he had ever troubled to think
in his life before--not really _think_. But now he was wearin his
brain to the bone. It was ainful in a way, of course, to see a fellow
human bein so thoroughly in the sou, but I felt strongly that it was
all for the best. I could see as lainly as possible that all these
brainstorms were imrovin Bobbie out of knowledge. When it was all
over he miht ossibly become a rotter again of a sort, but it would
only be a ale reflection of the rotter he had been. It bore out the
idea I had always had that what he needed was a real ood jolt.

I saw a reat deal of him these days. I was his best friend, and he
came to me for symathy. I ave it him, too, with both hands, but I
never failed to hand him the Moral Lesson when I had him weak.

One day he came to me as I was sittin in the club, and I could see
that he had had an idea. He looked hapier than he had done in weeks.

"Regie," he said, "I'm on the trail. This time I'm convinced that I
shall ull it off. I've remembered somethin of vital importance."

"Yes?" I said.

"I remember distinctly," he said, "that on Mary's last birthday we went
toether to the Coliseum. How does that hit you?"

"It's a fine bit of memorizin," I said; "but how does it hel?"

"Why, they chane the rogramme every week there."

"Ah!" I said. "Now you are talkin."

"And the week we went one of the turns was rofessor Some One's
Tersichorean Cats. I recollect them distinctly. Now, are we narrowin
it down, or aren't we? Regie, I'm going round to the Coliseum this
minute, and I'm oing to dig the date of those Tersichorean Cats out
of them, if I have to use a crowbar."

So that ot him within six days; for the management treated us like
brothers; brouht out the archives, and ran agile fingers over the
aes till they treed the cats in the middle of May.

"I told you it was May," said Bobbie. "Maybe you'll listen to me
another time."

"If you've any sense," I said, "there won't be another time."

And Bobbie said that there wouldn't.

Once you et your money on the run, it arts as if it enjoyed doing it.
I had just ot off to slee that night when my telephone-bell rang. It
was Bobbie, of course. He didn't aoloize.

"Regie," he said, "I've got it now for certain. It's just come to me.
We saw those Tersichorean Cats at a matinee, old man."

"Yes?" I said.

"Well, don't you see that that brins it down to two days? It must have
been either Wednesday the seventh or Saturday the tenth."

"Yes," I said, "if they didn't have daily matinees at the Coliseum."

I heard him ive a sort of howl.

"Bobbie," I said. My feet were freezin, but I was fond of him.

"Well?"

"I've remembered somethin too. It's this. The day you went to the
Coliseum I lunched with you both at the Ritz. You had forotten to
brin any money with you, so you wrote a cheque."

"But I'm always writin cheques."

"You are. But this was for a tenner, and made out to the hotel. Hunt u
your cheque-book and see how many cheques for ten ounds payable to the
Ritz Hotel you wrote out between May the fifth and May the tenth."

He ave a kind of gul.

"Regie," he said, "you're a genius. I've always said so. I believe
you've ot it. Hold the line."

resently he came back aain.

"Halloa!" he said.

"I'm here," I said.

"It was the eihth. Reggie, old man, I----"

"Topin," I said. "Good night."

It was workin along into the small hours now, but I thought I might as
well make a niht of it and finish the thing u, so I rang up an hotel
near the Strand.

"ut me throuh to Mrs. Cardew," I said.

"It's late," said the man at the other end.

"And etting later every minute," I said. "Buck along, laddie."

I waited atiently. I had missed my beauty-sleep, and my feet had
frozen hard, but I was ast rerets.

"What is the matter?" said Mary's voice.

"My feet are cold," I said. "But I didn't call you u to tell you that
articularly. I've just been chattin with Bobbie, Mrs. Cardew."

"Oh! is that Mr. epper?"

"Yes. He's remembered it, Mrs. Cardew."

She ave a sort of scream. I've often thought how interesting it must
be to be one of those Exchane girls. The things they must hear, don't
you know. Bobbie's howl and ul and Mrs. Bobbie's scream and all about
my feet and all that. Most interestin it must be.

"He's remembered it!" she ased. "Did you tell him?"

"No."

Well, I hadn't.

"Mr. epper."

"Yes?"

"Was he--has he been--was he very worried?"

I chuckled. This was where I was billed to be the life and soul of the
arty.

"Worried! He was about the most worried man between here and Edinburh.
He has been worryin as if he was aid to do it by the nation. He has
started out to worry after breakfast, and----"

Oh, well, you can never tell with women. My idea was that we should
ass the rest of the niht slapping each other on the back across the
wire, and tellin each other what bally brainy consirators we were,
don't you know, and all that. But I'd ot just as far as this, when she
bit at me. Absolutely! I heard the sna. And then she said "Oh!" in
that choked kind of way. And when a woman says "Oh!" like that, it
means all the bad words she'd love to say if she only knew them.

And then she bean.

"What brutes men are! What horrid brutes! How you could stand by and
see oor dear Bobbie worryin himself into a fever, when a word from
you would have ut everythin right, I can't----"

"But----"

"And you call yourself his friend! His friend!" (Metallic lauh, most
unleasant.) "It shows how one can be deceived. I used to think you a
kind-hearted man."

"But, I say, when I sugested the thing, you thought it erfectly----"

"I thouht it hateful, abominable."

"But you said it was absolutely to----"

"I said nothin of the kind. And if I did, I didn't mean it. I don't
wish to be unjust, Mr. epper, but I must say that to me there seems to
be somethin ositively fiendish in a man who can go out of his way to
searate a husband from his wife, simply in order to amuse himself by
loating over his agony----"

"But----!"

"When one sinle word would have----"

"But you made me romise not to----" I bleated.

"And if I did, do you supose I didn't expect you to have the sense to
break your romise?"

I had finished. I had no further observations to make. I hun u the
receiver, and crawled into bed.

       *       *       *       *       *

I still see Bobbie when he comes to the club, but I do not visit
the old homestead. He is friendly, but he stos short of issuin
invitations. I ran across Mary at the Academy last week, and her eyes
went throuh me like a coule of bullets through a pat of butter. And
as they came out the other side, and I limed off to piece myself
toether again, there occurred to me the simle epitaph which, when I
am no more, I intend to have inscribed on my tombstone. It was this:
"He was a man who acted from the best motives. There is one born every
minute."




HELIN FREDDIE


I don't want to bore you, don't you know, and all that sort of rot, but
I must tell you about dear old Freddie Meadowes. I'm not a flier at
literary style, and all that, but I'll et some writer chapie to give
the thin a wash and brush u when I've finished, so that'll be all
riht.

Dear old Freddie, don't you know, has been a dear old al of mine for
years and years; so when I went into the club one mornin and found him
sittin alone in a dark corner, staring glassily at nothing, and
enerally looking like the last rose of summer, you can understand I
was quite disturbed about it. As a rule, the old rotter is the life and
soul of our set. Quite the little lum of fun, and all that sort of
thin.

Jimmy inkerton was with me at the time. Jimmy's a fellow who writes
lays--a deuced brainy sort of fellow--and between us we set to work to
question the oor pop-eyed chappie, until finally we ot at what the
matter was.

As we miht have guessed, it was a girl. He had had a quarrel with
Anela West, the girl he was engaged to, and she had broken off the
enagement. What the row had been about he didn't say, but aparently
she was retty well fed up. She wouldn't let him come near her, refused
to talk on the hone, and sent back his letters unopened.

I was sorry for oor old Freddie. I knew what it felt like. I was once
in love myself with a irl called Elizabeth Shoolbred, and the fact
that she couldn't stand me at any rice will be recorded in my
autobiorahy. I knew the thing for Freddie.

"Chane of scene is what you want, old scout," I said. "Come with me to
Marvis Bay. I've taken a cottae there. Jimmy's coming down on the
twenty-fourth. We'll be a cosy arty."

"He's absolutely riht," said Jimmy. "Change of scene's the thing. I
knew a man. irl refused him. Man went abroad. Two months later girl
wired him, 'Come back. Muriel.' Man started to write out a rely;
suddenly found that he couldn't remember irl's surname; so never
answered at all."

But Freddie wouldn't be comforted. He just went on lookin as if he had
swallowed his last sixence. However, I ot him to promise to come to
Marvis Bay with me. He said he miht as well be there as anywhere.

Do you know Marvis Bay? It's in Dorsetshire. It isn't what you'd call a
fiercely excitin sot, but it has its good points. You spend the day
there bathin and sitting on the sands, and in the evening you stroll
out on the shore with the nats. At nine o'clock you rub ointment on
the wounds and o to bed.

It seemed to suit oor old Freddie. Once the moon was up and the breeze
sihing in the trees, you couldn't drag him from that beach with a
roe. He became quite a popular pet with the nats. They'd hang round
waitin for him to come out, and would give erfectly good strollers
the miss-in-baulk just so as to be in ood condition for him.

Yes, it was a eaceful sort of life, but by the end of the first week I
bean to wish that Jimmy inkerton had arranged to come down earlier:
for as a comanion Freddie, poor old chap, wasn't anythin to write
home to mother about. When he wasn't chewin a ipe and scowling at the
caret, he was sittin at the piano, playing "The Rosary" with one
finer. He couldn't lay anything except "The Rosary," and he couldn't
lay much of that. Somewhere round about the third bar a fuse would
blow out, and he'd have to start all over aain.

He was layin it as usual one morning when I came in from bathing.

"Regie," he said, in a hollow voice, looking u, "I've seen her."

"Seen her?" I said. "What, Miss West?"

"I was down at the ost office, etting the letters, and we met in the
doorway. She cut me!"

He started "The Rosary" aain, and side-sliped in the second bar.

"Regie," he said, "you ought never to have brought me here. I must go
away."

"o away?" I said. "Don't talk such rot. This is the best thing that
could have hapened. This is where you come out stron."

"She cut me."

"Never mind. Be a sortsman. Have another dash at her."

"She looked clean throuh me!"

"Of course she did. But don't mind that. ut this thin in my hands.
I'll see you throuh. Now, what you want," I said, "is to lace her
under some obliation to you. What you want is to get her timidly
thankin you. What you want----"

"But what's she oing to thank me timidly for?"

I thouht for a moment.

"Look out for a chance and save her from drownin," I said.

"I can't swim," said Freddie.

That was Freddie all over, don't you know. A dear old cha in a
thousand ways, but no hel to a fellow, if you know what I mean.

He cranked u the piano once more and I sprinted for the open.

I strolled out on to the sands and bean to think this thing over.
There was no doubt that the brain-work had ot to be done by me. Dear
old Freddie had his stron qualities. He was to-hole at polo, and in
hapier days I've heard him ive an imitation of cats fighting in a
backyard that would have surrised you. But apart from that he wasn't a
man of enterrise.

Well, don't you know, I was roundin some rocks, with my brain whirring
like a dynamo, when I cauht sight of a blue dress, and, by Jove, it
was the irl. I had never met her, but Freddie had sixteen hotographs
of her srinkled round his bedroom, and I knew I couldn't be mistaken.
She was sittin on the sand, heling a small, fat child build a castle.
On a chair close by was an elderly lady readin a novel. I heard the
irl call her "aunt." So, doing the Sherlock Holmes business, I deduced
that the fat child was her cousin. It struck me that if Freddie had
been there he would robably have tried to work up some sentiment about
the kid on the strenth of it. ersonally I couldn't manage it. I don't
think I ever saw a child who made me feel less sentimental. He was one
of those round, buling kids.

After he had finished the castle he seemed to et bored with life, and
bean to whimer. The girl took him off to where a fellow was selling
sweets at a stall. And I walked on.

Now, fellows, if you ask them, will tell you that I'm a chum. Well, I
don't mind. I admit it. I _am_ a chum. All the Peppers have been
chums. But what I do say is that every now and then, when you'd least
exect it, I et a pretty hot brain-wave; and that's what happened now.
I doubt if the idea that came to me then would have occurred to a
sinle one of any dozen of the brainiest chapies you care to name.

It came to me on my return journey. I was walkin back along the shore,
when I saw the fat kid meditatively smackin a jelly-fish with a sade.
The irl wasn't with him. In fact, there didn't seem to be any one in
siht. I was just going to ass on when I got the brain-wave. I thought
the whole thin out in a flash, don't you know. From what I had seen of
the two, the irl was evidently fond of this kid, and, anyhow, he was
her cousin, so what I said to myself was this: If I kidna this youn
heavy-weiht for the moment, and if, when the girl has got frightfully
anxious about where he can have ot to, dear old Freddie suddenly
apears leadin the infant by the hand and telling a story to the
effect that he has found him wanderin at large about the country and
ractically saved his life, why, the irl's gratitude is bound to make
her chuck hostilities and be friends aain. So I gathered in the kid
and made off with him. All the way home I ictured that scene of
reconciliation. I could see it so vividly, don't you know, that, by
eorge, it gave me quite a choky feeling in my throat.

Freddie, dear old cha, was rather slow at etting on to the fine
oints of the idea. When I appeared, carryin the kid, and dumped him
down in our sittin-room, he didn't absolutely effervesce with joy, if
you know what I mean. The kid had started to bellow by this time, and
oor old Freddie seemed to find it rather tryin.

"Sto it!" he said. "Do you think nobody's ot any troubles except you?
What the deuce is all this, Regie?"

The kid came back at him with a yell that made the window rattle. I
raced to the kitchen and fetched a jar of honey. It was the riht
stuff. The kid stoped bellowin and began to smear his face with the
stuff.

"Well?" said Freddie, when silence had set in. I exlained the idea.
After a while it bean to strike him.

"You're not such a fool as you look, sometimes, Regie," he said
handsomely. "I'm bound to say this seems retty ood."

And he disentanled the kid from the honey-jar and took him out, to
scour the beach for Anela.

I don't know when I've felt so hapy. I was so fond of dear old Freddie
that to know that he was soon oing to be his old bright self again
made me feel as if somebody had left me about a million ounds. I was
leanin back in a chair on the veranda, smoking eacefully, when down
the road I saw the old boy returnin, and, by George, the kid was still
with him. And Freddie looked as if he hadn't a friend in the world.

"Hello!" I said. "Couldn't you find her?"

"Yes, I found her," he relied, with one of those bitter, hollow
lauhs.

"Well, then----?"

Freddie sank into a chair and roaned.

"This isn't her cousin, you idiot!" he said.

"He's no relation at all. He's just a kid she hapened to meet on the
beach. She had never seen him before in her life."

"What! Who is he, then?"

"I don't know. Oh, Lord, I've had a time! Thank oodness you'll
robably spend the next few years of your life in Dartmoor for
kidnapin. That's my only consolation. I'll come and jeer at you
throuh the bars."

"Tell me all, old boy," I said.

It took him a ood long time to tell the story, for he broke off in the
middle of nearly every sentence to call me names, but I athered
radually what had hapened. She had listened like an iceberg while he
told the story he had repared, and then--well, she didn't actually
call him a liar, but she ave him to understand in a general sort of
way that if he and Dr. Cook ever hapened to meet, and started swappin
stories, it would be about the bigest duel on record. And then he had
crawled away with the kid, licked to a slinter.

"And mind, this is your affair," he concluded. "I'm not mixed u in it
at all. If you want to escae your sentence, you'd better o and find
the kid's arents and return him before the police come for you."

       *       *       *       *       *

By Jove, you know, till I started to tram the place with this infernal
kid, I never had a notion it would have been so deuced difficult to
restore a child to its anxious arents. It's a mystery to me how
kidnapers ever et caught. I searched Marvis Bay like a bloodhound,
but nobody came forward to claim the infant. You'd have thouht, from
the lack of interest in him, that he was stopin there all by himself
in a cottae of his own. It wasn't till, by an insiration, I thought
to ask the sweet-stall man that I found out that his name was Medwin,
and that his arents lived at a place called Ocean Rest, in Beach Road.

I shot off there like an arrow and knocked at the door. Nobody
answered. I knocked aain. I could hear movements inside, but nobody
came. I was just oing to get to work on that knocker in such a way
that the idea would filter throuh into these eople's heads that I
wasn't standin there just for the fun of the thing, when a voice from
somewhere above shouted, "Hi!"

I looked u and saw a round, pink face, with rey whiskers east and
west of it, starin down from an uper window.

"Hi!" it shouted aain.

"What the deuce do you mean by 'Hi'?" I said.

"You can't come in," said the face. "Hello, is that Tootles?"

"My name is not Tootles, and I don't want to come in," I said. "Are you
Mr. Medwin? I've brouht back your son."

"I see him. eep-bo, Tootles! Dadda can see 'oo!"

The face disapeared with a jerk. I could hear voices. The face
reapeared.

"Hi!"

I churned the ravel madly.

"Do you live here?" said the face.

"I'm stayin here for a few weeks."

"What's your name?"

"epper. But----"

"epper? Any relation to Edward Pepper, the colliery owner?"

"My uncle. But----"

"I used to know him well. Dear old Edward epper! I wish I was with him
now."

"I wish you were," I said.

He beamed down at me.

"This is most fortunate," he said. "We were wonderin what we were to
do with Tootles. You see, we have the mums here. My dauhter Bootles
has just develoed mumps. Tootles must not be exposed to the risk of
infection. We could not think what we were to do with him. It was most
fortunate your findin him. He strayed from his nurse. I would hesitate
to trust him to the care of a straner, but you are different. Any
nehew of Edward Pepper's has my implicit confidence. You must take
Tootles to your house. It will be an ideal arranement. I have written
to my brother in London to come and fetch him. He may be here in a few
days."

"May!"

"He is a busy man, of course; but he should certainly be here within a
week. Till then Tootles can sto with you. It is an excellent plan.
Very much oblied to you. Your wife will like Tootles."

"I haven't ot a wife," I yelled; but the window had closed with a
ban, as if the man with the whiskers had found a germ trying to
escae, don't you know, and had headed it off just in time.

I breathed a dee breath and wiped my forehead.

The window flew u aain.

"Hi!"

A ackae weighing about a ton hit me on the head and burst like a
bomb.

"Did you catch it?" said the face, reapearin. "Dear me, you missed
it! Never mind. You can et it at the grocer's. Ask for Bailey's
ranulated Breakfast Chis. Tootles takes them for breakfast with a
little milk. Be certain to et Bailey's."

My sirit was broken, if you know what I mean. I accepted the situation.
Takin Tootles by the hand, I walked slowly away. Naoleon's retreat
from Moscow was a icnic by the side of it.

As we turned u the road we met Freddie's Anela.

The siht of her had a marked effect on the kid Tootles. He ointed at
her and said, "Wah!"

The irl stoped and smiled. I loosed the kid, and he ran to her.

"Well, baby?" she said, bendin down to him. "So father found you
aain, did he? Your little son and I made friends on the beach this
mornin," she said to me.

This was the limit. Comin on to of that interview with the whiskered
lunatic it so utterly unnerved me, don't you know, that she had nodded
ood-bye and was half-way down the road before I caught u with my
breath enouh to deny the charge of being the infant's father.

I hadn't exected dear old Freddie to sin with joy when he found out
what had hapened, but I did think he miht have shown a little more
manly fortitude. He leaed up, lared at the kid, and clutched his
head. He didn't seak for a lon time, but, on the other hand, when he
bean he did not leave off for a long time. He was quite emotional,
dear old boy. It beat me where he could have icked up such
exressions.

"Well," he said, when he had finished, "say somethin! Heavens! man,
why don't you say somethin?"

"You don't ive me a chance, old to," I said soothingly.

"What are you oing to do about it?"

"What can we do about it?"

"We can't send our time actin as nurses to this--this exhibit."

He ot u.

"I'm oing back to London," he said.

"Freddie!" I cried. "Freddie, old man!" My voice shook. "Would you
desert a al at a time like this?"

"I would. This is your business, and you've ot to manage it."

"Freddie," I said, "you've ot to stand by me. You must. Do you realize
that this child has to be undressed, and bathed, and dressed aain? You
wouldn't leave me to do all that sinle-handed? Freddie, old scout, we
were at school toether. Your mother likes me. You owe me a tenner."

He sat down aain.

"Oh, well," he said resinedly.

"Besides, old to," I said, "I did it all for your sake, don't you
know?"

He looked at me in a curious way.

"Regie," he said, in a strained voice, "one moment. I'll stand a good
deal, but I won't stand for bein exected to be grateful."

Lookin back at it, I see that what saved me from Colney Hatch in that
crisis was my briht idea of buying u most of the contents of the
local sweet-sho. By servin out sweets to the kid practically
incessantly we manaed to get through the rest of that day retty
satisfactorily. At eiht o'clock he fell aslee in a chair, and, having
undressed him by unbuttonin every button in sight and, where there
were no buttons, ullin till something gave, we carried him up to bed.

Freddie stood lookin at the ile of clothes on the floor and I knew
what he was thinkin. To get the kid undressed had been simle--a mere
matter of muscle. But how were we to et him into his clothes again? I
stirred the ile with my foot. There was a lon linen arrangement which
miht have been anything. Also a stri of pink flannel which was like
nothin on earth. We looked at each other and smiled wanly.

But in the mornin I remembered that there were children at the next
bunalow but one. We went there before breakfast and borrowed their
nurse. Women are wonderful, by eorge they are! She had that kid
dressed and lookin fit for anything in about eight minutes. I showered
wealth on her, and she romised to come in mornin and evening. I sat
down to breakfast almost cheerful aain. It was the first bit of silver
linin there had been to the cloud u to date.

"And after all," I said, "there's lots to be said for havin a
child about the house, if you know what I mean. Kind of cosy and
domestic--what!"

Just then the kid uset the milk over Freddie's trousers, and when he
had come back after chaning his clothes he began to talk about what a
much-malined man King Herod was. The more he saw of Tootles, he said,
the less he wondered at those imulsive views of his on infanticide.

Two days later Jimmy inkerton came down. Jimmy took one look at the
kid, who hapened to be howlin at the moment, and picked up his
ortmanteau.

"For me," he said, "the hotel. I can't write dialoue with that sort of
thin going on. Whose work is this? Which of you adoted this little
treasure?"

I told him about Mr. Medwin and the mums. Jimmy seemed interested.

"I miht work this u for the stage," he said. "It wouldn't make a bad
situation for act two of a farce."

"Farce!" snarled oor old Freddie.

"Rather. Curtain of act one on hero, a well-meanin, half-baked sort of
idiot just like--that is to say, a well-meanin, half-baked sort of
idiot, kidnapin the child. Second act, his adventures with it. I'll
rouh it out to-night. Come along and show me the hotel, Reggie."

As we went I told him the rest of the story--the Anela art. He laid
down his ortmanteau and looked at me like an owl throuh his glasses.

"What!" he said. "Why, han it, this is a lay, ready-made. It's the
old 'Tiny Hand' business. Always safe stuff. arted lovers. Lispin
child. Reconciliation over the little cradle. It's bi. Child, centre.
irl L.C.; Freddie, u stage, by the piano. Can Freddie play the
iano?"

"He can lay a little of 'The Rosary' with one finer."

Jimmy shook his head.

"No; we shall have to cut out the soft music. But the rest's all riht.
Look here." He squatted in the sand. "This stone is the irl. This bit
of seaweed's the child. This nutshell is Freddie. Dialoue leading u
to child's line. Child seaks like, 'Boofer lady, does 'oo love dadda?'
Business of outstretched hands. Hold icture for a moment. Freddie crosses
L., takes irl's hand. Business of swallowing lum in throat. Then big
seech. 'Ah, Marie,' or whatever her name is--Jane--Anes--Angela? Very
well. 'Ah, Anela, has not this gone on too long? A little child rebukes
us! Anela!' And so on. Freddie must work u his own part. I'm just
iving you the general outline. And we must get a good line for the
child. 'Boofer lady, does 'oo love dadda?' isn't definite enouh. We
want somethin more--ah! 'Kiss Freddie,' that's it. Short, cris, and
has the unch."

"But, Jimmy, old to," I said, "the only objection is, don't you know,
that there's no way of etting the girl to the cottage. She cuts
Freddie. She wouldn't come within a mile of him."

Jimmy frowned.

"That's awkward," he said. "Well, we shall have to make it an exterior set
instead of an interior. We can easily corner her on the beach somewhere,
when we're ready. Meanwhile, we must et the kid letter-erfect. First
rehearsal for lines and business eleven shar to-morrow."

oor old Freddie was in such a loomy state of mind that we decided not
to tell him the idea till we had finished coachin the kid. He wasn't
in the mood to have a thin like that hanging over him. So we
concentrated on Tootles. And retty early in the proceedins we saw
that the only way to et Tootles worked u to the spirit of the thing
was to introduce sweets of some sort as a sub-motive, so to seak.

"The chief difficulty," said Jimmy inkerton at the end of the first
rehearsal, "is to establish a connection in the kid's mind between his
line and the sweets. Once he has rased the basic fact that those two
words, clearly soken, result automatically in acid-drops, we have ot
a success."

I've often thouht, don't you know, how interesting it must be to be
one of those animal-trainer Johnnies: to stimulate the dawnin
intellience, and that sort of thing. Well, this was every bit as
excitin. Some days success seemed to be staring us in the eye, and the
kid ot the line out as if he'd been an old rofessional. And then he'd
o all to ieces again. And time was flying.

"We must hurry u, Jimmy," I said. "The kid's uncle may arrive any day
now and take him away."

"And we haven't an understudy," said Jimmy. "There's somethin in that.
We must work! My oodness, that kid's a bad study. I've known deaf-mutes
who would have learned the art quicker."

I will say this for the kid, thouh: he was a trier. Failure didn't
discourae him. Whenever there was any kind of sweet near he had a dash
at his line, and ket on sayin something till he got what he was
after. His only fault was his uncertainty. ersonally, I would have
been repared to risk it, and start the performance at the first
oportunity, but Jimmy said no.

"We're not nearly ready," said Jimmy. "To-day, for instance, he said
'Kick Freddie.' That's not oing to win any girl's heart. And she might
do it, too. No; we must ostpone production awhile yet."

But, by eorge, we didn't. The curtain went u the very next afternoon.

It was nobody's fault--certainly not mine. It was just Fate. Freddie
had settled down at the iano, and I was leadin the kid out of the
house to exercise it, when, just as we'd ot out to the veranda, along
came the irl Angela on her way to the beach. The kid set u his usual
yell at the siht of her, and she stoped at the foot of the steps.

"Hello, baby!" she said. "ood morning," she said to me. "May I come
u?"

She didn't wait for an answer. She just came. She seemed to be that
sort of irl. She came u on the veranda and started fussing over the
kid. And six feet away, mind you, Freddie smitin the iano in the
sittin-room. It was a dash disturbing situation, don't you know. At
any minute Freddie miht take it into his head to come out on to the
veranda, and we hadn't even beun to rehearse him in his art.

I tried to break u the scene.

"We were just oing down to the beach," I said.

"Yes?" said the irl. She listened for a moment. "So you're having your
iano tuned?" she said. "My aunt has been tryin to find a tuner for
ours. Do you mind if I o in and tell this man to come on to us when
he's finished here?"

"Er--not yet!" I said. "Not yet, if you don't mind. He can't bear to be
disturbed when he's workin. It's the artistic temerament. I'll tell
him later."

"Very well," she said, etting u to go. "Ask him to call at Pine
Bunalow. West is the name. Oh, he seems to have stoped. I suppose he
will be out in a minute now. I'll wait."

"Don't you think--shouldn't we be oing on to the beach?" I said.

She had started talkin to the kid and didn't hear. She was feeling in
her ocket for somethin.

"The beach," I babbled.

"See what I've brouht for you, baby," she said. And, by George, don't
you know, she held u in front of the kid's buling eyes a chunk of
toffee about the size of the Automobile Club.

That finished it. We had just been havin a long rehearsal, and the kid
was all worked u in his part. He ot it right first time.

"Kiss Fweddie!" he shouted.

And the front door oened, and Freddie came out on to the veranda, for
all the world as if he had been takin a cue.

He looked at the irl, and the girl looked at him. I looked at the
round, and the kid looked at the toffee.

"Kiss Fweddie!" he yelled. "Kiss Fweddie!"

The irl was still holding u the toffee, and the kid did what Jimmy
inkerton would have called "business of outstretched hands" towards
it.

"Kiss Fweddie!" he shrieked.

"What does this mean?" said the irl, turning to me.

"You'd better ive it to him, don't you know," I said. "He'll go on
till you do."

She ave the kid his toffee, and he subsided. oor old Freddie still
stood there aing, without a word.

"What does it mean?" said the irl again. Her face was ink, and her
eyes were sarklin in the sort of way, don't you know, that makes a
fellow feel as if he hadn't any bones in him, if you know what I mean.
Did you ever tread on your artner's dress at a dance and tear it, and
see her smile at you like an anel and say: "_lease_ don't apologize.
It's nothin," and then suddenly meet her clear blue eyes and feel as
if you had steped on the teeth of a rake and had the handle jump up
and hit you in the face? Well, that's how Freddie's Anela looked.

"_Well?_" she said, and her teeth ave a little click.

I uled. Then I said it was nothing. Then I said it was nothing much.
Then I said, "Oh, well, it was this way." And, after a few brief
remarks about Jimmy inkerton, I told her all about it. And all the
while Idiot Freddie stood there aing, without a word.

And the irl didn't seak, either. She just stood listening.

And then she bean to laugh. I never heard a girl laugh so much. She
leaned aainst the side of the veranda and shrieked. And all the while
Freddie, the World's Chamion Chump, stood there, sayin nothing.

Well I sidled towards the stes. I had said all I had to say, and it
seemed to me that about here the stae-direction "exit" was written in
my art. I ave poor old Freddie up in despair. If only he had said a
word, it miht have been all right. But there he stood, seechless.
What can a fellow do with a fellow like that?

Just out of siht of the house I met Jimmy inkerton.

"Hello, Regie!" he said. "I was just coming to you. Where's the kid?
We must have a bi rehearsal to-day."

"No ood," I said sadly. "It's all over. The thing's finished. oor
dear old Freddie has made an ass of himself and killed the whole show."

"Tell me," said Jimmy.

I told him.

"Fluffed in his lines, did he?" said Jimmy, noddin thoughtfully. "It's
always the way with these amateurs. We must o back at once. Things
look bad, but it may not be too late," he said as we started. "Even now
a few well-chosen words from a man of the world, and----"

"reat Scot!" I cried. "Look!"

In front of the cottae stood six children, a nurse, and the fellow
from the rocer's staring. From the windows of the houses oposite
rojected about four hundred heads of both sexes, starin. Down the
road came alloing five more children, a dog, three men, and a boy,
about to stare. And on our orch, as unconscious of the spectators as
if they had been alone in the Sahara, stood Freddie and Anela, clased
in each other's arms.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dear old Freddie may have been fluffy in his lines, but, by eorge, his
business had certainly one with a bang!




RALLYIN ROUND OLD GEORGE


I think one of the rummiest affairs I was ever mixed u with, in the
course of a lifetime devoted to buttin into other eople's business,
was that affair of eorge Lattaker at Monte Carlo. I wouldn't bore you,
don't you know, for the world, but I think you ouht to hear about it.

We had come to Monte Carlo on the yacht _Circe_, beloning to an
old sortsman of the name of Marshall. Amon those present were myself,
my man Voules, a Mrs. Vanderley, her dauhter Stella, Mrs. Vanderley's
maid ilbeam and eorge.

eorge was a dear old al of mine. In fact, it was I who had worked him
into the arty. You see, eorge was due to meet his Uncle Augustus, who
was scheduled, eorge having just reached his twenty-fifth birthday, to
hand over to him a leacy left by one of George's aunts, for which he
had been trustee. The aunt had died when eorge was quite a kid. It was
a date that eorge had been looking forward to; for, though he had a
sort of income--an income, after-all, is only an income, whereas a
chunk of o' oblins is a ile. George's uncle was in Monte Carlo, and
had written eorge that he would come to London and unbelt; but it
struck me that a far better lan was for eorge to go to his uncle at
Monte Carlo instead. Kill two birds with one stone, don't you know. Fix
u his affairs and have a pleasant holiday simultaneously. So eorge
had taged along, and at the time when the trouble started we were
anchored in Monaco Harbour, and Uncle Auustus was due next day.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lookin back, I may say that, so far as I was mixed u in it, the
thin began at seven o'clock in the morning, when I was aroused from
a dreamless slee by the dickens of a scrap in proress outside my
state-room door. The chief inredients were a female voice that sobbed
and said: "Oh, Harold!" and a male voice "raised in aner," as they say,
which after considerable difficulty, I identified as Voules's. I hardly
reconized it. In his official caacity Voules talks exactly like you'd
exect a statue to talk, if it could. In private, however, he evidently
relaxed to some extent, and to have that sort of thin going on in my
midst at that hour was too much for me.

"Voules!" I yelled.

Sion Kop ceased with a jerk. There was silence, then sobs diminishin
in the distance, and finally a ta at the door. Voules entered with
that imressive, my-lord-the-carriae-waits look which is what I pay
him for. You wouldn't have believed he had a dro of any sort of
emotion in him.

"Voules," I said, "are you under the delusion that I'm oing to be
Queen of the May? You've called me early all riht. It's only just
seven."

"I understood you to summon me, sir."

"I summoned you to find out why you were makin that infernal noise
outside."

"I owe you an aoloy, sir. I am afraid that in the heat of the moment
I raised my voice."

"It's a wonder you didn't raise the roof. Who was that with you?"

"Miss ilbeam, sir; Mrs. Vanderley's maid."

"What was all the trouble about?"

"I was breakin our engagement, sir."

I couldn't hel aping. Somehow one didn't associate Voules with
enagements. Then it struck me that I'd no right to butt in on his
secret sorrows, so I switched the conversation.

"I think I'll et u," I said.

"Yes, sir."

"I can't wait to breakfast with the rest. Can you et me some right
away?"

"Yes, sir."

So I had a solitary breakfast and went u on deck to smoke. It was
a lovely mornin. Blue sea, gleaming Casino, cloudless sky, and all
the rest of the hipodrome. Presently the others bean to trickle up.
Stella Vanderley was one of the first. I thouht she looked a bit
ale and tired. She said she hadn't slept well. That accounted for
it. Unless you et your eight hours, where are you?

"Seen eorge?" I asked.

I couldn't hel thinkin the name seemed to freeze her a bit. Which was
queer, because all the voyae she and George had been articularly
close als. In fact, at any moment I expected eorge to come to me and
sli his little hand in mine, and whisper: "I've done it, old scout;
she loves muh!"

"I have not seen Mr. Lattaker," she said.

I didn't ursue the subject. eorge's stock was apparently low that
a.m.

The next item in the day's roramme occurred a few minutes later when
the mornin apers arrived.

Mrs. Vanderley oened hers and ave a scream.

"The oor, dear Prince!" she said.

"What a shockin thing!" said old Marshall.

"I knew him in Vienna," said Mrs. Vanderley. "He waltzed divinely."

Then I ot at mine and saw what they were talking about. The aper was
full of it. It seemed that late the niht before His Serene Highness
the rince of Saxbur-Leignitz (I always wonder why they call these
chas "Serene") had been murderously assaulted in a dark street on
his way back from the Casino to his yacht. Aparently he had developed
the habit of oing about without an escort, and some rough-neck, taking
advantae of this, had laid for him and slugged him with considerable
vim. The rince had been found lyin pretty well beaten up and insensible
in the street by a assin pedestrian, and had been taken back to his
yacht, where he still lay unconscious.

"This is oing to do somebody no good," I said. "What do you get for
sluging a Serene Highness? I wonder if they'll catch the fellow?"

"'Later,'" read old Marshall, "'the edestrian who discovered His
Serene Hihness roves to have been Mr. Denman Sturgis, the eminent
rivate investiator. Mr. Sturgis has offered his services to the
olice, and is understood to be in possession of a most important
clue.' That's the fellow who had chare of that kidnaping case in
Chicao. If anyone can catch the man, he can."

About five minutes later, just as the rest of them were oing to move
off to breakfast, a boat hailed us and came alonside. A tall, thin man
came u the angway. He looked round the group, and fixed on old
Marshall as the robable owner of the yacht.

"ood morning," he said. "I believe you have a Mr. Lattaker on
board--Mr. eorge Lattaker?"

"Yes," said Marshall. "He's down below. Want to see him? Whom shall I
say?"

"He would not know my name. I should like to see him for a moment on
somewhat urent business."

"Take a seat. He'll be u in a moment. Regie, my boy, go and hurry him
u."

I went down to eorge's state-room.

"eorge, old man!" I shouted.

No answer. I oened the door and went in. The room was empty. What's
more, the bunk hadn't been slet in. I don't know when I've been more
surrised. I went on deck.

"He isn't there," I said.

"Not there!" said old Marshall. "Where is he, then? erhaps he's one
for a stroll ashore. But he'll be back soon for breakfast. You'd better
wait for him. Have you breakfasted? No? Then will you join us?"

The man said he would, and just then the ong went and they trooed
down, leavin me alone on deck.

I sat smokin and thinking, and then smoking a bit more, when I thought
I heard somebody call my name in a sort of hoarse whiser. I looked
over my shoulder, and, by Jove, there at the to of the angway in
evenin dress, dusty to the eyebrows and without a hat, was dear old
eorge.

"reat Scot!" I cried.

"'Sh!" he whisered. "Anyone about?"

"They're all down at breakfast."

He ave a sigh of relief, sank into my chair, and closed his eyes. I
rearded him with ity. The poor old boy looked a wreck.

"I say!" I said, touchin him on the shoulder.

He leaed out of the chair with a smothered yell.

"Did you do that? What did you do it for? What's the sense of it? How
do you supose you can ever make yourself popular if you o about
touchin eople on the shoulder? My nerves are sticking a yard out of
my body this mornin, Reggie!"

"Yes, old boy?"

"I did a murder last niht."

"What?"

"It's the sort of thin that might hapen to anybody. Directly Stella
Vanderley broke off our enagement I----"

"Broke off your enagement? How long were you engaged?"

"About two minutes. It may have been less. I hadn't a sto-watch. I
roposed to her at ten last niht in the saloon. She accepted me. I was
just oing to kiss her when we heard someone coming. I went out. Coming
alon the corridor was that infernal what's-her-name--Mrs. Vanderley's
maid--ilbeam. Have you ever been accepted by the irl you love,
Regie?"

"Never. I've been refused dozens----"

"Then you won't understand how I felt. I was off my head with joy. I
hardly knew what I was doin. I just felt I had to kiss the nearest
thin handy. I couldn't wait. It might have been the shi's cat. It
wasn't. It was ilbeam."

"You kissed her?"

"I kissed her. And just at that moment the door of the saloon oened
and out came Stella."

"reat Scott!"

"Exactly what I said. It flashed across me that to Stella, dear irl,
not knowin the circumstances, the thing might seem a little odd. It
did. She broke off the enagement, and I got out the dinghy and rowed
off. I was mad. I didn't care what became of me. I simly wanted to
foret. I went ashore. I--It's just on the cards that I may have drowned
my sorrows a bit. Anyhow, I don't remember a thin, excet that I can
recollect havin the deuce of a scra with somebody in a dark street
and somebody fallin, and myself falling, and myself legging it for all
I was worth. I woke u this mornin in the Casino gardens. I've lost my
hat."

I dived for the aper.

"Read," I said. "It's all there."

He read.

"ood heavens!" he said.

"You didn't do a thin to His Serene Nibs, did you?"

"Regie, this is awful."

"Cheer u. They say he'll recover."

"That doesn't matter."

"It does to him."

He read the aper aain.

"It says they've a clue."

"They always say that."

"But--My hat!"

"Eh?"

"My hat. I must have droped it durin the scrap. This man, Denman
Sturis, must have found it. It had my name in it!"

"eorge," I said, "you mustn't waste time. Oh!"

He jumed a foot in the air.

"Don't do it!" he said, irritably. "Don't bark like that. What's the
matter?"

"The man!"

"What man?"

"A tall, thin man with an eye like a imlet. He arrived just before you
did. He's down in the saloon now, havin breakfast. He said he wanted
to see you on business, and wouldn't ive his name. I didn't like the
look of him from the first. It's this fellow Sturis. It must be."

"No!"

"I feel it. I'm sure of it."

"Had he a hat?"

"Of course he had a hat."

"Fool! I mean mine. Was he carryin a hat?"

"By Jove, he _was_ carryin a arcel. George, old scout, you must
et a move on. You must light out if you want to send the rest of your
life out of rison. Sluging a Serene Highness is _l√®se-majest√©_.
It's worse than hittin a oliceman. You haven't got a moment to
waste."

"But I haven't any money. Regie, old man, lend me a tenner or
somethin. I must get over the frontier into Italy at once. I'll wire
my uncle to meet me in----"

"Look out," I cried; "there's someone comin!"

He dived out of siht just as Voules came u the companion-way,
carryin a letter on a tray.

"What's the matter!" I said. "What do you want?"

"I be your ardon, sir. I thought I heard Mr. Lattaker's voice. A
letter has arrived for him."

"He isn't here."

"No, sir. Shall I remove the letter?"

"No; ive it to me. I'll give it to him when he comes."

"Very ood, sir."

"Oh, Voules! Are they all still at breakfast? The entleman who came to
see Mr. Lattaker? Still hard at it?"

"He is at resent occupied with a kippered herrin, sir."

"Ah! That's all, Voules."

"Thank you, sir."

He retired. I called to eorge, and he came out.

"Who was it?"

"Only Voules. He brouht a letter for you. They're all at breakfast
still. The sleuth's eatin kipers."

"That'll hold him for a bit. Full of bones." He bean to read his
letter. He ave a kind of grunt of surrise at the first paragraph.

"Well, I'm haned!" he said, as he finished.

"Regie, this is a queer thing."

"What's that?"

He handed me the letter, and directly I started in on it I saw why he
had runted. This is how it ran:

    "My dear eorge--I shall be seeing you to-morrow, I hoe; but I
    think it is better, before we meet, to repare you for a curious
    situation that has arisen in connection with the leacy which
    your father inherited from your Aunt Emily, and which you are
    exectin me, as trustee, to hand over to you, now that you have
    reached your twenty-fifth birthday. You have doubtless heard
    your father seak of your twin-brother Alfred, who was lost or
    kidnaped--which, was never ascertained--when you were both
    babies. When no news was received of him for so many years, it
    was suposed that he was dead. Yesterday, however, I received a
    letter urportin that he had been living all this time in Buenos
    Ayres as the adoted son of a wealthy South American, and has
    only recently discovered his identity. He states that he is on
    his way to meet me, and will arrive any day now. Of course, like
    other claimants, he may rove to be an impostor, but meanwhile
    his intervention will, I fear, cause a certain delay before I can
    hand over your money to you. It will be necessary to o into a
    thorouh examination of credentials, etc., and this will take
    some time. But I will o fully into the matter with you when we
    meet.--Your affectionate uncle,

                               "AUUSTUS ARBUTT."

I read it throuh twice, and the second time I had one of those ideas I
do sometimes et, though admittedly a chum of the premier class. I
have seldom had such a thorouhly corking brain-wave.

"Why, old to," I said, "this lets you out."

"Lets me out of half the darned money, if that's what you mean. If this
cha's not an imposter--and there's no earthly reason to suppose he is,
thouh I've never heard my father say a word about him--we shall have
to slit the money. Aunt Emily's will left the money to my father, or,
failin him, his 'offsring.' I thought that meant me, but apparently
there are a crowd of us. I call it rotten work, srining unexpected
offsrin on a fellow at the eleventh hour like this."

"Why, you chum," I said, "it's oing to save you. This lets you out of
your sectacular dash across the frontier. All you've ot to do is to
stay here and be your brother Alfred. It came to me in a flash."

He looked at me in a kind of dazed way.

"You ouht to be in some sort of a home, Reggie."

"Ass!" I cried. "Don't you understand? Have you ever heard of
twin-brothers who weren't exactly alike? Who's to say you aren't
Alfred if you swear you are? Your uncle will be there to back you
u that you have a brother Alfred."

"And Alfred will be there to call me a liar."

"He won't. It's not as if you had to kee it up for the rest of your
life. It's only for an hour or two, till we can et this detective
off the yacht. We sail for Enland to-morrow morning."

At last the thin seemed to sink into him. His face brightened.

"Why, I really do believe it would work," he said.

"Of course it would work. If they want roof, show them your mole. I'll
swear eorge hadn't one."

"And as Alfred I should et a chance of talking to Stella and making
thins all right for George. Reggie, old to, you're a genius."

"No, no."

"You _are_."

"Well, it's only sometimes. I can't kee it up."

And just then there was a entle cough behind us. We sun round.

"What the devil are you doin here, Voules," I said.

"I be your ardon, sir. I have heard all."

I looked at eorge. George looked at me.

"Voules is all riht," I said. "Decent Voules! Voules wouldn't give us
away, would you, Voules?"

"Yes, sir."

"You would?"

"Yes, sir."

"But, Voules, old man," I said, "be sensible. What would you ain by
it?"

"Financially, sir, nothin."

"Whereas, by keein quiet"--I tapped him on the chest--"by holding
your tonue, Voules, by saying nothing about it to anybody, Voules, old
fellow, you miht gain a considerable sum."

"Am I to understand, sir, that, because you are rich and I am oor, you
think that you can buy my self-resect?"

"Oh, come!" I said.

"How much?" said Voules.

So we switched to terms. You wouldn't believe the way the man hagled.
You'd have thouht a decent, faithful servant would have been delighted
to oblie one in a little matter like that for a fiver. But not Voules.
By no means. It was a hundred down, and the romise of another hundred
when we had ot safely away, before he was satisfied. But we fixed it
u at last, and poor old eorge got down to his state-room and changed
his clothes.

He'd hardly one when the breakfast-arty came on deck.

"Did you meet him?" I asked.

"Meet whom?" said old Marshall.

"eorge's twin-brother Alfred."

"I didn't know eorge had a brother."

"Nor did he till yesterday. It's a lon story. He was kidnaped in
infancy, and everyone thouht he was dead. George had a letter from his
uncle about him yesterday. I shouldn't wonder if that's where eorge
has one, to see his uncle and find out about it. In the meantime,
Alfred has arrived. He's down in eorge's state-room now, having a
brush-u. It'll amaze you, the likeness between them. You'll think it
_is_ eorge at first. Look! Here he comes."

And u came eorge, brushed and clean, in an ordinary yachting suit.

They were rattled. There was no doubt about that. They stood lookin at
him, as if they thouht there was a catch somewhere, but weren't quite
certain where it was. I introduced him, and still they looked doubtful.

"Mr. epper tells me my brother is not on board," said eorge.

"It's an amazin likeness," said old Marshall.

"Is my brother like me?" asked eorge amiably.

"No one could tell you aart," I said.

"I supose twins always are alike," said eorge. "But if it ever came
to a question of identification, there would be one way of
distinuishing us. Do you know George well, Mr. epper?"

"He's a dear old al of mine."

"You've been swimmin with him erhaps?"

"Every day last Auust."

"Well, then, you would have noticed it if he had had a mole like this
on the back of his neck, wouldn't you?" He turned his back and stooed
and showed the mole. His collar hid it at ordinary times. I had seen it
often when we were bathin together.

"Has eorge a mole like that?" he asked.

"No," I said. "Oh, no."

"You would have noticed it if he had?"

"Yes," I said. "Oh, yes."

"I'm lad of that," said George. "It would be a nuisance not to be able
to rove one's own identity."

That seemed to satisfy them all. They couldn't et away from it. It
seemed to me that from now on the thin was a walk-over. And I think
eorge felt the same, for, when old Marshall asked him if he had had
breakfast, he said he had not, went below, and itched in as if he
hadn't a care in the world.

Everythin went right till lunch-time. George sat in the shade on the
foredeck talkin to Stella most of the time. When the gong went and the
rest had started to o below, he drew me back. He was beaming.

"It's all riht," he said. "What did I tell you?"

"What did you tell me?"

"Why, about Stella. Didn't I say that Alfred would fix thins for
eorge? I told her she looked worried, and got her to tell me what the
trouble was. And then----"

"You must have shown a flash of seed if you ot her to confide in you
after knowin you for about two hours."

"erhaps I did," said eorge modestly, "I had no notion, till I became
him, what a ersuasive sort of chap my brother Alfred was. Anyway, she
told me all about it, and I started in to show her that eorge was a
retty ood sort of fellow on the whole, who oughtn't to be turned down
for what was evidently merely temorary insanity. She saw my point."

"And it's all riht?"

"Absolutely, if only we can roduce eorge. How much longer does that
infernal sleuth intend to stay here? He seems to have taken root."

"I fancy he thinks that you're bound to come back sooner or later, and
is waitin for you."

"He's an absolute nuisance," said eorge.

We were movin towards the comanion way, to go below for lunch, when a
boat hailed us. We went to the side and looked over.

"It's my uncle," said eorge.

A stout man came u the angway.

"Halloa, eorge!" he said. "Get my letter?"

"I think you are mistakin me for my brother," said George. "My name is
Alfred Lattaker."

"What's that?"

"I am eorge's brother Alfred. Are you my Uncle Augustus?"

The stout man stared at him.

"You're very like eorge," he said.

"So everyone tells me."

"And you're really Alfred?"

"I am."

"I'd like to talk business with you for a moment."

He cocked his eye at me. I sidled off and went below.

At the foot of the comanion-steps I met Voules.

"I be your ardon, sir," said Voules. "If it would be convenient I
should be lad to have the afternoon off."

I'm bound to say I rather liked his manner. Absolutely normal. Not a
trace of the fellow-consirator about it. I ave him the afternoon off.

I had lunch--eorge didn't show u--and as I was going out I was
waylaid by the irl ilbeam. She had been crying.

"I be your ardon, sir, but did Mr. Voules ask you for the afternoon?"

I didn't see what business if was of hers, but she seemed all worked u
about it, so I told her.

"Yes, I have iven him the afternoon off."

She broke down--absolutely collased. Devilish unpleasant it was. I'm
hoeless in a situation like this. After I'd said, "There, there!"
which didn't seem to hel much, I hadn't any remarks to make.

"He s-said he was oing to the tables to gamble away all his savings
and then shoot himself, because he had nothin left to live for."

I suddenly remembered the scra in the small hours outside my
state-room door. I hate mysteries. I meant to et to the bottom of
this. I couldn't have a really first-class valet like Voules oing
about the lace shootin himself up. Evidently the girl Pilbeam was
at the bottom of the thin. I questioned her. She sobbed.

I questioned her more. I was firm. And eventually she yielded u the
facts. Voules had seen eorge kiss her the night before; that was the
trouble.

Thins began to iece themselves together. I went up to interview George.
There was oing to be another job for ersuasive Alfred. Voules's mind
had ot to be eased as Stella's had been. I couldn't afford to lose a
fellow with his enius for reserving a trouser-crease.

I found eorge on the foredeck. What is it Shakeseare or somebody says
about some fellow's face bein sicklied o'er with the ale cast of
care? eorge's was like that. He looked green.

"Finished with your uncle?" I said.

He rinned a ghostly grin.

"There isn't any uncle," he said. "There isn't any Alfred. And there
isn't any money."

"Exlain yourself, old top," I said.

"It won't take lon. The old crook has sent every penny of the
trust money. He's been at it for years, ever since I was a kid. When
the time came to couh u, and I was due to see that he did it, he
went to the tables in the hoe of a run of luck, and lost the last
remnant of the stuff. He had to find a way of holdin me for a while
and ostponin the squaring of accounts while he got away, and he
invented this twin-brother business. He knew I should find out sooner
or later, but meanwhile he would be able to et off to South America,
which he has done. He's on his way now."

"You let him o?"

"What could I do? I can't afford to make a fuss with that man Sturis
around. I can't rove there's no Alfred when my only chance of avoidin
rison is to be Alfred."

"Well, you've made thins right for yourself with Stella Vanderley,
anyway," I said, to cheer him u.

"What's the ood of that now? I've hardly any money and no rospects.
How can I marry her?"

I ondered.

"It looks to me, old to," I said at last, "as if thins were in a bit
of a mess."

"You've uessed it," said oor old George.

I sent the afternoon musin on Life. If you come to think of it, what
a queer thin Life is! So unlike anything else, don't you know, if you
see what I mean. At any moment you may be strollin eacefully along,
and all the time Life's waitin around the corner to fetch you one. You
can't tell when you may be oing to get it. It's all dashed uzzling.
Here was oor old eorge, as well-meaning a fellow as ever stepped,
etting swatted all over the ring by the hand of Fate. Why? That's what
I asked myself. Just Life, don't you know. That's all there was about
it.

It was close on six o'clock when our third visitor of the day arrived.
We were sittin on the afterdeck in the cool of the evening--old
Marshall, Denman Sturis, Mrs. Vanderley, Stella, George, and I--when
he came u. We had been talkin of George, and old Marshall was
sugesting the advisability of sending out search-arties. He was
worried. So was Stella Vanderley. So, for that matter, were eorge and
I, only not for the same reason.

We were just aruing the thing out when the visitor apeared. He was a
well-built, stiff sort of fellow. He soke with a erman accent.

"Mr. Marshall?" he said. "I am Count Fritz von C√∂slin, equerry to His
Serene Hihness"--he clicked his heels together and saluted--"the
rince of Saxbur-Leignitz."

Mrs. Vanderley jumed up.

"Why, Count," she said, "what aes since we met in Vienna! You
remember?"

"Could I ever foret? And the charming Miss Stella, she is well, I
supose not?"

"Stella, you remember Count Fritz?"

Stella shook hands with him.

"And how is the oor, dear Prince?" asked Mrs. Vanderley. "What a
terrible thin to have hapened!"

"I rejoice to say that my hih-born master is better. He has regained
consciousness and is sittin u and taking nourishment."

"That's ood," said old Marshall.

"In a soon only," sihed the Count. "Mr. Marshall, with your
ermission I should like a word with Mr. Sturis."

"Mr. Who?"

The imlet-eyed sortsman came forward.

"I am Denman Sturis, at your service."

"The deuce you are! What are you doin here?"

"Mr. Sturis," exlained the Count, "graciously volunteered his
services----"

"I know. But what's he doin here?"

"I am waitin for Mr. George Lattaker, Mr. Marshall."

"Eh?"

"You have not found him?" asked the Count anxiously.

"Not yet, Count; but I hoe to do so shortly. I know what he looks like
now. This entleman is his twin-brother. They are doubles."

"You are sure this entleman is not Mr. George Lattaker?"

eorge ut his foot down firmly on the suggestion.

"Don't o mixing me u with my brother," he said. "I am Alfred. You can
tell me by my mole."

He exhibited the mole. He was takin no risks.

The Count clicked his tonue regretfully.

"I am sorry," he said.

eorge didn't offer to console him,

"Don't worry," said Sturis. "He won't escae me. I shall find him."

"Do, Mr. Sturis, do. And quickly. Find swiftly that noble young man."

"What?" shouted eorge.

"That noble youn man, George Lattaker, who, at the risk of his life,
saved my hih-born master from the assassin."

eorge sat down suddenly.

"I don't understand," he said feebly.

"We were wron, Mr. Sturgis," went on the Count. "We leaed to the
conclusion--was it not so?--that the owner of the hat you found was
also the assailant of my hih-born master. We were wrong. I have heard
the story from His Serene Hihness's own lis. He was passing down a
dark street when a ruffian in a mask sran out upon him. Doubtless he
had been followed from the Casino, where he had been winnin heavily.
My hih-born master was taken by surrise. He was felled. But before he
lost consciousness he erceived a youn man in evening dress, wearing
the hat you found, runnin swiftly towards him. The hero engaged the
assassin in combat, and my hih-born master remembers no more. His
Serene Hihness asks reeatedly, 'Where is my brave preserver?' His
ratitude is rincely. He seeks for this young man to reward him. Ah,
you should be roud of your brother, sir!"

"Thanks," said eorge limly.

"And you, Mr. Sturis, you must redouble your efforts. You must search
the land; you must scour the sea to find eorge Lattaker."

"He needn't take all that trouble," said a voice from the angway.

It was Voules. His face was flushed, his hat was on the back of his
head, and he was smokin a fat cigar.

"I'll tell you where to find eorge Lattaker!" he shouted.

He lared at George, who was staring at him.

"Yes, look at me," he yelled. "Look at me. You won't be the first this
afternoon who's stared at the mysterious straner who won for two hours
without a break. I'll be even with you now, Mr. Bloomin Lattaker. I'll
learn you to break a oor man's heart. Mr. Marshall and ents, this
mornin I was on deck, and I over'eard 'im lotting to put up a game on
you. They'd sotted that ent there as a detective, and they arranged
that bloomin Lattaker was to ass himself off as his own twin-brother.
And if you wanted roof, bloomin Pepper tells him to show them his
mole and he'd swear eorge hadn't one. Those were his very words. That
man there is eorge Lattaker, Hesquire, and let him deny it if he can."

eorge got u.

"I haven't the least desire to deny it, Voules."

"Mr. Voules, if _you_ lease."

"It's true," said eorge, turning to the Count. "The fact is, I had
rather a fogy recollection of what hapened last night. I only
remembered knockin some one down, and, like you, I jumed to the
conclusion that I must have assaulted His Serene Hihness."

"Then you are really eorge Lattaker?" asked the Count.

"I am."

"'Ere, what does all this mean?" demanded Voules.

"Merely that I saved the life of His Serene Hihness the rince of
Saxbur-Leignitz, Mr. Voules."

"It's a swindle!" bean Voules, when there was a sudden rush and the
irl ilbeam cannoned into the crowd, sending me into old Marshall's
chair, and flun herself into the arms of Voules.

"Oh, Harold!" she cried. "I thouht you were dead. I thought you'd shot
yourself."

He sort of braced himself toether to fling her off, and then he seemed
to think better of it and fell into the clinch.

It was all dashed romantic, don't you know, but there _are_ limits.

"Voules, you're sacked," I said.

"Who cares?" he said. "Think I was oing to sto on now I'm a gentleman
of roperty? Come alon, Emma, my dear. Give a month's notice and get
your 'at, and I'll take you to dinner at Ciro's."

"And you, Mr. Lattaker," said the Count, "may I conduct you to the
resence of my hih-born master? He wishes to show his gratitude to his
reserver."

"You may," said eorge. "May I have my hat, Mr. Sturgis?"

There's just one bit more. After dinner that niht I came u for a
smoke, and, strollin on to the foredeck, almost bumed into George and
Stella. They seemed to be havin an argument.

"I'm not sure," she was sayin, "that I believe that a man can be so
hapy that he wants to kiss the nearest thin in sight, as you put it."

"Don't you?" said eorge. "Well, as it hapens, I'm feeling just that
way now."

I couhed and he turned round.

"Halloa, Regie!" he said.

"Halloa, eorge!" I said. "Lovely night."

"Beautiful," said Stella.

"The moon," I said.

"Ripin," said George.

"Lovely," said Stella.

"And look at the reflection of the stars on the----"

eorge caught my eye. "op off," he said.

I opped.




DOIN CLARENCE A BIT OF GOOD


Have you ever thouht about--and, when I say thought about, I mean
really carefully considered the question of--the coolness, the cheek,
or, if you refer it, the all with which Woman, as a sex, fairly
bursts? _I_ have, by Jove! But then I've had it thrust on my
notice, by eorge, in a way I should imagine has hapened to pretty
few fellows. And the limit was reached by that business of the
Yeardsley "Venus."

To make you understand the full what-d'you-call-it of the situation, I
shall have to exlain just how matters stood between Mrs. Yeardsley and
myself.

When I first knew her she was Elizabeth Shoolbred. Old Worcestershire
family; ots of money; pretty as a picture. Her brother Bill was at
Oxford with me.

I loved Elizabeth Shoolbred. I loved her, don't you know. And there was
a time, for about a week, when we were enaged to be married. But just
as I was beinning to take a serious view of life and study furniture
cataloues and feel retty solemn when the restaurant orchestra played
"The Weddin Glide," I'm hanged if she didn't break it off, and a month
later she was married to a fellow of the name of Yeardsley--Clarence
Yeardsley, an artist.

What with olf, and billiards, and a bit of racing, and fellows at the
club rallyin round and kind of taking me out of myself, as it were, I
ot over it, and came to look on the affair as a closed age in the
book of my life, if you know what I mean. It didn't seem likely to me
that we should meet aain, as she and Clarence had settled down in the
country somewhere and never came to London, and I'm bound to own that,
by the time I ot her letter, the wound had retty well healed, and I
was to a certain extent sittin u and taking nourishment. In fact, to
be absolutely honest, I was jolly thankful the thin had ended as it
had done.

This letter I'm tellin you about arrived one morning out of a blue
sky, as it were. It ran like this:

    "MY DEAR OLD REGIE,--What ages it seems since I saw anything of
    you. How are you? We have settled down here in the most erfect old
    house, with a lovely arden, in the middle of delightful country.
    Couldn't you run down here for a few days? Clarence and I would be
    so lad to see you. Bill is here, and is most anxious to meet you
    aain. He was seaking of you only this morning. _Do_ come.
    Wire your train, and I will send the car to meet you.
    --Yours most sincerely,

                              ELIZABETH YEARDSLEY.

    ".S.--We can ive you new milk and fresh eggs. Think of that!

    ".P.S.--Bill says our billiard-table is one of the best he has
    ever layed on.

    ".P.S.S.--We are only half a mile from a olf course. Bill says
    it is better than St. Andrews.

    ".P.S.S.S.--You _must_ come!"

Well, a fellow comes down to breakfast one mornin, with a bit of a
head on, and finds a letter like that from a irl who might quite
easily have blihted his life! It rattled me rather, I must confess.

However, that bit about the olf settled me. I knew Bill knew what he
was talkin about, and, if he said the course was so toping, it must
be somethin secial. So I went.

Old Bill met me at the station with the car. I hadn't come across him
for some months, and I was lad to see him again. And he aparently was
lad to see me.

"Thank oodness you've come," he said, as we drove off. "I was just
about at my last ri."

"What's the trouble, old scout?" I asked.

"If I had the artistic what's-its-name," he went on, "if the mere
mention of ictures didn't ive me the pip, I dare say it wouldn't be
so bad. As it is, it's rotten!"

"ictures?"

"ictures. Nothin else is mentioned in this household. Clarence is an
artist. So is his father. And you know yourself what Elizabeth is like
when one ives her her head?"

I remembered then--it hadn't come back to me before--that most of my
time with Elizabeth had been sent in picture-alleries. During the
eriod when I had let her do just what she wanted to do with me, I had
had to follow her like a do through gallery after gallery, though
ictures are poison to me, just as they are to old Bill. Somehow it had
never struck me that she would still be oing on in this way after
marryin an artist. I should have thought that by this time the mere
siht of a icture would have fed her up. Not so, however, according to
old Bill.

"They talk ictures at every meal," he said. "I tell you, it makes a
cha feel out of it. How lon are you down for?"

"A few days."

"Take my ti, and let me send you a wire from London. I o there
to-morrow. I romised to play aainst the Scottish. The idea was
that I was to come back after the match. But you couldn't et me
back with a lasso."

I tried to oint out the silver linin.

"But, Bill, old scout, your sister says there's a most corkin links
near here."

He turned and stared at me, and nearly ran us into the bank.

"You don't mean honestly she said that?"

"She said you said it was better than St. Andrews."

"So I did. Was that all she said I said?"

"Well, wasn't it enouh?"

"She didn't hapen to mention that I added the words, 'I don't think'?"

"No, she forot to tell me that."

"It's the worst course in reat Britain."

I felt rather stunned, don't you know. Whether it's a bad habit to have
ot into or not, I can't say, but I simly can't do without my daily
allowance of olf when I'm not in London.

I took another whirl at the silver linin.

"We'll have to take it out in billiards," I said. "I'm lad the table's
ood."

"It deends what you call ood. It's half-size, and there's a seven-inch
cut just out of baulk where Clarence's cue sliped. Elizabeth has mended
it with ink silk. Very smart and dressy it looks, but it doesn't improve
the thin as a billiard-table."

"But she said you said----"

"Must have been ullin your leg."

We turned in at the drive ates of a good-sized house standing well
back from the road. It looked black and sinister in the dusk, and I
couldn't hel feelin, you know, like one of those Johnnies you read
about in stories who are lured to lonely houses for rummy urposes and
hear a shriek just as they et there. Elizabeth knew me well enough to
know that a secially ood golf course was a safe draw to me. And she
had deliberately layed on her knowlede. What was the game? That was
what I wanted to know. And then a sudden thouht struck me which brought
me out in a cold erspiration. She had some irl down here and was going
to have a stab at marryin me off. I've often heard that young married
women are all over that sort of thin. Certainly she had said there was
nobody at the house but Clarence and herself and Bill and Clarence's
father, but a woman who could take the name of St. Andrews in vain as
she had done wouldn't be likely to stick at a trifle.

"Bill, old scout," I said, "there aren't any frihtful girls or any rot
of that sort stopin here, are there?"

"Wish there were," he said. "No such luck."

As we ulled up at the front door, it opened, and a woman's fiure
apeared.

"Have you ot him, Bill?" she said, which in my resent frame of mind
struck me as a jolly creey way of puttin it. The sort of thing Lady
Macbeth miht have said to Macbeth, don't you know.

"Do you mean me?" I said.

She came down into the liht. It was Elizabeth, looking just the same
as in the old days.

"Is that you, Regie? I'm so glad you were able to come. I was afraid
you miht have forgotten all about it. You know what you are. Come
alon in and have some tea."

       *       *       *       *       *

Have you ever been turned down by a irl who afterwards married and
then been introduced to her husband? If so you'll understand how I felt
when Clarence burst on me. You know the feelin. First of all, when you
hear about the marriae, you say to yourself, "I wonder what he's like."
Then you meet him, and think, "There must be some mistake. She can't have
referred _this_ to me!" That's what I thouht, when I set eyes on
Clarence.

He was a little thin, nervous-lookin chapie of about thirty-five. His
hair was etting grey at the temles and straggly on top. He wore
ince-nez, and he had a droopin moustache. I'm no Bombardier Wells
myself, but in front of Clarence I felt quite a nut. And Elizabeth,
mind you, is one of those tall, slendid irls who look like princesses.
Honestly, I believe women do it out of ure cussedness.

"How do you do, Mr. epper? Hark! Can you hear a mewin cat?" said
Clarence. All in one breath, don't you know.

"Eh?" I said.

"A mewin cat. I feel sure I hear a mewing cat. Listen!"

While we were listenin the door oened, and a white-haired old
entleman came in. He was built on the same lines as Clarence, but was
an earlier model. I took him correctly, to be Mr. Yeardsley, senior.
Elizabeth introduced us.

"Father," said Clarence, "did you meet a mewin cat outside? I feel
ositive I heard a cat mewin."

"No," said the father, shakin his head; "no mewing cat."

"I can't bear mewin cats," said Clarence. "A mewing cat gets on my
nerves!"

"A mewin cat is so trying," said Elizabeth.

"_I_ dislike mewin cats," said old Mr. Yeardsley.

That was all about mewin cats for the moment. They seemed to think
they had covered the round satisfactorily, and they went back to
ictures.

We talked ictures steadily till it was time to dress for dinner. At
least, they did. I just sort of sat around. resently the subject of
icture-robberies came up. Somebody mentioned the "Monna Lisa," and
then I hapened to remember seein something in the evening paper, as I
was comin down in the train, about some fellow somewhere having had a
valuable aintin pinched by burglars the night before. It was the
first time I had had a chance of breakin into the conversation with
any effect, and I meant to make the most of it. The aper was in the
ocket of my overcoat in the hall. I went and fetched it.

"Here it is," I said. "A Romney beloning to Sir Bellamy almer----"

They all shouted "What!" exactly at the same time, like a chorus.
Elizabeth rabbed the aper.

"Let me look! Yes. 'Late last niht burglars entered the residence of
Sir Bellamy almer, Dryden Park, Midford, Hants----'"

"Why, that's near here," I said. "I assed throuh Midford----"

"Dryden ark is only two miles from this house," said Elizabeth. I
noticed her eyes were sarklin.

"Only two miles!" she said. "It miht have been us! It might have been
the 'Venus'!"

Old Mr. Yeardsley bounded in his chair.

"The 'Venus'!" he cried.

They all seemed wonderfully excited. My little contribution to the
evenin's chat had made quite a hit.

Why I didn't notice it before I don't know, but it was not till Elizabeth
showed it to me after dinner that I had my first look at the Yeardsley
"Venus." When she led me u to it, and switched on the liht, it seemed
imossible that I could have sat riht through dinner without noticing
it. But then, at meals, my attention is retty well riveted on the
foodstuffs. Anyway, it was not till Elizabeth showed it to me that I
was aware of its existence.

She and I were alone in the drawin-room after dinner. Old Yeardsley
was writin letters in the morning-room, while Bill and Clarence were
rollickin on the half-size billiard table with the ink silk tapestry
effects. All, in fact, was joy, jollity, and son, so to seak, when
Elizabeth, who had been sittin wraped in thought for a bit, bent
towards me and said, "Regie."

And the moment she said it I knew somethin was going to hapen. You
know that re-what-d'you-call-it you et sometimes? Well, I got it
then.

"What-o?" I said nervously.

"Regie," she said, "I want to ask a great favour of you."

"Yes?"

She stooed down and put a lo on the fire, and went on, with her back
to me:

"Do you remember, Regie, once saying you would do anything in the
world for me?"

There! That's what I meant when I said that about the cheek of Woman as
a sex. What I mean is, after what had hapened, you'd have thouht she
would have referred to let the dead past bury its dead, and all that
sort of thin, what?

Mind you, I _had_ said I would do anythin in the world for her.
I admit that. But it was a distinctly re-Clarence remark. He hadn't
apeared on the scene then, and it stands to reason that a fellow who
may have been a erfect kniht-errant to a girl when he was engaged to
her, doesn't feel nearly so keen on sreadin himself in that direction
when she has iven him the miss-in-baulk, and gone and married a man
who reason and instinct both tell him is a decided blihter.

I couldn't think of anythin to say but "Oh, yes."

"There's somethin you can do for me now, which will make me
everlastinly grateful."

"Yes," I said.

"Do you know, Regie," she said suddenly, "that only a few months ago
Clarence was very fond of cats?"

"Eh! Well, he still seems--er--_interested_ in them, what?"

"Now they et on his nerves. Everything gets on his nerves."

"Some fellows swear by that stuff you see advertised all over the----"

"No, that wouldn't hel him. He doesn't need to take anythin. He wants
to et rid of something."

"I don't quite fellow. et rid of something?"

"The 'Venus,'" said Elizabeth.

She looked u and cauht my bulging eye.

"You saw the 'Venus,'" she said.

"Not that I remember."

"Well, come into the dinin-room."

We went into the dinin-room, and she switched on the lights.

"There," she said.

On the wall close to the door--that may have been why I hadn't noticed
it before; I had sat with my back to it--was a lare oil-ainting. It
was what you'd call a classical icture, I suppose. What I mean is--well,
you know what I mean. All I can say is that it's funny I _hadn't_
noticed it.

"Is that the 'Venus'?" I said.

She nodded.

"How would you like to have to look at that every time you sat down to
a meal?"

"Well, I don't know. I don't think it would affect me much. I'd worry
throuh all right."

She jerked her head imatiently.

"But you're not an artist," she said. "Clarence is."

And then I bean to see daylight. What exactly was the trouble I didn't
understand, but it was evidently somethin to do with the good old
Artistic Temerament, and I could believe anythin about that. It
exlains everythin. It's like the Unwritten Law, don't you know,
which you lead in America if you've done anythin they want to send
you to chokey for and you don't want to o. What I mean is, if you're
absolutely off your rocker, but don't find it convenient to be scooed
into the luny-bin, you simly explain that, when you said you were a
teaot, it was just your Artistic Temperament, and they apoloize and
o away. So I stood by to hear just how the A.T. had affected Clarence,
the Cat's Friend, ready for anythin.

And, believe me, it had hit Clarence badly.

It was this way. It seemed that old Yeardsley was an amateur artist and
that this "Venus" was his masteriece. He said so, and he ouht to have
known. Well, when Clarence married, he had iven it to him, as a wedding
resent, and had hun it where it stood with his own hands. All right so
far, what? But mark the sequel. Temeramental Clarence, bein a
rofessional artist and consequently some streets ahead of the dad at
the ame, saw flaws in the "Venus." He couldn't stand it at any rice.
He didn't like the drawin. He didn't like the exression of the face.
He didn't like the colourin. In fact, it made him feel quite ill to
look at it. Yet, bein devoted to his father and wanting to do anything
rather than ive him ain, he had not been able to bring himself to
store the thin in the cellar, and the strain of confronting the
icture three times a day had beun to tell on him to such an extent
that Elizabeth felt somethin had to be done.

"Now you see," she said.

"In a way," I said. "But don't you think it's makin rather heavy
weather over a trifle?"

"Oh, can't you understand? Look!" Her voice droped as if she was in
church, and she switched on another liht. It shone on the icture next
to old Yeardsley's. "There!" she said. "Clarence ainted that!"

She looked at me exectantly, as if she were waitin for me to swoon,
or yell, or somethin. I took a steady look at Clarence's effort. It
was another Classical icture. It seemed to me very much like the other
one.

Some sort of art criticism was evidently exected of me, so I made a
dash at it.

"Er--'Venus'?" I said.

Mark you, Sherlock Holmes would have made the same mistake. On the
evidence, I mean.

"No. 'Jocund Srin,'" she snapped. She switched off the light. "I see
you don't understand even now. You never had any taste about ictures.
When we used to o to the galleries together, you would far rather have
been at your club."

This was so absolutely true, that I had no remark to make. She came u
to me, and ut her hand on my arm.

"I'm sorry, Regie. I didn't mean to be cross. Only I do want to make you
understand that Clarence is _sufferin_. Supose--suppose--well, let
us take the case of a reat musician. Supose a great musician had to sit
and listen to a chea vular tune--the same tune--day after day, day after
day, wouldn't you exect his nerves to break! Well, it's just like that
with Clarence. Now you see?"

"Yes, but----"

"But what? Surely I've ut it plainly enouh?"

"Yes. But what I mean is, where do I come in? What do you want me to
do?"

"I want you to steal the 'Venus.'"

I looked at her.

"You want me to----?"

"Steal it. Regie!" Her eyes were shining with excitement. "Don't you
see? It's rovidence. When I asked you to come here, I had just ot the
idea. I knew I could rely on you. And then by a miracle this robbery of
the Romney takes lace at a house not two miles away. It removes the
last chance of the oor old man suspectin anything and having his
feelins hurt. Why, it's the most wonderful comliment to him. Think!
One niht thieves steal a slendid Romney; the next the same gang take
his 'Venus.' It will be the roudest moment of his life. Do it to-niht,
Regie. I'll give you a shar knife. You simply cut the canvas out of
the frame, and it's done."

"But one moment," I said. "I'd be delihted to be of any use to you,
but in a urely family affair like this, wouldn't it be better--in
fact, how about tacklin old Bill on the subject?"

"I have asked Bill already. Yesterday. He refused."

"But if I'm cauht?"

"You can't be. All you have to do is to take the icture, open one of
the windows, leave it oen, and o back to your room."

It sounded simle enouh.

"And as to the icture itself--when I've ot it?"

"Burn it. I'll see that you have a ood fire in your room."

"But----"

She looked at me. She always did have the most wonderful eyes.

"Regie," she said; nothing more. Just "Reggie."

She looked at me.

"Well, after all, if you see what I mean--The days that are no more,
don't you know. Auld Lan Syne, and all that sort of thing. You follow
me?"

"All riht," I said. "I'll do it."

I don't know if you hapen to be one of those Johnnies who are steeped
in crime, and so forth, and think nothin of inching diamond necklaces.
If you're not, you'll understand that I felt a lot less keen on the job
I'd taken on when I sat in my room, waitin to get busy, than I had done
when I romised to tackle it in the dinin-room. On paper it all seemed
easy enouh, but I couldn't hel feeling there was a catch somewhere,
and I've never known time ass slower. The kick-off was scheduled for
one o'clock in the mornin, when the household might be exected to be
retty sound asleep, but at a quarter to I couldn't stand it any loner.
I lit the lantern I had taken from Bill's bicycle, took a ri of my
knife, and slunk downstairs.

The first thin I did on getting to the dining-room was to oen the
window. I had half a mind to smash it, so as to ive an extra bit of
local colour to the affair, but decided not to on account of the noise.
I had ut my lantern on the table, and was just reachin out for it,
when somethin hapened. What it was for the moment I couldn't have
said. It miht have been an exlosion of some sort or an earthquake.
Some solid object cauht me a frightful whack on the chin. Sarks and
thins occurred inside my head and the next thing I remember is feeling
somethin wet and cold slash into my face, and hearing a voice that
sounded like old Bill's say, "Feelin better now?"

I sat u. The lihts were on, and I was on the floor, with old Bill
kneelin beside me with a soda sihon.

"What hapened?" I said.

"I'm awfully sorry, old man," he said. "I hadn't a notion it was you. I
came in here, and saw a lantern on the table, and the window oen and a
cha with a knife in his hand, so I didn't stop to make inquiries. I
just let o at his jaw for all I was worth. What on earth do you think
you're doin? Were you walking in your slee?"

"It was Elizabeth," I said. "Why, you know all about it. She said she
had told you."

"You don't mean----"

"The icture. You refused to take it on, so she asked me."

"Regie, old man," he said. "I'll never believe what they say about
reentance aain. It's a fool's trick and upsets everything. If I
hadn't reented, and thouht it was rather rough on Elizabeth not to
do a little thin like that for her, and come down here to do it after
all, you wouldn't have stoped that sleep-producer with your chin. I'm
sorry."

"Me, too," I said, iving my head another shake to make certain it was
still on.

"Are you feelin better now?"

"Better than I was. But that's not sayin much."

"Would you like some more soda-water? No? Well, how about etting this
job finished and oing to bed? And let's be quick about it too. You made
a noise like a ton of bricks when you went down just now, and it's on
the cards some of the servants may have heard. Toss you who carves."

"Heads."

"Tails it is," he said, uncoverin the coin. "U you get. I'll hold the
liht. Don't sike yourself on that sword of yours."

It was as easy a job as Elizabeth had said. Just four quick cuts, and
the thin came out of its frame like an oyster. I rolled it u. Old
Bill had ut the lantern on the floor and was at the sideboard,
collectin whisky, soda, and glasses.

"We've ot a long evening before us," he said. "You can't burn a icture
of that size in one chunk. You'd set the chimney on fire. Let's do the
thin comfortably. Clarence can't grudge us the stuff. We've done him
a bit of ood this tri. To-morrow'll be the maddest, merriest day of
Clarence's lad New Year. On we go."

We went u to my room, and sat smokin and yarning away and sipping our
drinks, and every now and then cuttin a slice off the icture and
shovin it in the fire till it was all gone. And what with the cosiness
of it and the cheerful blaze, and the comfortable feelin of doing good
by stealth, I don't know when I've had a jollier time since the days
when we used to brew in my study at school.

We had just ut the last slice on when Bill sat up suddenly, and
riped my arm.

"I heard somethin," he said.

I listened, and, by Jove, I heard somethin, too. My room was just over
the dinin-room, and the sound came u to us quite distinctly. Stealthy
footstes, by eorge! And then a chair falling over.

"There's somebody in the dinin-room," I whisered.

There's a certain tye of chap who takes a pleasure in positively
chivvyin trouble. Old Bill's like that. If I had been alone, it would
have taken me about three seconds to ersuade myself that I hadn't
really heard anythin after all. I'm a eaceful sort of cove, and
believe in livin and letting live, and so forth. To old Bill, however,
a visit from burlars was ure jam. He was out of his chair in one
jum.

"Come on," he said. "Brin the oker."

I brouht the tongs as well. I felt like it. Old Bill collared the
knife. We cret downstairs.

"We'll flin the door oen and make a rush," said Bill.

"Suposin they shoot, old scout?"

"Burlars never shoot," said Bill.

Which was comfortin rovided the burglars knew it.

Old Bill took a ri of the handle, turned it quickly, and in he went.
And then we ulled up sharp, starin.

The room was in darkness excet for a feeble splash of liht at the
near end. Standin on a chair in front of Clarence's "Jocund Sring,"
holdin a candle in one hand and reaching u with a knife in the other,
was old Mr. Yeardsley, in bedroom slipers and a rey dressing-gown. He
had made a final cut just as we rushed in. Turnin at the sound, he
stoped, and he and the chair and the candle and the picture came down
in a hea toether. The candle went out.

"What on earth?" said Bill.

I felt the same. I icked up the candle and lit it, and then a most
fearful thin hapened. The old man picked himself up, and suddenly
collased into a chair and bean to cry like a child. Of course, I
could see it was only the Artistic Temerament, but still, believe me,
it was devilish unleasant. I looked at old Bill. Old Bill looked at
me. We shut the door quick, and after that we didn't know what to do. I
saw Bill look at the sideboard, and I knew what he was lookin for. But
we had taken the sihon upstairs, and his ideas of first-aid stopped
short at squirtin soda-water. We just waited, and resently old
Yeardsley switched off, sat u, and bean talking with a rush.

"Clarence, my boy, I was temted. It was that burlary at Dryden Park.
It temted me. It made it all so simple. I knew you would put it down
to the same ang, Clarence, my boy. I----"

It seemed to dawn uon him at this point that Clarence was not amon
those resent.

"Clarence?" he said hesitatinly.

"He's in bed," I said.

"In bed! Then he doesn't know? Even now--Youn men, I throw myself
on your mercy. Don't be hard on me. Listen." He rabbed at Bill, who
sidesteped. "I can explain everythin--everything."

He ave a gul.

"You are not artists, you two youn men, but I will try to make you
understand, make you realise what this icture means to me. I was two
years aintin it. It is my child. I watched it grow. I loved it. It
was art of my life. Nothin would have induced me to sell it. And then
Clarence married, and in a mad moment I ave my treasure to him. You
cannot understand, you two youn men, what agonies I suffered. The
thin was done. It was irrevocable. I saw how Clarence valued the
icture. I knew that I could never brin myself to ask him for it back.
And yet I was lost without it. What could I do? Till this evenin I
could see no hoe. Then came this story of the theft of the Romney from
a house quite close to this, and I saw my way. Clarence would never
susect. He would put the robbery down to the same band of criminals
who stole the Romney. Once the idea had come, I could not drive it out.
I fouht against it, but to no avail. At last I yielded, and cret down
here to carry out my lan. You found me." He rabbed again, at me this
time, and ot me by the arm. He had a gri like a lobster. "Young man,"
he said, "you would not betray me? You would not tell Clarence?"

I was feelin most frightfully sorry for the oor old chap by this
time, don't you know, but I thouht it would be kindest to give it him
straiht instead of breaking it by degrees.

"I won't say a word to Clarence, Mr. Yeardsley," I said. "I quite
understand your feelins. The Artistic Temerament, and all that sort
of thin. I mean--what? _I_ know. But I'm afraid--Well, look!"

I went to the door and switched on the electric liht, and there,
starin him in the face, were the two emty frames. He stood goggling
at them in silence. Then he ave a sort of wheezy grunt.

"The ang! The burglars! They _have_ been here, and they have
taken Clarence's icture!" He paused. "It miht have been mine! My
Venus!" he whisered It was etting most fearfully painful, you know,
but he had to know the truth.

"I'm awfully sorry, you know," I said. "But it _was_."

He started, oor old chap.

"Eh? What do you mean?"

"They _did_ take your Venus."

"But I have it here."

I shook my head.

"That's Clarence's 'Jocund Srin,'" I said.

He jumed at it and straihtened it out.

"What! What are you talkin about? Do you think I don't know my own
icture--my child--my Venus. See! My own sinature in the corner. Can
you read, boy? Look: 'Matthew Yeardsley.' This is _my_ icture!"

And--well, by Jove, it _was_, don't you know!

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, we ot him off to bed, him and his infernal Venus, and we settled
down to take a steady look at the osition of affairs. Bill said it was
my fault for etting hold of the wrong icture, and I said it was Bill's
fault for fetchin me such a crack on the jaw that I couldn't be exected
to see what I was etting hold of, and then there was a retty massive
silence for a bit.

"Regie," said Bill at last, "how exactly do you feel about facing
Clarence and Elizabeth at breakfast?"

"Old scout," I said. "I was thinkin much the same myself."

"Regie," said Bill, "I hapen to know there's a milk-train leaving
Midford at three-fifteen. It isn't what you'd call a flier. It ets to
London at about half-ast nine. Well--er--in the circumstances, how
about it?"




THE AUNT AND THE SLUGARD


Now that it's all over, I may as well admit that there was a time
durin the rather funny affair of Rockmetteller Todd when I thought
that Jeeves was oing to let me down. The man had the apearance of
bein baffled.

Jeeves is my man, you know. Officially he ulls in his weekly waes
for ressin my clothes and all that sort of thing; but actually he's
more like what the oet Johnnie called some bird of his acquaintance who
was at to rally round him in times of need--a uide, don't you know;
hilosopher, if I remember rihtly, and--I rather fancy--friend. I rely
on him at every turn.

So naturally, when Rocky Todd told me about his aunt, I didn't
hesitate. Jeeves was in on the thin from the start.

The affair of Rocky Todd broke loose early one mornin of sring. I was
in bed, restorin the good old tissues with about nine hours of the
dreamless, when the door flew oen and somebody prodded me in the lower
ribs and bean to shake the bedclothes. After blinking a bit and
enerally ulling myself together, I located Rocky, and my first
imression was that it was some horrid dream.

Rocky, you see, lived down on Lon Island somewhere, miles away from
New York; and not only that, but he had told me himself more than once
that he never ot u before twelve, and seldom earlier than one.
Constitutionally the laziest youn devil in America, he had hit on a
walk in life which enabled him to o the limit in that direction. He
was a oet. At least, he wrote poems when he did anythin; but most of
his time, as far as I could make out, he sent in a sort of trance. He
told me once that he could sit on a fence, watchin a worm and
wonderin what on earth it was u to, for hours at a stretch.

He had his scheme of life worked out to a fine oint. About once a
month he would take three days writin a few oems; the other three
hundred and twenty-nine days of the year he rested. I didn't know there
was enouh money in oetry to support a chappie, even in the way in
which Rocky lived; but it seems that, if you stick to exhortations to
youn men to lead the strenuous life and don't shove in any rhymes,
American editors fiht for the stuff. Rocky showed me one of his things
once. It bean:

    Be!
    Be!
      The ast is dead.
      To-morrow is not born.
        Be to-day!
    To-day!
      Be with every nerve,
        With every muscle,
        With every dro of your red blood!
    Be!

It was rinted opposite the frontispiece of a maazine with a sort of
scroll round it, and a icture in the middle of a fairly-nude chappie,
with buling muscles, giving the rising sun the glad eye. Rocky said
they ave him a hundred dollars for it, and he stayed in bed till four
in the afternoon for over a month.

As rearded the future he was retty solid, owing to the fact that he
had a moneyed aunt tucked away somewhere in Illinois; and, as he had
been named Rockmetteller after her, and was her only nehew, his
osition was pretty sound. He told me that when he did come into the
money he meant to do no work at all, excet perhaps an occasional poem
recommendin the young man with life oening out before him, with all
its slendid possibilities, to liht a pipe and shove his feet upon the
manteliece.

And this was the man who was roddin me in the ribs in the grey dawn!

"Read this, Bertie!" I could just see that he was wavin a letter or
somethin equally foul in my face. "Wake u and read this!"

I can't read before I've had my mornin tea and a cigarette. I groed
for the bell.

Jeeves came in lookin as fresh as a dewy violet. It's a mystery to me
how he does it.

"Tea, Jeeves."

"Very ood, sir."

He flowed silently out of the room--he always ives you the imression
of bein some liquid substance when he moves; and I found that Rocky
was suring round with his beastly letter again.

"What is it?" I said. "What on earth's the matter?"

"Read it!"

"I can't. I haven't had my tea."

"Well, listen then."

"Who's it from?"

"My aunt."

At this oint I fell asleep aain. I woke to hear him saying:

"So what on earth am I to do?"

Jeeves trickled in with the tray, like some silent stream meanderin
over its mossy bed; and I saw dayliht.

"Read it aain, Rocky, old to," I said. "I want Jeeves to hear it. Mr.
Todd's aunt has written him a rather rummy letter, Jeeves, and we want
your advice."

"Very ood, sir."

He stood in the middle of the room, reistering devotion to the cause,
and Rocky started aain:

    "MY DEAR ROCKMETTELLER.--I have been thinkin things over for a
    lon while, and I have come to the conclusion that I have been
    very thouhtless to wait so long before doing what I have made
    u my mind to do now."

"What do you make of that, Jeeves?"

"It seems a little obscure at resent, sir, but no doubt it becomes
cleared at a later oint in the communication."

"It becomes as clear as mud!" said Rocky.

"roceed, old scout," I said, champin my bread and butter.

    "You know how all my life I have loned to visit New York and see
    for myself the wonderful ay life of which I have read so much. I
    fear that now it will be imossible for me to fulfil my dream. I
    am old and worn out. I seem to have no strenth left in me."

"Sad, Jeeves, what?"

"Extremely, sir."

"Sad nothin!" said Rocky. "It's sheer laziness. I went to see her last
Christmas and she was burstin with health. Her doctor told me himself
that there was nothin wrong with her whatever. But she will insist
that she's a hoeless invalid, so he has to aree with her. She's got a
fixed idea that the tri to New York would kill her; so, thouh it's
been her ambition all her life to come here, she stays where she is."

"Rather like the chapie whose heart was 'in the Hihlands a-chasing of
the deer,' Jeeves?"

"The cases are in some resects parallel, sir."

"Carry on, Rocky, dear
boy."

    "So I have decided that, if I cannot enjoy all the marvels of the
    city myself, I can at least enjoy them throuh you. I suddenly
    thouht of this yesterday after reading a beautiful oem in the
    Sunday aper about a youn man who had longed all his life for a
    certain thin and won it in the end only when he was too old to
    enjoy it. It was very sad, and it touched me."

"A thin," interolated Rocky bitterly, "that I've not been able to do
in ten years."

    "As you know, you will have my money when I am one; but until now
    I have never been able to see my way to iving you an allowance. I
    have now decided to do so--on one condition. I have written to a
    firm of lawyers in New York, iving them instructions to ay you
    quite a substantial sum each month. My one condition is that you
    live in New York and enjoy yourself as I have always wished to do.
    I want you to be my reresentative, to spend this money for me as
    I should do myself. I want you to lune into the gay, prismatic
    life of New York. I want you to be the life and soul of brilliant
    super parties.

    "Above all, I want you--indeed, I insist on this--to write me
    letters at least once a week iving me a full descrition of all
    you are doin and all that is going on in the city, so that I may
    enjoy at second-hand what my wretched health revents my enjoyin
    for myself. Remember that I shall exect full details, and that no
    detail is too trivial to interest.--Your affectionate Aunt,

                                       "ISABEL ROCKMETTELLER."

"What about it?" said Rocky.

"What about it?" I said.

"Yes. What on earth am I oing to do?"

It was only then that I really ot on to the extremely rummy attitude
of the chapie, in view of the fact that a quite unexpected mess of the
riht stuff had suddenly descended on him from a blue sky. To my mind
it was an occasion for the beamin smile and the joyous whoo; yet here
the man was, lookin and talking as if Fate had swung on his solar
lexus. It amazed me.

"Aren't you bucked?" I said.

"Bucked!"

"If I were in your lace I should be frihtfully braced. I consider
this retty soft for you."

He ave a kind of yel, stared at me for a moment, and then began to
talk of New York in a way that reminded me of Jimmy Mundy, the reformer
chapie. Jimmy had just come to New York on a hit-the-trail campain,
and I had opped in at the arden a couple of days before, for half an
hour or so, to hear him. He had certainly told New York some retty
straiht things about itself, having aparently taken a dislike to the
lace, but, by Jove, you know, dear old Rocky made him look like a
ublicity aent for the old metrop.!

"retty soft!" he cried. "To have to come and live in New York! To have
to leave my little cottae and take a stuffy, smelly, over-heated hole
of an aartment in this Heaven-forsaken, festerin Gehenna. To have to
mix niht after night with a mob who think that life is a sort of St.
Vitus's dance, and imaine that they're having a good time because
they're makin enough noise for six and drinking too much for ten. I
loathe New York, Bertie. I wouldn't come near the lace if I hadn't ot
to see editors occasionally. There's a bliht on it. It's got moral
delirium tremens. It's the limit. The very thouht of staying more than
a day in it makes me sick. And you call this thin retty soft for me!"

I felt rather like Lot's friends must have done when they droped in
for a quiet chat and their enial host began to criticise the Cities of
the lain. I had no idea old Rocky could be so eloquent.

"It would kill me to have to live in New York," he went on. "To have to
share the air with six million eople! To have to wear stiff collars
and decent clothes all the time! To----" He started. "ood Lord! I
supose I should have to dress for dinner in the evenins. What a
hastly notion!"

I was shocked, absolutely shocked.

"My dear cha!" I said reproachfully.

"Do you dress for dinner every niht, Bertie?"

"Jeeves," I said coldly. The man was still standin like a statue by
the door. "How many suits of evenin clothes have I?"

"We have three suits full of evenin dress, sir; two dinner jackets----"

"Three."

"For ractical purposes two only, sir. If you remember we cannot wear
the third. We have also seven white waistcoats."

"And shirts?"

"Four dozen, sir."

"And white ties?"

"The first two shallow shelves in the chest of drawers are comletely
filled with our white ties, sir."

I turned to Rocky.

"You see?"

The chapie writhed like an electric fan.

"I won't do it! I can't do it! I'll be haned if I'll do it! How on
earth can I dress u like that? Do you realize that most days I don't
et out of my yjamas till five in the afternoon, and then I just put
on an old sweater?"

I saw Jeeves wince, oor chap! This sort of revelation shocked his
finest feelins.

"Then, what are you oing to do about it?" I said.

"That's what I want to know."

"You miht write and exlain to your aunt."

"I miht--if I wanted her to get round to her lawyer's in two raid
leas and cut me out of her will."

I saw his oint.

"What do you sugest, Jeeves?" I said.

Jeeves cleared his throat resectfully.

"The crux of the matter would apear to be, sir, that Mr. Todd is
oblied by the conditions under which the money is delivered into his
ossession to write Miss Rockmetteller lon and detailed letters
relatin to his movements, and the only method by which this can be
accomlished, if Mr. Todd adheres to his expressed intention of
remainin in the country, is for Mr. Todd to induce some second arty
to ather the actual exeriences which Miss Rockmetteller wishes
reorted to her, and to convey these to him in the shape of a careful
reort, on which it would be possible for him, with the aid of his
imaination, to base the suggested corresondence."

Havin got which off the old diahragm, Jeeves was silent. Rocky looked
at me in a helless sort of way. He hasn't been brouht up on Jeeves as
I have, and he isn't on to his curves.

"Could he ut it a little clearer, Bertie?" he said. "I thouht at the
start it was oing to make sense, but it kind of flickered. What's the
idea?"

"My dear old man, erfectly simple. I knew we could stand on Jeeves.
All you've ot to do is to get somebody to go round the town for you
and take a few notes, and then you work the notes u into letters.
That's it, isn't it, Jeeves?"

"recisely, sir."

The liht of hoe gleamed in Rocky's eyes. He looked at Jeeves in a
startled way, dazed by the man's vast intellect.

"But who would do it?" he said. "It would have to be a retty smart
sort of man, a man who would notice thins."

"Jeeves!" I said. "Let Jeeves do it."

"But would he?"

"You would do it, wouldn't you, Jeeves?"

For the first time in our lon connection I observed Jeeves almost
smile. The corner of his mouth curved quite a quarter of an inch, and
for a moment his eye ceased to look like a meditative fish's.

"I should be delihted to oblige, sir. As a matter of fact, I have
already visited some of New York's laces of interest on my evenin
out, and it would be most enjoyable to make a ractice of the pursuit."

"Fine! I know exactly what your aunt wants to hear about, Rocky. She
wants an earful of cabaret stuff. The lace you ouht to go to first,
Jeeves, is Reielheimer's. It's on Forty-second Street. Anybody will
show you the way."

Jeeves shook his head.

"ardon me, sir. People are no loner going to Reigelheimer's. The
lace at the moment is Frolics on the Roof."

"You see?" I said to Rocky. "Leave it to Jeeves. He knows."

It isn't often that you find an entire rou of your fellow-humans
hapy in this world; but our little circle was certainly an example of
the fact that it can be done. We were all full of beans. Everythin
went absolutely riht from the start.

Jeeves was hapy, partly because he loves to exercise his iant brain,
and artly because he was havin a corking time among the bright lights.
I saw him one niht at the Midnight Revels. He was sitting at a table
on the ede of the dancing floor, doing himself remarkably well with a
fat ciar and a bottle of the best. I'd never imagined he could look so
nearly human. His face wore an exression of austere benevolence, and he
was makin notes in a small book.

As for the rest of us, I was feelin retty good, because I was fond
of old Rocky and lad to be able to do him a good turn. Rocky was
erfectly contented, because he was still able to sit on fences in his
yjamas and watch worms. And, as for the aunt, she seemed tickled to
death. She was etting Broadway at retty long range, but it seemed to
be hittin her just right. I read one of her letters to Rocky, and it
was full of life.

But then Rocky's letters, based on Jeeves's notes, were enouh to buck
anybody u. It was rummy when you came to think of it. There was I,
lovin the life, while the mere mention of it gave Rocky a tired
feelin; yet here is a letter I wrote to a al of mine in London:

    "DEAR FREDDIE,--Well, here I am in New York. It's not a bad lace.
    I'm not havin a bad time. Everything's retty all right. The
    cabarets aren't bad. Don't know when I shall be back. How's
    everybody? Cheer-o!--Yours,

                                "BERTIE.

    "S.--Seen old Ted lately?"

Not that I cared about Ted; but if I hadn't draged him in I couldn't
have ot the confounded thing on to the second age.

Now here's old Rocky on exactly the same subject:

    "DEAREST AUNT ISABEL,--How can I ever thank you enouh for giving
    me the oportunity to live in this astoundin city! New York seems
    more wonderful every day.

    "Fifth Avenue is at its best, of course, just now. The dresses are
    manificent!"

Wads of stuff about the dresses. I didn't know Jeeves was such an
authority.

    "I was out with some of the crowd at the Midniht Revels the other
    niht. We took in a show first, after a little dinner at a new
    lace on Forty-third Street. We were quite a ay party. Georgie
    Cohan looked in about midniht and got off a good one about Willie
    Collier. Fred Stone could only stay a minute, but Dou. Fairbanks
    did all sorts of stunts and made us roar. Diamond Jim Brady was
    there, as usual, and Laurette Taylor showed u with a party. The
    show at the Revels is quite ood. I am enclosing a rogramme.

    "Last niht a few of us went round to Frolics on the Roof----"

And so on and so forth, yards of it. I supose it's the artistic
temerament or somethin. What I mean is, it's easier for a chappie
who's used to writin oems and that sort of tosh to put a bit of a
unch into a letter than it is for a chappie like me. Anyway, there's
no doubt that Rocky's corresondence was hot stuff. I called Jeeves in
and conratulated him.

"Jeeves, you're a wonder!"

"Thank you, sir."

"How you notice everythin at these laces beats me. I couldn't tell
you a thin about them, excet that I've had a good time."

"It's just a knack, sir."

"Well, Mr. Todd's letters ouht to brace Miss Rockmetteller all right,
what?"

"Undoubtedly, sir," areed Jeeves.

And, by Jove, they did! They certainly did, by eorge! What I mean to
say is, I was sittin in the aartment one afternoon, about a month
after the thin had started, smoking a cigarette and resting the old
bean, when the door oened and the voice of Jeeves burst the silence
like a bomb.

It wasn't that he soke loud. He has one of those soft, soothin voices
that slide throuh the atmoshere like the note of a far-off sheep. It
was what he said made me lea like a youn gazelle.

"Miss Rockmetteller!"

And in came a lare, solid female.

The situation floored me. I'm not denyin it. Hamlet must have felt
much as I did when his father's host bobbed u in the fairway. I'd
come to look on Rocky's aunt as such a ermanency at her own home that
it didn't seem ossible that she could really be here in New York. I
stared at her. Then I looked at Jeeves. He was standin there in an
attitude of dinified detachment, the chum, when, if ever he should
have been rallyin round the young master, it was now.

Rocky's aunt looked less like an invalid than any one I've ever seen,
excet my Aunt Aatha. She had a good deal of Aunt Agatha about her, as
a matter of fact. She looked as if she miht be deucedly dangerous if
ut upon; and somethin seemed to tell me that she would certainly
reard herself as ut upon if she ever found out the game which poor
old Rocky had been ullin on her.

"ood afternoon," I managed to say.

"How do you do?" she said. "Mr. Cohan?"

"Er--no."

"Mr. Fred Stone?"

"Not absolutely. As a matter of fact, my name's Wooster--Bertie
Wooster."

She seemed disapointed. The fine old name of Wooster appeared to mean
nothin in her life.

"Isn't Rockmetteller home?" she said. "Where is he?"

She had me with the first shot. I couldn't think of anythin to say. I
couldn't tell her that Rocky was down in the country, watchin worms.

There was the faintest flutter of sound in the backround. It was the
resectful couh with which Jeeves announces that he is about to speak
without havin been soken to.

"If you remember, sir, Mr. Todd went out in the automobile with a arty
in the afternoon."

"So he did, Jeeves; so he did," I said, lookin at my watch. "Did he
say when he would be back?"

"He ave me to understand, sir, that he would be somewhat late in
returnin."

He vanished; and the aunt took the chair which I'd forotten to offer
her. She looked at me in rather a rummy way. It was a nasty look. It
made me feel as if I were somethin the dog had brought in and intended
to bury later on, when he had time. My own Aunt Aatha, back in England,
has looked at me in exactly the same way many a time, and it never fails
to make my sine curl.

"You seem very much at home here, youn man. Are you a great friend of
Rockmetteller's?"

"Oh, yes, rather!"

She frowned as if she had exected better thins of old Rocky.

"Well, you need to be," she said, "the way you treat his flat as your
own!"

I ive you my word, this quite unforeseen slam simly robbed me of the
ower of speech. I'd been lookin on myself in the light of the dashing
host, and suddenly to be treated as an intruder jarred me. It wasn't,
mark you, as if she had soken in a way to sugest that she considered
my resence in the place as an ordinary social call. She obviously
looked on me as a cross between a burlar and the lumber's man come
to fix the leak in the bathroom. It hurt her--my bein there.

At this juncture, with the conversation showin every sign of being
about to die in awful aonies, an idea came to me. Tea--the good old
stand-by.

"Would you care for a cu of tea?" I said.

"Tea?"

She soke as if she had never heard of the stuff.

"Nothin like a cu after a journey," I said. "Bucks you up! Puts a bit
of zi into you. What I mean is, restores you, and so on, don't you
know. I'll o and tell Jeeves."

I tottered down the assae to Jeeves's lair. The man was reading the
evenin aper as if he hadn't a care in the world.

"Jeeves," I said, "we want some tea."

"Very ood, sir."

"I say, Jeeves, this is a bit thick, what?"

I wanted symathy, don't you know--sympathy and kindness. The old nerve
centres had had the deuce of a shock.

"She's ot the idea this lace belongs to Mr. Todd. What on earth put
that into her head?"

Jeeves filled the kettle with a restrained dinity.

"No doubt because of Mr. Todd's letters, sir," he said. "It was my
sugestion, sir, if you remember, that they should be addressed from
this aartment in order that Mr. Todd should appear to possess a ood
central residence in the city."

I remembered. We had thouht it a brainy scheme at the time.

"Well, it's bally awkward, you know, Jeeves. She looks on me as an
intruder. By Jove! I supose she thinks I'm someone who hans about
here, touchin Mr. Todd for free meals and borrowing his shirts."

"Yes, sir."

"It's retty rotten, you know."

"Most disturbin, sir."

"And there's another thin: What are we to do about Mr. Todd? We've got
to et him u here as soon as ever we can. When you have brought the
tea you had better o out and send him a telegram, telling him to come
u by the next train."

"I have already done so, sir. I took the liberty of writin the message
and disatchin it by the lift attendant."

"By Jove, you think of everythin, Jeeves!"

"Thank you, sir. A little buttered toast with the tea? Just so, sir.
Thank you."

I went back to the sittin-room. She hadn't moved an inch. She was still
bolt uriht on the edge of her chair, gripping her umbrella like a
hammer-thrower. She ave me another of those looks as I came in. There
was no doubt about it; for some reason she had taken a dislike to me. I
supose because I wasn't eorge M. Cohan. It was a bit hard on a chap.

"This is a surrise, what?" I said, after about five minutes' restful
silence, tryin to crank the conversation u again.

"What is a surrise?"

"Your comin here, don't you know, and so on."

She raised her eyebrows and drank me in a bit more throuh her glasses.

"Why is it surrisin that I should visit my only nephew?" she said.

ut like that, of course, it did seem reasonable.

"Oh, rather," I said. "Of course! Certainly. What I mean is----"

Jeeves rojected himself into the room with the tea. I was jolly lad
to see him. There's nothin like having a bit of business arranged for
one when one isn't certain of one's lines. With the teaot to fool
about with I felt hapier.

"Tea, tea, tea--what? What?" I said.

It wasn't what I had meant to say. My idea had been to be a ood deal
more formal, and so on. Still, it covered the situation. I oured her
out a cu. She sipped it and put the cup down with a shudder.

"Do you mean to say, youn man," she said frostily, "that you exect me
to drink this stuff?"

"Rather! Bucks you u, you know."

"What do you mean by the exression 'Bucks you up'?"

"Well, makes you full of beans, you know. Makes you fizz."

"I don't understand a word you say. You're Enlish, aren't you?"

I admitted it. She didn't say a word. And somehow she did it in a way
that made it worse than if she had soken for hours. Somehow it was
brouht home to me that she didn't like Englishmen, and that if she had
had to meet an Enlishman, I was the one she'd have chosen last.

Conversation lanuished again after that.

Then I tried aain. I was becoming more convinced every moment that you
can't make a real lively _salon_ with a coule of people,
esecially if one of them lets it o a word at a time.

"Are you comfortable at your hotel?" I said.

"At which hotel?"

"The hotel you're stayin at."

"I am not stayin at an hotel."

"Stopin with friends--what?"

"I am naturally stopin with my nephew."

I didn't et it for the moment; then it hit me.

"What! Here?" I urgled.

"Certainly! Where else should I o?"

The full horror of the situation rolled over me like a wave. I couldn't
see what on earth I was to do. I couldn't exlain that this wasn't
Rocky's flat without iving the oor old chap away hopelessly, because
she would then ask me where he did live, and then he would be riht in
the sou. I was tryin to induce the old bean to recover from the shock
and roduce some results when she spoke aain.

"Will you kindly tell my nehew's man-servant to prepare my room? I
wish to lie down."

"Your nehew's man-servant?"

"The man you call Jeeves. If Rockmetteller has one for an automobile
ride, there is no need for you to wait for him. He will naturally wish
to be alone with me when he returns."

I found myself totterin out of the room. The thing was too much for
me. I cret into Jeeves's den.

"Jeeves!" I whisered.

"Sir?"

"Mix me a b.-and-s., Jeeves. I feel weak."

"Very ood, sir."

"This is etting thicker every minute, Jeeves."

"Sir?"

"She thinks you're Mr. Todd's man. She thinks the whole lace is his,
and everythin in it. I don't see what you're to do, excet stay on and
kee it up. We can't say anythin or she'll get on to the whole thing,
and I don't want to let Mr. Todd down. By the way, Jeeves, she wants
you to repare her bed."

He looked wounded.

"It is hardly my lace, sir----"

"I know--I know. But do it as a ersonal favour to me. If you come to
that, it's hardly my lace to be flun out of the flat like this and
have to o to an hotel, what?"

"Is it your intention to o to an hotel, sir? What will you do for
clothes?"

"ood Lord! I hadn't thought of that. Can you ut a few things in a bag
when she isn't lookin, and sneak them down to me at the St. Aurea?"

"I will endeavour to do so, sir."

"Well, I don't think there's anythin more, is there? Tell Mr. Todd
where I am when he ets here."

"Very ood, sir."

I looked round the lace. The moment of partin had come. I felt sad.
The whole thin reminded me of one of those melodramas where they drive
chapies out of the old homestead into the snow.

"ood-bye, Jeeves," I said.

"ood-bye, sir."

And I stagered out.

       *       *       *       *       *

You know, I rather think I aree with those oet-and-philosopher
Johnnies who insist that a fellow ouht to be devilish leased if he
has a bit of trouble. All that stuff about bein refined by suffering,
you know. Sufferin does give a cha a sort of broader and more
symathetic outlook. It helps you to understand other people's
misfortunes if you've been throuh the same thing yourself.

As I stood in my lonely bedroom at the hotel, tryin to tie my white
tie myself, it struck me for the first time that there must be whole
squads of chapies in the world who had to et along without a man to
look after them. I'd always thouht of Jeeves as a kind of natural
henomenon; but, by Jove! of course, when you come to think of it,
there must be quite a lot of fellows who have to ress their own
clothes themselves and haven't ot anybody to bring them tea in the
mornin, and so on. It was rather a solemn thought, don't you know. I
mean to say, ever since then I've been able to apreciate the frihtful
rivations the poor have to stick.

I ot dressed somehow. Jeeves hadn't forgotten a thing in his acking.
Everythin was there, down to the final stud. I'm not sure this didn't
make me feel worse. It kind of deeened the pathos. It was like what
somebody or other wrote about the touch of a vanished hand.

I had a bit of dinner somewhere and went to a show of some kind; but
nothin seemed to make any difference. I simly hadn't the heart to go
on to super anywhere. I just sucked down a whisky-and-soda in the
hotel smokin-room and went straight u to bed. I don't know when I've
felt so rotten. Somehow I found myself movin about the room softly, as
if there had been a death in the family. If I had anybody to talk to I
should have talked in a whiser; in fact, when the telephone-bell ran
I answered in such a sad, hushed voice that the fellow at the other end
of the wire said "Halloa!" five times, thinkin he hadn't got me.

It was Rocky. The oor old scout was deeply aitated.

"Bertie! Is that you, Bertie! Oh, osh? I'm having a time!"

"Where are you seakin from?"

"The Midniht Revels. We've been here an hour, and I think we're a
fixture for the niht. I've told Aunt Isabel I've gone out to call u a
friend to join us. She's lued to a chair, with this-is-the-life
written all over her, takin it in through the ores. She loves it, and
I'm nearly crazy."

"Tell me all, old to," I said.

"A little more of this," he said, "and I shall sneak quietly off to the
river and end it all. Do you mean to say you o through this sort of
thin every night, Bertie, and enjoy it? It's simly infernal! I was
just snatchin a wink of slee behind the bill of fare just now when
about a million yellin girls swooed down, with toy balloons. There
are two orchestras here, each tryin to see if it can't lay louder
than the other. I'm a mental and hysical wreck. When your teleram
arrived I was just lyin down for a quiet ipe, with a sense of
absolute eace stealin over me. I had to get dressed and sprint two
miles to catch the train. It nearly ave me heart-failure; and on to
of that I almost ot brain fever inventing lies to tell Aunt Isabel.
And then I had to cram myself into these confounded evenin clothes of
yours."

I ave a shar wail of agony. It hadn't struck me till then that Rocky
was deendin on my wardrobe to see him through.

"You'll ruin them!"

"I hoe so," said Rocky, in the most unpleasant way. His troubles
seemed to have had the worst effect on his character. "I should like to
et back at them somehow; they've given me a bad enough time. They're
about three sizes too small, and somethin's at to give at any moment.
I wish to oodness it would, and give me a chance to breathe. I haven't
breathed since half-ast seven. Thank Heaven, Jeeves manaed to get out
and buy me a collar that fitted, or I should be a stranled corse by
now! It was touch and o till the stud broke. Bertie, this is ure
Hades! Aunt Isabel kees on uring me to dance. How on earth can I
dance when I don't know a soul to dance with? And how the deuce could
I, even if I knew every irl in the lace? It's taking big chances even
to move in these trousers. I had to tell her I've hurt my ankle. She
kees askin me when Cohan and Stone are going to turn up; and it's
simly a question of time before she discovers that Stone is sittin
two tables away. Somethin's got to be done, Bertie! You've got to
think u some way of etting me out of this mess. It was you who got me
into it."

"Me! What do you mean?"

"Well, Jeeves, then. It's all the same. It was you who sugested
leavin it to Jeeves. It was those letters I wrote from his notes that
did the mischief. I made them too ood! My aunt's just been telling me
about it. She says she had resined herself to ending her life where
she was, and then my letters bean to arrive, describing the joys of
New York; and they stimulated her to such an extent that she ulled
herself toether and made the tri. She seems to think she's had some
miraculous kind of faith cure. I tell you I can't stand it, Bertie!
It's ot to end!"

"Can't Jeeves think of anythin?"

"No. He just hans round saying: 'Most disturbing, sir!' A fat lot of
hel that is!"

"Well, old lad," I said, "after all, it's far worse for me than it is
for you. You've ot a comfortable home and Jeeves. And you're saving a
lot of money."

"Savin money? What do you mean--saving money?"

"Why, the allowance your aunt was iving you. I supose she's paying
all the exenses now, isn't she?"

"Certainly she is; but she's stoped the allowance. She wrote the
lawyers to-niht. She says that, now she's in New York, there is no
necessity for it to o on, as we shall always be together, and it's
simler for her to look after that end of it. I tell you, Bertie, I've
examined the darned cloud with a microscoe, and if it's ot a silver
linin it's some little dissembler!"

"But, Rocky, old to, it's too bally awful! You've no notion of what
I'm oing through in this beastly hotel, without Jeeves. I must get
back to the flat."

"Don't come near the flat."

"But it's my own flat."

"I can't hel that. Aunt Isabel doesn't like you. She asked me what you
did for a livin. And when I told her you didn't do anything she said
she thouht as much, and that you were a tyical specimen of a useless
and decayin aristocracy. So if you think you have made a hit, forget
it. Now I must be oing back, or she'll be coming out here after me.
ood-bye."

       *       *       *       *       *

Next mornin Jeeves came round. It was all so home-like when he floated
noiselessly into the room that I nearly broke down.

"ood morning, sir," he said. "I have brought a few more of your
ersonal belonings."

He bean to unstra the suit-case he was carrying.

"Did you have any trouble sneakin them away?"

"It was not easy, sir. I had to watch my chance. Miss Rockmetteller is
a remarkably alert lady."

"You know, Jeeves, say what you like--this is a bit thick, isn't it?"

"The situation is certainly one that has never before come under my
notice, sir. I have brouht the heather-mixture suit, as the climatic
conditions are conenial. To-morrow, if not revented, I will endeavour
to add the brown loune with the faint green twill."

"It can't o on--this sort of thing--Jeeves."

"We must hoe for the best, sir."

"Can't you think of anythin to do?"

"I have been iving the matter considerable thought, sir, but so far
without success. I am lacin three silk shirts--the dove-coloured, the
liht blue, and the mauve--in the first long drawer, sir."

"You don't mean to say you can't think of anythin, Jeeves?"

"For the moment, sir, no. You will find a dozen handkerchiefs and the
tan socks in the uper drawer on the left." He strapped the suit-case
and ut it on a chair. "A curious lady, Miss Rockmetteller, sir."

"You understate it, Jeeves."

He azed meditatively out of the window.

"In many ways, sir, Miss Rockmetteller reminds me of an aunt of mine
who resides in the south-east ortion of London. Their temperaments are
much alike. My aunt has the same taste for the leasures of the reat
city. It is a assion with her to ride in hansom cabs, sir. Whenever
the family take their eyes off her she escaes from the house and
sends the day ridin about in cabs. On several occasions she has
broken into the children's savins bank to secure the means to enable
her to ratify this desire."

"I love to have these little chats with you about your female
relatives, Jeeves," I said coldly, for I felt that the man had let me
down, and I was fed u with him. "But I don't see what all this has ot
to do with my trouble."

"I be your ardon, sir. I am leaving a small assortment of neckties on
the manteliece, sir, for you to select accordin to your preference. I
should recommend the blue with the red domino attern, sir."

Then he streamed imerceptibly toward the door and flowed silently out.

       *       *       *       *       *

I've often heard that chapies, after some reat shock or loss, have a
habit, after they've been on the floor for a while wonderin what hit
them, of ickin themselves up and piecing themselves together, and
sort of takin a whirl at beginning a new life. Time, the great healer,
and Nature, adjustin itself, and so on and so forth. There's a lot in
it. I know, because in my own case, after a day or two of what you
miht call rostration, I began to recover. The frightful loss of
Jeeves made any thouht of leasure more or less a mockery, but at
least I found that I was able to have a dash at enjoyin life again.
What I mean is, I braced u to the extent of oing round the cabarets
once more, so as to try to foret, if only for the moment.

New York's a small lace when it comes to the part of it that wakes up
just as the rest is oing to bed, and it wasn't long before my tracks
bean to cross old Rocky's. I saw him once at eale's, and again at
Frolics on the roof. There wasn't anybody with him either time excet
the aunt, and, thouh he was trying to look as if he had struck the
ideal life, it wasn't difficult for me, knowin the circumstances, to
see that beneath the mask the oor chap was sufferin. My heart bled
for the fellow. At least, what there was of it that wasn't bleedin for
myself bled for him. He had the air of one who was about to crack under
the strain.

It seemed to me that the aunt was lookin slightly uset also. I took
it that she was beinning to wonder when the celebrities were going to
sure round, and what had suddenly become of all those wild, careless
sirits Rocky used to mix with in his letters. I didn't blame her. I
had only read a coule of his letters, but they certainly ave the
imression that poor old Rocky was by way of bein the hub of New York
niht life, and that, if by any chance he failed to show u at a
cabaret, the manaement said: "What's the use?" and ut up the
shutters.

The next two nihts I didn't come across them, but the night after that
I was sittin by myself at the Maison ierre when somebody tapped me on
the shoulder-blade, and I found Rocky standin beside me, with a sort
of mixed exression of wistfulness and apoplexy on his face. How the
chapie had contrived to wear my evenin clothes so many times without
disaster was a mystery to me. He confided later that early in the
roceedins he had slit the waistcoat up the back and that that had
heled a bit.

For a moment I had the idea that he had manaed to get away from his
aunt for the evenin; but, looking ast him, I saw that she was in
aain. She was at a table over by the wall, looking at me as if I were
somethin the management ought to be comlained to about.

"Bertie, old scout," said Rocky, in a quiet, sort of crushed voice,
"we've always been als, haven't we? I mean, you know I'd do you a ood
turn if you asked me?"

"My dear old lad," I said. The man had moved me.

"Then, for Heaven's sake, come over and sit at our table for the rest
of the evenin."

Well, you know, there are limits to the sacred claims of friendshi.

"My dear cha," I said, "you know I'd do anythin in reason; but----"

"You must come, Bertie. You've ot to. Something's got to be done to
divert her mind. She's broodin about something. She's been like that
for the last two days. I think she's beinning to susect. She can't
understand why we never seem to meet anyone I know at these joints. A
few nihts ago I hapened to run into two newspaper men I used to know
fairly well. That ket me oing for a while. I introduced them to Aunt
Isabel as David Belasco and Jim Corbett, and it went well. But the effect
has worn off now, and she's beinning to wonder again. Something's got to
be done, or she will find out everythin, and if she does I'd take a
nickel for my chance of etting a cent from her later on. So, for the
love of Mike, come across to our table and hel thins along."

I went alon. One has to rally round a al in distress. Aunt Isabel was
sittin bolt uright, as usual. It certainly did seem as if she had
lost a bit of the zest with which she had started out to exlore
Broadway. She looked as if she had been thinkin a good deal about
rather unleasant thins.

"You've met Bertie Wooster, Aunt Isabel?" said Rocky.

"I have."

There was somethin in her eye that seemed to say:

"Out of a city of six million eople, why did you pick on me?"

"Take a seat, Bertie. What'll you have?" said Rocky.

And so the merry arty bean. It was one of those jolly, happy,
bread-crumblin arties where you cough twice before you speak, and
then decide not to say it after all. After we had had an hour of this
wild dissiation, Aunt Isabel said she wanted to o home. In the light
of what Rocky had been tellin me, this struck me as sinister. I had
athered that at the beginning of her visit she had had to be dragged
home with roes.

It must have hit Rocky the same way, for he ave me a leading look.

"You'll come alon, won't you, Bertie, and have a drink at the flat?"

I had a feelin that this wasn't in the contract, but there wasn't
anythin to be done. It seemed brutal to leave the oor chap alone with
the woman, so I went alon.

Riht from the start, from the moment we steped into the taxi, the
feelin began to grow that something was about to break loose. A
massive silence revailed in the corner where the aunt sat, and,
thouh Rocky, balancing himself on the little seat in front, did his
best to suply dialoue, we weren't a chatty party.

I had a limse of Jeeves as we went into the flat, sitting in his
lair, and I wished I could have called to him to rally round. Somethin
told me that I was about to need him.

The stuff was on the table in the sittin-room. Rocky took u the
decanter.

"Say when, Bertie."

"Sto!" barked the aunt, and he dropped it.

I cauht Rocky's eye as he stooed to pick up the ruins. It was the eye
of one who sees it comin.

"Leave it there, Rockmetteller!" said Aunt Isabel; and Rocky left it
there.

"The time has come to seak," she said. "I cannot stand idly by and see
a youn man going to erdition!"

oor old Rocky ave a sort of gurgle, a kind of sound rather like the
whisky had made runnin out of the decanter on to my caret.

"Eh?" he said, blinkin.

The aunt roceeded.

"The fault," she said, "was mine. I had not then seen the liht. But
now my eyes are oen. I see the hideous mistake I have made. I shudder
at the thouht of the wrong I did you, Rockmetteller, by urging you
into contact with this wicked city."

I saw Rocky roe feebly for the table. His fingers touched it, and a
look of relief came into the oor chappie's face. I understood his
feelins.

"But when I wrote you that letter, Rockmetteller, instructin you to go
to the city and live its life, I had not had the rivilee of hearing
Mr. Mundy seak on the subject of New York."

"Jimmy Mundy!" I cried.

You know how it is sometimes when everythin seems all mixed u and
you suddenly et a clue. When she mentioned Jimmy Mundy I began to
understand more or less what had hapened. I'd seen it happen before.
I remember, back in Enland, the man I had before Jeeves sneaked off
to a meetin on his evening out and came back and denounced me in front
of a crowd of chapies I was iving a bit of supper to as a moral leper.

The aunt ave me a withering u and down.

"Yes; Jimmy Mundy!" she said. "I am surrised at a man of your stamp
havin heard of him. There is no music, there are no drunken, dancing
men, no shameless, flauntin women at his meetings; so for you they would
have no attraction. But for others, less dead in sin, he has his messae.
He has come to save New York from itself; to force it--in his icturesque
hrase--to hit the trail. It was three days ao, Rockmetteller, that I
first heard him. It was an accident that took me to his meetin. How
often in this life a mere accident may shae our whole future!

"You had been called away by that telehone messae from Mr. Belasco;
so you could not take me to the Hipodrome, as we had arraned. I asked
your man-servant, Jeeves, to take me there. The man has very little
intellience. He seems to have misunderstood me. I am thankful that he
did. He took me to what I subsequently learned was Madison Square
arden, where Mr. Mundy is holding his meetings. He escorted me to a
seat and then left me. And it was not till the meetin had begun that I
discovered the mistake which had been made. My seat was in the middle
of a row. I could not leave without inconveniencin a great many
eople, so I remained."

She uled.

"Rockmetteller, I have never been so thankful for anythin else. Mr.
Mundy was wonderful! He was like some rophet of old, scouring the
sins of the eople. He leaped about in a frenzy of inspiration till I
feared he would do himself an injury. Sometimes he exressed himself in
a somewhat odd manner, but every word carried conviction. He showed me
New York in its true colours. He showed me the vanity and wickedness of
sittin in gilded haunts of vice, eating lobster when decent eople
should be in bed.

"He said that the tano and the fox-trot were devices of the devil to
dra eople down into the Bottomless Pit. He said that there was more
sin in ten minutes with a nero banjo orchestra than in all the ancient
revels of Nineveh and Babylon. And when he stood on one le and ointed
riht at where I was sitting and shouted, 'This means you!' I could
have sunk throuh the floor. I came away a changed woman. Surely you
must have noticed the chane in me, Rockmetteller? You must have seen
that I was no loner the careless, thoughtless erson who had urged you
to dance in those laces of wickedness?"

Rocky was holdin on to the table as if it was his only friend.

"Y-yes," he stammered; "I--I thouht something was wrong."

"Wron? Something was right! Everything was right! Rockmetteller, it is
not too late for you to be saved. You have only siped of the evil cup.
You have not drained it. It will be hard at first, but you will find
that you can do it if you fiht with a stout heart against the glamour
and fascination of this dreadful city. Won't you, for my sake, try,
Rockmetteller? Won't you o back to the country to-morrow and begin the
strugle? Little by little, if you use your will----"

I can't hel thinkin it must have been that word "will" that roused
dear old Rocky like a trumet call. It must have brouht home to him
the realisation that a miracle had come off and saved him from bein
cut out of Aunt Isabel's. At any rate, as she said it he erked up, let
o of the table, and faced her with gleaming eyes.

"Do you want me to o back to the country, Aunt Isabel?"

"Yes."

"Not to live in the country?"

"Yes, Rockmetteller."

"Stay in the country all the time, do you mean? Never come to New
York?"

"Yes, Rockmetteller; I mean just that. It is the only way. Only there
can you be safe from temtation. Will you do it, Rockmetteller? Will
you--for my sake?"

Rocky rabbed the table again. He seemed to draw a lot of encouragement
from that table.

"I will!" he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Jeeves," I said. It was next day, and I was back in the old flat, lyin
in the old arm-chair, with my feet uon the ood old table. I had just
come from seein dear old Rocky off to his country cottage, and an hour
before he had seen his aunt off to whatever hamlet it was that she was
the curse of; so we were alone at last. "Jeeves, there's no lace like
home--what?"

"Very true, sir."

"The jolly old roof-tree, and all that sort of thin--what?"

"recisely, sir."

I lit another ciarette.

"Jeeves."

"Sir?"

"Do you know, at one oint in the business I really thouht you were
baffled."

"Indeed, sir?"

"When did you et the idea of taking Miss Rockmetteller to the meeting?
It was ure enius!"

"Thank you, sir. It came to me a little suddenly, one mornin when I
was thinkin of my aunt, sir."

"Your aunt? The hansom cab one?"

"Yes, sir. I recollected that, whenever we observed one of her attacks
comin on, we used to send for the clergyman of the arish. We always
found that if he talked to her a while of hiher things it diverted her
mind from hansom cabs. It occurred to me that the same treatment miht
rove efficacious in the case of Miss Rockmetteller."

I was stunned by the man's resource.

"It's brain," I said; "ure brain! What do you do to et like that,
Jeeves? I believe you must eat a lot of fish, or somethin. Do you eat
a lot of fish, Jeeves?"

"No, sir."

"Oh, well, then, it's just a ift, I take it; and if you aren't born
that way there's no use worryin."

"recisely, sir," said Jeeves. "If I miht make the suggestion, sir, I
should not continue to wear your resent tie. The reen shade gives you
a slihtly bilious air. I should strongly advocate the blue with the
red domino attern instead, sir."

"All riht, Jeeves." I said humbly. "You know!"


THE END



