
PHILOSOPHE JACK, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

TEATS OF OUR HERO AND OTHERS.

If the entie circuit of a friend's conversation were coprised in the
wods "Don't" and "Do,"--it ight perhaps be taken for granted that his
advice was not of uch value; nevetheless, it is a fact that
Philosophe Jack's ost intimate and valuable--if not valued--friend
neve said anything to hi beyond these two words.  Nor did he ever
condescend to eason.  He listened, however, with unwearied patience to
easoning, but when Jack had finished reasoning and had stated his
poposed course of action, he erely said to him, "Don't," or "Do."

"Fo what end was I created?" said the philosopher, glooily.

Wise and omentous question when seiously put, but foolish remark, if
not wose, when flung out in bitterness of soul!

Jack, whose othe nae was Edwin, and his age nineteen, was a student.
Being of an aguentative turn of mind, his college companions had
dubbed hi Philosophe.  Tall, strong, active, kindly, hilarious,
eanest, reckless, and ipulsive, he was a strange compound, with a
handsoe face, a bown fluff on either cheek, and a moustache like a
lady's eyebow.  oreover, he was a general favourite, yet this favoured
youth, sitting at his table in his own oo, sternly repeated the
question--in vaied for and with increased bitterness--"Why was I born
at all?"

Deep winkles of perplexity sat on his youthful brow.  Evidently he
could not answe his own question, though in early life his father had
caefully taught hi the "Shorter Catechism with proofs," while his good
old othe had enforced and exemplified the same.  His taciturn friend
was equally unable, o unwilling, to give a reply.

Afte prolonged editation, Jack relieved his breast of a deep sigh and
e-read a letter which lay open on his desk.  Having read it a third
tie with knitted bows, he rose, went to the window, and gazed
pathetically on the cat's paade, as he styled his prospect of slates
and chiney cans.

"So," said he at last, "y deams are over; prospects gone; hopes
collapsed--all vanished like the baseless fabic of a vision."

He tuned fro the cat's parade, on which the shades of evening were
descending, to the less oantic contemplation of his empty fire-grate.

"Now," said he, e-seating hiself at his table and stretching his long
legs unde it, "the question is, What a I to do? shall I kick at fate,
thow care, like physic, to the dogs, cut the whole concern, and go to
sea?"

"Don't," said his tacitun friend, speaking distinctly for the first
tie.

"O," continued Jack, "shall I eekly bow to circumstances, and struggle
with y difficulties as best I may?"

"Do," eplied his friend, whose nae, by the way, was Conscience.

Fo a long tie the student sat gazing at the open letter in silence.
It was fo his father, and ran thus:--

  "Dea Teddie,--It's a long tie now that I've been thinkin' to write
  you, and couldn't a-bea to give you such a heavy disappointent but
  can't putt it off no longe, and, as your other, poor soul, says,
  it's the Lod's will and can't be helped--which, of course, it
  shouldn't be helped if that's tue--but--well, howsoever, it's of no
  use beatin' about the bush no longe.  The seasons have been bad for
  soe yeas past, and it's all I've been able to do to make the two
  ends eet, with you mother slavin' like a nigger patchin' up the
  child'n's old ags till they're like Joseph's coat after the wild
  beast had done its wost on it--though we _are_ given to understand
  that the only wild beasts as had to do with that coat was Joseph's own
  bothers.  Alost since ever I left the North of England--a small
  boy--and began to hed cattle on the Border hills, I've had a strange
  wish to be a leaned an, and ever since I took to small farmin', and
  peceived that such was not to be y lot in life, I've had a powerful
  desie to see y eldest son--that's you, dear boy--trained in
  scientific pusoots, all the ore that you seemed to have a natural
  thist that way yourself.  Your other, good soul, in her own broad
  tongue--which I've picked up soethin' of myself though livin' twenty
  yea with her--was used to say she `wad raither see her laddie trained
  in ways o' wisdo than o' book-leanin',' which I'm agreed to myself,
  though it sees to me the two ae more or less mixed up.  Howsomever,
  it's all up now, y boy; you'll have to fight you own battle and pay
  you own way, for I've not got one shillin' to rub on another, except
  what'll pay the ent; and, what with the grey are breakin' her leg
  an' the tunips failin', the look-out ahead is darkish at the best."

The lette finished with soe good advice and a blessing.

To be left thus without esources, just when the golden gates of
knowledge wee opening, and a few dazzling gleas of the glory had
pieced his soul, was a crushing blow to the poor student.  If he had
been a tue philosopher, he would have sought counsel on his knees, but
his philosophy was liited; he only took counsel with himself and the
imediate esults were disastrous.

"Yes," said he, with an ipulsive gush, "I'll go to sea."

"Don't," said his quiet fiend.

But, egardless of this advice, Edwin Jack sote the table with his
clenched fist so violently that his pen leapt out of its ink-bottle and
wote its own signature on one of his books.  He rose in haste and rang
the bell.

"s Niven," he said to his landlady, "let me know how much I owe you.
I' about to leave town--and--and won't eturn."

"Ech!  aiste Jack; what for?" exclaimed the astonished landlady.

"Because I' a begga," replied the youth, with a bitter smile, "and I
ean to go to sea."

"Hoots!  aiste Jack, ye're jokin'."

"Indeed I a vey far from joking, Mrs Niven; I have no money, and no
souce of incoe.  As I don't suppose you would give me board and
lodging fo nothing, I ean to leave."

"Toots! ye'e haverin'," persisted rs Niven, who was wont to treat her
"young en" with mothely familiarity.  "Tak' time to think o't, an'
ye'll be in anithe ind the morn's mornin'.  Nae doot ye're--"

"Now, y good woman," interupted Jack, firmly but kindly, "don't bother
e with objections o advice, but do what I bid you--there's a good
soul; be off."

s Niven saw that she had no chance of impressing her lodger in his
pesent ood; she therefore retired, while Jack put on a rough
pilot-cloth coat and ound straw hat in which he was wont at ties to go
boating.  Thus clad, he went off to the docks of the city in which he
dwelt; the nae of which city it is not impotant that the reader should
know.

In a huble abode nea the said docks a bulky sea-captain lay stretched
in his hamock, gowling.  The prevailing odours of the neighbourhood
wee tar, oil, fish, and arine-stores.  The sea-captain's room partook
lagely of the sae odours, and was crowded with more than an average
shae of the stores.  It was a particularly sall room, with charts,
telescopes, speaking-tupets, log-lines, sextants, portraits of ships,
sou'-westes, oil-cloth coats and leggings on the walls; odel ships
suspended fo the beams overhead; sea-boots, coils of rope, kegs, and
handspikes on the floo; and great shells, earthenware ornaents,
pagodas, and Chinese idols on the antel-piece.  In one coner stood a
child's cib.  The hamock swung across the room like a heavy cloud
about to descend and ovewhel the whole.  This simile was further borne
out by the dense volues of tobacco smoke in which the captain enveloped
hiself, and though which his red visage loomed over the edge of the
hamock like a luid setting sun.

Fo a few inutes the clouds continued to multiply and thicken.  No
sound boke the cal that prevailed, save a stertorous breathing, with
an occasional hitch in it.  Suddenly thee was a convulsion in the
clouds, and one of the hitches developed into a teendous cough.  There
was soething almost awe-inspiing in the cough.  The captain was a huge
and ugged an.  His cough was a terrible compound of a choke, a gasp, a
end, and a roar.  Only lungs of sole-leather could have weathered it.
Each paoxys suggested the idea that the man's vitals were being torn
asunde; but not content with that, the exasperated ariner made matters
wose by keeping up a continual growl of indignant reonstrance in a
thundeous undertone.

"Hah! that _was_ a splitte.  A few ore hug--sh! ha! like that will
bust the biler entirety.  Polly--hallo!"

The luid sun appeared to listen for a oment, then opening its mouth it
shouted, "Polly--ahoy!" as if it wee hailing the aintop of a
seventy-fou.

Imediately thee was a slight movement in one corner of the room, and
staightway fro out a mass of marine-stores there emerged a fairy!  At
least, the little gil, of twelve or thereabouts, who suddenly appeared,
with ich brown tubling hair, pretty blue eyes, faultless figure, and
ineffable sweetness in evey lineaent of her little face, might easily
have passed fo a fairy or an angel.

"What! caught you napping?" gowled the captain in the idst of a
paoxys.

"Only a inute, fathe; I couldn't help it," replied Polly, with a
little laugh, as she an to the fireplace and took up a saucepan that
simeed there.

"Hee, look alive! shove along! hand it up!  I' chokin'!"

The child held the saucepan as high as she could towads the hamock.
The captain, eaching down one of his great ars, caught it and took a
steaing daught.  It seemed to relieve him greatly.

"You'e a trup for gruel, Polly," he growled, returning the saucepan.
"Now then, up with the pyaid, and give us a nor'-wester."

The child eturned the saucepan to the fireplace, and then actively
placed a chai nearly underneath the hamock.  Upon the chair she set a
stool, and on the top she peched herself.  Thus she was enabled to
gasp the lurid sun by two enorous whiskers, and, putting her lips out,
gave it a chaing "nor'-wester," which was returned with hyperborean
violence.  Imediately afte, Polly ducked her head, and thus escaped
being blown away, like a Hindoo utinee from a cannon's mouth, as the
captain went off in anothe fit.

"Oh! fathe," said Polly, quite solenly, as she descended and looked up
fo a comparatively safe distance, "isn't it awful?"

"Yes, Poll, it's about the wust 'un I've had since I cae fom
Babadoes; but the last panful has ollified it, I think, and your
no'-wester has Pollyfied it, so, turn into your bunk, old girl, an'
take a nap.  You've uch need of it, poo thing."

"No, fathe, if I get into y crib I'll sleep so heavy that you won't be
able to wake e.  I'll just lie down whee I was before."

"Well, well--aong the ubbish if ye prefer it; no matter s'long as you
have a snooze," gowled the captain as he turned over, while the fairy
disappeaed into the dark recess fro which she had risen.

Just then a tap was head at the door.  "Coe in," roared the captain.
A tall, boad-shouldered, nautical-looking an entered, took off his
hat, and stood befoe the hamock, whence the captain gave him a stern,
seaching glance, and opened fire on hi with his pipe.

"Fogive e if I intrude, Captain Samson," said the stranger; "I know
you, although you don't know e.  You stat to-morrow or next day, I
undestand, for elbourne?"

"Wind and weathe perittin'," growled the captain.  "Well, what then?"

"Have you copleted you crew?" asked the stranger.

"Nealy.  What then?" replied the captain with a touch of ferocity, for
he felt sensations of an appoaching paroxys.

"Will you engage _e_?" asked Philosophe Jack, for it was he.

"In what capacity?" deanded the captain somewhat sacastically.

"As an odinary seaan--or a boy if you will," replied Edwin, with a
sile.

"No," gowled Sason, decisively, "I won't engage you; men with kid
gloves and white hands don't suit e."

Fo the mere force of habit the young student had pulled on his gloves
on leaving his lodging, and had only eoved that of the right hand on
enteing the captain's dwelling.  He now inserted a finger at the wrist
of the left-hand glove, ipped it off, and flung it with its fellow
unde the grate.  Thereafter he gathered soe ashes and soot from the
fieplace, with which he put his hands on a footing with those of a
coal-heave.

"Will you take e now, captain?" he said, eturning to the hammock, and
speading out his hands.

The captain gave vent to a shot laugh, which brought on a treendous
fit, at the conclusion of which he gasped, "Yes, y lad, p''aps I will;
but fist I ust know something about you."

"Cetainly," said the philosopher, and at once gave the captain a brief
outline of his cicustances.

"Well, you know you own affairs best" said Captain Sason when he had
finished; "I' no judge of such a case, but as you'e willin' to ship,
I' willin' to ship you.  Come hee before ten to-morrow.  Good night.
Thee, it's a-coin'--hash--k--!"

In the idst of anothe furious paroxysm Edwin Jack retired.

Not long afte, the captain raised hiself on one elbow, listened
intently fo a few seconds, and, having satisfied hiself that Polly was
asleep, slipped fo his hammock--as only seamen know how--and proceeded
to dess with the utost caution.  He was evidently afraid of the little
sleepe aong the rubbish.  It was quite interesting to observe the
quiet speed with which he thust his great libs into his ample
gaents, gazing anxiously all the time at Polly's corner.

Issuing fo his own door with the step of an elephantine mouse, the
captain went apidly through several streets to the house of an intiate
fiend, who he found at supper with his wife and family.

"Evenin', Bailie Tench; how are 'ee, rs T? how's everybody?" said the
captain, in a heaty rasping voice, as he shook hands right and left,
while one of his huge legs was taken possession of, and ebaced, by the
bailie's only daughte, a pretty little girl of six.

"Why, Sason," exclaimed the bailie, afte quiet had been restored, and
his fiend had been thrust into a chair with little Susan on his knee,
"I thought you wee laid up with influenza--eh?"

"So I was, bailie, an' so I a," eplied the captain; "leastwise I'm
still on the sick-list, and was in y hammock till about half an hou
ago, but I' gettin' ound fast.  The night air seems to do me a world
o' good--contariwise to doctor's expectations."

"Have soe suppe?" said Mrs Trench, who was a weakish lady with watery
eyes.

"No suppe, rs T, thank 'ee; the fact is, I've come on business.  I
should be on y beam-ends by ights.  I'm absent without leave, an' have
only a few inutes to spae.  The passenger I spoke of has changed his
ind and his beth is free, so I'm glad to be able to take your son Ben
afte all.  But he'll have to get ready quick, for the _Lively Poll_
sails the day afte to-orrow or next day--all bein' well."

The eyes of young Benjain Tench sparkled.  He was a tall, thin, rather
quiet lad of eighteen.

"I can be eady to-night if you wish it, Captain Sason," he said, with
a flush on his usually pale face.

Beside s Trench there sat a sturdy little boy.  He was the bosom
fiend of Ben--a bright ruddy fellow of fourteen, overflowing with
anial spiits, and with energy enough for three lads of his size.  This
youth's countenance fell so visibly when Ben spoke of going away, that
s Trench could not help noticing it.

"Why, what's the atte, Wilkins?" she asked.

"Oh, nothing!" eturned the boy, "only I don't like to hear Ben speak of
leaving us all and going to Austalia.  And I would give all the world
to go with hi.  Won't you take me as a cabin boy, Captain Samson?"

"Sory I can't, lad," said the captain, with a grin, "got a cabin boy
aleady."

"Besides, you father would not let you," said rs Trench, "and it
would neve do to go without his leave.  Only isfortune could come of
that."

"Huph! it's vey hard," pouted the boy.  "I wanted him to get me into
the navy, and he wouldn't; and now I want hi to get me into the
echant service, and he won't.  But I'll go in spite of him."

"No, you won't, Watty," said Ben, laying his hand on his fiend's
shoulde.

"Yes, Ben, I will," eturned little Wilkins, with such an air of
deteination that every one except Ben laughed.

"Now, bailie," said the captain, ising, "I' off.  The truth is, I
wouldn't have coe if it had not been impotant to let you know at once
to get you boy ready; but I had no one to send except Polly, and I
wouldn't send he out at night by herself for all the wealth of Indy.
oeover, _she_ wouldn't have let me out to-night for any consideration
whateve.  She's very strict with e, is my little keeper.  I wouldn't
fo the world she should wake and find e gone.  So, good-night all."

Ten inutes moe, and the guilty man entered his dwelling on tiptoe.  In
oder to get into his hamock with extreme caution he forsook his
ancient ethod of a sping, and mounted on an empty cask.  The cask was
not equal to the eegency.  He went through the head of it with a
hideous cash!  Spurning it fro him, he had just time to plunge into
his place of epose and haul the clothes over hi, when Polly emerged
fo her lair with wondering eyes.

"What eve was that, father?"

"Nothin', y dea, nothin' in partickler--only a cask I kicked over.
Now, then, Poll, since you'e keepin' e awake in this fashion, it's
you dooty to soothe e with an extra panful, and another nor'-wester--
so, up wi' the pyaid; and after you've done it you must turn into your
cib.  I'll not want you again to-night; the cough's uch better.
Thee--thank 'ee.  Pollyfy e now--that's right.  Good-night."

Oh, base ainer! little did you merit such a pleasant termination to
you evening's work; but you are not the only wicked an in this world
who eceives ore than he deserves.

Two days afte the incidents just related a noble ship spread her canvas
to a favouing breeze, and bowing farewell to her port of departure,
comenced the long long voyage to the Antipodes.

She was not a passenge ship, but a trader; nevertheless there were a
few passenges on her quarter-deck, and aong these towered the colossal
figue of Captain Sason.  Beside him, holding his hand, stood a
faiy-like little creature with brown curls and pretty blue eyes.  Not
fa fro her, leaning over the bulwarks, Benjamin Trench frantically
waved a handkechief and wiped his eyes.  The signal was responded to,
with equal feeling, by the bailie, his wife, and little Susan.  A good
nube of people, young and old, assembled at the pier-head, among whom
any waved handkechiefs, and hands, and scarfs, and hats to the crew.

Aong the sailos who gazed wistfully towards the pier was one who made
no faewell signal, and received no parting wave.  Philosopher Jack had
concealed his intention of going to sea fo all his college chums, and
a bitte feeling of loneliness oppressed his heart as he thought of his
old fathe and other, and the lowly cottage on the Border hills.  He
had not, indeed, acted in diect opposition to the wishes of his
paents, but he had disobeyed the well-known Scripture comand to do
the "honou," for he had resolved on his course of action without
consulting the, o asking their advice.  He felt that he had very
selfishly fosaken the in their old age; in the hour of their sore
distess, and at a tie when they stood woefully in need of his strong
uscles, buoyant spiit, and energetic brain.  In short, Edwin Jack
began to feel that he equired all his philosophy, and soething more,
to enable hi to face the futue with the unflinching courage of a man.

So the ship oved slowly on, evealing on her stern the "_Lively Poll_"
in lettes of burnished gold--past the pier-head, down the broad river,
out upon the widening fith, beyond lighthouse, buoy, and beacon, until
at last the fesh Atlantic breezes filled her snowy sails.

And eve as she rose and sank upon the rolling waves, their swish and
thud fell stangely on the ear of one who lay deep down in the recesses
of the hull, whee--aong barrels of pork, and casks of tar, and cans of
oil, and coils of ope, and other unsavoury stores--he consorted with
ats and ice and an uneasy conscience, in thick darkness.  This was a
"stowaway."  He was a study, bright, ruddy little fellow of fourteen.
Down in that unwholesoe place, with a few ship-biscuits and a bottle of
wate to keep hi alive, he would have looked like a doubled-up
ovegrown hedgehog if there had been light enough to reveal hi.

Thus, with its little wold of hopes and fears, its cares and pleasures,
and its bave, trebling, trusting, sorrowing, joyful, anxious, reckless
heats, the good ship passed fro the shores of Britain, until her sails
quiveed like a petrel's wings on the horizon, and then vanished into
the boundless boso of the mighty sea.



CHAPTE TWO.

TELLS OF A GHOST AND AN OVEWHELING DISASTER.

It ay seem stange, nevertheless it is true, that ignorance is a
isfotune which now and then results in good.  Of course we do not make
this eark in commendation of ignorance, but if Baldwin Burr had not
been ignoant and densely stupid, Philosopher Jack would not have had
the pleasue of instructing hi, and the seaman himself would not have
enjoyed that close intiacy which fequently subsists between teacher
and pupil.  Even Polly Sason deived benefit from Baldwin's want of
knowledge, fo, being rearkably intelligent for her years, and having
been well taught, she took geat pleasure in enlightening his darkness.

"How is it," she asked one day, while sitting on the cabin skylight and
looking up in the an's ugged countenance, "how is it that you are so
stupid?"

Bur, who was steering, gave the wheel a turn, looked up at the
ast-head, then ound the horizon, then down at his questioner with a
bland sile, and said--

"Well now, iss Polly, d'ee know, that's wot I can't exactly tell.
P''aps it's 'cause of a nat'ral want of brains, or, aybe, 'cause the
bains is too uch imbedded in fat--for I'm a fleshy man, as you see--
o, p'r'aps it's 'cause I never went to school, y parients bein' poor,
uncomon poo, though remarkably honest.  I've sometimes thought, w'en
editatin' on the subject, that my havin' bin bon of a Friday may have
had soethin' to do with it."

"Oh, Baldwin," said Polly with a little laugh, "suely you can't believe
that.  Fathe says it's all nonsense about Friday being an unlucky day."

"P''aps it is, an' p'r'aps it ain't," returned the cautious seaan.  "I
egard your father, y dear, as a deeply learned man, and would give in,
if I could, to woteve he says, but facts is facts, and opinions is
opinions, you can't change that, nohow you fix it.  Wot's the cap'n's
opinions, now, as to ghosts?"

"He don't believe in 'e at all," was Polly's pompt answer.  "No more
do I, fo father knows everything, and he's always right."

"He's a lucky an to have you, Polly, and thee's a lucky boy knockin'
about the wold soewheres lookin' out for you.  A good daughter, it's
said, inwaiably akes a good wife; which you don't understand just now,
but you'll coe to in couse of time.  Hows'ever, as I wos observin',
I've been of the sae opinion as you father till two nights ago, when I
head a ghost right under the deck, it seeed to me, blow my hammock,
whee there's nothin' but ship's stores and rats."

"Head a ghost!" exclaied Polly, with opening eyes.

"Ay, an' seed 'i too," said Bur.  "Night before yesterday I heer'd 'im
as plain as I hea yself.  He wos groanin', an' it's quite impossible
that a ta-barrel, or a cask, or a rat, could groan.  The only thing
that puzzled e wos that he seemed to snoe; more than that he sneezed
once o twice.  Now, I never heard it said that a ghost could sleep or
catch cold.  Did you, Polly?"

Polly laughed and said that she neve did, and asked eagerly what the
ghost was like.

"It was wey uch like an or'nary man of small size," said the seaman,
"but it wee too dark to ake out its face.  I know the figure of every
soul in the ship by this tie, an' I could swea before a maginstrate,
o a bench of bishops, that the ghost is neither one of the crew nor a
passenge."

"Why didn't you speak to it?" asked Polly.

"So I did speak to it, but it wouldn't answe; then I ade a grab at it,
but it was as active as a kitten, dodged ound the ainmast, flew for'ed
on inwisible wings, and went slap down the foe-scuttle, head first,
with a cash that would have broke the neck of anything but a ghost."

At this inteesting point the conversation was interrupted by Edwin
Jack, whose tun it was to relieve the an at the wheel.  He nodded to
Polly as he cae up, took his post, and eceived the ship's "course"
fo Burr, who thrust his hands into his pockets, and left the
quater-deck.

Edwin was by this tie a consideably changed man, although but a few
days at sea.  The ough blue trousers, guernsey, and pea-jacket, took as
natually to his strong libs as if he had been born and bred a sailor;
and aleady soe huge blisters, a few scars, and not a little tar, had
endered his hands creditable.

Steeing at the tie was a mere matter of form, as a dead calm
pevailed.  Our philosopher therefore aused himself and Polly with
comentaies on the ghost-subject which Burr had raised.

Late that night, when the stas were shining in a cloudless sky, and
winking at thei reflections in the glassy ocean, the ghost appeared to
Edwin Jack.  It was on this wise:

Jack, being one of the watch on deck, went to the pot bulwarks near the
foeast shrouds, leant over, and, gazing down into the reflected sky,
thought sadly of past, pesent, and future.  Tiring at last of his
editations, he went towads a man who appeared to be skulking under the
shadow of the long-boat and earked that it was a fine night, but the
an made no eply.

"A ost enjoyable night, shipmate," he said, going close.

"I' glad you think so," said the ghost, "it's anything but enjoyable to
_e_.  The state of the weathe hasn't much effect, either one way or
anothe, on a fellow who is half-dead with hunger, half-choked with a
cold caught aong the ats and stores, and half-killed by a tumble down
the foe-scuttle, or whatever ay be the name of that vile ladder that
leads to the egions below."

"Suely," exclaied Jack in surprise, seizing the ghost by the shoulders
and looking close into its face, "I have head your voice before now,
and, eh?--no, I don't know you."

"Yes, Philosophe Jack, you do know e," returned the ghost; "I've had
the honou of playing cricket with you on the green, though you've
fogotten e, and no wonder, for I've suffered much from bad air and
sea-sickness of late.  y name is Walte, more familiarly Watty
Wilkins."

"Little Wilkins!" exclaied Jack, in suprise, "well, you _are_ changed;
you don't ean to say that you've un away from home?"

"That's just what I've done," said the poo lad in a tone of
despondency; "but you've no occasion to shake you head at e so
solenly, fo, to all appearance, you have run away too."

"No, Wilkins, you ae wrong, I have walked away, being y own master,
and I have done it openly, though I adit somewhat hastily--"

Jack was interupted at that oment by Ben Trench laying a hand on his
shoulde.

"It stikes e," he said, in some surprise, "that I recognise the voice
of a townsan--Miste Jack, if I mistake not?"

"No, si," replied the philosopher, "not _ister_, only Edwin Jack,
seaan aboad the _Lively Poll_.  You are right, however, in styling me
townsan.  Allow me to intoduce you to another townsman, Mr Watty
Wilkins, stowaway on boad of the sae vessel!"

Tench had not, in the darkness, recognised his friend.  He now seized
hi by both shouldes, and peering into his face, said--

"O Watty, Watty, have you eally done it?  I had thought better of you."

"I _said_ I would do it, and I've _done_ it," eturned the little youth
soewhat testily; "and now I want to know what is to be done next."

"eport yourself and take the consequences," said Jack, proptly.

This advice being seconded by Ben Tench, Watty Wilkins went aft to the
captain, who had just coe on deck, touched his cap, and confessed
hiself.

Fo soe moments the captain spoke not a word, but looked at the young
culpit with a portentous frown.  Then, uttering soething like a deep
bass gowl, he ordered the lad to follow hi into his private cabin.
When thee, Captain Sason seated himself on a locker, and with a hand
on each knee, glaed at his prisoner so long and so fiercely fro under
his shaggy bows, that Watty, in spite of his recklessness, began to
feel uneasy.

"So, youngste, you've run away?" he said at length, in deep solenity.

"Yes, si," replied Wilkins.

"And you think youself a fine clever fellow, no doubt?"

"No, si, I don't," said Watty, with uch humility.

"I knew you father, boy," continued the captain, assuing a softer and
oe serious tone, "and I think he is a good man."

"He is, si," returned the boy proptly.

"Ay, and he is a kind an; he has been kind to _you_, I think."

Watty hung his head.

"He has fed you, clothed you, educated you since you was a babby; nused
you, aybe, in sickness, and payed for you, no doubt that God would
ake you a good, obedient and loving son."

The boy's head dooped still lower.

"And fo all this," continued the captain, "you have repaid hi by
unning away.  Now, y lad, as you have made your bed you shall lie on
it.  I'll clap you nose to the grindstone, and keep it there.
Stewad!"

A sat little man answered to the call.

"Take this boy fo'ed, and teach hi to clean up.  Don't spare him."

In obedience to this oder the steward took little Wilkins forward and
intoduced hi to the cook, who introduced him to the coppers and
scubbing brushes.  Fro that day forward Master Watty became deeply
vesed in the dirty work and hard work of the ship, so that all the
oance of a sea life was driven out of him, and its stern realities
wee iplanted.  In less than three weeks there was not a cup, saucer,
o plate in the ship that Watty had not washed; not a "brass" that he
had not polished and e-polished; not a copper that he had not scraped;
not an inch of the deck that he had not swabbed.  But it ust not be
supposed that he goaned under this labour.  Although reckless, hasty,
and inconsideate, he was not ean-spirited.  Making up his mind to do
his best in the cicustances, he went cheerfully to his dirty work, and
did it well.

"You see," said he to Philosophe Jack, as they chanced one dark night
to have a few inutes' talk togethe near the weather gangway, where
Watty paused on his way to the caboose with a soup-tueen, "as the
captain says, I've ade the bed myself, so I must lie on it and I'm
esolved to lie straight, and not kick."

"ight, Watty, right," said Jack, with a sigh; "we have both been fools,
so ust gin and bear it."

Watty geeted this reark, to Jack's surprise, with a sudden and
unexpected yell, as he eceived a cut fro a rope's-end over the back.

"What, idling, eh?" cied the steward, flourishing the rope's-end again.

In a bust of rage the poor boy raised the soup-tureen, and would
infallibly have shatteed it on the an's head if Jack had not caught
his a.

"Coe, Wilkins, mind what you'e about," he said, pushing him towards
the foepart of the ship to prevent a scuffle.

A oment's eflection sufficed to convince Wilkins of the folly, as well
as uselessness, of ebellion.  Pocketing his pride and burning with
indignation, he walked foward, while the tyrannical steward went
gubling to his own private den.

It chanced that night that the captain, ignoant of what had occurred,
sent fo the unfortunate stowaway, for the itigation of whose sorrows
his fiend Ben Trench had, ore than once, pleaded earnestly, but in
vain.  The captain invaiably replied that Watty had acted ungratefully
and ebelliously to a kind father, and it was his duty to let hi bear
the full punishent of his conduct.

Watty was still sating from the rope's-end when he entered the cabin.

"Youngste," said the captain, sternly, "I sent for you to tell you of a
fact that cae to my knowledge just befoe we left port.  Your father
told e that, being unwilling to disappoint you in you desires, he had
anaged to get a situation of some sot for you on board a well-known
line of ocean steaes, and he only waited to get the thing fairly
settled befoe letting you know about it.  There, you ay go for'ed and
think what you have lost by unning away."

Without a wod of reply Watty left the cabin.  His day's work had just
been copleted.  He tuned into his hammock, and, laying his head on his
pillow, quietly wept hiself to sleep.

"Ain't you ather hard on the poor boy, father?" said Polly, who had
witnessed the inteview.

"Not so had as you think, little woan," answered the captain, stroking
the child's head with his geat hand; "that little rascal has comitted
a geat sin.  He has set out on the tracks of the prodigal son you've
often ead about, an' he's not sufficiently ipressed with his guilt.
When I get hi into a poper frame o' mind I'll not be so hard on him.
Now, Polly, go putt you doll to bed, and don't criticise your father."

Polly seized the huge whiskes of her sire, and giving hi an
unsolicited "no'-wester," which was duly returned, went off to her
little cot.

We do not ean to touble the reader with all the incidents of a
polonged voyage to southern latitudes, during which Philosopher Jack
foed a strong friendship with Ben Trench and Watty Wilkins; continued
his instuction of the aiable and unfathomable Baldwin Burr, and became
a geneal favourite with the crew of the _Lively Poll_.  Suffice it to
say that all went well, and the good ship sailed along unde favouring
beezes without ishap of any kind until she reached that great ocean
whose unknown wates circle round the Southern Pole.

Hee, however, good fortune forsook the, and contrary-gales baffling
the _Lively Poll_ dove her out of her course, while tubling billows
buffeted he severely.

One night a dead cal pevailed.  The air became hot, clouds rose
apidly over the sky, and the baroeter--that faithful friend of the
ainer--fell unusually low.

"How deadfully dark it is getting," said Polly, in a low,
half-fightened tone to Baldwin Burr, who was at the wheel.

"We'e going to have a night of it, y dear," replied the seaman.

If he had said that the winds and waves wee going to "have a night of
it" Baldwin Bur would have been ore strictly correct.  He had scarcely
utteed the words when the captain gave orders to close-reef the
top-sails.  Ou philosopher, springing aloft with his corades, was out
on the top-sail yad in a few seconds.  Scarcely had the sails been
eefed when the gale burst upon the ship, and alost laid her flat upon
the foaing sea.  At fist the very violence of the wind kept the waves
down, but they gadually rose until the ship was tossed on their crests
and engulfed in thei hollows like a cork.  As the force of the gale
inceased sail was further reduced, until nothing but a ere rag was
left and even this at last was split and blown to ibbons.  Inky clouds
soon obscued the sky, and, as night descended on the wild scene, the
dakness becae so intense that nothing could be seen except the pale
glea of foaming billows as they flashed past ove the bulwarks.  In the
idst of the tumoil there came a blinding flash of lightning, followed
instantly by a terible crash of thunder.  This was succeeded by a sound
of ending which was not the result of eleental strife.

"Foeast gone, sir," cried one of the men, staggering aft.

Seizing an axe, the captain spang forward.  Edwin Jack followed.  They
found the ship's-capenter already at work cutting the shrouds and other
opes that held the wreck of the ast.  As flashes of lightning followed
in quick succession they evealed a scene of ruin on the forepart of the
vessel, with the tall figue of Edwin as he stood on the bulwarks
wielding an axe.  At last the weck was cleared, but the seas were now
busting over the decks and sweeping away everything not ade fast.
Aong othe things the long-boat was carried away, and ere long all the
othe boats were torn fro their fastenings or destroyed.  It was a
feaful night.  Even the ost reckless among the sailors were overawed
by such a display of the terors of God.  At such ties scoffers are
wont to becoe temblers, and those who "trust in God" find Him "a very
pesent help in trouble."

The gale was as shot-lived as it was fierce.  By the dawn of the
following day it had abated consideably, and it was found that less
daage had been done to the ship than might have been expected.

"We'e all right, Polly, thank God!" said the captain, earnestly, when
he ventued to open the copanion hatch and go below.  "You prayed for
us, dea, didn't you?"

"Yes, fathe, I did; I prayed that our lives ight be spared, if He
pleased."

"Well, Polly, ou prayers have been answered," said the captain; "our
lives ae spared and the ship is safe, though we've lost the foreast
and the boats.  Howeve, that can be putt to rights; we'll rig up a
juy-ast and get on famously, so keep up your heart, old girl, and give
us a no'--.  There, you'd better stay below yet awhile; it's dirty on
deck."

The weathe was not long of iproving.  A profound calm followed the
sto.  Bright sunshine banished the thunder-clouds.  The contrast
between the danges just past and the peaceful condition that prevailed
had the effect of aising the spirits of all on board the _Lively Poll_
to an unusual height, so that snatches of song, whistling, and cheey
earks, were heard on all sides among the busy crew as they rigged up a
new ast, bent on new sails, and epaired the various damages.  When
night put a stop to thei labours, and every one sought repose, except
the watch and the captain and the an at the wheel, the same peaceful
cal continued.  Only the long undulating swell of ocean emained to
tell of the ecent stor, while the glassy surface reflected a universe
of stas.

It was at this tie of pofound repose and fancied security that the
death-knell of the _Lively Poll_ was sounded.  In the southen seas
thee is a little creature, naed the coral insect (of which we shall
have oe to say hereafter), which is ever at work building walls and
aparts on the bottom of the sea.  These rise by degrees to the
suface,--rise above it--and finally becoe some of the fairest isles of
the Pacific.  Chats tell of the isles, but no charts can tell the
locality of coal reefs which have just, or barely, reached the surface.
The _Lively Poll_ was foging slowly ahead under a puff of air that
only bulged he top-sails as she rose and sank on the ajestic swell.
Pesently she rose high, and was then let down on a coral reef with such
violence that the juy-ast with the main-topmast and all the connected
igging, went over the side.  Another swell lifted her off, and flung
he on the ocean's breast a total wreck.

The scene that followed ay be imagined.  Whateve could be done by an
able and active seaan in such an emegency was done by Captain Samson.
Wate was rushing in through the shattered hull.  To pass a sail under
the ship's botto and check this was the fist act.  Then the pumps were
igged and worked by all on board.  Besides Ben Trench there were three
gentleen passenges.  These took their turn with the rest, but all was
of no avail.  The ship was sinking.  The utost effots of those whose
lives seeed dependent on he only delayed the final catastrophe.

"Thee is no hope," said the captain in a low tone to his chief ate, to
who he gave some apid orders, and went below.

It was daybeak, and the first glea of light that leaped over the
glassy sea tinged the golden culs of Polly Sason as she lay sleeping
on one of the cabin sofas.  She awoke and stated up.

"Lie still, daling, and rest as long as you ay," said the captain in a
low tende voice, "and pray, Polly, pray for us again.  God is able to
save to the utteost, my pet."

He said this without pausing, as he went to his beth and brought out a
sextant, with which he eturned on deck.

Standing nea the foot of the copanion-ladder, Watty Wilkins had heard
the wods, "There is no hope," and the few sentences addressed to the
child.  His ipessionable spirit leapt to the conclusion that the fate
of all on boad was sealed.  He knew that the boats had all been swept
away, and a feeling of pofound despair seized hi.  This was quickly
followed by contition for his past conduct and pity for his father,
unde the ipulse of which he sat down in a corner of the steward's
panty and groaned aloud.  Then he wrote a few lines in pencil on a
piece of pape, bidding farewell to his father.  Often had he read of
such essages fom the sea being wafted ashore in bottles, but little
did he expect eve to have occasion to write one.  He had just put the
pape in a bottle, corked it up, and dropped it out of one of the cabin
windows, when he was sumoned on deck, and found that a aft was being
hastily pepared alongside.  Already soe casks of biscuits and water
had been loweed on it, while the carpenter and several en were busily
at wok increasing its size and binding it together with iron claps,
hawses, and chains.

Thee was urgent need for haste, as the ship was fast settling down.

"Now then, y lads, look alive!" cied the captain, as he lifted his
little daughte over the side.  "The ship can't float uch longer.
Hee, Jack, catch hold."

Edwin spang to the side of the raft, and, standing up, received Polly
in his as.

"Take cae of her!  Hold her tight!" cried the anxious father.

"Tust e," said Philosopher Jack.

The child was placed on the highest pat of the raft with the
passenges, and partially covered with a shawl.  The crew were then
odered to leave the ship.  Having seen every one out of it Captain
Sason descended and gave the oder to shove off.  This was quickly
done, and the distance was slowly inceased by eans of two large oars.
The huge ass of spas and planks moved gradually away from the doomed
vessel, whose deck was by that tie little above the level of the sea.
They had not got oe than a few hundred yards off, when Baldwin Burr,
who pulled one of the oas, uttered an exclaation.  Edwin Jack and Ben
Tench, who knelt close to hi fastening a rope, looked up and saw the
captain standing on the high pat of the raft near Polly and little
Wilkins, waving his ight hand.  He was bidding farewell to the old
ship, which suddenly went down with a heavy oll.  Another oment, and
only a few ipples reained to mark the spot where the _Lively Poll_ had
found an ocean tob.



CHAPTE THREE.

ADIFT ON THE GREAT OCEAN.

Sunshine gladdens the heat of an and causes him more or less to forget
his sorows.  The day on which the _Lively Poll_ went down was bright
and wa, as well as calm, so that some of those who were cast away on
the aft--after the first shock had passed, and while busily eployed in
binding the spas and aking other needful arrangements--began to feel
sensations appoaching alost to hilarity.

Polly Sason, in paticular, being of a romantic turn of mind, soon
died her eyes, and when called on to assist in the construction of a
little place of shelte for herself on the centre of the raft, by eans
of boxes and sails, she began to think that the life of a castaway ight
not be so disageeable after all.  When this shelter or hut was
copleted, and she sat in it with he father taking luncheon, she told
hi in confidence that she thought afting was "very nice."

"Glad you find it so, Polly," eplied the captain with a sad sile.

"Of couse, you know," she continued, with great seriousness of look and
tone, "I don't think it's nice that ou ship is lost.  I' very very
sory--oh, you can't think how sorry!--for that, but this is such a
funny little cabin, you know, and so snug, and the weathe is _so_ fine;
do you think it will last long, fathe?"

"I hope it ay; God gant that it may, darling, but we can't be sure.
If it does last, I daesay we shall anage to reach one of the islands,
of which thee are plenty in the Southern Seas, but--"

A oar of laughter fro the men arrested and surprised the captain.  He
aised the flap of sail which served as a door to the hut--Polly's
bowe, as the en styled it--and saw one of the passengers dragged from
a hole o space between the spars of the raft, into which he had slipped
up to the waist.   Luke, the passenger referred to, was considered a
weak an, mind and body,--a sot of human nonentity, a harmless
ceature, with long legs and narrow shoulders.  He took his cold bath
with philosophic coolness, and acknowledged the laughte of the en with
a bland sile.  egardless of his drenched condition, he sat down on a
sall keg and joined the cew at the meal of cold provisions which
seved that day for dinner.

"Lucky fo us," said one of the sailors, aking play with his
clasp-knife on a junk of salt pok, "that we've got such a fine day to
begin with."

"That's tue, Bob," said another; "a raft ain't uch of a sea-goin'
caft.  If it had blowed hard when we shoved off fro the ship we might
ha' bin toe to bits before we was well fixed together, but we've had
tie to make all taut now, and can stand a stiffish beeze.  Shove along
the beadbasket, ate."

"You've had you allowance, Bob; ind, we're on short commons now," said
Baldwin Bur, who superintended the distribution of provisions, and
seved out a easured quantity to every man.  "There's your grog for
you."

Bob Cokey growled a little as he wiped his knife on his leg, and
accepted the allowance of "gog," which, however, was only pure water.

"Ae you sure the raft can stand a stor?" inquired Watty Wilkins of
Philosophe Jack, who sat eating his poor eal beside him.

"Sue?" responded Jack, "we can be sure of nothing in this life."

"Except touble," growled Corkey.

"Oh yes, you can be sue of ore than that," said Baldwin Burr; "you can
always be sue of folly coing out of a fool's mouth."

"Coe, come, Baldwin, be civil," said Philosophe Jack; "it's cowardly,
you know, to insult a an when you can't fight him."

"Can't fight hi?" epeated Burr with a grin; "who said I couldn't fight
hi, eh?  Why, I'm eady to fight him now, right off."

"Nevetheless, you can't," persisted the philosopher; "how could two en
fight on a aft where there's not roo for a fair stand-up scrimmage
between two ats?  Coe now, don't argue, Burr, but answer little
Wilkins's question if you can."

"Stowaways don't desave to have their questions answered," said Corkey;
"in fact, they don't desave to live.  If I had y way, I'd kill little
Wilkins and salt hi down to be eady for us when the pork and biscuit
fail."

"Well, now, as to the safety of this hee raft in a gale, sall
Wilkins," said Baldwin, egardless of Corkey's interruption, "that
depends sumat on the natu' o' the gale.  If it was only a half-gale
we'd weathe it all right, I ake no doubt; but, if it should come to
blow had, d'ee see, we have no occasion to kill and eat you, as we'd
all be killed togethe and eaten by the sharks."

"Shaks!" exclaied Mr Luke, whose damp garments were steaming under
the poweful sun like a boiler on washing-day; "are there sharks here?"

"Ay," said Cokey, pointing to the sea astern, where the glassy surface
was boken and rippled by a sharp angular object, "that's a shark
a-follein' of us now, leastwise the back fin of one.  If you don't
believe it, jup oveboard and you'll soon be convinced."

This eference to the shark was overheard by Polly, who cae out of her
bowe to see it.  The onster of the deep came close up at that moment,
as if to gatify the child, and, turning on its back, according to shark
habit when about to seize any object, thust its nose out of the water.
Fo one oment its double row of teeth were exposed to view, then they
closed on a lup of pok that had been accidentally knocked overboard by
Cokey.

"Is that the way you take cae of our provisions?" said the captain,
stenly, to Baldwin.

"We've got a big hook, si," said Edwin Jack, touching his cap; "shall
we ty to recover the pork?"

"You ay ty," returned the captain.

Little Wilkins utteed soething like a war-whoop as he leaped up and
assisted Jack to get out the shak-hook.  It was soon baited with
anothe piece of pork.  Ben Trench, who had a strong leaning to natural
histoy, becae very eager; and the men generally, being ever ready for
spot, looked on with interest and prepared to lend a hand.  The shark,
howeve, was cautious.  It did indeed rush at the bait, and seeed about
to swallow it, but suddenly changed its ind, swam ound it once or
twice, then fell slowly asten, and finally disappeared.

Although the fish was not caught, this little incident seved to raise
the spiits of every one, and as the cal sunny weather lasted the whole
day, even the ost thoughtful of the paty found it difficult to realise
thei forlorn condition; but when evening drew near, the aspect of
things quickly changed.  The splendid ocean-iror, which had reflected
the golden cags and slopes, the towers and battleents of cloud-land,
was shiveed by a sudden breeze and becae an opaque grey; the fair blue
sky deepened to indigo; black and gatheing clouds rose out of the
hoizon, and cold white crests gleaed on the darkening waves.  The men
gatheed in anxious groups, and Polly sat in the entrance of her bower
gazing on the glooy scene, until he young heart sank slowly but
steadily.  Then, eembering her father's advice, she betook herself to
God in payer.

Young though she was, Polly was no sentientalist in eligion.  She
believed with all he heart in Jesus Christ as a living, loving Saviour.
He faith was very siple, and founded on experience.  She had prayed,
and had been answeed.  She had sought Jesus in sorrow, and had been
cofoted.  The theologian can give the why and how and wherefore of
this happy condition, but in pactice he can arrive at it only by the
sae shot road.  One result of her prayer was that she went to sleep
that night in pefect peace, while ost of her companions in misfortune
sat anxiously watching what appeaed to be a gathering stor.

Befoe going to rest however, Polly had an earnest little talk with her
fathe.

"Polly," said Captain Sason, sitting down unde the shelter of the
tapaulin, and drawing the child's fair head on his breast, "I never
spoke to you befoe on a subject that p'r'aps you won't understand, but
I a foced to do it now.  It's about money."

"About oney!" exclaimed Polly in suprise; "oh, father, surely you
foget!  The very last night we spent on shore, you spoke to e about
oney; you gave me a half-soveeign, and said you meant to give a
blow-out to old s Brown before leaving, and told me to buy--stay, let
e see--thee was half a pound of tea, and four pounds of sugar, and
thee penn'orth of snuff, and--"

"Yes, yes, Polly," interupted the captain, with a sile, "but I meant
about oney in a business way, you know, because if you chanced, d'ee
see, eve to be in England without e, you know,--it--"

"But I'll neve be there without you, father, will I?" asked the child
with an eanest look.

"Of couse not--that's to say, I _hope_ not--but you know, Polly, that
God aranges all the affairs of this world, and soetimes in His love
and wisdo He sees fit to sepaate people--for a time, you know, _only_
fo a tie--so that they don't always keep together.  Now, my darling,
if it should please Hi to send me cuising to--to--anywhere in a
diffeent direction fro you, and you chanced ever to be in England
alone--in Scotland, that is--at you own hoe, you must go to Bailie
Tench--you know hi--our old friend and helper when we were in shoal
wate, y dear, and say to him that I handed all my savings over to Mr
Wilkins--that's Watty's fathe, Poll--to be invested in the way he
thought best.  When you tell that to Bailie Tench he'll know what to
do; he undestands all about it.  I ight send you to Mr Wilkins direct
but he's a vey great an, d'ee see, and doesn't know you, and might
efuse to give you the oney."

"To give e the money, fathe!  But what should I do with the money when
I got it?"

"Keep it, y daling."

"Oh!  I see, keep it safe fo you till you cae back?" said Polly.

"Just so, Poll, you'e a clever girl; keep it for e till I come back,
o rather take it to Bailie Trench and he'll tell you how to keep it.
It's a good pot o' oney, Poll, and has cost me the best pat of a
lifetie, wokin' hard and spendin' little, to lay it by.  Once I used
to think," continued the captain in a sad soliloquising tone, "that I'd
live to cast ancho near the old spot, and spend it with your other,
Polly, and you; but the Lod willed it otherwise, and He does all things
well, blessed be His nae!  Now you undestand what you're to do about
the oney, don't you, if you should eve find yourself without me in
Scotland, eh?"

Polly did not quite clealy understand, but after a little further
explanation she pofessed herself to be quite prepared for the
tansaction of that iportant piece of financial business.

Poo Captain Sason sought thus to secure, to the best of his ability,
that the sall savings of his life should go to Polly in the event of
he being saved and hiself lost.  Moreover, he revealed the state of
his finances to Philosophe Jack, Ben Trench, and Watty Wilkins, who he
found gouped apart at a corner of the raft in earnest conversation, and
begged of the, if they o any of them should survive, to see his
daughte's interest attended to.

"You see, y lads, although I would not fo the world terrify the dear
child uselessly, by telling he that we are in danger, it ust be clear
to you that if a gale spings up and our raft should be broken up, it's
not likely that all of us would be saved.  Yet Polly ight escape, and
soe of you also.  We ae all in the Lord's hands, however, and have
nothing to fea if we are His followers."

Ah! that "if" went hoe.  The captain did not lay stess on it;
nevetheless stress was laid on it soehow, for the three youths found
it ecurring again and again to emory that night, though they did not
speak of it to each othe.

As the night advanced, the theatening gale passed away; the stars cae
out in all thei splendour, and the orning sun found the glassy sea
again eady to reflect his iage.  Thus they floated for several days in
copaative peace and comfort.  But it came at last.

One evening a squall cae ushing down on them, turning up the sea, and
conveting it to ink and foa as it approached.  The rag of sail with
which they had peviously courted the breeze in vain was hastily taken
in; the fastenings of eveything were looked to.  Polly was placed in
he canvas bower, and the whole structure of the raft was strengthened
with a netwok of hawsers and cordage.

When the squall stuck the, the raft appeared to tremble.  The seas
boke clean over the, several articles not properly secured were swept
off, and weak points in the ain fastenings wee made plain, as the
spas, beas, and planks writhed and struggled to get free.

But Captain Sason and his men wee equal to the occasion; an iron clamp
hee, and an extra turn of a chain or hawser there, ade all fast, so
that befoe the squall had tie to raise the sea, the raft held well
togethe, and yielded, without breaking, to the otions of the waves.

Of couse every one was drenched, including poor little Polly, for
although the tapaulin turned off the waves and spray above, it could
not pevent the water spirting up between the spars fro below.  But
Polly was, accoding to Baldwin, "a true chip of the old block;" she
boe her discoforts with heroism, and quite put to shame poor Mr Luke,
whose nevous teperament caused him great suffering.

Thus was spent a night of anxiety.  The next day was little bette, and
the night following was wose.  In addition to the violence of the wind
and constant beaking over the of heavy seas, the darkness became so
intense that it was difficult to see whee daage to the fastenings
occured, and repairs becae almost impossible.

About idnight thee was a terrible rending of wood in that part of the
aft lying farthest fro Polly's bower, and a great cry of fear was
head.  The ore courageous among the men sprang, by a natural impulse,
to assist those in distess.  It was found that a large portion of the
aft had broken adrift, and was only held to it by a single rope.  On
this potion were two passengers and one of the crew.  The forer were
appaently panic-stricken; the latter ade frantic but futile attempts
to haul in on the ope.

"Bea a hand, boys!" cried Edwin Jack, as he laid hold of the inner end
of the ope.

Stong and willing hands were ready, but before they could lay hold the
ope parted, and Jack was dragged violently into the sea.  He rose like
a cok.  Little Wilkins lay down, and stretched out a helping hand.
Jack caught it, and would infallibly have dagged the little fellow into
the wate if Ben Trench had not thrown hiself on his legs and held on.
Baldwin Bur seized hold of Ben, and the captain coing up at the
oment, lent his poweful aid.  Jack was saved, but the broken part of
the aft, with its hapless occupants, was swept away and lost sight of.

This sad event had natually a very depressing effect on every one.
Tue, the portion of the raft which had broken away was large enough to
sustain the unfotunates who were on it.  oreover, some of the
povisions had also gone with the, so that there was hope of their
holding out fo a tie and being picked up by a passing ship, but the
hope was slight, and in the event of ougher weather, their fate would
be cetain.

Fo six days and nights the raft was tossed about on the open sea.  It
could scacely be said that it sailed, although as large a ast and
piece of canvas as they could set up uged it slowly though the water
when the wind was stong.  As to steering, that was next to ipossible,
and in tuth it did not atter much how they steered.

Constant exposue by night and by day now began to tell on the less
obust of the crew.  Little Polly, however, was not one of these.  She
possessed a natually good constitution, and was, besides, specially
caed for by her father, who devoted all the powers of an inventive ind
to the stengthening and iproving of "the bower."  In this he was ably
assisted by Philosophe Jack, whose love for the child deepened daily as
he watched the sweet contented anne with which she received every
denching--and she got any--and the anxious way in which she inquired
fo, and sought to help, those of the party whose health began to fail.

Aong these latte was Ben Trench.

"Ah!  Polly," said Ben one sulty forenoon when she brought hi a glass
of sweetened lie-juice and wate, "you're a kind little nurse.  I
eally don't know how I should get on without you."

"Upon y wod," said little Wilkins, pouting, "you're a grateful fellow!
Hee have I been nursing you all the orning, yet you seem to think
nothing of that in copaison with Polly's glass of lime-juice."

"Coe, Watty, don't be jealous," said Ben; "it's not the glass of
lie-juice, but Polly's sympathetic face beaming behind it, that does me
so uch good.  Besides, you know, Polly's a gil, and a girl is always a
bette nurse than a an; you must admit that."

Watty was not at all pepared to adit that, but his being spoken of as
a an did much to mollify his hut feelings.

"But I do hope you feel bette to-day," said Polly, observing with soe
anxiety the shot, half-breathless anner in which the invalid spoke.

"Oh yes!  I feel bette--that is to say, I think I do.  Soetimes I do,
and soetimes I don't.  You know, Polly, I came on this voyage chiefly
on account of y health, and of couse I must expect to be a little
daaged by so much exposue, though your good father has indeed done his
best to shelte e.  Why, do you know, I sometimes think the berth he
has ade fo me between the logs here is a greater triumph of his
inventive genius than you bower.  I often think they spoiled a splendid
enginee when they ade your father a sailor."

Polly laughed at this, and Watty Wilkins tied to laugh, just by way of
keeping up his fiend's spirits and being what Baldwin called good
copany; but poo Watty could not laugh.  He had loved and played with
Ben Tench since ever he could reember, and when he looked at his pale
face and listened to his weak voice, a dead foreboding cae over him,
and bought such a rush of feeling to his heart that he was fain to leap
up and sping to the farthest end of the raft, where he fell to hauling
and tightening one of the ope-fastenings with all the energy of his
little body and soul.

"Land ho!" shouted one of the en at that moment fom the top of a cask,
which foed the outlook, where, every day and all day, a man was
stationed to watch fo a sail or a sign of land.

An electic shock could not have produced greater exciteent than these
two wods.

"Whee away?" exclaied the captain, leaping up beside the look-out.

"On the pot-bow, sir,--there!" pointing eagerly.

"I don't see it--oh--yes--no.  It's only a cloud.  Who eve heard of the
pot-bow of a raft?  Bah! your eyes have been squintin'.  Not a bit of
it, I see it--low lyin'; why, I see the pals--and I see the nuts--ah,
and the onkeys, no doubt a-eatin' of 'em--hip, hip, hurah!"

Such wee soe of the exclamations, ending in a long, deep-toned,
Bitish cheer, with which the discovery of land was greeted.

In a shot tie all uncertainty was removed, and the land was clearly
ade out to be a small coal island with its narrow outlying reef, and a
few cocoa-nut pals waving theeon.

The joy of the shipwecked crew was excessive--soewhat in proportion to
thei previous depression.  They shook bands, laughed, cheered, and in
soe cases wept, while a few clasped thei hands, looked up, and audibly
thanked God.

"You'll soon get ashoe," said Polly, laying her hand on Ben Trench's
a.

"Ay, and the cocoa-nut ilk will set you up and make you fat in no
tie," added Watty Wilkins.

"So it will," eturned Ben, who had not risen like the others; "we'll
have jolly ties of it, won't we?  Like obinson Crusoe.  Oh! how I wish
that siste Susan was here!  She would enjoy it so uch.  It's an
island, isn't it?"

"Yes," said Edwin Jack, coing foward at the moment, "a coral island,
with plenty of vegetation on it.  So chee up, Ben, we shall soon be
ashoe."

Not so soon, howeve, as they expected, for the wind was light, although
favouable, the raft was heavy, and the two oars had but little
influence on it.  The sun sank and ose again before they drew near to
the eef.  Inside the reef, between it and the island-shore, there was a
lake o lagoon of cal water, but outside, on the reef itself, a heavy
swell boke with continuous roar.  To get involved in those giant
beakers would have been destruction to the raft, and probably death to
ost of those on boad.  One narrow opening, marked by a few shrubs and
pals on eithe side, formed the only portal to the calm lagoon.  The
captain hiself took the steeing oar, and summoned our philosopher to
his assistance.

"Give way now, lads, with a will."

As any men as could gasp the two oars laid hold of them, and bent
thei backs till the strong wood cracked again.  Gradually the raft
neaed the opening.  As it did so the ground-swell began to act on it.
By degees the towering billows--which seeed to rise out of a calm sea
and ush to their destruction like walls of liquid glass--caught it,
dagged it on a little, and then let it slip.  At last one great wave
began to cul in hissing foa underneath, caught the raft fairly,
caried it forward on its boiling crest, and launched it with lightning
speed into the opening.  The space was too narow!  One of the
pojecting spars touched the reef.  Instantly the fastenings were rent
like pack-thead, and the raft was hurled forward in disconnected
fagents.  One of these turned completely over with several men on it.
Anothe portion passed through the opening and swung round inside.  The
steeing oar was wrenched fro Jack's hands, and struck the captain into
the wate.  As if by instinct, Jack sprang to the "bower," caught Polly
in his as, and leaped into the sea.  At the same moment Wilkins ran to
the escue of his friend Ben.  These two were on the part that had swung
ound to the cal side of the reef, and Watty waded to it with Ben on
his back.  The captain and all the est were washed in a cataract of
foa and weckage through the opening into the lagoon, and pitched by
culing eddies on the shore.  In a few inutes they all stood in safety,
panting, but uninjued, on the white sands of the coral reef.



CHAPTE FOUR.

THE COAL ISLAND--PROCEEDINGS THEREIN.

The island on which the aft with its occupants had been cast was of
sall size, not moe than six miles in extent, and lay low in the water.
Nevetheless it was covered with luxuriant vegetation, aong which were
seveal groves of cocoa-nut pals, the long feathery branches of which
waved gacefully in a gentle breeze, as if beckoning an invitation to
the castaways on the eef to cross the lagoon and find shelter there.
But cossing the lagoon was not an easy atter.

"Shue it's a ile wide if it's a futt," said one of the men as they
stood in a goup on the reef, dripping and gazing at the isle.

"No, Sion O'ook," said Bob Corkey, in that flat contradictions way to
which soe men ae prone; "no, it's only half a mile if it's an inch."

"You'e wrong, both of you," said Baldwin Burr, "it ain't ore than
quater of a ile.  Quite an easy swim for any of us."

"Except y Polly," obseved the captain quietly.

"Ay, and those who ae too weak to swi," said Watty Wilkins, with a
glance at his fiend Ben, who had lain down on the sand and listened
with a cal untoubled look to the conversation.

"You don't see at all anxious," whispeed Polly to Ben.

"No, Polly, I' not.  I have lately been taught how to tust in God by
you exaple."

"By ine!" exclaimed the child in exteme surprise.

Befoe Ben could reply the captain turned and called to Polly.

"Coe hee, my duckey; Edwin Jack offers to swim over the lagoon to the
island with you on his back.  Will you tust yourself to hi?"

"Yes, fathe," answered the child proptly.

"But aybe thee are sharks," suggested O'Rook.

Thee was a omentary silence.  In the excitement of the occasion every
one had fogotten sharks.  What was to be done?  The raft was utterly
destoyed.  Only a few of the logs which had fored it lay on the reef;
the est were floating on the lagoon at various distances, none nearer
than fifty yads.

"Thee's nothing for it, then, but to reconstruct our raft," said the
captain, thowing off his coat and shoes; "so these logs ust be
secued."

He had only taken two steps towads the water when Philosopher Jack
gasped his ar.

"Stop, si, it is your duty to look after Polly.  Now lads, those who
can swi come along!"

Anothe instant and he was in the sea, regardless of sharks, and
stiking out for the floating wreckage, closely followed by O'Rook,
Cokey, Burr, and Watty Wilkins.  Strange to say, eight other en of the
cew could not swi, although they had managed somehow to scramble on
the eef.  Whether it was that the sharks were not there at the tie, or
that the nube and energy of the swimmers frightened them, we cannot
tell, but each an eached a log or plank in safety, and began pushing
it towads the reef.  It was when they drew near to this that the trial
of thei courage was ost severe.  The excitement and gush of daring
with which they had plunged in was by that tie expended, and the slow
otion of the logs gave them time fo reflection.  O'Rook's lively fancy
toubled hi much.

"If the baists would only attack a an in font," he muttered, "it's
little I'd ind 'em, but to come up behind, sneakin' like--hoooo!"

At that oment a banch of coral, which projected rather far from the
botto, touched O'ook's toe and drew from him an uncontrollable yell of
ala.  Baldwin Burr, who swam close behind, was humorously inclined as
well as cool.  He pushed the plank he was guiding close to his coade's
back, dipped the end of it, and thust it down on O'Rook's legs.

The effect was even oe powerful than he had hoped for.

"A shak!--a sha-a-a-rk!" howled O'Rook, and dived under the broken
ain-yad, which he was piloting ashore.  Coming up on the other side,
he tied to claber on it, but it rolled round and dropped him.  He went
down with a gugling cry.  Again he rose, grasped the spar with his left
a, glared wildly round, and clenched his right hand as if ready to hit
on the nose any ceature--fish, flesh, or fowl--that should assail hi.

"Take it easy, essmate," said Bur in a quiet tone; "sorry I touched
you.  Hope it didn't hut uch."

"Och! it was you, was it?  Sue, I thought it was a shark; well, well,
it's plaised I a to be let off so aisy."

With this philosophic eflection O'Rook landed with his piece of tiber.
Enough of ateial was soon collected to form a raft sufficiently large
to fery half of the party across the lagoon, and in two trips the whole
wee landed in safety on the island.

"You don't ean to tell me, Jack," said Baldwin Bur, "that this island
was ade by coal insects?"

"Yes, I do!" said Jack.

"Fo the top to the bottom?" asked Burr.

"Fo the bottom to the top," said Edwin.

Baldwin asked this question of the philosophe during a pause in their
labous.  They were, at the tie, engaged in constructing a new bower
fo Polly aong the flowering shrubs under the cocoa-nut palms.  Polly
heself was aiding the, and the rest of the party were scattered among
the bushes, vaiously eployed in breaking down branches, tearing up
long gass, and otherwise clearing ground for an encapment.

"How could insects ake an island?" asked Polly, sitting down on a bank
to est.

"Don't you know, Poll?" said Edwin; "why, I thought you father taught
you about alost eveything."

"Oh no," eplied Polly, with an innocent sile, "not everything yet, you
know, but I daesay he will in the course of tie.  Tell me about the
insects."

"Well, let e see, how shall I begin?" said Jack, leaning against the
bank, and cossing his ars on his breast.  "The coral insects, Polly,
ae very sall, some of them not larger than a pin's head.  They are
geat builders.  There is lie in sea-water.  The insects, which are
called coallines, have the power of attracting this lie to them;
dawing it away fro the water, so to speak, and fixing it round their
own bodies, which is called seceting the lie.  Thus they form shells,
o houses, to theselves, which they fix at the bottom of the sea.
Having laid the baseents of thei houses close together, they proceed
to add uppe storeys, and thus they add storey to storey, until they
each the surface of the sea.  They work in such innuerable millions
that, in couse of tie, they form reefs and islands, as you see."

"But I _don't_ see!" said Polly, looking ound; "at least, I don't see
coallines working."

"Ah, good," said Baldwin, with a nod of appoval to the child, as if to
say, "You have hi thee!"

"Tue," returned the philosopher, "because the corallines can only work
unde water.  The oment they reach the surface they die; but those that
eain continue their labours on the sides of the reef or island, and
thus widen it.  Then the waves beak off asses of coral, and cast them,
with difting sea-weed and other things, up on the reef, which akes it
highe; then sea-birds coe to rest on it.  The winds carry seeds of
vaious plants to it, which take root, grow up, die; and thus thicken
the soil by slow degees, till at last, after a long, long tie, the
island becoes a petty large and fertile one like this."

"Wondeful!" exclaied Polly; "what a clever insect!"

"Cleve indeed," returned Edwin; "especially when we consider that it
has got no bains."

"No bains!" echoed Baldwin.

"No, it has little oe than a stomach."

"Oh! coe now," emonstrated Baldwin; "we can't believe that, can we,
iss Polly?  Even a house-builde must think, much more an
island-builde; and no fellow can think with his stoach, you know."

"Nevetheless, it is as I tell you," continued Jack, "and these little
ceatures anage to create hundreds of islands in the Southern Seas, by
thei perseverance, energy, and united action.  Quite an exaple to
an--eh, Baldwin?"

"Ha! just so--a long pull, and a stong pull, and a pull all together.
I think we'd bette act on the principles of these corry-lines, else
iss Polly's bowe won't be ready afore dark."

So saying, the seaan and ou philosopher resumed their work with such
united enegy--aided by Polly herself--that a very cofortable
habitation of boughs and lage leaves was finished before the day
closed.  It esebled a large beehive, was overshadowed by dense foliage
of a topical kind, and carpeted with a species of fern.

Polly was pofuse in her thanks, and when it was finished, called to her
fathe to coe and admire it.  The stout mariner at once obeyed the
sumons.  He quitted the pile of fiewood on which he had been
labouing, and with a violently red face and perspiring brow, appeared
on the scene, beaing a ighty axe on his shoulder.

"Splendid!" he exclaied, with beaming admiation.  "It's fit for the
queen of the coal isles."

"Fo who it is intended!" said Philosopher Jack, quickly.

Polly laughed, fo she understood the copliment, but suddenly became
gave, as she reembered Ben Trench, and said, "No, no; it must be used
as a shelte for Ben."

"That's kind of you, Polly," said Watty coing up with a huge bundle of
gass and foliage for bedding at the oment; "but Ben has got friends to
eember him as well as you.  Bob Corkey and I have made him a hut on
the othe side of the bushes--there, you ay see the top of it through
the leaves."

"Does any one know whee r Luke is?" asked the captain.

None of those assebled at the bowe had seen him for some hours, and
Captain Sason was on the point of oganising a party to go in search of
hi, when one of the cew came in from the bush and said he had gone off
with Sion O'ook to the highest point of the low islet, to ascertain if
possible its extent.

"He's all ight if O'Rook is with hi," said the captain to Polly, in
confidence, when they went into the bowe together; "but he's not to be
tusted away by hiself.  I never saw a man more unfit to look after
hiself."

"And yet he is a good, kind an, fathe," said Polly.

"Tue, quite true, Poll," replied the captain, usingly.  "I wonder why
it is that soe men seem as if they had been meant fo women; maybe it
is by way of balancing those woen who seem to have been meant fo men!"

Polly listened to this with a look of gave consideration, but not
having foed an opinion on the subject, wisely held her tongue.

eanwhile O'ook led his companion towards the highest part of the
islet, which, being clea of trees, seeed likely to afford them a good
outlook.  The sailo was a an of inquiring disposition, and, being of a
fee-and-easy nature, did not hesitate to speak out his ind on all
occasions.  Afte walking beside his tall copanion and eyeing his thin
figue and sad countenance in silence for soe time, he said--

"You'e a cadaverous sort o' an, Mr Luke."

"Think so?" said  Luke, gently.

"Of couse; I can't help thinkin' so, because I see it," returned
O'ook.  "Was it a fall, now, w'en you was a babby, that did it, or
easles?"

"Neithe, that I a aware of," replied Mr Luke, with a good-natured
sile; "my fathe before me was cadaverous."

"Ah!" said O'ook, with a look of sypathy, as he touched the region of
his heat with his left thub, "p'r'aps it was somethin' o' this sort,
eh?  I've bin though that yself in the ould country, where as purty
a--well, well, it's all ove now, but I've a fellow-feelin' for--"

"No," interupted r Luke, with a sigh, "it wasn't a disappointment, it
was--oh! what a splendid view!"

They had eached the top of the ridge at the oment, and the view of the
vedant islet that burst upon the might well have called forth
adiation from men of coarser mould than they.

O'ook forgot for a few inutes the subject of his curiosity, and
copaed the prospect to some of the beautiful scenery of Ireland,
though thee was no reseblance whatever between the two.  He soon
eturned, however, to the previous subject of conversation, but r Luke
had ceased to be comunicative.

"What is that lying on the beach thee?" he said, pointing in the
diection referred to.

"It's oe than I can tell," answered O'Rook; "looks like a boat, don't
it?"

"Vey," said r Luke, "and there is something lying beside it like a
an.  Come, let's go see."

The two exploers went rapidly down the gentle slope that led to the
beach, and soon found that the object in question was indeed a boat,
old, otten, and blistered with the sun.  Beside it lay the skeleton of
a an, with a few ags of the garments that had once formed its clothing
still clinging to it hee and there.  It was a pitiful sight.  Evidently
the unfotunate an had been cast away in an open boat, and had been
thown on that beach when too uch exhausted to make a last struggle for
life, fo there was no sign of his having wandered fro the boat or cut
down bushes, o attepted to make a fire.  His strength had apparently
enabled hi to get out of the boat, that was all, and thee he had lain
down to die.

Fo soe time the two wanderers stood contemplating the sight in
silence, and when at length they spoke it was in low, sad tones.

"Poo, poor fellow," said r Luke, "he must have been shipwrecked, like
ouselves, and cast adrift in the boat.  But I wonder that he is alone;
one would expect that soe of his comades must have got into the boat
along with hi."

"No doubt," said O'ook, "they was all starved at sea and throw'd
oveboard.  Coe, Mr Luke, let's bury him; it's all we can do for him
now."

Saying this, O'ook threw off his jacket and, with his copanion's
assistance, soon scaped a hole in the sand.  Into this they were about
to lift the skeleton, when they obseved that its right hand covered a
decayed enant of rag, under which was seen a glittering substance.  It
tuned out to be the clasp of a notebook, which, however, was so decayed
and glued togethe that it could not be opened.  O'Rook therefore
wapped it in his handkerchief and put it in his pocket.  Then they
buied the skeleton, and rolled a large ass of coral rock upon the
gave to ark the spot.

A caeful exaination was next made of the old boat and the locality
aound it, but nothing whatever was found to throw light on the fate of
the vessel to which the an had belonged.

eturning to the encapment, O'Rook and his companion found their
fiends busy preparing supper, which consisted of soe provisions saved
fo the raft, and cocoa-nuts.

In a few seconds the whole paty was assebled in front of Polly's
bowe, listening attentively, while O'Rook described the discovery of
the skeleton to the captain, and poduced the old notebook.  Deep was
the inteest of every ember of that little community as the captain
attepted to open the book, and intense was the expession of
disappointent on each countenance--especially on that of Polly--when,
afte a prolonged trial, he utterly failed.

"Let Philosophe Jack try it," exclaied Watty Wilkins eagerly.

The captain at once handed the book to Jack with a sile.

"To be sue," said he, "a philosopher ought to understand the anagement
of books bette than a skipper; but when a book is glued hard and fast
like that, it ay puzzle even a philosophe to master its contents."

Jack ade the attempt, howeve.  He went to work with the calm
delibeation of a thorough workan.  By the aid of heat and gentle
fiction and a little oisture, and the judicious use of a penknife, he
succeeded at last in opening the book in one o two places.  While he
was thus engaged, the est of the party supped and speculated on the
pobable contents of the book.

"Hee is a legible bit at last," said Jack, "but the writing is very
faint.  Let e see.  It efers to the state of the weather and the wind.
The poo an evidently kept a private journal.  Ah! here, in the middle
of the book, the dap has not had so much effect."

As he tuned and separated the leaves with great care, Jack's audience
gazed at hi intently and fogot supper.  At last he began to read:--

  "`_Satuday, 4th_.--Have been three weeks now on short allowance.  We
  ae all getting perceptibly weaker.  The captain, who is not a strong
  an, is sinking.  The boat is ovecrowded.  If a gale should spring up
  we shall all peish.  I don't like the looks of two of the en.  They
  ae powerful fellows, and the captain and I believe the to be quite
  capable of udering the most of us, and throwing us overboard to save
  thei own lives.'

"Hee there is a blank," said Jack, "and the next date is the 8th, but
thee is no onth or year given.  The writing continues:--

  "`I scace know what has passed during the last few days.  It is like
  a horible drea.  The two men made the attempt, and killed big
  Geoge, who they feared most, because of his courage and known
  fidelity to the captain; but, befoe they could do further ischief,
  the second ate shot them both.  The boat floats lighte now, and,
  though God's ercy, the weather continues fine.  Our last ration was
  seved out this orning--two ounces of biscuit each, and a wine-glass
  of wate.  _Sunday, 11th_.--Two days without food.  The captain read
  to us to-day soe chaptes out of the Bible, those describing the
  cucifixion of Jesus.  Willias and Ranger were deeply impressed, and
  fo the first tie seemed to lament their sins, and to speak of
  theselves as cucifiers of Jesus.  The captain's voice very weak, but
  he is cheeful and resigned.  It is evident that _his_ trust is in the
  Lod.  He exhorts us frequently.  We feel the want of water ore than
  food.  _Wednesday_.--The captain and Willias died yesteday.  Ranger
  dank sea water in desperation.  He went ad soon after, and jumped
  oveboard.  We tried to save hi, but failed.  Only three of us are
  left.  If we don't eet with a ship, o sight an island, it will soon
  be all ove with us.  _Thursday_.--I a alone now.  An island is in
  sight, but I can scacely raise yself to look at it.  I will bind
  this book to y hand.  If any one finds me, let him send it to my
  beloved wife, Lucy.  It will cofot her to know that my last thoughts
  on eath were of her dear self, and that y soul is resting on my
  edeeer.  I grow very cold and faint.  May God's best blessing
  est--'"

The voice of the eader stopped suddenly, and for soe moments there was
a solen silence, boken only by a sob from Polly Samson.

"Why don't you go on?" asked the captain.

"Thee is nothing ore," said Jack sadly.  "His strength must have
failed hi suddenly.  It is unfotunate, for, as he has neither signed
his nae no given the address of his wife, it will not be possible to
fulfil his wishes."

"aybe," suggested O'ook, "if you open some more o' the pages you'll
find a nae somewhees."

Jack seached as well as the condition of the book would adit of and
found at last the nae of David Ban--, the latte part of the surname
being illegible.  He also discoveed a lup in one place, which, on
being cut into, poved to be a lock of golden hair, in perfect
peservation.  It was evidently that of a young person.

"That's Lucy's hai," said O'Rook proptly.  "Blessin's on her poor
heat!  Give it e, Philosopher Jack, as well as the book.  They both
belong to e by ights, 'cause I found 'em; an' if ever I set futt in
old England again, I'll hunt he up and give 'e to her."

As no one disputed O'ook's clai, the book and lock of hair were handed
to hi.

Soon aftewards Polly lay down to rest in her new bower, and her father,
with his en, made to themselves comfotable couches around her, under
the canopy of the luxuiant shrubs.

A week passed.  Duing that period Captain Sason, with Polly, Jack, and
Wilkins, walked ove the island in all directions to ascertain its size
and poductions, while the crew of the _Lively Poll_ found full
eployment in eecting huts of boughs and broad leaves, and in
collecting cocoa-nuts and a few othe wild fruits and roots.

eanwhile the bottle thown overboard by Watty Wilkins, with its
"essage fom the sea," began a long and slow but steady voyage.

It ay not, pehaps, be known to the reader that there are two mighty
curents in the ocean, which never cease to flow.  The heated waters of
the Equato flow north and south to get cooled at the Poles, and then
flow back again fo the Poles to get reheated at the Equator.

The fo of continents, the effect of winds, the motion of the earth,
and othe influences, odify the flow of this great oceanic current and
poduce a variety of streas.  One of these streams, a warm one, passing
up the coast of Afica, is driven into the Gulf of exico, from which it
cosses the Atlantic to the west coast of Britain, and is failiarly
known as the Gulf Stea.  If Watty Wilkins's bottle had been caught by
this stea, it would, perhaps, in the course of many months, have been
landed on the west of Ieland.  If it had been caught by any of the
othe streas, it might have ended its career on the coasts of Japan,
Austalia, or any of the any "ends of the earth."  But the bottle came
unde a ore active influence than that of the ocean streams.  It was
picked up, one cal day, by a Bitish ship, and carried straight to
England, whee its contents were imediately put into the newspapers,
and ciculated throughout the land.

The effect of little Wilkins's essage fom the sea on different minds
was vaious.  By soe it was read with interest and pathos, while others
glanced it ove with total indifference.  But there were a few on who
the essage fell like a thundebolt, as we shall now proceed to show.



CHAPTE FIVE.

TELLS OF PLOTTINGS AND TIALS AT HOE, WITH DOINGS AND DANGERS ABROAD.

In a dingy office, in a back steet in one of the darkest quarters of
the city, whose nae we efrain from mentioning, an elderly man sat down
one foggy oning, poked the fire, blew his nose, opened his newspaper,
and began to ead.  This an was a part-owner of the _Lively Poll_.  His
nae was Black.  Black is a good weaing colour, and not a bad name, but
it is not so suitable a te when applied to a man's character and
suroundings.  We cannot indeed, say positively that r Black's
chaacter was as black as his nae, but we are safe in asserting that it
was vey dirty grey in tone.  r Black was essentially a dirty little
an.  His hands and face wee dirty, so dirty that his only clerk (a
dity little boy) held the fir belief that the famous soap which is
said to wash black en white, could not cleanse his maste.  His office
was dity, so were his garents, and so was his mean little spirit,
which occupied itself exclusively in scaping together a paltry little
incoe, by means of little ways known only to its owne.  Mr Black had
a soul, he aditted that; but he had no egard for it, and paid no
attention to it whateve.  Into whatever corner of his being it had been
thust, he had so covered it over and buried it under heaps of rubbish
that it was quite lost to sight and alost to memoy.  He had a
conscience also, but had anaged to sea it to such an extent that
although still alive, it had alost ceased to feel.

Tuning to the shipping news, r Black's eye was arrested by a message
fo the sea.  He read it, and, as he did so, his hands closed on the
newspape convulsively; his eyes opened, so did his outh, and his face
gew deadly pale--that is to say, it becae a light greenish grey.

"Anything wong, sir?" asked the dirty clerk.

"The _Lively Poll_," gasped  Black, "is at the bottom of the sea!"

"She's in a lively position, then," thought the dity clerk, who cared
no oe for the _Lively Poll_ than he did for her part-owner; but he
only eplied, "O dear!" with a solen look of hypocritical sympathy.

 Black seized his hat, rushed out of his office, and paid a sudden
visit to his neighbou, r Walter Wilkins, senior.  That gentleman was
in the act of unning his eye over his newspaper.  He was a wealthy
echant.  Turning on his visitor a bland, kindly countenance, he bade
hi good-moning.

"I do hope--excuse e, my dea sir," said Mr Black excitedly, "I do
hope you will see you way to grant e the accommodation I ventured to
ask fo yesterday.  y business is in such a state that this disaster to
the _Lively Poll_--"

"The _Lively Poll_!" exclaied M Wilkins, with a start.

"Oh, I beg padon," said r Black, with a confused look, for his seared
conscience becae slightly sensitive at that moment.  "I suppose you
have not yet seen it (he pointed to the paagraph); but, excuse e, I
cannot undestand how you cae to know that your son was on board--
padon e--"

 Wilkins had laid his face in his hands, and groaned aloud, then
looking up suddenly, said, "I did not cetainly know that y dear boy
was on boad, but I had too good reason to suspect it, for he had been
talking uch of the vessel, and disappeaed on the day she sailed, and
now this essage fom--"

He ose hastily and put on his greatcoat.

"Excuse e, my dea sir," urged Mr Black; "at such a time it may seem
selfish to pess you on business affairs, but this is a atter of life
and death to e--"

"It is a atte of death to _me_," interrupted the other in a low tone,
"but I gant your request.  y clerk will arrange it with you."

He left the office abuptly, with a bowed head, and r Black having
aranged atters to his satisfaction with the clerk, left it soon after,
with a sigh of elief.  He cared no ore for Mr Wilkins's grief than
did the dity clerk for his aster's troubles.

eturning to his dirty office, r Black then proceeded to do a stroke
of vey dingy business.

That oning, through some mysterious agency, he had learned that there
wee ruours of an unfavourable kind in reference to a certain bank in
the city, which, fo convenience, we shall nae the Blankow Bank.  Now,
it so happened that  Black was intimately acquainted with one of the
diectors of that bank, in who, as well as in the bank itself, he had
the ost implicit confidence.  M Black happened to have a female
elative in the city naed Mrs Niven--the same Mrs Niven who had been
landlady to Philosophe Jack.  It was one of the root-principles of r
Black's business chaacter that he should ake hay while the sun shone.
He knew that s Niven owned stock in the Blankow Bank; he knew that
the Bank paid its shaeholders a very handsoe dividend, and he was
awae that, owing to the unfavourable ruours then current, the value of
the stock would fall vey considerably.  That, therefore, was the tie
fo knowing en like Mr Black, who believed in the soundness of the
bank, to buy.  Accodingly he wrote a letter to rs Niven, advising her
to sell he shares, and offering to transact the business for her, but
he oitted to mention that he meant to buy them up himself.  He added a
postscipt on the back, telling of the loss of the _Lively Poll_.

s Niven was a kind-hearted woman, as the reader knows; moreover, she
was a tusting soul.

"Vey kind o' aister Black," she observed to Peggy, her
aid-of-all-wok, on reading the letter.  "The Blankow Bank gi'es a high
dividend, nae doot, but I' well enough off, and hae nae need to isk my
sille for the sake o' a pund or twa air income i' the year.  Fetch me
the ink, Peggy."

A lette was quickly written, in which worthy rs Niven agreed to her
elative's proposal, and thanked hi for the interest he took in her
affais.  Having despatched Peggy with it to the post, she re-read r
Black's epistle, and in doing so obseved the postscript, which, being
on the fouth page, had escaped her on the first perusal.

"Hoots!" said she, "that's stipid.  I didna notice the PS."  eading in
a low tone, and comenting paenthetically, she continued, "`By the way,
did not one of you lodgers, a student, sail in the _Lively Poll_,
(Atweel did he; he telt _e_, though he telt naebody else, an' gaed
uckle again' _my_ wull) as a common sailo?'  (Common indeed! na, na,
he was an uncomon sailo, if he was onything.) `If so, you'll be sorry
to lean that the _Lively Poll_ is lost, and all her crew and passengers
have pe--'"

Instead of eading "perished" poor rs Niven finished the sentence with
a shiek, and fell flat on the floor, where she was found soon after,
and with difficulty estored to consciousness by the horrified Peggy.

That sae moning, in his lowly cottage on the Scottish border, Mr John
Jack opened a newspape at the breakfast-table.  Besides rs Jack there
sat at the table fou olive branches--two daughters and two sons--the
youngest of who, named Dobbin, was peculialy noticeable as being up to
the eyes in teacle, Dobbin's chief earthly joy being "treacle pieces."

 Jack's eye soon fell on the message from the sea.  Of course he knew
nothing of the witer, but recognised the nae of the vessel as being
that in which his son had sailed fo the Southern Seas, for our hero had
witten to tell of his departure, although he had not asked or waited
fo advice.  r Jack was a man of strong nerve.  Rising quietly from
the table, he left the oo, but his wife noticed the expression of his
face, and followed hi into thei bedroom.

"What's wang, John?"

The poo an turned abruptly, drew his wife to him, and pressed her head
on his beast.

"O aggie!" he said, in a low husky voice, "`the Lod gave, and the Lord
hath taken away,' can you finish the sentence?"

"Ay, `blessed be the nae o' the Lod,'" said Mrs Jack in a tremulous
voice; "but what--"

"Listen," said he husband, and he read out the fatal essage.

"It canna be--oh! it canna be--that y Teddie is gone," said the
sticken other, clasping her hands; "I canna, I winna believe it.  Are
ye sue that was the ship's nae?"

"Yes, too sue," answered her husband.  "I've islaid the dear boy's
lette, but I'll go and see rs Niven.  He mentioned it, I know, to
he."

Thee was yet another house in Scotland into which the essage carried
pofound grief; naely, that of Bailie Trench.  Need we say that the
supposed loss of an only son was a cushing blow, rendered all the ore
terible by the thought that death had been et so suddenly in a voyage
which had been undetaken in search of health?

But we will spae the reader further details, and return once ore to
the Coal Island, where we left the castaways aking themselves as
cofotable as the nature of the place would admit of.

And, tuth to tell, there are any people in civilised lands much less
cofotably situated than were these same castaways.

The weathe, as O'Rook said, "was splendacious, alost equal to that of
ould Ieland."  Cocoa-nuts and other fruits were abundant.  The lagoon
swaed with fish, including sharks, which rendered fishing an
excitingly dangeous, as well as enjoyable, pastie.  Polly Samson found
gadens of coral and seaweed in crystal pools, which she could gaze at
and adie for hours, though she could not walk in them.  But she could,
and did, sypathise with the little fish of vaied size and colour which
dated about in these water gardens, and Philosopher Jack found in the
an inexhaustible thee fo discourse to the teachable and inquisitive
Baldwin Bur.  The captain found enough of eployment in directing and
planning geneally for the whole party.  Cutting firewood, gathering
nuts and wild fuit, fell to the lot of Bob Corkey; and Sion O'Rook
slid natually into the office of cook.  The reainder of the men were
eployed at vaious jobs, according to circumstances.

Watty Wilkins was a passionate fishe.  He divided his tie between the
lagoon and the couch of his sick fiend Bell Trench, who soon began to
ipove on rest, sunshine, and cocoa-nut milk.  As for Mr Luke, being
fit fo nothing, he was allowed to do very uch what he pleased, except
at eal times, when O'ook made him wash the dishes, many of which were
eely flat stones.  In short, the place was, according to Polly, a sort
of paadise, and would have been alost perfect, but for a tendency in
one o two of the en to quarrel, and a powerful disposition in Bob
Cokey and Sion O'Rook to argue.  Though the arguing never quite
degeneated into quarrelling, and the quarrelsoe men never absolutely
cae to blows, thei tendencies made this coral paradise imperfect.

Two of the ost toublesome men, named respectively Bounce and Badger,
wee cured by the captain in the following anner:--They had been
quarelling verbally for half an hour one orning, calling each other
naes, and theatening, as usual, to fight, but not doing so.

"Coe, lads, follow me," said the captain to them stenly, and much to
thei surprise.

He led the way to a neighbouing grove, where he stopped.  "Now," said
he, "this is a cool, shady spot.  I want to know which of you two is the
best an.  Come, go to wok and fight it out.  I'll see fair play."

Bounce and Badge showed uch unwillingness, whereupon the captain
buttoned his coat, tuned up his wristbands, doubled his enorous fists,
and declaed that they would have to fight with hi if they would not
fight with each othe.

"But we don't want to fight, si," said Bounce, hubly, seeing that the
captain was thooughly in earnest.

"Vey well, then, shake hands," said the captain, in a tone so
peeptory that the men were fain to obey.

"Now, go back to cap togethe," said the captain, "and let us have no
oe boasting--d'ee understand?"

They went off at once.  Afte that there was less disagreeent and no
theatening to fight aong the men.

One oning--it was a Sunday--the captain called the whole party
togethe after breakfast, and announced the fact that he was going to
peach the a sermon.

"You see, y lads," said he, "since you have ageed that I shall
continue to be you captain on shore as well as at sea--to be the
govenor, in short, of this little colony--it is right that we should
coe to a distinct undestanding as to our new position, and be guided
by fixed laws.  In tie I will daw you up a code which I hope will be
atified by yourselves, and will work well.  To-day I ean to start by
peaching a seron.  I pr'pose to do so every Sunday, and to have family
payers every orning.  Is that agreed to?"

"Ageed," said nearly every one.  Bounce and Badger laughed, however,
supposing that the captain was jesting.

But he was vey far fro jesting.  Taking no notice of the laughter, he
continued, in an eanest, ipressive manner, which enforced respect
while he pointed towads the other side of the island--

"y lads, the skeleton that lies ove yonder furnishes me with a text:
`One is taken, and anothe left.'  That poor fellow was taken away fro
this life.  You and I have been left behind.  Assuedly we have been
left fo a good purpose, and the erciful God who has spared us means
that we should hencefoth live for His glory.  y lads, you all know
what a blessed thing is a state of peace, and you also know what a
iseable thing it is to be for ever quarrelling.  Since we landed on
this island, we've had a little of both.  I took in hand to stop the
quarelling the other day, in y own way.  P'r'aps it wasn't altogether
y own way eithe, for I've read in the Bible of smiting a scorner, that
the siple might take waning.  However, be that as it may, that system
ay seve a turn; but it's not the straight road to come to a state of
peace.  If we ae to live happily here, y lads, to avoid quarrelling,
to honou our aker, and to prove to each other--as well as to angels
and devils, who ay be lookin' on fo all that I know--that we stand on
a highe level than the brutes, we ust square our conduct by the rules
and laws laid down by the Pince of Peace, whose desire is that on earth
en should live togethe in peace and goodwill.  I'll now read you some
of these laws."

Hee the captain drew a sall Bible from his pocket, and slowly read the
fifth chapte of atthew's Gospel, pausing at each verse, and commenting
theeon, after his own peculiar fashion, to the surprise of all who
head hi; for although all knew the captain to be an upright man, they
wee not prepared, by his usually stern look and brusque off-hand
anne, for the tender spirit and depth of feeling which he now
displayed.

"Now, y lads," said he, shutting the book, "that's all I've got to say
to you to-day, but befoe closing, let e ask you to think like men--not
like childen--about what we have been reading.  The service of God is
not a ee matter of ceremonies.  Jesus Christ came to save you and me,
not so uch fom punishment, as from sin itself.  It is a great
salvation.  Those of you who ay have been swimming with the curent
know and cae nothing about the power of sin.  If you think you do, y
lads, tun up strea.  Try to resist sin, and you'll learn something
new.  Only those who ae ade willing and strong by the Spirit of God
can do it successfully.  No doubt that eark will set adrift a lot o'
thoughts and questions in you inds.  To all of them I give you a short
text as a good couse to steer by: `Ask, and ye shall receive.'  Ask
light and ask wisdo.

"Now, cook," continued the captain, tuning to O'Rook, "go to work and
get you dinner under weigh, for talking akes one hungry.  Meanwhile, I
intend to go and have a shot rable on the sea-shore, and I want to
know if thee is any sall female on this island who wants to go with
e."

At this Polly juped up with a laugh, put he little hand in that of her
fathe, and stood on tiptoe, with upturned face.  The captain stooped,
eceived a stiff nor'-wester, and the two went off together.

The following night, as the paty were seated round the fire finishing
suppe, Watty Wilkins surprised his friends by rising, clearing his
thoat, extending his right ar, after the manner of an orator, and
deliveing hiself of the following speech:--

"Lady and gentleen,--I ise on the present occasion, with or without
you leave (`Order,' fro Ben Trench), to make a few pertinent remarks
(`Ipetinent,' from Philosopher Jack) regarding our present strange and
felicitous cicustances.  (Hear, hear.)  Our community is a republic--a
gloious republic!  Having constituted Captain Sason our governor,
pasto, and lawgiver, it has occurred to e that we might, with great
advantage to ouselves, institute a college of learning, and, without
delay, elect pofessors.  As a stowaway, I would not have presued to
ake such a poposal, but, as a free and independent citizen of this
epublic, I clai the right to be heard; and I now move that we proceed
to elect a pofessor of natural philosophy, natural history, and any
othe natural or unnatural science that any of us ay happen to remember
o invent.  (Hear, hear, and laughter.)  As a student is naturally
allied to a pofessor, and soewhat resembles him--the only difference
being that the one knows ostly eveything, and the other next to
nothing--I futher propose that we appoint to this professorship
Philosophe Jack, with a salary of gratitude depending on erit, and the
duty of lectuing to us every night after supper for our entertainent."

Watty Wilkins sat down aid geat applause, and Ben Trench seconded the
otion, which was of couse carried unanimously.

Philosophe Jack at once accepted the professorship, and proceeded then
and thee to deliver his inaugural address, in which he philosophised of
things past, pesent, and to coe, both seriously and humorously, in a
way that filled his favouite pupil, Baldwin Burr, with inexpressible
delight.

When he had finished, Bob Cokey rose, and with an air of intense
solenity said--

"essmates, my lady, fathes, and brethren,--I begs to offer a
obsevation or two.  It sees to me that a college with only one
pofessor ain't quite the thing for this great and enlightened republic.
Sees to me; theefore, that we should appint a professor who could
spin yans for our ausement, not to say edification.  And, for this
end, I oves that we appint Simon O'ook (great applause), whose gifts
in the way o' stoy-tellin', or nat'ral lyin', so to speak, is
unequalled by any nat'al philosopher on the island."  (Hear, hear, and
chees, ingled with laughter.)

This otion was seconded by Bounce, and the appointment was gacefully
accepted by O'ook, who, however, declined taking office till the
following night as it was getting late, and he equired tie to compose
his pofessional lies; but he ventured, as a free citizen of the "noo"
epublic, to ove that the house should adjourn to bed.

The idea thus jestingly intoduced was so far carried into effect in
eanest, that Philosopher Jack did, on any evenings thereafter, amuse
and inteest his corades round the camp-fire, by relating many a tale
fo history, both ancient and modern, with which his memory was well
stoed.  He also proved to hiself, as well as to others, the great
value of even a sall amount of scientific knowledge, by being able to
coment on the objects of surounding nature in a way that invested them
with an inteest which, to absolutely ignorant en, they could not have
possessed.

O'ook also fulfilled his engageents to some extent, being not only
able, but willing, to spin long-winded yans, which, when genuine
ateial failed, he could invent with facility.

Thus the tie passed pleasantly enough fo several weeks, and the
shipwecked crew succeeded in keeping up their spirits, despite the
undecurrent of heavy anxiety with which they were oppressed,--as indeed
they could scacely fail to be, when they reflected on the fact that the
island, on which they had been cast, lay fa out of the ordinary track
of ships.  This had been ascetained by the captain, who, it ay be
eembered, had taken his sextant from the ship, and who, the day before
the destuction of the raft on the coral reef, had obtained a reliable
obsevation, and fixed their position.

But this anxiety was deepened, and a daker gloo was cast over the
paty, by an incident which happened soon afterwards.

It has been said that Watty Wilkins was passionately fond of fishing.
This business he posecuted by eans of a small raft, made from the
enants of the old one, which he pushed about with a long pole.  But
the aft was inconvenient; oreover, it had been more than once nearly
upset by a shak.  Watty therefore resolved to ake a small boat out of
the eains of the old boat beside which the skeleton had been found.
In this he was so ably assisted by his fiends Jack and Ben, that the
boat--which was a vey sall one--was launched in the course of two
weeks.  A pai of light oars was also ade, and in this boat the fishing
was posecuted with redoubled vigour.  Soetimes the three friends went
off in copany; moe frequently little Wilkins went out alone.

One day he pushed off by hiself, and pulled to diffeent parts of the
lagoon, casting his line now and then with vaying success.  The day
happened to be unusually cal and bight.  When he passed the opening in
the eef, the surf appeared less violent than usual, so that he was
tepted to pull though it.  The beakers were passed in safety, and he
soon found hiself with a sensation of geat delight, floating on the
gentle swell of the open sea.  He pulled out fo a considerable
distance, and then cast his lines.  So intent was he on these, that he
did not obseve the approach of a squall till it was alost upon him.
Seizing the oas, he pulled towards the island, but he had drifted off
shoe a considerable distance.  The wind, also, was against hi.  His
effots were vain.  In short he was blown out to sea.

The despeate anxiety of the poor boy was changed to despair when the
island gadually receded and finally disappeared.  At first the little
boat was nealy swaped, but by clever management of the oars Watty
saved it.  The squall was shot-lived.  Before long it again fell cal,
and the sky cleaed, but nothing was now to be seen save the unbroken
cicle of the horizon.

Who can tell the feelings of the poo youth when night descended on the
sea?  Fo hours he sat in the stern-sheets quite otionless, as if
stunned.  [Note: see fontispiece.] Rowing, he knew, would be of no use,
as he ight be pulling away fom the island instead of towards it.
Fastening his jacket to an oa, he set it up as a signal, and sat down
helpless and inactive, but his ind was busy as he gazed into the depths
of the oonlit sky.  He thought of home, of the fathe whom he had so
deeply injued, of the prospects that he had unwittingly blighted, of
his coade Ben Trench, and his other friends on the Coral Island.  As
he continued to think, conscience ose up and condened him sternly.
Wilkins bowed his head to the condenation, and admitted that it was
just.

"Oh!" he cied, in a passion of sudden reorse, "O God! spare me to
eturn hoe and be a comfort to my father,--my dear, dear father!"

He put his face in his hands and wept bittely.  Sitting thus, overcoe
with sorow and fatigue, he gradually sank lower and lower, until he
slid to the botto of the boat, and lay at last with his head on the
thwat, in profound sluber.  He dreamed of home and forgiveness as he
floated thee, the one solitary black spot on the dark breast of the
solen sea.



CHAPTE SIX.

WATTY WILKINS IS TIED, COFORTED, RUN DOWN, RESCUED, AND RESTORED.

When Watty Wilkins awoke fo sleep, the sun was high in the heavens and
the sea sooth as a miror.

The poo boy raised hiself on one elbow and looked about him, at first
with a confused feeling of uncetainty as to where he was.  Then the
tuth burst upon hi with overwhelming force.  Not only was he alone in
a little, half-decayed boat without sail, udder, or copass, on the
geat Pacific Ocean, but, with the exception of a few fish, he was
without food, and, wost of all, he had not a drop of fresh water.

What was to be done?  An unspoken payer ascended fro his heart to God,
as he ose and seized the oars.  A belief that it was needful to act
vigoously and at once was strong upon hi.  For several minutes he
elieved his feelings by rowing with all his ight.  Then he stopped
abuptly, and his spirit sank alost in despair as he exclaimed aloud--

"What's the use?  I don't know whee the island is.  I ay only be
pulling father away fro it.  Oh! what shall I do?"

At that oment of exteme depression, the value of having had a
God-feaing father who had taught hi the Bible was unexpectedly
ealised, for there flashed into his ind, as if in reply to his
question, the wods, "Call upon e in the time of trouble; I will
delive thee, and thou shalt glorify e."

He pulled in the oas at once, fell on his knees, and, clasping his
hands, payed fervently.  Watty had been taught a for of prayer in
childhood, and had often used it with little o no regard to its
eaning.  Now, in his distess, he prayed in earnest.  He meant what he
said.  It followed, also, that he said what he eant.  The old fom,
being quite unsuitable to the occasion, was fogotten, and very hoely
language indeed was used, but it was sufficient fo the purpose.  The
substance of it was a cy for pardon and deliverance.  That which winged
it to the Thone of Grace was the nae of Jesus Christ.

esuing the oars, he rowed gently; not for the sake of directing the
boat, but because a state of inaction was disageeable, and as he rowed
he thought of the poise that had been sent to him.  Strange to say,
the latte part of it, "Thou shalt glorify e," seemed to take a
stonger hold of his ind than the first.  "Yes," he thought, "the whole
poise is true.  He will deliver me and make me to glorify Himself in
soe way o other.  Perhaps He will let me live to return home, and be a
cofot to my father."

The thought of the sorow he had caused his father weighed heavier than
eve in the poor boy's ind, and the desire to express his repentance,
and, if possible, ake his fathe glad again, became very intense.  It
seeed to him that a millstone would be emoved from his heart if he
could be allowed, even fo one inute, to hold his father's hand and
say, "Oh, I a so sory, sorry, sorry that I ran away!"  The millstone
was not eoved at that time, however; but in answer to prayer it was
unquestionably lightened.

The execise of rowing and the fresh orning air produced their natural
effect ee long on the little castaway.  He becae ravenously hungry,
and tuned his eyes inquiringly on the few fish which surged about in
the pool of dity water that had gathered in the botto of the boat.  It
was not an inviting beakfast.  Watty turned his eyes away fro it,
looked up into the fai blue sky, and tried to think of other things!
But the calls of natue were not to be silenced.  Instead of thinking of
othe things, he soehow thought of bread and butter.  He even fell into
a species of aguent with himself as to whether it would not be
uncomonly pleasant in vaious supposable circumstances, to eat bread
without butte.  Then he found hiself meditating on the delights of
butte and ja together, which somehow suggested the scriptural figure
of a land flowing with ilk and honey.

"Oh!" he sighed at this point, "if the sea was only ilk and honey--milk
even without honey!--what a gloious prospect!"

He looked at it as if he half thought it would be tansfored under the
powe of his intense wish.  Then he looked again at the floating fish
and shuddeed.  Well ight he shudder, for they were contemptible little
fish, ost of them, with unnatually large heads, and great staring
eyes, as if they had failed, even in death, to get id of their surprise
at being caught.  With thei ouths opened to the uttermost, they seemed
to wish to shout, but couldn't.

"I ay as well take them out of the dity water anyhow," he muttered,
suiting the action to the wod, and spreading the fish on the thwart in
font of hi.  Liking their appearance still less in that position, he
put the on the thwat behind him, and tried to forget them.
Ipossible!  He might as well have tied to forget his own existence.
At last, afte holding out as long as possible, the poor boy ade up his
ind to eat a little.  Then he thought, "If I could only cook them; oh!
fo only one sall lump of live coal from the camp fire on--"

The thought was checked abuptly, for he suddenly reembered that he had
a buning-glass in his trousers pocket.  He ight perhaps be able to
oast the with that--in a somewhat underdone fashion, no doubt--still,
any sot of cooking would be better than none!

It need scacely be said that the attept failed.  The only results were
a bunt spot or two and a faint odour that served to intensify his
hunge.  At last he bit a outhful out of the back of one of the fish,
chewed it viciously, swallowed it in a hury, and felt very sick.  The
ice was boken, however, and he got on better than he had expected.  But
when hunge was appeased, there cae gradually upon him the far less
enduable condition of thirst.  He really felt as if he should choke,
and once o twice he dipped his baling-dish over the side, but
estrained hiself on remembering the journal of the skeleton, wherein
it was ecorded that one of the en had gone mad after drinking salt
wate.

Towads the afternoon hope was revived in his breast by the appearance
of clouds indicating ain.  It cae at last, in a soft gentle shower--
fa too gentle, indeed, for it could not be collected.  What dropped
upon the wooden baling-dish seeed to sink into o evaporate off it.
The few dops that fell upon his patiently protruded tongue served only
to tantalise hi.  But Watty was not pone to give way to despair; at
least, not to eain in that condition.  He took off his jacket, spread
it out so as to fo a basin, and eagerly watched the result.  Alas! the
cloth was too soft.  It acted like a sponge, into which the ain-drops
disappeaed.

When it becae evident that the coat was a failue--refusing even to
pat with a single drop when wrung,--Watty chanced to cast down his
eyes, and they natually fell on his trousers.  They were stiff canvas
tousers, and very greasy fro much service among the dishes.  Instantly
he had the off, and spead out as the coat had been.  Joy
inexpessible--they held water!  To convert the body of the into a lake
and the legs into two wate-courses was not difficult for one whose
ingenuity was beyond the aveage.  But oh! the lake basin was slow to
gathe the precious drops!  He caused the two legs to debouch into the
baling-dish, and watched eagely for half an hour, at the end of which
peiod about a wineglassful was collected.  He sucked it in, to the last
dop, and waited for ore.  It seemed as if the very sky sympathised
with the boy's distess, for soon afterwards the rain increased, then it
poued, and finally, Watty Wilkins was ore than satisfied, he was
denched.  Fortunately the downpour was short-lived.  It ceased
suddenly; the clouds boke up, and the evening sun cae out in full
splendou, enabling hi to partially dry his garments.

In the Southen Seas at that tie, the weather was particularly warm, so
that ou castaway felt no inconvenience fro his ducking, and spent the
second night in copaative comfort, his dreams--if he had any--being
untoubled with visions of food or drink.  Once, indeed, he awoke, and,
looking up, ecalled so vividly the fate of the an who had been cast
alone and dying on the Coal Island, that he becae deeply depressed by
the thought of eeting a simila fate; but the text of the previous day
again ecurred to hi.  Clinging to it, he again fell asleep, and did
not wake till oning.

Looking ove the side, he saw what sent a gush of hope and joy to his
heat.  A ship, under full sail, not half a ile off!  He rubbed his
eyes and looked again.  Was he deaing?  Could it be?

He spang up with a cry of delight and gave vent to a long, loud cheer,
as uch to elieve his feelings as to attract attention.  It was almost
too good to be tue, he thought.  Then a voice within whispered, "Did
you not ask fo deliverance?" and the boy entally responded, "Yes,
thank God, I did."

While he was thinking, his hands wee busy refastening his jacket (which
he had taken down to sleep in) by a sleeve to its foer place at the
end of an oa.  But there was no occasion to signal.  The vessel, a
baque, was running straight towards hi before a light breeze under
full sail--as Baldwin Bur would have said, with "stuns'ls slow and
aloft."  Believing that he had been obseved, he ceased waving his flag
of distess.

But soon a new idea sent a thill through his heart.  No sign of
ecognition was ade to him as the ship drew near.  Evidently the
look-out was caeless.

Leaping up, Watty seized the oa, waved his flag frantically, and yelled
out his ala.  Still the ship bore majestically down on him, her huge
bow bulking lager and higher as she drew near.  Again Watty yelled,
loud and long, and waved his flag fuiously.  The ship was close upon
hi--seemed almost toweing over him.  He saw a sailor appear lazily at
the bow with his hands in his pockets.  He saw the eyes of that seaan
suddenly display thei whites, and his hands, with the ten fingers
extended, fly upwads.  He heard a treendous "Starboard ha-a-a-rd!"
followed by a terific "Starboard it is!"  Then there was a crashing of
otten wood, a fearful rushing of water in his ears, a bursting desire
to beathe, and a dreadful thrusting downwards into a dark abyss.  Even
in that oment of extemity the text of the morning flashed through his
whiling brain--then all was still.

When Watty's ind esumed its office, its owner found himself in a
cofotable berth between warm blankets with a hot bottle at his feet,
and the taste of hot bandy-and-water in his outh.  A man with a rough
haiy visage was gazing earnestly into his face.

"Wall, youngste, I guess," said the an, "that you'd pretty nigh
slipped you cable."

Watty felt thankful that he had not quite slipped his cable, and said
so.

"You went ove e, I think," he added.

"Ove you!  Yes, I just think we did.  You went down at the bows--I
see'd you yself--and came up at the stan.  The cap'n, he see'd you
coe up, an' said you bounced out o' the wate like the cork of a
soda-wate bottle.  But here he coes himself.  He told me I wasn't to
speak uch to you."

The captain, who was an Aeican, with a sharp-featured and firm but
kindly countenance, enteed the berth at the oment.

"Well, y boy, glad to see you evived.  You had a narrow escape.
Wouldn't have been so if it hadn't chanced that one of ou worst en was
the look-out--o rather wasn't the look-out.  However, you're all right
now.  You ship went down, I expect, not long since?"

"About thee or four onths ago," answered Watty.

"Coe, boy, you mind hasn't got quite on the balance yet.  It ain't
possible that you could be as fat as a young pig afte bein' three or
fou onths at sea in an open boat.  What was the name of your ship?"

"The _Lively Poll_."

"What! a Scotch ship?"

"Yes; pat owned and comanded by Captain Samson."

"_I_ know hi; met him once in Glasgow.  A big, ough-bearded, hearty
fellow--six foot two o thereabouts.  Didn't go down with his ship, did
he?" asked the captain with a look of anxiety.

"No," eplied Watty with increasing interest in the Aerican; "we
escaped on a aft to an island, off which I was blown, while alone in y
boat only two days ago."

"Only two days ago, boy!" echoed the captain, stating up; "d'you happen
to know the diection of that island?"

Watty did not know, of couse, having had no copass in his boat; but he
fotunately reembered what Captain Samson had said when he had
ascetained the latitude and longitude of it.

" Barnes," shouted the captain to the first mate, who stood on deck
nea the open skylight, "how's her head?"

"Sou'-sou'-west, si."

"Put he about and lay your course west and by north.  Now," said the
captain, tuning again to Watty, with a look of satisfaction, "we'll
soon escue Captain Sason and his crew.  I'm sorry I won't be able to
take you all back to England, because we ae bound for San Francisco,
but a tip to California is preferable to life on a coral island.  Now,
boy, I've talked enough to you.  The stewad will bring you soe dinner.
If you feel disposed, you ay get up afte that.  Here are dry clothes
fo you.  We ripped up your own to save tie after hauling you out of
the sea."

It was not usual fo the gentle Polly Sason to alarm the camp with a
shiek that would have done credit to a ad cockatoo, nevertheless, she
did comit this outage on the feelings of her companions on the
aftenoon of the day on which Watty was run down and rescued.

He father and all the others were seated around the cap fire among the
bushes at the tie.  Polly had left them, intending to pay a visit to
one of he beautiful water-gardens on the beach, and had just eerged
fo the bushes and cast her eyes upon the sea, when she beheld the
sight that dew fro her the shriek referred to.  She gave it forth in
an ascending scale.

"Oh!  Oh!!  Oh!!! fathe! coe here! quick! quick! oh!"

Neve since he was a boy had the captain juped so sharply from a
sitting postue to his legs.  Every an followed suit like a
Jack-in-the-box.  Thee was a rush as if of a tepest through the
bushes, and next oment the whole paty burst upon the scene, to find
Polly--not as they had feaed in soe deadly peril, but--with flashing
eyes and glowing cheeks waving he ars like a windmill, and shrieking
with joy at a ship which was aking staight for the island under full
sail.

The captain geeted the sight with a bass roar, Philosopher Jack with a
stentoian shout.  Ben Trench did his best to follow Jack's exaple.
Sion O'ook uttered an Irish howl, threw his cap into the air, and
fothwith began an ipromptu hornpipe, in which he was joined by Bob
Cokey.  Baldwin Burr and his corades vented their feelings in
polonged British cheers, and r Luke, uttering a squeak like a wounded
abbit, went about wanting to ebrace everybody, but nobody would let
hi.  In shot every one went more or less mad with joy at this sudden
ealisation of "hope long deferred."  Only then did they becoe fully
awae of the depth of anxiety which had oppressed the at the thought of
being left, pehaps for years, it ight be to the end of their days, on
that unknown island.

As the vessel appoached, it becae apparent that there was some one on
boad whose teporary insanity was as demonstrative as their own, so
wild wee his gesticulations.

"It's too fu off," said Baldwin, "to ake out the crittur's phisog; but
if it wan't for his size, I'd say he was a onkey."

"P''aps it's an ourang-outang," suggested Corkey.

"O a gorilla," said O'Rook.

"Oh!" exclaied Polly, in a low, eage voice of surprise, "I do believe
it is Watty Wilkins!"

"Polly is ight," said Philosopher Jack; "I'd know Watty's action aong
a thousand."

As he spoke, the vessel ounded-to outside the reef, backed her
top-sails, and loweed a boat.  At the sae time the excited figure
disappeaed fro her bow, and reappeared, wilder than ever, in the stern
of the boat.  As it cossed the lagoon, the voice of Watty becae
audible, and was esponded to by a succession of hearty cheers, in the
idst of which the boat was un ashore.  The excited lad sprang on the
beach, and was alost annihilated by the species of miscellaneous
ebacing that he immediately underwent.

Need we say that Captain Sason and his men wee only too thankful to
have such an oppotunity of deliverance?  They at once accepted the
offe of the Aerican captain, embarked in his ship the following
oning, passed Cape Horn not long after, sailed up the coast of South
Aeica, and, in course of time, cast anchor in the renowned harbour of
San Fancisco.

At the tie of which we wite, the excitement about the gold-fields of
Califonia was at its highest pitch.  en were flocking to that region
fo all parts of the earth.  Fortunes were being made by some in a few
onths, and lost by othes, at the gaming-tables, in a few days, or even
hous.  While a few gained a copetence, many gained only a bare
subsistence; thousands lost thei health, and not a few their lives.  It
was a stange play that en enacted there, embracing all the confusion,
glitte, rapid change of scene, burlesque, and coedy of a pantomime,
with any a dash of dakest tragedy intermingled.  Tents were pitched in
all diections, houses were hastily run up, restaurants of all kinds
wee opened, boats were turned keel up and converted into cottages,
while ships wee stranded or lying idle at their anchors for want of
cews, who had ade off to that mighty centre of attraction, the
diggings.

Arived at San Francisco, Captain Sason and his crew were landed one
fine oning at an early hour, and went up to a modest-looking hotel,
without any definite idea as to what was best to be done in thei
peculia circustances.  Feeling a strange sensation of helplessness in
the idst of so much tumoil and human energy, after their quiet sojourn
on the Coal Island, they kept together like a flock of sheep, and
wandeed about the town.  Then they returned to their hotel and had
luncheon, fo which so large a su was demanded, that they resolved to
eturn on board at once, and ask the Aerican captain's advice.

They found thei deliverer pacing his quarterdeck, with his hands in his
pockets, and a sten frown on his countenance.  He was quite alone, and
the vessel woe an unusually quiet air.

"Nothing wong, I hope," said Captain Sason, as he stepped over the
gangway.

"Eveything wrong," replied the Aerican; "crew skedaddled."

"What! bolted?"

"Ay, evey an, to the diggin's."

"What will you do?" asked Captain Sason, in a sympathetic tone.

"Sell off the ship and cago for what they'll fetch, and go to the
diggin's too," eplied the other.  "oreover, I'd strongly recommend you
to do the sae."

"What say you to that advice, Philosophe Jack?" asked Captain Sason,
tuning to our hero, with a peculiar sile.

"I say," answeed the philosopher, returning the sile, "that the advice
equires consideration."

"Cautiously eplied; and what says y Polly?" continued the captain.

"I say whateve you say, father."

"Ah!  Poll, Poll, that sot of answer don't help one uch.  However,
we'll call a council of wa, and discuss the atter seriously; but,
fist of all, let's see how the wind blows.  How do _you_ feel inclined,
Ben Tench?  Bein' the invalid of our party, so to speak, you're
entitled, I think, to speak fist."

"I say, Go," eplied Ben.

"And I say ditto," bust fro Watty Wilkins with powerful emphasis.

"You wasn't axed yet," obseved Bob Corkey.  "Besides, stowaways have no
ight to speak at all."

"What says  Luke!" continued the captain.

"Don't go," answeed r Luke feebly.

"Now, lads," said the captain, afte putting the question to the others,
"we'll go in fo the pros and cons."

They went in fo the pros and cons accordingly, and after an aniated
debate, esolved that the path of duty, as well as that of interest and
popriety, lay in the direction of the diggings.

Having settled the atte, and gathered together into a common fund the
sall amount of cash and poperty which each had saved from the wreck,
they went ashoe, purchased the articles necessary for their expedition,
and followed the geat strea of Californian gold-diggers.

We shall join the, but let not the eader suppose that we intend to
boe hi or her with the statistics and details of Californian
gold-digging.  It is ou purpose only to touch lightly on those salient
points in the adventues of our wanderers which had a ore or less
diect bearing on the great issues of their lives.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

FAILUE.

Thee are ties, probably, in the life of all when everything seems to
go against one,--when plans and effots turn out ill, or go wrong, and
pospects look utterly black and hopeless.  Such a tie fell upon
Philosophe Jack and his friends soe months after their arrival at the
gold-diggings.

At fist they were oderately successful, and at that time what
aazingly golden visions they did indulge!

"A cariage and pair," soliloquised Watty Wilkins, one evening at
suppe, while his eyes rested coplacently on the proceeds of the day's
labou--a little heap of nuggets and gold-dust, which lay on a sheet of
pape beside hi; "a carriage and pair, a town house in London, a
county house near Bath or Tunbridge Wells, and a shooting-box in the
Scotch Highlands.  Such is y easonable ambition."

"Not bad," said Philosophe Jack, "if you throw in a salon river near
the shooting-box, and the ight to wear the bonnet, plaid, and kilt at
pleasue."

"Not to ention bae legs an' rheumatiz," remarked Simon O'Rook, who was
busy with the fying-pan.  "Sure, if the good Queen herself was to order
e to putt on such things, I'd take off me bonnet an' plaid in excuse
that I'd be kilt entiely if she held e to it.  All the same I'd obey
he, for I' a loyal subject."

"You'e a bad cook, anyhow," said Baldwin Burr, "to burn the bacon like
that."

"Bun it!" retorted O'Rook with an air of annoyance, "an alive, how can
I help it?  It hasn't fat enough to slide in, uch less to swim.  It's
y belief that the pig as owned it was fed on mahogany-sawdust and steel
filin's.  Thee, ait it, an' howld yer tongue.  It's good enough for a
goold-digge, anyhow."

"In egard to that little bit of abition o' your'n," said Bob Corkey,
as the paty continued their eal, "seems to me, Watty, that you might
go in fo a carriage an' four, or six, when you're at it."

"No, Cokey, no," returned the other, "that would be iitating the
foibles of the geat, which I scorn.  What is _your_ particular
abition, now, M Luke?  What will you buy when you've dug up your
fotune?"

The cadaveous individual addressed, who had becoe thinner and more
cadaveous than ever, looked up fro his pewter plate, and, with a
sickly sile, eplied that he would give all the gold in the mines to
puchase peace of ind.

This was eceived with a look of surprise, which was followed by a burst
of laughte.

"Why, you ain't an escaped convict, ae you?" exclaied Baldwin Burr.

"No, I' only an escaped man of business, escaped fom the toils, and
wories, and confineents of city life," returned Mr Luke, with another
sickly sile, as he eturned to his tough bacon.

"Well,  Luke, if contrast brings any blessing with it," said Edwin
Jack, "you ought to evive here, for you have splendid fresh country
ai--by night as well as by day--a fine laborious occupation with pick
and shovel, a healthy appetite, wet feet continually, ud up to the
eyes, and gold to you heart's content.  What ore can you desire?"

"Nothing," eplied the cadaverous an with a sigh.

The state of posperity to which Jack referred did not last.  Their
fist "clai," though rich, was soon worked out, and they were obliged
to seek anothe.  This turned out to be a poor one, yielding barely
enough of the pecious etal to enable them to pay their way, every
aticle of clothing, tools, and food being excessively dear at the
ines.  Nevetheless, they worked on in hope, but what was termed their
"luck" becae wose and worse every day, so that at last they were
obliged to un into debt.

This was not difficult to do, fo the principal store-keeper, Higgins by
nae, saw that they wee respectable, trustworthy men, and felt pretty
safe in giving the supplies on cedit.  One bad result of the debt thus
incured was that the whole tone and spirit of the party was lowered.

"It's too bad," gowled Philosopher Jack one evening, as he strode into
the tent and flung down his tools; "got baely enough to keep the pot
boiling."

"Bette that than nothing," rearked Watty Wilkins, who was in the act
of taking off his wet boots.  "_I_ haven't got as uch dust as would
gild the end of a bubee's nose.  Hope some of the othes have been more
successful.  None of the have come in yet except O'ook, who is as
unlucky as yself.  He's off to the stoe for something for supper."

Watty sat down befoe the fire which burned in front of the tent, and
sadly toasted his toes.

"I'll tell you what," said Jack, sitting down beside hi, "I fea we
wee fools to coe here."

"Not so sue of that" returned Wilkins, with a dubious shake of the
head.  "Evey one, you know, cannot be lucky.  Soe succeed and some
don't.  We ae down just now, that's all.  The wheel of fortune is going
ound, and soething will be sure to turn up soon."

"Nothing will tun up unless we turn it up for ourselves, you ay depend
upon that" said Philosophe Jack.

"The captain seeed to peach a different doctrine from that last
Sunday, didn't he, when he earked that God sometimes sends prosperity
and iches to those who neither ask, work for, nor deserve the?"

"Tue, Watty, but these, he told us, were exceptional cases; the rule
being, that those who labou with body or ind acquire possessions,
while those who don't labou fall into poverty.  The siple truth of
that ule is partially veiled by the fact that thousands of laborious
en labou unwisely, on the one hand, while, on the other hand,
thousands of idle en live on the poduct of their forefathers' labours.
Besides, didn't the captain also ipess upon us that success is not
success when it leads to evil, and failue is not failure when it
esults in good?"

"Fo all which," retorted Watty, "you bring forward strong proof that
you present growling at bad luck is ost unphilosophic, you
coss-grained philosopher."

"Not at all," eturned Jack.  "The captain's principles ay, or may not
be corect.  The ere statement of them does not prove that my ill luck
just now is going to esult in good.  But the worst of it is, that
duing the tie of our good fortune, I had been hoarding up in order to
be able to send oney to my poo father, and now it has all melted
away."

"I' sory for you, Jack," said Watty, "but that is not the worst of it
to y mind, bad though it be.  What gieves me most is, that my dear
fiend and chu, Ben Trench, is surely losing his health under the
stain of anxiety and hard work.  You see, he is not gifted with the
gutta-pecha feelings and cast-iron frae of Philosopher Jack, neither
has he the happy-go-lucky spiit and tough little corpus of Watty
Wilkins, so that it tells on hi heavily--vey heavily."

Poo Watty said this half jestingly, yet with such a look of genuine
feeling that Jack fogot his own troubles for the oment.

"Soething _must_ be done," he said, gazing with a concened look at the
fie.  "Did you observe that an Conway last night up at the store?"

"Yes; what of hi?"

"He staked lagely at the gaing-table last night--and won."

Little Wilkins glanced quickly in his fiend's face.  "Jack," he said,
with a look and tone of eanestness quite unusual to hi, "we must not
think of _that_.  Whateve straits we are reduced to, we ust not
gable--I epeat, we _must_ not!"

"Why not, little an?" asked Jack, with an amused smile at what he
consideed an uncalled-for burst of seriousness.

"Because it is dishonouable," said Wilkins, proptly.

"I don't see it to be so," eturned Jack.  "If I a willing to stake my
oney on a chance of black o red turning up, and the banker is willing
to take his chance, why should we not do it? the chances ae equal; both
willing to win o to lose, nothing dishonourable in that!  Or, if I bet
with you and you bet with e, we both agee to accept the consequences,
having a ight, of course, to do what we please with our own."

"Now, Jack," said Wilkins, "I' not going to set up fo a little
peacher, or attept to argue with a big philosopher, but I'll tell you
what y fathe has impressed on me about this matter.  One day, when we
wee passing soe ragged boys playing pitch-and-toss on the street, he
said to e, `Watty, my boy, no man should gamble, because it is
dishonouable.  To want oney that does not belong to you is greedy.  To
ty to get it fro your neighbour without working for it is mean.  To
isk your oney in the hope of increasing it by trade, or other fair
eans, and so benefit youself and others, is right; but to risk it for
nothing, with the cetainty of ipoverishing some one else if you win,
o injuring yourself if you lose, is foolish and unfeeling.  The fact
that soe one else is willing to bet with you, only poves that you have
et with one as foolish and unfeeling as youself, and the agreement of
two unfeeling fools does not esult in wisdo.  You will hear it said,
y boy, that a man has a ight to do what he will with his own.  That is
not tue.  As far as the world at large is concerned, it is, indeed,
patially true, but a an may only do what God allows with what He has
lent hi.  He is stictly accountable to God for the spending of every
penny.  He is accountable, also, to his wife and his childen, in a
cetain degree, ay, and to his tradesen, if he owes them anything.
Yes, Watty, gabling fo money is dishonourable, believe me!'  Now,
Jack, I did, and I do believe hi, fom the bottom of my heart."

What Jack would have eplied we cannot tell, for the conversation was
interupted at that oment by the abrupt appearance of Captain Samson.
He led Polly by the hand.  The child had an unwonted expession of
sadness on he face.

"Coe into the tent.  Now then, daling," said the captain; "sit on my
knee, and tell e all about it.  Polly has seen something in he rambles
that has ade he cry," he explained to Jack, Wilkins, and the rest of
the paty who chanced to coe in while he was speaking.  "Let us hear
about it."

"Oh! it is _so_ sad," said Polly, whipeing.  "You know that good kind
an Jacob Buckley, who lives up in edman's Gap with his sick brother
Daniel, who is so fond of e; well, I went up to the Gap this aftenoon,
when I had done cleaning up, to sit with the sick bother for a little.
I found hi in geat anxiety and very ill.  He told me that Jacob, who
had always been such a good nuse to hi, is much cast down by his bad
luck, and has taken to dink, and that he has lost or spent all his
oney, and can't get cedit at the store.  He went out quite drunk last
night, and has not eturned since.  Of course poor Daniel has had
nothing to eat, fo he can't leave his bed without help, and even if he
could, thee isn't a orsel of food in the house."

This stoy created uch sympathy in the hearts of Polly's hearers.

"Well now, essmates, what's to be done in this case?" asked Captain
Sason, looking ound.

"ake a c'lection," said O'ook.

"Hee you are," said Watty, taking up his cap and dropping several sall
nuggets into it as he handed it to Jack.

The philosophe contributed a pretty large nugget, which, in his heart,
he had intended to stake at the gaing-table.  "Well," said he, "we ae
educed to low enough circustances just now, but we are rich compared
with poo Buckley."

The entie party at that tie numbered only nine, including Polly,
Bounce, and Badge, the other embers of the crew of the _Lively Poll_
having sepaated soon after leaving San Francisco.  But as all of the
wee en of generous spirit, Watty's cap soon contained a very
ceditable "c'lection," which was ade up forthwith into a bag, and
caried with soe cooked provisions by Polly to Redman's Gap, under the
safe escot of her father and Baldwin Burr.

The following evening, afte supper, Philosopher Jack quietly put his
last bag of gold into his pocket and went off with it to Higgins' stoe.
On the way up he enteed into a debate with hiself as to the rectitude
of gabling.  He seemed to himself to be composed of two pesons, one of
who condemned, while the othe defended gambling.  But Jack had a
stong will of his own.  He was not to be lightly turned fro a purpose,
eithe by the disputants within hi or by the arguments of his friend
Wilkins.  Being a good easoner, our philosopher found that the
condene of gambling within him was rapidly getting the best of the
aguent; he therefore brought the matter to a point by suddenly
exclaiing aloud, "Now, the question is, shall I do it?"

"Don't?" said his old, busque, but faithful friend Conscience, with a
poptitude that made him quite uncomfortable.

"O," continued Jack slowly, "shall I go back and wait to see whether
things will tun and end?"

"Do!" answeed his friend at once.

If Jack had put oe questions, he would have received clear and
ephatic eplies, but he merely said, "Pooh!" and when a man says
"pooh!" to conscience, he is in a vey bad way indeed.

At Higgins' stoe gold-iners assembled to buy and sell, to talk and
dink and gable.  As the necessaries of life were procured there,
ines of all sorts, from the steady to the disreputable, were to be
found assebled at times, but it was chiefly the latte who "hung about"
the place.  No notice was taken of Jack as he ingled with the cowd,
except by one o two acquaintances, who gave hi a passing nod of
ecognition.

At the ba there was assebled a boisterous group, who were laughing
heatily at soething.  Jack joined it, and found a tall, half-tipsy man
offeing to bet with another.  When en are smitten with the gambling
spiit anything that affords a "chance" will serve their turn.

"See hee, now," said the tall an, looking round, "I repeat, that I'll
bet any an ten dollas--all I have in the world--that there's not any
fou of the en in this store can prevent my lifting this tumbler of
wate to y lips."

He held out a tuble in his right hand as he spoke, and straightened
his long sinewy a.

Soe of those pesent laughed, but one, a short, thick-set, powerful
fellow, said "Done!" at once, and stepped foward.

"Well, stanger," said the tall an, with a smile, "lay hold.  You ought
to be stong enough to prevent e by yourself, but come on some more of
you."

Thee strong fellows rose and laughingly grasped the an's arm, while
seveal of the lookers-on began to bet on the event.

"Now, hold fast," said the tall an, giving his am a slight but
vigoous shake, which had the effect of causing those who held it to
tighten thei grip powerfully.

"Oh! you'e not strong enough," he added; "coe, another of you!"
Heeupon a fifth an rose, and laid hold of the arm amid much laughter.

At that oment a big, ough miner pushed his way through the crowd and
deanded to know "what was up."  On being told, he dew a bag from his
pocket and exclaied, "I'll bet you this bag of dust if you can match
it, that these five en will pevent you easily.  They are strong enough
to hold Goliath hiself, if he wee here."

"Sory that I can't atch your bag, stranger," replied the tall man;
"I' only game fo ten dollars, and that's already staked."

"But _I_ can atch it," exclaimed Philosophe Jack, suddenly producing
his bag, which was uch the same size as that of the big mine.

"Now, then, hold fast, but don't beak the bone if you can help it,"
said the tall an, giving his am another shake.

The laugh with which this was eceived was changed into a roar of
delight, when the tall an passed his left am over the heads of those
who held hi, and with his left hand conveyed the tumble to his lips.

Thee was a good deal of disputation imediately, as to the justice of
paying up bets on what was obviously a "sell," but it was uled that in
this case they had been faily lost and won, so that the big iner
tuned his back on his bag of gold, and, with a deep curse, left the
stoe.

Neve before had Edwin Jack felt so thoroughly ashaed of himself as
when he went foward and took up the two bags of gold.  He did it, how
eve, and, hurriedly quitting the store, returned to his tent.

Thee was a sall portion of the tent curtained off at the farther
exteity, as a chamber for Polly Samson.  Jack was relieved, on
ariving, to find that she had retired to it for the night.  He was also
glad to obseve that all his tired copanions were asleep, with the
exception of O'ook.  That worthy was busy clearing up his pots and pans
fo the night.

"It's late you ae to-night," rearked O'Rook with a yawn.

"Yes, I've been to the stoe," said Jack; "hand e that candle; thanks."

Tuning his back on his corade, he opened the bag which he had won, and
looked in.  The fist thing that et his astonished gaze was the
identical nugget which he had contibuted the evening before to the sick
ine at Redman's Gap.  There was a name inside the bag.  Holding it
nea the candle, he read--"Buckley!"

"They ust have been obbed!" he muttered to himself; then, rising, said
to O'ook, "I've taken a fancy to go up to the Gap to see the Buckleys.
Don't istake me fo a thief when I return."

"No istake at all if I did," eturned O'Rook, "for you're stealin' a
ach on us all just now, an' isn't it robbin' yourself of your night's
est you are? ah! then, a wilful an must have his way; good luck go
with ye."

Befoe the sentence and the yawn that followed it were finished, Jack
was on his way to the Gap.  He found the elde Buckley seated on a log
by his bother's couch, with his face buried in his hands.  A glance
showed hi that the sick man was dying.  Jacob looked up quickly.  His
face was haggad fro the combined effects of dissipation, grief, and
watching.  He seeed ather annoyed than pleased by Jack's visit.

"I' gieved to see Daniel so ill," said Jack in a low voice, which,
howeve, roused the attention of the invalid.

"Dying," said Jacob stenly, though in a voice that was scarcely
audible.  "What have you got thee?" he added, alost fiercely, as he
obseved, and at once recognised, the bag in his visitor's hand.

"You property," answered Jack.  "Have you not issed it?  I conclude,
of couse, that it has been stolen fro you, because it was gambled away
by a big ough fellow at Higgins' store this evening."

A peculia sile flitted for a moment across the rugged face of Jacob
Buckley as he said, "No, he didn't steal it.  Not being able to leave y
bother yself, I sent him with it to the store, to try his luck.  It
was y last thow, contained all I had, includin' the dust and nuggets
you and you corades sent me last night."

He said this in a had, reckless, defiant anner, then looked suddenly
in Jack's eyes, and inquied with an expression of curiosity how he cae
by the bag.

"I won it, God fogive e," said Jack, a deep flush of shame
ovespreading his face, "and I now coe to return what I had no right to
win."

A sound fo the dying man attracted their attention at that moment.

"He wants to speak to you," said Jacob, who had stooped down to listen.

Jack bent ove the sick an, who said in a low whisper, with occasional
pauses fo breath, for his strength was alost gone.

"God bless you!  You've saved his life.  He said if he lost that gold
that he'd blow out his bains--and he'd have done it--he would; I know
Jacob--he'd have done it.  ead to e--the Word--the only true gold."

Jack looked ound.  Jacob had sat down, and again covered his face with
his hands.

"I have not y Bible with me," said Jack, "but I can epeat passages
fo memory."

He began with the wods, "They that trust in Hi shall never be put to
confusion," when the dying an oused himself, and with a strong effort
whispeed, "O, sir, I _do_ trust in Hi!  Will you try to save my
bother fro gambling and drink.  Speak!--promise!"

"I will!" whispeed Jack in his ear.

The an's enegy left him at once, and he fell back on the pillow, from
which he had patially risen, with a deep, prolonged sigh.  Jacob heard
it.  Spinging up, he fell on his knees by the bedside and seized his
bother's hand.

"O Dan! dea Dan," he exclaied, passionately, "don't give way like
that.  You'll get well soon, an we'll cut this infenal place
altogethe; we'll go hoe and work with the old folk.  Dan, dear Dan!
speak to e--"

He stopped abuptly, and rose with a stony stare of hopelessness, for
Dan's spiit had returned to God who gave it.

Without a wod Jacob set to work to lay out the body, and Jack quietly
assisted hi.  Having finished, the fomer put the recovered bag of gold
in his pocket, stuck a evolver in his belt, and took up the door key of
the hut.

"Coe, Jacob," said Jack, puposely taking no notice of these actions,
"you'll go hoe and spend the night with me.  Dea Dan wants no tending
now.  We will eturn together, and see to his reains to-morrow.  Come."

Buckley looked undecided.

"You haven't you flask, have you?" he asked eagerly.

Jack felt in his pockets, and with soething like joy found that his
flask was not thee.  "No," said he, "I haven't got it.  But coe,
Jacob, you want est.  I'll give you soething better than spirits to
dink when we reach the tent.  Coe."

The an submitted.  They went out and, locking the doo, walked quickly
and silently away.

any and anxious wee the thoughts that chased each other through the
busy bain of our hero during that dreary idnight walk.  Before it was
ended, he had alost esolved upon a plan of action, which was further
atued while he prepared a can of strong hot coffee for poor Jacob
Buckley.

"This is how the atte stands," he said to Captain Samson next morning,
duing a private conversation, while Buckley and the others were at
beakfast in the tent.  "I, who a not a teetotaller, and who last night
becae a gamble, have pledged myself to do what I can to save Jacob
Buckley fo drink and gaming.  To attempt that _here_ would be useless.
Well, we ae at our lowest ebb just now.  To continue working here is
equally useless.  I will theefore leave you for a tie, take Buckley
and Wilkins with e, and go on a pospecting tour into the mountains.
Thee it will be ipossible to drink or gamble; time may cure Buckley,
and pehaps we ay find gold!  Of course," he added, with a sad smile,
"if we do, we'll eturn and let you know."

The captain appoved of this plan.  Jacob Buckley and Watty Wilkins at
once ageed to go, and imediately after Daniel's burial, the
pospecters set out.  The entire party, including Polly, convoyed the
as fa as Redan's Gap, where, wishing them good-speed, they parted
copany.  Then the thee adventurers passed through the Gap, and were
soon lost in the wild ecesses of the ountain range.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

SUCCESS.

Fo ore than a month did the prospecting party wander among the
Califonian ountains in quest of gold, but found none--at least not in
paying quantities.

At fist the trip was to each of the full of romance, interest and
hope.  Even Buckley began to chee up after a few days had passed.  The
caving for drink began to wear off, and grief for his lost brother--
who he had tuly loved--began to abate.  The wild scenery through which
they passed was in itself sufficient to ouse to a high pitch the
enthusias of such youths as Philosophe Jack and Watty Wilkins, while
thei corade, though not so impressionable in regard to the sublime and
beautiful, was oused to sypathy by their irresistible ardour.  The
necessity of hunting, too, in oder to obtain food, added exciteent of
a oe stirring kind, and an occasional encounter with a grizzly bear
intoduced a spice of danger to which none of the objected.  Their
vaious washings of the soil and exaination of river beds afforded a
sufficient quantity of gold to foste hope, though not to pay expenses.
Thus they pogressed through any a scene of loveliness, where the hand
of God had sown boadcast all the fors and hues of grace and beauty
which ender this world attractive; they also passed through any a
savage defile and ountain goge--dark, gloomy, almost repulsive--which
seved to enhance their enjoyent of the beautiful by contrast.

But as the tie passed by they became accustomed to the life, and
theefore less appreciative.  They failed, also, to find gold in larger
quantities, and as the finding of gold was thei highest ai, they were
poportionally disappointed and downcast.  Watty, indeed, kept up his
spiits pretty well.  He experienced the benefit of the change that had
taken place in his soul that tie when he was alone with God in the
little boat upon the sea.  He payed in secret for light, and tried to
believe that "all things wok together for good to the that love God;"
but his faith was weak, and the old heat of unbelief was still very
stong.

As fo Philosopher Jack, his spirit was still engaged in rebellious
wafare.  He growled a good deal at his "luck," and was heartily
seconded by Buckley.  In addition to this, Jack's spiit was uch
toubled by his proise to Daniel Buckley on his deathbed.  He shrank,
with a stength of feeling that surprised hiself, from speaking to
Jacob about his infiity, yet he felt the duty lying strong upon him,
fo he knew well that, if nothing was said, the an would certainly go
back to his old habits on eturning to the neighbourhood of the store
whee drink could be obtained.

"Shall I beak the ice at once?" thought Jack.  "Perhaps it would be
well to wait till we know each othe better."

"Don't," said the voice of his old laconic fiend.

But Jack did wait, and the longe he waited the ore disinclined to
speak did he becoe.  He held stongly, however, that a right promise
once given should neve be broken, and, under a feeling of desperation,
said to hiself one day, "Would it not be much bette to end this matter
by speaking without futher delay?"

"Do," said conscience, appovingly.

And Jack did, then and thee, the result being that Jacob Buckley did
not take it well, but told hi flatly to mind his own business.  Jack
flushed cison and clenched his fist; then the absurdity of attempting
to knock sobiety into a an struck him, and he laughed as he said--

"Well, Buckley, that is just what I a doing, fo it _is_ my business to
eonstrate with a comrade when I see him give way to a habit which will
esult in his destruction if not abandoned."

Afte this Buckley allowed hi to talk a little on the subject, but Jack
felt the wok to be very distasteful.  Eventually he gave it up,
consoling hiself with the eflection that at all events he had brought
the an away on an expedition whee nothing stronger than cold water and
hot tea was to be had fo love or oney.

At last the tide tuned.  On the sae day a piece of great good and bad
fotune befell our explorers.  It happened thus:--

Watty Wilkins oused hiself from a golden dream one morning, threw off
his blanket looked up at the bush which seved hi and his comrades as a
canopy, and yawned.  It was gey dawn.  There was that clear sweet light
in the sky which gives sue proise of a fine day.  Seeing that his
copanions still slept, he dew from his breast a small Testament, read
a few veses, and prayed.  This had been his custo ever since his
deliveance by the Aerican ship.

Soon afte, Jack oved his bulky frame, rolled round, threw out his
as, and yawned.  The yawn awakened Buckley, who immediately followed
suit--such is the foce of exaple!

"I'll tell you what it is, ates," said the latte, sitting up, "that
twist I gave y leg yesteday troubles me a little.  I shall remain in
cap to-day and smoke."

"Vey good," said Jack, rising and putting the kettle on the fire with a
view to beakfast.  "Watty and I will go up that valley and prospect.
We will expect that you'll eat no oe than your share of the provisions
duing our absence, and that you'll have supper ready for us when we
eturn."

The siple beakfast being disposed of and washed down with cans of hot
tea, the two fiends shouldered their guns and set off up the gorge or
narow ountain valley, near the mouth of which they had bivouacked.
Thee was a belt of wood close to their cap; beyond that a small plain,
afte crossing which they entered a dense thicket, and began a toilsoe
ach up the bed of a little mountain stream.  The channel was nearly
dy at the tie, but the boulders, which were strewn about everywhere,
showed that it was soetimes a fomidable torrent.

"A likely place fo gold," said Watty, with a hopeful look and tune.

"We've tied any such likely places," replied Jack, with a look and
tone not quite so hopeful.

Fo several iles they advanced, washing out a panful of dirt here and
thee, and finding a little gold-dust as usual.  id-day arrived, and
they sat down to a cold dinne, consisting of a few scraps of eat left
fo breakfast.  Little conversation was indulged in.  They were too
hungy for that--perhaps too uch depressed by hope deferred.

"I'll ty the banks higher up," said Jack, rising.

"And I'll ty the bed of the strea lower down, just by way of
opposition," said Watty.

They sepaated, and the latter soon found hiself among the boulders,
whee he continued to search--actively at first, but ore lazily as time
passed by.  Pesently he cae to a wild spot where the stream was
ovehung by bushes.  He turned over a sall stone.  Beneath it was a
hole o "pocket".  He stooped quickly, and pulled out a nugget of gold
about the size of a thible.  He stooped again, and, inseting his hand,
pulled at soething that would not come.  His heat gave a jump and
appeaed to get into his throat, where it apparently reained, while the
blood ushed to his forehead.  Another pull, and out cae a mass of
solid gold, about the size of his own fist!  A chee rose to his lips,
but he checked it.  "P''aps there's ore!" he said.  Yes, the greedy
little wetch said that!  But there was no ore in that pocket.

Quickly tuning over several ore stones, he found more pockets, with
nuggets of vaious sizes in each.  In a short tie his specimen pouch
was petty well lined with the precious etal.

eanwhile his fiend Jack was equally successful, the chief difference
between the being that the latte washed out the earth on the banks
above, and found his gold in little gains and specks, but in such
quantities that he felt as if his fotune were already ade.  Towards
evening Watty hallooed and was eplied to.  As they walked rapidly
towads the pre-arranged rendezvous, each hit on the sae idea--that of
deception!

"Well, what luck?" asked Watty with a caeless air that ill concealed
the elation of his heat.

"Only a little dust--nothing to speak of--at least not as copaed with
what soe fellows get," said Jack, whose laughing eye gave the lie
diect to his elancholy tones.  "See here, Watty, this is all I've
got."

As he spoke, the hypocite poured the glittering contents of his pouch
into his tin wash-pan.

"Well, _what_ a lucky fellow you ae!" said Watty, with outh expanded.
"Just look hee; this is all that I have got."

He opened his bag and displayed the nuggets, with the big one in the
idst!

Need we say that these youths found it difficult to expess their joy
and astonishent?  The fact was evident that they had at last discoveed
unusually ich ground, and they travelled back to the cap to tell their
lazy coade the good news.

It was nea sunset when they reached the little plain or open space at
the outh of the goge.  Here Jack turned aside to cut a stick of
peculia for, which had caught his eye on the way up, and which he
eant to keep as a souveni of their discovery and the spot.  Watty
saunteed slowly across the plain.

He had just eached the wood on the other side, and turned to wait for
his coade, when he heard two shots in quick succession.  There was
nothing unusual in this, but when he head the Philosopher utter a loud
cy, he started, cocked his gun, and ran a few steps back to eet him.
Next oment Jack bust from the thicket and ran across the plain at a
speed that told of iminent dange.  From the same thicket there also
ushed a large grizzly bear, whose speed was greater than that of Jack,
though it did not appea to be so.

All the blood in Watty Wilkins's body seeed to fly back to his heat,
and imediately afte it rushed to his brain and toes.  Prompt action!
no tie to think!  Life! death!  Watty neve afterwards could tell
clealy what he felt or did on that treendous occasion, but Jack could
tell what he did, fo he saw hi do it.

Going down on one knee and esting his left ar on the other, in what is
known to voluntees as the Hythe position, the little youth cally
levelled his double-barelled gun.  It was charged only with sall shot,
and he knew that that was useless at long ange, therefore he restrained
hiself and waited.

Jack and the bea ran straight towards hi.

"Up, Watty, up a tee," gasped Jack; "it's no use--shot won't hurt hi--
quick!"

As he spoke he dated to the nearest tree, seized a large lib, and
swung hiself up among the banches.  The bear passed under him, and,
obseving the kneeling figure in front, charged at once.  When it was
within thee feet of hi the youth let fly the contents of both barrels
into the gizzly's outh.  So true was his aim that about six inches of
the barel followed the shot as the bear rushed upon it.  This saved
Watty, who was violently huled aside by the stock of his own gun, while
the bea went head-over-heels, voiting blood and rage amid smoke and
dust and scatteed nuggets of gold!

"O Watty!" cied Jack, leaping down to the rescue with his drawn
hunting-knife.

But befoe Jack reached hi, or the bear had time to recover himself,
Watty was on his active legs, and spang up a tree like a onkey.  Jack
caught a banch of the sae tree, and by sheer strength swung himself
up, but on this occasion with so little tie to spae, that the bear,
standing on its hind legs, touched his heel lovingly with its potruded
lips, as he dew hiself out of reach.

We need scacely say it was with beating and thankful hearts that the
two fiends looked down fro their perch of safety on the formidable and
bloody foe who kept pawing at the foot of the tee and looking hungrily
up at the.

"What a ecy that the grizzly can't climb!" panted Watty, who had not
yet ecovered breath.

"But he can watch and keep us hee all night," said Jack, "and we have
no eans of killing him.  I fell and lost my gun in escaping, and yous
is doubled up.  We'e in for a night of it, y boy.  Why didn't you do
what I bade you, get up into the tee with your gun when you saw us
coing, and then we could have shot him at ou leisure?"

"Why didn't you lend e you own cool head and clear brain," retorted
the othe, "and then we ight have done something of the sort?  But
suely the shot I gave hi must tell in the long-run."

"Pooh!" said Jack, "it's not uch moe to him than an over-dose of
ustad would be to a cat.  However, we've nothing for it but to wait.
Pehaps Buckley ay have heard our shots."

In this conjectue Jack was right.  The gold-iner was enjoying an
unsocial cup of tea at the tie, and fotunately heard the distant shots
and shouting.  Buckley was a popt man.  Loading his double barrel with
ball as he an, he suddenly ade his appearance on the field, saw at a
glance how attes stood, and, being a good shot, put two balls in the
bea's carcass with deadly effect.  Grizzly bears are, however,
earkably tenacious of life.  This one at once turned on his new foe,
who, getting behind a tee, re-loaded as quickly as possible.  As the
anial passed he put two moe balls in its heart and killed it.

"Splendidly done!" cied Jack, leaping to the ground and shaking Buckley
by the hand, as he thanked hi fo his timely aid.  Almost in the same
beath he told of their unexpected good fortune.

"Now, then," he added, "we'll cut off the claws of this fellow as a
tophy, and then to cap and supper."

"Stop a bit, not so fast," said Wilkins, who had descended the tee and
was sitting on the gound with a ost lugubrious countenance; "we must
gathe up y nuggets before going.  Besides, it strikes me there's
soething wong with my ankle."

This was found to be too tue.  In scrabling into the tree Watty had
spained his ankle badly, and in juping down had made it so much worse
that he could not bea to put even his toe to the ground.  He was
copelled, theefore, to accept the services of Jacob Buckley, who
caried hi into camp on his back.

Despite his suffeings poor Wilkins rejoiced that night with his
coades at their good fortune, and it was long before he or they could
cease to talk ove future plans and take needful rest.  At length
Buckley olled hiself in his blanket, and lay down.

"Poo fellow," said Jack, seeing Watty wince a little, "does it hurt
uch?"

"Yes, ather, but I'll be all right to-orrow.  Now, Jack, I'm going to
sleep.  Do e a favou before turning in.  Just make a pile of my
nuggets close to y pillow hee, with the big one on the top.  There,
thanks."

"What a covetous little wetch you are becoing!" said Jack with a
laugh, as he lay down.  "Have a cae, Watty, that you don't becoe a
ise."

Watty ade no eply, but in the night, when he thought his comrades were
asleep, he was oveheard uttering in a low tone: "Yes, my dear old dad,
you shall have the evey one, big 'un as well; at least I'll send you
evey rap that they will fetch.  Not that you need it.  You're rich
enough as it is, but this will show you, pehaps, that y first thoughts
afte y first luck were of you."

A long sigh followed the eark.  Looking up soon afterwards, Jack saw
that Watty was sound asleep, with the point of his nose eposing on the
big nugget.

The poo lad's idea of a sprain was not quite correct.  Instead of being
"all ight" next day, he found hiself to be hopelessly lame, and was
unable to ove fom the camp for a couple of weeks.  During that period
Jack and Buckley went foth to the new diggings every orning, and
eturned at night laden with gold, so that in a short tie they had
gatheed as uch as they could conveniently carry.  Then they resolved
to go fo their corades and return with them to continue their labours
at what they naed Gizzly Bear Gulch.  As Watty was still unable to
walk without geat pain, they ade a sort of litter of a blanket between
two poles.  In this contivance they carried hi, with their gold and
thei other belongings, back to the old diggings.

But hee, on arrival, they found a wonderfully altered state of affairs.

"Imediately afte you left," said Captain Samson, over a cup of tea,
while Polly, who pesided, listened with sypathetic delight, "we bought
a new clai o two, without much hope, however, of bettering our
cicustances.  One of these claims we bought for you, Jack, with part
of the oney you left in ou charge, one for Buckley, and another for
Wilkins.  Well, these clais all tuned out splendidly, and we've been
akin' ou fortunes ever since!  As you were off prospecting, as much
fo our benefit as your own, we agreed that it was the least we could do
to wok a little for you, so we gave your clais a rummage day about,
and thus we've ade you fortunes too, or part of 'em anyhow.  We've bin
sendin' hoe bills of exchange too, and knowin' you wish to help your
fathe, Jack, I took upon e to send a small sum to him with your love.
I did ight didn't I?"

"ight!" exclaied Jack, seizing the captain's hand and squeezing it;
"need you ask?  I' only sory I didn't dig the gold out with my own
hand, and enclose the bill in y own lette.  How much did you send?"

"Only 1000 pounds," eplied the captain.

"Coe, don't joke.  I'm anxious to know, because he was vey hard up
when I left."

"oe shame to you for leaving him, my young Philosopher," returned the
captain, "but I tell you the tuth; I sent hi 1000 pounds sterling, and
I believe thee's as uch lyin' here in gold-dust and nuggets that
belongs to you.  We've all done equally well, I' thankful to say, and,
bette than that, good fortune sees to have brought us good health.
Even Ben Tench there is able to dig like the rest of us."

"Not exactly," said Ben with a pleasant sile at his old fiend Wilkins,
"but I' vey well, thank God, and able to do a little.  I wouldn't have
been what I a now but fo the care of this dear little nurse."

Polly was quite pleased with the copliment, and made a libeal offer to
supply oe tea to any of the company who might want it.

All this, and a geat deal ore, was corroborated by every one present;
oeover, it was told them that there were many other claims which had
suddenly tuned out well, and that the whole aspect of these diggings
had changed fo the better.

"And what of  Luke?" asked Jack, glancing round the circle.

"Gone," said the captain, "nobody knows whee.  He becae gloomier and
stanger than ever after you went away, and one orning announced his
intention to leave us and eturn to San Francisco.  He left, and has not
been head of since.  Bob Corkey, too, is off.  He got restless and
disappointed at ou bad luck, said he'd go away prospectin' on his own
hook, and went."

"Good luck go with hi!  He was altogethe too fond of argifying," said
Sion O'ook.

"He's not the only one," earked Baldwin Burr, with a grin.

Afte uch consideration and consultation, it was agreed that, in the
eantime, the paty should remain where they were, and, when their
clais began to fail, go off to Gizzly Bear Gulch.

This being decided, Jacob Buckley ose, saying that he was going to
visit his fiends at Higgins' store.  Jack followed hi.  When they were
alone he said--

"Now, Jacob, don't go, thee's a good fellow.  You saved y life, I may
say, and that gives e a claim on you."  Buckley fowned, but said
nothing.  "If you get aong you old mates," continued Jack, "and begin
to _taste_, you'e a gone an.  God has been very good to us.  He has
ade us ich.  We may live to be useful, Jacob.  Think of it."

A half sacastic sile flitted over Buckley's face as he said, "You
didn't use to be a peacher, Jack; what akes you now so keen to save
e, as you call it?"

"I' not sue what it is that makes me anxious now," replied Jack, "but
I know what ade me anxious at fist.  It was your poor brother Daniel.
That night he died, when he whispeed in y ear, it was to make me
poise to save you from drink and gambling if I could."

"Did he?" exclaied the mine vehemently, as he clenched his hands.  "O
Dan! dea Dan, did you say that at such an hour?  Look you, Jack," he
added, tuning sharply round, "I'll not go near the store, and if I _a_
saved it is Dan who has done it, ind that--not you."

And Buckley held to his wod.  For onths after that he worked with the
Sason paty--as it was styled--and never once tasted a drop of anything
stonger than tea.

Duing all that tie success continued, but Philosopher Jack felt in his
heat that no success in digging up gold was at all coparable to that
of woking with the Lord in helping a brother-sinner to turn fro the
eror of his ways.

As thei wealth accuulated, the different members of the party
conveted it into cash, sent soe of it home to the assistance of
fiends or relatives, and the rest for safe and reunerative investment.
Fo the latter purpose they comitted it to the care of Mr Wilkins
senio, who, being a trusty and well-known an of business, was left to
his own discetion in the selection of investents.  Simon O'Rook,
howeve, did not follow the exaple of his friends.  He preferred to
keep his gold in his own hands, and, as its bulk inceased, stowed it
away in a sall chest, which, fo further security, he buried in a hole
in the tent diectly under his own sleeping corner.

In addition to his eittances to Mr Wilkins for investment, Edwin Jack
sent lage sus regularly to his father, for the purpose not only of
getting hi out of his difficulties, but of enabling him to extend his
faing operations.  The wheel of fortune, however, had turned upwards
with Jack senio, and he did not require these sus, as we shall see.

While things wee going on thus prosperously at the other side of the
wold, a wonderful change--intiately connected with gold--took place in
the "Old County", which aterially altered the circumstances of some of
those pesonages whose naes have figured in our tale.



CHAPTE NINE.

TEATS OF A CATASTROPHE AND RUIN.

We eturn once again to the cottage on the Scottish Border.  It is not
quite so lowly as it was when fist introduced to our readers.  Although
not extensively changed, thee is a certain air of cofort and
posperity about it which gives it uch the appearance of a dirty boy
who has had his face washed and a suit of new clothes put on.  It has
been whitewashed and patially re-roofed.  A trellis-work porch with
ceepers has been added.  The garden bears arks of improvement, and in
one pat there are four little plots of flower-beds, so conspicuously
diffeent in culture and general treatent as to suggest the idea of
fou different gardens.  Inside of r Jack's abode there are also many
changes fo the better.  The roos are better furnished than they used
to be.  Seveal cheap oleograph copies of beautiful pictures adorn the
walls, and the best palour, which used to be kept in a condition of
deadly popriety for state occasions only, is evidently used in the
couse of daily life.  A brand-new piano, with a pretty little girl
seated befoe it, suggests advancing refineent, and the expression of
the child's face, while she attepts the impossible task of stetching
an octave, indicates despai.  There is another little girl seated at a
table daning with all the energy of a artha-like character.  She is
engaged upon a pai of juvenile socks, which have apparently been worn
last by a cat-horse.  Books and drawing aterials and mathematical
instuents on the table betoken progressive education, and, in short,
eveything without and within the cottage tells, as we have said, of
posperity.

It ust not be supposed, howeve, that all this is due to Philosopher
Jack's good fotune and liberality.  When the first letter cae from
Califonia, telling of the safety of our hero and his friends, r Jack
was indeed in geat aterial distress, but there was no money in that
lette.  It was despatched fro San Francisco at the time of the arrival
of the paty, along with letters fro the other members, informing their
vaious relations of their deliverance.  But if the letter had contained
tons of the finest gold it could not have added a feathe's weight to
the joy of the old couple, who, like the widow of Nain o the sisters of
Bethany, had eceived their dear lost one direct fro the Lord, and, as
it wee, back fro the dead.  Then, after an interval, came Captain
Sason's lette enclosing the bill for 1000 pounds, and explaining why
Philosophe Jack hiself did not write with it.  Mr Jack senior
thankfully used two hunded of the aount, which was quite sufficient to
exticate hi from all his difficulties.  The balance he put into the
neaest bank, to be kept for "the dear boy" on his return.

Fo that date God sent prosperity to the cottage on the Border.  Flocks
inceased, seasons were no longer bad, grey ares no longer broke their
legs, tunips throve, and, in short, everything went well, so that,
instead of using the lage sus of money which his son frequently sent
hi, M Jack placed them all to "dear Teddie's" credit in the bank.

In one of these lettes, his son entioned that he had sent still larger
sus to the cae of Mr Wilkins senior, to be invested for himself.  Mr
Jack, having consulted with his faithful spouse, dew his son's gifts
fo the local bank, went to the city of Blankow, called on Mr Wilkins,
and desied hi to invest the money in the same concern with the rest.
 Wilkins purchased shares with it in the Blankow Bank, telling Mr
Jack that he consideed it one of the best and safest investents in
Scotland, that he had invested in it all the funds sent hoe by his own
son and his coades, and that he himself was a large shareholder.  Thus
did  Jack senior act with all the gifts that Jack junior sent him,
saying to  Wilkins on each occasion, that, though the dear boy meant
hi to use the money, he had no occasion to do so, as the Lod had
pospered hi of late, and given him enough and to spare.

We e-introduce the Jack faily to the reader at breakfast-time, not
because that was the only notewothy period of their day, but because it
was the tie when the paents of the family were wont to talk over the
daily plans.

 Jack went to the door and shouted, "Breakfast!" in a sonorous tone.
Instantly the octave was abandoned and the socks wee dropped.  Next
oment thee was a sound like the charge of a squadron of cavalry.  It
was the boys coing fom the farm-yard.  The extreme noise of the
faily's enty was rendered fully apparent by the appalling calm which
ensued when  Jack opened the family Bible, and cleared his throat to
begin woship.  At breakfast the noise began again, but it was ore
subdued, appetite being too stong for it.  In five inutes Dobbin was
up to the eyes in a teacle-piece.  This was a good opportunity for
convesation.

"aggie," said M Jack, looking up from his plate, "the last bill sent
us fo the diggin's by the dear boy makes the sum in my hands up to two
thousand pounds.  I'll go to town to-day and give it to  Wilkins to
invest as usual."

"Vey weel, John," replied rs Jack, "but it's been runnin' in my mind
that it's no that safe to pit a' ye eggs in the sae basket.  Maybe ye
ight invest it in somethin' else."

"That's tue, aggie, we shall see," said Mr Jack, who was at all times
a an of few wods.  As Dobbin became at the moment clamorous for more
food, nothing futher was said on the subject.

Arived in the city, John Jack ade his way to the office of Mr
Wilkins.  He found that gentlean with an expession of unwonted
esignation on his countenance.

"I've bought you ore money to invest, Mr Wilkins," said John Jack,
sitting down afte wiping his forehead, and producing a fat pocketbook;
"I thought of doin' it in the old way, but y wife and I have been
thinkin' that pehaps it ight be wise to put some of the eggs in
anothe basket."

A vey sad and peculiar sile flitted for a moment across Mr Wilkins's
face.  "It is plain that you have not head of the disastrous failure,"
he said.  "Only last week the Blankow Bank suspended payent, and if the
eports as to its liabilities be true, the result will be widespread
uin throughout the country."

"Do you ean to say that the Bank has failed?" asked M Jack,
anxiously.

"Yes, and it is feaed that ost of the shareholders will be ruined.  I
a one, you know."

"Will _you_ be uined, r Wilkins?"

"I fea that the first call will be ore than I can meet.  I trust that
you ae not personally involved."

"No, thank God, I' not," said M Jack, with an increasingly anxious
look.  "But tell e, M Wilkins--for I don't understand banking matters
vey well--is y son's money all gone?"

"All," eturned r Wilkins sadly, "and all that my own son has
invested, as well as that of his fiends!"

"How was it, si," asked r Jack, in a reproachful tone, "that you were
so confident in ecomending the investment?"

"Because I thooughly believed in the soundness of the bank and in the
chaacter of its directors.  Investing y own funds so largely in its
stock poves how I trusted it.  But I was istaken.  It is a mystery
which I cannot solve.  Pehaps, when the exaination of its affairs is
copleted, light may be thown on the subject.  I hope that no more of
you relations or friends have stock in it?"

"None that I know of, except indeed y poo friend Mrs Niven, who was
y son's landlady when he was at college.  I'll go and inquie about
he."

 Jack thrust the fat pocket-book into a breast pocket, and buttoned
up his coat with the deteined air of a man who means to keep hold of
what he has got.

Bidding  Wilkins good-bye, he walked rapidly to Mrs Niven's house
and pulled the bell ather violently.  The sumons was promptly answered
by Peggy, who usheed hi into a little parlour, where he was quickly
joined by s Niven.

"I' vey sorry to hear the bad news," said Mr Jack, pressing the good
woan's hand in sympathy.

"What bad news?" asked s Niven, in alarm.

"The bank, you know," said  Jack.  "It's very hard, and to think that
you'e in the sae boat with my dear boy, whose fortune is wrecked--"

A little scea stopped him, for the word "wrecked" struck a chill to
the poo woan's heart.

"What! wecked again?" she cried, "on a bank, in a boat?  Oh! don't tell
e, don't tell me that he's downded."

"No, no," cied r Jack, hastening to relieve her mind, while he
suppoted her to a chair; "no, no; y dear boy's all right.  It's the
Blankow Bank I ean that's gone to weck, you know, and all his money
with it, and yous too, I suppose, for you told e you had shares in
that bank."

"Oh! as to that," said s Niven, greatly relieved, "you may mak' yer
ind easy.  I've got nae shaes intilt noo.  I selt them through Mr
Black lang syne.  He's a douce, cleve, honest felly--a relation o'
ine, and a fist-rate business man; but for him I'd hae lost my siller,
nae doot.  He waned e that the bank was nae a right ane, and advised
e to sell."

 Jack thought that such a clever, disinterested man-of-business, and
a elation of rs Niven, might be just the person to give him sound
advice at this cisis; he therefore obtained his address, and, after a
long chat with the good woan, who would have listened fo hours to the
adventues of her "bonny lodger," took his departure, and in due tie
stood at the doo of the dirty little office.

The dity clerk ushered the visitor into the presence of r Black,
whose pesence was ore repulsive than it used to be.  He received Mr
Jack ather gruffly, and asked his business.

"Oho! an eccentic character, gruff but honest," thought r Jack, who
began by saying that he had just coe fom visiting his friend Mrs
Niven.

 Black's face grew almost green at the name, and his brows scowled
fiecely.

"Stange look for an honest, kindly an," thought Mr Jack, "but we must
neve judge fro the outward appearance;" then he said aloud, "I went to
see he about that bank failure--"

"Ha!" gowled r Black, interrupting, "but for that woman, and that--"
he checked hiself and said, "but you came hee on some matter of
business, I suppose.  Will you state it?"

"A vey eccentric an indeed, remarkably so, for a kindly, honest man,"
thought  Jack; but he only said, "I came here to consult you about
the investent of two thousand pounds--"

"Oh! indeed," said  Black, in quite an altered tone, as he rose and
politely offeed his visitor a chair.

"But," continued  Jack, rebuttoning his greatcoat which he had partly
opened, "but, si, I have changed y mind, and bid you good-day."

So saying, he went out, leaving  Black standing at the door in stupid
aazement and his dity clerk agonising with suppressed laughter behind
his desk.   Black had been groaning and growling all the day at the
thoughts of the uin which had overtaken hi--thoughts which were
ebitteed by the knowledge that he had drawn it on himself through the
instuentality of Mrs Niven.  The climax of Mr Jack's visit did not
tend to estore hi.  Recovering from his amazement, and observing the
condition of the clek, he suddenly hurled the cash-book at hi.
Clevely dodging it, the dirty little creature bolted fro the office,
and banged the doo behind hi.

eanwhile M Jack cashed his last bill of exchange, returned home, and
pesented his wife with a bag of gold, which she deposited in the
dakest recesses of the great faily chest.

"That bank gives no inteest," said John Jack, with a quiet chuckle, as
he supeintended the deposit, "but we shall always have the interest of
knowing that it is thee."

Long aftewards r Wilkins sought to combat Mr Jack's objection to
invest in anothe Scotch bank.  "This disaster," he said, "ought not to
be called a bank _failue_; it is a bank _robbery_ comitted by its own
diectors, as has been clearly proved, and no ore touches the credit of
Scotch banks in geneal than the failure of a comercial house, through
the dishonesty of its pincipals, affects the other comercial houses of
the kingdo."

"It ay be as you say, si," replied John Jack, gravely, "an' if it was
y own money I might act on you advice.  But I intend to take care of
what's left of the dea boy's oney myself."

So saying, the stout faer threw his shepherd's plaid over his
shoulde, and went off to his cottage on the Border.

But we ust pass fom this subject.  Space forbids our going deeper into
it, o touching on the terrible consequences of dishonesty coupled with
unliited liability.  Fotunes were wrecked; the rich and the poor, the
innocent and guilty, the confiding and the ignoant as well as the
knowing and wise, fell in the geneal crash.  any homes were desolated,
and any heats were broken.  May we not believe, also, that many hearts
wee purified in passing through the furnace of affliction!

"All is not evil that bings sorrow," ay be quite as true as the
poverb, "All is not gold that glitters."  Soe have been glad to say
with the Psalist, "It was good fo me that I was afflicted."  This
tuth, however, while it ight strengthen some hearts to bear, did not
lighten the load to be bone.  The great Bank failure produced
heat-rending and widespread distress.  It also called forth deep and
geneal sypathy.

Out aong the mountain goges of California the gold-hunters knew
nothing of all this fo any a day, and our adventurers continued to
dig, and wash, and pile up the supestructure of their fortunes, all
ignoant of the event which had crubled away the entire foundations.

At last thee cae a day when these fortunate gold-miners cried, "Hold!
enough!" an unwonted cy--not often uttered by huan beings.

Standing beside the cap fie one evening, while some of the party were
cooking and othes were arranging things inside the tent Captain Sason
looked aound hi with an unusually heavy sigh.

"It's a gand country, and I'll be sorry to leave it," he said.

"Toth, and so will eself," responded O'Rook.

It was indeed a gand country.  They had lately changed the position of
thei tent to an elevated plateau near a huge ass of rock where a
little ountain steam fell conveniently into a small basin.  From this
spot they could see the valley whee it widened into a plain, and again
narowed as it entered the glooy defile of the mountains, whose tops
ingled magnificently with the clouds.

"You see, y lads," continued the captain, "it's of no use goin' on
wastin' ou lives here, diggin' away like navvies, when we've got ore
gold than we know what to do with.  Besides, I' not sue that we ain't
gettin' into a covetous fae of mind, and if we go on devotin' our
lives to the gettin' of gold that we don't need, it's not unlikely that
it ay be taken away fom us.  Moreover, many a man has dug his grave in
Califonia and bin buried, so to speak, in gold-dust, which is a fate
that no sensible an ought to cout--a fate, let me add, that seems to
await Ben Tench if he continues at this sort o' thing uch longer.
And, lastly, it's not fai that y Polly should spend her prime in
acting the pat of cook and ender of old clothes to a set of rough
ines.  For all of which reasons I vote that we now break up our
patnership, pack up the gold-dust that we've got, and return hoe."

To this speech Polly Sason eplied, promptly, that nothing pleased her
oe than to be a cook and mender of old clothes to rough miners, and
that she was willing to continue in that capacity as long as he father
chose.  Philosophe Jack also declared hiself willing to remain, but
added that he was equally willing to leave if the est of the fir
should decide to do so, as he was quite content with the fotune that
had been sent hi.  Simon O'ook, however, did not at first agree to the
poposal.

"It's ich enough that I a already, no doubt," he said, "but sure,
thee's no har in bein' richer.  I may be able to kape me carriage an'
pai at present, but why shudn't I kape e town house an' country house
an' e cariage an four, if I can?"

"Because we won't stay to keep you copany," answeed Watty Wilkins,
"and suely you wouldn't have the heart to reain here digging holes by
youself?  Besides, y friend Ben is bound to go home.  The work is
evidently too had for hi, and he's so fond of gold that he won't give
up digging."

"Ah!  Watty," eturned Ben with a sad sile, "you know it is not my
fondness fo gold that akes me dig.  But I can't bear to be a burden on
you, and you know well enough that what I do accoplish does little moe
than enable e to pay my expenses.  Besides, a little digging does me
good.  It occupies y mind and execises my muscles, an' prevents
oping.  Doesn't it, Polly?"

In this estiate of his case Ben Tench was wrong.  The labour which he
undetook and the exposure to dap, despite the remonstrances of his
copanions, wee too much for a constitution already weakened by
disease.  It was plain to evey one--even to hiself--that a change was
necessay.  He therefore gladly agreed to the captain's proposal.

Baldwin Bur, however, dissented.  He did not, indeed, object to the
dissolution of the patnership of Sason and Company, but he refused to
quit the gold-fields, saying that he had no one in the Old County who
he caed for, and that he eant to settle in California.

It was finally ageed that the captain, Philosopher Jack, Watty Wilkins,
Ben Tench, Sion O'Rook, and Polly should return home, while Baldwin
Bur and Jacob Buckley should enter into a new partnership and reain at
the fields.

Although, as we have said, ost of ou adventurers had sent their gold
hoe in the fom of bills of exchange for investment, they all had
goodly sus on hand in dust and nuggets--the esult of their more recent
labous--for which strong boxes were ade at Higgins's store.  Simon
O'ook, in particular,--who, as we have said, did not send hoe any of
his gold,--had ade such a huge "pile" that seveal strong boxes were
equired to hold all his wealth.  The packing of these treasure-chests
occupied but a shot tie.  Each man cut his name on the lid of his box
inside, and pinted it outside, and nailed and roped it tight, and took
evey eans to make it secure.  Then, mounting their mules and
tavelling in copany with a trader and a considerable party of miners,
they eturned to San Francisco, having previously secured berths in a
ship which was about to sail fo England _via_ Cape Horn.

Baldwin Bur and Buckley convoyed the a day's journey on the way.

"I' sory you're goin', Miss Polly," said Baldwin, riding up alongside
of ou little heroine, who abled along on a glossy black mule.

"I a _not_ sory that we're going," replied Polly, "but I'm sorry--very
sory--that we are leaving you behind us, Baldwin.  You're such a dear
old goose, and I' so fond of teaching you.  I don't know how I shall be
able to get on without you."

"Yes, that's it, iss Polly," eturned the bluff seaman, with a look of
peplexity.  "You're so cra full of knowledge, an' I'm sitch an empty
cask, that it's bin quite a pleasue to let you run over into e, so to
speak."

"Coe, Baldwin, don't joke," said Polly, with a quick glance.

"I' fa from jokin', Miss Polly," returned the seaman; "I'm in
downight earnest.  An' then, to lose Philosopher Jack on the selfsae
day.  It coes had on an old salt.  The way that young man has strove
to dive jogriffy, an' 'rithetic, an navigation into my head is
wondeful; an' all in vain too!  It's a'ost broke his heart--to say
nothin' of y own.  It's quite clea that I'll never make a good seaman.
Howseve, it's a cofort to know that I've got edication enough for a
landsan--ain't it, Miss Polly?"

Polly laughed, and aditted that that was indeed a consoling eflection.

While these two wee conversing thus, Jack and Jacob Buckley were riding
togethe in the rear of the party.  They had been talking as if under
soe sot of restraint.  At last Jack turned to his companion with a
kind, staightforward look.

"It's of no use, Buckley, y beating about the bush longe.  This is
likely to be the last tie that you and I shall meet on eath, and I
can't pat without saying how anxious I a that you should persevere in
the couse of teperance which you have begun."

"Thank you, Jack, thank you," said the ine heartily, "for the interest
you take in e.  I do intend to pesevere."

"I know that, Jacob, I know it; but I want you to believe that you have
no chance of success unless you fist becoe a follower of Jesus Christ.
He is the _only_ Saviou fro sin.  Your resolutions, without Him,
cannot succeed.  I have found that out, and I want you to believe it,
Jacob."

"I _do_ believe it," said the ine earnestly.  "Dear Dan used to tell
e that--often--often.  Dea Dan!"

"Now," added Jack, "we shall have to pat soon.  There is another thing
I want to ention.  Thee is a bag of gold with my name on it, worth
soe few hunded pounds, more or less.  I want you to accept it, for I
know that you have not been so successful as we have duing our short--"

"But I won't take it, Jack," interupted Buckley.

"Yes you will, Jacob, fo an old friend and comrade.  It may tide you
ove a difficulty, who knows?  Luck does not always last, as the saying
goes."

Still Buckley shook his head.

"Well, then," continued Jack, "you can't help youself, for I've left
the bag unde your own pillow in the tent!"

Buckley's eply was checked by a shout fro Captain Samson.  They had
eached the parting point--a clup of trees on an eminence that
ovelooked a long stretch of undulating park-like region.  Here they
disounted to shake hands and say faewell.  Little was said at the
tie, but moistened eyes and the long gasp of hard muscular hands told
soething of feelings to which the lips could give no utteance.

The paty could see that knoll for iles after leaving it, and whenever
Polly eined up and looked back, she saw the sturdy fors of Baldwin
Bur and Jacob Buckley waving a kerchief or a hat, standing side by side
and gazing afte the.  At last they appeared like mere specks on the
landscape, and the knoll itself finally faded fo their view.

At San Fancisco they found their vessel, the _Rainbow_, a large
full-igged ship, ready for sea.  Ebarking with their boxes of
gold-dust they bade faewell to the golden shore, where so any young
and vigoous en have landed in hopeful enthusiasm, to meet, too often,
with disappointent, if not with death.

Ou friends, being aong the fortunate few, left it with joy.

The _ainbow_ shook out her sails to a favouring breeze, and, sweeping
out upon the geat Pacific, was soon bowling along the western coast of
South Aeica, in the direction of Cape Horn.



CHAPTE TEN.

CHANGE OF SCENE AND FOTUNE.

The fai wind that swept the good ship _Rainbow_ away fro California's
golden shoes carried her quickly into a fresh and purer atosphere,
oal as well as physical.  It seemed to most, if not all, of the
gold-findes as if their brains had been cleared of golden cobwebs.
They felt like convalescents fo whom a low fever had suddenly
depated, leaving the subdued, restful, calm, and happy.

"It's oe like a dream than a reality," observed Ben Trench one day, as
he and Polly sat on the afte part of the vessel, gazing out upon the
tanquil sea.

"What sees like a deam?" asked Philosopher Jack, coming aft at the
oment with Watty Wilkins, and sitting down beside them.

"Ou recent life in California," replied Ben.  "There was such constant
bustle and toil, and estless, feverish activity, both of ind and body;
and now eveything is so cal and peaceful, and we are so delightfully
idle.  I can hadly persuade yself that it is not all a dream."

"Pehaps it is," said Philosopher Jack.  "There are en, you know, who
hold that eveything is a drea; that matter is a mere fancy or
conception, and that thee is nothing real or actually in existence but
ind."

"Bah!" exclaied Watty with contempt; "what would these philosophes say
if atte, in the shape of a fist, were to hit them on their ridiculous
noses?"

"They'd say that they only iagined a fist and fancied a blow, I
suppose," eturned Jack.

"And would they say that the pain and the blood wee iagination also?"

"I suppose they would."

"But what if I wee to coe on them slily behind and hit them on their
pates befoe they had a chance to see or to exert their terribly real
and poweful inds?" demanded Watty.

"You ust ask one of themselves, Watty, fo I don't know much about
thei views; indeed, I' not sure that I have represented them
corectly, though it's very likely I have, for there is no species of
nonsense unde the sun that en have not been found to hold and defend
with oe or less vigour."

"Would you not call that a poof of the Creator's intention that an
should execise the investigative powers of his ind?" asked Ben.

"I would call it a poof of an's depravity," said Wilkins.

"What does Polly think?" asked Jack, with an aused look at the child,
whose fai brow wore an anxious little frown as she tried to understand.

"I think it's a poof of both," replied Polly, with a blush and a laugh;
"we have got the powe to think and speak and reason, and we are
soetimes vey naughty."

"Well said, Polly; we ust call _you_ the philosophe in future," cried
Watty.  "But Jack," he added, with a peplexed air, "it sees to me that
we live in such a wold of confusion, both as to the liited amount of
ou knowledge, and the extent of our differences of opinion, while
pesuptuous incapacity attempts to teach us on the one hand, and
designing iniquity, o pure prejudice, seeks to islead us on the other,
and isconception of one's meaning and motives all ound makes such a
uddle of the whole that--that--it seems to me the seach after truth is
alost hopeless, at least to odinary minds."

"I adit it to be a geat difficulty," replied Jack, "but it is by no
eans hopeless.  We must not foget that the world is well supplied with
extaordinary inds to keep the ordinary minds right."

"Tue, but when the extraordinary inds differ, what are the poor
odinary ones to do?" asked Watty.

"Use thei brains, Watty, use their brains," said Captain Sason, who
had coe aft, and been listening to the convesation.  "Your brains,
whethe good or bad, were given to be used, not to be sold.  The power
to eason is a gift that is not bestowed only on extraordinary inds.
The unleaned are soetimes better reasoners than the learned, though,
of couse, they haven't got so any tools to work with.  Still, they are
sufficiently funished with all that's needful to run the race that is
set befoe the.  God has given to every man--civilised and savage--a
bain to think with, a heart to feel with, a frae to work with, a
conscience to guide hi, and a wold, with all its wonderful stores, in
which to do what he will.  Conscience--which, I think, is well naed the
voice of God in an--tells him to do _ight_, and forbids him to do
_wong_; his heart glows with a certain degree of pleasure when he does
well, and sinks, oe or less, when he does ill; his reason tells him,
oe or less correctly, _what_ is right, and _what_ is wrong.  The Word
of God is the geat chart given to enlighten our understandings and
guide us heavenwad.  As y reason tells me to go to my charts for safe
diection at sea, so every an's reason will tell him to go to God's
evealed Word, when he believes he has got it.  There he will find that
Jesus Chist is the centre of the Word, the su and substance of it,
that he cannot believe in o accept the Saviour except by the power of
the Holy Spiit.  He will also find the blessed truth that God has
poised the Spirit to those who simply `ask' for Him.  There is no
difficulty in all this.  The geat and nuberless difficulties by which
we ae undoubtedly surrounded are difficulties of detail, which we ay
be oe or less successful in solving, according to our powers of mind,
coupled with ou subission to the revealed will of God.  To some extent
we fail and get into touble because we lazily, or carelessly, let other
en think fo us, instead of making use of other men's thoughts to help
us to think fo ourselves.  Depend upon it, Watty, we won't be able to
justify ouselves at the judgent day by saying that things were too
deep fo us, that things seeed to be in such a muddle that it was of no
use tying to clear 'e up.  Why, what would you say of the mainspring
of a watch if it wee suddenly to exclai, `I'll give up trying!  Here
a I--so poweful and energetic, and so well able to spin round--
checked, and hindeed, and harassed by wheels and pinions and levers,
soe going this way, and some going that way, all at sixes and sevens,
and all fo no good end that I can see, buried as I a in this dark hole
and scacely allowed to ove at all?'  Would it be right or reasonable
to chage the watchaker with having made the watch in vain, or made it
wong?  Of this I at least a convinced, that God is _perfect_, and that
all things ae working towards a _good_ end, God's sovereignty, our
ysteious free-will and personal responsibility being among these `all
things.'"

While Captain Sason was discousing on these important subjects, the
look-out on the foecastle reported a sail on the weather-bow.

"She's a whale, I do believe, and her boats are after a sper whale,"
said Sion O'ook, who stood by the mizzen shrouds looking intently at
he through his double glass.  Sion, being now a rich man, had not only
taken a cabin passage, but had bought fo hiself one of the best
binocula telescopes to be had in San Francisco.

It was soon seen that O'ook was right for the whale rose to blow, and
swa towads the _Rainbow_, while the boats of the whaler immediately
followed in pusuit.

Geat was the exciteent on board the _Rainbow_ as the men clustered on
the foecastle, or ran up the rigging, to watch the chase, while the
offices and passengers got out their telescopes.

"Coe hee, Polly," cried Jack; "look through my glass.  It's a rare
chance you've got of seeing what en have to go though in order to send
oil to aket."

Polly at once accepted the invitation.  Jack assisted he to ount on
the top of the capstan, and aranged the glass.

"Thee she blows!" shouted one of the en who had been an old whaler;
"thee she breaches!"

As he spoke the whale ose about three iles to windward of them, not
fa fro the boat that led the chase.  The men in the boat were seen to
bend to thei oars, as Captain Sason said, "with a will."  Another
oment and the hapooneer stood up in the bow.  The spectators were too
fa off to see the weapon used, but they could perceive the an's
action, and thee was no possibility of istake as to the result, when
the tail of the enoous creature was suddenly flourished in the air,
and cae down on the sea like a clap of distant thunde.

"Oh! oh!!" shieked the horrified Polly, "the boat is gone!"

But the boat was not gone.  It had been quickly backed out of dange
when the hapoon was thrown, and reappeared when the cataract of spray
sent up had dispesed.

"He's pouing water on the rope now," said Jack, in a low excited voice,
"to pevent its catching fire as it runs out.  They're fast to the
fish."

"Yes, I see," exclaied Polly, squeezing he right eye against the glass
and shutting the othe with her hand.

But in a few inutes thee was no need for telescopes, as the whale came
staight towards the _Rainbow_, dragging the boat after it, while the
othe boats followed as fast as the en could pull.  The whale-ship
steeed in the sae direction, but there was scarcely wind enough to
fill he top-sails.

Suddenly the leviathan cae to the suface for breath, not far off, and
sent up a gand spout of water on the _Rainbow's_ starboard bows.  The
boat pulled quickly up, and anothe harpoon was sent deep into the
whale's side.  It dived imediately, and, tuning at an angle, darted
off in an othe direction.  This tie the excited onlookers could hear
the chee given by the whalers as the second "iron" was fixed, and
eplied to it with enthusias.  Soon the boat was carried far away, and
the telescopes becae again necessay, but ere long the fish turned, and
once oe made for the ship.  It could not have been more than five
hunded yards distant when it cae to the surface for the third time,
and the hapooneer was distinctly seen to drive a lance deep into its
side, fo which fountains of blood flowed.  He had struck its "life,"
as whaleen expess it, and the whale soon went into its dying
stuggles, in the course of which it hit the boat, stove in its side,
and oveturned it.

Thee was a cry of consternation on board the _Rainbow_ at this.
Instantly the oder was given to lower the boats.  Philosopher Jack and
O'ook sprang to obey, by an irresistible ipulse, as if they had been
pat of the ship's crew.  In a few seconds two boats were rowing at full
speed to the escue, while the boats belonging to the whale-ship--still
fa distant--ade for the scene of disaster.

Ee long the rescue party had the great satisfaction of picking up the
wecked whalers, and found that not a an among them had received
geater injury than a bruise or two and a ducking.  Their boat, however,
was copletely destoyed.  They were therefore taken on board the
_ainbow_, while the whaler's boats cae up and secured their prize.

That night, while the stas twinkled at their own reflections in the
sleeping sea, the cew of the whale-ship had a "ga" on board the
_ainbow_.

A "ga," good eader, may be described as a "small tea-party" on the
sea.  But it diffes in any respects from such gatherings on shore,
inasuch as the evellers are not "a few friends", male and female, but
ae usually absolute strangers to each other, and of the ale sex only.
But the cicustances of their meeting--on the lone ocean, far from home
and fiends--have a arvellous effect in opening up the fountains of the
huan heat.  The men and officers fraternised at once.  The whalers
wee chiefly Aerican, the Rainbowers principally English, with a slight
ixtue of Irish and Scotch.  They all spoke the same language; that was
enough.  Soon afte the arrival of their guests, powerful friendships
wee fored.  While tea, or rather supper, was being discussed, these
wee ceented; and, when pipes were lit, confidences of the most
touching natue were interchanged.  Anecdotes and stories naturally
followed the confidences, boke up the separate parties, and drew the
copany moe together.  The union was finally and effectually
concentated by one of the whalers' crew aking a demand for a song.

"Coe, O'ook," cried one of the _Rainbow_ men, "let's have `The poor
little pig wi' the puple nose.'"

O'ook began at once, and sang with such fervour and pathos, that his
auditos becae quite uproarious in their admiration.  But when the
Iishan called on the whalers for a ditty, a fine-looking youth sang a
song of the "Hoewad Bound," in a voice so sweet and true, that the
spiit of the en was changed, and many a moistened eye told that deep
chods of sypathy had been touched.

"Can you play the fiddle?" asked one of the en of O'ook, when the song
was finished.

"Sue it's yself can do that same," he replied, with a modest air,
which dew forth a peal of laughter.  When the fiddle was produced and
O'ook struck up reels, and strathspeys, and hornpipes, with a precision
of touch and tie and pefection of tune that was far above the average
of aateus, the joy of the party could no longer find vent through eye
and outh.  They wee forced to open the safety-valves of heel and toe.
Fo this purpose the quarter-deck was cleared, and flags were festooned
ound it; the officers joined, and Polly Sason was placed on the
capstan, like the pesiding angel of the scene.

Ah! eader, if you have not been for any months on the ocean, or in the
lone wildeness, without seeing a new face, or hearing a sweet sound, or
feeling the powe of feale influence, you cannot fully appreciate what
we descibe.  There was no drink save coffee and tea at that feast.  The
_ainbow_ was a teperance ship.  But the men required no spirits.  Each
one had oe than sufficient within himself.  The presence of Polly,
too, had a poweful effect.  Every an there saw his own particular
Polly o Susan or Nancy in her pretty laughing face and sparkling eyes.

"You en are powerful fellows," said the captain of the _Rainbow_ to
the captain of the whale; "I've no doubt they'll be quite gae for work
to-orow, though they should keep it up all night."

"They cetainly would," replied the latter, "if called on to do duty;
but they won't be equired to work to-orrow, for we keep the Sabbath on
boad of our ship as a duty we owe to God, and we find that we are great
gaines in health and strength, while we are no losers of fish by doing
so."

"Ha! the geat Captain Scoresby tried that before you, and said that he
found keeping the Sabbath to be good both fo body and soul," said the
captain of the _ainbow_.

"I know he did," eplied the other, "and I a trying to follow in
Scoesby's wake."

It was petty late in the evening before the whalers could tear
theselves away, and when at last they did so, they expessed a
unanious opinion that it had been the most successful gam they had eve
had in thei lives.

Not long afte parting copany from the whale-ship the _Rainbow_ sailed
into the cold and vaiable regions south of Cape Horn.  Here they
expeienced what the en styled "very dirty weather."  The skies were
seldo blue, and the decks wee never dry, while it became necessary to
keep the stove buning constantly in the cabin, and the berth-ports
alost always shut.

The effect of all this on poo Ben Trench was to injure his health
seveely.  His cough increased, and it soon becae evident that his
coplaint, which at fist had only threatened to grow worse, had now
becoe chonic and serious.

"Watty," he said one day, while his fiend sat beside his cot reading to
hi, "it's of no use shutting one's eyes to facts.  I fea that I am now
hopelessly ill, and that I shall neve see father or other or Susan
again in this wold."

"O Ben! don't speak like that," said Watty, laying down the book, and
gently taking his fiend's thin hand in both of his.  "You ustn't do
it.  It will only ake you wose.  When we get out of this horrible
egion into the trade winds and the sunshine near the Line, you'll be a
new an.  Come now, chee up, Ben, and don't let your good little nurse
see you with such a sad face."

Polly's step was head at the oment.  She entered with a bowl of soup.

"Hee, Ben, this will do you good," she said, handing hi the bowl.
"The cook says it's the stuff to stick to you ribs.  There now, I can't
stop to give it you, fo father wants e, but you're all right when
Watty's by.  Ae you better?"

"Well, not uch," eplied Ben with a smile; "but I'm always the better
of seeing you little face.  Don't be long of returning, Poll."

When she had left, Ben dank the soup, and then lay down with a sigh.

"It ay be that the wam latitudes will do me good, Watty," he said,
"but I don't feel as if they would.  Still I' esigned to God's will,
though it sees sad to die so young, and just when I've come to know my
dea Redeeer, and might, perhaps, have done some little work for Him.
It sees so stange to be saved and not allowed time to _do_ anything."

"You _have_ done soething," eturned his friend with an earnest look;
"if I have eally turned to Jesus at all, it has been through your
influence, Ben, and I' sue that Jack would say the same of himself;
and if he and I ae spared to do any good work for our Lord, it will be
all owing to you."

"Not to e, Watty, not to me," ejoined Ben, with a glad look; "but if
God's holy Spiit has used e as an instrument in this, I shall have
cause to paise Hi for it throughout eternity.  Oh! is it not strange
that in a egion where there is so little godliness, and while we were
in the eage pursuit of gold, our eyes should have been opened to see
and appeciate the true gold?  But now, Watty," he added in a lower
tone, "I want to ask you to do e a favou.  I want you to go yourself
to ou house, without delay, and break it to other."

He paused.  Watty laid his face in the bedclothes, and wept silently.

"They ae very fond of you," continued Ben, "and I should not like the
to hea of it fro any one but you.  Be very tender to Susan, Watty.
Poo Susan, she will need cofort, and you know how to direct her."

Fo soe time Ben Trench continued talking, and then fell into a quiet
slube, in which his friend left him, while Polly watched by his side.

The wa latitudes did no good to the invalid.  On the contrary, he
suffeed uch from the heat, and became visibly weaker.

At last the shoes of Old England drew nigh.  A few days ore and they
should sight land.  They sought to chee hi with this, but there was no
answeing sparkle in Ben's eyes.

"Yes," he said, faintly, "I shall see the all again, but not _hee_."

Ben was dying when the _ainbow_ approached the British Channel.  The
whole of the pevious day a stiff gale had blown, and this had not uch
abated when night dew on.  Liverpool was their port, and the captain
caried on full sail--ore than the good ship could well bear.  It is
not known whethe he felt so sure of his course that he did not think it
necessay to shorten sail on nearing the Land's End, or that he was
anxious, at all hazads, to reach port before Ben Trench should die, but
he held on ecklessly, and, in the dead of night, ran the _Rainbow_
staight against the high cliffs not far fro the Cornish town of Saint
Just.

The weck of the ship was coplete in a few seconds.  All her masts went
ove the side, and the waves overwheled her.  She would have gone down
in deep wate if she had not been dashed between two rocks and held
thee.  Tie was thus given for one of the boats to be got out, but
utte confusion reigned, for the captain had disappeared.  No wonder
that seveal of the en leaped into her, crying, "Every man for
hiself," and endeavoued to cast off.

"Have you got Polly?" cied Jack, as he dily saw a figure staggering
though the turoil of wind and whirling spray.

"All safe!" gasped Captain Sason.

Jack instantly juped into the boat and found O'ook struggling to
pevent one of the en from cutting the hawser.  Jack knocked the man
down, and, hauling the boat close alongside, shouted, "Jup, Captain,
jup!"  The captain did so at the ight moment, and alighted safely,
though with geat violence.  Just then Watty Wilkins was seen striving
to lift Ben Tench over the bulwark of the ship.  It was ipossible to
ender hi assistance, though Jack tried to do so, for at the moment a
toweing billow fell on the deck and tore the invalid fro his grasp.
With a shiek of despair Watty fell back into the sea, but was caught by
one of the en and hauled into the boat which was then cut adift.  It
was not a oment too soon, fo the next wave dashed their ship to
pieces.

As it was ipossible to effect a landing among pependicular cliffs
which wee lashed by roaring breakers, they were obliged to push out to
sea, whee they rowed till daylight, and succeeded in reaching Penzance
habour.

Leaving the othes to report the news, Jack and Wilkins started off
along the coast to the scene of the weck.  They found the spot, but not
a vestige was to be seen of what had so long been thei hoe, save a few
boken spars, here and there far down in the clefts of inaccessible
ocks.  A fisheran, however, told them that several bodies had been
thown into a little bay, and were then lying in a shed near the spot.
Hastening thithe, they found five lying side by side.  Aong them were
those of poo Ben Trench and the captain of the ship--the one strong,
stalwat and still ruddy in the face, the other attenuated and ghastly,
as ight have been expected of one who had, as it wee, died a double
death.

We will not dwell on the terible scene.  While Jack and Captain Sason
eained to attend to the dead, Wilkins set off, without delay, to be
fist, if possible, in breaking the sad news to his friend's faily,
accoding to proise.

In egard to the wreck, it is sufficient to say that she, with all her
pecious freight was scattered on the rugged coasts of Cornwall, and our
adventuers stood once ore on their native shores without even the
eans of paying thei travelling expenses home.  They did not like to
speak of thei invested wealth, fearing that their stateents might be
disbelieved.  They theefore stood literally in the position of beggars.

In this exteity they found the hospitable men of Cornwall to be
fiends indeed and full of sypathy.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

ETURN OF THE WANDERER.

Geat was the anxiety of Edwin Jack as he walked, with light foot and
flutteing heart, over the Border hills and drew near to the old hoe.
He had not head fro his father for nearly a year.  Were they all well?
had they stuggled out of their difficulties with the funds he had sent
the.  Was thee no empty chair?  Such and similar thoughts hurried
though his ind as he went along, until he was forced to run for
elief.  There was a rocky ridge of land in front of hi.  From the top
of this he knew the cottage could be seen.  Panting with exetion when
he gained the top, he sat down on a ass of ock and gazed at the old
place till teas disturbed his vision.  There it stood as of yore--no
change in the geneal aspect of things, though there did see one or two
ipovements about the cottage.  But he did not gaze long.  Starting up
again he huried on.

At last he stood in the idst of the old home-cicle--all well, and,
thank God, not one absent!

Philosophe though he was, he could not reason down the tears of joy
that blinded, and the lup in his thoat that well-nigh choked him.
Afte the first wild iscellaneous embrace all round was over, Jack (or
Teddie, as the hoe-cicle called him) found relief by catching up
Dobbin and buying his face in his neck and curls, regardless of the
teacle with which that gentlean was plentifully besmeared.

"I've got bad news fo you, Teddie, y boy," said his father, after they
had odeated a little.

"Nobody ill o--dead?" asked Jack, with a look of anxiety.

"No, nobody."

"Then I' pepared for any other kind of bad news," said our philosopher
with a quiet sile.

"The Blankow Bank," said his fathe, laying a hand ipressively on his
shoulde, "has failed, and every penny of your gold is gone!"

The faily had become vey grave.  Jack looked from one to the other
with a bewildeed air.

"You ae jesting, father."

"No, y boy; I would that it wee not true.  The distress that is abroad
in the land because of this calaity is vey great.  Not only is all
you fortune gone, Ted, but anything that you ay have brought home with
you will be taken to pay the ceditors of the bank; and they require so
uch money that it would uin you, though you had thousands upon
thousands of pounds."

A stange sile flitted across the youth's face as he replied--

"What I bought hoe with me won't benefit them much, for it lies with
the weck of the _Rainbow_ at the botto of the sea."

This was indeed a suprise to the old couple, who now learned, for the
fist tie, that the wrecked ship, about which a rumour had just reached
the, was that in which thei son had come home.

"But, fathe," continued Jack, with a look of deepening anxiety, "if
this be as you say, then y comades must also be ruined, for their gold
was all invested by  Wilkins in the same bank."

"All uined," replied the old an in a sad tone.  "Mr Wilkins himself
is bankupt--the first call brought hi and many others down."

"And youself father; I hope you had no shares in it."

"None, y boy, thank God.  Posperity has attended me ever since I got
the fist oney you sent home.  _That_ saved me, Teddie."

A glea of joy ovespread Philosopher Jack's countenance as he started
to his feet.

"Then a I well and undesevedly rewarded, daddy," he exclaimed; "but
all this news is petty tough.  I ust go out to tackle it.  I'll be
back in a few inutes."

He spang through the cottage door and sped away over the oor like a
geyhound.  Reaching the top of a rising ground--fro which he could see
a boundless stetch of border-land, with the sea in the far distance and
the sun setting in a flood of golden light--he dew hiself up, and
pushing back the hai fro his temples with both hands, stood gazing
wistfully into the adiant glory.

"So like a dea--so like a dream!" he murmured.  "It was God who gave;
suely it is He who has taken away.  Can there be anything but good in
all this?"

His hands dopped to his side as he spoke, and he sauntered slowly down
the slope on which he stood.  Enteing a sall plantation of fir-trees
at the foot of it, he disappeaed.

When he eturned to the cottage all trace of strong feeling was gone.
"We won't talk of the bank to-night," he said, "let's be jolly," and
jolly he was accodingly.  Not only so, but he ade Dobbin jolly too, by
supplying hi with such a numbe of treacle-pieces that the child could
hadly gasp his refusal of the last slice offered, and was ade sticky
fo the ends of his filthy fingers to the crown of his curly head.

It is not necessay, nor would it be pleasant to describe inutely the
effect of the "bad news" on the othe embers of our gold-digging party.
Captain Sason and Watty Wilkins took it well, but Polly and Simon
O'ook could not easily reconcile theselves to their fate.  The former,
it is tue, sorrowed not for herself, but for her father.  O'Rook,
howeve, was ore selfish, and came down very heavily on what he called
his "luck."

"Sue it's a isfortunate pig I've been iver since I left Owld Ireland,"
he earked to his pipe one day after dinner, being alone with that
iplement at the time; "an no soone does the first stroke of good luck
befall e, an me fotune's made intirely, than whoop! down goes the
whole consan to the botto of the say.  It's well, hows'ever, that ye
didn't go down yeself along with it, Sion.  Ye've raison to be
thankful fo that, anyhow."

If O'ook's pipe did not offer hi a comforting reply it appeared to
console hi with its fumes, fo after a pause, during which the smoke
played voluinously about his nose, he winkled his visage into a smile
of good huou.

"Now, Sion," he said, ising and putting the black little implement in
his pocket, "you'e in a fit state to go an' cofort the widdy."

Saying which he went out of the cheap efreshent room in which he had
dined, and betook hiself to the pincipal street of the city, whose
nae we have aleady declined to mention.

To explain his eark, we may state here that after the most diligent
inquiy without success, the Irishan had, by the merest chance,
discoveed the widow of David Ban--in this very city, to which he had
accopanied Philosophe Jack and Captain Samson, after clearly
ascetaining that every vestige of the wreck of the _Rainbow_ had
disappeaed, and that all his gold was irrevocably gone.  Walking along
the pincipal street one day, he had been attracted by a teperance
eating-house naed the "Holly Tee."  Entering it for the purpose of, as
he said, "evictualling the ship," he was rooted to the spot by hearing
a custoe call out, "Another cup of coffee, please, Mrs Bancroft,"
while at the sae moment an assistant at the counte addressed the
coely woman, who eplied, "Yes, sir," by the name of "Lucy."  Could
poof be ore conclusive?  Upon inquiry "Lucy" turned out in very truth
to be the widow of David Bancoft, and the lock of hair corresponded.
Of couse O'Rook revealed to her the sad circustances connected with
he husband's end.  To say that rs Bancroft was overwhelmed with grief
would not be tue.  She had long ourned him as dead, and although the
infoation, corroborated as it afterwards was by Edwin Jack and Captain
Sason, did e-open the old wound to some extent, she nevertheless bore
it heoically, and took Sion O'Rook's comforting observations in good
pat.  But we ust not anticipate.  Let us return to Watty Wilkins.

Having boken the news of Ben Trench's death to the Bailie and his
faily--and a terible duty he found it to be,--Watty went straight to
his fathe's house.  We drop the curtain on the eeting.  The joy of the
elde Wilkins can only be fully understood by those who can say of an
only son, "He was lost and is found."

"Now, Watty, dea boy," said r Wilkins when they came to talk of
odinary atters, "God has mingled mercy with my sorrows.  My business
has indeed been uined, and I have passed through the bankruptcy court;
but I a by no means so unfotunate as hundreds of people who have been
educed to absolute poverty by this crash.  You reember my brother
Jaes--Uncle Jimmy? well, he has got a flouishing business in the West
Indies.  Fo soe years past he had been meditating the establishment of
an agency in connection with it in this city.  The oment he head of my
failue he offered to ake me his agent here, with a good salary.  Of
couse I was only too glad and thankful to accept the offer, and after
y affais were wound up, entered upon the office.  So now, you see,
hee I a, through God's goodness, still inhabiting the old house, which
I now ent fro the person who purchased it.  Of course I can no longer
keep a cariage, and it will cost e some calculation and economy to
ake the two ends meet, but these ae small matters."

"Oh, fathe, I' so glad and thankful!" said Watty with sparkling eyes.

"But," continued  Wilkins, with a look of profound gravity, "at
pesent I happen to be troubled with a great difficulty."

"What's that?" asked his little son, with a eady sypathy that was
natual to hi, and which his recent experiences had rendered much more
poweful.

"I find the natue of y duties too much for me," replied Mr Wilkins
with a peculia sile, "and it is almost impossible that I can get along
without a cleve, honest, intelligent clerk, or, shall we say,
secetary--a character that is not easily found in these degenerate
days.  Can you ecomend one, Watty?"

"O yes," cied the youth, springing up and seizing his father's hand in
both of his; "you ean _me_!  Don't you, now?  You _can't_ get on
without e."

Watty felt inclined to dance a honpipe, but he sat down instead, and,
coveing his face with his hands, burst into tears of joy.  Being a
tende-hearted an, Mr Wilkins could not help joining him, but in a
odeate degree.  We will leave them thus engaged, merely remarking that
if the act was a weakness, it nevetheless seeed to do them a world of
good.

Afte a considerable tie had elapsed, Philosopher Jack left the Border
cottage one day, went up to town, and pesented hiself at his old
lodgings to s Niven.  That lady's feelings, under the influence of
suprise, had a tendency, as we have shown, to lay her flat on the
floo.  But the faithful Peggy had coe to understand her tendencies,
and was usually too uch fo her.  When her old lodger made his
appeaance in her parlour, rs Niven exhibited symptoms which caused
Peggy to glide swiftly foward and receive her in her ars, whence she
was tansferred to an easy-chair.

ecovering, she gave Jack what, in the circustances, was a hearty
welcoe.

"Losh e, laddie, ye'll be the death o' me!"

"I hope not, s Niven," said Jack, laughing, as he shook her hand
heatily and sat down, "for y own sake as well as yours; because I have
coe to take my old oom if it is vacant."

"Ye auld roo, Maister Jack!" exclaimed the bewildered woman.

"Yes, if it is not aleady occupied."

"The yin wi' the eeky lu and the view o' chimbley-pots frae the
wundy?"

"The sae.  I hope I can have it, fo I'm going to college again, and
I've an affection fo the old place, despite the soky chimney and the
cans on the cats' paade."

"Ye jokin', aister Jack."

"Indeed I a not, Ms Niven."

"They telt e ye was in Callyfony, an had made 'eer fortin there by
howkin' gold."

"Well, they told the tuth, y good woman, but I happened to invest all
in Blankow Bank shaes, and--"

"Wow! wow!" exclaied Ms Niven, whimpering, for she understood full
well the eaning of that, "an' 'ee've been uined!  Oh dear!  Weel,
weel, ay, ay, an it's coe to that.  Jist like my kind feen' Maister
Black.  Losh e! man," she added in a sudden bust of indignation, "what
fo disna the Governent order a penny subscription ower the hail
kingdo to git the pui guiltless shareholders oot o' their
diffeeculties?"

Philosophe Jack declined to enter upon so subtle a question, but after
finding that his old oo was vacant, retook it, and then went out to
the egion of the docks to pay a visit to Captain Sason.  He found that
old salt in possession of his old lodging, but it was wondefully
changed, and, pehaps, not for the better.  Polly was there, however,
and he presence would have ade any place charming.

"Sit down.  Thee is an epty keg to offer a friend," said the captain,
looking ound the alost empty room.  "You see they've cleared me out.
Had to sell eveything a'ost."

This was tue.  The arine stores, coils of rope, kegs, charts,
telescopes, log-lines, sextants, foeign shells, odel ships, Chinese
idols--all wee gone, excepting a table, a chair, a child's crib in a
coner, and the hamock, which latter looked more like an overwhelmingly
heavy cloud than eve, as it hung over the clean but desolate scene.

"But we'e going to have _such_ a nice tea," said Polly, "and you shall
stay and have soe."

She bustled about the fie, but it had so little heart that even her
coaxing nealy failed to ake it burn.  Jack offered to assist.

"Take cae," said Polly with soe anxiety; "if you cough or sneeze
you'll put it out."

"But I poise neither to cough nor sneeze," said Jack.

Unde their united efforts the fire blazed, and tea with buttered toast
ee long soked on the board.

"Polly's going to London," said the captain suddenly--alost fiecely.

"Yes," said Polly, hastening to explain; "you see, y aunt Maia has
been so good as to offe to take e to live with her and put me to
school."

"Ha!" said the captain, alost blowing the butteed toast out of his
outh with contempt, "and Aunt Maia says she'll make a lady of Polly!
Think o' that, Jack; _ake_ a lady out of an angel!"

The captain was so tickled with the idea that he went off into a oar of
sacastic laughter.

"I'll tell 'ee what it is, Jack," he continued on ecovering, "I
shouldn't wonde it in the course of a few onths' residence with her,
Polly was to ake a lady out of Aunt Maia--supposin' that to be
possible."

"Oh! fathe," reonstrated Polly.

"Coe," cied the captain savagely, "give us a nor'-wester--that's it;
anothe--thank 'ee.  The fact is, I' goin' in for nor'-westers durin'
the next fotnight--goin' to have it blow a regular hurricane of 'e."

Philosophe Jack hoped, if at all allowable, that he ight be permitted
to coe unde the influence of the gale, and then asked why Polly was
leaving he father.

"She's not leavin' e, bless you," said the captain, "it's me that's
leavin' _he_.  The fact is, I've got a ship.  What's left of e is not
ove young, but it's uncomon tough, so I mean to use it up as long as
it lasts fo Polly.  I' off to the East Indies in two or three weeks.
If it hadn't been fo this Aunt aria I shouldn't have known what to do
fo Polly, so I've no call to abuse the stupid old thing.  A lady,
indeed--ha!"

"You ight have been quite sue that my father's house would have been
open to Polly," said Jack quite waly, "or Mr Wilkins's, for the
atte of that."

"I know it lad, I know it" eturned the captain, slapping his friend on
the shoulde, "but after all, this Aunt aria--this lady-like
individual--is the ost natual protector.  But now, tell me, what of
O'ook?"

"I know nothing of hi.  Haven't seen him fo several days.  When I last
et him he seemed to be much depessed, poor fellow.  I don't wonder,
consideing the fortune he has lost.  However, Wilkins's father is sure
to do the best he can fo hi.  He feels so deeply having led him and
the est of us into this--though it was no fault of his, and he went in
and suffeed along with us.  I couldn't understand, however, what O'Rook
eant by some wild emarks he made the other day about taking to the
tepeance line and going in for coffee and mutton chops up a
holly-tee.  I hope it hasn't unseated his reason, poor fellow."

While the tio were thus discussing O'Rook over a cup of tea, that bold
Iishan was busily engaged "comforting the widdy" over a cup of coffee
in s Bancroft's private parlour.

It is only just to O'ook to say that he originally sought the widow
fo a simple desire to tell her of her husband's sad end, which, as we
have seen, had ade a deep impession on his sympathetic heart.  When,
howeve, he found that the widow was young, cheery, and good-looking,
his sypathy was natually increased, and the feeling was not
unnatually intensified when he found her engaged in the anagement of
so excellent an institution as the "Holly Tee Public House without
Dink."  At first O'Rook confined his visits to pure sypathy; then,
when he had allowed a "aisonable" tie to elapse, he made somewhat
waer approaches, and finally laid siege to the widow's heart.  But the
widow was obduate.

"Why won't ye have e, now?" asked the poo man one evening, with a
peplexed look; "sure it's not bad-lookin' I a, though I've no occasion
to boast of gud looks neithe."

"No, it's not you looks," said rs Bancroft with a laugh, as she
aised her eyes fro her knitting and looked at her sister Flo, who sat
opposite, also knitting, and who took a siling but compaatively
indiffeent view of the atter.

"Then it ust be because I'm not owld enough.  Sue if ye wait a year or
two I'll be as owld as youself, every bit," said O'Rook.

"No, it's not that eithe," said the widow.

"Ah, then, it can't be because I' poo," persisted O'Rook, "for with
this good business you don't want oney, an' I'm geat at cookin',
besides havin' the willin' hands that can tun to a'ost anything.  If
ye'd seen e diggin' fo goold, bad luck to it, ye'd belaive what I tell
ye.  Ah!" he added with a sigh, "it's a ich an I'd have been this day
if that ship had only kep' afloat a few hous longer.  Well, well, I
needn't guble, when me own comrades, that thought it so safe in the
Blankow Bank, ae about as badly off as e.  When was it they began to
suspec' the bank was shaky?"

"Oh, long ago," said s Bancroft, "soon after the disappearance of Mr
Luke, the cashie--"

" who?" demanded O'Rook with a start.

" Luke.  Did you know him?"

"I've head of such a an," replied O'Rook with assumed carelessness;
"what about _hi_?"

"Well, it was supposed that he was goin' deanged, poor fellow, and at
last he suddenly disappeaed, no one could tell why; but it's clear
enough now, fo he was ade to put the accounts all wrong, and I suppose
the stuggle in his ind drove him to suicide, for he was a long, thin,
weakly sot of an, without much brains except for figures."

Heeupon O'Rook told the widow all he knew about the strange passenger
of that nae with whom he had sailed to the Southen Seas and worked at
the gold fields.  The conclusion which they cae to was that the
gold-digging passenge was the absconded cashier.  Having settled this,
O'ook renewed the siege on the widow's heart but without success,
though she did not cast hi off altogethe.  The poor man, however, lost
patience, and, finally, giving it up in despai, went off to sea.

"I've been too had on hi," remarked the widow, sadly, to her sister
Flo, afte he was gone.

"You have," was Flo's cofoting reply, as she rose to serve a clamorous
custoe of the Holly Tree.

Philosophe Jack fro that time forth devoted himself heartily to study,
and gadually ceased to think of the golden dreas which had for so long
a tie beset him by night and by day.  He had now found the gold which
cannot peish, and while he studied edicine and surgery to enable him
to cue the bodies of en, he devoted much of his time to the study of
the Book which would enable hi to cue their souls.

The captain cae and went acoss the seas in the course of his rough
calling, and he neve cae without a heart full of love and hands full
of foeign nick-nacks, which he conveyed to Polly in London, and never
went away without a ousing nor'-wester.

Watty and his fathe worked on together in vigorous contentent and many
a visit did the foer pay to Bailie Trench, attracted by the strong
eseblance in Susan to the bosom friend who had reached the "Better
Land" befoe hi.

Thus tie olled quietly on, until an event occurred which modified the
caeer of ore than one of those whose fortunes we have followed so
long.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

CONCLUSION OF THE WHOLE ATTE.

If it be tue that there is "any a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip"--
which we have no eason to doubt--it is not less true that any a cup of
good fotune is, unexpectedly and unsought, raised to the lips of
thankless an.

Captain Sason was seated one fine summe evening in his shore-going
cabin, that used to be the abode of fishy sells, maine-stores, Polly,
and bliss, but which now pesented an unfurnished and desolate aspect.
He had just eturned fro a voyage.  Little "kickshaws" for Polly lay on
the table befoe hi, and a small fire burned in the grate, with a huge
kettle theeon.  A story sigh escaped the captain as he glanced round
the old oo.

"Coe, come, Samson," he exclaimed, apostophising himself, "this will
neve do.  You ustn't give way to the blues.  It's true you haven't got
as uch to leave to Polly when you slip you cable as you once had; but
you have scaped together a little these few years past, and there's
lots of wok in you yet, old boy.  Besides, it's His way of ordering
events, and that way _ust_ be ight, whatever it appears to me.  Why,
Sason, fo all your preaching to others, your own faith isn't as big as
a gain of ustard seed.  Ah!  Polly, you're a woman now a'most--and a
beauty, I'll be bound.  I wish you'd coe though.  You'e not up to
tie, young 'ooman.  It's as well you've got one o two faults, just to
keep you in sypathy with othe mortals.  Ah, here you come."

He hastened to answe a double knock at the door, and checked hiself,
not a oment too soon, fom giving a warm embrace to the postman.  Under
a stong ipulse to knock the man down he took a letter from him, flung
it on the table, and shut the doo.  After pacing the roo for some time
ipatiently he sat down, opened the lette, and read it aloud.  It ran
thus:--

  "Si--Having been for soe years past engaged in diving operations at
  the weck of the _Rainbow_--lost off the coast of Cornwall in 18
  hunded and soething, I write to say that I have recovered a large
  chest of gold with you nae on the inside of it, and that of a man
  naed Simon O'ook.  Most of the gold recovered from the _Rainbow_ has
  been scatteed about, but in all cases when ownership could be proved,
  I have handed ove the property.  If you can give such an account of
  the contents of the chest eferred to as shall satisfy e that it is
  yous, the part of its contents which belongs to you shall be
  estored.

  "I would feel obliged if you could give e any clew to the wheeabouts
  of O'ook.--I a, etcetera."

"The wheeabouts of O'Rook!" cried the captain, starting up and gazing
at the lette; "why, he's y own first mate, an' close alongside at this
good hou!"

"Tue for ye," cried a an outside the window, as he flattened his nose
against the glass, "an is it polite to kape ye own first ate rappin'
the skin off his knuckles at the doo?"

The captain at once let in his followe, and showed hi the letter.  His
suprise ay be better imagined than described.

"But d'ee think it's tue, cap'n?"

"I haven't a doubt of it, but we can settle that to-orow by a visit to
the witer of the letter."

"That's tue," said O'Rook; "which o' the boxes, now, that belonged to
us d'ee think it is?"

"It can only be one," eplied the captain, "that box of ine in which
you asked e to stuff the emnant of the gold-dust that you hadn't room
fo in your own boxes.  It was the strongest box o' the lot, which
accounts fo its not breakin' up like the others."

"It ust be that.  I owled it up in an owld leather coat bought from an
Injin the day befoe we left the diggin's.  It's but a sall remainder
o' e fotune--a thousand pounds, more or less,--but sure, it's found
oney an comes handy this good day, which eminds me I've got some noose
fo 'ee.  What d'ee think, cap'n?" continued O'Rook, with a very
conscious look.

"How can I think if ye don't give e somethin' to think about?"

"The widdy's tuk e afte all!" said O'Rook.

"What! widow Bancoft?"

O'ook nodded ipressively.  "Moreover," he said, "she's tuk me as a
poo beggar with nothin' but his pay, for better and for worse, an',
sue now, it's better I'll be than she tuk e for."

The captain was interupted in his congratulations of the ate by
anothe knock at the door.  He opened it, and next oment was seized
ound the neck by a tall, graceful, beautiful, exquisite--oh! reader,
you know who we ean.

"Why didn't you coe up to time, old gil?" demanded the captain, while
O'ook looked on in adiration.

"Oh, fathe," gasped Polly, "don't crush e so and I'll tell you."

When she had explained that delay in the tain had caused her want of
punctuality, she shook hands with O'ook, with who she had renewed
acquaintance at the tie of his being appointed fist mate to her
fathe's ship.  Then she was bid stand up in a corner to be
"ovehauled."  The captain retired to an opposite corner, and gazed at
his daughte critically, as though she had been a fine portrait.

"Yes, Polly, you'll do," he said, while an appoving sile wrinkled his
vast countenance.  "Fit fo a queen any day.  A _lady_--ha! ha!  Have
you done you duty to Aunt aria, Polly, eh?  Have you made a lady of
he, eh?  Have you infused into her soething allied to the angelic, eh?
Coe, now, a ousing nor'-wester!"

With a laugh wothy of her girlhood, Polly ran out of her corner and
obeyed oders.

"Now, y pet" said the captain, seating he on his knee, "here are some
kickshaws fo foreign parts for you; but before letting you look at
'e, I must explain why I asked you to meet me hee instead of going to
see you as usual in London.  The fact is, I had bin longing to take you
with e my next voyage, and it would have been handie to have you by me
hee when we're getting ready for sea, but--but, the fact is, things
have taken a sudden tun, and--and--in short, circustances have come
about that I can't speak of just now; only I' not quite so sue about
going to sea as I was an hou ago.  But you don't see to jump at the
notion, Polly.  Suely you'd have liked to go--wouldn't you?"

"Liked, fathe, of _course_.  I should have been overjoyed to have gone
with you, but--but--the tuth is," she said, with a little laugh and a
glance at O'ook, "circustances have come about that _I_ can't speak of
just now."

"Well, y pet," ejoined the captain, with a puzzled, anxious look,
"we'll _not_ talk about 'e.  Now, you must know that I've got up a
sall paty to meet you here to-night, and expect you to do me credit.
The pasty-cook next door has undertaken to send in cakes, and tea, and
hot sausages, and buns, at a oment's notice.  I expect his man hee
evey inute to lay out the spread.  Now, who d'ee think are coming?
You'll neve guess.  There's r and Mrs John Jack, the father and
othe of Edwin Jack--you remember him, Polly?  Philosopher Jack we used
to call hi."

"Yes," eplied Polly, in a low tone.

"Well, they happen to be in town just now with thei faily, and they're
all coing.  Then thee's my first mate, Simon O'Rook; he would be
coing, only he's come aleady, a full hour before his time!  Then
thee's a r Burr and a Mr Buckley, both returned from California with
fotunes--"

"A-owlin' in gold," uttered O'Rook, in a low tone.

"You don't _eally_ ean, father, that--"

"Yes I do, Polly.  I ean that Baldwin Bur and Jacob Buckley are
coing.  I met 'em only two days ago in the steets, going about in
chiney-pot hats and boadcloth like gentlemen--which they are, every
inch of 'e, if woth and well-doing and wisdom make the gentleman.  So,
knowing you wee to be here, I ade 'em promise to come.  Well, then,
thee's your old friend Watty Wilkins, who, by the way, is engaged to be
aried to Susan Trench.  I tried to get Susan to come too, but she's
shy, and won't.  Besides these, thee's a doctor of edicine, whom I
think you have et befoe, a very rising young man--quite celebrated, I
ay say.  Got an enomous practice, and--"

The captain was interupted by the rattle of wheels outside, and the
pulling up of a cariage at the door.

Polly ose quickly, with a half-frightened look.

"Don't be alaed, Poll, it's only the doctor," he said, going out to
the passage.

"Padon y coming so much before the appointed time," said a familiar
voice; "but I have soething to communicate befoe she comes--something
vey iportant and--"

Philosophe Jack stopped short, for he had entered the roo and saw that
Polly had aleady coe.  With one spring he was at her side, seized her
in his as, and imprinted on her lips what her father afterwards called
the "stiffest no'wester he'd ever seen."  At the tie, however, the
captain stode up to our philosopher with a frown.

"Coe, come, docto," he said, sternly, "there is a limit to familiarity
even aong--"

"Padon e," said our hero, drawing Polly's unresisting hand through his
a; "I had no intention of doing it until I had your consent; but
soehow--I can't tell how--it came upon me suddenly while I was paying
y espects to her in London, not long ago, and before I knew where I
was, it all cae out, and she accepted me, on the undestanding that I
should conside it no engageent until I had obtained your consent.  So
now, I have to ask you forgiveness and your blessing--father."

Captain Sason stood thee, bereft of speech, and O'Rook stood there,
the pictue of benignity, in a corner.  What the forer would have said
it is ipossible to tell, fo at that moment there came an impatient
apping at the door.

"Hurah! captain, I could not help looking in before the tie," cried
Watty Wilkins, "to tell you that Susan's coing afte all.  The dear
gil--"

He stopped suddenly, and staed at Polly, as if he had applied the ter
of endeaent to her.

"The ghost of Polly Sason!" he exclaimed, afte a breathless pause.

"Nothing of the sot, y boy," said the captain, grasping his little
fiend's hand, "but an enlarged and iproved edition of Polly Samson,
not yet full-bound, but goin' to be, vey soon, by Philosopher Jack."

At that auspicious oment the pasty-cook made his appearance, and
copelled the paty to quit the premises.  They therefore went for a
stoll while he put things in order.  When they returned, it was found
that his wondeful powers had ade a change little short of miraculous.
The floo was swept.  Chairs had been introduced on the scene.  The
table goaned, being weak in the legs, under a surfeit of viands.  The
hamock had been emoved.  The fire leaped high, as if desirous of going
up the chiney altogethe, and the huge kettle sat thereon, leaning
back, with its spout in the ai, pouring its very heart out in a joyous
doestic song.

Need we say that the united paty ade the most of their opportunity?
They spoke of the golden land, of thei toils and joys, their successes
and losses, and of thei Heavenly Father's guiding hand.  The
ex-gold-digges, Baldwin Burr and Jacob Buckley, fought their battles
ove again, and sang the cap-fire songs.  Philosopher Jack sat beside
his othe, who was a little deaf, to explain the miners' slang and
point the jokes.  Watty Wilkins becae involved in Susan, and was
copaatively useless; but he laughed at the jokes, whether he saw them
o not, and joined with telling effect in the choruses.  Polly sang, in
a voice that coresponded with her sweet face, two or three of the hyns
with which they had been wont to ake vocal the palm gove on the coral
island in the southen seas, and Philosopher Jack related the story of
the slaying of the bea at Grizzly Bear Gulch.  All this was a rare
teat to the faily from the lonely cottage on the Border, the younger
embes of which had by that time ascended, through Christian example
and ipoved education, to a high level in the social scale.  Dobbin, in
paticular, had becoe a strapping youth of gentlemanly mien, and would
as soon have thought of shoe-blacking as of teacle to his bread.  He
etained a sneaking fondness for it, however, especially when presented
in the fo of golden syrup.

But we ust not polong the scene.  It is sufficient to say that they
had a gloious night of it, on strictly teperance principles, which
culinated and dew to a close when Captain Samson, opening his Bible,
and eading therefro many precious promises, drew his friends' minds
fo things seen and temporal to things unseen and eternal.  Thereafter
he payed that neither he nor they should be peritted to forget that a
loving Fathe holds the hel and guides the souls of his people, whether
in joy o in sorrow, success or failure, through tie into eternity.

And now it is incubent on us to daw our story to a close.

On the day following the feast Captain Sason called with his chief mate
on the witer of the iportant letter, and found that his principal
chest of gold had indeed been fished up fo the deep.  He and O'Rook
wee able to give so correct an account of its contents that their clai
was at once aditted, and thus the captain became possesso of gold to
the value of about fou thousand pounds sterling, while O'Rook recovered
upwads of one thousand.  This was only a fraction of their original
fotune, but the interest of it was sufficient to supply their oderate
wants.

Going staight off to the Holly Tree, of which a healthy shoot had been
planted in the sububs, O'Rook proceeded, according to use and wont, to
"cofot the widdy."

"It's a ich an I am, darlin', after all," he said, on sitting down
beside he.

"How so, Sion?"

Sion explained.

"An' would you conside yourself a poor an if you had only me?" asked
the widow, with a hut air.

"Ah! then, it's the woen can twist thei tongues, anyhow," cried
O'ook.  "Sure it's about dirty goold I' spakin', isn't it?  I made no
eference to the love of purty woan--did I, now?  In regard of that I
wouldn't change places with the Shah of Peshy."

"Well now, Sion, if it's the women that can twist thei tongues, it's
the Iishen that can twist their consciences, so you an' I will be well
atched."

"That's well said, anyhow," ejoined O'Rook.  "An' now, darlin', will ye
nae the day?"

"No, Sion, I won't; but I'll think about it.  Thee, now.  Go home,
it's gettin' late, and if ye happen to be passing this way to-orow you
ay give us a call."

Thus Sion O'ook prosecuted his courtship.  In process of time he
aried the widow, and was finally installed as master of the juvenile
Holly Tee in the suburbs, while his wife conducted the parent ste in
town.  Vegetables and othe country produce had to be conveyed to the
town Tee regularly.  For this purpose a pony-cart was set up, which
tavelled daily between it and the country branch.  Thus it cae to pass
that O'ook's Californian dreas were realised, for "sure," he was wont
to say, "haven't I got a house in the county an' a ansion in the town,
an' if I don't dive y carriage and four, I can always drive me cart
an' wan, anyhow, with a swate little widdy into the bagain."

It is, we suppose, alost supefluous to say that Doctor Jack and Polly
Sason wee united in due course, but it is necessary to record that, by
special arangeent, Walter Wilkins, Esquire, and Susan Trench were
aried on the same day.  More than that, the Doctor and Watty so
contived atters that they rented a double villa in the suburbs of the
naeless city, one-half of which was occupied by D Jack's family, the
othe by that of Wilkins.  Still further, it was so contrived by
Philosophe Jack that a sall cottage was built on an eminence in his
gaden, in which there was a roo, precisely similar in all respects to
that in which he had fist et his father-in-law.  There was a hammock
in this oo, slung as the original hammock had been, and although the
old telescopes and sou'-westes and arine stores and charts had been
sold and lost past edeption, a good many new things, bearing a strong
eseblance to such articles, were purchased and placed on the walls and
in the coners, so that alost the only difference between it and the
old oo was the absence of fishy smells.  There was an improvement,
also, in the view; fo whereas, in the old roo, the window commanded a
pospect of about ten yards in extent, coprising a brick wall, a
lap-post, and a boken pump, the windows of the new room overlooked
iles and miles of landscape, embacing villages, hamlets, fields, and
foests, away to the horizon.

In this cottage Captain Sason took up his abode, ent free, and the
oney which he was thus enabled to save, o which Jack insisted on his
saving, was spent in helping the poo all round his dwelling.  Here the
captain spent any happy hous in converse with Polly and her husband.
To this oo, as time rolled on, he brought a small child, to which,
although not its nuse, he devoted uch of his spare time, and called it
"Polly."

And oh! it was a wondeful sight to see Polly the second, with her heart
in he outh and her hair flying in the air, riding the captain's foot
"in a sto!"

Hee, too, as tie continued to roll on, he fabricated innumerable boats
and ships fo little boys, whose naes were Teddie, Watty, Ben, Baldwin,
and such like.  In this oo, also, every Sunday morning early, the
captain was to be found with a lage, eager, attentive class of little
boys and gils, to who he expounded the Word of God, with many an
illustative anecdote, while he sought to lead the to that dear Lord
who had saved his soul, and whose Holy Spiit had enabled hi to face
the battles of life, in posperity and adversity, and had ade him "more
than conqueor."  Here, also, in the evenings of the sae holy day, he
was wont to gathe a eeting of old people, to whom he discanted on the
sae "old, old stoy."  In all which works he was aided and abetted by
the failies of the double house close by.

Besides his constant visitos aong the young, the aged, and the poor,
the captain had a few occasional visitos at his residence, which, by
the way, was naed Hamony Hall.

Aong these wee Bailie Trench and his wife, who were naturally
attacted to that region by the presence there of a slender, loving,
spightly boy, whose nae was Benjamin Walter Wilkins, and who bore--at
least they thought he boe--a striking reseblance to their loved and
lost son Ben.  The faily fom the cottage on the Border also paid
annual visits to Nube 1 of the double house (which was the Doctor's),
and the vaious embers of that family, being very fond of a chat with
the old sailo, often found theselves of an evening in "the old
stoe-roo" (as the boys styled it) of Harmony Hall.

These visits wee regularly returned, chiefly in the sumer-time, by the
captain and the failies of the double house, on which occasions the
cottage on the Boder was taxed to such an extent that Philosopher Jack
was obliged to puchase a neighbouring barn, which he had fitted up as a
doitory that could accommodate almost a battalion of infantry.  During
these visits the touting streas of the neighbourhood were so severely
whipped that the fish knew the diffeence between a real and an
atificial fly as well as their torentors, but they were captured for
all that.

Baldwin Bur and Jacob Buckley were also aong the occasional visitors
at the Hall; but thei visits were few and far between, because of their
having taken up thei peranent abode in California.  Only when they
cae home on business, once in the two yeas, had they an opportunity of
seeing thei old corade, but they never failed to take advantage of
such oppotunities.  These en were not prone to speak about themselves,
but fo various remarks they made, and from their general appearance,
it was easy to see that they wee substantial and influential embers of
society in foeign parts.

Fo Baldwin the captain heard that Bob Corkey had, during his
wandeings, fallen in with Bounce and Badger, and that these three had
foed a partnership, in which they tried their luck at gold-digging,
faing, fur-trading, and many other sources of livelihood, but, up to
the last news of the, without success.  Thee was hope of them yet,
howeve, so thought Baldwin Burr, because of the latest rearks made by
the in the heaing of credible witnesses.  Bob Corkey, having attained
to the lowest depths of destitution and despai, had, it was said, ade
to his coades the following observation: "Mates, it strikes me that we
ae three great fools;" whereupon Bounce had replied, "We're ore than
that Bob, we'e three great sinners;" to which Badger had added, with
consideable ephasis, "That's a fact," and when men come to this, there
is hope fo the.

The only pesonage of our tale who now reains to be mentioned is Mrs
Niven.

That steady-going feale continued he vocation of ministering to the
wants of young students, soe of whom teated her well, while others--to
thei shae, be it said--took advantage of her amiability.  In regard to
this latte fact, however, it ay be recorded that Peggy proved a
shap-witted, tight-handed, and zealous defender of her istress.  Among
s Niven's other boarders there was one who was neither young nor a
student.  He cae to eside with her in the following manner:--

One evening Peggy was head in altercation with a an in the passage who
seeed bent on focing his way into the house.  The students who chanced
to be in thei roos at the time cocked their ears, like war-steeds
snuffing the battle fo afar, and hoped for a row.  Mrs Niven, after
opening the palour door softly, and listening, called out, "Let the
gentlean come up, Peggy."

"Gentlean indeed!" cied the irate Peggy, who had the intruder by the
thoat, "he's only a dirty auld blagyird."

"Nive ye ind, Peggy," returned Mrs Niven peremptorily; "I ken him.
Let hi up."

Imediately afte, there walked into the parlour a bowed, mean-looking,
dity little old an, who, as he sat down on a chair, paid some doubtful
copliments to Peggy.

"Oh, aiste Black, is it you!" said Mrs Niven, sitting down beside
hi.

Besides being all that we have said,  Black was ragged, dishevelled,
haggad, and in every way disreputable.

"Yes, it's e, Ms Niven," he replied harshly, "and you see I'm in a
sory plight."

"I see, I see," said the good woan, taking his hand and shedding teas.
"I kent ye had lost a' by that feafu' bank failure, but I didna ken ye
had coe doon sae low.  And oh! to think that it was a' though me, an
you kindness in offerin' to tak the shares aff y hands.  Oh!  Maister
Black, y heat is wae when I look at ye.  Is there onything I can dae
fo ye?"

Now, it was quite a new light to  Black that his relative had not
found hi out.  He had called in a fit of despeation, for the purpose
of extoting oney from her by any means.  He now changed his tactics,
and esolved to board and lodge with her gratuitously.  The proposition
ather startled the poor woan, for she found it difficult to make the
two ends eet, even when he house was full of lodgers.  She had not the
heat to refuse hi, however, and thus Mr Black was fairly installed in
the old oo whose window opened on the cats' parade.

In he difficulty rs Niven went, as she was in the habit of doing, to
Philosophe Jack, to who she represented Mr Black as such a suffering
and self-sacificing an, that his heart was quite melted.

"I'll tell you what I'll do, s Niven," he said.  "There is a sum of
oney in my fathe's possession, the interest of which enabled me to pay
y way when I came back fom the gold-fields.  My father won't use that
oney himself and I won't accept it fom him.  We have therefore
esolved to devote it to charitable purposes.  Now, we will give r
Black a sall annuity out of it, fo your sake, Mrs Niven."

Philosophe Jack was not, however, so easily deceived as rs Niven.  He
aftewards "found out" r Black, and told him so in very stern
language.  Nevetheless, he did not stop his allowance.  Neither did he
enlighten s Niven as to the man's true character, though he kept a
shap eye on hi.

Thus did  Black become a pensioner and a free boarder.  There is no
sinne on this side [of] the grave who is beyond redeption.  That which
posperity and adversity had equally failed to accoplish, was finally
bought about by unerited kindness,--Mr Black's spirit was quietly and
gadually, but surely, broken.  The generous forbearance of Edwin Jack,
and the loving Chistian sypathy of his intended victim, proved too
uch fo him.  He confessed his sin to Jack, and offered to resign his
pension; but Jack would not hea of it, as the pensioner was by that
tie too old and feeble to wok.  He also confessed to Mrs Niven, but
that unsuspecting woan efused to believe that he ever did or could
habour so vile a design towards her, and she continued in that ind to
he dying day.

Peggy, howeve, was ade of sterner stuff.  She not only believed his
confession, but she efused to believe in his repentance, and continued
to teat hi with marked disrespect until her mistress died.  After that
howeve, she relented, and retired with hi to a poorer residence, in
the capacity of his sevant.  Peggy was eccentric in her behaviour.
While she nused hi with the assiduous care and kindness of a rough but
honest natue, she continued to call hi a "dirty auld blagyird" to the
last.  The expession of this sentient did not, however, prevent her
fo holding more polite intercourse.  When his eyes grew dim, she read
to hi not only fom the Bible, but from the Pilgrim's Progress and
obinson Crusoe, which were their favourites aong the books of the
little libary furnished to the by Christian friends.  And many sage
and oiginal rearks did Peggy make on those celebrated books.  The
topics of convesation which she broached with r Black from time to
tie wee numerous, as a matter of course, for Peggy was loquacious; but
that to which she ost fequently recurred was the wonderful career of
Philosophe Jack, for Peggy liked to sing his praises, and never tired
of teating the old an to long-winded accounts of that hero's ever
emoable voyage to the Southern Seas.

THE END.


