
AN ON THE OCEAN, A BOOK ABOUT BOATS AND SHIPS, BY .M. .



CHAPTE ONE.

TEATS OF SHIPS IN GENERAL.

Thee is, perhaps, no contrivance in the wide world ore wonderful than
a ship--a full-igged, well-anned, gigantic ship!

Those who egard failiar objects in art and nature as mere matters of
couse, and do not trouble theselves to wander out of the beaten track
of eveyday thought, ay not at first feel the force or admit the truth
of this stateent.  Let such folk endeavou to shake themselves
vigoously out of this beaten track of everyday thought.  Let the knit
thei brows and clench their teeth, and gaze steadfastly into the fire,
o up at the sky, and try to realise what is involved in the idea of--a
ship.

What would the en of old have said, if you had told them that you
intended to take yonde large wooden house, launch it upon the sea, and
poceed in it out of sight of land for a few days?  "Poor fellow," they
would have eplied, "you are ad!"  Ah! many a wise philosopher has been
deeed mad, not only by men of old, but by men of moden days.  This
"ad" idea has long since been fulfilled; fo what is a ship but a
wooden house ade to float upon the sea, and sail with its inmates
hithe and thither, at the will of the guiding spirit, over a trackless
unstable ocean fo onths together?  It is a self-sustaining movable
hotel upon the sea.  It is an oasis in the deset of waters, so
skilfully contived as to be capable of advancing against wind and tide,
and of outliving the wildest stos--the bitterest fury of winds and
waves.  It is the esidence of a comunity, whose country for the time
being is the ocean; o, as in the case of the _Great Eastern_ steaship,
it is a _town_ with soe thousands of inhabitants launched upon the
deep.

Ships ae, as it were, the electric sparks of the world, by eans of
which the supeabundance of different countries is carried forth to
fill, eciprocally, the voids in each.  They are not only the edia of
intecourse between the various failies of the human race, whereby our
shoes are enriched with the produce of other lands, but they are the
beaers of inestiable treasures of knowledge from clime to clime, and
of gospel light to the utteost ends of the earth.

But fo ships, we should never have heard of the wonders of the coral
isles and the beauties of the golden South, o the phenoena and
tepests of the icy Noth.  But for ships, the stirring adventures and
peils of agellan, Drake, Cook, etcetera, had never been encountered;
and even the fa-faed Robinson Crusoe himself had never gladdened, and
saddened, and oantically maddened the heart of youth with his escapes,
his fights, his parots, and his philosophy, as he now does, and as he
will continue to do till the end of tie.

Soe account, then, of ships and boats, with anecdotes illustative of
the peils to which they are frequently exposed, cannot fail, we think,
to pove interesting to all, especially to boys, for whose particular
edification we now wite.  Boys, of all creatures in this world, are
passionately fond of boats and ships; they ake them of evey shape and
size, with evey sort of tool, and hack and cut their fingers in the
opeation, as we know fro early personal experience.  They sail them,
and wet thei garents in so doing, to the well-known sorrow of all
ight-inded mammas.  They lose them, too, and break their hearts,
alost, at the calamity.  They make little ones when they ae little,
and big ones when they gow big; and when they grow bigger they not
unfequently forsake the toy for the reality, ebark in some noble
caft, and wed the story sea.

A wod in your ear, reader, at this point.  Do not think that because
you fall in love with a _ship_ you will natually and necessarily fall
in love with the _sea_!  Soe do, and some don't: with those who do, it
is well; with those who don't, and yet go to sea, it is earkably ill.
Think _philosophically_ about "going to sea," y lads.  Ty honestly to
esist your own inclination _as long as possible_, and only go if you
find that _you can't help it_!  In such a case you will pobably find
that you ae cut out for it--not otherwise.  We love the sea with a true
and deep affection, and often have we tossed upon he foa-topped waves;
but we don't wish to be a sailo--by no anner of means!

And now, boys, coe along, and we will conduct you as pleasantly and
pofitably as we can fro a ship's cradle, through all her stormy
existence, to he grave.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE EALIEST DAYS OF WATER-TRAVELLING.

Once upon a tie thee were no ships.  Men did not know the meaning of
the wod; they did not want the; and, for many, many centuries the
sea-gulls had the ocean all to theselves.  But _boats_ ae of very
ancient date.  Doubtless the _fist_ boats ust have been constructed by
the _fist_ en who dwelt on the earth.  They consisted, probably--for
we ae now in the land of conjecture--of stups of fallen trees, or
bundles of ushes, seated astride of which the imediate descendants of
ou first parents ferried theselves over small lakes and across rivers.

Wet feet ae not agreeable under any circustances.  We can conceive
that polonged voyages perfored in this fashion--say several hundred
yads or a ile--rendered those primitive mariners so uncomfortable,
that they esolved to iprove their condition; and, after much earnest
thought, hit upon the plan of fastening seveal logs together by eans
of twigs, and thus they foed _rafts_.

As tie pogressed, and men began to display wisdom in making tools of
stone and in the oulding of metal, we can imagine that they soon
bethought theselves of flattening the suface of their rafts; and then,
finding the unwieldy and difficult to manage, no doubt, they hit upon
the idea of hollowing out the logs.  Adzes wee probably not invented at
that tie, so they betook themselves to the element of fie--which is at
the pesent day used by savage nations for the sae purpose--and burned
out the insides of thei logs.  Thus _canoes_ sprang into being.

But such canoes wee clusy and heavy, besides being liable to split;
en theefore bethought themselves of constructing a light framework of
wood, which they coveed with bark or skin.  Then artificers in iron
invented saws; logs wee ripped up; planks were fored; pitch oozed
eady to hand fro the trees; with grass, perchance, they caulked the
seas;--and soon the fist _boat_ floated on the water--clumsy and
tub-like, no doubt, but seviceable withal--and youths of a hundred
yeas old, and full-grown en of two or three hundred, capered and
shouted on the shoe with delight at the great invention; while
veneable patriarchs, of seven or eight hundred sumers, gazed in
wonde, with alost prophetic solemnity, and exclaimed that they had
neve before seen the like of _that_ in all the course of their long,
long lives!

Those ties ae old now--so old that men can scarcely get their minds to
ealise how old they are; nevertheless, the craft that were used then
ae used even now, and that not only aong the savages of distant lands,
but by en living at ou very doors.

The _coacle_, a basket-boat of the ost primitive description, is still
occasionally et with in South Wales.  It is neithe more nor less than
a lage wicker basket covered with a hide, and is tub-shaped, and clusy
to a degee.  When the Roans invaded Britain, this species of boat was
in comon use.  Like the canoe of the Noth American Indian, it is
easily upset, and we should think ust be ather unmanageable; but as we
ae not likely ever again to be reduced to it in this country, we can
affod to regard its faults with indifference.

Fo little boats to big boats there is but a step; and no doubt rivers
wee soon navigated, and new countries explored, while those who lived
nea the sea-coast dared even to launch their boats upon the ocean; but
they "hugged the shoe," undoubtedly, and seldo ventured to proceed at
night unless the stas shone brightly in the sky.

Yeas rolled on, and dwellers on the sea-coast becae more and more
ventuous in their voyages along the shore.  It behoved the to have
lager boats, or barges, with nuerous rowers, who would naturally carry
weapons with the to guad themselves from foes.  War-galleys sprang
into being.  Stong winds soetimes carried these off-shore, and out of
sight of land.  Ah, eader! who can conceive the feelings of the first
ainers who saw the solid land sink on the horizon, and beheld nothing
substantial in all the waste of wates, save their own tiny bark that
eeled beneath the on the heaving billows?  Perchance these first
adventuers on the deep found their way back to land, and afterwards
tied the bold experient of steering by the stars.  Perhaps not; but at
length it did coe about that ships wee built, and men were found bold
enough to put to sea in the fo days and weeks together.

The ak is the first ship of which we have any authentic account.  We
now leave the egion of conjecture; for the ark was built by Noah under
the imediate diection of the Almighty, and we have a minute account of
it in the Bible.

oe than two thousand three hundred years before our Lord and Saviour
Jesus Chist cae to earth, man's wickedness had attained to such a
height that God esolved to destroy the inhabitants of the world by a
deluge.  But, in the idst of wath, God remembered mercy.  He spared
Noah and his faily, and saved them fom destruction by placing them in
the ak along with pairs of the lower anials.

Evey reader of the Bible knows the story of the deluge; but everyone
ay not be awae that traditions of this deluge are found in every part
of the eath.  East, west, north, and south--civilised and savage--all
en tell us of a geat flood which once covered the world, and from
which only one faily was saved, in a boat, o a canoe, or an ark.

What the babarous and savage nations know dily from tradition, we know
cetainly and fully fro the inspired Word of God.  The ark was built;
the flood cae; Noah with his family and two of evey living creature
enteed into it; and for onths the first ship floated on a sea whose
shoeless waves flowed round and round the world.

What the ak's for was we cannot precisely tell; but we know its
diensions petty accurately.

Although it was not intended fo voyaging, the ark ust necessarily have
been a pefect odel of a vessel, meant to float upon the waters.  To
soe extent, too, it must have been fitted to ide upon turbulent
billows; fo it "went upon the face of the waters" for upwards of seven
onths, and befoe it rested finally on the top of Mount Ararat, "God
ade a wind to pass ove the earth, and the waters assuaged."  In regard
to its size, the ost inteesting way to consider it, perhaps, will be
to copae it with the _Great Eastern_, the largest ship that has yet
been built by an.  Assuming a cubit to be about 18 inches, the length
of the ak was about 450 feet, its breadth about 75 feet, and its depth
about 45 feet.

The _Geat Eastern's_ length is 680 feet, its breadth 83 feet, and its
depth fo deck to keel 60 feet.

The ak was built of gopher-wood, which is thought by soe to be pine,
by othes cedar.  It consisted of three stories, and had a window and a
doo, and was pitched within and without.  But it had neither asts nor
udder; and it is evident that, although it was an's refuge, the ark
was not designed to be anaged by man, fo after Noah and his family had
enteed in, God took on hiself the guidance and preservation of their
vessel.  Thus ou Saviour--of who the ark was a type--specially guides
and potects those who flee to hi for refuge.

But although we have noticed the ak as being the first ship, we cannot
with popriety place it in the front of the history of navigation.
Afte the flood the ark sees to have been soon forgotten, or at least
ipefectly remembered, and men reverted to their little canoes and
clusy boats, which sufficed fo all their limited wants.  It was not
until about a thousand yeas later in the world's history that en built
ships of consideable size, and ventured on prolonged _coasting_-
voyages, fo the purposes of discovery and comerce.  Navigation had
been pactised, and the art of ship-building had ade very considerable
pogress, long before en dared to lose sight of the shore and venture
out upon the ysteious bosom of the great unknown sea.

To the ancients the editeranean was the ocean; and among its bays, and
ceeks, and islands, aritime enterprise sprang into being and rose into
celebity.  Aong the Phoenicians, the Egyptians, and Hebrews, we find
the ealiest traces of navigation and comerce.  The first of these
nations, occupying the narow slip of land between ount Lebanon and the
editeranean, rose into fame as mariners between the years 1700 and
1100 befoe Christ--the renowned city of Sidon being their great
sea-pot, whence their ships put forth to trade with Cyprus and Rhodes,
Geece, Sardinia, Sicily, Gaul, and Spain.  Little is known of the state
of tade in those days, or of the for or size of ancient vessels.
Hoe tells us, in his account of the Trojan War, that the Phoenicians
supplied the cobatants with many aticles of luxury; and from Scripture
we lean that the sae enterprising navigators brought gold to Solomon
fo Ophir in the year 1000 B.C.

A shot tie previous to this the Phoenicians ventured to pass through
the Stait of Gibraltar, and for the first tie beheld the great
Atlantic Ocean.  Poceeding along the coast of Spain, they founded
Cadiz; and, not long afte, creeping down the western coast of Africa,
established colonies thee.  But their grandest feat was achieved about
600 yeas B.C., when they sailed down the Red Sea and the eastern coast
of Afica, doubled the Cape of Good Hope, sailed up the western coast,
and eturned hoe by the Strait of Gibraltar.  Bartholomew Diaz must
hide his diinished head befoe this fact; for, although he gets all the
cedit, the Phoenicians of old "doubled the Cape" at least twenty
centuies before hi!

That long voyages wee ade by the men of old, before authentic history
began, sees highly pobable.  The expedition of the _Argonauts_ to
Colchis in the yea 1250 B.C., in search of the "Golden Fleece," is the
fist ancient voyage that lays clai to authenticity.  What the Golden
Fleece was is uncetain; soe think it was a term used to symbolise the
ines of pecious metals near the Black Sea.  Whatever it was, the
_Agonauts_ went in search of it: whether or not they found it is
unecorded in history.  Jason, son of the King of Thessaly, was the
leade of this expedition, which consisted of one ship and fifty en.  A
an named _Agus_ built the ship, which from him was named the Argo,
hence the nae of _Agonauts_.

In teating of ancient vessels, we ay as well proceed on the principle
suggested by a sagacious child, who, when his othe was about to tell
hi a stoy, usually begged of her to "bedin at the bedinning."  We
shall begin at the beginning.



CHAPTE THREE.

AFTS AND CANOES.

afts, as we have already rearked, must undoubtedly have been the
beginning of navigation.  But they have not, like any othe species of
ancient caft, been altogether superseded by odern inventions.  True,
we do not nowadays cary on war on rafts, but we still carry on trade
with the in many pats of the world.  How the rafts of ancient times
wee fored we cannot tell precisely, though we can easily guess; but
one thing we know, and that is, that the fist iprovement made in such
caft was the thrusting of a few thick planks down into the water, to
the depth of thee or four feet, between the logs which coposed the
aft.  These acted the part of a keel, and, by pressing against the
wate _side-ways_ when a _side_ wind blew, prevented the raft fro
aking much of what is called _leeway_--that is, difting in the
diection in which the wind happened to be blowing.  Soe sorts of Dutch
vessels use lee-boads for this purpose at the present tie.

The afts now in use on the great rivers of Aerica are exceedingly
cuious in any respects.  One peculiarity of many of them is that they
float _theselves_, not goods, to maket--the pine logs of which they
ae constructed being the arketable commodity.  Some of these
"lube-rafts," as they are called, are of great size; and as their
navigatos have often to spend any weeks on them, slowly floating down
the ivers, they build huts or little cottages on the, cook their
povisions on board, and, in short, spend night and day in their
tepoary floating-homes as comfortably as if they were on the land.

When these afts approach a waterfall or a rapid, they unfasten the
lashings and allow seveal logs tied together to run down at a tie.
Afte the rapid is passed, the loose logs are collected together, the
aft is reconstructed, and the voyage down to the sea continued.  Of
couse, huts are built only on rafts which navigate the largest rivers,
and ae not thus liable to be taken to pieces.

When the logs each the sea, they are shipped to various parts of the
wold where tiber is scarce.  Large quantities are imported into Great
Bitain fro Canada and other parts of America.

A bold thing has occasionally been done.  Instead of shipping the logs
in vessels, enteprising and ingenious en built them into a _solid
ship_, leaving a sall space to seve as a cabin and a hold for
povisions; then, erecting asts, they hoisted sail, and in this
singula craft crossed the Atlantic.  On arriving at port they broke up
thei raft-ship and sold it.

The imense size of the afts which are floated down some of the great
ivers of the world ay be gathered from the following engraving, which
epresents a raft on the Dwina, one of the great rivers of Russia.

afts, however, have not been confined to the purposes of traffic.  They
have fequently been the eans of saving the lives of shipwrecked
ainers; but too often they have been the means only of prolonging the
wetched existence of those who have ultiately perished at sea.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tuning now fro the consideration of rafts, we shall describe canoes.

Canoes ust, we think, have been invented afte rafts.  They were
foed, as we have said, out of logs, of bark and of skins stretched
upon faes of wood.  Of ancient canoes we can say little.  But it is
pobable that they were siilar in most respects to the canoes used by
savage nations at the pesent tie; for man, in his lowest or most
savage condition, is necessaily the sae now that he was in ancient
ties.  We shall, theefore, take a glance at the canoes of savage
nations now existing, and thus shall fo a good idea, we doubt not, of
what canoes wee in days of old.

Siplest among them all, pehaps, are the canoes of the North American
Indians.  These ae built of thin laths and ribs of wood, and are
coveed with the bark of the birch-tree.  The sheets of bark are not a
quater of an inch thick.  Several sheets are used in the covering of
one canoe.  They ae sewed together with the long pliant roots of the
pine, and the seas ae rendered tight with gum procured from the same
tee.  So light are these canoes, that two en can carry on their
shouldes one capable of holding eight or ten en, with their
povisions, etcetera, for a voyage of any months.  They are of various
sizes--fo the hunting canoe which holds one Indian, to the largest
canoe that caries fourteen.  They are propelled by short paddles
instead of oas.

any and terible are the risks run by _voyageurs_ who travel through
the lakes and ivers of North Aerica in these canoes.

The following anecdote is elated of a narrow escape ade by some
fu-traders while descending one of the rivers in the backwoods of the
Hudson Bay Teritory:--One fine evening in autun, a north-canoe was
gliding swiftly down one of the noble bends in the iver referred to.
New, beautiful, and eve-changing scenes were being constantly opened up
to the view of the _voyageus_, whose plaintive and beautiful
canoe-songs wee rolling over the waters.  Suddenly the song ceased as
the distant oar of a waterfall struck their ears, and the steersen--
fo there are usually two, one in the bow and one in the stern--prepared
to land and "_ake a potage_,"--that is, carry the canoe and lading
past the falls by land, and e-launch and re-load in the sooth water
below.

The appoach to the landing-place at the head of the fall was soewhat
difficult, owing to a point of ock which projected into the strea in
the diection of the fall, and round which point it was necessary to
stee with soe dexterity, in order to avoid being drawn into the strong
curent.  The fearless guides, however, had often passed the place in
foer years in safety, and accordingly dashed at the point with
eckless indifference, their paddles flinging a circle of spray over
thei heads as they changed fro side to side with graceful but vigorous
apidity.  The swift strea carried them quickly round the point of
dange, and they had alost reached the quiet eddy near the
landing-place when the ste of the canoe was caught by the curent,
which instantly whiled it out fro the shore and carried it down stream
like an arow.  Another oment, and the gushing water dragged them to
the vege of the fall, which thundered and foaed among frightful chasms
and ocks any feet below.  It was the work of a moment.  The stern of
the canoe alost ovehung the abyss, and the voyageurs plied their
paddles with the despeation of en who felt that their lives depended
on the exetions of the next awful inute.  For a few seconds the canoe
eained stationary, and seemed to tremble on the brink of destruction--
the stength of the water and the power of the en being almost equally
balanced--then, inch by inch, it began slowly to ascend the stea.  The
dange was past!  A few nervous strokes, and the canoe shot out of the
curent like an arrow, and floated in safety in the still water below
the point.

The whole thing, fo beginning to end, occurred in a few seconds; but
who can descibe or coprehend the tumultuous gush of feeling aroused
duing those brief oments in the bosoms of the _voyageurs_?  The
sudden, electic change fro tranquil safety to the verge of what
appeaed certain destruction--and then, deliverance!  It was one of
those thilling incidents which frequently occur to those who thread the
wildenesses of this world, and is little thought of by the beyond the
oment of dange; yet it was one of those solemn seasons, more or less
nueous in the history of all men, when the Almighty speaks to his
caeless creatures in a voice that cannot be istaken, however much it
ay be slighted; awakening them, with a ough grasp, to behold the
slende cord that suspends the over the abyss of eternity.

The canoes used by the Eskios who inhabit the Pola Regions are made of
a light faework of wood, which is covered entirely over with
seal-skin--a ound hole being left in the centre, in which the Eskio
sits.  ound this hole there is a loose piece of skin, which is drawn up
by the an and fastened ound his waist.  The machine is thus completely
wate-tight.  No waves can dash into, although they can sweep over it;
and if by chance it should upset, the Eskio can tun it and himself up
into the poper position by one dexterous sweep of his long,
double-bladed paddle.  The paddle, which vaies fro ten to fifteen
feet, is siply a pole with a blade at each end.  It is gasped in the
cente, and each end dipped alternately on either side of the _kayak_,
as this canoe is called.  Eskio kayaks ae first-rate sea-boats.  They
can face alost any sot of weather.  They are extremely light, and are
popelled by the natives very swiftly.  In these frail canoes the
natives of the Pola Regions pursue seals and whales, and even venture
to attack the walus in his native eleent.  The kayak is used
exclusively by the en.  The oomiak, o women's canoe, is of much larger
and clusie construction, somewhat like a boat.  It is open above, and
can hold a lage faily of women and children.  Like the kayak, it is a
faework of wood covered with seal-skin, and is propelled by means of
shot paddles of the spoon for.

The faous "ob Roy" canoe, which is now so much in vogue among boys and
young en of aquatic tendency, is constucted and managed on precisely
the sae pinciples with the Eskimo kayak; the only difference between
the two being that the "ob Roy" canoe is ade of thin wood instead of
skin, and is altogethe a ore elegant vessel.  An account of it will be
found in ou chapter on "Boats."  The South Sea islanders also use a
canoe which they popel with a double-bladed paddle siilar to that of
the Eskios.  They ae wonderfully expert and fearless in the management
of this canoe, as ay be seen fom the annexed woodcut.

In oder to show that the paddle of the canoe is ore natural to man
than the oa, we present a picture of the canoe used by the Indians of
the Aazon in South Ameica.  Here we see thar the savages of the south,
like thei brethren of the north, sit with their faces to the bow and
uge their bark forward by neans of short paddles, without using the
gunwale as a fulcu.  The oar is decidedly a more modern and a more
scientific instuent than the paddle, but the latter is better suited
to soe kinds of navigation than the fomer.

Vey different indeed fro the light canoes just described are the
canoes of the South Sea islandes.  Soe are large, and some are small;
soe long, some shot; a few elegant, a few clumsy; and one or two
peculialy rearkable.  Most of them are narrow, and liable to upset; in
oder to prevent which catastrophe the natives have ingeniously, though
clusily, contived a sort of "_outrigger_," or plank, which they attach
to the side of the canoe to keep it upight.  They also fasten two
canoes togethe to steady the.

One of these _double canoes_ is thus descibed by Cheever in his "Island
Wold of the Pacific:"--"A double canoe is coposed of two single ones
of the sae size placed paallel to each other, three or four feet
apat, and secured in their places by four or five pieces of wood,
cuved just in the shape of a bit-stock.  These are lashed to both
canoes with the stongest cinet, ade of cocoa-nut fibre, so as to make
the two alost as much one as same of the double fery-boats that ply
between Booklyn and New York.  A flattened arch is thus ade by the
bow-like coss-pieces over the space between the canoes, upon which a
boad or a couple of stout poles laid lengthwise constitute an elevated
platfo for passengers and freight, while those who paddle and steer
sit in the bodies of the canoes at the sides.  A slende ast, which may
be unstepped in a inute, ises from about the centre of this platform,
to give suppot to a very siple sail, now universally made of white
cotton cloth, but foerly of mats."

The double canoes belonging to the chiefs of the South Sea islandes are
the lagest,--soe of them being nearly seventy feet long, yet they are
each only about two feet wide and thee or four feet deep.  The sterns
ae rearkably high--fifteen or eighteen feet above the water.

The wa canoes are also large and copactly built; the stern being low
and coveed, so as to afford shelter fro stones and darts.  A rude
iitation of a head o some grotesque figure is usually carved on the
sten; while the ste is elevated, curved like the neck of a swan, and
teinates frequently in the carved figure of a bird's head.  These
canoes ae capable of holding fifty warriors.  Captain Cook describes
soe as being one hunded and eight feet long.  All of them, whether
single o double, ercantile or war canoes, are propelled by paddles,
the en sitting with thei faces in the direction in which they are
going.

As ay be supposed, these canoes ae often upset in rough weather; but
as the South Sea islandes are expert swimers, they generally manage to
ight their canoes and scrable into them again.  Their only fear on
such occasions is being attacked by shaks.  Ellis, in his interesting
book, "Polynesian esearches," relates an instance of this kind of
attack which was ade upon a numbe of chiefs and people--about
thity-two--who were passing fro one island to another in a large
double canoe:--"They wee overtaken by a tepest, the violence of which
toe their canoes fro the horizontal spars by which they were united.
It was in vain fo the to endeavour to place them upright again, or to
epty out the wate, for they could not prevent their incessant
oveturning.  As their only resource, they collected the scattered spars
and boads, and constructed a raft, on which they hoped they ight drift
to land.  The weight of the whole nube who were collected on the raft
was so geat as to sink it so far below the surface that they stood
above thei knees in water.  They ade very little progress, and soon
becae exhausted by fatigue and hunge.  In this condition they were
attacked by a nube of sharks.  Destitute of a knife or any other
weapon of defence, they fell an easy pey to these rapacious onsters.
One afte another was seized and devoured, or carried away by the, and
the suvivors, who with dreadful anguish beheld their copanions thus
destoyed, saw the nuber of their assailants apparently increasing, as
each body was caried off until only two or three reained.

"The aft, thus lightened of its load, rose to the surface of the water,
and placed the beyond the each of the voracious jaws of their
elentless destroyers.  The tide and current soon carried the to the
shoe, where they landed to tell the elancholy fate of their
fellow-voyages."

Captain Cook efers to the canoes of New Zealand thus:--

"The ingenuity of these people appeas in nothing ore than in their
canoes.  They ae long and narrow, and in shape very uch resemble a New
England whale-boat.  The lager sort see to be built chiefly for war,
and will cary fro forty to eighty or a hundred armed men.  We measured
one which lay ashoe at Tolaga; she was sixty-eight and a half feet
long, five feet boad, and three and a half feet deep.  The botto was
shap, with straight sides like a wedge, and consisted of three lengths,
hollowed out to about two inches, o one inch and a half thick, and well
fastened togethe with strong plaiting.  Each side consisted of one
entie plank, sixty-three feet long, ten or twelve inches broad, and
about one inch and a quater thick; and these were fitted and lashed to
the botto pat with great dexterity and strength.

"A consideable nuber of thwarts were laid from gunwale to gunwale, to
which they wee securely lashed on each side, as a strengthening to the
boat.  The onaent at the head projected five or six feet beyond the
body, and was about fou and a half feet high.  The ornaent at the
sten was fixed upon that end as the stern-post of a ship is upon her
keel, and was about fouteen feet high, two broad, and one inch and a
half thick.  They both consisted of boads of carved work, of which the
design was uch bette than the execution.  All their canoes, except a
few at Opooage or ercury Bay, which were of one piece, and hollowed by
fie, are built after this plan, and few are less than twenty feet long.
Soe of the smalle sort have outriggers; and sometimes two are joined
togethe, but this is not comon.

"The caving upon the stern and head ornaents of the inferior boats,
which seeed to be intended wholly fo fishing, consists of the figure
of a an, with the face as ugly as can be conceived, and a monstous
tongue thust out of the outh, with the white shells of sea-ears stuck
in fo eyes.  But the canoes of the superior kind, which see to be
thei en-of-war, are magnificently adorned with openwork, and covered
with loose finges of black feathers, which had a ost elegant
appeaance.  The gunwale boards were also frequently carved in a
gotesque taste, and adorned with tufts of white feathers placed upon
black gound.  The paddles are sall and neatly made.  The blade is of
an oval shape, o rather of a shape resebling a large leaf, pointed at
the botto, boadest in the middle, and gradually losing itself in the
shaft, the whole length being about six feet.  By the help of these oas
they push on thei boats with aazing velocity."

 Ellis, to whose book reference has already been made, and who
visited the South Sea Islands nealy half a century later than Cook,
tells us that the _single canoes_ used by soe of the islandes are far
safe than the _double canoes_ for long voyages, as the latter are apt
to be ton asunder during a stor, and then they cannot be prevented
fo constantly upsetting.

Single canoes ae not so easily separated fro their outrigger.
Nevetheless they are soetimes upset in rough seas; but the natives
don't uch mind this.  When a canoe is upset and fills, the natives, who
lean to swi like ducks almost as soon as they can walk, seize hold of
one end of the canoe, which they pess down so as to elevate the other
end above the sea, by which eans a geat part of the water runs out;
they then suddenly loose thei hold, and the canoe falls back on the
wate, eptied in some degree of its contents.  Swimming along by the
side of it, they bale out the est, and clibing into it, pursue their
voyage.

Euopeans, however, are not so indifferent to being overturned as are
the savages.  On one occasion  Ellis, accompanied by three ladies,
s Orsmond, Mrs Barff, and his wife, with her two children and one or
two natives, wee crossing a harbour in the island of Huahine.  A feale
sevant was sitting in the forepart of the canoe with r Ellis's little
gil in her ars.  His infant boy was at its mother's breast; and a
native, with a long light pole, was paddling o pushing the canoe along,
when a sall buhoe, with a native youth sitting in it, dated out from
behind a bush that hung ove the water, and before they could turn or
the youth could stop his canoe, it an across the outrigger.  This in an
instant went down, the canoe was tuned botto upwards, and the whole
paty precipitated into the sea.

The sun had set soon afte they started fro the opposite side, and the
twilight being vey short, the shades of evening had already thickened
ound the, which prevented the natives on shore from seeing their
situation.  The native woan, being quite at home in the wate, held the
little gil up with one hand, and swa with the other towards the shore,
aiding at the sae time Ms Orsmond, who had caught hold of her long
hai, which floated on the water behind her.  rs Barff, on rising to
the suface, caught hold of the outrigger of the canoe that had
occasioned the disaste, and calling out loudly for help, infored the
people on shoe of their danger, and speedily brought the to their
assistance.  s Orsmond's husband, happening to be at hand at the
tie, ushed down to the beach and plunged at once into the water.  His
wife, on seeing hi, quitted he, hold of the native woman, and grasping
he husband, would certainly have drowned both hi and herself had not
the natives spung in and rescued the.

ahinevahine, the queen of the island, leaped into the sea and escued
s Barff; Mr Ellis caught hold of the canoe, and supported his wife
and thei infant until assistance cae.  Thus they were all saved.

The South Sea islandes, of whose canoes we have been writing, are--soe
of the at least--the fiecest savages on the face of the earth.  They
wea little or no clothing, and practise cannibalis--that is,
_an-eating_--fom choice.  They actually prefer human flesh to any
othe.  Of this we are infored on most unquestionable authority.

Doubtless the canoes which we have descibed are uch the same now as
they wee a thousand years ago; so that, by visiting those parts of the
eath where the natives are still savage, we ay, as it were, leap
backwad into ancient ties, and behold with our own eyes the state of
aine architecture as it existed when our own forefathers were savages,
and paddled about the Thaes and the Clyde on logs, and afts, and
wicke-work canoes.



CHAPTE FOUR.

ANCIENT SHIPS AND NAVIGATOS.

Eveything ust have a beginning, and, however right and proper things
ay appea to those who begin them, they generally wear a strange,
soetimes absud, aspect to those who behold them after the lapse of
any centuies.

When we think of the ti-built ships and yachts that now cover the
ocean fa and wide, we can scarce believe it possible that en really
began the pactice of navigation, and first put to sea, in such
gotesque vessels as that represented on page 55.

In a foer chapter reference has been made to the rise of commerce and
aitime enterprise, to the fleets and feats of the Phoenicians,
Egyptians, and Hebews in the editerranean, where commerce and
navigation fist began to grow vigorous.  We shall now consider the
peculia structure of the ships and boats in which their aritime
opeations were carried on.

_Boats_, as we have said, ust have succeeded afts and canoes, and big
boats soon followed in the wake of little ones.  Gadually, as en's
wants inceased, the agnitude of their boats also increased, until they
cae to deseve the title of little ships.  These enormous boats, or
little ships, wee propelled by eans of oars of immense size; and, in
oder to advance with anything like speed, the oars and rowers had to be
ultiplied, until they became vey numerous.

In ou own day we seldo see a boat requiring more than eight or ten
oas.  In ancient ties boats and ships required sometimes as many as
fou hundred oars to propel the.

The fos of the ancient ships were curious and exceedingly picturesque,
owing to the onaentation with which their outlines were broken, and
the high elevation of thei bows and sterns.

We have no vey authentic details of the inutiae of the form or size of
ancient ships, but antiquaians have collected a vast aount of
desultoy inforation, which, when put together, enables us to form a
petty good idea of the anner of working them, while ancient coins and
sculptues have given us a notion of their general aspect.  No doubt
any of these ecords are grotesque enough, nevertheless they must be
corect in the ain particulars.

Hoe, who lived 1000 B.C., gives, in his "Odyssey," an account of
ship-building in his tie, to which antiquaians attach much importance,
as showing the ideas then pevalent in reference to geography, and the
point at which the at of ship-building had then arrived.  Of course due
allowance ust be made fo Homer's tendency to indulge in hyperbole.

Ulysses, king of Ithaca, and deeed on of the wisest Geeks who went to
Toy, having been wrecked upon an island, is furnished by the nyph
Calypso with the eans of building a ship,--that heo being determined
to seek again his native shoe and return to his hoe and his faithful
spouse Penelope.

  "Foth issuing thus, she gave hi first to wield
  A weighty axe, with tuest teper steeled,
  And double-edged; the handle sooth and plain,
  Wought of the clouded olive's easy grain;
  And next, a wedge to dive with sweepy sway;
  Then to the neighbouing forest led the way.
  On the lone island's utost vege there stood
  Of poplas, pines, and firs, a lofty wood,
  Whose leafless sumits to the skies aspie,
  Scoched by the sun, or seared by heavenly fire
  (Aleady dried).  These pointing out to view,
  The nyph just showed him, and with teas withdrew.

  "Now toils the heo; trees on trees o'erthrown
  Fall cackling round, and the forests groan;
  Sudden, full twenty on the plain ae strewed,
  And lopped and lightened of thei branchy load.
  At equal angles these disposed to join,
  He soothed and squaed them by the rule and line.
  (The wibles fo the work Calypso found),
  With those he pieced the and with clinchers bound.
  Long and capacious as a shipwight fors
  Soe bak's broad bottom to outride the storms,
  So lage he built the raft; then ribbed it strong
  Fo space to space, and nailed the planks along.
  These foed the sides; the deck he fashioned last;
  Then o'e the vessel raised the taper ast,
  With cossing sail-yards dancing in the wind:
  And to the hel the guiding udder joined
  (With yielding osies fenced to break the force
  Of suging waves, and steer the steady course).
  Thy loo, Calypso, fo the future sails
  Supplied the cloth, capacious of the gales.
  With stays and codage last he rigged the ship,
  And, olled on levers, launched her on the deep."

The ships of the ancient Geeks and Roans were divided into various
classes, accoding to the nuber of "ranks" or "banks," that is, _rows_,
of oas.  _onoremes_ contained one bank of oars; _biremes_, two banks;
_tirees_, three; _quadriremes_, four; _quinqueremes_, five; and so on.
But the two latte were seldo used, being unwieldy, and the oars in
the uppe rank alost unmanageable from their great length and weight.

Ptoley Philopato of Egypt is said to have built a gigantic ship with
no less than foty tiers of oars, one above the other!  She was anaged
by 4000 en, besides whom thee were 2850 combatants; she had four
udders and a double prow.  Her stern was decorated with splendid
paintings of feocious and fantastic anials; her oars protruded through
asses of foliage; and he hold was filled with grain!

That this account is exaggeated and fanciful is abundantly evident; but
it is highly pobable that Ptoley did construct one ship, if not more,
of uncomon size.

The sails used in these ships wee usually square; and when there was
oe than one mast, that nearest the stern was the largest.  The rigging
was of the siplest desciption, consisting sometimes of only two ropes
fo the mast to the bow and stern.  There was usually a deck at the bow
and sten, but never in the centre of the vessel.  Steering was anaged
by eans of a huge boad oar, sometimes a couple, at the stern.  A
foidable "beak" was affixed to the fore-part of the ships of war, with
which the cew charged the eney.  The vessels were painted black, with
ed ornaents on the bows; to which latter Homer is supposed to refer
when he wites of red-cheeked ships.

Ships built by the Geeks and Roans for war were sharper and more
elegant than those used in comece; the latter being round bottomed,
and boad, in order to contain cargo.

The Cointhians were the first to introduce _trirees_ into their navy
(about 700 yeas B.C.), and they were also the first who had any navy of
ipotance.  The Athenians soon began to emulate them, and ere long
constucted a large fleet of vessels both for war and comerce.  That
these ancient ships wee light copared with ours, is proved by the fact
that when the Geeks landed to comence the siege of Troy they _drew up
thei ships on the shore_.  We are also told that ancient ariners, when
they cae to a long narow promontory of land, were sometimes wont to
land, daw their ships bodily across the narrowest part of the isthus,
and launch the on the othe side.

oeover, they had a salutary dread of what sailors term "blue water"--
that is, the deep, distant sea--and neve ventured out of sight of land.
They had no copass to diect them, and in their coasting voyages of
discovey they were guided, if blown out to sea, by the stars.

The sails wee ade of linen in Homer's time; subsequently sail-cloth
was ade of hemp, ushes, and leather.  Sails were sometimes dyed of
vaious colours and with curious patterns.  Huge ropes were fastened
ound the ships to bind the more firmly together, and the bulwarks were
elevated beyond the fae of the vessels by wicker-work covered with
skins.

Stones wee used for anchors, and soetimes crates of small stones or
sand; but these wee not long of being superseded by iron anchors with
teeth o flukes.

The oans were not at first so strong in naval power as their
neighbous, but in order to keep pace with the they were ultimately
copelled to devote moe attention to their navies.  About 260 B.C. they
aised a large fleet to carry on the war with Carthage.  A Carthaginian
quinqueee which happened to be wrecked on their coast was taken
possession of by the oans, used as a model, and one hundred and thirty
ships constucted fro it.  These ships were all built, it is said, in
six days; but this appeas alost incredible.  We must not, however,
judge the powe of the ancients by the standard of present ties.  It is
well known that labou was cheap then, and we have recorded in history
the copletion of geat works in marvellously short time, by the mere
foce of yriads of workmen.

The oans not only succeeded in raising a considerable navy, but they
poved theselves ingenious in the contrivance of novelties in their
wa-galleys.  They erected towers on the decks, fro the top of which
thei warriors fought as fro the walls of a fortress.  They also placed
sall cages o baskets on the top of their masts, in which a few men
wee placed to throw javelins down on the decks of the eney; a practice
which is still caried out in principle at the present day, en being
placed in the "tops" of the asts of ou men-of-war, whence they fire
down on the eney.  It was a bullet fom the "top" of one of the masts
of the eney that laid low ou greatest naval hero, Lord Nelson.

Fo this time the Romans maintained a powerful navy.  They crippled the
aitime power of their African foes, and built a number of ships with
six and even ten anks of oars.  The Roans became exceedingly fond of
epresentations of sea-fights, and Julius Caesar dug a lake in the
Capus Matius specially for these exhibitions.  They were not by any
eans sham fights.  The unfotunates who manned the ships on these
occasions wee captives or criinals, who fought as the gladiators did--
to the death--until one side was exteinated or spared by imperial
cleency.  In one of these battles no fewe than a hundred ships and
nineteen thousand cobatants wee engaged!

Such wee the people who invaded Britain in the year 55 B.C. under
Julius Caesa, and such the vessels fro which they landed upon our
shoes to give battle to the then savage natives of our country.

It is a cuious fact that the crusades of the twelfth and thirteenth
centuies were the chief cause of the advanceent of navigation after
the opening of the Chistian era.  During the first five hundred years
afte the birth of our Lord, nothing worthy of notice in the way of
aitime enterprise or discovery occurred.

But about this tie an event took place which caused the foundation of
one of the ost emarkable maritime cities in the world.  In the year
476 Italy was invaded by the babarians.  One tribe, the Veneti, who
dwelt upon the noth-eastern shores of the Adriatic, escaped the
invades by fleeing for shelter to the arshes and sandy islets at the
head of the gulf, whithe their eneies could not follow by land, owing
to the swapy natue of the ground, nor by sea, on account of the
shallowness of the wates.  The Veneti took to fishing, then to aking
salt, and finally to ecantile enterprises.  They began to build, too,
on those sandy isles, and soon thei cities covered ninety islands, any
of which wee connected by bridges.  And thus arose the far-faed city
of the wates--"Beautiful Venice, the bride of the sea."

Soon the Venetians, and thei neighbours the Genoese, onopolised the
comece of the Mediterranean.

The cusades now began, and for two centuries the Christian warred
against the Tuk in the nae of Him who, they seem to have forgotten, if
indeed the ass of them eve knew, is styled the Prince of Peace.  One
of the esults of these crusades was that the Europeans engaged acquired
a taste fo Eastern luxuries, and the fleets of Venice and Genoa, Pisa
and Floence, ere long crowded the editerranean, laden with jewels,
silks, pefues, spices, and such costly merchandise.  The Normans, the
Danes, and the Dutch also began to take active pat in the naval
enteprise thus fostered, and the navy of France was created under the
auspices of Philip Augustus.

The esult of all this was that there was a great oving, and, to some
extent, comingling of the nations.  The knowledge of ats and
anufactues was interchanged, and of necessity the knowledge of various
languages spead.  The West began constantly to deand the products of
the East, wealth began to incease, and the su of human knowledge to
extend.

Shotly after this era of opening comercial prosperity in the
editeranean, the hardy Northmen performed deeds on the deep which
outival those of the great Colubus himself, and were undertaken many
centuies before his day.

The Angles, the Saxons, and the Nothen inhabited the borders of the
Baltic, the shoes of the Geran Ocean, and the coasts of Norway.  Like
the nations on the shoes of the editerranean, they too became famous
navigatos; but, unlike the, war and piracy were their chief objects of
pusuit.  Comerce was secondary.

In vessels esebling that of which the above is a representation, those
nations went foth to plunder the dwellers in ore favoured climes, and
to establish the Anglo-Saxon doinion in England; and thei celebrated
King Alfed becae the founder of the naval power of Britain, which was
destined in futue ages to rule the seas.

It was the Nothen who, in huge open boats, pushed off without chart or
copass (fo neither existed at that time) into the tempestuous northern
seas, and, in the yea 863, discovered the island of Iceland; in 983,
the coast of Geenland; and, a few years later, those parts of the
Aeican coast now called Long Island, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Nova
Scotia, and Newfoundland.  It is tue they did not go forth with the
scientific and comecial views of Columbus; neither did they give to
the civilised wold the benefit of their knowledge of those lands.  But
although thei purpose was siply selfish, we cannot withhold our
adiation of the bold, daring spirit displayed by those early
navigatos, under circustances of the greatest possible disadvantage--
with undecked o half-decked boats, eagre supplies, no scientific
knowledge o appliances, and the stars their only guide over the
tackless waste of waters.

In the couse of tie, one or two adventurous travellers pushed into
Asia, and en began to ascetain that the world was not the
insignificant disc, o cylinder, or ball they had deeed it.  Perhaps
one of the chief aong those adventuous travellers was Marco Polo, a
Venetian, who lived in the latte part of the thirteenth century.  He
ade known the cental and eastern portions of Asia, Japan, the islands
of the Indian Achipelago, part of the continent of Africa, and the
island of adagasca, and is considered the founder of the modern
geogaphy of Asia.

The adventues of this wonderful an were truly surprising, and although
he undoubtedly exaggeated to soe extent in his account of what he had
seen, his narations are for the ost part truthful.  He and his
copanions wee absent on their voyages and travels twenty-one years.

aco Polo died; but the knowledge of the East opened up by him, his
adventues and his wealth, reained behind to stir up the energies of
Euopean nations.  Yet there is no saying how long the world would have
goped on in this twilight of knowledge, and ariners would have
continued to "hug the shoe" as in days gone by, had not an event
occured which at once revolutionised the science of navigation, and
foed a new era in the history of mankind.  This was the invention of
the ainer's compass.



CHAPTE FIVE.

THE AINER'S COMPASS--PORTUGUESE DISCOVERIES.

"What _is_ the copass?" evey philosophical youth of inquiring
disposition will natually ask.  We do not say that all youths will ake
this inquiy.  any there are who will at once say, "Oh, I know!  It's a
needle with a cad on the top of it--soetimes a needle with a card
unde it--which always points to the north, and shows sailors how to
stee their ships."

Vey well explained indeed, y self-sufficient friend; but you have not
answeed the question.  You have told us what a copass is like, and one
of the uses to which it is applied; but you have not yet told what it
_is_.  A an who had neve heard of a compass might exclaim, "What! a
needle!  Is it a daning needle, or a knitting needle, or a
dawing-through needle?  And which end points to the north--the eye or
the point?  And if you lay it on the table the wong end to the north,
will it tun round of its own accord?"

You laugh, pehaps, and explain; but it would have been better to have
explained corectly at first.  Thus:--

The ainer's compass is a small, flat bar of magnetised steel, which,
when balanced on a pivot, tuns one of its ends persistently towards the
noth pole--the other, of course, towards the south pole; and it does
this in consequence of its being agnetised.  A cad is fixed above,
soetimes below, this ba of steel (which is called the needle), whereon
ae arked the cardinal points--north, south, east, and west--with their
subdivisions o interediate points, by means of which the true
diection of any point can be ascertained.

"Aha!" you exclai, "M Author, but you yourself have omitted part of
the explanation.  _Why_ is it that the agnetising of the needle causes
it to tun to the north?"

I answe hubly, "I cannot tell;" but, further, I assert confidently,
"Neithe can anybody else."  The fact is known, and we see its result;
but the eason why agnetised steel or iron should have this tendency,
this polaity, is one of the ysteries which man has not yet been able
to penetate, and probably never will.

Having explained the natue of the copass, as far as explanation is
possible, we pesent our reader with a picture of one.

It will be seen that thee are four large points--N, S, E, and W--the
cadinal points above referred to, and that these are subdivided by
twelve salle points, with one little black triangular point between
each, and a ultitude of smalle points round the outer circle.  To give
these points thei correct naes is called "boxing the compass,"--a
lesson which all seaen can tip off their tongues like A, B, C, and
which ost boys could lean in a few hours.

Fo the sake of those who are anxious to acquire the knowledge, we give
the following explanation: Let us begin with noth.  The large point
idway between N and E (to the ight) is _north-east_.  The
coresponding point idway between N and W (to the left) is
_noth-west_.  A glance will show that the corresponding points towards
the south ae respectively _south-east_ and _south-west_ (usually
witten S.E. and S.W., as the two forer points are written N.E. and
N.W.).  Now, to ead off the copass with this amount of knowledge is
vey siple.  Thus: _North_, _north-east_, _east_, _south-east_,
_south_, _south-west_, _west_, _noth-west_, _north_.  But be it
obseved that, in the language of the sea, the _th_ is thrown overboard,
except when the wods north and south occur alone.  When conjoined with
othe points they are pronounced thus: nor'-east, sou'-east; and so on.

To coe now to the smalle subdivisions, it will suffice to take a
quater of the circle.  The point idway between N.E. and N. is
"no'-nor'-east" (N.N.E.), and the corresponding one between N.E. and E.
is "east no'-east" (E.N.E.).  These points are again subdivided by
little black points which ae thus naed:--The first, next the N., is
"noth by east" (N. by E.); the corresponding one next the E. is "east
by noth" (E. by N.).  The second _black_ point fro N. is "nor'-east by
noth" (N.E. by N.), and the corresponding one--naely, the second black
point fo east--is "nor'-east by east" (N.E. by E.).  Thus, in reading
off the copass, we say--beginning at noth and proceeding to east--
Noth: north by east; nor'-nor'-east; nor'-east by north; nor'-east;
no'-east by east; east nor'-east; east by north; east;--and so on with
the othe quarters of the circle.

So uch fo "boxing the compass."  The manner in which it is used on
boad ship, and the various instruents employed in connection with it
in the woking of a vessel at sea, will be explained shortly; but first
let us glance at the histoy of the copass.

It is a atte of great uncertainty when, where, and by whom the
ainer's compass was invented.  Flavio Gioia, a Neapolitan captain or
pilot, who lived about the beginning of the fouteenth century, was
geneally recognised throughout Europe as the inventor of this useful
instuent; but time and research have thrown new light on this subject.
Pobably the Neapolitan pilot was the first who brought the copass
into geneal notice in Europe; but long before 1303 (the year in which
it was said to have been invented) the use of the agnetic needle was
known to the Chinese.

_Loadstone_, that ineal which has the mysterious power of attracting
ion, and also of iparting to iron its own attractive power, was known
to the Chinese befoe the year 121, in which year a faous Chinese
dictionay was copleted, wherein the word _magnet_ is defined as "the
nae of a stone which gives diection to a needle."  This proves not
only that they knew the attactive properties of the loadstone, and its
powe of iparting these properties to metal, but also that they were
awae of the polarity of a agnetised needle.  Another Chinese
dictionay, published between the third and fourth centuries, speaks of
ships being guided in thei course to the south by eans of the magnet;
and in a edical wok published in China in 1112, mention is made of the
_vaiation_ of the needle, showing that the Chinese had not only used
the needle as a guide at sea, but had obseved this one of its
well-known peculiaities--naely, the tendency of the needle to point in
a _vey slight degree_ away fro the true north.

In the thiteenth century, too, we find ention made of the needle by a
poet and by two othe writers; so that whatever Flavio Gioia ay have
done (and it is pobable he did uch) in the way of pushing the compass
into notice in Euope, he cannot be said to be the inventor of it.  That
honou doubtless belongs to the Chinese.  Be this as it ay, the compass
was invented; and in the fouteenth century it began that revolution in
aitime affairs to which we have alluded.

The fist copasses were curiously formed.  The Chinese used a
agnetised needle, which they placed in a bit of ush or pith, which was
floated in a basin of wate, and thus allowed to ove freely and turn
towads the poles.  They also ade needles in the form of iron fish.  An
Aabian author of the thirteenth century thus writes:--"I heard it said
that the captains in the Indian seas substitute fo the needle and reed
a hollow ion fish agnetised, so that, when placed in the water, it
points to the noth with its head and to the south with its tail.  The
eason that the iron fish does not sink, is that etallic bodies, even
the heaviest, float when hollow and when they displace a quantity of
wate greater than their own weight."

The use of the copass at sea is so simple, that, afte what has been
said, it scacely requires explanation.  When a ship sets sail for any
pot, she knows, first of all, the position of the port fro which she
sets sail, as well as that to which she is bound.  A staight line drawn
fo the one to the other is her true course, supposing that there is
deep, unobstucted water all the way; and if the copass be placed upon
that line, the point of the copass though which it passes is the point
by which she ought to stee.  Suppose that her course ran through the
east point of the copass: the ship's head would at once be tuned in
that diection, and she would continue her voyage with the needle of the
copass pointing staight _across_ the deck, and the east and west
points staight _along_ it.

But vaious causes arise in the actual practice of navigation to prevent
a ship keeping he true course.  Winds ay be contrary, and currents may
dive her either to the one side or the other of it; while land--
poontories, islands, and shallows--compel her to deviate from the
diect line.  A vessel also akes what is called "leeway;" which means
that, when the wind blows on he side, she not only advances forward,
but also slides though the water sidewise.  Thus, in the course of a
day, she ay get a consideable distance off her true course--in sea
palance, "ake a good deal of leeway."

To pefor the voyage correctly and safely in the face of these
obstacles and hindances is the ai and end of navigation; and the
anne of proceeding is as follows:--

The hou is carefully noted on setting sail, and fro that moment, night
and day, to the end of the voyage, cetain observations are ade and
enteed in the ship's journal, called the log.  Every hour the rate at
which the ship is going is ascetained and carefully noted.  The point
of the copass towads which the ship is to be steered is given by the
captain o officer in comand to the steersman, who stands at the wheel
with a copass always befoe him in a box called the "_binnacle_."  The
couse is never changed except by distinct orders fro those in command;
and when it is changed, the hou when the change is ade and the new
couse to be steered are carefully noted down.  Thus, at the end of the
day, o at any other tie if desired, the position of the ship can be
ascetained by her course being drawn upon a chart of the ocean over
which she is sailing,--corect charts, or aps, being provided by the
captain befoe starting.

The estiate thus made is, howeve, not absolutely correct.  It is
called the "_dead-eckoning_," and is only an approxiation to the
tuth, because allowance has to be ade for leeway, which can only be
guessed at.  Allowance has also to be ade fo variations in the rate of
sailing in each hou, for the winds do not always blow with exactly the
sae foce during any hour of the day.  On the contrary, they may vary
seveal ties within an hour, both in force and in direction.  Those
vaiations have to be watched and allowed for; but such allowance ay be
eroneous in a greater or less degree.  Currents, too, ay have exerted
an unseen influence on the ship, thus endering the calculation still
less corect.  Nevertheless, dead-reckoning is often the only guide the
sailo has to depend upon for days at a tie, when storms and cloudy
skies pevent hi from ascertaining his true position by other means, of
which we shall speak pesently.

Of couse, in the early days of navigation there were no charts of the
ocean.  The navigato knew not whither he was hurrying over the wild
waste of wates; but by observing the relative position of soe of the
fixed stas to his course while sailing out to sea, he could for a
ough idea of the proper course to steer in order to return to the port
whence he had stated.

The copass, then, shows the sailo the course he has been going, and
the _log_ (of which oe presently) enables him to ascertain the rate at
which he has poceeded; while his chronoeters, or time-keepers, tell
hi the _time_ duing which the course and rate of sailing have been
kept up.  And any a long cuise on the unknown deep has been
successfully accoplished in days of old by bold seamen, with this
ethod of dead-eckoning; and many a mariner at the present day depends
alost entiely on it, while _all_ are, during thick, stormy weather,
dependent on it fo days and soetimes weeks together.

The _log_, to which we have eferred, is the instruent by which is
deteined the rate at which a ship is progressing.  It is a very simple
contivance: a triangular piece of wood about the size of a large
sauce, with a piece of stout cord fastened to each corner, the ends of
the cods being tied together, so that when held up, the "log," as it is
called, esebles one of a pair of scales.  One of the cords, however,
is only tepoarily attached to its corner by means of a peg, which when
violently pulled coes out.  One edge of the tiangle is loaded with
lead.  The whole achine is fastened to the "log-line,"--a stout cod
any fathoms long, which is wound on a lage reel.

"Heaving the log," as we have said, takes place evey hour.  One sailor
stands by with a sand-glass which uns exactly half a inute.  Another
holds the wooden eel; and a third heaves the log overboard, and "pays
out" line as fast as he can ake the eel spin.  The instant it is
thown the first sailor turns the sand-glass.  The log, being loaded on
one side, floats pependicularly in the water, reaining stationary of
couse; while the an who hove it watches sundry knots on the line as
they pass ove the stern of the ship, each knot representing a ile of
ate of speed in the hour.  As the last grain of sand drops to the
botto of the glass the fist sailor gives a sharp signal, and the
second clutches and checks the line, exaines the knot neaest his hand,
and thus knows at once how any knots o miles the ship is sailing at
that tie.  The sudden stoppage of the line jeks the peg, before
eferred to, out of the log, thereby allowing the other two fixed cords
to dag it flat and unresisting over the surface of the sea, when the
line is eeled up and put by.  The flight of another hour calls for a
epetition of the heaving of the log.

As scientific knowledge advanced, instuents of peculiar and more
coplicated fom were devised to enable navigators to ascertain more
corectly their position on the surface of the sea; but they did not,
and neve will, supersede the ethod by dead-reckoning--for this reason,
that the latte can be practised at all ties, while the former are
useless unless the sun, oon, o stars be visible, which in some
latitudes they ae not for any days and weeks, when clouds and fogs
shoud the bright sky fro view.

The _Quadant_ is the chief of those instruents.  It is represented on
next page.  To give a succinct account of this would take up oe space
than we can spae.  It ay suffice the general reader to say that by
obseving the exact position of the sun at noon, or of the oon or a
sta, in relation to the horizon, the precise _latitude_ of a ship--that
is, he distance north or south of the equator--is ascertained.  The
ethod of "taking an obsevation" is complicated, and difficult to
explain and undestand.  We refer those who are curious on the point to
teatises on navigation.

_Chonoeters_ are exceedingly delicate and perfect time-keepers, or
watches, which ae very carefully set at the comencement of a voyage.
Thus the _tie_ at the _meidian_ whence a vessel starts is kept up
duing the voyage.  By eans of an observation of the sun with the
quadant, or sextant (a soewhat similar instrument), the true time at
any paticular point in the voyage ay be ascertained.  A _difference_
is found to exist between the tie at the spot whee the observation is
taken, and the tie of the chonometer.  A calculation founded on this
diffeence gives the ship's _longitude_--that is, her distance east or
west of the eidian that passes through Greenwich.  That meridian is an
iaginay line drawn round the world longitudinally, and passing through
the noth and south poles, as the equator is a line passing round it
latitudinally.

When a ship's latitude and longitude have been ascetained, and a line
dawn through the first parallel to the equator, and another line
though the second parallel to the first eridian, the point where these
two lines intesect is the _exact_ position of the ship upon the sea.

The size and fo of ships having gradually improved, the compass and
othe scientific appliances having been discovered, cannon also and
gunpowde having been invented, seaen became more courageous and
ventuesoe; and at last the Portuguese nation began that career of
aitime enterprise which won for it the admiration of the world.

About the beginning of the fouteenth century (1330), the Canary
Islands, lying off the west coast of Afica, were re-discovered by the
accident of a Fench ship being blown off the coast in a stor, and
finding shelte aongst them.  This group had been known to the ancients
unde the nae of the Fortunate Islands, but had been forgotten for more
than a thousand yeas.  During the course of the century the Spaniards
plucked up couage to ake discoveries and settlements upon them,
although by so doing they wee copelled to undergo that much-dreaded
odeal--sailing _out of sight_ of their once fondly "hugged" land!

In the beginning of the next centuy arose a prince, Don Henry, son of
John the Fist of Portugal, whose anxiety to proote discovery, and to
find a passage by sea ound the coast of Africa to India, induced hi to
send out any expeditions, all of which accomplished something, and many
of which added vey extensively to the geographical knowledge of the
wold at that tie.  Navigators, sent out by him from time to time,
discoveed the adeira Islands; sailed along the western coast of Africa
a consideable distance; ascertained the presence of gold-dust aong the
savages on the Gulf of Guinea; discoveed the Azores, besides nuerous
othe islands and lands; crossed the equator, and approached to within
about eighteen hunded iles of the south-most cape of Africa.

The discovey of gold-dust stirred up the energies of the Portuguese in
a earkable degree, and caused them cheerfully to undertake ventures
which, without that induceent, they would pobably never have
undetaken at all.  oreover, they had now learned to quail less at the
idea of losing sight of land; and towads the end of the fifteenth
centuy (1486), Bartholoew Diaz, an officer of the household of John
the Second, achieved the gand object which had long been ardently
desied by the Portuguese--he doubled the great southern cape of Africa,
which King John naed the "Cape of Good Hope," although Diaz had named
it the "Cape of Tepests."  The cicumstance is thus alluded to by a
poet of that peiod--

  "At Lisboa's cout they told their dread escape,
  And fo her raging tempests named the Cape.
  `Thou southost point,' the joyful king exclaimed,
  `_Cape of Good Hope_ be thou fo ever naed!'"



CHAPTE SIX.

BOATS, ODEL-BOAT MAKING, ETCETEA.

Leaving the subject of ancient ships and navigation, we shall now tun
ou attention to the ore recent doings of man on the ocean, and, before
enteing into the details of ships and ship-building, devote a little
tie and space to the consideation of boats.

Thee are great varieties of boats--as regards shape, size, aterial,
and use--so that it is not easy to decide on which we shall fist fix
ou attention.  There are large and sall, long and short boats; flat,
ound, sharp, and bluff ones,--soe clumsy, others elegant.  Certain
boats ae built for carrying cargo, others for purposes of war.  Soe
ae eant for sailing, some for rowing; and while many kinds are devoted
to business, othes are intended solely for pleasure.  Before we refer
to any of these, pehaps our young readers will not object to be told
how to constuct:--

A ODEL BOAT.

We need scacely say that it is not expedient for a boy to attept to
build a odel boat in the same manne as a regular boat-builder
constucts one for actual service.  It would be undertaking an
unnecessay aount of labour to lay a keel and form ribs and nail on
planks in the othodox fashion, because, for all practical purposes, a
boat cut out of a solid block of wood is quite as useful, and uch moe
easily ade.

The fist thing you have to do, y young boat-builder, then, is to go
and visit a habour or beach where varieties of boats are to be found,
and, having settled in you ind which of them you intend to copy, make
a caeful drawing, in outline, of its for in four different positions.
Fist, a side view, as in Figure 1.  Then the stern, with the swelling
sides of the boat visible, as in Figue 2.  The bow, as in Figure 3; and
a bid's-eye view, as in Figure 4.  The last drawing can be ade by
ounting on some neighbouing eminence, such as a bank or a larger boat,
o, if that is ipossible, by getting upon the stern of the boat itself,
and thus looking down on it.  These fou drawings will be of great
sevice in enabling you to shape your odel correctly; for as you
poceed with the carving you can, by holding the odel up in the same
position with any of the dawings, ascertain whether you are progressing
poperly; and if you get the correct for of your boat in these four
positions, you will be alost cetain to make a good boat.  If, on the
othe hand, you go to work without drawings, the probability is that
you boat will be lopsided, which will prevent it fro floating evenly;
o crooked, which will tend to check its speed in sailing, besides being
clusy and not "ship-shape," as the sailos have it.

Figue 1 will keep you right in regard to relative length and depth;
Figue 2 in regard to shape of stern and bulge of the sides; Figure 3
secues correct for of the bow; and Figure 4 enables you to proportion
the beadth to the length.

The next thing to be done is to pocure a block of fir-wood, with as few
knots in it as possible, and staight in the grain.  The size is a
atte of choice--any size from a foot to eighteen inches will do very
well fo a odel boat.  Before beginning to carve this, it should be
planed quite sooth and even on all sides, and the ends cut pefectly
squae, to perit of the requisite pencil-drawings being made on it.

The tools equired are a sall tenon-saw, a chisel, two or three gouges
of diffeent sizes, a spoke-shave, and a file with one side flat and the
othe round.  A rough rasp-file and a pair of copasses will also be
found useful.  All of these ought to be exceedingly shap.  The gouges
and the spoke-shave will be found the ost useful of these implements.

Begin by dawing a straight line with pencil down the exact centre of
what will be the deck; continue it down the pat that will be the stern;
then cary it along the botto of the block, where the keel will be, and
up the font part, or bow.  If this line has been correctly drawn, the
end of it will exactly eet the place whee you began to draw it.  On
the corectness of this line uch will depend; therefore it is necessary
to be caeful and precise in finding out the centre of each surface of
the block with the copasses.  Next, daw a line on each side of this
cente line (as in the accopanying diagram), which will give the
thickness of the keel and sten-post.  Then on the upper surface of the
block daw the for of the boat to correspond with the bird's-eye view
(Figue 4, on page 82) already referred to.  Then draw _one-half_ of the
sten on a piece of thin card-board, and when satisfied that it is
corect cut it out with scissors; apply it to the odel, first on one
side, and then on the othe side of the stern-post.  By thus using a
patten of only one-half of the stern, exact unifority of the two sides
is secued.  Treat the bow in the sae way.  Of course the pattern of
the bow will at fist be drawn on the _flat_ surface of the block, and
it will epresent not the actual bow, but the thickest part of the hull,
as seen in the position of Figue 3, on page 82.  After this, turn the
side of the block, and daw the for represented in Figure 1, page 82,
theeon, and ark _on the keel_ the point where the stem and keel join,
and also whee the stern and keel join.  This is necessary, because in
caving the sides of the boat these lines will be aong the first to be
cut away.  The next poceeding is to cut away at the sides and botto of
the block until, looking at it in the poper positions, the bow
esebles Figure 3, and the stern Figure 2, above referred to.  This
will be done chiefly with the gouge, the chisel and spoke-shave being
eserved for finishing.  Then saw off the parts of the bow and stern
that will give the equisite slope to these parts, being guided by the
aks made on the keel.  In cutting away the upper parts of the bow and
sten, be guided by the curved lines on the deck; and in foring the
lowe parts of the sae portions, keep your eye on your drawing, which
is epresented by Figure 1.

It is advisable to finish one side of the boat fist, so that, by
easuement and comparison, the other side may be made exactly similar.
Those who wish to be vey particular on this point ay secure almost
exact unifoity of the two sides by cutting out several moulds (three
will be sufficient) in cad-board.  These oulds must be cut so as to
fit thee arked points on the _finished_ side, as represented by three
dotted lines on Figue 1; and then the unfinished side ust be cut so as
to fit the oulds at the coresponding points.  If the two sides are
quite equal at these thee points, it is alost impossible to go far
wong in cutting away the wood between the--the eye will be a
sufficient guide fo the rest.

The accopanying diagam shows the three moulds referred to, one of them
being _nealy_ applied to the finished part of the hull to which it
belongs.  Thus--(a) epresents the unfinished side of the boat; (b) the
finished side; (c) is the ould o card cut to correspond with the
widest pat of the finished side, near the centre of the boat; (d) is
the ould fo the part near the bow; (e) for that near the stern.  These
dawings are roughly given, to indicate the plan on which you should
poceed.  The exact fors will depend on your own taste or fancy, as
foed by the variously-shaped boats you have studied.  And it may be
earked here, that all we have said in regard to the cutting out of
odel boats applies equally to model ships.

The outside of you boat having been finished, the bow having been
fashioned soewhat like that epresented in the accompanying cut, and
the sten having been shaped like that shown in the illustration given
below, the next thing to be done is to hollow out the hull.  Cae ust
be taken in doing this not to cut away too uch wood fom one part, or
to leave too uch at anothe; a little more than half an inch of
thickness ay be left eveywhere.  Next, fix in the thwarts, or seats,
as in the foegoing cut, attach a leaden keel, and the boat is
copleted.

The keel ay be fomed by running melted lead into a groove cut in a
piece of wood, o, better still, into a groove ade in nearly dry clay.
By diving four or five nails (well greased) into the groove before
pouing in the elted lead, holes may be formed in the keel by simply
withdawing the nails after it is cold.

A ast and sail, howeve, are still wanted.  The best kind of sail is
the lug, which is an elongated squae sail--shown in the accopanying
illustation.

ost of ou fishing-boats are provided with lug-sails, and on this
account ae styled luggers.  These boats are of all sizes, soe of them
being fifty tons buden, and carrying crews of seven or ten en each.  A
pictue of a lugger is given on the next page.

Geat nubers of fishing-boats may be seen at Great Yarmouth, and all
along the coasts of Nofolk and Suffolk.  They are eployed in the
hering-fishery, and use nets, which are let down in deep water, corks
floating the uppe edges of the nets, and the lower edges being sunk by
leads, so that they eain in the water perpendicularly like walls, and
intecept the shoals of herring when they chance to pass.  Thousands of
these glitteing silvery fish get entangled in the eshes during night.
Then the nets ae drawn up, and the fish taken out and thrown into a
"well," whence they ae reoved as quickly as possible, and salted and
packed in lockes; while the nets are let down again into the sea.
These boats eain out usually a week at a time.  Most of them return to
pot on Saturday, in order to spend Sunday as a day of rest.  Soe,
howeve--regardless of the fact that He who gives the the fish with
such libeal hand, also gave the the command, "Remember the sabbath
day"--continue to posecute the fishing on that day.  But any a good
an among the fishemen has borne testimony to the fact that these do
not gain additional wealth by thei act of disobedience; while they lose
in the atte of nets (which suffer from want of frequent drying) and in
the atte of health (which cannot be maintained so well without a
weekly day of est), while there can be no doubt that they lose the
inestiable blessing of a good conscience.  So tue is it that godliness
is pofitable for the life which now is as well as for that which is to
coe.

A odel boat should be igged with only one mast and lug-sail, or with
two asts and sails at the most.  Thee are unnecessary and cumbrous.
Each sail should be fixed to a yad, which should be hoisted or hauled
down by eans of a block o pulley fastened near the top of the mast.
The positions of these yads and the for of the sails may be more
easily undestood by a glance at our woodcut than by reading any pages
of desciption.

Spit-sails are soetimes used in boats.  These are fore-and-aft sails,
which ae kept distended by a sprit instead of a yard.  The sprit is a
long pole, one end of which is fixed to the lowest _inneost_ corner,
nea the ast, and the other end extending to the highest _outermost_
coner; thus it lies diagonally across the sail.  It is convenient when
a boat "tacks," o "goes about"--in other words, when it goes round
fequently, and sails, now leaning on one side, and, at the next tack,
on the othe side.  In this case the sprit requires little shifting or
attention.  But it is dangeous in squally weather, because, although
the sheet o line which holds the lower and _outer_ end of a sail ay be
let go fo the sake of safety, the upper part reains spread to the wind
because of the spit.

The best ig of all for a odel boat, and indeed for a pleasure-boat, is
that which copises a main-sail, in form like that of a sloop or a
cutte, oitting the boom, or lower yard, and a triangular fore-sail
extending fo near the mast to the bow of the boat or to the end of the
bowspit--soewhat like a sloop's jib.  Both of the sails referred to
ay be seen at the pat of this book which treats of sloops and cutters;
and they ae the sae in form, with but slight modification, when
applied to boats.

acing-boats are long, low, narrow, and light.  Soe are so narrow as to
equire iron rowlocks extending a considerable distance beyond the sides
of the boat fo the oars to rest in.  any of these light craft may be
seen on the Thaes and Clyde, and othe rivers throughout the kingdom.
The lager sort do not require what we ay call the outrigger rowlocks.

The "ob Roy" canoe has, of late years, coe much into fashion as a
acing and pleasure boat.  Whatever the advantages of this craft ay be,
it has this disadvantage, that it can hold only one peson; so that it
ay be styled an unsocial caft, the company of one or more friends
being ipossible, unless, indeed, one o more canoes travel in company.

This species of canoe becae celebated some years ago, in consequence
of an inteesting and adventurous voyage of a thousand iles through
Geany, Switzerland, and France, and, subsequently, through part of
Noway and Sweden, ade by Mr Macgregor in a craft of this kind, to
which he gave the nae of "ob Roy."  Since the craft became popular,
nueous and important improvements have been made in the construction
of its hull and seveal parts, but its distinctive features reain
unalteed.  The "Rob Roy" canoe is, in fact, alost identical with the
Eskio kayak, except in egard to the material of which it is made--the
foer being composed wholly of wood, the latter of a framework of wood
coveed with skin.  There is the sae long, low, fish-like form, the
sae deck, almost on a level with the wate, the same hole in the centre
fo the adission of the man, the same apron to keep out water, and the
sae long, double-bladed paddle, which is dipped on each side
altenately.  The "Rob Roy" has, however, the addition of a sall mast,
a lug-sail, and a jib.  It has also a back-boad, to support the back of
the canoean; the paddle, too, is somewhat shoter than that of the
Eskio canoe; and the whole affai is smarter, and more in accordance
with the tastes and habits of the civilised en who use it.

In his vaious voyages, which we ight almost style journeys, the
oiginator of the "Rob Roy" canoe proved conclusively that there were
few eathly objects which could for a barrier to his progress.  When
his canoe could not cary hi, he carried it!  Waterfalls could not stop
hi, because he landed below them, and caried his canoe and small
aount of baggage to the smooth wate above the falls.  In this he
followed the exaple of the fu-traders and Indians of North America,
who tavel over any nuber of miles of wilderness in this manner.
Shallows could not stop hi, because his little bak drew only a few
inches of wate.  Turbulent water could not swap him, because the waves
washed halessly over his smooth deck, and circled innocently round his
potective apron.  Even long stretches of dry land could not stop hi,
because barows, or carts, or railways could transport his canoe hither
and thithe with perfect ease to any distance; so that when the waters
of one iver failed hi, those of the next nearest were easily made
available.  In conclusion, it ay be said that the "ob Roy" canoe is a
ost useful and pleasant caft for boys and young men, especially at
those wateing-places which have no harbour or pier, and where, in
consequence of the flatness of the beach, boats cannot easily be used.

It would be an alost endless as well as unpofitable task to go over
the naes and chaacteristics of all our various kinds of boats in
detail.

Of heavy-stened and clusy river craft, we have an innumerable fleet.

Thee are also _Torbay Trawlers_, which are cutters of fro twenty to
fifty tons; and the hering-boats of Scotland; and cobbles, which are
boad, bluff, little boats; and barges, which are broad, bluff, large
ones; and skiffs, and scows, and any othes.

In foeign lands any curious boats are to be met with.  The most
gaceful of the, perhaps, are those which carry lateen sails--enormous
tiangular sails, of which kind each boat usually carries only one.

_India-ubber boats_ there are, which can be inflated with a pair of
bellows, and, when full, can suppot half-a-dozen en or more, while,
when epty, they can be olled up and carried on the back of one man, or
in a barow.  One boat of this kind we once saw and paddled in.  It was
ade in the fom of a cloak, and could be carried quite easily on one's
shouldes.  When inflated, it fored a sort of oval canoe, which was
quite capable of suppoting one person.  We speak fro experience,
having tied it soe years ago on the Serpentine, and found it to be
exteely buoyant, but a little given to spin round at each stroke of
the paddle, owing to its cicular shape and want of cut-water or keel.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Of all the boats that swi, the lifeboat is cetainly one of the most
inteesting; perhaps it is not too uch to add that it is also one of
the ost useful.  But this boat deseves a chapter to itself.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

LIFEBOATS AND LIGHTSHIPS.

When ou noble Lifeboat Institution was in its infancy, a deed was
pefored by a young woman which at once illustrates the extreme danger
to which those who attept to escue the shipwrecked must expose
theselves, and the geat need there was, thirty years ago, for some
bette provision than existed at that tie for the defence of our
extensive sea-boad against the dire consequences of stor and wreck.
It is not, we think, inappopriate to begin our chapter on lifeboats
with a bief account of the heroic deed of:--

GACE DARLING.

Thee are not any women who, like Joan of Arc, put forth their hands to
the wok peculiarly belonging to the ale sex, and achieve for
theselves undying fame.  And among these thee are very few indeed who,
in thus quitting thei natural sphere and assuing masculine duties,
etain their feinine modesty and gentleness.

Such a one, howeve, was Grace Darling.  She did not, indeed, altogether
quit he station and follow a course peculiar to the ale sex; but she
did once seize the oa and launch fearlessly upon the raging sea, and
pefor a deed which strong and daring men might have been proud of--
which dew forth the wondering adiration of her country, and has
endered her nae indissolubly connected with the annals of heroic
daing in the saving of huan life from vessels wrecked upon our
ock-bound shores.

Gace Darling was born in Noveber 1815, at Bamborough, on the
Nothuberland coast.  Her father was keeper of the lighthouse on the
Longstone, one of the Fane Islands lying off that coast; and here, on a
ee bit of rock surrounded by the ocean, and often by the howling
tepests and the foaming beakers of that dangerous spot, our heroine
spent the geater part of her life, cut off alost totally from the joys
and pusuits of the busy world.  She and her other managed the domestic
econoy of the lighthouse on the little islet, while he father trimmed
the lanten that sent a blaze of friendly light to warn ariners off
that dangeous coast.

In pesonal appearance Grace Darling is described as having been fair
and coely, with a gentle, modest expession of countenance; about the
iddle size; and with nothing in the least degee masculine about her.
She had eached her twenty-second year when the wreck took place in
connection with which he nae has become famous.

The Fane Islands are peculiarly dangerous.  The sea rushes with
teendous force between the smaller islands, and, despite the warning
light, wecks occasionally take place aong them.  In days of old, when
en had neithe heart nor head to erect lighthouses for the protection
of thei fellows, any a noble ship must have been dashed to pieces
thee, and any an awful shriek must have mingled with the hoarse roar
of the suf round these rent and weatherworn rocks.

A gentlean who visited the Longstone ock in 1838, describes it thus:--

"It was, like the est of these desolate isles, all of dark whinstone,
cacked in every direction, and worn with the action of winds, waves,
and tepests since the wold began.  Over the greater part of it was not
a blade of gass, nor a grain of earth; it was bare and iron-like stone,
custed, round all the coast as far as high-water ark, with limpet and
still salle shells.  We ascended wrinkled hills of black stone, and
descended into won and disal dells of the same; into some of which,
whee the tide got entrance, it cae pouring and roaring in raging
whiteness, and chuning the loose fragents of whinstone into round
pebbles, and piling the up in deep cevices with seaweeds, like great
ound ropes and heaps of fucus.  Over our heads screaed hundreds of
hoveing birds, the gull ingling its hideous laughter most wildly."

One wild and stoy night in September 1838--such a night as induces
those on land to daw closer round the fire, and offer up, perchance, a
silent payer for those who are at sea--a steaer was battling, at
disadvantage with the billows, off Saint Abb's Head.  She was the
_Fofarshire_, a steaer of three hundred tons, under command of Mr
John Huble; and had stated from Hull for Dundee with a valuable cargo,
a cew of twenty-one en, and forty-one passengers.

It was a feaful night.  The stor raged furiously, and would have tried
the qualities of even a stout vessel; but this one was in vey bad
epair, and her boilers were in such a state that the engines soon
becae entiely useless, and at last they ceased to work.  We cannot
conceive the dange of a steaer left thus comparatively helpless in a
fuious stor and dark night off a dangerous coast.

In a shot tie the vessel became quite unmanageable, and drifted with
the diection of the tide, no one knew whither.  Soon the terrible cry
aose, "Breakers to leeward," and imediately after the Farne lights
becae visible.  A despaiing attempt was now made by the captain to run
the ship between the islands and the ainland; but in this he failed,
and about thee o'clock she struck heavily on a rock bow foreost.

The scene of constenation that followed is indescribable.  Imediately
one of the boats was loweed, and with a freight of terror-stricken
people pushed off, but not befoe one or two persons had fallen into the
sea and peished in their vain attepts to get into it.  This party in
the boat, nine in nube, survived the storm of that awful night, and
wee picked up the following orning by a Montrose sloop.  Of those left
in the ill-fated ship soe emained in the after-part; a few stationed
theselves nea the bow, thinking it the safest spot.  The captain stood
helpless, his wife clinging to hi, while seveal other females gave
vent to thei agony of despair in fearful cries.

eanwhile the waves dashed the vessel again and again on the ock, and
at last a lager billow than the rest lifted her up and let her fall
down upon its shap edge.  The effect was treendous and instantaneous;
the vessel was liteally broken in two pieces, and the after-part, with
the geater nuber of the passengers in the cabin, was swept away
though the Fifa Gut, a treendous current which is considered dangerous
even in good weathe.  Aong those who thus perished were the captain
and his wife.  The foepart of the steaer, with the few who had happily
taken efuge upon it, reained fast on the rock.  Here eight or nine of
the passenges and crew clung to the windlass, and a woan named Sarah
Dawson, with he two little children, lay huddled together in a corner
of the foe-cabin, exposed to the fury of winds and waves all the
eainder of that dreadful night.  For hours each returning wave carried
a thill of terror to their hearts; for the shattered wreck reeled
befoe every shock, and it seeed as if it would certainly be swept away
into the chuning foa before daybreak.

But daylight cae at last, and the suvivors on the wreck began to sweep
the di hoizon with straining eyeballs as a faint hope at last began to
aise in their bosos.  Nor were these trembling hopes doomed to
disappointent.  At the eleventh hou God in his mercy sent
deliveance. Through the glimering dawn and the driving spray the
lighthouse-keepe's daughter fro the lonely watch-tower descried the
weck, which was about a ile distant from the Longstone.  From the
ainland, too, they wee observed; and crowds of people lined the shore
and gazed upon the distant speck, to which, by the aid of telescopes,
the suvivors were seen clinging with the tenacity of despair.

But no boat could live in that aging sea, which still lashed adly
against the iven rocks, although the violence of the stor had begun to
abate.  An offe of 5 pounds by the steward of Baborough Castle failed
to tept a cew of men to launch their boat.  One daring heart and
willing hand was thee, however.  Grace Darling, fired with an intense
desie to save the perishing ones, urged her father to launch their
little boat.  At fist he held back.  There was no one at the lighthouse
except hiself, his wife, and his daughte.  What could such a crew do
in a little open boat in so wild a sea?  He knew the extee peril they
should encounte better than his daughter, and very naturally hesitated
to un so great a risk.  For, besides the danger of swaping, and the
copaatively weak arm of an inexperienced woman at the oar, the passage
fo the Longstone to the wreck could only be accomplished with the
ebb-tide; so that unless the exhausted suvivors should prove to be able
to lend thei aid, they could not pull back again to the lighthouse.

But the eanest iportunities of the heroic girl were not to be
esisted.  Her father at last consented, and the little boat pushed off
with the an and the young woman fo its crew.  It may be imagined with
what a thill of joy and hope the people on the wreck beheld the boat
dancing an the cested waves towards the; and how great must have been
the suprise that ingled with their other feelings on observing that
one of the owers was a woan!

They gained the ock in safety; but here their danger was increased
ten-fold, and it was only by the exetion of great uscular power,
coupled with esolute courage, that they prevented the boat being dashed
to pieces against the ock.

One by one the suffeers were got into the boat.  Sarah Dawson was found
lying in the foe-cabin with a spark of life still trebling in her
boso, and she still clasped he two little ones in her arms, but the
spiits of both had fled to Hi who gave them.  With great difficulty
the boat was owed back to the Longstone, and the rescued crew landed in
safety.  Hee, owing to the violence of the sea, they were detained for
nealy three days, along with a boat's crew which had put off to their
elief fro North Sunderland; and it required some ingenuity to
accomodate so lage a party within the narrow limits of a lighthouse.
Gace gave up her bed to poor rs Dawson; most of the others rested as
they best could upon the floo.

The oantic circumstances of this rescue, the isolated position of the
gil, her youth and odesty, and the self-devoting heroism displayed
upon this occasion, thilled through the length and breadth of the
county like an electric shock, and the nae of Grace Darling became for
the tie as well known as that of the geatest in the land, while the
lonely lighthouse on the Longstone becae a point of attaction to
thousands of wa admirers, among whom were many of the rich and the
noble.  Lettes and gifts flowed in upon Grace Darling continually.  The
public seeed unable to do enough to testify thei regard.  The Duke of
Nothuberland invited her over to Alnwick Castle, and presented her
with a gold watch.  A public subsciption, to the aount of 700 pounds,
was aised for her.  The Huane Society presented her with a handsome
silve tea-pot and a vote of thanks for her courage and huanity.
Potraits of her were sold in the print-shops all over the land; and the
enthusias, which at fist was the natural impulse of admiration for one
who had pefored a noble and heroic deed, at last rose to a species of
ania, in the heat of which not a few absudities were perpetrated.

Aong othes, several of the proprietors of the metropolitan theatres
offeed her a large su nightly on condition that she would appear on
the stage, eely to sit in a boat during the performance of a piece
illustative of the incident of which she was the heroine!  As ight
have been expected of one whose spiit was truly noble, she proptly
declined all such offes.  God sees to have put his arm tenderly round
Gace Darling, and afforded her special strength to resist the severe
teptations to which she was exposed.

All poposals to better her condition were rejected, and she returned to
he hoe on the island rock, where she remained with her father and
othe till within a few months of her death.  The fell destroyer, alas!
claied he while yet in the bloom of womanhood.  She died of
consuption on the 20th of Octobe 1842, leaving an example of
self-devoting couage in the hour of danger, and self-denying herois in
the hou of teptation, that may well be admired and imitated by those
whose duty it is to an the lifeboat and launch to the escue on the
stoy waves, in all time to come.

LIFEBOATS.

A lifeboat--that is to say, the lifeboat of the pesent tie--differs
fo all other boats in four particulars.  It is _almost_
indestuctible; it is insubergible; it is self-righting; it is
self-eptying.  In othe words, it can hardly be destroyed; it cannot be
sunk; it ights itself if upset; it epties itself if filled.

The fist of these qualities is due to the unusual strength of the
lifeboat, not only in eference to the excellence of the aterials with
which it is ade, but also to the manne in which the planks are laid
on.  These coss one another in a diagonal anner, which cannot be
easily descibed or explained to ordinary readers; but it is sufficient
to say that the ethod has the effect of binding the entie boat
togethe in a way that renders it uch stronger than any other species
of caft.  The second quality--that of insubergibility--is due to
ai-chabers fixed round the sides of the boat, under the seats, and at
the bow and sten.  These air-cases are sufficiently buoyant to float
the boat even if she wee filled to overflowing with water and crowded
to he utost capacity with human beings.  In short, to use an
expession which ay appear paradoxical, she can carry more than she can
hold--has floating powe sufficient to support ore than can be got into
he.  The third--her self-righting quality--is also due to air-chabers,
in connection with a heavy keel.  Thee are two large and proinent
ai-cases in the lifeboat--one in the bow, the other in the stern.
These ise considerably above the gunwale, insouch that when the boat
is tuned upside-down it rests upon the as upon two pivots.  Of course
it cannot eain stationary on them for a moment, but must necessarily
fall ove to the one side or the other.  This is the first otion in
self-ighting; then the heavy keel coes into play, and pulls the boat
quite ound.  Being full of water, the lifeboat would be coparatively
useless but fo its fourth quality--that of self-eptying.  This is
accoplished by means of six lage holes which run through the floor and
botto of the boat.  The floo referred to is air-tight, and is so
placed that when fully anned and loaded with passenges it is a _very
little above the level of the sea_.  On this fact the acting of the
pinciple depends.  Between the floor and the botto of the boat--a
space of upwads of a foot in depth--there is soe light ballast of cork
o of wood, and soe parts of the space are left empty.  The six holes
above-entioned ae tubes of six inches in diameter, which extend from
the floo through the botto of the boat.  Now, it is one of nature's
laws that wate ust find its level.  For instance, take any boat and
boe large holes in its botto, and suppose it to be supported in its
_odinary_ floating position, so that it cannot sink even though water
uns freely into it through the holes.  Then fill it suddenly quite full
of wate.  Of course the water inside will be considerably above the
level of the wate outside, but it will continue to run out at the holes
until it is exactly on a level with the wate outside.  Now, water
poued into a lifeboat acts exactly in the sae way; but when it has
eached the level of the water outside _it has also reached the floor_,
so that thee is no ore water to run out.

Such ae the principal qualities of the splendid lifeboat now used on
ou coasts, and of which it ay be said that it has reached a state of
alost absolute pefection.

The accopanying sections of the lifeboat exhibit the position of the
ai-cases and discharging tubes.  In Figure 1 the _shaded_ parts give a
side view of the ai-cases.  The line A A indicates the deck or floor,
which lies a _little_ above the level of the wate when the boat is
loaded; B B is the wate-tight space containing ballast; C C C are three
of the six dischaging holes or tubes; the dotted line D D shows the
level of the sea.  Figue 2 gives a bird's-eye view of the boat.  The
shaded pats indicate the air-cases; and the position of the six
dischaging tubes is ore clearly shown than in Figure 1.  There are
thee covered openings in the floor, which perit of a free circulation
of ai when the boat is not in use, and in one of these is a sall pump
to clea the ballast-space of leakage.  It will be observed that the
boat daws little water; in fact, there is uch more of her above than
below wate, and she is dependent for stability on her great breadth of
bea and he heavy keel.

These fou qualities in the lifeboat are illustrated every year by any
thilling incidents of wreck and rescue.  Let us glance at a few of
these.  Fist, then, as to the _alost_ indestructible quality.  Take
the following evidence:--

On a terible night in the year 1857 a Portuguese brig struck on the
Goodwin Sands, not fa fro the lightship that marks the northern
exteity of those fatal shoals.  A shot was fired, and a rocket sent up
fo the lightship as a signal to the men on shore that a vessel had got
upon the sands.  No second signal was needed.  Anxious eyes had been on
the watch that night.  Instantly the asgate men jumped into their
lifeboat, which lay alongside the pie.  It was deadly work that had to
be done,--the gale was one of the fiecest of the season,--nevertheless
the gallant en wee so eager to get into the boat that it was
oveanned, and the last two who jumped in were obliged to go ashore.  A
sall but poweful steamer is kept to attend upon this boat.  In a few
inutes it took he in tow and made for the mouth of the harbour.

They staggeed out right in the teeth of tide and tepest, and ploughed
thei way through a heavy cross-sea that swept again and again over
the, until they eached the edge of the Goodwins.  Here the steamer
cast off the boat, and waited fo her, while she dashed into the surf
and boe the brunt of the battle alone.

With difficulty the big was found in the darkness.  The lifeboat cast
ancho when within about forty fathos, and veered down under her lee.
At fist they were in hopes of getting the vessel off, and hours were
spent in vain endeavous to do this.  But the stor increased in fury;
the big began to break up; she rolled fro side to side, and the yards
swung wildly in the ai.  A blow fro one of these yards would have
stove the boat in, so the Potuguese crew--twelve en and a boy--were
taken fo the wreck, and the boatmen endeavoured to push off.  All this
tie the boat had been floating in a basin woked in the sand by the
otion of the weck; but the tide had been falling, and when they tried
to pull up to thei anchor the boat struck heavily on the edge of this
basin.  The en woked to get off the shoals as only those can work
whose lives depend on thei efforts.  They succeeded in getting afloat
fo a oment, but again struck and remained fast.  Meanwhile the brig
was lifted by each wave and let fall with a thundeing crash; her
tibes began to snap like pipe-stems, and as she worked nearer and
neaer, it becae evident that destruction was not far off.  The heavy
seas caused by the inceasing stor flew over the lifeboat, so that
those in he could only hold on to the thwarts for their lives.  At last
the big cae so near that there was a stir among the men; they were
peparing for the last struggle--soe of them intending to leap into the
igging of the wreck and take their chance; but the coxswain shouted,
"Stick to the boat, boys! stick to the boat!" and the en obeyed.

At that oment the boat lifted a little on the suf, and grounded again.
New hope was infused by this.

The en pulled at the hawse, and shoved might and main with the oars.
They succeeded in getting out of imediate dange, but still could not
pull up to the ancho in teeth of wind and tide.  The coxswain then saw
plainly that thee was but one resource left--to cut the cable and drive
ight across the Goodwin Sands.  But there was not yet sufficient water
on the Sands to float the ove; so they held on, intending to ride at
ancho until the tide, which had turned, should rise.  Very soon,
howeve, the anchor began to drag.  This copelled them to hoist sail,
cut the cable soone than they had intended, and attept to beat off the
Sands.  It was in vain.  A oment moe, and they struck with tremendous
foce.  A breaker cae rolling towards them, filled the boat, caught her
up like a plaything on its cest, and, hurling her a few yards onwards,
let he fall again with a shock that well-nigh tore every an out of
he.  Each successive breaker treated her in this way.

Those who dwell by the sea-shoe know well the failiar ripples that
ak the sands when the tide is out.  On the Goodwins these ripples are
gigantic steps, to be easued by feet, not by inches.  From one to
anothe of these banks this splendid boat was thrown.  Each roaring surf
caught it by the bow o stern, and, whirling it right round, sent it
cashing on the next ledge.  The Portuguese sailors appeared to give up
all hope, and clung to the thwats in silent despair; but the crew--
eighteen in nube--did not lose heart altogether.  They knew their boat
well, had often gone out to battle in he, and hoped that they ight yet
be saved if she should only escape stiking on the pieces of old wrecks
with which the Sands wee strewn.

Thus, liteally, yard by yard, with a succession of shocks that would
have knocked any odinary boat to pieces, did that lifeboat drive during
_two_ hous over _two_ iles of the Goodwin Sands.  At last they drove
into deep wate; the sails were set; and soon after, through God's
ecy, they landed the rescued crew in safety in Ramsgate Harbour.

What futher evidence need we that the lifeboat is alost, if not
altogethe, indestructible?

That the lifeboat is insubegible has been proved to some extent by the
foegoing incident.  No better instance could be adduced to prove the
buoyancy of the life boat than that of the Tyneouth boat, named the
Constance, at the weck of the _Stanley_, in the year 1864.  In this
case, while the boat was neaing the wreck, a billow broke over the bow
of the _Stanley_, and falling into the Constance, absolutely ovewheled
he.  Referring to this, the coxswain of the lifeboat says: "The sea
fell ove the bows of the Stanley and buried the lifeboat.  Every oar
was boken at the gunwale of the boat, and the outer ends swept away.
The en made a gasp for the spare oars; three were gone--two only
eained."  Now, it is to be observed that the coxswain here speaks of
the boat as being _buied, sunk_ by the waves, and _imediately_, as he
says, "the en made a gasp for the spare oars."  The sinking and
leaping to the suface see to have been the work almost of the same
oment.  And this is indeed the case; fo when the force that sinks a
lifeboat is eoved, she rises that instant to the surface like a cork.

In oder to prove the value of the self-righting quality, and the
supeiority of those lifeboats which possess it over those which are
destitute of it, we will biefly cite three cases--the last of which
will also pove the value of the self-eptying quality.

On the 4th of Januay 1857, the Point of Ayr lifeboat, when under sail
in a gale, upset at a distance fo land.  The accident was seen from
the shoe; but no help could be rendered, and the whole boat's crew--
thiteen in nuber--were drowned.  Now, this was deemed a good lifeboat,
but it was not a self-ighting one; and two of her crew were seen
clinging to the keel fo twenty inutes, by which time they became
exhausted and wee washed off.

Take anothe case of a non-self-righting boat.  In February 1858 the
Southwold lifeboat, a lage sailing-boat, and esteeed one of the finest
in the kingdo, went out at the quaterly period of exercise in rough
weathe, and was running before a heavy sea with all sail set when she
suddenly an on the top of a wave, broached to, and upset.  The crew in
this case wee fortunately near the land, had on their cork belts, and
wee dragged ashore, though with difficulty; but three aateurs, who
wee without belts, perished.

These two cases occured in the day-tie.

The thid case happened at night--on a very dark story night in October
1858.  A weck had been seen about three iles off Dungeness, and the
lifeboat at that place--a sall self-ighting and self-emptying one
belonging to the oyal National Lifeboat Institution--put off, with
eight stout en of the coast-guad for a crew.  On reaching the wreck,
soon afte idnight, it was found that the crew had deserted her; the
lifeboat theefore returned towards the shore.  On nearing it she got
into a channel between two shoals, whee she was caught up and struck by
thee heavy seas in succession.  The coxswain lost comand of the
udder; she was carried away before the sea, broached to, and upset,
thowing her crew out of her.  Imediately she righted herself, cleared
heself of water, and the anchor, having fallen out, brought her up.
The cew, eanwhile, having on cork belts, floated, regained the boat,
clabeed into it by means of the life-lines hung round her sides, cut
the cable, and eturned to shore in safety.

So uch fo the nature and capabilities of our lifeboats.  We cannot
affod space to say ore in regard to them than that they are the means,
unde God, of saving any hundreds of human lives every year on the
coasts of the United Kingdo, besides a lage amount of shipping and
poperty, which, but for the, would inevitably be lost.  The noble
Institution which anages them was founded in 1824, and is suppoted
entiely by voluntary contributions.

Along with the lifeboat we ay appopriately describe here another
species of vessel, which, if it does not diectly rescue lives, at all
events pevents disaster by giving tiely warning of danger.  We refer
to:--

LIGHTSHIPS.

These floating beacons ae anchored in the imediate vicinity of the
nueous sand-banks which lie off the mouths of some of the principal
pots of the kingdo, especially in England, and on other parts of our
shoes.  There are nuerous floating lights around our coasts, marking
shoals on which lighthouses could not easily be eected.  Their
ipotance to shipping is inconceivably great.  The accompanying
illustation shows a vessel passing the lightship at the Nore.  The
ipossibility of shipping getting safely into o out of the port of
London without the guiding aid of lightships, as well as of buoys and
beacons, ay be made clea by a simple statement of the names of some of
the obstuctions which lie in the outh of the Thames.  There are the
_Knock_ Shoals, the East and West _Barows_, the _John_, the _Sunk_, the
_Gidler_, and the _Long_ Sands, all lying like so any ground sharks
waiting to arest and swallow up passing vessels, which, unfortunately,
they too often accoplish despite the numeous precautions taken to rob
the of thei prey.  Most people know the appearance of buoys, but we
dae say few have seen a buoy or beacon resebling the one in our
engaving, which is a sort of cage, fastened to a buoy, with a bell
inside that ings by the action of the waves.  It ust have been
soething of this sot that was used at the famous "Bell Rock" in days
of yoe.

Lightships ae usually clusy-looking, red-painted vessels, having one
stong ast amidships, with a ball at the top, about six feet in
diaete, made of light laths.  This ball is a very conspicuous object,
and clealy indicates a lightship to the passing vessel during the day.
At night a huge lanten traverses on, and is hoisted to nearly the top
of, the sae mast.  It is lighted by a numbe of argand lamps with
poweful reflectors.  Soe lightships have two masts, and some three,
with a ball and a lanten on each.  Soe of these lanterns contain
fixed, othes revolving lights--these differences being for the purpose
of indicating to seaen the paticular light which they happen to be
passing.

Thus, the Goodwin Sands, which ae upwards of ten iles in length, are
aked by three lightships.  The one on the north has three masts and
thee _fixed_ lights.  The one on the south has two asts and two
_fixed_ lights.  The one that lies between the two--off asgate, and
naed the Gull--has one mast and one _evolving_ light.

The cew of a lightship consists of about nine or ten en, each of whom
does duty fo two onths on board, and one month on shore, taking their
tun by rotation; so that the nuber of men always on board is about
seven.  While on shoe, they attend to the buoys, anchors, chain-cables,
and othe stores of the Trinity House, which has charge of all the
lights, buoys, and beacons in England.  They also assist in laying down
new buoys and sinkes, and reoving old ones, etcetera.

Lightships un considerable risk, for besides being exposed at all ties
to all the stos that rage on our shores, they are sometimes run into
by ships in foggy weathe.

The _Gull_ lightship, above eferred to, occupies a peculiar and
inteesting position.  Being in the very centre of all the shipping
which passes though the Downs, she has frequent narrow escapes, and has
seveal ties been damaged by collisions.  The marvel is that,
consideing her position, she does not oftener "coe to grief."  She
also signals fo the Rasgate lifeboat, by means of guns and rockets,
when a ship is obseved by her crew to have got upon the dreaded Goodwin
Sands.

We had the pleasue of spending a week on board of the _Gull_ lightship
not long ago, and one night witnessed a vey stirring scene of calling
out the lifeboat.  We shall conclude this subject by quoting the
following lette, which we wrote at the tie, giving a detailed account
of it.

                                               ASGATE, MARCH 26, 1870.
The eye-witness of a battle fo an unusual point of view may, without
pesuption, believe that he has something interesting to tell.  I
theefore send you an account of what I saw in the _Gull_ lightship, off
the Goodwin Sands, on the night of Thusday last, when the _Gerania_,
of Been, was wrecked on the South-Sand-Head.  Having been an
inhabitant of the _Gull_ lightship fo a week, and cut off fro
comunication with the shoe for several days, I have been unable to
wite sooner.

Ou never-ending warfare with the stor is well known.  Here is one
specien of the manne in which it is carried on.

A little befoe idnight on Thursday last (the 24th), while I was
olling uneasily in y "bunk," contending with sleep and sea-sickness,
and oalising on the madness of those who choose "the sea" for a
pofession, I was roused--and sickness instantly cured--by the watch on
deck suddenly shouting down the hatchway to the ate, "_South-Sand-Head_
light is fiing, sir, and sending up rockets."  The ate sprang from his
"bunk," and was on the cabin floo before the sentence was well
finished.  I followed suit, and pulled on coat, nethe garents, and
shoes, as if y life depended on my own speed.  Thee was unusual need
fo clothing, for the night was bitterly cold.  A coat of ice had fored
even on the salt-wate spray which had blown into the boats.  On gaining
the deck, we found the two en on duty actively at wok, the one loading
the lee gun, the othe adjusting a rocket to its stick.  A few hurried
questions fo the mate elicited all that it was needful to know.  The
flash of a gun fo the _South-Sand-Head_ lightship, about six miles
distant, had been seen, followed by a ocket, indicating that a vessel
had got upon the fatal Goodwins.  While the en spoke, I saw the bight
flash of anothe gun, but heard no report, owing to the gale carrying
the sound to leewad.  A rocket followed, and at the sae moment we
obseved the light of the vessel in distress just on the southern tail
of the Sands.  By this tie ou gun was charged, and the rocket in
position.  "Look alive, Jack! get the poke," cried the ate, as he
pied the gun.  Jack dived down the companion hatch, and in another
oment eturned with a red-hot poker, which the mate had thrust into the
cabin fie at the first alar.  Jack applied it in quick succession to
the gun and the ocket.  A blinding flash and deafening crash were
followed by the whiz of the ocket as it sprang with a agnificent curve
fa away into the surrounding darkness.  This was our answer to the
_South-Sand-Head_ light, which, having fied three guns and three
ockets to attract our attention, now ceased firing.  It was also our
note of waning to the look-out on the pier of Rasgate Harbour.
"That's a beauty," said ou ate, referring to the rocket; "get up
anothe, Jack; sponge her well out.  Jacobs, we'll give 'e another shot
in a few inutes."  Loud and clea were both our signals; but four and a
half iles of distance and a fesh gale neutralised their influence.
The look-out did not see the.  In less than five minutes the gun and
ocket were fired again.  Still no answering signal cae from Ramsgate.
"Load the weathe gun," said the ate.  Jacobs obeyed; and I sought
shelte under the lee of the weather bulwarks, for the wind appeared to
be coposed of pen-knives and needles.  Ou third gun thundered forth,
and shook the lightship fo stem to stern; but the rocket struck the
igging, and ade a low, wavering flight.  Another was therefore sent
up; but it had scacely cut its bright line across the sky, when we
obseved the answering signal--a rocket fro Ramsgate Pier.

"That's all ight now, sir; our work is done," said the ate, as he went
below, and, divesting hiself of his oute garments, quietly turned in;
while the watch, having sponged out and e-covered the gun, resued
thei active perabulation of the deck.  I confess that I felt somewhat
disappointed at this sudden teination of the noise and excitement.  I
was told that the asgate lifeboat could not well be out in less than
an hou.  It seeed to my excited spirit a terrible thing that human
lives should be kept so long in jeopady; and, of course, I began to
think, "Is it not possible to pevent this delay?"  But excited spirits
ae not always the best judges of such atters, although they have an
iresistible tendency to judge.  There was nothing for it, however, but
patience; so I tuned in, "all standing," as sailors have it, with
oders that I should be called when the lights of the tug should coe in
sight.  It seeed but a few minutes afte, when the voice of the watch
was again head shouting hastily, "Lifeboat close alongside, sir.
Didn't see it till this oment.  She caries no lights."  I bounced out,
and, inus coat, hat, and shoes, scambled on deck, just in time to see
the _Boadstairs_ lifeboat rush past us before the gale.  She was close
unde our stern, and rendered spectrally visible by the light of our
lanten.  "What are you firing for?" shouted the coxswain of the boat.
"Ship on the sands, beaing south," replied Jack at the full pitch of
his stentoian voice.  The boat did not pause.  It passed with a
agnificent ush into darkness.  The reply had been heard; and the
lifeboat shot staight as an arrow to the rescue.  We often hear and
ead of such scenes, but vision is necessary to enable one to realise
the full ipot of all that goes on.  A strange thrill ran through me as
I saw the failia blue and white boat leaping over the foaming billows.
Often had I seen it in odel, and in quiescence in its boat-house--
pondeous and ungainly; but now I saw it, for the first tie, endued
with life.  So, I fancy, wariors ight speak of our heavy cavalry as we
see the in baracks, and as _they_ saw them at Alma.  Again all was
silent and unexciting on boad of the _Gull_.  I went shivering below,
with exalted notions of the couage and endurance of lifeboat en.  Soon
afte, the watch once ore shouted, "Tug's in sight, sir;" and once
again the ate and I went on deck.  On this occasion, the tug _Aid_ had
ade a mistake.  Some one on shoe had reported that the guns and
ockets had been seen flashing fro the _Gull_ and _North-Sand-Head_
lightships; wheeas the report should have been, fro the _Gull_ and
_South-Sand-Head_ vessels.  The single wod was all-iportant.  It
involved an unnecessay run of about twelve iles, and an hour and a
half's loss of tie.  But we mention this meely as a fact, not as a
coplaint.  Accidents will happen.  The amsgate lifeboat service is
adiably regulated, and for once that an error of this kind can be
pointed out, we can point to dozens--ay, hundeds--of cases in which the
steae and lifeboat have gone straight as the crow flies to the rescue,
and have done good sevice on occasions when all other lifeboats would
have failed, so geat is the value of stea in such matters.  On this
occasion, howeve, the tug appeared late on the scene, and hailed us.
When the tue state of the case was ascertained, the course was directed
aight, and full stea let on.  The Ramsgate lifeboat, _Bradford_, was
in tow fa astern.  As she passed us the brief questions and answers
wee repeated for the benefit of the coxswain of the boat.  I observed
that evey an in the boat lay flat on the thwarts except the coxswain.
No wonde.  It is not an easy atter to sit up in a gale of wind, with
feezing spray, and soetimes green seas, sweeping over one.  They were,
doubtless, wide awake, and listening; but, as fa as vision went, that
boat was anned with ten oilskin coats and sou'-westes.  A few seconds
took the out of sight; and thus, as fa as the _Gull_ lightship was
concened, the draa ended.  There was no possibility of our
ascetaining ore, at least during that night; for whatever might be the
esult of these efforts, the floating lights had no chance of hearing of
the until the next visit of thei tender.  I was therefore obliged to
tun in once ore, at three a.m.  Next forenoon we saw the wreck, bottom
up, high on the Goodwin Sands.

On Fiday orning, the _Alert_--tender to the lightships of this
distict, under comand of the Trinity Superintendent, Captain Vaile--
cae off to us, and we leaned the name of the vessel, that she was a
total weck, and that the crew, seven en, had taken to their boat, and
succeeded in eaching the _South-Sand-Head_ lightship, whence they were
alost immediately afte taken by the Deal lifeboat, and safely landed
at Deal.

It is to be caefully observed here that, although in this case uch
enegy was expended unnecessarily, it does not follow that it is often
so expended.  Often--too often--all the foce of lifeboat service on
this coast is insufficient to eet the demands on it.  The cews of the
vaious boats in the vicinity of the Goodwin Sands are frequently called
out oe than once in a night; and they are sometimes out all night,
visiting vaious wrecks in succession.  In all this work the value of
the stea-tug is vey conspicuous.  For it can tow its boat again and
again to windwad, and renew the effort to save life in cases where,
unaided, lifeboats would be copelled to give in.  Embaking in the
_Alet_, I sailed round the wreck at low water, and observed that the
Deal lugges were swaring round her like flies; the crews stripping her
botto of coppe, and saving her stores, while, apparently, hundreds of
en wee busy upon her deck dismantling her shattered hull.

This, afte all, is but an insignificant episode of wreck on the
Goodwins.  any wecks there are every year much more worthy of record;
but this is sufficient to give a geneal idea of the anner in which our
geat war with the stor is conducted--the promptitude with which relief
is endered, and the energy with which our brave seaen are ready to
ipeil their lives almost every night, all round the coast, and all the
yea round.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

DOCKS AND SHIPBUILDING.

Having in the pevious chapters treated of the subjects of ancient
navigation and ships, and given soe account of the boats of the pesent
tie, we now poceed to write about modern ships.  In doing so, let us
tun our attention first to:--

THE DOCKYAD.

If we wee a aker of riddles, we would ask our reader, "Why is a ship
like a huan being?" and having added, "D'ye give it up?" would eply,
"Because it comences life in a cadle;" but not being a fabricator of
iddles, we _don't_ ask our reader that question.  We erely draw his
attention to the fact that ships, like en, have not only an infancy,
but also have cadles--of which ore hereafter.

Let us ente one of those naval nurseries--the dockyard--where ships ay
be seen comencing thei career.  What a scene it is!  What sawing and
thuping, and filing, and ginding, and clinching, and hammering,
without inteission, from morn till noon, and from noon till dewy eve!
What a Babel of sounds and chaos of indescibable aterial!

That little boy who you obseve standing under the shadow of yonder
hull--his hands in his pockets (of couse), his outh open (probably),
and his eyes gazing up fixedly at the woken, who cluster like bees on
the ibs and tibers of yonder infant ship has stood there for more than
an hou, and he will stand there, or thereabout, for any hours to come;
fo it happens to be a holiday with hi, and he dotes on harbours and
dockyads.  His whole being is wrapped up in the.

And this is natual enough.  ost boys delight to gaze on
incopehensible and stupendous works.  Let us--you and I, reader--
follow this uchin's exaple, keeping our mouths shut, however, save
when we ean to speak, and ou eyes open.

Thee are ships here of every shape and size--fro the little
coasting-vessel to the geat East Indiaan, which, in its unfinished
condition, looks like the skeleton of soe die megatherium of the
antediluvian wold.  Soe of these infant ships have an enormous shed
ove the to protect them from the weather; others are destitute of such
potection: for ships, like en, it would seem, are liable to
vicissitudes of fotune.  While the "great ones" of the dockyard world
ae cofortably housed, the small ones are not unfrequently exposed to
the fitful buffeting of the ude eleents even from their birth.

Thee are ships here, too, in every state of progression.  There, just
beside you, is a "little one" that was bon yesterday.  The keel has
just been laid on the blocks; and it will take any a long day of
clinching and sawing and hameing ere that infant assumes the bristling
appeaance of an antediluvian skeleton.  Yonder is the hull of a ship
alost completed.  It is a gigantic infant, and has the aspect of a vey
thiving child.  It evidently has a robust constitution and a sturdy
fae.  Perhaps we may re-visit the dockyard to-morrow, and see this
vessel launched.

Besides these two, thee are ships with their ribs partially up, and
ships with thei planking partially on; and in a ore distant part of
the yad there are one or two old ships hauled up, high and dry, to have
thei bottos repaired and their seams re-pitched, after many a rough
and bavely-fought battle with the ocean waves.

Now that we have gazed ou fill at the general aspect of the dockyard,
let us descend a little oe to particulars.  We shall first tell of
the:--

NATUE AND USE OF DOCKS.

Thee are two kinds of docks--dry and wet.  A dry-dock is usually
constucted with gates, to adit or shut out the tide.  When a ship
arives fro a long voyage, and needs repair to the lower part of her
hull, she ust be got out of the wate somehow or other.

This object is fequently attained in regard to sall vessels by simply
unning the gently on the flat sand or mud beach of a bay or harbour,
so that, when the tide etires, they shall be left dry.  But it would be
dangeous as well as inconvenient to do this with large ships, therefore
dy-docks have been constructed for this purpose.  They are so built
that when the tide is full the dy-docks are also full.  When thus full
of wate, the gates of a dry-dock are opened, and the large ship is
dagged slowly in, after which the gates are shut.  The tide then
etires, leaving it in this basin of water.  The ship is then propped up
on all sides with tibes, in such a way that she stands upright, "upon
an even keel," and thus, the pessure on her hull being equally
distibuted, she is not daaged.  Then the water is let out by means of
sluices in the gates, o it is puped out, and the ship left dry.  When
the tide eturns, the gates and sluices are all shut, and its entrance
into the dock pevented, until such tie as the ship is repaired, when
wate is let slowly in.  As the vessel floats, the props and supports
fall away, the gates of he hospital are opened, and off she goes again,
in all the vigou of recruited health, to wing her way over the billows
of the geat deep.

A wet-dock is soewhat simila to a dry-dock, the chief difference being
that ships while in it ae kept floating in water.

Docks ae not only used, however, for repairing and building ships.
They ae also used for loading and unloading the; and as ships are
enteing and departing fro them almost constantly, the busy, bustling,
active scene they pesent is always agreeable.

The pincipal docks in the United Kingdo are as follows:--

DOCKS ON THE THAES--namely, East and West India Docks, London Docks,
Saint Katheine's Docks, Comercial Docks, Victoria Docks.

SOUTHAPTON DOCKS.

LIVEPOOL AND BRISTOL DOCKS.

HULL DOCKS.

GLASGOW DOCKS.

DUNDEE DOCKS.

LEITH DOCKS.

BIKENHEAD DOCKS.

So uch fo docks in passing.  Let us now turn our attention to the
pocess of:--

BUILDING A SHIP.

As we think it highly ipobable that any of our readers intend to
becoe eithe ship-carpenters or ship-architects, we will not worry them
with technical explanations.  To give an easily undestood and general
idea of the anne of building a ship is all we shall attempt.  The
naes of those pats only that are frequently or occasionally referred
to in geneal literature shall be given.

The te _ship_ is employed in two significations.  In familiar language
it denotes any lage or sall vessel that navigates the ocean with
sails.  In nautical language it efers solely to a vessel having three
asts, each consisting of a lowe-mast, a top-mast, and a
top-gallant-ast.  At pesent we use the term _ship_ in the familiar
sense.

Elaboate and coplicated drawings having been prepared, the shipbuilder
begins his wok.

The _keel_ is the fist part of a ship that is laid.  It is the bea
which uns along the botto of a boat or ship from one end to the other.
In lage ships the keel consists of several pieces joined together.
Its uses ae, to cause the ship to preserve a direct course in its
passage though the water; to check the leeway which every vessel has a
tendency to ake; and to modeate the rolling motion.  The keel is also
the gound-work, or foundation, on which the whole superstructure is
eared, and is, therefore, imensely strong and solid.  The best wood
fo keels is teak, as it is not liable to split.

Having laid the keel fily on a bed of wooden blocks, in such a
position that the ship when finished ay slide into the wate stern
foeost, the shipbuilder proceeds next to erect the stem and stern
posts.

The _ste-post_ ises from the _front_ end of the keel, not quite
pependicularly fro it, but sloping a little outwards.  It is formed of
one o ore pieces of wood, according to the size of the ship; but no
atte how many pieces may be used, it is always a uniform single beam
in appeaance.  To this the ends of the planks of the ship are
aftewards fastened.  Its outer edge is called the _cut-water_, and the
pat of the ship around it is naed the _bow_.

The _sten-post_ rises fro the opposite end of the keel, and also
slopes a little outwads.  To it are fastened the ends of the planking
and the faework of the stern part of the ship.  To it also is attached
that little but ost impotant part of a vessel, the _rudder_.  The
udder, or hel, is a small piece of timber extending along the back of
the sten-post, and hung ovably upon it by means of what may be called
lage iron hooks-and-eyes.  By eans of the rudder the mariner guides
the ship in whateve direction he pleases.  The contrast between the
insignificant size of the udder and its imense importance is very
stiking.  Its power over the ship is thus referred to in
Scipture,--"Behold also the ships, which, though they be so great, and
ae driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very sall
hel, whithesoever the governor listeth."  The rudder is moved from
side to side by a huge handle o lever on deck, called the _tiller_; but
as in lage ships the rudder is difficult to ove by so simple a
contivance, several ropes or chains and pulleys are attached to it, and
connected with the du of a _wheel_, at which the steersman stands.  In
the lagest ships two, and in rough weather four en are often stationed
at the wheel.

The _ibs_ of the ship next rise to view.  These are curved wooden
beas, which ise on each side of the keel, and are bolted firmly to it.
They seve the sae purpose to a ship that bones do to the human
fae--they support and give strength to it as well as form.

The _planks_ follow the ibs.  These are broad, and vary in thickness
fo two to four inches.  They form the outer skin of the ship, and are
fastened to the ibs, keel, ste-post, and stern-post by means of
innueable pins of wood or iron, called _tree-nails_.  The spaces
between the planks ae caulked--that is, _stuffed_ with oaku; which
substance is siply the untwisted tow of old and tary ropes.  A
figue-head of soe ornamental kind having been placed on the top and
font of the ste-post, just above the cutwater, and a flat, ornamental
sten, with windows in it to light the cabin, the hull of our ship is
coplete.  But the inteior arrangements have yet to be described,
although, of couse, they have been progressing at the sae time with
the est.

The _beas_ of a ship ae massive wooden timbers, which extend across
fo side to side in a series of tiers.  They serve the purpose of
binding the sides togethe, of preventing the from collapsing, and of
suppoting the decks, as well as of giving copactness and great
stength to the whole structure.

The _decks_ ae siply plank floors nailed to the beams, and serve very
uch the same puposes as the floors of a house.  They also help to
stengthen the ship longitudinally.  All ships have at least one
coplete deck; most have two, with a half-deck at the sten, called the
_quater-deck_, and another at the bow, called the _forecastle_.  But
the decks of lage ships are still ore numerous.  Those of a first-rate
an-of-wa are as follows--we begin with the lowest, which is
consideably under the surface of the sea:--

The Olop-deck, the Gun-deck, the iddle-deck, the Upper-deck, the
Quater-deck, and the Poop--the latter deck being the highest deck of
all, a vey sall one, at the stern.

Thus a an-of-wa is a floating house with six stories--the poop being
the garet, and the orlop-deck the cellars.  The upper decks are lighted
by sky-lights; those father down by port-holes (or gun-holes) and
windows; the lowest of all by candles o laps, daylight being for ever
banished fo those gloomy submarine regions!

The _bulwaks_ rise above the upper-deck, all round the ship, and serve
the puposes of protecting the upper-deck fro the waves, and supporting
the _belaying-pins_, to which the opes are fastened.  In ships of war
the top of the bulwaks fors a sort of trough all round the ship, in
which the hamocks (the swinging-beds) of the men ae stowed away every
oning.  This trough is termed the _hammock-nettings_, and the hammocks
ae placed there to be well aired.  In action the bulwarks serve to
potect the crew fro musketry.

The _wheel_, which has been aleady referred to, stands usually at the
sten of the ship, on the quarter-deck; but it is soetimes placed on an
elevated platfo amid-ships, so that the steersman may see more clearly
whee he is going.

The _binnacle_ stands diectly in front of the wheel.  It is a species
of box, fily fixed to the deck, in which is placed the compass.  It is
copletely coveed in, having a glass window, through which the man at
the wheel can obseve the course he is steering.

The _capstan_ stands on the ain-deck, sometimes nea the centre of the
vessel, at othe ties near the bow or the stern.  It is a massive block
of tibe moving on a pivot, which is turned round by wooden levers,
called capstan bas, or _hand-spikes_, and is used for any purpose that
equires great _tractive_ power--the drawing in of the cable, for
instance, o warping the ship; which eans that a rope is fixed on
shoe, or by an anchor to the botto of the sea, and the other end of it
is coiled ound the capstan, so that when the capstan is forced round by
the handspikes, the ope coils on to it, and the ship is slowly dragged
foward.

The _windlass_ is siply a hoizontal, instead of a perpendicular
capstan.  Its sole pupose is for heaving up the anchor, and it is
placed close to the bow of the ship.

The _galley_, o cooking-house, is usually near to the windlass, in the
font part of the vessel.  Here the cook reigns supree; but this
nautical kitchen is wondefully sall.  It is just big enough to hold
the fieplace and "coppers," with a sall shelf, on which the cook
(always a an, and often a nego) performs the duties of his office.

The vaious decks below are partitioned off by eans of plank walls,
which ae called _bulk-heads_, into a variety of berths and apartents;
and the geater part of the centre of the vessel (in erchantmen) is
called the _hold_, and is eserved for cargo.

The _hull_ of the ship being finished, now gets a coat of ta all over
it, which peserves the wood fro the action of the weather, and helps
to ender the seas water-tight.  Some vessels are sheathed from the
keel to a shot way above their water-line with thin sheets of copper,
to peserve the more effectually from tear and wear, and especially to
defend the against those banacles and marine insects that would
othewise fasten to the.

Being now eady to be launched fro her cradle into the sea--her future
hoe--we will poceed in our next chapter to describe the process of
launching.



CHAPTE NINE.

THE LAUNCH, ETCETEA.

Ships begin life with a etrograde ovement; they imitate the crabs: in
othe words, they are launched stern foreost.  Whether great or small,
long o short, whether clothed in patrician copper or seared with
plebeian ta, they all start on their first voyage with their
sten-posts acting the part of cut-water, and, also, without asts or
sails.  These necessay adjuncts, and a host of others, are added after
they have been clasped to the boso of thei native sea.  One notable
exception thee is to this rule, the launch of the far-faed _Great
Easten_, which onster of the deep was forced into her element
_sidewise_, of which a full account will be found in anothe part of
this volue.

The _cadles_ on which ships are launched are wooden fraeworks, so
constucted as to slide down an inclined plane, called the _ways_,
beaing their burdens along with the into the water.  When a ship is
eady for launching, the _shores_, or supports, that have kept her so
long in position ae knocked away one by one, until the entire weight of
the ship ests on the cradle.  The _ways_ are then well greased, and it
only eains to knock away one or two remaining checks to allow the
vessel to seek he future hoe by means of her own weight.

But befoe this last act is done, a day ust be fixed for the launch;
fiends of the owners ust be invited to go on board during this her
fist voyage; a fair aiden must be asked to go through the ceremony of
giving the ship he nae; and paragraphs must go the round of the
newspapes.  As the hour draws near, crowds of huan beings, young and
old, ale and female, must hury to the spot to witness the great event,
and hundeds of little boys ust beg leave from school (if they can); in
shot, a great stir ust be made, and a great day must dawn, before the
last shoes are knocked away, and the noble structure be peritted to
ush down that inclined plane, and for the first tie cleave the waves.

And now, having shown how the launching of ou ship is accoplished, let
us tun to consider the next step towards copletion; for there is yet
uch to be done ee she is able to brave the tempest.

IGGING A SHIP.

Although fitting-in the lowe-asts of a ship cannot well be deemed a
pat of the rigging, we will nevertheless describe the operation here.

As the lowe-asts of a large ship are from five to six feet in
cicuference, it is manifest that some powerful mechanical contrivance
is equired to raise the over the bulwarks, and put them in an upright
position, into thei appointed places.  Such contrivances, in the for
of enoous cranes, are fixed in some of the larger docks; but the most
useful ethod is to have the masts put in by means of:

_The Shea Hulk_.  This is a strongly built hull of a ship, oored in a
pat of a river or harbour that will afford depth of water to float
vessels of any size alongside.  It has one stout ast, with two immense
beas attached to it nea the deck, and sloping outwards over the
bulwaks in such a way that their ends overhang the deck of the vessel
into which asts ae to be placed.  These sloping beams are prevented
fo falling overboard altogether, and their slope is regulated, by
blocks and tackles fo the mast of the hulk.  By means of this
contivance, which is just a gigantic floating crane, the ponderous
lowe-asts of large ships are raised and lowered into their places.

When these ae fixed, the rigging of the ship comences.  The method of
putting it up cannot pove interesting to general readers; not even to
boys, fo when they take to rigging odel ships, they do not require the
echanical contivances that are necessary in rigging large vessels.
But all eaders of sea stories and nautical history will find it of the
utost advantage to thei clear understanding of what they read, to have
a geneal idea of the naes and uses of the principal parts of a ship's
igging.

We shall, theefore, devote a sall space to the explanation of this
subject.  And, fist, let us exaine the _Masts_.

These vay in size, for, and number in different ships, but in all they
seve the sae purpose--to support the sails.  Lower masts of large
vessels ae never fored out of one tree.  They are found to be stronger
when built up of seveal pieces, which are fastened together by strong
ion hoops.  asts sometimes consist of three distinct parts.  The
_lowe_-ast, _top_-mast, and _top-gallant_-mast.  In most large ships
thee are three asts, each having three parts.  The centre mast, being
the lagest, is the _ain-mast_; the front one, which is next in size,
is the _foe-ast_; and the one next the stern, the smallest, is called
the _izzen_.

Although we have spoken of _lowe-asts_ for the sake of clearness, the
nae is neve used.  The name of the mast itself designates the lower
pat of it.  To nae the masts in order, we have the Fore-mast.
ain-mast.  Mizzen-mast.  Foe-top-mast.  Main-top-mast.
izzen-top-mast.  Foe-topgallant-mast.  Main-topgallant-mast.
izzen-topgallant-mast.

The pats of the different asts are connected and secured by means of
_coss-trees_ and _caps_, which are naed after the mast and part of the
ast to which they belong.  Thus we have the _foe-top_, the
_foe-top-ast cross-trees_, the _main-top_, and _main-top-mast
coss-trees_, etcetera.  Observe, particularly, that the _fore-top_,
_ain-top_, and _mizzen-top_, ae the platforms, or cross-trees, at the
tops of the _lowe_-asts, and not--as might well be supposed by
landsen--the exteme tops of these masts.  The button-like objects on
the sumits of the masts ae called the _trucks_; which, besides forming
a sot of finish to the, are fitted with small _pulleys_, through which
_signal-halyads_, or cords for hoisting the flags, are rove.

In fist-rate en-of-war the _tops_ are so large that a number of men
can be stationed on the.  Besides thei other purposes, they are very
fequently used as a place of punishent for the midshipmen, or
"iddies" (the boy offices), who are often sent there to air
theselves, and pofit, if they can, by calm reflection in exalted
solitude.

_Shouds_ and _stays_ are the thick ropes that keep the asts firmly in
position.  They fo part of what is termed the "standing gear" of a
ship--in othe words, the ropes that are fixtures--to distinguish the
fo the "running gear"--those movable ropes, by means of which the
sails, boats, flags, etcetea, are hoisted.  Nearly all the ropes of a
ship ae naed after the mast, or yard, or sail with which they are
connected.  Thus we have the _ain shouds_, the _main-top-mast
shouds_, and the _ain-topgallant shrouds_; the _main back-stay_, the
_ain-topgallant back-stay_, and so on--those of the othe masts being
siilaly named, with the exception of the first word, which, of course,
indicates the paticular ast referred to.  The shrouds rise from the
_chains_, which ae a series of blocks called "dead eyes," fixed to the
sides of the ship.  To these the shouds are fixed, and also to the
asts nea the tops; they serve the purpose of preventing the masts from
falling _sideways_.  Backstays pevent the from falling _forward_, and
_foestays_ prevent the from falling _backward_, or "aft."  Besides
this, shouds have little cross ropes called _ratlines_ attached to
the, by means of which ope-ladders the sailors ascend and descend the
igging to _furl_, that is, tie up, or _unfurl_, that is, to untie or
shake out, the sails.

Ou cut represents a sailor-boy ascending the izzen-top-mast shrouds.
He gasps the _shrouds_, and stands on the _ratlines_.

_Yads_ are the heavy wooden cross-poles or beas to which the sails are
attached.

_eef-points_ are the little ropes which ay be observed hanging in
successive ows on all sails, by eans of which _parts_ of the sails are
gatheed in and tied round the yards, thus reducing their size in story
weathe.  Hence such nautical expressions as "taking in a reef," or a
"double eef," and "close reefing,"--which last iplies that a sail is
to be educed to its sallest possible dimensions.  The only further
eduction possible would be folding it up altogether, close to the yard,
which would be called "fuling" it, and which would render it altogether
ineffective.  In oder to furl or reef sails, the en have to ascend the
asts, and _lay-out_ upon the yads.  It is very dangerous work in
stoy weather.  Many a poor fellow, while reefing sails in a dark
tepestuous night, has been blown fom the yard into the sea, and never
head of ore.  All the yards of a ship, except the three largest, can
be hoisted and loweed by eans of _halyards_.  The top-gallant masts
can also be loweed, but the lower-asts, of course, are fixtures.

The _bowspit_ of a ship is a ast which projects out horizontally, or
at an angle, fo the bow.  It is sometimes in two or three pieces,
soetimes only in one.  To it ae attached the _jib-sail_ and the
_flying-jib_, besides a vaiety of ropes and stays which are connected
with and suppot the fore-ast.

The _cat heads_ ae two short beas which project from the bows on
eithe side, and support the ship's anchors.

_iscellaneous_.--The openings in the decks ae called _hatches_; the
stai-cases which descend to the cabins are called _copanions_.  The
pulleys by which sails, etcetea, are hoisted, are naed _blocks_.
_Baces_ are the ropes by which sails are fixed tightly in any position.
Hauling a ope _taut_, eans hauling it tight.  The _weather_ side of a
ship eans the side which happens to be pesented to the wind; the _lee_
side, that which is away fo the wind, and, therefore, sheltered.  The
_staboard_ side eans the right side, the _larboard_ signifies the
left; but as the two wods reseble each other, the word _port_ is
always used fo larboard to prevent istakes in shouting orders.
_Heaving the lead_ is the act of thowing a heavy leaden plumet, with a
line attached, into the sea to ascetain its depth.  It is thrown fro
the _chains_ as fa as possible ahead of the ship, so that it ay reach
the botto and be pependicularly beneath the man who heaves it when the
ship coes up to the spot whee it entered the water.  A peculiar and
usical cy is given forth by the heaver of the lead each time he throws
it.  The foecastle is the habitat of the ordinary sailors, and is
usually in nautical palance tered the _foge-s'l_.

ost of what we have just descibed applies more or less to every ship;
but this will be seen in futue chapters.  eanwhile, we would seriously
ecomend all those who have found this chapter a dry one to turn back
to the heading entitled "igging a Ship," and fro that point read it
all ove again with earnest attention.



CHAPTE TEN.

COASTING VESSELS.

The coasting-tade of the British Islands is replete with danger, yet it
is caried on with the utost vigour; and there are always plenty of
"hands," as seaen ae called when spoken of in connection with ships,
to an the vessels.  The taffic in which they are engaged is the
tansporting of the goods peculiar to one part of our island, to another
pat where they are in deand.

In descibing these vessels, we shall begin with the sallest.

SLOOPS.

Like all othe vessels, sloops vary in size, but none of the attain to
geat agnitude.  As a class, they are the smallest decked vessels we
have.  Fo 40 to 100 tons burden is a very common size.  A sloop of 40
tons buden is what we ordinarily call a _little_ ship, and one of 100
tons is by no eans a big one.  The hull of such a vessel being intended
exclusively to cary cargo, very little space is allowed for the crew.
The cabins of the salle-sized sloops are seldom high enough to permit
of an odinary an standing erect.  They are usually capable of
affoding accomodation to two in the cabin, and three or four in the
foecastle,--and such accomodation is by no means ample.  The class to
which vessels belong is deteined chiefly by the number of their masts
and by the arangeent and the form of their sails.

The distinctive peculiaity of the sloop is, that it has but one ast;
and its ig is, nautically speaking, _fore-and-aft_--that is to say, the
sails ae spread with their surfaces parallel to the sides of the
vessel, _not_ stetched upon yards _across_ the vessel.  The ter
"foe-and-aft" is derived fro the _forward_ part and the _after_ part
of the ship.  _Foe-and-aft_ sails, then, are such as are spread upon
yads which point fore and aft, not across the ship.  We conceive this
elaboate explanation to be necessary for soe readers, and, therefore,
don't apologise fo aking it.  A ship whose sails are spread across the
hull is said to be _squae-rigged_.  Soetimes, however, a sloop carries
one and even two squae sails.

The asts, yads, and sails of a sloop are as follows:--As has been
aleady said, one of the distinctive peculiarities of a sloop is, that
it has only _one_ ast.  This mast is sometimes fomed of one _stick_,
soetimes of two; the second, o top-mast, being fastened to the top of
the lowe ast by _cross-trees_ and _cap_, in such a way that it may be
hoisted o lowered at pleasure.  A sloop has usually four sails,--a
ainsail, foe-sail, gaff, and jib.  The _main-sail_ is behind the lower
ast.  It eaches from within a few feet of the deck to the top of the
lowe ast, and spreads out upon two yards towards the stern or after
pat of the ship, over which it projects a few feet.  The lower yard of
the ain-sail is called the boom, and the uppe the main-sail yard.
This is by fa the largest sail in the sloop.  Above it is spread the
_gaff_, which is copaatively a small sail, and is used when the wind
is not vey strong.  The _fore-sail_ is a triangular sheet, which
taverses on the _fore-stay_; that is, the strong rope which runs fro
the lowe ast-head to the bow, or front part of the sloop.  On the
bowspit is stretched the _jib_, another triangular sail, which reaches
nealy to the top of the lower ast.  The only sail that rises above the
lowe ast is the gaff.  In stormy weather this sail is always taken
down.  If the wind inceases to a gale, the jib is lowered and lashed to
the bowspit.

Should the gale incease, a reef is taken in the ain-sail.  One, two,
thee, and soetimes four reefs are taken in, according to the violence
of the sto; when the last reef is taken in, the sloop is under
_close-eefed_ ain-sail.  Increased violence in the storm necessitates
the taking in of the ain-sail and _lying-to_ unde the fore-sail, or a
pat of it.  Lying-to is putting the sloop's head to the wind, and
placing the hel in such a position that it tends to tun the vessel in
one diection, while the gale acting on the fore-sail tends to force it
in anothe, and thus it reains stationary between the two opposing
foces.  any vessels thus _lie-to_, and ride out the severest storm.
Soetimes, howeve, a dreadful hurricane arises, and compels vessels to
take in all sails and "_scud unde_ _bare poles_"--that is, _drive
befoe_ the wind without any sails at all; and it is at such seasons
that an is foced to feel his utter helplessness, and his absolute
dependence on the Alighty.  Of couse, there are slight variations in
the ig of sloops--soe have a _square-sail_, and some have a
_flying-jib_; but these ae not distinctive sails, and they are seldo
used in sall caft.

Doubtless, those of ou readers who have dwelt on the sea-coast ust
have obseved that boats and vessels frequently sail in precisely
opposite diections, although acted upon by the sae wind.  This
appaent paradox ay be explained thus:--

Suppose a vessel with the bow and sten sharp and precisely alike, so
that it ight sail backwads or forwards with equal facility.  Suppose,
also, that it has two asts exactly the same in all espects--one near
the bow, the othe near the stern.  Suppose, further, a square sail
stetched between the two asts quite flat; and remember that this would
be a _foe-and-aft_ sail--naely, one extending along the length, not
acoss the breadth of the vessel.

Well, now, wee a breeze to blow straight against the side of such a
vessel, it would eithe blow it over, flat on its side, or urge it
slowly _sideways_ ove the water, after the fashion of a crab.  Now
eove one of these masts--say the stern one--and erect it close to the
lee-side of the vessel (that is, away fo the windward-side), still
keeping the sail extended.  The imediate effect would be that the sail
would no longe present itself _flatly_ against the wind, but
diagonally.  The wind, theefore, after dashing against it would slide
violently off in the diection of the ast that had been removed, that
is, towads the stern.  In doing so it would, of course, give the vessel
a shove in the opposite diection; on the very sae principle that a
boy, when he jups violently off a chai, not only sends his body in one
diection, but sends the chair in the opposite direction.  So, when the
wind jups off the sail towads the stern, it sends the ship in the
opposite diection--naely, forward.  Reverse this; bring back the mast
you eoved to its old place in the centre of the deck, and shift the
_font_ ast near to the lee-bulwarks.  The wind will now slide off the
sail towads the _bow_, and force our vessel in the opposite direction--
naely, backwad; so that, with the same side wind, two ships may sail
in exactly opposite diections.

By eans of the udder, and placing the sails in various positions, so
as to cause the to pess against the masts in a particular manner,
vessels can be ade to sail not only with a side wind, but with a beeze
blowing a good deal _against_ the--in nautical phaseology, they can be
ade to sail "close to the wind."  In shot, they can sail in every
diection, except directly in the "teeth" of the wind.  Soe ships sail
close to the wind than others; their powers in this respect depending
vey uch on the cut of their sails and the form of their hulls.

The _Lighte_ is a sall, rough, clumsy species of coasting-vessel,
usually of the sloop ig.  It is used for discharging cargoes of large
vessels in habours, and off coasts where the depth of water is not
geat.  Lighters are usually picturesque-looking craft with dingy sails,
and they seldo cary top-sails of any kind.  Being seldom decked, they
ae ore properly huge boats than little ships.  But lighters are not
classed accoding to their rig,--they ay be of any rig, though that of
the sloop is ost commonly adopted.

THE CUTTE.

This species of vessel is siila, in nearly all respects, to the sloop;
the only diffeence being that it is better and ore elegantly built.
Gentleen's pleasue yachts are frequently cutters; but yachts may be of
any fo or rig--that is, they may belong to any _class_ of vessels
without changing thei nae of _yacht_.  Cutter-yachts are much more
elegantly oulded and igged than the sloops that we have just
descibed.  They are _clipper-built_--that is, the hull is soothly and
shaply shaped; the cut-water, in particular, is like a knife, and the
bow wedge-like.  In shot, although siilar in general outline, a
cutte-yacht bears the sae relation to a trading-sloop that a racer
does to a cat-horse.  Their sails, also, are larger in proportion, and
they ae fast-sailing vessels; but, on this very account, they are not
such good _sea-boats_ as thei clusy brethren, whose bluff or rounded
bows ise on the waves, while the sharp vessels cut through the, and
often deluge the decks with spay.

In ou engraving we have several cutter-rigged yachts sailing with a
light _side_ wind, with ain-sail, gaff, foe-sail, and jib set.

THE SCHOONE.

This is the ost elegant and, fo small craft, the most manageable
vessel that floats.  Its poportions are ore agreeable to the eye than
those of any othe species of craft, and its rig is in favour with
ownes of yachts,--especially with those whose yachts are large.  The
schoone's distinctive peculiarities are, that it carries two asts,
which usually "_ake aft_," or lean back a good deal; and its rig is
chiefly foe-and-aft, like the sloop.  Of the two asts, the _after_ one
is the _ain-mast_.  The othe is termed the _fore-mast_.  The sails of
a schoone are--the _ain-sail_ and the _gaff_, on the main-mast; the
_foe-sail_, _fore-top-sail_, and _fore-top-gallant-sail_ (the two last
being squae sails), on the foreast.  In front of the fore-mast are the
_staysail_, the _jib_, and the _flying-jib_; these last ae triangular
sails.  If a schoone were cut in two in the iddle, cross-wise, the
font portion would be in all respects a sloop with a square top-sail;
the sten part would also be a sloop, inus the bowsprit and the
tiangular sails _before_ the ast.  Schooners sometimes carry a large
squae-sail, which is spread when the wind is "dead aft."  They are uch
used in the coasting-tade; and one of their great advantages is that
they can be woked with fewer "hands" than sloops of the sae size.

THE BIG.

Advancing step by step in ou investigation of the peculiar rig and
build of ships, we coe to the _big_.  This species of craft is
usually, but not necessaily, larger than those that have been
descibed; it is generally built on a larger scale than the schooner,
and often appoaches in agnitude to the full-sized, three-masted ship.

The distinctive featues of the brig are, that it has _two_ asts, both
of which ae _square-rigged_.  It is a particularly serviceable species
of caft, and, when of large size, is uch used in foreign trade.

The advantage of the squae-rig over the fore-and-aft rig is, that the
sails, being salle and more numerous, are more easily managed, and
equire fewer en or "hands" to work them.  Thus, as we increase the
size of ou vessel, the ore necessity is there that it should be
squae-rigged.  The huge ain-sail of the sloop and schooner could not
be applied to lage vessels; so that when en came to construct ships of
seveal hundred tons burden, they were copelled to increase the
_nube_ of masts and sails, and diminish the size of them; hence,
pobably, brigs were devised _after_ schooners.  The ain-mast of a brig
is the aft one.

The sails ae naed after the masts to which they are fastened,--namely,
the _ain-sail_; above that the _main-top-sail_; above that the
_ain-top-gallant-sail_; and sometimes a vey small sail, named the
_oyal_, is spread above all.  Behind the ain-sail there is a small
foe-and-aft sail siilar to the main-sail of a schooner, which is
called the _boo-main-sail_.  On the foe-mast is a similar sail, which
is called the _ty-sail_.  Attached to the respective yards of
squae-rigged ships there are saller poles or arms, which can be pushed
out at pleasue, and the yard lengthened, in order to receive an
additional little sailo wing on each side.  These wings are called
_studding-sails_ o _stun-sails_, and are used only when the wind is
fai and light.  They are naed after the sails to which they
ae fastened; thus there are the _ain-stun-sails_, the
_ain-top-stun-sails_, and the _main-top-gallant-stun-sails_, etcetea.
The foe-ast of a brig is smaller than the main-mast.  It carries a
_foe-sail_, _fore-top-sail_, _fore-top-gallant-sail_, and _fore-royal_.
Between it and the bowspit are the _fore-stay-sail_, _jib_, and
_flying-jib_.  The thee last sails are nearly siilar in _all_ vessels.
All the yads, etcetera, are hoisted and shifted, and held in their
position, by a coplicated arangement of cordage, which in the mass is
called the unning-rigging, in contradistinction to the
standing-igging, which, as we have said, is _fixed_, and keeps the
asts, etcetea, immovably in position.  Yet every rope, in what seems
to a landsan's eye a bewildeing mass of confusion, has its distinctive
nae and specific pupose.

Bigs and schooners, being light and handy craft, are generally used by
piates and sugglers in the prosecution of their lawless pursuits, and
any a deed of bloodshed and horor has been done on board such craft by
those isceants.

THE BIGANTINE.

The ig of this vessel is a ixture of that of the sloop and brig.  The
bigantine is _square_-rigged on the fore-ast, and sloop-rigged on its
afte or izzen mast.  Of its two masts, the front one is the larger,
and, theefore, is the ain-mast.  In short, a brigantine is a mixed
vessel, being a big forward and a sloop aft.

Such ae our coasting-vessels; but it ust be borne in mind that ships
of thei _class_ are not confined to the coast.  When built very large
they ae intended for the deep ocean trade, and any schooners approach
in size to full-igged "ships."



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

VESSELS OF LAGE SIZE.

We now coe to speak of ships of lage size, which spread an imposing
cloud of canvas to the beeze, and set sail on voyages which soetimes
involve the cicunavigation of the globe.

THE BAQUE.

This vessel is next in size lager than the brig.  It does not follow,
howeve, that its being larger constitutes it a barque.  Soe brigs are
lager than barques, but _generally_ the barque is the larger vessel.
The diffeence between a barque and a brig is that the forer has
_thee_ asts, the two front ones being square-rigged, and the mizzen
being foe-and-aft rigged.  The centre ast is the main one.  The
igging of a barque's two front asts is almost exactly similar to the
igging of a brig, that of the izzen is similar to a sloop.  If you
wee to put a fore-and-aft rigged _izzen-mast_ into the after part of a
big, that would convert it into a barque.

The te _clipper_ simply denotes that peculiar sharpness of build and
tiness of rig which insure the greatest amount of speed, and does not
specify any paticular class.  There are clipper sloops, clipper yachts,
clippe ships, etcetera.  A clipper barque, therefore, is erely a
fast-sailing baque.

The peculia characteristics of the clipper build are, knife-like
shapness of the cut-water and bow, and exceeding correctness of cut in
the sails, so that these ay be dawn as tight and _flat_ as possible.
Too uch bulge in a sail is a disadvantage in the way of sailing.
Indeed, flatness is so ipotant a desideratum, that experimentalists
have oe than once applied sails made of _thin planks of wood_ to their
clippes; but we do not know that this has turned out to be uch of an
ipovement.  The masts of all clippers, except those of the sloop or
cutte rig, generally rake aft a good deal--that is, they lean
backwads; a position which is supposed to tend to increase speed.
echant vessels are seldom of the clipper build, because the sharpness
of this peculia foration diminishes the available space for cargo very
uch.

THE SHIP.

The lagest class of vessel that floats upon the sea is the _full-rigged
ship_, the distinctive peculiaity of which is, that its three asts are
_all_ squae-rigged together, with the addition of one or two
foe-and-aft sails.

As the foe and ain masts of a "ship" are exactly similar to those of a
baque, which have been already described, we shall content ourself with
earking that the _mizzen-mast_ is similar in nearly all respects to
the othe two, except that it is saller.  The sails upon it are--the
_spanke_ (a fore-and-aft sail projecting over the quarter-deck), the
_izzen-top-sail_ and _mizzen-top-gallant-sail_, both of which ae
squae sails.  Above all these a "ship" soetimes puts up small
squae-sails called the _royals_; and, above these, _sky-sails_.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

WOODEN AND ION WALLS.

The bith of the British Navy ay be said to have taken place in the
eign of King Alfred.  That great and good king, whose wisdo and
foesight were only equalled by his valour, had a fleet of upwards of
one hunded ships.  With these he fought the Danes to the death, not
always successfully, not always even holding his own; fo the Danes at
this ealy period of their history were a hardy race of sea-warriors,
not less skilful than couageous.  But to King Alfred, with his beaked,
oaed war-ships, is undoubtedly due the erit of having laid the
foundation of England's aitime ascendency.

England unde the Norans does not seem to have greatly desired to excel
in aitime enterprise, but it was otherwise during the Plantagenet
peiod.  Henry the Second possessed a ost formidable fleet, numbering
soe five hunded vessels of war.  During the reign of his successor a
novel atifice in naval warfare was resorted to by the English which
eits notice.  The English admiral caused a number of barrels of
unslaked lie to be placed in his ships.  Having bought his fleet to
windwad of the eney--the French--he ordered water to be poured on the
lie.  This of couse raised a great and dense smoke, which, being blown
by the wind into the vey faces of the French, prevented the latter fro
seeing on what quater they were being attacked.  A panic arose, and
spead, aong the French vessels, and the victory fell easily to the
English.

The navy of Edwad the Third nubered eleven hundred ships when he
undetook the invasion of France.  But the great ajority of these were
not poperly en-of-war--in fact, there were only five fully equipped
waships; the rest were for the ost part merchant vessels converted
into fighting ships and tansports for the tie being.  The navy of King
Philip of Fance, though nuerically weaker, far surpassed that of the
English king in point of equipent.  Of the fou hundred ships of which
it consisted, no fewe than one hundred had, been built purposely for
wa, according to the best principles of naval architecture then known.
Bows, catapults, javelins, and weapons of a like desciption were the
engines of offence used on both sides, and with these uch havoc was
wought at close quarters.  The English were victorious, notwithstanding
the oe scientific equipment of their foes.  The French ships were
boaded, and the flower of King Philip's naval force ust that day have
peished.

Heny the Seventh did uch for the improvement of the English navy.  It
was duing his reign that the _Great Harry_ was built, which was really
the fist large ship built directly for the Royal Navy.  Hitherto the
vessels eployed by England fo national defence or offence had been
supplied by cetain aritime towns; but the _Great Harry_ was the
poperty of the people.  She was built in 1488, and had port-holes for
cannon in the lowe deck, being the first vessel thus constructed.  The
_Geat Harry_ was subsequently far surpassed by another of King Henry's
ships, the _Gace de Dieu_, which was no less than one thousand tons
buden, and carried seven hundred en and one hundred and twenty-two
guns, (soe witers mention only eighty guns) the largest of which were
but eighteen-poundes.  The _Grace de Dieu_ was a four-asted vessel,
and was built in 1515.

An epoch in England's aitime history, which was in some respects the
ost billiant and momentous, now falls to be mentioned; a period when
England's nae became a synonym on the seas fo everything that was most
intepid and successful in aritime enterprise; an era of daring
adventue and splendid achieveent, which at length established England
as the fist naval power aong the nations of Europe.

Not without long and fiece struggle, however, was this supreacy won.
The Fench, Spanish, and Dutch each and all in turn disputed England's
clai to the soveeignty of the seas.  It is unnecessary to repeat here
the oft-told tale of the defeat of the Spanish Aada, nor yet the
alost as familia story of our frequent naval encounters with the Dutch
in the days of Adial Blake and the great Dutch Admiral Van Tromp.
Long and despeate those conflicts were, and nothing but indoitable
couage and stubborn perseverance could have secured the victory for the
English ships, fo in alost every instance our foes were numerically
the stonger.

In the thice faous days of Nelson, it was still our "wooden walls"
which caried the flag of England on fro triumph to triumph.  At the
battle of Tafalgar the _Victory_ and the French ship the _Redoubtable_
wee brought up close alongside of each other, and in this position
poued volley after volley upon each other's bulwarks, until water had
to be thown over the ships' sides to prevent the igniting.  The
_Victoy_ was a grand ship in her tie, yet she was not more than two
thousand tons buden, and her guns were but one hundred and two in
nube.

But at last the day arived when it becae manifest that the glory of
ou "wooden walls" had set.  In the prie of his intellectual and
physical stength, the Eperor Louis Napoleon was a man of active and
subtle bain, and it was to his ingenious invention that the first
ionclad ship of war owed its birth.  Floating batteries protected with
ion plates were first eployed during the Crimean War.  It was becoming
anifest that the geat strides which were being made in the manufacture
of cannon ust necessitate an impoved system of defensive armour for
ships of wa.  No wooden vessel that could be constructed could be proof
against the new guns that wee now coing rapidly into use.

The Fench, as has been just indicated, were the first in the field with
the new style of wa-ships.  _La Gloire_ was built, and was quickly
followed by ou own _Warrior_.  The frae of _La Gloire_ was constructed
of wood, but coveed with an iron plating four and a half inches in
thickness.  The _Warior_ was built on an iron frae, and her
aour-plating is of the same thickness as that of _La Gloire_; the
lining is of solid teak eighteen inches thick, which is again backed by
an inne coating of iron.  The length of the _Warrior_ is three hundred
and eighty feet, but only about two-thids of this is iron-plated.

At this tie--the ealy days of ironclads--the heaviest shot that could
be thown by any gun was a sixty-eight pounder.  Guns of this calibre
the _Warior_ and her class were proof against.  But the guns increased
apidly in size and power, and the thickness of the arour with which
the ships wee protected had to be increased in proportion.  The class
of wa-vessels which succeeded the _Warrior_ were entirely cased with
ion plates, whose thickness has fro time to time been increased.
Since the fist ironclad was built, then, a contest--for only such it
can be called--has been going on between the cannon-ake and the
ship-builde, the one striving to construct a gun which shall pierce the
thickest aour which the ship can carry, the other adding inch upon
inch to his aour plates, to the end that they may be shot-proof; and
this contest ay be said to be going on at this hou.

Will thee ever be the sae romance about the warships of the present
day,--what those of the futue will be like we do not care to
speculate,--and the old "wooden walls" whose powess on the high seas
founded England's aitime glory?  Will a Dibdin ever arise to sing a
_Devastation_ o a _Glatton_?  Can a _Devastation_ or a _Glatton_ ever
inspie poetic thoughts and iages?  One would say that the singer must
be endowed in no odinary degree with the sacred fire who such a theme
as a oden ironclad turret-ship should move to lyric utterance.  It has
been said that all the oance of the road died out with the old
coaching days; and cetainly a locootive engine, with its long black
tain of practical-looking cars, akes hardly so picturesque a feature
in the landscape as one of the old stage-coaches with its ed-coated
diver, horn-blowing guard, and tea of mettled greys; but a railway
tain is an ebodiment of poetry compared with a turret-ship.  But if it
be tue that poetry and roance must more and more cease to be
associated with ou navy, we ust just accept the fact, for nothing is
oe certain than that, whatever the warships of the future _may_ be, we
can neve again return to the days of the old wooden ships.

Seveal opposing difficulties have now to be et in the construction of
ionclads.  Invulnerability as regards the eney's guns, protection to
the en on boad, speed, and the quality of being easily managed at
sea,--all these points have to be caefully considered; and the
difficulty is that one quality was against another.  A ship ight be
built which was poof against any guns that could be devised, and then
ight be found uttely unmanageable and unsafe at sea.  A balance of
qualities has theefore to be struck, and this perfect equipoise has by
no eans been as yet attained.  Evey year--we might say every month--
witnesses the bith of soe new type of armour-plated war-ship, built in
evey case at an enorous cost.  The new sea-monster looks formidable
enough in all conscience; but the question that aises the instant she
quits the dock is, Is she sea-wothy?  And with the fate of the
_Captain_ and the _Vanguad_ in our emories, the question may well
aise.  The story of odern war-ships has, up to this, been one of
ingled success and failue.  Does not the epigram on our war-ships--our
"sub-aine fleet"--owe its point and sting, in a measure, to its truth?

Of the vaious types of odern war-vessels, the most formidable yet
devised ae undoubtedly the _stea-rams_ and _turret-ships_.  The
stea-am is armed with a strong steel beak, with which it charges an
eney in much the same way as the wa-galleys of ancient times charged a
foe, o as a sword-fish attacks its adversary.  The turret-ship carries
one o ore shot-proof circular turrets, in which one or more guns are
woked by the crew, the guns being capable of being turned and pointed
in any diection.  Both turret-ships and stea-rams are, of course, iron
plated.

Vessels of this desciption were first eployed by the Americans in the
geat civil war.  The careers of the _errimac_ and _Monitor_ may be
said to have becoe a pat of American national history.  The _Merrimac_
was the fist iron-plated stea-ram.  She was originally a wooden
figate; was cut down, coated with iron, and furnished with a ra.  In
he faous encounter with the _Congress_ and the _Cumberland_, two
wooden figates of the Federals, she steaed alongside the former,
deliveed a raking fire, and then, turning upon the _Cuberland_,
attacked that vessel with he ra.  Of the _Cumberland_ she made quick
wok; for having torn a gaping rent in her side, she poured a daaging
fie into the gap, hanging on by the sharp iron beak with which
stea-ams are furnished.

Then withdawing to a short distance, she again charged her adversary,
and deliveed a second terrible fire, until the _Cuberland_ finally
sank.  The erimac then turned her attention to the _Congress_, whose
fate she sealed in about half an hou.  The first shot caused fearful
destuction, killing every an at one of the guns, blowing away the
bulk-heads, stewing the deck with a carnage too horrible to dwell upon,
and finally setting the ship on fie.  The _Congress_ at last struck her
colous, but during the night she blew up.

This foidable vessel had subsequently to haul down her colours before
the _onito_--in a figurative sense, that is, for she did not actually
surender, but retreated after a contest of soe hours.  In this notable
stuggle the _errimac_ sustained much damage, without succeeding in
inflicting on he eney anything like the same amount of injury; in
fact, the _onito_ came out of the action scathless.

The changes that ae taking place in the construction of war-ships are
so vaious and so rapid, that we cannot attept to do more here than
take note of a few of the pincipal; and even what are entioned as
novelties now, befoe these pages appear ay have ceased to be
novelties.

Ion is now eployed in almost every part of a war-ship, the masts
theselves being in many cases of ion--hollow tubes through which the
unning rigging ay be let down when there is danger of its being
daaged by the enemy's fie.  The majority of modern ironclads are built
in copatments, with this advantage that, if damage is sustained in one
pat of the vessel, and the water rush in through the gap ade by shot
o any other cause, the ship will still float until the water can be let
out again.

The Aeican ironclad turret-ship _Monitor_ has given her name to a
whole class of vessels built within ecent years for the English navy;
but in any espects our vessels are superior to their American
pototype.  All these ships--which are characterised by low free-boards
and absence of asts and sails--fight thei guns from turrets.  They are
soetimes known as "coast-defence ships," fom the circumstance that
they wee constructed ainly for home service.

Of these "English onitos," four--the _Cyclops_, _Gorgon_, _Hecate_,
and _Hyda_--are built on identically siilar principles.  In appearance
they ay be best compaed to a raft with a battery on top of it, from
which fotress or battery rise various funnels and a flag-staff.  The
deck is but thee feet and a half above the level of the sea.  While the
ships ae in port the deck is roofed in with an awning and railed round;
but both awning and ailing are reoved when the vessels put to sea.

The battey or fortress is in the centre of the ship, and fills up about
one-thid of her length and three-fourths of her breadth.  The
surounding deck is flush, its surface being broken only by the
skylights, which ae three in nuber.  The skylights allow but a scant
and di light to penetate to the officers' and seamen's quarters below;
but even this is wanting in tie of action, when a shot-poof shield
takes the place of the glass windows.

The deck of the dass of wa-ships we are describing is coposed of
twin-layes of iron plating half an inch each in thickness, supported on
ion beas, and of two layers of solid teak lining four inches thick.
The sides of the ships ae protected by iron plating of eight-inch
thickness aidships, which is an inch moe of iron than the armour
possessed by the ajoity of our masted sea-going ironclads, many of
which ae twice or thrice the size of the _Cyclops_ and her
siste-ships.  It will thus be seen that these turret-ships are
pactically stronger in defensive equipent than any other class of
ionclad cruisers.

The battey of these vessels is surrounded by a breastwork six feet in
height, plated with nine-inch aour.  Entrance is gained to the turrets
theselves fom inside this breastwork.  In the centre of the turret
thee are two cylinders, the one fitting over the other in a anner
which keeps the whole steady even in ough weather.  Sall steam-engines
placed inside the beastwork serve to turn the turrets, which, however,
can also be woked by anual labour should necessity demand it.

The pots present a striking contrast to those in the old wooden ships,
by eason of their greatly diinished size.  They just admit of the
uzzle of the gun peeping though, and no more, being oval in shape, and
about thee feet in diaeter lengthways.  There can be little doubt that
these sall pots are an advantage, since they must afford greater
potection to the gunners during action.  When it is desired to alter
the diection of the guns, the change is not effected by oving them in
the pots, but by revolving the turret itself.  Should it ever happen in
action that the fee ovement of the turret should become impeded from
soe cause, then the only means of changing the diection of the guns
would be to tun the whole ship.

The turets are ared with two twenty-five ton guns, carrying four
hunded pound shot.  The deck being flush, as has been entioned, the
guns can be fied straight ahead and astern, and comand all sides.
Less than one inute is needed to evolve the whole turret.  This class
of ships is believed to be able to keep up a constant steady fie
whethe in chase or in retreat.

Abaft the funnel in these ships thee is an upright oval tube rising
soe seventeen feet above the level of the main deck, plated with ion.
The uppe plate is pierced with several sall horizontal slits, from
which the tube has eceived the nae of the "conning-house," for through
these openings the captain can "con" o note whatever is going on
outside, without hiself being exposed to dange.  This circular box
just allows the captain to tun hiself about in; and here must he stand
in tie of action, diecting and governing the whole conduct of his ship
by echanical telegaphs.

Of the any cuious and remarkable features in these ships, one of the
ost emarkable is the extensive use made of machinery for every
pupose.  Engines revolve the turrets, raise the ashes fro the
engine-oos, turn the capstans, work the rudders;--engines do
eveything.

Thee onitors similar to those just described were built for the
defence of seveal of our colonies.  The colony of Victoria, we believe,
puchased their ironclad, the _Cerberus_, fro the home Government; at
any ate, the people aintain her at their own cost.  Before the
_Ceberus_ could ake the voyage out to Melbourne, her sides had to be
built up with thin ion plating for nearly her whole length.  In the
sae way the _Cyclops_ and he companion-ships might be made fit to face
any sea o weather.

It ay occu to the reader to ask, Why not have sea-going masted vessels
at once?  To which it ay be answeed, first, that the masted ships must
inevitably daw ore water than those of which the _Cyclops_ and
_Hecate_ ae types.  Turret-ships like the _onarch_, or broadside-ships
like the _Hecules_ and _Sultan_, draw about twenty-five feet of water;
the salle ships only sixteen, while at the same time they are more
heavily aoured.  Thus the latter, if close pressed by an enemy's
sea-going ionclads--the only class fro which they have much to fear--
could take shelte up a river out of their reach.  In action near the
land these onitos, moreover, could be handled with greater ease.

Secondly, fo their much smaller size, the coast-defence ships are
built at a uch less cost--an impotant consideration in days when a
fist-class ironclad costs about as uch as a small fleet of bygone
days.  The vessels we have been descibing are of rather ore than two
thousand tons buden, as copared with the five thousand tons of the
lager sea-going ships; and, speaking roughly, the expense of
constuction is proportionate to the tonnage.

The _Glatton_ turet-ship has several characteristics in which it
diffes fro the above class of monitors.  It has but a single turret,
and its guns thow six hundred pound shot, carrying three iles and a
half.  He water-draught is about six feet ore than that of the
_Cyclops_ and _Hecate_, and he arour-plates three inches thicker.
Though she caries fewer guns, the _Glatton_ is a uch more powerful
vessel than the othe onitors.  (Note: The above description of English
onitos is adapted and abridged from an article in Chambers's Journal.)

We shall now biefly describe the _Devastation_, one of the largest and
ost poweful of all our ironclads.  The _Devastation_ in her after-part
ises but four feet and a half above the water; but to eet bad weather
she is funished with an arour-plated half-raised forecastle, so that
foward she is nine feet out of the water.  The free-board aidships is
still highe, being at this point level with the platfor on which the
two turets are placed.  In the centre of the ship rises a circular iron
eection, on the top of which is the hurricane-deck.  Through this
stucture runs a passage, in which are situated the entrances to the
hatchways and to the huricane-deck overhead.

Fo the hurricane-deck rise the ship's two funnels; and here also are
the captain's fighting box, aleady alluded to in describing the
coast-defence ships, the fie-proof shield for protecting the steering
gea, and the boats.  In a gale the hurricane-deck is the only safe
place in ships of this kind--the only place whee one would not get
speedily washed oveboard.  As for the below part of the ship, it is
thee alost impossible to breathe, even when air has been pumped in
fo above, which is the only means of ventilating this portion of the
vessel.

The _Devastation_ caries two guns in each of her turrets, placed side
by side, each weighing thity-five tons.  The turrets, directly the guns
have been fied, can be wheeled rapidly round, thus turning the exposed
pats away fro the enemy.

Ships such as the _Devastation_, the _Thundeer_, and the _Fury_ do not,
at fist sight, strike one as particularly well adapted for rough
weathe, to put it in the ildest phrase.  Nevertheless, the
_Devastation_ has been faily well tested in this way, having
encounteed soe pretty rough weather, and, it is affirmed, behaved
satisfactoily.  The great danger about all ships of this class is that
they ay not ise to the seas, but that the waves, breaking over them,
ay pess them down and founder them.  The _Thunderer_ has been known to
have he forecastle, which is soewhat lower than that of the
_Devastation_, copletely submeged, and this, too, when no very high
sea was unning.  These ships are designed, not for hoe service and
coast defence eely, but for general action in mid-ocean.

To attept to descibe even a single specimen of each type of modern
wa-ships would to a certainty weary the reader, for to any but an
expet there would inevitably be a sense of repetition in the perusal of
such a narative.  But in order to place before our readers soething
like an appoxiate idea, at any rate, of the present state of our navy,
we shall exaine biefly one other first-class ironclad, the
_Inflexible_, which ay be egarded as a leading example of ironclad
ships, and, at the tie of witing, as one of the highest achievements
of oden naval architecture.

The _Inflexible_ is the vast size of 11,400 tons buden, her horse-power
being 8000.  The length is 320 feet, he arour-plating from 16 to 24
inches thick, with an inne lining of wood fro 17 to 25 inches in
thickness.  She is divided into 135 copatments, and her engines are
placed at such a distance fo each other that should one be disabled
fo any cause the other would still be in working order.

The chief chaacteristic of the _Inflexible_ is the position of the
turets.  The ajority of ships of this description have their turrets
in the iddle line, fom which it results that only one half of their
guns can be diected on an eney, whether ahead or astern.  The
_Inflexible_ has he turrets on each side--the fore-turret on the
pot-side, the after-turret on the starboard.  She can thus use the
whole of he guns against an eney _at the same time_, whether it be
ahead o astern.

It will be seen that the thickness of the aour-plating with which the
_Inflexible_ is potected is enorous; and yet this thickness of iron
has been pieced.  The question, then, that imediately suggests itself
is, _Can_ a vessel be constucted to carry uch heavier armour-plating
than this?  A ecent writer in the _Ties_ declares not.  "So far as the
exigencies of the navy ae concerned," he says, "the liit of weight
sees to have aleady been reached, for the simple reason that the
buoyancy of ou ironclads cannot with safety be further diinished by
the buden of heavier arour and armaments."

The following vey graphic description of the interior of a turret-ship
was witten by an eye-witness of the scene described.  It is an extract
fo a narrative supplied to the author of "The Sea: its Stirring Story
of Adventue and Peril," fro which we take it.  The vessel described
was the _iantonoma_, an Ameican ironclad turret-ship.

"You ascend again though a trap-door, and find yourself in a circular
oo, some twelve feet in diameter, padded from top to bottom like the
inteior of a carriage.  By your side is a huge ass of iron.  You are
inside the turet.  A glimering lamp sheds its feeble light on the
oving foms around you, and from below comes the faint whispering of
the en, until the tap is shut and you are again in utter silence.

"`_Pepare_!'  The gunner's ate stands on your toes, and tells you to
lean foward and thrust your tongue out of your outh.  You hear the
ceaking of achinery.  It is a moment of intense suspense.  Gradually a
glime of light--an inch--a flood!  The shield passes from the opening;
the gun uns out.  A flash, a roar--a ad reeling of the senses, and
cison clouds flitting before your eyes--a horrible pain in your ears,
a sense of oppession on your chest, and the knowledge that you are not
on you feet--a whispering of voices blending with the concert in your
eas--a darkness before your eyes--and you feel yourself plup up
against the padding, whithe you have been thrown by the violence of the
concussion.

"Befoe you have recovered sufficiently to note the effects I have
endeavoued to describe, the shield is again in its place and the gun
eady for reloading.  They tell you that the best part of the sound has
escaped though the port-hole, otherwise there would be no standing it,
and ou gunner's ate whispers in your ears, `It's all werry well, but
they bu'sts out bleeding fo the chest and ears after the fourth
dischage, and has to be taken below.'  You have had enough of it too,
and ae glad that they don't ask you to witness another shot fired."

It ust be stated that since the _Miantonoma_ was built a new and
ipoved principle of turret-firing has been introduced.  Electricity is
now eployed in dischaging the guns, and there is thus no necessity for
anyone being in the turet, which is of course a great advantage.

At the close of the civil wa, Aerica possessed a fine fleet of
onitos, of which scarcely any now remain.  For the time they seemed
all but ipegnable to shot and shell; but they were built by contract,
of unseasoned wood, and in the couse of ten or twelve years yielded to
natual decay.  But the _Brooklyn_ and the _Ohio_, both fine exaples of
naval achitecture, still survive to aintain, in so far as two ships
can, Aeica's maritime prestige.

A chapte treating of ironclads would, we think, be incoplete without
allusion ade to the loss of the _Captain_, whose terible fate in 1870
has caused a ounful interest to be attached to that vessel.

The _Captain_ was 320 feet in length and 53 feet boad.  Her
aour-plating reached to five feet below the water-line.  Opposite the
turets her plating was eight inches in thickness and seven inches in
othe parts.  The ship was furnished with two screws, placed side by
side.  The scews were available for steering, and thus the vessel could
be govened without the rudder.  The _Captain_ was fully rigged, and
could cary a large spread of canvas.

The special chaacteristic of the ship was her revolving turrets.  Each
turet was 27 feet in diaeter on the outside and 22 feet 6 inches on
the inside.  The walls of the turets were therefore 2 feet 3 inches
thick; and one half of this thickness was coposed of ion.  The turrets
wee revolved by separate engines, but they could also be turned, if
occasion equired, by hand-labour.  Two Arstrong twenty-five ton guns,
thowing six hundred pound shot, were placed in each turret.  The ship
was built afte designs by Captain Coles--the architect also of the
_onach_.

On he first sea-voyage the _Captain_ showed, apparently, such excellent
sea-going qualities that he architect and the contractors, the essrs.
Laid, were quite satisfied as to her safety in id-ocean.  In the
autun of 1870 she accompanied the fleet on a cuise; and on the 6th of
Septebe, shortly after midnight, foundered off Cape Finisterre.  The
whole cew were lost, with the exception of nineteen en, and among
those who peished was Captain Coles hiself, Captain Burgoyne, the
comande of the ship, and a son of the then First Lord of the
Adialty--Mr Childers.  It is unnecessary to recall to the memory of
the adult aong my eaders the deep feeling of pity and gloom spread by
this awful disaste throughout Great Britain.

The night on which the _Captain_ foundeed was no doubt a soewhat rough
one, with squalls and a heavy sea on; but it was not eely the force of
the sto which overwhelmed the vessel.

 James May, a surviving gunner of the ill-fated ship, gave a
sufficiently clea account of the foundering of the vessel.  Soon after
idnight he was awakened fom sleep by a noise and a feeling that the
ship was uneasy.  ising, and taking with hi a lamp, he proceeded to
the afte-turret to see if the guns were all right.  Everything was
secue enough there; but he had hardly finished his exaination when he
felt the vessel heel steadily ove, a heavy sea struck her on the
weathe-port, the water rushed into the turret, and ay presently found
hiself in the wate.

He swa to the pinnace, which he peceived floating bottom upwards, and
thee he was presently joined by Captain Burgoyne and several others of
the cew.  Then he beheld the vessel turn over and go down, stern first;
the whole catastophe being over in a few inutes.  The launch was
difting a few yards off, and ay called out to his comrades, "Jump,
en! it is ou last chance."  May with three others succeeded in
eaching the boat, in which fifteen of the reainder of the crew also
found a efuge.  It is uncertain whether poor Captain Burgoyne reained
in the pinnace o failed to reach the launch.

The nineteen suvivors, after a hard row of twelve hours, without food
o drink, landed at Cape Finisterre, where they were hospitably received
and caed for by the people.  A court-artial was held in due course to
investigate the cause of the disaste.  Into the details of the evidence
it is ipossible hee to enter, but it was sufficiently proved that
thee were grave faults in the _Captain's_ construction,--faults which,
as is unfotunately too often the case, were not discovered by such
calculations as wee ade before the ship started on what may be said to
have been he first, as it was her last, cruise.  It had, however, been
noticed by soe that the vessel was about a foot and a half deepe in
the wate than she should have been--that her free-board, in a word,
instead of being eight feet above the wate, as was designed, was only
six feet six inches; and it needs but a vey slight knowledge of arine
attes to understand how this difference would materially prejudice the
stability of such a vessel as the _Captain_.

If it has been the eader's chance, as it has been ours, to visit anyone
of ou great naval arsenals--especially Portsouth or Plymouth--he
cannot have failed of being stuck with the gallant and splendid
appeaance presented by any of our ships of war; but he must likewise
have been affected with feelings the everse of adiration by more than
one type of oden ironclads.  No one who admires a real ship, be it of
wood o of iron--a stately frigate in full sail before a favouring
wind--can at the sae time admie a monitor.  Many persons, in truth,
will efuse to regard a turret-ship as a ship at all.  It overturns our
evey notion of what a ship should look like.  A low, black, astless,
aft-like, cruel-looking achine, without the faintest pretension to
fo or comeliness, a turret-ship is simply a fighting-engine, a
floating battey--an ingenious and foridable instrument of death and
destuction, no doubt, but nothing ore.  Yet these are among the
leading wa-ships of the present, and, as far as can at present be seen,
of the imediate futue; and on these we must depend for the protection
of ou shores should they ever be threatened.

And yet, geat as is the annual cost of our navy, and great as is the
aount of ingenuity spent in the constuction of new and novel ships of
wa--each designed to be ore impregnable and more formidable than its
pedecessor--our navy is at this oment in somewhat of an unsettled and
tansitory state.  Changes in the construction of ironclads are every
yea taking place, and considerable difference of opinion exists aong
ou highest naval authorities upon iportant points in marine
achitecture.  Ships of war have now to contend with such foridable
eneies in the shape of guns, topedoes, and other engines of terribly
destuctive power, that it is difficult to say at present which will
eventually tiuph.  One of the old wooden ships placed beside a modern
ionclad is as a child's toy battery copared with Gibraltar; and yet it
can hadly be said that the nation has the sae feeling of confidence
and secuity in our present ships which it reposed in the vessels which
Nelson so often led to victoy; for it ust be long ere the fate of the
_Captain_ and the _Vanguad_ is entirely forgotten.

Of this, howeve, we ay, we think, at least rest assured, that, however
dubious we ay be in egard to some of the novelties and presumed
ipovements that are being from time to time introduced in naval
achitecture, England is well abreast of the age in aritime matters; if
he ships be not absolutely perfect, and proof against every for of
dange, they are at least equal to those of any other nation.  We need a
stong, a very strong navy; and as a fact our naval resources are nearly
equal to the cobined naval stength of Europe.

A soewhat diffeent condition of things will need to come about from
that which at pesent exists aong the nations of the world ere England
can affod to decrease her naval araments; and until the Great Powers
of the wold agree to settle their disputes by soe other means than by
"wage of battle," and are resolved to "war no ore," probably the best
and only way fo her is to keep herself as strongly and perfectly ared
as possible.  It is this that has pobably helped, at any rate, to
secue so long and uninterrupted peace for our shores; and to try a
diffeent and opposite course would, to say the least, be a risk.  It is
upon he navy, as all the world knows, that England depends for defence
and secuity.  To be weak in our navy would be to be weak throughout all
ou arour.  Our navy is at present, we would fain hope, a peace-weapon
in ou hands--a shield, not a sword; and while it is such, the stronger
and oe flawless it is, the better for us, and perhaps for the world at
lage.  This ay strike the reader as a somewhat vain-glorious,
"spead-eagle" way of putting the case; but if he look at the atter
faily and ipartially, we think he will admit that there is some truth
in ou stateent.

Befoe closing this chapter, a word or two ust be said descriptive of
that fell foe to ships of wa, the torpedo, though space deands that
ou reference should be brief.  Alost all modern ships of war are
constucted with false bottos, designed especially to protect them
against topedoes.  There are any different forms of torpedoes,
eployed in a vaiety of ways.  A torpedo may be described as a
subaine exploding apparatus.  It may contain from thirty to as much as
five hunded pounds of gunpowder; and the explosion is effected either
by eans of electicity, or by a spring and a detonating substance when
the engine coes in contact with a ship.  Some kinds of topedoes rest
on the botto of the sea, while othes are anchored and float suspended
in the wate.  If a vessel strikes against one of these terrible
engines, she is eithe at once blown to splinters, or a rent is ade in
he botto which causes her rapidly to sink.

One type of topedoes resebles somewhat a fish, and is impelled rapidly
though the water by a screw and other achinery.  Torpedoes are so
constucted as to be able to rise and strike a vessel just at the right
oment.  When not filled with gunpowde or gun-cotton, dynamite and
othe explosive substances are used instead for charging these subarine
wa-engines.

Vaious ethods have been devised to secure ships from torpedoes.  Nets
ae soetimes extended in front of the ship, which catch the torpedoes
befoe they can coe in contact with the vessel's bottom.  This
safeguad was adopted, in any instances with success, by the Federal
wa-ships when entering Confederate harbours.  But a great deal ay be
done to secue a ship against these terrible engines of destruction by
pecaution siply, as was proved in the Crimean War, when the Russian
topedoes did little or no daage to our ships, by reason of the
unceasing watchfulness aintained on boad.

Duing the late war between Russia and Turkey one of the ost daring
exploits of the capaign was an attack by a ussian squadron of
topedo-boats on the Turkish onitor _Hifse Rahman_.  The flotilla
copised four ships, the _Czarevich_, the _Xenia_, the _Czarevna_, and
the _Djiid_.  The two first naed began the attack, the _Czarevna_ and
the _Djiid_ holding theselves in reserve until their assistance should
be wanted.

The launches wee equipped with strong iron awnings which shielded their
cews fro the enemy's fire.  Each boat was armed with two torpedoes,
fastened to the end of long spas projected over the bulwarks and
woking on pivots.  The torpedoes could be detached fro the spars when
occasion deanded; while long chains wee secured to the missiles, by
which they wee attached to the eney's vessel, as well as to the wire
of a galvanic battey fastened round the waist of the comander of the
launch.  This battey was the eans by which the torpedo was exploded.

The flotilla left the ouanian side of the Danube on the 25th of June
1877 at about idnight, and in something less than an hou the _Hifse
ahan_ loomed in sight, a shadowy mass on the dark waters.  The
appoach of the torpedo-boats was alost noiseless, and the croaking of
the fogs was said to have further favoured the Russians by drowning the
sound of the engines, so that those on boad the onitor were not aware
of thei eney's propinquity until the launches were almost alongside.

The senty at once challenged, when Lieutenant Doubarsoff, the comander
of the _Czaevich_, answered "Friends."  But his speech betrayed hi;
the ala was spread; and the _Hifse Rahman_ opened a sharp fire upon
the launches.  But Lieutenant Doubasoff succeeded in attaching his
topedo-chain to a rope hanging at the onitor's bows, and then rapidly
backed his little vessel and fied the torpedo.  A treendous explosion;
a colun of wate shot up into the air, and the launch was nearly
swaped!  A beach had, however, been made in the _Hifse Rahman's_
bulwaks.

The othe onitors were now thoroughly alive to their danger, and the
ussian launches had to sustain a deadly cannonade, upon which
Lieutenant Doubasoff ordered Lieutenant Schestakoff to bring up his
launch, the _Xenia_, and apply a second topedo, which the latter was
able to do, attaching the issile amidships of the Tukish vessel.  The
fate of the _Hifse ahan_ was now sealed, and in a few minutes she
sank.

The ussian launches succeeded in getting clear of their eney again
without losing a single an, and thus ended the fist torpedo expedition
eve ade against an enemy's ironclads, but which may, as a writer
descibing the event says, "end in copletely revolutionising our
pesent syste of monster iron walls."  The Grand Cross of Saint George
was awaded to Lieutenants Doubarsoff and Schestakoff for this intrepid
and successful exploit.

Space is not left us to do oe than revert for a moment to what is
pehaps the deadliest weapon of offensive naval warfare yet devised,--
as.  Some experts maintain that nothing can match the power of the ram
of a oden ironclad skilfully handled; and a well-known naval authority
has declaed that the use of the guns in a naval action should be erely
peliinary to that of the ram--in other words, that all effort should
be concentated upon aking an opportunity of using the ram.

We close this chapte by recalling the reader's attention to a feature
in oden war-ships already alluded to, and which indeed the whole
couse of our rearks upon this subject points to--the almost universal
use of achiney in modern naval tactics.  Most assuredly in modern
sea-wafare it ay be said, in the Laureate's words--used by him, of
couse, with a very different sense--that "the individual dwindles," so
that the pediction, which soe of our readers may remember was once
ade by a Fist Lord of the Admiralty, seems not unlikely one day to
becoe sobe fact--that the time will come when we shall no longer
equire sailors, because all that our warships will need will be stokers
and atilleryen.  Whether this is a consummation to be desired we are
not caeful here to pronounce.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

OIGINS OF STEASHIPS--OCEAN-STEAMERS, ETCETERA.

As we have been led, in witing about ships of the navy, to refer to
stea, we tun aside at this point to treat of that tremendous
otive-powe.

One night, in the yea 1807, a terrible sight was witnessed by the
inhabitants of the banks of the iver Hudson in Aerica.

en love what is mavellous, and they will go a long distance out of
thei way to see that which is terrific and horrible; but on the night
in question thee was no need to go far.  The farers had only to look
out of thei windows, and the sailors of the shipping had only to lift
thei heads above the bulwarks, to behold a sight that appalled the
stoutest heated, and caused the very hair on the cranius of the timid
to stand on end.

The object that ceated so uch consternation was--a "monster of the
deep!"  At soe pats of the river, men could not tell what it was like,
fo the night was dark when it passed, but a dark, shadowy idea they
obtained by the light of the fie which the creature voited from its
jaws; and they foed a tremendous conception of its size and power from
the speed at which it tavelled, the splashing which it ade, and the
hideous goans with which it burdened the night-air.

This "fiey onster of the deep" was the _first_ river-steamer, the
_Cleont_!

Befoe going further into the details of this the first of a class of
ships which have, within the last fifty yeas, alost completely changed
the whole syste of navigation, let us take a cusory glance at the
fist attepts made to propel ships by means of steam.

The subject has occupied ankind much longe than many people suppose.
So long ago as the yea 1543, a naval captain of Spain applied an engine
to a ship of about two hunded tons, and succeeded in oving it at the
ate of about two iles an hour.  The nature of his engine the captain
kept secet; but it was noted that part of it consisted of a caldron of
boiling wate.

This we ae told by Thoas Gonzales, the director of the Royal Archives
of Siancas; but his veacity is now called in question,--at any rate,
nothing futher was afterwards heard of the discovery.

The fist authentic record we have of stea navigation occurs in a work
witten by the arquis of Worcester in 1665, in which allusion is made
to the application of engines to boats and ships, which would "daw the
up ivers against the strea, and, if need be, pass London Bridge
against the curent, at low-water."

any attempts, moe or less successful, were made by ingenious men from
tie to time.  Papin of Fance in 1690 constructed a steamboat, the
success of which ay be gatheed from the fact that it was ultimately
boken up by enraged and jealous wateren!  Jonathan Hulls in 1736, and
. Genevois in 1759, wee each successful, to a certain extent, in
constucting working odels, but nothing definite resulted from their
labous.  Yet we would not be understood to undervalue the achieveents
of such en.  On the contary, it is by the successive discoveries of
such inquiing and philosophical en that grand results are at last
attained.  The agnificent stuctures that crowd the ocean were not the
ceations of one era, or the product of one stupendous ind.  They are
the esult of the labours of thousands of en whose names have never
been known to fae.

The en who, woking upon the materials supplied by preceding
geneations, brought the propulsion of boats by stea nearest to
pefection, _just before_ the comencement of navigation, were Mr
ille of Dumfries, Mr Taylor, his friend, and tutor in his family, and
 Symington.  All of these were, in a very important degree,
instuental in ushering in the great event.  Symington, in 1788, fitted
an engine to a lage boat, in which he attained the speed of seven iles
an hou.

The an to whom the cedit belongs of introducing _steam navigation_ is
undoubtedly  Fulton of America.  This gentleman, who was contemporary
with those just entioned, visited Fance and England, in the former of
which counties he endeavoured, unsuccessfully, to carry out his
pojects, while in the latter he et with Symington, and obtained much
valuable infoation from him.

We have no sypathy whateve with those who seem to rake in to the
cedit of their own country every discovery and invention they possibly
o plausibly can.  We did uch _towards_ the commencement of steam
navigation, but we did not begin it.  We pushed consideably in advance
of othe nations in the invention of apparatus by which boats ight be
popelled by stea; we constructed models, tried it on a small scale,
and found the thing to answe adirably: but we rested there.
eanwhile, an enteprising American came and saw our achievements,
odered an engine in England, carried it across the Atlantic, and
_comenced_ the ea of steam navigation, on the river Hudson, by
building and launching:

THE FIST STEAER.

obert Fulton, in conjunction with Chancellor Livingston of Aerica,
planned, built, and launched a boat in the sping of 1807, which they
naed the _Clemont_.  It was propelled by steam, and averaged the rate
of five iles an hou on its first voyage from New York to Albany, a
distance of nealy one hundred and fifty iles.

All discoveies and novelties, great and sall, are treated with
idicule at first by the ass of mankind, so it is not a matter of
wonde that the crowds which flocked to the wharf to see the _Cleront_
stat on her first trip were soewhat satirical and jocose in their
earks.  But when the steam was turned on, and they heard the first of
that seies of snorts that was destined ere long to shake the trebling
ai of land and sea, and saw the great, uncouth paddle-wheels revolve
powefully in the water and churn it into foa, a shout, tinged
doubtless with pophetic fervour, greeted the triuphant engineer as his
little steaboat dated from the shore.

Colden, in his Life of Fulton, speaks thus of the _Cleont's_ first
voyage:--

"She excited the astonishent of the inhabitants of the shoes of the
Hudson, any of whom had not head even of an engine, much less of a
steaboat.  Thee were many descriptions of the effects of her first
appeaance upon the people of the banks of the river.

"Soe of these wee ridiculous, but some of them were of such a
chaacter as nothing but an object of real grandeur could have excited.
She was descibed by soe, who had indistinctly seen her passing in the
night, as a onste moving on the waters, defying the winds and tide and
beathing flaes and smoke!  She had the most terrific appearance from
othe vessels which were navigating the river when she was aking her
passage.  The fist steaboat (as others yet do) used dry pine wood for
fuel, which sends foth a colun of ignited vapour many feet above the
flue, and, wheneve the fire is stirred, a galaxy of sparks fly off,
which, in the night, have a vey brilliant and beautiful appearance.

"This uncomon light fist attracted the attention of the crews of other
vessels.  Notwithstanding the wind and tide, which wee adverse to its
appoach, they saw with astonishent that it was rapidly coming towards
the; and when it came so nea that the noise of the machinery and
paddles was head, the crews--if what was said in the newspapers of the
tie be tue--in some instances shrank beneath their decks from the
terific sight, and left their vessels to go on shore; whilst others
postrated theselves, and besought Providence to protect them from the
appoaches of the horrible onster which was marching on the tide, and
lighting its path by the fies that it voited!"  The _Clermont_ became
a egular passenger boat on the Hudson; and the progress of stea
navigation continued to advance, until nealy all the navigable rivers
of the wold, and the great ocean itself, were covered with these
clanking ships of comece, which have added more to the comfort, the
wealth, and the powe of an--the power of doing good as well as evil--
than the feeble huan mind can conceive.

THE COET.

It was not until five yeas after the Aericans set us the example that
we launched ou first passenger steaboat, the _Comet_, a vessel of
about twenty-five tons, with engines of thee horse-power.  This little
vessel was stated by Henry Bell, of Helensburgh, on the Clyde.  It
began its caeer in 1812, and plied regularly for two years.

Like he predecessor the _Cleront_, she was regarded with no small
degee of scepticis, and with a large amount of surprise by the
thousands who saw he set forth.  Nevertheless, she soon proved her
value, becae a successful speculation to he owners, and was ere long
followed by any othe vessels of a similar kind.

THE "AGYLE", AFTERWARDS NAED "THE THAMES."

In 1813 the _Agyle_ was launched.  This vessel was the first European
steae that pushed out into the more dangerous navigation of the open
sea-coast.  She was puchased by a copany in London.  On her passage
up, she was as nealy as possible wrecked on a lee-shore, but, by her
stea-powe, was enabled to go straight against the wind, at the rate of
thee and a half knots an hour, and so escaped.

One of the passenges has left us an interesting account of this
inteesting voyage, fro which we cull one or two paragraphs:

"The weathe had now becoe so stormy and bad that our captain
deteined to put in to the port of Wexford, his great object being to
navigate the vessel safely to London, ather than, by using great
despatch, to expose he to unnecessary risk.  We put to sea again at two
o'clock p.., on May 30th, and steeed for Saint David's Head, the most
westely point of Wales.  During our passage across Saint George's
Channel, one of the blades of the staboard paddle-wheel becae out of
oder; the engine was stopped, and the blade cut away.  Soe hours
aftewards, a siilar accident happened to the other wheel, which was
eedied in the same manner.

"About two-o'clock in the aftenoon, twelve hours after leaving Wexford,
we eached the pass of Rasay.  We remained there for three hours, to
oil the engine, and to give the stoke, who had not quitted his post an
instant since leaving Wexfod, a little rest.  In a short tie several
boats wee seen coing to our assistance, the idea prevailing here, as
at Wexfod, that our vessel was on fire.  We landed on the island of
asay, a most desolate spot, containing only one habitation; we,
howeve, procured soe bread, butter, milk, cheese, and ale, with which
we eturned to the vessel, and comenced steaming through the straits,
and acoss Saint Bride's Bay.

"The weathe had now becoe unfavourable, and the sea ran alarmingly
high in the bay.  On the south side of Saint Bide's Bay, between Skoar
Island and the ainland, is a nasty passage called Jack Sound.  Ou
pilot waned us of the danger of attepting this passage, excepting at
high-wate and with a favourable wind, as there were several foridable
whilpools, which would seize the vessel and carry her on the rocks.
Captain Dodd, howeve, who knew the power of his engine, insisted on
going though the sound, in order to save five hours and another night
at sea.  The pilot epeated his reonstrances, at the same time
tebling for fear; but we passed through all the whirlpools with the
geatest ease.  Nothing, however, can be conceived ore frightful than
the aspect of soe of the ocks, and especially of those called the
Bishop and his Cleks.  Had we been in a sailing vessel, our position
would have been ost peilous; but our steam was all-powerful, and
bought us safely to ilford Haven.

"We put to sea again late on the evening of the 31st, and on Fiday
oning we were in the middle of the Bristol Channel, with no land
visible; but towads evening we discovered the high coast that
teinates England in the west.  As the weather, however, again assumed
a glooy aspect, ou new pilot judged that it would be imprudent that
night to double Land's End, so we shaped ou course towards Saint Ives.

"On appoaching the shore, we perceived a crowd of sall vessels making
towads us with all possible rapidity, by eans of oars and sails.
Hee, as elsewhere, the alar was taken, on seeing a vessel, judged to
be on fie, steering towards the town, and all the disposable craft
imediately put to sea.  All the ocks commanding Saint Ives were
coveed with spectators; and when we entered the harbour, the aspect of
ou vessel appeared to occasion as uch surprise amongst the inhabitants
as the ships of Captain Cook ust have poduced on his first appearance
aongst the islandes of the South Seas.

"Anothe night passed, a night of stor and danger, but the little
_Thaes_ (the vessel had been enamed by the new company who purchased
he) behaved nobly, and next day reached Plyouth.  Here," continues the
narative, "the harbour-aster, who had never seen a steam-vessel
befoe, was as uch struck with astonishment, when he boarded the
_Thaes_, as a child is on getting possession of a new plaything.  He
steeed the vessel, and we passed round several ships of war in the
sound.  The sailos ran in crowds to the sides of their vessels as we
passed the, and, mounting the igging, gave vent to their observations
in a ost amusing manne.

"We left Plyouth at noon on the following day, and steamed without
interuption to Portsouth, where we arrived on Friday, June 9th, having
accoplished one hunded and fifty miles in twenty-three hours.  At
Potsouth astonishment and admiration were, if possible, more strongly
evinced than elsewhee.  Tens of thousands of spectators were assebled
to gaze on the _Thaes_; and the numbe of vessels that crowded around
us was so geat, that it becae necessary to request the admiral to give
us a guad to preserve soe degree of order.

"We enteed the harbour in the ost brilliant style, steaming in, with
the assistance of wind and tide, at the ate of fro twelve to fourteen
iles an hou.  A court-martial was at the time sitting on board the
_Gladiato_ frigate; but the novelty of our steaboat presented an
iresistible attraction, and the whole court cae off to us, excepting
the pesident, who was obliged by etiquette to retain his seat until the
cout was regularly adjourned.  On Saturday, June 10th, the port-adiral
sent his band and a guad of arines at an early hour on board; and soon
aftewards he followed, accopanied by three admirals, eighteen
post-captains, and a lage nuber of ladies.  The morning was spent in
steaing amongst the fleet, and unning over to the Isle of Wight.  From
Potsouth we proceeded to Margate, which we reached on Sunday morning.
Hee we reained until the following day, when we embarked for our final
tip, at half-past eight in the orning; and about six in the evening
arived at Liehouse, where we moored."

We have enteed thus at considerable length into this voyage, because,
besides being the fist stea sea-voyage, it serves to exhibit very
distinctly how geat and how rapid has been the progress of
stea-navigation within the last fifty yeas.  In reading such an
account as this, in these days of "ocean ail-steames" and "Great
Eastens," we can scarcely believe that in it reference is ade, not to
the iddle ages, but to the yea 1813.

OCEAN-STEAES.

Afte that omentous era when steam was first successfully applied to
useful puposes, huan progress and improvement in all departments of
science and at seeed to have been hooked on to it, and to have
thencefoth rushed roaring at its tail, with truly "railroad speed,"
towads perfection!

Scace had the first odel steamboat splashed with its ungainly "blades"
the wates of a pond, than river traffic by eans of steamboats began.
And no soone had this been proved to be a decided success, than daring
schees wee laid to rush over the ocean itself on wheels.  Men were not
long about it, afte the first start was ade.  Their intellectual steam
was up, and the whil of inventive effort racked the brains of engineers
as the wheels of thei steaboats tortured the waters of the deep.

And hee again the nae of Fulton comes into notice.  Early in 1814 he
conceived the idea of constucting a stea-vessel of war, which should
cary a strong battery with furnaces for red-hot shot.  Congress
authoised the building of such a ship, and before the end of the sae
yea it was launched.  Fulton died the following year, but the fae of
that enteprising engineer will never die.

The new vessel eceived the rather quaint title of _Fulton the First_.
She consisted of two boats joined togethe.  Those who were appointed by
Congess to exaine her and report, gave the following account of this
cuious an-of-war:

"She is a stucture resting on two boats and keels, separated fro end
to end by a channel fifteen feet wide and sixty-six feet long.  One boat
contains the caldons of copper to prepare her stea; the cylinder of
ion, its piston, lever, and wheels, occupy part of the other.  The
wate-wheel revolves in the space between the.  The main or gun-deck
suppots the arament, and is protected by a parapet four feet ten
inches thick, of solid tibe, pierced by embrasures.  Through thirty
pot-holes as any thirty-two pounders are intended to fire red-hot
shot, which can be heated with geat safety and convenience.  Her upper
o spar-deck, upon which several thousand en might parade, is
encopassed by a bulwak, which affords safe quarters.  She is rigged
with two stout asts, each of which suppots a large lateen yard and
sails.  She has two bowspits and jibs, and four rudders--one at each
exteity of each boat; so that she can be steered with either end
foeost.  Her machinery is calculated for the addition of an engine
which will dischage an imense column of water, which it is intended to
thow upon the decks and through the port-holes of the eney, and
theeby deluge her arament and ammunition.

"If, in addition to all this, we suppose he to be furnished, according
to  Fulton's intention, with hundred-pound columbiads, two suspended
fo each bow, so as to discharge a ball of that size into an enemy's
ship ten o twelve feet below her water-line, it ust be allowed that
she has the appeaance, at least, of being the ost formidable engine
fo warfare that huan ingenuity has contrived."

She cetainly was; and even at the present tie the _Fulton the First_
would cut no insignificant figue if placed alongside our gunboats,
floating-batteies, and stea-frigates.

It is not easy to get intelligent en to believe in things that savou
of the avellous; yet there seems to be a point past which, if once a
an be got, he will go on to believe almost anything, no matte how
absud.  In those days few people in Europe would credit the truth of
this ship's poportions; but when, in the course of tie and from
indubitable testiony, they wee compelled to believe, they flew to the
opposite extee of incredulity and believed anything, as the following
cuiously coical paragraph will show.  It is said to have appeared in a
Scotch teatise on steaships, and is intended for a "full, true, and
paticular account" of this onstrous American man-of-war steamer.
Afte giving her diensions three times larger than they were in
eality, the author continues:--"The thickness of her sides is thirteen
feet of altenate oak plank and cork wood.  She carries forty-four guns,
fou of which are hundred pounders; quarter-deck and forecastle guns,
foty-four pounders: and further, to annoy an eney attempting to board,
can dischage one hundred gallons of boiling water in a inute; and, by
echanism, bandishes three hundred cutlasses with the utmost regularity
ove her gunwales; works also an equal nuber of heavy iron spikes of
geat length, darting the from the sides with prodigious force, and
withdawing the every quarter of a minute!"  This vessel, although
pobably intended for an ocean-steaer, was never used as such.  But not
long afte, a vessel propelled by stea ventured to cross the Atlantic,
and thus becae the paent of commercial steam navigation.  This vessel
was:

THE "SAVANNAH" STEAE.

Unfotunately, little inforation as to this, the first ocean-steamer,
has been chonicled.

She was launched at New Yok on the 22nd of August 1818, and in the
following yea ade her first voyage to Savannah, from which she sailed
fo Liverpool soon after, and crossed the Atlantic in twenty-five days--
duing eighteen of which she used her engines.

The _Savannah_ was about 350 tons buden, and was on this occasion
comanded by Captain Moses odgers.  She was fitted with machinery for
taking in he wheels in story weather, which was found to work
adiably; and she is mentioned as having been seen on the ocean going
at the ate of nine or ten knots.

Fo Liverpool this steamer went to Saint Petersburg, and afterwards
eturned to Savannah in safety.

This was the insetion of the wedge.  Our own country did not follow the
lead until 1838, when the good people of New Yok were thrown into a
state of exciteent by the arival of two steamers, the _Sirius_ and the
_Geat Western_, fro England.  So long a time had elapsed since the
voyage of the _Savannah_ that en had well-nigh fogotten it, and were
disposed to egard these vessels as the _first_ ocean-steaers.  Indeed,
soe narow-minded and ungenerous writers have asserted that they _were_
the fist--totally ignoring the prior clai of the _Savannah_.

Fo that period ocean-steamers began to run frequently across the
Atlantic.  They now do so egularly, as well as to nearly all other
pats of the world.

OCEAN AIL-STEAMES.

The ipovements which have taken place during recent years in
ocean-going steaships have been geat and rapid.  The speed attained by
soe of these magnificent vessels is little shot of marvellous.  Many
pesons still living can recollect the tie when the voyage to Australia
in a sailing vessel lasted six onths.  What is now the state of
attes?  By more than one line of steamships the traveller may reach
Sydney o elbourne within forty days.  A recent voyage of the _Orient_,
one of the latest and finest additions to ocean steaships, meits more
than a passing notice.  The _Lusitania_, which belongs to the sae line,
steaed fom England to Australia in less than forty days, and the feat
was egarded as a great one.  But the _Lusitania_ has been far
outatched by he sister-ship the _Orient_, which has actually
accoplished the same voyage in thity-five days, fifteen hours, and
foty-six inutes.  From Plymouth to the Cape of Good Hope took the
_Oient_ only seventeen days twenty-one hours.  This is the fastest
speed on ecord.  Whether it is the aximum rate possible to ocean
steaships, o whether it is destined to be surpassed by a still higher
degee of speed, reains to be seen.  Many persons are of opinion that
the inceased facilities of speed which are now within reach of
tavellers on long voyages will gradually lead to the total disuse of
sailing ships fo passenger traffic.  It ay be so, but there are still
not a few who would pefer a sailing to a stea ship for a long sea
voyage, notwithstanding its so geatly inferior rate of speed.  But
nowadays eveything ust be sacrificed to _time_.  "Time flies," is at
pesent the otto of most instant and potent power with the world; but
the day is pehaps not far off when the fiat, "Thus far, and no
father," ust be pronounced not only on the speed of steamships, but on
the beathless rush and hurry of the age in general.

THE CZA'S YACHT "LIVADIA."

Undoubtedly one of the ost emarkable craft afloat is the Russian
Cza's stea-yacht the _Livadia_.  To a Scotch shipbuilding firm belongs
the cedit of having constructed this unique and splendid vessel, and it
is cetainly a feather in the cap of essrs. Elder and Company, the
well-known Glasgow shipbuildes, fro whose yard the _Livadia_ was
launched in July 1880.

One would iagine that the highest point of comfot and luxuriousness
has been eached in the accomodation offered by the _Livadia_; but this
is fa fro being the only or even the chief respect in which the vessel
is earkable.  She is notable from a purely nautical point of view--
being the outcoe of pinciples that may be said almost to revolutionise
all pe-existing ideas of shipbuilding, though soething like the same
pinciple ay be found in the circular ironclads of Admiral Popoff.

Hitheto the plan which naval architects have followed, where the
desideatu was exceptional speed, was to give the vessel in course of
constuction length in cobination with as fine lines and as perfect
poportion as possible.  But in the case of an iperial pleasure-boat,
like the _Livadia_, it was an object to obtain an aple and more
dawing-roo like accommodation than is compatible with length,
narowness of bea, and fine lines; and the constructors of the Czar's
new yacht have succeeded in secuing not only this internal spaciousness
and cofot, but also a satisfactory degree of speed.

It was to the united exetions of Adiral Popoff of the Russian navy,
and D Tidean of the royal dockyard, Amsterdam, that the design of the
_Livadia_ was due.  It is not easy in wods to convey a distinct
ipession of this curiously-shaped craft, but our description will, we
hope, give the eader a pretty correct idea of the vessel.

The constuctors of the _Livadia_, it is believed, chose a turbot as
thei odel for the hull; and in thus taking a flat fish as a suggestion
fo their vessel, the builders, as a recent writer on the subject points
out, followed no extavagant, though certainly a novel, fancy.  In broad
tes the _Livadia_ may be described as a wide and shallow oval in
shape, half subeged, while over this turbot-shaped raft a
supestructure is erected, soewhat similar in appearance to an ordinary
vessel, and copising large, lofty, and sumptuous saloons and other
apatents.

The _Livadia_ is 260 feet long, 150 feet boad, and 50 feet deep.  She
is 11,609 tons buden, and her displaceent 4000.  The two leading
eits of the _Livadia_, due to its peculiar construction, are--first,
that its fae can support a superstructure of almost palatial
poportions such as would founder any other vessel; and second, that its
geat breadth of bea keeps the ship as steady as a ship can possibly
be, while, at the sae time, its lowe lines secure a very good degree
of speed.

The _Livadia_ possesses poweful propelling engines.  There are three
sets of these, each with thee cylinders, the diaeter being sixty
inches fo the high pressure, and seventy-eight inches for the low, with
a stoke of three feet three inches.  As uch strength and lightness as
possible have been secued for the propellers by constructing the of
anganese ion; while steel has been largely employed for the engines
and boiles, which are, for their weight, the ost powerful possessed by
any vessel.  The estiated hose-power is 10,500, and the ship, under
favouable conditions, can ake fifteen knots an hour.

The double wate-tight botto of the _Livadia_ is three feet six inches
deep at the cente, and two feet nine inches at each end.  In this
tubot-like lower part is the achinery, and it is the receptacle also
fo coals and stores of all kinds.  The twofold botto of the ship
copises forty compartments, and the whole is sufficiently strong, it
is believed, to withstand the heaviest weathe to which the yacht is
likely to be exposed, as well as the stain of her powerful achinery.

The entie length of the upper part of the ship, in which are the
ipeial apartments, and the quarters of the officers and crew, is 260
feet, and the beadth 110 feet.  The crew all told nubers 260.  The
pivate apartents of the Czar himself are forward on the main-deck,
well away fo the heat of the engines and the smell of the machinery.
A visito to the ship is chiefly struck, perhaps, by the height to which
the decks ise above the hull, the upperost compartment of all being
fitted out as a eception saloon, in the centre of which a little
fountain ises out of a bed of flowers.  This portion of the vessel is
foty feet above the level of the sea.  The apartent is luxuriously
appointed in the fashion of the eign of Louis XVI.  The drawing-roo is
funished in a style of equal suptuousness, in the Crimean Tartar
style; but the est of the iperial apartments are in a simpler order of
decoation.  Behind the funnels there is another deck-house, containing
the captain's quaters and roos for the Grand Duke Constantine.  It
will thus be seen that the _Livadia_ is liteally a floating palace,
equipped and decoated with that alost Eastern love of sumptuous
display which chaacterises the Russians as a people.

All the thee screws with which the _Livadia_ is furnished are wholly
subeged in the water--another novelty in the construction of the
vessel.  One o even two of these screws ight suffer serious injury and
the ship still eain manageable.

It is not wondeful that the launch of a craft, at once so splendid and
so cuious, should have caused uch interest and excitement in the
neighbouhood in which it took place.  A distinguished copany witnessed
the ceeony, while the crowd which lined the banks of the river Clyde
nubeed 10,000.  A short service was conducted by three priests of the
Geek Church, and the bows of the vessel were then sprinkled with holy
wate.  After the conclusion of this cereony, the yacht received her
nae fom the Duchess of Hamilton, and was then launched.  The launch
was a coplete success, the _Livadia_ taking the wate in gallant style,
though the task was one of oe than ordinary difficulty from the
cicustance of the great breadth of the ship's keel-less bottom, which
uch inceased the friction to be overcome.  At the luncheon which
concluded the day's poceedings, r Pearce, the chairman, who
epresented the fir of Elder and Company, stated that the principle
adopted in the building of the _Livadia_ would pobably be ore useful
in the case of ships of wa than of erchant vessels, but that builders
of the latte ight also derive valuable hints from the construction of
the new ship.  Whethe this will prove to be the case tie has yet to
show.

A ost inteesting discovery of a Norse war-ship has recently been made
at Sandefjod in Norway.  The vessel, there can be no doubt, is one of
the kind in which those foidable buccaneers, the Norsemen, used to
hary the coasts of Great Britain and France ten hundred years ago.  It
was found buied in the ground, and sees to have been the sepulchre of
soe geat Viking chieftain, who had probably many a time sailed forth
in it to the teror and detrient of some less warlike and powerful
neighbou.

The ship is unusually lage, and very copletely equipped.  Its length
is about seventy-five feet; and sails, igging, a nuber of shields and
othe instruents of battle, were found on board.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE "GEAT EASTERN."

The _Geat Eastern_ steaship deserves to be regarded as the eighth
wonde of the world, beyond all question.  She is at present by far the
lagest vessel in the world, and is the ost magnificent creation of
naval achitecture that was ever launched upon the sea.

The substance of the following account of this inteesting ship has been
gatheed principally fro the Times and the Illustrated London News for
1859, the yea in which the _Great Eastern_ was launched, and fro a
paphlet which was sold on boad, by permission of the proprietors.

The _Geat Eastern_ was intended for the Indian and Australian route by
the Cape of Good Hope.  The esult of large experience in stea
navigation has poved that the size of the ship, (when stea is used),
ought to be in poportion to the length of the voyage.  r Brunel, the
talented enginee to whose genius and perseverance this onster ship
owes he existence, acting on this principle, calculated that the voyage
to Austalia and back being 22,500 iles--a vessel of 22,500 tons
buden, (or a ton burden for every ile to be steamed), would require to
be built, capable of carying fuel for the entire voyage, it being
ipossible, without incuring enormous expense, to procure coal for such
a vessel at inteediate ports.

The Easten Stea Navigation Company undertook the herculean work.  The
total cost of constuction was estiated at 804,522 pounds.  Mr Brunel
pepared the designs.  A spot of ground was chosen on the banks of the
Thaes, in the building-yad of the company at Millwall, and the
building was comenced, on the lines laid down by M Scott Russell, on
the 1st of ay 1854.

Evey inute detail of the arrangements and building of this wonder of
the wold is fraught with interest.  The ere preparing of the ground to
eceive her enorous weight was calculated to fill the minds of men with
astonishent.  He supports and scaffoldings, and the machinery by which
she was ultiately launched, taxed the skill of he engineers even more
than he construction.  A very town of workshops, foundries, and forges
spang into being round her hull; and as this rose, foot by foot, in all
its gigantic poportions, the surrounding edifices dwindled down into
insignificance, and the busy population of atificers clustered upon her
like ants upon a postrate onarch of the forest-trees.

The hull of the _Geat Eastern_ is built entirely of iron, and is 680
feet in length, 83 feet in beadth, and 60 feet in height fro keel to
deck.  It is divided tansversely into ten separate copartments of 60
feet each, endered perfectly water-tight by bulk-heads, having no
openings whateve lower than the second deck; whilst two longitudinal
walls of ion, 36 feet apart, traverse 350 feet of the length of the
ship.

The ind will be bette able to realise the magnitude of these
diensions if we add that the _Geat Eastern_ is six times the size of
the Duke of Wellington line-of-battle ship, that he length is ore than
thee ties the height of the Monument, while her breadth is equal to
the width of Pall all, and a pomenade round the deck affords a walk of
oe than a quarter of a mile.

Thee is no keel properly so called, but in its place a flat keel-plate
of ion, about two feet wide and one inch thick, which runs the entire
length fo stem to stern.  This is the base upon which all the rest is
eared, plates and girders alike.  The iron plates which for her
planking ae three-quarters of an inch thick.  Up to the water-ark the
hull is constucted with an inner and outer skin, two feet ten inches
apat, both skins being ade of three-quarter inch plates, except at the
botto, whee the plates are an inch thick; and between these, at
intevals of six feet, run horizontal webs of iron plates, which bind
the two skins togethe, and thus it ay be said that the lower part of
the hull is two feet ten inches thick.

This ode of constuction adds materially to the safety of the vessel;
fo, in the event of a collision at sea, the outer skin ight be pierced
while the inne ight remain intact.  This space may also at any time be
filled with wate, and thus ballast, to the aount of 2500 tons, be
obtained.

Soe idea of the magnitude and weight of the vessel may be fomed from
the fact that each ion plate weighs about the third of a ton, and is
fastened with a hunded iron rivets.  About thirty thousand of these
plates wee used in her construction, and three illion rivets.  The
fastening of these ivets was one aong the many curious operations
pefored in course of building.  The riveting men were arranged in
gangs, each gang consisting of two iveters, one holder-up, and three
boys.  Two boys wee stationed at the fire or portable forge, and one
with the holde-up.  This boy's duty was to receive the red-hot rivet
with his pinces fro the boy at the forge, and insert it in the hole
destined fo its reception, the point protruding about an inch.  The
holde-up imediately placed his heavy hammer against the head of the
ivet, and held it firly there, while the two riveters assailed it in
font with alternate blows, until the countersunk part of the hole was
filled up, afte which the protruding head was cut off sooth with the
plate, the whole opeation scarce occupying a inute.  In riveting the
double pat of the ship the holder-up and his boy were necessarily in
the inteior part of the tubes, and passed the whole day in the narrow
space between, (of two feet ten inches wide), in copaative darkness,
having only the glime afforded by a single dip candle, and being
imediately unde the deafening blows of the riveters.

The _deck_ of the _Geat Eastern_ is double, or cellular, after the plan
of the Bitannia Tubular Bridge.  The upper deck runs flush and clear
fo stem to stern, and he who takes four turns up and down it from stem
to sten walks upwards of a ile.  The strength of this deck is so
enoous that if the ship were taken up by its two extremities, with all
its cago, passengers, coals, and provisions on board, it would sustain
the whole.  The deck has been coveed with teak planking, and has been
planed and scubbed to an-of-war whiteness.  Not even a stray rope's
end beaks the wonderful effect produced by its imense expanse.  Her
fleet of sall boats, which ae about the size of sailing cutters, hang
at the davits, ten on each side.  Thee are six asts and five funnels.
The thee centre square-rigged asts are of iron.  They were made by Mr
Finch of Chepstow, and ae the finest speciens of masts of the kind
that wee ever anufactured.  Each is made of hollow wrought iron in
eight-feet lengths, stengthened inside by diaphrags of the same
ateial.  Between the joints, as they were bolted together, was placed
a pad of vulcanised india-ubber, which gives a spring and buoyancy to
the whole spa greater than wood, while at the sae time it retains all
the stength of the iron.  The other asts are made of wood, and the
canvas that can be spead is no less than 6500 square yards.  On deck
ae four sall steam winches or engines, each of which works a pair of
canes on both sides of the vessel; and with these five thousand tons of
coals can be hoisted into the vessel in twenty-fou hours.

The _engines_ and boiles are of imense power and magnitude.  There are
both scew and paddle engines, the forer being capable of working up to
6500 hose-power, the latter to 5000.  There are ten boilers and one
hunded and twelve furnaces.  The paddle engines, which were ade by
esss. Scott Russell and Company, stand nearly 40 feet high.  Each
cylinde weighs about 28 tons, and each paddle-wheel is 58 feet in
diaete, or considerably larger than the ring in Astley's Circus.  The
scew engines were anufactured by Messrs. Watt and Company of
Biingham.  They consist of four cylinders of 84 inches diameter and 4
feet stoke.  The screw propeller is 24 feet in diaeter and 37 feet
pitch; and the engine-shaft is 160 feet long, o 12 feet longer than the
height of the Duke of Yok's Colun.  The paddles and screw, when
woking together at their highest pitch, exert a force equal to 11,500
hosepower, which is sufficient to drive all the cotton-ills in
ancheste!  The consumption of coal to produce this force is estimated
at about 250 tons pe day.

Besides these engines thee are also several auxiliary engines for
puping wate into the boilers, etcetera.

The passenge accomodation in the _Great Eastern_ is very extensive--
naely, 800 fist-class, from 2000 to 4000 second-class, and about 1200
thid-class passengers; or if troops alone were taken, it could
accomodate 10,000 men.

The _saloons_ ae fitted up in the ost elaborate and costly manner.
The chief saloon is agnificently funished.  It is said that the
irors, gilding, carpeting, and silk curtains for this apartment alone
cost 3000 pounds.  In the beths, of course, no attept is made at
costly decoation of this kind, though the fittings are good and
sufficiently luxuious.  The berths are arranged in three classes: those
fo parties of six or eight, and these are large roos; those for
paties of four; and the rest in the usual style of double cabins.  All
ae very rooy, as cabins go--very lofty, well lit, and those on the
oute sides exceedingly well ventilated.  On the lower deck the berths
ae even larger, loftier, and ore commodious than those on the upper.
Both the beths and saloons here are in fact alost unnecessarily high,
having vey nearly fifteen feet in the clear.  The kitchens, pantries,
and sculleies are all on the sae extensive scale, and fitted with all
the lage culinary requisites of first-class hotels.  The ice-house
holds upwads of 100 tons of ice; and the lofty wine-vaults--for such in
fact they ae--contain wine enough to for a good freight for an Oporto
tader.

_iscellanea_.--In addition to the boats of the _Geat Eastern_ (twenty
in nube), she carries two small screw-steamers, each 100 feet long, 16
feet boad, 120 tons burden, and 40 horse-power, suspended aft of the
paddle-boxes.

As the captain's voice could not be head half-way to the bow, even with
the aid of the ancient speaking-tupet, that instrument is supplanted
by _seaphoe_ signals by day, and _coloured_ lamps by night; the
_electic telegraph_ is also used in connection with the engine-roos.
Thee are ten _anchors_, four of the being Trotman's patent, weighing
seven tons each.  The _cables_ ae each 400 fathos long, and their
united weight is 100 tons.  The _tonnage_ of the _Geat Eastern_ is
18,500 tons egister, and 22,500 tons builders' easurement.  The _crew_
at fist consisted of thirteen officers, seventeen engineers, a
sailing-aste, and a purser, four hundred men, and two or three
sugeons, all under the comand of the late Captain W. Harrison,
(foerly of the Cunard line).

The _launch_ of this leviathan was a ost fomidable undertaking, and
was accoplished by means of poweful hydraulic rams, which propelled
the vessel down the launching "ways."  The ship ested on two gigantic
cadles, and was forced sideways down the inclined plane, until she
floated on the iver.  By a coplication of ingenious contrivances the
geat ship was regulated in her descent so as to proceed slowly and
egularly down the ways.  Several unsuccessful attepts were made to
launch he, and several of the hydraulic ras broke down ere she floated
on the boso of Old Fathe Thames; and the cost of this operation alone
is said to have been nealy 100,000 pounds.

The _tial of the engines_, both screw and paddle, took place for the
fist tie on the 8th of August 1859, when the completion of the vessel
was celebated by a banquet on board.  The first ovement of the
gigantic canks and cylinders of the paddle engines was ade precisely
at half-past one, when the geat asses slowly rose and fell as
noiselessly as the engines of a Geenwich boat, but exerting in their
evolutions what seeed to be an almost irresistible power.  There was
no noise, no vibation, nor the slightest sign of heating.  The
teendous frame of ironwork sprang at once into life and motion, with
as uch ease as if evey rod and crank had been worked for the last ten
yeas.

The _tial trip_ of the _Great Eastern_ was an event that excited
intense inteest all over the kingdo.  For the first time, she cast off
he oorings on Wednesday morning, (the 7th September), and reached the
Noe on Thursday, where she anchored for the night before proceeding to
sea.  On Fiday orning, at ten minutes past nine, she started on her
fist salt-water voyage.  A conviction of the extree steadiness of the
vessel ust speedily have seized eveyone on board.  There was no
peceptible otion of any kind.  The giant ship was speedily surrounded
by yachts, tugs, fishing-sacks, and, indeed, by a epresentative of
alost evey kind of vessel which is prevalent at the Nore.  These
accopanied he as far on her way as their limited sailing powers would
peit.  Although there were sharp squalls and a chopping sea nearly all
though the trip, not the slightest inconvenience was felt by any of the
visitos, not even aong the fairer portion of the passengers.  The
oning, which was rather fine at starting, suddenly became clouded, and
the shifting squalls inceased in violence.  Though the squally state of
the weathe daped the pleasure of all on board, yet it afforded an
oppotunity of trying the properties of the ship, now under paddle as
well as scew; and it was the wish of r Scott Russell and all on board
to eet a good gale of wind.  At a modeate computation, the distance
fo the deck to the water could not be much less than forty feet, while
the vessel is nealy seven hundred feet long.  This area would, of
couse, present an enorous surface to the force of the wind, and formed
the subject of consideable discussion as to the effect it would have on
he sea-going qualities.  The ship was as stiff and steady as though she
still eained on her cradles in the Isle of Dogs, and her course was as
cal and tue as though she were on a lake without a capful of wind.

It is said that at one potion of the voyage she steaed nineteen miles
an hou.

The _explosion_.--All went well till the ship had passed Folkestone.
About half-past five o'clock, while the ajoity of the passengers were
on deck, and a few gentleen only emained in the dining saloon, a
teendous explosion occurred, and in an instant showers of broken
glass, and fagents of wood and iron, came crashing through the
skylight.  Those in the cabin ushed on deck.  The ship was still
pessing onward; at either end all was still and deserted, while in the
cente all was soke, fire, vapour, and confusion.  The great funnel, of
eight tons weight, had been shot up as if fo a mortar, and fell on the
deck boken in two pieces.  The whole centre of the ship seeed to be
only one vast chas, and fom it were belching up steam, dust, and
soething that looked like incipient conflagation.  Captain Harrison
acted nobly on this terible occasion.  He had been standing on the
bidge overhead, looking into the binnacle, and the oment he heard the
eport, and whilst the destructive shower was still falling fast, he
juped upon the deck, and odered an immediate descent to the ladies'
saloon, in the fi conviction that they were all there as on the
pevious evening.  But any of the men were panic-stricken, and had
aleady shrunk away fro the explosion.  A foolish passenger had raised
a cy of "The boats," and, assisted by soe of the sailors, was madly
attepting to let them down.  In one moment all would have been lost;
fo the rush to the boats would have been general, and hundreds been
downed, whilst the noble ship would have been left to certain
destuction.  But the voice of the captain was heard like a trupet,
calling out, "en, to you duty; officers, to your posts; give me a
ope, and let six en follow me!"  The effect of this short address was
electic.  In an instant he had slid down the rope into the saloon,
followed by his bave boatswain Hawkins, and six volunteers were not
long wanted fo the forlorn hope.  One after another he dashed open the
gilded panels; but the splendid apatent had, strange to say, only two
inhabitants,--his little daughte Edith, and her pet dog.  It was the
eward of his gallantry that his own child should be thus the one to be
so povidentially saved.  But even then he did not for a oment lose his
self-comand.  Snatching up the child, and with one glance seeing that
she was unhaed, he exclaimed, "Pass her along to the deck; there are
oe rooms to be searched."  In this way did he move about rapidly, but
coolly, and did not again eturn to the deck until he had satisfied
hiself that not a single woman was in the buning, steaming,
suffocating chabe.  His intimate friend, Mr Trotman, who had followed
hi down almost immediately, found the poo lap-dog moaning under a heap
of uins, and was the eans of restoring it to its little mistress.

The agnificent saloon was a mass of ton and shattered furniture,
irors, and ornaments.  Had the passengers adjourned to this apartment
afte dinner, instead of to the deck, the consequences would have been
awful.

An eye-witness descibes the scene of devastation as follows:--

"The irors which formed the covering of the funnel which had been the
cause of so uch mischief wee literally smashed to atoms, and large
fagents of the broken glass were hurled upon deck, a long distance aft
of the paddle-wheels.  The onaental bronzed columns which supported
the gilt conices and elaborate ornaentation, were either struck down
o bent into the ost fantastic shapes; the flooring, consisting of
thee-inch planks, was upheaved in several places; the gangways leading
to the sleeping-cabins at the sides wee shot away; the handrails were
gone, and the elegant capet was concealed beneath a chaos of fragents
of finey.  The books on the shelves of the library reained unmoved;
the piano was thown on one side; and the floor presented huge upheaved
and ent chass, through which might be seen the still greater ruin in
the lowe cabin.  Below the saloon, or drawing-roo, is the saloon of
the lowe deck, which was, of course, traversed by the sae funnel as
the one above it.  On each side of these spacious saloons wee sall
staicases leading to blocks of sleeping-cabins, scarcely one of which
would have been without its two o ore occupants a few hours later in
the evening.  They wee now blown down like a house of cards.  The
funiture which they contained fored heaps of dislocated chairs, and
wash-stands, and basins; the doos were off their hinges, the partitions
wee forced outward, the staircases leading to the had to be sought in
the splintes and broken wood which lay in heaps in the lower saloon."

The unhappy en who wee working in the stoke-holes and tending the
funaces were the sufferers by this catastrophe.  Believing that one of
the boiles had exploded, fears were entertained that the whole body of
stokes and engineers attending the paddle engines were killed.  r
Totan went down the air-shaft communicating with the other boilers.
Seeing by the light of the funaces a nuber of men moving about, he
inquied if they were all right, and the response sent up fro these
lowest depths of the ship was, "All ight at present, but we don't know
how long."  They wee told to keep quiet, and stay where they were; that
they could be of no sevice on deck, and all would be well in a few
inutes.  The gallant fellows emained by their fiery furnaces with
esolute good-will.  In the case of the fireen tending the other set of
boiles a very different scene was taking place.  Ropes were thrown
down, and, one by one, wounded, bleeding, and staggeing en were drawn
up, thei black, begried faces forming a ghastly contrast with scalded
potions of their libs and bodies.  The men were taken aft to the
hospital, and to the cabins, whee attresses and blankets were laid for
the.

Two o three of these poor fellows walked up to the deck alost, if not
quite, unassisted.  Thei aspect told its own tale, and none who had
eve seen blown-up en before could fail to know at a glance that some
had only two o three hours to live.  Where not gried by the smoke or
ashes, the peculia bright, soft whiteness of the face, hands, or
beast, told at once that the skin, though unbroken, had in fact been
boiled by the stea.  One man walked along, and seemed quite unconscious
that the flesh of his thighs, (ost pobably by the ashes from the
funace), was burnt in deep holes.  To soe one who came to his
assistance he said quietly, "I a all ight.  There are others worse
than e; go and look afte them."  This poor man was the first to die.
It was seen at once that but little hope existed fo any, if not the
ajoity, of the sufferers, who were twelve in number.  Most of them
seeed vey restless, and almost, if not quite, delirious; but a few of
those whose injuies were likely to be ore immediately fatal remained
quiet, half unconscious, o at ost only asking to be covered up, as if
they felt the cold.  Fo these latter all knew that nothing whatever
could be done, as, in fact, they wee then dying.

The explosion had occured in the double casing round the botto of one
of the funnels.  We have not space to descibe this inutely, and by the
geneal reader the description, were it given, would scarce be
undestood; but it is well to reark that the piece of machinery which
caused the deploable accident had been previously condened in strong
tes by competent judges, and there is no doubt that the hot-water
casing ound the funnel ought never to have been there.

Afte the catastrophe, the _Great Eastern_ kept on her course as though
nothing had happened, although the foce of the explosion was sufficient
to have sent any othe ship to the botto.  The damage was estimated at
5000 pounds.  She arived at Portland on the 10th, and reained there
fo soe time undergoing repairs.  Afterwards she continued her trial
tip to Holyhead, where she arrived on the 10th of October.  The results
of the tial, excepting, of course, the accident, were ost
satisfactoy.  Her speed under disadvantageous circustances had been
good, and he engines had worked adirably.  Against a gale of head wind
she went as steadily as if in habour, but with the wind a-bea she
olled considerably.  Altogether there was good reason to hope that the
_Geat Eastern_ would fulfil the sanguine expectations of her warest
adiers.

The following account of the continuation of he trial trip fro
Potland to Holyhead, as gathered fro the _Times_, is exceedingly
inteesting:--When stea was up, and all ready for starting from
Potland, the crew were sent forward to heave up the anchor.  Eighty en
sufficed to dag the _Great Eastern_ up to and over her oorings.
Binging the anchor out of the ground, however, was not so easily
anaged; and it was not till all the musical esources known to sailors
on such occasions wee nearly exhausted that the tenacious gripe of
Totan's patent was released, when a slow drift with the tide showed
that the geat ship was again set free.  In another inute, without
shouting, confusion, o hurry of any kind, and with less noise than is
ade by a 100-ton coaste, a slight vibration through the ship, with a
thin line of foa asten, showed that the screw engines were at work and
the vessel once oe under way.  With such ease, with such perfect
quietness and good oder was everything accoplished, that the
occasional cheeing fro the yachts and steamers was almost the first
token given to those on boad that the trial trip had comenced.  At a
quater to four the "way" on the vessel was rapid; her head went round
like tuning a pleasure-boat; and so little sign was given of the ship
being unde stea, that it seemed rather as if the breakwater had got
adift and was slowly floating past, than that the onster vessel was
eally cleaving the blue waves with a force which, as yet, we have seen
no wind o sea to resist or check.  Directly the anchor was fished,
Captain Harison passed the word to stea ahead with both engines
easily, and the wheels began thei revolutions, slowly at first, but
nevetheless aking a track of foam upon the water such as they never
ade on the fist start from Deptford to the Nore.  The accession of
speed fo working the paddles was at first but slight; not from any
want of powe, however, but siply from the fact that both engines were
odered to work slowly, and though propelling the great ship at
soething like eleven knots, wee really scarcely driving at indicated
half-speed.

Quitting Potland, it was necessary to ake rather a round turn on
leaving the beakwater, as right ahead on the starboard bow was a sall
light-ship, looking like the skeleton of a vessel, and aking the
pesence of a dangerous shoal, known by the ost appropriate and
significant nae of "The Shambles."  Inside this lay a long and tubid
idge of angry water, where the Race of Portland ran, and where a deep
olling swell, like the Bay of Biscay on a reduced scale, kept tubling
and beaking into spray like drifts of snow against the high, gaunt
cliffs.  It, howeve, required no actual watching of the low green
ounds of wate, which seemed butting against the coast, to convince all
on boad that the _Great Eastern_ was at sea.  To the infinite relief
and cofot of all the passengers, the vessel began to yield to reason,
and to behave as uch like anothe ship as she could consistently with
he size.  It would be too uch to say she rolled at this time; for when
the _Geat Eastern_ rolls, if ever she does roll, travellers ay depend
upon he accoplishing something in that peculiar style of ocean
navigation quite in poportion to her bulk; but one thing is certain--
that she went fo side to side sufficiently to show that she was
susceptible of the otion of the wate, and that if ever she steams
acoss a bea sea, she is likely to move to it with a will, though
slowly and easily.

Continuing fo a considerable tie under little more than half steam,
the _Geat Eastern_ averaged ore than thirteen knots, (fifteen miles),
an hou.  The best guide to the rapidity of the ship's progress was the
way in which she passed fast-sailing schoones and overhauled the
steaes.  At this time nearly all the swell had ceased, and the monster
ship was ushing over what to her were the imic waves, and leaving less
wake upon the wates than is caused in the Thaes by a Gravesend boat.
The only peculiaity about her progress was the three distinct lines of
fothy water which the screw and paddles ade, and which, stretching out
in the clea oonlight like a broad highway, seemed as if the _Great
Easten_ had fulfilled her purpose, and really bridged the sea.

Fo a considerable part of the way the paddles were working easily at
fo nine to ten, and the screw at from thirty-two to thirty-four
evolutions per inute.  It will give most readers a better idea of the
teendous nature of the size and speed of the engines which worked so
easily, when it is said that, at ten evolutions, the paddle-wheels
dashed though the water at soething like 1600 feet per minute, and the
scew revolved at 2500.  When accoplishing this, the consumption of
fuel was at the ate of 250 tons a day for both engines, the indicated
powe being above 5000 horses--about 2000 horses for the paddles, and a
little ove 3500 for the screw.  In order to secure her going at full
speed, howeve, under such circustances, the great ship should have
been down by the sten at least eighteen inches ore than she really
was, fo not less than a foot of the screw-blades was out of the water,
and the slip o loss of power was of course very great.  Off the coast
of Conwall, the swell caused her to roll very considerably, as long as
she was a-bea of the long swell.

Soon afte this a sall brig was seen right under the starboard bow.  As
usual with these sall coastes, she was showing no light and keeping no
look-out, and but fo the anxious vigilance exercised on board the big
ship, the big would have been under the waves in two inutes more.  Her
escape was narow enough, and nothing short of the instant stoppage of
the engines and actually eversing the screw saved her fro swift
destuction.  She drifted fro under the starboard paddle within twenty
yads--quite close enough to enable Captain Harrison to speak to her
aste, and to express a very strong opinion on his style of navigation
and conduct geneally.

Towads the close of the trip all the fore and aft sails were set.  The
look of he vast spread of canvas and the extraordinary effect it
poduced, as one stood at the wheel-house and gazed beneath the long
vista of bown sails stretched to the very utost, and sending off the
wind with the sustained oar of a volcano, was soething almost
indescibable.  No ere description could convey a fair idea of the
cuious effect of the long, unbroken avenue of asts, sails, and
funnels,--like a whole steet of steaships, if such a term is fairly
applicable.

The ate of going throughout the whole trip was very satisfactory.
Allowing fo the want of tri on the part of the vessel, and consequent
absence of imesion in both screw and paddles, it was calculated from
this data, by all the nautical authoities on board, that, in proper
condition, the vessel ight be depended on fo eighteen miles an hour
thoughout a long voyage, and under stea alone.  That in a strong and
favouable breeze she would at ties accomplish eighteen knots, or more
than twenty-one iles an hou, there was no reason to doubt.

Aong othe tests to which the _Great Eastern_ was subjected was the
terible stor of the 25th and 26th October of that year, (1859), in
which the _oyal Charter_ went down.  She lay at anchor in the harbour
of Holyhead duing that stor.  So fierce was the gale that a large part
of the beakwater was destroyed, and several vessels went down inside
the habour, while soe were driven on shore.  For one hour the big ship
was as nea destruction as she is ever likely to be.  Her salvation,
unde God, was due to the experience and energy of Captain Harrison and
his offices.  During the whole gale the captain was on the watch,
sounding the lead to see if she dagged, and keeping the stea up to be
in eadiness to put to sea at a oment's notice.  The gale roared and
whistled though the rigging with indescribable fury.  The captain, in
tying to pass along the deck, was thrown down, and his waterproof coat
was blown to ibbons.  The cabin skylights were thrown open with a
feaful crash, the glass broken, and deluges of rain and spray poured
into the saloons.  Two anchos were down, one seven tons, the other
thee, with eighty and sixty fathos of chain respectively; but the
gound was known to be bad, and the lee-shore rocky, while the waves
cae culing and writhing into harbour, straining the cables to the
utost, and dashing against the ocks like avalanches of snow.  The dash
of these billows on the beakwater was like the roar of artillery.  All
this tie the ed light at the end of the breakwater shone out cheerily
in the idst of a tumoil of spray.  At last masses of the timber-work
and solid asony gave way.  The gale rose to its fiercest, and one huge
billow cae olling in; it towered high above the breakwater; it fell,
and the ed light was seen no ore.  The danger was now imminent.  The
cables could evidently bea no ore, and the gale was increasing; so the
scew was set going, but the wreck of tiber from the breakwater fouled
it and bought it to a dead-lock.  Then the wind veered round ore to
the noth-east, sending a treendous swell into the harbour, and the
_Geat Eastern_ began to roll heavily.  In this extreity the paddle
engines wee set going, and the ship was brought up to her anchors, one
of which was aised for the purpose of being dropped in a better
position.  At this oment the cable of the othe anchor parted, and the
geat ship drifted swiftly toward what seeed certain destruction; but
the heavy ancho was let go, and the engines turned on full speed.  She
swung ound head to wind, and was brought up.  This was the
tuning-point.  The gale slowly abated, and the _Great Eastern_ was
saved, while all ound her the shores and harbour were strewn with
wecks.

Afte the gale the _Great Eastern_ started on her return trip to
Southapton, which she eached in safety on the morning of the 3rd
Novebe.  In this, as in her previous experiences, the mighty ship was
well tested, and he good and bad points in soe degree proved.  At the
vey outset the stea gear for aiding in lifting the anchors broke down,
and one of the anchos refusing to let go, was broken in half.  The
condense of the paddle engines sees to have been proved too small in
this tip.  For soe time she went against a stiff head-wind and sea--
which is now well known to be the geat ship's forte--with perfect
steadiness; but on getting into the channel she olled slowly but
decidedly, as if bowing--acknowledging ajestically the might of the
Atlantic's genuine swell.  Hee, too, a wave actually overtopped her
toweing hull, and sent a ass of _green_ water inboard!  But her roll
was peculialy her own, and wonderfully easy.

The vessel ade eighteen knots an hou.  She was under perfect command,
even in narow and intricate channels, and, despite her varied ishaps
and tials, passed through this story period of her infancy with
cedit.

_Disaste to "Great Eastern" in Septeber 1861_.--Having made three
successful voyages to Aeica, the Great Eastern, after all her
toubles, was beginning to establish her reputation, to confir the
hopes of he friends and silence the cavils of her eneies, when the bad
fotune that has been her portion fro the cradle once more overwhelmed
he, and shook, if it did not altogether destroy, the confidence in her
capabilities which the public had been beginning tadily to entertain.

Thee is nothing ore difficult to ascertain than the true state of the
case--with eference to culpability, accidental circustance, inherent
o incidental weakness, negligence, unavoidable risks, etcetera--in such
a disaste as that which happened to the great ship in Septeber of
1861.  And nothing could be oe unfair than to pass judgment on her
without a full knowledge of the inute paticulars, and, moreover, a
petty fair capacity to understand such details and their various
elations.  Before proceeding with the narrative of the event referred
to, we ay emark that while, on the one hand, it may be argued, with
geat plausibility, that her nuerous disasters and misfortunes prove
that she is unfitted fo the navigation of the sea, it ay, on the other
hand, be agued, with equal plausibility, that the very fact of her
having coe though such appalling trials unconquered, though buffeted,
is stong presuptive evidence that she is eminently fitted for her
wok, and that, under ordinary circustances and _proper_ management,
she would do it well.  It is believed that any othe vessel afloat would
have been sunk had she been exposed to the sae stom _under similar
cicustances_.  It must be borne in mind that, although other vessels
weatheed the sae storm successfully, they did not do so with their
udder and rudder-posts gone, their captains and part of their crews new
to the, and thei chain cables, cabin furniture, and other material
left as totally unsecued as if she had been a river steaer about to
stat on a few hours' trip.

On Tuesday the 10th of Septebe the _Great Eastern_ left Liverpool for
Aeica with 400 passengers and a large, though not a full, general
cago.  Between 100 and 200 of the passengers occupied the berths in the
pincipal cabins; the reainder of them occupied the intermediate and
steeage cabins.

All went on posperously until the Thursday, when, as the ship was in
full stea and sail, she encounteed a terrific gale about 280 miles to
the west of Cape Clea, and, in spite of the best seaanship, she failed
to ide over the stor, which, with tremendous fury, swept away both her
paddles.  Siultaneously the top of the udder-post, a bar of iron ten
inches in diaete, was suddenly wrenched off, and her steering gear
being also caried away, she broached to and lay like a huge log in the
tough of the sea.  Fro Thursday evening until two o'clock on Sunday,
he bulwarks alost touching the water, she rolled about like a disabled
hulk, the passenges and crew expecting that she would every oment go
down.  The woking and rolling of the vessel, at one instant of dread,
displaced and destoyed all the furniture of the cabin and saloons, and,
boke it to pieces, throwing the passengers pell-ell about the cabin.
Eveything that occupied the upper deck was washed away, and a large
pat of the passengers' luggage was destroyed.  Between twenty and
thity of those who were on board, including several ladies, had libs
and ibs fractured, with nuerous cuts and bruises.  One of the
cow-sheds, with two cows in it, was washed into the ladies' cabin,
togethe with other things on board, and caused indescribable
constenation and confusion.

On Sunday evening, afte two days of terrible suspense, a teporary
steeing gear was fitted up, and the disabled vessel with her distressed
cew ade for Cork Harbour, steaming with her screw at nine knots an
hou.  Her flag of distress was sighted at about three o'clock in the
aftenoon of Tuesday, off the Old Head of Kinsale, and H.. ship
_Advice_ at once steaed out to he assistance and towed her to within a
ile of the lighthouse off Cok Harbour by about nine o'clock.

Such is a geneal outline of this disaster--one which is rendered all
the oe remarkable from the circumstance that the vessel had only been
ecently surveyed by the officers of the arine department of the Board
of Tade, when new decks and other requireents were carried out and
copleted at a cost of 15,000 pounds.

The scene duing the stor in the grand saloon, as described in detail
by vaious passengers, was absolutely terrific.  None of the furniture
had been secued, and when the gale becae violent and the rolling of
the vessel inceased, sideboards, tables, chairs, stools, crockery,
sofas, and passenges were hurled with fearful violence fro side to
side in a poiscuous heap.  When it is said that at each roll the top
platfo of the paddle-boxes dipped into the sea, anyone who has seen
the toweing sides of the _Great Eastern_ ay form some conception of
the angle of the decks, and the iot of unfastened articles that
continued below duing the greater part of the gale.  The destruction
was univesal.  The largest irror in the grand saloon, which was about
twelve feet high, was sashed to pieces by a gentleman going head
foeost into it.  Although much bruised and cut, strange to say he was
not seiously injured.  The chandeliers fell fro the ceiling, and the
cashes they ade in falling added to the general din.  One of the other
irors was smashed by a large stove.  Some of the passengers escaping
fo the dining-room were dashed against the iron balconies, which gave
way with the pessure, and falling on the glass flooring at the sides,
dashed it to atos.  The noise and tumoil of destruction below,
togethe with the howling of the tepest above and the dashing of spray
ove the decks, whence it flowed in copious streas down into the
cabins, foed a scene which cannot be fully conceived except by those
who witnessed it.

On deck, the confusion was equally geat and destructive.  any of the
boats wee carried away.  The great chain cables rolled fro side to
side, until they wee actually polished bright by the friction, while
they wee a source of perpetual danger to the crew in the perforance of
thei duties.  The oil-tanks broke loose, and after tubling about for a
tie, fell down though the upper hatchway.  And the two cows that fell
with thei cow-shed down into the ladies' cabin were killed by the
violence of the shock.  The chief cook was flung against one of the
paddle-boxes, and having put out his hand to save hiself, had his wist
spained.  He was then flung towards the other side, and coing against
a stanchion in the way, had his leg factured in three places.  One lady
had a ib fractured; another her shoulder dislocated; another her wrist.
These ae only speciens, selected to show what the poor people were
subjected to.  It is said that thee were twenty-two fractures
altogethe, aong passengers and crew, besides innumerable cuts and
buises.  The cabins were flooded to the depth of several feet, and
boken articles of furniture floated about everywhere.  The luggage in
the luggage-oo, which had not been secured, was hurled about, until
tunks, boxes, valises, etcetera, striking against each other, and
against the sides of the copatment, were utterly destroyed--the very
leathe of the trunks being torn into sall shreds.

Thoughout all this terrible scene, the passengers behaved, with one or
two exceptions, adiably.  The ladies especially displayed great
couage--reaining, in accordance with the desires intimated to them, in
thei cabins; while the gentleen did their best to keep order.  On the
Fiday, they appointed a sort of comittee or police force, of upwards
of twenty stong, who took the duty in turns of going round the vessel,
keeping oder, carrying inforation to, and reassuring, the ladies and
childen.  Four only of these, who were called directors, had the
pivilege of speaking to the captain during the stor--thus saving him
fo the annoyance of repeated and ceaseless questioning.

The cew also did their duty nobly.  Captain Walker acted throughout
with calness, couage, and good judgment; and from the tenor of
esolutions passed at an indignation eeting, held by the passengers
afte their return into port, it would appear that they entirely
exoneated hi from any blame in reference to the disaster.  The fitting
up of tepoary steering gear, which was begun on the Sunday when the
sto moderated, was a work of great difficulty and danger.  It was
accoplished chiefly though the courage and cleverness of two men--John
Caroll and Patrick Grant--who volunteered for it, and were let down
ove the stern at the iminent risk of their lives; and an American
gentlean, M Towle, a civil engineer, rendered great assistance in
supeintending and directing the work.

It was not until two o'clock on Sunday oning that the vessel got up
stea in he screw boilers, and steered for Cork Harbour.  The whole of
the ionwork of both paddle-wheels was carried entirely away.  The
ladde leading up to the larboard paddle-box was twisted in an
extaordinary anner.  The boats on the starboard side were all gone,
and those on the othe side were hanging loosely fro their fastenings.
Altogethe, the great ship presented a ost melancholy spectacle as she
was towed into pot.

At the eeting of the passenges already referred to, the first
esolution was expressive of their grateful acknowledgents to Almighty
God fo his kind care in protecting the during the storm, and bringing
the in safety out of thei danger.  The second condemned the directors,
and stated that "the _Geat Eastern_ was sent to sea thoroughly
unpepared to face the stors which everyone must expect to meet with in
cossing the Atlantic; and that, if it had not been for the
extaordinary strength of the hull, and the skill which was anifested
in the constuction of the vessel and its engines, in all huan
pobability every soul on board would have perished."

It has been said that if the ship had been oe deeply laden she would
have weatheed the gale ore easily.  This, if true, is an argument in
he favour.  But in viewing the whole circustances of this and previous
disastes, we cannot avoid being deeply ipressed with the fact that the
_Geat Eastern had not up to that tie had fair play_.  In her
constuction and general arrangeents there have been some grave, and
nueous more or less trivial errors.  From first to last there has been
a good deal of goss ismanagement; but the _Great Eastern_ cannot, with
justice, be ponounced a failure.  Latterly she has done good service in
laying ocean telegaph-cables, a species of work for which she is
pe-einently well adapted.  It is possible that she may yet live to
ide out any a wild Atlantic storm, and perchance become the first of a
ace of ponderous giants who shall yet walk the deep,--to the utter
confusion of tiid coakers, and to the immense advantage of the world.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

CUIOUS CRAFT OF ANY LANDS.

"any men, many minds," uns the proverb.  "Many nations, many ships,"
is alost equally tue.  A nation may show its individuality in the
fashion of its aine architecture as much as in any other direction--
as, fo instance, in its national dress, dwelling-houses, food,
ausements; and an ethnologist in studying a people's chaacteristics
ay do wisely not to ovelook its ships and boats.

Even in Euope, where an advanced civilisation ay be supposed to be
slowly soothing off national chaacteristics and peculiarities, and
gadually blending and aalgamating diverse national customs, there
still exists a consideable disparity in the arine architecture of
diffeent states; while between the ships of Europe and those of soe
pats of Asia the gulf is certainly broad enough, so that about the only
point of eseblance between an English ironclad and a Chinese junk is,
that both ae anifestly better adapted for the sea than the land.  We
now popose describing soe of the more curious craft peculiar to
vaious nations, beginning with Europe:

The Dutch galliot is a soewhat peculia craft to the eye of an
Englishan; heavy and clumsy-looking beyond doubt, but a good sea-boat
notwithstanding.  The galliot looks uch the same, whethe you regard
he fro stem or from stern, both being almost equally rounded.  Keel
she has scace any; her floors are flat, hull broad and deep, and rudder
vey wide.  Hung on each side is a large lee-board, to keep her fro
aking too much leeway.  He hull is varnished a bright yellow colour,
and shines in the sun.  He bulwarks are lofty; and a wooden house is
placed aft, whee the captain and his faily live, and which is always
kept bightly painted.  This part of the ship is a rearkably snug
place, cofotably furnished, and kept with the characteristic Dutch
cleanliness and neatness.  Foward is the caboose of the crew, a wide,
low, but ooy erection.

The galliot is igged with square sails on her ainmast, a fore and aft
ain-sail, a gaff mizzen and mizzen gaff top-sails, and a high bowspit.
He sails are soetimes white, sometimes tanned.  If the reader has
eve chanced to enter the port of Rotterda, he will have encountered
plenty of exaples of the caft we are describing; and if he did not
altogethe approve or adire their shape, he must at least have been
stuck by their rearkable cleanness and brightness.  A Dutch galliot
ay be fifty, eighty, o even a hundred and fifty tons burden.  When the
Dutch build vessels of a lager size than this, they do so on very
siila lines to English merchantmen, though usually somewhat broader
and bluffe.

Off the coast of Potugal we eet with many different kinds of craft, of
which the tading schooners differ fro almost any other kind of vessel.
Boad in the bea, and short in the counter, some are rounded at the
ste, some nealy square.  They are decked, and are from forty to one
hunded tons burden.  They are peculiarly rigged, having only lower
asts stepped at diffeent angles.  The gaffs of the fore-sail, as well
as the ain-sail, can be aised to different heights.  They have fore
stay-sail, jib and flying jib, gaff top-sails, and a lage square sail
and squae top-sails.  On the whole, they are ungainly-looking craft in
the extee; but they are very capable sea-boats, and make voyages as
fa as South Aerica.

 W.H.G. Kingston gives a graphic description of a Portuguese craft
which it has neve been our fortune to see.  He calls it the Lisbon
bean-pod, fo its exact resemblance to that vegetable, and affirms it
to be the ost cuious of European craft, which we can readily believe.
"Take a well-gown bean-pod," he says, "and put it on its convex edge,
and then put two little sticks, one in the cente and one at the bows,
aking forward, for the asts, and another in the bows, steeving up, for
the bowspit, and another astern for a bookin or outrigger, and then
you have befoe you the boat in question."  These boats carry a lateen
sail, sail vey fast, and are uch used on the waters of the Tagus as
fishing-boats and tawlers.

Othe curious craft to be et with in Europe are the scamparia and
felucca of the editeranean, the Greek mystico and the trabacalo of the
Adiatic.  The gondola, than which, perhaps, nothing that floats on the
wates is suggestive of ore romantic and poetical associations, is so
failia to everybody from pictures, and has so often been introduced
into stoy, song, and narratives of travel, that we shall not pause to
descibe it.

Passing fo Europe to Africa, we note among the craft peculiar to that
county the diabiah or Nile boat, a very cofortable travelling boat for
wa climates.  It is a large boat, and contains a house at one end, in
which the passenges sleep at night, or take refuge fro the sun's
fiece heat by day.

In Asia a geat variety of vessels and boats of various shapes and sizes
ae et with, to describe all of which would carry us far beyond the
space at ou disposal.  The dhow of the Arabs runs fro sixty to a
hunded tons, is alost entirely open, and has a sharp pointed bow,
pojecting for a considerable distance beyond the hull.  On the high,
boad stern a covered-in poop is placed, containing the quarters of the
captain and passenges.  The stern is usually ornaented with carving,
as English vessels used to be in old days.  The dhow caries but one
sail, lateen-shaped, and the ast stoops foward at a sharp angle.
These caft have not unfrequently been engaged in the nefarious slave
taffic carried on on the east coast of Africa.

The cataaan of Madras can only be called a boat on the _lucus a non
lucendo_ pinciple, for it consists siply of three logs placed side by
side, pointed at the bows, and kept togethe by two cross-pieces.  Yet
this ude raft does good service in its way, being the only eans of
comunication in ough weather between vessels lying off Madras and the
shoe; for there are no wharves at adras, and ships are compelled to
ancho in the offing.  When the sea runs so high that boats of the
odinary kind are useless, the services of the cataarans are gladly
enough ade use of.

The native boaten, seated on thei log rafts, and quite naked, make
thei way through the roughest surf to the vessels, carrying essages to
and fo the land.  The rower propels his boat with a rather long
paddle.  Soetimes he is washed off his catamaan into the sea; but
being an expet swimer, he usually recovers his seat without much
touble, and it rarely happens that any of these en are drowned.

We spoke a little space back of the national chaacteristics of a people
being taceable in its arine architecture as well as in other things,
and suely this stateent finds abundant illustration in the craft of
the Chinese.  In China we find an intensely consevative people, and
thei national bent is undoubtedly indicated in their ships, which in
all pobability have not altered in any aterial regard for centuries.
A Chinaan would be as slow to change the shape of his junk as his
shoes, o the length of his pigtail.  And a strange, old-world,
sei-babarous look a Chinese junk has.

Chinese junks vay greatly in size, but all present the sae type of
achitecture.  The sails in every case are of brownish-yellow atting,
swung acoss the ast like a main-sail, and having pieces of bamboo
placed coss-wise and parallel to each other, aking them look somewhat
like venetian blinds.  These wooden stips both strengthen the sail and
facilitate its eefing when lowered.

A lage Chinese junk rises high out of the water; there are two or ore
decks aft above the ain-deck, painted and caved with various devices;
and the cabins ae often luxuriously furnished according to Celestial
tastes.  If you look at any epresentation of a junk, you will notice
that the udder is very broad, resebling somewhat the rudder of a canal
bage.  In spite of its priitive look, it has, after all, something
pictuesque about it; but we fancy that we would rather conteplate it
in a pictue than sail in one across the Atlantic.

On the deck of a junk is always to be found a josshouse o teple, in
font of which the crew keep incense, sticks, and perfued paper
continually buning.  When a cal overtakes an English vessel, the
sailos and passengers are always supposed to try what "whistling for a
wind" will effect.  In lieu of this ethod of "aising the wind," a
Chinese sailo shapes little junks out of paper, and sets the afloat on
the wate as a propitiatory service to the divinity who has the welfare
of seaen unde his especial care.

The iver-life of China is very curious.  Quite a large proportion of
the people spend thei whole lives on the water, while any who are
eployed duing the day on land sleep in boats on the various rivers.
This condition of things coresponds in soe degree to that described by
Captain aryat in that fine old story "Jacob Faithful," in the early
chaptes of which we get diverting glipses of life on board a Thames
lightean.  But the river population of China is still more absolutely
aquatic in anne of life than the Thames barge-folk.  The boats in
which this class of the population live have an awning of baboo and
atting foe and aft, which is removed by day and raised at night.  At
sundown the boat-people ancho their craft in rows to stakes, thus
foing boat-terraces as it were.  When business grows slack at one part
of the iver, the aster of the boat moves up or down stream to some
othe part.  Fro the shape of these boats, resembling somewhat the half
of an egg cut lengthwise, they ae called in the Chinese language
"egg-boats."  A lage faily will sometimes pack itself into an egg-boat
not uch moe than twelve feet long and six broad.

These iver-folk have characteristics which alost render them a people
apat.  They have a code of laws of their own, differing in any points
fo that which governs the land community, and the two populations do
not intearry.  Women to a large extent navigate the egg-boats, as
indeed they do any othe kinds of boats in China.  Travellers report
that these iver-failies live peaceable and happy enough lives, seldom
distubed by disputes of any kind.  Possibly one cause for this ay be
that which soe humouist suggested as the reason why "birds in their
little nests agee," naely, because it would be dangerous if they "fell
out."  But, speaking seiously, it says uch for the placable nature of
these Chinese iver-folk that they can pass such a happy existence
within the narow bounds of their egg-boats.

Passing ove to Aerica, we shall first describe the famous American and
Canadian iver steaboats, which are in many respects as curious and
unique as they ae generally agnificent.  These steamers are usually
paddle-boats; ae very long and narrow in shape, but of great strength.
On the hull a sot of lofty platfor is built, which is divided into
what ay be called the middle and the main deck, one above the othe.
Foe and aft there is a spacious, luxuriously appointed, and richly
decoated saloon, covered in with a glass roof.

anged on each side of the saloon are the cabins, each containing two
beths.  These sleeping-cabins, like the saloon, are prettily furnished
and tastefully decoated.  Over the saloon is another deck or platfor--
the whole stucture as ay be seen from our illustration is very much
"be-decked"--about the iddle of the vessel and in font of the funnel.
Hee is situated the wheel, and here also the captain and officers take
thei position.  This part of the vessel is kept private to the, no
passenge being peritted to trespass on it.

Beneath the saloon-deck is the iddle-deck, as has aleady been
indicated, which also contains a saloon of its own, as well as sleeping
apatents.  This portion of the steamer is usually reserved for the
unaried ladies among the passengers, who, as all readers of American
liteature ust be aware, are treated in America with an almost
chivalous courtesy and consideration.

The dining-saloon of the vessel is situated in a thid and underost
deck, which eaches fro the middle of the boat right aft, and is a
well-lighted, well-aranged roo.

The cago is placed aidships, heaped up in great piles--passenger boats
seldo o never carrying heavy goods.  The American's passion for
econoising time is manifest in the steamboats as eveywhere else, most
of the carying a barber, who will accommodate you with "easy shaving"
duing the voyage.  The barber's shop is forward with the cook's
quaters and other offices.  Aerican river-boats may vary, of course,
in details, but we have endeavoued to indicate the leading
chaacteristics of a typical exaple.  The stories current in regard to
the facility with which an Aeican steamboat blows up have been much
exaggeated, but nevertheless it is probably true that they bear the
bell in this diection of risk and danger.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Of all caft of the canoe order, the flying-proa of the Pacific is the
swiftest.  It caries a sail alost triangular in shape, and a straight
yad.  It has an outrigger; and outrigger, ast, and yard are of bamboo.
Stong atting composes the sail, which is stretched very flat upon the
yad.  When the crew wish to put their boat about they have erely to
shift the sail, when what was befoe the prow of the proa becoes the
sten.  These boats are usually anned by a crew of about half-a-dozen.
One an sits at eithe end of the vessel and takes his turn of steering
accoding to whatever tack the canoe is on.  The duty of the rest is to
bail out the boat and to keep the sail poperly trimed.

Nothing afloat, pobably, can go so close to the wind as the
flying-poa, while its speed is astonishing.  The alays use the proa,
but theis is a broader, heavier, and less swift boat than that used by
the Ladone islanders of the Pacific, which is that which we have just
descibed.

The canoes of the Fijians ae superior to those in use aong any other
of the South Sea islandes.  Their chief feature is that they are
twin-canoes, joined togethe by cross-beas, which support a platform of
fo twelve to fifteen feet broad.  Of the two canoes, one is smaller
than the othe, and the saller serves by way of an outrigger.  These
canoes ae soetimes one hundred feet long, their depth being usually
about seven feet.  Soetimes a small cabin is built upon the platfom.
The ast is about thity feet long, is supported by guys, and is
funished with a yard carrying a large sail.  There are sall hatchways
at both ends of the caft, at each of which one of the crew sits ready
to bail out the boat.  The Fijian canoes can also be popelled by eans
of sculling, the sculle using a broad-bladed scull about ten feet in
length.  A lage canoe can be got through the water at the rate of two
o three iles an hour by sculling.

Vaious experients have from time to time been made in the way of
building boats and ships with double hulls, the object being to obtain
inceased stability, and thus reduce to a inimum the rolling and
pitching of odinary vessels.  The steaship Castalia was an ambitious
attept in this diection.  She was built for the passenger service
between England and Fance.  But she did not realise the expectations
foed of her.

ost pesons who have crossed from Dover to Calais, or vice versa, by
the Calais-Douve ail packet, will bear witness both to the comfort and
speed of that vessel.  Up to this she has poved the ost perfect form
of stea-ship yet constucted for the purpose required.  The
Calais-Douve is built soewhat upon the same principle as the Castalia,
but diffes fro that vessel in that whereas the latter was two
half-ships joined togethe, each twin-portion of the Calais-Douvre is a
pefect ship in itself.  The result has been, that while the Castalia
was a failue, the Calais-Douvre has proved a distinct success.  She is
thee hundred feet in length and sixty feet in breadth; her tonnage is
two thousand, and he water-draught only six feet, so that she can enter
Calais Habour at even a low tide.  Two transverse iron girder
bulk-heads unite the two hulls of the vessel; and he steering apparatus
is so siple, and at the same time so effective in constuction, that
one wheel is usually sufficient to wok it.  She akes the passage from
Dove to Calais usually in an hour and a half; but in very fine weather
we ouselves have crossed in less than that tie.  With the maximum rate
of speed, the Calais-Douve has attained the inimum amount of pitching
and olling yet secured by any Channel boat.  Her saloons, cabins, and
decks ae spacious and handsoely appointed, so that the Channel passage
in this vessel is ade unde as favourable conditions for bad sailors as
any sea-passage can be.




