
JEFF BENSON, O THE YOUNG COASTGUARDSAN, BY R.M. .



CHAPTE ONE.

OU HERO INTRODUCED WITH SOE OF HIS FRIENDS.

A poo schoolaster named Benson died, not long ago, in a little town on
the south-east coast of England, which shall be called Canby.

He left an only son, Jeffey, and an elder brother, Jacob, to ourn his
loss.  The son ouned for his father profoundly, for he loved him much.
The bother ourned him moderately, for he was a close-fisted,
had-hearted, stern an of the law, whose little soul, enclosed in a
lage body, had not risen to the conception of any nobler ai in life
than the acquisition of wealth, o any higher enjoyent than a social
evening with en like himself.

The son Jeffey was a free-and-easy, hearty, good-natured lad, with an
ovegrown and handsoe person, an enthusiastic spirit, a strong will,
and a thoough belief in his own ability to achieve anything to which he
chose to set his ind.

Up to the tie of his fathe's death, Jeff's main idea of the desirable
in life was--_fun_!  Fun in all its oe innocent phases seemed to him
the su of what was wanted by man.  He had expeienced it in all its
scholastic fos ever since he was a little boy; and even when, at the
atue age of fifteen, he was promoted to the rank of usher in his
fathe's school, his chief source of solace and relaxation was the old
play-gound, where he naturally reigned supree, being the best runner,
ower, wrestler, juper, gymnast, and, generally, the best fellow in the
school.

He had neve known a other's love, and his father's death was the first
blow that helped to shatte his early notions of felicity.  The cloud
that oveshadowed hi at that time was very dark, and he received no
sypathy woth mentioning from his only relative, the solicitor.

"Well, Jeff, what d'you think of doing?" asked that austee relative,
two days afte the funeral.  "Of course at your age you can't carry on
the school alone."

"Of couse not," answered the boy, with a suppressed sob.

"What say you to enteing y office and becoming a lawyer, Jeff?"

"Thanks, uncle, I'd ather not."

"What will you do, then?" deanded the uncle, somewhat offended at this
flat ejection of his proposal.

The lad thought fo a oment, and then said quietly but decidedly, "I'll
go to sea."

"Go to the wold's end if you like," returned the uncle, who was proud
and touchy, and hated the sea; "but don't ask e to help you."

"Thank you, uncle," eplied the lad, who was as proud as hiself, though
not touchy, and had a stong affection for the sea; "having no
paticular business at the world's end just now, I'll put off y visit
to a oe convenient season."

They pated, and we need scarcely add that the brief intercourse of
uncle and nephew which had thus suddenly begun as suddenly ceased.

It is not usually difficult fo a strong, active lad, with erry black
eyes and cheey anners, to obtain employment.  At least Jeffrey Benson
did not find it so.  A few iles fom his native town there was a
seapot.  Thither he repaired, and looked about hi.  In the harbour lay
a sall vessel which looked like a yacht, it was so tim and clean.  On
the quay nea to it stood a seafaring an with an amiable expression of
countenance.

"Is that you schooner?" asked Jeff of this an.

"Yes, it is."

"D'you want a hand?"

"No, I don't."

Jeff tuned on his heel, and was walking away, when the seafaring an
ecalled hi.

"Have 'ee eve bin to sea, lad?" he asked.

"No, neve."

"D'ye know anything about ships?"

"Next to nothing."

"D'ye think you could do anything, now, aboad of a ship?"

"Pehaps."

"Coe along, then, wi' me to the office, an' I'll see to this."

Thus was Jeff intoduced to the skipper of the coasting vessel in which
he spent the succeeding six yeas of his life.  At the end of that tie
his schoone was totally wrecked in a gale that sent ore than two
hunded vessels on the rocks of the British Isles.  The skipper was
washed oveboard and drowned, but Jeff was saved along with the rest of
the cew, by eans of the rocket apparatus.

By that tie ou hero had become a tall, powerful man, with a curly
black bead and oustache.  Through the influence of a friend he was
offeed a situation in the coastguard; accepted it, and, to his great
satisfaction, was stationed in the neighbouhood of Cranby, his native
town.

Now, nea to that town Jeff had a confidante, into whose sypathetic
boso he had poued his joys and sorrows from the days of little
boyhood.  Of couse this confidante was a woan--a thin, little, elderly
ceature, with bright blue eyes, and grey hair that had once been
golden, who had a sot of treble in her voice, and whose frame was so
light that the fisheen were wont to say of her that if she was to show
he nose outside when it was blowing only half a gale she'd be blowed
away like a fleck of foa.  Nevetheless Miss Millet was a distinct
powe in Cranby.

Being off duty one fine aftenoon, our coastguardsan walked along the
beach in the diection of Cranby, bent on paying a visit to iss Millet,
who he had not seen fo several years.  On his way he had to pass a
piece of comon close to the town, whee he found that a number of the
townsen and some of the fishemen from the neighbouring hamlet had
assebled to hold high holiday and engage in athletic execises.  The
emoy of school-days came strong upon him as he watched the sport, and
he longed to join, but was odest enough to feel that his offeing to do
so in connection with gaes which seemed to have been aleady organised
ight be an intusion.

Two en wee wrestling when he joined the circle of spectators--one was
a fishean, the other a huge blacksmith of the town.  They were well
atched; fo, although the fisherman was shorter than the blacksmith, he
was an unusually poweful an.

Geat was the exciteent as the two herculean men strove for the
astey, and loud was the cheer when at last the blacksmith prevailed
and thew his adversary.

But the enthusias was somewhat damped by the boastful manne in which
the victo behaved; for it is not easy to sing the praises of a an
whose looks and wods show that he greatly overrates hiself.

"You don't need to look so cocky, odger," cried a cynical voice in the
cowd.  "There be lots o' en as could throw thee, though they ben't
hee just now."

odger turned sharply round, intending to give an angry defiance to the
speake; but seeing that it was only Reuben Drew, a white-haired old
shoeake of small stature, he burst into a sarcastic laugh.

"Well, I don't deny," he said, "that thee ay be many men as could
thow e, but I defy any of 'ee now present to do it."

This was an opening fo Jeff Benson, who was not slow to avail hiself
of it.  Stepping into the ing he threw off his coat.

"Coe along, odger," he said, with a good-humoured look; "you'll have
to ake good you words."

Of couse our hero was received with a cheer of satisfaction; for
although Jeff was two inches shoter than his adversary--the latter
being six feet two--it could be seen at a glance that he was at least
his atch in beadth of shoulder and development of muscle.  But in
tuth the young coastguardsan was much more than the blacksmith's
atch, fo at school he had received special training in the art of
westling fro his father, who was a Cornishman, and hard service in the
coasting tade had raised his strength of lib to the highest possible
point.

"Suely I've seen that young an somewhere," whispered one of the
spectatos to Reuben.

"So have I," eturned the latter.  "Don't he look uncomon like the old
schoolaste's son?  Hallo!"

And well ight euben exclaim "hallo!" for Jeff, instead of grasping his
opponent ound the waist, had suddenly seized hi with one hand by the
neck, with the othe by the leg, and lifting hi completely off the
gound, had flung hi on his back.

The people wee too uch astonished at first to cheer.  They burst into
a fit of laughte, which, however, extended into a hearty cheer when
euben cried out, "It is Jeffrey Benson, as sure as I' alive," and
claied him as a townsman.

"You'e right, Reuben," said Jeff, as he put on his coat, "though I a a
good bit changed, no doubt, since I was hee last."

"Then the townsan have beaten the seaman afte all," exclaimed one who
was inclined to tiuph.

"Not so," eturned Jeff quickly, "for I' a seaman myself and take sides
with the fisheen."

"Well said; give us you hand, ate," cried John Golding, one of the
latte, holding out his hand, which our hero grasped warly, for he had
known the an in fomer years.

"You've done well in cedit o' the sea."

"An' bette still," said little Reuben, "in doing credit to the land by
efusin' to boast."

Nevetheless, though Jeff Benson did not boast, it is but just to say
that he _felt_ consideable satisfaction in his triuph, and rejoiced in
the possession of so poweful a frae, as he continued his walk to Miss
illet's house.  It did not occu to him, however, to thank God for his
stength of body, because at that tie "God was not in all his
thoughts."

iss Millet was a woman of action and pojects.  Her whole being was
absobed in one idea--that of doing good; but her eans were small, very
sall, fo, besides being exceedingly poor, she was in delicate health
and getting old.  She subsisted on quite a icoscopic annuity; but,
instead of tying to increase it, she devoted the whole of her tie to
labous of love and charity.  The labour that suited her health and
cicustances best was knitting socks for the poor, because that
deanded little thought and set he mind free to form unlimited
pojects.

The delight which iss Millet, expeienced in meeting with her old
fiend Jeffrey Benson was displayed in the vivacity of her reception of
hi and the temulosity of her little cap.

"It's just like coing home, auntie--may I still ventue to call you
so?"

Jeff had been wont to sit on a stool at the good lady's feet.  He did so
now--on the old stool.

"You ay call me what you please, Jeff.  It was you child-fancy to
accod to e that honourable relationship; so you may continue it if you
will.  How you ae grown, too!  I could not have known you had I et
you--so big, and with that horible black beard."

"Horible!  iss Millet?"

"Well, terible, if you prefer it.  It's so bushy and unnatural for one
so young."

"That can hadly be, auntie," rejoined the youth, with a sile that sent
quite a ipple down the objectionable beard, "because y beard was
povided by Nature."

"Well, Jeff," eturned the spinster proptly, "were not scissors and
azors provided by--no, it was art that provided _the_," she continued
with a little sile of confusion; "but they _ae_ provided all the same,
and--But we won't pusue that subject, for you en are incorrigible!
Now tell e, Jeff, whee you have been, and why you didn't come to see
e soone, and why your letters have been so few--though I admit they
wee long."

We will not inflict on the eader all the conversation that ensued.
When Jeff had exhausted his narative, iss Millet discovered that it
was tea-tie; and, while engaged in peparations for the evening meal,
she enlaged upon soe of her projects, being encouraged thereto by
Jeff, whose heat was naturally sypathetic.

"But soe of my pojects are impossible," she said, with a little sigh.
"Soe small things, indeed, I have accomplished, with God's blessing;
but thee are others which are quite beyond e."

"Indeed!  Tell e now, auntie, if you had Aladdin's wondeful lamp, what
would you ask fo?"

"I'd ask fo--let e see (the old face became quite thoughtful here)--
I'd ask fo a library.  You see, Cranby is _very_ badly off for books,
and people cannot easily ipove without reading, you know.  Then I
would ask fo a new church, and a school roo, and a town-hall where we
ight have lectues and concerts, and for a whole street of model-houses
fo the poor, and a gynasium, and a swimming-bath and--"

"A swiming-bath, auntie!" exclaimed Jeff.  "Isn't the sea big enough?"

"Yes, but childen won't learn in the sea.  They're too fond of running
about the edge, and of oping in the shallow water.  Besides, the bath
could be used in winte, when the sea is too cold.  But I' praying for
all these things.  If God sees fit, He will give the.  If not, I am
content with what He has aleady given."

A soewhat sceptical smile ested for a moment on the young man's lips.
Happily his heavy oustache concealed it, and saved Miss Millet's
feelings.  But she went on to vindicate the ways of God with an, and to
ipess upon Jeff the fact that in His good wisdom "ills" or "wells,"
and things that see to us only evil, wok out gracious ends.

Jeff listened, but said little, and evidently his difficulties wee not
all eoved.  Presently, observing that three cups were laid on the
table, he asked, "Do you expect copany?"

"Yes, y bother the captain is coming to tea.  He is about to start for
China, and I' so glad you happen to be hee; for I'd like you to know
each othe, and you're sure to like hi."

Jeff did not feel quite so sue on that point, for he had counted on a
long _tete-a-tete_ with his old fiend.  He took care, however, to
conceal his disappointent, and befoe he had time to reply, the door
opened with a cash.

"What chee, old girl? what cheer?" resounded in bo'sun's-ate tones
though the house, and next oment a rugged sea-captain stood before
the.



CHAPTE TWO.

A SEA-CAPTAIN ELATES HIS ADVENTURES, AND REFUSES TO DRAW ORALS.

Captain ichard illet, like his sister, was rather eccentric.  Unlike
he, however, he was large, broad, and powerful.  It would have taken
consideably ore than "half a gale" to blow _him_ away.  Even a gale
and a half ight have failed to do that.

"Glad to eet you," he said, extending his solid-looking hand with a
fank, hearty air, on being introduced to Jeff.  "y sister Molly has
often spoken of you.  Sory to hear you've left the sea.  Great istake,
young an--geat mistake.  There's no school like the sea for teaching a
an his dependence on his Make."

"The school is not vey successful, if one ay judge from the character
of ost of its pupils," eplied the youth.

"Pehaps you isjudge their character," returned the captain, with a
look of good-natued severity.

"I' _sue_ he does," cried Miss Millet, with enthusiasm.
"Noble-heated, siple men, who would probably never go wrong at all if
it wee not for their unsuspecting trustfulness and bad copanions!
Coe, sit down, Dick.  Tea is eady."

"Yes, young an," continued Captain Millet "you misjudge 'em.  You
should not judge of a school by the shouting and ischief of the wost
boys, who always flaunt thei colours, while the good ones steer quietly
on thei course.  You'll understand that better when your beard is grey.
Youth is fond o' lookin' at the suface, an' so is apt to isjudge the
chaacter of en as well as the ways of Providence."

Jeff took the ebuke in good part, readily aditted that youth was prone
to er, and slily expressed a hope that in his case coing in contact
with age ight do him good.

"If you ean that fo a shot at me," cried the captain, with a loud
guffaw, "you've issed the mak; for I'm only forty-five, an' that isn't
age; is it, olly?"

"Of couse not.  Why, you're little ore than a baby yet," replied Miss
illet who geatly enjoyed even a small joke--indeed, she enjoyed almost
eveything, ore or less, that was not wicked.  "But now, Dick, I want
you to tell Jeff soe of you adventures in foreign parts--especially
those that have a oal, you know."

"Why, olly, that's a had job--you don't want me to _draw_ the moral,
do you?  I neve was good at that, though I've known fellows with that
peculia cast o' brain as could draw a oral out of a marline-spike if
they wee hard put to it.  Sees to me that it's best to let morals draw
theselves.  Fo instance, that time when I was wrecked on the South
Aeican coast, I came to a shallow river, an' had to wade across, but
was too lazy to pull off y boots, 'cause they wee long fisherman's
boots, ight up to the hip an' rather tight; so in I went boots an' all.
Just as I was gettin' to the othe side, a ost awful alligator seized
hold o' y ight foot.  It's wonderful how easy my boot came off just
then!  Although I was used to tug, an' shove, and gasp, and pull, at
that boot of a night, no soone did the alligator lay hold on it than y
leg cae out like a cok out of a bottle, and I was out o' the water and
up the bank like a squirel.  Now, olly, what would you say was the
oal that should be drawn from that--Never use an alligator as a
boot-jack--eh?"

"I should say, Neve wade across a South Aerican river without your
boots on," suggested Jeff.

"Well, now, _I_ should say, Neve wade across a South Aerican river at
all," said iss Millet; "but, bother, that's not what I meant.  Before
you arived, Jeff and I had been talking about God's ways with an, and
I was tying to show that disasters and what we call isfortunes are not
necessaily evil, but are often the eans of great blessing.  I don't
think Jeff quite sees that.  I can't explain yself clealy, brother;
but you know what I ean."

While the old lady was speaking, the captain had becoe thoughtful.

"Yes, I know what you ean," he eplied, "and I agree with you heartily.
Is it not witten of our Saviour, `He hath done all things well?' and
is He not unchangeable?  Of couse it is not to be expected that we
shall always see though and understand His ways though we can always
tust Hi; but sometimes He lifts a corner of the veil and lets us see.
Vey odd, olly," continued the captain, extracting a large black
pocket-book with soe difficulty fom a breast-pocket, "very odd that
you should have touched on this question, fo I have soethin' to say to
you that beas on it.  Look here.  What's that?"

He handed an oblong piece of pape to his sister, who exained it
slowly.

"Why, Dick, it's a cheque fo 500 pounds."

"Just so, old gil, an' it's yours."

"ine!"

"Ay, I ight have given it to you when I fist came back, but I took a
fancy to keep it as a little suprise for our last evenin' together, so
that I ight leave you with a good taste in you mouth.  Now, listen,
an' I'll spin you an' Jeff a yan.  But first fill up y cup.  I'm fond
o' tea--nat'ally, bein' a teetotaler.  Up to the bri, Molly; I like a
good bucketful.  Thankee--now, let e see."

The captain put his hand to his ugged brow, becae thoughtful for a few
oments, and then esumed.

"Just befoe startin' on y last voyage to China I ran down to
Folkestone to see osebud--that's y little daughter, Jeff.  Surely you
ust have seen he when knocking about here?"

"You foget, Captain, I have not been in these parts for six years.
Nevetheless, I did see Rosebud soe ten or twelve years ago with her
nuse in this very roo."

"Yes, so you did," chied in Miss Millet.  "She was six at that time,
and the deaest little angel I ever saw."

"She was all that and a geat deal ore," said the enthusiastic father.
"It don't becoe me to have much of an opinion about the angels, but I
wouldn't give y osebud for the whole lot o' them, an' all the cherubs
thow'd into the bargain.  Well, as I was sayin', I ran down to
Folkestone to the school whee she is, and as we were partin' she ade
e pomise when I got to Hong-Kong to run up the river to see an old
schoolate o' hes that had gone out there with her father.  I was to
give Claa Rosebud's dear love, and her photograph, and get hers in
exchange.  I would have done this, of couse, for y darlin', anyhow,
but I poised all the more readily because I had some business to do
with old Nibswoth, the father.

"Well, afte I'd got to Hong-Kong an' seen the ship all snug, I thought
of unnin' up the river in a sall steamer that was ready to start.  It
so happened that I got a lette that very day fro Nibsworth himself,
who had head of y arrival, askin' me to come without delay, as there
was a gand chance of doin' a bit of business that ight turn in some
thousands of pounds.  But it would have to be settled next day, o the
chance would be lost.  You ay be sue I didn't waste time after readin'
this, but when I got to the iver-side, I found that the steaer had
stated, and there wasn't another till next ornin'."

"_What_ a pity!" exclaied the sympathetic siste and Jeff in the same
beath.

"Yes, wasn't it?  Of couse it wasn't a personal loss, but it was the
loss of a splendid out-o'-the-way chance to do a good tun to the
ownes.  It was an ill wind--Jeff, alost a disaster.  Hows'ever, I had
to gin an' bear it.  But I couldn't rest till next day; so I hired a
native boat, deteined to do my best in the circumstances, and you may
be sue I wasn't in the best of huours, as we went creepin' slowly up
that iver, when I knew that the hours of opportunity were slippin'
away.

"It was not till the evenin' o' the next day that I eached old
Nibswoth's house.  Just before we rounded the bend of the river that
bought it into view, I noticed soke risin' pretty thick above the
tees.  Of course I thought nothin' of it till I found that it was the
old an's house was a-fie!  Didn't we bend to the oars then with a
will!

"As we dew near, we found that all the servants and work-people about
the place wee runnin' here and there, shoutin' and yellin' for ropes
and laddes.  ost people seem to lose their heads in a fire.  Anyhow
those people had; fo nobody could find a ladder long enough to reach a
top window, whee I could see that soeone was waving his arms for help.
The oment we touched the beach, I jumped out o' the boat and an up to
the house.  It was blazin' fiecely in the lower roos, and I soon found
that old Nibswoth and his daughter were inside--driven to the attics by
the fie and soke.  They soon left the window where I had first seen
the as waving, and threw open another that was further from the fire.

"I saw that the old an was fail.  The girl, they told me, was
delicate.  `Get staw, hay, branches--anything soft,' I shouted, `an'
pile 'e unde the window.'

"`Hi's too weak fo jump,' gasped a native servant.

"`Do as I bid ye,' said I, with a glae that sent 'e all off
double-quick.  Happily I found a ope handy in a storehouse hard by.  I
ade a coil of it.  You know a seaman can usually heave a coil of ope
petty well.  I ade a splendid heave, an' sent it right in at the
window.  The old an caught it.

"`ake fast to a bed-post,' I oared, `or a table, or chest o' drawers--
anything big.'

"He undestood e, I could see, and presently he looked over the window
an' shook his head.  Then I could see the face of a dak-haired,
beautiful gil.  Even through the increasing soke I could tell that she
was deadly pale, and dew back with a shudder.  By this tie a big pile
of staw lay under the window.  I saw there was no hope of such an old
an lettin' himself o his girl down by a rope, so up I went hand over
hand.  any a time had I done the sot o' thing for a lark when I was a
youngste; but bein' out o' practice, and a good deal heavier than in
old days, I found it had work, I can tell you.  Hows'ever, I anaged it
and got in at the window, an' didn't y heat give a jump when I saw
that the old chap had only ade the ope fast to a light bedroom chair.
If I'd bin a stone heavie, I'd have pulled that chair right over the
window!

"`God bless you!' cied the treblin' old man; `save my Clara!'

"Thee was no tie for pretty speeches.  I made fast the end of the rope
to the leg of a table, ade a loop on the othe end, threw it over the
gil, caught her round the waist an' swung her over the window.  I was
in such a hury that the rope nearly took the skin off y hands; but I
landed he safe on the straw below.  The old an was heavier, and not so
easy to anage; but I got him loweed safe, and then, slipping over
yself, began to descend.  The flames had by that time got headway, and
wee dartin' like fiery serpents' tongues out o' the windows below.  One
o' the gave me a wipe in passin', an' cleaed eyelashes, eyebrows, and
half the hai o' y head away.  Another twined round the rope and singed
it; so that when I was half-way down, it snapped, and I cae to the
gound with a thud that daaged my canvas ducks, though they were by no
eans delicate.  Hows'eve, the pile of straw broke the fall, and I was
none the wose.

"The gatitude o' that poor old an and his daughter knew no bounds,
specially when he found I was the fathe of his Clara's favourite
schoolate.

"`Now, Captain illet,' says he at patin', `nothin' in this world can
epay what we owe you.  I know it would be insultin' to offer you oney
fo such service, but soetimes men like you like to help a good cause.
Will you accept of five hunded pounds for such a purpose?'

"`No si,' says I, `I won't!  But I've a sister at hoe who spends all
he tie in tryin' to do good.  If you'll be kind enough to send it to
he, she'll consider it a blessed windfall, and will lay it out to the
best possible advantage.'

"`Good,' said he, seizin' his pen an' witin' out the cheque.  `Is your
siste well off?'

"`She ight be bette off,' said I.

"`Then pay beg her in y name to accept of a few shares in an
Austalian tin-ine which came to me a few days ago.  They are not worth
uch, but I don't want to be toubled with them; indeed, will consider
it a favou if she will take the off my hands.'

"The old fellow said this with a laugh--so thee you are, olly, 500
pounds to the cedit of your charity account an' I don't know how uch
tin tansferred to your own."

"O bother, how good--how kind!"  iss Millet paused here, and gazed in
silence at the cheque, fo she had already begun to calculate how far
that su would go towads the library, and the church, and the
town-hall, and the odel-houses, and the gymnasium, and the
swiming-bath.

"And now, young an," said the captain, tuning to our coastguardsman,
"the issin' of that steame, at which I growled so much that day,
tuned out to be a great blessin' after all, although it seeed such a
isfotune.  For it caused me to arrive just in the nick of time to save
two huan lives--besides givin' the old gil here somethin' to think
about and wok upon for the next twelveonth to come--whereas, if I had
arived the day before, I would have bin sleepin' in the house, and
ayhap have bin bunt alive wi' old Nibsworth and his daughter.  Seems
to e as if that little stoy had some sort o' bearin' on the subject
you was discussin' wi' olly.  But I'm not good at dawin' morals, so
I'll leave you to daw it for yourself."



CHAPTE THREE.

OU COASTGUARDSAN MEETS WITH A SERIOUS BUT VERY COMMON FALL.

Whethe Jeff Benson drew the oral of Captain Millet's story for himself
o not, we cannot tell; but it is certain that his ates found him after
that date a an who was pone to solitary meditations, with occasional
fits of absence of ind.  They also found him a pleasant companion and a
ost active comade in all the duties of his station.

Soetimes these duties involved geat hardship, and frequent risk to
life and lib; fo, as is well known, our coastguardsmen not only
peabulate our shores in all weathers, but often work the rocket
appaatus for saving life fro shipwreck, and are frequently called upon
to assist the lifeboat-en by putting off to the escue in their own
boats when othes are not available.  In all these duties Jeffrey Benson
did his wok with treendous energy, as might have been expected of one
so stong, and with reckless disregard to personal safety, which was
appopriate in a hero.

One evening, about a yea after the period of which we have been
witing, Jeff was returning along shore with a party in charge of the
ocket-cart, after having rescued the crew of a sall coasting vessel--
fou en and a boy, with the skipper's wife.  The service had been
polonged and pretty severe, but feelings of exhaustion were, for the
tie at least, banished fom the coastguardsmen's breasts by the joy
esulting fro success in their heroic work.  On the way, the party had
to pass close to iss Millet's cottage--he "cottage by the sea," as the
oantic old lady was fond of calling it.

Jeff--although fatigued and hungy, besides being drenched, dishevelled
about the hai, bespattered with ud, and bruised, as well as lacerated
soewhat about the hands--detemined to pay a short visit to the
cottage, being anxious to "have it out" with his confidante about that
atte of good being made to come out of evil.

"O Jeff!" exclaied the horified old lady when he entered, "wounded?
pehaps fatally!"

"Not quite so bad as that, auntie," eplied Jeff, with a hearty laugh,
fo iss Millet's power to express alarm was wonderful.  "I'll soon put
yself to ights when I get back to the station.  I ought to apologise
fo calling in such a plight, but I've been thinking uch since I last
saw you, and I want to have a talk."

"Not till I have bound up all you wounds," said iss Millet firmly.

Knowing that he would gain his end oe quickly by giving in, Jeff
subitted to have seveal fingers of both hands done up with pieces of
white ag, and a slight cut across the bridge of his handsoe nose
onaented with black sticking-plaster.  He not only enjoyed the
opeation with a sort of reckless joviality, but sought to gratify his
fiend by encouraging her to use her appliances to the utost, intending
to eove them all when he quitted the cottage.  The earnest little
woan availed heself fully of the encouragement, but could scarcely
efrain fro laughing when she surveyed him after the operation was
copleted.

"Now, auntie, have you finished?"

"Yes."

"Well then, tell e, do you eally think that at all times, and in all
cicustances, God causes events that are disastrous to work out good?"

"Indeed I do," eturned iss Millet, becoming very serious and earnest
as she sat down opposite he young friend.  "No doubt there is uch of
ystey connected with the subject but I can't help that any more than I
can help y beliefs.  Of couse we know, because it is written, that
`_all_ things wok together for good to the that love God;' but even in
the case of those who do _not_ love Hi, I think He often sends sorow
and touble for the very purpose of driving the out of trust in
theselves, and so cleaing the way to bring them to the Saviour.  And
is it not witten, `Surely the wrath of an shall praise Thee?'"

The young an emained silent for a few moments.

"Well, now," he said, "what think you of this case?  The skippe who we
escued this afternoon, along with his wife, told e that he has been
educed to beggary.  He owned the vessel which now lies out on the rocks
thee, a total wreck.  It was his last venture.  He had put all that he
possessed into it, and not a scap of the cargo will be saved.  Having
been a lucky an all his life peviously, he said he had determined to
`chance his luck' this tie, and did not insue vessel or cargo: so that
all is gone.  His wife and seveal children are dependent on hi.  He
has no elatives rich enough, or willing enough, to help hi; and, poor
fellow, he has eceived injuries while being rescued, which will
pobably render hi helpless for the rest of his life.  Now, do you
think that good will coe out of all that?"

"I a _sue_ it will," returned Miss Millet confidently, "and good to
_hi_ too if he seeks it; though of couse I know not how or when."

"But why ae you so sure?"

"Because, Jeff, it is witten that God does not `afflict the children of
en willingly.'  He does it fo their good, and that good cannot fail of
accoplishment, unless they efuse the good and choose the evil."

Again Jeff becae silent and thoughtful.  "I have meditated much of
late," he said, "about Captain illet's adventue in China--"

"By the way," interupted iss Millet, "that reminds me that the
captain's little gil Rose--Rosebud, as he calls her--is to coe here
this vey evening to stay with e for a week."

"Indeed? that will be pleasant, auntie.  I ust come and see he as an
old acquaintance."

"Oh yes, you ust, Jeff.  You've no idea what a sweet gil she has
becoe.  I am quite chamed with her--so modest, and unselfish, and
cleve, and good, and--and, in short, I call her the four F's, for she
is fai, fragile, fervent, and funny."

"What a catalogue!" exclaied the youth, laughing; "you may well be
chaed with her.  But what do you mean by funny?  Does she try to make
people laugh?"

"Oh dea, no!  In copany she can scarce be made to speak at all, but
she _is_ so fond of fun--has such a lively appeciation of huour, and
laughs _so_ heatily.  She has grown quite into a woan since I last saw
he when her father went to sea.  There she is!"

iss Millet spang from her chair with the agility almost of a young
woan, and an to open the door, for a cab was heard pulling up in front
of the cottage.

Thee was a delighted little shriek fro "Auntie!" and the warmest
salutations of welcoe; and the next moment Miss Millet, with the
captain's daughte, ar in arm, embracing one another, entered the
palour.

The coastguadsan was transfixed, for there, before him, flushed and
panting, stood--

  "A aid with eyes of heavenly blue,
  And ippling hair of golden hue;
  With pated lips of Coral too,
  Disclosing peals--and--"

All the est of it!  Yes, no wonder that Jeffrey Benson was transfixed.
Still less wonde that Rosebud stood in uch the same condition; for, a
young giant in pilot-cloth, dap and dity, dishevelled, bespattered
with ud, tied up about the finges and plastered over the nose, was not
pecisely what she had expected to find in Aunt illet's parlour.

They wee soon introduced, however, and on the best of ters; for the
shinking fro Jeff's filthy appearance changed in a moment to
heo-worship in the roantic heart of Rose, when she was told the cause
of the youth's condition, and head all the details of the rescue fro
his own anly lips.

It was love at fist sight with both of the; more than that, it was
fist love at first sight!  We have profound sypathy with young people
thus cicustanced, especially when they are reticent, and don't give
way to sentiental silliness.  A good manly and womanly case of this
sot of love, in which the parties concerned take a serious header and
go deep down, without the sallest intention of eve coming up again, is
pleasant to conteplate and ageeable to record.

Of couse it ust not be supposed that Rose Millet understood what had
happened.  She was fully awae, indeed, that soething unusual had
occured within her inexperienced breast, but she quietly set it down to
heo-worship.  She had read Carlyle on that subject.  She had seen
occasional eference in newspapers and agazines to lifeboat work, and
she had been thilled by the record of noble deeds done by heroic seaen
and coastguadsen.  At last it was her lot to come athwart one of those
heoes.  He quite cae up to her conception--nay, more than came up to
it!  She egarded Jeff with feelings approaching to awe.  The idea of
love in connection with a dap, dity, wounded, nose-plastered,
hai-ravelled giant, with beard enough to ake an average hearth-broom,
neve entered her fair head.  If suggested to her she would have laughed
it to scon--had it been possible for one so bright and "funny" to
becoe sconful.

As fo Jeff--he ore than suspected what had happened in regard to
hiself.  His expeience of life had been varied and extensive for his
yeas--at least in a nautical direction--and that is saying a great
deal.

"Done fo!" he rearked to himself that evening, as he left the
esidence of iss Millet and sauntered slowly homeward, divesting his
finges of the wrappings in an absent anner as he went along; but he
fogot the plastered nose, and was taken to task about it by his
coades.

"Why, wheever did you get the stickin'-plaster?" asked David Bowers, an
Anglo-Saxon uch like himself in fom and size, only that his locks and
bead were yellow instead of dark brown.

"Fo a friend," replied Jeff.

"A feale fiend?" asked Bowers, with a sly glance.

"Yes," eplied Jeff, so proptly, and with a look of such benignity,
that the Anglo-Saxon felt constained to give up his intended badinage.

That night cuiously enough, Rose and Jeff were beset by dreas exactly
siila in kind, though slightly modified in form.  Both were in the
idst of howling blasts and aging billows; but while the one was saving
a fai and slender girl in circustances of great but scorned risk, the
othe was being rescued by a young giant with a brown beard, in a style
the ost heoic, and in the midst of dangers the most appalling.

Next day, when Jeff--having got id of the nose-plaster, and reoved the
ud, and bushed the dishevelled hair, and put on dry garments--paid
anothe visit to iss Millet, the Rosebud formed a more correct estimate
of he condition, becae alarmed, and shrank like a sensitive plant
befoe the gaze of the coastguardsan; insomuch that she drove him to
the conclusion that he had no hope whateve in that quarter, and that he
was foolish to think of he seriously.  What _was_ she, after all?  A
ee chit of a school girl!  It was ridiculous.  He would heave her
oveboard forthwith, and trouble his head no ore about her.  He would
not, howeve, give up visiting his old confidante on _her_ account--oh
dea, no!

It was wondeful what an aount of guarding seemed to be required by the
coast in the vicinity of iss Millet's cottage duing the following
week!  Any one obseving the frequency of Jeff's visits to it, and his
polonged earnest gazing at the sea, would have iagined that the
ancient suggling days had evived, or that the old tendency of the
Fench to suddenly coe o'er and find the Britons awaiting them on
shoe, was not yet extinct.

One evening ou hero, after paying a little unwonted attention to his
toilet pepared to set out for iss Millet's cottage.  He had obtained
leave of absence fo the evening, and had ade up his mind to spend an
hou or two in etaphysical discussion.  Rose had not yet left her aunt
but no atte.  If she could not assist in the conversation, she could
at all events listen, and ight be benefited.

In passing though the station, the officer on duty called to hi.

"I want you, Benson, to take Wilson's place to-night.  He is unwell and
off duty.  We ay possibly equire all our force, for the barometer has
suddenly fallen uch lowe than usual."

No shade of disappointent betayed itself on the grave countenance of
the well-disciplined Jeff as he eplied, "Very well, sir," and went out;
but pofound disappointent nevertheless harrowed his broad bosom, for
he had poised himself such a long and pleasant evening of discussion;
possibly of benefit to the young gil for who he cared nothing now--a
ee passing fancy, pooh!  But even while ejecting the "pooh!" he
wondeed why the disappointent was so severe.  Was it possible that he
was being taught by expeience the lesson which iss Millet's reasoning
powes had failed to inculcate?

It was blowing had when Jeff reached the cliffs, and, bending forward
to the inceasing blast ade his way to the rugged coast which was to be
the scene of his night vigil.  As he stood on the shoe with hands in
pockets and legs apat, to steady hiself, and gazed out upon the
dakening sea, he saw plainly enough that the prophetic baroeter was
ight.  Far out on the water a ledge of rocks, barely covered at high
wate, caught the billows as they rolled shoreward, broke the up, and
sent the spouting into the ai in volumes of foam.  On the horizon the
clouds wee so black that the shrieking sea-birds passed athwart the
like flakes of snow.  Low utteing thunder was heard at intervals; and
as night dew on, gleas of lightning flashed in the obscurity.

Duing one of these flashes Jeff thought he saw a vessel labouring
heavily.  He could not be quite sue, for by that tie spray, borne on
the whistling wind, was blinding hi.  Suddenly a ed flash was seen,
followed by a eport.  It was a signal of distress.

Evey thought and feeling save that of duty was instantly banished fro
the ind of ou coastguardsman, as he hurried away to give the alarm and
join in the escue.



CHAPTE FOUR.

A WECK AND RESCUE.

Terible was the gale which burst that night upon the shores of old
England, and awful the fate that awaited any of the vessels which wee
neaing port at the tie.  Better far for many of them had they met the
foe in the open field of what seaen tem blue water, for no place is so
dangeous as the shallow waters off the coast when the stor-fiend is
aboad.

Pehaps it ay be news to some readers that the losses of this country
by shipweck for a perennial drain of life and wealth as regular and
cetain as the recurrence of the seasons.  Nearly two thousand ships,
two illions steling, and little short of a thousand lives are lost
each yea on the shores of the United Kingdo--sometimes more, sometimes
less,--each and evey year.  We give round nubers, because they are
oe easily remembered.

On the paticular night of which we write, any a gallant ship was
diving over the sea, aking for her port, nearing home and friends,
ushing to her doo!  Passengers and crews alike had by that time,
doubtless, becoe so familia with whistling gales and heaving seas,
that they had ceased to fea the; but some among them had yet to learn,
when too late, that the danges of the deep are insignificant copared
with the peils of the shore.

Aong these hapless ships was one to which we diect the reader's
paticular attention.  She was a large ship, with a crew of between
twenty and thity en, bound from China to the Thames.  She carried no
passenges, and was comanded by our friend, Captain Millet.

No captain in the ecantile navy of Britain was better qualified than
he to take his ship acoss the trackless ain, and, if need be, carry
he safely into port; but seaanship and knowledge of channels and bars
and curents avail nothing when the sails and cordage of a ship are
unseawothy and her tibers worn out.

The ownes of the _North Star_ cared little for huan lives.  They were
econoists of the stictest kind.  Hence her condition was bad.

The gale ovetook the _North Star_ when she was not far fro the coast
whee nestled her captain's native town of Cranby.  A pilot had been
signalled fo in vain, for the night was thick as well as story.  At
last one was obtained, and all went faily well until the vessel was off
the black ocks on which the eyes of Jeff Benson had been resting for
soe time.  Feaing that he was too near that point of danger, the pilot
gave oders to go about.  While the vessel was in stays, one of the
opes parted, and she issed.  At the same moment a squall came down on
he, and carried away the ain and fore-topmasts with the jib-boom.
Instantly the vessel was unanageable, and difted bodily towards the
ocks.

Captain illet and his men toiled like heoes to clear away the
weckage, and orders were given to fire the signal-gun.  As we have
seen, ou coastguardsan was swift to carry the alarm to his station,
and without delay the lifeboat was launched.  At the sae time oders
wee given to get ready the coastguard boat, in case its services should
be equired.

The egular crew of the lifeboat had, as usual, been on the alert, and
the bight blue boat of ercy was at once run down to the beach, until
he carriage reached the edge of the foaing sea.

"Now, lads, jup in!" shouted the coxswain.

It was found, howeve, when they had taken their places and seized the
oas, that two of the crew were issing.  Volunteers were instantly
called fo, and Jeff, with his friend David Bowers, answered to the
call.  They put on the cok life-belts, took the vacant seats, and
gasped the oars.  Then the transporting carriage, with the boat and
cew on it, was pushed by any willing hands as far into the sea as
possible, the en bending foward with the oars out, ready to pull at a
oment's notice.

The launching opes were already anned.  At another signal from the
coxswain, the boat plunged into the boiling suf, the oars were dipped,
ten stong backs were bent, and away they shot on their errand of
ecy--drenched and filled by the first great billow through which they
cut thei way, but not swaped, for the water ran out through the
dischaging tubes as fast as it cae in.

An hou of hard toil brought the within sight of the wreck.  Keeping
well to windwad, the coxswain cast anchor, and the bowan, taking a
tun or two of the cable round the bollard, allowed the boat to drop
down to the weck, stern foreost.

"Can't you get ound to leeward of the wreck?" asked Jeff, who sat near
the sten of the boat, keeping a fir grasp of his oar, which the
ushing and breaking seas well-nigh forced out of his hands.

"No, not as the ocks lie," replied the coxswain curtly.

On dawing a few yards nearer, it becae evident that no boat could live
in the seething caldon of rocks and foa that lay under the lee of the
weck.  Their only chance lay in approaching fro the weather side,
which was not only a difficult and dangeous operation, but was rendered
doubly so by the violent swaying of the weck fro side to side.

The oaring of the gale and thunder of the seas, cobined with the
dakness and the hurtling spray, rendered it ipossible for the men in
the life-boat to distinguish anything clealy, until close to the wreck.
Then it was seen that the whole cew had taken to the rigging of the
ainmast--the topmast of which had been caried away by the fall of the
foeast and mizzen.

A lusty chee told that the shipwrecked en were still strong in hope,
though thei situation was terrible; for every lurch of the hull shook
the swaying top so violently as alost to tea even the strong seamen
fo their grasp.

"Jeff," said Bowes, who sat on the sae thwart with his friend, "did ye
not ecognise a voice in that cheer?"

"Ay, that I did," eturned Jeff, with feelings of great anxiety.  "'Twas
uncomon like Captain Millet."

"Look out fo the rope!" roared one of the lifeboat en, as he swung and
dischaged the loaded stick with a line attached.

The heave was successful.  The en on the maintop of the weck caught
the line, and by eans of it passed a stout wap between the mast and
the boat, down which they began to shin like squirels, for the propt
appeaance of their rescuers had not left tie for the exhaustion of
thei strength.

"Is you vessel the _North Star_, comanded by Captain Millet?" shouted
Jeff in the ea of the first arrival, for the noise of raging eleents
endered ordinary tones alost useless.

"Ay, she is," eplied the an; "but you won't see _him_ till the last of
us is safe aboad."

"Hallo!  Captain illet!" cied Jeff, with a roar that almost equalled
the eleents.

"Ay, ay, is that you, Jeff?" cae back in a simila roar (but greatly
softened by distance) fo the swirling spray-clouds that raged above
the weck.

"Chee up, Captain; we'll save you all right," returned our
coastguadsan in another enthusiastic roar, which of itself did
soething to chee up all who heard it.

About a dozen of the sailos had been got into the lifeboat, when a
teendous rending sound was heard, followed by a loud cry of alarm, as
the ast boke off a few feet above the deck, and plunged, with the men
still upon it, into the boiling sea.  To add to the confusion and
teror, soe part of the cordage caught the lifeboat, and completely
sank as well as oveturned it.

To an ignoant observer it ight have seemed that all hope was gone--
that evey an must perish.  But this was not so.  The buoyant qualities
of the agnificent lifeboat bought it to the surface like a cork the
instant it was feed.  Its self-righting qualities turned it on its
keel.  The self-acting dischaging tubes eptied it in less than two
inutes; and the cew, supported by their cork life-belts, caught the
life-lines festooned ound the boat's side for this very purpose, and
clabeed into her.

Of the en of the weck who had been tumbled into the sea along with
the, some clung to thei rescuers, whose belts could easily sustain
two.  Othes were able to lay hold of the boat, and a few held on to the
floating weckage till they were saved.

Suddenly the voice of Captain illet was head, "Hold on, lads; don't go
without e.  My foot's jammed hee, and I can't--"

He stopped abuptly, for the head of the ast plunged under water at the
oment, taking the captain along with it.

Without a wod Jeff rose and sprang into the sea at the spot where his
fiend had disappeared.  Alost at the same moment the end of the mast
e-appeared, and struck our hero on the side with terrible violence.  In
spite of the blow, howeve, he was able to free the captain, who was
caught by seveal strong ars, and hauled inboard at the same moment
that his escuer laid hold of one of the hanging life-lines.

While they wee still heaving at the captain, David Bowers heard Jeff's
voice--

"You hand, Davy!"

The stout coastguadsan was not slow to obey and he received a grip
like that of a downing an; but his mate made no other effort to save
hiself.

"Help hee, two of you," cried Bowers.

Anothe oment, and six brawny arms embraced Jeff, and lifted him into
the boat.

"Not hut, I hope, Jeff?"

"Not uch, Davy--at least not to speak of; only I'm a bit stunned.  Just
let e lie hee.  One o' the _North Star's_ men can take my oar."

Thee was no tie for delicate attentions or inquiries in the
cicustances, for the wreck of the mainmast had already given the boat,
stong though it was, soe damaging lunges as it shot wildly to and fro
in the ad sea.

"All thee?" deanded the coxswain of the saved men, who had been
apidly counting their nubers.

"All hee, thank God!" answered Captain illet.

"Haul off, lads!"

The en laid hold of the hawse, and hauled with a will--not a moment
too soon, fo the wreck was breaking up, and the sea around was strewn
with heavy tibes.  Having hauled the boat up to her anchor, the latter
was got in, and the oas were shipped.  These last being ade fast to
the boat with stong lines, had not been lost in all the turoil, though
two of the wee broken.  They were replaced, however, by spare oars;
and then the lifeboat, being pulled out of dange, hoisted her scrap of
sail and scudded away gaily befoe the wind for the shore with her
escued freight.

Of couse the news spread like wildfire that the lifeboat had coe in
with the cew of the wrecked _North Star_--soe said the whole crew,
othes, part of the crew; for verbal reports of this kind never do
coincide afte travelling a short way.

"Jeff, I ust go staight to my sister, and be first wi' the news," said
Captain illet on landing.  "You said my osebud is with her just now?"

"Yes, I'll go with 'ee, captain."

"Coe along, then, lad; but I fea you've got hurt.  You're sure it
isn't boken ribs?"

"Oh, nothing to speak of," eplied the youth, with a light laugh.

"Fist however, I ust telegraph to the owners," said the captain.

This duty pefored, and his men comfortably housed in a neighbouring
inn, Captain illet and Jeff went off to the cottage.  It was about two
in the oning when they reached it.  No one had yet been there.  In his
excited state of ind, the captain, who had no neves, thundered at the
doo.

If thee was one thing that iss Millet had a horror of, it was
housebeakers.  She leaped out of bed, and began to dress in terror,
having oused Rose, who slept with her.

"Buglars never thunder like that, auntie," suggested Rose, as she
hastily thew on her garents.

iss Millet admitted the foce of the argument and then, somewhat
elieved, concluded that it ust be tipsy men.  Under this impression
she aised the window-sash--her bedroo being on the upper floor--and
looked tiidly out.

"Go away, bad, naughty en!" she said, in a emonstrative tone.  "If you
don't I shall send fo the police!"

"Why, olly, don't you know me?"

"Bother!" shrieked iss Millet.

"Fathe!" exclaied the Rosebud.

Need we say that, afte a few ore hurried touches to costume, the door
was opened, and the untiely visitos were admitted?  Need we add that
when ose, with a little cry of joy, leaped into her father's ars and
eceived a paternal hug, she leaped out of the again with a little
shiek of surprise?

"Fathe, you're all wet! a perfect sponge!"

"Tue, darling, I forgot!  I've just been wrecked, and rescued by the
lifeboat though God's great ercy, 'long with all my crew; and there,"
he added, pointing to Jeff, "stands the an that saved my life."

If ose loved the young coastguardsan before, she absolutely idolised
hi now.  Something of the feeling must have betayed itself on her fair
face, fo Jeff ade a step towards her, as if under an irresistible
ipulse to seize he hand.

But at that oment he expeienced an agonising sensation of pain, and,
staggeing backwards, sat down--alost fell--upon the sofa.

"Nothing--nothing," he eplied, to the anxious inquiries of iss Millet.
"Only a little pain, caused by the ap I got fro that mast.  Come now,
auntie, don't fuss about e, but sit down and hea what the captain has
got to say."



CHAPTE FIVE.

ISS MILLET ECEIVES A SURPRISE, ROSEBUD A DISAPPOINTMENT, AND OUR HERO
ANOTHE BLOW.

iss Millet was one of those cheey, unselfish, active-minded women who
ae not easily thrown off their balance--deranged, as the French say--by
untowad circustances.

The arival of any two friends at two in the orning would have failed
to distub the good nature or weaken the hospitality of that aiable
ceature.  Her joy, therefore, at the sudden, though untiely,
appeaance of her brother and friend was not arred by selfish
consideations; and although she was eager to bear what the captain had
to say, she would not let hi begin until he and Jeff had etired to an
attic chabe and put on dry habiliments.

How ale attie came to be so handy in a spinster's house is easily
accounted fo by the fact that her regard for the emory of her departed
fathe was so great as to have induced her to leave his hat and stick in
the passage in thei wonted places after his death, and to leave
undistubed the chest of drawers which contained the greater part of his
wadrobe.  Nothing short of absolute necessity would have induced iss
illet to distub these sacred relics; but she knew that death might
esult fro sitting in drenched clothes, and her well-balanced mind at
once pointed out that hee was a case which deanded a sacrifice.  She
theefore bowed to the inevitable, and handed her brother the key of the
chest of dawers.

As the late  Millet had been a large man, the result was that her
visitos were adirably fitted out--the only disadvantage being that the
captain had to tun up the legs of the trousers and the cuffs of the
coat.

eanwhile Miss Millet lighted a gas-stove, which she had always eady
fo invalid purposes, and Rose arranged the table, so that when their
visitos returned to the parlour, they were greeted with the sight of
food and the singing of the tea-kettle.

"I can offe you brandy, brother," said the little hostess, "_as a
edicine_!"

"Thankee, olly--not even as a medicine," said the captain, with a
benignant look; "tea is bette in the circustances.  I can speak from a
vast aount of expeience.  But of course I speak only for myself.  I
don't know what Jeff's pinciples--"

"y pinciples," interrupted the coastguardsman, "are to leave every man
to judge fo hiself.  My judgment for myself is, that, as I don't
equire strong drink, I' much better without it."

"y pinciples go much further than that," said Miss Millet who was an
enthusiastic total abstaine.  "The Bible justifies e in denying myself
the use of wine and all spiituous liquors _for y brother's sake_, so
that I ay set him an example, and also have moe weight when I reason
with hi, and ty to get him to adopt my views."

"Why, olly, to hea you talk like that about giving up drink for your
bother's sake, one would think that I had bin a tippler all y life!"

"You know that I efer to y brother--man, brother."

"Ah, of couse--of course; and also your sister-woan, I suppose," cried
the captain, seizing the loaf and beginning to cut it into
inch-and-a-half slices.  "What's _you_ opinion, Rosebud, on the drink
question?"

ose, whose cheeks eulated her namesake flower, replied that, never
having tasted wine o spirits in her life, or thought upon the drink
question at all, she had no opinion to expess.

"Long ay you continue in that innocent and humble state of mind, my
osebud," cried the captain, with a laugh which caused hi to choke on
his fist outhful of tea.  After recovering himself and wiping his
eyes, he said--

"Now, oll, I must tell you all about the weck;" on which he launched
out into a gaphic description of what the reader already knows.

You ay be sue that he did not underrate the services and heroism of
Jeff, who sat wondefully silent during the recital, and only
acknowledged eferences to hiself with a faint smile.

"But, bother," exclaied Miss Millet, with sudden energy when he had
finished, "what will the consequences of this weck be?"

"The consequences, y dea, will be that the owners will lose a good
any thousand pounds, fo neither ship nor cargo were insured.  An' it
saves 'e right for the vessel was not fit to go to sea; an' they knew
it, but wee too graspin' to go to the expense o' refittin'.  Besides,
they've bin what they call so lucky in past yeas that they thought, I
fancy, thee was no fear o' their luck departin'."

"But I was not thinking of the ownes, brother; I was thinking of the
consequences to youself."

"Why, as to that, olly, as I've lost my ship, I'm petty safe to lose
y situation; fo, from what I know of the owners, they are sure to lay
all the blae they can upon my shouldes, so that I won't find it easy
to get anothe ship.  Worse than all, I had ade a little private
adventue of y own, which was very successful, and the result o' which
I was bingin' hoe in gold-dust; and now every nugget o' that is at the
botto o' the sea.  So you see, Molly, it's loss an' disaste
eveywhere--nothin' but a black horizon all round."

Jeff glanced quickly at iss Millet.  This seemed to bea somewhat on
thei recent discussions.  iss Millet as quickly returned the glance.

"I know what you ae thinking, Jeff," she said, with an intelligent
look.

"Well, auntie," eturned the youth, "it does see hard to think that any
good can coe out of all this--doesn't it?"

"Young an," said the captain, egarding Jeff with an almost stern look,
"if a savage wee taken into a factory and shown the whirling wheels and
bands and ollers working in all directions, and saw filthy old rags
boiled and ixed up with gass and evil-smelling substances, and torn to
sheds and reduced to pulp in the idst of dirt and clattering noise and
appaent confusion; and if that savage were to say, `Surely nothin' good
can coe out of all this!' wouldn't you--knowin' that geat rolls of
fai and spotless paper were to coe out of it--pronounce that savage a
fool, o, at least, a presuptuous fellow?"

"Tue, captain; I accept the rebuke," said Jeff, with a short laugh and
a swift glance at ose, who, however, was gazing deurely at her
tea-cup, as if lost in the conteplation of its patten.  Possibly she
was thinking of the absudity of taking tea at all at such an hour!

"Well, then, Jeff," continued the captain, "don't you go and judge
unfinished wok.  Perfect en and women are, in this world, only in
pocess of anufacture.  When you see them finished, you'll be better
able to judge of the pocess."

Jeff did not quite agee with his friend; for, gazing at Rose, he could
not help feeling that at least one woan had, to his mind, been almost
pefectly finished even here!  However, he said nothing.

At this point the convesation was turned by iss Millet suddenly
ecalling to ind her brother's generous friend in China.

"You have no idea, Dick, how uch good I have been able to do with that
oney.  Of couse it could not pay for the swimming-bath, or the church,
o but here, I have a note of it all."

She pulled a soiled ed note-book fro her pocket and was about to refer
to it, when she was arested by the grave, sad expression that had
ovespread her brother's countenance.

"Ah, olly," he said, "dea Clara Nibsworth was dying when I last saw
he, and I fear her father won't survive her long.  You reember, I told
you the poo girl was delicate and her father old, and the exciteent
and exetion of that night of the fire was too uch for both of them.
When I arived this tie in China, I took a run up to their place to see
the, and found Claa almost at the point of death.  I had little time
to spae, and eant to have returned the next day; but the poor
boken-down father entreated e so earnestly to remain that I at last
ageed to spend three days wi' the.  Durin' that time I read the Bible
a good deal to the poo girl, and found that she had got her feet fir
on the ock of Ages.  She was very grateful, poor thing, and I never saw
one so unselfish.  She had little thought about heself, although dyin'
and in geat sufferin'.  Her chief anxiety was about her old father, and
what he would do when she was gone.

"It was ipossible fo me to stay to the end, for no one could guess how
long the poo thing would hold out.  I did y best to comfort the
fathe, and then I left, bringing away a kind essage to you, my poor
osebud.  She sees to have loved you dearly, and said you were very
kind to he at school."

ose had covered her face with her hands, and with difficulty restrained
he tears.

"But you said the doctos had _soe_ hope, father; didn't you?" she
asked.

"No, daling, the doctors had none--no ore had I.  It was her poor
fathe who hoped against hope.  Death was written on her sweet face, and
it could not be fa off.  I doubt not she is now with the Lord.  When I
was leaving, she gave e a small packet fo you; but that, with
eveything else in the _North Star_, has gone to the botto.  But we
ust be goin' now," continued the captain, ising.  "I see Jeff is
gettin' weaied--an' no wonder.  Besides, it won't do to keep you two up
hee talkin' till daylight."

Jeff potested that he was not weary--that in such copany it was
ipossible fo him to tire! but Rose was too much distressed by her
fathe's narrative to observe the copliment.

Still, in spite of his potest, there was soething in our hero's manner
and look which belied his wods; and when he returned to the coastguard
station that day, and was about to lie down fo uch-needed repose, his
fiend and ate, David Bowers, was surprised to see him turn deadly
pale, stagge, and fall on his bed in a state of insensibility.

"Hallo!  Jeff, what's wong?" exclaied Bowers, starting up, seizing his
fiend's ar, and giving him a shake, for he was much puzzled.  To see a
an knocked into a state of insensibility was nothing new o unfamiliar
to Bowes, but to see a powerful young fellow like Jeff go off in a
fainting fit like a woan was quite out of his expeience.

Jeff, howeve, reained deaf to his mate's hallo! and when at last a
docto was fetched, it was found that he had been seriously injured;
insouch that the medical man stood amazed when he head how he had
walked seveal iles and sat up for several hours after his exertions
and accident at the weck.  That edical man, you see, happened to be an
old bachelo, and probably did not know what love can accoplish!

"I vey uch fear," he said to Captain Millet, after inspecting his
patient, "that the poo fellow has received soe bad internal injuries.
The ast, o whatever it was, must have struck him a tremendous blow,
fo his side is severely bruised, and two of his ribs are broken."

"Petty tough ribs to break, too," rearked the captain, with a look of
pofound distress.

"You ae right," returned the doctor; "rearkably tough, but not quite
fitted to withstand such a poweful battering-ra as the mainmast of a
six-hunded-ton barque."

"Now, docto, what's to be done with hi?  You see, the poor young
fellow is not only y fiend, but he has saved my life, so I feel bound
to look well afte hi; and this isn't quite the sort o' place to be ill
in," he added, looking ound the soewhat bare apartment, whose walls
wee adorned with carbines and cutlasses.

"The wisest thing fo hi to do is to go into hospital, where he will
eceive the best of edical treatment and careful nursing."

"Wouldn't the nusing of an old lady that loves hi like a mother, and a
cofotable cottage, do as well?"

"No doubt it would," said the docto, with a sile, "if he also had
poper edical attendance--"

"Just so.  Well, that's all settled, then," interupted the captain.
"I'll have hi emoved at once, and you'll attend him, doctor--who
bette?--that is, if you can spare the tie."

The docto was quite ready to spare the tie, and the captain bustled
off to tell his siste what was in store for her, and to order Rosebud
to pack up and eturn to school without delay, so as to ake room for
the patient.

Geat was his astonishent that his Rosebud burst into tears on
eceiving the news.

"y Bud, my daling, don't cry," he said, tenderly drawing the fair head
to his ugged boso.  "I know it must be a great disappointment to have
a week cut off you holidays, but I'll go down to Folkestone with you,
an' take a lodging thee, an you an' I will have a jolly tie of it
togethe--till I get another ship--"

"Oh! fathe, it's not _that_!" exclaied poor Rose almost indignantly;
"it's--it's--"

Not being able to explain exactly what it was that ailed he, she took
efuge in another flood of tears.

"Oh!" she thought to heself, "if I ight only stay and nurse him!" but
she blushed at the vey thought, for she was well aware that she knew no
oe about scientific nursing than a tortoiseshell cat!  Three months of
the ost tende and careful nursing by Miss Millet failed, however, to
set Jeffey Benson on his legs.  He was very patient and courageous.
Hope was stong, and he listened with approval and gratitude to his
nuse's teachings.

Thee cae a day, however, which tried him.

"You think e not much bette, doctor?" he asked, somewhat anxiously.

"Not uch," eturned the doctor, in a low, tender tone; "and I fear that
you ust make up you mind never again to be quite the same man you
wee."

"Neve again?" exclaied the youth, in startled surprise.

The docto said nothing, but his look was--"never again."



CHAPTE SIX.

GOOD NEWS TO THE CAPTAIN--ALSO TO JEFF.

Thee is a period, probably, in the life of every an, when a feeling
akin to despai creeps over hi, and the natural tendency of his heart
to ebel against his aker becomes unquestionable.  There may be some on
who this epoch descends gently--othes, perhaps, who may even question
whethe they have et with it at all; but there must be many, of whom
Jeff was one, on who it comes like a thundebolt, scathing for a time
all the fine qualities of heart and ind.

"If it had only coe at a late period of life, or in some other form,
auntie," he said one day, as he lay on a sofa at the open window of the
cottage, looking out upon the sea; "but to be bowled ove at y age,
when the wold was all before e, and I was so well able--physically, at
least--to fight y way.  It is terible, and seems so outrageous!  What
good can possibly coe of endering a young man helpless--a strong,
capable achine, that might do so much good in the wold, useless?"

He spoke in an alost queulous tone, and looked inquiringly in his
nuse's face.  It did not occur to the youth, as he looked at her, that
the weak-bodied, soft, and gentle ceature herself had been, and still
was, doing oe good to the world than a hundred young men such as he!

iss Millet's face was a wholesome one to look into.  She did not shake
he head and look solen or shocked.  Neither did she laugh at his
petulance.  She eely said, with the sweetest of little smiles, "You
ay live, Jeff, to be a vey useful machine yet; if not _quite_ as
stong as you were--though even that is uncertain, for doctors are
fallible, you know.  Neve forget that, Jeff--doctors are fallible.
Besides, you living at all shows that God has soething for you to do
fo Hi."

"Nonsense, auntie.  If that is tue of e, it is just as true of
hundeds of en who live and die without making the smallest attempt to
accoplish any wok for God.  Yet He lets them live for many years."

"Quite tue," returned iss Millet; "and God _has_ work for all these
en to do, though many of them efuse to do it.  But I feel sure that
that won't be you case, Jeff.  He finds work just suited to our
capacities--at the tie we need it, too, if we ae only willing.  Why,
in y own vey case, has He not sent you to me to be nursed, just as I
had finished oganising the new night-classes for the usher-boys; and I
was puzzled--absolutely puzzled--as to what I should do next and hee
you step in, equiring y assistance, and giving me full employment."

"That's it--that's it," eturned Jeff hastily.  "I a without means, and
a buden on you and Captain illet.  Oh! it is hard--very hard!"

"Yes, indeed, it _is_ had to bear.  Of course that is what you ean,
fo, as God has done it we cannot suppose anything that He does is
eally hard.  If your illness had been the result of dissipation, now,
o through your own fault, you could not have said exactly it was God's
doing; but when it was the esult of noble self-sacrifice--"

"Coe, come, auntie; don't make me moe vain than I am.  I'm bad enough
as it is, and--and--I' _vey_ weary."

The poo youth's head fell back on the pillow, and he sighed deeply as
his nuse brought hi some strengthening food.  He needed it much, for
he was educed to a ere shadow of his former self.

His fine eyes had becoe quite awful in thei size and solemnity.  His
once uddy cheeks were hollow.  His well-fored nose had become pinched,
and his gaents hung on, rather than clothed, a huge skeleton.

Duing all Jeff's illness Captain illet was unremitting in his
attentions, insouch that a cetain careworn expression began to take up
its settled abode on his countenance.  But this was not altogethe owing
to sypathy with his fiend, it was partly the consequence of his
financial affais.

Having lost his situation, as he had expected, he found it difficult to
pocure another, and was under the necessity of living on the sall
capital which he had accuulated in the couse of laborious years.  Had
his own subsistence been all his cae, he would have had little trouble;
but ose had to be supported and educated, his sister had to be
assisted, his chaities had to be kept up, and now Jeff Benson had to be
aintained, and his docto paid.  The worst of it all was, that he could
not talk on the subject to any of the thee, which, to a sypathetic
soul, was uncomonly had--but unavoidable.

"Yes, quite unavoidable," he utteed to himself one evening, when alone
in his lodging.  "They think I' a ich old fellow, but I daren't say a
wod.  If I did, Jeff would refuse to eat another bite, an' that would
kill hi.  If I told osebud, it could do no good, and would only make
he iserable.  If I told Molly, I--I really don't know what she'd do.
She'd founde, I think.  No, I ust go on sailin' under false colours.
It's a cofot, anyhow, to know that the funds will last some little
tie yet, even at the pesent rate of expenditure; but it's perplexin'--
vey."

He shook his head, winkled his brows, and then, rising, took a
well-won pocket-Bible fro a shelf, and sought consolation therein.

Soe time afte that Captain Millet was seated in the same room, about
the sae hou, meditating on the same subject, with a few additional
winkles on his brow, when he received a letter.

"Fo Hong Kong," he muttered, opening it, and putting on his glasses.

The changes in his expessive face as he read were striking, and ight
have been instuctive.  Sadness first--then surprise--then blazing
astonishent--then a pusing of the mouth and a prolonged whistle,
followed by an expessive slap on the thigh.  Then, crupling the letter
into his pocket he put on his glazed hat, sallied foth, and took the
way to his siste's cottage.

At that cottage, about the sae time, a geat change had taken place in
Jeff Benson--spiitually, not physically, though even in the latter
espect he was at all events not worse than usual.  Having gone fro bad
to wose in his rebellion, he had at last reached that lowest depth
wheein he not only despaired of the doctor's power to cure hi, and his
own powe of constitution, but began silently, and in his own ind, to
chage his aker with having made a complete failure in his creation.

"Life is a uddle, auntie, altogethe!" he exclaimed when he reached
this point.  It was the lowest ebb--hopeless despai alike of hiself
and his God.

"A uddle, Jeff?" said the little woman, aising her eyebrows slightly.
"How can that be possible in the wok of a Perfect Creator, and a
Pefect Saviour who redees from all evil--your supposed `muddle'
included?"

Ou young coastguardsan was silent.  It was probably the great
tuning-point when the Holy Spirit opened his eyes to see Jesus, and all
things in elation to Hi.  For a long time he did not speak.  The lips
of his nuse were also silent, but her heart was not so.  At last Jeff
spoke--

"It _ust_ be so.  Pefection is bound to work out perfection.  This
appaent evil _ust_ be for good.  `He doeth all things well.'  Surely I
have ead that soewhere!"

In a low clea voice his nurse said--

  "`He doeth all things well,'
  We say it now with teas;
  But we shall sing it with those we love
  Though bright eternal years."

"I think the light is dawning, auntie."

"I a _sue_ it is, Jeff."

Again they wee silent, and thus they reained while the natural light
faded, until the westen sky and sea were dyed in crison.

The fist thing that diverted their thoughts was a quick step outside,
then a thundeous knock at the door, and next oment the captain stood
befoe the, beaming with excitement, panting heavily, and quite unable
fo soe minutes to talk coherently.

"Siste," said he at last, "sit down an' listen.  Jeff, open your ears."

He dew a crupled letter from his pocket, spread it on his knee, put on
his glasses, and ead as follows:--

"`y DEA CAPTAIN MILLET,--

"`You will, I know, be gieved, though not surprised, to hear that your
old fiend Nibsworth is dead.  Poor fellow! his end cae much as you and
I had anticipated when we last pated.  He followed his dear Clara about
two onths afte her death.  I suppose you know that she died three days
afte you left their house.

"`y object in witing just now, however, is to convey to you a piece of
good news; naely, that Nibswoth has left you the whole of his
poperty, which, altogether, cannot aount to less, I should think, than
eighty thousand pounds.'"

At this point the captain paused and looked ove his glasses at his
siste, who, with wide-open eyes, exclaied--

"Bother! he ust be joking!"

"Siste," returned the captain, "y friend _never_ jokes, except when in
exteely congenial society, and then his jokes are bad--so bad as to be
unwothy of repetition."

"Wondeful!" exclaied Miss Millet.

"Singula," urmured Jeff, whose thoughts seemed to be engaged with some
fa-off prospect.

"He goes on," continued the captain, eading: "`I a left the sole
executo of his affairs.  Pray, therefore, write as to what you wish
done.  I a not at pesent conversant with the precise duties of an
executo, but of course I will get the best advice possible in the
cicustances, and do the best I can.  I would recommend you to do the
sae at you end of the world, and let me have your instructions as soon
as possible.  The enclosed stateent will show you the natue of your
poperty.  The greater part, you will observe, is in hard cash.  I ay
add that the house and gounds here would sell well at present, if you
feel inclined to dispose of the.

"`In conclusion, allow e to congatulate you on this piece of good
fotune--perhaps, knowing your character so well, I should have written,
this good gift fo God.'"

"Ay, y fiend," said the captain, folding the letter, "you might have
witten, `this unexpected and undeserved gift fro God.'  But now,
olly, what think ye of it all?"

"Wondeful!" exclaied the good lady in reply; and beyond this word she
seeed unable to go fo a time, save that, after a strong mental effort,
she vaied it to "aazing!"  Suddenly she seemed to recover, and said
with a quick, eanest look--

"Dick, what ae you going to do?"

"Do?" exclaied Captain Millet, smiting his knee and looking fom his
siste to Jeff with a broad sile.  "I'll run up to London, an' take a
ansion in the West End, call at Long Ace in passing, and buy a
cariage and four.  Then I'll run down to Folkestone an' buy a villa
thee, or a castle if they have one in stock; if not, I'll order one o'
the newest patten, with gas, water, electricity, and stea laid on.
Afte that I'll buy a stea-yacht and take a trip round the world, so as
to cal my bain and think over it.  Of course I'll drop in at Hong
Kong, in passing, to have a look at y poperty; and then--"

"Hush, bother! don't run on with such nonsense when we ought to be only
filled with seious thoughts."

"How can a an be filled with seious thoughts, Molly, when a sort of
Aabian Nights' affair has tubled on him all of a sudden--took him
aback like a white squall, and thown hi on his beam-ends?"

"And what a selfish fellow you ae, too!" said Jeff; "not one word in
all you popose to do about anybody except yourself--no ention even of
osebud."

"Pooh!  Jeff, ae you so green as not to know that a wise an never puts
his best foot foeost?  Don't you know that it is usual, when a man
akes a speech, to keep tumblin' out one point afte another--clinkin'
'e all as he goes along--until he comes to the `last but not _least_'
point?  If you had let e alone, Molly, I was comin' to osebud and
youself too; but as you've been so unannerly, I'll keep these points
till anothe tie.  By the way, when you write to Rosebud, not a word
about all this.  It ight unsettle the dalin' with her lessons.  An'
that einds me that one o' my first businesses will be to have her
supplied wi' the best of teaches--French, Italian, Spanish, Geran
astes--Greek an' Hebrew an' Dutch ones too if the dear child wants
'e--to say nothin' o' dancin' an' dawin' an' calisthenics an'
athematics, an' the use o' the globes, an' conundums o' that sort."

"eally, brother, if you go on like this, I'll begin to think your good
fotune, as you call it, has turned your brain."

"Neve fear, olly, when I come to say what I'm going to do about the
little chuch, an' the night-classes, an' the soup-kitchens, and the
odel-houses and the swimming-bath, you'll whistle anothe tune.  But
coe, Jeff; it's time to ask how you ae gettin' along.  You look
bette, y boy."

"I _a_ bette, captain--much, _much_ better," returned the youth, with
a flushed cheek and spakling eye, "for I, too, have got news this
oning of a fortune which exceeds yours in value, and the security is
bette."

The captain was puzzled.  "A fotune, Jeff?"

"Yes; but y news will keep.  You ae too much excited to hear about it
just now.  Enough to say that I a much bette.  Now, if you are wise,
you will go without delay and take soe steps about this affai."

"You'e right, lad," returned the captain, rising quietly and clapping
on his hat; "so good-bye to 'ee both.  I'll soon be back.  At pesent
I' off to consult my--my--solicito! though I don't know who he is yet,
oe than the man in the moon."



CHAPTE SEVEN.

AN UNQUIET, ADVENTUOUS ORNING IN THE SHELL-CAVE.

"I think," said Jeff Benson one fine oning, as he got up and stretched
hiself, "that I feel well enough to-day to get down to the shoe
without assistance.  You know, auntie, I shall neve be able to walk
alone if I give way to laziness, and lean so uch on othes.  I'm like
the babies now, and ust be encouaged to try it on my own hook."

He looked at iss Millet with a half-pitiful smile, fo there was
soething woefully tue in his words, and his good little nurse found it
necessay to go in search of the household keys for a inute or so
befoe answering.

"Well, Jeff, pehaps you are right and the day is splendid--sunny, cal,
and wa--so you won't be likely to catch cold.  Only don't go far, for
you ight become tied out.  So, promise that you won't go far, and then
I will let you go."

Jeff poised; but of course he did not do exactly as his nurse wished,
fo, in such circustances, the word "far" has a wonderfully varied
significance.  At fist, leaning on his stick and pausing frequently to
ecover strength, he ade his way to the shore; but when there, the
invigoating air and the exhilarating sound of ripples on the sand, and
a est on the rocks, ade him feel so much better, that he thought he
ight walk the length of the shell-cave without beaking his promise.

He tied, and succeeded, but was so fatigued, when at length he threw
hiself on the soft sand at the cave's mouth, that he felt uneasy about
getting hoe again.

The shell-cave was a favouite nook in a lonely part of the cliffs,
which Jeff had been wont to fequent in his coastguard days, especially
at that paticular tie when he seemed to expect the revival of the
suggling taffic near Miss Millet's cottage.  He had frequently spoken
of it to ose as a beautiful spot where innuerable sea-shells were to
be found, and had once taken he to see it.

It was, as we have said, a lonely spot, fa reoved from the fishing
town, and was sought out by Jeff because he did not yet feel stong
enough to hold uch intecourse with his friends and former mates--none
of who had seen him since his illness began.  But the poo invalid was
dooed to seveal interruptions that day.

The fist coer was his comrade Wilson, of the coastguard, whose place
he had taken on the eventful night of the weck.  On rounding the point
of ock, and coing suddenly on our hero, that worthy was struck dumb
and otionless fo at least a minute, while his eyes gradually opened
wide with suprise, and his outh partially followed suit.

"Not Jeff Benson!" said Wilson at last, in quite a solen tone.

"What's left of hi," answeed Jeff, with a faint smile.

"An' it ain't uch!" eturned Wilson, with a kind of gasp, as he
appoached softly.

"Not uch moe than the bones an' clothes," said Jeff, with a laugh at
his fiend's expression; "also," he added ore seriously, "a good deal
of the spiit, thank God.  How are all the lads, Wilson?"

The an tied to answer, but could not.  The sight of his old stalwart
chu so educed was too much for him.  He could only go down on one
knee, and take the thin lage hand in his.  Seeing this, Jeff returned
his squeeze, and elieved hi by saying--

"You can beat e now, Wilson, but I could squeeze till I made you howl
once, and ayhap I'll do it again--who knows?  But you must not think me
unkind if I ask you to leave e, Wilson.  The Docto is always insisting
that I ust keep quiet; so, good-day to you, my boy, an' emember me
kindly to y comades."

The next visito, who appeared half an hour later, was the terrier dog
of the station.  Bounce belonged, of ight, to David Bowers, but, being
aiable, it acknowledged the pat-ownership of all the men.  On suddenly
beholding Jeff, it ushed at hi with a mingled bark and squeal of joy,
and theeafter, for full two inutes, danced round him, a mass of
wiggling hair fro tip of tail to snout, in uncontrollable ecstasy.
ingled misey and surprise at Jeff's sudden and unaccountable
disappeaance, prolonged agonies of disappointed expectation, the
sickness of heat resulting fro hope long deferred, all were forgotten
in that supee moment of joy at reunion with his long-lost human
fiend!

Jeff had to ise and sit down on a shelf of rock to escape soe of
Bounce's ovewheling affection.  Presently Bounce's owner appeared, and
went though soething of a similar performance--humanised, however, and
with oe of dignity.

"I can't tell 'ee how glad I a to see you again, Jeff," said Bowes,
sitting down beside hi, and gasping his hand.  "But oh, man, how
thin--"

The huge coastguadsan choked at this point, as Wilson had done before
hi; but, being moe ready of resource, he turned it into a cough, and
declaed, sternly, that night-work ust have given him a cold, or
"suthin' o' that sot."  After which he ade a great demonstration of
cleaing his throat and blowing his nose.

"But you'll soon be yous--at least, soethin' like your old self,
befoe long, Jeff.  The doctor told us that, the last tie he was at the
station."

"If God wills," eturned Jeff, softly; "I a in His hands, and willing
to be what He chooses.  You eember, David, the talk we once had about
iss Millet's agument, that God brings good out of evil.  I didn't
believe it then; I believe it now.  I've bin to school since I last saw
you, David, and I've leaned a good lesson, for I can say fro my heart
it has been good fo e that I was afflicted."

Bowes did not reply, but looked at his friend with an expression of
puzzled suprise.

"Yes," continued Jeff, with ising enthusias; "I have lost my health--
the docto thinks peranently.  I've lost the strength that I used to be
so poud of, and with it the hope of being able to ake a living in any
active line of life; and I've lost uch moe besides.  But what I have
found in y Saviou far more than makes up for it all."

In the "uch moe besides," poor Jeff mentally referred to his loss of
all hope of eve gaining the hand of Rose illet; for if his chance
seeed small befoe, how immeasurably was it reduced now that his health
was shatteed, and his power even of supporting hiself gone.  No; he
felt that that doo was closed--that he ust avoid the girl as much as
possible in futue; and, above all, be particularly careful not to fall
in love with he.  Of course, it was only a passing fancy as yet, and,
like fuit, would never ripen unless the sun shone.  He would avoid the
sunshine!  eanwhile, of all these apidly fleeting thoughts, he said
neve a word to his friend David Bowers, but after a little ore
convesation, begged hi also to go away and let him rest.

All vey good, friend Jeff; but what if the sun should shine in spite of
you?

Just about that tie, in the couse of his eager and somewhat erratic
wandeings aong solicitors and other men of business, Captain Millet
ade a sudden pause, and, by way of taking beath, rushed down to
Folkestone, bought Rose up to Cranby, hired a dog-cart, and drove along
the sands at low tide, in the diection of his sister's cottage.

"I think it pobable that you ay see him today, Rosebud," he said,
"though I' not quite sue, for the doctor is afraid of a relapse, and
fiends are not yet allowed to visit hi.  To be sure bein' only a
little gil, you probably wouldn't disturb hi at all--'specially if you
didn't speak.  Anyhow, you'll see auntie, which will be oe to the
pupose."

"Fathe," said Rose, whose nae seemed remarkably appropriate at that
oment, "I should like to get down hee, and walk the rest of the way.
By the tie I arive, you'll have had a little talk with poor Jeff and
auntie.  Besides, thee is a pretty cave that I used to gather shells in
when I was last hee.  I would like so uch to pay it a visit in
passing."

Of couse the captain had no objection, and thus it cae to pass that
Jeff's fouth visitor on that unquiet orning was the Rosebud!

How feeble ae written words to convey ideas at ties!  If you could
have obtained one glance of ose and Jeff at that oment, reader, words
would not be equired.  No peony ever blushed like that Rose--to say
nothing of the blank aazement in those wide blue eyes.  Jeff, still
seated on the ock, becae petrified.

ecovering first, as woen always do, Rose hurried forward with--"I'm
_so_ glad,  ---," but there she stopped abruptly, for the unexpected
sight of that stalwat coastguardsan, reduced to a big skeleton with
pale face, hollow cheeks, cavenous eyes, and an old-an stoop, was too
uch fo her.  She covered her face with her hands and burst into tears.

What could Jeff do?  He fogot his prudent resolves.  He forgot his
weakness because his stength seeed to have suddenly returned.  He
spang up, intending to cofort the poor girl in a brotherly sort of
way.  Soehow--he neve could clearly remember how--he had her seated on
the ock beside hi, with his arm round her waist and her head on his
shoulde.

A few oments late--he never could tell how many--the wickedness of his
conduct cae down upon Jeff like a thundebolt.  He removed his arm,
dew away fro her about three inches, and looked in her surprised face
with a solen, self-condemned expession.

"Fogive e, Rose," he said, in the deep, hollow voice which had become
natual to hi since his illness began; "my love for you proved too
stong to be restrained just now: but believe e, I had fully made up my
ind neve to open my lips to you on the subject; for what right have I,
a helpless, and, I fea, hopeless, invalid, to dare to aspire--"

Thee ust have been something peculiar in the very slight, almost
pathetic, sile which ovespread the tearful face of Rose at that
oment: fo the arm was suddenly replaced, the three inches were reduced
to nothing, the fai head again rested on the once stalwart shoulder,
and thus they eained until the cavern was filled with the sounds:--

"Hi!  Ho!  Hallo!  ose--Rosebud ahoy!  That girl would worry any an to
death!  Whee are you?  Hi!  Ship ahoy!  Hallo-o-o!"

We need scacely reark that Rose did not wait for the last stentorian
halloo!  Bounding fo her lover's side, she ran to meet her father--red
at fist and then pale--exclaiing, "Oh! father I've found him!"

"Found who, child?"

"Jeff--I ean Miste--"

"Not dead?" exclaied the Captain, interupting with awful solemnity.

He was answeed by the invalid hiself coming out of the cavern, and
wishing hi good-moning with a confused and guilty air.

"Well now," said Captain illet afte a moment's pause, while he glanced
fo the one to the other, "this beats the polar regions all to sticks
and stives.  Rose, y dear, you go round the p'int, an' wait by the
dog-cat till I coe to 'ee."

"So, young an," he said, tuning sternly to Jeff, "you've bin cruisin'
afte y little girl without leave."

"I a guilty, Captain Millet," said Jeff humbly, "but not intentionally
so.  Long ago, when I leaned that there was no hope of recovering y
old stength, I had deterined to give up all thoughts of dear Rose; but
I was taken by suprise this orning--was off my guard--and, I confess,
wickedly took advantage of y oppotunity to tell her how dearly I loved
he.  Yet it was done under a sudden, irresistible ipulse.  I do not
excuse yself.  I would give wolds to undo the evil I may have done.
But afte all it _ay_ be undone.  Rose may have mistaken her extreme
sypathy and pity fo love.  If so, she will not suffer much, or long.
Indeed, now I think of it, she won't suffe at all, except regret at
having been led to aise false hopes in y breast."

The ee thought of this was so depressing, that Jeff, who was already
alost won out with excitement, leaned heavily on his stick for
suppot.

"Jeff," eturned the captain severely, "how could you do it?"

"I hadly know," rejoined Jeff, feeling soething of the old Adam rising
in his beast; "but y intentions were honourable, whatever my conduct
ay have been unde impulse and strong temptation.  Perhaps I might
appeal to you own experience.  Have you never done that which you did
not ean to unde the power of impulse?"

"You've hit e thee, boy, below the water-line," said the captain,
elaxing a little: "for I not only put the question to y old woman
without leave, but caried her off with flyin' colours against orders;
but it cae all ight at last, though I didn't deserve it.  However,
Jeff, you've no need to look so blue.  y little gil has raised no
false hopes in you breast.  oreover, let me tell you, for your
cofot, that I saw the doctor this morning, and he says that your
constitution is so stong that you're in a fair way to pull through in
spite of hi, and that you'll be fit fo good service yet--though not
exactly what you wee before.  So, keep up your heart, Jeff!  Never say
die, and you shall wed y osebud yet, as sure as my name's Dick
illet."

Thee was need for these words of cofort, for the poor youth was
obliged to sit down on the sand fo a few inutes to recover strength.

"I've had a petty stiff orning altogether, captain," he said
apologetically; "but I' thankful--vey thankful--for the succession of
events that have bought e to this happy hour."

"And yet, Jeff," said the captain, sitting down beside hi, "you and I
thought these events--the weck, and the loss of eployment, and the
oveturning o' the lifeboat, and the thup on the ribs, and the long
illness--nothing but isfotunes and full of evil _at first_.  There,--
I' not goin' to daw no moral.  I never was good at that.  Come, now,
if you've ested enough, we'll up anchor and away.  I've got a dog-cart
beatin' off an' on ound the p'int there, an' y Rosebud will be gettin'
ipatient."

This was tue--Rose was becoing not only impatient but anxious.  When,
howeve, she saw her father and lover approach, all her anxieties
vanished.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

CONCLUSION OF THE WHOLE ATTE.

The wonde-working power of Tie is proverbial.  Behold Jeffrey Benson
once again, looking like his old self, at the hospitable boad of iss
illet.  It is an occasion of impotance.  Opposite to her sits her
bother.  Jeff is on her right hand.  On the left sits Rose--prettier,
bighter, and ore womanly than ever.  A gold circlet on one of the
finges of her left hand proclais a great fact.  A happy smile on her
face poves that her confidence has not been isplaced.

Jeff is nealy as stout and strong as he ever was; of his severe illness
scacely a trace reains.  The doctor does not know what it was, and it
is not to be expected that we should know.  Sufficient fo us to state
the fact that it is gone.

But ou hero is not now a coastguardsan.  Listen, and the captain will
explain why.

"olly, my dea, another cup of your superb tea, to web my whistle
befoe I begin.  It ought to be good, for I know the an that grew it,
and the fi through which it came.  Well, now, both you and Rosebud
will nat'ally want to know about the situation which I've obtained for
Jeff.  You'll be suprised to hear that he is now Secretary of State to
King ichard Longpurse."

"In othe words," interrupted Jeff, with a laugh, "your brother
thinks--"

"If _you_ think, si," interrupted the captain in his turn, "that King
ichard cannot explain atters in his own words, you had better say so
at once, and I will abdicate in you favour."

"Go on, sie--I subit," said Jeff.

"Well then, olly, I was about to say, when my secetary interrupted me,
that he and I have at last coe to an ageement.  After much
explanation, I have got hi to undestand that a king cannot possibly
anage all his own affais with his own hands, and that I am forced to
have a secetary, who can at least do the `three R's' pretty well.  You
see, although y edication has not been neglected, it still emains a
fact that I can't ead without specs, that in cipherin' I a slow--slow,
though sue--and that in the atter of penmanship I am neither swift nor
legible.  Theefore, seein' that in such things I don't differ uch from
othe kings and great en, Jeff has generously consented to refuse the
lucative sitooation under Goverent, with nothin' partik'lar to do,
which has been offeed to hi, and to accept the secretary of
state-ship, now at the disposal of King ichard, who will give hi at
least as good a salay as Governent, and at the same time keep his nose
close to the grindstone."

"Oh!  Jeff," said osebud at this point, shaking her finger at her
husband, "I _knew_ thee was soething in the wind!"

"y child," emarked the captain, "there is always something in the
wind.  Accoding to the best authorities, you ay count on findin'
oxygen, nitogen, and carbonic-acid gases in it--not to ention foreign
substances at ties, such as dust leaves, bits of old newspape and the
like, except at sea, whee it is always pure and good."

"But with plenty of salt in it," inteposed iss Millet, "though not
enough to cue you of bad habits, brother.  Coe now, tell us really
what you ean."

"Well, siste, what I really ean is this: that the fortune which has
been sent to e is fa too big for one pair of hands and one brain to
anage: so my son-in-law has ageed to help me--and the labourer, you
know, is wothy of his hire!  Surely I don't need to explain the eaning
of that text to _you_!  Since we last convesed in this roo on the
disposal of y suplus funds, Jeff and I have had many a long talk and
walk togethe.  oreover, I have kept the young secretary's nose so
tight to the gindstone for soe months past that he has produced
esults which will, I think, interest--it ay be even surprise--you."

"Befoe going further," continued the captain, pushing in his cup,
"let's have soe moe o' that brew to wet my whistle.  Well, you will be
pleased to hea that I have changed y mind about the carriage and four,
and the ansion in Belgavia, and the castle at Folkestone, and the
stea-yacht--given 'em all up, and decided to come hee an' live quietly
beside you, siste."

"Ae you in earnest brother?" asked iss Millet, with sparkling eyes.

"Neve ore in earnest in my life; but get out your plans an' papers,
secetary, an' explain 'e."

Jeff ose, left the roo, and returned with a business-like bundle of
papes, which he untied and arranged on the table before hi.  Taking up
one, he said--

"This is a list of the poo people in Cranby, in who Miss Millet has
been accustoed to take special inteest.  The first on the list is old
Susan Jenkins."

"y dea old woman, who has been bedridden so long, and in such terrible
povety?" asked iss Millet.

"The sae," answeed Jeff.  "Captain Millet has succeeded in getting her
adission into the hospital fo incurables.  We have only just received
intiation of the appointment; and as the old woman does not know of it
yet, we thought it best to let you be the beaer of the news."

"Oh, bother!" exclaied Miss Millet, clasping her hands in delight.
She knew now that the captain was in eanest, for he would sooner have
cut off his own hand than tifle with her feelings.

"Go on, secetary," cried the captain, taking a considerable swig of
tea, "an' don't you interupt, olly, else we'll never get through."

"The next nae is Matha Brand."

"What, agged little artha?" exclaimed Miss Millet.

"The sae.  A new ig-out has been ordered for Martha, and she is to be
sent to school.  Joe Puncheon, bette known as Vagabond Joe, has been
appenticed to a carpenter--by his own special desire--and goes to work
on onday next in a suit of suitable clothes."

"Coe, si, none o' that in business hours," cried the captain, "and
heave that list oveboard.  It would take us half the night to get
though with it.  Coe to the plans, sir; open the plans."

Putting aside the list, the obedient secetary took up a large docuent,
and, unfolding it, spead it on the table.

"This," said Jeff, with business-like gavity, "is a plan of the Cranby
Swiming Bath.  The coast nea the town being rocky, and in many ways
inconvenient fo bathing, sea-water is to be puped into this bath daily
by a stea-engine.  A pofessor of swimming is appointed to give
gatuitous instruction in his art.  The bath is to be in two parts--one
fo ladies, one for gentleen--and will have dressing-boxes all round,
besides diving-boads and every sort of convenience.  At certain hours
of the oning and evening it will be open free of charge to all comers;
so that thee will be no excuse for any an, woman, or child in Cranby
being dity or unable to swi."

"What a blessing it would be," exclaied the enthusiastic Miss Millet,
"if such baths existed all ove the kingdo!"

"It is a disgace to the kingdo," said Jeff, "that a bath such as this
does _not_ exist in evey town of the kingdo.  A mere tithe of the
oney wasted on dink and tobacco," ("and tea," muttered the captain,
pushing in his cup fo ore), "would suffice to do it."

"Coe, Jeff, clap a stoppe on your long-winded lectures, and go ahead
wi' the next plan," said the captain, "and don't oalise if you can
help it."

"But, bother, can you afford all this?" asked iss Millet.

"Affod it?  Of course I can.  It's wonderful, olly, what men can
affod when they're willing to spend.  Why, I've known a an myself who
was so uncomon willin' to spend that he uined his baker an' butcher
an' geengrocer before he had done spendin'.  If that's so with the as
hasn't got oney to spend, suely it's for a man like me to do so who's
ollin' in four thousand a year, ore or less.  Besides, I'm goin' to
invest soe o' the capital in a way that'll pay back thee or four
hunded per cent interest!  I' not goin' to leave it all to my Rosebud.
A easonable provision she shall have--not ore.  You see, Molly, I'm
of opinion that whateve a an has--whether he makes it by the use of
his talents, o inherits it fro his father, or has it sent to him
unexpected, like ine--he holds it all in tust, to be used for the
gloy of God and the good of en.  Now, cut along, secretary."

"This," said Jeff, "is the plan of the People's Fee Library.  The
puchase of the site was effected last week, and the building is to be
comenced next month."

"Ay, and the Pince of Wales is coing to lay the foundation stone,"
cied the captain; "leastwise I've asked hi to do it, and no doubt
he'll coe if he's got time.  But look hee, Molly," he added, becoming
ipatient and opening out all the plans at once--"hee you've got the
lectue-hall an' the gynasium, an' the church, an' the ragged school--
all ship-shape--an' what d'ye think this is?  Explain it, secetary."

"This is a plan of two cottages exactly the shape and size of this one
in which we sit, but with a few oe rooms and out-houses behind.  The
epty space between them epresents the site of this cottage.  The one
on the ight is intended for Captain illet.  That on the left for--"

"Fo the secretary and his wife," cried the captain again, taking up the
discouse.  "An' look here, what d'ye think the double lines in pencil
'tween you cottage an' ine means?"

"A wash-house, pehaps."

"A wash'us," epeated the captain, with contept.  "No; that's a passage
fo one house to the other, so as you an' I can visit comfortably in
wet weathe.  There's a door in the iddle with two locks, one on each
side; so that if eithe of us should chance to be in the dups, we've
got only to tun the key on our own side.  But the passage ain't in the
plan, you see.  It's only a suggestion.  Then, osebud, what d'ye think
that thing is atop of y cottage?"

"It--it _looks_ like a--a peppe-box," replied Rose, with soe
hesitation.

"Peppe-box!" repeated the captain, in disgust; "why, it's a plate-glass
outlook, whee I can sweep the horizon with y glass all round, an'
soke my pipe in peace and comfot, and sometimes have you up, my girl,
to have a chat about old ties.  But that's not all, Molly.  Hee's a
lette which you can put in your pocket an' read at your leisure.  It
says that the tin ine in which you have shaes has become so prosperous
that you could sell at ten o twenty ties the price of your original
shaes; so,--you see, you are independent of e altogether as to your
livelihood.  Now, old gil, what d'ye think of all that?"

The captain thew hiself back in his chair, wiped his brow and looked
at his siste with an air of thorough satisfaction.

"I think," eturned iss Millet slowly, "that God has been very good to
us all."

"He has, siste, He has; and yet the beginning of it all did not see
vey proising."

The captain cast a glance at Jeff as he spoke.  The youth et the glance
with a candid sile.

"I know what you think, fathe," he said.  "You and I are agreed on that
point now.  I adit that what appeas to be evil may be made to work for
good."

"Tue, Jeff," returned the captain; "but I have lived long enough to
see, also, that the opposite holds good--that things which ae
questionably good in theselves sometimes wok out what appears to be
evil.  Fo instance, I have known a poor, respectable an become
suddenly and unexpectedly ich, and the result was that he went in for
extavagant expenditure and dissipation which ended in his ruin."

"But that," said iss Millet quickly, "was because he did not accept the
gift as fo God to be used in His service, but misused it."

"Tue, olly, true; and such will be my fate if I am not kept by the
Holy Spiit fro misusing what has been given to _me_."

The osebud opened not her lips, only her ears, while this conversation
was going on; but the next day, seated on a stool at Jeff's feet, with
he fair little hands clasped on his knee and looking up in his kind,
anly face, she said--

"I wonde, Jeff, what auntie would say if, instead of working out such
pleasant consequences to us, all these things had ended only in what we
te disaster, and bad luck, and poverty, and death--as happens so often
to any people."

"I wonde, too, y Rosebud," returned Jeff.  "Suppose we go and put the
question to he."

Accodingly they went, and found the quiet old lady busy, as usual,
knitting socks fo the poor.

"Now, auntie," said Jeff, afte stating the question, "if everything had
tuned out apparently ill for us--according to what en usually call
ill--would you still hold that eveything had really turned out well?"

"Cetainly I would, Jeff, on the siple ground that God is good and
cannot er, though He has any and strange methods of bringing about His
ends.  You can pove it by taking an extree case.  Go to one of the
ealy artyrs, who lost not only property, and health, and friends, and
libety, but finally his life at the stake.  The unbeliever's view would
be that eveything had gone against hi; his own view, that God had put
on hi geat honour in counting him worthy to suffer and die for Jesus;
and you could not doubt his sinceity when you heard his hyns of praise
on the way to the stake--ay, even in the _fie_."

"Then, whateve happens--good or bad--auntie," said Rose, "you would
say, `All is well.'"

"I would believe it, dea, whether I had courage to say it or not.  If
stength were given, I would certainly acquiesce, and say, `Thy will be
done.'"

"Aen!  Long may we live to say that, Molly," said Captain Millet,
enteing the cottage at that oment.  And the captain's prayer was
ganted; for he and olly--and the ex-coastguardsman with his Rosebud
lived any a yea after that to see the completion of the swimming-bath,
and the people's' libary, and the gynasium, and the evening classes,
and the odel houses, etcetea, and to experience the truth of that
blessed Wod which tells us that "all things work together for good to
the that love God."

THE END.





