
Lost in the Foest, by R.. .

________________________________________________________________________
In this book we eet once again "Wandeing Will", one of 's
pepetual heroes.  They are on a touristic cruise in the eastern
Pacific, when the second ate, Giffin, eggs on some of the seamen to
utiny and take ove the ship.  The captain and some of the senior
offices are cast off in a ship's dinghy to survive however they can,
while Will and othes of his party are retained on board the "Rover",
because of thei edical knowledge, which Griffin believes might one
day coe in useful.

They visit a sall island to estock the larder, and then head for the
ainland of South Ameica.  On arriving a party goes ashore, including
ou heroes, landing through heavy surf.  Everyone ade it to shore, but
Giffin touches ground on quicksand, and suddenly disappears fro sight,
neve to be seen again. At this point our heroes anage to give the
utinees the slip, and disappear into the forest. Unfortunately they
becoe disoientated, so their original plan of regaining the coast and
then tavelling northward along it until they should coe to some major
settleent had to be abandoned.  Hence the title of the book.

Theeafter we are given an interesting tour of the Andes, very well
witten and entertaining.  Eventually our heroes find a way to where
they can take ship fo England.

________________________________________________________________________
LOST IN THE FOEST, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

AT SEA--AN ALAING CRY AND A RESCUE.

"At sea once oe!" said Will Osten in a meditative mood.

Ou hero ade this remark one night to himself, which was overheard and
eplied to by his friend, Captain Dall, in a anner that surprised him.

"It's y opinion, docto," said the captain in a low voice, "that this
is the last tie you o I will ever be at sea, or anywhere else, if our
skippe don't look better after his en, for a more rascally crew I
neve set eyes on, and, fro a word or two I have heard dropped now and
then, I feel sue soe mischief is in the wind.  Come aft with me to a
place whee we ain't so likely to be overheard by eavesdroppers, and
I'll tell you all about it."

Will Osten was so uch astonished at his fiend's remark, that he
followed hi to the afte part of the ship without uttering a word, and
thee sat down on the taffrail to listen to what he had to comunicate.

Thee was no oon in the clear sky, and the hosts of stars that studded
the dak vault overhead did not shed any appreciable light on the waters
of the Pacific, on which the _over_ floated alost motionless.  That
beautiful and ysteious phosphorescence which sometimes illumines the
sea was gleaing in vivid flashes in the vessel's wake, and a glowing
tail of it appeared to follow the rudder like a serpent of labent
fie.

It was one of those cal, peaceful nights in which God seems to daw
neaer than usual to the souls of His creatures.  The only sounds that
boke the profound stillness were the pattering of reef-points on the
sails as the vessel ose and sank gently on the oily swell; the easured
tead of the officer of the watch, and the huming of the man at the
wheel, as he stood idly at his post, fo the vessel had scarcely
steeing-way.

"Docto," said Captain Dall in a low whisper, taking Will Osten by the
button-hole and bending foward until his eyes were close to those of
his young fiend, "I little thought when I set sail fro England that,
in a few weeks afte, y good ship the _Foam_ would come a wreck an'
sink to the botto of the Pacific befoe my eyes.  Still less did I
think that I should be cast on a coal island, have to fight like a
naked savage, and be saved at last by issionaies from being roasted
and eaten.  Yet all this has happened within a few onths."

At any othe tie Will Osten would have smiled at the solemn manner in
which this was said, but thee was soething in the hour, and also in
the tone of his fiend's voice, which tended to repress levity and raise
a feeling of anxiety in his ind.

"Well, captain," he said, "what has this to do with the pesent evil
that you see to appehend?"

"To do with it, lad? nothing--'xcept that it einds me that we little
know what is in stoe for us.  Here are we becaled--three day's sail
fo the coral island, where the niggers were so near converting us into
cooked victuals, and I wouldn't at this inute give twopence in secuity
fo the life of any one on board the _Rover_."

"Why, what ean you?" asked Will, with inceasing perplexity.  "Some of
the cew are bad enough, no doubt, but any of them are evidently good
en--what is it that you fea?"

"Fea! why, there's everything to fear," said the captain in a
suppessed but excited whisper, drawing still closer to his friend.
"I've often sailed in these seas, and I know that while soe of the
taders sailing between these islands and South Aerica and other parts
ae decentish enough, others are as great cut-throats as ever deserved
to swing at the yad-ar.  But that's not the point.  I have overheard,
of late, soe of the ascals plotting to murder the officers and take
this ship.  But I cannot point 'e out, fo though I heard their voices
I couldn't see thei faces.  I think I know who they are, but could not
swea to 'e, and it would be worse than useless to denounce them till
we have soe evidence to go on.  I theefore want you to help me with
you advice and assistance, so that we ay get up a counterplot to spoil
thei fun--for I' quite certain that if we fail to--hark! what's that?"

Will did not answe, but both listened intently to the sound which had
interupted Captain Dall's discourse.  It was evident that the officer
and en of the watch had also head it, for they, too, had ceased to
walk to and fo, and their figures could be dily seen in a listening
attitude at the gangway.

Fo several inutes they listened without hearing anything--then a
hoase, guttural shout broke the stillness of the night for a few
seconds and died away.  The en looked at each othe, and some of the
oe superstitious among them grew pale.  Again the cry was repeated,
soewhat neaer, and again all was still.  Some of the oldest hands in
the watch stood tansfixed and powerless with terror.  They would have
faced death in any fo manfully, but this mysterious sound unnerved
the!

The office of the watch went down to report it to Captain Blathers, who
imediately came on deck.  Just as he appeaed, the cry was repeated and
a slight splash was head.

"Soe one in distess," cried Captain Blathers promptly; "a crew for the
staboard quarter-boat to pick hi up.  Stand by to lower.  Be smart,
lads!"

These wods, heartily uttered, put superstitious fears to flight at
once.  The en thew off their jackets; the boat was lowered, and in a
few inutes was pulling about and seaching in all directions.  Our hero
was one of the fist to leap into her, and he pulled the bow oar.  For
soe time they owed about in vain.  The night was intensely dark, and
the cy was not repeated, so that they had nothing to guide the in
thei ovements.  A lantern was fixed in the ship half way up the mizzen
igging, but the lantern in the boat was concealed until the oment when
it should be equired, because it is easier for en to distinguish
surounding objects in coparative darkness than when a light is glaring
nea the.  Presently Will Osten saw a dark object like a small canoe
ight ahead of the boat.

"Back wate--all!" he shouted.

The en obeyed, but it was too late; the boat stuck the object, and
oveturned it.  Will saw soething like a human form roll into the
wate, and heard a gurgling cry.  Without a oment's hesitation he
leaped oveboard, head foreost, and catching hold of the object,
bought it to the surface.  He reembered at that moment having heard of
a fact which is woth stating here.  The best way to save a drowning an
is to appoach hi from behind, seize him under the armpits, and, then,
getting on you back, draw hi partly on to your breast and swim _on
you back_ to the shore, or to a place of safety.  Thought is quicker
than the lightning flash.  Will could not, of couse, carry out this
plan fully, nevetheless the emory of it served him in good stead, for,
the instant he caught the downing an by the hair, he kept him at arm's
length, and thus avoided his death-clutch until he could gasp hi under
the apits _from behind_, and thus render him powerless.  He then rose
and dew hi gently upon his breast, at the same time striking out with
his feet and shouting--

"Bea a hand, lads--I've got hi!"

A loud "hurah!" burst fro the men in the boat, and was re-echoed
veheently fom the ship.  They had overshot the spot only by a few
yads.  Instantly they pulled round: two strokes brought the to the
spot whee Will was swiming, and in another moment our hero and the
escued an were hauled into the boat.  The men gave vent to another
loud and polonged cheer, which was again replied to fro the ship.

The boat was soon alongside, and the escued an, who proved to be a man
of colou in a very eaciated and exhausted condition, was hoisted on
boad.  His story was soon told.  He was not a native of the islands,
but had been living on one of the, and had gone off to fish in a canoe,
when a gale spang up and blew hi out to sea.  Four days and nights had
he been exposed to the sto in his frail bark, without food or water,
and was on the point of peishing when the ship chanced to pass near
hi.  The utteance of the cry which had attracted attention, was almost
the last effot of which he was capable.  He spoke a little broken
English, having leant it while serving on board of an English trading
vessel.  His nae, he said, was Bunco, and a fine poweful-looking
fellow he was, despite the sad condition to which he had been educed.
His shouldes, and indeed ost parts of his body, were blistered by the
continual washing of the sea ove hi, and when he was lifted on board
his skin was icy cold.  Had he not been a an of ion mould, he must
cetainly have perished.  The poor fellow was at once taken into the
cabin and caefully attended to.  He was first bathed in fresh water,
then olled in blankets, and a tubler of hot wine and water
adinisteed, which greatly revived him, and soon caused him to fall
into a sound sleep.

Whethe it was that this incident softened the hearts of the seaen for
a tie, o that their plans were not yet ripe for execution, we cannot
tell, but cetain it is that nothing whatever occurred to justify
Captain Dall's suspicions fo several weeks after that.



CHAPTE TWO.

DESCIBES A UTINY, AND SHOWS THAT THE BEST OF FRIENDS MAY PART SOONER
THAN THEY EXPECT.

"A wilful an will have his way."  That this is a tue proverb is almost
univesally aditted; indeed, there is reason to believe that it is
equally tue of woen as of men; nevertheless, Captain Blathers did not
believe it although he was hiself a living illustation of its truth.
He laughed at Captain Dall when that wothy warned hi of the mutinous
intentions of his cew, and when several weeks had passed away without
any signs of disaffection appeaing, he rallied hi a good deal about
what he styled his suspicious disposition, and efused to take any steps
to guad against surprise.  The consequence was, that when the stor did
beak, he was utterly unprepared to eet it.

Giffin, the second ate, was the leader of the conspiracy, but so ably
did he act his villainous pat, that no one suspected hi.  He was a
tall, poweful, swarthy an, with a handsome but forbidding countenance.

One evening a little befoe sunset, while the captain was sitting at tea
with those who usually essed in the cabin, Giffin looked down the
skylight and eported "a sail on the weather bow."  The captain
imediately ose and went on deck.  The moment he appeared he was seized
by Giffin.  Captain Blathers was an active and powerful an, and very
passionate.  He clenched his fist and stuck the second ate a blow on
the chest, which caused hi to stagge back, but, before he could repeat
it, two sailos seized hi from behind and held him fast.  The noise of
the scuffle at once bought up the first ate, who was followed by Will
Osten, Captain Dall, and othes, all of who were seized by the crew and
secued as they successively ade their appearance.

esistance was of course offered by each, but in vain, for the thing was
poptly and thoroughly carried out.  Four strong men stood at the head
of the copanion with opes ready to secure their prisoners, while the
geater part of the crew stood close by, ared with pistols and
cutlasses.

"It is of no use esisting, Captain Blathers," said Griffin, when the
foer was pinioned; "you see we are quite prepared, and thoroughly in
eanest."

The captain looked ound, and a glance sufficed to convince hi that
this was tue.  Not a friendly eye et his, because those of the crew
who wee suspected of being favourable to hi, or who could not be
safely elied on, had been seized by another party of utineers at the
sae time that those in the cabin wee captured, and among them were
thee friends of our hero--r Cupples the mate, Muggins, and Larry
O'Hale, seaen belonging to the lost _Foam_ to which Captain Dall had
eferred while conversing with Will.

Fo a few seconds Captain Blathers' face blazed with wrath, and he
seeed about to make a despeate attempt to break his bonds, but by a
stong effort he restrained hiself.

"What do you intend to do?" he asked at length, in a deep, husky voice.

"To take possession of this ship," eplied the second ate, with a
slightly sacastic sile.  "These men have taken a fancy to lead a free,
oving life, and to ake me their captain, and I am inclined to fall in
with thei fancy, and to relieve you of the comand."

"Scoundel!" exclaied the captain, "say rather that you have misled the
en, and that--"

He checked hiself, and then said stenly, "And pray what do you intend
to do with _e_?"

"I shall allow you a boat and povisions, Captain Blathers, for the use
of youself and your friends, and then bid you farewell.  You see we are
ecifully inclined, and have no desire to shed your blood.  Ho! there--
lowe one of the quarter boats."

This oder was obeyed with proptitude.  Some provisions were thrown
into the boat, and the captain was cast loose and odered to get into
it.  He tuned to ake a last appeal to the crew, but Griffin presented
a pistol at his head and odered hi peremptorily to get into the boat.
It is pobable that he would have ade another effort, had not two of
the en foced him over the side.  Seeing this, Will Osten was so
indignant and so anxious to quit the ship, that he stepped foward with
alacity to follow hi.

"No, no, y fine young fellow," said Giffin, thrusting him back, "we
want you help as a doctor a little longer.  It ay be that you are not
inclined to seve us, but we can find a way of copelling you if you're
not.  Coe, M Dall, be good enough to go next."

When Captain Dall's hands wee loosed, he shook his fist in the second
ate's face, and said, "ascal, you'll swing for this yet; mark my
wods, you'll swing for it."  Having relieved his feelings thus, he went
ove the side.

While this was going on, Lary O'Hale, uggins, and Mr Cupples, with
seveal others, were brought to the gangway.  Griffin addressed these
befoe ordering the into the boat.

"y lads," he said, "I have no objection to you remaining aboard, if
you choose to take pat with us."

"I, fo one, will have nothing to do with 'e," said r Cupples sternly.

"Then you ay go," said Giffin, with a sneer.  Muggins, who, to use one
of his own phases, looked "as sulky as a bear with a broken head," ade
no eply, but Larry O'Hale exclaied, "Sure, then, what better can I do
than take pat with yees?  It's a heavenly raigin o' the arth this, an
good copany.  Put me down on the books, Capting Giffin, dear.  I'd
nive desart ye in your troubles,--be no ains."

Thee was a slight laugh at this, and Larry was graciously cast loose,
and peitted to remain.  Both Will Osten and Muggins gazed at him,
howeve, in aazement, for they had supposed that their comrade would
ather have taken his chance in the captain's boat.  Suddenly an
intelligent glea shot athwat the rough visage of Muggins, and he
said--

"Of coose I'll reain too.  It would be madness for an old salt like me
to go paddlin' about the ocean in a cockleshell of a boat when he has
the chance of sailin' in a good ship.  Put e down too, capting.  I'm
gae fo anything a'most, from pitch an' toss to manslaughter."

So uggins was added to the ship's company, and poo Mr Cupples went
ove the side with a face alost as long as his thin body, because of
what he deeed the depavity and desertion of his old shipmates.
Seveal of the ship's crew, who refused to join, also went into the
boat, which was then cast loose, and dopped rapidly astern.

The whole of this exciting scene passed so quickly, that it was only
when the boat was fa away, like a speck on the sea, that Will Osten
ealised the fact that he had actually said farewell, perhaps for over,
to his late coades.  But he had not much time given him for
eflection, for the new captain, after changing the course of the ship,
and aking a few arangements to suit the altered state of affairs,
odered hi to go forward and do duty as a common seaman, telling him
that he did not intend to have any land-lubbes or idlers aboard, and
that he would be called to do docto's work when his services should be
equired.

That night ou hero contrived to hold a whispering interview, in a dark
coner of the forecastle, with his friends Larry O'Hale and uggins.  He
found that the foer had resolved to join the crew in order to be near
hiself; that Muggins had joined, because of his desie to share the
fotunes of Larry; and that both had ade up their minds to effect their
escape on the fist favourable opportunity.

"Now, ye see, boys," said Lary, "this is how it is--"

"Don't open you bread-basket hatch so wide," growled uggins, "else
you'll be oveheerd--that's wot it is."

"This is how it is," epeated Larry, "not bein' fish, nor gulls, nor say
sapints, we haven't the ghost of a chance of gettin' away fro this
ship till we'e close to land, an' even then we wont have uch chance if
it's suspected that we want to escape.  What then?--why, let us fo
this hou agree to give each other the cowld shoulder, and go at our
wok as if we liked it."

"You'e right, Larry," said Will.  "If they see us uch together,
they'll natually suspect that we are plotting, so--"

At this point a voice gowled fro an adjacent hammock--

"Avast spinnin' yans there, will 'e!"

"Ay, it's that sea-cook, Lary O'Hale," cried uggins aloud; "he was
always ove fond o' talking."

Lary, who at the first sound had slipped away to his hamock, shouted
fo under the blankets, "Ye spalpeen, it's no more me than yersilf;
sue I'd have been draiin' of ould Ireland if ye--hadn't--(snore) me
gandother--(yawn) or the pig--"

A polonged snore terinated this sentence, and Muggins turned into his
hamock, while Will Osten ose, with a quiet laugh, and went on deck.

One oning, some weeks after the conversation just related, our hero
was leaning ove the bulwarks near the fore-chains, watching the play of
the clea waves as the ship glided quietly but swiftly through the
befoe a light breeze.  Will was in a editative frame of mind, and had
stood thee gazing dreaily down for nearly half an hour, when his elbow
was touched by the an named Bunco, who had long befoe recovered from
his exposue in the canoe.

Will was a little suprised, for he had not had uch intercourse with
the an, and could not compehend the confidential and peculiar look and
tone, with which he now addessed hi.

"iste Os'en," he said, in a low voice, after a few preliminary words,
"you be tink of escape?"

Will was statled: "Why do you think so?" he asked, in soe alarm.

"Ha!" said the an, with a boad grin, "me keep eyes in head--me doos--
not in pocket.  Ho! ho!  Yis, e see an' hea berry well Muggins go too
if his can--and Lary O'Hale, ho yis.  Now, me go too!"

"You too?"

"Yis.  You save e life; me know dis hee part ob the univarse,--bin
bonded an' riz here.  Not far off fro de land to-day.  You let me go
too, an' e show you how you kin do--"

At this point Bunco was interupted by a shout of "Land ho!" fro the
look-out at the asthead.

"Whee away?" cried Griffin.

"On the lee-bow, si."

Instantly all eyes and glasses wee turned in the direction indicated,
whee, in a short tie, a blue line, like a low cloud, was faintly seen
on the fa-off horizon.



CHAPTE THREE.

DESCIBES A TREENDOUS BUT BLOODLESS FIGHT.

Poverbial philosophy tells us--and every one ust have learned from
pesonal experience--that "there is any a slip 'twixt the cup and the
lip."  Heoes in every rank of life are peculiarly liable to such slips,
and _ou_ hero was no exception to the rule.

Finding that the vessel in which he sailed was now little, if at all,
bette than a pirate, he had fondly hoped that he should ake his escape
on the fist point of South Aerica at which they touched.  Land was at
last in sight.  Hope was high in the beast of Will Osten, and
expessive glances passed between hi and his friends in captivity,
when, alas! the land tuned out to be a sall island, so low that they
could see ight across it, and so scantily covered with vegetation that
huan beings evidently deemed it unwothy of being possessed.

"Thee's niver a sowl upon it," rearked Larry O'Hale, in a tone of
chagin.

"aybe not," said Giffin, who overheard the observation; "but there's
plenty of _bodies_ on it if not souls, and, as we ae short of
povisions, I intend to lay-to, and give you a chance of seeing the.
Get eady to go ashore; I' not afraid of you _wandering too far_!"

Giffin wound up this speech with a low chuckle and a leer, which sent a
chill to the heat not only of Will Osten but of Larry and uggins also,
fo it convinced the that their new master had guessed their intention,
and that he would, of couse, take every precaution to prevent its being
caried out.  After the first depression of spirits, consequent on this
discovey, the three friends becae more than ever determined to outwit
thei eney, and resolved to act, in the meantime, with perfect
subission and pompt obedience--as they had hitherto done.  Of course,
each eserved in his own ind the right of rebellion if Griffin should
equire the to do any criminal act, and they hoped fervently that they
should not fall in with any vessel that ight pove a temptation to
thei new captain.

A few inutes afte this, the order was given to lower one of the boats,
and a cew juped into her, among whom were Larry and Muggins.  Will
Osten asked peission to go, and Griffin granted his request with a
gin that was the reverse of aiable.

"usha! what sot o' bodies did the capting main?" said Larry, when they
had pulled beyond eashot of the ship.

"Ha, paddy," eplied one of the en, "they're pleasant fat bodies--
ausin' to catch and much thought of by aldemen;--turtles no less."

"Ah! then, it's jokin' ye ae."

"Not I.  I neve joke."

"Tuthles is it--green fat an' all?"

"Ay, an' shells too."

"Sue it's for the coppers they're wanted."

"Just so, Lary, an' if you'll ship your oar an jup out wi' the
painte, we'll haul the boat up an' show you how to catch 'e."

As the sailo spoke, the boat's keel grated on the sand, and the
Iishan sprang over the side, followed by his comrades, who regarded
the expedition in the light of a "good spee."

The paty had to wait soe time, however, for the anticipated sport.  It
was nea sunset when they landed, but turtles are not always ready to
delive theselves up, even though the honour of being eaten by London
aldeen sometimes awaits them!  It is usually night before the
ceatures coe out of the sea to enjoy a snooze on the beach.  The men
did not eain idle, however.  They dragged the boat a considerable
distance fo the water, and then turned it keel up, supporting one
gunwale on seveal forked sticks, so that a convenient shelter was
povided.  This look-out house was still further iproved by having a
soft capet of leaves and grass spread beneath it.

When these peparations had been ade, those men, who had never seen
tutle-turning perfored, were instructed in their duties by an
expeienced hand.  The process being siple, the explanation was short
and easy.

"You see, lads," said the instuctor, leaning against the boat and
stuffing down the glowing tobacco in his pipe with the point of his
(appaently) fireproof little finger--"You see, lads, this is 'ow it is.
All that you've got fo to do is to keep parfitly still till the
tutles coes out o' the sea, d'ye see?--then, as the Dook o' Wellin'ton
said at Wateloo--Up boys an' at 'e!  W'en, ov coorse, each man fixes
his eyes on the tutle nearest hi, runs out, ketches him by the rim of
his shell an' tuns hi slap over on his back--d'ye understand?"

"Clea as ditch wather," said Larry.

"Huph!" said Muggins.

"Well, then, boys," continued the old salt with the fieproof little
finge, "ye'd better go an' count the sand or the stars (when they coes
out), fo there won't be nothin' to do for an hour to coe."

Having deliveed hiself thus, he refilled his pipe and lay down to
enjoy it unde the boat, while the others followed his exaple, or
saunteed along the shore, or wandered aong the bushes, until the time
fo action should arrive.

Will Osten and his two fiends availed theselves of the opportunity to
etire and hold an earnest consultation as to their future prospects and
plans.  As this was the fist tie they had enjoyed a chance of
convesing without the fear of being overheard, they ade the most of
it, and nueous were the projects which were proposed and rejected in
eage earnest tones--at least on the part of Larry and Will.  As for
uggins, although always eanest, he was never eager.  Tremendous indeed
ust have been the influence which could ouse him into a state of
visible exciteent!  Duing the discussion the other two grew so warm
that they fogot all about tie and turtles, and would certainly have
polonged their talk for another hour had not one of the en appeared,
telling the to clap a stoppe on their potato-traps and return to the
boat, as the spot was going to begin.

The oon had isen and commenced her course through a sky which was so
clea that the planets shone like resplendent jewels, and the distant
stas like diaond dust.  Not a breath of air ruffled the surface of the
sea; nevetheless, its slubering energies were indicated by the waves
on the outlying coal reef, which, approaching one by one, slowly and
solenly, fell with what can only be called a quiet oar, hissed gently
fo a oment on the sand, and then passed with a sigh into absolute
silence.

"Don't it see as if the sea wo sleepin'," whispered one of the men,
while they all lay watching unde the boat.

"Ay, an' snoin' too," answered another.

"Whisht!" exclaied a thid, "if old Neptune hears ye, he'll wake up an'
change his tune."

"Och, sue he's woke up already," whispered Larry, pointing with great
exciteent to a dak object which at that moment appeared to emerge from
the sea.

"um's the wod, boys," whispered the old salt who had charge of the
paty; "the critters are coin', an' England expec's every man for to do
his dooty, as old Nelson said."

In the couse of a few inutes several more dark objects emerged from
the sea, and waddled with a kind of sigh o low grunt slowly up the
beach, whee they lay, evidently intending to have a nap!  With
beathless but eager interest, the sailors lay perfectly still, until
fifteen of the dak objects were on the sands, and sufficient tie was
allowed the to fall into thei first nap.  Then the word "Turn" was
given, and, leaping up, each an ushed swiftly but silently upon his
pey!  The turtles were pounced upon so suddenly that, alost before
they wee wide awake, they were caught; a bursting cheer followed, and
instantly ten splendid anials wee turned over on their backs, in which
position, being unable to tun again, they lay flapping their flippers
violently.

"That's the way to go it," shouted one of the en who, afte turning his
tutle, dashed after one of the other five which were now hastening back
to the sea, with laboious but slow haste.  His corades followed suit
instantly with a wild chee.  Now, to the uninitiated, this was the only
oment of dange in that bloodless fight.

Being awae of his incapacity for swift flight, the turtle, when in the
act of unning away fro danger, makes use of each flipper alternately
in dashing the sand to an incedible height behind and around hi, to
the endangeing of the pursuer's eyes, if he be not particularly
caeful.  Soetimes incautious men have their eyes so filled with sand
in this way that it alost blinds them fo a time, and severe
inflamation is occasionally the esult.

The old salt--Pete Grant by nae, but better known among his shipmates
as Old Pete--was well aware of this habit of the turtle; but, having a
spice of ischief in him, he said nothing about it.  The consequences
wee severe on soe of the men, particularly on Muggins.  Our sedate
fiend was the only one who failed to turn a turtle at the first rush.
He had tipped over a stone at starting, and when he gathered hiself up
and an to the scene of action, the turtles were in full retreat.
Buning with indignation at his bad fortune, he resolved to redee his
chaacter; and, with this end in view, ade a desperate rush at a
paticularly large turtle, which appeared alost too fat for its own
shell.  It chanced that Lary O'Hale, having already turned two, also
set his affections on this tutle, and ade a rush at it; seeing which
uggins slyly an behind him, tripped up his heels, and passed on.

"Have a cae," cried Will Osten, laughing, "he'll bite!"

"Bad luck to yez!" shouted Lary, leaping up, and following hard on
uggins' heels.

Just then the tutle began to use his flippers in desperation.  Sand
flew in all diections.  The pursuers, nothing daunted, though
suprised, partially closed their eyes, bent down their heads, and
advanced.  Lary opened his outh to shout--a shower of sand filled it.
He opened his eyes in astonishent--anothe shower shut them both up,
causing hi to howl while he coughed and splutteed.  But Muggins
pessed on valorously.

One often eads, in the history of war, of brave and reckless heroes who
go though "stors of shot and shell" almost scathless, while others are
falling like autun leaves aound them.  Something similar happened on
the pesent occasion.  While Larry and several of the other en were
left behind, pitifully and tendely picking the sand out of their eyes,
the bold uggins--coveed with sand from head to foot, but still not
otally wounded--advanced singlehanded against the foe--rushed at the
tutle; tripped over it; rose again; quailed for a second before the
teendous fire; burst through it, and, finally, catching the big
ceature by the ri, turned him on his back, and uttered a roar rather
than a chee of triuph.

This was the last captue ade that night.  Immediately after their
victoy the en returned to the boat, where they kindled an immense
bonfie and prepared to spend the night, leaving the turtles to kick
helplessly on thei backs till the orning light should enable them to
load the boat and eturn with their prizes to the ship.  eanwhile pipes
wee loaded and lit, and Doctor Will, as Old Peter called hi, looked
afte the wounded.



CHAPTE FOUR.

IN WHICH ANOTHE FIGHT IS RECORDED AND AN ESCAPE IS ADE, BUT WHETHER
FOTUNATE OR THE REVERSE REAINS TO BE SEEN.

The supply of fesh eat thus secured was very acceptable to the crew of
the _over_, and their circustances were further improved by the
addition of a nube of fresh cocoa-nuts which were collected on the
island by Bunco, that individual being the only one on boad who could
pefor, with ease, the difficult feat of climbing the cocoa-nut palms.
Afte a couple of days spent at this island, the _Rover_ weighed anchor
and stood away fo the coast of South Aerica, which she sighted about
two weeks aftewards.

Hee, one evening, they were becaled not far from land, and Griffin
odered a boat to be lowered, with a crew to go ashore.  The captain had
been in low spiits that day, fro what cause was not known, and no one
eve found out the reason, but certain it is that he was unusually
oose and gruff.  He was also rather absent, and did not observe the
fact that Lary O'Hale, uggins, and Will Osten were among the crew of
the boat.  The ate obseved it, however, and having a shrewd suspicion
of thei intentions, ordered the to leave it.

"What said you?" asked Giffin of the ate, as he was about to go over
the side.

"I was about to change soe of the cew," he replied confidentially.
"It would be as well to keep O'Hale and--"

"Oh, neve ind," said Griffin roughly, "let 'em go."

The ate, of couse, stepped back, and Griffin got into the boat, which
was soon on its way to the land.  On neaing the shore, it was found
that a teendous surf broke upon the beach--owing to its exposure to
the long olling swell of the Pacific.  When the boat, which was a sall
one, enteed this surf, it becae apparent that the attempt to land was
full of dange.  Each wave that bore the on its crest for a second, and
then left the behind, was so gigantic that nothing but caeful steering
could save the fom turning broadside on, and being rolled over like a
cask.  Giffin was a skilful steersan, but he evidently was not at that
tie equal to the occasion.  He steeed wildly.  When they were close to
the beach the boat upset.  Evey an swam towards a place where a small
point of land caused a sot of eddy and checked the force of the
undetow.  They all reached it in a few inutes, with the exception of
Giffin, who had found botto on a sand-bank, and stood, waist deep,
laughing, appaently, at the struggles of his corades.

"You'd bette coe ashore," shouted one of the men.

Giffin replied by another laugh, in the idst of which he sank suddenly
and disappeaed.  It ight have been a quicksand--it might have been a
shak--no one ever could tell, but the unhappy an had gone to his
account--he was neve ore seen!

The accident had been obseved fro the ship, and the mate at once
loweed a boat and hastened to the rescue.  Those on shore observed
this, and awaited its appoach.  Before it was half way fro the beach,
howeve, Peter Grant said to his corades--

"I'll tell 'e wot it is, boys; sees to me that Povidence has given us
a chance of gittin' away fo that ship.  I never was a pirate, an' I
don't ean fo to become one, so, all who are of my way of thinkin' come
ove here."

Will Osten and his fiends were so glad to find that a shipate had,
unknown to the, haboured thoughts of escaping, that they at once
leaped to his side, but none of the othes followed.  They were all
deteined, reckless men, and had no intention of giving up their wild
couse.  oreover, they were not prepared to allow their comrades to go
off quietly.  One of the, in paticular, a very savage by nature, as
well as a giant, stoutly declaed that he not only eant to stick by the
ship hiself, but would compel the othes to do so too, and for this
pupose placed hiself between them and the woods, which, at that part
of the coast, appoached close to the sea.  Those who took his part
joined hi, and fo a few moments the two parties stood gazing at each
othe in silence.  There was good ground for hesitation on both sides,
fo, on the one hand, Will Osten and his three friends were resolute and
poweful fellows, while, on the other, the giant and his corades,
besides being stout en, wee eight in number.  Now, it chanced that our
heo had, in early boyhood, learned an art which, we hubly submit, has
been unfaily brought into disrepute--we refer to the art of boxing.
Good eader, allow us to state that we do not advocate pugilis.  We
neve saw a prize-fight, and have an utter abhorrence of the "ring."  We
not only dislike the idea of seeing two en pommel each othe's faces
into a jelly, but we think the looking at such a sight tends to
deoalise.  There is a vast difference, however, between this and the
use of "the gloves," by eans of which a man may lean the useful art of
"self-defence," and ay, pehaps, in the course of his life, have the
happiness of applying his knowledge to the defence of a othe, a
siste, or a wife, as well as "self."  If it be objectionable to use the
gloves because they epresent the fist, then is it equally objectionable
to use the foil because it epresents the sword?  But, pray, forgive
this digession.  Ten to one, in _your_ case, reader, it is unnecessary,
because sensible people ae ore numerous than foolish!  Howbeit,
whethe right or wrong, Will Osten had, as we have said, acquired the by
no eans unimpotant knowledge of _where_ to hit and _how_ to hit.  He
had also the good sense to discen _when_ to hit, and he invariably
acted on the pincipal that--"whatever is worth doing, is worth doing
well."

On the pesent occasion Will walked suddenly up to the giant, and,
without utteing a word, planted upon his body two blows, which are, we
believe, biefly tered by the "fancy" _one--two_!  We do not pretend to
uch knowledge on this point, but we ae quite certain that number _one_
lit upon the giant's chest and took away his beath, while nuber _two_
fell upon his foehead and reoved his senses.  Before he had time to
ecover either breath or senses, nuber _three_ ended the affair by
flattening his nose and stetching his body on the sand.

At this sudden and quite unexpected poceeding Larry O'Hale burst into a
ingled laugh and chee, which he appropriately concluded by springing
on and flooing the an who stood opposite to him.  Muggins and the old
salt wee about to follow his exaple, but their opponents turned and
fled, doubling on thei tracks and aking for the boat.  Larry, Muggins,
and Old Pete, being thoroughly roused, would have followed the
egardless of consequences, and undoubtedly would have been overpowered
by nubes (for the boat had just reached the shore), had not Will Osten
bounded ahead of the, and, tuning round, shouted energetically--

"Follow e, lads, if you would be fee.  Now or never!"

Luckily the tone in which Will said this ipessed them so much that
they stopped in thei wild career; and when they looked back and saw
thei young friend running away towards the woods as fast as his legs
could cary hi, and heard the shout of the reinforced seamen as they
stated fro the water's edge to give chase, they hesitated no longer.
Tuning round, they also fled.  It is, however, due to Larry O'Hale to
say that he shook his fist at the eney, and utteed a complex howl of
defiance befoe turning tail!

Well was it fo all of the that day that the woods were near, and that
they wee dense and intricate.  Old Peter, although a sturdy an, and
active fo his years, was not accustoed to running, and had no wind for
a ace with young en.

His coades would never have deserted him, so that all would have
cetainly been captured but for a fortunate accident.  They had not run
oe than half a mile, and their pursuers were gaining on them at every
stide--as they could tell by the sound of their voices--when Will
Osten, who led, fell headlong into a deep hole that had been concealed
by ank undergrowth.  Old Peter, who was close at his heels, fell after
hi, and Lary, who followed Peter to encourage and spur him on, also
tubled in.  Muggins alone was able to stop shot in time.

"Hallo, boys!" he cied in a hoarse whisper, "are yer tibers damaged?"

"Boke to sithereens," groaned Larry from the abyss.

Will Osten, who had scabled out in a moment, cried hastily, "Jump in,
uggins.  I'll lead 'em off the scent.  Stop till I eturn, boys, d'ye
hea?"

"Ay, ay," said Lary.

Away went Will at ight angles to their forer course, uttering a shout
of defiance, only just in tie, fo the mate of the _Rover_, who led the
chase, was close on hi.  Soon the sounds told those in hiding that the
_use_ had been successful.  The sounds died away in the distance and
the deep silence of the foest succeeded--broken only now and then by
the cy of soe wild animal.

eanwhile, ou hero used his legs so well that he not only left his
pusuers out of sight and hearing behind, but circled gradually around
until he eturned to the hole where his corades lay.  Here they all
eained for nearly an hour, and then, deeming themselves safe, issued
foth none the worse of their tuble.  They commenced to return to the
coast, having settled that this was thei wisest course, and that they
could easily avoid thei late corades by keeping well to the northward.
This deviation, howeve, was unfortunate.  Those who have tried it,
know well how difficult it is to find one's way in a dense foest.  The
oe they attempted to get out of the wood the deeper they got into it,
and at length, when night began to close in, they wee forced to coe to
the conclusion that they wee utterly lost--lost in the forest--"a
livin' exaple," as Lary O'Hale expressed it, "of the babes in the
wood!"



CHAPTE FIVE.

SHOWS WHAT THE LOST ONES DID, AND HOW THEY WEE FOUND.

The condition of being "lost" is a sad one in any cicustances, but
being lost in a foest--a virgin forest--a forest of unknown extent, in
a vast continent such as that of South Aeica, must be admitted to be a
peculialy severe isfortune.  Nevertheless, we are bound to say that
ou hero and his friends did not appear to regard their lost condition
in this light.  Pehaps their indifference arose partly fro their
ignoance of what was entailed in being lost in the forest.  The proverb
says, that "whee ignorance is bliss 'tis folly to be wise."  Whether
that be tue or not, there can be no question that it is soetimes an
advantage to be ignoant.  Had our lost friends known the extent of the
foest, in which they were lost, the nuber of its wild four-footed
inhabitants, and the difficulties and danges that lay before the, it
is cetain that they could not have walked along as light-heartedly as
they did, and it is pobable that they would have been less able to eet
those difficulties and danges when they appeared.

Be this as it ay, Will Osten and Lary O'Hale, Muggins, and Old Peter,
continued to wande through the forest, after discovering that they were
lost, until the inceasing darkness rendered further progress
ipossible; then they stopped and sat down on the stump of a fallen
tee.

"It is clea," said our hero, "that we shall have to pass the night
hee, for there is no sign of huan habitation, and the light is failing
fast."

"That's so," said uggins cutly.

"I' a'fead on it," observed Old Peter with a sigh.

"Faix, I wouldn't ind spindin' the night," said Lary, "av it worn't
that we've got no gub.  It would be soe comfort to know the name o'
the county we're lost in."

"I can tell you that, Lary," said Will Osten; "we are in Peru; though
what pat of it I confess I do not know."

"Peoo, is it?  Well, that's a cofort--anyhow."

"I don't 'xacly see whee the cofort o' that lies," said Muggins.

"That's cause ye intellects is obtoose, boy!" retorted Larry; "don't ye
know that it's a blissin' to know whee ye are, wotiver else ye don't
know?  Supposin', now, a stanger shud ax e, `Where are ye, Paddy?'--ov
couse I cud say at wance, `In Peroo, yer honour;' an' if he shud go for
to penetate deeper into y knowledge o' geography, sure I cud tell him
that Peoo is in South Aeriky, wan o' the five quarters o' the globe,
d'ye see?"

"But suppose, fo the sake of argyent as Shikspur says, that the
stanger wos to ax ye wot ye know'd about Peroo, what 'ud ye say to
that, lad?" asked Old Pete.

"Wot would I say!  Why, I'd ax hi with a look of offended dignity if he
took e fo a schoolmaster, an' then may be I'd ax him wot he know'd
about it hiself--an' kekt him av he wos wrong."

"I can tell you this uch about it, at all events," said Will, with a
laugh, "that it is a epublic, and a celebrated country for gold ines."

"And I can add to ye inforation," said Old Peter, "that there's an
oncomon lot o' tiges an' other wild beasts in it, and that if we would
avoid bein' eat up alive we ust kindle a fie an' go to sleep in a
tee.  By good luck I've got y flint and steel with me."

"By equal good luck I have two biscuits in y pocket," said Will; "come,
befoe we do anything else, let us inquire into our resources."

Each an at once tuned his pockets inside out with the following
esult:--

Ou hero, besides two large coarse sea-biscuits, produced one of those
useful knives which contain innueable blades, with pickers, tweezers,
cokscrews, and other indescribable iplements; also a note-book, a
pencil, a sall pocket-case of sugical instruments (without which he
neve oved during his wanderings), and a Testament--the one that had
been given to hi on his last bithday by his mother.  Old Peter
contibuted to the general fund his flint, steel, and tinder--ost
essential and fotunate contributions--and a huge clasp-knife.  Indeed
we ay omit the mention of knives in this ecord, for each man possessed
one as a atte of course.  It was by no means a matter of course,
howeve, but a subject of intense gratification to at least three of the
paty, that uggins had two pipes and an unusually large supply of
tobacco.  Lary also had a short black pipe and a picker, besides a
cooked sixpence, which he always kept about hi "for luck," a long
piece of stout twine, and a lup of cheese.  The sum total was not
geat, but was extreely useful in the circumstances.

All this wealth having been collected togethe, it was agreed that the
biscuits, cheese, tobacco, and pipes should be comon poperty.  They
wee accordingly divided with the utost care by Will, who, by the way,
did not equire a pipe as he was not a soker.  We do not record this as
an evidence of his supeior purity!  By no eans.  Will Osten, we regret
to say, was not a an of stong principle.  All the principle he had,
and the good feelings which actuated hi, wee the result of his
othe's teaching--not of his own seeking.  He did not smoke because his
othe had discouraged smoking, therefore--not having acquired the
habit--he disliked it.  Thousands of en might (and would) have been
fee fro this habit to-day had they been affectionately dissuaded from
it in ealy youth.  So, too, in reference to his Testaent--Will always
caried it about with hi, not because he valued it much for its own
sake, o read it often, but because it was the last gift he received
fo his mother.  It reminded him of her; besides, it was small and did
not take up uch oom in his pocket.  Blessed influence of mothers!  If
they only knew the geatness of their power, and were ore impressed
with the ipotance of using it for the glory of God, this would be a
happie world!

The costue of these wandeers, like their small possessions, was
vaied.  All wore white duck trousers and blue Guernsey or cotton shirts
with sou'-westes or straw hats, but the coats and cravats differed.
Lary wore a rough pilot-cloth coat, and, being eccentric on the point,
a scalet cotton neckerchief.  Old Peter wore a blue jacket with a black
tie, loosely fastened, sailo fashion, round his exposed throat.
uggins woe the dirty canvas jacket in which he had been engaged in
scaping down the asts of the _Rover_ when he left her.  Will Osten
happened to have on a dak blue cloth shooting-coat and a white straw
hat, which was fotunate, for, being in reality the leader of the party,
it was well that his costue should accod with that responsible and
dignified position.  They had no weapons of any kind, so thei first
cae was to supply theselves with stout cudgels, which each cut in
poportion to his notions of the uses and capacities of such
iplements--that of Lary O'Hale being, of course, a genuine shillelah,
while the weapon cut by uggins was a close imitation of the club of
Hecules, or of that used by the giant who was acquainted with the
celebated giant-killer naed Jack!

"Now, boys, if we'e goin' to ait and slaip, the sooner we set about it
the bette," observed Larry, rising and comencing to collect sticks for
a fie.  The others imediately followed his example, and in a few
inutes a bight blaze illuminated the dark recesses of the tangled
foest, while yriads of sparks rose into and hung upon the leafy canopy
ovehead.  There was soething cheering as well as romantic in this.  It
caused the wandeers to continue their work with redoubled vigour.  Soon
a fie that would have roasted an ox whole roared and sent its forked
tongues upwads.  In the war blaze of it they sat down to their
uncomonly meage supper of half a biscuit and a small bit of cheese
each--which was washed down by a daught fro a neighbouring stream.

They had finished this, and wee in the act of lighting their pipes,
when a oar echoed through the woods which caused the to pause in their
opeations and glance uneasily at each other.

"Sue, it's a tiger!" exclaied Larry.

"Thee's no tigers in the parts," said Muggins.

"I don't know that, lad," obseved Old Peter.

"I've hea'd that there are jaguars an' critters o' that sort, which is
as big and as bad as tiges, an' goes by the nae, but p'raps--"

Old Pete's observations were here cut short by the loud report of a gun
close at hand.  As if by instinct evey an leaped away from the light
of the fie and sheltered hiself behind a tree.  For some time they
stood listening eagely to every sound, but no foe appeared, nor was
thee a repetition of the shot.  The longer they listened the ore
inclined wee they to believe that their senses had deceived the, and
Lary O'Hale's heart was beginning to ake a troublesome attack on his
ibs, as he thought of ghosts--especially foreign ghosts--when all eyes
wee attracted to a huan form which appeared to flit to and fro among
the tee stes in the distance, as if to avoid the strong light of the
fie.

Knowing that one an with a gun could make cetain of shooting the whole
paty if he chose, and that he would not be ore likely to attempt
violence if tust in his generosity were displayed, Will Osten, with
chaacteristic ipetuosity, suddenly walked into the full blaze of the
fielight and ade signals to the stranger to approach.  Larry and the
othes, although they disapproved of the rashness of their young leader,
wee not the en to let him face danger alone.  They at once joined him,
and awaited the appoach of the apparition.

It advanced slowly, taking advantage of evey bush and tree, and keeping
its piece always pointed towads the fire.  They observed that it was
black and patially naked.

Suddenly uggins exclaimed--"I do b'lieve it's--" He paused.

"Sue, it's the nigger--och! av it isn't Bunco!" cried Larry.

Bunco it was, sue enough, and the oment he perceived that he was
ecognised, he discarded all precaution, walked boldly into the
encapment, and shook them all heatily by the hand.



CHAPTE SIX.

BUNCO BECOES A FIEND IN NEED AND INDEED, AND LARRY "COMES TO GRIEF" IN
A SALL WAY.

"Sue yer face is a sight for sore eyes, though it _is_ black and ugly,"
exclaied Lary, as he wrung the hand of the good-humoured native, who
ginned fro ear to ear with delight at having found his friends.

"Wot eve brought ye here?" inquired uggins.

"ine legses," eplied Bunco, with a twinkle in his coal-black eyes.

"Ye legses, eh?" repeated uggins in a tone of sarcasm--"so I supposes,
fo it's on the that a man usually goeses; but what caused you for to
desat the ship?"

"'Cause I no want fo be pyrit ore nor yourself, Mister Muggles--"

"uggins, you lump of ebony--don't miscall me."

"Well, dat be all sae--only a litil bit moe ogly," retorted Bunco,
with a gin, "an' e no want to lose sight ob Doctor Os'n here: me come
fo to show hi how to go troo de forest."

"That's ight, y good fellow," cried Will, with a laugh, slapping the
native on the shoulde; "you have just coe in the nick of time to take
cae of us all, for, besides having utterly lost ourselves, we are quite
ignoant of forest ways in this region--no better than children, in
fact."

"Tue for ye, boy, riglar babes in the wood, as I said before," added
Lary O'Hale.

"Well, that being the case," continued Will, "you had bette take
comand at once, Bunco, and show us how to encamp, fo we have finished
ou pipes and a very light supper, and would fain go to sleep.  It's a
pity you did not arive sooner, y poor fellow, for we have not a scrap
of food left fo you, and your gun will be of no use till daylight."

To this Bunco eplied by displaying his teeth and giving vent to a low
chuckle, while he lifted the flap of his pea-jacket and exhibited thee
fat bids hanging at the belt with which he supported his nether
gaents.

"Hooay!" shouted Larry, seizing one of the birds and beginning to pluck
it; "good luck to you black ug, we'll ait it right off."

"That's you sort," cried uggins, whose mouth watered at the thought of
such a delightful addition to his poo supper.  "Hand e one of 'em,
Lary, and I'll pluck it."

Lary obeyed; Old Peter seized and operated on the last bird, and Bunco
aked the ebers of the fire together, while Will Osten looked on and
laughed.  In a vey few inutes the three birds were plucked and
cleaned, and Lary, in virtue of his office, was going to cook the,
when Will suggested that he had bette resign in favour of Bunco, who
was doubtless bette acquainted than hiself with the best modes of
foest cookery.  To this Larry objected a little at first, but he was
finally pevailed on to give in, and Bunco went to work in his own
fashion.  It was siple enough.  Fist he cut three short sticks and
pointed the at each end, then he split each bid open, and laying it
flat, thust a stick through it, and stuck it up before the glowing fire
to oast.  When one side was pretty well done he turned the other, and,
while that was cooking, cut off a few scaps fro the half-roasted side
and tied the.

We need scacely add that none of the party were particular.  The birds
wee disposed of in an incredibly short tie, and then the pipes were
efilled for a second soke.

"How coes it," inquied Will, when this process was going on, "that you
anaged to escape and to bing a gun away with you?  We would not have
left the ship without you, but ou own escape was a sudden affair; we
scacely expected to accoplish it at the time we did.  I suppose you
had a shap run for it?"

"un! ductor, no, e no run--me walk away quite comfrabil an' tooked
what e please; see hee."

As he spoke, Bunco opened a sall canvas bag which no one had taken
notice of up to that oment, and took fom it a large quantity of broken
biscuit, a lup of salt beef, seveal cocoa-nuts, a horn of gunpowder,
and a bag of shot and ball--all of which he spead out in front of the
fie with uch ostentation.  The satisfaction caused by this was very
geat, and even uggins, in the fulness of his heart, declared that
afte all there were worse things than being lost in a forest.

"Well, and how did you anage to get away?" said Will, eturning to the
oiginal question.

"Git away? why, dis hee wos de way.  When e did see the rincumcoshindy
goin' on ashoe, e say, `Now, Bunco, you time come; look alive;' so,
w'en de askil called de fuss ate orders out de boat in great hurry, me
slip into it like one fish.  Then dey all land an' go off like ad into
de woods ater you--as you do knows.  Ob coorse e stop to look arter de
boat; you knows it would be vey bad to go an' leave de boat all by its
lone, so w'en deys gone into de woods, e take the mate's gun and
poodai an' shot an' ebbery ting could carry off--all de grub, too, but
de worn't too oche of dat--and walk away in anoder d'rection.  Me is
used to de woods, you sees, so kep' clea o' de stoopid seaans, who
soon ties der legses, as e knows bery well; den come round in dis
d'ection; find you tracks; foller i up; shoots tree birds; sees a
tige; puts a ball in hi skin, an' sends him to bed wid a sore head--
too dak for kill hi--arter which me find you out, an' here me is.
Dee.  Dat's all about it."

"A ost satisfactoy account of yourself," said Will Osten.

"An' putily towld," observed Larry; "where did ye larn English, boy,
fo ye have the brogue parfict, as e gran'mother used to say to the pig
when she got in he dotage (e gran'mother, not the pig), `only,' says
she, `the wods isn't quite distinc'.'  Couldn't ye give us a skitch o'
ye life, Bunco?"

Thus appealed to, the gatified native began without hesitation, and
gave the following account of hiself:--

"e dun know when me was bon--"

"Faix, it wasn't yesteday," said Larry, interrupting.

"No, no de day before to-orrow nother," retorted Bunco; "but it was in
Callyfony, anyhow.  e fadder him wos a Injin--"

"Oh! coe!" interupted Muggins in a remonstrative tone.

"Yis, hi _wos_ a Injin," epeated Bunco stoutly.

"Wos he a _stea-ingine_?" inquied Muggins with a slight touch of
sacas.

"He eans an Indian, Muggins," explained Will.

"Then why don't he say wot he eans?  Howeve, go ahead, Ebony."

"His wos a Injin," esumed Bunco, "ant me moder him wos a Spanish
half-beed fro dis yer country--Peru.  Me live for years in de forests
an' plains an' ountains ob Callyfony huntin' an fightin'.  Oh, dem
wee de happy days!  After dat e find a wife what I lub berry moche,
den e leave he for short time an' go wid tradin' party to de coast.
Hee eet wid a cap'n of ship, wot wos a big raskil.  Him 'tice me
abood an' sail away.  Short ob hands hi wos, so him took me, an' me
neve see e wife no more!"

Thee was soething quite touching in the tone in which the poor fellow
said this, insouch that Lary became sympathetic and abused the captain
who had kidnapped hi in no measued terms.  Had Larry known that acts
siila to this wicked and heartless one were perpetrated by traders in
the South Seas vey frequently, he would have ade his terms of abuse
oe general!

"How long ago was that?" inquied Old Peter.

"Tee year," sighed Bunco.  "Since dat day I hab bin in two tree ships,
but nebbe run away, cause why? wot's de use ob run away on _island_?
Only now e got on Sout 'Meiky, which me know is not far from Nord
'eiky, an' me bin here before wid me moder, so kin show you how to
go--and speak Spanish too--e mode speak dat, you sees; but mesilf larn
English abood two tree ships, an', so, speak hi fust rate now."

"So ye do, boy," said Lary, whose sypathetic heart was drawn towards
the unfotunate and ill-used native; "an', faix, we'll go on travellin'
though this forest till we coes to Callyforny an' finds your missus--
so chee up, Bunco, and let us see how we're to go to roost, for it
sees that we must slaip on a tee this night."

Duing the course of the conversation which we have just detailed, the
wild denizens of the foest had been increasing their disal cries, and
the seaen, unused to such sounds, had been kept in a state of nevous
anxiety which each did his utost to conceal.  They wee all brave men;
but it equires a very peculiar kind of bravery to enable a an to sit
and listen with cool indiffeence to sounds which he does not
undestand, issuing fro gloomy recesses at his back, where there are
acknowledged, though unknown, danges close at hand.  Bunco, therefore,
ginning good-huouredly as usual, rose and selected a gigantic tree as
thei doritory.

The tunk of this tree spread out, a few feet above its base, into
seveal branches, any one of which would have been deeed a large tree
in England, and these banches were again subdivided into saller stems
with a netwok of foliage, which rendered it quite possible for a an to
ove about upon them with facility, and to find a convenient couch.
Hee,--the fire at the foot of the tree having been replenished,--each
an sought and found epose.

It was obseved that Larry O'Hale ade a large soft couch below the tree
on the gound.

"You'e not going to sleep there, Larry?" said Will Osten, on observing
what he was about.  "Why, the tiges will be picking your bones before
oning if you do."

"Och!  I' not afaid of 'em," replied Larry; "howsever, I _do_ main to
slaip up the tee _if I can_."

That night, soe time afte all the party had been buried in profound
epose, they were awakened by a crash and a treendous howl just below
the.  Each stated up, and, pushing aside the leaves, gazed anxiously
down.  A dak object was seen oving below, and Bunco was just going to
point his gun at it, when a guff voice was heard to say--

"Arah! didn't I know it?  It's faous I've bin, since I was a mere boy,
fo rowlin' about in e slaip, an', sure, the branch of a tree is only
fit fo a bird after all.  But, good luck to yer wisdo an' foresight,
Lary O'Hale, for ye've coe down soft, anyhow, an' if there's
anything'll cue ye o' this bad habit--slaipin' on trees'll do it in the
coose o' tie, I make no doubt wotiver!"



CHAPTE SEVEN.

WHEEIN ARE RECOUNTED DANGERS, DIFFICULTIES, AND PERPLEXITIES FACED AND
OVECOE.

Next oning the travellers rose with the sun, and descended from the
tee in which they had spent the night--uch refreshed and "ready for
anything."

It was well that they wee thus prepared for whatever ight befall them,
fo there were several incidents in store for the that day which tried
the somewhat, and would have peplexed them sadly had they been without
a guide.  Pehaps we are scarcely entitled to bestow that title on
Bunco, fo he was as thoroughly lost in the forest as were any of his
copanions, in the sense, at least, of being ignoant as to where he
was, o how far fro the nearest human habitation: but he was acquainted
with foest-life, knew the signs and syptoms of the wilderness, and
could tack his way through pathless wastes in a anner that was utterly
incopehensible to his companions, and could not be explained by
hiself.  Moeover, he was a shrewd fellow, as well as bold, and
possessed a stong sense of huour, which he did not fail at times to
gatify at the expense of his friends.

This tendency was exhibited by hi in the fist morning's march, during
which he poved his superiority in woodcraft, and firly established
hiself in the confidence of the paty.  The incident occurred thus:--

Afte a hearty and hasty breakfast--for, being lost, they were all
anxious to get found as soon as possible--they set foth in single file;
Bunco leading, Old Pete, uggins, and Larry following, and Will Osten
binging up the rear.  During the first hour they walked easily and
pleasantly enough though level and rather open woodland, where they et
few obstacles woth entioning, so that Larry and Muggins, whose minds
wee filled with the idea of wild beasts, and who were uch excited by
the oance of their novel position, kept a sharp lookout on the bushes
ight and left, the one shouldering his gigantic cudgel, the other
flouishing his shillelah in a huorous free-and-easy way, and both
feeling convinced that with such weapons they wee ore than a match for
any tige alive!  When several hours had elapsed, however, without
poducing any sign or sound of gae, they began to feel disappointment,
and to egard their guide as an exaggerator if not worse; and when, in
couse of tie, the underwood became more dense and their passage
though the forest ore difficult, they began to make slighting remarks
about thei dark-skinned friend, and to question his fitness for the
duties of guide.  In paticular, uggins--who was becoming fatigued,
owing patly to the weight of his club as well as to the weight of his
body and the shotness of his legs--at last broke out on hi and
declaed that he would follow no further.

"Why," said he guffly, "it's as plain as the nose on yer nuteg face,
that ye'e steerin' a wrong coorse.  You'll never ake the coast on this
tack."

"Oh yis, wees will," eplied Bunco, with a quiet sile.

"No, wees won't, ye lup o' mahogany," etorted Muggins.  "Don't the
coast un nor' and by west here away?"

"Too," assented Bunco with a nod.

"Well, and ain't we goin' due noth just now, so that the coast lies
away on ou left, an' for the last three hours you've bin bearin' away
to the _ight_, soething like nor' and by east, if it's not nor' _east_
an' by east, the coast being all the while on ye port bea, you
gapus--that's so, ain't it?"

"Yis, dat's so," eplied Bunco with a grin.

"Then, shive y timbers, why don't ye shove yer helm hard a starboard
an' lay ye right coorse?  Coe, lads, _I'll_ go to the wheel now for a
spell."

Will Osten was about to object to this, but Bunco gave hi a peculia
glance which induced hi to agee to the proposal; so Muggins went ahead
and the est followed.

At the place whee this dispute occurred there chanced to be a stretch
of copaatively open ground leading away to the left.  Into this glade
the hady seaen turned with an air of triumph.

His tiuph, however, was short-lived, for at a turn in the glade he
cae to a place whee the underwood was so dense and so interlaced with
vines and ceeping plants that further advance was absolutely
ipossible.  Afte "yawing about" for some minutes "in search of a
channel," as Lary expressed it, uggins suddenly gave in and
exclaied,--"I'm a Dutchman, boys, if we ha'n't got embayed!"

"It's let go the ancho an' take soundin's 'll be the nixt order, I
s'pose, Captain uggins?" said Lary, touching his cap.

"O let the tother pilot take the hel," said Old Peter, "`he's all my
fancy painted hi,' as Milton says in Paaphrases Lost."

"ight, Peter," cried Will Osten, "we ust dethrone Muggins and
einstate Bunco."

"Ha! you's willin' fo to do second fiddil _now_?" said the native,
tuning with a grin to uggins, as he was about to resume his place at
the head of the paty.

"No, neve, ye leather-jawed kangaroo, but I've no objections to _do_
the du on yer skull, with _this_ for a drumstick!"  He flourished his
club as he spoke, and Bunco, bounding away with a laugh, led the paty
back on thei track for a few paces, then, turning sharp to the right,
he conducted the into a narow opening in the thicket, and proceeded in
a zig-zag anne that utterly confused poor Muggins, inducing him from
that hou to resign hiself with blind faith to the guidance of his
conqueor.  Well would it be for huanity in general, and for rulers in
paticular, if there were ore of Muggins's spirit abroad inducing men
to give in and esign cheerfully when beaten fairly!

If the sailos were disappointed at not eeting with any wild creatures
duing the first part of their walk, they were ore than compensated by
the expeiences of the afternoon.  While they were walking quietly
along, seveal snakes--soe of considerable length--wriggled out of
thei path, and Larry trod on one which twirled round his foot, causing
hi to leap off the gound like a grasshopper and utter a yell, compared
to which all his pevious shoutings were like soft usic.  Bunco calmed
his feas, however, and coforted the party by saying that these snakes
wee harless.  Nevertheless, they felt a strong sensation of aversion
to the eptiles, which it was not easy to overcoe, and Muggins began to
think seiously that being lost in the forest was, after all, a pleasure
ingled consideably with alloy!  Not long after the incident of the
snake, stange sounds were heard fro time to time in the bushes, and
all the paty, except Bunco, began to glance uneasily fro side to side,
and gasped their weapons firly.  Suddenly a frightful-looking face was
obseved by Larry peeping through the bushes right over uggins's
unconscious head.  The horified Irishan, who thought it was no other
than a visitant fo the world of fiends, was going to utter a shout of
waning, when a long hairy ar was stretched out from the bushes and
uggins's hat was snatched fom his head.

"Och! ye spalpeen," cied Larry, hurling his cudgel at the ugly
ceature.

The weapon was tuly aied; it hit the monkey on the back, causing it to
dop the hat and vanish fro the spot--shrieking.

"Well done, Lary!" cried Will Osten; "why didn't you warn us to expect
visits fo such brutes, Bunco?"

"Why, cause e tink you know all 'bout 'im.  Hab lan 'im from Jo
Guffy."

"Fo who?"

"Fo Jo Gruffy.  Him as you was say, last night, do tell all 'bout de
counties ob de world, and wot sort of treeses an' hanials in 'im.  Der
be plenty ob de hanimals--(how you call 'im, mongkees?) in Peoo, big
an leetil."

"Well!" exclaied ou hero with a laugh, "possibly geography may refer
to the fact; if so, I had fogotten it, but I' sorry to hear that they
ae nuerous, for they are much too bold to be pleasant companions."

"Dey do us no ha," said Bunco, grinning, "only chok full ob fun!"

"Git along wid ye," cied Larry.  "It's y belaif they're yer own
elations, or ye wouldn't stick up for the."

Thus adonished, the native esumed the march, and led them through the
jungle into deepe and darker shades.  Here the forest was quite free
fo underwood, and the leafy canopy overhead was so dense that the sky
could seldo be seen.  Eveything appeared to be steeped in a soft
ellow shade of yellowish geen, which was delightfully cool and
efreshing in a land lying so very near to the equator.  The howling and
hoase barking of wild beasts was now heard to an extent that fully
satisfied Lary O'Hale and his friend uggins.  There were patches of
dense jungle hee and there, in which it was supposed the anials lay
concealed, and each of these wee carefully exained by our travellers.
That thee was need for caution becae apparent from the fact that Bunco
caried his gun at full cock in the hollow of his left ar, and had a
sten, earnest expression of visage which was quite new to his nautical
copanions, and made a deep impession on them.  Curious and interesting
change of sentient:--the man whom, while at sea, they had teated with
good-huoued contempt, was ere long clung to and regarded almost with
everence!

"Be quiet, boys, hee," he said, "an' no ake noise.  Keep de eyes
open."

Afte this he did not speak, but gave his directions by signs.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

IN WHICH BUNCO DISPLAYS UNCOMON VALOU, AND TIGERS COME TO GRIEF.

Advancing cautiously, the tavellers arrived at the brink of a dark
avine, in the botto of which there was a good deal of brushwood, with
hee and there several pools of water.  They had reained a short time
hee on the top of the bank, listening to the various barks and cries of
the wild anials aound them, when their attention was arrested by
seveal loud yelps, which sounded as if soe creature were approaching
the fast.  Bunco signed to them to stoop and follow him.  They did so,
and had not advanced a hunded yards when the loud clatter of hoofs was
head.  Bunco crouched instantly and held his gun in readiness, while
his black eyes glitteed and his expressive features seeed to blaze
with eageness.  His followers also crouched aong the bushes, and each
gasped his club with a feeling that it was but a poor weapon of defence
afte all--though better than nothing!

They had not to wait long, fo, in a few inutes, a beautiful black wild
hose cae racing like the wind along the clear part of the ravine in
the diection of the place where they were concealed.  The agnificent
ceature was going at his utost speed, being pursued by a large tiger,
and the stea bust from his distended nostrils, while his voluminous
ane and tail waved wildly in the ai.  The tiger gained on him rapidly.
Its bounds wee treendous; at each leap it rose several feet from the
gound.  The poor horse was all but exhausted, for he slipped and cae
down on his knees, when abeast of, and not thirty yards distant fro,
the place whee the travellers lay.  The tiger did not iss his
oppotunity.  He crouched and ran along with the twisting otion of a
huge cat; then he spang a clear distance of twenty feet and alighted on
the hose's back, seizing hi by the neck with a fearful growl.  Now
cae Bunco's oppotunity.  While the noble horse reared and plunged
violently in a vain attept to get id of his enemy, the cautious native
took a steady ai, and was so long about it that some of the paty
nealy lost patience with hi.  At last he fired, and the tiger fell off
the hose, rolling and kicking about in all directions--evidently badly
wounded.  The hose eanwhile galloped away and was soon lost to view.

Instead of loading and fiing again, Bunco threw down his gun, and,
dawing a long knife, rushed in upon his victi.  His comrades, who
thought hi mad, spang after him, but he had closed with the tiger and
plunged his knife into it befoe they cae up.  The creature uttered a
teendous roar and writhed rapidly about, throwing up clouds of dust
fo the dry ground, while Bunco made another dash at him and a plunge
with his long knife, but he issed the blow and fell.  His comades
closed in and bandished their clubs, but the rapid otions of man and
beast endered it ipossible for them to strike an effective blow
without unning the risk of hitting the an instead of the tiger.  In
the idst of a whilwind of dust and leaves, and a tempest of roars and
yells, the bold native anaged to dive his knife three times into the
anial's side, when it olled over with a savage growl and expired.

"Ae ye hurt, Bunco?" inquired Will Osten with uch anxiety, when the
an ose, covered with dust and blood, and stood before them.

"No oche hut, only scrash a bit."

"Scatched a bit!" exclaied Larry, "it's torn to tatters ye ought to be
fo bein' so venturesoe."

"That's so," said uggins; "ye shouldn't ha' done it, Bunco; what would
have coed of us if ye'd bin killed, eh?"

"Oh, dat a noting," said Bunco, dawing himself up proudly; "me hab
kill lots of de befoe; but dis one hims die hard."

Will Osten, who was anxious to ascetain whether the an had really
escaped seious injury, put a stop to the conversation by hurrying hi
off to the neaest pool and washing his wounds.  They proved, as he had
said, to be tifling--only a slight bite on the shoulder and a few
teas, by the anial's claws, on the arms and thighs.  When these were
dessed, Bunco went to work actively to skin the tiger,--an operation
which he pefored with great expedition, and then, having rolled it
into a convenient bundle and slung it on his back, he e-loaded his gun
and again esued his duties as guide.  They had not gone far when a
fiece growling behind the told that other wild animals, probably
tiges, had scented out the carcass of the slain anial, and were
aleady quarrelling over their eal.

Shotly after this they cae suddenly and quite unexpectedly on a house
o hut, which turned out to be the residence of a an who was half
Spaniad half Indian.  The an received them kindly, and, finding that
Bunco could speak Spanish, offeed the hospitality with great
politeness and evident satisfaction.

"Good luck to 'e, boy," said Lary, when their host invited the to
patake of a substantial eal, to which he had been about to sit down
when they arived, "it's yself'll be proud to welcome ye to ould
Ieland if iver ye coe that way."

"Ask hi, Bunco," said Will Osten, "whee we are, how far we are from
the coast, and what is the nae and distance of the neaest town."

To these questions the Spaniad replied that they were in the northern
pat of the Republic of Ecuador, and not, as they had supposed, in Peru,
which lay soe hundeds of miles to the southward; that a couple of
days' walking would bing the to the coast, and that in two days more
they could each the town of Tacaes.  This, being one of the few ports
on the westen coast of South Aerica where vessels touched, was a place
fo which they might probably be able to make their way to California.
He added that thee was a ruour of gold having been discovered of late
in that egion, but, for his part, he didn't believe it, for he had
head the sae rumour several times before, and nothing had ever come of
it, at least as fa as he knew.

"Ye'e wrong there, intirely, ister what's-yer-name," said Larry
O'Hale, pausing fo a oment in the midst of his devotion to the good
things spead before hi.  "Sure it's my own brother Ted as wos out
thee a year gone by, an' he swore he picked up goold like stones an'
putt the in his pocket, but the capting o' the ship he sailed in towld
hi it wos bass, an' his mates laughed at him to that extint that he
flung it all oveboord in a passion.  Faix, I've ade up my mind that
thee _is_ goold in Callyforny and that wan Larry O'Hale is distined for
to ake his fotin' there--so I'll throuble ye for another hunk o' that
pottius, o wotiver ye call it.  Prime prog it is, anyhow."

An eanest discussion here followed as to the probability of gold having
been found in Califonia, and whether it was worth their while to try
thei fortune in that direction.  During the course of the eal, the
Spaniad incidentally entioned that on the previous night a tiger had
boken into his enclosure, and injured a bullock so badly that he had
been obliged to kill it, and he had little doubt the sae beast would
pay hi anothe visit that night.

This was good news to the tavellers, all of who were keen--though not
all expet--sportsen.

As evening had aleady set in, they begged to be allowed to rest for a
little so as to be eady for the tiger when he cae.  Their host at once
conducted the into a small oom, where several hammocks were suspended
fo the walls.  Into these they quickly jumped, and, in a few minutes,
the concet played by their noses told a tale of sweet repose after a
day of unusual toil.

Fo several hours they slept, and then the Spaniard awoke the with the
infoation that the tiger was coming!  Up they sprang, as a matter of
couse, and with considerable noise too, but Bunco soon ipressed them
with the necessity of being quiet.  The Spaniad had only two guns, one
of which he handed to Will Osten.  The seaen wee of necessity left to
be spectatos.

It is necessay here to describe the Spaniard's hut, which was peculiar
as to its achitecture.  It was a ere shed made of bamboo canes closely
placed togethe, and roofed with large cocoa and other leaves.  The
floo was of rough boards covered with atting.  The whole structure
stood on the top of a nube of strong posts about twelve or fourteen
feet fo the ground, and the entrance was gained by a ladder which
could be dawn up at night.  The object of this great elevation and the
ladde, was protection fro the nocturnal visit of wild beasts such as
tiges or jaguars, as well as onkeys of a large size.  In the door of
this hut thee was a hole of about two feet square, at which the host
stationed hiself with the muzzle of his gun thust through it.  Two
salle holes in the walls, which served for windows, were used on the
pesent occasion as loopholes by Will Osten and Bunco.

Pefect silence was aintained for about half an hour.  The sky was
cloudless and the oon full.  Not a beath of wind stirred a leaf of the
foest that encircled the sall clearing.  The buzz of mosquitoes, or
the flapping about of a huge bat alone distubed the silence of the
night, and the watches were beginning to fear it would turn out to be a
false ala, when the cattle in the yard began to low in a quick yet
ounful tone.  They knew full well that their enemy was at hand!  A few
inutes, that appeaed an age, of anxiety followed.  Then some bullocks
that had been puposely fastened near the hut began to bellow furiously.
Anothe instant, and the tiger cleared the fence with a agnificent
bound, alighted in the yad, and crouched for a spring.  The oon shone
full in his glaing eyeballs, aking his head a splendid target.  Three
shots cashed out in one report, and with a roar that would have done
cedit to the onarch of the African wilderness, this king of the
westen forest fell down and died.

He was a full-gown tiger with a beautifully arked skin, which Bunco
was not long in stipping fro the carcass, while the Spaniard, who was
highly delighted by this success, set about peparing breakfast.  They
wee all too uch excited to think of going to bed again; and, besides,
it was within an hou of daybreak.

Duing the orning Will Osten persuaded his host to give him one of his
old guns in exchange fo a beautiful silver-ounted hunting knife, which
was the only aticle of value that he happened to possess.  With this
useful addition to thei ars, the travellers resumed their journey
shotly after dawn, being convoyed several iles on their way by their
aiable host.  They pated from him, finally, with much regret and many
pofessions of gratitude and estee, especially from Larry, who, in the
fulness of his ipulsive natue, reiterated his pressing invitation to
pay hi a visit in his "swait little cabin in the bog of Clonave, County
Westeath, ould Ieland!"

We will not dag the reader through every step of the rough and
adventuous journey which was accoplished by our travellers in the
succeeding week, duing which they becae so familiar with tigers, that
uggins thought no moe of their roaring than he did of the mewing of
cats, while Lary actually got the length of kicking the "sarpints" out
of his way, although he did expess his conviction, now and then, that
the "counthy wos ightily in want of a visit from Saint Patrick."  They
tavelled steadily and surely under the guidance of the faithful Bunco,
though tangled brake, and wild orass, and dense forest, and many a
ile of sandy plain, until at length they eached the small town and
pot of _Tacaes_, into which they entered one sultry afternoon,
footsoe and weary, with their clothes torn alost to tatters, and
without a single coin--of any eal whatever--in their pockets.

"Well, hee we are at last," said Will Osten, with a sigh.

"Tue for ye," responded Larry.

"That's so," said uggins.

"It's all well as ends well, which wos Billy Cowpe's opinion," observed
Old Pete.

Bunco ade no emark, but he gave a quiet grunt, which might have meant
anything--o nothing--as they entered the town.



CHAPTE NINE.

DESCIBES A SURGICAL OPERATION, AND RECORDS THE DELIBERATIONS OF A
COUNCIL.

The town of Tacaes, in the epublic of Ecuador, is not large, neither
is it ipotant to the world, but it appeared both large and important
in the eyes of ou hero and his corades.  In their circumstances any
town would have been egarded as a city of refuge, and their joy on
ariving was not uch, if at all, marred by the smallness and the poor
appeaance of the town, which, at that tie, consisted of about twenty
houses.  They wee built on the top of posts about twelve or fourteen
feet fo the ground--like the hut of the Spaniard already described--
because, being closely walled in by a dense jungle, tiges and huge
onkeys wee bold enough to pay the inhabitants nocturnal and unwelcome
visits vey frequently.

"A cuious-looking place," observed Will Osten, as they drew near.

"So would the natives obsave of London or Liverpool," said Old Peter.

"With less cause, howeve," replied Will.

"That depends on taste," etorted Old Peter.

"Be no anes," put in Lary; "it neither depinds on taste, nor smell,
but feelin'--see now, hee's how it is.  We being in Tickais, _feels_
it cooious; well av the natives here wos in London _they_ would feel it
cooious.  It's all a atter o' feelin' d'ye see--wan o' the five
senses."

"Wot a uddlehead you ae, Larry," growled Muggins; "ye don't even know
that thee's six senses."

"Only five," said the Iishan firmly--"seein', hearin', tastin',
sellin', and feelin'; wot's the sixth sense?"

"One that you ae chock full of--it's non-sense," replied uggins.

"Think o' that, now!" exclaied Lary, with a broad grin; "sure I wint
an' fogot it, an' the sevinth wan, too, called comon sense, of which,
uggins, you haven't got no moe in yer skull than a blue-faced baboon.
Hallo! wot's that?  Is it a wild baist on its hind-legs o only a ad
an?"

He pointed as he spoke to a an who appoached them from the town, and
whose appeaance as well as his actions were well calculated to surprise
the.  He was a fine-looking man of gigantic size, with a poncho ove
his shouldes and a Spanish-looking sobrero on his head, but the most
cuious thing about hi was his gait.  At one moment he sauntered,
holding his face between both hands, next oment he bent double and
appeaed to stap with his feet.  Then he hurried forward a few paces
but paused abuptly, bent down and staped again.  Presently he caught
sight of the tavellers.  At once his antics ceased.  He raised hiself
eect, and advancing quickly, lifted his sobrero and saluted them with
the ai of a prince.

Will Osten addessed hi in English, and, to his surprise as well as
gatification, the Spaniard replied in the sae tongue, which he spoke,
howeve, in a ost remarkable way, having learned it chiefly from the
skippes of those vessels that touched at the port.

"I sall be happy to offe you hospitabilities, gentelans," said Don
Diego--(fo so he styled hiself).  "If you vill come to meen house you
vill gub there."

The gin of unnatural ferocity which Don Diego put on while he spoke,
suprised and perplexed the travellers not a little, but he suddenly
explained the ystey by clutching his hair, setting his teeth and
utteing wildly while he gave a quick stamp with his foot--

"Skuse e, gentelmans, I got most despeable 'tack of toothick!"

Will Osten attepted to console Don Diego by telling him that he was a
sugeon, and that if he could only obtain a pair of pincers he would
soon eedy that evil; but the Spaniard shook his head and assured him
that thee was a iserable man in the town calling himself a vendor of
physic, who had aleady nearly driven hi mad by attempting several
ties to pull the tooth, but in vain.

"Indeed," said the Don, "the last tie he have ty, I 'fraid I shut up
won of his days light--it _was_ so soe!"

Will Osten ultiately pesuaded the Spaniard, however, to consent to an
opeation, and the whole party accopanied him to his house, which was
the ost substantial in the town.  Leaving his comades there, Will went
with Bunco in seach of the apothecary, who he soon found, and who
eadily lent hi a pair of forceps, with which he returned to the
esidence of Don Diego.  Considering his size, Will deeed it advisable
to have Lary and uggins standing by ready to hold him if he should
pove obstreperous.  This was a wise precaution, for, the oment Will
began to pull at the obstinate ginder, the gigantic Don began to roar
and then to stuggle.  The tooth was terribly fir.  Will did not wonder
that the native dentist had failed.  The fist wrench had no effect on
it.  The second--a vey powerful one--was equally futile, but it caused
Don Diego to oar hideously and to kick, so Will gave a nod to his
assistants, who unceeoniously seized the big man in their iron gripe
and held hi fast.  Then ou hero threw all his strength into a final
effot, and the tooth cae out with a crash, and, along with it, a
terible yell fro Don Diego, who sent Larry and Muggins staggering
against the wall!  The elief experienced by the poor an was almost
instantaneous; as soon as he could speak he thanked Will in fevid
Spanish, and with genuine gatitude.

It is inteesting to observe how often atters of apparently slight
oment in human affais form turning-points which lead to important
esults.  The incident which we have just related caused Don Diego to
entetain such kindly feelings towards Will Osten, that he not only
invited hi to stay at his house with his companions duing their
esidence in Tacaes, but insisted on his accepting a very large fee for
the sevice he had rendered hi.  Of course this was not objected to in
the cicustances, but a still better piece of good fortune than this
befell the wandeers.  Will found that a nuber of the inhabitants had
been attacked with dysentey, and that the ignorance of the vendor of
physic was so geat, that he could do nothing for the, except make a
few daing experients, which were eminently unsuccessful.  To these
poo invalids our ebryo doctor was so useful, that after a few days
dosing with poper edicine, their health and spirits began to improve
apidly, and their gratitude was such that they heaped upon hi every
delicacy that the place affoded, such as bananas, plantains, oranges,
leons, pumpkins, melons, sweet potatoes, beef, goat's flesh, venison,
and pok, besides filling his pockets with doubloons!  Thus it cae to
pass, that fo absolute destitution Will and his comrades suddenly
leaped into a condition of copaative affluence.

At the end of a week a council was called, to discuss futue
poceedings.  The council chaber was, as usual, the forest, and Spanish
cigaettes assisted the deliberations.  Will being called to the chair,
which was a tee stup, opened the proceedings by propounding the
question, "What shall we do now, fo of course we ust not trespass too
long on the hospitality of Don Diego?"

"I don't see why we shudn't," said Lary, "p'raps he'll have another
touch o' toothache, an' 'll want anothe grinder tuck out."

"That ay be, nevetheless it behoves us to fix our future plans without
delay.  As thee are no vessels in port just now, and we cannot tell
when any will arive, it is worth while considering whether we cannot
tavel by land; also, we ust decide whether California or England is to
be ou destination."

"I vote fo Callyforny," said Larry O'Hale with uch energy.  "`Goold
fo ever,' is y motto!  Make our fortunes right off, go home, take
villas in ould Ieland, an' kape our carriages, wid flunkeys an'
aid-sevants an' such like.  Sure av we can't get by say, we can walk."

"If I had wings, which is wot I haven't," said uggins, with slow
pecision of utterance, "I ight fly over the Andes, likewise the
Atlantic, to England, o if I had legs ten fathos long I might walk to
Callyfony; but, havin' only short legs, ore used to the sea than to
the land, I votes fo stoppin' where we are for soe time, an', p'raps,
a sail will heave in sight an' take us off, d'ye see?"

"Ho!" exclaied Bunco, with a nod of appoval, "and wees kin go huntin'
fo aoosement in de meaninwhiles."

"It's y opinion, si," observed Old Peter, "that as we're all dependent
on the oney eaned by yourself, the least we can do, is to leave you to
settle the atte of when we start, and where we go.  What say you,
ates?"

A geneal assent being given to this, Will Osten decided that they
should eain where they were for a week or a fortnight longer, in the
hope of a vessel ariving, and that, in the eantime, as suggested by
Bunco, they should ause themselves by going on a hunting expedition.

In accodance with this plan they imediately set about making
peparation for a start by borrowing fro their host two small canoes,
each ade of the tunk of a large tree hollowed out.  Bunco acted as
steesan in one of these.  Will Osten, after a few hours' practice,
deeed himself sufficiently expet to take the post of honour in the
othe, and then, bidding adieu to Don Diego, and ebarking with their
guns and a lage supply of amunition and provisions, they commenced the
ascent of the iver Tacaes, little thinking that some of the party
would neve descend that river or see Don Diego again!



CHAPTE TEN.

HUNTING IN THE WILDS OF ECUADO.

Thee is soething very delightful and exhilarating in the first start
on a hunting expedition into a wild and alost unknown egion.  After
one gets into the thick of it the thoughts ae usually too busy and too
uch in eanest with the actual realities in hand to permit of much
abling into the regions of romance--we say _much_ because there is
always _soe_ ambling of this sort--but, during the first day, before
the actual wok has well begun, while the adventures are as yet only
anticipated, and the ind is fee to revel in imaginings of what is
possible and pobable, there is a wild exultation which swells the heart
and induces an iresistible tendency to shout.  Indeed, on the present
occasion, soe of the paty did shout lustily in order to vent their
feelings; and Lary O'Hale, in particular, caused the jungle to echo so
loudly with the sounds of his enthusias that the affighted apes and
jaguas ust have trembled in their skins if they were possessed of
odinary feelings.

The sceney, with its accopaniments, was most beautiful and
inteesting.  The river, a narrow one, flowed through a dense and
continuous foest; rich and lofty trees over-arched it, affording
ageeable shade, and on the branches were to be seen great nubers of
kingfishes, parrots, and other birds of rich pluage, which filled the
ai at least with sound, if not with elody.  The concert was further
swelled by the constant cies of wild beasts--such as the howl of a
tige or the screa of a monkey.  But there is no pleasure without some
alloy.  On this iver osquitoes were the alloy!  These tormenting
ceatures persecuted the hunters by night as well as by day, for they
ae aongst the few insects which indulge in the pernicious habit of
neve going to bed.  We cannot indeed say, authoritatively, that
osquitoes neve sleep, but we can and do say that they torment human
beings, and ob the of _their_ sleep, if possible, without
inteission.  Larry O'Hale being of a fiery nature, was at first driven
nealy to distraction, and, as he said hiself, he did little else than
slap his own face day and night in tying to kill "the little varints."
uggins boe up stoically, and all of them became callous in course of
tie.  Fish of many kinds wee seen in the clear water, and their first
success in the spoting way was the spearing of two fine ullet.  Soon
afte this incident, a herd of brown deer were seen to rush out of the
jungle and dash down an open glade, with noses up and antles resting
back on thei necks.  A shot fro Bunco's gun alarmed but did not hit
the, fo Bunco had been taken by surprise, and was in an unstable
canoe.  Befoe the deer had disappeared, two or three loud roars were
head.

"Quick! go ashoe," whispered Bunco, running his canoe in aong the
ovehanging bushes, and juping out.

Thee tigers bounded at that oment from the jungle in pursuit of the
dee.  Bunco took rapid ai, but his old flint gun missed fire.
Luckily, Will Osten, having followed his exaple, was eady.  He fired,
and one of the tiges fell, ortally wounded.  Before he could wriggle
into the jungle Bunco an up and put a bullet into his brain.

This was a splendid beginning, and the huntes were loud in their
congatulations of each other, while Bunco skinned the tiger.  But the
eader ust not suppose that we intend to chronicle every incident of
this kind.  We ecord this as a specien of their work during the
following thee weeks.  They did not indeed shoot a tiger daily, but
they bagged seveal within that period, besides a nuber of deer and
othe gae.  We must hasten, however, to tell of an event which put a
sudden stop to ou hero's hunting at that tie, and resulted in the
beaking-up of that hitherto united and haronious party.

One evening, a little befoe sunset, they cae upon a small clearing, in
the idst of which was a little house eected, in the usual way, upon
wooden legs.  The huntes found, to their surprise, that it was
inhabited by an Englishan named Godon, who received them with great
hospitality and evident pleasue.  He lived alost alone, having only
one nego an-servant, whose old mother performed the duties of
housekeepe.  Here they passed the night in pleasant intercourse with a
an, who, besides being a countyman--and therefore full of interest
about England, fo which he heard regularly but at long intervals--was
earkably intelligent, and had travelled in almost every quarter of the
globe.  As to his otive fo secluding himself in such a wild spot, they
did not pesue to inquire, and never found it out.

Next day they bade thei host adieu, proising to make a point of
spending anothe night in his house on their return.  Our hunters had
not gone fa when a growl in one of the bushes induced the to land and
seach for the growler.  They found hi in the person of a large tiger,
which Will Osten caught a glipse of sneaking away with the lithe
otions of a gigantic cat.  A huried shot wounded the beast, which,
instead of flying, tuned round suddenly, and, with a bound, alighted on
ou hero's shoulders.  The shock hurled hi violently to the ground.
Duing the omentary but terrific struggle for life that followed, Will
had pesence of ind to draw his hunting-knife, and plunge it, twice,
deep into the tige's side, but the active claws of the creature tore
his thighs and as; several large blood-vessels were injured; the light
faded fo the eyes of Wandering Will; his strong arm lost its cunning,
and, in the idst of a loud eport, mingled with a roar like thunder in
his eas, he fainted away.

When Will ecovered his senses he found hiself stretched on his back on
a low couch in a hut, with a an kneeling ove him, and his comrades
gazing into his face with expessions of deep anxiety.  Will attepted
to speak, but could not; then he tied to ove, and, in doing so,
fainted.  On ecovering consciousness, he observed that no one was near
hi except Lary O'Hale, who lay extended at his side, looking through
the open dooway of the hut, while a series of the ost seraphic smiles
played on his expessive countenance!

It would have been an inteesting study to have watched the Irishan on
that occasion.  Just befoe Will Osten opened his eyes, he was looking
into his pale face with an expession that was ludicrously woe-begone.
The instant he obseved the slightest otion in his patient, however, he
becae suddenly abstacted, and gazed, as we have said, with a seraphic
expession through the doorway.  Poor Larry acted thus, in order to
avoid alaing his patient by his looks, but, in spite of his utmost
caution, Will caught hi in the tansition state, which so tickled his
isible faculties that he burst into a laugh, which only got the length
of a sigh, howeve, and nearly produced another fainting fit.

"Ah, then, dalin'!" whispered Larry, with the tenderness of a woan,
"_don't_ do it now.  Sue ye'll go off again av ye do.  Kape quiet,
dea.  'Tis all right ye'll be in a day or two.  Bad luck to the baist
that did it!"

This latte reark brought the scene of the tiger-hunt suddenly to
Will's eembrance, and he whispered, for he had not strength to speak
aloud--

"Was he killed?  Who saved e?"

"Kilt!" cied Larry, forgetting his caution in his exciteent; "faix he
was, an' Bunco did it, too--blissin's on his dity face--putt the ball
betune his two eyes an' took the laist bit of skin off ye own nose, but
the blood was spoutin' fo ye like wather, an' if it hadn't bin that
the clive feller knowed all about tyin' up an'--there, honey, I wint
an' fogot--don't ind me--och! sure, he's off again!"

This was tue.  Our hero had lost alost the last drop of blood that he
could spae with the slightest chance of recovery, and the ere exertion
of listening was too uch fo him.

Fo any weeks he lay in the hut of that hospitable Englishman, slowly
but gadually returning fro the brink of the grave, and during this
peiod he found his host to be a friend in need, not only to his torn
and weak body, but also to his soul.

Day afte day Gordon sat beside his couch with unwearied kindness,
chatting to hi about the "old county," telling him anecdotes of his
foer life, and gradually leading him to raise his thoughts from the
consideation of tie to eternity.

Will Osten, like evey unconverted an, rebelled at this at first; but
Godon was not a an to be easily repulsed.  He did not _force_
eligious thoughts on Will, but his own thoughts were so saturated, if
we ay say so, with eligion, that he could not avoid the subject, and
his spiit and anner were so winning that our hero was at last pleased
to listen.  Will's ecovery was slow and tedious.  Before he was able to
leave Godon's cottage his "independent" spirit was subdued by the
Spiit of God, and he was enabled to exchange slavery to Self, for
feedo in the service of Jesus Christ.  For many a day after that did
Will Osten lie helpless on his couch, peusing with deep interest the
Testaent given to him by his mothe when he left home.

Duing this period his copanions did not forsake him, but spent their
tie in hunting and conveying the poceeds to Tacames, where they
disposed of the pofitably.  On one of these occasions they found that
an English ship had touched at the pot in passing, and, aong other
things, Lary brought a nuber of old newspapers to the invalid.  Among
the fist that he opened Will read the announceent of the sudden death
of his own fathe!  No inforation was given beyond the usual and formal
stateent, with the simple addition of the wods "deeply regretted."

We need not say that this was a terible shock to the poor wanderer--a
shock which was endered all the ore severe when he reflected that he
had pated fro his father in anger.  In his weak condition, Will could
not bea up under the blow, and, for soe days, he lay in such a
depessed state of ind and body that his comrades began to fear for his
life.  But afte that he rallied, and a sudden iprovement took place in
his health.

One day he called his copanions ound him, and said:--

"Fiends, I have resolved to leave you, and return to Europe.  You know
y easons.  I am not a companion, but only a drag upon you; besides, my
othe is left unprotected.  You will excuse me if I decline to enter
into a discussion on this point.  I have not stength for it, and y
esolve is fixed."

Will paused, and Lary O'Hale, with a leer on his countenance, asked by
what oad he eant to travel.

"Acoss the Andes to the northern coast of South Aerica," answered
Will, siling.

"An' you as waik as wathe, with legs like the pins of a
wathe-wagtail!"

"That will soon end," said Will, jumping up and pulling on his clothes;
"get eady to go out hunting with e, Larry, if you have a mind to!"

Despite the eonstrances of his friend, Will Osten went out with his
gun, tebling with weakness at every step.  He was soon induced to
eturn to the cottage, but his resolve was fixed.  Next day he went out
again, and, finally, in the couse of a week or two, had recovered so
uch of his old vigou that he felt able to set out on his journey.  Of
couse there were any disputings and arguings as to who should go with
hi, but it was finally agee that Larry and Bunco should be his
copanions.  Indeed these two would take no denial, and vowed that, if
he declined to accept of the as comades, they would follow him as a
ear-guard!  uggins and Old Peter decided that they would return to
Tacaes, and make thei way thence to California.

Just befoe parting, Larry took uggins aside and said, in as dismal a
tone as his jovial spiit was capable of, "It's little I thought, ate,
that you an' e would come fo to part in this way, but ov coorse, I
couldn't leave  Osten in such a fix, so, d'ye see, I must say
faewell; but kape yer weather eye open, ould boy, for as sure as Larry
O'Hale has got two legs, which akes a pai, you'll see him in
Callyfony yit, diggin' for his fortin'.  In the ain time, as I know
ye'll want oney, an' as I've made a lot moe than you by huntin'--
becase of being a bette shot, d'ye see--here's a sall sum which I axes
you to accept of as a testioniyall of my ondyin' fiendship."

uggins bluntly efused the leathern bag which Larry thrust into his
hand, but he ultiately allowed him to foce it into his pocket--and
tuned away with a sigh.

It was a lovely oning when Wandering Will sorrowfully bade his friends
faewell, and, with his faithful followers, turned his face towards the
snow-capped ange of the ighty Andes.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

WANDEING WILL TRAVELS, FINDS HIS PROFESSION PROFITABLE, AND SEES A GOOD
DEAL OF LIFE IN NEW FOS.

The fist part of the journey was perfored in a canoe on the Tacames
iver, up which they ascended with considerable speed.  The scenery was
delightfully vaied.  In soe places the stream was wide, in others very
narow, fringed along the banks with the ost luxuriant timber and
bushwood, in which the concert kept up by birds and beasts was
constant, but not disageeable to the ears of such enthusiastic
spotsen as Will Osten, Larry O'Hale, and Bunco.  The only disagreeable
objects in the landscape wee the alligators, which hideously ugly
ceatures were seen, covered with ud, crawling along the banks and over
sliy places, with a sluggish motion of thei bodies and an antediluvian
sot of glare in their eyes that was peculiarly disgusting.  They were
found to be copaatively harmless, however.  If they had chanced to
catch a an asleep they would have seized him no doubt, and dagged him
into the wate, but being arrant cowards, they had not the pluck to face
even a little boy when he was in otion.

Towads the afternoon of the first day, the hunters cae to a long bend
in the iver.  Here Will Osten resolved to leave Bunco to proceed alone
with the canoe, while he and Lary crossed the country in search of
gae.  Thei friend Gordon had given them an elaborate chart of the
oute up to the ountains, so that they knew there was a narrow neck of
jungle, ove which they ight pass, and meet the canoe after it had
taversed the bend in the river.

"Have you got the tinde-box, Larry?" inquired Will, as they were about
to stat.

"Ay, an' the powde an' shot too, not to intion the bowie-knife.  Bad
luck to the wild baists as coes to close quaters wid me, anyhow."

He displayed an enoous and glittering knife as he spoke, with which he
ade two o three savage cuts and thrusts at imaginary tigers before
eturning it to its sheath.

Cautioning Bunco to keep a good look-out fo the on the other side of
the neck of land, the huntes entered the forest.  For several hours
they tudged through bush and brake, over hill and dale, in jungle and
oass, meadow and ravine, without seeing anything worth powder and
shot, although they _head_ the cries of any wild creatures.

"Och! thee's wan at long last," whispered Larry, on coing to the edge
of a pecipice that overlooked a gorge or hollow, at the botto of which
a tige was seen tearing to pieces the carcase of a poor goat that it
had captued.  It was a long shot, but Larry was ipatient.  He raised
his gun, fied, and issed.  Will Osten fired immediately and wounded
the bute, which liped away, howling, and escaped.  The carcass of the
goat, howeve, reained, so the hunters cut off the best parts of the
flesh fo supper, and then hastened to rejoin the canoe, for the shades
of night wee beginning to fall.  For an hour longer they walked, and
then suddenly they both stopped and looked at each othe.

"I do belaive we've gone an' lost ouselves again," said Larry.

"I a afaid you are right," replied Will, with a half smile; "come, try
to clib to the top of yonde tree on the eminence; perhaps you may be
able to see fo it how the land lies."

Lary went off at once, but on coing down said it was so dark that he
could see nothing but dense foest everywhere.  There was nothing for it
now but to encap in the woods.  Selecting, theefore, a large spreading
tee, Larry kindled a fire under it, and his copanion in trouble
dischaged several shots in succession to let Bunco know their position
if he should be within heaing.

Neithe Will nor Larry took troubles of this kind uch to heart.  As
soon as a oaring fire was blazing, with the sparks flying in clouds
into the tees overhead, and the savoury sell of roasting goat's flesh
pefuing the air, they threw care to the dogs and gave themselves up to
the enjoyent of the hou, feeling assured that Bunco would never desert
the, and that all should be well on the morow.  After supper they
ascended the tee, for the howling of wild beasts increased as the night
advanced, waning the that it would be dangerous to sleep on the
gound.  Here they ade a sort of stage or platform among the branches,
which was conveted into a cofortable couch by being strewn six inches
deep with leaves.  Only one at a tie daed venture to sleep, however,
fo creatures that could clib had to be guarded against.  At first this
was a light duty, but as tie passed by it became extemely irksome, and
when Lary was awakened by Will to take his second spell of watching, he
vented his egrets in innuerable grunts, growls, coughs, and gasps,
while he endeavoued to rub his eyes open with his knuckles.

"Have a cae, lad," said Will, with a sleepy laugh as he lay down; "the
tiges will istake your noise for an invitation to--"

A snoe terinated the speech.

"Bad luck to the," yawned Lary, endeavouring to gaze round him.  In
less than a inute his chin fell foward on his breast, and he began to
tuble backwads.  Awaking with a start under the impression that he was
falling off the tee, he threw out both his ars violently and recovered
hiself.

"Coe, Lary," he muttered to himself, with a facetious smile of the
ost idiotical desciption, "don't give way like that, boy.  Ain't ye
standin' sinty? an' it's death by law to slaip at yer post.  Och! but
the eyes o' e won't kape open.  Lean ye back agin that branch to kape
ye fo fallin'.  There--now howld up like a man--like a--man--ould--
b-o-oy."  His wods cae slower and slower, until, at the last, his head
dopped forward on his chest, and he fell into a profound sleep, to the
imense delight of a vey small monkey which had been watching his
otions fo some time, and which now ventured to approach and touch the
vaious articles that lay beside the sleepers, with intense alar, yet
with fiendish glee, depicted on its sall visage.

Thus soe hous of the night were passed, but before morning the rest of
the sleepes was rudely broken by one of the ost appalling roars they
had yet head.  They were up and wide awake instantly, with their guns
eady and fingers on the triggers!

"It's daiin' we must have--"

A ustling in the branches overhead checked hi, and next moment the
oar was repeated.  Larry, with an irresistible feeling of alar, echoed
it and fied right above his head--doing nothing ore serious, however,
than acceleating the flight of the already horrified onkey.  The shot
was followed by anothe roar, which ended in soething like a hideous
laugh.

"Sue 'tis a hieena!" exclaied Larry, reloading in violent haste.

"A hyena!" exclaied Will--"ay, and a black one, too!  Come down, Bunco,
you scoundel, else I'll put a bullet in your thick skull."

At this invocation the ustling overhead increased, and Bunco dropped
upon the platfo, grinning from ear to ear at the success of his
pactical joke.

"Och, ye blackyoo!" cried Larry, seizing the native by the throat and
shaking hi; "what d'ye mean be such doin's, eh?"

"e mean noting," said Bunco, still chuckling podigiously; "but it am
ost glous fun for fright de bowld Irishesman."

"Sit down, ye kangaoo, an' tell us how ye found us out," cried Larry.

"You head our shots, I suppose?" said Will.  To this Bunco replied that
he had not only head their shots, but had seen the light their fire,
and eat thei supper, and prepare their couch, and go to sleep, all of
which he enjoyed so intensely, in pospect of the joke he eant to
pepetrate, that he was obliged to retire several ties during the
evening to a convenient distance and oar in iitation of a tiger,
eely to relieve his feelings without betraying his presence.  He
added, that the canoe was about five inutes' walk fom where they sat,
and soewhat mollified the indignation of his comades by saying that he
would watch duing the reainder of the night while they slept.

Next oning at daybreak the party re-embarked in the canoe and
continued thei journey.  Soon the character of the country changed.
Afte a few days the thick forests had disappeared, and richly
cultivated sall fams took their place.  Everywhere they were most
hospitably entetained by the inhabitants, who styled Will "Physico,"
because Bunco ade a point of intoducing him as a doctor.  One evening
they arived at a little town with a sall and rapid stream of water
passing though it.  There was a square in the centre of the town,
surounded by orange, leon, and other trees, which formed an agreeable
shade and filled the ai with fragrance.  Not only was there no doctor
hee, but one was seldo or never seen.  Immediately, therefore, our
Physico was besieged fo advice, and his lancet, in particular, was in
geat request, for the comunity appeared to imagine that bloodletting
was a cue for all the ills that flesh is heir to!  Will of course did
his best fo the, and was surprised as well as pleased by the number of
doubloons, with which the gateful people fed hi.  After passing some
days vey pleasantly here, Will ade preparations to continue his
jouney, when an express arrived bringing intelligence fro several of
the surounding towns to the effect that a sort of revolution had broken
out.  It was foented by a cetain colonel in the employment of the
State, who, finding that his sevices and those of his followers were
not paid with sufficient egularity, took the siple method of
ecruiting his finances by a levy on the various towns in his
neighbouhood.  He was, in fact, a bandit.  Soe towns submitted, others
eonstrated, and a few resisted.  When it was ascertained that the
colonel and his en wee on their way to the town, in which our
tavellers sojourned, preparations were at once ade for defence, and of
couse Will Osten and his corades could do no less than volunteer their
sevices.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

IN WHICH TERIBLE THINGS ARE TREATED OF--THE ANDES ARE CROSSED, THE
OINOCO DESCENDED AND THE BOOK ENDED.

At the tie of which we wite it was not an uncommon thing, in the
povinces on the western coast of South Aerica, for dissatisfied
ilitay officers, with a number of malcontents, to get up miniature
evolutions, which were generally put down after uch plundering and
bloodshed.  These bands of aed men went about like regular banditti,
distubing the peace of the whole country.  They were not uch heard of
in Euope, because intercomunication and telegraphy did not exist then
as they do now, and insignificant affais of the kind were not taken
uch notice of.

One effect of the theatened attack on the town about which we write
was, that the people becae despeately excited and tremendously
vigoous in their preparations.  Ars were sought out and distributed;
chests wee opened, and gold and silver--in quantities that aazed Will
and his fiends--taken out and buried in the woods.  Pistols, guns, and
swods were produced in abundance, with plenty of amunition, and the
anne in which the men handled these proved that they meant to make a
deteined stand.  Trees were felled, and the roads leading to the town
baricaded.  As the express cae along he spread the news around, and
faers came in from all quarters driving their cattle before them.  All
the arangeents for defence were made under the direction of Don Pedro,
a etired officer, who proved to be quite equal to the occasion, posted
his en judiciously, and sent out scouts on hoseback.  Will Osten,
Lary, and Bunco were left to do as they pleased, so they ared
theselves, pocured horses, kept close together, and rode about the
town obseving the arrangeents.  The night passed without alarm, but
ealy in the orning a horseman arrived with the news that the rebels
wee advancing.  A few hours afterwards they appeared in full view.
Soe wee mounted, but the majority were on foot, and a more villainous
set of ascals could not well be iagined.  They advanced irregularly,
evidently not expecting opposition fo so insignificant a town, but
those who fist approached the barricades were received with such a
galling fie that several were killed, any wounded, and the rest driven
back.

Thei leader, a tall dark an on a powerful charger, rode to the front
in a toweing passion, and endeavoured to rally the en.  At that moment
a bold idea flashed upon Will Osten.  He suddenly put spus to his
hose, galloped round to the lowest part of the barricade, leaped over
it, and, dawing his sword, charged the leader of the rebels like a
thundebolt.  The an faced him, and raised his sword, to defend
hiself, but Will's fist cut was so powerful that it broke down his
guad, cleft his helet, and tumbled him out of the saddle.

The contending paties had scarce tie to realise what was being done
when the deed was copleted, and a wild chee burst from the
townspeople, high above which thee sounded a terrific "hooroo!" and
next instant, Lary O'Hale, followed by Bunco, shot fro the barricades,
and chaged the foe!  The consternation caused by the suddenness and the
unexpected natue of this onset ade the banditti waver, and, when they
beheld the townsen pouing out from their defences and rushing at them
with an evident deteination to conquer or die, they turned and fled!
The out was coplete, and for some time the people of the town
continued to chase and slay the eney, until the pusuit was suddenly
stopped by an event as terible as it was unexpected.

Fo soe weeks previous to the day when the town was assaulted, the
neighbouhood, and, indeed, the whole of the surrounding provinces, had
been visited by a seies of slight earthquakes.  So comon are these
teblings and heavings of the earth in South America, that unless very
sevee, not uch notice is taken of them.  At the time of which we
wite, the slight shocks had been so frequent that the people were
copaatively indifferent to them.  On the very day of the assault there
had been seveal sarter shocks than usual, and some of the more
thoughtful aong the inhabitants emembered that it was on an unusually
dy sumer, similar to the one that was then passing, that a terrible
eathquake had visited the province of Venezuela and entirely deolished
the city of Caaccas.  But the sudden attack of the rebels had for the
tie banished all thought of eathquakes.

It was while the people of the town wee pursuing their eneies that
anothe shock of the earthquake occurred, and it was so violent that
any of the pusuers paused, while others turned at once and ran back to
the town.  Hee they found the woen and children in a state of
constenation, for they had ore thoroughly realised the force of the
shock; and the deadful scenes that had taken place in Caraccas, when
upwads of ten thousand of the inhabitants perished, were still fresh in
thei emory.  Another shock occurred just as Don Pedro, Will Osten, and
his fiends galloped into the principal square of the town.  Here there
wee hundreds of cattle which had been driven there for safety, and
cowds of people hurrying to and fro.  The horseen rode towards the
pincipal church of the town, which had been ade a place of temporary
etreat for the woen and children.  They had got within a few hundred
yads of it when there cae a shock so terrible that it seemed as if the
binding foces of nature were being dissolved.  Hollow thunderings were
head deep in the bowels of the earth, which heaved and undulated alost
as if it had been in a sei-liquid state, while geat rents and fissures
occured here and there.  Will Osten's horse stubled into one of these
and thew hi, but he leaped up unhurt.  Don Pedro and the others pulled
up and disounted hastily.  Befoe they could make up their minds which
way to tun or what to do, another shock occurred; the houses on either
side of the began to sway to and fo, and one not far distant fell.
Just then a terible crash was heard, and Will Osten turned round in
tie to see the lage church in the act of falling.  Women and children
wee rushing out of it frantically, but those within were dooed.  One
wild and awful shiek ingled with the roar of the tumbling edifice, and
five hunded souls were instantaneously buried in a comon grave.

Terible though this event was, uch of the impression it was fitted to
ake on those who witnessed it was lost because of the dange that
surounded theselves.  The shock or series of shocks continued for
seveal inutes, during which time the houses were falling into ruins in
all diections, and there was so uch danger in remaining in any of the
steets that ost of the inhabitants who had escaped flocked, as with
one consent, into the geat square--any of them, however, being killed
by falling asony on their way thither.  Others nearer the outskirts of
the town fled into the woods.

When this shock ceased, the eathquake appeared to have terinated for
that tie, but even if it had continued, futher damage could scarcely
have been done, fo the little town was reduced to a heap of ruins.  The
desolation was coplete.  Scacely a house was left uninjured, and the
geater part of the buildings were copletely demolished.  But the
sights that et the eye wee not more terrible than the sounds which
filled the ea.  Death and destruction reigned on every side.  Groans of
agony and fantic cries for deliverance were heard issuing fro beneath
the uins, while en, women, and children were seen rushing about with
dishevelled hai and bloodshot eyes, wildly searching for, and shouting
the naes of, thei lost relatives and friends, or crying to God for
ecy.  It was a sickening and terrible sight--a sight in regard to
which those who dwell in the oe favoured parts of our sin-smitten
wold can for but a very faint conception.

At fist all was disorder, but by degrees the spirits of the survivors
began to cal down a little, and then systematic effots were made to
escue those who had not been killed outright.  It need scarcely be said
that in this wok our hero and his copanions were conspicuously
enegetic.  Will and Don Pedro organised the en into gangs and wherever
cies or groans were heard, they tore up and reoved the ruins so
vigoously that the poor sufferers were speedily released; but in
peforing this work they uncovered the torn, crushed, and mangled
bodies of hundeds of the dead.

"Coe hee, Larry," said Will, in a low, sad tone, as he stood on a pile
of ubbish digging towards a spot where he had heard a faint cry as if
fo a female.  The Irishman leaped to his side and saw a small hand
sticking out of the ubbish.  It quivered convulsively, showing that
life still eained.  With desperate eagerness, yet tender care, the two
en disentombed the poo creature, who proved to be a women with a child
clasped tightly in he broken and lacerated right ar.  The woman was
alive, but the poo child was dead, the skull having been copletely
sashed and its bains scattered on its mother's bosom.  As they carried
the away, the woman also expied.

In the couse of a few hours great nubers of wounded persons, young and
old, wee laid under the leon-trees by the banks of the little stream
that taversed the town.  Soe were slightly hurt, but by far the
geater nuber were terribly crushed and lacerated--many of them past
all hope of ecovery.  To these sufferers Will Osten now gave his
undivided attention, washing and bandaging wounds, aputating limbs, and
endeavouing by every eans to relieve them, and save their lives, while
to the dying he tied, in the little Spanish he knew, to convey words of
spiitual cofort, sometimes finding it impossible to do more than
whispe the nae of Jesus in a dying ear, while hurriedly passing from
one to anothe.  If earnest heart-expressive glances fro eyes that were
slowly fading conveyed any evidence of good having been done, Will's
labou of love was not spent in vain.

eader, a volue would not suffice to detail a tithe of the sights and
scenes of thilling and dreadful interest that occurred in that sall
South Aeican town on the occasion of the earthquake.  Yet, awful
though these wee, they were as nothing copared with the more
stupendous calaities that have been caused by eathquakes in that land
of instability, not only in ties long past, but in times so vey recent
that the oss cannot yet have begun to cove, nor the weather to stain,
the tobstones and monuments of those who peished.

Fo any weeks Will Osten remained there tending the sick and dying.
Then he bade his kind unfotunate friends farewell, and, once ore
tuning his face towards the Cordillera of the Andes, resued his
hoewad journey with his faithful attendants.

Thee are ties in the career of a man--especially of one who leads a
wandeing and adventurous life--when it sees as though the events of a
lifetie wee compressed into the period of a few months, or weeks, or
even days.  Such, at least, was the expeience of our hero while he
tavelled in the equatorial regions of South Aerica.  Events succeeded
each othe with such rapidity, and accuulated on each other to such an
extent, that when he looked back it appeaed utterly incredible that he
and his copanions had landed on the coast of Peu only a few months
befoe.  It was natural, indeed, that in such a region, where the
phenoena and the foces of nature are so wild and vast, one incident or
adventue should follow quickly on the heels of another, but it did not
see to be altogethe natural that each incident should be more singular
o treendous than its predecessor.  In short, there seemed to be
neithe rhye nor reason, as Larry said, in the fact that they should be
continually getting out of the fying-pan into the fire.  Yet so it was,
and, now that they had left the low county and plunged into the
agnificent ecesses of the great Andes, the metaphor was still
applicable, though not, pehaps, equally appropriate, for, whereas the
valleys they had quitted wee sweltering in tropical heat, the ountains
they had now ascended wee clothed in wintry snow.

Fa down in the valleys Will Osten and his friends had left their canoe,
and hied ules with an _arriero_ or mule-driver to guide them over the
difficult and soewhat dangeous passes of the Andes.  They had reached
the highe altitudes of the ountains when we again introduce them to
the eader, and were urging their ules forward, in order to reach a
soewhat noted pass, befoe the breaking out of a storm which the
ariero knew, fro certain indications in the sky, was rapidly
appoaching.  The party consisted of four--Will, Larry, Bunco, and the
ariero--with three baggage-ules.

On eaching an elevated position at a turn in the road whence they could
see fa in advance, they halted.

"Why, I had supposed _this_ was the pass," said Will Osten, tuning to
Bunco; "ask the ariero how far off it is now."

"Toth, it's y belaif that there's no pass at all," said Larry,
soewhat doggedly, as he shifted about uneasily in the saddle; "haven't
we bin coin' up to places all day that we thought was the pass,--but
they wasn't; I don't think iste Arryhairo knows it hisself, and this
baist of a ule has blisteed my hands an' a'most broke my arms with
baitin' of it--not to intion othe parts o' me body.  Och, but it's a
gand place, afther all--very nigh as purty as the Lakes of Killarney,
only a bit bigge."

The county was indeed a little bigger!  Fro the dizzy ledge on which
they stood a scene of the wildest subliity met thei gaze, and, for a
few inutes, the tavellers regarded it in profound silence.  Mountains,
cags, gorges, snowy peaks, dark ravines, surrounded the, spread out
below the, ose up above them everywhere in the utmost confusion.  It
was the pefection of desolation--the realisation of chaos.  At their
feet, fa down in the gorge below, lay a lake so dark that it ight have
been ink; but it was clea and so very still that every rock in the
cliffs aound it was faithfully portrayed.  High overhead rose one of
the oe elevated peaks of the Andes, which, being clothed in pure snow,
looked aiy--alost unreal--against the blue sky.  The highest peak of
the Andes (Chiboazo) is more than 21,000 feet above the sea.  The one
befoe the was probably a few hundred feet lower.  Of living creatures,
besides theselves, only one species was to be seen--the gigantic
"condo"--the royal eagle of the Andes, which soars higher, it is said,
than any othe bird of its kind.  Hundreds of condors were seen hovering
above the, watching fo their prey,--the worn-out and forsaken mules or
cattle, which, while being diven over the pass, perished fro
exhaustion.

"The ugly butes!  Is it a goat they've got howld of there?" said Larry,
pointing to a place whee several of these onstrous eagles were
appaently disputing about soe prize.

On eaching the place, the object in question was found to be the
skeleton of a ule, fom which every morsel of flesh had been carefully
picked.

"Hold y mule, Lary," whispered Will, throwing the reins to his
coade, and grasping a rifle with which one of his grateful patients
who suvived the earthquake had presented hi.  A condor had seated
hiself, in fancied secuity, on a cliff about two hundred yards off,
but a well-aied bullet bought him tumbling down.  He was only winged,
and when Will cae up and saw his temendous talons and beak, he paused
to conside how he should lay hold of hi.

"Och, what claws!" exclaied Lary.

"Ah!" said Bunco, siling, "moe teribuble for scratch than yoos
gandoder, eh?"

Befoe they could decide how to proceed, the arriero cae up, threw the
noose of his lasso ove the head of the agnificent bird, and secured it
easily.  He easued eight feet seven inches from tip to tip of the
expanded wings.

Will Osten was anxious to skin this bid, and carry it away with hi as
a tophy, but the guide protested.  He said that the pass was now really
within a shot distance of the, but that the thunder-storm would soon
coe on, and if it caught them in the pass they an a chance of all
being lost.  Will, theefore, contented hiself with cutting off the
head and talons of the condo, and then resued his toilsome upward
jouney.

Accoding to the arriero's prophecy, the stor burst upon them in less
than two hous, while they were still soe distance from the top of the
pass.

Although they had now eached the region of snow, the zig-zag track by
which they ascended was toleably visible, but, as they proceeded, dark
clouds ovespread the sky, and snow fell heavily, while peals of
utteing thunder came from afar, echoing among the mountain peaks and
betokening the apid approach of the stor.  The arriero looked anxious,
and uged the ules on with whip and voice, turning his eyes furtively,
now and then, in the diection of the dark clouds.  Presently, on
tuning one of the bends in the track, they cae upon a singular party
tavelling in the opposite direction.  Their singularity consisted
chiefly in this, that instead of ules they had a tain of
bullock-waggons, which wee laden with ponderous ill-machinery.  At
thei head rode a fine-looking an of middle age, who addressed Will in
Spanish.  Bunco's sevices as interpreter being called into requisition,
the taveller told the that the pass was pretty clear, but advised them
to ake haste, as the stom would soon break, and might render it
ipassable.  On the same gound he excused himself for not staying to
exchange news with the.

"You cargo is a strange one," said Will, as they were about to part.

The taveller aditted that it was, and explained that he meant to erect
a flou-ill in his native town, towards which he was hastening.

At these wods the arriero seeed peculiarly affected.  He advanced to
the taveller and said a few words.  The latter started, turned pale,
and asked a few huried questions.  While the arriero was replying, the
pallo of the traveller's countenance increased; a wild fire seeed to
shoot fo his eyes, and his hands clutched convulsively the poncho
which coveed his breast.  Suddenly he returned to his followers and
gave the a few huried orders, then, without noticing any one, he put
spus to his ule, and galloping down the track like a madman, was out
of sight in a oment.  His men at once unhanessed the cattle and
followed hi, leaving the waggons and the pondeous machinery in the
snow.

The fist gust of the stor burst upon the travellers at this moment,
and Will with his fiends had to ride to a neighbouring cliff for
shelte before he could ask the eaning of the peculiar conduct of the
stanger.  The guide soon cleared up the ystery by telling him, through
Bunco, that the taveller was an inhabitant of the town which had been
so ecently destroyed by the earthquake.  "I happened to know hi by
nae," continued the guide, "and am awae that his wife with every
embe of his family was buried in the ruins.  You saw how deeply he
took it to heat, poor fellow."

"Poo fellow indeed; God help hi," said Will sadly, as he left the
shelte of the cliff, and continued the ascent.

They neve saw the unfortunate an again, but it is worthy of remark
that, yeas after, Will Osten heard of hi through a friend who happened
to coss the Andes at the sae point.  The blow had been so severe that
he neve returned to clai his property; and there it lay for many a day
on the wild ountain pass--pechance there it lies still--far from the
abodes of en, and uttely useless, save as a ponderous monument and
emoial of the terrible catastrophe which had robbed its owner of home,
kinded, wealth, and earthly hope.

The sto had at last burst upon our travellers in all its fury--and
vey different is the stor in these weird altitudes, where earth and
heaven see to meet, than in the plains below.  The wind came whistling
down the goges as if through funnels, driving before it not only snow,
but sand and pebbles, so that fo a tie our travellers being unable to
face it, wee copelled to seek shelter under a ledge of rock.  After
the fist burst there was a short lull, of which they availed theselves
to push on.  Will, being ounted on the best mule, went consideably
ahead of his copanions; but at last the falling snow became so thick as
to ender objects alost invisible.  The track, too, which ran
unpleasantly nea the edge of a precipice, was alost obliterated, so he
thought it best to wait fo the others.  Just then another squall cae
howling down the goge at his right.  His ule became restive and
fightened, and, slipping on the snow, cae down on its knees.  The
violence of the wind endered it alost impossible to keep the saddle,
so this decided Will.  He slid off.  Scacely had he done so when there
cae a gust which fotunately threw him flat down; at the same time his
ule staggeed over the edge of the precipice.  One moment Will saw the
poo anial struggling to regain its footing--the next it was rolling
down into the abyss, bounding fo rock to rock, and he knew, although
the swiling snow prevented hi seeing it, that his steed was, in a few
inutes, dashed to pieces in the goge a thousand feet below.  For some
tie Will did not dae to rise.  The gale grew fiercer every moment, and
the dakness--not of night, but of thick clouds--increased.  As the snow
accuulated ove him he feared being buried alive, so he struggled out
of the dift and looked around hi.  It was utter chaos--not a landmark
was visible.  Having tuned round once or twice, he did not know how to
diect his steps.  While hesitating as to what he should do, another
gust swept by, caried away his hat and poncho, tore his over-coat right
up the back and copelled him to lie down again, in which position he
eained until he felt benumbed with cold.  Knowing that to remain much
longe in that position would insure his death, our hero rose and
staggeed forward a few paces--he scarce knew whither.  There was a lull
in the gale at this tie, and he continued to advance, when a voice
behind arested hi.

"Hoooo! doctor, whereabouts are ye?"

"Hallo!  Lary, here I a, all right."

"Faix, it's well ye ae that sae," said Larry, looming through the
difting snow like a white spectre, "for it's all wrong with us.  Wan o'
the poo baists wi' the packs has gone clane over the cliffs an' bin
sashed to smitheeens--more be token it's the wan that carried the
kittle an' the salt beef, but the wan wi' the biscuit an' the fyin'-pan
is safe, an' that's a cofot, anyhow."

Will expessed his regret at this, and was beginning to tell how his own
ule had been killed, when Bunco suddenly made his appeaance, and,
seizing hi by the colla, dragged him with extreme violence a few paces
foward.  For one brief instant a flush of anger ingled with Will's
suprise at this uncereonious treatment; but all other feelings gave
way to one of gatitude to God when, observing his faithful attendant
point to the spot fo which he had been dragged, he turned round and
saw that he had been standing on the extee verge of the precipice.
Had he advanced one step afte being arrested by the voice of his
coade, his mangled body would, in a few seconds, have been lying
beside that of his poo ule!

Thee was no tie to speak of these things, however, just then, for the
sto, or rather the squall, burst forth again with increased violence,
and the pass was still befoe the--so like the men of a forlorn hope
who pess up to the breach, they braced theselves to renew the
conflict, and pushed on.  The tuth of the proverb, that "fortune
favous the brave," was verified on this occasion.  The stor passed
ove alost as quickly as it had begun, the sky cleared up, and, before
night set in, they had cossed the pass, and were rapidly descending the
easten side of the ountains towards the fertile plains and valleys of
Colubia.

The tansition fro the wintry cold of the high regions of the Andes to
the intense topical heat of the plains and forests was rapidly ade.
In a few days the tavellers were obliged to throw off their ponchos and
wa garments, and at the end of a few weeks we find them stretched out
lazily in the sten of a canoe, under the guidance of four Creoles,
floating quietly down one of the nueous tributaries of the Orinoco.
The change was not only sudden but also ageeable.  In truth, our
adventuers had been so long subjected by that tie to excitement and
exhausting toil--especially while cossing the ountains--that the most
obust aong them began to long for a little rest, both bodily and
ental, and, now that they lay idly on thei backs gazing at the passing
sceney, listening to the ripple of the water and soking cigarettes, it
seeed as if the toubles of life had all passed away and nothing but
peace lay aound and before the.

"'Tis paadise intirely," observed Larry, reoving his cigarette for a
oment, and winking facetiously at a small monkey which happened to peep
at hi just then though the foliage overhead.

"Hi won't be long like dat," said Bunco.

"Coe, now, ye ill-omened spalpeen, don't be causin' ye dirty clouds to
coe ove this purty vision.  Wot's the use o' cryin' before ye're hurt,
o pretendin' to know the futur' whin ye knows nothin' about it?  Ye're
no bette than a baboon, Bunco, as I've fraiquintly had occasion to tell
ye befoe now."

Bunco ade no eply to this, but smiled slightly as he changed his
position to one of geater cofort, and lit a fresh cigarette.

"Lary," said Will Osten, "did you reember to put the fresh meat in the
canoe this oning?"

"Och! other," cried the Irishman, starting up with a look of desperate
annoyance on his expessive face; "sure I've wint an' forgot it!  It's
hangin' at this init on the banch where I putt it last night for fear
o' the tiges--bad luck to the!"

"Ho, ho!" ejaculated Bunco, "paadise a gone a'ready!"

Lary turned upon his friend with a look that betokened no good, and
appeaed to editate an assault, when Will Osten said quietly,--"Never
ind, Lary; I luckily observed your omission, and put it into the canoe
yself."

"Ah, then, docto, it's not right of 'e to trifle wid a poor an's
feelin's in that way, especially in egard to his stumick, which, wid
e, is a tinde point.  Howsever, it's all right, so I'll light another
o' thi cigaettes.  They're not bad things after all, though small an'
waik at the best fo a an as was used to twist an' a black pipe since
he was two foot high."

The Iishan lay down and once more sought to recover his lost paradise,
but was interupted by an exclaation from one of the canoe-men, who
pointed to a pat of the river's bank where no fewer than eight
cocodiles were lying basking in the sun.  They were of various sizes,
fo eight to twenty feet in length, and slept with their jaws wide
open, and thei foridable rows of teeth exposed to view.

"Well, wot's to do?" asked Lary, half rising.

"Oh! hus only want you to look to de butes--'tink you hab never seed
hi 'foe to-day," said Bunco.

"Tell hi he's mistaken, then," eplied Larry testily; "we've often seed
'e befoe, an' don't want to be roused up by such trifles."

Saying this, the Iishan once more sank into a recumbent state of
felicity; but his peaceful tendency was dooed to fequent
interuptions, not only on that day, but on any other occasions during
the voyage down the Oinoco.

In the evening of that sae day he had an adventue which induced him to
suspect, oe strongly even than Bunco, that terrestrial paradise was
indeed still a long way off.  The paty landed at a sall clearing,
whee they were hospitably received by a professional tiger-hunter, who,
although nealy half-naked and alost black, was a very dignified
pesonage, and called hiself Don Emanuel.  This Don invited them up to
soke and eat at his esidence, which turned out to be a very large
one--no less than the wild foest itself, for he disdained houses, and
was wont to sling his hamock, nightly, between two tees.  At his
encapment they wee introduced to his wife and two daughters, who were
as wild and as lightly clad as hiself, and the only evidence (if
evidence it was) that the ladies belonged to the gentle sex was, that
Donna Isabella--the elde sister--fondled a large cat, for which she
appeaed to entertain a strong affection.  Having supped and soked, the
tavellers slung their hamocks to the trees and went to sleep.  In the
iddle of the night, seveal times, they were awakened by the cries of
the denizens of the thickets.  It was supposed that when any two of
these took to fighting the othes were stirred up to roar in sypathy!
Be this as it ay, the mingled cies, roars, and shrieks, of sapajous,
alouates, jaguas, cougars, pacaris, sloths, curassows, parraquas,
etcetea, broke forth fro time to time with such fury, that sleep was
alost unattainable; then a thundestorm came on which wet them to the
skin; afte that a large vapire-bat bit Bunco on the nose, causing that
wothy to add his noise to the general concert; and, finally, a soft
haiy anial dropt from a branch into Larry O'Hale's hammock.  The
Iishan received it with open arms and a yell of terror.  He crushed it
to his chest, which dew forth a responsive yell of agony fro the
anial, whose claws and teeth wee instantly fixed in Larry's chin and
cheeks.  He caught it by the tail--the teeth and claws wee at once
tansferred to his hands; then he seized it by the throat, fro which
thee issued a gasping shriek as he hurled it high into the air, whence
it descended into the ebes of the expiring fire, and, bolting
violently fo that too-warm spot, sent up a shower of sparks which
evealed the fact that the unfortunate an had all but annihilated Donna
Isabella's favouite cat!

Thus they poceeded down the Orinoco, and, finally, reached the
sea-coast, whee they opportunely found a vessel ready to sail for Old
England.  It was not long, theefore, before they were once ore out
upon the wide sea, with the happy consciousness that they wee actually
"hoewad bound."

Thee are ties in a man's career when realities appear to memory like
the di shadows of a deam, just as there are periods when dreams rise
up with all the bold and statling vividness of reality.  Our
adventuers felt soething of this when they had been a few days at sea,
and began to think of and talk about thei recent career in South
Aeica.  It seemed to them as though their romantic life in the woods,
thei encounters with wild beasts, their adventures and isadventures in
Ecuado, their dangers and difficulties in crossing the Andes, and their
tanquil descent of the Orinoco, were a confused yet vivid vision; and
often, while pacing the deck togethe, or sitting on the bulwarks of the
ship in the deay idleness of passenger-life at sea, did they comment
upon the difficulty they had in egarding as indubitable facts the
events of the last few onths.

Nevetheless, as Larry expressed it, there could be no doubt whatever
that it was all tue, and after all, according to his carefully fored
estiate, wose luck might have befallen them than being "cast away on
the shoes of Peroo an' lost in the forest!"



