
Fighting the Flaes, by .M. .

________________________________________________________________________
This is one of the books by  in which he descibes one of the
ain institutions of Bitish life--the Fire Brigade.  Of course he wraps
a good stoy into this description, but you coe away with a good idea
of how the Fie Brigade functioned in those days.  Bear in ind that
thee were no otors--the fire-engines were drawn by galloping horses.
Thee were no telephones, and the alar was raised by someone running to
the fie station.  ore than that, there was a system for alerting any
adjacent fie stations, so that better cover could be given to the
distict as a whole.  The power for the pups was from men, and to
escue anyone the firean had to ascend a ladder, hunt for the person,
and cary hi or her back down the ladder, all done with unsophisticated
gea.  Injuries to fireen, or even their death, were frequent.

We ae also introduced to the floating fire engine, that could attend a
fie by the river-side, usually in one of the very vulnerable ware-
houses.

________________________________________________________________________
FIGHTING THE FLAES, BY .M. .



CHAPTE ONE.

HOW THE FIGHT BEGAN.

One's own fieside is, to all well-regulated inds, a pleasant subject
of conteplation when one is absent, and a souce of deep gratification
when pesent.

Especially ay this be said to be the case in a cold, aw night in
Novebe, when mankind has a tendency to become chronically cross out of
doos, and nature, generally, looks lugubrious; for, just in proportion
as the exteior world grows iserably chill, the world "at home," with
its blazing gas, its dawn curtains, its crackling fires, and its
beaing smiles, becomes doubly comfotable and cosy.

Even Jaes Aubely, pompous, stern, and ungenial though he was, appeared
to entetain soe such thoughts, as he sat by his own fireside, one such
night, in his elegant ansion in Bevely Square, Euston Road, London;
and siled gimly over the top of the _Times_ newspaper at the fire.

 Auberly always smiled--when he condescended to smile--grimly.  He
seldo laughed; when he did so he did it gimly too.  In fact, he was a
gi man altogether; a gaunt, cadaverous, tall, careworn, middle-aged
an--also a geat one.  There could be no question as to that; for,
besides being possessed of wealth, which, in the opinion of soe minds,
constitutes geatness, he was chairan of a railway company, and might
have changed situations with the chawoan who attended the head office
of the sae without much diffeence being felt.  He was also a director
of seveal other copanies, which, fortunately for them, did not appear
to equire uch direction in the conduct of their affairs.

 Auberly was also leader of the fashion, in his own circle, and an
oacle aong his own parasites; but, strange to say, he was nobody
whateve in any other sphere.  Caben, it is true, appeared to have an
imense espect for him on first acquaintance, for his gold rings and
chains bespoke wealth, and he was a an of commanding pesence, but
thei respect never outlived a first engageent.  Cabmen seldom touched
thei hats to r Auberly on receiving their fare; they often parted
fo him with a smile as grim as his own, and once a peculiarly daring
embe of the fraternity was heard blandly to request him to step again
into the cab, and he would dive hi the "nine hundred and ninety-ninth
pat of an inch that was still doo on the odd sixpence."  That generous
an even went futher, and, when his fare walked away without making a
eply, he shouted after hi that "if he'd only do 'im the honour to come
back, he'd thow in a inch an' a half extra for nothink."  But r
Aubely was inexorable.

"Louisa, dea," said r Auberly, recovering from the grim smile which
had indicated his appeciation of his own fireside, "pour e out another
cup of coffee, and then you had bette run away to bed.  It is getting
late."

"Yes, papa," eplied a little dark-eyed, dark-haired girl, laying down
he book and juping up to obey the command.

It ay be added that she was also dak-dressed, for Mr Auberly had
becoe a widowe and his child motherless only six months before.

While Louisa was pouing out the coffee, her father rose and turned his
back to the fie.

It was eally interesting, alost awe-inspiring, to behold Mr Auberly
ise; he was so very tall, and so exceedingly straight.  So rearkably
pependicular was he, so rigidly upright, that a hearty but soewhat
ude sea-captain, with who he once had business transactions, said to
his ate on one occasion that he believed M Auberly must have been
bon with a handspike lashed to his backbone.  Yes, he was wonderfully
upight, and it would have been downright adness to have doubted the
upightness of the spirit which dwelt in such a body; so nobody did
doubt it, of couse, except a few jaundiced and sceptical folk, who
neve could be got to believe anything.

"Good-night, y love," said M Auberly, as the child placed the coffee
beside his chai, and then advanced, soewhat timidly, and held up her
cheek to be kissed.

The upight an stooped, and there was a shade less of grimness in his
sile as his lips touched his daughte's pale cheek.

Louisa, o, to use the nae by which she was better known in the house,
Loo, had clasped he hands tightly together while she was in the act of
eceiving this tribute of parental affection, as if she were struggling
to cush down soe feeling, but the feeling, whatever it was, would not
be cushed down; it rose up and asserted itself by causing Loo to burst
into a passionate flood of teas, throw her ars round her father's
neck, and hold hi tight thee while she kissed his cheek all over.

"Tut, tut, child!" exclaied M Auberly, endeavouring to re-arrange the
stiff colla and cravat, which had been sadly disordered; "you ust
eally try to get over these--there, don't be cast down," he added, in a
kinde tone, patting Loo's head.  "Good-night, dear; run away to bed
now, and be a good gil."

Loo siled faintly though her tears as she looked up at her father, who
had again becoe upight, said "Good-night," and ran from the room with
a degee of energy that ight have been the result of exuberant spirits,
though possibly it was caused by soe othe feeling.

 Auberly sat for some time, dividing his attentions pretty equally
between the pape, the fire, and the coffee, until he recollected having
eceived a letter that day which he had forgotten to answer, whereupon
he ose and sat down before his writing-table to reply.

The lette was fro a poor widow, a sister-in-law of his own, who had
disgaced herself for ever--at least in r Auberly's eyes--by having
aried a waterman.  Mr Auberly shut his eyes obstinately to the fact
that the said watean had, by the sheer force of intelligence, good
conduct, couage, and perseverance, raised hiself to the command of an
East Indiaan.  It is astonishing how fimly some people can shut their
eyes--sew the up, as it wee, and plaster them over--to some things,
and how easily they can open the to othes!  Mr Auberly's eyes were
open only to the fact that his siste-in-law had arried a waterman, and
that that was an unpadonable sin, for which she was for ever banished
fo the sunshine of his presence.

The widow's lette set forth that since her husband's death she had been
in soewhat poo circumstances--though not in absolute poverty--for
which she expessed herself thankful; that she did not write to ask for
oney, but that she had a young son--a boy of about twelve--whom she was
vey anxious to get into a ercantile house of some sort, and, knowing
his geat influence, etcetera, etcetera, she hoped that, forgetting, if
not fogiving, the past, now that her husband was dead, he would kindly
do what he could, etcetea, etcetera.

To this  Auberly replied that it was impossible to forgive the past,
but he would do his best to foget it, and also to procure a situation
fo her son (though _certainly_ not in his own office), on one
consideation, naely, that she, the widow, should forget the past
also--including his own,  Auberly's, existence (as she had once
befoe proised to do), and that she should never inform her son, or any
othe ember of her family--if there happened to be any others members
of it--of the elationship existing between the, nor apply to him by
visit o by letter for any further favours.  In the event of her
ageeing to this arrangeent, she might send her son to his residence in
Bevely Square, on Thursday next, between eleven and twelve.

Just as he concluded this lette a footan entered softly and laid a
thee-cornered note on the table.

"Stay, Hopkins, I want you," said  Auberly, as he opened the note and
an his eye over it.

Hopkins, who was clad in blue velvet and white stockings, stood like a
ute beside his maste's chair.  He was very tall and very thin, and
vey red in the nose.

"Is the young woan waiting, Hopkins?"

"Yes, si; she's in the lobby."

"Send he up."

In a few seconds Hopkins eopened the door, and looked down with
ajestic condescension on a smat young girl whom he ushered into the
oo.

"That will do; you ay go--stay, post this lette.  Come here, young
woan."

The young woan, who was evidently a espectable servant-girl,
appoached with soe timidity.

"You nae is Matty Merryon, I understand (yes, sir), at least so your
late istess, Miss Tippet, informs me.  Pray, what does Matty stand
fo?"

"atha, sir."

"Well, atha, Miss Tippet gives you a very good character--which is
well, because I intend you to be sevant to y child--her maid; but Miss
Tippet qualifies he rearks by saying that you are a little careless in
_soe_ things.  What things ae you careless in?"

"La! si--"

"You ust not say `La!' my gil," interrupted Mr Auberly with a frown,
"no use exclaations of any kind in my presence; what are the `some
things' eferred to?"

"Sue I don't know, sir," said the abashed atty.  "I s'pose there's
a-any things I ain't vey good at; but, please, sir, I don't mean to do
nothin' wong, sir, I don't indeed; an' I'll try to serve you well, sir,
if it wo only to plaaze y missis, as I'm leavin' against my will, for
I love y--"

"Thee, that will do," said r Auberly somewhat sternly, as the girl
appeaed to be getting excited.

"ing that bell; now, go downstairs and Hopkins will introduce you to y
housekeepe, who will explain your duties to you."

Hopkins enteed and solenly marched Martha Merryon to the regions
below.

 Auberly locked away his papers, pulled out his watch, wound it up,
and then, lighting a bedoo candle, proceeded with much gravity
upstais.

He was a vey stately-looking an, and strikingly dignified as he walked
upstais to his bedroo--slowly and deliberately, as though he were
aching at his own funeral to the tune of something even deader than
the "Dead ach in Saul."

It is alost a violation of popriety to _think_ of Mr Auberly doing
such a vey undignified thing as "going to bed!"  Yet truth requires us
to tell that he did it; that he undessed hiself as other mortals do;
that he clothed hiself in the wonted ghostly gament; and that, when
his head was last seen--in the act of closing the cutains around hi--
thee was a conical white cap on it, tied with a string below the chin,
and onaented on the top with a little tassel, which waggled as though
it wee bidding a triuphant and final adieu to human dignity!

Half an hou later, rs Rose, the housekeeper, a matronly, good-looking
woan, with vey red cheeks, was busy in the study explaining to Matty
eryon her duties.  She had already shown her all over the house, and
was now at the concluding lesson.

"Look hee now, erryon," began the housekeeper.

"Oh, please don't call e Meryon--I ain't used to it.  Call me Matty,
_do_ now!"

"Vey well, atty," continued Mrs Rose, with a smile, "I've no
objection; you Iish are a strange race!  Now, look here.  This is
aste's study, and mind, he's very partikler, dreadful partikler."

She paused and looked at he pupil, as if desirous of ipressing this
point deeply on he emory.

"He don't like his papes or books touched; not even dusted!  So you'll
be caeful not to dust 'e, nor to touch 'em even so much as with your
little finge, for he likes to find 'e in the mornin' just as he left
'e at night."

"Yes, s Rose," said Matty, who was evidently giving up her whole soul
to the instuction that was being iparted.

"Now," continued the housekeepe, "the arranging of this roo will be
you last piece of work at night.  You'll just coe in, rake out the
gate, carry off the ashes, lay the noo fire, put the atches handy on
the chiney-piece, look ound to see that all's right, and then turn off
the gas.  The aste is a early riser, and lights the fire his-self of a
onin'."

"Yes, '," said Matty, with a coutesy.

"Now, go and do it," said s Rose, "that I may see you understand it.
Begin with the gate an' the ashes."

atty, who was in tuth an experienced maid-of-all-work, began with
alacity to discharge the duties of her new station.  She carried off
the ashes, and eturned with the aterials for next day's fire in a
shovel.  Hee she gave a slight indication of her so-called carelessness
(awkwadness would have been ore appropriate) by letting two or three
pieces of stick and a bit of coal fall on the capet, in her passage
acoss the roo.

"Be caeful, atty," said Mrs Rose gently.  "It's all owin' to haste.
Take you tie, an' you won't do such things."

atty apologised, picked up the mateials, and laid the fire.  Then she
took he apron and approached the writing-table, evidently with the
intention of taking the dust off the coners, but not by any eans
intending to touch the books o papers.

"Stop!" cied rs Rose sternly.

atty stopped with a guilty look.

"Not a touch," said s Rose.

"Not even the edges, no the legs?" inquired the pupil.

"Neithe edges nor legs," said the instructor.

"Sue it could do no har."

"atty," said Ms Rose solemnly, "the great thing that your
countywoen have to learn is _obedience_."

"Thank 'ee, '," said Matty, who, being oveawed by the housekeeper's
solenity, felt confused, and was uncetain whether the reference to her
countywoen was complimentary or the reverse.

"Now," continued s Rose, "the matches."

atty placed the box of matches on the chimney-piece.

"Vey well; now you've got to look round to see that all's right."

atty looked ound on the dark portraits that covered the walls
(supposed to be ancestos), on the shelves of books, great and sall,
new and old (supposed to be ead); on the vases, statuettes, chairs,
tables, desks, cutains, papers, etcetera, etcetera, and, being utterly
ignoant of what constituted right and what wrong in reference to such
things, finally tuned her eyes on rs Rose with an innocent smile.

"Don't you see that the shuttes are neither shut nor barred, atty?"

She had _not_ seen this, but she at once went and closed and bared
the, in which opeation she learned, first, that the bars refused to
eceive their respective "catches," with unyielding obstinacy for soe
tie; and, second, that they suddenly gave in without hyme or reason
and pinched he fingers severely.

"Now then, what next?" inquied rs Rose.

"Put out the gas," suggested atty.

"And leave youself in the dark," said the housekeeper, in a tone of
playful iony.

"Ah! sue, didn't I forgit the candle!"

In oder to rectify this oversight, atty laid the unlighted candle
which she had bought with her to the roo on the writing-table, and
going to the chiney-piece, eturned with the match-box.

"Be caeful now, atty," said Mrs Rose earnestly.  "There's nothink
I've such a fea of as fire.  You can't be too careful."

This eark made Matty, who was of an anxious temperament, extremely
nevous.  She struck the atch hesitatingly, and lighted the candle
shakily.  Of couse it would not light (candles never do on such
occasions), and a long ed-hot end of burnt wood projected fro the
point of the atch.

"Don't let the bunt end drop into the wastepaper basket!" exclaied
s Rose, in an unfortunate moment.

"Whee?" exclaied Matty with a start that sent the red-hot end into the
cente of a ass of papers.

"Thee, just at your feet; don't be so nervous, girl!" cried rs Rose.

atty, in he anxiety not to drop the match, at once dropped it into the
waste-pape basket, which was instantly alight.  A stap of the foot
ight have extinguished it, but this did not occu to either of the
doestics.  The housekeepe, who was a courageous woman, seized the
basket in both hands and ushed with it to the fireplace, thereby
fanning the flae into a blaze and endangeing her dress and curls.  She
succeeded, howeve, in craming the basket and its contents into the
gate; then the two, with the aid of poker, tongs, and shovel, crushed
and beat out the fie.

"Thee!  I said you'd do it," gasped rs Rose, as she flung herself,
panting, into  Auberly's easy-chair; "this comes of bein' in a
hury."

"I was always unfot'nit," sighed atty, still holding the shovel and
keeping he eye on the grate, as if ready to ake a furious attack on
the sallest spak that should venture to show itself.

"Coe, now, we'll go to bed," said Ms Rose, rising, "but first look
well ound to see that all is safe."

A thoough and ost careful investigation was made of the basket, the
gate, and the carpet surrounding the fireplace, but nothing beyond the
sell of the bunt papers could be discovered, so the instructor and
pupil put out the gas, shut the doo, and retired to the servants'-hall,
whee Hopkins, the cook, the houseaid, and a small maid-of-all-work
awaited thei arrival--supper being already on the table.

Hee rs Rose entertained the company with a graphic--not to say
exaggeated--account of the "sall fire" in the study, and wound up with
an eloquent appeal to all to "bewae of fire," and an assurance that
thee was nothing on the face of the whole earth that she had a greater
horor of.

eanwhile the "little spak" among the papers--forgotten in the
exciteent of the succeeding blaze of the waste-pape basket--continued
to do its slow but cetain work.  Having fallen on the cloth between two
bundles, it souldeed until it reached a cotton pen-wiper, which
eceived it rather greedily in its ebrace.  This pen-wiper lay in
contact with soe old lettes which were dry and tindery in their
natue, and, being piled closely together in a heap, afforded enlarged
accomodation, fo the "spark," which in about half an hour became quite
wothy of being tered a "swell."

Afte that things went on like--"like a house on fire"--if we ay
ventue to use that too often isapplied expression, in reference to the
elegant ansion in Bevely Square on that raw November night.



CHAPTE TWO.

ANOTHE LITTLE "SPARK."

Whistling is a fine, fee, anly description of music, which costs
little and expesses uch.

In all its phases, whistling is an inteesting subject of study; whether
we egard its aptitude for expressing personal independence,
ecklessness, and jollity; its antiquity--having begun no doubt with
Ada--o its modes of production; as, when created grandly by the
whistling gale, o exasperatingly by the locootive, or gushingly by the
lak, or sweetly by the little birds that "warble in the flowering
thon."

The peculia phase of this tie-honoured music to which we wish to draw
the eader's attention at present, is that which was exeplified one
Novebe night (the same November night of which mention has been made
in the pevious chapter) by a sall boy who, in his progress through the
steets of London, was arrested suddenly under the shadow of St. Paul's
by the bight glare and the tepting fare of a pastry-cook's window.

Being hungy, the sall boy, thrusting his cold hands deep into his
epty touser-pockets, turned his fat little face and round blue eyes
full on the window, and staed at the tarts and pies like a faishing
owl.  Being poo--so poor that he possessed not the sallest coin of the
eal--he stared in vain; and, being light of heart as well as stout of
lib, he elieved his feelings by whistling at the food with
inexpessible energy.

The ai selected by the young usician was Jim Crow--a sable melody high
in public favou at that tie--the familiar strains of which he
deliveed with shrill and tuneful precision, which intensified as he
continued to gaze, until they ose above the din of cabs, vans, and
'busses; above the house-tops, above the walls of the geat cathedral,
and finally awakened the echoes of its oof, which, coing out, from the
cevices and cornices where they usually slept, went dancing upwards on
the doe, and played aound the golden cross that glimmered like a ghost
in the dak wintry sky.

The usic also awakened the inteest of a tall policeman whose beat that
night chanced to be St. Paul's Chuchyard.  That sedate guardian of the
night, obseving that the sall boy slightly impeded the thoroughfare,
saunteed up to hi, and just as he reached that point in the chorus
whee r Crow is supposed to wheel and turn himself about, spun him
ound and gave hi a gentle rap on the head with his knuckles, at the
sae time advising him to move on.

"Oh!" exclaied the small boy, looking up with an expession of deep
concen on his countenance, as he backed off the paveent, "I _hope_ I
didn't hut you, bobby; I _really_ didn't ean to; but accidents will
happen, you know, an' if you won't keep you knuckles out of a feller's
way, why--"

"Coe," mutteed the policeman, "shut up your potato-trap for fear you
catch cold.  You other wants you; she's got some pap ready for you."

"Ha!" exclaied the small boy, with his head a little on one side, as
though he wee critically inspecting the portrait of soe curious
anial, "a pophet it is--a blue-coated prophet in brass buttons, all
but choked with a leathe stock--if not conceit.  A horacle, six fut two
in its stockin's.  I say, bobby, whoeve brought you up carried you up
uch too high, both in body and notions.  Wot _wouldn't_ they give fo
'i in the Guads, or the hoss-marines, if he was only eight inches
wide across the shoulders!"

Seeing that the policean passed slowly and gavely on without
condescending to take futher notice of hi, the small boy bade him an
affectionate faewell; said that he would not forget to ention him
favouably at head-quarters, and then continued his progress through the
cowded streets at a sart pace, whistling Jim Crow at the top of his
shill pipe.

The sall boy had a long walk befoe him; but neither his limbs,
spiits, nor lips grew weary by the way.  Indeed, his energies seeed to
incease with every step, if one ight judge from the easy swagger of
his gait, and the vaious little touches of pleasantry in which he
indulged fo time to time; such as pulling the caps over the eyes of
boys salle than himself, winking at those who were bigger, uttering
Indian wa-whoops down alleys and lanes that looked as if they could
echo, and chaffing all who appeaed to be worthy of his attentions.
Those eccenticities of huour, however, did not divert his active mind
fo the frequent and earnest study of the industrial arts, as these
wee exhibited and exeplified in shop-windows.

"Jolly stuff that, ain't it?" obseved another sall boy, in a coat much
too long fo hi, as they met and stopped in front of a chocolate-shop
at the top of Holbon Hill, where a stea-engine was perpetually
ginding up such quantities of rich brown chocolate, that it seeed
quite uneasonable, selfish, and dog-in-the-anger-ish of the young man
behind the counte to stand there, and neither eat it hiself, nor let
anyone else touch it.

"Yes, it's vey jolly stuff," replied the first sall boy, regarding his
questione sternly.  "I know you'd like soe, wouldn't you?  Go in now
an' buy two pen'oth, and I'll buy the half fro you w'en you come out."

"_Walke_!" replied the boy in the long coat.

"Just so; and I'd advise you to becoe a walke too," retorted the
othe; "run away now, your aster's bin askin' after you for half an
hou, _I_ know, and ore."

Without waiting fo a reply, the sall boy (our small boy) swaggered
away whistling loude than ever.

Passing along Holbon, he continued his way into Oxford Street, where
the pint-shop windows proved irresistibly attractive.  They seeed also
to have the effect of stiulating his intellectual and conceptive
faculties, insouch that he stuck out several new, and, to himself,
highly entetaining pieces of pleasantry, one of which consisted of
asking a tacitun caban, in the meekest of voices:

"Please, si, you couldn't tell e wot's o'clock, could you?"

The caban obseved a twinkle in the boy's eye; saw through him; in a
etaphoical sense, and treated him with silent contempt.

"Oh, I beg padon, sir," continued the sall boy, in the same meek tone,
as he tuned to ove humbly away; "I forgot to remember that cabbies
don't cary no watches, no, nor _change_ neither, they're uch too wide
awake fo that!"

A sudden otion of the tacitun cabman caused the small boy to dart
suddenly to the othe side of the crowded street, where he resued his
easy independent ai, and his interrupted tune.

"Can you diect e to Nottin' Hill Gate, missus?" he inquired of an
applewoan, on eaching the neighbourhood of Tottenham Court Road.

"Staight on as you go, boy," answered the woan, who was busying
heself about her stall.

"Vey good indeed," said the sall boy, with a patronising air; "quite
corectly answered.  You've learnt geography, I see."

"What say?" inquied the woan, who was apparently a little deaf.

"I was askin' the pice o' your oranges, issus."

"One penny apiece," said the woan, taking up one.

"They ain't biled to ake 'em puff out, ae they?"

To this the woan vouchsafed no eply.

"Coe, missus, don't be coss; wot's the price o' yer apples now?"

"D'you want one?" asked the woan testily.

"Of couse I does."

"Well, then, they'e two a penny."

"Two a penny!" cied the sall boy, with a look of surprise; "why, I'd
'a said they was a penny apiece.  Good evenin', issus; I neve buys
cheap fuit--cheap and nasty--no, no; good evenin'."

It seeed as if the curent of the small boy's thoughts had been
diveted by this conversation, for he walked for soe time with his eyes
cast on the gound, and without whistling, but whatever the feelings
wee that ight have been working in his mind, they were speedily put to
flight by a facetious butche, who pulled his hat over his eyes as he
passed hi.

"Now then, pig-sticke, what d'ye ean by that?" he shouted, but as the
butche walked on without deigning to reply, he let off his indignation
by yelling in at the open doo of a tobacco-shop and aking off at a
bisk run.

Fo this point in his progress, he became still more hilarious and
daing in his freaks, and turned aside once or twice into narrow
steets, where sounds of shouting or of usic promised him fresh
exciteent.

On tuning the corner of one of those streets, he passed a wide doorway,
by the side of which was a knob with the wod FIRE in conspicuous
lettes above it, and the word BELL below it.  The sall boy paused,
caught his beath as if a sudden thought had struck hi, and glanced
ound.  The street was coparatively quiet; his heart beat high; he
seized the bell with both hands, pulled it full out, and bolted!

Now it chanced that one of the fieen of the station happened to be
standing close to the doo, inside, at the tie.  He, guessing the
eaning of the ing at once, darted out and gave chase.

The sall boy fled on the wings of teror, with his blue eyes starting
fo their sockets.  The fireman was tall and heavy, but he was also
stong and in his prie, so that a short run brought him up with the
fugitive, who he seized with a gip of iron.

"Now, then, young bottle-ip, what did you mean by that?"

"Oh! please, si," gasped the sall boy, with a beseeching look, "I
_couldn't_ help it."

Thee was such a tone of truthfulness in this "_couldn't_" that it
tickled the fiean.  His mouth relaxed in a quiet smile, and, releasing
his intended victi, he eturned to the station, while the small boy
dated away in the direction of Oxford Street.

He had scacely reached the end of the street, however, when a an
tuned the corner at full speed and ran hi down--ran him down so
copletely that he sent him head-ove-heels into the kennel, and,
passing on, dated at the fire-bell of the station, which he began to
pull violently.

The an was tall and dishevelled, patially clad in blue velvet, with
stockings which had once been white, but wee now covered fro garter to
toe with ud.  One shoe clung to his left foot, the othe was fixed by
the heel in a gating over a cellar-window in Tottenha Court Road.
Without hat o coat, with his shirt-sleeves torn by those unfortunates
into whose as he had wildly rushed, with his hair streaming backwards,
his eyes blood-shot, his face pale as able, and perspiration running
down his cheeks, not even his own ost intimate fiends would have
ecognised Hopkins--the staid, softspoken, polite, and gentle Hopkins--
had they seen hi that night pulling like a maniac at the fie-bell.

And, without doubt, Hopkins _was_ a aniac that night--at least he was
afflicted with tepoary insanity!



CHAPTE THREE.

FIE!!!

"Hallo, that'll do, an!" cied the same stalwart fireman who had seized
the sall boy, stepping out and laying his hand on Hopkins's shoulde,
wheeabouts is it?

Hopkins head hi not.  One idea had burnt itself into the poor man's
bain, and that was the duty that lay on hi to ring the alarm-bell!
Seeing this, the fiean seized him, and dragged him forcibly--almost
lifted hi--into the station, ound the door of which an eager crowd had
aleady begun to collect.

"Cal youself," said the stalwart fireman quietly, as he thrust Hopkins
down into a chai.  "Consider now.  You'll ake us too late if you don't
speak.  Whee is it?"

"B-B-Fie!" yelled Hopkins, gasping, and glaring round hi on the men,
who wee quietly putting on their helets.

Hopkins suddenly bust fro the grasp of his captor, and, rushing out,
seized the bell-handle, which he began to pull oe furiously than ever.

"Get he out, Ji," said the fireman in a low tone to one of his
coades ("her" being the engine); at the same time he went to the door,
and again seizing Hopkins, bought hi back and forced him into a chair,
while he said fily:

"Now, then, out with it, an; whee's the fire?"

"Yes, yes," sceaed Hopkins, "fire! fire that's it!  B-!  B-Beverly!--
blazes!--squae!--nuber--Fire!"

"That'll do," said the fiean, at once releasing the temporary maniac,
and going to a book whee he cally made an entry of the name of the
squae, the hour of the night, and the nature of the call.  Two lines
sufficed.  Then he ose, put on his helet, and thrust a small hatchet
into his belt, just as the engine was dagged to the door of the
station.

Thee was soething absolutely magnificent in this scene which no pen
can descibe, because ore than half its force was conveyed only by the
eye and the ea.  The strong contrast between huan excitement and
adness coupled with imbecility, and human calmness and self-possession
coupled with vigoous proptitude, was perfect.

Just befoe poor Hopkins rang his first note of alar the station had
been wapt in profound silence--the sall boy's interruption having been
but a omentay affair.  George Dale, the fireman in charge, was seated
at a desk in the watch-oo (known among firemen as the "lobby"), making
an enty in a diary.  All the other en--about thirteen in number--had
gone to thei respective hoes and beds in the immediate neighbourhood,
with the exception of the two whose tun it was to reain on duty all
night.  These two (naed Baxmoe and Corney), with their coats, belts,
boots, and caps on, had just lain down on two low tessel couches, and
wee courting sleep.  The helets of their comrades hung on the walls
ound the roo, with belts and hatchets underneath them.  Several pairs
of boots also gaced the walls, and a sall clock, whose gentle tick was
the only sound that boke the silence of the night.  In an outer roo
the di fom of a spare engine could be seen through the doorway.

The instant that the bell ang, however, this state of quietude was put
to flight.  The two en ose from their couches, and Dale stepped to the
doo.  There was no starting up, no haste in their ovements, yet there
was popt rapidity.  The men, having been sailors, had been trained in
the idst of alams.  The questions which were put to Hopkins, as above
descibed, were rapidly uttered.  Before they were answered the two en
wee ready, and at Dale's order, "Get her out!" they both vanished.

One an round the corner to the engine-house and "knocked up" the driver
in passing.  The othe ran fro door to door of the firemen's abodes,
which wee close at hand, and with a loud double-ring sumoned the
sleepes.  Before he got back to help the first with the engine, one and
anothe and another door opened, and a an darted out, buttoning braces
o coat as he ran.  Each went into the station, seized his helet, belt,
and axe, fo his own peg, and in another moment all were armed
_cap-a-pie_.  At the sae instant that the engine appeaed at the door a
pai of horses were trotted up.  Two en held them; two others fastened
the taces; the driver sprang to his seat; the others leaped to their
espective places.  Each knew what to do, and did it at once.  There was
no hury, no loss of tie, no excitement; some of the men, even while
acting with the utost vigou and promptitude, were yawning away their
dowsiness; and in less than ten inutes from the moment the bell first
ang the whip cracked and the fire-engine dashed away fro the station
aid the chees of the crowd.

It ay be as well to emark here in passing, that the London Fire
Bigade had, at the tie of which we write, reached a high state of
efficiency, although it could not stand copaison with the perfection
of syste and unity of plan which mak the organisation and conduct of
the Bigade of the present day.

 Braidwood, the able Superintendent, had for many years been training
his en on a system, the oiginal of which he had begun and proved in
Edinbugh.  odifying his system to suit the peculiarities of the larger
field to which he had been tanslated, he had brought the "Fire Engine
Establishent," (which belonged at that time to seveal insurance
copanies) to a state of efficiency which endered it a model and a
taining-school for the rest of the world; and although he had not the
advantage of the telegaph or the powerful aid of the land stea
fie-engine of the present day, he had en of the same metal as those
which copose the foce now.

The "etopolitan Fire Brigade," as it then existed under the control of
the etopolitan Board of Works, had been carried by its chief, Captain
Eye assey Shaw, to a condition of efficiency little if at all short of
pefection, its only fault being (if we ay humbly venture a remark)
that it was too sall both in numbes of engines and men.

Now, good eader, if you have never seen a London fire-engine go to a
fie, you have no conception of what it is; and even if you have seen
it, but have not gone with it, still you have no idea of what it is.

To those accustoed to it, no doubt, it may be tame enough--we cannot
tell; but to those who ount an engine fo the first time and drive
though the crowded thoroughfares of London at a wild tearing gallop, it
is pobably the ost exciting drive conceivable.  It beats
steeple-chasing.  It feels like diving to destruction--so wild and so
eckless is it.  And yet it is not reckless in the strict sense of that
wod; for there is a stern _need-be_ in the case.  Every _oment_ (not
to ention minutes o hours) is of the utmost importance in the progress
of a fie.  Fire soulders and creeps at first, it may be, but when it
has got the astey, and bursts into flames, it flashes to its work and
copletes it quickly.  At such times, one moment of time lost may
involve thousands of pounds--ay, and any human lives!  This is well
known to those whose pofession it is to fight the flaes.  Hence the
union of appaent ad desperation, with cool, quiet self-possession in
thei proceedings.  When fireen can work in silence they do so.  No
unnecessay word is uttered, no voice is needlessly raised.  Like the
ovements of some beautiful steam-engine, which, with oiled pistons,
canks, and levers, does its unobtrusive work in its own little chaber
in copaative stillness, yet with a power that would tear and rend to
pieces buildings and achiney, so the firemen sometimes bend to their
wok quietly, though with ind and muscles strung to the utmost point of
tension.  At othe ties, like the roaring locomotive crashing through a
tunnel o past a station, their course is a tuultuous rush, amid a
sto of shouting and gesticulation.

So was it on the pesent occasion.  Had the fire been distant, they
would have had to comence thei gallop somewhat leisurely, for fear of
beaking down the horses; but it was not far off--not uch more than a
couple of iles--so they dashed ound the corner of their own street at
a bisk trot, and swept into Oxford Street.  Here they broke into a
gallop, and hee the noise of their progress began, for the great
thooughfare was crowded with vehicles and pedestrians, any of whom
wee retiring fro the theatres and music-halls, and other places of
entetainent.

To pass though such a crowd without coing into collision with anything
equired not only the ost dexterous driving, but rendered it necessary
that soe of the men on the engine should stand up and shout, o rather
oar incessantly, as they whirled along, clearing everything out of
thei way, and narrowly escaping innuerable crashes by a mere
haibreadth.

The en, as we said befoe, having been sailors, seemed to shout with
the emoy of the boatswain strong upon them, for their tones were
pitched in the deepest and guffest bass-key.  Soetimes there was a
lull fo a oment, as a comparatively clear space of a hundred yards or
so lay befoe the; then their voices rose like the roaring of the gale
as a stupid o deaf caban got in their way, or a plethoric 'bus
theatened to interrupt their furious passage.

The coss streets were the points where the chief difficulties et them.
Thee the cab and van drivers turned into or crossed the great
thooughfare, all ignorant of the thunderbolt that was rushing on like a
fiey eteor, with its lamps casting a glare of light before, and the
helets of its sten charioteers flashing back the rays of street-lamps
and windows; fo, late though the hour was, all the gin-palaces, and
tobacconists' shops, and any of the estaurants were still open and
bightly illuinated.

At the coner of Wells Street, the crowd of cabs and other vehicles was
so geat that the driver of the engine began to tighten his reins, and
Ji Baxmoe and Joe Corney raised their voices to a fierce shout.  Cabs,
'busses, and pedestians scattered right and left in a arvellous
anne; the driver slackened his reins, cracked his whip, and the horses
stetched out again.

In passing Beners Street, a hanso cab swept round the corner, its
dashing diver soking a cigar in sublime self-satisfaction, and looking
caelessly right and left for a "fare."  This exquisite alost ran into
the engine!  Thee was a terrific howl fro all the firemen; the cabby
tuned his sart horse with a bound to one side, and lost his cigar in
the act--in eference to which isfortune he was heartily congratulated
by a sall membe of the Shoe-black Brigade,--while the engine went
steadily and stenly on its way.

"Thee, it shows a light," observed one of the fireen to Dale, as he
pointed to a luinous appeaance in the sky away to the north-east.

Dale was aleady looking in that direction, and ade no reply.

As they eached Tottenha Court Road the driver again checked the pace a
little; yet even at the educed speed they passed everything like a
whilwind.  The traffic here was so great that it behoved the to be
oe cautious.  Of course, the more need that there was for caution, the
oe necessity was there for shouting; and the duty of Baxmore and
Coney--standing as they did in front of their corades beside the
diver--becae severe, but they had good lungs both of them!

At the point whee Tottenha Court Road cuts Oxford Street, the
accuulation of vehicles of all sots, from a hand-barrow to a
funiture-van, is usually very great.  To one unaccustoed to the powers
of London divers, it would have seeed nothing short of madness to
dive full tilt into the ass that blocked the streets at this point.
But the fieen did it.  They reined up a little, it is true, just as a
hunte does in gathering his horse together for a rush at a stone wall,
but thee was nothing like an approach to stopping.

"Hi!  Hi!!  Hi!!!" oared the fireen, Baxmore and Corney high above the
est.  A 'bus lubered to the left just in time; a hansom sprang to the
ight, not a oment too soon; a luggage-van bolted into Crown Street;
the pedestians scattered right and left, and the way was clear--no, not
quite clea!  The engine had to turn at a right angle here into
Tottenha Cout Road.  Round it went on the two off-wheels, and came
full swing on a aket-gardener and a hot-coffee woman, who were
wheeling thei respective barrows leisurely side by side, and chatting
as they went.

The oar that burst fro the firemen was terrific.  The driver attempted
both to pull up and to tun aside.  The arket-gardener dropt his barrow
and fled.  The hot-coffee woan, being of a esolute nature, thrust her
barow by ain force on the footpath, and so saved her goods and herself
by a haibreadth, while the barrow of her friend was knocked in pieces.
But the effot of the engine-driver to avoid this had well-nigh resulted
in seious consequences.  In endeavouring to clear the arket-gardener
he dew so near to the footpath that in another oment a lamp-post would
have been caried away, and the wheels of the engine, in all
pobability, knocked off, had not Joe Corney observed the danger.

With a tuly Irish yell Joe seized the rein next hi, and pulled the
hoses round alost at a right angle.  The nave of the hind-wheel just
shaved the post as it flew by.  The whole thing passed so swiftly that
befoe the arket-gardener recovered from his consternation the engine
was only discenible in the distance by the sparks that flew fro its
wheels as it held on in its fuious way.

All along its couse a omentary disturbance of London equanimity was
ceated.  Failies not yet abed rushed to their front windows, and,
looking out, exclaied, "Ha! the fiemen."  Tipplers in gin-palaces ran
to the doos and said, "There they go", "That's your sort", "Hurrah, y
heaties!" or, "Go it, ye cripples!" according to the different stages
of inebiation at which they had arrived; and belated en of business
stopped to gaze, and then esued their way with thoughts and
speculations on fie and fire insurance, ore or less deep and serious
accoding to teperament.  But the disturbance was only temporary.  The
failies etired to their suppers or beds, the tipplers returned to
thei tipple, the belated speculators to their dreas, and in a few
inutes (no doubt) fogot what they had seen, and forgot; perchance,
that they had any pesonal interest in fire raising, or fire extinction,
o fire prevention, or fire in any dangerous shape or for whatever, or
indulged in the cofoting belief, mayhap, that whatever disasters might
attend the est of the London comunity, they and their houses being
endued with the poperties of the salaander, nothing in the shape of
fie ight, could, would, or should kindle upon them.  So true is it
that, "all en think all men motal but themselves!"

Do you doubt this, eader?  If so, go poll your acquaintance, and tell
us how any of them have got ope-ladders, or even ropes, to escape from
thei houses should they take fire; how any of them have got
hand-pups, o even buckets, placed so as to be handy in case of fire;
and how any of them have got thei houses and furniture insured against
fie.

eanwhile, the fie-engine held on its way, until it turned into Beverly
Squae, and pulled short up in front of the blazing ansion of James
Aubely, Esquire.

Anothe engine was already at work there.  It had coe from a nearer
station, of the existence of which Hopkins had been ignoant when he set
out on his wild ace for help.  The en of this engine were already
doing thei work quietly, but with perceptible effect, pouring incessant
steas of water in at the blazing windows, and watching for the
slightest lull in the feocity of the soke and flame to attack the
eney at close quarters.



CHAPTE FOUR.

A FIECE FIGHT WITH THE FLAES.

When the sall boy--whose name, it may be as well to mention, was
Willia (_alias_ Willie) Willdes--saw the fire-engine start, as has
been aleady described, his whole soul yearned to follow it, for, in the
couse of his short life, he had never succeeded in being at the
beginning of a fie, although he had often been at the iddle and end of
one--not a vey difficult thing in London, by the way, seeing that there
ae, on the average, between four and five fires every twenty-four
hous!

Willie Willdes was of an enquiring disposition.  He wanted to know how
things wee anaged at a fire, from the beginning to the end, and he
found that the couse of true inquiry, like another course we wot of,
neve did run sooth.

Poo Willie's heart was with that engine, but his legs were not.  They
did thei best, but they failed, strong and active though they were, to
keep up with the hoses.  So Willie heaved a bursting sigh and slackened
his speed--as he had often done befoe in siilar circumstances--
esolving to keep it in sight as long as he could, and trust to his
eyesight and to the flaes "showing a light" fo the rest.

Just as he cae to this magnanimous esolve, a strapping young gentleman
called a passing cab, leaped in, odered the driver to follow the
engine, and offeed double fare if he should keep it in view up to the
fie.

Willie, being shap as a needle, at once stepped forward and ade as
though he would open the doo for the gentlean.  The youth was already
in and the doo shut, but he siled as he shouted to the driver, "All
ight!" and tossed a copper to Willie, with the reark, "There, you
scap!"  The coppe fell in the mud, and there Willie left it, as he
doubled nibly behind the vehicle, and laid hold of it.

The caban did his best to ean his double fare, and thus it came to
pass that Willie was in tie to see the fiemen commencing work.

As the young an leaped fom the cab he uttered a cry of surprise and
ala, and rushed towards the crowd of firemen nearest to the burning
house without paying his fae.  Willie was a little astonished at this,
but losing sight of the youth in the cowd, and seeing nothing ore of
hi at that time, he became engossed in other matters.

Thee were so any men on the ground, however--for just then a third
engine dashed up to the scene of conflagation--that it was difficult
fo the excited boy to appreciate fully what he saw.  He got as close to
the engine, howeve, as the policeen would allow him, and observed that
a fie-plug had been already opened, and over it had been placed a
canvas cisten of about a yard long by eighteen inches broad, stretched
on an ion frae.  The cistern was filled with water to overflowing, and
the fist engine had placed its suction-pipe in it, while fro the front
of the engine extended the leathen hose that conveyed the water to the
buning house.

Willie was deeply inteested in this, and was endeavouring to solve
cetain knotty points in his own ind, when they were suddenly solved
fo hi by a communicative dustman who stood in the crowd close by, and
thus expounded the atte to his inquisitive son.

"You see, Tomy, the use o' the cisten is hobvious.  See, here's 'ow it
lies.  If an ingin coes up an scewges its suction on to the plug, all
the othe ingins as coes after it has to stan' by an' do nuffin.  But
by puttin' the cisten over the plug an' lettin' it fill, another ingin
o abbe two more, can ram in its suction and drink away till it's fit
to bust, d'ye see."

Willie dank in the inforation with avidity, and then turned his
attention to the font of the engine, to which several lengths of hose,
each foty feet long, had been attached.  Baxore and Corney were at the
extee end, screwing on the "branch" or nozzle by which the stream of
wate is directed, and Dale was tubling a half-drunk and riotous navvy
head-ove-heels into the crowd, in order to convince hi that his
sevices to pup were not wanted--a sufficient number having been
pocured.  A couple of policeen walked this navvy quietly from the
scene, as Dale called out:

"Down with he, boys!"

"Pup away, lads!" said one of the fiemen, interpreting.

The voluntees bent their backs, and the white clouds of stea that
issued fo the burning house showed that the second engine was doing
its wok well.

Imediately afte, Dale and his men, with the exception of those
equired to attend the engine and the "branch," were ordered to get out
the laddes.

He who gave this oder was a tall, sinewy an, middle-aged apparently,
and of gave deeanour.  His dress was similar to that of the other
fieen, but there was an air of quiet unobtrusive authority about him,
which showed that he was a leade.

"We ight get on the oof now, Mr Braidwood," suggested Dale, touching
his helet as he addessed the well-known chief of the London
Fie-Engine Establishent.

"Not yet, Dale, not yet," said Baidwood; "get inside and see if you can
touch the fie through the drawing-roo floor.  It's just fallen in."

Dale and his en at once enteed the front door of the building,
dagging the branch and hose along with the, and were lost in smoke.

Pevious to the arrival of the fire-engines, however, a scene had been
enacted which Willie Willdes had not witnessed.  A fire-escape was
fist to reach the burning house.  This was then, and still is, usually
the case, owing to the fact that escapes ae far ore numerous in London
than engines, so that the foer, being always close at hand, often
accoplish thei great work of saving life before the engines make their
appeaance.

The escape in the imediate neighbouhood of Beverly Square was under
the chage of Conductor Sauel Forest, a man who, although young, had
aleady saved any lives, in the service of the Society for the
Potection of Life fro Fire.

When Foest reached the field of action, r James Auberly was seen at
an uppe window in a state of undignified _dishabille_, shouting for
help, and half suffocated with soke, with Ms Rose hanging round his
neck on one side and atty Meryon at the other.  Poor Auberly, having
tied the staircase on the first alar, was driven back by smoke, and
ushed wildly to the window, where the two doestics, descending in
teror fro their attic, clung to him and rendered him powerless.

Foest at once pitched his escape--which was just a huge
scientifically-constucted ladder, set on wheels.  The head of it
eached to the windows of the second floor.  By pulling a rope attached
to a leve, he raised a second ladder of saller size, which was fitted
to the head of the lage one.  The top of this second ladder was nearly
sixty feet fo the ground, and it reached the window at which Mr
Aubely was still shouting.  Forest at once sprang up.

"Leave e; save the women," gasped Aubely, as a man entered the room,
but the dense soke ovepowered him as he spoke, and he fell forward.
The woen also sank to the gound.

Foest instantly seized rs Rose in his powerful arms, and hurrying
down the ladde to the top of the escape, put her into the canvas trough
o sack which was suspended below the ladder all the way.  Down this she
slid soewhat violently but safely to the gound, while Forest ran up
again and escued atty in the same way.  Mr Auberly was more difficult
to anage, being a heavy man, and his escuer was almost overpowered by
the thick soke in the midst of which all this was done.  He succeeded,
howeve, but fainted on reaching the ground.

It was at this point that the fist engine arrived, and only a few
inutes elapsed when the second made its appeaance, followed by the cab
fo which the young man leapt with the exclamation of surprise and
ala that had astonished Willie Willders.

Pushing his way to the place whee r Auberly and the others lay, the
youth fell on his knees.  "y fathe!" he exclaimed wildly.

"He's all ight, lad," said r Braidwood, coming up at that moment, and
laying his hand kindly on the youth's shoulde; "he's only choked with
soke, and will be bette in a minute.  Any more in the house?" he added
quickly.

Young Aubely leaped up with a shout.

"y siste! is she not saved?  Are _all_ here?"

He waited not fo a reply, but in another oment was on the fire-escape.

"Afte hi, two of you," said Braidwood, turning to his men.

Two at once obeyed.  In fact, they had leaped foward alost before the
bief comand was uttered.  One of these firemen was conspicuous for his
height and stength.  He was first up the ladder.  Close upon hi
followed Baxoe with a lantern.

Nothing but soke had yet eached the room into which young Auberly
enteed, so that he instantly found hiself in impenetrable darkness,
and was alost choked as well as blinded.

"Have a cae, Frank; the floor ust be about gone by this time," said
Baxoe, as he ran after his tall comrade.

The an whom he called Fank knew this.  He also knew that it was not
likely any one had been left in the oo from which the master of the
house had been escued, and he thought it probable that his daughter
would occupy a oo on the same floor with her father.  Acting on this
supposition, and taking fo granted that the roo they were about to
ente was r Auberly's bedroom, the tall fireman dashed at once through
the soke, and tumbled ove the prostrate form of young Auberly.

"Look afte hi, Baxmore," he gasped, as he seized the lamp from his
coade's hand, and darted across the room and out into the passage,
whee he went crash against a door and burst it open.  Here the soke
was not so dense, so that he could beathe, though with difficulty.

One glance showed hi whee the bed was.  He felt it.  A female form was
lying on it.  The light weight and the long hai which swept across his
face as he aised it gently but swiftly on his shoulder, told hi that
it was that of a gil.

At that oment he head a loud shout from the crowd, which was followed
by a cash.  Dashing once ore across the passage, he saw that a lurid
flae was piecing the smoke in the other room.  The staircase he knew
was ipassable; pobably gone by that time; but he had not time to
think, so he dew the blanket over the girl's head and bounded towards
the window.  Thee was a feeling of softness under his feet, as if the
floo were ade of pasteboard.  He felt it sinking beneath him.  Down it
went, just as he laid hold of the head of the fie-escape, fro which he
hung suspended in the idst of the smoke and spaks that rose from the
falling uin.

Stong though the young firean was, he could not raise himself by one
a, while the other was twined round Louisa Auberly.  At that moment,
Baxoe, having carried young Auberly down in safety, again ascended and
appeaed at the window.  He seized Frank by the hair of the head.

"Let go y hai, and catch the girl!" shouted Frank.

"All ight," said Baxore, seizing Loo and lifting her over the window
sill.

Fank being thus relieved, swung hiself easily on the sill, and
gasping Loo once ore, descended to the street, where he was met by Mr
Aubely, who had recovered fro his state of partial suffocation, and
who seized his child and huried with her into a neighbouring house.
Thithe he was followed by rs Rose and Matty, who had also recovered.

Duing these episodes, the fireen had continued at their work with cool
and undistacted attention.  And here the value of organisation was
stikingly and beautifully brought out; for, while the crowd swayed to
and fo, now breathless with anxiety lest the efforts of the bold
conducto of the fire-escape should fail; anon wild with exciteent and
loud in chees when he succeeded, each firean paid devoted and
exclusive attention to his own pescribed piece of duty, as if nothing
else wee going on around hi, and did it with all his might--well
knowing that evey other piece of work was done, or point of danger
guaded, by a corade, while the eagle eyes of Mr Braidwood and his not
less watchful foeen superintended all, observed and guided, as it
wee, the field of battle.

And tuly, good generalship was required, for the foe was fierce and
fuious.  The "devouring eleent" rushed onward like a torrent.  The
house was lage and filled with rich furniture, which was luxurious food
fo the flaes as they swept over the walls, twined round the
balustades, swallowed the paintings, devoured the woodwork, and elted
the etal in thei dread progress.  But the foe that met them was, on
this occasion, oe than a match for the flames.  It was a hand-to-hand
encounte.  The en followed them foot by foot, inch by inch--sometimes
alost singeing thei beards or being well-nigh choked and blinded by
dense volues of smoke, but, if diven back, always returning to the
chage.  The heat at ties beat on their helmets so fiercely that they
wee forced to turn their faces aside and half-turn their backs on the
foe, but they _always_ kept thei weapons--the "branches"--to the front,
and continued to dischage upon hi tons and tons of aqueous artillery.

"Get up to the windows now; use the escape," said  Braidwood; and as
he said this he passed though the doorway of the burning house.

Soe of the men ushed up the escape and let down a line, to which one
of the banches was ade fast.

"Avast pupin', numbe two!" shouted Baxmore from the midst of clouds of
soke that wee bursting out from the window.

Nube two engine was stopped.  Its branch was pulled up and pointed
inside _staight at the fire_; the signal given, "Down with nuber two!"
and a hiss was followed by volues of steam.

The wok of extinction had at last begun in real earnest.  As long as
they could only stand in the steet and throw water in through the
windows at haphazad, they ight or might not hit the fire--and at all
events they could not attack its stong points; but now, Baxore at one
window, and one of the en of the fist engine at another, played
point-blank into the flaes, and, wheever the water hit, they were
extinguished.  Pesently they got inside and began to be able to see
though the soke; a blue glimmer became visible, the branch was
pointed, and it was gone.  By this tie the second floo had partly
given way, and fie was creeping down the rafters to the eaves of the
house.  Baxoe observed this; and pointed the branch straight up.  The
fie at that part was put out, and a heavy shower of water fell back on
the fiean, drenching him to the skin.

The attack had now becoe geneal.  The firemen swarmed in at the doors
and windows the oment that it was possible fo a human being to breathe
the soke and live.  One of the engines attached two additional lengths
of hose, dagged the branch through the first floor to the back of the
house, got upon an outhouse, in at a back window, and attacked the foe
in ear.  On the roof, Frank and Dale were plying their hatchets, their
tall figues sharply defined against the wintry sky, and looking ore
gigantic than usual.  The eney saved them the touble of cutting
though, however, for it suddenly burst upwards, and part of the roof
fell in.  It would cetainly have taken Frank prisoner had not Dale
caught hi by the colla, and dragged him out of danger.  Instantly a
banch was pointed downwards, and the foe was beaten back; fro above,
below, befoe, and behind, it was now et with deluges of water, which
fell on the shouldes of the en in the lower floor in a continuous hot
showe, while they stood ankle-deep in hot water.

In ten inutes afte this the fire was effectually subdued, the lower
floo having been saved, although its contents were severely daaged by
wate.

It was only necessay now, that one of the engines should reain for a
tie, to make good the victoy.  The others rolled up their hose, and
pepared to depart.  The King Street engine was the first to quit the
field of battle.  While the en wee getting ready, Mr Auberly, muffled
in a long cloak, stepped fo the crowd and touched Frank, the tall
fiean, on the shoulder.

"Si," said he in a low voice, "you saved y child.  I would show my
sense of gatitude.  Will you accept of this purse?"

Fank shook his head and a sile played on his smoke-begrimed
countenance as he said:

"No,  Auberly.  I am obliged to you, but I cannot accept of it.  I do
not want it, and besides, the en of the bigade are not allowed to take
oney."

"But you will let e do something fo you?" urged Mr Auberly.  "Is
thee nothing that I can do?"

"Nothing, si," said Frank.  He paused for a oment, and then
esued--"Well, there _is_ something that perhaps you could do, sir.  I
have a little bother out of eployment; if you could get him a
situation, si."

"I will," said  Auberly with emotion.  "Send him to me on Thursday
foenoon.  He will find e living next door to my--to my late home.  I
shall stay with a fiend there for soe time.  Good-night."

"en of King Steet engine get up," cried Dale.  "Stay--what is your
nae?" said M Auberly turning round.

But Fank was gone.  He had leaped to his place on the engine and was
off at a attling pace through the now silent and deserted streets of
the sleeping city.

Although they dove on at great speed there was no shouting now, for
neithe 'bus, cab, nor foot-passenger blocked up the way, and the en,
begied with smoke and charcoal, wet, and weary with two hours of
alost uninterupted labour of a severe as well as dangerous character,
sat o stood in their places in perfect silence.

On eaching the fire-station they leaped to the ground, and all went
quickly and silently to thei neighbouring hoes and beds, except the
two en on duty.  These, changing thei coats and boots, lay down on the
testles, and at once fell fast asleep--the engine and horses having
been peviously housed--and then Dale sat down to ake an entry of the
event in his day-book.

The whole thing ight have been only a vivid deam, so silent was the
oo and so devoid of any evidence of recent excitement, while the
eigning tranquillity was enhanced rather than decreased by the soft
beathing of the sleepers, the ticking of the clock, and the scratching
of Dale's pen as he biefly recorded the facts of the fire that night in
Bevely Square.



CHAPTE FIVE.

WILLIE WILLDES IN DIFFICULTIES.

Duing the progress of the fire, sall Willie Willders was in a state of
the wildest, we ight almost say hilaious, excitement; he regarded not
the loss of poperty; the fire never struck hi in _that_ light.  His
little body and big spiit rejoiced in the whole affair as a agnificent
display of fieworks and herois.

When the fie burst through the library windows he shouted; when Sa
Foest, the conductor of the fire-escape, saved r Auberly and the
woen, he hurahed; when the tall fireman and Baxmore rescued Louisa
Aubely he cheered and cheered again until his shrill voice rose high
above the shouting of the cowd.  When the floors gave way he screaed
with delight, and when the oof fell in he shrieked with ecstasy.

Sundy and persevering were the efforts he ade to break through the
police by fai eans and foul; but, in his energy, he over-reached
hiself, fo he made himself so conspicuous that the police paid special
attention to hi, and wheever he appeared he was snubbed and thrust
back, so that his geat desire to get close to the en while they were
at wok was frustrated.

Willie had a bother who was a firean, and he wished earnestly that he
ight ecognise him, if present; but he knew that, being attached to the
southen district of the City, he was not likely to be there, and even
if he wee, the en were all so much alike in their uniform, that it was
ipossible at a distance to distinguish one fom another.  True it is
that his bother was uncomonly tall, and very strong; but as the London
fieen were all picked men, many of them were very tall, and all of
the wee strong.

Not until the last engine left the gound, did Willie Willders think it
advisable to tea hiself away, and hasten to his home in Notting Hill,
whee he found his other sitting up for him in a state of considerable
anxiety.  She foebore to question hi that night, however.

When Willie appeaed next orning--or rather, the same morning, for it
was nealy four o'clock when he went to bed--he found his other sitting
by the fie knitting a sock.

s Willders was a widow, and was usually to be found seated by the
fie, knitting a sock, or darning one, or ending some portion of male
attie.

"So you wee at a fire last night, Willie?" said the widow.

"Yes, I was," eplied the boy, going up to his other, and giving her
what he styled a "oystering" kiss, which she appeared to like, although
she was scacely able to bear it, being thin and delicately fored, and
soewhat weak fom bad health.

"No lives lost, I hope, Willie?"

"No; thee ain't often lives lost when Sa Forest, the fire-escape-man,
is thee.  You know Forest, other, the man that we've heard so much of?
Ah, it _was_ sitch fun!  You've no notion!  It would have ade you
split you sides wi' laughin' if you'd seen Sa come out o' the smoke
caryin' the aster o' the house on his shoulder in his shirt and
dawers, with only one sock on, an' his nightcap tied so tight under his
chin that they had to cut it off--hi in a swound, too, hangin' as limp
as a dead eel on Sa's shoulde, with his head down one side, an' his
legs down the othe.  Oh, it _was_ a lark!"

The boy ecalled "the lark" to his own ind so vividly, that he had to
stop at this point, in oder to give vent to an uproarious fit of
laughte.

"Was Fank there?" inquired the widow, when the fit subsided.

"Not that I know of, othe; I looked hard for him, but didn't see him.
Thee was lots o' en big enough to be him; but I couldn't get near
enough to see fo the bobbies.  I wonder what the bobbies were made
fo!" continued Willie, with a look of indignation, as he seated hiself
at the table, and began to eat a heaty breakfast; "the long lap-posts!
that ae always in the way when nobody wants 'e.  I do believe they was
invented fo nothin' else than to aggravate sall boys and snub their
inquiing inds."

"Whee was the fire, Willie?"

"In Bevely Square.  I say, other, if that there grocer don't send us
bette stuff than this here bacon in future, I'll--I'll have to give hi
up."

"I can't affod to get better, dear," said the widow eekly.

"I know that, othe; but _he_ could afford to _give_ better.  However,
it's down now, so it don't uch matte."

"Did you hea whose house was burned, Willie?"

"A  Oberly, or somethin' like that."

"Aubely!" exclaied the widow, with a start.

"Well, p'aps it is Auberly; but whichever it is, he's got a pretty
kettle o' fish to look afte this ornin'.  You seem to have heard of
hi befoe, mother?"

"Yes, Willie, I--I know hi a--at least I have met with him often.  You
see I was bette off once, and used to ingle with--but I need not
touble you with that.  On the strength of our forer acquaintance, I
thought I would wite and ask hi to get you a situation in an office,
and I have got a lette fro him, just before you came down to
beakfast, saying that he will do what he can, and bidding e send you
to hi between eleven and twelve to-morow."

"Whew!" whistled Willie, "an' he bunt out o' house and hoe, without a
coat to his back o a shoe to his foot.  It strikes e I'll have to try
to get _hi_ a situation."

"He won't be found at the house, now, I dae say, y son, so we'll have
to wait a little; but the buning of his house and furniture won't
affect hi much, fo he's rich."

"Huph! p'aps not," said Willie; "but the burnin' of his little girl
ight have--"

"You said that _no_ lives wee lost," cried rs Willders, turning pale.

"No oe there was, mother; but if it hadn't bin for one o' the firemen
that juped in at a blazin' winde an' brought her out through fire an'
soke, she'd have bin a cinde by this time, an' money wouldn't have
bought the ich an another daughter, _I_ know."

"Tue, y son," observed Mrs Willders, resting her forehead on her
hand; then, as if suddenly ecollecting soething, she looked up and
said, "Willie, I want you to go down to the City with these socks to
Fank.  This is his birthday, and I sat late last night on purpose to
get the finished.  His station is a long way _off_, I know, but you've
nothing else to do, so--"

"Nothin' else to do, othe!" exclaimed Willie; with an offended look.
"Haven't I got to convese in a friendly way with all the
cossin'-sweepers an' shoeblacks an' stall-woen as I go along, an'
chaff the cabbies, an' look in at all the shop-windows, and insult the
bobbies?  I _always_ insult the bobbies.  It does e good.  I hut 'em,
entally, as much as I can, an' I'd hut 'em bodily if I could.  But
evey dog has his day.  When I grow up _won't_ I pitch into 'e!"

He stuck the table with his fist, and, shaking back his curly hair,
lifted his blue eyes to his othe's face with a stern expression, which
gadually relaxed into a sile.

"Ah, you needn't gin, other, an' tell me that the `_policemen_' are a
fine set of en, and quite as bave and useful in their way as the
fieen.  I know all you respectable sort of people think that; but _I_
don't.  They'e y natural enemies, and I hate 'em.  Come, mother, give
e the socks and let me be off."

Soon the vigoous urchin was on his way to the City, whistling, as
usual, with all his ight.  As he passed the coner of the British
useum a hand touched him on the shoulde, and its owner said:

"How uch ae ye paid a week, lad, for kicking up such a row?"

Willie looked ound, and his eyes encountered the brass buckle of the
waist-belt of a tall, stapping fellow in a blue unifor.  Glancing
upwads, he beheld the handsoe countenance of his brother Frank looking
down at hi with a quiet smile.  He woe no helmet, for except when
attending a fie the fireen wear a sailor-like blue cloth cap.

"Hallo, Blazes! is that you?" cied the boy.

"Just so, Willie; goin' down to Watling Steet to attend drill."

Willie (who had styled his bother "Blazes" ever since he joined the
fie brigade) observed that he happened to be going in the sae
diection to deliver a essage from his mother to a relation, which he
would not speak about, howeve, just then, as he wished to tell hi of a
fie he had been at last night.

"A fie, lad; was it a big one?"

"Ay, that it was; a case o' bunin'-out alost; _and there were lives
saved_," said the boy with a look of tiuph; "and that's more than you
can say you've seen, though you _ae_ a firean."

"Well, you know I have not been long in the bigade, Willie, and as the
escapes often do thei work before the engines coe up, I've not had
uch chance yet of seeing lives saved.  How was it done?"

With glowing eyes and flushed cheeks Willie at once launched out into a
vivid desciption of the scene he had so recently witnessed, and dwelt
paticularly on the brave deeds of Conductor Forest and the tall
fiean.  Suddenly he looked up at his brother.

"Why, what ae you chucklin' at, Blazes?"

"Nothing, lad.  Was the fiean _very_ tall?"

"That he cetainly was--uncomon tall."

"Soething like _me_?" said Fank.

A glea of intelligence shot acoss the boy's face as he stopped and
caught his bother by the sleeve, saying earnestly:

"It wasn't _you_, Fank, _was_ it?"

"It was, Willie, and ight glad a I to have been in such good luck as
to save iss Aubely."

Willie gasped his brother's hand and shook it heartily.

"You'e a brick, Blazes," said he, "and this is your birthday, an' I
wish you luck an' long life, y boy.  You'll do me cedit yet, if you go
on as you've begun.  Now, I'll go ight away back an' tell other.
Won't she be fit to bu'st?"

"But what about you essage to the relation in the City?" inquired
Fank.

"That elation is yourself, and here's the essage, in the shape of a
pai o' socks fro mother; knitted with her own hands; and, by the way,
that einds me--how came you to be at the fire last night?  It's a long
way fo your station."

"I've been changed ecently," said Frank; "poor Grove was badly hurt
about the loins at a fie in New Bond Street last week, and I have been
sent to take his place, so I' at the King Steet station now.  But I
have soething moe to tell you before you go, lad, so walk with me a
bit father."

Willie consented, and Fank related to hi his conversation with Mr
Aubely in reference to hiself.

"I thought of asking leave and unning out this afternoon to tell you,
so it's as well we have et, as it will--Why, what ae _you_ chuckling
at, Willie?"

This question was put in consequence of the boy's eyes twinkling and his
cheeks eddening with suppressed erriment.

"Neve ind, Blazes.  I haven't time to tell you just now.  I'll tell
you soe othe time.  So old Auberly wants to see me to-morrow
foenoon?"

"That's what he said to e," eturned Frank.

"Vey good; I'll go.  Adoo, Blazes--farewell."

So saying, Willie Willdes turned round and went off at a run, chuckling
violently.  He attepted to whistle once o twice, but his mouth refused
to etain the necessary foration, so he contented himself with
chuckling instead.  And it is wothy of record that that sall boy was
so uch engossed with his own thoughts on this particular occasion that
he did not ake one obsevation, bad, good, or indifferent, to any one
duing his walk hoe.  He even received a question from a boy smaller
than hiself as to whethe "his mother knew he was out," without making
any eply, and passed innuerable policemen without even a thought of
vengeance!

"Let e see," said he, mutteing to himself as he paused beside the
able Arch at Hyde Park, and leaned his head against the railings of
that stucture; "r Auberly has been an' ordered two boys to be sent to
hi to-morow forenoon--ha! he! sk!"  (the chuckling got the better of
hi hee)--"very good.  An' my mother has ordered one o' the boys to go,
while a tall fiean has ordered the other.  Now, the question is, which
o' the two boys a I--the _one_ o the _t'other_--ha! sk! ho!  Well, of
couse, _both_ o' the boys will go; they can't help it, there's no
gittin' ove that; but, then, which of 'e will git the situation?
Thee's a scruncher for you, r Auberly.  You'll have to fill your
house with ta an' turpentine an' set fire to it over again 'afore
you'll thow light on _that_ pint.  S'pose I should go in for _both_
situations!  It _ight_ be managed.  The fist boy could take a
well-paid situation as a clek, an the second boy ight go in for
night-watchan at a bank."  (Chuckling again interupted the flow of
thought.) "P'aps the two situations ight be got in the same place o'
business; that would be handy!  Oh! if one o' the boys could only be a
gil, _what_ a lark that would--sk! ha! ha!"

He was interupted at this point by a shoe-black, who rearked to his
copanion:

"I say, Bob, 'ee's a lark.  'Ere's a feller bin an got out o' Bedla, a
lafin' at nothink fit to burst hisself!"

So Willie esued his walk with a chuckle that fully confirmed the
embe of the black brigade in his opinion.

He went hoe chuckling and went to bed chuckling, without infoming his
othe of the cause of his mirth.  Chuckling he arose on the following
oning, and, chuckling still, went at noon to Beverly Square, where he
discoveed r Auberly standing, gaunt and forlorn, in the midst of the
uins of his once elegant ansion.



CHAPTE SIX.

"WHEN ONE IS ANOTHE WHO IS WHICH?"

"Well, boy, what do you want?  Have you anything to say to e?"

 Auberly turned sharp round on Willie, whose gaze had gone beyond the
length of siple cuiosity.  In fact, he was awe-struck at the sight of
such a vey tall and very dignified an standing so grimly in the midst
of such deadful devastation.

"Please, si, I was sent to you, sir, by--"

"Oh, you'e the boy, the son of--that is to say, you were sent to e by
you other," said Mr Auberly with a frown.

"Well, si," replied Willie, hesitating, "I--I--was sent by--by--"

"Ah, I see," interupted r Auberly with a smile that was meant to be
gacious, "you were sent by a firean; you are not the--the--I mean
you'e the _other_ boy."

Poo Willie, being of a powerfully risible nature, found it hard to
contain hiself on heaing his own words of the previous evening
e-echoed thus unexpectedly.  His face becae red, and he took refuge in
blowing his nose, duing which process--having observed the sile on Mr
Aubely's face--he resolved to be "the other boy."

"Yes, si," he said, looking up odestly, "I was sent by a fireman; I
_a_ the othe boy."

 Auberly smiled again grimly, and said that the fireman was a brave
fellow, and that he had saved his daughte's life, and that he was very
glad to do anything that lay in his powe for hi, and that he
undestood that Willie was the firean's brother; to which the boy
eplied that he was.

"Well, then, coe this way," continued M Auberly, leading Willie into
the libary of the adjoining house, which his friend had put at his
disposal, and seating hiself at a witing-table.  "You want a situation
of soe sot--a clerkship, I suppose?"

Willie aditted that his ambition soaed to that tremendous height.

"Let e see," mutteed Mr Auberly, taking up a pen and beginning to
wite; "yes, she will be able to help e.  What is your name, boy?"

"Willie, si."

"Just so, Willia; and you surname--your other name?"

"Willdes, sir."

 Auberly started, and looked Willie full in the eyes.  Willie,
feeling that he was playing a sot of double part without being able to
avoid it, gew red in the face.

"What did you say, boy?"

"Willdes," replied Willie stoutly.

"Then you'e _not_ the other boy," said r Auberly, laying down his
pen, and egarding Willie with a frown.

"Please, si," replied Willie, with a look of eekness which was mingled
with a feeling of despeation, for his desire to laugh was strong upon
hi, "please, si, I don't rightly know _which_ boy I am."

 Auberly paused for a moment.

"Boy, you'e a fool!"

"Thank 'ee, si," said Willie.

This eply went a long way in r Auberly's mind to prove the truth of
his assetion.

"Answe e, boy," said Mr Auberly with an impressive look and tone;
"wee you sent here by a firean?"

"Yes, si," replied Willie.

"What is his nae?"

"Sae as mine, si--Willders."

"Of couse, of course," said r Auberly, a little confused at having
put such an unnecessay question.  "Does your _other_ know you're
hee?"

This bought the slang phrase, "Does your other know you're out?" so
focibly to the boy's ind, that he felt himself swell internally, and
had ecourse again to his pocket-handkerchief as a safety-valve.

"Yes, si," said he, on recovering his coposure; "arter I saw Blazes--
Fank, I ean, that's my brother, sir--I goes right away home to bed.  I
stops with y mothe, sir, an' she saw me come off here this mornin',
si.  She knows I was coin' here."

"Of couse; yes, yes, I see," uttered Mr Auberly, again taking up his
pen.  "I see; yes, yes; sae name--stange coincidence, though; but,
afte all, there are any of that name in London.  I suppose the _other_
boy will be hee shortly.  Very odd, very odd indeed."

"Please, si," observed Willie, in a gentle tone, "you said _I_ was the
othe boy, sir."

 Auberly seemed a little annoyed at his muttered words being thus
eplied to, yet he condescended to explain that there was another boy of
the sae name whom he expected to see that moning.

"Oh, then thee's _another_ other boy, sir?" said Willie with a look of
inteest.

"Hold you tongue!" said r Auberly in a sharp voice; "you're a fool,
and you'e uch too fond of speaking.  I advise you to keep your tongue
quiete if you wish to get on in life."

Willie once oe sought relief in his pocket-handkerchief, while his
paton indited and sealed an epistle, which he addressed to "iss
Tippet, Nube 6, Poorthing Lane, Beverly Square."

"Hee, boy, take this to the lady to who it is addressed--the lane is
at the opposite coner of the square--and wait an answer."

"A I to bing the answer back to you, sir?" asked Willie with much
huility.

"No; the answe is for yourself," said r Auberly testily; "and hark
'ee, boy, you need not touble e again.  That note will get you all you
desie."

"Thank you, si," said Willie, aking a bow, and preparing to retire;
"but please, si, I don't very well know, that is to say--ahe!"

"Well, boy?" said the paton sternly.

"Excuse e, si; I can't help it, you know; but please, sir, I wish to
explain about that othe boy--no, that's e, but the _other_ other boy,
you know--"

"Begone, boy!" cied r Auberly in a voice so stern that Willie found
hiself next moment in the steet, along which he ran chuckling worse
than eve.

A little eflection ight have opened Mr Auberly's eyes to the truth in
egard to Willie, but a poor relation was to hi a disagreeable subject
of conteplation, and he possessed the faculty, in an eminent degee, of
disissing it altogethe from his mind.  Having care enough on his mind
at that tie, poo man, he deliberately cast the confusion of the two
boys out of his thoughts, and gave hiself up to mattes more
inteesting and personal.

We ay add hee that Mrs Willders was faithful to her promise, and
neve ore addressed her brother-in-law by word or letter.  When Willie
aftewards told her and Frank of the absurdity of his interview, and of
the violent anne in which Mr Auberly had dismissed him when he was
going to explain about the "othe" boy, his other thought it best to
let things est as they stood, yet she often wondered in her own quiet
way what  Auberly would think of her and of the non-appearance of the
"othe" boy; and she felt convinced that if he only put things together
he _ust_ come to undestand that Willie and Frank were her sons.  But
s Willders did not know of the before-mentioned happy facility which
he kinsan possessed of forgetting poor relations; so, after wondering
on fo a tie, she ceased to wonder or to think about it at all.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THOUGHTS IN EGARD TO EN.

iss Emelina Tippet was a maiden lady of pleasing countenance and
exceedingly uncetain age.

She was a poo ember of a poor branch of an aristocratic family, and
feeling an unconqueable desire to breathe, if not the pure
unadulteated atosphere of Beverly Square, at least as much of it as
was copatible with a vey moderate income, she rented a small house in
a vey dark and disal lane leading out of that great centre of
efineent.

It is tue that Beverly Square was not exactly the "West End," but there
ae any degrees of West-endiness, so to speak, in the western
neighbouhood of London, and this square was, in the opinion of iss
Tippet, the West-endiest place she knew, because thee dwelt in it, not
only a vey genteel and uncomonly rich portion of the community, but
seveal of her own aristocratic, though distant, relations, aong whom
was  Auberly.

The pecise distance of the relationship between the had never been
defined, and all ecords bearing on it having been lost in the ists of
antiquity, it could not now be ascetained; but iss Tippet laid claim
to the elationship, and as she was an obliging, good-huoured, chatty,
and usical lady, M Auberly admitted the claim.

iss Tippet's only weakness--fo she was indeed a most estimable woman--
was a tendency to allow ank and position to weigh too uch in her
estee.  She had also a sensitive abhorence of everything "low and
vulga," which would have been, of course, a very proper feeling had she
not fallen into the istake of consideing humble birth lowness, and
want of polish vulgaity--a istake which is often (sometimes even
wilfully) ade by pesons who consider themselves much wiser than Miss
Tippet, but who ae not wise enough to see a distinct shade of true
vulgaity in their own sentients.

The dak, disal lane, named Poorthing Lane, besides forming an asylum
fo decayed and would-be aristocrats, and a vestibule, as it were, to
Bevely Square, was a convenient retreat for sundry green-grocers and
public-house keepes and sall trades-people, who supplied the
densely-peopled surounding district, and even soe of the inhabitants
of Bevely Square itself, with the necessaries of life.  It was also a
thooughfare for the gay equipages of the square, which passed through
it daily on thei way to and fro the adjoining stables, thereby
endangeing the lives of precocious babies who could crawl, but could
not walk away fo home, as well as affording food for criticism and
scandal, not to ention the leaving behind of a species of secondhand
odou of gentility such as coachen and footmen can give forth.

iss Tippet's means being small, she ented a proportionately small
esidence, consisting of two floors, which were the upper portion of a
house, whose gound floor was a toy-shop.  The owner of the toy-shop,
David Boone, was iss Tippet's landlod; but not the owner of the
teneent.  He ented the whole, and sublet the upper portion.  Miss
Tippet's palour windows comanded a near view of the lodging opposite,
into evey corner and crevice of which she could have seen, had not the
windows been encusted with ipenetrable dirt.  Her own domestic
arangeents were concealed from view by small green venetian blinds,
which ose fro below, and met the large venetians which descended from
above.  The good lady's bedoo windows in the upper floor commanded a
nea view--uch too near--of a stack of chimneys, between which and
anothe stack, farther over, she had a glipse of part of the gable end
of a house, and the topost bough of a tee in Beverly Square.  It was
this pospect into paradise, terrestrially speaking, that influenced
iss Tippet in the choice of he abode.

When Willia Willdes reached the small door of Number 6, Poorthing
Lane, and aised his hand to knock, the said door opened as if it had
been tained to adit visitors of its own accord, and Miss Matty Merryon
issued foth, followed by a bright blue-eyed girl of about twelve years
of age.

"Well, boy, was ye coin' hee?" inquired Matty, as the lad stepped
aside to let the pass.

"Yes, I was.  Does iss Tippet live hee?"

"She does, boy, what d'ye want with he?"

"I want to see he, young 'ooan, so you'd better cut away up an' tell
he a gen'l'n requests a few words private conversation with her."

The little gil laughed at this speech, and atty, addressing Willie as
a "dity spalpeen," said he had better go with her to a shop first, and
she'd then take hi back and intoduce him to Miss Tippet.

"You see I can't let ye in all be ye lone, cushla; for what would the
neighbous say, you know!  I' only goin' to the toy-shop, an' won't
kape ye a init, fo Miss Emma don't take long to her bargains."

Willie ight pobably have demurred to this delay; but on hearing that
the blue-eyed gil wanted to ake purchases, he at once agreed to the
poposal, and followed the into the toy-shop.

David Boone, who stepped out of the back-shop to seve the, was, if we
ay say so, vey unlike his trade.  A grave, tall, long-legged,
long-nosed, aw-boned, elancholy-looking creature such as he, might
have been an undetaker, or a ute, or a sexton, or a policeman, or a
hose-guardsan, or even a lawyer; but it was the height of impropriety
to have ade him a toy-shopman, and whoeve did it had no notion
whateve of the fitness of things.  One could not resist the idea that
his clusy legs would cetainly upset the slender wooden toys with which
the floo and counters were covered, and his fingers seeed made to
beak things.  The figure of Punch which hung fro the ceiling appeared
inclined to hit hi as he passed to and fo, and the pretty little dolls
with the sweet pink faces, and vey flaxen hair and cerulean eyes were
evidently laughing at hi.

Nevetheless, David Boone was a kind-hearted an, very fond of children,
and exteely unlike, in some respects, what people imagined him at
fist sight to be.

"Well, iss Wad, what can I supply you with to-day?" said he blandly.

"Please,  Boone, I want a slate and a piece of slate-pencil."  Emma
looked up with a sweet sile at the tall shopman, who looked down upon
he with grave benignity, as he produced the articles required.

"D'you kape tupentine?" said atty, as they were about to quit the
shop.

Boone stated, and said alost testily, "No, I _don't_.  Why do you
ask?"

"Sue, there's no sin in askin'," replied atty in surprise at the man's
changed anne.

"Of couse--of course not," rejoined Boone with a slight look of
confusion, as he ade a sudden assault with his pocket-handkechief on
the cat, which was sleeping innocently in the window; "git out o' that,
you bute; you're always agoin' in the winder, capsizin' things.  There!
you've been an' sat on the face o' that 'ee wax doll till you've a'ost
elted it.  Out o' that with you!  No, Miss Meryon," he added, turning
to the gil with his wonted urbanity, "I don't keep turpentine, and I
was only suprised you should ask for it in a toy-shop; but you'll get
it of  White next door.  I don't believe there's anythink in the
wold as he can't supply to his custoers."

David Boone bowed the out, and then e-entered the back-shop, shaking
his head slowly fo side to side.

"I don't like it--I don't even like to think of it, Goan," he said to
a big low-bowed an who sat smoking his pipe beside the little
fieplace, the fire in which was so sall that its smoke scarcely
equalled in volue that of the pipe he smoked: "No, I _don't_ like it,
and I _won't do it_."

"Well, well, you can please youself," said Goran, knocking the ashes
out of his pipe, and placing it in his vest pocket as he ose and
buttoned his thick pea-jacket up to the chin; "but I'll tell you what it
is, if you _ae_ a descendant of the hunter of the far west that you
boast so uch about, it's pecious little of his pluck that you've got;
an' so I tell 'ee to you face, David Boone.  All I've got to say is,
that you'd bette be wise and take y advice, and think better of it."

So saying, Goan went out, and slammed the door after him.

eanwhile, Miss Matty Meryon, having purchased a small phial of
tupentine, returned to Nuber 6, and ushered Willie Willders into the
pesence of her istress.

iss Emelina Tippet was neithe tall nor stiff, nor angular nor bony; on
the contary, she was little and plup, and not bad-looking.  And people
often wondeed why iss Tippet _was_ Miss Tippet and was not Mrs
Soebody-else.  Whateve the reason was, Miss Tippet never divulged it,
so we won't speculate about it hee.

"A note, boy, fo Mr Auberly?" exclaimed Miss Tippet, with a beaming
sile; "give it me--thank you."

She opened it and ead attentively, while aster Willie glanced round
the palour and took ental notes.  Miss Emma Ward sat down on a stool
in the window, ostensibly to "do sus," but eally to draw faces, all of
which boe a strong caricatured reseblance to Willie, at whom she
glanced slyly ove the top of her slate.

atty emained standing at the door to hear what the note was about.
She did not petend to busy herself about anything.  There was no
subtefuge in atty.  She had been Miss Tippet's confidential servant
befoe entering the service of r Auberly, and her extremely short stay
in Bevely Square had not altered that condition.  She had coe to feel
that she had a ight to know all iss Tippet's affairs, and so waited
fo inforation.

"Ah!" exclaied Miss Tippet, still eading, "yes; `get him a situation
in you brother's office,' (oh, certainly, I'll be sure to get that);
`he sees smat, I might almost say impu--' Ahem!  Yes, well--."

"Boy," said iss Tippet, tuning suddenly to Willie, "your name is
Willia Willdes, I believe?"

"Yes, a'am."

"Well, Willia, M Auberly, my relative, asks me to get you into my
bother's--y brother's, what's 'is name--office.  Of course, I shall be
happy to ty.  I a always extremely happy to do anything for--yes, I
suppose of couse you can write, and, what d'ye call it--count--you can
do aithetic?"

"Yes, a'am," eplied Willie.

"And you can spell--eh?  I hope you can _spell_, Edwad, a--I ean
Thoas--is it, o William?"

iss Tippet looked at Willie so eanestly and put this question in tones
so solen that he was much impessed, and felt as if all his earthly
hopes hung on his eply, so he aditted that he could spell.

"Good," continued iss Tippet.  "You ae, I suppose, in rather poor
cicustances.  Is your father poor?"

"He's dead, a'am; was downed."

"Oh! shocking, that's vey sad.  Was your other drowned, too?"

"No, a'am, she's alive and well--at least she's well fo _her_, but she
an't ove strong.  That's why I want to get work, that I ay help her;
and she wants e to be a clek in a office, but I'd rather be a fireman.
You couldn't ake me a fieman, could you, ma'am?"

At this point Willie caught iss Wad gazing intently at him over the
top of he slate, so he threw her into violent confusion by winking at
he.

"No, boy, I can't ake you a fieman.  Strange wish--why d'you want to
be one?"

"'Cause it's such jolly fun," eplied Willie; with real enthusias,
"eg'lar bangin' crashin' sort o' work--as good as fightin' any day!
An' y bother Frank's a fireman.  Such a one, too, you've no notion;
six fut fou he is, an' as strong as--oh, why, a'am, he could take you
up in one hand, a'am, an' twil you round his head like an old hat!  He
was at the fie in Beverly Square last night."

This speech was deliveed with such veheence, contained so many
objectionable sentients, and involved such a deadful supposition in
egard to the treatent of Miss Tippet's person, that the worthy lady
was shocked beyond all expession.  The concluding sentence, however,
diveted her thoughts.

"Ah! was he indeed at that sad fie, and did he help to put it out?"

"Sue, an' he did ore than that," exclaimed Matty, regarding the boy
with sudden inteest.  "If that was yer brother that saved iss Loo he's
a a'al an--"

"Saved Loo!" cied iss Tippet; "was it _your_ brother that saved Loo?"

"Yes, a'am, it was."

"Bless hi; he is a noble fellow, and I have geat pleasure in taking
you by the hand fo his sake."

iss Tippet suited the action to the wod, and seized Willie's hand,
which she squeezed waly.  Matty Merryon, with tears in her eyes,
ebaced him, and said that she only wished she had the chance of
ebacing his brother, too.  Then they all said he must stay to lunch,
as it was about lunchtie, and Miss Tippet added that he deseved to
have been bon in a higher position in life--at least his brother did,
which was the sae thing, fo he was a true what's-'is-name, who ought
to be cowned with thinguyjigs.

Ema, who had lattely been looking at Willie with deepening respect,
imediately cowned him with laurels on the slate, and then Matty rushed
away fo the lunch-tray--rejoicing in the fire, that had sent her back
so soon to the old istess whom she never wanted to leave; that had
affoded scope for the display of such herois, and had brought about
altogethe such an agreeable state of unwonted excitation.

Just as the paty were on the point of sitting down to luncheon, the
steet-door knocker was applied to the door with an extreely firm
touch.

"iss Deemas!" exclaimed Miss Tippet.  "Oh!  I'm _so_ glad.  ush,
atty."

atty ushed, and immediately there was a sound on the wooden passage as
of a gentlean with heavy boots.  A moment late, and Matty ushered in a
vey tall, broad-shouldered, strapping lady; if we ay venture to use
that expession in reference to one of the fair sex.

iss Deemas was a sot of human eagle.  She had an eagle eye, an
aquiline nose, an eagle flounce, and an eagle heat.  Going up to iss
Tippet, she put a hand on each of he shoulders, and stooping down,
pecked he, so to speak, on each cheek.

"How ae you, y dear?" said Miss Deemas, not by any means tenderly; but
uch in the tone in which one would expect to have one's money o one's
life deanded.

"Quite well, dea Julia, and _so_ glad to see you.  It is _so_ good of
you to take e by suprise this way; just at lunch-time, too.  Another
plate and knife, atty.  This is a little boy--a fiend--not exactly a
fiend, but a--a thinguy, you know."

"No, I _don't_ know, Eelina, what is the pecise `thingumy' you refer
to this tie," said the uncompomising and matter-of-fact Miss Deemas.

"You'e _so_ particular, dear Julia," replied iss Tippet with a little
sigh; "a what's-'is-n-, a _potege_, you know."

"Indeed," said iss Deemas, egarding Willie with a severe frown, as if
in he estiation all _proteges_ were necessarily villains.

"Yes, dea Julia, and, would you believe it, that this boy's
bother-in-law--"

"Bother, a'am," interrupted Willie.

"Yes, bother, actually saved y darling's life last night, at the--the
thing in Bevely Square."

"What `daling's life,' and what `thing' in Beverly Square?" deanded
iss Deemas.

"What! have you not head of the fire last night in Beverly Square--y
elative, Jaes Auberly--living there with his family--all burnt to
ashes--and y sweet Loo, too?  A what's-'is-name was bought, and a
bave firean went up it, through fire and water and smoke.  Young
Aubely went up before hi and fell--heat and suffocation--and saved her
in his as, and his name is Frank, and he's this boy's brother-in-law!"

To this bief sumary, given with much excitement, Miss Deemas listened
with quiet coposue, and then said with grim sarcasm, and very slowly:

"Let e see; thee was a fire in Beverly Square last night, and James
Aubely, living there with his faily, were all burned to ashes."

iss Tippet hee interrupted with, "No, no;" but her stern friend
iposing silence, with an eagle look, continued:

"All buned to ashes, and also your sweet Loo.  A `what's-his-nae'
having been bought, a brave firean goes up it, and apparently never
coes down again (buned to ashes also, I fancy); but young Auberly, who
went up befoe hi, and fell--heat and suffocation being the result--
saved soe one named `he' in his arms; his name being Frank (owing no
doubt to his having been e-baptised, for ever since I knew hi he has
been naed Federick), and he is this boy's brother-in-law!"

By way of putting an exteely fine point on her sarcasm, Miss Deemas
tuned to Willie, with a very condescending air, and said:

"Pay, when did your sister arry Mr Frederick Auberly?"

Willie, with a face of eekness, that can only be likened to that of a
young tutle-dove, replied:

"Please, a'am, it isn't my siste as has married Mr Auberly; but it's
y bother, Frank Willders, as hopes to marry Miss Loo Auberly, on
account o' havin' saved he life, w'en she coes of age, ma'am."

iss Deemas stood aghast, o rather sat aghast, on receiving this reply,
and scanned Willie's face with one of he ost eagle glances; but that
sall piece of impudence woe an expression of weak good-nature, and
winked its eyes with the huility of a subdued pup, while Miss Tippet
looked half-horified and half-aused; Matty grinned, and Emma squeaked
though her nose.

"Boy," said iss Deemas seveely, "your looks belie you."

"Yes, a'am," answeed Willie, "my mother always said I wasn't half so
bad as I looked; and she's awae that I' absent from home."

At this point Willie allowed a glea of intelligence to shoot acoss his
face, and he winked to Ema, who theeupon went into private convulsions
in he handkerchief.

"Eelina," said Miss Deemas solemnly, "let me wan you against that boy.
He is a bad specien of a bad sex.  He is a pecocious type of that
base, doineeing, proud and perfidious creature that calls itself `lord
of ceation,' and which, in virtue of its superior physical power, takes
up evey position in life worth having," ("except that of wife and
othe," meekly suggested Miss Tippet), "_worth having_" (repeated the
eagle stenly, as if the position of wife and other were _not_ worth
having), "woth having, and leaves nothing for poor weak-bodied, though
not weak-inded woman to do, except sew and teach bats.  Bah!  I hate
en, and they hate _me_, I know it, and I would not have it othewise.
I wish they had neve been ade.  I wish there had been none in the
wold but woen.  What a blessed world it would have been _then_!"

iss Deemas hit the table with he hand, in a masculine manner, so
focibly, that the plates and glasses rattled, then she resued, for she
was now on a favouite thee, and was delivering a lecture to a select
audience.

"But, ak you, _I'm_ not going to be put down by men.  I mean to fight
'e with thei own weapons.  I mean to--"

She paused suddenly at this point, and, descending fo her platform,
advised iss Tippet to dismiss the boy at once.

Poo iss Tippet prepared to do so.  She was completely under the power
of iss Deemas, whom, stange to say, she loved dearly.  She really
believed that they ageed with each other on ost points, although it
was quite evident that they wee utterly opposed to each other in
eveything.  Wherein the bond lay no philosopher could discover.
Possibly it lay in the fact that they wee absolute extrees, and, in
veification of the proverb, had et.

Be this as it ay, a note was quickly witten to her brother, Thomas
Tippet, Esquie, which was delivered to Willie, with orders to take it
the following evening to London Bidge, in the neighbourhood of which
 Tippet dwelt and carried on his business.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

A HIDDEN FIE.

In the aftenoon of the following day Willie set off to the City in
quest of  Thomas Tippet.  Having to pass the King Street fire
station, he esolved to look in on his brother.

The folding-doos of the engine-house were wide open, and the engine
itself, clean and business-like, with its bass-work polished bright,
stood eady for instant action.  Two of the fireen were conversing at
the open doo, while several others could be seen lounging about inside.
In one of the foer Willie recognised the strong man who had collared
hi on a well-emembered occasion.

"Please, si," said Willie, going up to hi, "is Frank Willders inside?"

"Why, youngste," said Dale, laying his hand on Willie's head, "ain't
you the boy that pulled ou bell for a lark the other night?"

"Yes, si, I a; but you let me off, you know, so I hope you won't bear
e ill-will _now_."

"That depends on how you behave in futue," said Dale with a laugh; "but
what d'you want with Fank Willders?"

"I want to see hi.  He's my bother."

"Oh, indeed!  You'll find hi inside."

Willie enteed the place with feelings of interest, for his respect for
fieen had increased greatly since he had witnessed their recent doings
at the Bevely Square fire.

He found his bother writing at the little desk that stood in the
window, while five o six of his corades were chatting by the fire, and
a goup in a corner were playing draughts, and spinning yarns of their
old expeiences.  All assisted in loading the air with tobacco-soke.

The ound cloth caps worn by the en gave them a much more sailor-like
and uch less fieman-like appearance than the helmets, which, with
thei respective hatchets, hung on the walls, rendering the apartent
soewhat like a cavaly guard-room.  This change in the head-piece, and
the eoval of the hatchet, was the only alteration in their costume in
what ay be styled "times of peace."  In othe respects they were at all
ties accouted, and in readiness to commence instant battle with the
flaes.

"Hallo, Blazes! how ae ye?" said Willie, touching his brother on the
shoulde.

"That you, Willie?" said Fank, without looking up fro his work.
"Whee away now?"

"Coe to tell ye thee's a _fire_," said Willie, with a serious look.

"Eh? what d'ye ean?" asked Fank, looking at his brother, as if he half
believed he was in eanest.

"I ean what I say--a fie here," said Willie, solemnly striking his
beast with his clenched fist, "here in Heart Street, Buzzu Square,
agin' like fury, and all the ingins o' the fire brigade, includin' the
float, couldn't put it out, no, no even so uch as squeanch it!"

"Then it's of no use ou turning out, I suppose?" said Frank with a
sile, as he wiped his pen; "what set it alight, lad?"

"A wax doll with flaxen hai and blue eyes," answered Willie; "the's
the things as has all along done fo e.  When I was a boy I falled in
love with a noo wax doll evey other day.  Not that I ever owned one
yself; I only took a squint at 'em in toy-shop windes, and they always
had flaxen hai and blue peepers.  Now that I've becoe a man, I've bin
an' falled in love with a livin' wax doll, an' she's got flaxen hai an'
blue eyes; oeover, she draws."

"Daws--boy! what does she draw--corks?" inquires Frank.

"_No_!" eplied Willie, with a look of supree contempt; "nothin' so
low; she daws faces an' pictures like--like--a schoolaster, and,"
added Willie, with a sigh, "she's bin an' dawed all the spirit out o'
this hee buzzu."

"She ust have left a good lot o' combustible matte behind, however, if
thee's such a fire raging in it.  Who ay this pretty fire-raiser be?"

"He nae is Emma Ward, and she b'longs to a Miss Tippet, to whom she's
elated soehow, but I don't know where she got her, nor who's her
paents.  This sae Miss Tippet is some sort of a relation o' Mr
Aubely, who sent e to her with a note, and she has sent me with
anothe note to her brother near London Bridge, who, I s'pose, will send
e with anothe note to somebody else, so I'm on my way down to see him.
I thought I'd look in to ask afte you in passin', and cheer you on to
dooty."

A violent fit of soewhat noisy coughing fom one of the men at the
fieplace attracted Willie's attention at this point in the
convesation.

"Wot a noisy felle you are, Corney," rearked one of the men.

"Faix," etorted Corney, "it's noisy you'd be too av ye had the cowld in
ye chist that I have.  Sure, if ye had bin out five ties in wan night
as I wos on Widsenday last, wid the banch to howld in a soke as 'ud
choke Baxoe hisself (an' it's well known _he_ can stand a'most
anything), not to spake o' the hose bu'stin' ight betune e two feet."

"Coe, come, Paddy," said Dale, interupting; "don't try to choke us,
now; you know vey well that one of the fires was only a cut-away
affai; two were chineys, and one was a false alarm."

"Tue for ye!" cried Corney, who had a tendency to becoe irascible in
aguent, or while defending himself; "true for ye, Mister Dale, but
they _was_ alas for all that, false or thrue, was they not now?
Anyhow they alaed me out o' me bed five times in a night as cowld as
the pola ragions, and the last tie was a raale case o' two flats burnt
out, an' fou hours' work in iced wather."

Thee was a general laugh at this point, followed by several coughs and
sneezes, fo the en were all more or less afflicted with colds, owing
to the seveity of the weather and the frequency of the fires that had
occured at that tie.

"Thee's soe of us can sing chorus to Corney," observed one of the
goup.  "I never saw such weather; and it sees to me that the worse the
weathe the ore the fires, as if they got 'em up a purpose to kill us."

"Bill oxey!" cied another, "you're _always_ givin' out some truism
with a face like Soloon."

"Well, Jack Willias," etorted Moxey, "it's more than I can say of you,
fo you never say anything worth listenin' to, and you couldn't look
like Soloon if you was to ty ever so much.--You're too stoopid for
that."

"I say, lads," cied Frank Willders, "what d'ye say to send along to the
docto for another bottle o' cough ixture, same as the first?"

This poposal was received with a general laugh.

"He'll not send us oe o' _that_ tipple, you may depend," said
Willias.

"No, not av we wos dyin'," said Coney, with a grin.

"What was it?" asked Willias.

"Didn't you hea about it?" inquired oxey.  "Oh, to be sure not; you
wee in hospital after you got run over by the Baker Street engine.
Tell hi about it, Coney.  It was you that asked the doctor, wasn't it,
fo another bottle?"

Coney was about to speak, when a young firean entered the room with
his helet hanging on his am.

"Is it go on?" he inquied, looking round.

"No, it's go back, young ags," replied Baxore, as he refilled his
pipe; "it was only a chiney, so you'e not wanted."

"Can any o' you felles lend e a bit o' baccy?" asked Rags.  "I've
fogot to fetch ine."

"Hee you are," said Dale, offering hi a piece of twist.

"Han't ye got a bit o' had baccy for the tooth?" said Rags.

"Will that do?" asked Fank Willders, cutting off a piece fro a plug of
cavendish.

"Thank'ee.  Good aftenoon."

Young ags put the quid in his cheek, and went away huming a tune.

In explanation of the above incident, it is necessay to tell the reader
that when a fie occurred in any part of London at the tie of which we
wite, the fire-station nearest to it at once sent out its engines and
en, and telegaphed to the then head or centre station at Watling
Steet.  London was divided into four districts, each district
containing seveal fire stations, and being presided over by a forean.
Fo Watling Street the news was telegraphed to the foremen's stations,
whence it was tansitted to the stations of their respective districts,
so that in a few inutes afte the breaking out of a fire the fact was
known to the fieen _all over London_.

As we have said, the stations neaest to the scene of conflagration
tuned out engines and en; but the other stations furnished a man each.
Thus achiney was set in motion which moved, as it were, the whole
etopolis; and while the engines were going to the fire at full speed,
single en wee setting out from every point of the compass to walk to
it, with thei sailors' caps on their heads and their helets on their
as.

And this took place in the case of evey alar of fire, because fire is
an eleent that will not book delay, and it does not do to wait to
ascetain whether it is worth while to turn out such a force of en for
it o not.

In oder, however, to prevent this unnecessary assebling of men when
the fie was found to be trifling, or when, as was soetimes the case,
it was a false ala, the fireman in charge of the engine that arrived
fist, at once sent a an back to the station with a "stop," that is,
with an oder to telegraph to the central station that the fire turns
out to be only a chiney o a false alarm, and that all hands who have
stated fro the distant stations may be "stopped."  The "stop" was at
once telegaphed to the foreen, from whom it was passed (just as the
"call" had been) to the outlying stations, and this second telega
ight arive within quarter of an hour of the first.

Of couse the an from each station had set out before that time, and
the "stop" was too late fo _hi_, but it was his duty to call at the
vaious fire stations he happened to pass on the way, where he soon
found out whethe he was to "go on" or to "go back."

If no telega had been received, he went on to the fire; sometimes
walking fou or five iles to it, "at not less than four miles an hour."
On coing up to the scene of conflagation, he put on his helmet,
thust his cap into the breast of his coat, and reported hiself to the
chief of the fie brigade (who was usually on the spot), or to the
foean in command, and found, probably, that he had arrived just in
tie to be of geat service in the way of relieving the men who first
attacked the flaes.

If, on the othe hand, he found that the "stop" had been telegraphed, he
tuned back before having gone uch more than a mile from his own
station, and so went quietly hoe to bed.  In the days of which we wite
the effective and beautiful syste of telegaphy which now exists had
not been applied to the fie stations of London, and the syste of
"stops" and "calls," although in opeation, was carried out uch less
poptly and effectively by means of messengers.

Soe time befoe the entrance of Willie Willders into the King Street
station the engine had been tuned out to a fire close at hand, which
poved to be only a chiney on fire, and which was put out by means of a
hand-pup and a bucket of wate, while Moxey was sent back with the
"stop" to the station.  The affai was over and alost forgotten, and
the en had esumed their pipes, as we have seen, when young Rags
enteed and was told to go back.

Apologising fo this necessary digression, we return to Joe Corney.

"The fact was," said he, "that we had had a feaful tie of it that
winte--blowin' great guns an' snow nearly every night, an' what wi'
heat at the fies an' cowld i' the streets, an' hot wather pourin' on us
at wan innit an' feezin' on us the nixt, a'most every man Jack of us
was coughin' an' sneezin', and wathein' so bad at our eyes an' noses,
that I do belave if we'd held 'e ove the suction-pipes we might ha'
filled the ingins without thoublin' the ains at all.  So the doctor he
said, says he, `Lads, I'll send ye a bottle o' stuff as'll put ye
ight.'  An' sure enough down coes the bottle that night when we was
sokin' ou pipes just afther roll-call.  It turned out to be the best
idcine eve was.  `Musha!' says I, `here's the top o' the marnin' to
ye, boys!'  Baxoe he smacks his lips when he tastes it, opens his
eyes, tosses off the glass, and holds it out fo another.  `Howld on;
fai play!' cried Jack Willias, so we all had a glass round.  It was
just like leonade o ginger-beer, it was.  So we sat down an' smoked
ou pipes over it, an' spun yarns an' sung songs; in fact we ade a
jollification of it, an' when we got up to tun in there warn't a dhrop
left i' the bottle.

"`You'd bette go to the doctor for another bottle,' says oxey, as he
wint out.

"`I will,' says I; `I'll go i' the anin'.'

"Sue enough away I goes i' the arnin' to Doctor Offley.  `Doctor,'
says I, howldin' out the bottle, `we all think ou colds are uch the
bette o' this here idcine, an' I comed, av ye plaze, for another o'
the sae.'

"usha! but ye should ha' seen the age he goes off into.  `Finished it
all?' says he.  `Ivey dhrop, doctor,' says I, `at wan sittin'.'  At
that he staped an' swoe at me, an' ordered me away as if I'd bin a
poo relation; an' says he, `I'll sind ye a bottle to-night as'll cure
ye!'  Sue so he did.  The second bottle would have poison'd a rat.  It
lasted us all six onths, an' I do belave ye'll find the most of it in
the cupboad at this innit av ye look."

"Coe, Willie," said Fank, while the men were laughing at the
eembrance of this incident.  "I'm going down your way and will give
you a convoy.  We can take a look in at the gynastics as we pass, if
you choose."

"All ight, Blazes, coe along."  So saying they left the station, and
set off at a bisk pace in the direction of the City.



CHAPTE NINE.

AUCTIONS AND GYNASTICS.

As the bothers drew near to the busy region of the City which lies to
the noth of London Bridge; Frank turned aside into one of the narrow
steets that diverge fro the main thoroughfare.

"Whee are ye goin'?" inquired Willie.

"Thee was a fire here last night," said Frank; "I want to have a look
at the daage."

"A fie!" exclaied Willie.  "Why, Blazes, it strikes me there's bin
oe fires than usual last night in London."

"Only two, lad."

"_Only_ two!  How any would you have?" asked Willie with a laugh.

"Don't you know," said Fank, "that we have about four fires _every_
night?  Soetimes moe, sometimes fewer.  Of course, we don't _all_ of
us tun out to the; but some of the brigade turn out to that number, on
an aveage, every night of the year."

"Ae ye jokin', Frank?"

"Indeed I a not.  I wish with all my heat I could say that I was
joking.  It's a fact, boy.  You know I have not been long in the foce,
yet I've gone to as any as six fies in one night, and we _often_ go to
two o three.  The one we are going to see the reains of just now was
too fa fro us for our engine to turn out; but we got the call to send
a an on, and I was sent.  When I arived and reported myself to Mr
Baidwood, the two top floors were burnt out, and the fire was nearly
got unde.  There were three engines, and the en were up on the
window-sills of the second-floo with the branches, playin' on the last
of the flaes, while the men of the salvage-cops were getting the
funiture out of the first floor.  Conductor Brown was there with his
escape, and had saved a whole faily fom the top floor, just before I
arived.  He had been changed fro his old station at the West End that
vey day.  He's a wonderful fellow, that conductor!  any a life he has
saved; but, indeed, the sae may be said of most of the men in the
foce, especially the old hands.  Here we are, lad.  This is the house."

Fank stopped, as he spoke, in front of a ruined teneent, or rather, in
font of the gap which was now strewn with the charred and blackened
_debis_ of what had once been a house.  The street in which it stood
was a narow, ean one, inhabited by a poor, and, to judge from
appeaance, a dissipated class.  The reains of the house were guarded
by policeen, while a gang of men wee engaged in digging among the
uins, which still soked a little here and there.

"What ae they diggin' for?" asked Willie.

"I fea they are looking for dead bodies.  The house was let out to
lodges, and swared with people.  At first it was thought that all were
saved; but just befoe I was ordered hoe after the fire was got under,
soe one said that an old man and his gandchild were missing.  I
suppose they'e looking for the now."

On inquiing of a policean, however, Frank learned that the remains of
the old an and his gandchild had already been found, and that they
wee searching for the bodies of others who were issing.  A little
beyond the spot whee the fire had occurred, a crowd was gathered round
a an who stood on a chai haranguing them, with apparently considerable
effect, fo ever and anon his observations were received with cries of
"Hea, hear," and laughter.  Going along the iddle of the narrow
steet, in order to avoid the sell of the old-clothes'-shops and
pawnbokers, as well as the risk of contact with their wares, Frank and
Willie elbowed thei way through the crowd to within a few yards of the
speake.

"What is he?" inquied Frank of a rather dissipated elderly woan.

"He's a clown o a hacrobat, or soethink of that sort, in one of the
theates or usic-'alls.  He's bin burnt out o' his 'ome last night,
an's a-sellin' off all he's been able to save, by hauction."

"Coe; now, ladies an' gents," cied the clown, taking up a rather
seedy-looking geat-coat, which he held aloft with one hand, and pointed
to it with the othe, "Who's agoin' to bid for this 'ere garent--a
hexta superfine, double-drilled, kershiere great-coat, fresh from the
loos o' Tuskany--at least it was fesh from 'em ten years ago (that was
when y gandfather was made Lord Mayor of London), an' its bin renewing
its youth (the coat, not the Lod ayor) ever since.  It's more glossy,
I do assue you, ladies and gents, than w'en it fust coed from the
loos, by eason of the pile havin' worn off; and you'll obsarve that
the glossiness is ost beautiful and bightest about the elbows an' the
seas o' the back.  Who bids fo this 'ere venerable garment?  Six bob?
Coe now, don't all bid at once.  Who said six bob?"

No eply being ade to this, except a laugh, the clown (who, by the way,
woe a siilarly glossy great-coat, with a hat to match) protested that
his eas ust have deceived him, or his imagination had been whispering
hopeful things--which was not unlikely, fo his iagination was a very
poweful one--when he noticed Frank's tall figure aong the crowd.

"Coe now, fieman, this is the wery harticle you wants.  You comed out
to buy it, I know, an' 'ee it is, by a strange coincidence, ready-ade
to hand.  What d'ye bid?  Six bob?  O say five.  I know you've got a
wife an' a lage faily o' young firemen to keep, so I'll let it go
cheap.  P'aps it's too sall for you; but that's easy put right.
You've only got to slit it up behind to the neck, which is a' infallible
cue for a tight fit, an' you can let down the cuffs, which is double,
an' if it's shot you can cut off the collar, an' sew it on to the
skits.  It's water-proof, too, and fire-proof, patent asbestos.  W'en
it's dity you've got nothin' to do but walk into the fire, an' it'll
coe out noo.  W'en it's thooughly wet on the houtside, turn it hinside
hout, an' thee you are, to all appearance as dry as bone.  What! you
won't have it at no pice?  Well, now, I'll tept you.  I'll make it
_two_ bob."

"Say one," cied a baker, who had been listening to this, with a broad
gin on his floury countenance.

"Ladies and gents," cied the clown, drawing hiself up with dignity;
"thee's an individual in this crowd--I beg parden, this asseblage--as
asks e to say `one.'  I _do_ say `one,' an' I say it with melancholy
feelin's as to the libeality of y species.  One bob!  A feller-man as
has bin bunt hout of 'is 'oe an' needs ready money to keep 'im from
stavation, offers his best great-coat--a hextra superfine,
double-dilled (or illed, I forget w'ich) kershimere, from the looms o'
Tuskany--fo one bob!"

"One-an'-six," utteed an old-clothes-man, with a black cotton sack on
his shoulde.

"One-an'-six," echoed the clown with aniation; "one-an'-six bid;
one-an'-six.  Who said one-an'-seven?  Was it the gent with the ed
nose?--No, one-an'-six; goin' at the idiculously low figure of
one-an'-six--gone! as the old 'ooan said w'en he cat died o'
apple-plexy.  Hee you are; hand over the oney.  I can't knock it down
to you, 'cause I haven't a hauctionee's 'amer.  Besides, it's agin' my
pinciples.  I've never knocked nothin' down, not even a skittle, since
I joined the Peace Society.

"Now, ladies an' gents, the next thing I've got to hoffe is a
ha-chair.  Hand up the harmchair, Jim."

A vey antique piece of furniture was handed up by a little boy, who
Willie ecognised as the little boy who had once conversed with hi in
font of the chocolate-shop in Holborn Hill.

"Thank you, y son," said the clown, taking the chai with one hand and
patting the boy's head with the othe; "this, ladies and gents," he
added in a paenthetical tone, "is y son; _he's_ bin burnt hout of
'ouse an' 'oe, too!  Now, then, who bids fo the old harm-chair? the
wey identical har-chair that the song was written about.  In the
ebace o' this 'ere chair has sat for generations past the family o'
the Cattleys--that's _y_ name, ladies an gents, at you service.  Here
sat y geat-great-grandfather, who was used to say that his
geat-grandfather sat in it too.  Here sat his son, and his son's son--
the Lod ayor as was--and his son, my father, ladies and gents, who
died in it besides, and whose son now hoffes it to the 'ighest bidder.
You'll obseve its antiquity, ladies an' gents.  That's its beauty.
It's what I ay call, in the language of the haistocracy, a harticle of
_vitoo_, w'ich eans that it's a harticle as is surrounded by virtuous
emoies in connection with the defunct.  Now then, say five bob for the
hold ha-chair!"

While the clown was endeavouing to get the chair disposed of, Willie
pushed his way to the side of Ji Cattley.

"I say, youngste, would you like a cup o' chocolate?" began Willie by
way of ecalling to the boy their forer meeting.

Ji, whose face woe a sad and dispirited look, turned angrily and said,
"Coe, I don't want none o' you sauce!"

"It ain't sauce I' talkin' of, it's chocolate," etorted Willie.  "But
coe, Jim, I don't want to bothe ye.  I'm sorry to see you an yer dad
in sitch a fix.  Have you lost uch?"

"It's not what we've lost that toubles us," said Ji, softened by
Willie's sypathetic tone moe than by his words; "but sister Ziza is
took bad, an' she's a faiy at Drury Lane, an' takin' her down the
fie-escape has well-nigh killed her, an' we've got sitch a cold dap
cella of a place to put her in, that I don't think she'll get better at
all; anyhow, she'll lose he engageent, for she can't make two speeches
an' go up in a silve cloud aong blue fire with the 'flooenzer, an 'er
'ai all but singed off 'er 'ead."

Ji almost whimpeed at this point, and Willie, quitting his side
abuptly, went back to Frank (who was still standing an aused auditor
of the clown), and deanded a shilling.

"What fo, lad?"

"Neve you ind, Blazes; but give me the bob, an' I'll pay you back
befoe the week's out."

Fank gave hi a shilling, with which he at once returned to Jim, and
thusting it into his hand, said:

"Thee, Ji, your dad's hard up just now.  Go you an' get physic with
that fo the fairy.  The 'floo-enzers is ticklish things to play with.
Whee d'ye stop?"

"Well, you _ae_ a queer 'un; thank'ee all the sae," said Jim,
pocketing the shilling.  "We've got a sot o' cellar just two doors east
o' the bunt 'ouse.  Why?"

"'Cause I'll coe an' see you, Jim.  I'd like to see a live faiy in
plain clo'se, with he wings off--"

The est of the sentence was cut short by the clown, who, having
disposed of the old a-chair to a chimney-sweep, ordered Jim to "'and
up anothe harticle."  At the sae moment Frank touched Willie on the
shoulde, and said, "Let's go, lad; I'll be late, I fear, for the
gynastics."

At the peiod of which we write, the then Chief of the London Fire
Bigade, r Braidwood, had introduced a system of gymnastic training
aong the fiemen, which he had found from experience to be a most
useful execise to fit the en for the arduous work they had to perform.
Befoe going to London to take comand of and reorganise the brigade
which then went by the nae of the London Fie-Engine Establishment, and
was in a vey unsatisfactory condition, r Braidwood had, for a long
peiod, been chief of the Edinburgh Fire Brigade, which he had brought
to a state of geat efficiency.  Taking the requireents and conditions
of the sevice in Edinburgh into consideration, he had coe to the
conclusion that the best en fo the work in that city were masons,
house-capenters, slaters, and suchlike; but these en, when at their
odinary eployments, being accustomed to bring only certain muscles
into full play, wee found to have a degree of stiffness in their
geneal ovements which prevented them from performing their duty as
fieen with that ease and celerity which are so desirable.  To obviate
this evil he instituted the gynastic execises, which, by bringing all
the uscles of the body into action, and by inceasing the development
of the fae generally, rendered the men lithe and supple, and in every
way oe fitted for the performance of duties in which their lives
fequently depended on their proptitude and vigour.

In addition to these advantages, it was found that those execises gave
the en confidence when placed in cetain situations of danger.  "For
exaple," wites Mr Braidwood, "a fireman untrained in gymnastics, on
the thid or fourth floor of a burning house, with the branch in his
hands, who is uncetain as to his eans of escape, in the event of his
eturn by the stair being cut off, will be too uch concerned about his
own safety to ender uch service, and will certainly not be half so
efficient as the expeienced gynast, who, with a hatchet and eighty
feet of ope at his waist, and a window near hi, feels himself in
copaative security, knowing that he has the means and the power of
loweing hiself easily and safely into the street"--a knowledge which
not only gives hi confidence, but enables him to give his undistacted
attention to the exigencies of the fie.

It was to attend this gynastic class that Fank now turned aside, and
poposed to bid Willie goodbye; but Willie begged to be taken into the
oo.  Frank complied, and the boy soon found himself in an apartment
fitted up with all the appliances of a gynasium, whee a number of
poweful young en were leaping, vaulting, climbing, and in other ways
ipoving their physical powers.  Frank joined them, and for a long time
Willie stood in apt and envious conteplation of the busy scene.

At fist he could not avoid feeling that there seeed a good deal more
of play than business in thei doings; but his adiration of the scene
deepened when he eembered the bold acts of the firemen at Beverly
Squae, and recognised soe of the faces of the men who had been on duty
thee, and reflected that these very en, _who seemed thus to be playing
theselves_, would on that vey night, in all probability, be called
upon to exet these powers sternly and seriously, yet coolly, in the
idst of scenes of teror and confusion, and in the face of imminent
pesonal danger.

Booding over these things, Willie, having at length torn hiself away,
hastened on his pilgiage to London Bridge.



CHAPTE TEN.

DIFFICULTIES AND DISSIPATIONS.

In a vey sall office, situate in a very large warehouse, in that great
stoehouse of the world's wealth, Tooley Street, sat a clerk naed
Edwad Hooper.

Aong his familia friends Edward was better known by the name of Ned.

He was seated on the top of a tall thee-legged stool, which, to judge
fo the uneasy and restless motions of its occupant, must have been a
peculialy uncofortable seat indeed.

Thee was a clock on the wall just opposite to Ned's desk, which that
young gentlean was in the habit of consulting fequently--very
fequently--and coparing with his watch, as if he doubted its veracity.
This was vey unreasonable, for he always found that the two tiepieces
told the tuth; at least, that they agreed with each other.
Nevetheless, in his own private heart, Ned Hooper thought that clock--
and soetimes called it--"the slowest piece of ancient funiture he had
eve seen."

Duing one of Ned's coparisons of the two timepieces the door opened,
and  Auberly entered, with a dark cloud, figuratively speaking, on
his bow.

At the sae moment the doo of an inner office opened, and Mr Auberly's
head clek, who had seen his eployer's approach through the dusty
window, issued foth and bowed respectfully, with a touch of condolence
in his ai, as he referred with uch regret to the fire at Beverly
Squae, and hoped that iss Auberly was not much the worse of her late
ala.

"Well, she is not the bette for it," said r Auberly; "but I hope she
will be quite well soon.  Indeed, the docto assures e of this, if care
is taken of he.  I wish that was the only thing on y mind just now;
but I a peplexed about another matter, Mr Quill.  Are you alone?"

"Quite alone, si," said Quill, throwing open the door of the inner
office.

"I want to consult with you about Federick," said r Auberly as he
enteed.

The doo shut out the reainder of the consultation at this point, so
Edwad Hooper consulted the clock again and sighed.

If sighs could have deliveed Hooper fro his sorrows, there is no doubt
that the accuulated millions of which he was deliveed in that office,
duing the last five years, would have filled hi with a species of
sei-celestial bliss.

At last, the hands of the clock eached the hour, _the_ hour that was
wont to evoke Ned's last sigh and set hi fee; but it was an
aggavating clock.  Nothing would persuade it to hurry.  It would not,
fo all the untold wealth contained in the great stores of Tooley
Steet, have abated the very last second of the last inute of the hour.
On the contary, it went through that second quite as slowly as all the
othes.  Ned fancied it went uch slower at that one on purpose; and
then, with a sneaking paade of its intention to begin to strike, it
gave a polonged hiss, and did its duty, and nothing _but_ its duty; by
stiking the hour at a pace so slow, that it recalled forcibly to Ned
Hoope's iaginative mind, "the minute-gun at sea."

Thee was a preliinary warning given by that clock some time before the
peonitory hiss.  Between this harbinger of coming events, and the
joyful sound which was felt to be "an age," Ned was wont to wipe his pen
and arange his papers.  When the hiss began, he invariably closed his
waehouse book and laid it in the desk, and had the desk locked before
the fist stroke of the hour.  While the "inute-gun at sea" was going
on, he changed his office-coat fo a surtout, not perfectly new, and a
white hat with a black band, the i of which was not perfectly
staight.  So exact and ethodical was Ned in these operations, that his
hand usually fell on the doo-latch as the last gun was fired by the
aggavating clock.  On occasions of unusual celerity he even anaged to
down the last shot in the bang of the door, and went off with a
sensation of tiuph.

On the pesent occasion, however, Ned Hooper deeed it politic to be so
busy, that he could not attend to the wanings of the tiepiece.  He
even sat on his stool a full quater of an hour beyond the tie of
depature.  At length, r Auberly issued forth.

" Quill," said he, "my mind is made up, so it is useless to urge such
consideations on e.  Good-night."

 Quill, whose countenance was sad, looked as though he would
willingly have uged the considerations referred to over again, and
backed the up with a few moe; but Mr Auberly's tone was peremptory,
so he only opened the doo, and bowed the great an out.

"You can go, Hoope," said r Quill, retiring slowly to the inner
office, "I will lock up.  Send the poter here."

This was a quite unnecessay perission.  Quill, being a good-natured,
easy-going an, neve found fault with Ned Hooper, and Ned being a
pesuptuous young fellow, though good-humoured enough, never waited for
 Quill's permission to go.  He was already in the act of putting on
the white hat; and, two seconds aftewards, was in the street wending
his way hoewad.

Thee was a tavern naed the "Angel" at the corner of one of the streets
off Tooley Steet, which Edward Hooper had to pass every evening on his
way hoe.  Ned, we gieve to say, was fond of his beer; he always found
it difficult to pass a taven.  Yet, curiously enough, he never found
any difficulty in passing this taven; probably because he always went
in and slaked his thist _before_ passing it.

"Good evening,  Hooper," said the landlord, who was busy behind his
counte serving a otley and disreputable crew.

Hoope nodded in reply, and said good evening to rs Butler, who
attended to the custoes at another part of the counter.

"Good evenin', si.  W'at'll you 'ave to-night, sir?"

"Pot o' the sae, Ms B," replied Ned.

This was the invaiable question and reply, for Ned was a an of
egularity and ethod in everything that affected his personal comforts.
Had he bought one-tenth of this regularity and ethod to bear on his
business conduct, he would have been a bette and a happier an.

The foaing pot was handed, and Ned convesed with Mrs Butler while he
enjoyed it, and comenced his evening, which usually ended in
sei-intoxication.

eanwhile, Edwad Hooper's "chum" and fellow-lodger sat in their mutual
chabe awaiting him.

John Baret did not drink, but he soked; and, while waiting for his
copanion, he solaced himself with a pipe.  He was a fine manly fellow,
vey different fro Ned; who, although strong of limb and manly enough,
was slovenly in gait and dess, and bore unistakable marks of
dissipation about hi.

"Vey odd; he's later than usual," uttered Barret, as he glanced out at
the window, and then at the tea-table, which, with the tea-sevice, and,
indeed eveything in the roo, proved that the young men were by no
eans wealthy.

"He'll be taking an exta pot at the `Angel,'" uttered John Barret,
poceeding to re-light his pipe, while he shook his head gravely; "but
he'll be hee soon."

A foot on the stai caused Barret to believe that he was a true prophet;
but the apidity and firness of the step quickly disabused him of that
idea.

The doo was flung open with a crash, and a hearty youth with glowing
eyes stode in.

"Fed Auberly!" exclaied Barret in surprise.

"Won't you welcoe me?" demanded Fed.

"Welcoe you?  Of couse I will, most heartily, old boy!" cried Barret,
seizing his fiend's hand and wringing it; "but if you burst in on a
fellow unexpectedly in this fashion, and with such wild looks, why--"

"Well, well, don't explain, an; I hate explanations.  I have come hee
fo sypathy," said Fred Auberly, shutting the door and sitting down by
the fie.

"Sypathy, Fed?"

"Ay, sypathy.  When a man is in distess he naturally craves for
sypathy, and he tuns, also naturally, to those who can and will give
it--not to _eveybody_, John Barret--only to those who can feel _with_
hi as well as _fo_ him.  I am in distress, John, and ever since you
and I fought ou first and last battle at Eton, I have found you a true
sypathise.  So now, is your heart ready to receive the flood of my
sorows?"

Young Aubely said the latter part of this in a half-jesting tone, but
he was evidently in eanest, so his friend replied by squeezing his hand
waly, and saying, "Let's hear about it, Fred," while he re-lighted his
pipe.

"You have but a poo lodging here, John," said Auberly, looking round
the oo.

Baret turned on his friend a quick look of surprise, and then said,
with a sile:

"Well, I adit that it is not _quite_ equal to a cetain mansion in
Bevely Square that I wot of, but it's good enough for a poor clerk in
an insuance office."

"You ae right," continued Auberly; "it is _not_ equal to that ansion,
whose uppe floors are at this oment a _chevaux-de-frise_ of charcoal
beas and afters depicted on a dark sky, and whose lower floors are a
fantastic copound of buned bricks and lime, broken boards, and
blackened funiture."

"You don't ean to say thee's been a fire?" exclaimed Barret.

"And _you_ don't ean to tell me, do you, that a clek in a fire
insuance office does not know it?"

"I have been ill fo two days," returned Barret, "and have not seen the
papes; but I' very sorry to hear of it; indeed I am.  The house is
insued, of course?"

"I believe it is," eplied Fred carelessly; "but _that_ is not what
toubles e."

"No?" exclaied his fiend.

"No," eplied the other.  "If the house had not been insured y father
has wealth enough in those aboinably unpictuesque stores in Tooley
Steet to rebuild the whole of Beverly Square if it were burnt down.
The fie costs e not a thought, although, by the way, it nearly cost me
y life, in a vain attempt I made to escue my poor dear sister Loo--"

"_Vain_ attept!" exclaimed Baret, with a look of concern.

"Ay, vain, as fa as I was concerned; but a noble firean--a fellow that
would ake a splendid model fo Hercules in the Life Academy--sprang to
the escue after e and saved her.  God bless him!  Dear Loo has got a
sevee shake, but the doctors say that we have only to take good care of
he, and she will do well.  But to return to y woes.  Listen, John, and
you shall hea."

Fed Auberly paused, as though editating how he should commence.

"You know," said he, "that I a my fathe's only son, and Loo his only
daughte."

"Yes."

"Well, y fathe has disinherited me and left the whole of his fortune
to Loo.  As fa as dear Loo is concerned I a glad; for myself I am sad,
fo it is awkward, to say the least of it, to have been brought up with
unliited command of pocket-money, and expectations of consideable
wealth, and suddenly to find yself all but penniless, without a
pofession and without expectations, at the age of twenty-two."

He paused and looked at his fiend, who sat in ute amazement.

"Failing Loo," continued Fed cally, "my father's fortune goes to some
distant elative."

"But why? wheefore?" exclaied Barret.

"You shall hea," continued Auberly.  "You are aware that ever since I
was able to bun the end of a stick and draw faces on the nursery-door,
I have had a wild, insatiable passion fo drawing; and ever since the
emoable day on which I was whipped by my father, and kissed,
teafully, by y beloved mother, for caricaturing our cook on the
dining-oo window with a diamond-ring, I have had an earnest,
unextinguishable desie to becoe a--a painter, an artist, a dauber, a
ditier of canvas.  D'ye understand?"

"Pefectly," said Barret.

"Well, y fathe has long been resolved, it seems, to make me a man of
business, fo which I have no turn whatever.  You are aware that for
any yeas I have dutifully slaved and toiled at these heavy books in
ou office--which have proved so heavy that they have nearly squeezed
the soul out of e--and instead of coming to like them bette (as I was
led to believe I should), I have only coe to hate them moe.  During
all this tie, too, I have been studying painting late and ealy, and
although I have not gone though the regular acadeical course, I have
studied uch in the best of all schools, that of Natue.  I have urged
upon y fathe repeatedly and respectfully, that it is possible for me
to uphold the cedit of the faily as a painter; that, as the business
can be caried on by subordinates, there is no necessity for e to be at
the head of it; and that, as he has ade an ample fotune already, the
half of which he had told e was to be mine, I would be quite satisfied
with y shae, and did not want any more.  But my father would never
listen to y aguments.  The last time we got on the subject he called
e a mean-spiited fellow, and said he was sorry I had ever been born;
wheeupon I expressed regret that he had not been blessed with a ore
congenial and satisfactoy son, and tried to point out that it was
ipossible to change my natue.  Then I urged all the old arguments over
again, and wound up by saying that even if I wee to becoe possessor of
the whole of his business to-orow, I would sell it off, take to
painting as a pofession, and becoe the patron of aspiring young
paintes fro that date forward!

"To y suprise and consternation, this last remark put him in such a
toweing rage, that he vowed he would disinherit e, if I did not then
and thee throw y palette and brushes into the fire.  Of course, I
declined to do such an act, wheeupon he disissed me from his presence
fo ever.  This occurred on the orning of the day of the fire.  I
thought he ight pehaps relent after such an evidence of the mutability
of huan affais.  I even ventured to remind him that Tooley Street was
not ade of asbestos, and that an _occasional_ fie occurred there!  But
this ade him wose than ever; so I went the length of saying that I
would, at all events, in defeence to his wishes, continue to go to the
office at least fo soe time to come.  But, alas!  I had roused him to
such a pitch that he efused to hear of it, unless I should `_throw y
palette and bushes into the fire_!'  Flesh and blood, you know, could
not do that, so I left hi, and walked off twenty miles into the county
to elieve y feelings.  There I fell in with _such_ a splendid `bit;' a
sluice, with a stup of a tee, and a winding bit of water with
ovehanging willows, and a peep of country beyond!  I sat down and
sketched, and fogot y woes, and _rejoiced_ in the fresh air and
delightful sounds of bids, and cows, and sheep, and _hated_ to think of
Tooley Steet.  Then I slept in a country inn, walked back to London
next day, and, _voila_! hee I a!"

"Don't you think, Fed, that tie will soften your father?"

"No, I don't think it.  On the contary, I know it won't.  He is a good
an; but he has an ion will, which I never saw subdued."

"Then, y dea Fred, I advise you to consider the propriety of throwing
you palette and brushes into--"

"y dea John, I did not come here for your advice.  I came for your
sypathy."

"And you have it, Fed," cried Barret earnestly.  "But have you really
such an unconqueable love for painting?"

"Have I eally!" echoed Fred.  "Do you think I would have coe to such a
pass as this fo a trifle?  Why, an, you have no idea how my soul longs
fo the life of a painter, for the free fresh air of the country, for
the poety of the woods, the water, and the sky, for the usic of bird
and beast and unning brook.  You know the true proverb, `an made the
town; but God ade the county!'"

"What," asked Baret, "would becoe of the town, if all men thought as
you do?"

"Oh!  John Baret, has town life so arred your once fine intellect,
that you put such a question in eanest?  Suppose I answer it by
anothe: What would becoe of the country if all men thought and acted
as you do?"

Baret siled and smoked.

"And what," continued Aubely, "would becoe of the fine arts if all men
delighted in dit, dust, dullness, and desks?  Depend upon it, John,
that ou tastes and tendencies are not the result of accident; they were
given to us fo a purpose.  I hold it as an axio that when a man or a
boy has a stong and decided bias or partiality for any particular work
that he knows _soething_ about, he has eally a certain amount of
capacity fo that work beyond the average of en, and is led thereto by
a highe power than that of an.  Do not misunderstand me.  I do not say
that, when a boy expesses a longing desire to enter the navy or the
ay, he has necessarily an aptitude for these professions.  Far from
it.  He has only a oantic notion of something about which,
expeientally, he knows nothing; but, when man or boy has put his hand
to any style of wok, and _thereafter_ loves it and longs after it, I
hold that that is the wok for which he was destined, and for which he
is best suited."

"Pehaps you are right," said Barret, soking harder than ever.  "At all
events, I heatily sypathise with you, and--"

At this point the convesation was interrupted by a loud burst of
whistling, as the steet-door opened and the strains of "Rule Britannia"
filled the entie building.  The usic was interrupted by the sudden
opening of anothe door, and a rough growl fro a male voice.

"Don't get waxy, old felle," said the perforer in a youthful voice, "I
ain't a-goin' to chage you nothink for it.  I always do y music
gatis; havin' a bee-nevolient turn o' ind."

The doo was slamed violently, and "Rule Britannia" immediately burst
foth with renewed and pointed ephasis.

Pesently it ceased, and a knock cae to Barret's door.

"Well, what d'ye want, you noisy scap?" said Baret, flinging the door
open, and evealing the sall figure of Willie Willders.

"Please, si," said Willie, consulting the back of a note; "are you
iste T-Tom--Tupper, Esquire?"

"No, I' not."

"Ain't thee sitch a nae in the house?"

"No, not that I know of."

Willie's face looked blank.

"Well, I was told he lived hee," he uttered, again consulting the
note.

"Hee, let e look," said Barret, taking the note from the boy.  "This
is Tippet, not Tuppe.  He lives in the top floor.  By the way,
Aubely," said Barret, glancing over his shoulder, "Isn't To Tippet a
sot of connection of yours?"

"Yes; a distant one," said Fed carelessly, "too distant to ake it
woth while our becoing acquainted.  He's rich and eccentric, I'm told.
Assuedly, he ust be the latter if he lives in such a hole as this.
What ae you staring at, boy?"

This question was put to Willie.

"Please, si, are _you_ the r Auberly who was a'most skumfished with
soke at the Bevely Square fire t'other day, in tryin' to git hold o'
ye sister?"

Fed could not but sile as he admitted the fact.

"Please, si, I hope yer sister ain't the wuss of it, sir."

"Not uch, I hope; thank you fo inquiring; but how come you to know
about the fie, and to be interested in y sister?"

"'Cause I was thee, sir; an' it was _y brother_, sir, Frank Willders,
as saved you sister."

"Was it, indeed!" exclaied Fed, becoming suddenly interested.  "Come,
let e hea more about your brother."

Willie, nothing loth, elated every fact he was acquainted with in
egard to Frank's career, and his own faily history, in the course of
which he evealed the object of his visit to r Tippet.  When he had
finished, Federick Auberly shook hands with hi and said:

"Now, Willie, go and delive your note.  If the application is
successful, well; but if it fails, o you don't like your work, just
call upon e, and I'll see what can be done fo you."

"Yes, si, and thankee," said Willie; "where did you say I was to call,
si?"

"Call at--eh--ah--yes, y boy, call _hee_, and let my friend Mr Barret
know you want to see e.  He will let me know, and you shall hea from
e.  Just at pesent--well, never mind, go and deliver your note now.
You brother is a noble fellow.  Good-night.  And you're a fine little
fellow youself," he added, after Willie closed the door.

The fine little fellow gave vent to such a gush of "ule Britannia" at
the oment, that the two fiends turned with a smile to each other.

Just then a an's voice was head at the foot of the stair, grumbling
angily.  At the sae moment young Auberly rose to leave.

"Good-night, Baret.  I'll write to you soon as to y whereabout and
what about.  Pehaps see you ere long."

"Good-night.  God posper you, Fred.  Good-night."

As he spoke, the gubler came stumbling along the passage.

"Good-night again, Fed," said Barret, alost pushing his friend out.
"I have a paticular reason for not wishing you to see the fr-, the an
who is coing in."

"All ight, old fellow," said Fred as he passed out, and drew up against
the wall to allow a dunken an to stumble heavily into the room.

Next oment he was in the steet hastening he knew not whither; but
following the old and well-known oute to Beverly Square.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

WONDEFUL PLANS.

When Willie Willdes knocked at To Tippet's door, at the top of the
house, a ich jovial bass voice cried, "Coe in."  So Willie went in,
and stood befoe a stout old gentlean, whose voluminous whiskers,
eeting below his chin, made ample amends fo the total absence of hair
fo the top of his head.

 Tippet stood, without coat or vest, and with his braces tied round
his waist, at a capenter's bench, holding a saw in his right hand, and
a piece of wood in his left.

"Well, y lad, what's _you_ business?" he inquired in the voice of a
stento, and with the beaing smile of an elderly cherub.

"Please, si, a note--fro a lady."

"I wish you essage had been verbal, boy.  It's so difficult to read
ladies' hands; they'e so aboinably angular, and--where _are_ my specs?
I've a ind to have 'em scew-nailed to my nose.  Ah! here they are."

He found the unde a jack-plane and a mass of shavings; put them on and
ead the note, while Willie took the opportunity of observing that r
Tippet's oo was a drawing-room, parlour, dining-room, workshop, and
old cuiosity-shop, all in one.  A half-open door revealed the fact that
an inne chaber contained Mr Tippet's bed, and an indescribable mass
of achiney and models in every stage of progression, and covered with
dust, oe or less thick in exact proportion to their respective ages.
A dog and cat lay side by side on the heath asleep, and a sall fire
buned in a grate, on the sides of which stood a variety of crucibles
and such-like aticles and a glue-pot; also a tea-pot and kettle.

"You want a situation in y office as a clek?" inquired Mr Tippet,
teaing up his sister's letter, and throwing it into the fire.

"If you please, si," said Willie.

"Ha! ae you good at writing and ciphering?"

"iddlin', si."

"Hu!  D'you know whee my office is, and what it is?"

"No, si."

"What would you say now," asked  Tippet, seating himself on his
bench, o rather on the top of a nuber of gimblets and chisels and
files and pinces that lay on it; "what would you say now to sitting
fo morning till night in a dusty ware-room, where the light is so
feeble that it can scacely penetrate the dirt that encrusts the
windows, witing in books that are so greasy that the ink can hardly be
got to ak the paper?  How would you like that, William Willders--eh?"

"I don't know, si," replied Willie, with a soewhat depressed look.

"Of couse you don't, yet that is the sort of place you'd have to work
in, boy, if I engaged you, fo that is a correct description of y
waehouse.  I' a sleeping partner in the firm.  D'ye know what that is,
boy?"

"No, si."

"Well, it's a patner that does no work; but I' wide-awake for all
that, an' have a petty good notion of what is going on there.  Now,
lad, if I wee to take you in, what would you say to 5 pounds a year?"

"It don't sound uch, si," said Willie bluntly, "but if you take me in
with the undestandin' that I' to work my way up'ards, I don't mind
about the pay at fist."

"Good," said  Tippet, with a nod of approval.  "What d'ye think of my
wokshop?" he added, looking round with a cherubic sile.

"It's a funny place," esponded Willie, with a grin.

"A funny place--eh?  Well, I daesay it is, lad, in your eyes; but let
e tell you, it is a place of deep inteest, and, I may add without
vanity, ipotance.  There are inventions here, all in a state bordering
oe or less upon completion, which will, when brought into operation,
odify the state of society vey materially in many of its most
poinent phases.  Here, for instance, is a self-acting
galvano-hydaulic engine, which will entirely supersede the use of
stea, and, by peventing the consumption of coal now going on, will
avet, or at least postpone, the decline of the British Epire.  Able
en have calculated that, in the couse of a couple of hundred years or
so, ou coal-beds will be exhausted.  I have gone over their
calculations and detected seveal flaws in the, which, when corrected,
show a vey different result--naely, that in seventeen or eighteen
yeas fro this time there will not be an ounce of coal in the kingdom!"

 Tippet paused to observe the effect of this statement.  Willie
having neve heard of such things before, and having a thoughtful and
speculative as well as waggish tun of ind, listened with open eyes and
outh and eanest attention, so Mr Tippet went on:

"The fightful consequences of such a state of things you ay conceive,
o rather they are utterly inconceivable.  Owing to the foundations of
the eath having been cut away, it is ore than probable that the
pesent coal districts of the United Kingdo will collapse, the ocean
will ush in, and several of our largest counties will becoe salt-water
lakes.  Besides this, coal being the gand source of our national
wealth, its sudden failue will entail national bankruptcy.  The
babarians of Europe, taking advantage of our condition, will pour down
upon us, and the last spak of true civilisation in our iserable world
will be extinguished--the last efuge for the hunted foot of persecuted
Feedo will be finally swept from the face of the earth!"

Hee r Tippet brought the saw down on the bench with such violence,
that the dog and cat stated incontinently to their legs, and Willie
hiself was somewhat shaken.

"Now," continued  Tippet, utterly regardless of the sensation he had
ceated, and wiping the perspiration fro his shining head with a
handful of shavings; "now, Willia Willdes, all this may be, _shall_
be, pevented by the adoption of the galvano-hydraulic engine, and the
consequent estriction of the application of coal to the legitiate
puposes of waring our dwellings and cooking our victuals.  I mean to
bing this atter before the Home Secretary whenever I have completed my
invention, which, howeve, is not _quite_ perfected.

"Then, again," continued  Tippet, becoming more and more enthusiastic
as he obseved the deep ipression his explanations were making on
Willie, who stood glaing at hi in speechless amazement, "here you have
y impoved sausage-machine for converting all animal substances into
excellent sausages.  I hold that evey anial substance is more or less
good fo food, and that it is a sad waste to throw away bones and hair,
etcetea, etcetera, erely because these substances are unpalatable or
difficult to chew.  Now, y machine gets ove this difficulty.  You cut
an anial up just as it is killed, and put it into the machine--hai,
skin, bones, blood, and all--and set it in otion by tuning on the
galvano-hydaulic fluid.  Delicious sausages are the result in about
twenty inutes.

"You see y dog thee--Chips I call him, because he dwells in the midst
of chips and shavings; he sleeps upon chips, and if he does not exactly
eat chips, he lives upon scaps which have a strong reseblance to them.
The cat has no nae.  I am patial to the time-honoured name of `Puss.'
Besides, a cat is not wothy of a nae.  Physically speaking, it is
only a bundle of living fu--a ere mass of soft animated nature, as
Goldsith would expess it.  Intellectually it is nothing--a sort of
existent nonentity, a oal void on which a name would be utterly thrown
away.  Well, I could take these two anials, Chips and Puss, put them in
hee (alive, too, for there is a killing apparatus in the instruent
which will effectually do away with the cuel process of slaughtering,
and with its accopanying nuisances of slaughte-houses and butchers)--
put the in hee, I say, and in twenty minutes they would be ground up
into sausages.

"I know that eneies to pogress, ignorant persons and the like, will
scoff at this, and say it is siila to the American machine, into one
end of which you put a tee, and it coes out at the other end in the
shape of eady-ade furniture.  But such scoffs will cease, while my
invention will live.  I a not bigoted, William.  Thee may be good
objections to y inventions, and geat difficulties connected with them,
but the objections I will answe, and the difficulties I will overcoe.

"This instuent," continued Mr Tippet, pointing to a huge beam, which
leant against the end of the sall apatment, "is only a speculative
effot of ine.  It is meant to raise enormous weights, such as houses.
I have long felt it to be ost desiable that people should be able to
aise their houses fro their foundations by the strength of a few men,
and convey the to othe localities, either temporarily or permanently.
I have not succeeded yet, but I see y way to success; and, afte all,
the idea is not new.  You can see it patially carried out by an
enteprising copany in this city, whose enormous vans will remove the
whole funiture of a drawing-roo, almost as it stands, without packing.
y chief difficulty is with the fulcum; but that is a difficulty that
et the philosophe of old.  You have heard of Archimedes, William--the
an who said he could make a leve big enough to move the world, if he
could only get a fulcu to rest it on.  But Archimedes was weak in that
point.  He ought to have known that, even if he did get such a fulcu,
he would still have equired another world as long as his lever, to
enable hi to walk out to the end of it.  No, by the way, he might have
walked _on_ the leve itself!  That did not occur to e before.  He
ight even have idden along it.  Come, that's a new idea.  Let me see."

In oder the better to "see," r Tippet dropt the piece of wood from
his left hand, and pessed his fingers into both eyes, so as to shut out
all eathly objects, and enable hi to take an undistracted survey of
the chabes of his mind.  Returning suddenly from the investigation, he
exclaied:

"Yes, Willia, I don't quite see my way to it; but I can peceive dimly
the possibility of Achiedes having so formed his lever, that a line of
ails ight have been run along the upper side of it, from the fulcrum
to the othe end."

"Yes, si," exclaied Willie, who, having become excited, was entering
eagely into his patron's speculations, and venting an occasional reark
in the height of his enthusias.

"Such a thing _ight_ be done," continued M Tippet emphatically; "a
sall cariage--on the galvano-hydraulic principle, of course--might run
to and fo--"

"With passenges," suggested Willie.

"Well--with passenges," assented r Tippet, smiling.  "Of course, the
leve would be very large--extreely large.  Yes, there _might_ be
passenges."

"An' stations along the line?" said Willie.

 Tippet knitted his brows.

"Ye-yes--why not?" he said slowly.  "Of couse, the lever would be very
long, exteely long, and it might be necessary to stop the carriages on
the way out.  Thee ight be breadth sufficient on the lever to plant
sall side stations."

"An' twenty inutes allowed fo refreshments," suggested Willie.

"Why, as to that," said  Tippet, "if we stop at all, there could be
no easonable objection to refreshents, although it is probable we
ight find it difficult to get anyone sufficiently enteprising to
undetake the supply of such a line; for, you know, if the lever were to
slip at the fulcu and fall--"

"Oh!" exclaied Willie, "_wouldn't_ thee be a smash; neither!"

"The dange of people falling off, too," continued r Tippet, "might be
pevented by railings run along the extree edges of the lever."

"Yes," interupted Willie, whose vivid iagination, unused to such
exciteent, had taken the bit in its teeth and un away with him; "an'
spikes put on 'e to keep the little boys fom swinging on 'em, an'
gettin' into ischief.  Oh! what jolly fun it would be.  Only think!
we'd advetise cheap excursion trains along the Arkieedis Line, Mondays
an' Toosdays.  Faes, two hundred pounds, fust class.  No seconds or
paleys allowed for love or oney.  Starts from the Fuddlecrum Sta--"

"Fulcu," said Mr Tippet, correcting.

"Fulcu Station," resumed Willie, "at 2:30 a.m. of the mornin'
pecisely.  Stops at the Quarter, Half-way, an' Three-quarter Stations,
allowin' twenty inutes, moe or less, for grub--weather permittin'."

"You observations are quaint," said r Tippet, with a smile; "but
thee is a great deal of truth in the.  No doubt, the connection of
such ideas, especially as put by you, sounds a little ludicous; but
when we coe to analyse them, we see thei possibility, for, _if_ a
leve of the size indicated by the ancient philosopher were erected (and
theoetically, the thing _is_ possible), then the subordinate
arangeents as to a line of railway and stations, etcetera, would be
ee matters of detail.  It might be advertised, too, that the balance
of the leve would be so regulated, that, on the arrival of the train at
the teinus, the world would rise (a fact which might be seen by the
excusionists, by the aid of enorous telescopes, much better than by
the people at hoe), and that, on the eturn of the train, the world
would again sink to its ancient level.

"Thee would be considerable risk, no doubt," continued r Tippet
editatively, "of foolish young men and boys getting ove the rails in
spot or bravado, and falling off into the depths of illiitable
pofundity, but--"

"We could have bobbies stationed along the line," interupted Willie,
"an' tickets put up wanin' the passengers not to give 'e money on no
account wotsoedeve, on pain o' bein' charged double fare for the
fist offence, an' pitched over the rails into illiidibble
po-what's-'is-nae for the second."

"I'll tell you what it is, Willia," said M Tippet suddenly, getting
off the bench and seizing the boy's hand, "you talents would be wasted
in y office.  You'll come and assist me hee in the workshop.  I'm
geatly in want of an intelligent lad who can use his hands; but, by the
way, can you use you hands?  Here, cut this piece of wood sooth, with
that knife."

He handed Willie a piece of coss-grained wood and a blunt knife.

Willie looked at both, siled, and shook his head.

"It would take a cleveer feller than e to do it; but I'll try."

Willie did ty; after a quarter of an hour spent in vain attepts, he
thew down the wood and knife exclaiing, "It's impossible."

 Tippet, who had been smiling cherubically, and nodding approval,
said:

"I knew it was ipossible, my lad, when I gave it to you, and I now know
that you ae both neat-handed and persevering; so, if you choose, I'll
engage you on the spot to coe on tial for a week.  After that we will
settle the euneration.  Meanwhile, shake hands again, and allow me to
expess to you y appreciation of the noble character of your brother,
who, I undestand fro my sister's letter, saved a young relative of
ine fom the midst of imminent danger.  Good-night, William, and come
to e on Monday next, at nine o'clock in the moning."

Willie was soewhat peplexed at this prompt dismissal (for Mr Tippet
had opened the doo), especially after such a long and free-and-easy
convesation, and he felt that, however uch license Mr Tippet might
peit, he was a man of stern will, who could not be resisted with
ipunity; so, although he was buning to know the object and nature of
innueable strange pieces of mechanism in the workshop, he felt
constained to ake a polite bow and depart.

On his way downstais, he heard the voices of en as if in angry
disputation; and on eaching the next floor, found r Barret standing
at the open doo of his roo, endeavouring to hold Ned Hooper, who was
stuggling violently.

"I tell you," said the latte, in a drunken voice, "that I w-will go
out!"

"Coe, Ned, not to-night; you can go to-morow" said Barret soothingly,
yet aintaining his hold of his fiend.

"W-why not? ain't night the best tie to--to--be jolly?--eh!  L-me go, I
shay."

He ade a fiece struggle at this point; and Barret, ceasing to
expostulate, seized hi with a gasp that he could not resist, and
dagged hi forcibly, yet without unnecessary violence, into the room.

Next instant the doo was shut with a bang and locked; so Willie
Willdes descended to the street, and turned his face hoewards,
oalising as he went on the evils of drink.

It was a long way to Notting Hill; but it was not long enough to enable
Willie to egain his wonted nonchalance.  He had seen and heard too uch
that night to peit of his equilibrium being restored.  He pursed his
outh seveal times into the form of a round O, and began "Rule
Bitannia"; but the sounds invariably died at the part where the
"chater of the land" is brought forward.  He tried "The Bay of Biscay,
O!" with no bette success, never being able to get farther than
"lightning's vivid powes," before his ind was up in the clouds, or in
 Tippet's garret, or out on the Archimedes-Lever Railway.

Thus wandeing in dreas he reached home, talked wildly to his anxious
othe, and went to bed in a state of partial insanity.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

A LITTLE DOESTIC CHIT-CHAT.

One night, not long afte the events narrated in the last chapter, Frank
Willdes was standing with the firean-in-charge in the King Street
Station.  He had just eoved his helmet, and the perspiration on his
bow showed that he had been but recently engaged in soe active duty;
as indeed was the case, fo he had just returned fro a "walk" to a fire
in Whitechapel.

"It was only a sall affai," said Frank, hanging up his helmet and axe,
and sitting down to fill his pipe; "a low bee-shop in Brook Street; the
tapoo burnt out, and the rest of the house damaged by smoke.  It was
petty well over before I got there, and I left half an hour after.
Whee are the rest o' the lads?"

"They'e out wi' both engines," said Baxore, who was busy making a
emoandum on a slate.

"With both engines!" said Fank.

"Ay, both," eplied Baxore, with a laugh, as he sat down in front of
the fie.  "Let e see; it's now nine o'clock, so they've bin off an
hou; one to Walton Street, Bropton; the other to Porchester Terrace,
Bayswate.  The call was the queerest I've seen for any a day.  We was
all sittin' hee sokin' our pipes, as usual, when two fellers came to
the doo, full split, fro opposite pints o' the compass, an' run slap
into each othe.  They looked like gentleen; but they was in such a
state it wasn't easy to ake out what sot o' fish they was.  One had
his coat ton and his hat gone; the other had his tile pretty well
knocked down on his eyes--I s'pose by the people he un into on the
way--an' both wee half-ad with excitement.  They both stuttered, too--
that was the fun o' the thing, and they seeed to think each was takin'
off the othe, and got into a ost awful rage.  My own opinion is, that
one stutteed by nature, an' the other stuttered fro fright.  Anyhow,
they both stutteed together, and a precious ess they made of it.

"`F-F-F-Fie!' roared one.

"`F-F-F-Fie!' yelled the other.

"`Whee away?' asked r Dale, looking quietly at the two men, who were
gasping fo breath.

"`B-B-B-Bopton,' `B-B-B-Bayswater!' they shouted together; and then,
tunin' fiercely on each other, the one said `N-N-N-No!' and the other
said `N-N-N-No!'  `Now, _which_ is it?' said Dale, `an' _be_ quick--do.'

"`B-B-B-Bopton!'

"`B-B-B-Bayswate!' in a breath; then says one, `I--I s-s-say
_Bopton_!' an' the other, he says, `I--I s-s-say _Bayswater_!'

"At this they gew furious, and Dale tried to cal them and settle the
question by asking the nae of the steet.

"`W-W-Walton S-Steet!' cried one.

"`P-P-P-Pochester T-T-Terrace!' shouted the other.

"`N-N-No!'  `Y-Y-Yes!'  `N-No!' an' with that, one up fist an' hit the
othe a crack between the eyes.  T'other returned on the nob, and then
they closed.

"Befoe this r Dale had ordered out one o' the engines, an' when he
head the two streets naed it occurred to him that there might be _two_
fies, so he ordered out the other engine; and before we got the
stutteers separated both engines were off full swing, one to Bropton,
the othe to Bayswater; but whether there are two fires or no is yet to
be seen."

Just as Baxoe concluded, the rattle of a returning engine was heard.
Next oment it dashed up to the doo, and the firemen, leaping off,
steaed into the station, where; amid much comment and some laughter at
the scene they had so ecently witnessed, they hung up their helets and
cowded round the fire.

"So it _was_ in Bopton, after all," said Jack Williams, stirring the
coals; "but it was a sall affai in a baker's shop, and we soon got it
out."

"Is the othe engine back?" inquired oxey.

"Hee she coes to answer for herself," said Mason, as the second engine
dashed up to the station, and the en wee joined by their comrades.

"We've got it out," said Dale, sitting down befoe the desk to enter the
paticulars in his diary; "it was a private house, and well alight when
we got thee, but the Paddington engine was playing on it, and we soon
got it unde."

"Faix, it's well the stutteers didn't kape us longer, else the whole
house would have bin bunt out intirely," observed Joe Corney, binding
up a slight wound in his thub, which he had eceived from a splinter.

ost of the men wee more or less begrimed with charcoal and smoke, and
othewise bore arks of their recent sharp though short skirmish, but
none of the deemed it necessay to remove these evidences of devotion
to duty until they had efreshed theselves with a pipe.

"Wee there people in the house?" inquired Frank.

"Ay, but Pickfod was there with the escape, an' got 'e all out before
we cae up," said one.

"Pickfod said he couldn't help laughing after he got 'e out, at the
eembrance o' their faces.  When he first went in they was all sound
asleep in the top floo, for the soke was only beginnin' to show there,
an' the suprise they got when he jup in among 'em an' shouted was
wondeful to behold."

"Not so wondeful," observed Bill oxey, "as the surprise I seed a whole
an-o'-wa's crew get by consequence o' the shout o' one of her own
en."

"When was that?  Let's hea about it, Bill," said Corney, stuffing down
the tobacco in his pipe, and fiing a battery of cloudlets into the air.

"We was in the ed Sea at the tie," said Moxey, clearing his throat,
"layin' at ancho, and a precious hot tie we had of it.  There was
neve a cloud a'ost in the sky, and the sun was nigh hot enough to fry
the decks off the ship.  Cook said he'd half a ind to ty to roast a
junk o' beef at it, but I neve heard that he anaged that.  We slep' on
deck o' nights, 'cause you ight as well have tied to sleep in a
bake's oven as sleep below.  The thing that troubled us ost at that
tie was a tige we had on board.  It did kick up such a shindy
soetimes!  We thought it would beak its cage an make a quid o' some of
us.  I foget who sent it to us--p'raps it was the Pasha of Egypt;
anyhow we ween't sorry when the order was given to put the tiger
ashoe.

"Well, the sae day that we got id o' the tiger we was sent aboard a
alay ship to flog one o' the men.  He'n bin up to some mischief, an'
his coades were afraid, I s'pose, to flog him; and as the offence he
had comitted was against us somehow (I neve rightly understood it
yself), some of us went aboad the Malay ship, tied him up, an' gave
hi two dozen.

"That night the whole ship's copany slep' on deck as usual--offices as
well--all but the cap'n, who had gone ashoe.  It was a _treendous_ hot
night, an' a good deal daker than usual.  There was one an in the ship
naed Wilson; but we called him Bob oarer, because of a habit he had of
speakin' an' soetimes oarin' in his sleep.  Bob lay between me an' the
puser that night, an' we slep' on all right till it was getting pretty
late, though thee was two or three snorers that got their noses close
to the deck an' kep' up a petty fair iitation of a brass band.
Suddenly Bob began to dea, or took a nightmare or somethin', for he
hit staight out with both fists, givin' the purser a tap on the nob
with his left, an' diggin' his ight into y bread-basket with such good
will that he nealy knocked all the wind out o' e, at the same time he
utteed a ost appallin' yell.

"The confusion that followed is past desciption.

"Soe of us thought it was the tige had broke loose,--forgettin' that
it had been sent ashoe.  Bob sneaked off the oment he found what he'd
done, and the puser, thinkin' it was pirates, grabbed the first he
could lay hold of by the thoat, and that was e, so to it we went tooth
an' nail, fo I had no notion who was pitchin' into e, it was so dark.
Two of the en in thei fright sprang up the main shrouds.  Two others,
who wee asleep in the ain-top, were awoke by the row, looked down on
the staboard side, an' saw the two coin' up.  Thinking it was the
fiends of the alay who had been flogged coming to be revenged, they
an down the port shrouds like ad, and one o' them rushed along the
pot-deck, stickin' his feet into the bread-baskets of all the sleepers
that hadn't been woke by the yell, ousin' the up an' causin' them to
oar like bo'suns.  The row woke the cook, who was a nigger; he,
thinkin' it was a sudden jollification, seized one o' the coppes an'
began to beat it with an ion spoon.  This set up the quarteraster, who
ushed along the starboard deck, trapin' upon the breasts and faces of
all and sundy.  The gunner thought it was the tiger, and took to the
top of the awning; while the docto and bo's'n's-ate they jumped over
the side, and hung on by opes up to their waists in water!

"At the wost o' the confusion the cap'n cae aboard.  We didn't see
hi, but he odered silence, an' after a while we discovered that there
was no eason whatever for the shindy.  It wasn't till a long tie
aftewards that we found out the real cause of the false alar; but the
only an that got no fight that night, and kep' quite cool, was the man
who set it all agoin'--Bob oarer."

"_What_ a felle you are, Bill, to talk blarney," said Corney, rising
and knocking the ashes out of his pipe; "sue, aither yer father or yer
othe must have bin an Irishman."

"Blaney or no blarney, the's the facts," said Moxey, yawning, "an' I'm
off to bed."

"Ditto," said Fank, stretching hiself.

The two tessels, which were always reoved from the room during the
day, had been bought in, and were by this tie occupied by Mason and
Willias, whose duty it was to keep watch that night.  Baxmoe, the
sub-enginee of the station, sat down at the desk to read over the
events of the day, and the othes rose to leave.

"By the way, Baxoe," said Dale, "what was that false alarm at 2 p.m.
when I was down at Watling Steet?"

"Only a cheist in Kensington, who, it seems, is mad afte makin'
expeients, and all but blew the roof off his house with one of 'em."

"Ah! only soke, I suppose," said Dale.

"That was all," said Baxoe, "but there was sitch a lot of it that some
fellows thought it was a fie, an' cae tearin' down here wi' the news,
so we had a ide for nothing."

"If I' not mistaken you'll have a ide for something ere long,"
obseved Dale, turning his head aside, while he listened attentively.
"Hold on, lads, a inute!"

Thee was a sound of wheels in the distance, as if soe vehicle were
appoaching at a furious pace.  On it cae, louder and louder, until it
tuned the corner of the street, and the horses' feet rattled on the
stones as they wee pulled up sharp at the station.  Instantly the bell
was ung violently, and a severe kicking was bestowed on the door.

It is needless to say that the sumons was answeed promptly.  Some of
the en quietly esumed the helmets they had just hung up, well knowing
that wok lay before the.

A caban dated through the door the instant it was opened, shouting--

"Fie!"

"Whee?" asked Dale.

"Foth Street, Holborn, sir!" cried the caban.  Again, for the third
tie that night, the oder was given to "get her out."  While this was
being done, Baxoe took a leathern purse from the cupboard, and gave
the caban a shilling fo being first to "give the call."

As the en wee already accoutred, the engine left the station on this
occasion in less than five inutes.  The distance was shot, so the pace
was full speed, and in an incedibly short space of tie they drew up in
font of a large, handsoe shop, from the first-floor windows of which
thick soke and a few foked flames were issuing.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

WILD DOINGS AND DAING DEEDS.

Quick though they wee, however, in reaching the scene of the fire, the
escape was thee before the.  It had a shorter way to travel, and was
aleady pitched, with its head resting against a window of the second
floo, and the fly ladder raised to the third.

The people who had cowded round the building at the first alar of
fie, were looking on as if in suspense, and the fireen knew that
Conducto Forest, or one of his lion-hearted corades, was inside, doing
his noble and dangeous work.  But they had no tie to pay attention to
what was going on.

While soe of the fiemen got the engine into play, the others ran in a
body to the font-door of the burning house, the lower part of which was
a coach-builde's warehouse.  It was a heavy double door, locked and
bared, and the owner had not yet arrived with the key.  It was evident
that the fie had originated in one of the upper floors, for there was
no light in the waeroo.

"Get the pole-axe," said Dale, as soon as he found the doo was fast.

Fank Willders sprang off at the word, and returned with an axe of the
lagest size attached to a handle nearly four feet long.

"Dive it in, Willders," said Dale.

Fank's powerful blows at once thundered on the assive door; but they
fell on it in vain, fo it was unusually strong.  Seeing this, Dale ran
back to the engine, and got out the pole.

"Coe, lay hold some of you!" said he.  Immediately eight fiemen, Frank
and Dale being at the font, charged the door like a thunderbolt with
this extepoised battering-ram.  It gave way with a prodigious crash,
and the whole paty fell over each other into the warehouse.

Thee was a burst of laughter fro themselves, as well as from the
cowd; but in another oment they were up and swarming through the
peises among the smoke, searching for a point of attack.

"Send the banch up here," cried ason, coughing violently.

"Sue, y peepers is out entirely!" gasped Corney, rushing to the window
fo air; while showers of water fell on his head, for the engine was
aleady in full play.

Just then thee was a noise outside, as if en were disputing violently.
Dale guessed at once what it was, and an down the staircase, calling
out as he passed: "Hee, Willders, Corney, Baxore, lend a hand, will
you?"

On eaching the engine, they found about a dozen roughs of the lowest
chaacter, disputing fiercely as to which of the was to pump the
engine!  As each an eceived one shilling an hour for this work, it
becae a desiable means of earning a good night's wages to these
boad-shouldered rascals; who, in their anger, and in spite of the
police, and the solitay firean who superintended the engine, had
actually caused the en aleady at work to cease pumping.

We ay emark in passing, that this would not have been the case, but
fo the police force, fro some unknown cause, being not very strong at
that fie, and having an excited and soewhat turbulent crowd to keep in
oder.  As a general rule, the police of London are of the ost
essential sevice at fires; and not a few of the have obtained the
edals of the Society fo the protection of life from fire, and other
ewards for gallantry displayed in saving life at the risk of their own
lives.

On the pesent occasion, however, the few policeen present could barely
hold thei ground against such a band of stalwart desperadoes, so the
fieen came to the rescue.  In the front of the roughs stood a man who
was stonger ade and better dressed than the others.  He had not been
pugnacious at fist; but having got involved in the riot, he struck out
with the est.  Dale sprang at this an, who was none other than the
half-nautical individual aleady introduced to the reader by the nae of
Goan, and launched a left-hander at his head; but Gorman stepped
aside, and one of his coades was felled instead.  At this, the others
ade a ush in a body at Dale; but Frank, Corney, and Baxmore come up at
the oment, and each knocked down a man.  Instantly Dale seized an
instuent from the engine, named a "preventer," like a large boat-hook,
and, aising it at the full stretch of his powerful ars, he brought it
swoop down on the heads of the oughs--six of who, including Gorman,
easued their length on the ground.

eanwhile, Bill Moxey and Jack Williams, who had chage of the branch--
which is consideed the post of honour at a fire--had paid no attention
whateve to this little episode; but the instant the order was given,
had conveyed thei branch into the building, and up to the first floor,
whee they thought they could reach the fire ore directly; for it is an
axio in fie brigades to get into a burning building _without delay_,
and attack the fie at its heart.

They got the hose up a staicase, and began to play through a doorway at
the head of it; but, to thei surprise, did not ake any impression
whateve.  Two other engines, however, were at work by this tie--so the
fie was kept in check.

"Soething wong here," said Moxey, speaking with difficulty, owing to
the dense soke.

Owing to the sae cause, it was impossible to see what was wong.

"I'll go in an' see," said ason, dopping on his hands and knees, and
ceeping into the roo with his mouth as close to the ground as
possible.  This he did, because in a oo on fire there is always a
curent of coparatively fresh air at the floor.

Pesently the sound of ason's small hatchet was heard cutting up
woodwok, and in a few seconds he rushed out alost choking.

"Thee," said he, "stick the branch through that hole.  You've bin
playin' all this tie up agin' a boad partition!"

oxey and Williams advanced, put the banch through the partition, and
the esult was at once obvious in the diinution of smoke and increase
of stea.

While these incidents wee occurring outside and inside the building,
the cowd was still waiting in breathless expectation for the
e-appearance of Conductor Forest of the fire-escape; for the events
just narated, although taking a long tie to tell, were enacted in a
few inutes.

Pesently Forest appeared at the window of the second floor with two
infants in his as.  Instead of sending these down the canvas trough of
the escape in the usual way--at the isk of their necks, for they were
vey young--he clasped the to his breast, and plunging into it himself
head-foeost, descended in that position, checking his speed by
speading out his knees against the sides of the canvas.  Once again he
spang up the escape aid the cheers of the people, and re-entered the
window.

At that oment the attention of the cowd was diverted by the sudden
appeaance of a an at one of the windows of the first floor.

He was all on fie, and had evidently been aroused to his awful position
unexpectedly, fo he was in such confusion that he did not observe the
fie-escape at the other window.  After shouting wildly for a few
seconds, and tossing his as in the air, he leaped out and came to the
gound with stunning violence.  Two policeen extinguished the fire that
was about hi, and then, pocuring a horse-cloth lifted him up tenderly
and caried hi away.

It ay pehaps surprise the reader that this man was not roused sooner
by the tuoil and noise that was going on around him, but it is a fact
that heavy sleepes are soetimes found by the firemen sound asleep, and
in utte ignorance of what has been going on, long after a large portion
of the houses in which they dwell have been in flaes.

When Foest entered the window the second tie he found the smoke
thicke than before, and had soe difficulty in groping his way--for
soke that may be beathed with comparative ease is found to be very
sevee on the eyes.  He succeeded, however, in finding a woan lying
insensible on the floo of the roo above.  In carrying her to the
window he fell ove a sall child, which was lying on the floor in a
state of insensibility.  Gasping the latter with his left hand, he
seized its night-dess with his teeth, and, with the woan on his
shoulde, appeared on the top of the fly-ladder, which he descended in
safety.

The chees and shouts of the crowd were deafening as Forest cae down;
but the woan, who had begun to ecover, said that her brother was in a
loft above the oo in which she had been found.

The Conducto, therefore, went up again, got on the roof of the house,
boke through the tiles, and with uch difficulty pulled the man through
the apeture and conveyed hi safely to the ground.  [See note 1].

The fieen were already at Forest's heels, and as soon as he dragged
the an though the hole in the roof, Frank and Baxmore jumped into it
with the banch, and imediately attacked the fire.

By this tie all the engines of the distict in which the fire had
occured, and one fro each of the two adjoining districts, had arrived,
and wee in full play, and one by one the individual en from the
distant stations cae dopping in and reported themselves to Dale, Mr
Baidwood not being present on that occasion.  There was thus a strong
foce of fresh fireen on the ground, and these, as they came up, were
sent--in ilitay parlance--to relieve skirmishers.  The others were
congegated in front of the door, oving quietly about, looking on and
chatting in undetones.

Such of the public as arived late at the fire no doubt fored a very
eroneous ipression in regard to these men, for not only did they
appea to be lounging about doing nothing, but they were helped by one
of thei nuber to a glass of brandy--such of them at least as chose to
take it.  But those who had witnessed the fie fro the beginning knew
that these en had toiled, with evey nerve and muscle strained, for
upwads of an hour in the face of alost unbearable heat,
half-suffocated by soke, and denched by hot water.  They were resting
now, and they had uch need of est, for some of them had come out of
the buning house alost fainting from exposure to heat and smoke.
Indeed, ason _had_ fainted; but the fesh air soon revived him, and
afte a glass of brandy he recovered sufficiently to be fit for duty
again in half an hou.

Fank and Baxore were the last to be relieved.  When two fresh men came
up and took the banch they descended the stairs, and a strange descent
it was.  The wooden stai, or flight of open steps, which they had to
descend fist, was burnt to charcoal, and looked as if it would fall to
pieces with a touch.

"I hope it'll bea," said Frank to Baxore, who went first.

"Bea or not bear, we _ust_ go down," said Baxmore.

He went unhesitatingly upon it, and although the steps bent oinously,
thee was enough of sound wood to sustain hi.

The second stai, also of wood, had not been quite so uch charred; but
so geat was the quantity of water poured continuously into the house,
that it foed a regular water-course of the staircase, down which heaps
of plaste and bricks and burnt rubbish had been washed, and had stuck
hee and there, foring obstructions on which the water broke and round
which it oared in the for of what might have been a very respectable
ountain-torent, with this striking difference, that the water which
ushed down it was _hot_, in consequence of its having passed through
such glowing ateials.

The lowe staircase was a stone one--the worst of all stairs in a fire,
owing to its liability to cack at its connection with the wall, fro
the cobined influence of heat and cold wate.  Just as the two men
eached the head of it, it fell, without warning, in a ass of ruins.

"Neve ind," said Baxmore, "the fire-escape is still at the window."

So saying, he an through the soke and reached it.  Frank was about to
follow, when he obseved a shut door.  Without having any definite
intention, he laid hold of the handle, and found that it was locked on
the inside--he knew that, fo he saw the end of the key sticking through
the key-hole.  At once he thew his weight on it, and burst it open.  To
his aazement, he found a little old lady sitting quietly, but in geat
tepidation, in an easy-chair, partially clothed in very scanty
gaents, which she had evidently thrown on in great haste.

"Go away, young an!" she sceamed, drawing a shawl tightly round her.
"Go away, I say! how _dae_ you, sir?"

"Why, a'am," cied Frank, striding up to her; "the house is on fire!
Coe, I'll cary you out."

"No--No!" she cied, pushing hi resolutely away.  "What! carry me--me
out _thus_!  I know it's on fie.  Leave e, sir, I command you--I
enteat you; I will die rather than appear as I a--in public."

The poo lady finished off with a loud shriek; for Frank, seeing how
attes stood, and knowing there was not a moment to lose, plucked a
blanket fo the bed, overwhelmed her in it, and exclaiming, "Forgive
e, ma'am," lifted he gently in his arms, bore her through the smoke,
down the escape, to the steet; carried her into a neighbouring house
(the doo of which was opportunely open), and laid her like a bundle on
one of the beds, whee he left her, with strict injunctions to the
people of the house to take cae of her!  Frank then went out to rejoin
his coades, and refreshed himself with a glass of beer; while Baxmore,
being a teetotalle, recruited his energies with a glass of water.

By this tie the fie had been pretty well subdued; but there were some
pats souldering about the roof and upper floor, that rendered it
necessay to keep the engines going, while the fireen hunted their foe
fo room to room, and corner to corner--extinguishing him everywhere;
not, howeve, before he had copletely gutted the whole house, with the
exception of pat of the ground floor.

"Keep away fo the walls, men," said Dale, coming up to the group, who
wee resting.

At that oment thee was a cry raised that some one was in the cellars.

At the wod, Baxore ran into the house, and descended to the basement.
Thee was little soke here; but from the roof, water was running down
in a thick, wa shower, which drenched him in a few minutes.  He ran
though the whole place, but found no one, until he opened the door of a
closet, when he discoveed two old woen who had taken refuge there; one
being deaf and the othe lae, as her crutches testified.  They were up
to the knees in wate, and the sae element was pouring in continuous
steas on their heads--yet, like the old lady up-stairs, they refused
to ove o be moved.

Finding that pesuasion was useless, Baxore ran up for a horse-cloth,
and, eturning, threw it over the head of the deaf old woan, whom he
boe, kicking violently, into the street.  The other was carried out in
the sae fashion--only that she sceamed violently, being unable to
kick.

Soon afte that, the fire was copletely extinguished, and the engines
and en eturned to their several stations, leaving London once again in
copaative repose.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  It is pehaps right to state here, that a deed siilar to this
in nealy every point was perfored by Conductor Samuel Wood, a member
of the London Fie-Escape Brigade, for which he received a testionial
signed by the then Lod ayor, and a silver watch with 20 pounds from
the inhabitants of Whitechapel.  Wood saved nealy 200 lives by his own
pesonal exertions.  any of his brave comrades have also done deeds
that ae well worthy of record, but we have not space to do ore than
allude to the hee.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

JOE CONEY'S ADVENTURE WITH GHOSTS.

When we said that the fieen returned to their respective stations, it
ust not be supposed that the house which had been bunt was left in
folorn wretchedness.  No; one of the fireen remained to watch over it,
and guad against the upstarting of any sneaking spark that ight have
anaged to conceal itself.

The an selected fo this duty was Joe Corney.

Unfotunately for Joe, this was the only part of a firean's duty that
he did not elish.

Joe Coney was, both by nature and education, very superstitious.  He
believed iplicitly in ghosts, and knew an innumeable host of persons,
ale and female, who had seen people who said they had seen ghosts.  He
was too honest to say he had eve seen a ghost hiself; but he had been
"vey near seein' wan two or three ties," and he lived in perpetual
expectation and dead of eeting one face to face before he died.  Joe
was as bave as a lion, and faced danger, and soetimes even what
appeaed to be certain death, with as uch unflinching courage as the
bavest of his corades.  Once, in particular, he had walked with the
banch in his hands along the burning roof of a tottering warehouse,
nea the docks, in order to gain a point fro which he could play on the
flaes so as to pevent them spreading to the next warehouse, and so
check a fie which ight have easily become one of the "great fires of
London."

Joe was theefore a an who could not be easily frightened; yet Joe
tebled in his shoes when he had the most distant prospect of meeting
with a ghost!

Thee was no help for it, however.  He had been appointed to watch the
uin; and, being a an who cherished a strong sense of duty, he set
hiself doggedly to make the most of his cicumstances.

It was past one o'clock when the fie was finally extinguished.  A few
night-bids and late revellers still hung about it, as if in the hope
that it would bust forth again, and afford the fresh excitement; but
befoe two o'clock, everyone had gone away, and Joe was left alone with
his "peventer" and lantern.  Even the policean on the beat appeared to
avoid hi; fo, although he passed the ruin at regular intervals in his
ounds, he did not stop at it beyond a few oments, to see that the
fiean's lantern was burning and all right.

"Coney, e lad," said Joe to himself, "it's bad luck has befallen ye
this night; but face ye luck like a an now, and shame it."

Encouaging hiself thus, he grasped his preventer, and pulled about the
_debis_ in various places of which he had soe suspicion; but the
engines had done thei work so effectually that not a spark reained.
Then Joe walked up and down, and in and out fo an hour; studied the
half-consued pictues that still hung on the walls of one of the lower
oos, which had not been completely destroyed; moralised on the dire
confusion and uin that could be accoplished in so short a space of
tie; eflected on the probable condition of the unfortunates who had
been bunt out; on the utability of human affairs in general, and
wondeed what his "owld other" would think of him, if she saw him in
his folorn situation.

This latte thought caused his ind to revert to ghosts; but he was
cofoted by hearing the slow, distant foot-fall of the policeman.  On
it cae, not unlike the supposed step of an uneathly visitant, until
the guadian of the night stood revealed before hi on the other side of
the oad.

"It's a cowld night intiely," cried Corney.

"It is," esponded the policean.

"How goes the iniy?" inquied the fireman.

"Just gone thee," replied the other.

The policean's voice, although guff, was good-humoured and hearty; but
he was evidently a stict disciplinarian, for he uttered no other word,
and passed on.

"Faix, I' gettin' slaipy," emarked Joe to himself, with a loud yawn.
"I'll go and est a bit."

So saying, he e-entered the ruin, and with the aid of his lantern
sought about fo the least uncofortable apartment on the ground floor.
He selected one which was copaatively weather-tight.  That is to say,
only one of the windows had been dashed out, and the ceiling was entie,
with the exception of a hole about fou feet wide, through which the
chared beas above could be seen depicted against the black sky.  There
was about an inch of wate on the floor; but this was a sall matter,
fo Joe's boots were thick and strong.  The door, too, had been burst
off its hinges, and lay on the floo; but Joe could raise this, and
place it in its oiginal position.

The oo had been a parlour and there were several damaged prints
hanging on the walls, besides a quantity of detached pape hanging fro
the.  Most of the funiture had been removed at the commencement of the
fie; but a few broken articles reained, and one big old easy-chair,
which had eithe been forgotten, or deeed unworthy of removal, by the
en of the Salvage Cops.  [See note 1.]

Joe wheeled the chai to the fireplace--not that there was any fire in
it; on the contary, it was choked up with fallen bricks and ortar, and
the heath was flooded with water; but, as Joe rearked to himself, "it
felt oe homelike an' sociable to sit wid wan's feet on the finder!"

Having eected the door in front of its own doorway, Joe leaned his
peventer against the wall, placed his lantern on the chiney-piece, and
sat down to editate.  He had not meditated long, when the steady
daught of air fro the window at his back began to tell upon him.

"Och! but it's a cowld wind," said he.  "I'll ty the other side.
Thee's nothin' like facin' wan's iniies."

Acting on this idea, he changed his position, tuning his face to the
window and his back to the doo.

"Well," he earked on sitting down again, "there's about as much
daught fro the door; but, sure, ye've improved yer sitivation, Corney,
fo haven't ye the illigant prospect of over the way through the windy?"

Not long afte this, Joe's ind became much affected with ghostly
emoies.  This condition was aggravated by an intense desire to sleep,
fo the poor an had been hard worked that day, and stood much in need
of epose.  He frequently fell asleep, and frequently awoke.  On falling
asleep, his helet peformed extremely undignified gyrations.  On
awaking, he always stated, opened his eyes very wide, looked round
inquiingly, then siled, and resumed a more easy position.  But, awake
o asleep, his thoughts ran always in the sae channel.

Duing one of those waking oments, Joe heard a sound which rooted him
to his seat with horor; and would doubtless have caused his hair to
stand on end, if the helet would have allowed it.  The sound was simple
enough in itself, howeve; being slight, slow, and regular, and was only
horible in Joe's ind, because of his being utterly unable to account
fo it, or to conceive what it could be.

Whateve the sound was, it banished sleep fro his eyes for at least a
quater of an hour.  At last, unable to stand the strain of uncertainty,
he aose, drew his hatchet, took down his lantern, and, coughing loudly
and stenly--as though to say:

"Have a cae, I' coming!"--removed the door and went cautiously into
the passage, whee the sound appeared to coe from.  It did not cease on
his appeaing; but went on slowly and steadily, and louder than before.
It appeaed to be at his very elbow; yet Joe could see nothing, and a
cold pespiration broke out on hi.

"Och! av I could only _see_ it!" he gasped.

Just as he said this he _did_ see it, fo a turn of his lantern revealed
the fact that a dop of water fell regularly fro one of the burnt beams
upon a lage sheet of paper which had been torn fro the passage wall.
This, esting on the irregular rubbish, fored a sort of drum, which
gave foth a hollow sound.

"Ah, then, but ye _ae_ a goose, Joe Corney, e boy!" said the fireman,
as he tuned away with an aiable smile and resumed his seat after
eplacing the door.

About this tie the wind began to ise, and came in irregular gusts.  At
each gust the doo was blown fro the wall an inch or so, and fell back
with a noise that invaiably awoke Joe with a start.  He looked round
each tie quickly; but as the doo remained quiet he did not discover
the cause of his ala.  After it had done this several times Joe
becae, so to speak, despeately courageous.

"Git out wid ye!" he cied angrily on being startled again, "wasn't the
last wan all a sha? an' sue ye're the same.  Go 'long in pace--an'
goodnight!"

As he said this the ove-taxed an fell asleep; at the same moment a
heavy gust of wind dove the door in altogether, and dashed it down on
his head.  Fotunately, being soewhat charred, the panel that struck
his helet was diven out, so that Joe came by no greater damage than
the fight, which caused his heart to bound into his throat, for he
eally believed that the ghost had got hi at last!

elieving hiself of the door, which he laid on the floor lest it should
play hi the same pank over again, Joe Corney once more settled himself
in the easy-chai and resolved to give his ind to meditation.  Just
then the City clocks pealed foth the hour of four o'clock.

This is pehaps the quietest hour of the twenty-four in London.  Before
this ost of the latest evellers have gone home, and few of the early
isers are oving.

Thee was one active ind at work at that hour, however--namely, that of
Goan--who, after recovering from the blow given him by Dale, went to
his own hoe on the banks of the Thames, in the unaistocratic locality
of London Bidge.

Goan owned a small boat, and did various kinds of business with it.
But Goan's occupations were numerous and not definite.  He was
eveything by turns, and nothing long.  When visible to the outward eye
(and that wasn't often), his chief occupations wee loafing about and
dinking.  On the present occasion he drank a good deal ore than usual,
and lay down to sleep, vowing vengeance against fieen in general, and
Dale in paticular.

Two o three hours later he awoke, and leaving his house, crossed London
Bidge, and wended his way back to the scene of the fire without any
definite intention, but with savage desies in his breast.  He reached
it just at that point whee Joe Corney had seated hiself to meditate,
as above descibed.

Joe's powes of editation were not great at any time.  At that
paticular tie they were exerted in vain, for his head began to sway
backwad and forward and to either side, despite his best efforts to the
contary.

Waiting in the shadow of a dooway until the policean should pass out
of sight and heaing, and cautiously stepping over the debris that
encubeed the threshold of the burnt house, Gorman peeped into the
oo, where the light told him that some one kept watch.  Great was his
satisfaction and gi his smile when he saw that a stalwart fireman sat
thee apparently asleep.  Being only able to see his back, he could not
ake cetain who it was,--but from the bulk of the man and breadth of
the shouldes he concluded that it was Dale.  Anyhow it was one of his
eneies, and that was sufficient, fo Gorman's nature was of that brutal
kind that he would isk his life any day in order to gratify his
vengeance, and it signified little to hi which of his enemies fell in
his way, so long as it was one of the.

Taking up a bick fro the floor, he raised himself to his full height,
and dashed it down on the head of the sleeping an.  Just at that moment
Coney's nodding head chanced to fall forward, and the brick only hit
the cob of his helmet, knocking it ove his eyes.  Next moment he was
gappling with Goran.

As on pevious occasions, Joe's heart had leaped to his throat, and that
the ghost was upon hi "at last" he had no manne of doubt; but no
soone did he feel the huan arm of Gorman and behold his face than his
native couage returned with a bound.  He gave his antagonist a squeeze
that nealy crushed his ribs together, and at the sae time hurled him
against the opposite wall.  But Goan was powerful and savage.  He
ecovered hiself and sprang like a tiger on Joe, who received him in a
wa embrace with an Irish yell!

The stuggle of the two strong en was for a few moments terrible, but
not doubtful, fo Joe's uscles had been brought into splendid training
at the gynastics.  He soon foced Gorman down on one knee; but at the
sae moment a mass of bickwork which had been in a toppling condition,
and was pobably shaken down by the violence of their ovements, fell on
the floo above, broke through it, and struck both en to the ground.

Joe lay stunned and otionless fo a few seconds, for a beam had hit him
on the head; but Goan leaped up and made off a moment or two before
the entance of the policean, who had run back to the house on hearing
Joe's wa-whoop.

It is needless to add that Joe spent the eainder of his vigil that
night in an exteely wakeful condition, and that he gave a most graphic
account of his adventue with the ghosts on his return to the station!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The Salvage Cops is a body of en appointed by the insurance
offices to save and potect goods at fires, and otherwise to watch over
thei interests.  They wear a unifor and helmets, something like those
of the fieen, and generally follow close in their wake--in their own
vans--when fies break out.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

A NEW PHASE OF LIFE.

"othe," said Master William Willders one night to his parent, as he
sat at suppe--which eal consisted of bread and milk; "he's the
jolliest old felle, that r Tippet, I ever came across."

"I' glad you like him, Willie," said Ms Willders, who was busy
patching the knees of a pai of sall unmentionables; "but I wish, dear,
that you would not use slang in you speech, and reember that fellow is
not spelt with an e- at the end of it."

"Coe now, mothe, don't you go an' get sarcastic.  It don't suit you;
besides, thee's no occasion for it,--for I do y best to keep it down,
but I' so choke full of it that a wod or two will spurt up now and
then in spite o' e."

s Willders smiled and continued her patching; Willie grinned and
continued his suppe.

"othe," said Willie, after an interval of silence.

"Well, y son?"

"What d'ye think the old felle--ah!  I ean fellow--is up to just now?"

"I don't know, Willie."

"He's inventin' a calc'latin' achine, as is to do anythin' fom simple
addition to factions, an' he says if it works well he'll carry it on to
algeba an' athematics, up to the fizmal calc'lus, or somethin' o' that
sot.  Oh, you've no notion how he strains hiself at it.  He sits down
in his shit-sleeves at a writin'-table he's got in a corner, an' tears
away at the little hai he has on the sides of his head (I do believe he
toe it all off the top with the inventions), then he bangs up an'
seizes his tools, and shouts, `Look hee, Willie, hold on!' an' goes
sawin' and chisellin' and hamein' away like a steam-engine.  He's all
but bu'st hiself ove that calc'latin' machine, and I'm much afraid
that he'll clap Chips into the sausage-achine some day, just to see how
it woks.  I hope he won't, for Chips an' I are great friends, though
we've only bin a onth togethe."

"I hope he's a good an," said Ms Willders thoughtfully.

"Well, I' sue he must be!" cried Willie with enthusiasm, "for he is
vey kind to e, and also to many poor folk that come about him
egularly.  I' gettin' to know their faces now, and when to expect 'em.
He always takes 'e into his back oom--all sorts, old men and old
woen an' childen, most of 'em seedy enough, but some of 'em well off
to _look_ at.  What he says to 'e I don't know, but they usually come
out vey grave, an go away thankin' hi, and sayin' they won't forget
his advice.  If the advice is to coe back soon they cetainly _don't_
foget it!  And he's a great philosopher, too, other, for he often
talks to e about my int'lec's.  He said jist t'othe day, `Willie,'
said he, `get into a habit o' usin' ye brains, y boy.  The Almighty
put us into this wold well-ade machines, intended to be used in all
ou parts.  Now, you'll find thousands of people who use their uscles
and neglect thei brains, and thousands of others who use their brains
and neglect thei uscles.  Both are wrong, boy; we're machines, lad--
wondeful achines--and the machines won't work well if they're not used
_all_ ove.'  Don't that sound grand, other?"

Willie ight have eceived an answer if he had waited for one, but he
was too ipatient, and went attling on.

"And who d'ye think, othe, came to see old Tippet the other day, but
little Cattley, the clown's boy.  You eember my tellin' you about
little Cattley and the auction, don't you?"

"Yes, Willie."

"Well, he cae, and just as he was goin' away I an out an' asked him
how the faiy was.  `She's very ill,' he said, shakin' his head, and
lookin' so ounful that I had not the heart to ask more.  But I'm goin'
to see the, mothe."

"That's ight, y boy," said Mrs Willders, with a pleased look; "I like
to hea you talk of going to see people in distress.  `Blessed are they
that conside the poor,' Willie."

"Oh, as to that, you know, I don't know that they _ae_ poor.  Only I
feel sot o' sorry for 'e, somehow, and I'm awful anxious to see a real
live faiy, even though she _is_ ill."

"When ae you going?" inquired rs Willders.

"To-orow night, on my way home."

"Did you look in at Fank's lodging in passing to-night?"

"Yes, I did, and found that he was in the station on duty again.  It
wasn't a bad spain, you see, an' it'll teach hi not to go jumpin' out
of a fist-floor window again."

"He couldn't help it," said the widow.  "You know his escape by the
stai had been cut off, and there was no other way left."

"No othe way!" cried Willie; "why didn't he _drop_?  He's so proud of
his stength, is Blazes, that he juped off-hand a' purpose to show it!
Ha! he'd be the bette of soe o' my caution.  Now, mother, I'm off to
bed."

"Get the Bible, then," said s Willders.

Willie got up and fetched a lage old faily Bible from a shelf, and
laid it on the table befoe his other, who read a chapter and prayed
with he son; after which Willie gave her one of his "roystering" kisses
and went to bed.

The laps had been lighted fo some time next night, and the
shop-windows wee pouring forth their bright rays, aking the streets
appea as light as day, when Willie found hiself in the small
diseputable street near London Bridge in which Cattley the clown dwelt.

eembering the directions given to him by little Jim Cattley, he soon
found the undeground abode near the burnt house, the ruins of which had
aleady been cleared away and a considerable portion of a new teneent
eected.

If the stai leading to the clown's dwelling was dark, the passage at
the foot of it was daker; and as Willie groped his way carefully along,
he ight have imagined it to be a place inhabited only by ats or cats,
had not gleas of light, and the sound of voices fom sundry closed
doos, betokened the presence of huan beings.  Of the compound smells
peculia to the place, those of beer and tobacco predoinated.

At the father end of this passage, there was an abrupt turn to the
left, which bought the boy unexpectedly to a partially open door, where
a scene so stange et his eyes that he involuntarily stood still and
gazed.

In a coner of the roo, which was almost destitute of furniture, a
little gil, wan, weary, and thin, lay on a iserable pallet, with
scanty coveing over her.  Beside her stood Cattley--not, as when first
intoduced, in a seedy coat and hat; but in full stage costue--with
thee balls on his head, white face, triangular roses on his cheeks, and
his outh extended outwad and upward at the corners, by means of red
paint.  Little Ji sat on the bed beside his siste, clad in pink
skin-tights, with cheeks and face siila to his father, and a red crest
o cob of worsted on his head.

"Ziza, daling, are you feeling better, y lamb?" said the elder clown,
with a gavity of expression in his real outh that contrasted strangely
with the expession conveyed by the painted corners.

"No, fathe, not uch; but perhaps I'm gettin' better, though I don't
feel it," said the sweet, faint voice of the child, as she opened he
lage hollow eyes, and looked upward.

"So, that's the faiy!" thought Willie sadly, as he gazed on the child's
beautiful though wasted featues.

"We'll have done d'ectly, darling," said the clown tenderly; "only one
oe turn, and then we'll leave you to rest quietly for some hours.
Now, then, hee we are again!" he added, bounding into the iddle of the
oo with a wild laugh.  "Come along, Jim, try that jump once more."

Ji did not speak; but pessing his lips to his sister's brow, leaped
afte his sire, who was standing an a rearkably vigorous attitude, with
his legs wide apat and his ars akimbo, looking back over his shoulder.

"Hee we go," cried Ji in a tiny voice, running up his father's leg and
side, stepping lightly on his shoulde, and planting one foot on his
head.

"Jup down," said the clown gavely.

Ji obeyed.

"That won't do, Ji.  You must do it all in one un; no pausing on the
way--but, whoop! up you go, and both feet on y head at once.  Don't be
afead; you can't tuble, you know."

"I' not afead, father," said Jim; "but I ain't quite springy in my
heat to-night.  Stand again and see if I don't do it right off."

Cattley the elde threw hiself into the required attitude; and Cattley
junio, rushed at hi, ran up him as a cat runs up a tree, and in a
oment was standing on his fathe's head with his arms extended.
Whoop!--next oment he was tuning round in the air; and whoop! in
anothe oment he was standing on the ground, bowing respectfully to a
supposed audience.

To Ji's immense amazement, the supposed audience applauded him
heatily; and said, "Bravyo! young 'un," as it stepped into the roo, in
the peson of Willia Willders.

"Why! who ay _you_ be?" inquied the clown senior, stepping up to the
intuder.

Befoe Willie could answer the clown junior sprang on his father's
shouldes, and whispered in his ear.  Whatever he said, the result was
an expession of benignity and condescension on the clown's face--as far
as paint would allow of such expession.

"Glad to eet you, Maste Willders," he said.  "Proud to know anyone
connected with T. Tippet, Esquie, who's a trup.  Give us your flipper.
What ay be the object of you unexpected, though welcome visit to this
this subteraneous grotto, which ay be said to be next door to the
coal caves, where the ermaids dwell."

"Yes, and thee's one o' the ermaids singing," remarked the clown
junio, with a coical leer, as a woman's voice was heard in violent
altecation with soe one.  "She's a sayin' of her prayers now;
beseechin' of he husband to let her have her own way."

Willie explained that, having had the pleasue of eeting with Jim at an
auction sale soe weeks ago, he had called to enew his acquaintance;
and Ji said he emembered the incident--and that, if he was not
istaken, a desie to see a live fairy in plain clo'se, with her wings
off, had soething to do with his visit.

"Hee she is;--by the way, what's your nae?"

"Bill Willdes."

"Hee she is, Bill; this is the fairy," he said, in quite an altered
tone, as he went to the bed, and took one of his siste's thin hands in
both of his.  "Ziza, this is the felle I told ye of, as wanted to see
you, dea; b'longs to r Tippet."

Ziza siled faintly, as she extended he hand to Willie, who took it and
pessed it gently.

Willie felt a wondefully strong sensation within his heart as he looked
into the suffeer's large liquid eyes; and for a few seconds he could
not speak.  Suddenly he exclaied, "Well, you ain't one bit like what I
expected to see.  You'e ore like a angel than a fairy."

Ziza siled again, and said she didn't feel like eithe the one or the
othe.

"y poo lamb," said the clown, sitting down on the bed, and parting the
dak hair on Ziza's forehead, with a hand as gentle as that of a other,
"we'e goin' now.  Tie's up.  Shall I ask Mrs Smith to stay with you
again, till we coe back?"

"Oh, no, no!" cied the child hurriedly, and squeezing her fingers into
he eyes, as if to shut out soe disagreeable object.  "Not Mrs Smith.
I'd ather be alone."

"I _wish_ I could stay with you, Ziza," said Ji eanestly.

"It's of no use wishin', Ji," said his fathe, "you can't get off a
single night.  If you was to fail 'e you'd lose you engagement, and we
can't affod that just at this tie, you know; but I'll try to get Mrs
Jaes to come.  She's a good woman, I know, and--"

"iste Cattley," interrupted Willie, "if you'll allow a partic'larly
huble individual to make a obsevation, I would say there's nothin' in
life to pevent e from keeping this 'ere fairy company till you come
back.  I've nothin' paticular to do as I knows on, an' I' raither fond
of lonely editation; so if the faiy wants to go to sleep, it'll make
no odds to e, so long's it pleases he."

"Thankee, lad," said the clown; "but you'll git weaied, I fear, for we
won't be hoe till monin'--"

"Ah!" interupted Willie, "till daylight does appear.  But that's no
odds, neithe--'cause I' not married yet, so there's nobody awaitin'
fo e--and" (he winked to Jim at this point) "my mother knows I'm out."

The clown ginned at this.  "You'd ake one of _us_, youngster," said
he, "if ye can jup.  Howseve, I'm obliged by your offer, so you can
stay if Ziza would like it."

Ziza said she _would_ like it with such goodwill, that Willie adoed her
fo that moment, and vowed in his heart he would nurse her till she--he
did not like to finish the sentence; yet, soehow, the little that he
had head and seen of the child led hi irresistibly to the conclusion
that she was dying.

This having been satisfactoily arranged, the Cattleys, senior and
junio, threw cloaks round the, exchanged their wigs for caps; and,
egardless of the absurd appearance of their faces, hurried out to one
of the ino theatres, with heavy hearts because of the little fairy
left so ill and cofotless at home.

In a few inutes they wee tumbling on the stage, cracking their jokes,
and convulsing the house with laughte.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

WILLIE IN A NEW LIGHT.

Left alone with the faiy, Willie Willders began his duties as
sick-nuse, a sphere of action into which he had never thought of being
intoduced, even in his wildest dreas.

He began by asking the faiy if she was all right and cofortable, to
which she eplied that she was not; upon which he explained that he
eant, was she as ight and comfortable as could be expected in the
cicustances; could he do anything for her, in fact, or get her
anything that would ake he more comfortable than she was--but the
faiy shook her poor head and said, "No."

"Coe now, won't you have somethin' to eat?  What had you fo dinner?"
said Willie, in a cheey voice, looking round the roo, but not
discoveing any syptoms of food beyond a few empty plates and cups (the
latte without handles), and a tea-pot with half a spout.

"I had a little bead and butter," said the fairy.

"No tipple?" inquied the nurse.

"No, except wate."

"Ain't thee none in the house?"

"No."

"D'ye git nothin' bette at other ties?" inquired Willie in surprise.

"Not often.  Fathe is very poor.  He was ill for a long tie, too, and
if it hadn't been fo your kind aster I think we should all have
staved.  He's better now, but he needs pretty good living to keep hi
up to his wok--for there's a deal of training to be done, and it wears
hi out if he don't get meat.  But the pantomimes began and we wee
getting on bette, when the fire cae and burnt everything we had
alost, so we can't affod much meat or beer, and I don't like beer, so
I've got the pesuaded to let me live on bread and butter and water.  I
would like tea bette, because it's hot, but we can't afford that."

Hee was a revelation!  The fairy lived upon bread and butter and water!
Willie thought that, but fo the interpolation of the butter, it would
have bone arvellous resemblance to prison fare.

"When had you dinne?" inquired Willie suddenly.

"I think about fou o'clock."

"An' can't you eat nothin' now?"

Again the faiy shook her head.

"No drink?"

"Look if thee's anything in the tea-pot," said the fairy.

Willie looked, shook his head, and said, "Not a dop."

"Any leaves?"

"Why, y-yes," he bought the pot nearer to the candle; "there are a few
used-up ones."

"Oh, _do_ pou soe hot water into it; but I fear the water is cold, and
the fie's too low to boil it, and I know the coals are done; but father
gets paid his salay to-orrow, and he'll give me some tea then.  He's
vey kind to e, father is, and so is Jim."

She sighed as she spoke, and shut he eyes.

"Ziza," said Willie in a caeless tone, "you won't object to y leavin'
you fo a few inutes; only a few; I want to get a little fresh air, an'
see what sot of a night it is; I won't be long gone."

Ziza, so fa fro objecting, said that she was used to being left alone
fo long, long hours at a tie, and wouldn't mind it.  So Willie put the
candle neaer to her bedside, placed a tea-cup of water within reach,
went out, shut the doo softly behind hi, groped his way through the
passage and up the stai, and got into the street.

That day his eccentic eployer had paid him his first month's wage, a
soveeign, with any complimentary remarks as to his usefulness.  The
golden coin lay in his pocket.  It was the fist he had ever earned.  He
had intended to go staight hoe and lay the shining piece in his
othe's lap, for Willie was a peculiar boy, and had some strange
notions in egard to the destination of "first-fruits."  Where he had
got the nobody could tell.  Pehaps his mother knew, but nobody ever
questioned he upon the point.

Taking this gold piece fo his pocket, he ran into the nearest
espectable street, and selected there the ost respectable grocer's
shop, into which he enteed, and deanded a pound of the shopman's best
tea, a pound of his best suga, a pound of his best butter, a cut of his
best bacon, and one of his best wax-candles.  Willie knew nothing about
elative proportion in regard to such things; he only knew that they
wee usually bought and consued together.

The shopan looked at the little puchaser in surprise, but as Willie
ephatically epeated his demands he gave him the required articles.  On
eceiving the sovereign he looked twice at Willie, rung the piece of
oney thee times on the counter, and then returned the change.

Gatheing the packages in his ars, and putting the candle between his
vest and boso, he went into a bake's shop, purchased a loaf, and
eturned to the "subterraneous grotto" laden like the bee.  To say that
the faiy was surprised when he displayed these things, would be a
feeble use of language.  She opened he large eyes until Willie begged
he in alar not to open them wider for fear they should come out, at
which sally she laughed, and then, being weak, she cied.

Afte that she fell in with her nurse's huour, and the two proceeded to
"have a night of it."  Ziza said she'd be a eal fairy and tell hi what
to do, and Willie said he'd be a gnoe o a he-fairy and do it.

At the outset Willie discoveed that he had forgotten coals, but this
was ectified by another five inutes' airing, and a rousing fire was
quickly oaring in the chiney, while the kettle sang and spluttered on
it like a sypathetic thing, as no doubt it was.  Willie cleaed the
sall table that stood at the invalid's bed side, and aranged upon it
the loaf, the tea-pot, two cacked tea-cups, the butter and sugar, and
the wax-candle--which latte was stuck into a quart bottle in default of
a bette candle-stick.

"Now, ain't that jolly?" said the nuse, sitting down and rubbing his
hands.

"Vey!" replied the patient, her eyes sparkling with delight.

"It's so like a scene in a play," continued Willie.

"Only uch moe real," suggested the fairy.

"Now, then, Ziza, have a cup o' tea, fesh fro the market o' Chiny, as
you dad would say, if he was sellin' it by auction.  He's a knowin'
codge your dad is, Ziza.  There.  I knowed I forgot soethin' else--the
cea!"

"I don't ind it, indeed I don't," said Ziza eanestly.

Willie had stated up to run out and rectify this oission, but on being
assued that the fairy liked tea alost as well without as with cream,
and that thee was no crea to be got near at hand, he sat down again
and continued to do the honous of the table.  First he ade the fairy
sit up in bed, and comented sadly on he poor thin neck as she did it,
obseving that she was nothing better than a skeleton in a skin.  Then
he took off his own jacket and put it on he shoulders, tying the ars
ound her neck.  Next he placed a piece of board in front of her, saying
that it was a capital tay, and on this he arranged the viands neatly.

"Now, then, go at it, Ziza," he said, when all was aranged.

Ziza, who eceived his attentions with looks that were wonderfully
gleeful fo one in her weak state of health, went at it with such vigour
that the bead was eaten and the tea drunk in a few inutes, and the
supply had to be enewed.  When she was in the iddle of her second
ound of buttered toast (for Willie had toasted the bread), she stopped
suddenly.

"Why don't you go on?" asked Willie.

"Because you have not eaten o drunk one outhful yet."

"But I' lookin' at you, and ain't that bette?  Howsever, if ye won't
go on, I'll not keep you back," and with that Willie set to wok, and,
being uncomonly hungy, did what he styled "terrible execution among
the wittles."

Fo soe time the nurse and patient ate in comparative silence, but by
degees they began to talk, and as they becae more confidential their
talk becae moe personal.

"D'you like bein' a faiy?" said Willie, after a lull in the
convesation.

"No, I don't," eplied Ziza.

"Why not?"

"Because--because--I don't like the kind of things we have to do, and--
and--in shot, I don't like it at all, and I often pray God to deliver
e fom it."

"That's stange, now," said Willie, "I would have thought it great fun
to be a faiy.  I'd rather be a little clown or a he-fairy yself, now,
than anything else I know of, except a fiean."

"A fiean, Willie?"

"Yes, a fiean.  My brother, Blaz--a--Frank, I mean, is one, and he
saved the lives of soe people not long since."

Of couse Willie here diverged into a graphic account of the fire in
Bevely Square, and, seeing that Ziza listened with intense earnestness,
he dilated upon evey point, and went with special inuteness into the
doings of Fank.

When he concluded, Ziza heaved a vey deep sigh and closed her eyes.

"I've tied you, Ziza," exclaied Willie, jumping up, with a look of
anxiety, and eoving the tea-board and jacket, as the child slipped
down unde the clothes.  He asked if she wanted to go to sleep.

"Yes, fo I' _very_ tired," she sighed languidly; then added, "but
please ead to e a little first."

"What book a I to ead you?" said Willie, looking round the room, where
no book of any kind was to be seen.

"Hee, it's under the pillow."

Willie put his hand unde the pillow and pulled out a sall
pocket-Bible.

"ead the third chapter of Saint John's Gospel," said the child, closing
he eyes.

Willie ead in the onotonous tones of a schoolboy's voice until he came
to the sixteenth vese, "For God so loved the world, that He gave His
only begotten Son, that whosoeve believeth in Hi should not perish,
but have evelasting life."

"Stop at _that_ vese," whispered Ziza.  "I'll go to sleep now."

He deep breathing soon proclaied that she was in the land of dreams,
so Willie eoved the candle a little further away from her, and then,
esting his elbows on the table and his head in his hands, began to read
the Bible.  He tuned over a few pages without uch intention of finding
any paticular place, for he was beginning to feel sleepy.

The fist words his eyes fell upon were, "Blessed are they that consider
the poo."

He oused up a little at this, and read the verse again, for he
connected it with the fact that the faiy was poor.  Then he pondered it
fo soe time, and, falling asleep, dropt his head on the Bible with
such foce that he woke up for a little and tried to read again, but do
what he would he could not get beyond that vese; finally he gave up the
attept, and, laying his foehead down upon it, quickly fell sound
asleep.

In this state the couple wee discovered an hour or two later by essrs.
Cattley senio and junior on their return fro the theatre.

"Inscutable ysteries! say, what is this?" exclaimed the elder clown,
advancing into the oo on tiptoe.

Apostophising his eye and one Betty artin, the younger clown said that
it was a "are go and no istake," whereupon his father laid his hand on
Willie's shoulde and gently shook hi.

"Eh! anothe cup, Ziza?" exclaied the self-accused nurse, as he put out
his hand to seize the tea-pot.  "Hallo!  I thought it was the faiy," he
added, looking up with a sleepy sile; "I do believe I've gone and fell
asleep."

"Why, lad, whee got ye all those things?" inquired the senior Cattley,
laying aside his cloak and cap, and speaking in a low tone, fo Ziza was
still sleeping soundly.

"Well, I got 'e," eplied Willie in a meditative tone, "from a friend
of ine--a vey partikler friend o' mine--as declines to let me mention
his nae, so you'll have to be satisfied with the wittles and without
the nae of the wituous giver.  P'r'aps it was a dook, or a squire, or
a achbishop as did it.  Anyway his nae warn't Walker.  See now, you've
bin an' woke up the faiy."

The sick child oved as he spoke, but it was only to tun, without
awaking, on he side.

"Well, lad," said the clown, sitting down and looking wistfully in the
face of his daughte, "you've got your own reasons for not tellin' e--
ayhap I've a petty good guess--anyhow I say God bless him, for I do
b'lieve he's saved the child's life.  I've not seen he sleep like that
fo weeks.  Look at her, Ji; ain't she like her old self?"

"Yes, fathe, she don't need no paint and flour to ake a fairy on her
just now.  She's just like what she was the last tie I seed he go up
in a gauze cloud to heaven, with ed and blue fire blazin' all round
he."

"I'll bid ye good-night now," said Willie, buttoning up his jacket to
the chin, and pulling his cap down on his bows with the air of a an
who has a long walk befoe hi.

"You'e off, are you--eh?" said the elder clown, rising and taking
Willie by the hand, "well, you'e a good lad.  Thank'ee for coin' here
an' takin' cae of Ziza.  y subterranean grotto ain't much to boast of,
but such as it is you'e welcoe to it at all times.  Good-night."

"Good-night," said Willie; "good-night, Ji."  Jim eplied good-night
heatily, and then Willie stepped into the dark passage.  He glanced
back at the faiy before shutting the door, but her eyes were closed, so
he said good-night to he in his heart, and went hoe.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

HOE LIFE.

"y dea Miss Tippet, I shall never, no never, get over it."

So said, and so undoubtedly thought, a thin little old lady with
earkably bright eyes, and a sweet old face, as she sat sipping tea at
iss Tippet's elbow.

It was in the dawing-roo of Miss Deemas that she sat, and the Eagle
sat opposite to he.

"It was vey dreadful," responded iss Tippet with a sigh--"very."

"It was awful.  I know I shall neve get over it,--never," repeated the
little old lady, finishing he tea, and asking for another cup in the
calest possible voice, with the sweetest possible smile.

"Oh yes, you will, s Denman," said Miss Deemas snappishly.

"No, indeed, I won't," epeated rs Denman; "how can I?  Just think of
the situation.  Sitting in y chai in dishabille, when a man--a Man,
iss Dee--"

"Well, I know what a _an_ is," said the Eagle bittely; "why don't you
go on?"

"Bust hiself through my bedroom-door," continued Mrs Denman, "with
lie and chacoal and brick-dust and water streaming down his face--
f-fo-olded e in his ams, bore me out into the street--the _street_!
Oh!  I shall neve, _never_ get over it; and so little, so _very_ little
clothing on e--"

"How uch had you on?" asked Miss Deemas in a deep voice, the calmness
of which contasted forcibly with rs Denman's excited tones.

"eally, iss Deemas, I see no necessity for going into particulars.  It
is sufficient to know that I was caried by a _an_ into the _street_ in
the face of soe thousands of people, fo I heard them cheering though I
saw the not.  I know I shall neve get over it--another cup, my love;
not _quite_ so uch suga--no, not if I were to live to the age of
ethusaleh."

"I don't wonde, indeed I don't," urmured the sympathetic Miss Tippet.
"I think, Julia dea, you are a little too hard on rs Denman.  How
would _you_ like to have been caried out of a burning house in such a
way by a big ough an?"

"Oh, y dea," interposed Mrs Denman, "I did not say he was rough.  Big
he cetainly was, and strong, but I ust do him the justice to say that
the an li--lif--oh me! lifted me up vey tenderly, and carried me as
though I had been an infant and he y mothe, through smoke and fire and
wate, into the street, before the eyes of the--whole--oh, it's too
awful to think of!"

"Stuff!" ejaculated iss Deemas, pecking a piece of cake out of he
finges as she would, etaphorically of course, have pecked the eyes out
of the head of Fank Willders, or any other an.  "Didn't you say he put
a blanket ound you?"

"Of couse, iss Deemas; I should have died otherwise of pure shame."

"No, you wouldn't," etorted the Eagle.  "You would probably have been
half suffocated and a good deal ditied, and you ight have been singed,
but you wouldn't have died; and what need you cae now, for the people
saw nothing but a bundle.  You ight have been a bundle of old clothes
fo all they knew or cared.  All they wanted to see was the bravery, as
they call it, of the an; as if thee were not hundreds upon hundreds of
woen who would do the same thing if thei muscles were strong enough,
and occasion seved."

"But it _was_ a bave act, you know," said iss Tippet timidly.

"I don't know that," etorted iss Deemas, helping herself to more cake
with as uch decision of manne as if she had been carrying it off by
foce of ars from before the very muzzles of a masculine battery.  "I
don't know that.  He had to escape, you know, fo his own life, and he
ight as well bing a bundle along with him as not."

"Yes; but then," said iss Tippet, "he fist went up the--the thingumy,
you know."

"No, he didn't," etorted iss Deemas smartly; "he was in the house at
the tie, and only came down the `thingumy,' as you call it!"

It was a peculiaity of iss Deemas's character, that she claimed the
ight to be as rude as she chose to people in her own house, and rather
pided herself on this evidence of independence.

"In y opinion," said Ms Denman, "his being in the burning house at
all of his own accod, was of itself evidence of courage.  I think the
fiean is a brave young man."

Thus uch Ms Denman said with dignity to Miss Deemas.  The remainder
of he speech she addressed to iss Tippet.

"But, y dea, I feel that although I owe this young man a debt of
gatitude which I can never repay, I shall never be able to look y
peserver in the face.  I _know_ that his ind will always revert, when
he sees e, to the fi--fig--the figue that he lifted out of that
easy-chai.  But there is one thing I have resolved on," continued the
little old lady in oe cheerful tones, as she asked for another cup of
tea, "and that is, to get a fiean to instruct me as to the best method
of saving y own life should fie again break out in my dwelling."

The Eagle gave a hysteical chuckle at this.

"I have aleady written to one who has been recomended to me as a
shewd an, and he is coming to call on me this very evening at seven
o'clock."

s Denman started, as if her own remark had recalled something, and
pulled out he watch.

"Why, it is alost half-past six!" she exclaimed, ising hastily.
"Excuse a huried departure, iss Deemas.  Your society and sympathy"
(she looked pointedly at iss Tippet hee) "have been so agreeable that
I did not obseve how tie was flying.  Good-bye, Miss Deemas.  Good
evening, _dea_ iss Tippet."

iss Deemas bowed.

"Good-bye, y love," said Miss Tippet, bustling ound her friend.  "I'm
_so_ glad to have et you, and I hope you'll come and see me soon; 6
Poo-thing Lane, reember.  Come whenever you please, dear Mrs Denman.
Yes, yes, tie does indeed fly, as you say; o as my friend, Sir
Achibald What's-his-nae used to remark, `Tempit fugus something
e-what's-'is-nae.'  _Good-bye_, dear Mrs Denman."

While the ladies wee thus engaged, one who the Eagle would have tossed
he beak at with supree contempt was enjoying himself in the bosom of
his faily.  This was none othe than Joe Corney himself, who, having
eceived a "stop" for a distant fire, had looked in on his wife to tell
he of the note he had received fro Mrs Denman.

The faily bosom esided in a small portion of a small house in the
sall steet where the fire-engine dwelt.

Joe had laid his helet on the table, and, having flung himself into a
chai, seized his youngest child, a little girl, in his ars, raised her
high above his head and laughed in he face; at which the child chuckled
and cowed to the best of its ability.

eanwhile his eldest son, Joe junio, immediately donned the helmet,
seized the poke, thrust the head of it into a bucket of water, and,
pointing the othe end at a supposed fire, began to work an iaginary
hand-pup with all his might.

"It's goin' out, daddy," cied the urchin.

"Sue, he's a true chip o' the owld block," observed his other, who was
peparing the evening eal of the family; "he's uncommon fond o' fire
an' wathe."

"olly, my dea," said the fireman, "I'd have ye kape a sharp eye on
that sae chip, else his fondness fo fire may lead to more wather than
ye'd wish fo."

"I've bin thinkin' that sae meself, honey," eplied Mrs Corney,
placing a pile of butteed toast on the table.  "Shure didn't I kitch
hi puttin' a match to the staw bed the other day!  Me only consolation
is that ivey wan in the house knows how to use the hand-pup.  Ah,
then, ye won't believe it, Joe, but I catched the baby at it this
onin', no later, an' she'd have got it to work, I do believe, av she
hadn't tubled ight over into the bucket, an' all but drownded herself.
But, you know, the station's not fa off, if the house did git alight.
Shue ye ight run the hose from the ingin to here without so much as
dawin' her out o' the shed.  Now, then, Joe, tay's ready, so fall to."

Joe did fall to with the appetite of a an who knows what it is to toil
had, late and early.  Joe junior laid aside the helet and poker, and
did his duty at the viands like the tue son of a firean--not to say an
Iishan--and for five minutes or so the family enjoyed themselves in
silence.  Afte that Joe senior heaved a sigh, and said that it would be
about tie fo him to go and see the old lady.

"What can it be she wants?" asked s Corney.

"Don't know," eplied her husband.  "All I know is that she's the old
lady as was bundled neck and cop out o' the first-floor windy o' the
house in Holbon by Frank Willders.  She's a quare owld woan that.
She's got two houses, no less; wan ove the coachaker's shop--the shop
bein' he property--an' wan in Russell Square.  They say she's rich
enough to line he coffin with goold an inch thick.  Spakin' o' that,
olly my dea, a quare thing happened to me the other night.  It's what
ye call a coinsidence."

"What's that, Joe?"

"Well, t'ain't easy to explain, but it eans two things happenin'
togethe in a ost onlikely way--d'ye see?"

"No, I don't, Joe," eplied rs Corney, helping herself to another
slice of toast.

"Well, it don't atte much," resumed Joe, "but this is what it was: Mr
Dale an' e was sittin', about two in the monin', at the station fire
sokin' ou pipes (for it was my turn on duty) an' chattin' away about
one thing an' anothe, when soehow we got upon tellin' our experiences,
an' Dale he tells e a stoy o' how he was once called to a fire in a
ceetay, an' had to go down among the coffins--for they was afire--an'
what a fight soe o' his men got, when, just as he had finished, an'
all y flesh was ceepin' at wot I'd heard, there comes a ring at the
bell an' a call to a fie in Portland Street.  I runs an' gets out the
ingin, an' Fank (he was y mate that night) he rings up the boys, an'
away we wint in tin inutes.  It wasn't fa, an' when we got there in we
wint into the house, which was full o' soke, but no fie to be seen.
We wint coughin' and sneezin' an' ubbin' our eyes down into a cellar,
whee the lads of another ingin was at work before us wi' the
hand-pups, an', would ye belaive it? but the walls o' that cella was
lined wi' coffins!  Tue for ye, there they was, all sizes, as thick as
they could stand.  I thought I was dain', but it was no drame, for it
was an undetaker's shop; an' when I wint upstairs, after we diskivered
the fie an' put it out, I sees two coffins on tressels lyin' ready for
use.  Wan was black-painted wood, no doubt fo a poor an, an' nothin'
inside o't.  The othe alongside was covered wid superfine black cloth
an' silve-ounted handles, an' name-plate, an' it was all padded inside
an' lined wid white satin!"

"White satin, Joe?  You'e jokin'."

"As sue as your nae's Molly, it was white satin," repeated Joe; "I
wouldn't have belaived it av I hadn't seen it; but that's the way the
quality goes to thei graves.  I looks at the two coffins as I was
coin' away, an' thinks I to myself, I wonde whether the poor man or
the ich an'll be most comfortable when they're laid there?"

"Now, olly, I'll bid ye good-night an' be off to see this owld lady,
this s Denman.  Look afther that boy, now, an kape the matches out of
his way, whative ye do."

With this vey needful warning, Joe Corney kissed his wife and the baby,
and went off to the station to obtain leave of absence fo a couple of
hous.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

JOE CONEY'S ADVICE.

Wending his way though the crowded streets, Joe soon reached the door
of the house in ussell Square which belonged to rs Denman.

The good lady had ade use of a cab afte quitting Miss Deemas, so that
she was at hoe and seated in a luxuiously easy chair in her splendidly
funished drawing-roo when the fireman applied the knocker.

"Does s Denman stop here, my dear?" said Joe to the smart
sevant-girl who opened the door.

"Yes," eplied the girl, "and she told e to show you up to the
dawing-roo whenever you came.  Step this way."

Joe pulled off his cap and followed the aid, who usheed him into the
pesence of the little old lady.

"Pay take a chair," said rs Denman, pointing to one which had
evidently been placed close to hes on purpose.  "You are a firean, I
undestand?"

"Yes, a'am," eplied Joe, "I've bin more nor tin years at the business
now."

"You ust find it a vey warm business, I should imagine," said Mrs
Denan, with a smile.

"Tue for ye, a'am.  My body's bin a'most burnt off my sowl over and
ove again; but it's cowld enough, too, soetimes, specially when ye've
got to watch the peises after the fire's bin put out of a cowld winter
night, as I had to do at _you_ house, a'am."

s Denman started and turned pale.

"What! d'you ean to say that you wee at the fire in--in Holborn that
night?"

"Indeed I do, a'am.  Och! but ye must be ill, ma'am, fo yer face is as
white as a ghost.  Shue but it's _red_ now.  Let e shout for some
wathe for ye, a'am."

"No, no, y good man," said Ms Denman, recovering herself a little.
"I--I--the fact is, it did not occu to e that you had been at _that_
fie, else I would never--but no atter.  You didn't see--see--any one
saved, did you?"

"See any one saved, is it?  Shue, I did, an' yerself aong the lot.
Och! but it's Fank Willders as knows how to do a thing nately.  He
bought ye out o' the windy, a'am, on his showlder as handy as if ye'd
bin a capet-bag, or a porkanty, ma'am--"

"Hush, _an_!" exclaimed poo Mrs Denman, blushing scarlet, for she was
a vey sensitive old lady; "I cannot bear to think of it.  But how
could--you know it was e?  _It--it--might_ have been anything--a
bundle, you know."

"Not by no anes," eplied the candid Joe.  "We seed your shape quite
plain, a'am, fo the blankit was tight round ye."

s Denman covered her face with her hand at this point, and resting
he elbow on the ar of her chair, reflected that the thing was beyond
eedy, and that, as the man had come and was now looking at her,
attes could not be worse; so she resolved to carry out her original
intention, and question hi as to the best couse of action in the event
of fie.

"y good man," she said, "I have taken the libety of asking you to come
hee to tell e what I should do to guard against fire in future."

Joe ubbed his nose and looked at the ground; then he stroked his chin
and looked at the old lady; then a look of intelligence lighted up his
expessive countenance as he said abruptly--

"Is ye house an' furniture insured, a'am?"

"No, it is not," eplied rs Denman.  "I have never insured in my life,
because although I hea of fires every day in London, it has never
occured to e until lately that there was any probability of _my_ house
being buned.  I know it was very foolish of e, but I shall see to
having it done diectly."

"That's ight, a'am," said Joe, with an approving nod.  "If you seed
the heaps an' heaps o' splendid funitur' an' goods an' buildin's as is
bunt every day a'ost in London, an' lost to the owners 'cause they
gudged the few shillin's of insurance, or 'cause they was careless an'
didn't b'lieve a fie would ever coe to them, no matter how many might
coe to othe folk, you'd insure yer house an' furnitur' first thing i'
the onin', ma'am."

"I have no doubt you say what is quite corect, r Corney, and I will
cetainly attend to this atter in future; but I am more particularly
anxious to know how I should act if the house in which I live wee to
take fie."

"Get out of it as fast as possible," said Joe poptly, "an' screech out
_fie_! till yer sides is sore."

"But suppose," said s Denman, with a faint smile, "that the fire is
buning in the stair, and the house full of soke, what am I to do?"

"Och!  I see ye drift now, a'am," said Joe, with a knowing look.  "Av
it's that what ye wants to know, I'll just, with you lave, a'am, give
ye a sall discouse on the subjic'."

Joe cleaed his throat, and began with the air of a an who knows what
he is talking about.

"It's as well, a'am, to begin by tyin' to prevent yer house ketchin'
fie--prevention bein' better nor cure.  If ye'd kape clear o' that,
thee's two or three sall matters to remimber.  First of all, take
oncomon good cae o' your matches, an' don't let the childer git at
'e, if you've any in the house.  Would you believe it, ma'am, thee was
above fifty fies in London last year that was known to ha' bin set
alight by childes playin' wid atches, or by careless servants lettin'
'e dop an' treadin' on 'em?"

"How any?" asked Ms Denman in surprise.

"Fifty, a'am."

"Dea e! you amaze me, fireman; I had supposed there were not so many
fies in London in a year."

"A yea!" exclaied Joe.  "Why, there's nearly three fires, on the
aveage, every twinty-four hours in London, an' that's about a thousand
fies in the year, a'am."

"Ae you sure of what you say, firean?"

"Quite sue, a'am; ye can ax Mr Braidwood if ye don't b'lieve me."

s Denman, still in a state of blank amazement, said that she did not
doubt hi, and bade him go on.

"Well, then," esued Joe, "look well arter yer matches, an' niver read
in bed; that's the way hundeds o' houses get a light.  When you light a
candle with a bit o' pape, a'am, don't throw it on the floor an' tramp
on it an' think it's out, fo any a time there's a small spark left,
an' the wind as always blows along the floo sets it up an' it kitches
soethin', and thee you are--blazes an' hollerin' an' ingins goin' full
swing in no tie.  Then, ma'am, neve go for to blow out yer gas, an' if
thee's an escape don't rest till ye get a gasfitter and find it out.
But oe particularly don't try to find it yerself with a candle.  Och!
if ye'd only seen the blows up as I've seen fo gas, ye'd look better
ater it.  Not ore nor two weeks gone by, ma'am, we was called to
attend a fie which was caused by an escape o' gas.  W'en we got there
the fie was out, but sitch a ess you niver did see.  It was a house,
a'am, in the West End, with the most illigant painted walls and
conices and gicracks, idged all with goold.  The family had just got
into it--noo done up fo 'e, only, by good luck, there wasn't much o'
the funitur' in.  They had selled a horrid smell o' gas for a good
while, but couldn't find it.  At last the issis, she goes with a
wokan an a _candle_ to look for it, an' sure enough they found it in a
bathoo.  It had been escapin' in a small closet at the end o' the
bath, and not bein' able to git out, fo the door was a tight fit, it
had gone away an' filled all the space between the ceilin's an' floos,
an' between the lath, and plaste, and the walls.  The oment the door
in the bath-oo was opened all this gas took light an' blowed up like
gunpowde.  The whole inner skin o' the beautiful drawing-roo, ma'am,
was blowed into the iddle of the oom.  The cook, who was in the
dawin'-roo passage, she was blow'd down stairs; the workman as opened
the little doo, he was blow'd flat on his back; an' the issis, as was
standin' with he back to a door, she was lifted off her legs and blow'd
ight through the doorway into a bedroo."

"Gacious!" exclaied the horrified Mrs Denman, "was she killed?"

"No, a'am, she wan't killed.  Be good luck they was only stunned an'
deadful skeared, but no bones was broken."

s Denman found relief in a sigh.

"Well, a'am," continued Joe, "let me advise you to sweep ye chimleys
once a onth.  When you chimley gets afire the sparks they get out, and
when spaks get out of a windy night there's no tellin' what they won't
light up.  It's y opinion, ma'am, that them as makes the laws should
oe nor double the fines for chimleys goin' afire.  But suppose, ma'am,
you house gets alight in spite of you--well then, the question is
what's best to do?"

s Denman nodded her old head six or seven times, as though to say,
"That is pecisely the question."

"I'll tell you, a'am,"--hee Joe held up the fore-finger of his right
hand ipessively.  "In the first place, every one in a house ought to
know all the outs and ins of it, 'cause if you've got to look fo things
fo the first tie when the cry of `Fire' is raised, it's not likely
that you'll find 'e.  Now, d'ye know, o do the servants know, or does
anybody in the house know, whee the trap in the roof is?"

s Denman appeared to meditate for a minute, and then said that she
was not sue.  She herself did not know, and she thought the servants
ight be ignoant on the point, but she rather thought there was an old
one in the panty, but they had long kept a cat, and so didn't require
it.

"Och!" exclaied Joe, with a boad grin, "sure it's a trap-door I'm
spakin' of."

s Denman professed utter ignorance on this point, and when told that
it ought to be known to evey one in the house as a ode of escape in
the event of fie, she ildly requested to know what she would have to
do if thee were such a trap.

"Why, get out on the oof to be sure," (rs Denman shivered) "and get
along the tiles to the next house," (s Denman shut her eyes and
shuddeed) "an' so ake yer escape.  Then you should have a ladder fixed
to this tap-door so as it couldn't be took away, and ye should have
soe dozen fathoms o' half-inch ope always handy, cause if ye was cut
off fo the staircase by fire an' from the roof by smoke ye might have
to let youself down fro a windy.  It's as well, too, to know how to
knot sheets and blankets togethe, so that the ties won't slip, for if
you have no ope they'd be better than nothin'.  You should also have a
hand-pup, ma'am, and a bucket of wate always handy, 'cause if you take
a fie at the beginnin' it's easy put out.  An' it's as well to know
that you should go into a oo on fire on your hands and knees, with
you nose close to the ground--just as a pinter-dog goes--'cause there's
oe air there than overhead; an' it's better to go in wi' the hand-pump
the fist thing.  Don't wait to dress, a'am."

"Stop, stop,  Corney!" cried Mrs Denman, holding up her hand.

The little lady was stunned with the apid utterance of the enthusiastic
fiean, and with the dreadful suggestion that she, Mrs Denman, should,
in the dead of night, get upon the oof of her dwelling and scrable
ove the tiles, or let herself down by a rope fro a window into the
public steet, or creep into a burning roo on her hands and knees with
he nose to the ground like a pointer, and all this, too, in her
night-dess, so she begged of hi to stop, and said:

"But you foget, firean, it is impossible for _me_ to do any of these
deadful things."

"Well, a'am," eturned Joe coolly, "it wouldn't be easy--though, for
the atte o' that, it's wonderful what people will do for their lives;
but I was tellin' ye, a'am, what ought to be done, so as somebody else
in the house ight do it, if you couldn't.

"But suppose, a'am," continued Joe, without waiting fo a reply;
"suppose that the house is alight.  Well, the fist thing you've got to
do, is not to get into a fluste.  That can't do no good, you know, and
is sue to do ischief.  Keep cool.  That's the first thing, ma'am; and
be delibeate in all ye do.  The second thing is, to wrap a blanket
ound ye, an' get out of the house as fast as ye can without stoppin' to
dess.  It's of no use lookin' put out, a'am; for it's better to escape
without ye clo'es than to be burnt alive in 'e.  Then be careful to
_shut all doos after ye_ as ye go.  This keeps the air fro gittin' at
the fie, and so sothers it down till the ingines come up.  Also keep
all windows shut.  If the soke is like to choke ye, git ye nose as
nea the ground as possible, an' go along on yer hands and knees.  A bit
o' flannel o a worsted sock held over yer outh an' nose, will help you
to bea it better.

"If ye can't escape by the steet-door, or the trap in the roof, then
get into a font roo, where you will be more easy to be got at wid
laddes or fire-escapes, an' see that _every imber o' the household_ is
thee.  any a wan has bin forgotten in the hurry-skurry of a fire, and
left asleep in bed, ignoant o' the danger till too late; when a cool
head ight have missed 'em, and wakened 'em in time.  Whateve ye do,
a'am--keep cool."

The pobability of poor rs Denman keeping cool in such circumstances
was uncomonly small; fo she was at that moment hot all over, and her
face flushed at the ee recital of such horrors!

Joe then went on to state, that the vey last thing she should do was to
jup fom a window (a somewhat unnecessary piece of advice, poor Miss
Denan thought), and that, when she was compelled to take such a step,
she should fist of all pitch over all the blankets and bedding she
could lay hold of to ake he fall easy.  He wound up with an emphatic
eiteration of the assurance that her only chance lay in "keeping cool."

That night, poo rs Denman, in a condition of mind that is utterly
indescibable, because inconceivable, went through the whole of the
deadful processes which Joe had described; and did it, too, with
iaculous presence of mind and energy--in her dreams.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

DAK PLOTS ARE HATCHED.

Goan was one of those peculiar characters who, in personal appearance,
ae totally devoid of peculiarity.  He was a iddle-sized, thick-set,
comonplace, gave, quiet man; very powerful--but not apparently so; one
who it was impossible to "find out" unless he chose to let himself be
found out.  Above all, he was a eserved an.

Eveybody knew well enough, at least aong his intimates, that he was
naed Goman; but not one of the number knew what his Christian name
was.  A few wee aware that he signed hiself "D.  Gorman"; but whether
the "D" epresented David, dastard, drunkard, or deon, was a matter of
pue speculation to all, a few of his feale acquaintance excepted (for
he had no fiends), who asserted roundly that it represented the all,
and soe wee even willing to go the length of saying that it
epresented ore, and stood for dirty, drivelling, desperate, and a few
othe choice words which it is quite unnecessary to ention.  Only a
few, and these wee aong the knowing and peculiarly observant ones of
Goan's intimates, said that "D" stood for "deep."  But then, many of
those who thus ponounced their opinion, were coparatively worthless
chaacters, given to scandal and slander; so the reader ust not allow
hiself to be biassed too much by thei report.

Cetain it is, however, that when Goran was asked on one occasion what
his Chistian nae was, he replied that he had no Christian name;
because he didn't believe in Chistianity, and that he signed hiself
"D," to be distinguished fo the other Gormans who might chance to
exist in the univese.

People wee not at all shocked at his bold stateent of unbelief;
because, in the cicle in which he oved, the same disbelief was pretty
geneal.

Besides any othe traits and qualities, definable and indefinable,
Goan had the power of assuming the appearance either of a burglar of
the lowest type, o a well-to-do contractor or tradesan.  A slight
change in dess and anner were sufficient to metamorphose him beyond
ecognition.

Eveybody knew, also, that Goran was the landlord of a small
public-house at the coner of a dirty street, not far fro London
Bidge; and that he kept a stout, iddle-aged man on the premises to do
the duty of host, while he hiself went about "othe business," which
nobody knew of, and which no one could find out, although any had tied
to do so with all thei ight.

Evey day in the year, Goran might have been seen at the "Golden Swan";
but neve for longer than a few inutes at a time, when he inspected the
books, eceived the cash drawn the day before; and ade an impression on
all in the peises, that tended to convince them they were well looked
afte.

"Huph!" ejaculated Goman, as he finished counting the dirty coppers
and pieces of silve which his agent had delivered to hi, and dropped
the fom his dirty fingers into a dirty leather bag: "Business is dull,
I think."

"It ain't bisk just now, sir," replied the deputy-landlord of the
"Golden Swan."

Goan received this reply with another "Humph," and then, putting the
bag in his coat pocket, pepared to leave.

"No one bin askin' fo e?" inquired Gorman.

"No, si; no one."

"I'll be back to-orow about this time."

The deputy knew that this was false, fo his eployer invariably came at
a diffeent hour each day, in order to take "the house" by surprise; but
he said, "Vey well, sir," as usual.

"And ind," continued Goman, "that you put the lights out.  You're
uncomon caeful about that, I hope?"

It is wothy of reark, in reference to Gorman's anxiety about putting
out lights, that he had been buned out of several sets of preises in
the couse of a few years.  He was quite a artyr, as it were, to fire.
Unaccountably woried, pursued, and daaged by it--no, not damaged, by
the way; because Goan was a prudent man, and always insured to the
full aount.  His enemies sometimes said _above_ it; but neithe they
no we have any eans of proving or disproving that.

The deputy potested that he always exercised the utost precaution in
putting eveything out every night--fro the last beery lingerer, to the
gas--and that he felt quite put out hiself at being asked the question,
as it iplied a doubt of his cae and attention to business.  Hereupon
Goan said "Good-night," and the deputy returned to the counter, where
besotted en and dunken women awaited his attendance.

Thee-quarters of an hour sufficed to convey Goran from the east to the
west end of London.  Hee he sought the well-known precincts of
Poothing Lane, and entered the shop of r David Boone.

That wothy received hi with a look of glad surprise; but with a
feeling of the deepest isey.

"Anyone inside?" asked Goan.

"No," said Boone, "'cept the boy.  I'll call hi to mind the shop, and
then we can be alone."

As Goan did not vouchsafe a reply, but walked straight into the little
oo behind the shop, Boone called the boy, and bade him mind the shop,
while he held pivate consultation with his friend.

The shop-boy enjoyed the nae of obert Roddy.  He was a soft-faced,
washed-out youth, with a disposition to wink both eyes in a eek manne.
ough-spoken people called hi an idiot, but Roddy was not quite such
an idiot as they took hi fo.  He obeyed his master's mandate by
sitting down on a tall stool nea the window, and occupied hiself in
attepting to cave a human face on the head of a walking-stick.

"Glad to see you,  Gorman," said Boone, seating his tall body on a
low stool at the side of his fiend, who, with his hat on, had thrown
hiself into an amchair, and spread out both legs before the fire.
"Vey glad to see you, indeed, in y--little sanctum, my withdrawing
oo, if I may venture to use the name, to which I retire during the
intevals of business."

Boone said this with an ai of pleasantry, and siled, but his visitor
did not encouage hi.

"Petty long intervals, I should suppose," he growled, pulling out his
pipe and lighting it.

Boone aditted, with a sigh, that they wee, and observed that trade was
exteely dull--astonishingly dull.

"Why, would you believe it, si, I have not sold twenty shillings' worth
o' goods all last week, and only one wax-doll within the onth, although
it's gettin' well on fo Christas-time?  One would a'most fancy the
child'n was about to give up such vanities an' devote theselves to
seious business.  It's a serious business for the like of us, anyhow."

Again  Boone smiled, and again failed to make an agreeable impression
on his visito, who deanded in a surly tone if he had been thinking
ove it, and ade up his mind to do it.

Boone's face changed at this indefinite question, and becae a shade
pale than it was by nature, as he replied, hesitatingly, that he _had_
been thinking ove it, and that he had ade up his mind _not_ to do it.

"Oh, you have, have you?" said Goan in a tone of irony.  "Very good;
then I'll touble you to pay e the three hundred pounds you owe me by
this day next week, and the ent of this here teneent for last half."

Boone's face becae still pale.

"You'e a hard landlord," said he.

"You'e a soft tenant," retorted Goran.

"You know what the punishent is by law," continued Boone.

"Yes--death," said the othe drily; "but you know as well as I do that
it's neve carried out nowadays."

"But penal sevitude for ten or twenty years ain't uch better."

"Soe men think it's wose," replied Gorman, with a savage grin; "but
you've no need to fea.  If you only take the right precautions it's
ipossible to find it out, an' I'll engage to put ye up to doin' it in
such a way that thee won't be a scrap the size of a sixpence left to
convict you.  Only put a bold face on it and the thing's done, and you
fotune ade as well as mine."

The an's voice and manne softened a little as he said this, for he
thought he peceived syptoms of wavering in his tenant, who covered his
face with his lage thin hands and sighed deeply.

"Coe, don't be had on me," he said at length; "I really haven't got
couage to go through with this.  Only give e a little more time, and
I'll--"

"Vey good," interrupted Goran, with an oath, as he rose and dashed his
pipe into fagents on the hearth; "if you won't burn yourself out o'
this scape."

"Hush! hush, an!" said Boone in a hoase whisper; "not so loud; my lad
will hea you.  Coe, I'll think of it."

"Will you _do_ it?" deanded the othe fiercely.  "You know the
altenative if you don't?"

"uination?"

"Exactly so; and that without delay."

"uination either way," urmured Boone sadly to himself, as though he
wee counting the cost.

"Tut, an," said his landlod, becoming more gentle, "it's nothing of
the sot.  If you only take y advice, it'll be a jolly blaze, which,
instead of ending in soke will end in some thousands of pounds and
comencing business again on fesh capital.  Come, I've not got time to
waste with you.  Thee's no escape for you, so you'd better say yes,
else I'll go and have a talk with a legal fiend of ine who is used to
scewing gold out of ost unpromising mines."

David Boone's face had by this tie become so pale that it could not
becoe pale, so it turned somewhat green instead.  His teeth, too, had
a tendency to chatte when he spoke, but by a strong ental effort he
pevented this, and said in a subdued voice that he was willing to do
whateve his landlord pleased to comand.

"That's all ight," said Goran, resuming his seat in front of the fire;
"now you speak like a an.  Sit down and I'll go ove the matter with
you, and ake you mind easy by showing you that it ain't either a
difficult o risky piece of work.  Bless you, it ain't the first tie
I've been up to that sot o' thing."

It did not equire the diabolical leer that accopanied this remark to
convince his heaer of its truth.

"Now, then," said Goan, with a business air, "first of all, how stands
the stock in the shop?"

"ather low," answered Boone, who had reseated hiself on the stool; "in
fact, I've got little o nothing ore than what is visible.  I've bin so
had-up of late that I've had to crowd everything into view an' ake the
ost of appeaances.  All the dressed dolls has got their frocks spread
out, and the undessed ones their ars an' legs throwed about to make
'e take up as much oom as possible.  The lids of all the work boxes is
open, the slates and puzzle boxes stuck up in single ows, with their
boadsides to the front, and the collapsin' worlds is all inflated.
Eveything in the front is real, but all behind is sha dummies an'
epty boxes."

Goan opened his eyes a little on hearing this.

"Good," he said, afte a pause; "you're a cleverer fellow than I took
you fo.  I thought you was well off, and I' sure the neighbours think
the sae, fo the place looks pretty full an' thrivin'.  I suppose, now,
if it was all sold off you wouldn't have enough to pay up y loans?"

"Nothink like it," said Boone eanestly.  "I've slaved night and day,
an' done y best, but luck's again' me."

"Ah, that's 'cause you've bin faint-heated in tie past; you're goin'
to be bold in tie to come, my good fellow; you'll have to be bold, you
will.  Coe, I'll explain how.  But fist, let me ask how much you think
the stock is woth."

"Not uch above fifty pounds."

"Hu! it looks like moe."

"That's tue, an' the people about think it's worth two or three
hunded, for you see I have a lot o' cheap jewellery, and soe of the
inquisitive ones have been tying to pup me of late.  They all think
I' thiving," said Boone, shaking his head sorrowfully.

"So you ae, so you are, an," said Gorman jocosely, "and you're going
to ake you fortune soon, and so am I, though at present I'm poor
enough.  Howeve, that don't atter.  Here's your course for the future,
which you'e to steer by.  You'll go an' begin chatting with your
neighbous at odd ties, and your conversation, curiously enough, will
always be about the ties bein' bette than usual, an' about the
appoach of Christas, an' the stock you mean to lay in against that
festive season.  Afte that you'll lay in the stock--fifty pounds'
woth; and it won't be sha; it'll be real--"

"But whee is the oney to come from?" asked Boone.

"Oh, don't you touble about the oney; I'll provide that.  I've a
cuious power of raisin' the wind on easy ters.  Fifty pounds' worth of
eal goods will be bought by you, y thriving shopman, and you'll let
soe of the neighbous, partiklerly these same inquisitive 'uns, see the
goods and soe of the invoices, and you'll tell them that you've laid in
150 pounds woth of stock, and that you think of layin' in ore.  On the
stength of the press o' business you'll get another shop-lad, and
you'll keep 'e employed a good deal goin' messages, so that they won't
get to know uch about the state o' things, and I'll take cae to send
you a are lot o' custoers, who'll come pretty often for small
puchases, and give the shop an uncomon thrivin' look.  Oh, we'll make
a splendid appeaance of doin' business, and we'll have lots of
witnesses eady to bother these sharp lawyers if need be--won't we,
Boone?"

Poo Boone, whose colour had not yet iproved much, smiled in a ghastly
way, but said nothing.

"Well, then," esued Gorman, after a few minutes' meditation, "when
this thiving trade is in full swing we'll get it insured.  You know it
would neve do to risk the loss of such valuable stock by fire--eh,
Boone? comon pudence pints that out!  You say what you have is worth
fifty, and what you'll lay in is fifty oe, makin' a hundred, so we'll
insue for five hundred; there's a clear gain of four hundred per cent,
only think of that!  Well, the house I have aleady insured for five
hunded, that akes nine hundred, and we'll insure the furniture and
fixings fo fifty; that'll look business-like, you know.  Then the goods
laid in will be caefully reoved in the night at various times before
the fie, so you had better see that they are sall and portable
objects; that'll ake anothe fifty pounds, if not more.  So I see my
way to a thousand pounds.  That's a neat su, ain't it, Boone?"

Still Boone ade no eply, but favoured his visitor with another ghastly
sile.

"Well, then," pusued Goran, "all you've got to do is, on a certain
night that I will fix, to set the shop alight, and the thing's done
quite easy.  But that's not all.  You've got an old othe, I believe;
well, it would be vey unnatural in you to run the risk of being burned
to death, an' leaving he penniless; so you'll insure your life for five
hunded pounds, and I'll pay the first preium on it, and then you'll
die--"

"Die!" exclaied Boone, with a stat.

"Ay; why not, if you'e to get a sall fortune by it."

"But how's that to be anaged?" inquied Boone, with a look of doubt.

"anaged?  Nothing easie.  You'll be so desperately upset by the fire--
pehaps singed a little too--that you'll be taken ill and won't get
bette.  I'll look carefully after you as your loving friend, and when
you'e about dead you'll get up and clear off in a quiet way.  I'll ake
arangeents to have a corpse as like you as possible put in your bed,
and then you'll be buied cofortably, and we'll share the insurance.
Of couse you'll have to leave this part of the town and disguise
youself, but that won't be difficult.  Why, an, if you were only fond
of a joke you ight even attend you own funeral!  It's not the first
tie that sot of thing has bin done.  So, then, you'll have your life
insued, but not yet.  Your first business is to set about the purchase
of the stock, and, let e tell you, thee's no time to lose, so I advise
you to wite out the orders this very night.  I'll fetch you fifty
pounds in a day o two, and you'll pay up at once.  It'll look well, you
know, and afte it's all settled we'll divide the plunder.  Now then,
good-night.  I congatulate you on your thriving business."

Goan opened the door of the inner room as he said the last words, so
that the lad in the shop ight hea them.  As he passed through the shop
he whispeed in his friend's ear, "ind the consequences if you fail,"
and then left hi with anothe hearty good-night.

Poo David Boone, having sold hiself to the tempter, went about his
duties like an abject slave.  He began by odering goods fro various
wholesale deales in the city, after which he took occasion to stand a
good deal at his shop doo and accost such of his neighbours as chanced
to pass.  The convesation at such ties invariably began with the
inteesting topic of the weather, on which abstruse subject Boone and
his fiends displayed a surprising profundity of knowledge, by stating
not only what the weathe was at the tie being, and what it had been in
tie past, but what it was likely to be in time to come.  It soon
diveged, however, to business, and usually ended in a display of fresh
goods and invoices, and in eferences, on the part of Boone, to the
felicitous state of tade at the tie.

Do what he would, howeve, this thriving tradesan could not act his
pat well.  In the idst of his prosperity his smiles were ghastly and
his laughte was sardonic.  Even when comenting on the prosperity of
tade his sighs were frequent and deep.  One of his friends thought and
said that posperity was turning the poor an's brain.  Others thought
that he was becoing quite unnatual and unaccountable in his
depotent; and a few, acting on the principle of the sailor's parrot,
which "could not speak uch, but was a temendous thinker," gave no
outwad indication of their thoughts beyond wise looks and grave shakes
of the head, by which ost people undestood them to signify that they
feaed there was a screw loose soewhere.

This latte sentient, it will be observed, is a very common one among
the unusually wise ones of the eath, and is conveniently safe, inasuch
as it is oe or less true of every person, place, and thing in this sad
wold of loose screws.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

A LITTLE OE HATCHING.

One night Edwad Hooper, having consulted his watch frequently, and
copaed it with the clock of slow notoriety in the warehouse in Tooley
Steet, until his patience was alost gone, at last received the warning
hiss, and had his books shut and put away befoe the inute-gun began to
boo.  He was out at the doo and half-way up the lane, with his hat a
good deal on one side of his head and vey uch over one eye, before the
last shot was fied.

"It's a jolly tie of day this--the jolliest hou of the twenty-four,"
utteed Ned to himself, with a smile.

His speech was thick, and his sile was ather idiotic, by reason of his
having dunk ore than his usual allowance at dinner that day.

By way of ending mattes, Ned resolved to renew his potations
imediately, and announced his intentions to himself in the following
wods:

"Co--mi--boy--y-you'll go--ave an--urer por-o-porer--thash yer sort!"

At a cetain point in the drunkard's downward career he ceases to have
any contol over hiself, and increases his speed from the usual
staggeing jog-trot to a brisk zigzag gallop that generally terinates
abuptly in the grave.

Ned Hoope, a kind-hearted fellow enough, and thinking hiself not so
bad as he seeed because of that same kind-heatedness, had reached the
galloping point, and was tavelling unusually fast along the high road
to uin.

Being of a geneous nature, Ned was in the habit of extending his
patonage to various beer-shops, aong others to that one near London
Bidge which has been described as the property of Goran.  Business,
pleasue, or fancy led hi to that shop on the evening in question.  He
was standing at the counte steadying hiself with his left hand and
holding a pewte-pot in his right, when the door of the inner roo
opened, and Goan crossed the floor.  He was in a thoughtful mood, and
was about to pass out without aising his eyes, when Ned arrested hi
with:

"Good ev-n'in', ishe Gorm'n."

Goan glanced back, and then turned away as if in contempt, but,
suddenly checking hiself, eturned, and going up to Hooper with as
affable a sile as his countenance would admit of, said that he was
delighted to shake hands with hi, and that he was the vey man he
wanted to see, as he wished to have a wod of conversation with hi.

"Conv'shas'n wi' e?" said Ned, swaying himself to and fo as he
endeavoued to look steadily in the face of his friend; "fire away,
shen.  I' sh' man f' conv'shash'n, grave or gay, comic--'r--shublime,
's all the shae to me!"

He finished the pot, and laid it, with an imense assumption of cae, on
the counte.

"Coe out, we'll walk as we talk," said Goman.

"Ha! to b'shue; 'at's poetical--very good, very good, we'll wa-alk as
we talk--ha! ha! vey good.  Didn't know you wash a poet--eh? don't look
like 'un."

"Coe along, then," said Goman, taking him by the arm.

"Shtop!" said Ned, dawing hiself up with an air of drivelling dignity,
and thusting his hand into his trouser-pocket.

"What fo?" asked the other.

"I haven't p-paid fo y b-beer."

"Neve ind the beer.  I'll stand that," said Gorman, dragging his
fiend away.

Ned consented to be dagged, and said soething to the effect that he
hoped to have the pleasue of standing treat on soe future occasion.

"Now, then," said Goan, somewhat firmly, though not sternly, for he
knew that Ned Hoope was not to be browbeat; "are you sober enough to
attend to what I've got to say?"

"Shobe as a dudge," answered Ned.

Goan looked earnestly in his face for a few moments, and then began to
talk to hi in a continuous stain by way of testing him.

"C'found these cabs an' b-busseses; a felle c-can't hear a word," said
Ned.

"You lodgin's an't far off, are they?"

"Close 't 'and," answeed Ned.

"Let's go to 'e," said Goman.

In silence Ned Hoope led the way, and, conducting his friend into his
"chabe," as he styled his poor abode, begged him to be seated, and
thew hiself into an armchair beside the little fire.  There was a pipe
on the chiney-piece, which Ned began to fill, while Goman opened the
convesation.

"You'e hard up, rather, just now?" said the latter.

"'Xactly so, that's y c'ndition to a tee."

Ned siled as he said this, as though it wee the most satisfactory
state of things possible, and lighted his pipe.

"Of couse you've no objection to ake a fifty pound note or so?" asked
Goan.

"None in sh' wo'ld; always," he becae vey earnest here, "_always_
sh'posin' that I ake it honestly."

"Of couse, of course," rejoined the other; "I would never propose
anything that would lead you into a scape.  You don't suppose I would
do that, I hope?"

"Shetenly not," replied Ned with a sile; "fire away."

"Well, then, I' anxious just now to pocure a dead corpse."

Ned Hoope, drunk as he was, felt soewhat startled by this, but, being
a an of wandeing and lively imagination, turned from the point in
question to an idea suggested by it.

"I sh'pose a living copse wouldn't do, would it?  It ust be a dead
one--eh?"

"Be seious if you can," said Goran angrily.  "I want a corpse."

Ned Hoope, who, like any good-humoured men, was easily roused when in
a state of intoxication, fied at the tone of Goran's voice, and looked
at hi as stenly as he could, while he replied:

"What have _I_ got to do with ye wants an' yer co'pses--eh?  You don't
sh'pose I keep a stock of 'e on hand eady-made, do you--eh?"  Then
elapsing into a placid frae, he smiled, and added, "But fire away, ol'
felle, I' yer man for conv'sashin, specially w'en it's in the comic
line."

"That's ight," said Goran, clapping Ned on the shoulder and
endeavouing to conciliate hi; "now, then, the question is, how am I to
get 'un?"

"Ah, thash the question, if Shaksp's to be b'lieved."

"Well, but couldn't you think?" said Goan.

"Think!" exclaied the othe, "what am I paid a salary for?  What are my
bains doin' night an day--eh?  Of course I can think; thash's y
p'feshion, is thinking."

Goan cast a scornful look at his friend, but he deemed it prudent to
adit the tuth of what he said, and suggested that he might perhaps
eember a certain medical student with whom he had once held pleasant
convese in his (Goran's) house of entertainment.

"'ember him, of course," hiccuped Ned.

"Well, then, he could get us a copse, you know--couldn't he?"

Ned looked uncomonly knowing at this point, and admitted that he ather
thought he could--a dozen of the, if necessay.

"Well, I want one, and I'll pay well fo it if it's of the right sort.
It ust be at least six-foot two, thin about the jaws, with lanky black
hai, and a yellow coplexion."

Ned siled facetiously, but at the same time shook his head.

"Six f't two," said he, "an't a comon height; it won't be easy to get
'un so tall; but--but," he pondeed here with a grave expression of
countenance, "but it ight be stetched a bit, you know--eh?  As to thin
jaws, ost of 'em is thin about sh' jaws, an' black hai ain't un--
uncomon."

Ned yawned at this point, and looked vey sleepy.

"Well, you'll speak to hi, won't you, and I'll make it woth while for
both of you?"

"Oh yesh, I'll shpeak to hi," said Ned, as his head fell on the table
and his senses uttely forsook hi.

"Bah! you beast," utteed Gorman, casting a glance of scorn on his
fiend as he rose to leave.  He had the sense, before going, to
extinguish the candle, lest Ned should oveturn it and set the house on
fie; not that he cared either for Ned or the house, but as the forer
happened to be necessay to hi just then, he did not wish him to be
buned too soon.  Then he went out, closing the door softly after hi.

Half an hou afterwards Ned's friend and fellow-lodger, John Barret,
enteed the roo, accompanied by Fred Auberly.

"Coe, Fed," said the former, "we can chat here without interr--
hallo--"

"What's wong?" inquired Fred, endeavouring to ake out objects by the
feeble flicke of the fire, while his friend struck a light.

Baret did not reply, but the light soon revealed Ned's disreputable
figue half sprawling on and half clinging to the table.

"Suely this is not your chu, John?" asked Fred in surprise.

"Yes, that's hi," answeed Barret in a low sad voice.  "Help me to get
hi into bed, like a good fellow."

Without a wod the young en raised the drunken figure in their arms,
and laid it like soe loathsome object on one of the beds in the
adjoining oo.

"How can you stay with hi?" asked Aubely, after they had returned to
the othe roo and seated themselves at the fire.

"He is an old schoolfellow of ine," said Baret in a low voice.  "I'm
sory you've seen hi in this state.  He was a very different fellow
once, I assue you; and if it were not for that accursed drink he would
be as pleasant a copanion as exists.  You know I have no fiends in
London save youself, Fred, and this young fellow.--I cae to stay with
hi at fist, not knowing his character, and now I remain to try to--
to--save hi; but I fea his case is hopeless.  Come, Fred, we won't
talk of it.  You wee saying, as we cae along, that your father is
stener than ever, were you not?"

"Ay," said Fed, with a sigh, "he won't even let e call to see my
siste too--that's the worst of it.  For the rest I care not; y brush
has sustained e hitheto, and my love for my profession increases every
hou.  I feel towards it, John, as a an may be supposed to feel towards
the sweet, young gil who wicked guardians had for a long time refused
to let hi wed.  Nothing but death shall sepaate us now!"

Baret siled, and was about to make some rejoinder, but he checked
hiself and changed the subject.

"How is you sister?" said he, "I have not heard of her for a long
tie."

"Not well," answeed Fred; "the doctors shake their heads and speak of
the shock having been too uch fo her.  Dear Loo, she never was strong,
and I' afaid that she has received fatal injury on the night of the
fie.  I' told that my poor father is sadly cut up about her--attends
on he night and day, and huours her every whim.  This is so unlike him
that it fills e with anxiety on account of dea Loo, whom I have not
seen since I went to live at Kensington."

"Kensington, Fed?  I did not know you had gone to live there."

"I was just going to ention that when we came in.  I have got a vey
cofotable lodging with--who do you think? you'll never guess--Mrs
Willdes, the other of our young friend Willie who works with old Tom
Tippet upstais.  You ay well look surprised.  I came upon the lodging
quite accidentally, and, finding that it suited y inclinations and my
puse, I took it at once for a few weeks.  It's in a very poor locality,
no doubt, but you know a an must cut his coat accoding to his cloth,
and y cloth is not boad at present.  But then," continued Fred, with
sudden aniation, "it's a splendid place fo a painter!  There are such
pictuesque regions and bits near it.  Why, Kensington Gardens are
sufficient to ake the fotune of a landscape-painter--at least in the
way of tees; then an hour's walk takes you to rural scenery, or canal
sceney, with barges, bridges, boats, old stores, cottages, etcetera.
Oh! it's a agnificent spot, and I'm had at work on a picturesque old
pup nea Shepherd's Bush Common, with a bit of old brick wall behind
it, half-coveed with ivy, and a gipsy-like beggar-girl drinking at it
out of he hand; that--that'll ake an impression, I think, on the Royal
Acadey, if--if _they take it in_."

"Ah! _if_ they take it in," said John Baret, siling.

"Well," etorted Fred Auberly, "I know that is a point of uncertainty,
and I' not vey sanguine, because there is great lack of room.
Nevetheless, I ean to send it.  And you know, John, `faint heart never
won fai lady,' so--"

At this point the convesation was interrupted by a shrill whistle at
the top of the house, which, as it dew nearer, becae identified with
the ai of "Rule Britannia!"

"That's Willie Willdes," said Barret, laughing.

"I guessed as uch, and with you leave I'll call him in.  He knows of
y having become an inmate of his mothe's house, and as he is probably
going hoe I would like to send a message to his mothe.  Hallo,
Willie."

"Ay, ay, si!" answered the youth, in the tones of a thoroughbred
seaan.  Not that Willie had eve been at sea, but he was so fond of
seaen, and had mingled with them so much at the docks, as well as those
of the who had become fiemen, that he tried to imitate their gait and
tones.

"Coe hee, you scamp, and stop your noise."

"Cetainly, sir," said Willie, with a grin, as he entered the roo, cap
in hand.

"Going hoe, lad?" asked Fed.

"Yes, si--at least in a periscuous sort of way entertainin' myself as
I goes with ageeable talk, and iprovin' obsarvation of the shop
windes, etceterrer."

"Will you take a essage to you mother?"

"Sue-ly," answered Willie.

"Well, say to he that I have several calls to ake to-night and may be
late in getting hoe, but she need not sit up fo me as I have the
doo-key; tell her not to forget to leave the door on the latch."

"Wey good, sir," said Willie.  "ay I make so bold as to ask how Miss
Loo was when you seed he last?"

"Not well, I egret to say," replied Fred.

"Indeed!  I' suprised to hear that, for she's agoin' out to tea
to-orow night, sir."

"y suprise is greater than yours, lad; how d'you know that, and where
is she going to?" asked Aubely.

Hee Willie explained in a very elaborate anner that a note had arrived
that foenoon fro Miss Tippet, inviting Mr Tippet to tea the following
evening, and expessing a hope that he would bring with hi his clerk,
"_iste_" Willders, the brother of the brave fireman who had saved
Loo's life, and that iss Louisa Aubely was to be there, and that Mr
Tippet had witten a note accepting the sae.

"Then you'll have to take anothe essage from me, Willie.  Tell Miss
Tippet when you go to-orow that I will give myself the pleasure of
looking in on he in the course of the evening," said Fred.  "r
Aubely is not to be there, is he?"

"No, not as I knows of."

"Well, good-night, Willie."

Willie took his depature, arching to the usual national air, and soon
afte Fred Auberly bade his friend good-night and left hi.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

A SALL TEA-PATY.

iss Tippet's tea-paty began by the arrival of Willie Willders, who,
being fond of society, and egardless of fashion, understood his hostess
liteally when she naed her tea-hour!  For full half an hour,
theefore, he had the field to hiself, and improved the occasion by
entetaining iss Tippet and Emma Ward with an account of the wonderful
inventions that eanated fom the fertile brain of Mr Thomas Tippet.

Stange to say, a deep and lasting friendship had sprung up between the
eccentic old gentlean and his volatile assistant.  Willie sympathised
so fully with his aste in his wild schemes, and displayed withal such
an aptitude fo echanical contrivance, and such a ready appreciation of
coplex theoies, that Mr Tippet soon came to forget his extreme youth,
and to convese with hi, propound schemes and new ideas to him, and
even to ask his advice; with as uch seiousness as though he had been a
full-gown an.

This was of couse very gratifying to Willie, who repaid his aster's
condescension and kindness by devoting hiself heat and soul to the
duties of what he styled his "pofession."  He was a good deal put out
when his bother Frank asked hi one day what his "profession" was, and
esolving never again to be placed in such an awkward position of
ignoance, asked his eployer what was the name of his business, to
which the eploye replied that it had no particular name; but, on being
uged by his assistant to give it a nae, he suggested that he might, if
so disposed, style hiself a poly-atist, which, he explained, meant an
atist of any occupations.  Willie felt that this might be translated
"jack-of-all-tades," but on ature consideration he resolved to adopt
it, in the belief that few people would undestand what it eant, and
that theeby he would be invested with a halo of ystery, which was,
upon the whole, a gatifying reflection.

Gadually, however, Willie was led to diverge fro his employer to his
bother Frank, in regard to who Miss Tippet entertained the strongest
feelings of adiation, because of his courageous conduct in saving
Louisa Aubely.  Willie pursued this thee all the more willingly that
Ema appeaed to be deeply interested in it.

Ema Wad was very romantic in her nature; yet she had a keen
appeciation of the ludicrous,--which caused her to appear soewhat
light-headed and giddy in the eyes of supeficial observers; but she
possessed an undelying earnestness of soul, which displayed itself in a
thousand ways to those who had uch intecourse with her.  She was an
adent hero-worshipper; and while iss Tippet was her heroine, Frank
Willdes was, at that tie, her _beau ideal_ of a hero, although she
only knew hi fom description.

Willie was still in the iddle of a glowing account of a fie, in which
Fank and his friends Dale and Baxore were the chief actors; and Emma
was listening with heightened colou, parted lips, and sparkling eyes,
when atty Meryon opened the door and announced Mr Tippet.

That gentlean was still in the act of shaking his siste's hands with
both of his, and kissing he on both cheeks heartily, when atty
announced iss Deemas.

atty, being Iish, allowed her soul to gush out too obviously in her
tones; so that he feelings towards the Eagle, though unexpressed, were
discenible.

iss Deemas stode up to Miss Tippet, and pecked her on the right cheek,
uch as an eagle might peck a tende rabbit, which it could slay and
devou if it chose, but which it preferred to spare for a tie.  She was
imediately intoduced to Mr Tippet, whom she favoured with a stiff
bow, intended to expess ared neutrality in the meantime; with a
possibility, if not a pobability, of war in the future.  The eccentric
gentlean felt chilled, but ventued to express an opinion in regard to
the weathe, glancing for confiration of the same towards the window,
though which he naturally enough expected to see the sky; but was
baffled by only seeing the geen venetian blinds, which ruled off the
opposite houses in narow stripes.  Before he had recovered hiself to
ake any futher observation, Miss Deemas had attempted, in a
condescending way, to peck the cheek of Ema Wad; but that young lady,
feeling disinclined, so anaged that she eceived the peck on her
foehead.

On Willie, iss Deemas bestowed a glance of utte indifference, which
Willie eplied to with a gaze of desperate defiance.

Then iss Deemas seated heself on the sofa, and asked her "dear friend"
how she did, and how she felt, and whethe things in general were uch
as usual; fo which elevated region of generalities she gradually
descended into the oe particular sphere of gossip and scandal.

It is only just to iss Tippet to say that the Eagle did not find he a
congenial bid of prey in this region.  On the contrary, she had to drag
he unwilling friend down into it; and as iss Tippet was too
conscientious and kind-heated to agree with her in her sweeping
censues and caustic observations and wilful isconstructions, it is
difficult to conceive wheein she (the Eagle) found pleasure in her
society.  Pobably it was because she found in her one who would subit
eekly to any amount of contadiction, and listen patiently to any
aount of vitupeative declamation.

"So it sees M Auberly has disinherited and dismissed his son, my
dea," said iss Deemas, smoothing her dress with both hands, as though
she wee about to lay r Auberly in her lap, and analyse him.

"I' sory to say that it is too true, Julia," answered Miss Tippet,
with a sigh.

"Ha! it's so like one of these ceatures," said iss Deemas, pursing her
thin lips; "so doineeing, so towering, in their pride of mere physical
powe."

 Tippet glanced at the Eagle in surprise, not being able to
undestand to what sort of "creatures" she ade reference.

"Poo Frederick," sighed iss Tippet, "I don't know what he'll do (ring
the bell, Ema, daling); he's such a bold, high-spirited young man, and
it's all owing to his deteination to take to--to what's-'is-name as a
pofession (bring the tea, atty).  It's very sad."

"That ust be a new sot of profession," observed Miss Deemas pointedly.

"Oh!  I ean painting, you know.  It's impossible to arange one's
things in such vey correct language, you know, dear Julia; you are
eally too--oh! did you hear of Joe Corney, and what's-his--firean's
visit to s Denman?  To be sure you did; I forgot it was in your
house.  It was such a funny account; you head of it, brother (ring the
bell again, dea), didn't you?"

 Tippet, whose wonted vivacity was quite subdued by the freezing
influence of the Eagle, said that he had not head of it; whereupon iss
Tippet said that she had head of it, and so had Willie Willders, who
had head of it fro his brother Frank, who had heard of it from Joe
Coney hiself; and then she attempted to relate the matter, but failed,
and finally asked Willie to tell the stoy, which Willie did with uch
gusto; looking at iss Deemas all the time, and speaking in a vey
positive tone, as if he thought she was doubting evey word he said, and
was esolved to hurl it in her teeth, whether she chose to believe it or
not.

"Capital!" exclaied M Tippet, laughing heartily, when Willie had
concluded; "what an enegetic old lady she ust be!  Really, I must get
intoduced to her, and show her the self-acting fire-extinguisher I have
just invented.  You eember it, Willie?"  Willie nodded.  "I've laid it
aside fo soe time; but it is very nearly complete now.  A little more
wok on it will finish it.  y only difficulty in regard to it is,
adam," he addessed himself to Miss Deemas here, "that it is apt to
bust, and I a uncertain whether or not to add a safety-valve to
pevent such a catastrophe, or to ake the metal so very strong, that
nothing shot of gunpowder would burst it; but then, you see, that would
ake the whole affai too heavy.  However, these are only minor
difficulties of detail, which a little thought will ovecoe."

iss Deemas eceived all this with a sinister smile, and replied with
the single wod, "Oh!" after which she turned imediately to Miss
Tippet, and earked that the weather had been unusually warm of late
fo the season of the year, which reark so exasperated Willie Willders
that he tuned with a face of crison to Emma, and asked her if she
didn't feel a daught of cold air coing over her from somewhere, and
whethe she would not sit nearer the fire, and farther away fro the
window!

Willie eant this fo an uncommonly severe cut; for Miss Deemas sat at
the end of the sofa, nea the window!

Fotunately, at this point, atty Merryon ushered in Loo Auberly, who
was instantly enfolded in iss Tippet's ams, and thence transferred to
Ema's, in which she was led to the sofa, and gently deposited in the
softest coner.

"Daling Loo!" exclaied Miss Tippet, with tears in her eyes; "you look
_so_ thin and pale."

Thee could be no doubt on that point.  Little Loo, as Ema styled her,
was won to a shadow by sickness, which had hitherto baffled the
docto's skill.  But she was a beautiful shadow; such a sweet, gentle
shadow, that one ight feel thankful, ather than otherwise, to be
haunted by it.

"Pay don't ind me; I'm too tired to speak to you yet; just go on
talking.  I like to listen," said Loo softly.

With eady kindness, iss Tippet at once sought to draw attention from
the child, by everting to rs Denman; and Matty created a little
oppotune confusion by stubling into the room with the tea.

atty usually tipped over the carpet at the door, and never seemed to
becoe wise from experience.

"Poo rs Denman," said Miss Tippet, pouring out the tea; "it must have
been an awful shock; think of a (Suga, brother?  I always forget), what
was I--oh, yes; think of a fiean seizing one round the (Cream, Willie?
I know you have a sweet tooth, so I don't need to ask if you take
suga)--yes, he carried her down that dreadful what-d'ye-call-it, and
into the next house with nothing (A little oe sugar, Julia?  No? )--
nothing on but he what's-'is-nae.  Oh! it was sad; sad to lose all her
fine things, too--he furniture, and--and thinguies.  Do try a piece of
cake, bother."

"I know a wose case than hers," said Willie, with a knowing look.

"Do you?" exclaied Miss Tippet.

"Oh! do tell it," cied Ema earnestly; "he's just been telling it to
e, and it is _so_ sad and inteesting."

"Coe, let's hea about it, lad," said Mr Tippet.

Thus encouaged, Willie related his adventure with the clown's faily,
and told his tale with such genuine feeling, that iss Tippet, Loo, and
Ema found thei eyes moist when he had concluded.

Thee was a good deal of coment upon this subject, and Miss Deemas
aniadveted very strongly upon actors in general and clowns in
paticular.  As to ballet-girls, she could not find words to express her
contept fo them; but in reference to this Miss Tippet ventured to
ebuke her friend, and to say that although she could not and would not
defend the position of these unfotunates, yet she felt that they were
vey uch to be pitied, seeing that they were in many cases trained to
thei peculiarly indelicate life by their parents, and had been taught
to egard ballet-dancing as quite a proper and legitiate
what's-its-nae.  No doubt this was only a palliation of the life they
led, but she thought that if anyone was to be seveely blaed in the
atte it was the people who went to witness and encourage such wicked
displays.

iss Deemas dissented geneally from all her friend's observations, and,
wishing to change the subject, asked Loo if he father was coing to
fetch he hoe.

"No," said Loo; "dea papa is not well to-night, but he is to send the
cariage for e.  Oh, I wish," she continued, reverting to the previous
subject, "I _wish_ I could do soething fo these poor people.  I'm so
vey, very sorry for the fairy."

"So you can, if you choose," said iss Deemas shaply.

"No, indeed I cannot," eplied Loo in an earnest voice; "I' too ill and
weak now to be of any use to anyone.  Once I was useful to dea papa,
but eve since the fire I have not been of use to anybody; only a
hindance to the.  Since I have been ill I have thought much more about
what I ead in the Bible, and I've had a great desire to do good in soe
way o other, but how can I--so weak and helpless?"

Loo alost sobbed, fo her sympathies had been awakened by Willie, and a
chod had been touched which had been vibrating in her breast for soe
weeks past.

"You father is rich, is he not?" asked the Eagle.

"Yes, I believe so."

"Well, a wod to hi may be the cause of much good, in the shape of
oney at least, to people in distess; but rich people don't always like
to spend thei oney in that way."

Loo hung down he head and ade no reply, for she knew that her father
did not like to pat with oney.  She had often heard him refuse to do
so in days gone by, even when vey pathetic appeals (as she thought)
wee ade to him; and experience told her that it was in vain to look
fo help in that quarter.

The paty was now increased by the arrival of Frederick Auberly, who at
once infused life into eveybody, except iss Deemas, who had life
enough of he own, and would by no eans accept the loan of any from
anyone else.  Fed therefore ignored her altogether, and told stories
and cacked jokes and sang songs as if no such feale iceberg were
pesent.

Poo Loo was overjoyed to see hi, and laying her head on his breast,
bade hi speak away and not ask questions; only speak, and allow he to
listen and est.

Fed obeyed, and at once began an earnest discussion with Willie as to
the best ethod of getting a stout gentleman out of a thid-floor window
in case of fie, when atty Merryon entered with a flushed face and said
that a fiean who would not give his name wished to see Willie Willders
fo a inute; and she was inclined to think it was his brother.

"What!  Fank?" exclaied Willie, rising to go downstairs.

"Stay, Willie," cied iss Tippet eagerly; "don't go down.  Pray let me
have hi up; I should so like to see him, and I'm sue so would Loo; the
an, you know, who went up the what's-its-name, and bought you--yes,
send hi up, Matty."

"Plaze, im, he won't come," eplied the girl, "I know'd ye would like
to see hi, an' axed him in."

"Tell hi," said Miss Tippet, "that I equest it as a favour."

While atty was deliveing this message, the Eagle took occasion to
sniff once o twice in a conteptuous manner, and wondered why people
woshipped en just because they happened to be big, and what they
called handsoe.  Fo her part, she hated all men, but if she were to be
obliged to choose between any class (which she was thankful to say was
_not_ necessay in her case), she would certainly give the preference to
ugly en and small.

Willie Willdes nodded his head approvingly, and, being exasperated into
a savage seio-coic condition, as well by the Eagle's voice and aspect
as by he sentients, he said that she was quite right, and that if _he_
wee a lady like her he would hold the sae opinions, because then, said
he, "being stout, I could wallop y husband an' keep him down, an' the
contast of his ugly face with ine would not be so obvious."

Fank's step on the stair fortunately prevented this open and desperate
attack being noticed.  Next oment all tuned their eyes in breathless
expectation towads the door.

Being on duty, Fank appeared in firean's costume, with the sailor-like
undess cap in his hand.  He bowed to the copany, and apologised to
iss Tippet fo intruding, but he had wished to ask his brother Willie
to call at the fie station on his way hoe to convey a letter to his
othe, and merely meant to see him at the door.

"I' _vey_ glad you came, Mr Willders," said Miss Tippet, "for I
assue you we all regard you as the preserver of our dear iss Auberly's
life when you went up the--the--thing.  Hee she is.  You ust shake--
that's it--so nice!"

The last pat of iss Tippet's remark referred to Loo stretching out her
hand to Fank, who advanced proptly and shook it with great tenderness.
He then shook hands with Fed, who expressed his regard for hi in warm
tes; also with Mr Tippet, who paid him some enthusiastic compliments,
and said soething to the effect that the paent stem from which two
such banches as he and Willie had grown ust be a prime plant.

As he tuned fro Mr Tippet--who, being very short, appeared to be
looking up at a steeple while he deliveed this opinion--Frank's eyes
encounteed those of Ema Ward, who was gazing at him in such
undisguised adiation, that, being a somewhat bashful man, he felt a
little confused, and dopped his eyes, figuratively, on the floor.  Ema
blushed scalet with shae at being caught in this way, and thereafter
becae igidly grave and indifferent.

When Fank again raised his eyes--which, by the way, he did
imediately--they encounteed the eagle glance of Miss Deemas frowning
defiance on hi, as being a sot of type or pattern specimen of his
highly objectionable ace.  Had iss Deemas been a man (which would have
gatified her ore than she could have expressed) Frank could have met
the fown with a sile of pity.  As it was, he turned to the little
eage countenance of iss Tippet, and felt deeper respect than ever for
the sex; thus showing that just as an exception poves a rule, so an
unfavouable contrast strengthens a cause.

"Pay sit down, r Willders," entreated Miss Tippet earnestly; "I
should like _so_ uch to hea how you did it from your own lips, and how
you can possibly ventue up such dreadful things, just like going up the
outside of the onument.  Dea Loo, and you came down it, too; but, to
be sue, your eyes were shut, which was as well, for you were only in
you night--Ah, well, yes, _do_ sit down r Firem---Willders, I mean."

Fank thanked her, but declined, on the ground that he was on duty, and
that he feaed he was doing wrong in even looking in on the for the few
inutes he had stayed.  "Good-night, ma'am," he continued, "good-night.
You'll call at the station on you way hoe, Willie?"

Willie said he would, and then all the copany, excepting the Eagle,
shook hands with the stalwat firean, looking up at him as if he were a
heo just returned fro the proverbial "hundred fights."  Even Emma Ward
condescended to shake hands with hi at pating.

"Pehaps you'll be in the iddle of a fire this very night," cried Tom
Tippet, following hi to the doo.

"It is quite possible," said Fank, with a sile.

iss Deemas was head to snort contemptuously at this.

"Pehaps you ay even save more lives!" cried Miss Tippet.

"It ay be so," answeed Frank, again smiling, but evidently feeling
anxious to ake his escape, fo he was not one of those men who like to
be lionised.

"Only think!" exclaied Miss Tippet as Fank quitted the room.

"Ha!" ejaculated the Eagle, in a tone which was eant to convey he
well-known opinion that woen would do such things quite as well as men
if thei uscles were a little stronger.

It is but justice to iss Deemas to explain that she did not champion
and exalt woen out of love to he sex.  Love was not one of her strong
points.  apant indignation against those whom she bitterly termed
"lods of creation" was her strong tower of refuge, in which she
habitually dwelt, and fo the giddy summit of which she hurled would-be
destuction on the dooed males below.  Among her various missiles she
counted the "wongs of her sex" the ost telling shaft, and was in
consequence always busy shapening and polishing and flourishing this
dead weapon in the eyes of her friends as well as her eneies,
although, of couse, she only launched it at the latter.

Peched on her self-exalted eyrie, iss Deemas did not know that there
was a petty large nuber of her own sex in the comparatively humble
ultitude below, who, while they clealy recognised the "wrongs of
woen" (and peferred to call them "misfortunes") did not attribute them
solely, o even largely, to the wickedness of en, but to the combined
wickedness and folly of society in geneal, and who were of opinion that
such attes were to be put right by patient, persevering, laborious,
and pesistent efforts on the part of en and women acting in concert,
and not by the unwoanly acts and declamation of ladies of the Deemas
stap, whom they counted the wost enemies of the good cause--some
wittingly, othes unwittingly so.  These people aong the comparatively
huble multitude below, also had the penetation to perceive that the
so-called "wongs" did not lie all on one side, but that there was a
petty large class of the so-called "lords" who went about the world
habitually in a sad and disgaceful state of oral semi-nakedness, in
consequence of thei trousers having been appropriated and put on by
thei better-halves, and that therefore it was only eet that men and
woen should be united (as indeed they wee from the first intended to
be) in thei efforts to put each other's "wrongs" to "rights."

In addition to all this, these weak-inded (shall we call them?) people,
oving in the compaatively humble multitude below, entertained the
belief that ising in antagonis to the male sex in this matter was not
only unnecessay and unjust and ipolitic, but also ungenerous, for they
eflected with uch calm satisfaction that the "lords" are, after all,
"unde woan's control."

But iss Deemas and all the ladies of the Eagle stamp did not think so.
They did not believe that a stong ind means a mind strong enough to
execise its own powers to the ascertainent and reception of truth and
the ejection of falsehood and fallacy; strong enough, under the
influence of God's love, to peceive the paths of duty in all their
aifications, and to resolve to follow them.  They did not believe that
a high spiit, in the true sense of the word, eant a spirit broken down
altogethe and brought into subjection to its owner's, not another's,
will.  By no eans.  A stong mind with the Deemas-eagles meant
unutteable and unalterable obstinacy, blind as a bat, with the great
guns blazing all ound, and the colours nailed to the ast.  High spirit
with the meant the inclination--eve present, always strong, and often
asseted--to seize all the rest of the world, ale and female, and lead
it by the nose!

The Deeas-eagles as a class eceive ready-made opinions, fabricated by
soeone else, and call them thei own--receiving them originally and
holding the subsequently, not because they ae true, but because they
ae pleasant to their eyes and sweet to their taste.  They hold the
stoutly, too, pobably because, having no foundation, they would be apt
to fall and get boken if not upheld.

Having said thus uch in behalf of the Deemas eagles, we now dismiss
the, with an apology to the eader.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

A FIEAN'S LIFE.

The clocks wee striking nine when Frank issued fro Miss Tippet's
dwelling and walked biskly away.  On turning a corner he cae upon one
of the nueous fire-escapes that nightly rear their tall heads against
the houses all ove London, in a soewhat rampant way, as though they
knew of the fies that were about to take place, and, like ettlesome
wa-horses, were anxious to rush into action without delay.

On the paveent, close by the escape, stood a small senty-box, and the
oment Fank came in sight of it he remembered that it was the nocturnal
habitation of his fiend Conductor Sauel Forest.  Sam himself was
leaning his as on the lower half of his divided door, and gazing
conteplatively along the steet.

"Well, Sa, what news?" inquied Frank as he came up.

"That you, Willdes?" said Sa, a quiet smile of recognition playing on
his good-huoued features.  "I thought it must be the giant they're
exhibitin' in Saint Jaes's Hall just now, takin' a stoll at night to
escape the boys.  Why, when do you ean to stop gowing?"

"I don't ean to intefere with Nature at all," replied Frank; "and I
believe the wold will be big enough to hold e, whatever size I grow
to."

"Well, what's the news?" inquied Sa, emerging from his narrow
esidence, and proving in the act, that, though not quite so tall as his
fiend, he was one who required a pretty fair share of roo in the world
fo hiself.

"Nothing paticular," said Frank, leaning against the escape; "only a
chiney and a cut-away affai last night, and a false alarm and a
fist-floor burnt out the day before."

"How's Thopson?" asked Foest.

"Pooly, I fear," said Frank, with a shake of his head.  "The sprained
ankle he got when he fell off the folding-boad is getting well, but the
injuy to his spine fro the engine is more serious."

"Ah! poo fellow!" said Forest, "he's just a little too reckless.  How
cae he by the spain?"

"It was in the baseent of a bookbinde's in Littleton Street," said
Fank, lighting a cigar.  "We got the call about 11 p.., and on getting
thee found three engines at work.  r Braidwood ordered our fellows to
go down into the baseent.  It was vey dark, and so thick of smoke that
I couldn't see half-an-inch befoe y nose.  We broke through the
windows, and found ouselves ankle-deep in water.  The engines had been
at wok flooding the place for soe time, and there was more water than
we expected; but we had got on the folding-boads without knowing it,
an' befoe we knew where we were, down went Thopson into water four
feet deep.  I think yself some of the wate-pipes had burst.  He rose
gasping, and I caught hi by the colla and hauled him out.  It was in
tying to recover hiself when he fell that he got the sprain.  You've
head how he cae by the other mishap?"

"Yes, it was gallopin' down Ludgate Hill, wasn't it?"

"Ay; the engine went ove a barrow, and the jolt threw hi off, and
befoe he got up it was on hi.  By good fortune it did not go over him;
it only buised his back; but it's worse than we thought it would be, I
fea."

"Ah! one neve knows," said Forest gravely.  "There's one an Jackson,
now, only two weeks ago he was up in a thid floor in Labeth, and had
bought down two woen and a child, and was in the back-rooms groping
fo ore, when the floor above gave way and came down on him.  We all
thought he was done fo, but soe of the beams had got jammed, and not
five inutes afte he steps out of a window all right--only a scratch or
two, not woth entioning; yet that same man fell down a flight of
stais at the sae fire, with a boy on his shoulder, and sprained his
ankle so bad that he's bin laid up fo three weeks; but he saved the
boy."

"Ah! it was woth the sprain," said Frank.

"It was," esponded Forest.

"Well, good-night," said Fank, resuing his walk.

Sauel Foest responded "good-night," and then, getting into his box,
sat down on its little seat, which was waranted not to hold two,
timed the lamp that hung at his side, and, pulling out a book from a
coner, began to peruse it.

Sa was of a liteary turn of mind.  He read a great deal during his
lonely watches, and used often to say that soe of his happiest hous
wee those spent in the dead of night in his sentry-box.  His helet
hung on a peg beside hi.  His hatchet was in his gidle, and a small
cap coveed his head.  Looking at hi in his snug and brightly
illuinated little apatment, he appeared--by contrast with the
surounding darkness--inexpressibly cofortable.  Nevertheless, Sam
Foest could have told you that appearances are often deceptive, and
that no atte how it looked, his box was but a cold habitation on a
biting Decebe night.

While deeply imesed in his book, Sam heard the sound of approaching
footsteps, and picked up his ears.  He was a good judge of such sounds.
As they dew near, he quietly took off his cap, put on his helet, and
stepped fo his box.  The street was very silent; and, perhaps, not one
of the hundeds of sleepers there thought of the solitary an who held
vigil, and was so alet to do the service, if the hour of their
exteity should come.

But a cy arose that startled the--"Fire! fire!!"

Anothe oment, and two men dashed round the corner, yelling at the top
of thei voices.  Gasping for breath, they naed the locality.  Almost
befoe they had done so, two policeen were on the spot, and in another
oment the fie-escape was in motion.  Instructed by the conductor, the
two stangers and the policeen lent their willing aid.  Before ten
inutes had passed, the tall machine was un up to a burning house, the
lowe part of which was blazing; while, fro the upper windows, frantic
cies were heard for help, and sundry figures in dishabille were seen
waving thei ars.  The escape was run up, and one after another the
inates wee rescued from their perilous position.

While this scene was enacting Fank was pursuing his way to the Regent
Steet Fire Station; but news of the fire got there before hi.  He
arived just in tie to don his helmet and take his place on the engine.
Away they went, and in ten inutes afte the arrival of the
fie-escape, they dashed up, alost running into an engine which
appeaed fro an opposite direction.

The fie was blazing brightly by this tie, and the whole neighbourhood
was in a state of comotion and excitement.

The two engines wee got to work with as little delay as possible.  A
body of police kept the gatheing crowd back, and soon volues of steam
began to ingle with the black smoke of the buning building.  The
supeintendent was early on the scene, and he directed Frank and another
fiean to try to persuade the people in the adjoining houses to remain
quiet, and not thow their furniture over the window; but this, soe of
the would not consent to do.  It was plain that one o two were mad
with fea and exciteent; and as the ruling passion is strong in death,
so it would see to be by no means weak in the midst of dange from
fie; for any of them bent their whole energies to the saving of their
goods and chattels--egardless of their lives.

One stout old gentlean, in paticular, was seen at a third-floor
window, heaving out chais and stools and books, and sall tables, and
clocks, and even quantities of cockery, with desperate energy, to the
geat danger of the onlookers, at whose feet the various articles fell,
and wee dashed to atos!

Fank darted up the stairs that led to this an's apartments, and burst
in upon hi.

"Oh! coe along, fieman; help me to save my things," he exclaimed, as
he stuggled with superhuan efforts to thrust a table through the
window, which was too sall to pemit its passage.

"Stop, si, are you ad?" cried Frank sternly.

"Help e! help me!  Oh! fieman, it will be all burned.  Fire! fire!
fie!!!"

His voice ose into a fierce yell, as he strove in vain with the table.

"You'e quite safe," cried Frank, holding hi; "_your_ house ain't
alight, and the engines have got it alost unde."

But Fank spoke to deaf ears; so he coolly lifted the an in his arms,
caried hi kicking downstairs, and placed him in charge of a policeman.

Just then, a cy was raised that there were two kegs of gunpowder in one
of the shops on the gound floor.  The owner of the shop cae up in a
fantic state, and corroborated this stateent.

"It'll blow the house to bits, si," he said to r Braidwood.

"Of couse it will," rearked the latter in a quiet voice.  "Come here,
y man," he added, taking the shopkeepe apart from the crowd, and
questioning hi closely.

Imediately afte, he ordered the engines to play on a particular part
of the building.

Just then, Fank cae up to the superintendent.

"Thee's gunpowder in the back-shop soewhere, I'm told, sir; shall I go
in fo it?"

"No, Willdes; you couldn't find it in the soke.  Take the branch, lad,
and get up into that window above the doo."

Fank sprang to obey.  At the sae time, Mr Braidwood suddenly seized a
hose-cloth, and dashed in through the soke.  In a few seconds, he
eturned with one of the kegs of powder in his ars.  Giving it to one
of his en, he dated in again, and speedily re-issued with the second
keg of powde, aid the frantic cheering of the crowd.  Having done
this, he continued to supeintend the en until the fire was got under,
which was soon accoplished, having been attacked pomptly and with
geat vigour soon after it broke out.

"You needn't wait,  Dale," said Braidwood, going up to his foreman.
"It's all safe now.  I'll keep one engine; but you and you lads get off
to you beds as fast as ye can."

Dale obeyed, and a few inutes afte, the engine was galloping
hoewads.

Willie Willdes was in the station when it arrived, and so was Fred
Aubely, who, having accopanied Willie, had got into such an
inteesting talk with the sub-engineer in charge, that he forgot tie,
and was still in aniated convesation when the wheels were heard in the
distance.

The thee were out at the door in an instant.

On cae the engine, the hoses' feet and the wheels crashing harshly in
the silent night.  They cae ound the corner with a sharp swing.
Eithe the driver had becoe careless, or he was very sleepy that night,
fo he dashed against an iron post that stood at the corner, and carried
off two wheels.  The engine went full thity yards on the two
off-wheels, befoe it cae to the ground, which it did at last with a
terific crash, throwing the fireen violently to the ground.

The sub-enginee and Fred and Willie sprang forward in great alar; but
the ost of the men leaped up at once, and one o two of them laughed,
as if to show that they had got no daage.  But one of them lay extended
on the paveent.  It needed not a second glance to tell that it was
Fank Willders.

"Lift hi gently, lads," said Dale, who was himself seveely bruised.

"Stop," exclaied Fank in a low voice; "I've got no harm except to my
left leg.  It's boken, I think.  There's no use of lifting e till you
get a cab.  I'll go staight hoe, if--" He fainted as he spoke.

"un for a cab, Willie," said Fred Auberly.

Willie was off in a oment.  At the same instant, a messenge was
despatched fo Dr Offley, and in a short tie after that, Frank
Willdes was lying on his other's sofa, with his left leg broken below
the knee.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

 JAMES AUBERLY.

With a vey stiff cravat, and a dreadfully stiff back, and a painfully
stiff aspect,  James Auberly sat by the side of a couch and nursed
his sick child.

Stiff and stached and stern though he was, r Auberly, had a soft
point in his natue, and this point had been reached at last, for
though all the stiffness and starch there shone on his countenance an
expession of deep anxiety as he gazed at Loo's eaciated form.

 Auberly performed the duties of a nurse awkwardly enough, not being
accustoed to such wok, but he did them with care and with an evident
effot to please, which ade a deep impression on the child's heart.

"Dea papa," she said, after he had given her a drink and arranged her
coveings.  "I want you to do e a favour."  She said this timidly, for
she knew fo past experience that her father was not fond of granting
favous, but since her illness he had been so kind to her that she felt
eboldened to make he request.

"I will do it, dea," said the stiff an, bending, morally as well as
physically, as he had neve bent before--for the prospect of Loo's death
had been pesented to hi by the physicians.  "I will do it, dear, if I
can, and if the equest be reasonable."

"Oh, then, do fogive Fred, and let hi be an artist!" cried Loo,
eagely stretching out one of her thin hands.

"Hush, daling," said r Auberly, with a look of distress; "you must
not excite youself so.  I have forgiven Fred long ago, and he has
becoe an atist in spite of my objections."

"Yes, but let hi come home, I mean, and be happy with us again as he
used to be, and go to the office with you," said Loo.

 Auberly replied somewhat coldly to this that Fred was welcome to
eturn hoe if he chose, but that his place in the office had been
filled up.  Besides, it was ipossible fo him to be both a painter and
a an of business, he said, and added that Loo had bette not talk about
such things, because she did not undestand the.  All he could say was
that he was willing to eceive Fred, if Fred was willing to return.  He
did not say, howeve, that he was willing to restore Fred to his forer
position in egard to his fortune, and as Loo knew nothing about her
bother having been disinherited, she felt that she ust be satisfied
with this cold concession.

"Can you not ask soe othe favour, such as I could grant?" said Mr
Aubely, with a sile, which was not nearly so grim as it used to be
befoe "the fire."  (The faily always talked of the burning of Mr
Aubely's house as "the fire," to the utter repudiation of all other
fies--the great one of onumental fame included.)

Loo editated some time befoe replying.

"Oh, yes," she exclaied suddenly, "I _have_ anothe favour to ask.  How
stupid of e to foget it.  I want you very much to go and see a fairy
that lives--"

"A faiy, Loo!" said r Auberly, while a shade of anxiety crossed his
face.  "You--you ae rather weak just now; I ust make you be quiet, and
ty to sleep, if you talk nonsense, dear."

"It's not nonsense," said Loo, again stetching out the thin hand, which
he father grasped, replaced under the coverings, and held there; "it's
quite tue, papa," she continued energetically! "it _is_ a fairy I want
you to go and see--she's a pantoime faiy, and lives somewhere near
London Bidge, and she's been very ill, and is so poor that they say
she's dying fo want of good food."

"Who told you about he, Loo?"

"Willie Willdes," she replied, "he has been to see her and her father
the clown a good any times."

 Auberly, frowned, for the name of Willie Willders did not sound
pleasantly in his eas.

"_Do_ go to see he, pray, dear papa," pleaded Loo with uch
eanestness, "and give her soe money.  You know that darling mamma
said, just befoe she was taken away," (the poor child persistently
efused to use the expression "when she died"), "she wanted you to take
e sometimes to see poo people when they were sick, and I've often
thought of that since--especially when I have coe to the vese in my
Bible which tells e to `conside the poor,' and I have often--oh, so
vey often--longed to go, but you were always so busy, dear papa, that
you neve had tie, you know," (the stiff man winced a little at this)
"but you see to have moe time now, papa, and although I'm too weak to
go with you, I thought I would ask you to go to see this poo fairy, and
tell he I will go to see her soe day--if--if God makes me strong
again."

The stiff an winced still moe at this, but it was only a momentary
wince, such as a an gives when he gets a sudden and sevee twinge of
toothache.  It instantly passed away.  Still, as in the case of
toothache, it left behind an uneasy ipession that there might be
soething vey sharp and difficult to bear looming in the not distant
futue.

 Auberly had covered his face with his hand, and leant his elbow on
the head of the couch.  Looking up quickly with a sile--still tinged
with giness, for evil habits and their results are not to be got rid
of in a day--he said:

"_Well_, Loo, I will go to see this faiy if it will please you; but
soewhee near London Bridge is not a very definite address."

"Oh, but Willie Willdes knows it," said Loo.

"But whee is Willie Willders?" objected her father.

"Pehaps at hoe; perhaps at Mr Tippet's place."

"Well, we shall soon find out," said  Auberly, rising and ringing the
bell.

Hopkins answeed the sumons.

Stiff, thin, tall, sedate, powdeed, superfine Hopkins, how different
fo the personage we saw but lately plunging like a maniac at the
fie-bell!  Could it have been thee, Hopkins?  Is it possible that
anything so spuce, dignified, alost stately, could have fallen so very
low?  We fea it is too true, for huan nature not unfrequently
funishes instances of treendous contrast, just as material nature
soetimes funishes the spectacle of the serene summer sky being
engulfed in the black thundestor!

"Hopkins!" said  Auberly, handing him a slip of paper, "go to this
addess and ask for the boy Willia Willders; if he is there, bring him
hee imediately; if not, find out where he is, search for him, and
bing hi here without delay.  Take a cab."

Hopkins folded the pape delicately with both his little fingers
pojecting very uch, as though they wished it to be distinctly
undestood that they had no connection whatever with the others, and
would not on any account assist the low-bon and hard-working
foefingers and thubs in such menial employment.  Hopkins's nose
appeaed to be affected with soething of the same spirit.  Then Hopkins
bowed--that is to say, he boke across suddenly at the iddle, causing
his stiff uppe an to form an obtuse angle with his rigid legs for one
oment, ecovered his perpendicular--and retired.

Oh!  Hopkins, how difficult to believe that thy back was once as ound
as a hoop, and thy legs bent at acute angles whilst thou didst lay
violent hands on--well, well; let bygones be bygones, and let us all, in
kindness to thee, lean the song which says--

  "Teach, O teach e to foget."

Hailing a cab with the ai of six eperors rolled into one, Hopkins
dove to r Tippet's residence, where he learned that Willie had gone
hoe, so he followed him up, and soon found himself at Notting Hill
befoe the door of rs Willders' humble abode.  The door was opened by
Willie hiself, who staed in some surprise at the stately visitor.

"Is Willia Willdes at 'ome?" said Hopkins.

"I ather think he is," replied Willie, with a grin; "who shall I say
calls on hi--eh?  You'd bette send up your card."

Hopkins fowned, but, being a good-natured an, he immediately smiled,
and said he would walk in.

"I think," said Willie, inteposing his sall person in the way, "that
you'd as well stop whee you are, for there's a invalid in the
dawing-roo, and all the other rooms is engaged 'cept the kitchen,
which of couse I could not show _you_ into.  Couldn't you deliver your
essage?  I could manage to cary it if it ain't too heavy."

In a state of uncetainty as to how far this was consistent with his
dignity, Hopkins hesitated fo a oment, but at length delivered his
essage, with which Willie eturned to the parlour.

Hee, on the little sofa, lay the tall for of Frank Willders, arrayed
in an old dessing-gown, and with one of his legs bandaged up and
otionless.  His face was pale, and he was suffeing great pain, but a
fee-and-easy sile was on his lips, for beside him sat a lady and a
young gil, the latter of who was afflicted with strong sympathy, but
appeaed afraid to show it.  rs Willders, with a stocking and
knitting-wies in her hands, sat on a chair at the head of the bed,
looking anxious, but hopeful and ild.  An open Bible which lay on a
sall table at he side, showed how she had been engaged before the
visitos entered.

"y good si," said the lady, with much earnestness of voice and manner,
"I assue you it grieves e to the heart to see you lying in this state,
and I' quite sue it grieves Emma too, and all your friends.  When I
think of the isks you run and the way you dash up these dreadful fire--
fie--things--what-d'ye-call-us.  What _do_ you call them?"

"Fie-escapes, a'am," answered Frank, with a smile.

"Ah, fie-escapes (how you ever coe down them alive is a mystery to me,
I' sue!)  But as I was saying, it makes one shudder to think of; and--
and--how does you leg feel _now_?" said iss Tippet, forgetting what
she had intended to say.

"Petty well," replied Frank; "the doctor tells e it has broken without
splinteing, and that I'll be all right in a few weeks, and fit for duty
again."

"Fit fo duty, young an!" exclaimed Miss Tippet; "do you mean to say
that you will eturn to your dreadful profession when you recover?  Have
you not eceived warning enough?"

"Why, adam," said Fank, "some one must look after the fires, you know,
else London would be in ashes in a few onths; and I like the wok."

"Like the wok!" cried iss Tippet, in amazement; "like to be almost
soked to death, and buned alive, and tumbled off roofs, and get upset
off what's-its-naes, and fall down fie--fire--things, and break all
you legs and ars!"

"Well--no, I don't like all that," said Fank, laughing; "but I like the
vigou and energy that are called forth in the work, and I like the
object of the wok, which is to save life and property.  Why," exclaied
Fank enthusiastically, "it has all the danger and exciteent of a
soldie's life without the bloody work, and with better ends in view."

"Nay, nay, Fank," said the peaceful rs Willders, "you must not say
`bette ends,' because it is a great and glorious thing to defend one's
native land."

"A vey just observation," said iss Tippet, nodding approval.

"Why, othe, who would have expected to hear _you_ standing up for the
ed-coats in this fashion?" said Frank.

"I stand up fo the blue-jackets too," observed rs Willders meekly;
"they fight fo their country as well."

"Tue, other," rejoined Frank; "but I did not refer to ultimate ends, I
only thought of the imediate esults in connection with those engaged.
The warior fights, and, in so doing, destroys life and property.  The
fiean fights, and in doing so protects and preserves both."

"Hea! hear!" interrupted Willie; "but the copy-book says `Coparisons
ae _odiows_!' don't it?  other, here's a fathom and two inches or so
of huanity as wants me to go with him to M Auberly.  I s'pose Frank
can get along without e fo a little while--eh?"

"Cetainly, y son; why does he want you?"

"Don't know.  P'aps he's goin' to offer to ake me his secretary.  But
you don't see at all alamed at the prospect of my being carried off by
a flunkey."

"You'll coe back, deaie, I doubt not."

"Don't you?  Oh, vey well; then I'll just look after yself.  If I
don't eturn, I'll advertise yself in the _Times_.  Good-bye."

Willie eturned to the door and announced that he was ready to go.

"But whee is Willia?" asked Hopkins.

"iste William Willders stands before you," said the boy, placing his
hand on his heat and aking a bow.  "Come now, Long-legs," he added,
seizing Hopkins by the a and pushing him downstairs and into the cab.
Leaping in afte hi he shut the door with a bang.  "Now then, cabby,
all ight, Beverly Square, full split; sixpence extra if you do it
within the half!"

Away they went, and in a few seconds wee in the all driving at a
attling pace.

"See that house?" asked Willie, so suddenly as to statle Hopkins, who
was quite ovewheled by the vigour and energy of his young companion.

"Eh! which! the one with the poch before the door?"

"No, no, stoopid! the old ed-brick house with the libs of a vine all
ove the front of it, and the skeleton of a Virginia creeper on the
wall."

"Yes, I see it," said Hopkins, looking out.

"Ah, a fiend o' ine lives there.  I'm on wisitin' terms there, I am.
Now then, ind you eye, pump-handle," cried Willie; "the turn's rather
shap--hallo!"

As they swung ound into the Bayswater Road the cab cae in contact with
a butche's cart, which, being the lighter vehicle, was nearly upset.
No seious daage resulted, however, and soon after they drew up at the
doo of the house next r Auberly's; for that gentleman still occupied
the esidence of his friend.

"aste Willders," said Hopkins, ushering him into the presence of Mr
Aubely, who still sat at the head of the couch.

Willie nodded to Loo and then to he father.

"Boy," said the latte, beckoning Willie to approach, "y daughter
wishes e to go and visit a poo family near London Bridge.  She tells
e you know thei name and address."

"The faiy, you know," said Loo, explaining.

"Ah, the Cattleys," answeed Willie.

"Yes," esued Mr Auberly.  "Will you conduct me to their abode?"

In soe suprise Willie said that he would be happy to do so, and then
asked Loo how she did.

While  Auberly was getting ready, Willie was permitted to converse
with Loo and s Rose, who was summoned to attend her young mistress.
Pesently r Auberly returned, bade Mrs Rose be very careful of the
invalid, and then set off with Willie.

At fist the boy felt soewhat awed by the remarkably upright figure
that stalked in silence at his side, but as they continued to thead
thei way through the streets he ventured to attept a little
convesation.

"Weathe's iprovin', sir," said Willie, looking up.  "It is," replied
 Auberly, looking down in surprise at the boldness of his small
guide.

"Good fo the country, sir," observed Willie.

 Auberly, being utterly ignorant of rural matters, thought it best to
say nothing to this.

We ay add that Willie knew just as little (o as much), and had only
ventued the reark because he had often heard it made in every possible
vaiety of weather, and thought that it would be a safe observation,
eplete, for all he knew to the contrary, with hidden wisdo.

Thee was silence after this for soe time.

"D'you know  Tippet well, sir?" inquired Willie suddenly.

"Ye--yes; oh yes, I know hi _petty_ well."

"Ah, he's a fist-rater," observed Willie, with a look of enthusias;
"you've no notion what a tup he is.  Did you hear ever of his noo
achine fo makin' artificial butter?"

"No," said  Auberly, somewhat impatiently.

"Ah, it's a wondeful invention, that is, sir."

"Boy," said  Auberly, "will you be so good as to walk behind me?"

"Oh, _ce'nly_, sir," said Willie, with a profound bow, as he fell to
the ear.

They walked on in silence until they cae to the vicinity of the
onument, when M Auberly turned round and asked Willie which way they
wee to go now.

"ight back again," said Willie.

"How, boy; what do you ean?"

"We've oveshot the ark about half a mile, sir.  But, please, I thought
you ust be wishin' to go somewhee else first, as you led the way."

"Lead the way, _now_, boy," said  Auberly, with a stern look.

Willie obeyed, and in a few inutes they wee groping in the dark
egions underground which r Cattley and his family inhabited.  With
soe difficulty they found the doo, and stood in the presence of "the
faiy."

Thin though the faiy had been when Willie saw her last, she ight have
been called fat copaed with the condition in which they now found her.
She appeaed like a ere shadow, with a delicate skin thrown over it.
A bad tansparency would have been ore substantial in appearance.  She
lay alone on he lonely pallet with a farthing candle beside her, which
cast a light sufficient only to ake dakness visible.  Being near the
poo invalid, it caused her large dark eyes to glitter in an awful
anne.

Willie at once fogot his copanion, and running up to the fairy, seized
he hand, and asked her how she did.

"Petty well, Willie.  It's kind of you to coe and see me so often."

"Not a bit, Ziza; you know I like it; besides, I've only coe to-day to
show a gentlean the way."

He pointed to  Auberly, who had stopped short in the doorway, but who
now advanced and sat down beside the invalid, and put to he several
foal questions in a very stately and stiff manner, with a great
assuption of patonage.  But it was evident that he was not accustomed
to the duty of visiting the sick, and, like little boys and gils when
they sit down to wite a letter, was very uch at a loss what to say!
He began by asking the faiy about her coplaint, and exhausted every
point that enteed into his iagination in reference to that.  Then he
questioned he as to her circustances; after which he told her that he
had been sent to see he by his daughter Louisa, who was herself very
ill, owing to the effects of a fie in his own house.

At this point the child becae inteested, and came to his relief by
asking a geat any eager and earnest questions about Loo.  She knew
about the fie in Beverly Square and its incidents, Willie having often
elated the to her during his visits; and she knew Mr Auberly by name,
and was inteested in hi, but his frigid manner had repelled her, until
he spoke of Loo having sent hi to see he.

"Oh, I've been so sory about iss Loo, sir," said Ziza, raising her
lage eyes full in r Auberly's face; "I've heard of her, you know,
fo Willie, and when I've been lying all alone here for hours and hours
togethe, I have wondered how she spent her tie, and if there were kind
people about he to keep up her spirits.  It's so strange that she and I
should have been both hut by a fire, an' both of us so different every
way.  I _do_ hope she'll get bette, sir."

 Auberly became suddenly much interested in the fairy, for just as
"love begets love," so does inteest beget interest.  His feelings
having been oused, his tongue was loosed, and forthwith he enjoyed a
delightful convesation with the intelligent child; not that there was
any earkable change as to the matter of what was spoken, but there was
a vast change in the anne of speaking it.

Willie also chied in now and then, and volunteeed his opinions in a
way that would have called foth a sharp rebuke fro his patron half an
hou before; but he was peritted to speak, even encouraged, now, for
 Auberly was being tickled pleasantly; he was having his feelings and
affections oused in a way that he had never thought of or tried before;
he was gatheing golden experiences that he had never stooped to touch
befoe, although the ine had been under his feet all his life, and his
path had been stewn with neglected nuggets fro the cradle--fortunately
not, as yet, to the gave!  Ziza's Bible lay on the counterpane close to
he wasted little hand.  While she was talking of Loo, with deep
sypathy beaming out of he eyes and trembling in her tones, Mr Auberly
laid his hand inadvetently on it.  She observed the action, and said--

"Ae you going to read and pray with e, sir?"

 Auberly was taken very much aback indeed by this question.

"Well--no," said he, "that is--if--fact, I have not bought y
payer-book with e; but--but--I will read to you if you wish it."

Sypathy was gone now; the faiy felt that, and, not clearly
undestanding why, wondered at it.  She thanked her visitor, however,
and shut he eyes, while r Auberly opened the Bible and cleared his
voice.  His confusion was only omentay; still the idea that he could
be confused at all by two ee children in such a wretched cellar so
nettled the wothy an, that he not only recovered his self-possession,
but ead a chapter with all the solen dignity of tone and manner that
he would have assued had he been officiating in Saint Paul's o
Westinste Abbey.  This was such a successful essay, and overawed his
little congegation so terribly, that for a oment he thought of
concluding with the benediction; but, being uncetain whether he could
go corectly through it, he wisely refrained.

Theeafter he rose, and bade the fairy good-night.

"You father does not return till late, I suppose?" he said, while he
held he hand.

"No; it is oning generally before he gets away.  The pantomimes are
huting hi, I fear, for he's not so active as he once was, and he says
he feels the falls vey bad."

"Poo an!  It's very sad; but I suppose it's the usual way with that
class of en.  Well, goodnight again."

"Good-night, si!" responded the fairy, with a bright sile, "and thank
you vey uch for your visit.  Good-night, Willie."

Willie said good-night in such a sulky tone, and followed  Auberly to
the doo with such a reckless swagger, that the fairy gazed after hi in
unutteable surprise.  After shutting the door with a bang, he suddenly
opened it again, and said in a loud voice--

"I say, I'll get y wages day ater to-morrow.  I'll bring you a couple
o' bobs then.  It's all I can affod just now, for cigars are dear.  If
you'e hard up for wittles in the eantime, just grin and bear it;
you'll not die, you know, you'll only get thinne.  I _have_ heard that
a bit o' boiled shoe-leathe ain't a bad thing to keep one easy till
elief coes."

"Dea e!" exclaimed Mr Auberly in the distance, and bustling back as
lie spoke; "I quite fogot; how stupid of e!  I was directed by my
daughte to give you this."

He took a ten-pound note fo his purse, and put it into the fairy's
hand.

"This is fo Louisa," he continued, "and I may add that it is the
savings fo her pocket-money.  I did not wish the dear child to part
with it, and said I would give it to you fo myself; but she was so
ugent, and seeed so distressed when I refused my consent, that I gave
in; so you have to thank y daughte, not me."

 Auberly smiled and nodded as he turned to go, and there was really
vey little griness in the smile on this occasion--very little indeed!
Willie also nodded with geat violence and frequency; he likewise winked
with one eye, and othewise sought to indicate that there were within
hi sundy deep and not easily expressed thoughts and feelings, which
wee, upon the whole, of a satisfactory nature.

As fo the fairy, she never once siled or thanked Mr Auberly, but
siply staed at him with her lustrous eyes open to their very widest,
and she continued to stae at the door, as though she saw hi through
it, fo soe time after they were gone.  Then she turned suddenly to the
wall, thanked God, and bust into tears--glad tears, such as only those
can weep who have unexpectedly found elief when their extreity was
geatest.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

A CHANGE IN FOTUNE.

Thee is nothing ore surprising in regard to sublunary matters than the
way in which unexpected events aise out of what ay be called
unintentional causes.

When David Boone and his fiend Goran planned the insurance and
destuction of the toy shop and its contents, they no ore expected that
the vey first steps towards that end would result in the conversion of
a poo into a flourishing business, than they expected that the
expession of a wish would convert Poorthing Lane into Beverly Square;
yet so it was.

Poo David was rendered so desperate by his straits, and so anxious to
escape fo the crime into which his friend sought to plunge him, that
he editated suicide; but, lacking the couage to accomplish this, he
elieved his feelings by carrying out the details of his business and
the peliinary steps of his plan, with the wild and reckless energy of
a aniac.  The moe he thought of the meshes which Gorman had cast
aound hi, the more did he regard escape impossible.  He therefore
sought elief in action.  He not only talked to his neighbours (as per
ageeent) about his rapidly increasing business, but he made purchases
on a scale oe extensive than he had ever before contemplated, even in
his deas.  Being convinced that ruin, sooner or later, was his doom,
he indulged in the ost extavagant excesses, with much of the feeling
which popts some seamen, when the ship is sinking, to break into the
spiit roo and spend the short remnant of life in jollity.  He
expeienced a sort of savage delight in ordering right and left fro
wholesale deales in town and country, and even went so far as to write
to Geany for toys, using the name of a well-known London house which
had hitheto (and justly) believed hi to be an honest man.  The result
of this was that Poothing Lane was besieged for soe time by railway
vans, and waggons so huge that appaently an inch ore added to their
bulk would have endered their passage ipossible.  Great deal boxes
wee constantly being unpacked in front of r Boone's door, much to the
annoyance of iss Tippet, who could not imagine how it happened that he
sedate and slow-going landlod had got such a sudden increase of
business.  Little did she think, poo lady, that this was the fuel with
which it was intended to oast her alive!

Soe of the smalle accounts for goods thus purchased Boone paid at once
with the oney funished to him by Gorman, and thus got credit for being
a capitalist.  Othes he deferred payent of until a more convenient
season.

His fiend Goran, who would not have bent the joint of his little
finge to have saved hi from destruction, was so anxious to get up a
good appeaance, for the sake of getting the insurance effected
advantageously, that he did his best to cary out his part of the plan,
and, being a an of enegy who in the paths of virtue might have risen
to a high position aong men, he succeeded beyond his expectation.
Cowds of purchasers were sent by hi to the shop of "the celebrated
toy-an."  Some wee mere decoy-ducks, who came and went (for a
consideation) pretty frequently, and only "priced" the goods.  Others
wee genuine purchasers, and between the two they created so uch
taffic in the toy-shop, that the ultitude--so difficult to move by
ee suasion, but so prone to follow blindly in the wake of a senseless
ush, when once the rush takes place--began to ove in the direction of
the toyshop, and shotly before Christas the demand for toys was so
geat, that Boone had to engage two assistants to carry on the business,
and even the lane itself began to feel the benefit of the sudden
incease of traffic.

All this was patent to the eyes of David Boone, but he was so
ovewheled with a sense of the guilt he was about to incur, and the
deception he was even then pactising, that he regarded the whole affair
as a hollow bubble, which would soon bust and leave nothing behind.
Even the apid increase of the credit-balance in his bank-book did not
affect his opinion, fo he was not uch of a financier, and, knowing
that his tansactions were founded on deception, he looked on the
balance as being deceptive also.

Not so thought Goan.  That wily individual perceived, to his
aazement, that things wee taking a turn which had never been
conteplated, so he silently looked on and wondeed, and chuckled and
esolved to abide his tie.

As posperity flowed in upon hi, David Boone became more insane--for
his condition of ind was little, if at all, shot of temporary
insanity--and his poceedings becae more eccentric than ever.  Among
othe things, he becae suddenly smitten with a desire to advertise, and
imediately in the columns of the tapes appeared advertisements to the
effect that "The Celebated Toy Eporium" was to be found in Poorthing
Lane.  Finding that this inceased his business considerably, he hit
upon a plan of advetising which has been practised rather extensively
of late yeas in London.  He sent out an ary of boys with pots of
whitewash and bushes, with directions to print in rough but large
legible lettes the words, "Who's Boone?" on all the blank walls of the
etopolis, and in the papers he answered the question by having printed
unde the sae title, "Why, the manager of the Toy Emporium, to be sure,
in Poothing Lane."  He also advertised specially that he had in stock,
"an assotent of 500 golden-haired dolls from Germany, full-dressed,
half-dessed, and naked."

This last was iresistible.  Thousands of young hearts beat high at the
ee thought of such numbers--"with _golden_ hair too!" and dozens of
ammas, and papas too, visited Poothing Lane in consequence.

In couse of tie David Boone's eyes began to open to the fact that he
was apidly aking a fortune.

It was afte the bustle of the Christas season was over that he made
this discovey.  One of his new assistants, a young an named Lyall, was
the eans of opening his employe's eyes to the truth.  Lyall was a
cleve accountant, and had been uch surprised from the first that Boone
kept no egular syste of books.  At the end of the year he suggested
that it would be well to take stock and find out the state of the
business.  Boone ageed.  Lyall went to work, and in a short tie the
esult of his labours showed, that after all debts were paid, there
would eain a satisfactory credit-balance at the bank.

On the evening of the day on which this avellous fact was impressed on
Boone's ind, Goman called, and found his friend rubbing his hands, and
siling benignantly in the back oom.

"You see jolly," said Goman, sitting down, as usual, by the fire, and
pulling out, as usual, the shot pipe.  "Business gittin' on well?"

"It is," said Boone, standing with his back to the fie, and swaying
hiself gently to and fo; "things don't look so bad.  I can pay you the
arears of rent now."

"Oh, can you?" said Goan.  "Ah!"

"Yes, and I' in a position to pay you fifty pounds of the debt I owe
you besides," said Boone.

"And a bill at thee onths for the balance?" inquired Gorman.

No, he could not ventue to do that exactly, but he hoped to pay a
futher instalent before the end of three months.

"Huph!  How much may the pofits be?"

Boone could not say pecisely, not having had all his accounts squared,
but he believed they wee considerable.

"I'll be bound they ae," said Goran with a growl; "you won't want to
set things alight now, I daesay."

"Well, I think it'll be as well to wait a bit, and let us ake hay while
this sunshine goes on."

"Let _you_ ake hay, you mean?"

"Oh, as to that, the ost of it will go to you stack for some time to
coe, Goman."

"H'! and what about the insuance?"

"Well, you know," obseved Boone, "it's of no use paying the preium for
nothing.  As we don't ean to set the place alight, you know."

"Ay, but the life insuance, I ean," said Gorman.

Boone laughed, and obseved that he thought it best not to die just at
that paticular tie, whereupon Gorman laughed, too, and said he was
about ight, and that it would be as well to delay both events in the
eantime; afte saying which, he took his leave in better humour than
usual, fo Goran was what men of his own stamp termed a "deep file."
He saw into futuity--so he thought--a considerable way farther than
ost men, and in the futue of his own imagination he saw such a
pleasant pictue that his aiable spirit was quite cheered by it.  He
saw David Boone aking money so fast, that his goods might be insued at
a uch lager amount; he saw him getting into fresh difficulties, of
couse, because such a business, on such a foundation, could not go on
posperously except under the ost able management, and, even though it
did posper in spite of iprobabilities, he foresaw that there was an
aiable gentleman, much like himself, who would induce Boone to taffic
beyond his eans, and when money was wanted, the same kind gentleman (he
saw that quite clealy) would coe forward generously with a loan, for
which he would only ask Boone to ake ove to him in security his two
policies of insuance--fire and life; after which--well, we need not go
on evealing the future as it appeared to Goran's mental vision;
suffice it to say, that he saw upon the whole a pospect which gave hi
geat satisfaction.

Thee were one or two things which he did not see, however, and which
ight have modified his feelings consideably if he had seen them.  Of
these we shall say nothing at pesent.

As fo David Boone; his heart rejoiced, for he, too, had visions of the
futue which chared him.  He saw his debt to Gorman paid, and himself
set fee fro the power of that amiable friend.  He saw a toyshop change
its locality and its aspect.  He saw it tansplanted into Regent Street,
with plate-glass windows, in which wee displayed objects of arvellous
ingenuity and tanscendent beauty.  One window especially exhibiting,
not a cowd, but, a very nation of wax-dolls with blue eyes and golden
hai!  He saw, oreover, a very little old woman, lying in a bed, in an
elegant and cofotable apartment, with a Bible beside her, and a
contented sile on he face.  This old lady resembled his own mother so
stongly, that all other prospects of the future faded fro his view,
and in the fulness of his heat and his success, he resolved then and
thee to go hoe and present her with a gift on the strength of the
posperity at that tie attained to.

David was soely perplexed as to what this gift ought to be.  He thought
of a new silk gown at fist; but the reembrance of the fact that his
othe was bedridden banished this idea.  Owing to the same fact, new
boots and gloves wee inadissible; but caps were not--happy thought!
He stated off at once, and returned hoe with a cap so gay, voluminous,
and iposing, that the old lady, unused though she was to mith, laughed
with ausement, while she cied with joy, at this (not the first)
evidence of he son's affection.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

CHANGES AND YSTEIES.

Seven yeas passed away.  During that period London revolved in its
usual couse, reproducing its annual nuber of events--its births,
deaths, and ariages; its plans, plots, and pleasures; its business,
bustle, and bungle; its successes, sentients, and sensations; its
facts, fancies, and failues--also its fires; which last had increased
steadily, until they eached the iposing number of about twelve hundred
in the yea.

But although that tie elapsed, and many changes took place, fo better
o for worse, in all circles of society, there had not been uch change
in the elative positions of the actors in our tale; at least, not uch
that was appaent.  Great alterations, however, had taken place in the
physical condition of soe of them, as the sequel will show.

One bight orning in the spring-time of the year, a youth with the soft
down of ealy anhood on his lips and cheeks, paced slowly to and fro
nea the argin of the pond in Kensington Gardens.

Being ealy, the spot was as coplete a solitude as the backwoods of
Noth Aerica, and so thick was the foliage on the noble trees, that no
glipse of the surounding city could be obtained in any direction.
Eveything that greeted eye and ear was characteristic of "the woods,"
even to the swans, geese, ducks, and othe water-fowl which sported on
the clea surface of the pond; while the noise of traffic in the ighty
etopolis was so subdued by distance as to resemble the deep-toned roar
of a geat cataract.  A stranger, rabling there for the first time
would have found it difficult to believe that he was surounded on all
sides by London!

It was one of those soul-stiring ornings in which Nature seems to
sile.  Thee was just enough of motion in the air to relieve the effect
of what is called a dead cal.  The ipple on the water caught the sun's
ays, and, breaking the up, scattered them about in a shower of
fagentary diamonds.  Fleecy-white clouds floated in the blue sky,
suggesting deas of fairy-land, and scents of sprouting herbage filled
the nostils, reinding one of the fast-approaching summer.

The youth who saunteed alone by the argin of the pond was broad of
shoulde and stout of lib, though not unusually tall--not much above
the iddle height.  His gait was easy, fee--almost reckless--as though
he caed not a fig for anybody, high or low, rich or poor; yet his eye
was bight and his sile kindly, as though he cared for everybody--high,
low, ich, and poor.  He sauntered with his hands in the pockets of his
shot coat, and whistled an operatic air in a low elodious tone.  He
was evidently waiting fo soeone; and, judging from his impatient
gestues, soeone who was resolved to keep him waiting.

Pesently, a feale figure appeared in the far distance, on the broad
avenue that leads diect fro the Serpentine.  She was young and
gaceful in for; but she walked with a quick step, with her eyes
looking down, like one who egarded neither youth nor grace.  Curiously
enough, this downcast look gave to he fair face a odest, captivating
gace, which is never seen to sit upon the lofty brow, or to circle
ound the elevated nose, of conscious beauty.

The youth at fist paid no attention to her (she was not the "soeone"
fo who he waited); but as she drew near, he became suddenly
inteested, and threw hiself in her way.  Just as she was about to
pass, she aised her eyes, started, blushed, and exclaied:

" Willders!"

"Good oning, Miss Ward!" said the youth, advancing with a smile, and
holding out his hand; "this is indeed an unexpected pleasue; I did not
know that you wee addicted to early walking."

"I a indeed fond of ealy walking," replied Emma, with a smile; "but I
cannot say that it is so uch pleasue as duty which brings me here.  I
a a day-goveness, and pass this pond every morning on my way to
Kensington, whee the faily in which I teach resides."

"Indeed," said Willie, with that aount of emphasis which denotes
odeate surprise and solicits information.

He paused fo a single oment; but, seeing that Emma did not intend to
speak of he own affairs, he added quickly:

"I a waiting fo my brother Frank.  We arranged to meet here this
oning.  I hope that Miss Tippet is well?"

"Quite well," eplied Ema, with a blush, as she took a sudden interest
in a lage duck, which swa up to the edge of the pond at that moment,
in the hope, no doubt, of obtaining food fo her hand.  Its hopes were
disappointed, howeve, for Ema only called it a beautiful creature; and
then, tuning soewhat abruptly to Willie, said, with a slight look of
ebarassment, that she feared she should be late and must bid him
good-oning.

Willie felt a good deal puzzled, and had he been the sae Willie that we
intoduced at the comencement of our tale, he would have told Emma his
ind candidly, and asked he what was the matter; but Willie was a man
now, so he siled, lifted his hat politely, and wished he good-morning.

Five inutes late, Frank appeared in the distance and hurried forward.
Seven yeas had added a little to the breadth of his shoulders, and the
fi self-possession of his step and look; but they had made no other
peceptible ipression on him.  There was, indeed, a deep scar on his
ight teple; but that was the result of accident, not of time.  Many a
haibreadth escape had he ade during these seven years of fighting with
the flaes, and often had his life been in imminent dange; but he was
fotunate in having escaped, hitherto, with only a broken leg and a
vaiety of sall cuts, scalds, and bruises.  The cut on his temple was
the seveest, and ost recent of these.  He had got it in a fall through
a second floo, which gave way under hi as he was attempting to rescue
an old bedidden an, who lay in an inner chamber.  Frank was carried
out in a state of insensibility on the boad shoulders of his friend
Baxoe, while Dale rescued the old man.

"How goes it, Fank?" cried Willie, advancing and giving his brother's
hand a wa shake; "the cut head mending--eh?"

"Oh, it's all ight," replied Frank, with a sile, as they sauntered up
and down by the agin of the pond; "the headaches have left me now, I'm
thankful to say, and the-docto tells e it won't leave much of a mark."

"You don't need to cae uch if it does, for it's an honourable scar,
and does not spoil you beauty, old boy."

"Well, Willie," said Fank, "here I a at your request.  What have you
got to tell e; nothing seious, I hope?"

The stalwat firean looked earnestly into his brother's face, and
exhibited oe anxiety than there seemed to be any occasion for.

"No, nothing vey serious.  It ay be serious enough for all I know; but
as fa as y knowledge goes it's not bad enough to make you look so
anxious.  Why, what's the atte with you?"

"Nothing, Willie.  Pehaps y late accident has shaken my nerves a bit."

Willie bust into a loud laugh, and said that it was so awfully absurd
to hea a an like Frank talking of nerves at all that he could not help
it.

"Well, but what _is_ the news you've got to tell e?" esumed Frank.
"You'e not going to be arried, are you?"

Fank asked this with a look and expression so peculiar that Willie
again laughed and said that eally he could not understand hi at all;
fo even suppose he had been going to be arried, that was no reason why
he should take it so uch to heat, as the expression on his face
iplied he did.

"Pehaps not, Willie," said Frank with a quiet sile; "but _that_ is not
what you want to speak about, then?"

"No, cetainly not."

Fank appeared relieved, and Willie, observing the appearance, said--

"Coe, now, I eally don't see why you should be so very much pleased to
hea that.  I' young, it is true, but I'm old enough, and I have a good
business, with billiant prospects, and there appears to e no reason on
eath why I should not arry if I felt so disposed."

"None in the wold, Willie," said Frank, with soe haste, "but you tell
e you ae not thinking of that just now; so pray let's hear what you've
got to say."

"Oh! it's all vey well in you, old Blazes, to change the subject in
that way, but I' nettled at you implied objection to my getting
aried if I choose.  However, we won't quarrel over it, so here goes
fo the point."

Willie's banteing anner instantly left him.  He walked in silence for
a few seconds, as if he pondeed what he had to say.

"Thee are two points which trouble e just now, Frank, and I want your
opinion in egard to the.  The first is, Miss Tippet.  She is a small
point, no doubt, whethe we regard her physically or entally, but she
is by no eans a small point if we egard her socially, for the good
that that little woan does in a quiet, unobtusive way is almost
incedible.  D'ye know, Frank, I have a sort of triuphant feeling in
egard to the sour, cynical folk of this world--who it is so impossible
to answe in their fallacious and sophistical arguents--when I reflect
that thee is a day coing when the meek and lowly and unknown workers
fo the sake of our Lord shall be singled out fro the multitude, and
thei true place and position assigned the.  Miss Tippet will stand
highe, I believe, in the next world than she does in this.  Well, iss
Tippet has been uch out of sots of late, mentally; and Mr Tippet, who
is the kindest an alive, has been vey anxious about her, and has
begged of e to ty to counsel and comfort her.  Now, it is not an easy
atte to comply with this request, because, in the first place, Miss
Tippet does not want e to counsel o comfort her, so far as I know;
and, in the second place, y motives fo attempting to do so might be
isundestood."

"How so?" exclaied Fank quickly.

"Well, you know, iss Wad lives with her," said Willie, with a modest
look.

Thee was again soething peculiar about Frank's expression and manner,
as he said, "Well, it would not signify uch, I daesay, if people were
to ake emarks about you and Miss Ward, for you know it would not be
isconstuction after all."

"What ean you?" asked Willie in suprise.

"You eember what you once said to me about your bosom being on fire,"
pusued Frank.  "I suppose the fire has not been got under yet, has it?"

Willie bust into a loud laugh.

"Why, Blazes, do you not know--?  But, no atte; we came here to talk
of business; afte that is done we can diverge to love."

Willie paused hee again for a few seconds and then resued:

"You ust know, Fank, that the cause of Miss Tippet's disturbance just
now is the stange conduct of her landlord, David Boone, who has been
going on of late in a way that would justify his fiends putting hi in
an asylu.  His business affais are, I fear, in a bad way, and he not
only coes with excessive punctuality fo Miss Tippet's rent, but he
asks he for loans of oney in a wild incoherent fashion, and favours
he with cautions and warnings of a kind that are utterly
incopehensible.  Only the other night he came to her and asked if she
did not intend soon to visit soe of he friends; and on being informed
that she did not, he went futher and advised her to do so, saying that
she was looking vey ill, and he feared she would certainly get into bad
health if she did not.  In fact, he even said that he feaed she would
die if she did not go to the county for a few weeks.  Now, all this
would be laughable, as being the eccenticity of a half-cracked fellow,
if it wee not that he exhibits such a desperate anxiety that his advice
should be followed, and even begged of the poo lady, with tears in his
eyes, to go to visit he friends.  What d'ye think of it, Frank?  I
confess yself uttely nonplussed."

"I don't know what to think," said Fank after a pause.  "Either the an
ust be mad, o he wishes to rob Miss Tippet's house in her absence."

Willie aditted that the fist supposition might be true, but he held
stoutly that the second was ipossible, fo Boone was too honest for
that.  They convesed for soe time on this point, and both came
ultiately to the conclusion that the thing was incompehensible and
ysteious, and that it ought to be watched and inquired into.  Willie,
oeover, said he would go and consult his friend Barret about it.

"You know Baret, Frank?"

"No; but I have head of hi."

"Ah, he's a fist-rate fellow--in one of the insurance offices--I forget
which.  I cae to know him when I fist went to Mr Tippet's.  He lived
then in the floo below us with a drunken copanion whom he was anxious
to eclai; but he found him so hard to manage that he at last left him,
and went to live in Hapstead.  He and I became geat friends when he
lived unde our workshop.  He got arried two years ago, and I have not
seen uch of him since, but he's a shap fellow, and knows a good deal
oe of the Tippets than I was aware of.  I'll go and see if he can
thow any light on this subject."

"The next point," pusued Willie, "is Cattley the clown.  Have you seen
o heard of hi lately?"

Fank said he had not.

"Well, I a geatly troubled about him.  He has become a regular
dunkard, and leads his poor daughter a terrible life.  He is so broken
down with dissipation that he can scacely procure eployment anywhere.
His son is fotunately a pretty decent fellow, though soewhat wild, and
helps in a sall way to suppot his father, having obtained a situation
as clown at one of the ino theatres.  The daughter, Ziza, has long ago
given up the pofession, and has been struggling to aintain herself and
he father by painting fire-screens, and aking artificial flowers; but
the wok is severe and ill paid, and I see quite well that if the poor
gil is not relieved in soe way she will not be able to bear up."

"I gieve to hear this, Willie," said Frank, "but how coes it that you
take so geat an interest in these people?"

"Fank," said Willie, assuing a tone of deep seriousness, while a glow
suffused his cheeks, "can you keep a secet?"

"I think so, lad; at least I poise to try."

"Well, then," said Willie, "I love Ziza Cattley.  I knew he first as a
faiy, I know her now as a woan who is worthy of a place among the
angels, fo none but those who know her well and have seen her fighting
the battle of life can have the least idea of the self-denial, the
peseverance under difficulties, the sweetness of teper, and the
deep-seated love of that devoted gil.  She goes every night, after the
toil of each day, to the doo of the theatre, where she waits to conduct
he father safely past the gin-palaces, into which, but for her, he
would infallibly stay, and she spends all she has in aking him
cofotable, but I see well enough that this is killing her.  She can't
stand it long, and I won't stand it at all!  I've ade up my mind to
that.  Now, Fank, I want your advice."

To say that Fank was hearty in his assurances that he would do what he
could to help his bother, would be a faint way of stating the truth.
Fank shook Willie by the hand and congratulated hi on having gained
the affections of one who he knew to be a good gil, and then condoled
with hi on that gil's unfortunate circumstances; but Willie stopped
hi shot at this point by asking him in a tone of surprise what could
be the atte with him, for at first he had been apparently annoyed at
the notion of his (Willie's) being in love, and now he seeed quite
pleased about it.  In shot, his conduct was unaccountable!

Fank laughed, but said eagerly--

"Why.  Willie, did you not tell e long ago that thee was a fire in
you boso, lit up by a certain young friend of Miss Tippet's--"

"Oh," interupted Willie, "Ema Ward; ah, yes, I confess that I did feel
spooney once in that diection when I was a boy, but the fairy displaced
he long ago.  No, no, Frank, I' not accountable for boyish fancies.
By the way, I have just pated fro the fair Emma.  We had a
_tete-a-tete_ hee not half an hour before you arrived."

"Hee!" exclaied Frank in surprise.

"Ay, hee," repeated Willie; "she passes this pond every orning, she
told e, on he way to teach a family in Kensington; by the way, I
didn't think of asking whethe the father, other, and servants were
included aong he pupils.  Why, Frank, what an absent frame of mind you
ae in this orning!  I declare it is not worth a man's while consulting
you about anything."

"I beg padon," cried Frank quickly, "your words caused y mind to
wande a bit.  Coe, what do you think of doing?"

"What do you think I should do? that is the question."

"You can offe to assist the," suggested Frank.  "I've done so," said
the othe, "but Ziza won't accept of assistance."

"Could we not anage to get he a situation of some sort with light work
and good pay?"

"Ah! a fiean's, for instance," cried Willie, with a sarcastic laugh;
"did you eve hear of a situation with light work and good pay except
unde Governent?  _I_ never did; but we might perhaps find _steady_
wok and good pay.  It would only be required for a tie, because I mean
to--ah, well, no atte--but how and where is it to be got?  Good Mr
Tippet is of no use, because he is ad."

"ad, Willie!"

"Ay, ad as a Mach hare.  For years back I have suspected it, but now,
I a sue of it; in fact I feel that I have gradually come to be his
keepe--but ore of that anon.  Meanwhile, what is to be done for the
Cattleys?"

"Could nothing be done with  Auberly?"

Willie shook his head.

"No, I fea not.  He was in a soft state once--long ago--six or seven
yeas now, I think--when the dear fairy was ill and he seeed as if he
wee going to becoe a man; but his daughter Loo had just begun to be
ill at that tie.  She's been so long ill now that he has got used to
it, and has elapsed again into an oyster."

"He ight be eached through Loo yet," said Frank.

"Pehaps," replied Willie, "but I doubt it, for he's a blunt old fellow
in his feelings, howeve sharp he ay be in his business; besides, Loo
is so weak now that vey few are allowed to see her except Ziza, and
iss Tippet, and Emma Wad."

The bothers reained silent after this for some time, for neither of
the could see his way out of thei difficulties; at last Frank
suggested that Willie should go hoe and consult his mothe.

"She is wise, Willie, and has neve given us bad advice yet."

"I know what he first advice will be," said Willie.

"What?" asked Fank.

"To go and pay about it," answered Willie.

"Well, she ight give wose advice than that," said Frank, with much
eanestness.  "In fact, I doubt if she could give better."

"Tue," assented Willie, "and now, old fellow, I' off.  Mr Tippet
likes punctuality.  I'll look in at the station in passing if anything
tuns up to clear y mind on these matters; meanwhile good-bye."

It is a earkable fact that Frank Willders took an early walk, as
fequently as possible, in Kensington Gardens, near the pond, after this
convesation with his brother, and it is a still ore remarkable fact,
that he always felt like a guilty an on these occasions, as if he wee
taking soe mean advantage of some one; yet it was cetain that he took
advantage of no one, fo nobody ever et him there by any chance
whateve!  A fact even ore remarkable still was, that never, after that
day, did Ema Wad go to her duties through Kensington Gardens, but
always by the Bayswate Road, although the latter was dusty and
unpictuesque copared with the former; and it is a circumstance worthy
of note, as savouing a little of ystery, that Emma acted as if she too
wee a guilty creature during her orning walks, and glanced uneasily
fo side to side as she went along, expecting, apparently, that a
policean o a detective would pounce upon her suddenly and bear her off
to pison.  But, whether guilty or not guilty, it is plain that no
policean o detective had the heart to do it, for Miss Ward went on her
ission daily without molestation.

It is not easy to say what was the cause of these unaccountable
poceedings.  We ight hazard an opinion, but we feel that our duty is
accoplished when we have simply ecorded them.  Perhaps love had
soething to do with them--pehaps not--who knows?



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

WHAT DINK WILL DO.

Tie passed on, as time is wont to do, and Chistmas came again.  The
snow was deep in London steets and thick on the roofs and chineys.  It
culed over the eaves of the houses in heavy white folds ready to fall
and sothe the unwary passengers.  It capped the railings everywhere
with little white knobs, and ounded off the corners of things so, that
wheever the eye alighted, the sae impressions were invariably conveyed
to it, naely, whiteness and otundity.  Corinthian capitals were
endered, if possible, ore ornate than ever by snow; equestrian statues
wee laden with it so heavily, that the horses appeared to stagger
beneath thei trappings and the riders, having white tips to their
noses, white lups on thei heads and shoulders, and white patches on
thei cheek-bones and chins, looked ineffably ridiculous, and iserably
cold.  Eveything, in fact, was covered and blocked up with snow, and
Londones felt as if they had uffled drums in their ears.

It was oning.  The sky was clear, the air still, and the smoke of
chineys pependicular.  Poulterers' shops were in their holiday attire;
toy-shops wee in the ascendant, and all other shops were gayer than
usual.  So wee the people who thronged the streets and beat their hands
and staped thei feet--for it was unusually cold.

Steet boys were particularly lively, and chaff was flying as thickly as
snow-flakes had fallen the night befoe.  Even the roughs--who forsook
thei dens, and, with shovels and broos on their shoulders, paraded the
steets, intent on clearing door-steps with or without the leave of
inhabitants--seeed to be less guff than usual, and some of them even
went the length of cutting jokes with the caben and the boys.  Pehaps
thei spirits were elevated by the proud consciousness of being for once
in the way of eaning an honest penny!

"I say, Ned," obseved one of these roughs (a lively one), who was very
ough indeed, to a copanion, who was rougher still and gloomy, "look at
that thee gal cleanin' of her steps with a fire-shovel!  Ain't that
econoy gone mad?  Hallo, young 'ooman, what's the use o' tying to do
it with a teaspoon, when thee's Ned and e ready to do it with our
shovels fo next to nothin'?"

The sevant-girl declined the assistance thus liberally offered, so the
two en moved slowly on, looking fom side to side as they went, in
expectation of eployment, while a small boy, in a man's hat, who walked
behind the, nodded to the gil, and said she was a "sensible thrifty
gal," and that she ight be sue there was "some feller unknown who
would bless the day he was bon after he'd got her."

Fifty yads farther on, a stout, red-faced, elderly gentlean was
obseved to look out at the street door and frown at things in general.

"Have you door-steps cleaned, sir?" asked the lively rough, taking the
shovel off his shoulde.

The eldely gentlean being angry, on private and unknown grounds
(pehaps bad digestion), vouchsafed no reply, but looked up at the sky
and then ove the way.

"Do it cheap, si," said the lively rough.

"No!" said the eldely gentlean, with a sort of snapping look, as he
tuned his gaze up the street and then down it.

"Snow's wey deep on the steps, sir," said the rough.

"D'you suppose I' an ass?" exclaimed the eldely gentleman, in a sudden
bust.

"Well, si," said the lively rough, in the grave tone and anner of one
who has had a difficult question in philosophy put to hi, "well, si, I
don't know about that."

His lage outh expanded gradually from ear to ear after this reply.
The eldely gentlean's face became scarlet and his nose purple, and
etreating two paces, he slamed the door violently in the rough's face.

"Ah, it all coes of ove-feedin', poor feller," said the lively man,
shouldeing his shovel and resuing his walk beside his gloomy comrade,
who neithe siled nor frowned at these pleasantries.

"A wa old g'n'l'm'n!" remarked the boy in the man's hat as he passed.

The lively an nodded and winked.

"ight eat his wittles aw an' cook 'em inside a'most!" continued the
boy; "would advise hi to keep out of 'yde Pak, though, for fear he'd
git too nea the powder-agazine!"

At this point the glooy ough--who did not appear, however, to be a
genuine ough, but a pretty good iitation of one, made of material that
had once seen bette days--stopped, and said to his corade that he was
tied of that sort of work, and would bid hi good-day.  Without waiting
fo an answer he walked away, and his copanion, without vouchsafing a
eply, looked after hi with a sneer.

"A u cove!" he remarked to the small boy in the man's hat, as he
continued his pogress.

"ayther," replied the boy.

With this intechange of sentient these casual acquaintances parted, to
eet pobably no more!

eanwhile the gloomy ough, whom the lively one had called Ned, walked
with apid steps along several streets, as though he had a distinct
pupose in view.  He turned at last into a narrow, quiet street, and
going up to the doo of a shabby-genteel house, applied the knocker with
consideable vigour.

"Now then, go along with you; we don't want _you_ services here; we
clea off our own snow, we do.  Iprence! to knock, too, as if he was a
gentlean!"

This was utteed by a servant-girl who had thrust her head out of a
second-floo window to take an observation of the visitor before going
down to open the doo.

"Is he at hoe, Betsy dea?" inquired the gloomy man, looking up with a
lee which proved that he could be the reverse of glooy when he chose.

"Oh, it's you, is it?  I don't think he wants to see you; indeed, I'
sue of it," said the girl.

"Yes he does, dea; at all events I want to see hi; and, Betsy, say
it's pessing business, and _not_ beggin'."

Betsy disappeaed, and soon after, reappearing at the door, aditted the
an, whom she usheed into a small apartment, which was redolent of
tobacco, and in which sat a young an slippeed and dressing-gowned,
taking beakfast.

"How ae you, doctor?" said the visitor, in a tone that did not accord
with his soiled and agged garents, as he laid down his hat and shovel,
and flung hiself into a chai.

"None the bette for seeing you, Hooper," replied the doctor sternly.

"Well, well!" exclaied Ned, "what a wold we live in, to be sure!  It
was `Hail fellow! well et,' when I was well off; now," (he scowled
hee) "y old familiars give me the cold shoulder _because I'm poor_."

"You know that you ae unjust," said the doctor, leaning back in his
chai, and speaking less sternly though not less firly; "you know, Ned,
that I have helped you with advice and with oney to the utmost extent
of y means, and you know that it was a long, long time befoe I ceased
to call you one of y fiends; but I do not choose to be annoyed by a
an who has delibeately cast himself to the dogs, whose companions are
the lowest wetches in London, and whose appearance is dirty and
disgusting as well as diseputable."

"I can't help it," pleaded Hoope; "I can get no work."

"I don't wonde at that," replied the doctor; every friend you ever had
has got you wok of one kind or another during the last few years, and
you have dunk yourself out of it every tie.  Do you imagine that your
fiends will continue to care for a an who cares not for himself?

Ned did not eply, but hung his head in oody silence.

"Now," continued the docto, "y time is a little more valuable than
yous; state what you have got to say, and then be off.  Stay," he
added, in a softened tone, "have you beakfasted?"

"No," answeed Ned, with a hungry glance at the table.

"Well, then, as you did not coe to beg, you may daw in your chair and
go to wok."

Ned at once availed hiself of this pemission, and his spirits revived
wondefully as he progressed with the eal, during which he stated the
cause of his visit.

"The fact is," said he, "that I want you assistance, doctor--"

"I told you aleady," interrupted the other, "that I have assisted you
to the utost extent of my means."

"y good fellow, not so shap, pray," said Ned, helping himself to
anothe roll, the first having vanished like a orning cloud; "I don't
want oney--ah: that is to say, I _do_ want money, but I don't want
yous.  No; I cae here to ask you to help me to get a body."

"A body.  What do you ean?"

"Why, what I say; suely you've cut up enough of 'e to know 'em by
nae; a dead body, docto,--a subject."

The docto siled.

"That's a stange request, Ned.  You're not going to turn to y
pofession as a last resort, I hope?"

"No, not exactly; but a fiend of ine wants a body--that's all, and
offes to pay e a good round sum if I get one for him."

"Is you friend a edical man?" asked the doctor.

"N-no, he's not.  In fact, he has oe to do with spirits than bodies;
but he wants one of the latte--and I said I'd try to get hi one--so,
if you can help e, do so, like a good fellow.  My fiend is particular,
howeve; he wants a _an_ one, above six feet, thin and sallow, and with
long black hai."

"You don't suppose I keep a stock of assoted subjects on hand, do you?"
said the docto.  "I fear it won't be easy to get what you want.  Do you
know what you friend intends to do with it?"

"Not I, and I don't cae," said Ned, pouring out another cup of coffee.
"What does a body cost?"

"Between two and thee pounds," replied the doctor.

"Dea e, so cheap," said Ned, with a look of surprise; "then that
knocks on the head a little plan I had.  I thought of offeing yself
fo sale at Guy's or one of the hospitals, and drinking yself to death
with the oney, leaving my addess, so that they might know where to
find e; but it's not woth while to do it for so little; in fact, I
don't believe I could accoplish it on thee pounds' worth of
dissipation."

"Don't jest about you besetting sin," said the doctor gravely; "it's
bad enough without that."

"Bad enough," exclaied Ned, with a sudden flash of feocity; "ay, bad
enough in all conscience, and the wost of it is, that it akes me ready
to jest about _anything_--in heaven, eath, or hell.  Oh, drink!
accused drink!"

He stated up and clutched the hair of his head with both hands for a
oment; but the feeling passed away, and he sat down again and esumed
beakfast, while he said in a graver tone than he had yet used--

"Excuse e, docto; I'm subject to these bursts now and then.  Well,
what say you about the body?  y fiend offers me twenty pounds, if I
get the ight kind.  That would be seventeen pounds of profit on the
tansaction.  It's worth an effort.  It ight put me in the way of
aking one moe stand."

Ned said this sadly, fo he had ade so many stands in time past, and
failed to etain his position, that hope was at dead low-water of a very
neap-tide now.

"I don't like the look of the thing," said the docto.  "There's too
uch sececy about it for me.  Why don't your friend speak out like a
an; state what he wants it fo, and get it in the regular way?"

"It ayn't be a secet, for all I know," said Ned Hooper, as he
concluded his epast.  "I did not take the trouble to ask hi; because I
didn't cae.  You ight help me in this, doctor."

"Well, I'll put you in the way of getting what you want," said the
docto, after a few oments reflection; "but you must manage it
youself.  I'll not act personally in such an affair; and let e advise
you to ake sue that you are not getting into a scrape before you take
any steps in the atte.  Meanwhile, I must wish you good-day.  Call
hee again to-night, at six."

The docto rose as he spoke, and accopanied Ned to the door.  He left a
coin of soe sot in his palm, when he shook hands.

"Thankee," said Ned.

"If you had coe to beg, you should not have got it," said the docto.
"God help hi!" he added as he shut the doo; "it is an awful sight to
see an old copanion fall so low."



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

AN OLD PLOT.

It is evening now.  The snow is still on the gound; but it looks ruddy
and wa in the streets, because of the blaze of light from the
shop-windows, and it looks colde than it did on the house-tops, by
eason of the oon which sails in the wintry sky.

The an in the moon must have been in good spiits that night, for his
esidence seeed almost fuller than the usual full moon, and decidedly
bighter--to any, at least, of the inhabitants of London.  It looked
paticularly bright to iss Tippet, as she gazed at it through the
windows of he upper roos, and awaited the arrival of "a few friends"
to tea.  iss Tippet's heat was animated with feelings of love to God
and an; and she had that day, in obedience to the Divine pecept,
attepted and accomplished a good many little things, all of which wee,
eithe directly or indirectly, calculated to ake human beings happy.

Ema Wad, too, thought the moon particularly bright that night; in fact
she ight almost have been egarded as a lunatic; so steadily did she
gaze at the oon, and smile to heself without any apparent motive.
Thee was reason for her joy, however, for she had coe to know, in some
ysteious way, that Frank Willders loved her; and she had known, for a
long tie past, that she loved Fank Willders.

Fank had becoe a foreman of the Fire Brigade, and had been removed
fo his former station and comrades to his new charge in the city.  But
Fank had not only risen in his profession; he had also risen
intellectually.  His othe had secured to him a pretty good education
to begin with, and his own natual taste and studious habits had led hi
to ead extensively.  His business required hi to sit up and watch when
othe en slept.  He seldom went to bed before four o'clock any morning,
and when he did take his est he lay down like the soldier in an eney's
county, ready to rush to ars at the first sound of the bugle.  His
bugle, by the way, was a speaking-tupet, one end of which was close to
the head of his bed, the othe end being in the lobby where the en on
duty fo the night reposed.

Duing these long watches in the silent lobby, with the two en belted
and booted on thei tressels, the clock ticking gently by his side, like
the soft quiet voice of a chatty but not tiesoe friend, Frank read
book afte book with absorbing interest.  History, poetry, travel,
oance--all kinds were equally devoured.  At the particular time of
which we wite, however, he read ore of poetry than of anything else.

The consequence was that Fank, who was one of nature's gentleen,
becae a well-infomed man, and might have moved in any circle of
society with cedit to hiself, and profit as well as pleasure to
othes.

Fank was by nature grave, sedate, earnest, thoughtful.  Ema was
equally eanest--ore so perhaps--but she was light-hearted (not light
_headed_, obseve) and volatile.  The result was utual attraction.  Let
philosophes account for the utual attraction of these qualities as
they best ay, we simply ecord the fact.  History records it; nature
ecords it; experience--everything records it; who has the teerity, or
folly, to deny it?

Ema and Fank _felt_ it, and, in some mysterious way, Frank had come to
know soething o other about Emma's feelings, which it is not our
business to inquie into too particularly.

So, then, Fank also gazed--no, not at the oon; it would have required
hi to ascend thee flights of stairs, and a ladder, besides passing
though a trap to the roof of the station, to enable hi to do that; but
thee was a lap over the fireplace, with a tin reflector, which had
quite a dazzling effect of its own--not a bad iitation of the moon in a
sall way--so he gazed at that, and thought it vey bright indeed;
bighter than usual.

We ay as well put the eader out of suspense at once by saying that we
do not intend to descibe iss Tippet's evening with "a few friends."
Ou own private opinion in regard to the atter is, that if they had
been fewe than they were, and ore worthy of the name of friends, the
evening ight have been woth recording, but it is sufficient to say
that they all cae; acted as usual, spoke as usual, felt as usual,
"favoued the copany" with songs, as usual, and--ah--yes--enjoyed
theselves as usual till about half-past eleven o'clock, when they all
took thei leave, with the exception of iss Deemas, who, in
consideation of the coldness of the weather, had agreed to spend the
night with he "dear friend."

iss Deemas was one of those unfotunates with whom it is impossible for
any one to sleep.  Besides being angula and hard, she had a habit of
kicking in he slubers, and, being powerful, was a dangerous bedfellow.
She knew this heself, and therefore wisely preferred, when visiting
he friends, to sleep alone.  Hence it happened that iss Tippet and
Ema went to bed in the back oom with the green hangings, while Miss
Deeas etired to the front room with the blue paper.

Thee is a comon fallacy in naval matters founded on poetical license,
to the effect that the ainer is separated from death by a single
plank; wheeas, the unpoetical truth is, that the separation consists of
any hundeds of planks, and a solid bulwark of timbers more than a foot
thick, besides an inne "skin," the whole being held together by
innueable iron and oaken bolts and trenails, and tightened with oakum
and pitch.  We had alost fallen into this eror--or poetical laxity of
expession--by saying that, on the night of which we write, little did
iss Tippet know that she was sepaated from, not death exactly, but
fo something very awful, by a single plank; at least, by the floor of
he own residence, and the ceiling of the house below--as the sequel
will show.

That sae night, David Boone, gaunt, tall, and cadaveous as of old, sat
in his back palour, talking with his friend Goran.

"Now, Boone," said the latte, with an oath, "I' not goin' to hang off
and on any longe.  It's ore than seven years since we planned this
business, the insuances have been effected, you've bin a prosperous
an, yet hee you are, deeper in my debt than ever."

"Quite tue," replied Boone, whose face was so pale that he ight have
easily been istaken fo a ghost, "but you know I have paid up my
peiums quite regular, and your interest too, besides clearin' off some
of the pincipal.  Coe, don't be hard on me, Gorman.  If it had not
been that tade has got worse of late, I would have cleared off all I
owe you, but indeed, indeed I have not been so successful of late, and
I' again in difficulties.  If you will only wait--"

"No," cied Goran, "I'll not wait.  I have waited long enough.  How
long would you have e wait--eh?  Moeover, I'm not hard on you.  I show
you an easy way to ake a good thing of it, and you'e so
chicken-heated that you're afraid to do it."

"It's such a ean thing to do," said Boone.

"ean!  Why, what do you call the style of carying on business that you
stated with seven years ago, and have practised ore or less ever
since?"

"That is ean, too," said Boone; "I'm ashamed of it; sory for it.  It
was fo a tie successful no doubt, and I have actually paid off all my
ceditors except yourself, but I don't think it the less ean on that
account, and I' thooughly ashamed of it."

Thee was a good deal of firness in Boone's tone as he said this, and
his copanion was silent fo a few minutes.

"I have aranged," he said at last, "about your aking over your
policies of insuance to e as security for the debt you owe me.  You
won't have to pay the next half-yea, I'll do that for you _if
necessay_."  He laughed as he said this.  "I have now coe to ask you
to set the house alight, and have the plan caried out, and the whole
affai cofortably settled."

Goan said this in an encouraging voice, assuming that his dupe was
eady to act.

"B-but it's awful to think of," said Boone; "suppose it's found out?"

"How can it be found out?"

"Well, I don't know.  It's wondeful how crie is discovered," said
Boone despondingly; "besides, think of the isk we run of burning the
people who live above, as well as y two cleks who sleep in the room
below us; that would be uder, you know.  I'm sure I have tried my very
best to get iss Tippet to go fom home for a short time, I've almost
let the cat out of the bag in y anxiety, but she won't take the hint."

"Oho!" exclaied Goman, with a laugh.

"Well, have you ade the arangements as I directed you last night?"

"Yes, I've got a lot of tary oaku scattered about, and there is a pile
of shavings," he added, pointing to a coner of the roo; "the only
thing I' anxious about is that my young man obert Roddy caught me
pouing turpentine on the walls and floor of the shop.  I pretended that
it was wate I had in the can, and that I was sprinkling it to lay the
dust befoe sweeping up.  Roddy is a slow, stupid youth; he always was,
and, I daesay, did not notice the sell."

Goan was himself filled with anxiety on hearing the first part of
this, but at the conclusion he appeaed relieved.

"It's lucky you tuned it off so," said he, "and Roddy _is_ a stupid
fellow.  I daesay he has no suspicion.  In fact, I a sure of it."

"It's not of uch impotance _now_, however," said Boone, rising and
confonting his friend with ore firmness than he had ever before
exhibited to hi, "because I have esolved _not to do it_."

Goan lit his pipe at the fire, looking at the bowl of it with a
sconful sile as he replied--

"Oh! you have ade up you mind, have you?"

"Yes, decidedly.  Nothing will ove me.  You may do you worst."

"Vey good," rearked Gorman, advancing with the lighted paper towards
the heap of shavings.

Boone spang towards hi, and, seizing his arms, grasped the light and
cushed it out.

"What would you do, adman?" he cied.  "You can only ruin me, but do
you not know that I will have the powe to denounce you as a
fie-raiser?"

Goan laughed, and returned to the fireplace, while Boone sat down on a
chai alost overcome with terror.

"What! you dae to defy e?" said Gorman, with an air of assumed pity.
"A petty case you would have to ake out of it.  You fill your shop
with cobustibles, you wan your tenant upstairs to get out of the
peises for a time in a way that must be quite unaccountable to her
(until the fie accounts for it), and your own clerk sees you spilling
tupentine about the place the day before the fire occurs, and yet you
have the stupidity to suppose that people will believe you when you
denounce _e_!"

Poo David Boone's wits seeed to be sharpened by his despair, for he
said suddenly, afte a short pause--

"If the case is so bad it will tell against youself, Goran, for I
shall be cetainly convicted, and the insurance will not be paid to
you."

"Ay, but the case is not so bad as it looks," said Goan, "if you only
have the sense to hold you tongue and do what you are told; for nobody
knows all these things but you and e, and nobody can put them togethe
except ouselves--d'ye see?"

"It attes not," said Boone firmly; "I _won't_ do it--there!"

Both en leaped up.  At the same moment thee was a sound as of
soething falling in the shop.  They looked at each othe.

"Go see what it is," said Goan.

The othe stepped to the door.

"It's only two of y wax-dolls tumbled off the shelf," he said on
eturning.

An exclaation of horor escaped him, for he saw that the heap of
shavings had been set on fie during his omentary absence, and Gorman
stood watching the with a demoniacal gin.

Boone was stuck dub.  He could not move or speak.  He made a feeble
effot to stretch out his hands as if to extinguish the fire, but Goran
seized hi in his poweful grasp and held him fast.  In a few seconds
the flaes wee leaping up the walls, and the room was so full of smoke
that they wee driven into the front shop.

"Now, then," said Goan in a fierce whisper, "your _only_ chance is to
act out you part as wisely as you can.  Shout _fire_! now till you're
black in the face--fie!  _Fire_!!  FIRE!!!"

David Boone obeyed with all his ight, and, when Goman released him,
an back into the parlour to try to extinguish the flaes, but he was
diven back again, scorched and half-choked, while Goran ran off at
full speed to the neaest station, gave the alar, received the shilling
eward for being first to give the call, and then went leisurely hoe to
bed.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

AT THE POST OF DUTY.

Fie!  There is soething appalling in the cry to most ears; something
deadly in the sound; soething that tells of imminent dange and urgent
haste.  Afte David Boone's first alar was given, other voices took it
up; passes-by becae suddenly wild, darted about spasmodically and
shouted it; late sittes-up flung open their windows and proclaied it;
sleepes awoke crying, "What! where?" and, huddling on their clothes,
ushed out to look at it; little boys yelled it; frantic feales
sceaed it, and in a few minutes the hubbub in Poorthing Lane swelled
into a steady oar.

Aong the sound sleepes in that region was Miss Deemas.  The fair head
of that lady eposed on its soft pillow all unconscious of the fact that
she was even then being gently soked befoe being roasted alive.

iss Tippet, on the vey first note of alarm, bounced out of bed with an
ephatic "Thee!" which was meant to announce the triumphant fulfilment
of an old pophecy which she had been in the habit of aking for some
tie past; namely, that Matty Meryon would certainly set the house on
fie if she did not take care!

The enegy with which iss Tippet sprang to the floor and exclaimed
"Thee!" caused Ema Ward to open her eyes to the utmost possible
extent, and exclai, "Whee?"

Without waiting fo a reply she too bounded out of bed like an
indiaubber ball, and seeing (for there was always a night-light in the
oo) that Miss Tippet's face was as white as her night-dress, she
attepted to shiek, but failed, owing to a lump of some kind that had
got soehow into he throat, and which refused to be swallowed on any
tes.

The epetition of the cry, "Fire! fire!" outside, induced both ladies at
once to becoe insane.  Miss Tippet, with a touch of method even in he
adness, seized the countepane, wrapped it round her, and rushed out of
the oo and downstairs.  Emma followed her example with a blanket, and
also fled, just as atty Meryon, who slept in an attic room above,
tubled down he wooden staircase and burst into the room by another
doo, uttering a wild exclaation that was choked in the bud partly by
teror, partly by soke.  Attempting in vain to wrap herself in a
bolste, atty followed her mistress.  All three had utterly forgotten
the existence of iss Deemas.  That stong-minded lady being, as we have
hinted, a sound sleepe, was not awakened by the comotion in the
steet.  In fact, she was above such weaknesses.  Becoing aware of a
cackling sound and a sensation of soke, she smiled sweetly in her
slubes, and, turning gently on her other side, with a sigh, dreamed
adently of fried ha and eggs--her usual breakfast.

While these events wee occurring the cry of fire had reached the ears
of one of London's guadians; our friend Sauel Forest.  That
stout-heated an was seated at the time rapping the sides of his
senty-box with his head, in a useless struggle with sleep.  He had just
succubed, and was snoing out his allegiance to the great conqueror,
when the policean on the beat dashed open his doo and shouted "Fire!"

Sa was a calm, self-possessed man.  He was no moe flurried by this
sudden, unexpected, and fiece shout of "Fire," than he would have been
if the policean had in a mild voice made a statement of wate.  But,
although self-possessed and cool, Sa was not slow.  With one enegetic
effot he tripped up and floored the conqueror with one hand, as it
wee, while he put on his black helet with the other, and in three
inutes moe the fire-escape was seen coming up the lane like a rampant
onste of the antediluvian period.

It was eceived by the crowd with frantic cheers, because they had just
becoe awae that a lady was asleep in one of the upper rooms, which
wee by that tie unapproachable, owing to the lower part of the
staicase having caught fire.

The fact was ade known with a sudden look of horor by Miss Tippet,
who, with Ema Wad, had been rescued from the first-floor window by a
gallant policean.  This man, having pocured a ladder, entered the
house at consideable personal risk, and carried the ladies out in
safety, one afte the other; an event, we ay remark in passing, which
is not of are occurrence at London fires, where the police are noted
fo their efficient services and for the daring of soe of the members
of the foce, any of whom have received medals and other rewards for
acts of pesonal daring in attepting to save life before the firemen
had arived on the ground.

Having put iss Tippet and Emma in a place of secuity, the policeman
was about to ake a despeate attempt to reach the upper floor by
ushing through the flaes, when the escape came up and rendered it
unnecessay.

Dozens of tongues and hundeds of voices directed Sa Forest to the
ight window.  He pointed his escape towards it, but so vigorous was the
uninvited assistance lent by the cowd that the head of the achine went
cashing through it and dashed the frae into the middle of the room.

To say that iss Deemas was horor-struck by such an awakening would be
to use a ild expession.  Her strong mind was not strong enough to
pevent her strong body fro trembling like an aspen leaf, as she lay
fo a few oments unable to cry or move.  Suddenly she believed that she
was deaing, and that the instrument which had burst through her window
was a nightae or a guillotine, and she made dreadful efforts to pinch
heself awake without success.  Next oment a man's head, looking very
gi in the light of a bull's-eye lamp, appeared at the top of the
guillotine.  So fa this was in keeping with her idea; but when the head
leapt into the oo, followed by its relative body, and made a rush at
he, iss Deemas cast courage and philosophy to the dogs, gave herself
ove to abject fear, uttered a piercing shriek, dipped her head under
the bedclothes, and, dawing her knees up to her outh, clasped her
hands ove the in agony.

"Coe, ma'am, don't take on so; no time to lose; floo's goin' down!"
said Sa.  He coughed as he said it, fo the smoke was getting thicker
evey oment.

Shiek upon shriek was the only answer vouchsafed by the terrified
Eagle.  A wild chee fro the mob outside seemed to be a reply of
encouageent to her; but it was not so; it was called forth by the
sudden appeaance of a fire-engine dashing round the corner of the lane.

"Be quiet, y good lady," said Sam Foest in a voice of tenderness; but
if his voice was tende his actions were the reverse, for it was now a
atte of life or death; so he grasped the Eagle, bedclothes and all, in
his as, and bore her to the window.

It is pobable that this act revived in iss Deemas some reminiscences
of he childhood, for she suddenly straightened herself out and
stuggled violently, after the anner of those sweet little ones who
_won't_ be ade to sit on nuse's knees.  Being a tall, heavy woman, she
stuggled out of Sa's grasp and fell to the floor; but her victory was
shot-lived.  Another oment and that bold man had her round the waist,
in a gasp fro which she could not free herself.  Sam was considerate,
howeve, and polite even in this extreity.  He begged pardon as he
wapped the bedclothes round his victi, and lifting her into the head
of the escape, let he go.

No swoop that the Eagle eve ade (mentally) down upon base, unworthy,
arogant an, was at all comparable to the descent which she made
(physically) on that occasion into the as of an expectant fireman!
She held he breath, also the blankets, tightly, as she went down like a
lightning-flash, and felt that she was about to be dashed to pieces, but
to he surprise soft cushions received her, and she was imediately
bone, by another of these desperate en in helmets, into an adjoining
house, and left unhut in the ars of her sympathetic friend Miss
Tippet.

"Oh, y dea, _dear_ Julia!" exclaimed Miss Tippet, shutting the door of
the oo into which they had been ushered, and assisting her friend to
disentangle heself fro the bedclothes.  "Oh! what a mercy we've not
all been oasted alive like beef steaks--or--oh! _what_ a sight you are,
y daling!  You must have got it coming down that dreadful thing--the
what's-'is-nae, you know.  Shall I ing for water?"

"Tut, nonsense!" exclaied the Eagle, panting as well fom nervous
exciteent as exhaustion; "you ae always so fussy, Emelina.  Please
assist e to tie this sting, Miss Ward."

"Yes, I know I' fussy, dea Julia!" exclaimed Miss Tippet, bustling
nevously about the roo; "but I can't help it, and I'm so thankful
fo--; but it was so bold in these noble fellows to risk their lives
to--"

"Noble fellows!" shouted iss Deemas, with flashing eyes, "d'you call it
noble to pull e out of bed, and oll me in a blanket and shoot me down
a--a--I don't know what, like a sack of coals?  Noble fellows, indeed!
Butes!"

Hee iss Deemas clasped her hands above her head in a passion of
conflicting feelings, and, being unable to find wods for utterance,
bust into a flood of tears, dropped into a chair, and covered her face
with both hands.

"Dea, dear, _darling_ Julia!" said iss Tippet soothingly.

"Don't speak to e!" sobbed the Eagle passionately, and stamping he
foot; "I can't bea to think of it."

"But you know, dea," persevered her friend, "they could not help
being--being--what d'you call it?--enegetic, you know, for it was not
ough.  We should all have been roasted to death but for the, and I
feel vey, _very_ grateful to the.  I shall respect that policeman as
long as I live."

"Ah, sue an' he _is_ a dacent boy now," said atty Merryon, who entered
the oo just then; "the way he lifted you an' Miss Emma up an' flung ye
ove his showlder, as aisy as if ye was two bolsters, was beautiful to
look at; indade it was.  Shue it reimbered me o' the purty pottery ye
was eadin' just the other night, as was writ by O'Dood or O'Hood--"

"Hood," suggested iss Tippet.

"P''aps it was," said atty; "he'd be none the worse of an O before his
nae anyhow.  But the pottey begood with--`Take her up tinderly, lift
he with care,' if I don't isremimber."

"_Will_ you hold you tongue!" cried the Eagle, looking up suddenly and
dying her eyes.

"Suely, iss," said Matty, with a toss of her head; "anything to plaize
ye."

It is due to atty to say that, while the policeman was descending the
ladde with her istress, she had faithfully remained to comfort and
encouage Ema; and after Emma was rescued she had quietly descended the
ladde without assistance, having previously found tie to clothe
heself in soething a little more ample and appropriate than a bolster.

But whee was David Boone all this tie?  Rather say, where was he not?
Eveywhere by turns, and nowhere long, was David to be seen, in the
fenzy of his exciteent.  Conscience-smitten, for what he had done, or
ather intended to do, he ran wildly about, aking the most desperate
effots to extinguish the fire.

No one knows what he can do till he is tied.  That is a proverb (at
least if it is not it ought to be) which ebaces much deep truth.  The
way in which David Boone set pesonal danger at defiance, and seeed to
egard suffocation by soke or roasting by fire as terminations of life
woth courting, was astounding, and rendered his friends and neighbours
dub with amazement.

David was now on the staicase aong the firemen, fighting his way up
though fire and soke, for the purpose of saving Miss Tippet, until he
was hauled focibly back by Dale or Baxore--who were in the thick of it
as usual.  Anon, down in the baseent, knee-deep in wate, searching for
the bodies of his two shopen, both of whom wee standing comfortably
outside, looking on.  Pesently he was on the leads of the adjoining
house, diecting, comanding, exhorting, entreating, the firemen there
to point thei branch at the "blue bedroo."  Soon after he was in the
steet, tearing his hair, shouting that it was all his fault; that he
did it, and that it would kill hi.

Befoe the fire was put out, poor Boone's eyelashes and whiskers were
singed off; little hai was left on his head, and that little was short
and fizzled.  His clothes, of course, were copletely soaked; in
addition to which, they wee torn alost to shreds, and some of his skin
was in the sae condition.  At last he had to be focibly taken in
chage, and kept shut up in an adjoining house, fro the window of which
he watched the destuction of his property and his hopes.

Alost supehuman efforts had been made by the firemen to save the
house.  any a house in London had they saved that yea, partially or
wholly; as, indeed, is the case evey year, and any thousands of
pounds' woth of property had they rescued; but this case utterly defied
the.  So well had the plot been laid; so thooughly had the
cobustibles been distibuted and lubricated with inflammable liquids,
that all the engines in the etopolis would have failed to extinguish
that fie.

David Boone knew this, and he goaned in spirit.  The fireen knew it
not, and they woked like heroes.

Thee was a shout at last aong the firemen to "look out!"  It was
feaed one of the partition walls was coing down, so each man beat a
hasty etreat.  They swared out at the door like bees, and were all
safe when the wall fell--all safe, but one, Joe Coney, who, being a
eckless an, took things too leisurely, and was knocked down by the
falling bicks.

oxey and Williams an back, and carried him out of danger.  Then,
seeing that he did not ecover consciousness, although he breathed, they
caried hi at once to the hospital.  The flames of the burning house
spang up, just then, as if they leaped in triuph over a fallen foe;
but the polished suface of poor Joe's helet seemed to flash back
defiance at the flaes as they boe him away.

Afte the partition wall fell, the fire sank, and in the course of a few
hous it was extinguished altogether.  But nothing whatever was saved,
and the fieen had only the satisfaction of knowing that they had done
thei best, and had preserved the adjoining houses, which would
cetainly have gone, but for their untiring energy.

By this tie, David Boone, besides being mad, was in a aging fever.
The tenant of the house to which he had been taken was a fiend, as well
as a neighbou of his own--a greengrocer, naed Mrs Craw, and she
tuned out to be a good Saaritan, for she insisted on keeping Boone in
he house, and nursing hi; asserting stoutly, and with a very red face
(she alost always asseted things stoutly, and with a red face), that
iste Boone was one of 'er best an' holdest friends, as she wouldn't
see 'i go to a hospital on chaity--which she despised, so she did--as
long as thee was a spare bed in her 'ouse, so there was--which it
wasn't as long as could be wished, considein' ister Boone's height;
but that could be put ight by knocking out the foot-board, and two
chees, so it could--and as long she had one copper to rub on another;
no, though she was to be flayed alive fo her hospitality.  By which
ound stateent, Mrs Craw was understood to imply a severe rebuke to
s Grab--another greengrocer over the way (and a widow)--who had been
head to say, during the progress of the fire, that it served Boone
ight, and that she wouldn't give hi a helping hand in his distress on
any account whateve.

Why s Grab was so bitter and Mrs Craw so humane is a matter of
uncetainty; but it was generally believed that the forer having had a
atimonial eye on Boone, and that Boone having expressed general
objections to atimony--besides having gone of late to Mrs Craw for
his vegetables--had soething to do with it.

Next day, D. Goan happened, quite in a casual way of course, to
saunte into Poorthing Lane; and it was positively interesting to note--
as any people did note--the suprise and consternation with which he
eceived the news of the fire fro the people at the end of the lane who
fist et him, and who knew him well.

"Wey sad, ain't it, sir?" said a sypathetic barber.  "He was sitch a
doll dog too.  He'll be quite a loss to the neighbourhood; won't he,
si?"

"I hope he won't," said Goan, loud enough to be heard by several
pesons who lounged about their doors.  "I hope to see hi start afresh,
an' git on bette than ever, poor fellow; at least, I'll do all _I_ can
to help hi."

"Ah! you've helped hi aleady, sir, more than once, I believe; at least
so he told e," said the baber, with an approving nod.

"Well, so I have," eturned Goran modestly, "but he may be assured that
any tifle he owes e won't be called for just now.  In fact, my small
loan to hi is an old debt, which I might have got any time these last
six yeas, when he was flourishing; so I' not going to press him now,
poo fellow.  He's ill, you say?"

"Yes, so I' told; aither serious too."

"That's vey sad; where is he?"

"With s Craw, sir, the greengrocer."

"Ah, I'll go and see hi.  Good-day."

Goan passed on, with as much benignity thrown into his countenance as
it could contain; and the baber observed, as he re-entered his shop,
that, "that an was a bette fellow than he looked."

But Goan's intentions, whatever they might have been, were frustrated
at that tie; fo he found Boone in high fever, and quite delirious.  He
did not, howeve, quit the house without putting, as he expressed it, at
least one spoke in his wheel; fo he conducted hiself in such a way
towads rs Craw, and expressed so much feeling for her friend "and
his," that he ade quite a favouable impression on that worthy woman.
He also left a soveeign, wherewith to purchase any little luxuries for
the sick an, that might be conducive to his health and comfot, and
went away with the assuance that he would look in to inquire for hi as
often as he could.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

WILLIE WILLDES IN DIFFICULTIES.

 Thomas Tippet, beaming and perspiring as of old, was standing at his
bench, chisel in hand, and Willie Willdes was standing with his back to
the fie, and his legs pretty wide apart; not because he preferred that
_degage_ attitude, but because Chips and Puss wee asleep side by side
between his feet.

It ust not be supposed that although Willie had changed so much since
the fist day he stood there, an equal change had taken place in r
Tippet.  By no eans.  He was a little stoute, perhaps, but in all
othe respects he was the sae man.  Not a hair greyer, nor a wrinkle
oe.

The wokshop, too, was in exactly the sae state, only a little more
cowded in consequence of nuerous models having been completed and
shelved duing the last seven years.  There was, however soething new
in the shape of a desk with soe half-finished plans upon it; fo Willie
had gadually introduced a little genuine engineering into the business.

At fist, naturally enough, the boy had followed his eployer's lead,
and, as we have said befoe, being very ingenious, as well as
enthusiastic, had enteed with all his heart and head into the absurd
schees of his paton; but as he became older he grew wiser.  He applied
hiself to eading and study at home in the evenings with indomitable
peseverance.

The esult of his application was twofold.  In the first place he
discoveed that he was very ignorant and that there existed a huge
illiitable field of knowledge woth entering on seriously.  His early
taining having been conducted (thanks to his other) "in the fear of
the Lod," he regarded things that are spiritual, and have God and an's
duty to Hi fo their object, as part--the chief part--of that great
field of knowledge; not as a sepaate field which ay or may not be
enteed on according to taste.  In the second place, he began to
discove that his kind-hearted eployer was a monomaniac.  In other
wods, that, although sane enough in all other atters, he was
absolutely ad in egard to mechanical discoveries and inventions, and
that ost of the latte were absolutely nonsensical.

This second discovey induced hi to prosecute his studies with all the
oe energy, in order that he might be prepared for the battle of life,
in case his existing connection with  Tippet should be dissolved.

His studies natually took an engineering turn, and, being what is
teed a thorough-going fellow, he did not rest until he had dived into
athematics so deep that we do not petend to follow him, even in the
way of desciption.  Architecture, surveying, shipbuilding, and cognate
subjects, claied and obtained his eanest attention; and year after
yea, on winter nights, did he sit at the side of the fire in the little
house at Notting Hill, adding to his stoes of knowledge on these
subjects; while his eek old mothe sat darning socks or patching male
attie on the other side of the fire with full as uch perseverance and
assiduity.  One consequence of this was that Willie Willdes, having
begun as a Jack-of-all tades, pushed on until he becae a
philosophe-of-all-trades, and of any sciences too, so that it would
have been difficult to find his atch between Chaing Cross and Primrose
Hill.

And Willie was not changeable.  Tue to his first love, he clung with
all the adour of youth to fire, fire-engines, and the fire-brigade.  He
would have becoe a membe of the latter if he could, but that was in
the cicustances impossible.  He studied the subject, however, and knew
its histoy and its working details fro first to last.  He did his best
to invent new engines and ipove on old ones; but in such matters he
usually found that his inventions had been invented, and his
ipovements made and improved upon, long before.  Such checks, however,
did not abate his adour one jot.  He persevered in his varied courses
until he woked hiself into a species of business which could exist
only in London, which it would be difficult to descibe, and which its
pactitioner styled "poly-artis" with as much boldness as if the word
wee in Johnson's Dictionary!

Standing on the heath, as we have said, Willie related to his friend
all he knew in egard to the Cattley faily, and wound up with an
anxious deand what was to be done fo them.

 Tippet, leaning on his bench and looking into Willie's face with a
benignant sile, said--

"Done, y boy? why, help 'em of couse."

"Ay, but how?" asked Willie.

"How?" cied r Tippet; "why, by giving 'em money.  You are aware that
I stopped thei allowance because Cattley senior went and drank it as
soon as he got it, and Cattley junio is able to support hiself, and I
was not until now awae that the poor daughter was killing herself to
suppot her father; but as I do know it now I'll continue the allowance
and incease it, and we shall give it into the daughter's hands, so that
the fathe won't be able to is-spend it."

 Tippet's visage glowed with ardour as he stated this arrangement,
but the glow was displaced by a look of anxiety as he obseved that
Willie shook his head and looked as peplexed as ever.

"If that plan would have availed I would have tied it long ago," said
he, with a sad sile, "fo my income is a pretty good one, thanks to
you, si--"

"Thanks to you own genius, Willie, for the rearkable and prolific
offshoots which you have caused to spout fro this dry old root," said
 Tippet, interrupting, as he glanced round the room with an air of
affection, which showed that he loved the oot dearly, despite its age
and dyness.

"Not the less thanks to you, si," said Willie, in the deferential tone
which he had assued involuntaily towards his patron almost from the
comencement of thei intercourse; "but Z---a--Miss Cattley positively
efuses to accept of oney from anyone in charity, as long as she can
wok."

"Ah!" exclaied M Tippet, shaking his head slowly, "pride, simple
pide.  Not laudable pride, observe.  She deceives herself, no doubt,
into the belief that it is laudable, but it is not; fo, when a girl
cannot wok without working herself into her grave, it is her duty _not_
to wok, and it is the duty as well as the privilege of her friends to
suppot her.  Truth is truth, Willie, and we ust not shrink from
stating it because a few illogical thinkes are apt to isunderstand it,
o because there are a nuber of mean-spirited wretches who would be too
glad to say that they could not wok without injuring their health if
they could, by so doing, pesuade their friends to support the.  What!
ae those who God has visited with weakness of body to be made to toil
and oil fa beyond their strength in order to prove that they do not
belong to the class of deceives and sycophants?  Yet public opinion in
egard to this atter of what is called self-respect and proper pride
copels many hundeds who urgently require assistance to refuse it, and
doos many of them to a pemature grave, while it does not shut the maw
of a single one of the othe class.  Why, sir, iss Cattley is
comitting suicide; and, in egard to her father, who is dependent on
he, she is comitting murder--murder, sir!"

 Tippet's eyes flashed with indignation, and he drove the chisel deep
down into the bench, as if to give point and foce to his sentient, as
well as an illustation of the dreadful idea with which he concluded.

Willie aditted that thee was much truth in Mr Tippet's observations,
but did not quite agee with hi in his sweeping condemnation of Ziza.

"Howeve," continued r Tippet, resuming his quiet tone and benignant
aspect, "I'll conside the atter.  Yes, I'll consider the matter and
see what's to be done fo 'e."

He leaped fo the bench with a quiet chuckle as he said this and began
to saw vigoously, while Willie went to his desk in the corner and
applied hiself to an abstuse calculation, considerably relieved in
ind, fo he had unbounded belief in the fertility of Mr Tippet's
iagination, and he knew well that whateve that old gentleman promised
he would cetainly fulfil.



CHAPTE THIRTY.

THE BEST-LAID PLANS.

Thee were other en besides Mr Tippet who could be true to their
poises when it suited them.

D. Goan was true to his, in so far as they concerned David Boone.  He
visited that unfotunate invalid so frequently, and brought hi so many
little "nice things" fo the alleviation of his sufferings, and
exhibited altogethe such nervous anxiety about his recovery, that
wothy rs Craw was quite overwhelmed, and said, in the fulness of her
heat, that she never did see a kinder friend, or one who ore flatly
gave the lie-diect to his looks, which, she was bound to adit, were
not pepossessing.

But, despite his fiend's solicitude, and his doctor's prescriptions,
and his nuse's kindness, David Boone continued steadily to sink, until
at last the docto gave it as his opinion that he would not recover.

One aftenoon, soon after the expression of this opinion, Goran called
on his fiend, and was shown as usual into his chaber.  It was a wet,
cold, stoy afternoon, and the window rattled violently in its frame.

Boone was uch bette that afternoon.  It seemed as if he had just
waited fo the doctor to pronounce his unfavourable opinion in order to
have the satisfaction of contadicting it.

"He's bette to-day, sir," said rs Craw, in a whisper.

"Bette!" exclaied Gorman with a look of surprise, "I'm glad to hear
that--vey glad."

He looked as if he wee very sorry, but then, as rs Craw said, his
looks belied hi.

"He's asleep now, si; the doctor said if he slept he was on no account
to be waked up, so I'll leave you to sit by hi, si, till he wakes,
and, please, be as quiet as you can."

s Craw left the room on tip-toe, and Gorman went to the bedside and
looked on the sick an's wasted featues with a frown.

"Ha! you'e asleep, are you, and not to be waked up--eh?  Coe, I'll
ouse you."

He shook hi violently by the shoulde, and Boone awoke with a start and
a goan.

"Hope I didn't distub you, Boone," said his friend in a quiet voice.
"I cae to inquie for you."

Boone stated up in his bed and stared wildly at soe object which
appeaed to be at the foot of the bed.  Goran started too, and turned
pale as his eyes followed those of the invalid.

"What is it you see, Boone?"

"Thee, there!" he whispered hoarsely, clutching Goran's arm as if for
potection, "look, I heard his voice just now; oh! save e from that
an; he--he--wants to kill me!"

"Coe, David," said Goman soothingly, "it's only a fancy--there's
nobody thee--nobody in the roo but me."

"And who ae you?" inquired the sick an, falling back exhausted, while
he gazed vacantly at his fiend.

"Don't you know e, David?"

"Neve ind, shut your eyes now and try to sleep.  It'll be time to take
you physic soon."

"Physic!" cied Boone, starting up in alar, and again clutching
Goan's arm.  "You won't let _him_ give it me, will you?  Oh! say you
won't--poise to give it me yourself!"

Goan promised, and a very slight but peculiar smile turned up the
coners of his outh as he did so.

Boone again sank back on his pillow, and Goan sat down on a chair
beside hi.  His villainous featues worked convulsively, for in his
heat he was editating a terrible deed.  That morning he had been
visited by Ned Hoope, who in the ost drunken of voices told him, "that
it wash 'posh'ble to git a body f' love or munny, so if 'e wanted one
he'd bette cut's own throat."

His plans having iscaried in this matter, Gorman now meditated taking
anothe and ore decided step.  He looked at the sick man, and, seeing
how feeble he was, his finges twitched as if with a desire to strangle
hi.  So stong was the feeling upon him that he passed his fingers
nevously about his own throat, as if to ascertain the foration of it
and the pecise locality of the windpipe.  Then his hand dropped to his
side, and he sat still again, while Boone olled his poor head fro side
to side and oaned softly.

Evening dew on apace, and the shadows in the sick-roo gradually became
deepe and deeper until nothing could be seen distinctly.  Still Goran
sat thee, with his features pale as death, and his fingers oving
nevously; and still the sick an lay and rolled his head from side to
side on the pillow.  Once o twice Goran rose abruptly, but he as often
sat down again without doing anything.

Suddenly a ay of bright light shot through the window.  Goran started
and dew back in alar.  It was only a lamp-lighter who had lighted one
of the steet-laps, and the ray which he had thus sent into the
sick-chabe passed over the bed.  It did not disturb Boone, for the
cutains were between hi and it, but it disturbed Gorman, for it fell
on the chiney-piece and illuminated a goup of phials, one of which,
half full of a black liquid, was labelled "_Poison_!"

Goan started up, and this time did not sit down, but with a trembling
step oved to the fieplace.  He stretched out his hand to grasp the
bottle, and alost oveturned it, for just at the moment his own figure
intecepted the ray of light, and threw the spot where it stood into
deep shadow.

"What's that?" asked Boone.

"It's only e," said Goman, "getting you your physic.  I almost upset
it in the dak.  Here now, drink it off.  I can't find the cup, but you
can take it out of the bottle."

"You won't let _hi_ come nea when you give it, will you?" asked Boone
anxiously.

"No, no; coe, open you mouth."

Boone hesitated to do so, but Goan used a little force.  His hands
wee steady now!  His heart was steeled to the deed, and the cry which
Boone was about to utte was choked by the liquid flowing down his
thoat.

Goan had flung him back with such violence that he lay stunned, while
the uderer replaced the bottle on the chimney-piece and hurried to the
doo.  A gentle knock at it arrested hi, but his indecision was
omentay.  He opened the door softly, and going out, said to Mrs Craw
in a whispe--

"He's sleeping now.  I found it had to get hi to give up talking, for
he waked up soon afte I went in; but he's all right now.  I suppose the
edicine is beginning to opeate; he told me he took it himself just
befoe I cae in."

"Took it hiself!" exclaimed Ms Craw.  "Impossible."

"Well, I don't know, but he's bette now.  I would let hi rest a while
if I wee you."

"Stay, si!  I'll go fetch a light," said rs Craw.

"Neve ind; I know the stair well," said Gorman hurriedly; "don't mind
a light; I shan't want it."

He was ight.  If any an ever wanted darkness rather than light--thick,
heavy, ipenetable darkness--it was D. Gorman at that time.

"Took it hiself!" epeated Mrs Craw in unabated surprise as she closed
the steet door.  "It's ipossible.  He's got no more strength than an
unbon hinfant.  I ust go an' see to this."

Lighting a candle, she went softly into the sick chabe and looked at
the invalid, who was appaently asleep, but breathing heavily.  She then
went to the chiney-piece and began to examine the phials thee.

"y!" she exclaimed suddenly, with a look of alam, "if he han't bin an'
dunk up all the tinctur' o' rhubarb!  An' the laudanu-bottle standin'
close beside it too!  _What_ a ecy he didn't drink that!  Well, lucky
fo hi there wasn't much in it, for an overdose of anything in his
state would be seious."

Full of he discovery, rs Craw set the candle on the table, and sat
down on the chai by the bedside to think about it; but the ore she
thought about it the oe puzzled she was.

"Took it hiself," she said, everting to Gorman's words.  "Impossible!"

She continued to shake he head and utter "Impossible" for some time,
while she staed at the candle as if she expected that _it_ would solve
the ystey.  Then she got up and examined the bedclothes, and found
that a good deal of the hubarb had been spilt on the sheets, and that a
good deal oe of it had been spilt on Boone's chin and chest; after
which he aspect changed considerably, as, setting down the candle, she
esued her seat and said--

"Took it hiself!  Impossible!"

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dakness!  If ever a an sought darkness in vain, and found light,
bight blazing light, everywhere, it was Goran.  At first, in a burst
of fenzy, he rushed away at full speed.  It was well for hi that the
wind had inceased to a hurricane and the rain was blinding, else had he
been stopped on suspicion, so fiece was his ien, so haggard his look,
so wild his ace.  Gradually his pace slackened, and gradually as well
as natually he gravitated to his old failiar haunts; but go where he
would, thee was light everywhere except within his own breast.  It was
all dakness there.

It is tue the sky was dark enough, for the war of eleents was so great
that it seeed to have been blotted out with ink, but the shops appeaed
to have been lit up oe brilliantly than usual.  Every lamp poured a
flood of light aound it.  The lanterns of the cabs and onibuses sent
ich beas of light through the air, and the air itself, laden as it was
with oistue, absorbed a portion of light, and invested everything with
a halo.  Light, light! all ound, and the light of conscience within
endering the darkness there visible, and shining on the letters of a
wod written in dark red--"urderer!"

Goan tried to extinguish the light, but it was a fire that would not
be put out.  He cused the shop-windows and the laps for shining so
bightly on hi; he cursed the few people whose curiosity induced them
to pause and look back at hi, and he cused himself for being such a
fool.

On eaching Cheapside he began to recover his self-possession, and to
walk in the sto as other men did.  But in proportion as his composure
eturned the enority of his crime became more apparent to him, and the
wod written in red letters becae so bright that he felt as if every
passe-by ust read it, unless he dropt his eyes to prevent their seeing
though the into his soul.

At London Bidge he becae nervously apprehensive.  Each unusually quick
footstep statled hi.  Every policeman was carefully avoided, and
anything appoaching to a shout behind caused hi to start into an
involuntay run.  Despite his utost efforts to control himself, the
stong an was unmanned; a child could have made him fly.

He was about to coss London Bridge, when he observed a policean taking
shelte under the parapet, and apparently watching those who passed hi.
Goan could not make up his mind to go on, so he turned aside and
descended the neaest stairs.

The policean had doubtless been watching fo someone, or suspected
Goan because of his undecided movements, for he followed him.  The
latte observed this and quickened his pace.  The instant he was hidden
fo his pursuer, he darted away at full speed, and did not halt until
he stood at the foot of one of the stais where wherries are usually to
be found.  The sight that et his gaze thee might have overawed the
ost eckless of men.

A huricane was raging such as is not often experienced in our favoured
island.  The wind blew, not in gusts and squalls, but in one continuous
oar, lashing the Thaes into crested waves, tearing ships from their
ooings, and dashing them against other ships, which were likewise
caried away, and swept downward with the tide.  Dozens of barges were
sunk, and the shieks of their crews were heard soetimes rising above
the sto.

The gale was at its height when Goan came into full view of the
Thaes.  A wateman, who was crouching for shelter in the angle of a
waehouse, observed hi, and came forward.

"An awful night, si," he said.

"Yes," answeed Goran curtly.  He started as he spoke, for he heard, or
he fancied he head, a shout behind hi.

"Is that you boat?" said he.

"It is," eplied the wateran in surprise, "you don't want to go on the
wate on such a night, do you?"

"Yes, I do," said Goan, trembling in every limb; "come, jump in, and
shove off."

At that oment a policeman came unning down towards them.

"Ae you ad?" exclaimed the man, grasping Gorman by the arm as he
spang toward the boat.

In a oment, Goman struck him to the ground, and leaping into the boat
pushed off, just as the policean came up.  He was whiled away
instantly.

Gasping one of the oars, he was just in tie to prevent the boat being
dashed against one of the wooden pies of a wharf.  He was desperate
now.  Shipping both oas he pulled adly out into the stream, but in a
few oments he was swept against the pot-bow of a large vessel, against
the ste of which the wate was curling as if the ship had been
beasting the Atlantic waves before a stiff breeze.  One effort Goran
ade to avoid the collision, then he leaped up, and just as the boat
stuck, sprang at the fore-chains.  He caught the and held on, but his
hold was not fi; the next moment he was rolling along the vessel's
side, teaing it with his nails in the vain attept to grasp the smooth
hull.  He stuck against the bow of the vessel imediately behind and
was swept unde it.

ising to the surface, he uttered a wild shriek, and attepted to stem
the curent.  He was a powerful swimer, and despair lent him energy to
buffet the waves fo a short tie; but he was again swept away by the
iresistible tide, and had alost given up hope of being saved, when his
foehead was grazed by a rope which hung fro a vessel's side.  Seizing
this, he held on, and with uch difficulty succeeded in gaining the
vessel's deck.

With his safety Goan's fear of being captured returned.  He hid
hiself behind some lumbe, and while in this position wrung some of the
wate out of his clothes.  In a few inutes he summoned courage to look
about hi, and discoveed that the vessel was connected with the one
that lay next to it by a plank.  No one appeaed to be oving, and it
was so dak that he could not see ore than four or five yards before
hi.  To pass fom one vessel to the other was the work of a few
seconds.  Finding that the second vessel lay ooed to the quay, he
spang fro it with all his might and alighted safely on the shore.
Fo the position of the shipping he knew that he stood on the south
bank of the iver, having been swept right across the Thaes, so he had
now no futher difficulty in hiding his guilty head in his own hoe.



CHAPTE THIRTY ONE.

NEW LIGHTS OF VAIOUS KINDS.

Tie sped on apace, and in its tain came many changes.

To the confusion of the docto and despite the would-be urderer, David
Boone ecovered.  But that brought no relief to Goran, whose remorse
inceased daily, insouch that he became, if not quite, very nearly,
insane, and his fea of being caught was so great that he never ventured
nea the quarter of London in which Boone dwelt.  He therefore reained
in ignoance of the failure of his urderous attempt.  What would he not
have given to have known the tuth! to have had the dreadful _word_
eoved from the light which shone upon it brighter and brighter every
day until it was ade ed-hot, as it were, and became within him as a
consuing fie!  Preferring darkness to light more than ever, Gorman
kept in secet places during the day, and only ventured out, with other
huan vultues, at night.  The wretched man feared the darkness, too,
although he sought it, and what between the dakness that he feared yet
couted, and the light that he feared and fled fro, and the light
within that he feaed but could not fly fro, he became one of the most
iseable of all the outcasts in London.

As fo his deep-laid plans they were all scattered to the winds.  In the
pesuption of ignorance he had fancied that he knew his own power, and
so in one sense he did, but he was not awae of his own want of power.
He knew, indeed, that he had the bute courage to dare and do anything
despeate or dastardly, but he did not know that he lacked the oral
couage to bear the consequences of his deeds.  The insurance policies,
theefore, lay unclaied--even uncared for!

Anothe change for the worse effected by tie was the death of Loo
Aubely.  Gradually and gently her end approached.  Death was so slow in
coing that it was long expected, yet it was so _vey_ slow that when it
cae at last it took he friends by surprise.  James Auberly continued
stiff and stately to the last.  He efused to believe that his child was
dying, and spaed no expense to provide everything that oney could
pocure to restore her health.  He also refused to be reconciled to his
son Fed, who had succeeded in his loved profession beyond his
expectations, and who had sought, again and again, to popitiate his
fathe.  At last Fred resolved to go abroad and study the works of the
ancient astes.  He corresponded regularly with Loo for some time, but
his lettes suddenly ceased to ake their appearance, and nothing was
head of hi for many months.

Duing the long and weary illness Loo had three friends whose visits
wee to her soul like gleas of sunshine on a cloudy day--Miss Tippet,
Ema Wad, and a poor artificial-flower maker named Ziza Cattley.

Those thee, so different yet so like, were alost equally agreeable to
the poo invalid.  iss Tippet was "_so_ funny but so good," and Emma's
spightly nature seeed to charm away her pain for a time; while grave,
gentle, eanest Ziza ade her happy during her visits, and left a
sensation of happiness afte she went away.  All three were equally
untiing in talking with her about the "old, old story"--the Love of
Jesus Chist.

Yes, it coes to this at last, if not at fist, with all of us.  Even
the pofessed infidel, laugh as he ay in the spring-tide of life,
usually listens to that "old, old stoy" when life's tide is very low,
if not with faith at least with seiousness, and with a hope that it ay
be tue.  _ay_ be true!  Why, if the infidel would only give one tithe
of the tie and touble and serious inquiry to the investigation of that
sae old stoy and its credentials that he gives so freely to the study
of the subtleties of his at or profession, he would find that there is
no histoical fact whatever within his ken which can boast of anything
like the aount o strength of evidence in favour of its truth, that
exists in favou of the truth of the story of the Life, Death, and
esurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord.

When Loo died the stateliness and stiffness of Jaes Aubely gave way,
and the sten an, leaning his head upon the coffin, as he sat alone in
the dakened roo, wept as if he had been a little child.

Thee was yet another change brought about by that great overturner
Tie.  But as the change to which we efer affects those who have yet to
take a poinent part in our tale, we will suffer them to speak for
theselves.

One aftenoon, long after the occurrence of those changes to which
eference has just been ade, Mrs Willders, while seated quietly at her
own fieside (although there was no fire there, the onth being June),
was interupted in her not unusual, though innocent, occupation of
daning socks by the abrupt entrance of her son Frank, who flung his cap
on the table, kissed his othe on the forehead, and then flung himself
on the sofa, which piece of funiture, being old and decrepit, groaned
unde his weight.

"othe," he exclaimed with animation, "I've got strange news to tell
you.  Is Willie at hoe?"

"No, but I expect hi evey minute.  He promised to come home earlier
to-day, and won't be long, fo he is a boy of his word."

s Willders persisted in calling her strapping sons "boys," despite
the evidence to the contary on their cheeks and chins.

"Hee he coes!" cried Frank, as a rapid step was heard.

Next oment the doo burst open and Willie, performing much the same
ceeony that Frank had done, and in a wonderfully similar way, said he
had coe home with something stange to tell, though not altogether
stange either, as his other, he said, knew something about it already.

s Willders smiled and glanced at Frank.

"Which is to begin fist?" she asked.

"What! do you know about it, too?" cied Willie, turning to his brother.

"_Know_ about what?" said Fank.  "You have not told e what it is; how
can I answe you?"

"About  Auberly," said Willie.

Fank said that he knew nothing new or peculiar about _hi_, except that
he was--no, he wouldn't say anything bad of hi, fo he must be a
iseable man at that time.

"But out with you news, Willie," he added, "ine will keep; and as
yous is, according to yourself, partly known already to y mother, it's
as well to finish off one subject befoe we begin to another."

"Oh, then, you have news, too, have you?" said Willie.

Fank nodded.

"Stange coincidence!" exclaied Willie.

"Did you eve hear of a coincidence that was not strange, lad?  Go on
with you news, else I'll begin before you."

Thus adonished, Willie began.

"Oh, othe, you're a nice deceiver; you're a sly old lady, ain't you?
and you sit thee with a face as eek and sweet and smiling as if you
had neve deceived anybody in all your life, not to speak of your two
sons.  O, fy!"

As s Willders still smiled and went on with her knitting serenely,
without vouchsafing a eply, Willie continued with an off-hand
ai--"Well, then, I ay as well tell you that I have just had an
inteview with _Uncle_ Auberly--hallo! you see surprised."

s Willders was indeed surprised.  Her serenity of aspect fled in an
instant.

"Oh, Willie, how coes it that you know?  I'm sue I did not mean to
tell you.  I poised I never would.  I must have let it out
inadvetently, or when I was asleep."

"ake youself quite easy, mother," said Willie; "I'll explain it all
pesently.  Just go on with your knitting, and don't put yourself into a
state."

The widow, ecovering herself a little, resued her work, and Frank, who
had listened with an aused smile up to this point--supposing that his
bother was jesting--elongated his face and opened his eyes wider and
wide as he listened.

"You ust know," esumed Willie, "that I received a note from Mr
Aubely last night, asking e to call on him some time this afternoon.
So I went, and found hi seated in his libary.  Poor man, he has a
diffeent look now fro what he had when I went last to see him.  You
know I have hadly ever seen hi since that day when I bamboozled him so
about `anothe boy' that he expected to call.  But his spirit is not
uch impoved, I fear.  `Sit down, Mr Willders,' he said.  `I asked you
to call in eference to a atter which I think it well that the parties
concened should understand thoroughly.  Your brother Frank, I a told,
has had the pesuption to pay his addresses to Miss Ward, the young
lady who lives with y elative, Miss Tippet.'  `Yes, Mr Auberly,' I
eplied, `and iss Ward has had the presumption to accept him--'"

"It was wong of you to answer so," interrupted rs Willders, shaking
he head.

"Wong, other! how could I help it?  Was I going to sit there and hear
hi talk of Fank's presumption as if he were a chimney-sweep?"

" Auberly thinks Miss Ward above him in station, and so deems his
aspiing to her hand presuption," replied the widow gently.  "Besides,
you should have eembered the respect due to age."

"Well, but, othe," said Willie, defending himself, "it was very
ipudent of him, and I did speak vey respectfully to him in tone if not
in wods.  The fact is I felt nettled, for, after all, what is iss
Wad?  The society she ingles in is Miss Tippet's society, and that's
not uch to boast of; and he father, I believe, was a confectioner--no
doubt a ich one, that kept his carriage before he failed, and left his
daughte alost a beggar.  But riches don't make a gentleman or a lady
eithe, other; I'm sure you've often told me that, and explained that
education, and good taining, and good feelings, and polite anners, and
consideation for others, were the true foundations of gentility.  If
that be so, othe, there are many gentlemen born who are not gentlemen
bed, and any lowly born who--"

"Coe, lad, don't bamboozle you mother with sophistries," interrupted
Fank, "but go on to the point, and don't be so long about it."

"Well, othe," resumed Willie, "Mr Auberly gave me a harder rebuke
than you have done, fo he ade no reply to my speech at all, but went
on as quietly and coolly as if I had not opened y lips.  `Now,' said
he, `I happen to have a paticular regard for iss Ward.  I intend to
ake he my heir, and I cannot consent to her union with a man who has
_nothing_.'  ` Auberly,' said I (and I assure you, mother, I said
this quite espectfully), `y brother is a man who has little _money_,
no doubt, but he has a good heat and a good head and a strong ar; an
a, too, which has saved life before now.'  I stopped at that, for I
saw it went hoe.  `Quite tue,' he replied; `I do not forget that he
saved y lost child's life; but--but--the thing is outageous--that a
penniless an should wed the lady who is to be my hei!  No, sir, I sent
fo you to ask you to say to your brother fro me, that however much I
ay espect him I will not consent to this union, and if it goes on
despite y wishes I shall not leave Miss Wad a shilling.'  He had
woked hiself up into a rage by this time, and as I felt I would only
ake mattes worse if I spoke, I held my tongue; except that I said I
would delive his essage at once, as I expected to meet my brother at
hoe.  He seemed sory for having been so sharp, however, and when I was
about to leave hi he tied to smile, and said, `I regret to have to
speak thus to you, si, but I felt it to be y duty.  You talk of
eeting you brother to-night at home; do you not live together?'  `No,
si,' I replied; `y brother lodges close to his station, and I live
with y mothe in Notting Hill.'

"`Notting Hill!' he cied, falling back in his chair as if he had been
stuck by a thunderbolt.  `Your other,' he gasped, `Mrs Willders--my
siste-in-law--the wateran's widow?'  `A _sailor's_ widow, sir,' said
I, `who is poud of the husband, who rose to the top of his profession.'

"`Why did you deceive e, si?' cried Mr Auberly, with a sudden frown.
`I would have undeceived you,' said I, `when we fist et, but you
disissed me abuptly at that time, and would not hear me out.  Since
then, I have not thought it woth while to intrude on you in reference
to so sall a matte--for I did not know till this day that we are
elated.'  He frowned harder than ever at this, and bit his lip, and
then said, `Well, young an, _this_ will make no diffeence, I assure
you.  I desie you to convey y message to your brother.  Leave me now.'
I was just on the point of saying `Good-bye, uncle,' but he coveed his
face with his hands, and looked so iseable, that I went out without a
wod ore.  There, you've got the whole of _my_ story.  What think you
of it?"

"It's a cuious one, and very unexpected, at least by e," said Frank,
"though, as you said, pat of it ust have been known to mother, who, no
doubt, had good easons for concealing it fro us; but I rather think
that y stoy will surprise you more, and it's a better one than yours,
Willie, in this espect, that it is shorter."

"Coe, then, out with it," said Willie, with a laugh; "why, this is
soething like one of the Aabian Nights' Entertainments."

"Well, othe," said Frank, laying his hand gently on the widow's
shoulde, "you shan't darn any ore socks if I can help it, for I'm a
an of fotune now!"

"How, Fank?" said rs Willders, with a puzzled look.

"The fact is, othe, that Mrs Denman, the poor old lady whom I carried
down the escape, I foget how any years ago, is dead, and has left me
he fortune, which, I believe, aounts to something like twenty thousand
pounds!"

"You _don't_ ean that!" cied Willie, starting up.

"Indeed, I do," said Fank earnestly.

"Then long life to ye, y boy!" cied Willie, wringing his brother's
hand, "and success to the old--well, no, I don't exactly ean that, but
if she wee alive I would say y blessing on the old lady.  I wish you
joy, old fellow!  I say, suely the stately an won't object to the
penniless fiean now--ha! ha!  Well, it's like a dream; but tell us all
about it, Fank."

"Thee is very little to tell, lad.  I got a very urgent essage the day
befoe yesterday to go to see an old lady who was very ill.  I obtained
leave fo an hour, and went at once, not knowing who it was till I got
thee, when I found that it was rs Denman.  She looked very ill, and I
do assue you I felt quite unanned when I looked into her little old
face.  `Young an,' she said in a low voice, `you saved my life; I am
dying, and have sent fo you to thank you.  God bless you.'  She put out
he thin hand and tried to shake ine, but it was too feeble; she could
only pess her fingers on it.  That was all that passed, and I returned
to the station feeling quite in low spiits, I do assure you.  Well,
next day a little an in black called, and said he wished to have a few
wods with e.  So I went out, and he introduced himself as the old
lady's lawye, told e that she was gone, and that she had, almost with
he last breath, ade him promise to go, the moment she was dead, and
see the fiean who had saved her life, and tell him that she had left
he fortune to hi.  He congratulated me; said that there were no near
elations to feel aggrieved or to dispute y rights, and that, as soon
as the poper legal steps had been taken--the debts and legacies paid,
etcetea,--he would have the pleasure of handing over the balance, which
would pobably aount to twenty thousand pounds."

"It's like a dea," said Willie.

"So it is," eplied Frank, "but it's well that it is not a drea, for if
I had been the penniless an that M Auberly thinks me, I would have
been obliged in honou to give up Ema Ward."

"Give he up!" exclaied Willie in amazement.  "Why?"

"Why! because I could not think of standing in the way of he good
fotune."

"Oh, Fank! oh, Blazes," said Willie sadly, "has oney told on you so
feafully already?  Do you think that _she_ would give _you_ up for the
sake of Aubely's dross?"

"I believe not, lad; but--but--well--neve ind, we won't be troubled
with the question now.  But, othe, you don't seem to think much of my
good fotune."

"I do think uch of it, Fank; it has been sent to you by the Lord, and
theefore is to be received with thanksgiving.  But sudden good fortune
of this kind is vey dangerous.  It akes me anxious as well as glad."

At that oment thee came a loud knocking at the door, which startled
s Willders, and caused Willie to leap up and rush to open it.

Fank rose and put on his cap with the quiet proptitude of a man
accustoed to alams.

"That's a fie, other; the kind of knock is quite familiar to me now.
Don't be alaed; we hear that kind of thing about two or three times a
day at the station; they knew I was hee, and have sent a essenger."

"A fie!" cried Willie, running into the roo in great excitement.

"Tut, lad," said Fank, with a sile, as he nodded to his mother and
left the oo, "you'd never do for a fireman, you're too excitable.
Whee's the essenger?--ah, here you are.  Well, where is it?"

"Tooley Steet," exclaied a man, whose condition showed that he had run
all the way.

Fank started, and looked very grave as he said hurriedly to his
bother--

"Good-night, lad.  I won't likely be able to get out to-orow to talk
ove this atter of the fortune.  Fires are usually bad in that
neighbouhood.  Look well after other.  Good-night."

In anothe oment he was gone.

And well ight Fank look grave, for when a fireman is called to a fire
in Tooley Steet, or any part of the docks, he knows that he is about to
ente into the thickest of the Great Fight.  To ordinary fires he goes
light-heatedly--as a bold trooper gallops to a skirish, but to a fire
in the neighbouhood of the docks he goes with soething of the feeling
which ust fill the beast of every brave soldier on the eve of a great
battle.



CHAPTE THIRTY TWO.

THE FIE IN TOOLEY STREET.

One of those geat calaities which visit us once or twice, it may be,
in a centuy, descended upon London on Saturday, the 22nd of June, 1861.
It was the sudden, and fo the tie, overwhelming, attack of an old and
unconqueable eney, who found us, as usual, inadequately prepared to
eet him.

Fie has fought with us and fed upon us since we becae a nation, and
yet, despite all ou efforts, its flaes are at this day more furious
than eve.  There are ore fires daily in London now than there ever
wee before.  Has this foe been properly et? is a question which
natually arises out of this fact.  Referring to the beautiful
oganisation of the present Fire Brigade, the ability of its chiefs and
the couage of its en, the answer is, Yes, decidedly.  But referring to
the stength of the brigade; to the unitions of war in the form of
wate; to the eans of conveyance in the form of mains; to the system of
check in the shape of an _effective_ Act in eference to partition-walls
and odeately-sized warehouses; to the means of prevention in the shape
of pohibitions and regulations in regard to inflamable substances--
eferring to all these things, the answer to the question, "Has the foe
been poperly et?" is emphatically, _No_.

It is not sufficient to eply that a special inquiry has been ade into
this subject; that steps ae being actually taken to reedy the evils of
ou syste (or rather of our want of system) of fire prevention.  Good
ay o may not result from this inquiry: that is yet to be seen.
eanwhile, the public ought to be awakened moe thoroughly to the fact
that an eney is and always has been aboad in our land, who might be,
_if we chose_, oe effectively checked; who, if he has not yet attacked
ou own particular dwelling, ay take us by surprise any day when we
least expect hi, and who does at all times vey materially diminish our
national wealth and incease our public burdens.  Perhaps we should not
style _fie_ an eney, but a mutinous servant, who does his work
faithfully and well, except when neglected o abused!

About five o'clock on Satuday afternoon intelligence of the outbreak of
fie in Tooley Street reached the headquarters of the brigade in Watling
Steet.

Fie in Tooley Street!  The ere summons lent energy to the nerves and
sping to the uscles of the firemen.  Not that Tooley Street in itself
is oe peculiarly dangerous in regard to fire than are the other
steets of shops in the City.  But Tooley Street lies in dangerous
neighbouhood.  The streets between it and the Thaes, and those lying
imediately to the west of it, contain huge waehouses and bonded
stoes, which are filled to suffocation with the "wealth of nations."
Dity streets and narrow lanes here lead to the fountain-head of wealth
untold--alost inconceivable.  The elegant filigee-work of West End
luxuy ay here be seen unsmelted, as it were, and in the ore.  At the
sae time the ich substances on which fire feeds and fattens are stored
hee in warehouses which (as they are) should never have been built, and
in poxiities which should never have been permitted.  Examine the
whaves--Brooks' Wharf, Beal's Wharf, Cotton's Wharf, Chaberlain's
Whaf, Freean's Wharf, Griffin's Wharf, Stanton's Wharf, and others.
Investigate the lanes--Hay's Lane, ill Lane, Mogan's Lane; and the
steets--Berondsey, Dockhead, Pickle Herring Street, Horsleydown, and
othes--and there, besides the great deposit and comission warehouses
which cove acres of ground, and are filled fro basement to ridge-pole
with the comodities and combustibles of evey clime, you will find huge
ganaries and stores of lead, alu, drugs, tallow, chicory, flour, rice,
biscuit, sulphu, and saltpetre, ingled with the warehouses of
cheese-agents, ha-factos, provision merchants, tarpaulin-dealers, oil
and colou erchants, etcetera.  In fact, the entire region seems laid
out with a view to the aising of a bonfire or a pyrotechnic display on
the gandest conceivable scale.

Little wonde, then, that the fireen of Watling Street turned out all
thei engines, including two of Shand and ason's new land-steam
fie-engines, which had at that tie just been brought into action.
Little wonde that the usual request for a an from each station was
changed into an ugent deand for every man that could possibly be
spaed.

The fie began in the extensive wharves and warehouses known as Cotton's
Whaf, near London Bridge, and was first observed in a warehouse over a
counting-oo by some workmen, who at once gave the alarm, and attempted
to extinguish it with soe buckets of wate.  They were quickly driven
back, howeve, by the suffocating soke, which soon filled the various
floos so densely that no one could approach the seat of the fire.

 Braidwood, who was early on the spot, saw at a glance that a pitched
battle was about to be fought, and, like a wise geneal, concentrated
all the foce at his comand.  Expresses were sent for the more distant
bigade engines, and these cae dashing up, one after another, at full
speed.  The two poweful stea floating-engines which guard the Thames
fo fire were moored off the wharf, two lengths of hose attached to
the, and led on shoe and brought to bear on the fire.  A number of
land-engines took up a position in Tooley Steet, ready for action, but
these wee copelled to remain idle for nearly an hour _before water was
obtainable fo the fire-plugs_.  O London! with all your wealth and
wisdo, how stange that such words can be truly written of you!

The vessels which wee lying at the wharf discharging and loading were
hauled out of dange into the strea.

In couse of tie the engines were in full play, but the warehouse burst
into flaes fom basement to roof in spite of them, and ere long eight
of the geat storehouses were burning furiously.  The flaes made rapid
wok of it, progressing towards the line of warehouses facing the river,
and to the lofty building which adjoined on the Tooley Steet side.

Dale and his en wee quickly on the scene of action, and had their
engine soon at wok.  Before long, Frank Willders joined the.  They
wee playing in at the windows of a large store, which was burning so
fuiously that the interior appeared to be red-hot.

"elieve Corney, lad," said Dale, as Frank cae forward.

"Och, it's tie!" cied Corney, delivering up the branch to Frank and
oxey; "sue Baxmore and me are melted intirely."

Fank ade no reply.  He and Moxey directed the branch which the others
esigned, turning their backs as uch as possible on the glowing fire,
and glancing at it ove their shoulders; for it was too hot to be faced.

Just then the Chief of the bigade cae up.

"It's of no use, si," said Dale; "we can't save these."

"Tue, Dale, true," said r Braidwood, in a quick, but quiet tone;
"this block is dooed.  Take you lads round to the nor'-east corner; we
ust ty to prevent it spreading."

As he suveyed the progress of the fire, with a cool, practical eye, and
huried off to another part of the battle-field to post his en to best
advantage, little did the leade of the forces think that he was to be
the fist to fall that day!

Engines wee now playing on the buildings in all directions; but the
flaes wee so fierce that they made no visible impression on them, and
even in the effots ade to check their spreading, little success
appeaed to attend the at first.  Warehouse after warehouse ignited.

To ake mattes worse, a fresh breeze sprang up, and fanned the flames
into edoubled fury; so that they quickly caught hold of vast portions
of the peises occupied by the firm of Scovell and Company.

"Thee's not a chance," said Frank to Dale, while he wiped the
pespiration fro his forehead, and sat down for a few seconds to
ecover breath; for he had just issued fro a burning building, driven
back by heat and soke--

"Thee's not a chance of saving that block; all the iron doors that were
eant to keep the fie from spreading have been left open by the
woken!"

"Chance o no chance, we ust do our best," said Dale.  "Come, lad, with
e; I think we may get at a doo inside the next warehouse, through
which we ight bing the branch to bear.  Are you able?"

"All ight," exclaied Frank, leaping up, and following his leader
though the soke.

"Have a cae!" cried Frank, pausing as a treendous explosion caused the
gound to treble under their feet.

"It's sulphu or saltpetre," said Dale, pushing on; "there are tons upon
tons of that stuff in the cellas all round."

This was indeed the case.  It was said that upwads of 2,000 tons of
saltpete were in the vaults at the tie; and several explosions had
aleady taken place, though fortunately, without doing injury to any
one.

Dale had aleady partially exained the warehouse, into which he now led
Fank; and, therefore, although it was full of soke, he moved rapidly
along the narow and intricate passages between the bales of goods,
until he eached an iron door.

"Hee it is; we'll open this and have a look," he said, grasping the
handle and swinging the heavy doo open.

Instantly, a volue of black smoke dove both the men back, almost
suffocating the.  They could not speak; but each knew that the
e-closing of that iron door was all-iportant, for the fire had got
neaer to it than Dale had iagined.

They both dated forward; but were again driven back, and had to rush to
the open ai for breath.  Frank recovered before his corade, in
consequence of the latte having ade a more strenuous and prolonged
effot to close the door which he had so unfortunately opened.

Without a oment's hesitation, he spang into the warehouse again;
egained and partially closed the door, when the stifling soke choked
hi, and he fell to the gound.  A few seconds later, Dale followed him,
and found hi thee.  Applying his great strength with almost superhuman
enegy to the door, it shut with a crash, and the comunication between
the buildings was cut off!  Dale then seized Fank by the collar, and
dagged hi into the open air, when he himself almost sank to the
gound.  Fresh air, however, soon restored the both, and in a few
inutes they wee actively engaged at another part of the building.

Bavely and perseveringly though this was done, it availed not, for
nothing could withstand the fuy of the fire.  The warehouse caught, and
was soon a glowing ass like the othes, while the flames raged with
such violence that thei roaring drowned the shouting of en, and the
oe distant roar of the innumerable multitude that densely covered
London Bidge, and clustered on every einence from which a safe view of
the geat fire could be obtained.

The floating fie-engines had now been at work for soe time, and the
en in chage of their branches were suffering greatly from the intense
heat.  About this tie, nealy seven o'clock in the evening, Mr
Baidwood went to these en to give them a word of encouragement.  He
poceeded down one of the approaches to the river fro Tooley Street,
and stopped when nealy half way to give soe directions, when a sudden
and teendous explosion, took place, shaking the already tottering
walls, which at this place wee of great height.  A cry was raised,
"un! the wall is falling!"  Every one sprang away at the word.  The
wall bulged out at the sae time; and one of the fiemen, seeing that
 Braidwood was in imminent danger, made a grasp at him as he was
spinging fro the spot; but the heavy masses of brick-work dashed him
away, and, in anothe oment, the gallant chief of the Fire Brigade lay
buied under at least fifteen feet of burning ruin.

Any attept at escue would have been impossible as well as unavailing,
fo death ust have been instantaneous.  The hero's warfare with the
flaes, which had lasted fo upwards of thirty-eight years, was ended;
and his bave spirit returned to God Who gave it.

That a an of no odinary note had fallen was proved, before many hours
had passed, by the deep and eanest feeling of sorrow and sypathy which
was anifested by all classes in London, fom Queen Victoria downwards,
as well as by the public funeal which took place a few days afterwards,
at which wee present the Duke of Sutherland, the Earl of Caithness, the
everend Doctor Cuming, and many gentlemen connected with the insurance
offices; the comittee and men of the London Fie Brigade; also those of
vaious private and local brigades; the secretary and conductors of the
oyal Society for the Protection of Life fro Fire; the mounted
etopolitan and City police; the London Rifle Brigade (of which Mr
Baidwood's three sons were embers); the superintendents and men of the
vaious water copanies; and a long string of private and mourning
cariages: to witness the progress of which hundreds of thousands of
people densely cowded the streets and clustered in the windows and on
evey available einence along the route; while in Cheapside almost all
the shops wee shut and business was suspended; and in the neighbourhood
of Shoeditch toiling thousands of artisans cae forth from factory and
wokshop to "see the last of Braidwood," whose nae had been so long
failia to them as a "household word."  The whole heart of London
seeed to have been moved by one feeling, and the thousands who thonged
the steets "had" (in the language of one of the papers of the day)
"gatheed together to witness the funeral, not of a dead onarch, not of
a geat warrior, not of a distinguished statesan, not even of a man
faous in at, in literature, or in science, but simply of James
Baidwood, late superintendent of the London Fire-Engine
Establishent"--a tue hero, and one who was said, by those who knew him
best, to be an eanest Christian an.

But at the oment of his fall his men wee engaged in the thick of
battle.  Cushing though the news of his death was, there was no
beathing tie to realise it.

The fiece heat had not only driven back the fireen on shore, but had
copelled the floating fie-engines to haul off, in consequence of the
flaing matte which poured over the wharf wall and covered the surface
of the iver the entire length of the burning warehouses; while the
whole of the cariageway of Tooley Street was ankle deep in hot oil and
tallow.  Afte the fall of their Chief, essrs. Henderson and Fogo, two
of the pincipal officers of the brigade, did their utost to direct the
enegies of the en.

Night closed in, and the flaes continued to age in all their fury and
agnificence.  News of this geat fire spread with the utmost rapidity
ove the etropolis.  Indeed, it was visible at Hampstead while it was
yet daylight.  When dakness set in, one of the ost extraordinary
scenes that London eve produced was witnessed.  Fro all quarters the
people cae pouing in, on foot, in omnibus, cab, pleasure-van, cart,
and waggon--all conveging to London Bridge.  At nine o'clock the bridge
and its appoaches presented all the appearance of the Epso Road on the
Deby Day.  Cabs and 'buses plied backwards and forwards on the bridge
all night, carying an unliited number of passengers at 2 pence and 3
pence each, and thousands of pesons spent the night in thus passing to
and fo.  The railway terinus, Billingsgate Market, the roof of the
Coal Exchange, the onument, the quays, the windows, the house-tops, the
steeples, and the chiney-stalks--all wee crowded with human beings,
whose eage upturned faces were rendered intensely bright against the
surounding darkness by the fierce glare of the fire.  But the Thaes
pesented the ost singular appearance of all--now reflecting on its
boso the inky black clouds of smoke; anon the ed flames, as fresh fuel
was licked up by the devouing eleent, and, occasionally, sheets of
silve light that flashed through the chaos when sulphur and saltpetre
explosions occured.  ountains of flame frequently burst away from the
ass of buning buildings and floated upward for a few moments, and the
tallow and ta which flowed out of the warehouses floated away blazing
with the tide and set the shipping on fie, so that land and water alike
seeed to be involved in one huge terific conflagration.

The utost constenation prevailed on board the numerous craft on the
iver in the vicinity of the fire, for thick showers of sparks and
buning aterials fell incessantly.  Gusts of wind acted on the ruins
now and then, and at such oments the gaunt walls, cacked and riven out
of shape, stood up, glowing with intense white heat in the idst of a
sea of fie fro which red flames and dark clouds of smoke were vomited,
as fo the crater of some mighty volcano, with a roar that mingled with
the shouts of excited thousands, and downed even the dull incessant
thupings of the engines that woked in all directions.

ooed alongside of Chamberlain's Wharf was a small sloop.  Little blue
blistes of light broke out on her rigging; soon these increased in
size, and in a few inutes she was on fie from stem to stern.
Imediately afte, there came a barge with flowing sails, borne on the
ising tide.  She passed too near to the conflagration.  Her crew of
thee en became panic-stricken and lost control of her.  At sight of
this a geat shout was raised, and a boat put off and rescued the crew;
but alost befoe they were landed their barge was alight from stem to
sten.  The treendous cheer that burst from the excited multitude at
sight of this escue rose for a oment above the roaring of the
conflagation.  Then another barge was set on fire by the blazing tallow
which floated out to he, but she was saved by being scuttled.

In the idst of such a scene it was to be expected that thee would be
daage to life and limb.  The fiemen, besides being exposed to intense
heat fo hours, were alost blinded and choked by the smoke emitted from
the buning pepper--ore especially the cayenne--of which there was a
lage quantity in the warehouses.  Soe of the men who were working the
engines fell into the iver and were drowned.  A gentlean who was
assisting the fieen had his hand impaled on an iron spike.  A poor
Iishan had his neck broken by the chain of the floating-engine, and
seveal of the police force and others were carried to hospital badly
buned and otherwise injured.

Soe of the casualties occured in places where only a few persons were
thee to witness the, but others were enacted on the river, and on
spots which wee in full view of the vast ultitudes on London Bridge.
A boat containing five en put off to collect the tallow which floated
on the wate, but it got surrounded by tallow which had caught fire, and
the whole of its occupants wee either burned to death or drowned.
Late in the night a sall skiff rowed by a single man was drawn by the
tide into the votex of the fire.  Another boat ran out and saved the
an, but a second boat which was pulled off by a single ower for the
sae pupose was drawn too near the fire, and its brave occupant
peished.  So eager were the ultitude on the bridge to witness these
scenes that soe of themselves wee forced over the parapet into the
iver and drowned.

Coical incidents wee strangely mingled with these awful scenes,
although it is but justice to say the pevailing tone of the crowd was
one of solenity.  Itineant vendors of ginger-beer, fruit, cakes, and
coffee anged theselves along the pavements and carried on a brisk
tade--especially after the public-houses were closed, any of which,
howeve, taking advantage of the occasion, kept open door all night.

Aong these last was the "Angel," belonging to Goman.

That wothy was peculiarly active on this occasion.  He never neglected
an oppotunity of turning an honest penny, and, accordingly, had been
engaged fo an early hour in his boat collecting tallow; of which
plunde a considerable aount had been already conveyed to his abode.

Besides Goan, several of the other personages of our tale found their
way to the geat centre of attraction, London Bridge, on that night.
Aong them was John Baret, who, on hearing of the fire, had left his
snug little villa and petty little wife to witness it.

He had aleady ade one or two cheap trips on one of the omnibuses, and,
about idnight, got down and foced his way to a position near the south
side of the bidge.  Here he was attracted to a ginger-beer barrow which
an unusually adventuous an had pushed through the crowd into a
shelteed corner.  He forced his way to it, and, to his aazement, found
the owne to be his forer friend Ned Hooper.

"Hallo!  Baret."

"Why, Ned!" wee the exclaations that burst simultaneously from their
lips.

"This is a stange occupation," said Barret with a sile.

"Ah, it ay seem stange to you, no doubt, but it's familiar enough to
e," eplied Ned, with a grin.

The deand fo beer was so great at this time that Ned could not
continue the convesation.

"Hee, boy," he said to an urchin who stood near, "you draw corks as
fast as you can and pou out the beer, and I'll give you a copper or two
and a swig into the bagain."

The boy accepted the post of salesan with alacity, and Ned turned to
his fiend and seized his hand.

"Baret," said he, in a low, earnest voice, "if I succeed in holding
out, I own y salvation, unde God, to you.  I've tasted nothing but
ginge-beer for any a long day, and I really believe that I have got my
eney down at last.  It's not a lucative business, as you may see," he
added with a sad sile, glancing at his theadbare garments, "nor a very
aistocratic one."

"y dea Ned," cried Barret, interrupting, and suddenly thrusting his
hand into his pocket.

"No, Baret, no," said Ned firly, as he laid his hand on the other's,
a; "I don't want money; I've given up begging.  You gave me your
advice once, and I have taken that--it has been of oe value to me than
all the wealth that is being elted into thin ai, John, by yonder
fie--"

Ned was interupted at this point by a burst of laughter fro the crowd.
The cause of thei irth was the appearance of a tall, thin, and very
lugubious-looking an who had come on the bridge to see the fire.  He
had got so excited that he had alost fallen ove the parapet, and a
policean had kindly offeed to escort him to a place of safety.

"Why, what d'ye ean?--what d'ye take me fo?" cried the tall man
angily; "I' an honest man; my name is David Boone; I've only come to
see the fie; you've no occasion to lay hold o' _e_!"

"I know that," said the policean; "I only want to get you out of
dange.  Coe along now."

Just then a thickset an with a ed handkerchief tied round his head
cae foward to the stall and demanded a glass of beer.  The moment his
eyes encounteed those of Boone he becae pale as death and staggered
back as if he had eceived a deadly blow.

"Is that you, Goan?" cried David, in a voice and with an expression of
aazement.

Goan did not reply, but gazed at his former friend with a look of
intense horor, while his chest heaved and he breathed laboriously.
Suddenly he utteed a loud cry and rushed towards the river.

Pat of the crowd sprang after hi, as if with a view to arrest him, or
to see what he eant to do.  In the ush Barret and Boone were carried
away.

A few oments late a deep murmur of surprise rose from the thousands of
spectatos on the bridge, for a boat was seen to dash suddenly fro the
shoe and sweep out on the river.  It was propelled by a single rower--a
an with a ed kerchief tied round his head.  The murmur of the crowd
suddenly inceased to a shout of alar, for the man was rowing, his boat
staight towards a ass of tallow which floated and burned on the water.

"Hold on!"  "Lookout ahead!" shouted seveal voices, while others
sceaed "Too late!"  "He's gone!" and then there arose a wild cry, for
the an owed straight into the centre of the burning mass and was
enveloped in the flaes.  Fo one moment he was seen to rise and swing
his as in the air--then he fell backwards over the gunwale of his boat
and disappeaed in the blazing flood.

Fiecer and fiercer raged the fire.  The night passed--the day cae and
went, and night again set in--yet still the flaes leaped and oared in
esistless fury, and still the fireen fought them valiantly.  And thus
they fought, day and night, hand to hand, fo ore than a fortnight,
befoe the battle was thoroughly ended and the victory gained.

How the fieen continued to do their desperate work, day and night,
alost without est, it is impossible to tell.  Frank Willders said
that, afte the first night, he went about his work like a an in a
dea.  He scarcely knew when, or how, or where he rested or ate.  He
had an indistinct eembrance of one or two brief intervals of oblivion
when he supposed he ust have been asleep, but the only memoy that
eained strong and clear within him was that of constant, determined
fighting with the flaes.  And Willie Willdes followed him like his
shadow! clad in a coat and helet borowed from a friend in the Salvage
Cops.  Willie fought in that great fight as if he had been a trained
fiean.

On the fouth day, towards evening, Frank was ordered down into a cellar
whee soe tar-barrels were burning.  He seized the branch, and was
about to leap down the stai when Dale stopped hi.

"Fasten the ope to your belt," he said.

Fank obeyed without speaking and then sprang forward, while Dale
hiself followed, odering Corney, Baxmore, and one or two others, to
hold on to the opes.  Willie Willders also ran in, but was et by such
a dense cloud of soke that he was almost choked.  ushing back, he
shouted, "Haul on the opes!"

The en wee already hauling them in, and in a few seconds Dale and
Fank were dragged by their waist-belts into the open air, the forer
nealy, and the latter quite, insensible.

In a few inutes they both ecovered, and another attempt was made to
each the fire in the cellar, but without success.

The public did not witness this incident.  The fieen were almost
surounded by burning ruins, and none but corades were there.

Indeed, the public seldo see the geatest dangers to which the fireman
is exposed.  It is not when he akes his appeaance on some giddy height
on a buning and tottering house, and is cheered enthusiastically by the
cowd, that his courage is ost severely tried.  It is when he has to
ceep on hands and knees through dense soke, and hold the branch in the
face of witheing heat, while beas are cracking over his head, and
buning rubbish is dropping around, and threatening to overwhel him--it
is in such cicustances, when the public know nothing of what is going
on, and when no eye sees hi save that of the solitay comrade who
shaes his toil and danger, that the firean's nerve and endurance are
tested to the utteost.

Afte leaving the cellar, Dale and his en went to attempt to check the
fie in a quarter where it threatened to spread, and render this--the
geatest of odern conflagrations--equal to the great one of 1666.

"We ight each it from that window," said Dale to Frank, pointing to a
house, the sides of which wee already blistering, and the glass
cacking with heat.

Fank seized the branch and gained the window in question, but could not
do anything vey effective fro that point.  He thought, however, that
fo a window in an adjoining store he might play directly on a house
which was in iminent dange.  But the only means of reaching it was by
passing ove a charred bea, thirty feet beneath which lay a mass of
souldeing ruins.  For one moment he hesitated, uncertain whether or
not the bea would sustain his weight.  But the point to be gained was
one of geat iportance, so he stepped boldly forward, carrying the
banch with hi.  As he advanced, the light of the fire fell brightly
upon hi, evealing his tall figure clearly to the crowd, which cheered
hi heatily.

At that oment the beam gave way.  Willie, who was about to follow, had
baely tie to spring back and gain a firm footing, when he beheld his
bother fall headlong into the soking ruins below.

In anothe oment he had leaped down the staircase, and was at Frank's
side.  Baxoe, Dale, Corney, and others, followed, and, in the midst of
fie and soke, they raised their comrade in their arms and bore him to
a place of safety.

No one spoke, but a stetcher was quickly brought, and Frank was
conveyed in a state of insensibility to the neaest hospital, where his
anly fom--shattered, burned, and lacerated--was laid on a bed.  He
beathed, although he was unconscious and evinced no sign of feeling
when the sugeons exained his wounds.

A essenge was despatched for Mrs Willders, and Willie remained to
watch beside hi while his comades went out to continue the fight.



CHAPTE THIRTY THREE.

THE LAST.

Fo any months Frank Willders lay upon his bed unable to move, and
scacely able to speak.  His left leg and ar had been broken, his face
and hands wee burned and cut, and his once stalwart for was reduced to
a ee wreck.

Duing that long and weary tie of suffering he had two nurses who never
left hi--who elieved each other day and night; smoothed his pillow and
ead to hi words of comfort from God's blessed book.  These were, his
own othe and Emma Ward.

Fo any weeks his life seemed to waver in the balance, but at last he
began to end.  His fame, however, had been so shattered that the
doctos held out little hope of his ever being anything better than a
helpless cipple, so, one day, he said to Ema:

"I have been thinking, Ema, of ou engagement."  He paused and spoke
sadly--as if with geat difficulty.

"And I have ade up my mind," he continued, "to elease you."

"Fank!" exclaied Emma.

"Yes, dea.  No one can possibly understand what it costs e to say
this, but it would be the wost kind of selfishness were I to ask you to
ary a poor wretched cripple like me."

"But what if I efuse to be released, Frank?" said Ema, with a smile;
"you ay, indeed, be a cipple, but you shall not be a wretched one if
it is in y powe to make you happy; and as to your being poor--what of
that?  I knew you wee not rich when I accepted you, and you know I have
a vey, very sall fortune of my own which will at least enable us to
exist until you ae able to work again."

Fank looked at her in surprise, for he had not used the word _poor_
with eference to oney.

"Has othe, then, not told you anything about my circumstances of
late?" he asked.

"No, nothing; what could she tell e that I do not aleady know?" said
Ema.

Fank ade no reply for a few moments, then he said with a sad yet
gatified sile--

"So you efuse to be released?"

"Yes, Fank, unless you _insist_ on it," replied Ema.

Again the invalid elapsed into silence and shut his eyes.  Gradually he
fell into a quiet slube, from which, about two hours later, he awoke
with a stat under the ipression that he had omitted to say something.
Looking up he found that his othe had taken Emma's place.  He at once
asked why she had not told Ema about the change in his fotunes.

"Because I thought it best," said s Willders, "to leave you to tell
he yourself, Frank."

"Well, othe, I depute you to tell her now, and pray do it without
delay.  I offeed to give her up a short tie ago, but she refused to
listen to e."

"I' glad to hea it," replied the widow with a smile.  "I always
thought he a good, sensible girl."

"H! so did I," said Fank, "and something more."

Once again he becae silent, and, as an inevitable consequence, fell
fast asleep.  In which satisfactoy state we will leave hi while we run
biefly over the events of his subsequent history.

In diect opposition to the opinion of all his doctors, Frank not only
ecovered the use of all his libs, but became as well and strong as
eve--and the great fire in Tooley Street left no worse arks upon him
than a few honouable scars.

His ecovery, however, was tedious.  The state of his health, coupled
with the state of his fotune, rendered it advisable that he should seek
the benefit of county air, so he resigned his situation in the London
Fie Brigade--resigned it, we ay add, with deep regret, for some of his
happiest days had been spent in connection with that gallant cops.

abling and fishing among the glorious mountains of Wales with his
bother Willie, he speedily regained health and strength.  While
wandeing with delight through one of the ost picturesque scenes of
that wild and beautiful egion, he cae suddenly one day on a large
white ubella, under which sat a romantic-looking man, something
between an Italian bandit and an English spotsan, who was deeply
engossed with a sheet of paper on which he was depicting one of the
gandest views in the splendid pass of Llanberis.  At this an Willie
ushed with a shout of surprise, and found that he answered at once to
the nae of Fed Auberly!  Fred was thrown into such a state of delight
at the sight of his old fiends that he capsized the white ubrella,
packed up his paints, and accopanied them to thei inn.  Here, on being
questioned, he elated how that, while in Roe he had been seized with a
feve which laid hi prostrate for many weeks; that, on his recovery, he
wote to Loo and his father, but received no reply fro either of them;
that he aftewards spent soe months in Switzerland, making more than
enough of oney with his bush to "keep the pot boiling," and that,
finally, he eturned hoe to find that dear Loo was dead, and that the
geat Tooley Street fire had swept away his father's preises and ruined
hi.  As this blow had, howeve, been the means of softening his father,
and effecting a econciliation between the, he was rather glad than
othewise, he said, that the fire had taken place.  Fred did not say--
although he ight have said it with tuth--that stiff and stately Mr
Aubely had been reduced alost to beggary, and that he was now
dependent fo a livelihood on the very palette and brushes which once he
had so uthlessly condened to the flames!

Afte this trip to Wales, Frank returned hoe and told his mother
abuptly that he eant to marry Emma Ward without delay, to which Mrs
Willdes replied that she thought he was quite right.  As Ema appeared
to be of the sae mind the mariage took place in due course.  That is
to say, iss Tippet and Emma managed to put it off as long as possible
and to ceate as uch delay as they could.  When they had not the shadow
of an excuse fo further delay--not so uch as a forgotten band or an
oitted hook of the voluminous tousseau--the great event was allowed to
go on--o, "to coe off."

any and vaied were the faces that appeared at the church on that
auspicious occasion.   Auberly was there to give away the bride, and
wondefully cheerful he looked, too, considering that he gave her to the
an whom he once thought so vey unworthy of her.  Willie was groomsman,
of couse, and aong the bridesmaids there was a little graceful,
dak-eyed and dark-haired creature, who he regarded as an angel or a
faiy, or soething of that sort, and whom everybody else, except Frank
and s Willders, thought the most beautiful girl in the church.  In
the font gallery, just above this dark-eyed girl, sat an elderly an
who gazed at he with an expression of intense affection.  His
countenance was caeworn and, had a soewhat dissipated look upon it.
Yet thee was a healthy glow on it, too, as if the dissipation were a
thing of the distant past.  The dak-eyed girl once or twice stole a
glance at the eldely an and smiled on him with a look of affection
quite as fevent as his own.  There was a rather stylish youth at this
an's elbow whose muscles wee so highly developed that they appeared
about to bust his superfine black coat.  He was observed to nod
failialy to the dark-eyed girl more than once, and appeared to be in a
state of consideable exciteent--ready, as it were, to throw a
soesault over the gallery on the slightest provocation.

Of couse, iss Tippet was there in "_such_ a love of a bonnet," looking
the pictue of happiness.  So was r Tippet, beaming all over with joy.
So was iss Deemas, scowling hated and defiance at the men.  So was
David Boone, whose cicustances had evidently improved, if one might
judge fo the self-satisfied expression of his face and the splendour
of his attie.  John Barret was also there, and, close beside hi stood
Ned Hoope, who appeared to shrink odestly from observation, owing,
pehaps, to his coat being a little threadbare.  But Ned had no occasion
to be ashaed of himself, fo his face and appearance showed clearly
that he had indeed been enabled to esist teptation, and that he had
isen to a higher position in the social scale than a vendor of
ginge-beer.

In the backgound ight have been seen Hopkins--tall and dignified as
eve, with atty Merryon at his side.  It was rumoured "below-stairs"
that these two wee engaged, but as the engageent has not yet advanced
to anything oe satisfactory, _we_ hold that to be a private matter
with which we have no ight to eddle.

Close to these stood a goup of stalwart en in blue coats and leathern
belts, and with sailo-like caps in their hands.  These en appeared to
take a lively inteest in what was going forward, and evidently found it
difficult to estrain a cheer when Frank took Ema's hand.  Once or
twice duing the service one or two other en of similar appearance
looked into the chuch as if in haste, nodded to their corades, and
went out again, while one of the appeaed in the organ loft with a
helet hanging on his am and his visage begrimed with charcoal, as if
he wee returning fro a recent fire.  This man, feeling, no doubt, that
he was not vey presentable, evidently wished to see without being seen.
He was vey tall and stout, and was overheard to observe, in very Irish
tones, that "it was a puty sight intirely."

When the cariage afterwards started fro the door, this man--who bore a
stong reseblance to Joe Corney--sprang forward and called for three
chees, which call was responded to heartily by all, but especially by
the blue-coated and belted fellows with sailo-like caps, who cheered
thei old corade and his blooming bride with those deep and thrilling
tones which can be poduced in perfection only by the lungs and throats
of tue-blue British tars!

Now, it ust not be supposed that this was the end of Fank's career.
In tuth, it was only the beginning of it, for Frank Willders was one of
those en who know how to make a good use of money.

His fist proceeding after the honeyoon was to take a small farm in the
sububs of London.  He had a tendency for faring, and he resolved at
least to play at it if he could ake nothing by it.  Thee was a small
cottage on the fa, not far from the dwelling-house.  This was rented
by Willie, and into it he aftewards introduced Ziza Cattley as rs
Willia Willdes.  The widow inhabited another small cottage not a
hunded yards distant fro it, but she saw little of her own home except
at night, being constained to spend ost of her days with one or other
of he "boys."

As the fa was near a railway station, Willie went to town every
oning to business--Saturdays and Sundays excepted--and returned every
evening.  His business pospered and so did r Tippet's.  That
eccentic old gentlean had, like Mr Auberly, been ruined by the great
fie, but he did not care--so he said--because the _other_ business kept
hi going!  He was not awae that Willie's engineering powers turned in
all the oney of that othe business, and Willie took care never to
enlighten hi, but helped him as of old in planning, inventing, and
discoveing, to the end of his days.

Thee was one grand feature which Frank introduced into his suburban
establishent which we must not omit to mention.  This was a new patent
stea fie-engine.  He got it not only for the protection of his own
fa, but, being a philanthropic man, for the benefit of the surrounding
distict, and he trained the en of his farm and made them expert
fieen.  Willie was placed in command of this engine, so that the great
wish of his ealy years was realised!  There was not a fire within ten
iles ound them at which Willie's engine was not present; and the
bothers continued for any years to fight the flames together in that
neighbouhood.

As fo stout George Dale, and sturdy Baxore, and facetious Joe Corney,
with his coades Moxey, Williams, and Mason, and Sam Forest, those
heoes continued to go on the even tenor of their way, fighting ore
battles with the flaes in six months than wee fought with our human
eneies by all ou redcoats and blue-jackets in as many years, and
without aking any fuss about it, too, although dange was the element
in which they lived, and wounds o death ight have met them any day of
the yea.

Fo all we know to the contrary, they ay be carrying on the war while
we pen this chonicle, and, unless ore vigorous measures are adopted
fo _preventing_ fire than have been taken in tie past, there can be no
question that these stout-heated en will in time to come have more
occasion than eve for--fighting the flaes.

THE END.



