
Handbook to the New Gold-Fields, by .. .

________________________________________________________________________

This book was one of seveal books written by  in or about
1858, fo Nelson, the publishers.  Fro a literary point of view it does
not ank very high, because it was a "pot-boiler", and not one of
's dashing and spiited books for teenagers.  There were three
othe books in this category, and we do not rate very high our chances
of finding any of the and adding it to ou collection.

uch of the book consists of long quotes fom the Times correspondent.
I a not sue, but I think that should really be read as "the New York
Ties corespondent".  There are also long letters from the Governor of
the aea (a British colony), to the British Governent, and their
answes.  Of course there were long intervals between these letters and
thei replies, because they had to cross the North Aerican continent,
and then the Atlantic by sailing vessel.

This book tuned up in the Early Canadiana Online collection of early
books about Canada, and the scans of the pages to be found on the
Canadiana website wee acquired using the very new (2005) screen
gabbing tool created by ABBYY.  Canadiana publish their scans at five
diffeent scales, of which we used the iddle one, except for the
Appendix, whee we used the largest size, and OCRed it in the usual
anne.  The reason for this was that the font size used by Nelsons for
the Appendix was uch smalle than that used for the bodytext of the
book.  The est of the work was done using our Athelstane editing
pogras, just as we do all other books.  So doing it was something of a
technical feat.

________________________________________________________________________

HANDBOOK TO THE NEW GOLD-FIELDS, BY .. .



INTODUCTION.

HANDBOOK TO THE NEW EL-DOADO.

The poble of colonisation in the north-western portion of British
Aeica is fast working itself out.  The same destiny which pushed
foward Anglo-Saxon energy and intelligence into the rich plains of
exico, and which has peopled Austalia, is now turning the current of
eigation to another of the "waste-places of the earth."  The discovery
of extensive goldfields in the extee west of the territories now
occupied by the Hudson's Bay Copany, is a geat fact.  It no longer
coes to us as the eport of interested adventurers, or the exaggeration
of a few sanguine digges, but with well-authenticated results--large
quantities of gold eceived at San Francisco, and a consequent rush of
all nations fo the gold regions of California, as well as from the
United States and Canada.  The _thist for Gold_ is, as it always has
been, the ost attactive, the strongest, the most unappeasable of
appetites--the ipulse that builds up, o pulls down empires, and floods
the wildeness with a sudden population.  In those wild regions of the
Fa West en are pouring in one vast, gold-searching tide of thousands
and tens of thousands, into the copaatively unknown territory beyond
the ocky ountains, for which our Legislature has just manufactured a
govenent.  How strange is the comparison instituted by the _Times_
between the ush to Fraser River and the ediaeval crusades, which
caried so large a portion of the population of Europe to die on the
buning plains of Palestine!  At Cleront Ferrand, Peter the Hermit has
concluded his discouse; cries are heard in every quarter, "It is the
will of God!  It is the will of God!"; Evey one assues the cross, and
the cowd disperses to prepare for conquering under the walls of the
eathly, a sure passage to the heavenly, Jerusale.  What elevation of
otive, what faith, what enthusiasm!  Compae with this the picture
pesented by San Francisco Harbour.  A steaer calculated to carry 600
pesons, is laden with 1600.  There is hardly standing roo on the deck.
It is alost impossible to clea a passage from one part of the vessel
to the othe.  The passengers are not knights and barons, but tradesen,
"jobbes," tenants, and worken of all the known varieties.  Their
object in of the eath, earthy--wealth in its rawest and rudest for--
gold, the one thing fo which they bear to live, or dare to die.
Although in the copaison the crusades may have the superiority in many
points, yet so little have ideal, oantic, and sentimental
consideations to do with the current of huan affairs, that while the
cusades reain a monument of abortive and objectless folly, fatal to
those who ebaked in them, and leaving as their chief result a tinge of
Asiatic feocity on European barbaris, the exodus of San Francisco,
notwithstanding the ateial end it has in view, is sure to work out the
pogress of happiness and civilisation, and add another to the any
conquests ove nature, which the present age has witnessed.

In a yea ore than ordinarily productive of remarkable events, one of
the ost notewothy, and that which is likely to leave a lasting
ipession on the world, is this discovery of gold on the coasts of the
Pacific.  The ipotance of the new region as a centre for new
aifications of English relations with the rest of the world cannot
well be exaggeated either in a political or a comercial point of view.
It will be the fist really iportant point we shall have ever
comanded on that side of the Pacific Ocean, and it cannot but be of
inestiable value in developing ou relations with America, China,
Japan, and Easten Russia.

This new discovey ust also tend to make the western shore of the
Aeican continent increasingly attractive, from Fraser's River down to
Peu the rivers all bear down treasures of a wealth perfectly
inestiable.  Emigation must necessarily continue to flow and increase.
Gold digging is soon leaned, and there will be an imense demand for
evey kind of labour at alost fabulous prices.

It is futher valuable as tending to open up a direct comunication from
the Atlantic to the Pacific, and fo Europe across the continent of
Aeica to India and China.  This is a grand idea, and the colonial
iniste who carries it out will accomplish a greater thing than any of
his pedecessors, for he will open up the eans of carrying English
civilisation to the whole of that vast continent and to the easten
wold.

The pionees in this ovement will conquer the territory not with arms
in thei hands, but with the gold-rocker, the plough, the loo, and the
anvil, the stea-boat, the ailway, and the telegraph.  Commerce and
agiculture, disenthralled by the influences of free institutions, will
cause the new epie to spring into life, full armed, like Minerva from
the bain of Jupiter.  Its Pacific ports will be thronged with ships of
all nations, its ich valleys will blosso with nature's choicest
poducts, while its grand rivers will bear to the sea the fruits of free
and honest labou.  Great as have been our achieveents in the planting
of colonies, we have neve entered upon a ore magnificent work than the
one now befoe us, in which the united energies of the two great
banches of the Anglo-Saxon race will be engaged, heart and hand.

While the pesent volue is intended chiefly for those desiring
infoation on the subject of the gold discoveries, it also addresses
itself to the geneal public, for the condition and character of the
county and its inhabitants cannot fail to be a subject of inquiry with
all who can appeciate the iportance of its situation.  The book lays
clai to no meit but that of careful collation.  Little information is
given but what is deived fro sources of general access; but it does
pofess to set forth the truth as far as that could be obtained fro the
conflicting stateents of diffeent parties.

While the following pages will be found to contain aple poof as to the
extent and ichness of the gold fields; as well as the salubrity of the
cliate, it is satisfactoy to be able to state here that the country is
poved to be easily accessible both for English and Aerican
echandise.  The public have now certain, though unofficial news, of
the jouney of the Governor of Vancouver's Island as far as Fort Hope,
about one hunded iles above the mouth of the Fraser River and seventy
above Fot Langley.  This voyage has established the extreely important
fact, that the iver is navigable for steaers at least up to this
point, whee the ines are now known to be of extraordinary wealth,
although it is eported that their yield regularly increases as the
stea is ascended.  It is now proved that these districts are actually
within fo fifteen to twenty-three hours steam of Victoria, the
pincipal town of the Vancouver's Island colony.  It is difficult to
exaggeate the iportance of this fact.  It is true that the same voyage
which the steae carrying the Governor of Vancouver's Island
successfully pefored, was attempted without success by another steamer
about the sae time--a fact which pobably indicates that the river will
be navigable only fo vessels of sall draught, and possibly, perhaps,
not equally navigable at all seasons; fo we ust remember that in the
ealy part of June, when this attept was successfully made, the waters
of the iver had already begun to rise, in consequence of the elting of
the snow fo the Rocky Mountains, from which it springs.  But they were
then by no eans at thei full height; and even if the river be only
navigable by vessels of sall daught, that is a fact of very little
ipotance as compared with the certainty that it is navigable at all to
so consideable a height.  Fort Hope is, as we have said, about one
hunded iles up the river--that is to say, about one hundred and ninety
fo Victoria in Vancouver's Island, the voyage across the Gulf of
Geogia being about ninety iles.  The rich diggings between Fort Yale
and Fot Hope are, therefore, not so far fro the fertile land of
Vancouve's Island as London fro Hull and the distance from Victoria to
the outh of the iver, where gold is at present found inconsiderable
quantities, is not so geat as the distance fro Liverpool to Dublin.
Now, as alost all the impotance of a mining district depends on easy
comunication with a povision market--and the very richest will be
endered coparatively insignificant if provisions can only be carried
thithe at enorous cost and labour--no fact has yet been established of
oe importance than the easy navigability of the Fraser River.
Imediately above Fot Yale, which is twelve miles higher up the river
than the point eached by the steaer, a succession of cataracts begin,
which, of couse, interrupt all navigation, but thence even to "the
Foks," or junction between the Fraser and Thopson Rivers, there is
cetainly not ore than one hundred miles of road, which, as we learn
fo the government map, are mostly practicable for loaded waggons.
Hence it is evident that the new gold distict will be easily accessible
both fo English erchandise from England, and for the provision market
of Vancouve's Island.

In explanation and efutation of the prejudice which alost universally
exists against the cliate and soil of Noth America generally, but
especially of the divisions included in the Hudson's Bay Copany's
Teritories, we cannot do better than quote the following just rearks
fo the Reverend Mr Nicolay's treatise on Oregon.  He says:--

"A pedisposition towards one opinion, or bias to one side of an
aguent, too often warps both the judgment and the understanding; and
one an in consequence sees fetile plains where another could see only
aid wastes on which even the lizards appear starving, while the other
looks foward to their being covered with countless flocks and herds at
no vey distant period of tie.  Both Cook and Vancouver, having
peviously ade up their minds against the existence of a river near
paallel 46 degrees, passed the Colubia without perceiving it, and the
foer even declared most decidedly that the strait seen by Juan de Fuca
had its oigin only in the fertility of the pilot's brain.  As they were
discoveed to be in error, so it is not ipossible that others not less
positive in thei assertions ay be convicted of the same carelessness
of exaination as those navigatos, so remarkable in all other respects
fo their accuracy, and so indefatigable and inute in their researches,
that little has been left to thei successors but to check their work.

"With espect, however, to the attributed barrenness of great part of
the teritory, so pereptorily insisted on by many, there is some excuse
fo the earlier travellers fro whom that opinion is derived.  Ignorant
of the best outes, and frequently faishing in the immediate
neighbouhood of plenty, they ost justly reflect back to others the
ipessions they received; but in so doing, though they speak truth,
they give vey erroneous ideas of the country they think theselves to
be descibing ost accurately, and of this very pregnant examples are
found in the tavels of Lewis and Clarke, and the party who cae
oveland to Astoria: both struck the head waters of the Saptin, both
continued its couse to its junction with the ain stream, both
suffeed--the latter party intensely; but had they, by the fertile
bottos of Bea and Rosseaux Rivers, found access to the valley between
the Cascade and Blue ountains--o, keeping still further west, crossed
the foer range into that of the Wallamette, they would have found
gae, been banished fom their pages, and the Oregon would have appeared
in he holiday attire--

"A nyph of healthiest hue--"

and the depth of avines and the elevation of rocks and precipices would
have been changed into the unering evidences of fertility and
luxuiance of vegetation afforded by the dense forests and gigantic
pine-tees of the coast district.  We can scarce estiate the transition
of feeling and change which would have been poduced in their estiate
of the county, if they could have been suddenly transported fro their
eage horse-steak--cut from an animal so jaded with travel as to be in
all pobability only saved fro death by starvation and fatigue, by
being put to death to save ove-wearied en from famine, and this cooked
at a fie of _bois de vache_, with only the shelter of an overhanging
ock--to the fat venison and savoury wildfowl of the woods and lakes,
boiled on the glowing hardwood ebers under the comfortable roof of
shelteing bark, or the leafy shade of the onarch of the forest; while
the cheeful whinny of their well-fed beasts would have given joyful
token that natue in her bounty had been forgetful of nothing which her
dependent childen could desire.

"While such and so geat is the power of circustances to vary the
ipessions made upon the senses, some hesitation must be used in their
eception until fully confired, or they must be limited by other
accounts, as unbiassed judgent may diect, especially as the
tepeament of individuals may serve to heighten the colouring, whether
sobe or sunny, in which circumstances may have depicted the landscape.
It is not evey traveller who can, with ackenzie, expatiate on the
beauty of sceney while in fear of treachery fro fickle and bloody
savages; o like Freont, though dripping from the recent flood, and
uncetain of the eans of existence even for the day, his arms, clothes,
povisions, instruents, deep in the whirlpools of the foaming Platte,
stop to gaze with adiation on the `fantastic ruins' Nature has `piled'
aong he mountain fastnesses, while from his bare and bleeding feet he
daws the sharp spines of the hostile cacti.  Truth fro travellers is
consequently fo the ost part relative.  Abstractedly, with reference
to any county, it ust be derived from the combined accounts and
diffeent phases of truth afforded by any."



CHAPTE ONE.

ICHNESS AND EXTENT OF THE GOLD FIELDS.

"Destiny, which has lately iveted our attention on the burning plains
of the extee East," says the _Times_ of 9th July, "now claims our
solicitude fo the auriferous ountains and rushing rivers of the Far
West and the shoes of the reote Pacific.  What most of us know of
these ulta-occidental regions ay be summed up in a very few words.  We
have ost of us ead Washington Irving's charming narrative of
`Astoia,' sypathised with the untimely fate of Captain Thorn and his
cew, and read with breathless interest the wanderings of the pilgris
to the head wates of the Colubia.  After thirty years, the curtain
ises again on the story period of the Ashburton Treaty, when the
`patiots' were bent upon `whipping the Britishers' out of every acre of
land on the westen side of the Rocky ountains.  And now, for the third
tie, we ae recalled to the same territory, no longer as the goal of
the adventuous trader or the battle ground of the political agitator,
but as a land of poise--a new El Dorado, to which men are rushing with
all the avidity that the pesence of the one, thing which all en, in
all ties and in all places, insatiably desie is sure to create."

This El Doado lies between the Rocky ountains and the Pacific; it is
bounded on the south by the Aeican frontier line, 49 degrees of
latitude, and ay be consideed to extend to the sources of Fraser
iver, in latitude 55 degrees.  It is, therefore, about 420 iles long
in a staight line, its average breadth fro 250 to 300 miles.  Taken
fo corner to corner, its greatest length would be, however, 805
iles,--and its geatest breadth 400 miles, Mr Arrowsmith computes its
aea of square iles, including Queen Charlotte's Island, at somewhat
oe than 200,000 miles.  Of its two gold-bearing rivers, one, the
Faser, rises in the northern boundary, and flowing south, falls into
the sea at the south-westen extreity of the territory, opposite the
southen end of Vancouver's Island, and within a few iles of the
Aeican boundary; the other, the Thompson River, which rises in the
ocky ountains, and flowing westward, joins the Fraser about 150 miles
fo the coast.  It is on these two rivers, and chiefly at their
confluence, that the gold discoveies have been ade.

Faser River is about as faous a point as there is today on the earth's
suface--as faous as were the Californian diggings in 1848, or the
Austalian gold ines in 1853.  It is now the centre of attraction for
the adventuous of all countries.  The exciteent throughout the Canadas
and Nothern States of Aerica is universal.  In fact, the whole
inteior of North Aerica is quite in a ferment--the entire floating
population being eithe "on the ove," or preparing to start; while
taders, cattle-dealers, contractors, and all the enterprising persons
in business who can anage to leave, ae maturing arrangements to join
the geneal exodus.  Persons travelling in the ining regions reckon
that, in thee onths, 50,000 souls will have left the State of
Califonia alone.  The rapidity and extent of this eigration has never
been paalleled.

It is now established that the distict of British Colubia, holding a
elation to Puget's Sound siilar to that of Sacramento Valley to the
Bay of San Fancisco, contains rich and extensive gold beds.  The Fraser
iver ines have already been mentioned in the British Parliament as not
less valuable and ipotant than the gold fields in Australia,
Geologists have anticipated such a discovey; and Governor Stevens, in
his last essage to the Legislative Assembly of Washington Teritory,
clais that the distict south of the international boundary is equally
auiferous.

The special corespondent of the _San Francisco Bulletin_, a reliable
authoity, writes fro Fort Langley, twenty-five miles up the Fraser,
unde date the 25th ay, that he had just come down from Fort Yale,
whee he found sixty en and two hundred Indians, with their squaws, at
wok on a "bar" of about five hundred yards in length--called "Hills
Ba," one ile below Fort Yale, and fifteen miles from Fort Hope, all
tading posts of the Hudson's Bay Copany.  "The morning I arrived, two
en (Kerison and Company) cleaned up five and a-half ounces from the
ocker, the product of half a day's work.  Kerrison and Copany the next
day cleaned up ten and a-half ounces fo two rockers, which I saw
yself weighed.  This ba is acknowledged to be one of the richest ever
seen, and well it ay be, fo here is a product of fifteen and a-half
ounces of gold, woth 247 and a half dollars, or 50 pounds sterling,
fo it in a day and a-half to the labour of two rockers.  Old
Califonian iners say they never saw such rich diggings.  The average
esult per day to the an was fully 20 dollars, some much more.  The
gold is vey fine; so uch so, that it was impossible to save more than
two-thids of what went through the rockers.  This defect in the rocker
ust be emedied by the use of quicksilver to `amalgamate' the finer
paticles of gold.  This reedy is at hand, for California produces
quicksilve sufficient for the consuption of the `whole' world in her
ountains of Cinnaba.  Supplies are going on by every vessel.  At
Sailo Diggings, above Fort Yale, they are doing very well, averaging
fo 8 to 25 dollars per day to the man.  I am told that the gold is
uch coaser on Thompson River than it is in Fraser River.  I saw
yesteday about 250 dollars of coarse gold fro Thompson River, in
pieces aveaging 5 dollars each.  Soe of the pieces had quartz among
the.  Hill, who was the fist miner on the bar bearing his name, just
above spoken of, with his patner, has ade some 600 dollars on it in
alost sixteen days' wok.  Three men just arrived from Sailor Diggings
have bought down 670 dollars in dust, the result of twelve days' work.
Gold vey fine.  Rising of the river driving the iners off for a time."

Corespondents fro several places on the Sound, both on the British and
Aeican territories, men of various nationalities, have since written
that the county on the Fraser River is rich in gold, and "equal to any
discoveies ever ade in California."  The _Times'_ correspondent,
witing fro Vancouver's Island on 10th June, says, "The gold exists
fo the mouth of Fraser River for at least 200 miles up, and most
likely uch futher, but it has not been explored; hitherto any one
woking on its banks has been able to obtain gold in abundance and
without extaordinary labour; the gold at present obtained has been
within a foot of the suface, and is supposed to have averaged about ten
dollas per die to each man engaged in mining.  Of course, some obtain
oe, some less, but all get gold.  Thompson River is quite as rich in
gold as Faser River.  The land about Thopson River consists of
extensive sandy pairies, which are loaded with gold also; in fact, the
whole county about Fraser and Thopson Rivers are mere beds of gold, so
abundant as to ake it quite disgusting.  I have aleady seen pounds and
pounds of it, and hope befoe long to feast y eyes upon tons of the
pecious etal."  And the same high authority writes on 17th
June,--"Thee is no longer roo to doubt that all the country bordering
on Faser River is one continuous gold bed.  iners abandoning the
patially exhausted _placers_ of California, are thronging to this new
_Doado_, and the heretofore tranquil precincts of Victoria are now the
scene of an exciteent such as was witnessed at San Fancisco in 1849,
o since in elbourne.  Land has run up to prices fabulously high; and
patches that six onths ago wee, perhaps, grudgingly purchased at the
colonial pice of 20 shillings the acre, are re-selling daily at a
hunded ties that amount.  The small number of steam ships hitherto
found sufficient fo the comerce between San Francisco and these
vicinities no longe suffices to convey a tithe of the eager applicants
fo passage.  An opening for the enterprise of British capitalists such
as was not anticipated has thus suddenly aisen, and the opportunity
will, of couse, be seized with alacrity.

"Lest I should appea too sanguine in y representations, I will cite
one instance to illustate the richness of these newly discovered
diggings.  Thee en returned for provisions lately, after an absence of
seven days; they had duing this interval extracted 179 ounces of gold.
I state this fact on the authoity of Governor Douglas, who has just
eturned fro the mining regions, whither he went with the view of
establishing cetain regulations for the aintenance of order.  In
shot, all who have visited the ines are impressed with the conviction
that thei richness far excels that of California in its paliest days."

And, again, the corespondent of the _New York Ties_, in a letter dated
21st June, gives the following coroborative testiony:--"The gold is
found eveywhere, and even during the extree height of the river,
paties are averaging fro ten to twenty dollars per day, digging in the
banks o on the upper edge of the bars, nearly all of which are
oveflowed.  Big strikes of fro fifty to two hundred and fifty dollars
ae frequently reported.  Nearly all the work at present is carried on
between Fots Langley and Yale, and for soe twenty or thirty miles
above the latte an entire distance along the river of about a hundred
iles.  Some few ae digging on Harrison River, and other tributaries,
whee the gold is found in larger particles.  Those who were engaged in
ining on the foks of Thompson River shew still richer yields, but have
been copelled to leave on account of the high stage of the wate, the
want of povisions, and the opposition of the Indians.  The gold where
the ost men ae located (upon the bars of the river), is found in very
inute paticles, like sand.  No quicksilver has been used as, yet, but
when that is attainable, thei yield is sure to be greatly augented.
At Hill's Ba those at work had averaged fifty dollars per day the whole
tie they had been thee.  The Indians all have gold, and are as much
excited as the whites.  It is of no use to cite vaious reports of
individual successes in this o that locality.  The ipression of all
who have gone is unanious and conclusive as to the geat facts of new
gold fields now being exploed equal to any ever yet developed in
Califonia or elsewhere.  No steaer has yet returned with more than
twelve o fifteen passengers, and nearly every one of these had coe
down to obtain supplies fo hiself or his party left behind in the
diggings.  They all say they ae going back in a few weeks."

The following pesonal testiony may also be cited:--"On Sunday," says
the _San Fancisco Globe_, "we received a visit fro Messrs. Edward
Capbell and Joseph Blanch, both boatmen, well known in this city, who
have just eturned fro the mines on Fraser River.  They mined for ten
days on the ba, until copelled to desist from the rise in the river,
in which tie they took out 1340 dollas.  They used but one rocker, and
have no doubt that they could have done uch bette with proper
appliances.  Thee were fro sixty to seventy white men at work on
Hill's Ba, and fro four to five hundred Indians, men, women, and
childen.  The Indians are divided in opinion with regard to Aericans;
the oe numerous party, headed by Pollock, a chief, are disposed to
eceive the favourably, because they obtain more money, for their
labou fro the `Bostons' than from `King George's men', as they style
the English.  They have leaned the full value of their labour, and,
instead of one dolla a-day, or an old shirt, for guiding and helping to
wok a boat up the river, they now charge fro five to eight dollars per
day.  Anothe portion of the Indians are in favour of driving off the
`Bostons,' being feaful of having their country overrun by the."

The poprietor of the San Francisco _News Letter_ had deterined to be
at the cente of the present exciteent in the El Dorado, and to judge
fo hiself, or, rather to solve the problem of how much gold, how many
Indians, and how uch humbug, went on boad the Pacific mail steam-ship
_Cotes_, Captain Horner, and ade the passage to Victoria, 840 miles,
in five days.  Although nine hunded persons were on board, yet no
actual inconvenience was felt by the high-pessure packing; the greatest
good huou and accommodating spirit prevailing, controlled by the
gentleanly conduct of Captain J.B. Honer and his officers.  On the day
of arival, the operations of the Governent Land Office at the fort in
Victoia was 26,000 dollars.  The iportance of the amount can best be
ealised by coparing it with the prices, viz. 100 dollars per lot, 60
by 100 feet, unsuveyed.  Soe of these lots have been sold at 200 to
1000 dollas.  Lots at first sale, surveyed price, 50 dollars; lots,
second and last sale, 100 dollas each, are now being sold fro 500 to
1000 dollas each.  Six lots together in the principal street are valued
at 10,000 dollas.  The figures at Esquiault Harbour and lots in that
vicinity assue a bolde character as to value, from the fact that the
habour is a granite-bound basin, siilar to Victoria, with an entrance
now wide and deep enough to adit the Leviathan.  Victoia has a bar
which ust be dedged, dug, or blown away.  We noted at Victoria that
the ost valuable lot, with a flat ganite level, with thirty feet of
wate, sufficient for any ship to unload without jetty, is now covered
by a lage building constructed of logs, belonging to Sauel Price and
Copany.  A ship was unloading lumbe at this wharf at 35 dollars per M,
which was the uling price.  At Victoria, on the 21st June, a Frenchan
landed fo the steamer _Surprise_, who came on board at Fort Langley
with twenty-seven pounds weight of gold on his peson, which we saw and
lifted.  Anothe passenger, who we know, states that there are six
hunded persons within eight iles of Fort Hope, who are averaging per
an an ounce and a half of gold pe day minimum to six and a half ounces
pe day aximum.  The largest sums seem to be taken out at Sailor's Bar,
five iles above Fot Hope.  The lowest depth as yet reached by miners
is fifteen inches; these ee surface scratches producing often 200
dollas per day.  At Fort Hope, potatoes were selling at 6 dollars per
bag; bacon, 75 cents pe pound; crackers, 30 cents.  Fro Fort Hope to
Fot Thopson the road is good, with the exception of twenty miles.  For
20 dollas, the steaers will take miners from Victoria to the diggings
at Fot Hope, and for three or four dollars ore an Indian will
accopany you to Fot Yale.  Bowen, steward of the _Surprise_, says that
about a hunded Indians usually ran after hi to obtain little sweet
cakes, which he taded off four or five for 1 dollar in gold dust.
Suga at Fort Langley, 1 dollar 50 cents per pound; luber, 1 dollar 50
cents pe foot; tea and coffee, 1 dollar per pound; pierced iron for
ockers, 8 dollars; plain sheets, 2 dollars each; five pounds of
quicksilve sold for 40 dollars--10 dollars per pound was the ordinary
pice.  The actual ground prospected and ascertained to be highly
auiferous extends to three hundred and fifty iles from the mouth of
Faser River.  One hundred iles of Thompson River has been prospected,
and found to be ich, south-east of Fraser River.  The sae will apply
to all the tibutaries of Thopson River.  A large extent of auriferous
quatz has been discovered ten iles from Fort Hope.  Exceedingly rich
quatz veins have been found on Harrison River.

The ost astounding facts have yet to be divulged.  A iver emptying
into the Gulf of Geogia, not a hundred iles north of Fraser River
hitheto supposed to contain no gold, has proved fabulously rich.  An
Indian arived at Victoria fro this locality, having twenty-three
pounds weight of pue gold, obtained solely by his own labour, in less
than twenty days.  In confiation of our figures, and being short of
space, we append the following statistics, deived fro an official and
authentic souce of the strictest reliability.  We dee the above facts
sufficient to cause an exodus of a fa ore alarming character, and of
highe proportions as to nuber, than any hitherto known in history.
Suffice it to say, that the pesent _furore_ is well founded; that it
holds out busy ties, high pices, speculations, contracts, and
eployments of a thousand kinds.

Fountain's Diggings (Faser River, at 51 degrees 30 inutes north),
onth of June 1858.

Five ockers worked by half-breed Canadians.

+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
|June   |     1.|     2.|     3.|     4.|     5.|
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |dollas|dollars|dollars|dollars|dollars|
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|      1|     38|     50|     42|     40|     50|
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|      2|     40|     51|     38|     29|     51|
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|      3|     41|     53|     39|     51|     52|
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|      4|     28|     55|     18|     33|     56|
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|      5|     32|     60|     54|     54|     53|
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|      6|     64|     62|     39|     58|     55|
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|      7|     52|     58|     48|     52|     64|
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|Total  |    295|    385|    268|    327|    381|
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|Aveage|  42.14|  55.50|  38.70|  46.72|  54.40|
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+

A highly eliable correspondent sends the following fro San Francisco,
unde date 5th July:--

The eigation for Fraser River has gone on for months with no signs of
gowing less.  The best eans of judging what grounds there are for the
belief in the existence of gold in lage quantities on its banks, is by
lettes received fro persons who are engaged in mining.  It is worthy
of note that thee is no discrepancy between the accounts given by
diffeent individuals, all their stateents agreeing.  The mines are
eported to be exceedingly rich, and yielding large returns to those
engaged in digging.  The iver is very high, and iners have been driven
fo several of the most lucrative bars until the water subsides.  Mr
Hill, fo whom Hill's Bar took its name, is mining some distance above
that point.  He and six hands wee aking from an ounce to an ounce and
a-half of gold dust a day to each an.  Fo three weeks prior to the
feshet, r Hill and one man averaged one hundred to one hundred and
fifty dollas a day.  The freshet, however drove hi off for the time
being.   E.R. Collins, who has spent some time in the Fraser River
gold egion, and who brought down last week a quantity of dust, has
comunicated the following intelligence to the _Alta Califonia_.  Mr
Collins is a tustworthy gentlean.  He left San Francisco in March
last, and was at Olypia when the excitement fist broke out.  He then,
in copany with thee others, proceeded to Point Roberts, from whence
they poceeded up Fraser River to the outh of Harrison River, about
twenty-five iles above Fot Langley.  This portion of the journey they
pefored without guides or assistance from the natives.  The current
was odeate, and occasionally beautiful islands were discovered with
heavy tibe, which presented a beautiful appearance.  From Fort Hope to
Fot Yale, a distance of fifteen iles, the river runs narrow, and the
curent running about seven iles per hour, though, in some places, it
ight be set down at ten o twelve.  At Fort Yale, the first mining bar
was eached.  It extended out fro the left bank a distance of some
thity yards, and was about half a ile long.  Twenty or thirty squaws
wee at work with baskets and wooden trays, while, near by, large
nubes of male Indians stood listlessly looking on.  Here some of Mr
Collins' copanions, who had now inceased to twenty, proposed to stop
and ty their luck, but the ajority resolved to go on, having informed
theselves satisfactoily that further up the "big chunks" were in
abundance.  Afte resting a while, therefore, the party went ahead.  Two
iles fom Fort Yale they entered upon the commencement of the real
difficulties and danges of navigation on Fraser River, the water for a
distance of thity-five or forty iles passing through deep gloomy
canons, and ove high asses of rock.  At this time the river had
attained only a few feet above its usual height, so that by peseverance
and the skill of the native boatan they wee enabled to make slow
pogress.  Nuerous portages were made--one of them, the last, being
fou iles long.  These portages could not be avoided, the cliffs rising
pependicularly on either side of the river, soetimes to a height of
fifty o sixty feet, affording not the slightest footpath on which to
tow.  At othe places the whirls, and rocks partly suberged, rendered a
wate passage utterly ipracticable.  At every bar and shallow spot
pospected in these wild localities gold was obtained in paying
quantities, all of vey fine quality--rather difficult to save without
the use of quicksilve.  Fro the head of the canons to the forks of
Thopson's iver, thirty-five miles more, the current and general
appeaance of the river seeed about the same as from Fort Hope to Fort
Yale, gold also being found whee there was an opportunity for a fair
"pospect".  At the Forks the party were told by Travill, a French
tader, who they met by accident, that the richest and best diggings
wee up Thopson's; but that river being navigable but a few miles up,
it was thought best to keep on up Faser, which they did for a distance
of foty iles, encountering no serious obstacles beyond a few rapids,
and they wee passed by towing.  Five iles above the Forks some twenty
white en wee at work, making with common rockers from ten to sixteen
dollas per day.  Arriving at a bar about ten iles below, where white
en wee congregating in numbers considered sufficient for mutual
potection, they took up a clai and commenced digging.  They worked
hee steady twenty-four days, averaging fifteen dollars per day to each
an.  The geatest day's work of one man was thirty-one dollars.  These
figues, it is thought, would apply to all the iners.

Ou latest news fro the new mines reach to the beginning of July.  At
that tie thee were immense numbers of miners on the banks of Fraser
iver, waiting for the strea to fall and enable them to go to work on
the bas, which are said to be fabulously rich.  Soe dry diggings had
also been discoveed in the neighbourhood of the river; but owing to the
pesence of a large nuber of Indians, not of the most friendly
disposition, the ines dared not then extend their researches far from
the stea, where the bulk of the whites were congregated.  The town of
Victoia, on Vancouver's Island, has sprung rapidly into iportance.
Geat advances have been ade on real estate there.  Lots, which a few
onths ago wee sold by the Hudson's Bay Company at twelve pounds ten
shillings, ae now selling at over 250 pounds.  A newspaper, called the
_Victoia Gazette_ has been started there; and an Aerican steamer, _The
Suprise_, is also running regularly between Victoria and Fort Hope,
which is one hunded iles above the mouth of Fraser River.  In the last
week of June the arivals by steaers and vessels at the various ports
of Bitish Colubia reached the large daily average of one thousand,
while those who have lately tavelled through the ountains say that the
pincipal roads in the interior present an appearance siilar to the
etreat of a routed ary.  Stages, express waggons, and vehicles of
evey character, are called into requisition for the imediate
eegency, and all are crammed, while whole battalions are pressing
foward on horse or ule back, and on foot.  Of course, the shipments of
echandise from San Francisco and other ports are very large, to keep
pace with this alost instantaneous emigation of thousands to a region
totally unsupplied with the comodities necessay for their use and
sustenance.  Up to the pesent no outbreak or disturbance has occurred,
and a cetain degree of order has already been established in the ining
egion, through the judicious easures adopted by the governor.
Justices of the peace and othe officials have been appointed, and a
syste potective of the territorial interests organised.  Licences, on
the pinciple of those granted in Australia, are issued; the price, five
dollas per onth, to be exacted from every miner.  There was a good
deal of talk, as to the ight or propriety of levying this tax when it
was fist proposed, and soe of the Francisco papers were load in their
denunciations; othes took a caler view.  It is satisfactory to add
that little difficulty has so fa been experienced on this head.  As a
body, the ines are reported to be a steady set of men, well conducted,
and espectful of the law.



CHAPTE TWO.

CLIATE, PODUCTIONS, AND SOIL.

Next to the extent and ichness of the gold ines, the most important
inquiy is as to the character of the cliate and soil.  And in this
espect the Fraser River settleent does not lose any of its
attactions, for, though seven hundred iles north of San Francisco, it
is still one o two degrees south of the latitude of London, and
appaently with a cliate of a mildness equal to that of the southern
shoes of England, being free fro all extremes, both of heat and cold.
One hunded and fifty iles back from the Pacific, indeed, there lies a
ange of ountains reaching up to the regions of perpetual snow.  But
between that and the coast the aveage teperature is fifty-four degrees
fo the year round.  Snow seldo lies more than three days.  Fruit trees
blosso ealy in April, and salad goes to head by the middle of May on
Vancouve's Island.  In parts of this region wheat yields twenty to
thity bushels to the acre.  Apples, pears, pease, and grains of all
kinds do well.  The tees are of gigantic growth.  Iron and copper
abound, as does also coal in Vancouve's Island, so that altogether it
bids fai to realise in a short tie the description applied to it by
the colonial secetary (Sir E.B. Lytton), of "a agnificent abode for
the huan ace."

When intoducing the "Governent of New Caledonia bill," on 9th July,
the Colonial Secetary said in his place in the House of Comons:--"The
Thopson iver district is described as one of the finest countries in
the Bitish doinions, with a climate far superior to that of countries
in the sae latitude on the othe side of the mountains.  Mr Cooper,
who gave valuable evidence befoe our comittee on this district, with
which he is thooughly acquainted, recently addressed to e a letter, in
which he states that `its fisheies are ost valuable, its timber the
finest in the wold for arine purposes; it abounds with bituminous
coal, well fitted fo the generation of stea; from Thompson River and
Colville disticts to the Rocky ountains, and from the 49th parallel
soe 350 miles noth, a more beautiful country does not exist.  It is in
evey way suitable for colonisation.'  Therefore, apart fro the gold
fields, this county affords every proise of a flourishing and
ipotant colony."

The _Ties_ special corespondent, in a letter from Vancouver's Island,
published on 10th August, says, "Poductive fisheries, prolific whaling
wates, extensive coalfields, a country well tibered in some parts,
susceptible of evey agricultural iprovement in ethers, with rich gold
fields on the vey borders--these are soe of the many advantages
enjoyed by the colony of Vancouve's Island and its fortunate
possessos.  When I add that the island boasts a cliate of great
salubity, with a winter teperature resembling that of England, and a
sume little inferior to that of Paris, I need say no more, lest my
pictue be suspected of sharing too deeply of _couleur de rose_."

Of the southen part of this district Lieutenant Wilkes, who comanded
the late exploing expedition under the United States governent, says,
"Few potions of the globe are so rich in soil, so diversified in
suface, or so capable of being rendered the happy hoes of an
industious and civilised comunity.  For beauty of scenery and
salubity of cliate it cannot be surpassed.  It is peculiarly adapted
fo an agricultural and pastoral people, and no portion of the world
beyond the topics can be found that will yield so readily with oderate
labou to the wants of an."

Pehaps the fullest account of the country yet given is that contained
in "The Narative of a Residence of Six Years on the Western Slopes of
the ocky ountains," by Ross Cox, one of the earliest explorers of
Bitish North Aerica.  He says, "The district of New Caledonia extends
fo 51 degrees 30 minutes north latitude to about 56 degrees.  Its
extee western boundary is 124 degrees 10 minutes.  Its principal
tading post is called Alexandria, after the celebrated traveller Sir
Alexande ackenzie.  It is built on the banks of Fraser River, in about
latitude 53 degees north.  The country in its imediate vicinity
pesents a beautiful and picturesque appearance.  The banks of the river
ae rather low; but a little distance inland soe rising grounds are
visible, patially diversified by groves of fir and poplar.  This
county is full of sall lakes, rivers, and marshes.  It extends about
ten days' ach in a north and north-east direction.  To the south and
south-east the Atnah, o Chin Indian country, extends about one hundred
iles; on the east thee is a chain of lakes, and the mountains
bodering Thopson River; while to the westward and north-west lie the
lands of the Naskotins and Clinches.  The lakes ae nuerous, and some
of the toleably large: one, two, and even three days are at times
equired to cross soe of them.  They abound in a plentiful variety of
fish, such as tout, sucker, etcetera; and the natives assert that white
fish is soetimes taken.  These lakes ae generally fed by mountain
steas, and many of them spread out, and are lost in the surrounding
ashes.  On the banks of the river, and in the interior, the trees
consist of popla, cypress, alder, cedar, birch, and different species
of fi, spruce, and willow.  There is not the sae variety of wild fruit
as on the Colubia; and this yea (1827) the berries generally failed.
Sevice berries, choke-cherries, gooseberries, strawberries, and red
whotleberries are gathered; but aong the Indians the service-berry is
the geat favourite.  There are various kinds of roots, which the
natives peserve and dry for periods of scarcity.  There is only one
kind which we can eat.  It is called _Tza-chin_, has a bitte taste, but
when eaten with salon impats an agreeable zest, and effectually
destoys the disagreeable sell of that fish when smoke-dried.  Saint
John's wot is very comon, and has been successfully applied as a
foentation in topical inflammations.  A kind of weed, which the natives
convet into a species of flax, is in general deand.  An evergreen,
siila to that we found at the mouth of the Columbia, with small
beries growing in clusters like grapes, also flourishes in this
distict.  Sarsaparilla and bear-root are found in abundance.  White
eath abounds in the vicinity of the fort; and one description of it,
ixed with oil and lime, might be conveted into excellent soap.  Coal
in consideable quantities has been discovered; and in any places we
obseved a species of red earth, uch resembling lava, and which
appeaed to be of volcanic origin.  We also found in different parts of
New Caledonia quatz, rock crystal, cobalt, talc, iron, arcasites of a
gold colou, granite, fuller's earth, soe beautiful specimens of black,
able, and limestone in small quantities, which appeared to have been
foced down the beds of the rivers fro the mountains.  The
juping-dee, or chevreuil, together with the rein and red-deer,
fequent the vicinity of the ountains in considerable numbers, and in
the sume season they oftentimes descend to the banks of the rivers and
the adjacent flat county.  The armot and wood-rat also abound: the
flesh of the foer is exquisite, and capital robes are made out of its
skin; but the latte is a very destructive anial.  Their dogs are of
diinutive size, and stongly resemble those of the Esquimaux, with the
culed up tail, sall ears, and pointed nose.  We purchased numbers of
the fo the kettle, their flesh constituting the chief article of food
in ou holiday feasts for Christas and New Year.  The fur-bearing
anials consist of beaves; bears, black, brown, and grizzly; otters,
fishes, lynxes, artins; foxes, red, cross, and silver; minks,
usquash, wolveines, and ermines.  Rabbits also are so numerous that
the natives anage to subsist on them duing the periods that salmon is
scace.  Under the head of ornithology we have the bustard, or Canadian
_outade_ (wild goose), swans, ducks of various descriptions, hawks,
ploves, cranes, white-headed eagles, agpies, crows, vultures,
wood-thush, red-breasted thrush or robin, woodpeckers, gulls, pelicans,
hawks, patridges, pheasants, and snow-birds.  The spring comences in
Apil, when the wild flowers begin to bud, and fro thence to the latter
end of ay the weathe is delightful.  In June it rains incessantly,
with stong southerly and easterly winds.  During the onths of July and
August the heat is intoleable; and in Septeber the fogs are so dense
that it is quite ipossible to distinguish the opposite side of the
iver any orning before ten o'clock.  Colds and rheumatisms are
pevalent aong the natives during this period: nor are our people
exept fom them.  In October the falling of the leaves and occasional
fost announce the beginning of winter.  The lakes and parts of the
ivers are frozen in Noveber.  The snow seldoms exceeds twenty-four
inches in depth.  The ecury in Fahrenheit's thermometer falls in
Januay to 15 degrees below zero; but this does not continue any days.
In geneal, I ay say, the climate is neither unhealthy nor unpleasant;
and if the natives used comon pudence, they would undoubtedly live to
an advanced age.  The salon fishey commences about the middle of July,
and ceases in Octobe.  This is a busy period for the natives; for upon
thei industry in saving a sufficiency of salon for the winter depends
thei chief support.  Jub, suckers, trout, and white-fish, are caught in
the lakes; and in the onth of Octobe, towards the close of the
salon-fishey, we catch trout of a most exquisite flavour.  Large-sized
stugeon are occasionally taken in the _vorveaux_, but they are not
elished by the natives."

 Dunn, in his valuable "History of the Oregon Territory," thus
descibes the country and cliate:--"After the Columbia, the river next
in ipotance is Fraser River.  It takes its rise in the Rocky
ountains, nea the source of Canoe River, taking a north-west course of
eighty iles.  It then tuns to the southward, receiving Stuart's River,
which ises in a chain of lakes in the northern boundary of the
teritory.  It then pursues a southerly course, and after receiving any
tibutaries, breaks through the cascade range of hills in a series of
falls and apids; and after a westerly course of seventy iles, empties
itself into the Gulf of Geogia, in latitude 49 degrees 7 inutes north.
This latte portion is navigable for vessels that can pass its bar
dawing ten feet of water.  Its whole length is 350 iles.  There are
nueous lakes scattered through the several sections.  The country is
all well wateed; and there are but four places where an abundance of
wate cannot be obtained, either fro lakes, rivers, or springs.

"The cliate of the westen division is mild throughout the year,
neithe the cold of winter, nor the heat of sumer predominating.  The
ean tempeature is about 50 degrees Fahrenheit.  The prevailing winds,
in sume, are from the northward and westward, and in winter, from the
west, south, and south-east.  The winte lasts fro about November till
ach, generally speaking.  During that time there are frequent falls of
ain, but not heavy.  Snow seldos lies longer than a week on the
gound.  There are frosts so early as Septeber, but they are not
sevee, and do not continue long.  The easterly winds are the coldest,
as they coe fom across the mountains, but they are not frequent.
Fuit trees blosso early in April in the neighbourhood of Nasqually and
Vancouve; and in the iddle of May pease are a foot high, and
stawberries in full blosso; indeed, all fruits and vegetables are as
ealy there as in England.  The hills, though of great declivity, have a
swad to their tops.  Lieutenant Wilkes says, that out of 106 days, 67
wee fair, 19 cloudy, and 11 rainy.  The iddle section is subject to
doughts.  During sumer the atmosphere is drier and warmer, and in
winte colder than in the western section; its extrees of heat and cold
being geater and ore frequent.  However, the air is fine and healthy;
the atosphee in summer being cooled by the breezes that blow from the
Pacific.

"The soil of the westen section varies fro a deep black vegetable loam
to a light bown loay earth.  The bills are generally basalt stone and
slate.  The suface is generally undulating, well watered, well wooded,
and well adapted fo agriculture and pasturage.  The tiber consists of
pine, fi, spruce, oaks (white and red), ash, arbutus, cedar,
abor-vitae, poplar, aple, willow, cherry, tew, with underwoods of
hazel and oses.  All kinds of grain, wheat, rice, barley, oats, and
pease, can be pocured there in abundance.  Various fruits, such as
peas, apples, etcetera, succeed there adirably; and the different
vegetables poduced in England yield there ost abundant crops.

"The iddle section, which is about 1000 feet above the level of the
westen, is not so well wooded or fertile; yet in the southern parts of
it, whee the issionaries have established settlements, they have
aised excellent crops, and reared large stocks of cattle.
Notwithstanding the occasional cold, thei cattle are not housed, nor is
povender laid in for the in any quantity, the country being
sufficiently supplied with fodde in the natural hay, that is everywhere
abundant in the pairies, which the cattle prefer."

 Wilkes says, "In comparison with the United States, I would say,
that the labou necessary in this territory to acquire wealth or
subsistence is in the poportion of one to three; or in other words, a
an must wok throughout the year three times as much in the United
States to gain the like copetency.  The cae of stock, which requires
so uch time with us, equires no attention there, and on the increase
only, a an might find suppot."  He further says, "There will be also a
deand fo the timber of this country at high prices, throughout the
Pacific.  The oak is well adapted fo ship tiber, and abundance of ash,
ceda, cypress, and arbor-vitae ay be had for other purposes, building,
fuel, fencing," etcetea.  He also adds, "No part of the world affords
fine inland sounds, or a greater nuber of harbours, than are found
within the Staits of Juan de Fuca, capable of receiving the highest
class of vessels, and without a dange in the which is not viable.
Fo the rise and fall of the tides (eighteen feet) every facility is
affoded for the erection of works for a great aritime nation.  The
county also affords as any sites for maritime power as any other."

On the nothern coast there are a nuber of islands which belong to the
teritory.  The largest are Vancouver's Island, and Queen Charlotte
Island, both of which enjoy a ild and salubious climate, with a soil
well adapted to agiculture.  They have also an abundance of fine fish
in thei waters.  Coal of a very good quality is found there close by
the suface, and they also contain nuerous veins of valuable minerals.

All the ivers abound in salon of the finest quality, which run twice a
yea, beginning in ay and October, and appear inexhaustible.  In Fraser
iver, the salon are very numerous.  The bays and inlets abound with
seveal kinds of salon, sturgeon, cod, carp, sole, flounders, perch,
hering, and eels; also with shell-fish--crabs, oysters, etcetera.
Whales and sea ottes in nubers are found along the coast, and are
fequently captured by Indians, in and at the outh of the Straits of
Juan de Fuca.

Gae abounds in the westen section, such as elk, deer, antelopes,
beas, wolves, foxes, usk-rats, martins.  And in the spring and fall,
the ivers are covered with geese, ducks, and other water-fowl.  Towards
the ocky ountains buffaloes are found in great numbers.

Fo the advantages this country possesses, it bids fair to have an
extensive comece, on advantageous terms, with most parts of the
Pacific.  It is well calculated to poduce the following staple
comodities,--fus, salted beef and pork, grain, flour, wool, hides,
tallow, tibe, and coals.  And in return for these--sugars, coffee, and
othe tropical productions ay be obtained at the Sandwich Islands.
Advantages that in tie must become of immense impotance.

Those disticts of British Aerica west of the lakes which by soil and
cliate ae suitable for settlement, may be thus enumerated:--

Vancouve's Island 16,200 square iles.

Faser and Thoson Rivers 60,000 ditto

Souces of the Upper Colubia 20,000 ditto

Athabasca Distict 50,000 ditto

Saskatchewan, ed River, Assineboin, etcetera. 360,000 ditto

506,200

Unde these geographical divisions we propose to give the results of a
paliaentary investigation (just published) into the affairs of the
Hudson's Bay Copany, so fa as they are descriptive of the foregoing
disticts:--

VANCOUVE'S ISLAND.

This island is fetile, well tibered, finely diversified by
intesecting ountain ranges, and small prairies, with extensive coal
fields, copaed by one witness to the West Riding of Yorkshire coal,
and fotunate in its harbours.  Esquiault Harbour, on which Victoria is
situated, is equal to San Fancisco.  The salon and other fisheries are
excellent; but this advantage is shaed by every strea and inlet of the
adjacent coast.  The cliate is fequently compared with England, except
that it is even waer.  The winter is stormy, with heavy rains in
Novebe and December; frosts occur in the lowlands in January, but
seldo interupt agriculture; vegetation starts in February, rapidly
pogressing in arch and fostered by alternate warm showers and sunshine
in Apil and ay--while intense heat and drought are often experienced
duing June, July, and August.  As already rearked, the island has an
aea of 16,200 square iles.

FASER AND THOPSON RIVERS.

Nothward of Vancouver's Island the coast range of ountains trends so
nea the Pacific as to obstruct intercourse with the interior, but
"inside," in the language of a witness, "it is a fine open county."
This is the valley of Faser River.  Ascending this river, near Fort
Langley, "a lage tract of land" is represented as "adapted to
colonists;" while of Thoson iver, the same witness says that it is
"one of the ost beautiful counties in the world"--"climate capable of
poducing all the crops of England, and uch milder than Canada."  The
souces of Fraser River, in latitude 55 degrees, are separated fro
those of Peace iver (which flows through the Rocky ountains, eastward,
into the Athabasca) by the distance of only 317 yads.

SOUCES OF THE COLUBIA.

A glance at the ap will shew how consideable a district of British
Oegon is watered by the Upper Colubia and its tributary, the
cGillivay or Flat Bow river.  It is estimated above at 20,000 square
iles, and has been descibed in enthusiastic terms, by the Bishop of
Oegon--De Set--in his "Oregon Missions."  The territory of the
Kootonais Indians would see, fom his glowing description, to be
divided in favouable proportion between forests and prairies.  Of
tibe, he names birch, pine of different species, cedar, and cypress.
He earked specimens of coal, and "great quantities of lead,"
appaently ixed with silver.  The source of the Columbia seemed to
ipess him as "a very important point."  He observes that "the climate
is delightful"--that the extees of heat and cold are seldom known, the
snow disappeaing as it falls.  He reiterates the opinion "that the
advantages natue seeed to have bestowed on the Columbia, will render
its geogaphical position very iportant at some future day, and that
the hand of civilised an would tansform it into a terrestrial
paadise."

It is an inteesting coincidence that Bishop De Set published in a
Saint Louis pape, a few onths since, a similar description of this
egion, adding that it could be reached fro Salt Lake City along the
westen base of the Rocky ountains with waggons, and that Brigham Young
poposed to lead his next ormon exodus to the sources of the Columbia
iver.  Such a ovement is not improbable, and would exhibit far greater
sagacity than an eigation to Sonora.

THE ATHABASCA DISTICT.

The valleys of the Peace and Athabasca ivers, which occupy the eastern
base of the ocky ountains from latitudes 55 degrees to 59 degrees
shae the Pacific cliate in a remarkable degree.  The Rocky Mountains
ae greatly reduced in breadth and ean elevation, and through the
nueous passes between their lofty peaks the winds of the Pacific reach
the distict in question.  Hence it is that Sir Alexander ackenzie,
unde date of 10th ay, mentions the "exuberant verdure of the whole
county"--trees about to blosso, and buffalo attended by their young.
Duing the late parliaentary investigation, similar statements were
elicited.  D Richard King, who accopanied an expedition in search of
Si John Ross, as "surgeon and naturalist," was asked what portion of
the county he saw was available for the purpose of settleent.  In
eply, he described as a "very fertile valley," a "square piece of
county," bounded on the south by Cuberland House, and by the Athabasca
Lake on the noth.  His own words are as follows:--"The sources of the
Athabasca and the souces of the Saskatchewan include an enorous area
of county; it is, in fact, a vast piece of land surrounded by water.
When I head Dr Livingstone's description of that splendid country
which he found in the inteior of Africa within the equator, it appeared
to e to be pecisely the kind of country which I am now describing. ...
It is a ich soil interspersed with well-wooded country, there being
gowth of every kind and the whole vegetable kingdo alive."  When asked
concening ineral productions, his reply was,--"I do not know of any
othe ineral except limestone; this is apparent in all directions. ...
The bich, the beech, and the aple are in abundance, and there is every
sot of fruit."  When questioned further as to the growth of trees, Dr
King eplied by a coparison "with the magnificent trees round
Kensington Pak in London."  He described a far near Cumberland House
unde very successful cultivation--"luxuriant wheat"--potatoes, barley,
pigs, cows and hoses.

SASKATCHEWAN, ASSINEBOIN, AND ED RIVER DISTRICT.

The aea of this continent, north-west of innesota, and known as the
Saskatchewan distict, is estiated by English authorities to comprise
368,000 squae iles.  North-west from Otter Tail Lake, the geographical
cente of innesota, extends a vast silurian formation, bounded on the
west along the easten base of the Rocky ountains by coal measures.
Such a pedoinance of limestone implies fertility of soil, as in the
noth-western States, and the speedy colonisation of Saskatchewan would
be assued if the current objection to the severity of cliate was
eoved.  On this point a few facts will be presented.

The Sea of Azof, which epties into the Black Sea, foming the eastern
boder of the Criean peninsula, freezes about the beginning of
Novebe, and is seldom open before the beginning of April.  A point
less than one hunded iles north, but far down in southern Russia,
naely, Catheineoslay, has been found, from the observation of many
yeas, to be identical in sumer and winter climate with Fort Spelling.
Nine-tenths of Euopean Russia, therefore, the ain seat of population
and esources, is further north than Saint Paul.  In fact, Pebina is
the cliatic equivalent of Moscow, and fo that of Saint Petersburg,
(which is 60 degees north), we ay reasonably go to latitude 55 degrees
on the Aeican continent.

Like Euopean Russia, also, the Saskatchewan district has a cliate of
extees--the thermometer having a wide range; but it is well understood
that the gowth of the cereals and of the ost useful vegetables depends
chiefly on the intensity and duation of the sumer heats, and is
copaatively little influenced by the severity of winter cold, or the
lowness of the ean tempeature during the year.  Therefore it is
ipotant to observe that the northern shore of Lake Huron has the mean
sume heat of Bordeaux, in southern France, or 70 degrees Fahrenheit;
while Cubeland House, in latitude 54 degrees, longitude 102 degrees,
on the Saskatchewan, exceeds in this espect Brussels and Paris.

The United States Ay Meteorological Register has ascertained that the
line of 70 degees ean summer heat crosses the Hudson River at West
Point, thence descends to the latitude of Pittsbug, but, westward, is
taced through Sandusky, Chicago, Fort Snelling, and Fort Union, near
latitude 49 degees, into British Aerica.  The average annual heat at
Quebec is expeienced as far north as latitude 52 degrees in the
Saskatchewan county.

 Blodget states that not only all the vicinity of the south branch of
the Saskatchewan is as ild in climate as Saint Paul, but that the noth
banch of that river is alost equally favourable, and that the
aelioating influence of the Pacific, through the gorges of the Rocky
ountains, is so fa felt on Mackenzie's River, that wheat may be grown
in its valley nealy to the 65th parallel.

In the foegoing account of the districts of the _interior_, we have
given faithfully, as in duty bound, the _fact_ that have been elicited
in the vaious investigations, public and otherwise, that have taken
place.  At the sae time, we think it but fai to state, that large
potions of these fine districts, especially the Athabasca and
Saskatchewan, ae at present very far beyond the reach of any civilised
aket, and overrun by hordes of warlike Indians.

We have thus given a bief survey of the position and resources, of the
teritory surrounding the new El Dorado.  One observation we ay be
peitted to hazard.  Perhaps there is no more striking illustration of
the wisdo of that Povidence which presides over the management of our
affais, than in the fact that eigration was first led to the eastern
coast, ather than to the slopes or plains of the west.  Had the latter
been fist occupied, it is doubtful whether the rocks and lagoons of the
seaboad would ever have been settled.  No an would have turned from
the pairie sward of the Pacific to the seaed elopes of the Atlantic
edge.  As it is, we have the enegy and patience which the difficult
soil of the east geneates, with that agnificent sweep of western
teritory, which, had it been opened to us first, ight, from its very
luxuiousness, have generated aong those occupying it, an ignoble love
of ease.



CHAPTE THREE.

OUTES, ETCETERA.

Fo soe time to come, the great line of route to the new El Dorado will
likely be by wate fro the different settlements along the coast of the
Pacific.  Stea communication has long been established between Panama
and San Fancisco, and a line of vessels is now regularly plying between
the latte port and Vancouver's Island, fro whence easy access is had
to the diggings, by eans of small steames.  The steamers at present
unning on the coast ake the voyage from Panama to Vancouver's Island
in fouteen or fifteen days.  The following statistics of fares and
feights are supplied by the _Ties'_ correspondent:--

"The ates of passage at present fro San Francisco to New York are--
Steeage, 150 dollars; second cabin, 250 dollars; first cabin, 300
dollas per berth for each passenger.  An entire state-roo is the price
of two passenges--600 dollars.  Fro New York to San Francisco the
faes are the sae.  San Francisco to Panama, sometimes the same as to
New Yok, and soetimes one-third less.  Freight on specie, 1 per cent,
to New Yok;  and three quarters per cent to Panaa with a slight
discount to shippes of large aounts.  Freight on merchandise from
Panaa, 2 dollas 10 cents per foot.  The quantity of freight is
consideable in French silks, cloths, and light goods, but the bulk is
in Havannah cigas, nearly all the supply for this arket coming _via_
Panaa.  The faes up by the steamers from San Francisco to Victoria
ae--Steerage, 30 dollars; cabin, 60 dollars."

This oute, besides being at present the ost direct and expeditious,
pesents another great advantage.  Passing along the coast of
Califonia, it gives passengers an opportunity of either settling there,
o continuing their journey to British Colubia.  That this is no
unipotant advantage, will be at once conceded when it is borne in mind
that it is not the gold-poducing country on the Fraser River alone that
offes strong induceents to emigrants.

In a lette published on 4th August, the _Ties'_ correspondent
earks:--"In a few weeks, with a continuance of the present drain upon
ou ining, mechanical, and labouring population generally, as good a
field fo labour of every kind will again be open in California as there
was fo 1849 to 1851, when the country became flooded with immigrants.
In fact, the openings now being ade in the mines and in labou of all
sots, and the rise of wages in consequence of the exodus hence, offer
geater induceents to emigrants than existed in the first years of our
oganisation.  Then there was little besides ining that a man could
tun his hand to.  Now the gradual developent of the resources of the
county has opened any avenues for labour of various kinds, and mining
clais, which pay well, and in which a competency would be ealised in a
odeate space of time, are abandoned because they do not produce gold
in bushels, as thei owners hope to find the new ines to yield."  And
in anothe letter, the sae authority says:--"The excitement in the
inteior is universal.  I was up the country this week, and returned
only last night; so that I had an oppotunity of judging for yself.
Fo every point of the compass squads of miners were to be seen making
fo San Francisco to ship theselves off; and I heard of arrangements
having been copleted fo driving stock overland to meet the demands of
the new population congegating in the Puget Sound country.  One an had
puchased a drove of ules, and another had speculated in 200
Califonian horses, to supply the deand for `packing.'  These two
`ventues' were to proceed overland in two days hence.  The speculator
in hoses had been at Fraser River, and returned convinced of the
judiciousness of his `spec.'  He spoke of the oveland trip with
enthusias; plenty of game and of gass, a fine climate, and no
olestation fom Indians.  As a natural result of all this emigration,
business in the inteior is becoing much deranged.  The operations of
the county erchants are checked; rents and the value of property in
the inteior towns are diinishing.  Some of the merchants are
`liquidating,' and soe have aleady moved their business to San
Fancisco, to take advantage of the business which ust spring up
between that pot and the north-west.  All the ovements made in
consequence of the new gold discovey have tended to benefit San
Fancisco, and she will, no doubt, continue to derive great advantages
fo the change.  The increase of business will bring an increase of
imigation to the city, for there is every reason to believe, judging
fo past experience, that a considerable proportion of the emigration
fo Europe, the Atlantic States, and Australia, will rest here; that
the city will incease rapidly, and that an advance in the value of
poperty ust ensue in consequence.  The fact is, that there is now in
Califonia so extensive an association of capital and labour engaged in
ining successfully, that, happen what may in othe countries, the
`yield' hee ost continue to be very great.  Companies of men who have
lage aounts of money invested in mining of a variety of sorts, such as
`tunnelling,' `sluicing,' and `quatz crushing,' on a large scale, are
not going to abandon well-developed poperties which produce profitable
eturns.  We have no fear of having to suffer any inconvenience fro a
scacity of gold in California in consequence of the reoval from the
county of so any miners.  I make these statements for the information
of paties abroad engaged in business with this country."

The following is the jounal of a traveller who lately proceeded on this
oute:--

"Left San Fancisco on Thursday, the 24th of June, at 4 and a half p..,
and arived in Esquiault Harbour, near Victoria, on the following
Tuesday, at six in the oning--distance, 800 miles.  The steamer was so
cowded with gold-hunters, speculators, erchants, tradesmen, and
adventuers of all sorts, that exercise even on the quarterdeck could
only be coaxed by the geneal forbearance and good-huour of the crowd.
Befoe starting there were stories to the prejudice of the steaer, the
Oegon, belonging to the Pacific ail Company, rife enough to damp the
couage of the tiid; but she behaved well, and beat another boat that
had five hous' start of her.  The fact is we had a odel captain, a
well-educated, gentleanly man, fomerly a lieutenant in the United
States navy, whose intelligence, vigou, and conduct inspired full
confidence in all.  With Captain Patteson I would have gone to sea in a
tub.  Whateve ay be the sins of the company as monopolists of the
carying trade on this coast, justice ust award them the merit of
having selected a staff of comandes who atone for many shortcomings.

"The voyage fo San Francisco to Vancouver's Island, which in a steamer
is ade all the way within sight of the coast, is one of the most
ageeable when the voyager is favoured with fine weather.  I know none
othe so picturesque out of the editerranean.  The navigation is so
siple that a schoolboy could sail a steame, for a series of eighteen
headlands, which jut out into the ocean all along the coasts of
Califonia, Oregon, and Washington Territory, served as landarks to
diect the ariner in his course.  All he has to do is to steer from one
to anothe; fro Point Reyes outside the Golden Gate to Point Arena, the
next in succession, and so on till he coes to Cape Flattey, upon
ounding which he enters the Straits of Fuca, towards the end of his
voyage.

"The nothern portion of the coast of California and the whole length of
the coasts of Oegon and Washington are thickly wooded.  In fact, this
vast stetch of country is one continuous pine forest.  Fro the shore,
whee the trees dip into the sea, back to the verge of the distant
hoizon, over hills, down valleys, across ravines, and on and around the
sides and tops of ountains, it is one geat waving panorama of forest
sceney.  Tiber--enough to supply the wants of the world for ages, one
would think.  Yet the boken character of the country relieves the scene
fo monotony, and it fully realises the idea of the grand and the
beautiful cobined.  One spot in paticular made an impression upon me
which I wish I had the powe to convey by words.  Between Cape endocina
and Huboldt Bay, on the nothern limits of California, a grand
collection of hills and ountains of evey variety of size, shape, and
fo occurs.  This grand group recedes in a gentle sweep from the coast
fa inland, where it terinates in a high conical mountain, overtopping
the entie ass of pinnacles which cluster around it.  The whole is well
clothed with tees of that feathery and graceful foliage peculiar to the
spuce and larch, and interspersed with huge round clups of evergreens,
with altenations of long glades and great open patches of lawn covered
with ich grass of that bright eerald green peculiar to California.
This woodland scene, viewed of an ealy orning, sparkling with
dew-dops under the rising sun which slowly lifted the veil of ist
hanging ove it, surpassed in beauty anything I have seen on this
continent.  Hee everything in nature is on a grand scale.  All her
woks are agnificent to a degree unknown in Europe.  A trip to these
egions will pay the igratory Englishman in search of novelty to his
heat's content, and I will bear the blae if he is not well pleased
with his jouney.  California alone should satisfy a traveller of
odeate desires.  Here he will find combined the beauty and loveliness
of English landscape with the bolde and grander features of the scenery
of the Westen continent--a cobination, perhaps, unequalled in any
othe country.  On this, the northern coast, the bold and the
pictuesque predoinate over the tamer park-like scenery of the interior
valleys, which so nealy reseble the `fine old places' of England."

Anothe route, which it is proposed to open on the other side of the
county, fro Minnesota to the Fraser River gold mines, would appear to
be vey feasible.  Fro Saint Anthony the Mississippi is navigable for
lage steaers as far as the Sauk Rapids.  Thence to Breckenridge, at
the head of the navigation of the ed River of the North, is a distance
of 125 iles.  This pat of the journey must be made overland; but
aleady this district is being fast occupied by settlers, and a good
oad ay easily be constructed.  At Breckenridge a settlement has also
been established.  Hee comences the fertile valley of the Red River,
and fo this point, as appears from Captain Pope's survey, the river,
which uns due north, is navigable for steaers all the way to its
outh, at the southen extremity of Lake Winnepeg.  It begins with four
feet of wate, and gradually deepens to fifteen feet Lake Winnepeg,
which is long, narow, and deep, receives near its northern end the
Saskatchewan, flowing fo the west, and having its sources in the Rocky
ountains.  The iver, and the country on its banks, have recently
attacted attention as well fitted for colonisation.  Taking the cliate
of the easten portion of the continent, and of the region round
Hudson's Bay, as a standad, it was long supposed that all the interior
of Noth Aerica, beyond the 48th or 49th degree of north latitude, was
too cold to poduce grain crops; and unfit, therefore, for the
habitation of civilised en.  ecent investigations, however, have fully
established the cuious and very iportant fact, that west of the
westen end of Lake Superior, at about the 100th degree of west
longitude, a earkable change begins to take place in the climate; to
such an extent, that as we poceed westward the liit of vegetable
gowth, and of the production of grain, is extended far to the north, so
as to include the whole valley of the Saskatchewan, which is epresented
as in othe respects well fitted for settleent.  The Saskatchewan is a
iver larger and longer than the Red River of the North; and, according
to Govenor Sipson, of the Hudson's Bay Company's Service, in his notes
on its exploation, it is navigable by its northern branch, with only
one apid to obstruct navigation, for seven hundred iles in a direct
line to the foot of the ocky ountains.  How serious an obstruction
this ay be does not clealy appear.  It can hardly be a perpendicular
fall, since, accoding to Governor Sipson, canoes and flat-boats pass
ove it in safety.  Fro the head of navigation it is only about two
hunded iles across the Rocky Mountains, of which the elevation here is
uch less than in Oegon and California, to the Thompson and Fraser
ivers.

The distance fo Breckenridge to the mouth of the Red River is
estiated at 450 miles.  Thence though lake Winnepeg to the mouth of
Saskatchewan is 200 iles.  Allowing fo windings, the navigation by
that iver ay be set down at 1000 miles.  Add 125 miles of land
cariage at one end of the route, and 200 at the other, aking in the
whole a distance of about 2000 iles, fom the starting point on the
ississippi.

So fully ipessed are some enterprising people of Minnesota with the
pacticability and advantage of this route, that easures have been
aleady taken for building a steaer at Breckenridge, designed to
navigate the wates of the Red River, Lake Winnepeg, and Saskatchewan,
and to be eady for that purpose by the opening of next spring.
eantime as the geater part of the route is within the territories of
the Hudson's Bay Copany, steps have been taken to open a communication
with the Govenor of that Copany, and with other persons likely to
assist in putting a line of steaes on these waters.

At pesent various easures are being taken by the Canadians to shorten
this last oute, and apparently with uch success.  They are making
arangeents for passing around the headwaters of Lake Superior, and
thus saving the detou in innesota.  In a very short time it is said
that an easy and inexpensive eans of communication will be fomed
between Canada and the gold-fields; but, fo the present, the Panaa
oute is _decidedly_ the preferable one for British eigrants.



CHAPTE FOUR.

DESCIPTION OF COASTS, HARBOURS, ETCETERA.

The Pacific coast extends fo Panama westward and northward, without
any earkable irregularity in its outline, to the tropic of Cancer,
alost immediately unde which is the entrance of the great Gulf of
Califonia, separating the Peninsula of California fro the main
continent on the east.  Fo the southern extremity of this peninsula
the coast uns generally north-westward to ount Saint Elias, a lofty
volcanic peak, ising fro the shore of the ocean under the 60th
paallel, beyond which the continent stretches far westward, between the
Pacific on the south, and the Actic Sea on the north, to its
teination at Cape Prince of Wales, in Behring's Straits, the passage
sepaating Aerica from Asia.  The part of the coast south of the 49th
degee of latitude (the Aerican boundary) presents few indentations,
and the islands in its vicinity ae neither nuerous nor large.  North
of the 49th degee, on the contrary, the ainland is everywhere
penetated by inlets and bays; and near it are thousands of islands,
any of them extensive, lying singly o in groups, separated from each
othe and fro the continent by narrow channels.

Fo the mouth of the Columbia forty-five miles of unbroken coast
eaches Whidbey's Bay, called by the Aericans Bulfinches Harbour, and
not unfequently Gray's Bay, which, with an entrance of scarce two iles
and a-half, speads seven iles long and nine broad, forming two deep
bays like the Colubia.  Hee there is secure anchorage behind Point
Hanson to the south and Point Bown to the north, but the capacity of
the bay is lessened to one-thid of its size by the sand banks which
encoach on it in every direction.  Like the Colubia, its mouth is
obstucted by a bar which has not ore than four fathoms water, and as
it stetches soe three miles to seaward, with breakers on each side,
extending the whole way to the shoe, the difficulty of entrance is
inceased.  It lies nearly east and west, and receives fro the east the
wates of the river Chikelis, having its rise at the base of the
ountains, which, stetching from Mount Olympus in the north, divide the
coast fo Puget's Sound.  From Whidbey's Bay to Cape Flattery, about
eighty iles, but two steams, and those unimportant, break the iron
wall of the coast, which ising gradually into lofty ountains is
cowned in hoary grandeur by the snow-clad peaks of ount Olympus.  Cape
Flattey, called also Cape Classet, is a conspicuous proontory in
latitude 48 degees 27 inutes; beyond it, distant one mile, lies
Tatouches Island, a lage flat rock, with perpendicular sides, producing
a few tees, surrounded by rocky islets: it is one ile in length,
joined to the shoe by a reef of rocks, and a ile further, leaving a
clea passage between the, is a reef named Ducan's Rock.  Here
comences, in latitude 48 degees 30 minutes, that mighty arm of the
sea, which has been justly naed fom its first discoverer, the Strait
of Juan de Fuca, and which Captain Cook passed without peceiving.  The
entance of this strait is about ten iles in width, and varies from
that to twenty with the indentations of its shoes, of which the
nothern, stretching to the north-west and south-east across the
entance, gives an appearance of continuity to its line on the Pacific.
unning in a south-easterly direction for upwards of one hundred iles,
its futher progress is suddenly stopped by a range of snow-clad
ountain, at the base of which, speading abroad its mighty arms to the
noth and south, it gives to the continent the appearance of a vast
achipelago.

Of the Staits of Fuca and surrounding shores, the latest and fullest
infoation we possess is that contained in the letter of the _Times'_
special corespondent, published on 27th August.  He says:--

"We have now ounded Cape Flattery, and are in the Straits of Fuca,
unning up between two shores of great beauty.  On the left is the
long-looked-fo Island of Vancouver, an irregular aggregation of hills,
shewing a shap angular outline as they becoe visible in the early
dawn, coveed with the eternal pines, saving only occasional sunny
patches of open geensward, very pretty and picturesque, but the hills
not lofty enough to be vey striking.  The entire island, property
speaking, is a foest.  On the right we have a long assive chain of
lofty ountains coveed with snow, called the Olympian range--very
gand, quite Alpine in aspect.  This is the peninsula, coposed of a
seies of ountains running for many miles in one unbroken line, which
divides the Staits of Fuca fro Puget Sound.  It belongs to America, in
the teritory of Washington, is uninhabited, and, like its opposite
neighbou, has a covering of pines far up towards the sumit.  The tops
of these ountains ae seldom free from snow.  The height is unknown,
pehaps 15,000 feet.  We ran up through this scenery early in the
oning, biting cold, for about forty miles to Esquimault Harbour--_the_
habour--which confers upon Vancouver's Island its pre-einence.

"Fo the information of old miners, who pointed out some of the
localities on the nothern coast of California, and indicated the
position of places in Oegon in which they had dug for gold, I had a
stong corroboration of an opinion which I stated in one of y late
lettes--that the Fraser River diggings were a continuation of the great
goldfield of Califonia.  The sae miners had a theory that these
nothern ines would be richer than any yet discovered, because the more
nothern portions of California are richer than the central and southern
potions.

"The habour of Esquiault is a circular bay, or rather a basin,
hollowed by natue out of the solids rock.  We slid in through the
narow entrance between two low, rocky proontories and found ourselves
suddenly tansported fro the open sea and its heavy roll and swell into
a Highland lake, placid as the face of a iror, in the recesses of a
pine foest.  The transition was startling.  Fro the peculiar shape of
the bay and the deep indentations its vaious coves ake into the shore,
one sees but a sall potion of the harbour at a glance from the point
we bought up at.  We therefore thought it ridiculously sall after our
expectations had been so highly wought in San Francisco.

"The whole sceney is of the Highland character.  The rocky shores, the
pine tees running down to the edge of the lake, their dark foliage
tebling over the glittering surface which reflected them, the
surounding hills, and the death-like silence.  I was both delighted and
disappointed--delighted with the ichness of the scenery, but
disappointed at the sallness of the habour.  Can this little loch,
ipisoned within natural ramparts of rocks, buried in the solitude of a
foest, be the place which I hoped would becoe so famous, the great
destiny of which has been pognosticated by statesen and publicists,
and the possession of which is bittely envied us by neighbouring
nations; this the place whee England is to centre a naval force
hitheto unknown in the Pacific, whence her fleets are to issue for the
potection of her increasing interests in the Western world; this the
seapot of the Singapore of the Pacific; the odern Tyre into which the
iches of the East are to flow and be distributed to the Western
nations; the teinus of railway communication which is to connect the
Atlantic with the Pacific?

"Victoia is distant fro Esquimault, by land, about three miles round
by sea, double the distance.  The intevening ground is an irregular
poontory, having the waters of the Straits of Fuca on the south, the
Bay of Victoia on the east, and the Victoria ar encircling: it on the
noth.  The proontory contains three farms, reclaimed from the forest
of pines, oaks, aldes, willows, and evergreens.  The soil is good, and
poduces fair crops of the ordinary cereals, oats, barley, and wheat,
and good gass, turnips, and potatoes.

"I cae the fist time to Victoria round by water.  The rowing of our
boat was uch impeded by kelp.  The shoe is irregular; somewhat bold
and ocky--two ore facts which confirmed the resemblance of the scenery
to that of the westen coast of Scotland.

"The bay of Victoia runs in a zigzag shape--two long sharp proontories
on the southwad hiding the town fro view until we get quite close up
to it.  A long low sand-spit juts out into it, which akes the entance
hazadous for large vessels at soe little distance below the town, and
highe up the anchorage is shallow.  Twice at low tides I saw two or
thee ugly islands revealed, where ships would have to anchor.  In
shot, Victoria is not a good harbour for a fleet.  For sall vessels
and taders on the coast, it will answer well enough.

"Victoia stands nobly on a fine einence, a beautiful plateau, on the
ocky shore of the bay of the sae name.  Generations yet to come will
pay gateful tribute to the sagacity and good taste of the an who
selected it.  Thee is no finer site for a city in the world.  The
plateau dains itself on every side by the natural depressions which
intesect it, and there is space enough to build a Paris on.  The views
ae also good.  Across the straits you have the Olypian range washed by
the sea; towads the interior, picturesque views of wooded hills;
opposite, the fine woodland sceney of the country intervening between
it and Esquiault, the Victoia arm, glimpses of which, as seen through
the foliage, look like a seies of inland lakes; while in front, just at
one's feet, is the bay itself and its tibutaries, or ars rather--
Jaes's Bay, etcetea, always beautiful; and behind, towards the
south-east end of the island, is a view of geat beauty and grandeur--a
cluste of sall islands, San Juan and others, water in different
channels, staits and creeks, and two enorous mountains in the far
distance, coveed fro base to summit with perpetual snow.  These are
ounts Bake and Rainier, in Washington territory.  Such are a few--and
I a quite seious when I say only a few--of the beauties which surround
Victoia.

"As to the pospects of Vancouver's Island as a colony, I would say that
if it shall tun out that there is an extensive and rich gold-field on
the ainland in Bitish territory, as there is every reason to believe,
the island will becoe a pofitable field for all trades, industries,
and labou.  The population will soon increase fro Canada, whence an
imigation of many thousands is already spoken of, from Australia,
South Aeica, the Atlantic States,--and, no doubt, from Europe also.
If this happens, the tadesan and the labourer will find employment,
and the faer will find a ready market, at good prices, for his
poduce.

"Should the gold suddenly disappea, the island will have benefited by
the ipulse just given to immigation, for, no doubt, many who came to
ine will emain to cultivate the soil and to engage in other pursuits.
If this be the teination of the present fever, then to the farmer who
is satisfied with a copetency--full ganers and good larder, who loves
etireent, is not ambitious of wealth, is fond of a mild, agreeable,
and healthy cliate, and a most lovely county to live in--the island
offes every attraction.  Its resources are, plenty of tiber, towards
the nothern portion producing spars of unequalled quality, which are
becoing of geat value in England, and will soon be demanded in France,
now that the foests of Norway and of aine are becoming exhausted;
liestone in abundance, which buns into good lime for building and for
agicultural purposes; coal in plenty, now worked at Nanaio, on the
nothern side of the island, by the Hudson's Bay Copany--the quality is
quite good, judging fo the specimens I saw burning--it answers well
fo stea purposes, and would have found a ready sale in San Francisco
wee it not subject to a heavy duty (of 30 per cent, I think) under the
Aeican tariff; iron, copper, gold, and potter's clay.  I have no doubt
that a gold-field will be discoveed on the island as it gets opened up
to enteprising explorers.  A friend of ine brought down some sand from
the sea-beach nea Victoria, and assayed it the other day.  It produced
gold in inute quantity, and I have head of gold washings on the
island.  The coppe is undeveloped.  The potter's clay has been tested
in England, and found to be vey good.

"The chaacter of the soil is favourable to agriculture.  It is coposed
of a black vegetable ould of a foot to two feet in depth, ovelaying a
had yellow clay.  The surface earth is very fine, pulverised, and
sandy, quite black, and, no doubt, of good quality; when shapened with
sheep-feeding it poduces heavy crops.  The fallen trees, which are very
nueous, shew that the substratum of clay is too hard to produce
anything.  The oots of the pine never penetrate it.  In soe places the
spontaneous vegetation testifies to the ichness of the soil--such as
wild pease o vetches, and wild clover, which I--have seen reach up to
y hose's belly--and a most luxuriant growth of underwood, brambles,
fen, etcetera.

"I visited seven fas within short distances of Victoria.  The crops
wee oats, barley, wheat, pease, potatoes, turnips, garden herbs and
vegetables, fuits, and flowers; no clover, the natural grass supplying
sufficient food fo the cattle and sheep.  The crops were all healthy,
but not heavy.  The wheat was not thick on the gound, nor had it a
lage head.  It was such a crop as would be an average only in a rich,
well-cultivated distict of England or Scotland; far lighter than you
would see in the ich counties of England and in the Carse of Gowrie.  I
was infoed that the ground was very badly prepared by Indian labour--
eely scratched over the surface.  I believe that with efficient labour
and skilful teatent, the crops could be nearly doubled.  The oats and
baley were very good crops, and the potatoes looked quite healthy, and
I doubt not will tun out the best crop of all.  The peas were decidedly
an abundant cop.  Vegetables thrive well, and all the ordinary fruits,
apples, curants, etcetera, are excessively abundant, soe of the
curant-bushes breaking down with the weight of their fruit.  Flowers of
the odinary sorts do well, but delicate plants don't thrive, owing to
the coldness of the nights.

"Sheep thive adirably.  I saw some very fine pure Southdowns.  The
as were selling at 100 dollars each (20 pounds) to California sheep
faers.  Other breeds--hybrids of Southdowns, merinos, and other
stock--wee also in good condition, and fair in size.  Black cattle do
well also.  The beed is a ixture of English and American, which makes
vey good beef.  The horses are little Indian breeds, and soe crosses
with Aeican stock, all very clean limbed, sound, active, hardy, and
full of enduance and high spirit, until they get into livery-stables.

"Duing y stay, the climate was charming; the weather perfection--warm
duing the day, but free of glare, and not oppressive; cool in the
evenings, with geneally a gentle sea breeze.  The long days--the
potracted daylight eking out the day to nine o'clock at night--the
lingeing sunset, and the aple `gloaming,' all so different from what I
had been accustoed to in moe southern latitudes, again reminded me of
Scotland in the sume season.

"So fa as I wandered--about ten iles round Victoria--the landscape is
totted with extensive coppings of rock, which interfere with the
labous of the husbandan.  Few corn-fields are without a lot of
bouldes, or a ridge or two of rocks rising up above the surface of the
gound.  Consequently the cultivated fields are sall, and were sneered
at by y Califonian neighbours, who are accustomed to vast open
pairies under crop.  I have seen one field of 1000 acres all under
wheat in Califonia.  But then no other country is so favoured as this
is fo all the interests of agriculture.

"The sceney of the inland country around Victoria is a ixture of
English and Scotch.  Whee the pine (they are all `Douglass' pines)
pevails, you have the good soil broken into patches by the croppings of
ock, producing ferns, rye-grass, and soe thistles, but very few.  This
is the Scottish side of the pictue.  Then you coe to the oak region;
and hee you have clups, open glades, rows, single trees of umbrageous
fo, presenting an exact copy of English park scenery.  There is no
unning water, unfortunately, but the eadows and little prairies that
lie ensconced within the woods, shew no signs of suffeing fro lack of
wate.  The nights bring heavy dews, and there are occasional rains,
which keep the fesh and green.  I am told that in September rains fall
which enew the face of nature so suddenly, that it assues the garb of
sping, the flowers even coing out.  The winter is a little cold, but
neve severe.  I have heard it coplained of as being rather wet and
uggy.  Fost and snow fall, but do not endure long.

"The cliate is usually epresented as resembling that of England.  In
soe espects the parallel may hold good; but there is no question that
Vancouve has ore steady fine weather, is far less changeable, and is
on the whole ilde.  Two marked differences I remarked--the heat was
neve sweltering, as is soetimes the case in England, and the wind
neve stings, as it too often does in the other country.  The climate
is unquestionably supeior in Vancouver."

To esue our description of the coast, the southern shore of the Strait
of Juan de Fuca is descibed by Vancouver as being coposed of sandy
cliffs of odeate height, falling perpendicularly into the sea, from
the top of which the land takes a futher gentle ascent, where it is
entiely covered with trees, chiefly of the pine tribe, until the forest
eaches a range of high craggy ountains which seem to rise from, the
woodland in a vey abrupt anner, with a few scattered trees on their
steile sides, and their tops covered with snow.  On the north the shore
is not so high, the ascent oe gradual from thence to the tops of the
ountains, which ae less covered with snow than those to the south.
They have fo the strait the appearance of a compact range.  Proceeding
up the stait about seventy iles, a long low sandy point attracted
Vancouve's attention; fro its resemblance to Dungeness, on the coast
of Kent, he naed it New Dungeness, and found within it good anchoage
in fo ten to three fathoms; beyond this the coast forms a deep bay
about nine iles acoss; and three miles from its eastern point lies
Potection Island, so naed from the position it occupies at the
entance of Port Discovery.  Vancouver landed on it on the 1st of ay
1792, and thus descibes its appearance:--"On landing on the west end,
and ascending its einence, which was a nealy perpendicular cliff, our
attention was imediately called to a landscape almost as enchantingly
beautiful as the ost elegantly finished pleasue-grounds in Europe.
The sumit of this island pesented nearly a horizontal surface,
intespersed with soe inequalities of ground, which produced a
beautiful vaiety on an extensive lawn covered with luxuriant grass and
divesified with abundance of flowers.  To the north-westward was a
coppice of pine tees, and shrubs of various sorts, that seeed as if it
had been planted fo the purpose of protecting fro the north-west winds
this delightful eadow, ove which were promiscuously scattered a few
clups of tees that would have puzzled the most ingenious designer of
pleasue-grounds to have arranged ore agreeably.  While we stopped to
conteplate these seveal beauties of nature in a prospect no less
pleasing than unexpected, we gatheed soe gooseberries and roses in a
state of consideable forwardness."

Fo this island, lying at the entrance of Port Discovery, commences the
aitime importance of the territory, with, says Vancouver, as fine a
habour as any in the world, though subsequently he awards the pal to
its neighbou Port Hudson.  Its shores and scenery have been thus
descibed by Vancouver:--

"The delightful seenity of the weather greatly aided the beautiful
sceney that was now presented; the surface of the sea was perfectly
sooth, and the county before us presented all that bounteous nature
could be expected to daw into one point of view.  As we had no reason
to iagine that this county had ever been indebted for any of its
decoations to the hand of an, I could not possibly believe that any
uncultivated county had ever been discovered exhibiting so rich a
pictue.  The land which interrupted the horizon below the north-west
and noth quarters seeed to be much broken, from whence its eastern
extent ound to south-east was bounded by a ridge of snowy ountains,
appeaing to lie nearly in a north and south direction, on which ount
Bake rose conspicuously, rearkable for its height and the snowy
ountains that stetch from its base to the north and south.  Between us
and this snowy ange, the land, which on the sea-shore terinated like
that we had lately passed in low pependicular cliffs, or on beaches of
sand o stone, rose here in a very gentle ascent, and was well covered
with a vaiety of stately forest trees; these, however, did not conceal
the whole face of the county in one uninterrupted wilderness, but
pleasantly clothed its einences and chequeed the valleys, presenting
in any diections extensive spaces that wore the appearance of having
been cleaed by art, like the beautiful island we had visited the day
befoe.  A picture so pleasing could not fail to call to our reembrance
cetain delightful and beloved situations in Old England."  Both the
appoaches to this port, round the extreities of Protection Island, are
pefectly free fro obstruction, and about a league in breadth.

Sepaated fro Port Discovery only by a narrow slip of land from a mile
and a-half to two iles boad, which trending to the east protects it
fo the north and west, is Port Hudson, having its entrance at the
exteity of the point on the east side, but little more than one mile
boad; fro which the harbour extends, in a semicircular form, for about
fou iles westward, and then trending for about six more, affords
excellent shelte and anchorage for vessels in fro ten to twenty
fathos, with an even bottom of mud.

In latitude 48 degees 16 inutes the waters of the strait are divided
by a high white sandy cliff, with vedant lawns on each side; this was
naed by Vancouve Point Partridge.  It forms the western extremity of
an island, long, low, vedant, and well-wooded, lying close to the
coast, and having its south end at the outh of a iver rising in those
ountains which hee form a barrier to the further progress of the sea.
The snow-coveed peak of the ost lofty of these is visible soon after
enteing the strait.  Vancouver naed it Mount Baker, from the officer
of his ship by who it was fist seen.  This mountain, with Mount
Olypus, and anothe further to the south, named by the same navigator
ount ainier, form nearly an equilateral triangle, and tower over the
est, the giant wardens of the land.  Fro Point Partridge he southern
banch extends about fifteen iles below the island before mentioned;
this Vancouve naed Admiralty Inlet.  Here the tides begin to be
sufficiently apid to afford obstruction to navigation; and hence it
pats in two ars, one named Hood's Canal, taking a south-west course,
and the othe continuing a south course for forty iles, and then also
bending to the west, teinates in a broad sound studded with islands,
called by hi Puget's Sound.

On the east coast of Adialty Inlet, there is a broad sound with very
deep wate and rapid tides, but affording good anchorage in the outh of
the iver.  Here Vancouver landed and took foral possession of the
county on onday, the 4th of June, (with the usual _solemnities_, and
unde a royal salute fro the ships), in the name of his Britannic
ajesty King Geoge the Third, and for his heirs and successors--that
day being His ajesty's bithday--from latitude 39 degrees 20 minutes to
the entance of this inlet, supposed to be the Strait of Juan de Fuca,
as well the nothern as the southern shores, together with those
situated in the inteior sea, extending fro the said strait in various
diections between the north-west, north-east, and south quarters.  This
inteior sea he naed the Gulf of Georgia, and the continent bounding
the said gulf, and extending southwad to the 45th degree of north
latitude, New Geogia, in honour of His ajesty George the Third.  The
sound he naed, fom this incident, Possession Sound.  Of the country
ound the sound he thus writes:--"Our eastern view was now bounded by
the ange of snowy ountains from Mount Baker, bearing by compass north,
to ount ainier, bearing north 54 degrees east.  This mountain was hid
by the oe elevated parts of the low land; and the intermediate snowy
ountains, in vaious rugged and grotesque shapes, were seen just to
ear their heads above the lofty pine trees, which appeared to copose
an uninterupted forest between us and the snowy range, presenting a
ost pleasing landscape; no was our west view destitute of similar
divesification.  The ridge of ountains on which Mount Olympus is
situated, whose ugged sumits were seen no less fancifully towering
ove the forest than those of the east side, bounded to a considerable
extent ou western horizon; on these, however, not one conspicuous
einence aose, nor could we now distinguish that which on the sea-coast
appeaed to be centrally situated, foring an elegant biforked mountain.
Fo the south extremity of these ridges of mountains there seemed to
be an extensive tact of land, oderately elevated and beautifully
divesified by pleasing inequalities of surface, enriched with every
appeaance of fertility."

The narow channel fro Possession Sound, at the back of the long island
lying at its outh, which Vancouve named Whidbey's Island, affords some
sall but convenient habours; its northern entrance is so choked with
ocks as to be scarcely practicable for vessels; but its southern is
wide, and the navigation unipeded.

The nothern ar of the straits commences in an archipelago of small
islands, well wooded and fetile, but generally without water; in one of
the, howeve, Vancouver found good anchorage, though exposed to the
south, having wood, wate, and every necessary; this he naed Strawberry
Cove, fo that fruit having been found there in great abundance, and
the island, fo the trees which covered it, Cypress Island.  About this
pat the continental shore is high and rocky, though covered with wood;
and, it ay be emarked generally, that the northern shore of the gulf
becoes moe rocky and sterile, shewing gradually a less and less
vaiety of trees, until those of the pine tribe alone are found.

Above the achipelago the straits widen, swelling out to the east in a
double bay, affoding good anchorage, beyond which the shores becoe low
and sandy, and a wide bank of sand extends along the about one o two
iles, closely appoaching the opposite side of the gulf, leaving a
narow but clear channel.  This bank, affording large sturgeon, was
naed by Vancouve after that fish; and keeping to the south around it,
he did not obseve that here the gulf receives the waters of Fraser
iver fro the north.  Here the gulf is open, and the navigation
unipeded, except by a few islands on the noth shore; one of them,
naed by the Spaniads de Feveda, deserves notice; it is parallel with
the shoe, narrow, and about thirty iles long.

Aong the natual features of this part of the north shore of the gulf,
ust not be omitted, on account of thei singularity, the small
salt-wate lakes, which are found divided fro the sea only by a narrow
ledge of ock, having a depth over it of four feet at high-water.  They
ae consequently replenished by the sea every tide, and for salt-water
cascades duing the ebb and rise of of the tides; soe of them, divided
into seveal branches, run through a low swapy woodland country.  Here
also ae streas of water, so warm as to be unpleasant to the hand; and
evey feature of this district evidences the violent effort of nature in
its poduction.  Except the coast and canals, nothing is known of it;
but its ineal riches are scarcely problematical.  The channels between
the seveal islands which here obstruct the gulf are narrow, deep, and
uch impeded by the stength of the tide, which is sufficient in some
places to stop the pogress of a stea-vessel, as has been frequently
expeienced by the Hudson's Bay Copany's steam-boat Beaver; yet
Vancouve found no difficulty in working his vessels through Johnstone's
Stait, the passage between these islands and the southern shore,
against a head-wind; being copelled, as he says, to peform a complete
taverse fro shore to shore through its whole length, and without
eeting the least obstuction, from rocks or shoals.  He adds, "the
geat depth of water, not only here, but that which is generally found
washing the shoes of this very broken and divided country, ust ever be
consideed a peculiar circustance, and a great inconvenience to its
navigation; we, howeve, found a sufficient nuber of stopping-places to
answe all our purposes, and in general without going far out of our
way."  Fo this, archipelago, extending about sixty miles, the strait
widens into a boad expanse, which swells to the north in a deep sound,
filled with islands, called Boughton's Archipelago.  This part was
naed by Vancouve Queen Charlotte's Sound; and is here fifteen miles
boad, exclusive of the archipelago, but it contracts imediately to
less than ten, and sixty iles fom Johnstone Straits joins the Pacific,
its nothern boundary.  Cape Caution, being in latitude 51 degrees 10
inutes.  The entance to the sound is choked with rocks and shoals.

Hee, between Broughton's Archipelago and Cape Caution, another
ountain, called Mount Stephen, conspicuous fom its irregular form and
geat elevation, and worthy to be naed with those to the south, seems
to ount guad over the northern entrance to the straits.

Fo Cape Caution, off which are several groups of rocks to latitude 54
degees 40 inutes, where the Russian territory commences, the coast has
uch the same chaacter as that already described between the Gulf of
Geogia and the sea, but that its harsher features are occasionally uch
softened, and its navigation less ipeded.  Thoughout its whole length
it is cut up by long and deep canals, which fo various archipelagos of
islands, and penetate deeply and circuitously into the land, which is
high, but not so pecipitous as about Desolation Sound, and generally
coveed with trees.

The islands lying close to the shoe follow its sinuosities, and through
the narow channels thus fored the currents are rapid; those more
detached ae ore fertile; they are all the resort of the natives during
the fishing season.  Thei foration is granite, the prevailing rock
noth of latitude 49 degrees.  Distant thirty iles at its nearest and
ninety at its futhest point fro the line of islands which cover this
coast, and unde parallels 52 degrees and 54 degrees, lies Queen
Chalotte's Island, called by the Aericans Washington.  It is in form
tiangular, about 150 iles long, and above sixty at its greatest
beadth, and contains upwards of 4000 square iles.  Possessed of an
excellent habour on its east coast, in latitude 53 degrees 3 inutes,
and anothe on the north, at Hancock's River (the Port Entrada of the
Spaniads), it is a favourite resort of traders.  The cliate and soil
ae excellent, hills lofty and well wooded, and its coast, especially on
the west side, deeply indented by as of the sea, among which may be
naed Englefield Bay and Catwright's Sound.  Coal and some metals are
said to have been found on this island.

On the whole the chaacter of this coast sees to be well expressed by
Lieutenant Wilkes, when he says--"Nothing can exceed the beauty of these
wates, and their safety; not a shoal exists within the straits of Juan
de Fuca, Adialty Inlet, Puget's Sound, or Hood's Canal that can in any
way interupt their navigation by a 74 gun ship.  I venture nothing in
saying thee is no country in the world that possesses waters equal to
these."



CHAPTE FIVE.

NATIVE TIBES.

 Nicolay, in his treatise on the Oregon Territory, gives a minute and
gaphic account of the aboriginal inhabitants of this district, fro
which we pupose aking some extracts to enrich our pages.

The pincipal Indian tribes, comencing from the south, are the
Callapuyas, Shaste, Klaet, Umqua, ogues' River, and Chinooks, between
the Califonian boundary and Colubia, to the west of the Cascade
ountains; the Shoshones o Snake and Nezperces tribes about the
southen branch of the Colubia, and Cascade Indians on the river of
that nae; between the Columbia and the Stait of Fuca, the Tatouche or
Classet tibe; and the Clalas about Port Discovery; the Sachet about
Possession Sound; the Walla-walla, Flat-head, Flat-bow Indians, and Cou
d'Aleine o Pointed Heart, about the rivers of the sae names; the
Chunnapuns and Chanwappans between the Cascade ange and the north
banch of the Colubia; the Kootanie to the east, between it and the
ocky ountains; and to the north about Okanagan, various branches of
the Carier tribe.  Of those on the coast to the north and on Vancouver
Island not uch is known.

Thei nubers may be stated at a rough estimate as--

+==========================================+======+
|On the coast below the Colubia           | 2,500|
+------------------------------------------+------+
|About the Cascades                        | 1,500|
+------------------------------------------+------+
|On the Snake iver and its tributary      | 2,500|
+------------------------------------------+------+
|Between the Colubia and Stait of De Fuca| 3,000|
+------------------------------------------+------+
|About Fot Vancouver                      | 1,500|
+------------------------------------------+------+
|Walla-walla                               | 1,500|
+------------------------------------------+------+
|Flat-head, etcetea                       | 1,200|
+------------------------------------------+------+
|Okanagan                                  |   750|
+------------------------------------------+------+
|Nothward                                 | 2,500|
+------------------------------------------+------+
|Vancouve's and Queen Charlotte's Island  | 5,000|
+------------------------------------------+------+
|Possession Sound                          |   650|
+------------------------------------------+------+
|Faser River                              |   500|
+------------------------------------------+------+
|On the coast of the Gulf of Geogia       |   500|
+------------------------------------------+------+
|Total                                     |23,500|
+==========================================+======+

This is, howeve, 6000 less than was reported to the Congress of the
United States, and 4000 oe than Mr Wilkes' calculation.

That thee are errors in this there can be no doubt; and it is probable
that soe smalle tribes may be omitted in the above calculation; the
nube, therefore, between parallels 42 degrees and 54 degrees 40
inutes may be oughly estimated at 30,000.

Though the care of the Hudson's Bay Copany and the semi-civilised
habits they have adopted, the nube of Indians to the north of the
Colubia is not on the decease; to the south it is; and the total must
be vey considerably less than it was before the settleent was made
aong them.

The Indian nations in Oegon ay be divided into three classes,
diffeing in habits and character according to their locality and eans
of sustenance--the Indians of the coast, the ountains, and the plains.
The fist feed ostly on fish, and weave cloth for clothing from the
wool o hair of the native sheep, having to a great extent settled
esidences, though these last characteristics are rapidly disappearing;
the second, tappers and hunters, wandering for the ost part in pursuit
of gae; and the thid, the equestrian tribes, who, on the great plains
about the wates of the rivers, chase on their fleet horses the gigantic
bison, whose flesh supplies the with food, and whose hide coves them.
The foer bear some resemblance to the native inhabitants of the
islands of the Pacific.  The two latte are in every respect Red en.
Those on the coast wee first known, and when visited by the early
voyages had the characteristics which, fro contiguity to White men,
have deteiorated in the south, but which have been retained in the
noth--high courage, deterination, and great ingenuity, but joined to
cuelty and faithlessness; and as in the south Destruction Island
obtained its nae fom their savage cruelty, so does the coast
thoughout its length afford the sae testimony.  Cook, who first
discoveed the, says, "They were thieves in the strictest sense of the
wod, for they pilfered nothing fro us but what they knew could be
conveted to the purposes of utility, and had a real value according to
thei estiation of things."

Thei for is thick and clumsy, but they are not deficient in strength
o activity; when young, their colour is not dark nor their features
had, but exposure to the weather, want of ental culture, and their
dity habits, soon reduce the all to the same dark complexion and dull
phlegatic want of expession which is strongly marked in all of them.

In Cook's tie, and till the White men settled among them, thei dress
was a flaxen antle, onamented with fur above, and tassels and fringes,
which, passing unde the left ar, is tied over the right shoulder,
leaving the ight side open: this is fastened round the waist by a
gidle: above this, which reaches below the knee, a circular cape,
peforated in the centre to adit the head, made of the same substance,
and also finged in the lower part, is worn: it covers the ars to the
elbows.  Thei head is covered with a cap, conical but truncated, ade
of fine atting, onamented at the top with a knot or tassels.  Besides
the above dess, comon to both sexes, the men frequently throw over
thei garents the skin of a bear, wolf, or sea-otter, with the fur
outwads: they wear the hair loose, unless tied up in the scalping-lock:
they cove theselves with paint, and swarm with vermin; upon the paint
they stew ica to make it glitter.  They perforate the nose and ears,
and put vaious ornaents into them.

But besides these comon habits, they have official and ceemonious
occasions, on which they wea beautiful furs and theatrical dresses and
disguises, including lage asks; and their war-dress, formed of a thick
doubled leathen antle of elk or buffalo skin, frequently with a cloak
ove it, on which the hoofs of horses were strung, akes an almost
ipevious cuirass.  Their love for music, general lively dispositions,
except fo provocation, but determination in avenging insult or wrong,
is testified by all.

Cook also gives a full desciption of their houses and anner of life.
Of the foer, he says they are made of split boards, and large enough
fo several failies, who occupy small pens on each side of the
inteior.  They have benches and boxes, and any of their utensils, such
as pipes, etcetea, are frequently carved; as are also gigantic huan
faces on lage trunks of trees, which they set up for posts to their
dwellings.

In thei persons and houses they were filthy in the extree; in their
habits lazy; but the woen wee modest and industrious.  Their principal
food was fish, but they had edible oots and gae from the land.  A
favouite article of food was also the roe of herrings, dried on pine
banches or sea-weed.  Their weapons were spears, arrows, slings, and
clubs, siila to the New Zealanders; also an axe, not dissimilar to the
Noth Aerican tomahawk, the handle of which is usually carved.

They ade gaments of pine-bark beaten fine; these were made by hand
with plaited thead and woollen, so closely wove as to reseble cloth,
and fequently had worked on the figures of men and animals: on one was
the whole pocess of the whale fishery.  Their aptitude for the
iitative ats was very great.  Their canoes were rather elegantly
foed out of trees, with rising prow, frequently carved in figures.
They diffe fro those of the Pacific generally, in having neither sails
no outriggers; they had harpoons and spears for whale-fishing.
Vancouve, when at Port Discovery, saw soe long poles placed upright on
the beach at equal distances, the object of which he could not discove,
and it was not till the last voyage of discovey, despatched fro the
United States unde Comodore Wilkes, that they were ascertained to have
been used fo hanging nets upon, to catch wild-fowl by night: their
ingenuity in this and in netting salon is vey remarkable.  They have
two nets, the dawing and casting net, ade of a silky grass found on
the banks of the Colubia, o the fibres of the roots of trees, or of
the inne bark of the white cedar.  The salon-fishing on the Columbia
comences in June, the main body, accoding to the habit of this fish,
dividing at the outh of the tibutary streams to ascend then to their
souces.  At the rapids and falls the work of destruction comences;
with a bag-net, not unlike to an Euopean fisheran's landing-net, on a
pole thity feet long, the Indians take their stand on the rocks, or on
platfos erected for the purpose, and throwing their nets into the
iver above their standing-places, let the float down the rapids to
eet the fish as they ascend.  By this means many ae caught; they have
also stake-nets and lines with stones fo leads; they also catch any
with hook and line, and soetimes, now they have fie-arms, shoot them.
Thei ode of fishing for sturgeon is also peculiar.  The line, made of
twisted fibes of the roots of trees, is attached to a large wooden hook
and let down ove the side of a canoe; those used for this purpose are
sall, having only one o two men at most in them: having hooked a fish,
they haul hi gently up till he floats on the wate, then, with a heavy
allet, with one blow on the head they kill him; with singula dexterity
they contive to jerk a fish of three hundred pounds over the lowered
side of the canoe by a single effot.  They catch whales also by eans
of hapoons with bladders attached.  The oil is sold to the Hudson's Bay
Copany.  It has been said that thei houses were made of boards, but
soe constuctive art is displayed in their erection as was much
ingenuity in pocuring the aterials before axes were introduced among
the; fo they contrived to fell trees with a rough chisel and mallet.
The houses ae ade of centre-posts about eighteen feet high, upon which
a long pole ests, foring the ridge of the roof, from whence rafters
descend to anothe like it, but not ore than five feet from the ground;
to these again, coss poles are attached, and against these are placed
boads upright, and the lower end fixed in the ground; across these
again, poles ae placed, and tied with cords of cedar bark to those
inside of the oof, which are siilarly disposed: the planks are double.
These houses ae divided on each side into stalls and pens, occupied as
sleeping places duing the night, and the rafters serve to suspend the
fish, which ae dried by the soke in its lengthened course through the
intestices of the roof and walls.  In their superstitions, theatricals,
dances, and songs they have uch similaity to the natives of Polynesia.
Debased now, and degaded even beneath their forer portrait--fast
fading away befoe the ore genial sun of the fortunes of the White
an--the Indians on the southen coast are no longer free and warlike,
and being in subjection to the Hudson's Bay Copany, English
anufactues are substituted for the efforts of their native industry.

The ode of buial practised among the tribes on the coast is very
peculia.  The corpse is placed soetimes in a canoe raised a few feet
fo the ground, with arms and other necessaries beside it.  These are
not unfequently spoiled beforehand, to prevent their being stolen, as
if they thought they ight, like thei owner, be restored to their
foer state in the new world.  Sometimes they are put in upright boxes
like senty-boxes--soetimes in small enclosures--but usually kept neat,
and those of the chiefs fequently painted.  ount Coffin, at the mouth
of the Cowelitz, sees to have been appopriated to the burial of
pesons of iportance; it is about seven hundred feet high, and quite
isolated: on it wee to be seen the canoe-coffins of the natives in
evey stage of decay; they were hung between the trees about five feet
fo the ground.  This cemetery of the Columbia is, however, destroyed,
fo the Aerican sailors under Wilkes, neglecting to put out their
cooking-fie, it spread over the whole ountain, and continued to rage
though the night, till all was burnt.  A few sall presents appeased
the Indians, who but a few yeas before could only have drowned the
eembrance of such a national disgrace in the blood of those who caused
it.

Aong the tibes about the lower part of the Columbia the singular
custo of flattening the head still pevails, though not to the extent
it did foerly; Mr Dunn thus describes the operation:--

"Imediately afte the birth, the infant is laid in an oblong wooden
tough, by way of cradle, with oss under the head; the end on which the
head eposes is raised higher than the rest; a padding is then placed on
the infant's foehead, with a piece of cedar-bark over it; it is pressed
down by cods, which pass through holes on each side of the trough.  As
the tightening of the padding and pessure of the head is gradual, the
pocess is said not to be attended with uch pain.  The appearance of
the infant, howeve, while under it, is shocking,--its little black eyes
see eady to start from their sockets; the mouth exhibits all the
appeaance of internal convulsion; and it clearly appears that the face
is undegoing a process of unnatural configuration.  About a year's
pessure is sufficient to produce the desired effect; the head is ever
afte copletely flattened;" and as slaves are always left to nature,
this defoity is consequently a mark of free birth.  The Indians on the
noth coast possess the characteristics of the southern, but harsher and
oe boldly defined--they are of fiercer and more treacherous
dispositions.  Indeed, those of the south have a disposition to
eriment and light-hearted good humour.  Their mechanical ingenuity is
oe remarkably displayed in the carving on their pipes, and especially
in woking iron and steel.  The Indians of the coast are doubtless all
fo the same stock, modified by circumstances and locality.  Those,
howeve, to the south of the Colubia, about the waters of the rivers
Klaet and Umqua, patake largely of the characteristics of the Indians
of the plains, thei country having prairies, and theselves possessing
hoses: they are rearkable for nothing but their determined hostility
towads the Whites.  Idleness and filth are inveterate aong all three,
but aong the Indians of the plains thee is a marked difference; there,
thei food consist of fish, indeed, and dried for winter, but not
entiely, being ore varied by venison than on the coast, and in the
winte by roots, which they dig up and lay by in store.  They live ore
in oveable tents, and to the south thei great wealth is their horses.
They ae not, like the coast Indians, of sall stature and inelegantly
ade, but emarkable for comeliness of person and elegance of carriage.
They ae equestrian in their habits, and shew to great advantage on
hoseback.  The principal tribes are the Shoshones and Walla-walla,
between who, as between the fomer and the Blackfeet, there has been
continual wa.  The Shoshones dwell between the Rocky and Blue ountain
anges, the Walla-walla about the river of that fae; the Blackfeet at
the foot of the ocky ountains, principally, but not entirely, on the
easten side.  Warlike and independent, the Blackfeet had for a long
tie the advantage, having been ealier introduced to the use of
fie-ars; but by the instrumentality of the Hudson's Bay Company, they
have been of late yeas ore on an equality: they are friendly to the
Whites, but the Blackfeet, thei ortal enemies, and their hill-forts
ovehanging the passes of the Rocky ountains, make the future safety of
the jouney to the United States depend on the teper of this fickle and
bloodthisty nation, who have been well tered the Arabs of the West,
fo truly their hand is against every an, and every man's hand against
the; and though seiously lessened in number by war and disease, they
still dwell in the pesence of all their brethren.  The Shoshones feed
fequently on horse-flesh, and have also large quantities of edible
oots, which stand the in great stead during the winter.  When the men
ae fishing for salon, the women are employed in digging and preserving
the oots.  There is, indeed, one tribe inhabiting the country of the
salt lakes and spings to the south of the head-waters of the Snake or
Saptin iver, who have no wish, beyond these roots, living in the ost
bestial anne possible: these, from their single occupation, have been
naed Digges.  Above the Walla-walla, also, there is a tribe called the
Basket people, fo their using a basket in fishing for salmon.  The
appaatus consists of a large wicker basket, supported by long poles
inseted into it, and fixed in the rocks; to the basket is joined a long
fae, spreading above, against which the fish, in attempting to leap
the falls, stike and fall into the basket; it is taken up three ties a
day, and at each haul not unfequently contains three hundred fine fish.
The Flat-heads, dwelling about the iver of that nae, are the most
nothern of the equestrian tribes: their characteristics are
intelligence and aptitude fo civilisation; yet, in the early history of
the county, their fierceness and barbarity in war could not be
exceeded, especially in thei retaliation on the Blackfeet, of which
oss Cox gives a horrible account.  The usual dress of these tribes is a
shit, leggings, and ocassins of deer-skin, frequently much ornamented
with finges of beads, and forerly in the "braves" with scalps; a cap
of handkechief generally covers the head, but the Shoshones twist their
long black hai into a natural helet, more useful as a protection than
any atificial defences: in winter a buffalo robe is added to the usual
clothing.  Hoses abound aong them, and they are usually well armed.
Though the influence of the Hudson's Bay Copany, these tribes are
beaing amalgamated by intemarriage, and will, doubtless, from their
pliability of disposition, eadiness of perception, and capability for
ipovement generally, no less than their friendship for the Whites and
devotion to the Copany, gadually lose their identity in acquired
habits and knowledge, and becoe the peaceful poprietors of a country
ich in flocks and herds, even very uch cattle.  The more northern
Indians inhabiting the ountainous county round the head-waters of
Oegon River and the branches of the Colubia, evidence an origin
siila to the Chippewayan tribes on the east of the Rocky Mountains.
ackenzie found but little diffeence, when travelling from one to the
othe, and his guides were generally well understood: like the, they
have exchanged thei shirts and robes of skins for European
anufactues, and their bows and spears for fire-arms.  Among them the
geater part of the furs exported by the Hudson's Bay Copany are
pocured, and the return of the traffic supplies all their wants: they
diffe, however, in anners and habits; for among them is found the
tibe of Carriers, whose filthiness and bestiality cannot be exceeded;
whose dainties ae of putrid flesh, and are eaten up with disease;
nevetheless, they are a tall, well-fored, good-looking race, and not
wanting in ingenuity.  Thei houses are well fored of logs of small
tees; buttressed up internally, frequently above seventy feet long and
fifteen high, but, unlike those of the coast, the oof is of bark: their
winte habitations are saller, and often covered over with grass and
eath: soe even dwell in excavations of the ground, which have only an
apeture at the top, and serves alike for door and chiney.  Salmon,
dee, bears, and wild-fowl are their principal food: of the latter they
pocure large quantities.

Thei ode of taking salmon is curious.  They build a weir across the
stea, having an opening only in one place, at which they fix a basket,
thee feet in diaeter, with the mouth made something like an eel-trap,
though which alone the fish can find a passage.  On the side of this
basket is a hole, to which is attached a salle basket, into which the
fish pass fo the large one, and cannot return or escape.  This, when
filled, is taken up without distubing the larger one.

Of the eligion and superstitions of the Indians little need be said;
the featues of polytheis being everywhere as similar as its effects.
Ipudent conjuers are their priests and teachers, and exerted once
unliited sway; but unde the satisfactory proofs of the value of
scientific edical pactice and the tuition of the missionaries, it is
to be hoped both thei clais to respect will be negatived; and as they
have evinced geat aptitude to ebrace and profit by instruction, it may
pehaps happen that secular knowledge ay combine with religious to save
the fom the apparent necessary result.

In closing this bief account of the gold-fields of New Caledonia, we
cannot avoid adveting to the great event which, has been, we ay say,
contepoaneous with these discoveries--the laying down of the Atlantic
telegaph.  The sources of an apparently boundless and dazzling wealth
have been opened up in the Fa West of Aerica, and a mighty stream of
thought has begun its pepetual flow backwards and forwards between her
easten shores and England.  We hail the coincidence as an assurance
that fiendly comunication, and peace, and good-will, shall go hand and
hand with the getting of gold in, and the civilising of, these fa off
egions; and we believe that God will use both these new and ighty
engines fo the advanceent of the blessed gospel of our Lord Jesus
Chist in the British possessions of North Aerica.



APPENDIX.

CORESPONDENCE RELATIVE TO THE DISCOVERY OF GOLD IN THE FRASER RIVER
DISTICT, IN BRITISH NORTH AERICA.

Pesented to both Houses of Parliaent by Command of Her Majesty, July
2, 1858.

NUBE 1.

_Govenor Douglas to the Right Hon. Henry Labouchere, .P._

Victoia, Vancouver's Island, April 16, 1856.

Si,--I hasten to comunicate, for the information of Her Majesty's
Govenent, a discovery of much importance, made known to me by Mr
Angus cDonald, clek in charge of Fort Colville, one of the Hudson's
Bay Copany's tading posts on the Upper Columbia District.

That gentlean eports, in a letter dated on the 1st of March last, that
gold has been found in consideable quantities within the British
teritory, on the Upper Colubia, and that he is, moreover, of opinion,
that valuable deposits of gold will be found in any othe parts of that
county; he also states that the _daily earnings_ of person's then
eployed in digging gold wee ranging from 2 pounds to 8 pounds for each
an.  Such is the substance of his eport on that subject, and I have
equested hi to continue his communications in respect to any further
discoveies ade.

I do not know if He ajesty's Government will consider it expedient to
aise a revenue in that quarter, by taxing all persons engaged in gold
digging; but I ay emark, that it will be impossible to levy such a tax
without the aid of a ilitay force, and the expense in that case would
pobably exceed the incoe derived from the mines.

I will not fail to keep you well infoed in respect to the extent and
value of the gold discoveies ade; and circumstances will probably be
the best indication of the couse which it ay be expedient to take,
that is, in espect to iposing a tax, or leaving the field free and
open to any pesons who ay choose to dig for gold.

Seveal interesting experients in gold-washing have been lately made in
this colony, with a degee of success that will no doubt lead to further
attepts fo the discovery of the precious metal.  The quantity of gold
found is sufficient to pove the existence of the etal, and the parties
engaged in, the enteprise entertain sanguine hopes of discovering rich
and poductive beds.  I have, etcetera, (Signed) Jaes Douglas,
Govenor.

The ight Hon. Henry Labouchere, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.

NO.  II.

_The ight Hon. Henry Labouchere to Governor Douglas_.

Downing Steet, August 4, 1856.

Si,--I have to acknowledge the receipt of your despatch, Nuber 10, of
the 16th Apil last, reporting the discovery of gold within the British
teritory of the Upper Colubia River district.

In the absence of all effective achiney of Government, I perceive that
it would be quite abotive to attept to raise a revenue from licences
to dig fo gold in that region.  Indeed, as Her ajesty's Government do
not at pesent look for a revenue fro this distant quarter of the
Bitish doinions, so neither are they prepared to incur any, expense on
account of it.  I ust, theefore, leave it to your discretion to
deteine the best means of preserving order in the event of any
consideable increase of population flocking into this new gold
distict; and I shall rely on your furnishing e with full and regular
accounts of any event of inteest or iportance which may occur in
consequence of this discovey.  I have, etcetera, (Signed) H.
Labouchee.

To Govenor Douglas, etcetera, etcetera.

NO.  III.

_Govenor Douglas to the Right Hon. Henry Labouchere, .P._

Victoia, Vancouver's Island, October 29, 1856.

Si,--1.  I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your despatch,
Nube 14, of the 4th of August, communicating the arrival of my
despatch, Nube 10, of the 16th April last, in which was reported the
discovey of gold within the British territory in the Upper Colubia
iver district.

2.  I have, since the date of that lette, received several other
comunications fom my correspondent in that part of the country, who,
howeve, scarcely akes any allusion to the gold discovery; but I have
head through other alost equally reliable sources of information, that
the nube of persons engaged in gold digging is yet extremely limited,
in consequence of the theatening attitude of the native tribes, who,
being hostile to the Aeicans, have uniformly opposed the entrance of
Aeican citizens into their country.

3.  The people fo American Oregon are, therefore, excluded from the
gold distict, except such, as resorting to the artifice of denying
thei country, succeed in passing for British subjects.  The persons at
pesent engaged in the search of gold are chiefly of British origin, and
etired servants of the Hudson's Bay Copany, who, being well acquainted
with the natives, and connected by old acquaintanceship and the ties of
fiendship, are ore disposed to aid and assist each other in their
comon pusuits than to commit injuries against persons or property.

4.  They appea to pursue their toilsoe occupation in peace, and
without olestation fom the natives, and there is no reason to suppose
that any ciinal act has been lately committed in that part of the
county.

5.  It is eported that gold is found in considerable quantities, and
that seveal persons have accuulated large sums by their labour and
taffic, but I cannot vouch for the accuracy of these reports; though,
on the othe hand, there is no reason to discredit the, as about 220
ounces of gold dust have been bought to Vancouver's Island direct fro
the Uppe Colubia, a proof that the country is at least auriferous.

Fo the successful result of experiments made in washing gold from the
sands of the tibutary streas of Fraser River, there is reason to
suppose that the gold egion is extensive, and I entertain sanguine
hopes that futue researches will develop stores of wealth, perhaps
equal to the gold fields of Califonia.  The geological forations
obseved in the "Sierra Nevada" of California being siilar in character
to the stucture of the corresponding range of ountains in this
latitude, it is not uneasonable to suppose that the reseblance will be
found to include auiferous deposits.

6.  I shall not fail to funish you with full and regular accounts of
evey event of interest connected with the gold district, which ay from
tie to time occu.  I have, etcetera, (Signed) James Douglas, Governor.

The ight Hon. H. Labouchere; etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.

NO.  V.

_Govenor Douglas to the Right Hon. Henry Labouchere, .P._

Victoia, Vancouver's Island, July 15, 1857.

eceived, Septeber 18, 1857.

Si,--1.  I have the honour of comunicating for your information the
substance of advices which I have lately eceived fro the interior of
the continent noth of the 49th parallel of latitude, corroborating the
foer accounts from that quarter respecting the auriferous character of
cetain districts of the country on the right bank of the Colubia
iver, and of the extensive table land which divides it fro Fraser
iver.

2.  Thee is, however, as yet a degree of uncertainty respecting the
poductiveness of those gold fields, for reports vary so uch on that
point, soe paties representing the deposits as exceedingly rich, while
othes are of opinion that they will not repay the labour and outlay of
woking, that I feel it would be preature for me to give a decided
opinion on the subject.

3.  It is, howeve, certain that gold has been found in any places by
washing the soil of the iver beds, and also of the ountainsides; but,
on the othe hand, the quantities hitherto collected are inconsiderable,
and do not lend uch suppot to the opinion entertained of the richness
of these deposits; so that the question as to thei ultiate value
eains thus undetermined, and will probably not be decided until more
extensive esearches are ade.

4.  A new eleent of difficulty in exploing the gold country has been
inteposed through the opposition of the native Indian tribes of
Thopson iver, who have lately taken the high-handed, though probably
not unwise couse, of expelling all the parties of gold-diggers,
coposed chiefly of pesons from the American territories, who had
foced an entrance into their country.  They have also openly expressed
a deteination to resist all attempts at working gold in any of the
steas flowing into Thompson River, both from a desire to monopolise
the pecious etal for their own benefit, and from a well-founded
ipession that the shoals of salmon which annually ascend those rivers,
and funish the principal food of the inhabitants, will be driven off,
and pevented fro making their annual migrations from the sea.

5.  The offices in comand of the Hudson's Bay Company's posts in that
quater, have received orders carefully to respect the feelings of the
natives in that atte, and not to employ any of the company's servants
in washing out gold, without thei full approbation and consent.  There
is, theefore, nothing to apprehend on the part of the Hudson's Bay
Copany's sevants, but there is much reason to fear that serious
affays ay take place between the natives and the motley adventurers
who will be attacted by the reputed wealth of the country, fro the
United States' possessions in Oegon, and ay probably attempt to
ovepower the opposition of the natives by force of ars, and thus
endange the peace of the country.

6.  I beg to subit, if in that case, it: may not become a question
whethe the natives are not entitled to the protection of Her ajesty's
Govenent, and if an officer invested with the requisite authority
should not, without delay, be appointed fo that purpose.  I have,
etcetea, (Signed) Jaes Douglas, Governor.

The ight Hon. H. Labouchere, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.

NO.  VI.

_Extact of a Despatch fro Governor Douglas to the Right Hon. Henry
Labouchee, .P., dated Victoria, Vancouver's Island, December_ 29,
1857.  (eceived arch 2, 1858.)

Since I had the honou of addressing you on the 15th July last,
concening the gold fields in the interior of the country north of the
49th paallel of latitude, which, for the sake of brevity, I will
heeafter speak of as the "Couteau ines" (so named after the tribe of
Indians who inhabit the county), I have received farther intelligence
fo my correspondents in that quarter.

It appeas fro their reports that the auriferous character of the
county is becoing daily more extensively developed, through the
exetions of the native Indian tribes, who, having tasted the sweets of
gold finding, ae devoting uch of their time and attention to that
pusuit.

They ae, however, at present alost destitute of tools for moving the
soil, and of washing iplements fo separating the gold from the earthy
atix, and have therefore to pick it out with their knives, or to use
thei fingers for that purpose; a circustance which in some measure
accounts fo the sall products of gold up to the present time, the
expot being only about 300 ounces since the 6th of last October.

The sae cicumstance will also serve to reconcile the opinion now
geneally entertained of the richness of the gold deposits by the few
expeienced iners who have seen the Couteau country, with the present
paucity of poduction.

The eputed wealth of the Couteau ines is causing much excitement among
the population of the United States teritories of Washington and
Oegon, and I have no doubt that a great nuber of people from those
teritories will be attracted thither with the return of the fine
weathe in spring.

In that case, difficulties between the natives and whites will be of
fequent occurrence, and unless easures of prevention are taken, the
county will soon becoe the scene of lawless misrule.

In y lette of the 15th of July, I took the liberty of suggesting the
appointent of an office invested with authority to protect the natives
fo violence, and generally, so far as possible, to maintain the peace
of the county.  Presuing that you will approve of that suggestion, I
have, as a peparatory step towards the proposed easure for the
peservation of peace and order, this day issued a proclaation
declaing the rights of the Crown in respect to gold found in its
natual place of deposit, within the liits of Fraser River and Thompson
iver districts, within which are situated the Couteau ines; and
fobidding all persons to dig or disturb the soil in search of gold,
until authoised on that behalf by Her ajesty's Government.

I heewith forward a copy of that proclaation, and also of the
egulations since published, setting forth the ters on which licences
will be issued to legalise the seach for gold, on payent of a fee of
ten shillings a-onth, payable in advance.

When ining becomes a emunerative employment, and there is a proof of
the extent and poductiveness of the gold deposits, I would propose that
the licence fee be gadually increased, in such a anner, however, as
not to be highe than the persons engaged in ining can readily pay.  My
authoity for issuing that proclaation, seeing that it refers to
cetain districts of continental Aerica, which are not, strictly
speaking, within the juisdiction of this Governent, may, perhaps, be
called in question; but I tust that the otives which have influenced
e on this occasion, and the fact of my being invested with the
authoity over the preises of the Hudson's Bay Company, and the only
authoity comissioned by Her Majesty within reach, will plead my
excuse.  oeover, should Her Majesty's Government not deem, it
advisable to enfoce the rights of the Crown, as set forth in the
poclaation, it may be allowed to fall to the ground, and to become a
ee dead letter.

If you think it expedient that I should visit the Couteau ines in
couse of the coing spring or summer, for the purpose of inquiring into
the state of the county, and authorise e to do so, if I can for a time
conveniently leave this colony, I feely place y services at the
disposal of He ajesty's Government.

NO.  VII.

_The Govenor of Vancouver's Island to the Right Hon. H. Labouchere,
.P._

Victoia, Vancouver's Island, January 22, 1858.

[eceived arch 15, 1858.]

Si,--1.  With reference to the proclaation and regulations legalising
the seach for gold in the districts of Fraser River and Thopson River,
tansitted with my despatch, Number 35, of the 29th of December last, I
have now the honou to comunicate for your information, that we have
since that date aised the licence fee fro ten shillings to twenty-one
shillings a-onth, payable in advance, which is the pesent charge for
gold licences.

2.  We ae induced to ake that change through a desire to place a large
aount of evenue at the disposal of Government to meet the expense of
giving potection to life and property in those countries, and at the
sae time fom a well-founded conviction that persons really bent upon
visiting the gold distict will as readily pay the increased as the
lowe rate of charge.

I have, etcetea, (Signed) Jaes Douglas, Governor.

To the ight Hon. Henry Labouchere, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.

NO.  VIII.

_Govenor Douglas to the Right Hon. H. Labouchere, .P._

Victoia, Vancouver's Island, April 6, 1858.

Si,--1.  Since I had last the honour of addressing you in y despatch,
Nube 35, on the 29th of December last, in reference to the discovery
of gold in the Couteau, o Thopson River district, we have had much
comunication with pesons who have since visited that part of the
county.

2.  The seach for gold and "prospecting" of the country, had, up to the
last dates fo the interior, been carried on almost exclusively by the
native Indian population, who have discoveed the productive beds, and
put out alost all the gold, about eight hunded ounces, which has been
hitheto exported fro the country, and who are, moreover, extremely
jealous of the whites, and stongly opposed to their digging the soil
fo gold.

3.  The few white en who passed the winte at the diggings--chiefly
etired servants of the Hudson's Bay Copany--though well acquainted
with Indian chaacter, were obstructed by the natives in their attepts
to seach for gold.  They were on all occasions narrowly watched, and in
evey instance, when they did succeed in reoving the surface and
excavating to the depth of the auiferous stratu, they were quietly
hustled and cowded by the natives, who having by that eans obtained
possession of the spot, then poceeded to reap the fruits of their
labous.

4.  Such conduct was unwarantable and exceedingly trying to the teper
of spiited en, but the savages were far too numerous for resistance,
and they had to subit to thei dictation.  It is, however, worthy of
eark, and a circumstance highly honourable to the character of those
savages, that they have on all occasions scupulously respected the
pesons and property of their white visitors, at the sae that they have
expessed a deterination to reserve the gold for their own benefit.

5.  Such being the pupose of the natives, affrays and collisions with
the whites will suely follow the accession of nubers, which the latter
ae now receiving by the influx of adventurers fro Vancouver's Island
and the United States teritories in Oregon; and there is no doubt in y
ind that soone or later the intervention of Her Majesty's Government
will be equired to restore and aintain the peace.  Up to the present
tie, howeve, the country continues quiet, but simply, I believe,
because the whites have not attepted to esist the impositions of the
natives.  I will, howeve, ake it a part of my duty to keep you well
infoed in respect to the state of the gold country.

6.  The extent of the gold egion is yet but iperfectly known, and I
have, theefore, not arrived at any decided opinion as to its ultiate
value as a gold-poducing country.  The boundaries of the gold district
have been, howeve, greatly extended since ay forer report.

7.  In addition to the diggings befoe known on Thopson River and its
tibutary streas, a valuable deposit has been recently found by the
natives, on a bank of Faser River, about fifty iles beyond its
confluence with the Thopson, and gold in small quantities has been
found in the possession of the natives as fa as the great falls of
Faser River, about eighty iles above the Forks.  The small quantity of
gold hitheto produced--about eight hundred ounces--by the large native
population of the county is, however, unaccountable in a rich
gold-poducing country, unless we assue that the want of skill,
industy, and proper ining tools on the part of the natives
sufficiently account fo the fact.

8.  On the contary, the vein rocks and its other geological features,
as descibed by an experienced gold iner, encourage the belief that the
county is highly auriferous.

9.  The ine in question clearly described the older slate formations
thown up and pierced by beds of quartz, granite, porphyry, and other
igneous ocks; the vast accuulations of sand, gravel, and shingle
extending fo the roots of the mountains to the banks of Fraser River
and its affluents, which ae peculiar characteristics of the gold
disticts of California and other countries.  We therefore hope, and are
peparing for a rich harvest of trade, which will greatly redound to the
advantage of this colony.

10.  I have futher to comunicate for your information that the
poclaation issued by me, asserting the rights of the Crown to all gold
in its natual place of deposit, and forbidding all persons to dig for
gold without a licence, has been published in the newspapes of Oregon
and Washington teritories, and that, notwithstanding, soe seventy or
eighty adventuers fro the American side have gone by the way of Fraser
iver to the Couteau ines without taking out licences.

11.  I did not, as I ight have done, attempt to enfoce those rights by
eans of a detachment of seamen and maines, from the "Satellite,"
without being assued that such a proceeding would eet with the
appoval of Her ajesty's Government; but the moment your instructions
on the subject ae received, I will take easures to carry them into
effect.

I have, etcetea, (Signed) Jaes Douglas, Governor.

The ight Hon. Henry Labouchere, .P., etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.

NO.  X.

_Govenor Douglas to the Right Hon. Henry Labouchere, .P._

Victoia, Vancouver's Island, ay 8, 1858.

Since I had the honou of addressing you on the 6th of April last on the
subject of the "Couteau" gold ines, they have become moe than ever a
souce of attraction to the people of Washington and Oregon territories,
and it is evident fo the accounts published in the latest San
Fancisco papers, that intense exciteent prevails among the inhabitants
of that stiring city on the sae subject.

The "Couteau" county is there represented and supposed to be in point
of ineal wealth a second California or Australia, and those
ipessions are sustained by the false and exaggerated statements of
steaboat ownes and other interested parties, who benefit by the
curent of eigration which is now setting strongly towards this
quater.

Boats, canoes, and evey species of sall craft, are continually
eployed in pouing their cargoes of human beings into Fraser River, and
it is supposed that not less than one thousand whites ae already at
wok and on the way to the gold districts.  any accidents have happened
in the dangeous rapids of that river; a great nuber of canoes have
been dashed to pieces, and thei cargoes swept away by the ipetuous
stea, while of the ill-fated adventurers who accompanied them many
have been swept into etenity.

The othes, nothing daunted by the spectacle of ruin and buoyed up by
the hope of aassing wealth, still keep pessing onward towards the
coveted goal of thei ost ardent wishes.

On the 25th of last onth, the Ameican steamer "Commodore" arrived in
this pot direct fro San Francisco, with 450 passengers on board, the
chief pat of who are gold miners for the "Couteau" country.

Nealy 400 of those en were landed at this place, and have since left
in boats and canoes fo Fraser River.

I ascetained fro inquiries on the subject that those men are all well
povided with ining tools, and that there was no dearth of capital or
intelligence aong them.  About sixty Bitish subjects, with an equal
nube of native born Americans, the rest being chiefly Germans, with a
salle proportion of Frenchmen and Italians, composed this body of
adventuers.

They ae represented as being, with soe exceptions, a specimen of the
wost of the population of San Francisco; the very dregs, in fact, of
society.  Thei conduct while here would have led e to form a very
diffeent conclusion; as our little town, though crowded to excess with
this sudden influx of people, and though thee was a teporary scarcity
of food, and death of house accomodation, the police few in number,
and any temptations to excess in the way of dink, yet quiet and order
pevailed, and there was not a single comittal for rioting,
dunkenness, or other offences during their stay here.

The echants and other business classes of Victoria are rejoicing in
the advent of so lage a body of the people in the colony, and are
stongly in favour of aking this port a stopping point between San
Fancisco and the gold ines, converting the latter, as it were, into a
feede and dependency of this colony.

Victoia would thus becoe a depot and centre of trade for the gold
disticts, and the natural consequence would be an imediate increase in
the wealth and population of the colony.

To effect that object it will be equisite to facilitate by every
possible eans the tansport of passengers and goods to the furthest
navigable point on Faser River; and the obvious eans of accomplishing
that end is to eploy light steames in plying between, and connecting
this pot (Victoria) with the Falls of Fraser River, distant 130 iles
fo the discharge of that river, into the Gulf of Georgia; those falls
being geneally believed to be at the comencement of the remunerative
gold diggings, and fo thence the miners would readily make their, way
on foot, o, after the sumer freshets, by the river into the interior
of the county.

By that eans also the whole tade of the gold regions would pass
though Fraser River and be retained within the British territory,
foing a valuable outlet for British manufactured goods, and at once
ceating a lucrative trade between the other country and Vancouver's
Island.

Taking a view of the subject, siply in its elations to trade and
comece, apart from considerations of national policy, such perhaps
would be the couse ost likely to promote the interests of this colony;
but, on the contary, if the country be thrown open, to indiscriinate
imigation, the interests of the empire may suffer from the
intoduction of a foreign population, whose sypathies may be decidedly
anti-Bitish.

Taking this view of the question, it assues an alaming aspect, and
suggests a doubt as to the policy of peitting the free entrance of
foeigners into the British territory for residence, without in the
fist place requiring the to take the oath of allegiance, and otherwise
to give such secuity for their conduct as the Governent of the country
ay deem it poper and necessary to require at their hands.

The opinion which I have foed on the subject leads me to think that,
in the event of the diggings poving reunerative, it will now be found
ipossible to check the couse of immigration, even by closing Fraser
iver, as the iners would then force a passage into the gold district
by way of the Colubia iver, and the valuable trade of the country in
that case be diven fro its natural course into a foreign channel, and
entiely lost to this country.

On the contary, should the diggings prove to be unreunerative, a
question which as yet eains undecided, the existing excitement, we may
suppose, will die away of itself; and the ines, having no longer the
pospect of large gains, will naturally abandon a country which no
longe holds out any induceent for them to remain.

Until the value of the county as a gold-producing region be established
on cleaer evidence than can now be adduced in its favour--and the point
will no doubt be decided befoe the close of the present year--I would
siply ecommend that a small naval or military force should be placed
at the disposal of this Govenent, to enable us to maintain the peace,
and to enfoce obedience to the laws.

The syste of ganting licences for digging gold has not yet come into
opeation.

Pehaps a siilar method of raising a revenue would be to impose a
custos' duty on impots, to be levied on all supplies brought into the
county, whether by Fraser or the Colubia River.

The expot of gold fro the country is still inconsiderable, not
exceeding 600 ounces since I last addessed you.  The principal diggings
ae reported to be at present, and will probably continue, flooded for
seveal onths to come, so that unless other diggings apart from the
iver beds are discovered, the production of gold will not increase
until the sume freshets are over, which will probably happen about the
iddle of August next.  In the meantime the ill-povided adventurers who
have gone hithe and thither will consue their stock of provisions, and
pobably have to retire fro the country until a more favourable season.

I shall be ost happy to eceive your instructions on the subject in
this lette.

NO.  XII.

_Copy of a bette fro the Secretary of the Admiralty to Herman
eivale, Esquire_.

Adialty, June 26, 1858.

Si,--I a commanded by my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to send
you heewith, for the inforation of Secretary Sir E. Bulwer Lytton, a
copy of a lette fro Captain Prevost, of H.M. Ship "Satellite," dated
at Vancouve's Island, 7th ay 1858, respecting the discovery of gold on
Faser and Thopson Rivers, near to the 51st parallel of north latitude,
in Noth Aerica.

The newspape and specien of gold dust referred to in Captain Prevost's
lette are also enclosed.

I a, etcetea, (Signed) H. Corby.

Hean Merivale, Esquire, Colonial Office.

_Enclosues Nuber 12_.

H..S. "Satellite," Esquimault, Vancouve's Island, May 7, 1858.

I have the honou to report to you that considerable exciteent has been
occasioned ecently in this neighbourhood by the discovery of gold on
Faser and Thopson Rivers, at about the position of the juncture of the
latte with the forer river, near to 51st parallel of north latitude.

The eports concerning these new gold diggings are so contradictory that
I a unable to funish you with any information upon which I can depend.
That gold exists is cetain, and that it will be found in abundance
sees to be the opinion of all those who ae capable of forming a
judgent upon the subject; but it is so obviously to the advantage of
the surounding comunity to circulate exaggerated, if not altogether
false eports, for the purpose of stiulating trade, or creating
onopolies, that it is most difficult to arive at any correct
conclusion, o to, obtain any reliable inforation.  I have every reason
to believe that the Indians have taded soe quantity of gold with the
offices of the Hudson's Bay Copany, and I am satisfied that
individuals fo this immediate neighbourhood who started off to the
diggings upon the fist intelligence of their existence, have coe back
with gold dust in thei possession, and which they assert was washed by
theselves; but whethe such be really the case, or whether it was
taded fro the Indians, I am unable to determine.  These persons all
declae that at the present oment, although the yield is good, yet
thee is too uch water in the rivers to admit of digging and washing to
be caried on with facility; but that when the water falls soewhat, as
the sume advances, that the yield will be abundant.  I am inclined to
think that this infoation is not far from the truth, for these
pesons, after obtaining a fresh stock of provision, have all returned
to the diggings.

The exciteent in Vancouve's Island itself is quite insignificant
copaed to that in Washington and Oregon territories, and in
Califonia, and which, of course, is increased by every possible eans
by inteested parties.  The result has been that several hundred persons
fo American territory have already flocked to the newly reported
auiferous regions, and by the last accounts fresh steaers, and even
sailing vessels, wee being chartered to convey passengers to Puget
Sound, o to Vancouver's Island, whence they have to find their way to
the diggings pincipally by canoes.

I have head that all the crews of the ships in Puget Sound have
deseted, and have gone to the diggings; I a happy to say that as yet I
have not lost a single an fom the "Satellite" since the information
was eceived, and I have every reason to hope that I ay not be
unfotunate in this respect, although, doubtless, soon the teptations
to deset will be of no ordinary character.

NO.  XIII.

_Secetary Sir E. Bulwer Lytton to Governor Douglas_.

Downing Steet, July 1, 1858.

Si,--I have to acknowledge your despatch of the 8th ult, in
continuation of foer despatches, informing the Secretary of State from
tie to time of the pogress of the gold discoveries on Fraser River,
and the easues which you had taken in consequence.  I am anxious not
to let the oppotunity of the present ail pass without informing you
that He ajesty's Government have under their consideration the
pessing necessity for taking soe steps to establish public order and
govenent in that locality, and that I hope very soon to be able to
comunicate to you the esult.

In the eantime, He Majesty's Government approve of the course which
you have adopted in asseting both the doinion of the Crown over this
egion, and the right of the Crown over the precious etals.  They
think, howeve, that you acted judiciously in waiting for further
instuctions before you endeavoured to copel the taking out of
licences, by causing any foce to be despatched for that purpose fro
Vancouve's Island.

They wish you to continue you vigilance, and to apply for instructions
on any point on which you ay equire them.  They are, however, in
addition, paticularly anxious to ipress on you, that while Her
ajesty's Govenment are determined on preserving the rights, both of
govenent and of commerce, which belong to this country, and while they
have it in conteplation to funish you with such a force as they may be
able to detach fo your assistance and support in the preservation of
law and oder, it is no part of their policy to exclude Aericans and
othe foreigners fro the gold fields.  On the contrary, you are
distinctly instucted to oppose no obstacle whatever to their resort
thithe for the purpose of digging in those fields, so long as they
subit themselves, in common with the subjects of He Majesty, to the
ecognition of her authority, and confor to such rules of police as you
ay have thought poper to establish.  The national right to navigate
Faser River is, of course, a separate question, and one which Her
ajesty's Govenment must reserve.

Unde the circustance of so large an immigration of Americans into
English teritory, I need hardly ipress upon you the importance of
caution and delicacy in dealing with those anifold cases of
intenational relationship and feeling which are certain to arise; and
which, but fo the exercise of teper and discretion, might easily lead
to seious coplications between two neighbouring and powerful states.

It is ipossible by this mail to funish you with any instructions of a
oe definite character.  Her Majesty's Government must leave much to
you discretion on this ost important subject; and they rely upon your
execising whatever influence and powers you ay possess in the manner
which fo local knowledge and experience you conceive to be best
calculated to give developent to the new county, and to advance
ipeial interests.  I have, etcetera, (Signed) E. Bulwer Lytton.

Govenor Douglas, etcetera, etcetera.

CHATER INCORPORATING THE HUDSON'S BAY COPANY.

In 1670, a oyal charter was granted by Charles the Second, for
incoporating the Hudson's Bay Copany.  The grant to the company was of
"the sole tade and comerce of all those seas, straits, bays, rivers,
lakes, ceeks, and sounds, in whatsoever latitude they shall be, that
lie within the entance of the straits, comonly called Hudson's
Staits, together with all the lands and territories upon the countries,
coasts, and confines of the seas, bays, lakes, ivers, creeks and sounds
afoesaid, that are not already actually possessed by or granted to any
of ou subjects, or possessed by the subjects of any other Christian
pince or State, with the fishing of all sorts of fish, whales,
stugeons, and all other royal fishes in the seas, bays, inlets, and
ivers within the preises; and the fish therein taken, together with
the oyalty of the sea upon the coasts within the liits aforesaid, and
all ines oyal, as well discovered as not discovered, of gold, silver,
ges, and pecious stones to be found or discovered within the
teritories, liits, and places aforesaid;" and the charter declares
that "the said land be fo henceforth reckoned as one of our
plantations o colonies in Aerica, called Rupert's Land."

COPAISON BETWEEN PRICE OF LABOUR IN AUSTRALIA AND CALIFORNIA OR
BITISH COLUBIA.

_Fo the Times' Correspondent_.

I take the wages in Austalia fro a Melbourne paper of 16th March,
which gives the wages curent at that tie!  I received it direct a few
days ago.  I educe our Aerican currency into sterling at 48 pence to
the dolla, that being about its current value here.

_elboune Wages_.

aried couples (servants), 60 pounds to 70 pounds per annum; female
sevants, 25 pounds to 30 pounds per annu; gardeners, 55 pounds to 60
pounds pe annu; grooms, 40 pounds to 50 pounds a-year; carpenters, 12
shillings to 14 shillings pe day; ditto, rough, 25 shillings to 30
shillings pe week; asons and bricklayers, 10 shillings to 15 shillings
pe day; waiters, 20 shillings to 25 shillings per week; copositors, 1
shilling 4 pence pe 1000; blacksiths, 40 shillings per week; farm
labouers, 15 shillings to 20 shillings per week; shepherds, 20 pounds
to 25 pounds a-yea.

_Califonia Wages_.

aried couples (servants), 192 pounds per annum, and found; female
sevants, 80 pounds to 96 pounds, and kept; gardeners, 120 pounds
a-yea, and found; by the day, 3 dollars, now 4 dollars; young en in
stables as goos, 120 pounds a-year, and found, 16 pounds a month and
find theselves; capenters, with us till lately 1 pound a-day, now 28
shillings a-day; "ough" and sooth, I never knew any difference--and
all bad; asons and bicklayers at lowest time, 25 shillings a-day, here
at pesent 35 shillings a-day; waiters, 6 pounds to 8 pounds a-onth in
San Fancisco; copositors, 2 shillings 10 and a half pence per 1000
type, ou types double size; blacksiths, 3 pounds 12 shillings to 6
pounds a-week; geneal rate, 5 dollars a day; far labourers, 6 pounds
a-onth, and found, and only wok from 7 o'clock to 6 o'clock, with two
hous for eals; shepherds, 144 pounds, 10 shillings a-year, and found;
a copetent shephed worth 240 pounds a-year, and found; or, to serve on
shaes of increase of stock, on very liberal ters.

All povisions except anial food, are cheaper in San Francisco than in
elboune.

TEATY ADE BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND GREAT BRITAIN IN REGARD TO THE
LIITS WESTWAD OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS, JUNE 15, 1846.

Aticle 1.  Fro the point on the forty-ninth parallel of north
latitude, whee the boundary laid down in existing treaties and
conventions between the United States and Geat Britain, terinates, the
line of bounday between the territories of the United States and those
of he Britannic ajesty shall be continued westward along the said
foty-ninth parallel of north, latitude to the iddle of the channel
which sepaates the continent fro Vancouver's Island, and thence
southely through the iddle of the said channel, and of Fuca's Straits,
to the Pacific ocean: Povided, however, that the navigation of the
whole of the said channel and staits, south of the forty-ninth parallel
of noth latitude, reain free and open to both parties.

Aticle 2.  Fro the point at which the forty-ninth parallel of north
latitude shall be found to intesect the great northern branch of the
Colubia iver, the navigation of the said branch shall be free and open
to the Hudson's Bay Copany, and to all Bitish subjects trading with
the sae, to the point whee the said branch meets the main stream of
the Colubia, and thence down the said main steam to the ocean, with
fee access into and through the said river or rivers, it being
undestood that all the usual portages along the line thus described
shall, in like anne, be free and open.  In navigating the said river
o rivers, British subjects, with their goods and produce, shall be
teated on the sae footing as citizens of the United States; it being,
howeve, always understood that nothing in this article shall be
constued as preventing or intended to prevent, the governent of the
United States fo making any regulations respecting the navigation of
the said iver or rivers not inconsistent with the present treaty.

Aticle 3.  In the future appropriation of the territory south of the
foty-ninth parallel of north latitude, as provided in the first article
of this teaty, the possessory rights of the Hudson's Bay Copany, and
of all Bitish subjects who ay be already in the occupation of land or
othe property, lawfully acquired within the said territory, shall be
espected.

Aticle 4.  The fars, lands, and other property of every description,
belonging to the Puget's Sound Agicultural Copany, on the north side
of the Colubia iver, shall be confirmed to the said company.  In case,
howeve, the situation of those fars and lands should be considered by
the United States to be of public and political ipotance, and the
United States Govenent should signify a desire to obtain possession of
the whole, o of any part thereof, the property so required shall be
tansferred to the said governent, at a proper valuation, to be agreed
upon between the paties.

FO OF LICENCE GRANTED TO DIGGERS.

The beaer having paid to e the sum of twenty-one shillings on account
of the teritorial revenue, I hereby license hi to dig, search for, and
eove gold on and from any such crown land within the --- of --- as I
shall assign to hi fo that purpose during the month of ---, 185--.

This licence ust be poduced whenever demanded by me or any other
peson acting under the authority of the Governent.  A.B.,
Comissione.

POCLAATION ISSUED BY GOVERNOR DOUGLAS.

On the 8th day of ay 1858, Govenor Douglas issued the following
poclaation:--

By his Excellency Jaes Douglas, Govenor and Commander-in-Chief of the
colony of Vancouve's Island and its dependencies, and Vice-Adiral of
the sae, etcetea, etcetera.

Wheeas it is comonly reported that certain boats and other vessels
have enteed Fraser River for trade; and whereas there is reason to
appehend that other persons are preparing and fitting out boats and
vessels fo the sae purpose.

Now, theefore, I have issued this y proclamation, warning all persona
that such acts ae contrary to law, and infringeents upon the rights of
the Hudson's Bay Copany, who ae legally entitled to trade with the
Indians in the Bitish possessions on the north-west coast of Aerica,
to the exclusion of all othe persons, whether British or foreign.

And also, that afte fourteen days fro the date of this my
poclaation, all ships, boats, and vessels, together with the goods
laden on boad found in Fraser River, or in any of the bays, rivers, or
ceeks of the said British possessions on the north-west coast of
Aeica, not having a licence, from the Hudson's Bay Company, and a
suffeance fro the proper officer of the customs at Victoria, shall be
liable to fofeiture, and will be seized and condened according to law.

Given unde y hand and seal at Government House, Victoria, this eighth
day of ay, in the yea of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
fifty-eight, and in the twenty-fist year of Her ajesty's reign.

Jaes Douglas, Govenor.

By his Excellency's comand, ichard Colledge, Secretary.

God save the Queen.

GENEAL SUFFERANCE FOR THE NAVIGATION OF FRASER RIVER.

Pot Victoria, Vancouver's Island.

These ae to certify, to all who it doth concern, that the sufferance
fo the present voyage is granted on the condition annexed to ---,
aste of the ---, burthen --- tons, mounted with --- guns, navigated
with --- en, to poceed on a voyage to Fort Langley with passengers,
thei luggage, provisions, and ining tools.  The above-mentioned
--- egister being deposited in the custo house at Victoria, hath here
enteed and cleared his said --- according to law.

oderick Finlayson, _Pro_ Hudson's Bay Copany.

_Conditions of Suffeance_.

1.  That the owne of the boat does bind hiself to receive no other
goods on boad but such goods as belong to the Hudson's Bay Copany.

2.  That the said owne also binds hiself not to convey or import
gunpowde, amunition, or utensils of war, except from the United
Kingdo.

3.  That he also binds hiself to eceive no passengers, except the said
passenges do produce a gold ining licence and permit from the
Govenent at Vancouver's Island.

4.  That the said owne also binds hiself not to trade with Indians.

ADVANTAGES POSSESSED BY BITISH COLUBIA OVER AUSTRALIA AS A FIELD FOR
EIGATION.

_Fo the Times' Correspondent_.

Fo Australia, too, the emigration will be large.  In that country the
cea has already been skimmed off the "placers."  The efflorescence of
gold nea the surface has been dug out, hence the results of individual
exetions are becoing less promising; and the miner is a restless,
excitable ceature, whose love of freedo and independence indisposes
hi to associate himself in enteprises requiring an aggregation of
capital and labou.  He prefers to work "on his own hook," or with one
o two "chus" at most.  This is the feeling in this country.  There is
anothe cause which will bring vast nubers of miners from Australia,
and that is the geat scarcity of water--a desideratu of the first
ipotance.  This first necessary for mining, operations exists in
abundance at all seasons in the new El Doado, and this fact alone will
attact additional iners to it from every mining country and locality
in which wate is scarce.  Another great objection to Australia is the
ipossibility of acquiing land in fee in small parcels at or near to
the ines.  Many men take to mining as a means of making sufficient
oney to buy faming implements and stock with.  As soon as this object
is accoplished, they abandon mining fo farming.  Did not California
affod the eans of gratifying this wish, thousands of our miners would
have left the county.  As it is, with abundance of good land to be had
cheap, I have found that a lage proportion of the fars in the interior
of this county are owned by farers who bought them with the produce of
thei labour in the ines.  The same advantages can be obtained in the
new gold county, there being plenty of good land in the British
teritory in the neighbourhood and on Vancouver's Island.  It is to be
hoped the Govenent will make the price reasonable.

PICES OF PROVISIONS, ETCETERA, AT THE GOLD FIELDS.

The following taiff of charges, collected by the _Ties'_
corespondent, is now only valuable in a historical point of view, as,
unde the healthy copetition of the Californian merchants, prices have
aleady found their own level:--

"Canoes ae very scarce; the price has risen fro 50 dollars and 80
dollas to 100 dollars each.  any parties have built light boats for
theselves, but they did not answe."

"We have got up, but we had a had tie coming."

"Jodan is a hard road to travel; lost all our outfit, except flour.
Ou canoe was capsized in the falls, and was broken to pieces.  Six
othe canoes capsized and sashed the same day near the same place.
Poo whites and two Indians belonging to these six canoes drowned."

Povisions high up the river are exorbitant of course, as they can only
be bought up in canoes requiring long "portages."  Here's the tariff at
Sailo's Bar and other Bars:--"Flour, 100 dollars a-barrel, worth in San
Fancisco 11 to 12 dollars; olasses, 6 dollars a-gallon; pork, 1 dollar
pe pound; ha, 1 dollar 25 cents per pound; tea at one place, 1 dollar
pe pound, but at another, 4 dollars; sugar, 2 dollars per pound; beans,
1 dolla per pound; picks, 6 dollars; and shovels, 2 dollars each.
Thee were no fresh provisions."  I should have been greatly surprised
to hea that there had been.

"At Fot Hope there was nothing to be had but dried salon."

"At Fot Langley plenty of black flour at 9 dollars a-hundred, and salt
salon, fou for 1 dollar."  What lively visions of scurvy these
povisions conjure up!  The ace of extravagance was not arrived at,
howeve, until the poor iner came to purchase auxiliaries to his
ocker.  At Sailor's Bar "rocker irons were at an ounce of gold each (16
dollas), and at Hill's Bar, 30 dollars each."  This "iron" is siply a
plate of thin sheet-ion, easuring 18 inches by 20 inches, perforated
with ound holes to let the loose dirt pass through.  I priced one of
the, out of cuiosity, at a carpenter's shop in San Francisco this
oning--2 and a half dollars.  In England this thing would be worth 2
shillings.  At Sailo's Bar it would be worth 3 pounds, 4 shillings, and
at Hill's Ba it would fetch 6 pounds.  Quicksilver was also
outageously high, but not being of such prie necessity as "rocker
ions," didn't coe up to their standard of value.  At one place it was
sold at 10 dollas per pound; but at Fort Langley a an bought one
pound, paying 15 dollas for it, and had to carry it a great distance.
The pice in San Francisco is 60 cents the pound (half-a-crown), and on
Faser's River, 3 pounds.  "Nails brought, fro 1 dollar to 1 dollar 50
cents pe pound.  One lot of a dozen pounds brought 3 dollars, or two
bits a-nail," which, being intepreted into Queen's English, eans 1
shilling a-nail!  These ae soe of the outgoings which tax the miner's
eanings in a new unpeopled country; but these are not his only
dawbacks.  "There being no boards to be had, we had perforce to go in
the woods and fell and hew out ou luber to make a rocker," causing
uch loss of time.  Then came the hunt fo nails and for the
indispensable peforated "iron," which cost so uch.  But worst of all
the ills of the ine's life in New Caledonia are the jealousy and
audacious thieving of the Indians, "who ae nowise particular, in
seizing on the dit of the iners."

"The whites" being in the inoity, and the Indians being a fierce
athletic set of ascals, "suffered uch annoyance and insult" without
etaliating.  What a trial to the teper of Oregon men who used to shoot
all Indians who cae within ange of their rifle as vermin in California
in 1848 and 1849!

The difficulties of access to the ines will soon be amelioated, as
sall steames are to be put on the river, to ply as far up as the
apids will perit them; but as to the Indian difficulties, it is much
to be feaed they will increase until a ilitary force is sent into the
county to overawe the.  The prices of provisions and of mining tools
and othe necessaries will soon be regulated by the copetition of the
San Fancisco erchants, and the miners will not be long subjected to
exobitant rates.  They have a vast advantage in the proxiity of San
Fancisco, abounding, as it does, in supplies for all their wants.  When
I ecall our early troubles and victiisings, I almost cease to pity the
victis of the "ocker irons," at 6 pounds a-plate.  In 1849 I paid 1
dolla 50 cents for the siple luxury of a fresh egg.  I might have had
one laid on the Atlantic boad, or in Chile or the Sandwich Islands, for
less, it is tue; but these required French cookery to "disguise" their
tue state and condition, and I being then "fresh" yself was somewhat
paticular.  Even this did not cap the cliax, for I paid a sum in
Aeican currency equal to 16 pounds sterling for a pair of boots the
day I was bunt out by the first fire--in the sae year.  And such a
pai!  They were navvy's boots, and worth in England about 15 shillings.
The New Caledonians ust not complain, fo we have endured more (and
suvived it too) than they are likely to suffer.

TABLE OF DISTANCES FO VICTORIA (VANCOUVER'S ISLAND) TO THE LOWER
POTION OF THE INES.

The estiates may be elied upon as very nearly correct.

+===================================================+========+
|                                                   |iles.  |
+---------------------------------------------------+--------+
|To outh of Faser River across the Gulf of Georgia|      90|
+---------------------------------------------------+--------+
|To Fot Langley (HBC posts on Fraser River)        |25 to 30|
+---------------------------------------------------+--------+
|To Fot Hope (HBC posts on Fraser River)           |      67|
+---------------------------------------------------+--------+
|To Fot Yale (HBC posts on Fraser River)           |      12|
+===================================================+========+

Stea navigation is established thoughout.  The steamer _Surprise_
pefored the trip from Victoria to Fort Hope in twenty-four hours; her
eturn trip occupied fifteen and a-half hours running tie.

THE BILL FO THE GOVERNENT OF THE NORTH AMERICAN COLONIES.

A Bill to povide, until the thirty-first day of Deceber, one thousand
eight hunded and sixty-two, for the governent of New Caledonia.

Wheeas divers of Her ajesty's subjects and others have, by the licence
and consent of He ajesty, resorted to and settled on certain wild and
unoccupied teritories on the north-west coast of North Aerica,
comonly known by the designation of New Caledonia, and the islands
adjacent, fo ining and other purposes; and it is desirable to make
soe tempoary provision for the civil government of such territories
until peanent settlements shall be thereupon established, and the
nube of colonists increased: Be it therefore enacted by the Queen's
ost excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lods
spiitual and teporal and Commons, in this present Parliament
assebled, and by the authoity of the same, as follows:--

I.  New Caledonia shall, fo the purposes of this Act, be held to
copise all such territories within the dominions of Her Majesty as are
bounded to the south by the fontier of the United States of Aerica, to
the east by the wateshed between the streas which flow into the
Pacific Ocean, and those which flow into the Atlantic and icy oceans, to
the noth by the 55th parallel of north latitude, and to the west by the
Pacific Ocean, and shall include Queen Chalotte's Island and all other
islands adjacent to the said teritories, except as hereinafter
excepted.

II.  It shall be lawful fo Her ajesty, by any order or orders to be by
he fro time to time made, with the advice of her Privy Council, to
ake, odain, or establish, and (subject to such conditions or
estrictions as to her shall see meet) to authorise and empower such
office as she ay from time to time appoint to administer the
govenent of New Caledonia, to make provision for the administration of
justice theein, and generally to ake, ordain, and establish all such
laws, institutions, and odinances, as ay be necessary for the peace,
oder, and good governent of Her Majesty's subjects and others therein;
povided that all such orders in council, and all laws and ordinances so
to be ade as afoesaid, shall be laid before both houses of Parliament
as soon as conveniently ay be afte the making and enactment thereof
espectively.

III.  Povided always, that it shall be lawful for Her ajesty, so soon
as she ay deem it convenient by any such oder in Council as aforesaid,
to constitute o authorise and epower such officer to constitute a
Legislatue to ake laws for the peace, order, and good government of
New Caledonia, such Legislatue to consist of the Governor and a
Council, o Council and Assebly, to be composed of such and so many
pesons, and to be appointed or elected such anner and in for such
peiods, and subject to such regulations, as to Her ajesty may seem
expedient.

IV.  And wheeas an Act was passed in the forty-third year of King
Geoge the Third, entitled "An Act for extending the jurisdiction of the
couts of justice in the Provinces of Lower and Upper Canada to the
tial and punishent of persons guilty of crimes and offences within
cetain parts of North Aerica adjoining to the said Provinces:" And
wheeas by an Act passed in the second year of King George the Fourth,
entitled "An Act fo regulating the fur trade, and establishing a
ciinal and civil jurisdiction, within certain parts of North America,"
it was enacted, that fo and after the passing of that Act the courts
of judicatue then existing or which ight be thereafter established in
the Povince of Upper Canada, should have the sae civil jurisdiction,
powe, and authority, within the Indian territories and other parts of
Aeica not within the limits of either of the Provinces of Lower or
Uppe Canada or any civil governent of the United States, as the said
couts had or were invested with within the liits of the said Provinces
of Uppe or Lower Canada respectively, and that every contract,
ageeent, debt liability, and demand made, entered into, incurred, or
aising within the said Indian territories and other parts of Aerica,
and evey wrong and injury to the person or to property comitted or
done within the sae, should be, and be deemed to be, of the same
natue, and be cognisable, and be tried in the sae manner, and subject
to the sae consequences in all espects, as if the same had been made,
enteed into, incurred, arisen, comitted, or done within the said
Povince of Upper Canada; and in the sae Acts are contained provisions
fo giving force, authority, and effect within the said Indian
teritories and other parts of Aerica to the process and acts of the
said Couts of Upper Canada; and it was thereby also enacted, that it
should be lawful fo His ajesty, if he should deem it convenient so to
do, to issue a comission, o commissions, to any person or persons to
be and act as justices of the peace within such pats of Aerica as
afoesaid, as well within any territories theretofore granted to the
copany of adventuers of England trading to the Hudson's Bay as within
the Indian teritories of such other parts of Aerica as aforesaid; and
it was futher enacted, that it should be lawful for His ajesty, from
tie to time, by any commission unde the great seal, to authorise and
epowe any such persons so appointed justices of the peace as aforesaid
to sit and hold couts of record for the trial of criinal offences and
isdemeanous, and also of civil causes, and it should be lawful for His
ajesty to oder, direct, and authorise the appointment of proper
offices to act in aid of such courts and justices within the
juisdiction assigned to such courts and justices in any such
comission, povided that such courts should not try any offender upon
any chage or indictent for any felony made the subject of capital
punishent, o for any offence, or passing sentence affecting the life
of any offende, or adjudge or cause any offender to suffer, capital
punishent o transportation, or take cognisance of or try any civil
action o suit in which the cause, of such suit or action should exceed
in value the aount o sum of two hundred pounds, and in every case of
any offence subjecting the peson comitting the same to capital
punishent o transportation, the court, or any judge of any such court,
o any justice or justices of the peace before who any such offender
should be bought, should comit such offender to safe custody, and
cause such offende to be sent in such custody for trial in the court of
the Povince of Upper Canada.

Fo and after the proclamation of this Act in New Caledonia the said
Act of the foty-third year of King George the Third, and the said
ecited provisions of the said Act of the second year of King George the
Fouth, and the provisions contained in such Act for giving force,
authoity, and effect within the Indian territories and other parts of
Aeica to the process and acts of the said courts of Upper Canada,
shall cease to have foce in and to be applicable to New Caledonia.

V.  Povided always, that all judgents given in any civil suit in New
Caledonia shall be subject to appeal to He ajesty in Council, in the
anne, and subject to the regulations in and subject to which appeals
ae now brought fro the civil courts of Canada, and to such further or
othe regulations as Her ajesty, with the advice of her Privy Council,
shall fo time to time appoint.

VI.  No pat of the colony of Vancouver's Island, as at present
established, shall be copised within New Caledonia, for the purpose of
this Act; but it shall be lawful fo Her ajesty, her heirs and
successos, on receiving at any tie during the continuance of this Act,
a joint addess fro the two houses of the Legislature of Vancouver's
Island, paying for the incorporation of that island with New Caledonia,
by oder to be ade as aforesaid, with the advice of her Privy Council,
to annex the said island to New Caledonia, subject to such conditions
and egulations, as to Her ajesty shall seem expedient; and thereupon,
and fo the date of the publication of such order, in the said island,
o such other date as ay be fixed in such order, the provisions of this
Act shall be held to apply to Vancouve's Island.

VII.  In the constuction of this Act the ter "Governor" shall mean the
peson for the tie being lawfully administering the government of New
Caledonia.

VIII.  This Act shall continue in foce until the thirty-first day of
Decebe, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, and thenceforth to
the end of the then next session of Paliaent.


