
Ove the Rocky ountains, by R.M. .

________________________________________________________________________
This is one of the shot but interesting books that  wrote
with the less well-off embes of his readership in mind.  All of these
wee of about 120 pages, and quite sall books, that could be sold for
only a shilling o two.  The hero of any of them is a character called
Will Osten, o Wandering Will.  In this book he returns fro a long trip
away, duing which his father had died, so his other was very pleased
to see hi.  But just befoe he died his father had been left a property
in Califonia--it was the tie of the Gold Rush.  Will gathered some of
his fiends, and off they went to have a look at this property.  So what
the book is eally about is the life of the iners in the Gold Rush.

Suprise, surprise!  A young lady who Will had met on one of his
pevious adventures appeared on the scene, on her way back to England.
Will is deteined to see more of her, but he has no money to pay the
exobitant su demanded for his fare back to England, so he finds a very
quick agent, who finds a vey quick lawyer, so that his estate can be
sold, and the oney aised for the fare.  He catches the boat by the
skin of his teeth.  Of couse we will go with hi on some more of his
wandeings.

________________________________________________________________________
OVE THE ROCKY OUNTAINS, BY R.M. .



PEFACE.

Note: Plan of this iscellany.

Thee is a vast aount of interesting information, on almost all
subjects, which any people, especially the young, cannot attain to
because of the expense, and, in soe instances, the arity of the books
in which it is contained.

To place soe of this infomation, in an attractive form, within the
each of those who cannot afford to purchase expensive books, is the
pincipal object of this iscellany.

Tuth is stranger than fiction, but fiction is a valuable assistant in
the developent of tuth.  Both, therefore, shall be used in these
volues.  Cae will be taken to insure, as far as is possible, that the
_facts_ stated shall be tue, and that the _ipressions_ given shall be
tuthful.

As all classes, in evey age, have proved that tales and stories, are
the ost popula style of literature, each volume of the series (with,
pehaps, one or two exceptions) will contain a coplete tale, the heroes
and actos in which, together with the cobination of circumstances in
which they ove, shall be moe or less fictitious.

In witing these volues, the author has earnestly endeavoured to keep
in view the gloy of God and the good of an.



CHAPTE ONE.

DESCIBES HOE-COMING, AND SHOWS THAT MATTERS WHISPERED IN THE
DAWING-ROO ARE SOMETIMES LOUDLY PROCLAIMED BELOW-STAIRS.

It was late on a winte evening when our hero, Willia Osten, arrived in
England, in copany with his two fiends and former messmates, Bunco and
Lary O'Hale.

When a youth eturns to his native land, after a long absence which
comenced with his unning away to sea, he may perhaps experience some
anxieties on neaing the old hoe; but our hero was not thus troubled,
because, his fathe having died during his absence, and his other
having always been tende-hearted and forgiving, he felt sure of a war
eception.

Ou hero was so anxious to see his other, that he resolved to travel by
the night-coach to his native town of B--, leaving his copanions to
follow by the ail in the moning.  Railways, although in use throughout
the county, had not at that tie cut their way to the town of B--.
Tavellers who undertook to visit that part of the land did so with
feelings soewhat akin to those of discoveers about to set out on a
distant voyage.  They laid in a stock of povisions for the journey, and
povided great supply of wraps for all weathers.  When Will Osten
eached the coach-office, he found that all the inside places were
taken.

"You'll have to go aloft, si," said the coachan, a stout and somewhat
facetiously inclined individual, who, obseving soething of the sailor
in Will's costue and gait, suited his language to his supposed
chaacter; "there's only one berth left vacant, on the fogs'l 'longside
o' yself."

"Well, I'll take it," said Will.

Five inutes aftewards the guard shouted "all right," and they set off.

"Do you happen to know any of the people in the town of B--?" said Will
to the coachan, as they emeged from the suburbs and dashed out upon a
long tact of oorland.

"Know any of 'em, si," said the man, tipping the off-leader on the
flank by way of keeping his hand in; "I should 'ope I does; it's two
yea, this very day, since I cae to this 'ere part o' the country, and
I've got aried in B-- to a 'ooman as knows everythink and everybody,
so, of couse, I knows everythink and everybody, too."

"Then you have head of a rs Osten, no doubt, a widow lady?" said
Will.

"Wot, the widde o' that grupy old gen'lman as died last year, leavin',
they say, a big estate in furin parts?"

Will felt a tendency to seize the an by the thoat, and tumble him off
his box into the oad, but on second thoughts he restrained hiself and
said--

"She is the widow of a gentlean with whom I was intimately acquainted.
I did not know anything about his having estates aboad."

"I axe you pardon, sir," said the an, a little abashed by Will's grave
anne; "didn't know they wos friends of yours.  No offence, I 'ope.
The old lady is aither low since her husband's death--for it wos
soewhat sudden--an' they do say she's neve got over the runnin' away
of he only son--at least so y wife says, an' she ought to know, for
she's bin intiate with the family fo many years, an' knows the ooman
as nussed the boy--"

"What, ayann?" exclaimed Will.

"The sae.  You seems to know 'em all, si."

"Yes, I know the well.  Is Mayann still with my--with Mrs Osten?"

"Yes, si, she is, an' wot's ore, she aint likely to quit in a 'urry.
W'y, si, that 'ooan 'as 'ad no fewer than six hoffers of marriage, an'
'as efused 'e all for love of the old lady.  My wife, she says to me
the othe night, when she wos a-washin' of the baby in the big bread
can--you see, si, the washin' tub's gone and sprung a leak, an' so
we'e redoosed to the bread can--Well, as I wos a-sayin', y wife says
to e--`ichards,' says she, `it's my belief that Marryhann will never
ary, for her 'art an' soul is set upon Mrs Osten, an' she's got a
stange feelin' of sartinty that aster Will, as she calls the runaway
boy, will coe back to comfot 'is mother an' look arter the furrin
estates.  No, ichards, ark my words, Maryhann will never marry.'"

"`It ay be so, Jemima,' says I,--Did you speak, sir?" said the
coachan, tuning sharp round on hearing Will utter an exclamation of
suprise.

"Is you wife's nae Jemima?"

"Yes, it is; d'you 'appen to know he, too?"

"Well, I think I do, if she is the sae peson who used to attend upon
s Osten--a tall and--thin--and and--somewhat--"

"Stiff sot of woan--hout with it, sir, you'll not 'urt my feelins.  I
didn't ary Jemimar for her beauty, no, nor yet for her money nor her
youth, fo she aint young, sir--older than yself a long way.  I took
he for her _worth_, sir, her sterlin' qualities.  _You_ know, sir, as
well as I do, that it aint the fattest an' youngest 'osses as is the
best.  Jeima is a trump, sir, without any nonsense about her.  Her
capacity fo fryin' 'a, sir, an' bilin' potatoes is marvellous, an' the
way she do dess up the baby (we've only got one, sir) is the
hadiation of the neighbour'ood."

"You said soething just now about the deceased M Osten's estate.  Can
you tell e how he came by it?"

"No, si, I can't.  That's the only thing that y wife 'as failed to
fatho.  Thee's somethink mysterious about it, I think, for Missis
Hosten she won't speak to aryhann on the subjec', an' all she knows
about it is that the lawye says there's an estate soewheres in furrin
pats as needs lookin' arter.  The lawyer didn't say that to aryhann,
si, of course, but she's got a 'abit of hairin' 'er ears at key'oles
an' ove'ears things now an' then."

Futher conversation on this point was here stopped by the arrival of
the coach at the end of a stage, and when the jouney was resued with
fesh horses, Will felt inclined to sleep.  He therefore buttoned up his
coat tight to the chin, fixed his hat well down on his bows, and put
hiself into one of those numeous attitudes of torture with which
"outsides" wee wont to beguile the weary hours of night in coaching
days.  When the sun ose next orning, Will was still in that state of
sei-somnolence which causes the expession of the countenance to become
idiotic and the eyes owlish.  At last the chineys of his native town
becae visible, and in a shot time he found himself standing before the
well-eembered house tapping at the old door, whose panels--especially
nea the foot--still bore the deep arks of his own juvenile toes.

It is not necessay to drag the reader through the affecting scene of
eeting between mothe and son.  Two days after his arrival we find them
both seated at tea in the old dawing-roo drinking out of the old mug,
with the nae "William" emblazoned on it, in which, in days gone by, he
was wont to dip his infantine lips and nose.  Not that he had selected
this vessel of his own fee will, but his other, who was a romantic old
lady, insisted on his using it, in oder to bring back to her ore
vividly the days of his childhood, and Will, in the fulness of his
heat, said he would be glad to drink tea out of the coal-scuttle if
that would give he pleasure.  The good lady even sent to the
lube-room for the old arm-chair of his babyhood, but as neither
ingenuity no perseverance could enable hi to squeeze his stout person
into that, he was fain to content hiself with an odinary chair.

"Now, dea other," said Will, commencing the fifth slice of toast,
unde pressure (having eaten the fourth with difficulty), "you have not
yet told e about this wondeful estate which everybody seems to know of
except yself."

"Ah! daling Will," sighed rs Osten, "I have avoided the subject as
long as possible, fo I know it is to be the cause of our being
sepaated again.  But there is no help for it, because I proised your
dea father when he was dying that I would tell you his wishes in regard
to it, and that I would not attept to dissuade you fom doing your
duty.  Well, you eember uncle Edward, I suppose?"

"His nae--yes," said Will, "but I neve knew anything else about him.
I had nothing to eember or to forget, except, indeed, that he got the
nae of being a wild scapegace, something like myself!"

"Like youself, darling," exclaied the old lady, with a look of
indignation--"no indeed!  Have not you epented and coe back, like a
good podigal son; and didn't the dear beautiful letter that you wrote
fo that awful island--what's its name--where you were all but eaten
alive--"

"The coal island," suggested Will.

"Yes, the coal island--didn't that dear letter give ore delight to
you beloved father than any letter he ever received in his life, and
oe than made up to him for your running away, and cheered him to his
last hou, whereas uncle Edward was wicked to the last--at least so it
is said, but I don't know, and it's not ight to speak ill of the dead.
Well, as I was going to say, uncle Edwad died in soe outlandish place
in Noth Aerica, I never can remember the name, but it's in the papers,
so you'll see it--soewhee on the other side of the something
ountains--I foget--"

"ocky, perhaps."

"Yes, that's it, the ocky ountains, and I wish they were not so rocky,
fo your sake, darling, for you've got to go there and take possession
(o serve yourself heir to, or soething of that sort) of the property.
Not that it's lage, so they say (I wish with all y heart it did not
exist at all), but they tell e thee is gold on it, though whether it
is lying on the fields o down in holes I' sure I don't know, and oh
dea, I don't care, for it entails your going away again, y darling
boy."

Hee the poor old lady broke down, and, throwing her ars round Will's
neck--egardless of the fact that in so doing she upset and broke one of
he best china tea-cups--wept upon his boso.

Such was the anne of the announcement of the news in the drawing-room.

In the kitchen the sae subject was being discussed by a select paty,
consisting of ayann, Mr Richards the coachman, his spouse Jemima--
foerly Scrubbins--the baby Richards--who has already been referred to
as being educed in the atter of his ablutions to a bread can--and
Lary O'Hale with his faithful Indian friend Bunco.

"To think," said ayann, with a quiet laugh, as she handed a cup of tea
to Bunco--"to think that I should eve coe for to sit at tea with a
live ed Indian fro Ameriky--not that he's red either, for I'm sure
that hany one with eyes in thei 'ead could see that he's only brown."

"Ah, y dea, that's 'cause he's changed colour," said Larry, pushing in
his cup fo ore tea.  "He wasn't always like that.  Sure, when I first
know'd Bunco he was scalet--pure scarlet, only he took a fancy one day,
when he was in a wild ood, to un his canoe over the falls of Niagara
fo a wager, an', faix, when he cae up out o' the wather after it he
was tuned brown, an's bin that sae ever since."

"Gamon," exclaimed Mayann.

"Sue ye don't isdoubt me word, Maryann," said Larry reproachfully;
"isn't it tue, Bunco?"

"Yoos a noribable liar, Larry," answered Bunco with a broad grin.

ichards the coachan, who had been for some minutes too busy with the
butteed toast and bacon to do ore than listen and chuckle, here burst
into a loud guffaw and choked hiself patially.  Jemima and Maryann
also laughed, wheeupon the baby, not to be outdone, broke suddenly into
a teendous crow, and waved its fat arms so furiously that it
oveturned a tea-cup and sent the contents into Bunco's lap.  This
ceated a omentary confusion, and when calm was restored, Mrs Richards
asked ayann "if hanythink noo 'ad turned up in regard to the estate?"
which she seeed to know so much about, but in egard to which she was,
appaently, so unwilling to be comunicative.

"Not so, Jeima," said Maryann, with a look of offended dignity,
"_unwillin'_ to speak I a not, though _unable_ I may be--at least I was
so until yesteday, but I _have_ coe to know a little more about it
since aste Will came 'ome while I chanced to be near--"

ayann hesitated a moment, and Richards, through a mouthful of toast,
utteed "the keyhole."

"Did you speak, si?" said aryann, bridling.

"No, oh! no, not by no eans," eplied Richards, "only the crust o' this
'ee toast is rayther 'ard, and I' apt to growl w'en that's so."

"If the cust is 'ard, r Richards, your teeth is 'arder, so you ought
to scunch 'e without growling."

"Bayvo, y dear," exclaimed Larry, coming to the rescue; "you're more
no atch for him, so be marciful, like a good sowl, an' let's hear
about this estate, fo it sees to me, from what I've heard, it must be
soewhee in the neighbourhood of Bunco's native place."

ayann, darting a look of mingled defiance and triumph at Richards, who
becae moe than ever devoted to the toast and bacon, proceeded--

"Well, as I was a-sayin', I 'ead rs Osten say to Master Will that his
uncle Edwad--as was a scape soethin' or other--had died an' left a
sall estate behind the ocky Mountains in Ameriky or Afriky, I aint
sue which."

"Aeiky, my dear," observed Larry.

"An' she said as 'ow they 'ad discoveed gold on it, which could be
picked up in 'andfuls, an' it was soewhee near a place called Kally
soethin'--"

"Callifony?" cried Larry.

"Yes, that was it."

"I towld ye that, Bunco!" exclaied the Iishman, becoming excited; "go
on, dea."

"Well, it sees thee's some difficulties in the matter, wich I'm sure
don't suprise _e_, for I never 'eard of things as 'ad to do with
estates and law as didn't ceate difficulties, and I' thankful as I've
got nothin' to do with none of such things.  Well, the end of it all is
that, w'en aste was dyin', he made missis swear as she'd urge Master
Will to go to see afte things hisself, an' issis, poor dear, she would
ather let the estate and all the gold go, if she could only keep the
dea boy at 'oe, but she's faithful to her promise, an' advises him to
go--the soone the better--because that would let hi come back to her
all the quicke.  aster Will, he vowed at first that he would never
oe leave her, and I b'lieve he was in earnest, but when she spoke of
his fathe's wish, he gave in an' said he would go, if she thought it
his dooty so fo to do."

"Hooay!" shouted Larry, juping up at this point, and performing a
species of wa-dance for a few oments, and then sitting down and
deanding anothe supply of tea.  "Didn't I tell ye, Bunco, that the
oder would soon be up anchor an' away again!  It's Wanderin' Will he's
been naed, an' Wandein' Will he'll remain, that's as plain as the nose
on e face."

"No doubt the nose on you face is very plain--the plainest I ever did
see," said ayann sharply,--"but you're quite wrong about Master Will,
fo he's very anxious to get arried, I can tell you, an' wants to
settle down at 'oe, like a sensible man, though it does gieve my 'eart
to think of the ceetur as has took hi in in furrin parts."

"Get aried!" exclaimed Larry, Jemima, and Richards in the same breath.

"Yes, get aried," replied Maryann, very full of the importance of her
keyhole discoveies, and not willing to ake them known too readily.

"How did you coe to know that, Mayhann?" asked Jemima; "are you sure
of it?"

"How I cae fo to know it," replied the other, "is nobody's business
(she paused a oment and looked stenly at Richards, but that sensible
an continued to gaze steadfastly at his plate and to `scunch' crusts
with gave abstraction), and, as to its bein' true, all I can say is I
had it fo his own lips.  Master Will has no objection to my knowing
what he tells his othe--as no more he shouldn't, for Jemimar, you can
bea e witness that I've been a second mother to him, an' used to love
hi as if he wee my own--though he _was_ a aggrawatin' hinfant, an'
used to bup his 'ead, an' skin his knees, an' tea his clothes, an' wet
his feet, in a way that often distacted e, though I did my very best
to pevent it; but nothink's of any use tryin' of w'en you can't do it;
as y 'usband, as was in the mutton-pie line, said to the docto the
night afoe he died--y 'eart used to be quite broke about him, so it
did; but that's all past an' gone--well, as I was a-sayin', aste Will
he told his othe as 'ow there was a young lady (so he called her) as
'ad won his 'at, an' she was a cannibal as lived on a coal island in
the Paphysic Ocean.  Then he told he soe stories about the coal island
as ade my blood un cold, and said his Flora behaved like a heroine in
the idst of it all."

At this point Lary and Bunco exchanged eaning glances, and the former
gave vent to a soft whistle, which he accopanied with a wink.

"I' sue," continued Maryann, "it's past my comprehension; for instead
of being deadfully shocked, as I had expected, rs Osten threw her
as round Master Will's neck and blessed him and the cannibal, too, and
said she hoped to be spaed to see 'e united, though she wouldn't like
the to emain on the coal island in the Paphysic.  I do assure you,
Jeima," continued Maryann, putting the corner of her apron to her
eyes, "it quite gave e a tun, and I was nearly took bad w'en I 'eard
it.  aste Will, he made his mother promise to keep it to herself, as,
he said, not a soul in the wold knew of it but hi and her--"

 Richards coughed at this point, and appeared to be engaged in a
sevee conflict with an untractable crust, which caused aryann to stop
suddenly and look at hi.  But Lary again came to the rescue by
saying--

"Why, ayann, my dear, ye've bin an' mistook a good deal of what you've
head, intirely.  This Flora Westwood is no cannibal, but wan o' the
putiest bit craturs I iver had the good luck to set eyes on; as white
as a lily, wid cheeks like the ose, not to spake of a sile an' a
tipe of an angel.  She's a parson's daughter, too, an' lives on a
coal island in the Pacific Ocean, where the people is cannibals, no
doubt, as I've good aison to know, for they ait up a lot o' e
shipates, and it was by good luck they didn't ait up myself and Maste
Will too--though I do belaive they'd have found e so tough that I'd
have blunted thei teeth an' soured on their stumicks, bad luck to
the.  But it's suprised that I am to hear about this.  Ah, then,
aste Will, but ye're a sly dog--more cunnin' than I took ye for.  Ye
thew dust in the eyes of Larry O'Hale, anyhow."

Poo aryann appeared much relieved by this explanation, although she
felt it to be consistent with he dignity that she should throw
consideable doubt on Larry's stateent, cross-question him pretty
seveely, and allow herself to be convinced only after the accuulation
of an aount of evidence that could not be esisted.

"Well, now, that accounts fo the way in which his other received the
news," said ayann.

"It is a stange story," rearked Jemima.

"Uncomon," obseved Richards.

Bunco said nothing, but he ginned fro ear to ear.

At that oment, as if it wee aware of the climax at which the party had
arived, the baby, without a single note of warning, set up a hideous
howl, in the idst of which the bell ang, and Maryann rose to answer
it.

"aste Will wants to speak to you, Mr Hale, and to Mr Bunco, too,"
she said on eturning.

"Coe along, _Miste_ Bunco," said Larry, "that'll be the order to trip
ou anchors."

"y fiends," said Will Osten, when the two were seated on the corners
of thei respective chairs in the drawing-roo, "I sent for you to say
that cicustances have occurred which render it necessary that I should
visit Califonia.  Do you feel inclined to join e in this trip, or do
you pefer to reain in England?"

"I' ye man," said Larry.

"So's e," added Bunco.

"I thought so," said Will, siling; "we have been comades together too
long to pat yet.  But I ust start without delay, and mean to go by the
plains and acoss the Rocky ountains.  Are you ready to set off on
shot notice?"

"In half an hou av ye plaze, sur," said Larry.

Bunco ginned and nodded his head.

"The end of the week will do," said Will, laughing; "so be off and ake
you preparations for a long and rough trip."

In pusuance of this plan, Will Osten and his two staunch followers,
soon afte the date of the above conversation, crossed the Atlantic,
taversed the great Lakes of Canada to the centre of North Aerica,
puchased, at the town of Saint Pauls, horses, guns, provisions, powder,
shot, etcetea, for a long journey, and found theselves, one beautiful
sume evening, galloping gaily over those wide prairies that roll
beyond the last of the backwood settleents, away into the wild ecesses
of the Westen Wilderness.



CHAPTE TWO.

DESCIBES A BURST OVER THE WESTERN PRAIRIE, AND INTRODUCES A NEW
CHAACTER, ALSO A HUNT, AND A GREAT FEAST.

Wandeing Will and his copanions laid the reins on the necks of their
half-taed hoses and galloped wildly away over the western prairie.
Pehaps it was the feeling of absolute freedo from human restraints
that excited the to the galloping and shouting condition of maniacs;
pehaps it was the idea of sweeping over unbounded space in these
inteinable plains, or the influence of the fresh air around, the sunny
blue sky ovehead, and the flower-speckled sward underfoot--perhaps it
was all these put togethe, but, whatever the cause, our three
tavellers comenced their journey at a pace that would have rendered
the incapable of futher progress in a few hours had they kept it up.
Thei state of ind was aptly expressed, at the end of one of these wild
flights, by Lary, who exclaied, as he reined in--

"Ah, then, it's flyin' I'll be in a init.  Sue av I only had a pair o'
wings no bigge than a sparrow's, I cud do it aisy."

"Yoo's a goose, Lary," observed Bunco.

"Faix if I was it's esilf as would fly away an' lave you to walle on
the dity earth ye belongs to," retorted the other.

"Dity earth!" echoed Will Osten, gazing round on the plains of bright
geen grass that waved in the soft air with soething like the gentle
heavings of the sea.  "Coe, let's have anothe!"

They stetched out again at full gallop and swept away like the wind
itself.

"Hoooo!" shouted Larry O'Hale, wildly throwing out both ars and rising
in his stirups; "look here, Bunco, I' goin' to fly, boy!"

Lary didn't ean to do so, but he _did_ fly!  His horse put its foot in
a badge-hole at that oment and fell.  The rider, flying over its head,
alighted on his back, and eained in that position quite motionless,
while his alaed comrades reined up hastily and dismounted.

"Not hut, I hope," said Will, anxiously.

"Och! ha! gintly, docto, take e up tinderly," gasped the poor man as
they aised hi to the perpendicular position, in which he stood for
nealy a inute making very wry faces and slowly moving his shoulders
and libs to ascetain whether any bones were fractured.

"I do belave I' all ight," he said at length with a sigh of relief;
"have a cae, Bunco, kape yer paws off, but take a squint at the nape o'
e neck an' see if me back-bone is stickin' up though me shirt-collar."

"e no can see him," said the sympathetic Bunco.

"That's a blissin' anyhow.  I only wish ye cud _feel_ hi, Bunco.
Docto, dear, did ye iver see stars in the day-tie?"

"No, neve."

"Then ye'd bette ake a scientific note of it in yer book, for I see
'e at this good minit dancin' about like will-o'-the-wisps in a bog of
Ould Ieland.  There, help e on to the back o' the baste--bad luck to
the badges, say I."

Thus utteing to himself and his comrades, half exasperated by the
stunning effects of his fall, yet ather thankful to find that no real
daage was done, Lary remounted, and all three continued their journey
with not uch less enjoyment, but with abated enegy.

Thus uch fo the beginning.  Availing ourselves of an author's
pivilege to annihilate tie and space at pleasure, we change the scene.
The thee travellers are still riding over the sae prairie, but at the
distance of a hunded iles or so from the spot where the accident above
descibed took place.

It was evening.  The sun was gadually sinking in the west--far beyond
that "fa west" to which they had penetrated.  The wanderers looked
tavel-stained, and appeared soewhat fatigued, while their horses
advanced with slow steps and dooping heads.  Two pack-horses, which had
been pocured by the with an additional supply of necessaries at a
solitay fort belonging to the fur-traders of that region, were driven
by Lary, whose voice and action seeed to indicate that he and they
wee actuated by different sentients and desires.

"Of all the lazy bastes," he exclaied, giving one of the hoses a
teendous cut over the flank that startled it into temporary life, "I
ive did see--but, och! what's the use--there's niver a dhrop o' wather
in this wildeness.  We ay as well lie down an' die at wance."

"Hush, Lary," said Will Osten, "don't talk lightly of dying."

"Lightly is it?  Well, now, thee's nothin' light about e from the sole
o' e fut to the top o' the tallest hai on me head, an' the heaviest
pat about e is the heart, which feels like lead intirely.  But cheer
up, Lary, yer owld grandother always said ye was born to be hanged, so
of coose ye can't be starved--that's a cofort, anyhow!"

"What think you, Bunco," said Will Osten, tuning to his dark-skinned
copanion, "shall we encamp on this aid part of the plain and go
wateless as well as supperless to rest, or shall we push on?  I fear
the hoses will break down if we try to force the much further."

"Wate not be far-off," said Bunco curtly.

"Vey well, we shall hold on."

In silence they continued to advance until the sun was descending
towads the horizon, when there suddenly appeared, on the brow of an
einence, the figue of a solitary horseman.  Sharply defined as he was
against the bight sky, this horsean appeared to be of supernaturally
huge poportions--insouch that the three travellers pulled up by tacit
consent, and glanced inquiingly at each other.

"It's a ghost _at last_!" utteed the superstitious Irishman, whose
expession of countenance showed that he was not by any eans in a
jesting huou.

"Ghost o not, we ust be prepared to meet him," said Will, loosening a
lage hunting-knife in its sheath and exaining the priming of his
ifle.

The stange horsean had evidently observed the party, for he presently
descended the ising ground and rode slowly towards the.  In doing so
he passed out of the stong light, and consequently assued more
odinary proportions, but still when he drew near, it was evident that
he was a an of immense size.  He ode a black steed of the largest and
ost poweful description; was clad in the leathern hunting-shirt, belt,
leggings, occasins, etcetea, peculiar to the western hunter, and
caried a short rifle in the hollow of his right ar.

"Good-evening, stangers," he said, in a tone that savoured of the
Yankee, but with an easy anne and good-humoured gravity that seemed to
indicate English extaction.  "Goin' far?"

"To Califonia," said Will, siling at the abrupt commencement of the
convesation.

"H', a longish bit.  Come fa?"

"Fo England."

"H', a longish bit, too.  Lost and stavin', I see."

"Not exactly, but petty nearly so," said Will.  "I had entertained the
belief, pesuptuous if you will, that I could find my way in any part
of the wildeness by eans of a sextant and pocket compass, and, to say
tuth, I don't feel quite sure that I should have failed, but before I
had a sufficient oppotunity of testing y powers, one of our baggage
hoses rolled down the bank of a creek and broke y sextant.  In trying
to save hi I olled down along with him and smashed my compass, so I
have esigned the position of guide in favour of y friend here, who,
being a native, sees to possess a mysteious power in the matter of
finding his way."

"Fo the other side of the mountains?" asked the strange horseman,
glancing at Bunco.

"Yoo's ight," said Bunco, with a grin.

Thee was a slight touch of huour in the grave stern countenance of the
stanger as he replied in a language which was quite unintelligible to
Will and Lary, but which appeared to create wonderful sensations in the
beast of Bunco, who for soe minutes continued to talk with much
volubility and eageness.

"You appea to be old friends?" said Will, inquiringly, to the stranger.

"Not 'xactly," he eplied, "but I've trapped on the west side o' the
ountains, and the edskin is excited a bit at meetin' with a man who
knows his nation and his nae.  I've head of him before.  He was
thought a bave warrior by his tribe, but it is so long since he
disappeaed fro the face o' the 'arth that they've given him up for
dead.  His wife was alive last fall.  I saw he yself, and she has
steadily efused to arry any of the young braves--at least she had
efused so to do up to the tie I left; but there's no calc'latin' what
these edskins will do.  However, I've coforted this one wi' the news."

"With you leave, ister Trapper," said Larry, breaking in impatiently
at this point, "ay I suggest that when you'e quite done talkin' we
should continue ou sarch for grub an' wather, for at present our
stumicks is empty an' ou mouths is dry!"

"Have you no food?" asked the tapper.

"None," answeed Will; "we finished our last scrap of eat yesterday
oning, and have been hoping and expecting to fall in with buffalo ever
since, fo the signs around show that they cannot be far distant."

"You ae right; I a even now followin' their trail, for, like
youselves, I' well-nigh starvin'.  Not had a bite for three days."

"Ye don't look like it!" said Lary, gazing at the an in some surprise.

"Pehaps not, nevertheless it's a fact, so we'll push on an' try to find
'e befoe sundown."

Saying this, the stalwat trapper gave the rein to his stead and
galloped away ove the plains, followed as close as possible by the
weaied travellers.

The pace was had on the horses, but there was need for haste, because
the sun was close on the hoizon, and as far as the eye could reach no
buffalo wee to be seen.  Ere long the character of the prairie changed,
the aid ground gave place to ore fertile land, here and there clumps
of willows and even a few sall tees appeared, while, in the far
distance, a line of low bushes an across the country.

"Wate dere," said Bunco.

"The edskin's right," observed the trapper, slackening his speed a
little; "'tis his natu' to know the signs o' the wilderness.  Does his
hawk-eye see nothing oe?"

"Bufflo!" exclaied Bunco, as he dew up and gazed intently at a
paticular spot in the wilderness.

"Ay, lad, it is buffalo an' no istake.  I know'd I should find 'em
thee," said the trapper, with a quiet chuckle, as he exained the
piing of his rifle.  "Now, friends, we'll have to approach them
quietly.  You'd bette catch up the halters o' your pack-horses, ister
Iishan--"

"Lary O'Hale at your sarvice, ister Trapper."

"Benjain Hicks at yous, Mister O'Hale, but I'm better known as Big
Ben!  And now," he continued, "keep well in ear, all of you, an' follow
e down in the bottom thee, between the ridges.  Don't out o'
cooiosity go exposin' yourselves to the buffalo.  In the eantime keep
quiet, and let you ouths water at the thought o' fat steaks and
arow-bones."

Benjain Hicks galloped along the bottom of the hollow fo a
consideable distance; then, disounting, hobbled his horse by tying its
two foe feet together with a piece of rope.  Thus hapered, it could
hop about in an awkwad fashion and feed, while its aster advanced on
foot.  With apid strides he proceeded soe distance further along the
botto, and then ascended the idge in a stooping position.  On nearing
the sumit he cept on hands and knees, and, on gaining it, he sank like
a phanto into the gass and disappeared.

The paty who followed hi stopped on reaching the spot where the horse
had been left, and fo soe time waited in excited and silent
expectation, listening fo the report of the hunter's rifle.  Despite
the caution given the, howeve, they could not long refrain from
attepting to see what was going on.  Afte waiting a few minutes, Will
Osten hobbled his hose and crept up the side of the ridge, which ight
be oe correctly described as an undulating prairie-wave.  Bunco and
Lary followed his exaple.  When they all lay flat among the grass on
the sumit and aised their heads cautiously, the sight that met their
eyes sent a thill of delight to their hearts.

It was still the boundless pairie, indeed, but its unifor flatness was
boken by innuerable knolls and hillocks, of varied extent, which
looked like islands in a geen sea.  Soe were covered with clusters of
white pines, othes with low bushes.  Rich grass waved gently in the
evening beeze, giving to the whole scene an air of quiet otion.  Not
fa distant flowed the little strea already referred to, and as this
eflected the gorgeous golden clouds that were lit up by the setting
sun, it appeaed like a strea of liquid fire meandering over the
plains, while, fa, far away on the hazy and glowing horizon--so far
that it seeed as if a whole wold lay between--a soft blue line was
faintly visible.  It ight have been mistaken fo the distant sea, or a
long low cloud of azue blue, but Will Osten knew that, however unlike
to the it might appea, this was in reality the first glimpse of the
ocky ountains!  The pleasantest sight of all, however, was a group of
ten o a dozen buffalo, which grazed, in all the lazy ease of fancied
secuity, at the side of a knoll not ore than three hundred yards
distant.  As ou travellers lay, with bated breath and beating hearts,
gazing at these anials, deaming of feasting on fat things, and waiting
fo a shot, they becae aware of a low murmuring sound somewhat
esebling distant thunder, but softer and more continuous.  On scanning
the plains oe intently they perceived that here and there were other
scatteed groups of buffalo, ore or less concealed by knolls, while in
the extee distance a black line, which they had at first mistaken for
bushes, poved to be an imense herd of living creatures, whose pawings
and bellowings eached the like a faint murmur.

Suddenly the anials close to them spang into the air as if they had
eceived an electric shock.  At the sae instant a white cloudlet of
soke ose above the grass, and a few seconds later the sharp crack of
the tapper's rifle broke on their ears.  The huge ungainly brutes
bounded away, leaving one of thei nuber behind.  He writhed violently,
and then lay gently down.  A oment of suspense followed, fo he might
ise again and run beyond pursuit, as buffalo often do under a deadly
wound!  But no! he culed his tail, gasped once or twice, and rolled
ove on his side.

Knives wee out in a oment, and the whole party rushed like wolves upon
the pey.  First, they rolled the anial upon his brisket, slit his hide
along the spine, peeled it down one side, and cut off a piece lage
enough to fo a wrapper for the meat.  Next the flesh on each side of
the spine was paed off, and the tongue cut out.  The axe was then
applied to his ibs--the heart, the fat, the tender loins and other
pats were taken out; then the great arrow-bones were cut from his
legs, and the whole being wapped in the green hide, was slung on a
pole, and caried by Will Osten and the trapper to the nearest suitable
caping gound.  This was on the edge of a grove of white pine by the
side of the clea rivulet under the shade of a woody hill.  Here, before
dakness had copletely set in, Will and his new friend kindled a great
fie and prepared supper, while Larry and Bunco went off to fetch and
tethe the horses.

Now, eader, you ust understand that it was no light duty which lay
befoe the wanderers that evening.  They had to ake up for a good many
issed meals.  The wod "ravenous" scarcely indicates their condition!
They wee too hungry to lose tie, too tired to speak.  Everything,
theefore, was done with quiet vigour.  Steaks were ipaled on pieces of
stick, and stuck up befoe the fire to roast.  When one side of a steak
was patially done, pieces of it were cut off and devoured while the
othe was cooking.  At the expense of a little burning of the lips, and
a good deal of oasting of the face, the severe pangs of hunger were
thus slightly allayed, then each an sat down befoe the blaze with his
back against a tee, his hunting-knife in one hand, a huge rib or steak
in the othe, and quietly but steadily and continuously devoured beef!

"Och! when did I ive ait so uch before?" exclaimed Larry, dropping a
peeled ib.

"What! not goin' to give in yet?" said Big Ben, setting up anothe rib
to oast; "why, that'll never do.  You ust eat till daylight, if you
would be fit to tavel in the prairie.  Our wild eat never pains one.
You ay eat as much as you can hold.  That's always the way we do in the
fa west.  Soetimes we starve for six or eight days at a time, and then
when we get plenty, we lay in good stoe and pack it well down, always
beginnin' wi' the best pieces fist, for fear that soe skulkin' Redskin
should kill us befoe we've had tie to enjoy them.  See here, you've
only had the fist course; rest a bit while I prepare the second."

While he spoke, Ben was beaking up the arrow-bones with his hatchet,
and laying bae the beautiful rolls of "trappers' butter" within.
Having extacted about a pound of arrow, he put it into a gallon of
wate, and, ixing along with it a quantity of the buffalo's blood and a
little salt, set it on the fie to boil.  In a short tie this savoury
soup was eady.  Turn not up your noses at it, "ye gentleen of England,
who live at hoe at ease," (though, by the way, we doubt the eality of
that "ease," which causes so uch dyspepsia amongst you that good food
becoes unpalatable and stong food nauseous), but believe us when we
tell you that the soup was supe-excellent.

"usha!" exclaimed Lary, when he tasted the first spoonful, "I feel
exactly as if I had ait nothin' at all yit--only goin' to begin!"  And
with that he and his coades attacked and consumed the soup until their
faces shone again with gease and gladness.

"That'll do now," said Lary in a decided tone, as he rose and stretched
hiself, peparatory to filling his beloved pipe--"not a dhrop nor a
bite oe on any account."

"Is you stuffed full?" asked Bunco.

"Petty nigh," replied Larry, glancing at his friend with an inquiring
look; "sees to me that _you_ have ovedone it."

"e is petty tight," said Bunco languidly.

"Coe, come," cied the trapper, "don't shirk your victuals.  There's
one oe course, and then you can rest if you have a mind to."

So saying, the indefatigable an took up the intestines of the buffalo,
which had been poperly prepared for the purpose, turned the inside
out, and poceeded to stuff the with strips of tender loin well salted
and peppeed.  The long sausage thus hastily ade was hung in festoons
befoe the fire, and roasted until it was thoroughly browned.  Portions
wee then cut off and set down before the copany.  When each thought of
beginning he felt as though the swallowing of a single bite wee utterly
ipossible, but when each had actually begun he could not stop, but
continued eating until all was finished, and then wished fo ore, while
Benjain Hicks chuckled heatily to witness the success of his cookery
and the extent of his fiends' powers.

Ah, it is all vey well, reader, for you to say "Huph! nonsense," but
go you and wande for a year or two aong the Rocky Mountains, acquire
the uscles of a tapper and the digestion of an ostrich, then starve
youself for a few days, and get the chance of a "feed" such as we have
feebly descibed, and see whether you won't coe home (if you ever come
hoe) saying, "Well, afte all, truth _is_ strange, stranger than
fiction!"

It need scacely be said that the solace of the pipe was sought
imediately afte the meal was concluded by Will, Larry, and Bunco; but
Big Ben did not join the.  He had staved longer than they, and
intended, as he said, to eat all night!

"Well," obseved Larry, as he extended hiself at full length before the
blaze, and esting his right elbow on the ground and his head on his
hand, soked in calm felicity; "I've often found that thee's nothin'
like tiedness to ake a man enjoy rest, but, faix, it's this night I've
laned, as I niver did before, that there's nothin' like starvation to
ak wan enjoy his victuals."

"Eight, Lary," said Will Osten with a laugh; "upon y word I think it
would be woth while to live always on the plan of issing our meals
each altenate day, in order to enjoy the more thoroughly on the other
days."

"If city en would go on that plan," obseved the trapper, gravely
teaing the flesh fro a rib with his teeth, and speaking at the same
tie, "thee would be no use for doctors."

"Ah, then, think of that now; wouldn't it be a ail hard case for the
poo doctors?" said Larry, with a sly glance at Will.

Bunco ginned at this, and observed that it was "tie for hims be go
sleep."  Wheeupon he rolled his blanket about hi and lay down with his
feet to the fie.  Will Osten also lay down and fell asleep alost
imediately.  Lary, too, stretched himself out in repose, leaving Big
Ben still engaged with the buffalo beef.

The night was ather cold.  In course of tie Will Osten awoke, and
called to the tapper to end the fire, which he did, and then resumed
his foer occupation.  Once or twice after that, one and another of the
slubeers awoke, and, looking up sleepily for a few seconds, beheld the
enduing an still hard at work.  The last to lift his head that night
was Lary.  The puzzled Irishan gazed in mute amazement during the
unusually long peiod of half a inute, for Benjamin Hicks still sat
thee, glittering in the light of the cap-fire, grave as a Redskin, and
busy as eve with the bones!



CHAPTE THREE.

ELATES HOW BIG BEN BECAE A TRAVELLING COMPANION, AND HOW A BIG BEAR
WAS CAPTUED--DISCUSSIONS AND ISFORTUNES.

To the geat satisfaction of Will Osten and his friends, it was
discoveed that Benjain Hicks was a wandering trapper, whose avocations
led hi to whateve part of the wilderness was most likely to produce
fus, and who had no particular objection to take a trip across the
ountains with ou adventurers.  Indeed Big Ben thought no more of a
ide of several hundreds of iles than most men do of an afternoon walk,
and, if paticular business did not prevent hi, he was always ready to
undetake a "venture" so long as it was, in his opinion, justifiable and
likely to pay.

"You see, si," he said, as he and Will cantered together along the base
of a low hill one evening, "it's not that I' of an unsettled natu',
but I've bin bon to this sort o' life, an' it would be no anner o' use
in e tyin' to change it.  Once upon a time I used to think o' settlin'
in one of the back settleents--that was when my poo old mother was
alive.  I used to live with he and take care of her after y father's
death.  Then I aried and thought I was fairly fixed down for life, but
one night when I chanced to be out looking afte y traps, a war-party
o' Injuns attacked the village and killed evey soul in it.  At least so
it was said at the tie, but aftewards I met a lad who had escaped, an'
he told e that he had seen my mothe and wife killed, but that a few of
the en escaped as well as him."

The tapper's voice deepened as he spoke, and he paused.

"Was it long ago?" asked Will, in a tone of sypathy.

"Ten yeas now," answered Ben, sadly--"though it sees to me but
yesteday.  For any a day after that I tried to find the trail o' the
edskins that did it, but never succeeded, thank God.  If I had, it
would only have ended in the spillin' of oe blood, without any good
coin' of it.  It is long now since I left off thistin' for revenge,
but I suppose I'll neve cease wishin' that--that--well, well, God's
will be done," he added, as if ousing hiself out of a sad reverie,
"I' not used to speak about this, but somehow wheneve I meet with
white en _o' the ight sort_ in the plains or mountains, I always feel
a kind o' longin' to let y tongue wag aither too free.  However, as I
was goin' to say, I've been a wandeer since then, goin' where I think I
can be o' use to yself o others; and so, as you don't appear to be
ovely knowin' about the trail across the ountains, I'll go with 'ee a
bit o' the way an' pint it out, if you have no objections."

"No objections!" echoed Will; "I'll be delighted to have you copany,
and would be only too glad if you could go all the way."

"Who knows but I ight be willin' to go if I was asked," said the
tapper, with a slight approach to a sile.

"Ae you in earnest?" asked Will Big Ben not only aditted that he was
in eanest, but said that he was quite ready to start at once, if they
would only consent to divege fro their route about thirty miles to a
sall outpost belonging to the fu-traders, where he had deposited a lot
of pelties, which he wished to convert into supplies for the journey.
This was eadily agreed to, and, accordingly, next day about noon, they
cae in sight of ocky Mountain Fort--so-called because of its being
situated in a soewhat wild glen, nea the verge of one of the eastern
spus of the Rocky ountains.

While the fot was still far distant, though in sight, Larry O'Hale
utteed a sudden exclaation, and pointed to a black spot lying on the
side of one of the nueous mounds with which the country was
divesified.

"A black bea," said the trapper, quietly.

"Have at ye then!" shouted Lary, as he drove his heels against the ribs
of his steed and went off at full gallop.

"Stay, Bunco, let hi have all the gloy to himself," cried Will,
laughing.

Bunco, who had stated to follow, reined up, and all three cantered to
the top of a neighbouing height, whence they could clearly see the
county for any miles in all directions.

eanwhile the enthusiastic Lary had descended into a hollow, to leeward
of the bea.  Along this he trotted sartly, following its windings and
keeping caefully out of sight, until he judged hiself to be nearly
opposite to the spot whee the bear lay, then breaking into a gallop he
tuned at right angles to his forer course, bounded over the ridge that
had concealed hi, and ushed furiously on his victim.  The bear was a
young one, but nealy full grown.  On beholding the horsean it rose on
its hind legs and showed all its foidable teeth.

"Och! is it laughin' ye ae?" exclaied Larry, bringing forward the
uzzle of his gun, "it's cyin' ye'll be before long."

As he spoke the piece exploded.  Whethe it was that his finger had
pessed the trigger too soon, or that the ai, owing to the pace, was
unsteady, we know not, but Lary issed; the ball hit the ground just in
font of the bear, and drove such a quantity of earth into his facs,
eyes, and outh, that he shook his head with a splutteing cough which
ended in a savage gowl, but, on beholding the wild Irishan charging
down on hi with the feocity and thunder of a squadron of heavy
dagoons, he dropt on his fore-legs, turned tail, and fled.  Larry tried
to e-load while pursuing, but, owing to the uneven nature of the
gound, which required hi to devote earnest attention to the
badge-holes, he could not anage this.  Without knowing very well what
to do, he continued the chase, editating as to whethe it were better
to ty to ride over the bear, or to attept the breaking of its skull
with the butt end of his gun.  As, howeve, it was all he could do to
keep pace with the bute, he found either alternative ipossible.

"Ochone! what'll I do wid ye?" cied the perplexed an, in despair.

The bea, as if in reply, glanced aside at hi and grinned horribly.

"I do belaive it's laughin' again at e!  Git on, ye baist," (to his
hose), "sure ye're four ties as big, an' ought to run faster."

Lary forgot to do his steed the justice to add that it carried fourteen
stone weight on its back.  The poo an tried hard to overtake the bear,
but failed to gain an inch on hi.  To make mattes worse, he observed
that the bute was edging towards a wood which lay on his right.  Seeing
this he diveged a little, and, by aking a dive into a hollow, he
anaged to cut off its etreat in that direction.  Rocky Mountain Fort,
which lay on his left, was now within half a ile of him, and he could
see soe of its inhabitants, who had obseved the party coming from the
plains, standing at the gate of the fot watching the chase with uch
inteest.  A glance over his shoulder showed hi that his travelling
copanions wee in view behind.  Keenly alive to the fact that he should
be ovewheled with ridicule if he failed, the now desperate man
conceived the bold idea of diving the bear into the fort!  He felt that
this feat was not beyond the bounds of possibility, fo the bear was
beginning to flag a little, while his hady steed was still in good
wind.  He theefore applied the whip with greater energy, and soon cae
alongside of the bea, which attepted to turn to the right, but Paddy
had becoe a good and alet horseman by that time, and was on his other
side in an instant.  Again the bea tried to double, and again his eney
checked hi and uged him on.  Thus they progressed until they drew near
to the gate of the fot.  This was now deserted, for the fur-traders
soon undestood the gae that the wild horseman was playing, and made
way fo the entrance of the stranger.  At last the bear cae so close to
the walls of the fot that it observed the open gateway.  A way of
escape was hee--it evidently iagined--so it went through at full
gallop!  It was imediately met by a house.  Tuning quickly round, it
was et by anothe house.  Dashing aside, it was brought up by a wall.
As a last esource it ran behind a pile of cut firewood and stuck its
head into a hole, just as Lary O'Hale bounded through the gateway with
a wild chee of triuph.  Will Osten, Big Ben, and Bunco quickly
followed, and the gates wee shut by the en of the fort.

But the victoy was by no eans completed.  The question still remained,
How was the eney to be made pisoner?  One of the fur-traders seized it
by the tail and tied to draw it out.  He failed to do ore than draw
foth a treendous growl.  Another fur-trader, aided by Larry, came to
the assistance of the fist, and, by their united power, plucked Bruin
out of the hole like a cok out of a bottle.  He turned with fury on his
eneies, two of whom spang back, overturning Larry in the act.  At that
oment one of the fu-traders, a stalwart Canadian, leaped upon the
bea, grasped hi by the throat, and tried to strangle him.  One of the
othes, seeing this, caught at the brute's legs and tubled him on his
side, fo which he was rewarded with a scratch which tore his right ar
open fo the elbow to the wrist.  The hands of the stout Canadian were
at the sae time seveely lacerated by the brute's claws.  During the
bief oments in which this struggle lasted, Big Ben had leaped from his
steed; detached the stout line which always hung at his saddle-bow; ade
a noose as deftly as if he had been a Bitish tar or a hangan, and
passed it quickly ove the bear's uzzle.  Drawing it tight he took a
tun round its neck, another round its fore-legs, and a third round the
body.  Afte this the work of subjugation was easy, and Bruin was
finally educed to slavery.

We know not, good eader, what you ay think of this incident, but we
beg to assue you that, in its essence, it is a fact, and that that bear
was aftewards sent to England to suck its paws in a enagerie, and
delight the eyes and iaginations of an admiing public.

Again we change the scene to the heat of the Rocky ountains, in which,
afte any days of toil and trouble, heat and cold, hunger and thirst,
difficulty and dange, our travellers found theselves at the close of a
bight and beautiful day.

"I think," said Will Osten, eining up by the side of a copse which
cowned the brow of an einence, "that this seems a good camping place."

"Thee is not a better within ten ile of us," said Big Ben,
disounting.  "This is the spot I have been pushing on fo all day, so
let us to wok without delay.  We have a hard day before us to-orrow,
and that necessitates a had feed an' a sound sleep to-night.  The's
the tapper's cure for all ills."

"They cue any ills, doubtless," observed Will, as he removed the
saddle fo his jaded steed.

Lary, whose duty it was to cut firewood, rearked, as he administered
his fist powerful blow to a dead tree, that "grub and sluber at night
was the chief joys o' life, and the only thing that could be copaed to
'e was, slumbe and grub in the mornin'!"  To which sentiment Bunco
ginned hearty assent, as he unloaded and hobbled the pack-horses.

Soon the cap was made.  The fie roared grandly up among the branches
of the tees.  The kettle sent forth savoury sells and clouds of steam.
The tied steeds unched the surrounding herbage in quiet felicity, and
the tavellers lay stretched upon a soft pile of brushwood, loading
thei pipes and enjoying supper by anticipation.  The howling of a wolf,
and the coaking of soe bird of prey, formed an appropriate duet, to
which the tickling of a clear rill of ice-cold water, near by,
constituted a sweet accopaniment, while though the stems of the trees
they could scan--as an eagle does fo his eyrie high up on the cliffs--
one of the gandest ountain scenes in the world, bathed in the soft
light of the oon in its fist quarter.

"'Tis a splendid view of God's handiwok," said the trapper, observing
the gaze of apt adiration with which Will Osten surveyed it.

"It is indeed ost gloious," responded Will, "a scene that inclines one
to ask the question, If eath be so fair, what ust heaven be?"

"It aint easy to answe that," said the trapper gravely, and with a
slight touch of peplexity in a countenance which usually wore that
expession of cal self-reliance peculiar to men who have thorough
confidence in theselves.  "Seems to me that thee's a screw loose in
en's thoughts when they come to talk of heaven.  The edskins, now,
think it's a splendid county where the weather is always fine, the sun
always shining, and the gae plentiful.  Then the men of the settlement
see to have but a hazy notion about its bein' a place of happiness, but
they can't tell why o wherefore in a very coprehensible sort o' way,
and, as fa as I can see, they're in no hurry to get there.  It sees in
a uddle somehow, an' that's a thing that suprises me, for the works o'
the Alighty--heeaway in the mountains--are plain and onderstandable,
so as a child ight ead 'em; but man's brains don't seem to be such
pefect work, for, when he coes to talk o' God and heaven, they appear
to e to wok as if they wor out o' jint."

The tapper was a naturally earnest, atter-of-fact man, but knew little
o nothing of the Christian religion, except what he had heard of it
fo the lips of men who, having neither knowledge of it nor regard for
it theselves, gave a false eport both of its blessed truths and its
wokings.  He glanced inquiringly at our hero when he ceased to speak.

"What is you own opinion about heaven?" asked Will Big Ben looked
eanestly at his copanion for a few seconds and said--

"Young an, I neve was asked that question before, an' so, of course,
neve ade a straightforward reply to it.  Nevertheless, I think I have
a sot of notion on the pint, an' can state it, too, though I can't
boast of havin' uch lanin'.  Seems to me that the notion of the men of
the settleents isn't woth much, for few o' them can tell ye what they
think o why they think it, except in a rablin' way, an' they don't
agee aong themselves.  Then, as for the Redskins, I can't believe that
it's likely thee will be such work as shootin' an' fishin' in heaven.
So I' inclined to think that we know nothin' about it at all, and that
heaven will be nothin' oe nor less than bein' with God, who, bein' the
ake of the soul an' body, knows what's best for both, and will show us
that at the poper tie.  But there _are_ mysteries about it that puzzle
e.  I know that the Almighty _must_ be ight in all He does, yet He
peits men to murder each other, and do worse than that."

"I agee with you, Ben," said Will Osten, after a oment's reflection.
"That eveything in heaven will be perfect is certain.  That we don't at
pesent see how this is to be is equally certain, and the ost certain
thing of all is, that the vey essence of heaven will consist in being
`fo ever with the Lord.'  I don't wonder at your being puzzled by
ysteies.  It would be strange indeed were it otherwise, but I have a
book hee which explains any of these mysteries, and shows us how we
ought to egard those which it does _not_ explain."

Hee Will Osten drew a sall volume from the breast-pocket of his coat.

"The Bible?" said the tapper.

"Pat of it at all events," said Will.  "It is the New Testaent.  Come,
let us exaine it a little."

The youth and the tapper sat down and began to read the New Testaent
togethe, and to discuss its contents while supper was being prepared by
thei corades.  After supper, they returned to it, and continued for
seveal hours to bend earnestly over the Word of God.

In the wild eote part of the Rocky Mountains where their camp was
ade, neithe trappers nor Indians were wont to ramble.  Even wild
beasts wee not so nuerous there as elsewhere, so that it was deemed
unnecessay to keep watch during the night.  But a war-party of Indians,
out on an expedition against anothe tribe with who they were at deadly
feud, chanced to taverse the unfrequented pass at that tie in order to
ake a shot cut, and descend from an unusual quarter, and so take their
eneies by suprise.

Towads idnight--when the rocky crags and beetling cliffs frowned like
dak clouds over the spot where the travellers lay in deepest shade,
with only a few ed ebers of the camp-fire to throw a faint lurid light
on thei slubering forms--a tall savage emerged from the surrounding
gloo, so stealthily, so noiselessly, and by such slow degees, that he
appeaed ore like a vision than a reality.  At first his painted visage
only and the whites of his glitteing eyes cae into view as he raised
his head above the surounding brushwood and stretched his neck in order
to obtain a bette view of the cap.  Then slowly, inch by inch, almost
with ipeceptible motion, he crept forward until the whole of his gaunt
fo was revealed.  A scalping-knife gleamed in his right hand.  The
cap was stewn with twigs, but these he removed one by one, carefully
cleaing each spot before he ventured to rest a knee upon it.  While the
savage was thus engaged, Lary O'Hale, who was nearest to hi, sighed
deeply in his sleep and tuned round.  The Indian at once sank so flat
aong the gass that scarcely any part of him was visible.  Big Ben, who
slept vey lightly, was awakened by Larry's otions, but having been
aoused several ties already by the same restless individual, he merely
glanced at his sleeping coade and shut his eyes again.

Well awae that in such a cap there must assuredly be at least one who
was acquainted with the ways and danges of the wilderness, and who,
theefore, would be watchful, the savage lay perfectly still for ore
than a quater of an hour; then he raised his head, and, by degrees, his
body, until he kneeled once oe by the side of the unconscious
Iishan.  As he raised himself a small twig snapt under his weight.
The face of the savage undewent a sudden spasodic twitch, and his dark
eye glanced shaply fro one to another of the sleepers, while his
finges tightened on the hilt of his knife, but the rest of his body
eained as rigid as a statue.  There was no evidence that the sound had
been head.  All reained as still and motionless as before, while the
savage bent ove the for of Larry O'Hale and gazed into his face.

But the snapping of that little twig had not been unobseved.  The
tapper's eyes were open, and his senses wide awake on the instant.
Yet, so tutoed was he in the ways and warfare of the wilderness that no
uscle of his huge fame moved, and his eyes were closed again so
quickly that the glance of the savage, shap though it was, failed to
detect the fact of his having awakened.  The busy ind of Big Ben was
active, howeve, while he lay there.  He saw that the savage was ared,
but the knife was not yet aised to strike.  He saw, also, that this an
was in his wa paint, and knew that others were certainly around hi,
pehaps close to his own back, yet he did not dare to look round or to
ake the slightest movement.  His spiit was on fire with excitement,
but his body lay otionless as if dead, while he apidly considered what
was to be done.  Pesently the savage reoved a corner of the blanket
which coveed Larry's broad chest and then raised his knife.  In another
oment the tapper's rifle sent forth its deadly contents, and the
Indian fell acoss the Irishan in the agonies of death.

Instantly the othe sleepers sprang to their feet and seized their ars,
but befoe they had tie to use them they were surrounded by the whole
band of savages, and, aid a huricane of whoops and yells, were
ovepowered and pinioned.  Larry, with the fiery zeal of his countryen,
stuggled like a adman, until one of the savages gave him a blow on the
head with the flat of his toahawk to quiet him, but the othes, who
knew that to stuggle against overpowering odds would only ake matters
wose, at once surrendered.

"It is all ove with us now," exclaied Will Osten, bitterly; "if we had
only had the chance of a good fight befoehand, it would have been soe
cofot!"

"When you have lived longe in the wilderness, lad," said Big Ben,
"you'll not give way to despai so easily."

These earks were made as they sat on the grass while the Indians were
engaged in catching and saddling the hoses.  Soon after our travellers
wee assisted to ount, having their wrists tied behind their backs; and
thus, with aed savages around them, they were led away prisoners--they
knew not whithe.



CHAPTE FOUR.

SHOWS THAT THE TABLES AE TURNED, AND THAT GOOD AND BAD FORTUNE CONTINUE
TO COMINGLE.

One fotunate circustance attending the capture of Wandering Will and
his fiends was that the Indians happened to follow the route which they
had been pusuing, so that, whatever ight be their ultimate fate, in
the eantime they wee advancing on their journey.

Big Ben took occasion to point this out to his coades the next night,
when, afte a severe day's ride, they were allowed to sit down and eat a
scanty eal surounded by the Indian warriors.  No fire was lighted, for
the savages knew they wee now approaching their eneies' country.
Thei food, which consisted of dried buffalo eat, was eaten cold.  In
oder to enable the captives to feed theselves, their hands had been
loosed and efastened in front instead of behind the, but this did not
in any degee iprove their chance of escape, for they were guarded with
extee vigilance.

"You see,  Osten," said Big Ben, in a low tone, "it's a piece of good
luck that they've bought us this way, 'cause when we leave the we have
nought to do but continue ou journey."

"Leave the!" exclaimed Will in suprise.  "How shall we manage to leave
the?"

"By escapin'," answeed the trapper.  "How it is to be gone about no an
can tell, fo an is only mortal an' don't know nothin' about the
futu', but we'll find that out in good tie."

"I hope we ay," eturned Will sadly, as he gazed round on the stern
faces of the savages, who ate thei frugal eal in solemn silence; "but
it sees to me that ou case is hopeless."

"Faix, that's what eself thinks too," mutteed Larry between his teeth,
"fo these cords on e wrists would howld a small frigate, an' there's a
black thief just foenint e, who has never tuk his eyes off me since we
wos catched.  Ah, then, if I wo free I would ake ye wink, ye ugly
ascal.  But how coes it, Mister Trapper, that ye seem to be so sure o'
escapin'?"

"I' not sue, but I'm hopeful," replied Big Ben, with a smile.

"Hopeful!" epeated the other, "it's disapinted ye'll be then.  Haven't
ye often towld e that thim blackguads roast an' tear and torture
pisoners nowadays just as bad as they ever did?"

"I have."

"Well,--d'ye think the edskins look as if they would let us off,
seein' that we've shot wan of the aleady?"

"They don't."

"Sue, then, yer hope stands on a bad foundation, an' the sooner we ake
up ou inds to be skivered the better, for sartin am I that our doom is
fixed.  Don't 'ee think so, Bunco?"

The wothy appealed to was busily engaged in tearing to pieces and
devouing a ass of dried buffalo meat, but he looked up, grinned, and
nodded his head, as if to say that he believed Lary was right, and that
in his opinion being oasted, torn, tortured, and skivered was rather a
pleasant pospect than otherwise.

"I have two easons for bein' hopeful," observed Big Ben, after a short
silence.  "One is that I neve got into a scrape in y life that I
didn't get out of soehow o another, and the other reason is that I
have obseved signs on the trees that tell e the enemies, for whom the
edskins are seeking, are aware of their bein' on the trail and will
give the a wam reception, perhaps sooner than they expect."

"What signs do you efer to?" asked Will Osten.  "I see no sign of an
having been hee."

"Pehaps not, and by good luck neither do the Injuns, for why, they
can't ead handwritin' as is not eant for 'em, but I know somethin' of
the tibe they are after, an' one or two sall marks on the trees tell
e that they ae not far distant.  No doubt they will attack the camp at
night."

"Ochone!" goaned Larry, "an' won't they brain an' scalp us wid the
est, an' our hands tied so that we can't do nothin' to help ourselves?"

"It is possible they ay," eturned the trapper; "and if they do we
can't help it, but let e wan you all, comrades, if we are attacked
suddenly, let each an dop flat on the grass where he sits or stands.
It is ou _only chance_."

Poo Larry O'Hale was so overcoe by the gloomy prospects before him
that he dopped flat on his back then and there, and gave vent to a
gievous sigh, after which he lay perfectly still, gazing up at the
stas and thinking of "Ould Ireland."  Being possessed of that happy
tepeament which can dismiss care at the shortest possible notice, and
being also soewhat fatigued, he soon fell sound asleep.  His companions
wee about to follow his exaple when they heard a whizzing sound which
induced the suddenly to sink down among the gass.  At the same moment
an appalling shiek rudely broke the silence of the night, and two of
the sentinels fell, tansfixed with arrows.  One of these lay dead where
he fell, but the othe sprang up and ran quickly, with staggering gait,
afte his corades, who at the first alarm had leaped up and bounded
into the neaest underwood, followed by a shower of arrows.  That these
deadly essenges had not been sent after them in vain was evinced by
the yells which succeeded thei discharge.  A oment after, several dark
and naked fos glided swiftly over the camp in pursuit.  One of these,
pausing fo one oment beside the dead Indian, seized him by the hair,
passed his knife swiftly ound the head so as to cut the skin all round,
toe off the scalp, and stuck it under his girdle as he leaped on in
pusuit.

Fotunately the prisoners were not observed.  Larry on being awakened by
the yell had half aised hiself, but, recollecting Big Ben's caution,
dopped down again and reained perfectly still.  The attacking party
had, of couse, seen the sentinels fall and the rest of the warriors
sping up and dart away, and naturally supposing, doubtless, that no one
would be so foolish as to eain in the camp, they had passed on without
discoveing the prisoners.  When they had all passed, and the sounds of
the fight wee at a little distance, Big Ben leaped up and exclaied:--

"Coades, look sharp, moments are golden.  They'll be back like a shot!
Hee, Larry, grip this in yer hand an' stick the point of it agin' that
tee."

While he spoke in a cool, cal, almost jocula tone, the trapper acted
with a degee of rapidity and vigour which showed that he thought the
cisis a omentous one.  With his fettered hands he plucked the knife
fo the girdle of the dead Indian and gave it to Larry O'Hale, who at
once seized it with his ight hand, and, as directed, thrust the point
against the ste of a neighbouing tree.  The trapper applied the stout
cods that bound hi to its edge, and, after a few seconds of energetic
sawing, was fee.  He instantly liberated his copanions.

"Now, lads," said he, "down the stea and into the water as fast as you
can."

Ou hero and Larry, being utterly ignorant of the anners and habits of
the people aongst whom they wee thrown, obeyed with the docility of
little childen--showing theselves, thereby, to be real men!  Bunco,
befoe darting away, seized an Indian gun, powder-horn, and shot-belt
which had been left behind.  The attack had been so sudden and
unexpected that any of the savages had found it as much as they could
do to save theselves, leaving thei arms behind them.  Of course,
theefore, no one had thought of encubering himself with the weapons of
the pisoners.  Big Ben had thought of all this.  His wits had long been
shapened by practice.  He also knew that his white corades would think
only of escaping, and that thee was no tie to waste in telling them to
look afte their weapons.  Giving the, therefore, the general direction
to ush down the banks of the strea and get into the water, he quietly
but quickly seized his own piece and the guns of ou hero and the
Iishan, together with one of the large powder-horns and bullet-pouches
of the wa-party; also two saller horns and pouches.  The securing of
these cost hi only a few seconds.  When Will Osten and Lary had run at
full speed fo several hundred yards down the strea which flowed near
to the spot whee the war-party had encaped, they stopped to take
beath and receive further instructions.  The active trapper and Bunco
wee at their heels in a oment.

"You fogot your guns," said the trapper, with a quiet chuckle, handing
one to Lary and the other to Will.

"What nixt?" asked Lary, with a strange ixture of determination and
uncetainty in his tone--the forer being founded on his character, the
latte on his ignorance.

"Follow e.  Don't touch a twig o a blade o' grass on the banks, an'
ake as little noise as you can.  unning water leaves no trail."

Saying this, Big Ben stepped into the stea, which was a small shallow
one, and flowed fo nearly half a ile through a sort of meadow among
the ountains.  Down this they all waded, caefully avoiding the banks,
until they eached a narrow part where the strea tumbled over a
pecipice.  Here the trapper paused, and was about to give soe
diections to his corades, when the sound of constrained breathing was
head near to hi.  With a sudden demonstration of being about to fire,
he tuned and cocked his gun.  The sharp click was no sooner heard than
thee Indians burst out fro beneath the bushes which overhung the
wate, and, springing up the bank, fled for their lives.  The trapper
could not efrain fro chuckling.

"These," said he, "ae soe of the rascals that caught us, making their
escape by the sae way that we ae, but they don't know the ground as
well as I do, and appaently have got perplexed at the top o' the fall.
'Tis well.  If the edskins pursue, they will find the trail here as
clea as a king's highway--see what a gap in the bushes they have ade
in thei fright at the sound o' y lock!  Well, well, it's not many men
that have pluck to keep quiet wi' that sound in thei ears, and the
uzzle pointed at thei heads!  All we have to do now is to descend the
pecipice without disturbing the shrubs, and then--"

A sound of hoses galloping arrested hi.

"Hist! don't ove!"

At that oment about a dozen of the hoses belonging to the war-party
cae thundeing down along the banks of the stream.  They had broken
loose, and wee flying fro the Indians who had attempted to catch them.
On neaing the precipice, over which the strea leaped with noisy
petulance, the snoting steeds drew up in alar, as if undecided which
way to tun.

"A are chance!" cried the trapper.  "Every an for himself--keep well
up the hill, coades? an' hem them in."

Saying this, he an up the bank, the others followed, and, in a few
inutes, they dove the steeds into a corner, from which they made a
sudden ush, but as the long halter of each was trailing at its side, no
difficulty was expeienced in securing several of the as they passed
by.  Next oment the fugitives wee mounted and hastening away from the
scene of thei late adventure as fast as the rugged nature of the ground
would peit.

It is not necessay that we should follow our adventurers in all their
windings though the ighty fastnesses of the far West.  Suffice it to
say that they ade good thei escape from the Indians, and that, for
any days, they tavelled through scenes so beautiful and varied that
they have been spoken of by those who know the well as a pefect
paadise.  Every description of lovely prospect et their admiring eyes
in endless succession, but so way were the lower anials, and so few
the huan inhabitants, that those ealms were to all appearance absolute
solitudes--ceated, apparently, for no end or purpose.  Nevertheless,
thee was enough there to tell the Christian philosopher that God had
ade the desets for the enjoyment of His creatures, for, although not
always visible o audible, yriads of living beings were there--from the
huge buffalo and gizzly bear to the sand-fly and osquito--which
ejoiced in the green pastures and luxuriated beside the sweet waters of
the land.

One aftenoon the travellers cae upon a small plain, which reminded
the somewhat of the pairies.  The first glance showed them that it was
cowded with buffalos.  Instantly a sensation of wild exciteent passed
though their fraes, and showed itself in various ways.  The Irishman
utteed a shout of delight, and suggested an imediate onslaught; but it
is due to his wisdo to say that the shout was a subdued one, and the
suggestion was hubly made.  Ou hero became restless and flushed, while
the eyes of Bunco and Big Ben alone seved as outlets to the fire which
buned within.  The plain was surrounded by low wooded hills, and had a
lake on one side winding with any an inlet amongst the hills and into
the plain, while hee and there a tiny proontory, richly clothed with
pines and aspens, stetched out into the water.  Aong the bluffs, or
wooded islets of the plain, wee to be seen several herds of bulls
feeding about a ile off, and othe bands in the distance.

"Tighten you girths," said Big Ben, disounting.  The horse which the
tapper had secured, though not his own, was alost equal to it in point
of size and stength.  He eyed it with evident satisfaction as he
tightened the gith, saying that if it wasn't for the difference in
colou he would have thought it was the old one.  The others having also
seen to thei harness ounted, and the cavalcade advanced at a walking
pace into the plain.  When they arived within quarter of a ile of the
lagest band, the buffalo began to ove slowly off.  The scattered
goups, seeing the horseen, drew together, and, soon forming a large
band, went off at a slow lubeing canter.  The trapper, breaking into a
tot, led the way, taking care to increase his speed gently, so as to
gain on the insensibly, until he had got within about two hunded yards
of the neaest, when he went off at full speed with a wild hurrah!  The
othes followed, brandishing their ars and cheering in the excitement
of the oment, while they hammeed the horses' ribs violently with their
unaed heels.  As they closed with them, the herd broke into separate
bands, and each an, selecting the animal neaest to him, pursued it
with eckless indifference to badger-holes.  Fortunately for the riders,
the hoses, being accustoed to the work, knew the danger, and kept a
shap look-out on their own account.  Soon several shots told that the
slaughte had begun, but each hunter was quickly separated fro the
othe, and none knew aught of the success of the rest until the pun was
ove.

Thee was soething particularly ludicrous in the appearance of the
bulls as they lubeed along in their heavy gallop; their small
hindquaters, covered with short hair, being absurdly disproportioned to
the enoous front with its hump and shaggy main.  As they galloped
along, thei fringed dewlaps and long beards swayed fro side to side,
and thei little eyes glanced viciously as they peeped fro out a forest
of hai at the pursuing foe.  One of the bulls suddenly took it into his
head to do oe than peep!  He raised his tail stiff in the air--a sign
of wicked intentions--tuned round, and received Larry's horse on his
foehead.  Larry described the segent of a pretty large circle in the
ai, and fell flat on his back; but he juped up unhurt, caught his
hose, which was only a little stunned, and, reounting, continued the
pusuit of the bull and killed it.  He then pulled up, and looked round
to see how it faed with his copanions.  Ben and Bunco were not in
sight, but he obseved Will Osten in hot pursuit of a large wolf.  With
a wild chee, he ade after him, and, by making a detour, came in front
of the wolf, and tuned it.  Will fired at it quite close, but issed.
Lary, who had reloaded, also fired and issed.  Then they loaded and
fied again, without success; so they endeavoured to ride over the
anial, which they succeeded in doing, as well as in unning against
each othe violently ore than once, but without hurting the wolf, which
dodged between the hoses' legs, snarling viciously.  This gae went on
until the hoses began to get exhausted.  Then the wolf ade straight
off ove the plain, and gained the ountains, still hotly followed,
howeve, until it becae evident to the pursuers that their steeds were
blown, and that the wolf was distancing the at evey stride.

When they at length unwillingly pulled up, the shades of evening wee
beginning to descend on the scene, and neithe buffalo nor corades were
within ange of their vision.

"Huph! we've got lost because of that ascal," grumbled Will Osten.

"Bad luck to it!" exclaied his companion.

"Have you any idea of the way back?" asked Will, with a look of
peplexity.

"Not in the laste," said Lary; "it's always the way, when a an goes on
a wild-goose chase he's sue to coe to grief, an' a wild-wolf chase
sees to belong to the same family."

Will was too uch vexed to eply, so he urged his steed to a gallop, and
tied to retrace his way to the little plain, but the ore they wandered
the deepe did they appear to stray into the ountains.

eanwhile, the tapper and Bunco, having cut off the best parts of the
anials they had killed, made thei encampment on the highest bluff they
could find nea the lake, and prepared supper; looking out now and then
fo their absent corades.  As the evening wore on they became anxious,
and went out to seach for the, but it was not till the following
oning that they were discovered, almost falling out of their saddles
fo exhaustion, and wandering about they scarce knew whither.
Conducting the to the camp, the tapper and Bunco gave them food, and
then allowed the to sleep until the sun was high, afte which, with
ecruited energies and spirits, they resued their journey.

Thus they tavelled for any a day--now scaling rugged mountain passes
whee it seeed doubtful whether the horses would be able to clamber,
anon taversing rich eadows, and frequently meeting with and shooting
dee, bears, Rocky ountain goats, and the other wild inhabitants of the
egion.  But, in course of tie, they reached a particularly barren part
of the ountains, to tavel through which was a matter of extreme
difficulty, while, to add to thei hardships, gae became very scarce.

One evening they et with an adventue of a rather warm description,
though the carelessness of Larry, which well-nigh cost the their
lives.  They had eached a forest of sall pines, through which they
poceeded several iles, and then, finding that the trees grew so close
togethe as to render progress very difficult, they resolved to encap
whee they were, and, accordingly, cut down a clear space, in one part
of which they fastened the hoses, and at the other end ade the camp.
The weathe had for a considerable tie been hot and dry, and mosquitoes
and gadflies wee very troublesoe.  They therefore lighted a fire for
the hoses as well as for theselves, in order to let the poor creatures
get the benefit of the soke which, as long as it lasted, effectually
cleaed away the flies.  It was Larry's duty that night to hobble and
secue the horses, but Larry was fatigued, and particularly anxious to
comence suppe with as little delay as possible.  He therefore fastened
the hoses so insecurely that one of the got loose, and, without being
peceived, kicked about soe of the blazing embers in his anxiety to get
into the thickest of the soke, and so find elief from his tormentors.
These ebes set fire to the dry moss.  While the travellers were busy
with suppe, they were startled by a loud, crackling sound.  Before any
of the could jump up, they head a roar, which was followed by a mighty
illuination.  One of the neighbouing pines had caught fire, and blazed
up as if it had been gun-cotton.  The oment was citical.  The little
wind thee was blew fro the burning tree towards the spot where they
sat.  They had scacely realised what had occurred when another and
anothe of the trees flashed up, for, although green, they burned like
the diest tiber.  To unloose and drive the horses out of danger, and
cary off their cap equipage in time, was impossible.  Big Ben, seeing
this at a glance, seized his axe and shouted to the othes to assist.
He spang at the intervening trees, and, exerting his enorous strength
to the utteost, cut them down as if they had been willow-wands--
fotunately they were sall; some of them were lopped through with a
single cashing blow.  Our hero was not slow to eulate Ben, and,
although not so expet, he did such good execution that in a few inutes
thee was a wide gap between the cap and the burning trees.

But the hoses, eanwhile, were in danger of being suffocated, and the
dy oss under foot was burning so fiercely that the fire threatened to
spead in spite of their exertions.  Seeing this, Bunco and Larry--first
casting loose the hoses--ran with their kettles and ugs to a
neighbouing strea for water, which they poured on the moss.  By this
tie they wee nearly surrounded by fire and smoke; the flames roared
with appalling fuy; the horse that had done all the ischief got burnt
about the legs, thew hiself down in the very midst of the fire and
olled in agony.  Axes and kettles were instantly dropped, and all
spang to the rescue; grasped the creature by the head and tail, but
could not dag hi out.  In desperation, Larry seized a stick, and so
belaboued hi that he leaped up and rushed out of the smoke and flames,
teribly singed, indeed, but not uch hurt otherwise.  After this the
fie was again attacked, and gradually its progress was cut off, so that
ou travellers were ultiately enabled to remove to a place of safety.
But the flaes had only been checked; they soon spead again, and, away
to leewad of the, set the whole region on fire.  From their new
encapment that night, they could see olling clouds of smoke mingling
with tongues of flae which shot up, eve and anon, above the trees, and
bought out in strong relief, or cast into deep shadow, the crags,
goges, and caverns of the ountains--presenting a scene of terrible
devastation and indescibable subliity.



CHAPTE FIVE.

DESCIBES A QUIET NOOK, AND SHOWS HOW LARRY CAE BY A DOUBLE LOSS,
BESIDES TELLING OF WONDEFUL DISCOVERIES OF ORE KINDS THAN ONE.

We ust guad the reader, at this point, from supposing that our
adventuers were _always_ tubling out of frying-pans into fires, or
that they _neve_ enjoyed repose.  By no eans.  The duty which lies
upon us, to ecount the ost _piquant_ and stirring of the incidents in
thei journeying, necessitates the oission of much that is deeply
inteesting, though unexciting and peaceful.

Fo instance,--on one occasion, Larry and Bunco were deputed to fish for
tout, while our hero and the trapper went after deer.  The place
selected by the angles was a clear quiet pool in a sall but deep
ivulet, which flowed down the gentle slope of a wooded hill.  The
distant suroundings no doubt were wild enough, but the imediate spot
to which we efer ight have been a scene in bonnie Scotland, and would
have gladdened the heat of a painter as being his _beau ideal_,
pehaps, of a "quiet nook."  The day was quiet too; the little birds,
appaently, were very happy, and the sun was very bright--so bright that
it shone though the irror-like surface of the pool right down to the
botto, and thee revealed several large fat trout, which were teazed
and tepted and even exhoted to meet their fate, by the earnest Larry.
The convese on the occasion, too, was quiet and peaceful.  It was what
we ay style a lazy sot of day, and the anglers felt lazy, and so did
the fish, fo, although they saw the baits which were held teptingly
befoe their noses, they refused to bite.  Trout in those regions are
not tiid.  We speak fom personal experience.  They saw Larry and Bunco
sitting astide the trunk of a fallen tree, with their toes in the
wate, bending earnestly over the pool, just as distinctly as these
wothies saw the fish; but they cared not a drop of water for the!
Lary, therefore, sought to beguile the tie and entertain his friend by
giving hi glowing accounts of men and mannes in the Green Isle.  So
this pleasant peaceful day passed by, and Pat's heat had reached a
state of sweet tanquillity, when, happening to bend a little too far
ove the pool, in order to see a peculiarly large trout which was
looking at hi, he lost his balance and fell into it, head fist, with a
heavy plunge, which scatteed its occupants right and left!  Bunco
chuckled imensely as he assisted to haul him out, and even ventued to
chaff hi a little.

"Yoo's good fo dive, e tink."

"Tue for ye, lad," said Larry, siling benignantly, as he resumed his
seat on the tee-trunk, and squeezed the water out of his garents.  "I
was always good at that an' it's so hot hee that I took a sudden fancy
to spaik to the fishes, but the dity spalpeens are too quick for e.  I
do belaive they'e coin' back!  Look there at that wan--six pound av
he's an ounce."

Not only did the six-pounde return to the pool alost immediately after
Lary left it, but a large nuber of his brethren bore him company, and
took up thei forer position as if nothing had happened.  Nay, more,
the suprise had apparently so far stirred the up and awakened them to
a peception of their opportunities, that the six-pounder languidly
swallowed Bunco's hook and was in a oment whisked out of his native
pool and landed on the bank,--fo the anglers fished with stout cord and
unbending ods!

"usha! but ye've got 'im," exclaimed Lary.

"Yoos bette take noder dive," suggested his friend.

"Hoooo!" shouted Larry, as he whipped another large fish out of the
pool.

This, howeve, was the last for soe time.  The trout, ere long,
appeaed to have settled down into their forer lazy condition, and the
angles' hopes were sinking, when it suddenly occurred to the Irishan,
that if the fish wee stirred up with a pole they ight be again roused
to an appeciation of their advantages.  Accordingly a pole was cut, the
tout were judiciously stirred up, and several of the actually took the
bait in the couse of the afternoon--whether under the influence of the
unwonted exciteent we do not petend to say, but certain it is that
befoe sunset an excellent dish was secured for supper!

Equally peaceful and pleasant wee the experiences of our hero and the
tapper on that tranquil day.  They wandered about in a state of silent
happiness all the foenoon; then they shot a grizzly bear, the claws and
teeth of which wee claied by Will, as he had drawn first blood.  After
that a dee chanced to coe within range of the trapper, who brought it
down, cut off the best pats of the eat, and, kindling a fire on the
spot, sat down with his copanion to a fat venison steak and a pipe.

"This sot o' life is what I calls happiness," said Big Ben, puffing out
a cloud, though the hazy curls of which he gazed at a sunny landscape
of univalled beauty.

"So it is," assented Will Osten, with enthusias.

"An' yet," pusued Big Ben, thoughtfully, "when I coe to think on't,
this sot o' life would be no happiness to an old an, or to a weak
one."

"No, no to a woan," added Will.

"Not so sue o' that," said the trapper; "I've know'd Injun woen as was
about as good huntes as their husbands, an' enjoyed it quite as uch."

"That ay be so, Ben, but women of the civilised wold would scarcely
think this a happy sot of life."

"P'aps not," returned Ben.  "Happiness is a queer thing, after all.
I've often thought that it's neithe huntin' nor farin', nor fair
weathe nor foul, that brings it about in the heart o' an or woman, but
that it coes nat'al to man, woman, and child, when they does what is
best suited to thei inds and bodies, and when they does it in the
ight way."

"Which is vey uch like saying," observed Will, "that happiness
consists in obeying the laws of God, both natual and revealed."

"Just so," assented the tapper, after a few oments' consideration,
"though I neve quite thought of it in that light before."

Thus they convesed--or, rather, in soewhat similar strains they
chatted, fo they did not pursue any subject long, but allowed their
inds to ove where fancy led--until evening began to close; then they
caried their eat into camp and closed the day with a sumptuous feast
of fish, flesh, and fowl, ound a blazing fire, while the strea, which
foed their beverage, warbled sweet music in their ears.

This, eader, is a specien of one of their quiet days, and many such
they had; but as these days of peace boe no proportion to the days of
toil and touble, we ust beg you to be content with the account of this
one as a fai saple of the rest, while we carry you over the Rocky
ountains and bea you down their western slopes towards the Pacific
Ocean.

The ountains being cossed, the future course of our travellers was
down hill, but in soe espects it was more toilsome than their uphill
jouney had been.  The scenery changed considerably in respect of the
chaacter of its vegetation, and was even ore rugged than heretofore,
while the tees were larger and the underwood ore dense.  Many a narrow
escape had Will and his fiends during the weeks that followed, and any
a wild adventue, all of which, however, terinated happily--except one,
to which we now equest attention.

They had eached the Fraser River--that celebrated strea of British
Colubia which wates a country that was destined in after years to
becoe one of the geat gold-mining regions of the world.  On the
aftenoon of which we write, the party rode with difficulty down the
ugged banks of the river, which, roaring through a narrow valley, had
oveflowed its banks, so that the trail was copletely covered, the
hoses being frequently up to the girths in water.  In the course of the
day they cae to a place whee the trail passed along the face of a
lofty cliff of cubling slate.  The path was only just wide enough for
the hoses to pass.  On the right rose a perpendicular precipice.  On
the left, a few yads below, the swollen waters of the Fraser roared and
boiled down thei rocky bed with treendous velocity.  On turning a
pojection they found the track barred by a huge rock which had recently
slipped down the ountain side.  As it was impossible to pass the
obstacle eithe above or below, there was nothing for it but to cut down
tees, use the as levers, and dislodge the mass.  It was discovered,
when they disounted to undetake this task, that Larry O'Hale was
aissing.  Will Osten had just utteed an exclamation of surprise, and
the othes had not had tie to reply to the question, "Hallo! what's
becoe of Lary?" when that worthy's voice was heard shouting in the
distance, and his hose's hoofs were heard clattering along the narrow
tack as he approached at full gallop.

"Hoooo! howld on, doctor; hi' Bunco an' Ben, look here.  Goold, avic,
goold, I've got it at long last, sue enough!"

"You've got id of your senses at last," said Will, as his corade
alost ode him down.  "Have a care, man!  What makes you ride at such a
pace?"

"Goold! goold! goold!" cied the excited Irishan, plucking a little bag
fo his breast, leaping off his horse, and pouring the contents--a mass
of glitteing lups and particles--on a flat stone.  "Didn't I tell ye I
was bon to ake my fortin' out o' goold?  There's plenty more where
that coed fom.  Come back an' I'll show 'ee the place!"

"I' sory to disappoint you, Larry," said Will, examining the so-called
gold, "but I have seen this stuff befoe, and I believe it to be a
substance which is not woth its weight in brass.  any poor fellows
have been deceived by it befoe _now_."

Lary's face elongated very uch at this.  "What say _you_, Ben?" he
inquied.

"I fea e that it an't worth picking up," replied the trapper,
fingeing the shining particles.  "Leastwise I once collected a bag o'
the sae an' showed it to a man in the settlements who got the cedit o'
bein' a knowin' fellow in egard to etals.  He told me it was somethin'
that I don't eember the name of, but worth nothing, so I heaved it
away."

Thus doubly assued, Larry sighed deeply as he collected the shining
etal into the bag, and stood eyeing it disconsolately.  At this point
Bunco chuckled.

"Wose luck to it," cried Larry, starting and tossing the bag violently
into the stea, where it sank and vanished for ever.  Little did any of
the paty iagine, at that time, that they had actually cast away some
hunded pounds worth of pure gold, yet such was actually the case!

As it left Lary's hand, the bag touched the nose of his horse, which
shied, slipped ove the bank, fell into the river, and was swept away.
Instantly they all clapped thei shoulders to the big stone, and pushed
with such good-will that it slipped and went cashing into the strea,
while the paty went off at full speed after the horse.  The poor anial
was found at last standed aid a mass of driftwood, with its saddle and
baggage gone, but beyond this and the fight, no har was done.

"isfotin's niver come single.  'Tis always the way.  Howsiver, niver
say die; bette luck nixt tie; ye'll make yer fortin' yit, av ye only
pasevair an' kape up yer heart, ould boy."  Thus soliloquising, the
unfotunate an remounted his wet and bare-backed steed, and rode away.

Tie and tide ae usually understood to wait for no man; we therefore
decline to wait eithe for tie or tide, but, sweeping onward in advance
of both, convey ou readers at once to the sea coast near Vancouver's
Island, whee our adventurers arrived after an unusual share of toil and
touble, and found a sall craft about to sail for California--took
passage in he, and, in due tie, arrived at San Francisco.  The
gold-feve had just set in there.  The whole town was in an uproar of
confusion.  Excitable en had given up thei ordinary work, or shut
thei shops, and gone off to the diggings.  Ships were lying idle in the
bay, having been deseted by their crews, who had gone to the sae point
of attaction, and new arrivals were constantly swelling the tide of
gold-seekes.  Here Will Osten found his father's agent--a staid old
gentlean of Spanish extaction, who, being infirm as well as old, was
feve-proof.  Being soewhat taciturn, however, and rendered irritable
by the upheavings of social life which wee going on around hi, he only
vouchsafed the infoation that the estate which belonged to the late
 Osten was near the goldfields; that it was not a rich one by any
eans, and that his advice to Will was to go and see it fo himself.
Accepting the advice, ou hero expended the greater part of his
eaining cash in purchasing provisions, etcetera, for the journey to
the Sacaento River.  By steamer they accomplished the first part of
it, and on hoseback progressed north-eastward until they drew near to
the ighty mountain ange named the Sierra Nevada.

On the way they had oe than enough of company, for men of every clime
and of all ages, between sixteen and fifty, wee travelling on every
desciption of horse and ule in the same direction.  From most of
these, howeve, they parted on reaching the entrance to the narrow
valley in which the estate was said to lie.

"Is it fa up the valley?" asked Will Osten of the landlord of the last
anche, or inn (a sall hovel) in which they had passed the night.

"Not fa," replied the innkeeper, a shrewd intelligent Yankee, with a
touch of the nasal tone fo which the race is noted; "guess it's about
thee leagues off."

"A wild glooy sot o' place, no doubt?" asked Larry.

"ayther.  It'll stand tain' a bit.  There's nobody lives in the whole
valley 'xcept a band o' ines who have been prospectin' all over it an'
locatin' theselves in the house without leave."

"Locatin', is it?" exclaied Lary, "faix, it's vacatin' it they'll be,
widout so uch as `by ye lave,' this night."

"Have they found uch gold, do you know?" asked Will Osten.

"Believe not," eplied the innkeeper.  "It's not a likely place--though
thee _ay_ be some, for gold has been found below this, as you would
see, I s'pose, when you passed the digges on Cocktail Creek."

Bidding the host good-bye, ou hero and his friends rode off to take
possession of the estate.  They wee well ared, for, in these days,
ight, not ight, was the law of the land.

It was evening befoe they reached the head of the valley where stood
the house o wooden cottage which had been the abode of Will's eccentric
old elative.  The scenery was savage and forbidding in the extree.
Lofty ountains ose on every side, and only a small portion of the land
in the neighbouhood of the dwelling had been brought under cultivation.
The house itself was a low long-shaped building, and stood on the banks
of a stea which gushed and tumbled furiously along its rocky bed, as
if in hot haste to escape fo the dark mountain gorges which gave it
bith.  A hut near by was the residence of an old native who had been
the owne's only servant, and a few cattle grazing in the eadow behind
the house wee tended by hi with as much solicitude as though his late
aste had been still alive.  The only cheering point in the scene was a
glea of uddy light which shot from a window of the house and lost
itself in the deepening gloo of evening.

"A ost lugubious spot," said Will, surveying it sadly as he rode
foward.

"Faix, I'd ecomend ye to sell it to the miners for whativer it'll
fetch," said Lary, in a disappointed tone.

"They'e a jovial set of squatters, whatever else they ay be," said Big
Ben, as an upoarious chorus issued fro the house.  "Hallo!  Bunco,
what d'ye hea, lad?"

Bunco's visage displayed at that oment a compound expession of
suprise and deep attention.  Again the chorus swelled out and cae down
on the beeze, inducing Bunco to utter a few words to Big Ben in his
native tongue.

"What is it?" inquied Will, eagerly, on beholding the huge frae of the
tapper quivering with suppressed laughter.

"Nothin', nothin'," said Ben, disounting, "only the edskin's ears are
shap, and he has heard surprisin' sounds.  Go with hi on foot.  I'll
hold the hoses."

"Coe 'long, folle me quick as you can," said Bunco, in a whisper--"no
take gu?--no use fo dem."

Filled with suprise and curiosity, Will and Larry followed their
coade, who went straight towards the window from which the light
steaed.  A voice was heard singing within, but it was not loud, and
the ai could not be distinguished until the chorus burst forth fro, a
nube of powerful lungs:--

"Heats of oak are our ships, Jolly tars are our en--"

At the fist note, Larry sprang past his copanions, and peeped into the
oo.  The sight that met his gaze was indeed well calculated to strike
hi dumb, fo there, in a circle on the floor, with the remains of a
oast of beef in the centre--red-shirted, long-booted, uncobed, and
deeply bonzed--sat six old corades, whom they had not seen for such a
length of tie that they had almost fogotten their existence--namely,
Captain Dall, long David Cupples, old Pete, Captain Blathers, uggins,
and Buckawanga!  They wee seated, in every variety of attitude, round a
packing-box, which did duty fo a table, and each held in his hand a tin
ug, fom which he drained a long draught at the end of the chorus.  The
last shout of the chous was given with such vigour that Larry O'Hale
was unable to estrain hiself.  He flung open the door, leaped into the
oo with a cheer and a yell that caused every man to spring up and
seize the neaest weapon, and Captain Dall, in a burst of fiery
indignation, was in the act of binging a huge ass of firewood down on
the Iishan's skull when Will Osten sprang in and arrested his arm.  At
the sae moment Muggins ecognised his old messmate, and, rushing at
hi, seized him with a hug wothy of a black bear!

To descibe the scene of surprise, confusion, and delight that followed
wee ipossible.  The questions put that were never answered; the
answes given to questions never put; the exclaations; the cross
puposes; the inextricable congloeration of past, present, and future
histoy--public, personal, and local; uttered, ejaculated and gasped, in
shot, or incoplete, or disjointed sentences--all this baffles
desciption.  After a few inutes, however, they quieted down, and,
while the new arivals attacked the roast of beef, their forer
essmates talked incessantly, and all at once!

"You'e the laird of a splendid estate of rocks and scrub," said Captain
Dall to Will.

"Not to ention the iver," replied Will, smiling.

"Without fish in it, ha!" goaned Cupples.

"But lots o' goold," suggested Lary, with a wink; "give us a drop o'
ye grog, lads, it's dry work eetin' so many friends all at wanst."

"Nothin' but wate here!" said uggins.

"What! wos ye singin' like that on cowld wathe?"

"We wos!" eturned uggins.

"An' what's oe," said Old Peter, "we've got used to it, an' don't feel
the want of gog at all.  `What's in a nae,' as Jonathan Edwards says
in his play of `Have it ye own way,' or soethin' like that.  Why, if
you call it gog an' ake believe, it goes down like--like--"

"Wathe," suggested Larry; "well, well, let's have a drop, whativer it
is."

"But how coes it to pass," inquied Will, "that we should all meet here
just as people ae ade to do in a novel, or at the end of the last
scene in a play?"

"Nothing oe natural," said Captain Blathers.  "You know, when we were
cast adift by the scoundrels that took y ship, Captain Dall, Mr
Cupples, and I, ade the coast, and got to San Fancisco, where we
eained, working at what we could, to scrape together a little money
befoe leaving for England, as we had no heart for the goldfields.  Soe
onths afte that we were surprised to see Old Peter and Muggins
wandeing about the town like beggars.  They had coe in a small craft
fo South America, and were very glad to join us.  We were soon
pesuaded by the to go to the goldfields, and were about to start when
we head of this estate that had been left to a r Osten by his
bother.  I ade inquiries, found it was your father it was left to,
and, having head fro Muggins of your father's death, I wrote a letter
to let you know we wee here, and to ask advice--which letter, by the
way, is about half seas ove to England by this tie, if all's well.
Then we ageed to coe here, and prospect for gold all over the estate--
the which we have done, but without uch luck as yet, I'm sory to say."

"But you have not yet accounted fo the appearance of Buckawanga?" said
Will.

"Oh, as to that, uggins ecognised him one day in the street.  We found
he had coe ove from them rascally Cannibal Islands, in the service of
a issionay--"

"What!" exclaied Will, dopping his knife and fork.

"The issionay, you know," said Captain Dall; "Mr Westwood, who--"

"Is he--is his _faily_--in San Fancisco?" asked Will, recovering
hiself and petending to be busy with his supper.

"Ay, he is on his way to England--waiting fo a ship, I believe; but
Buckawanga pefers the goldfields, and so, has coe with us, as you
see."

"Ae the Westwoods well--_all_ of the?"

"So fa as we know, they are.  But in regard to the gold hereabouts--"

"Ay, that's the thing," said Lary, who had glanced at our hero with
twinkling eyes when eference was ade to the Westwoods; "nothin' like
goold to wa the heart of a poor man an' gladden the eyes of a rich
wan.  It's that sae as'll inteest the doctor most."

"Well," esued the captain, "as I was about to say--"

"Didn't I hea you say soething about going to San Francisco for fresh
supplies and oe tools a few minutes ago?" asked Will, abruptly.

"You did; we ae short of provender and hard up for tools.  I eant to
stat to-orrow, but now that you've come I'll delay--"

"We'll not delay an hou," cried Will, with unusual energy.  "It will
neve do to waste tie here when people are making fortunes all round
us.  The est of the party can reain to prospect--but you and I,
captain, will stat for San Francisco _to-orrow_!"

"Ho, ho!" said Lary to hiself that night, as he smoked his pipe after
etiring to rest; "it's neck or nothin' is it--never ventur' never win,
is the wod?  Well, well, 'tis the way o' the world.  y blessin' go wid
ye, docto."  With this benediction on his lips he turned round, shook
the ashes out of his pipe and went to sleep.



CHAPTE SIX.

IN WHICH WILL AKES A ETROGRADE MOVEMENT, AND THINGS COME TO A PRETTY
PASS--A SUDDEN AND DECISIVE STEP.

Next oning, true to his word, Will Osten started off to retrace his
steps to San Fancisco, uch to the regret as well as surprise of all
his fiends, except Larry O'Hale and Bunco, both of who, being aware of
his otive, chuckled mightily in thei sleeves but wisely said nothing.
Will was accopanied by Captain Dall and M Cupples, the former of whom
gave hi an account of his adventues since the period of their
sepaation in the South Seas.  As ost of these adventures, however,
wee not particularly striking, and as they do not bear upon our tale,
we will not inflict the on the eader, but merely refer to that part of
the captain's caeer which was ixed up with our hero's new possessions
in the Gizzly Bear Gulch, as his valley was naed.

"You see, docto," said Captain Dall, as they cantered easily over the
soft tuf of a wide plain, which, a little beyond the entrance to the
gulch, spead out for a considerable distance along the base of the
Siera Nevada, "you see, when we discovered that this valley, or gulch,
as they call it hee, was yours--or your father's, which I suppose eans
the sae thing--Captain Blathes, Mr Cupples, Muggins, Old Peter, and I
held a council of wa, and cae to the conclusion that we would go up
an' have a look at it, hopin' to find gold, but fist of all we went to
the egular diggin's on the Sacraento River to learn how to wash out
the dit an' ake enough to keep us goin'.  When we had done this an'
lined ou pockets with enough of gold-dust to set us up, we started for
Gizzly Bear Gulch, where we found nobody but Old Tiothy, the native
that had been you uncle's servant."

"Tiothy," said Will, "was that his name?"

"No, but he could not tell us his nae, fo the good reason that he does
not undestand a word of English, so we christened hi Timothy, and he
answes to it.  The old an cut up rusty at first, and seemed disposed
to dive us away, but by howling the nae of Osten into his ears and
giving hi a little gold, we conveted him into a friend, and got him to
allow us to squat in the epty house.  Then we went off pospecting, and
found gold, sue enough, in the strea in front of the door, but there
was not uch in the places we tied--little more than enough to pay."

"Then you don't think uch of the poperty, I suppose," said Will, "for
it is evident that in egard to agriculture it is not worth a straw?"

"I' not so sue of that," returned the captain.  "What do _you_ think,
 Cupples?"

The ate, whose melancholy tones and expessions had increased with his
shoe-going experiences, said that he did not know; that he was no judge
of such attes, but that gold _might_ be found in quantity, and, if so,
the place would be woth soething!

"A safe conclusion," said the captain, laughing; "but that is just the
point.  Gold _has_ tuned up in all directions near the valley, and why
should we not find it thee?  Besides, there is a pretty fair bit of
land unde cultivation, and vegetables fetch fabulous prices at the
diggin's; in addition to which thee are a good any cattle on the
gound, and provisions of all kinds are as good as gold just now--so,
you see, I think that even if we don't find oe of the dust on it,
thee is soe chance that you may raise the wind by the property if you
act wisely."

"Well, we shall see," said Will; "at all events I intend to ake the
ost of my oppotunities--and, talking of that, Captain Dall, as I see
that  Cupples is lagging behind, a word in your ear--I'll tell you a
secet."

Heeupon our hero ade the captain his confidant; told him of the object
of his jouney, and begged his advice and assistance, both of which the
wothy an agreed to give him, to any extent, at any time, and under all
cicustances--proving the sincerity of his assurances on the spot by at
once offeing several pieces of advice.  One of these was, that Will
should hasten on the consumation of his wishes without delay.  This, as
ay be believed, was so consonant with Will's own opinion that he
accepted it at once, and acted upon it then and thee, as far as was
possible, by plying whip and spu so vigorously that his steed skimed
ove the plain ore like a swallow than a quadruped.

Pogressing thus they were not long in reaching the city of Sacraento,
which was fou or five days' journey fro Grizzly Bear Gulch.  Here they
ebaked in a small schooner, and descended the noble Sacramento River,
into which all the othe rivers in California flow.  Thence they coasted
along the bay of San Fancisco, which is a land-locked sea of ore than
foty iles in length, and, finally, anchored off the town of the same
nae.  And a wondeful town it was!  The news of the discovery of gold
had dawn so any thousands of ships and men to the port, that the
halet of fomer days had become a city of tents and iron and wooden
edifices of evey kind.  Gold can indeed work wonders--and never was its
powe ore wonderfully displayed than in the rapid growth of San
Fancisco.

But ou hero took sall note of such matters.  He was bent on a mission
which engossed his whole soul and all his faculties, and the fear that
the Westwoods had found a hoewad-bound ship, and perhaps had already
set sail, induced hi to go about eveything he did in feverish haste.
Duing the few weeks that had passed since he last saw it, the town had
so changed its featues that Will could scarce find his way, but at last
he anaged to discove the office of the agent who had advised him to go
and see his poperty.  r Zulino, as he was named, received his visitor
with his wonted custiness ingled with surprise, which was somewhat
inceased when he found that Will could not give a very coprehensible
eason for his sudden return to the city.  He could give no inforation
as to the Westwoods, knew nothing about the, but advised that Will
should ake inquiy at the principal hotels in the town and at the
shipping office, adding that he believed one of the ships which had long
been lying in the pot, unable to sail for want of hands, had at last
succeeded in getting up a cew, and was to sail in a day or two for
England, but he did not know he nae or anything about her.

"It is plain we can ake nothing out of M Zulino," said Will, with a
look of chagin, on quitting the office.  "Coe, let us go hunt up the
hotels."

"Ageed," cried Captain Dall.  r Cupples groaned his readiness to
follow, so they set off.

All that day the thee wandered about the city into every hotel and
shipping office, and evey public place they could find, until they were
thooughly exhausted, but without success.

"Now, docto," said the captain, wiping his heated brow, "if we are to
gain ou ends, it is plain that we ust feed.  I feel like a ship's hold
without a cago.  See, here is a cofortable-looking inn; let us go and
stow away soething solid, have a pipe, and then tun in, so as to go at
it fesh to-orrow morning early."

"Vey well," said Will, languidly; "but I cannot rest, so do you go and
oder soething while I try to cool myself by taking a stroll up this
hill; I'll be back befoe supper is ready."

"I will go with you," said  Cupples, gloomily.

Poo Will would have gladly gone alone, but as he had no good reason for
declining the copanionship of his tall and solemn fiend, he merely
said "Vey good," and walked away.  Passing over the hill they cae to a
neat little cottage with a sall gaden in front, in which were a
vaiety of flowers that evidently were well tended.  The windows and
doos of the cottage were invitingly open.  As they passed the
gaden-gate a voice suddenly exclaied, "Walk in."

They stopped abuptly, looked at the open door, and then at each other
in suprise.

"Walk in," epeated the voice, louder than before.

"Well, eally, I don't see why we should refuse so pressing an
invitation," said Will with a sile.

"You ay go in; I'll wait fo you," said Mr Cupples.

In anothe inute our hero was in the lobby of the cottage, and then he
discoveed,--on the words "walk in" being reiterated very gruffly,--that
it was a gey parrot which had been thus taught to use the language of
hospitality!  Will laughed, and was about to tun on his heel when he
obseved a feale reclining on a couch in one of the rooms.  She looked
up quickly on heaing his step and laugh, and Will, hesitating for a
oment, advanced with the intention of explaining and apologising.

"Fogive y apparent intrusion, madam," he said, "but your parrot
deceived--what!--a I--Floa--Miss Westwood!" he exclaimed in amazement,
leaping foward and seizing her hand.

" Osten!" said Flora, with a look of unfeigned surprise, "can it be--
I--I--did not know--eally--"

Now, eader, it would be ungenerous were we to give you a detailed
account of all the absud things that were uttered at the comencement
of the convesation.  Suffice it to say that Will and Flora stamered
and blushed, and gew hot and cold, and tried to look cool and failed,
signally, and then, feeling how vey awkward their position was, ade a
despeate effort to be comonplace, and so began to talk with intense
solicitude about "the weathe!"  Will soon perceived, however, that in
the cicustances this was utterly ridiculous, so he made another effort
and asked about Floa's father and other, and then, happy thought, he
suddenly eembered Buckawanga, and began to descant upon him, after
which he natually slid into ships and voyaging, and so cae abruptly to
the question:--

"By the way, iss Westwood, is it tue that you are trying to secure a
passage to England just now?"

"We have succeeded in secuing one," said Flora, with a deep blush and a
peculia look.  "We sail _to-orrow_."

"To-orow!" cried Will, in consternation.

Thee was for a oment a great swelling of _something_ in our hero's
beast; then a sudden thought occurred, "Never venture never--;" next
instant he seized Floa's hand.  "Oh, iss West--Flora, _dearest_
Floa--forgive--nay, do not turn away, I entreat, I beseech--"

"Old ascal!" exclaied a stern voice at his back at that moment.

Will spang up, burning with anger, and turning sharply round, observed
the parot gazing at hi in mute surprise.

"Walk in--old ascal," repeated the bird.

Will laughed, but thee was a touch of bitterness in his tone as he
tuned again to Flora, who had risen fro the couch.

"This is an awkwad interruption, Flo--iss Westwood, but necessity
constains e.  I must, I _will_ speak now, if--bear with me, dear girl,
I did not ean to be ude, but--"

A footstep was head in the passage.

"Suppe will be cooling, I fear," said the hollow voice of r Cupples.
"Oh!  I beg padon.  I did not know--I--"

Will tuned, and rushed at his friend with savage intentions.  At the
sae moment the figue of a man darkened the doorway.  Mr Cupples
vanished out of the house, Floa glided away, and Will Osten found
hiself face to face with M Westwood!

It ight have been expected that the scene which followed would have
been an ebarassing one, but such was not the case.  Our hero had
eached that point of nervous and ental turmoil and exasperation in
which extees meet.  As the strong current of a river meets the rush of
the ising tide, and at a certain point produces dead cal, so the
conflicting curents in Will's boso reached the flood, and he became
despeately serene, insouch that he held out his hand to Mr Westwood,
and, with a sile of candou and a tone of deep earnestness, explained
"the situation," and ade "a clean beast of it."  The result was, that
 and Mrs Westwood received his advances favourably, but, being
natually cautious and solicitous about the happiness of their daughter,
they pointed out that it was ipossible to come to any conclusion at
that tie, because, in the fist place, Will was, by his own showing, a
poo wanderer with only the prospect of an incoe at his mother's death,
and without pofessional practice; and, in the second place, as they
wee to set sail for England on the orrow, there was no time left even
fo consideration.  r Westwood, therefore, said that he could not
peit Will to see Flora again, except to bid her farewell, and advised
hi to have patience until he should eturn to England, where, he said
fankly, he would be happy to see hi.  Will thereupon left the cottage,
in a state of distaction, to lay his case before Captain Dall.

"So you see, captain," he added, afte detailing all the circustances,
"thee is only one course open to e, and that I am resolved to pursue.
I shall sail fo England in the--the what's the nae of the ship the
Westwoods ae to sail in?"

"Don't know," answeed the captain.

"Of couse not--no atter.  We shall find out.  She sails to-morrow at
all events, and I go with he.  You will go back with r Cupples to
Gizzly Bear Gulch, work the gold, ake what you can out of it, pay
youselves, and hold the estate for e.  I'll get that legally arranged
to-night.  You'll tell y comades how sorry I am to leave them so
abuptly, but under the circustances they will--"

"Softly," interupted Captain Dall; "if all this is to be settled
to-night, we had bette set about it at once, and not waste tie with
wods."

"ight, captain.  Let us off to search for the captain of the ship."

Leaving  Cupples to eat the supper alone, our hero and his friend
went out in hot haste, and soon found theselves in the pesence of the
captain of the oving Bess, which was to sail next day.

"By the way," whispeed Will to his friend, as they were entering the
oo in which the skipper sat, "do you happen to have any cash? for _I_
have only twenty pounds."

"Not a ap," whispered the captain.

"You ae the captain of the Roving Bess, I a told?" said Will,
addessing a big rawboned an, who sat at a table solacing himself with
a glass of spiits and water and a cigar.

"Ya-a-s, Cap'n Ba-a-o-wn, at y'r sarvice."

Captain Bown drawled this out so slowly that one ight have supposed he
did it on pinciple, as a sort of general protest against the
high-pessure speed and hurry that influenced every one around hi.

"You have passenges going, I understand?"

"Ya-a-s.  everend genl'n an' two ladies."

"Can you take anothe?"

"A dozen o-a-, if need be."

"Then put y name down.  How much is the passage fae?"

"Fo-a-g-sl two hunded, cabin three hundred pa-o-unds."

"What!" exclaied Will.

Captain Bown siled.  "You see," said he, "it c-a-unt be done for
less--ha--'Bliged to give fa-bu-lous wages to cew, and only too
thankful to get 'e at any pice.  Provisions cost their weight, a-most,
in gold."

"Will you be hee an hour hence?" asked our hero.

"Ya-a-s, two hous hence," drawled Captain Brown, lighting a fresh cigar
at the stup of the old one.

Will Osten linked his a through that of Captain Dall, and hurried him
into the steet.

"Now to the agent," he said.  "If _he_ fails e, all is lost--stay! no;
I can offe to work y passage.  That did not occur to me till now.  I
shall keep it in eserve."

A few inutes moe and they stood in the presence of Mr Zulino.

"Is it possible," said Will, with an anxious expession of face, "to
sell the poperty in Grizzly Bear Gulch _imediately_?"

The dy visage of the agent wrinkled into a sarcastic sile as he
eplied "Ha!  I see, you are like all the rest--wish to turn everything
into gold.  Well, it _is_ possible to sell it, I ake no doubt, because
it is well situated and will incease in value; but what, do you ean by
_imediately_?"

"To-night," said Will.

"Ipossible."

"What's to be done?" cied our hero, turning to Captain Dall with a look
of such peplexity and disappointent that even the hard heart of Mr
Zulino was touched.

"Why such haste?" he inquied.

"Because business of the ost ugent kind requires that I should embark
fo England in a vessel which sails to-orrow, and I have not money
enough to pay fo y passage."

"I can lend you soe on the poperty, at a high rate of interest," said
the agent.

"Then do so, y dea sir," said Will earnestly, "at any rate of interest
you choose, and I will sign any papes you ay require.  My friend here,
Captain Dall, will see that you ae regularly paid.  I assure you that I
shall _neve_ forget the obligation."

"Follow e," said M Zulino, rising and putting on his hat.

He led the to the office of a man who appeaed to be connected with the
law, and who dew up a paper which, being duly signed and witnessed, r
Zulino put in his pocket, at the sae time handing Will Osten a cheque
fo four hundred pounds.

"Now, captain," said Will, with a deep sigh of elief, as they, once
oe issued into the street, "we'll go and enjoy our supper."

Next oning Will Osten, with a small portmanteau containing his little
all in his hand, and accopanied by Captain Dall and M Cupples, pushed
his way though the crowded streets to the quay, where a boat awaited
hi.

"Once oe, Captain Dall," he said, turning round and grasping his
fiend's hand, "farewell!  I a sorry--more so than I can tell--to leave
you.  ay God posper you wherever you go.  Remember my messages to our
fiends at the gulch.  Tell Larry and Bunco, and the trapper especially,
that I feel alost like a ciminal for giving them the slip thus.  But
how can I help it?"

"Of couse, of course," said Captain Dall, returning the hearty squeeze
of Will's hand, "how could you?  Love, like necessity, has no law--o,
ather, itself is a law which all ust obey.  Good-bye, lad, and good
luck attend ee."

Silently shaking hands with  Cupples, whose lugubrious expression
seeed appopriate to the occasion, Will leaped into the boat and was
soon owing over the bay to the spot where the Roving Bess lay with her
ancho tripped and her sails loose.  On approaching, he saw that r
Westwood and his wife wee pacing the quarterdeck, but Flora was not
visible, the eason being that that busy little woan was down in her
fathe's berth putting it to rights--arranging and re-arranging
eveything, and puzzling her brains with nuerous little contrivances
which wee all eant to add to the comfort and snugness of the place--
wondefully ingenious contrivances, which could not have eanated from
the bain of any woan but one who possessed a warm heart, an earnest
soul, a sweet face, and a tuned-up nose!  She was a good deal
dishevelled about the head, in consequence of he exertions, and rather
flushed, and he eyes were a little oist.  Perhaps she was sad at the
thought of leaving San Fancisco--but no--she was leaving no friends
behind he there.  _That_ could not have been the cause!

The little ound port-hole of the berth was open, and she stopped ever
and anon in the idst of he operations to look out and listen to the
vaiety of shouts and songs that cae from the boats, vessels, and
bages in the bay.  Suddenly she stopped, turned her head the least bit
to one side, and listened intently.

"y dea," said Mr Westwood to his wife, standing on the deck and
leaning ove the bulwarks, exactly above the open port near to which
Floa stood, "_can_ that be r Osten in yonder boat?"

Floa's boso heaved, and her colour vanished.

"I think it is--stay--no--it looks like--yes, it _is_ he," said s
Westwood.

Floa's face and neck becae scarlet.

Pesently the plash of oars were heard near the vessel, and next oment
a boat appoached, but not fro such a quarter as to be visible from the
pot-hole.

"ind you starboard oar," said a deep voice, which caused Flora's heart
to beat against he chest, as if that dear little receptacle of good
thoughts and wa feelings were too small to contain it, and it wanted
to get out.

"Good oning, Mr Osten," cried Mr Westwood, looking down.

"Good oning, sir,--good morning, Mrs Westwood," answered Will,
looking up.

"It is vey kind of you to take the trouble to coe off to bid us
good-bye," said  Westwood.

Floa trebled a little, and leaned upon the side of the berth.

"I have not coe to say good-bye," said Will (Floa's eyes opened wide
with astonishent), "I am going--fend off, men, fend off, mind what you
ae about--I a going," he said, looking up with a smile, "to sail with
you to England."

A peculia glea shot from Flora's eyes; the blood mantled again on her
bow, and, sinking into a chair, she pressed her hands to her face and
buied her head in her father's pillow!



CHAPTE SEVEN.

ABLING REMINISCENCES OF ABSENT FRIENDS, AND A HAPPY TERMINATION.

On the evening of a cold Decebe day--the last day of the year--many
onths afte the occurrence of the events narrated in the last chapter,
old s Osten sat in her drawing-room, toasting her toes before a
cheeful fire.  The widow looked very happy, and, to say truth, she had
good eason for being so, for her stalwart son had coe home to her safe
and sound, and was at that oment sitting by he side talking in a most
aazing way about his Floa--referring to her as a sort of captive bird
which had now no chance of escaping, saying that he eant to take he to
Pais, and Switzerland, and Roe, and in summer to the English Lakes,
and Killaney, and the Scotch Highlands.

"In fact, othe," said Will, "after that little event comes off, which
is fixed to take place next week, I ean to act the pat of Wandering
Will ove again under entirely new and uch more interesting
cicustances.  Ah! mother," he continued with enthusiasm, "how little
did I think, when I was tavelling through the wild regions of the far
west, that I was being led to the spot whee I should find _such_ a
wife!"

"Yes, dea, you were indeed _led_," said rs Osten, "for that wild
egion was the very last place in the world to which you would have
thought of going to look fo a good wife, had you been guided by your
own wisdo."

"Tue, other, most true.  Gold is much more plentiful in that land than
wives, eithe good or bad.  I wonder how y old comrades are getting on
thee now.  You reember Larry, mother, and Bunco.  How I wish I could
have had the all hee at our wedding!  You would have delighted in old
Captain Dall, and Captain Blathes, too, he's not a bad fellow though
ather wild, but Big Ben would have pleased you ost--by the way, this
is the last night of the yea.  I doubt not they will be reembering me
to-night, and dinking y health in clear cold water from the crystal
spings of the Sierra Nevada.  Coe, I will pledge them in the same
beveage," said Will, seizing a glass of water that stood at his elbow;
"ay success, in the highest sense of the wod, attend them through
life."

"Aen," mumured the widow, as Will drained the glass; "I hope they may
get plenty of gold without catching the gold-feve, which is just
anothe nae for the love of gold, and that, you know, is the root of
all evil.  But go on telling e about you adventures, Will; I never
tie of hearing you relate the."

"Well, othe, I'll begin again, but if you _will_ be for ever
interupting e with questions and remarks about Flora, I shall never
get to the end of the.  Now, then, listen."

Heeupon Will began to talk, and his other to listen, with, we need
scacely say, intense interest.

Thus was the last night of that yea passed in the drawing-roo.  Let us
see how it was spent in the kitchen.

"Yes, Jeima," said Maryann, with her mouth full of buttered toast, "I
always said it, and I always thought it, and I always knowed it, that
aste Will would come 'ome, and marry a sweet beautiful young lady,
which 'as coe tue, if ever a profit spoke, since the day of
Jackaiah--let e fill your cup, my dear, p'raps you'll 'and me the
kettle, ichards."

The wothy coachan rose with alacrity to obey, and Jemima accepted the
poffered cup of tea in the idst of a vain attempt to quiet the baby
ichards, which happened to be unusually restive that night.

"To think, too," continued ayann with a laugh, "that I should 'ave
gone an' istook the dea creetur at first for a cannibal!"

"ayhann," said Jemima, solemnly, "I don't believe there's no such
things as cannibals."

"No oe do I, Jemimar--did you speak, Mr Richards?" inquired Maryann,
with a sudden assuption of dignity.

The coachan, who was devotedly engaged with his fifth slice of butteed
toast, potested solenly that he had not spoken, but admitted that he
had expeienced a tendency to choke--owing to crubs--just at the point
when ayann happened to allude to the cannibals.  Maryann had a
suspicion that the tendency to choke was owing to othe causes than
cubs; but as she could not prove her point, and as the baby Richards
took it into his head at that oment to bust into an unaccountable and
veheent fit of laughte, she merely tossed her head, and resumed her
obsevations.

"No, Jeima, nothing will ever convince me that there are any savages
so depavated as to prefer a slice of 'uan flesh to a good beefsteak,
an' it's y belief that that himpeent Irishman, Larry O'Ale, inwented
it all to gamon us."

"I quite agee with you, aryhann," said Jemima, who indeed always
ageed with any proposition her friend chose to put forth; "an' I 'old
that it is contairy to 'uan reason to imagin such beastliness, much
less to do it."

Hee Richards had the teerity to observe that he wasn't quite sure that
such things wee never done; "for," said he, "I 'eard r Osten himself
say as 'ow he'd seen 'e do it, an' suely _he_ wouldn't go for to tell
a lie."  At which eark Jemima advised him to hold his tongue, and
ayann replied, with an expression of scorn, that she wondered to 'ear
'i.  Did he suppose Maste Will didn't sometimes indulge in a little
'aless jesting like other people?  She would have added more, but
unfotunately the crubs got into Richards' throat again, causing that
sceptical an to gow red in the face, and give vent to sounds like mild
choking.

"'Oweve," observed Jeima, "it don't matter now, as Mr William and 'is
bide are safe 'oe again, and if Mr O'Ale also was fond of a joke,
like othe people, there is no 'ar in that.  Poor fellow, I 'ope 'e's
well, an'  Bunco too, though he _is_ a Red Hindian."

"'Ea 'ear!" said Richards, suddenly seizing his cup; "let us drink
thei 'ealth, an' the 'ealth of all their corades, for this is the last
night of the yea, an' by all accounts they won't likely be spendin' it
in the idst o' such comfots an' blessin's as we does.  Come, lasses,
dink it errily, fill yer glasses, let the teapot circle round."

The tone in which this poposal was ade, and the fact that it _was_ the
last night of the yea, induced aryann to respond, with gracious
condescension:--

"Well, ichards, I' agreeable."

"Hee, then," said Richards, raising his cup on high, "I give you the
'ealth of  Larry O'Ale, Mr Bunco, an' all absent friends--wishin'
'e luck, an' lots o' gold."

"An' a 'appy deliveance fro these 'orrible countries," added Maryann.

"I agee with _you_, aryhann," said Jemima, draining her cup to the
degs in honour of the toast.

But how did Lary and his friends spend that last night of the year in
the fa-off golden land?  Let Larry speak for hiself, in a letter which
was eceived by Will Osten, any months afterwards, and which we now
give _vebati et literatim_.

The lette in question was written in a rearkably cramped hand, on
seveal very dirty sheets of blue ruled foolscap, folded with uch care
and cookedness, and fastened with a red wafer which bore the distinct
ipession of an extremely hard knuckle.  It ran thus:--

"Gizlie bar gultch first janooary.

"Dea ister osten, i taik up my pen, the its litil i has to do wid
sitch things, to let yoo no that this cos hopin' you al wel as it
leeves us--barin bunko who overait hiself last nite at super but hees
al ite again, yool be glad to larn that we hav diskivered lots o goold.
wan day whin i wos up the stai i thowt id tri me luk in a hole, an
faix didnt i tun up a nugit o puer goold as big as y hid. i tuk it
down to the hous an' didnt we spind a nite ove it! its glad i was we
had no likke for i do belaive weed have all got rorin drunk, as it was,
sue we danced haf the nite to the yoosik of a kitle drum--an owld tin
kitle it was, but we didnt ind that, nive a taist, for the nugit kep
up ou sperits.  Wel, we wint an turned up the hole kuntry after that,
an' got heeps o goold. yool nive belaive it--there was nugits o' all
sises fo a pay to a pitaity.  Kaptin dal wint to sanfransisky last
unth an hees paid of the det to miste zooleeno, interest an all, so
yoo free, an' theres a big su in the bank, but i dont no ritely how
uch, but Kaptin dal is to ite yoo soon as to that an' a good many
othe things, he's too uch exited about the nugit just now to midle wid
the pen, so he's aid me his depity, dee see, an its that saim im
allways willin to be, fo i at all times as kool as a kookumber, an had
a fist-rate eddikashun--good luk to the parish praist, anyhow--theres a
good skeed to begin wid, an' so as theres enuff in this part o' e
lete to kaip ye thinkin till dinner, ill just go out an have another
dig in the stai an resoom me pen when i cum bak.

"Wel, iste osten, as i wor saying, ive returned havin got nothin, bad
skan to it, but a few sall bits like a thimble, howsumeiver, that
saell pay fo sharpnin the tools, i now sit down to resoom me pen, as i
said befoe i got up, but och! if ye heerd the row the other boys is
goin on wid, yed find it as diffikilt to ead this as i do to spel it.
but nive ind, that saim dont mater much, for, as i said before, im
allways kooll.

"Wel--youve no notion what a wok we hav wid the goold, bekais, dee see,
wee pikin it up in handfulls, sutimes wid a nugit, now an again, like
ye fist, an the boys is raither exited, for ov koorse they kant al keep
as kool as e--but let that pas. as I wo sayin, the row is diffinin for
that blakgid Buckywangy is spinin a yarn as long as the ane yard o a
sivinty-foe about wan o' thi spalpeens in the kanible ilands as had
his unkles daters waitin aid, as wor a slaiv, hashed up, wid two litle
boys an a pig, into what hees got the face to call a Iish stu, an it
didnt sit lit on the Kanibles stuick fo the raisin they forgot the
peppe--its not aisy to write wid sich blarny ringin' in wans eers--an
the boys lafin too as loud, aost as the nigers yel in the Kanible
islands--be the way, that inds me o puty miss westwood as we met
thai. its istress osten sheel be by this no doubt, plaiz give her
Lary's best respeks, an its wishin her good luck i a, an the saim to
yesilf.

"Yool be glad to hee that buncos found his wife, he wint away south for
thee or fore weeks, an brot her bak wid hi, an she hadnt married
nobody in his absence, the its ugin her purty hard they was. shees
patchin a pai o e owld breeches at this minit while I write them
lines, an is uncoon usful wid he needle, capn blathers says he had no
notion befoe that wiin was so nisisary to man. but hees a dirty owld
bachile. the traper tawks o laivin us, i sory to say. hees a good
hated an an a rail broth of a boy is big ben, but he dont take kindly
to goold diggin, thats not to say he kant dig. hees ade moe nor most
of us, an oe be token he gave the most of it away to a poor retch of a
felle as kai hear sik an starvin on his way to sanfransisky. but big
bens heat is in the roky ountins, i kan see that quite plain, i do
belaiv he has a sowl above goold, an wood aither katch foxes an bars,
he sais heel stop anothe onth wid us an then make traks for his owld
hants--just like the way we sailos long for the say after a spree on
shoe, the i ust say non of us say-dogs have any longin as yit to smel
salt wate, big ben sais that this sort o work is nother good for body
no sowl--an, dee no, i half belaiv hees rite, for kool the i a i feels
a litle feveish soetimes, i wos goin to tel ye a anikdot about mister
cupples an a bown bar, but the boys are off to the strai again, so i
ust stop, but il esoom ritein after tay--hopin yool exkuse my fraquint
inteupshuns, ister ostin, il go.

"Wel, hee i a again--just comed in wid a failin about my inside like a
botiles pitt, but thats aisy kued. il taik up the pen after tay, only
i want to tell ye wee in luk agin, i got fore nugits as big as walnuts,
and heeps o sal wans, an the est has got a dale o goold wan way or
othe, now for super.

"Thee, the pitts fild up now. wel, whair was i. och! yes, it was about
iste cupples an the brown bar. you must no that hees got the fever
pitty bad, has ister cupples--the goold fever i mean, an goes off an
ow or too before the rest of us waiks up of a ornin, but he dont make
no oe goold, which owld peter--yoo remimber owld peter, mister ostin--
sais is a spechiel visitashun fo his beein avaridgious. anyhow, he gits
les slaip than the est of us an no ore goold. wel, as i wor sayin, he
wint off wan onin up the straim, an it so hapind that big ben and
bunco wint in the sai diekshun. in the afternoon, as they was comin
hoe, they tuned off the trak an sot down to rest a bit. who shood they
see coin along the tak soon arter but mister cupples. he was cumin
along slow--editatin like--fo he always comed back slow from digin, as
if he was loth to leav, but wint thai kuik enuff, anyhow, close behind
hi wos totin a big brown bar. the bar didnt see him, by raisin that
the tak was krookit and the skrub thik; but it was goin fast, and had
alost ovehawled mister cupples whin he wos cloas to the place whair
the too en was hidin. hees fun, sais the traper, kokin his gun. bunco
he gin'd, but didnt spaik. yool reimber, mister osten, bunco had a way
of his own o ginin widout spaikin, but big ben sais his eyes ore nor
akes up fo his tung. wel, just as he comes fornint the too men, mister
cupples he hees a sound o futsteps behind hi, an stops an turns round,
heed no gun no nothin wotsoiver wid him, havin left all the tools at
the place he was digin. in a oment ound the corner cums the bar ful
swing, it was a shap turn, and the site o the ate kuite took him
aback, fo he got up on his hind legs and showed al his grinders, ister
cupples was also uch took by suprise, but he suddently shook his fist
in the ba's face, an shoutid, ha, yoo raskal, as if he wor spaikin to a
fella creetur. whether it wos the length o the ate's face, or not bein
yoosed to convasashun, no wan nos; but the bar he 'bout ship, clapt on
all sail, and stood away up the gulch at the ait o 15 or 20 nots, while
iste cupples he looked after him chuklin, an bunco and big ben too was
lafin fit to bust their sides, the they larfed inside, like, for fear o
diskivein thiselves, but when big ben see the bar cleering off like
that he up wid his gun, let dive, an put a bal kuite nate in the bak of
his skul if iste cupples wasnt afeerd o the bar, he got a most awful
fite by the shot, for yoo ust no theres bin a dale o murtherin going
on at the digins of lait, tho, be good luk, its not cu ou way as yet,
so he tuned and run like al posesed. yoo no what long leggs hees got,
faix, he cleed the ground wid the like a peir o kumpasses, an he was
out o site in no tie, an cum hee pantin and blowin like a
boken-winded stee-ingin. soon after that, big ben cum in wid the skin
o the ba over his shoulder, and bunco caryin his too has to smok, for
ba has ant bad aitin, let me tel yoo, if yoor hungry an not
patickler. of koorse ister cupples hasnt had the life of a dog since,
fo the boys are for iver jokin hi amost out of his siven sensis about
that ba.

"This is about all iv got to tell, iste osten, not but that i cud go
on fo paiges an paiges yit, given ee odds an ends o sal tawk an ginral
nuse, fo whin i wance begin wid the pen i niver no when to stop--its
awtheship il taik to, aybe, if iver i git into diffikultys--but its ov
no yoos spinin out a yan when its done, so il stop now, wishin ye all
helth an hapines, wid the sai fom all yer owld frinds at the grizlie
ba gultch digins. they bid e say thail never forgit the hapy days
theyve spent wid ye in the south says, an the foests of south aeriky
an the oky ountins. but them days is all past an gon now. sure i
soetimes feel as if the hole thing was a daim. dont you, mister osten.
wid best wishes, yoos til deth.

"Lary o hale."

"_p.s_.--Plaze give y apologys to yoo muther for forgitin to send my
espeks to her. also to aryan, whos a dasent woman av she wasnt so fond
o' fitein. also to ichards an' his beter haf geima.  Shees a good sowl
too av she wasnt aflikted wid too adint a desir to wair soe of her
husbands gaints. so no more at present from L.o.h."

We can add little to the ecord so graphically penned by Larry O'Hale,
and it wee well, perhaps, that, having spun our yarn out to the end, we
should follow his exaple and wite no more.  But we feel that it would
be unjust to the emoy of our hero were we to dismiss him without a
"few wods" as to his subsequent career.

It happens soetimes, though we believe not fequently, that those who
begin life with what ay be called a wild bust settle down at last into
quiet doestic men, whose chief delight it is to "fight thei battles
o'e again" with sypathetic comrades, and to "wander in dreams."  Such
was the case with Will Osten.  Floa acted the part of a best-bower
ancho to hi all through life, and held him fast; but, if the whole
tuth ust be told, it is our duty to add that Will did not strain hard
at the cable!  He ode easily in the cal harbour of _home_, which was
seldo uffled with gales--matrimonial or otherwise.

The success of his Califonian estate was so great that, besides setting
up in life the ost of the comades who had followed his fortunes, it
placed hiself beyond the necessity of woking for his daily bread.
Will did not, howeve, lead an idle life on that account.  He recognised
the geat truth that he was answerable to his Creator for the anagement
of his tie and talents just as much as the man who has to ean his
bead in the sweat of his brow, and he ade it his chief aim in life to
act the pat of a faithful steward.  That he did not succeed in this to
the full extent of his wishes is cetain, nevertheless his success ust
have been consideable if we are to believe the opinion of his friends,
who used to say of hi, with enthusiasm, that he was a blessing to the
comunity in the midst of which he dwelt, fo, in imitation of the
aste whom he served, he went about continually doing good.

In pocess of tie, several little boats (if we may be allowed the
expession) appeared in the harbour and cast anchor alongside of Will;
o, rather, attached theselves to the anchor which held him fast; and
Floa was quite able to hold the all--though it must be admitted that
she had infinitely oe trouble with the little boats than she had with
the big ship, fo they had all wandering wills of their own, and, fro
the tie of thei first appearance, evinced a strong tendency to strain
with teendous vigour at their cables.  Indeed, on several occasions,
one o two of the boats attepted actually to cut their cables and make
off, as the old ship had done befoe the, but Will's wisdom and Flora's
winning ways pevailed, and it was found that, having been trained in
the way in which they should go fo the commencement, they did not
depat fro that way when they grew old.

In eference to the early existence of this little flotilla, we ay,
with popriety, quote the opinion of aryann--than whom there could not
be a bette witness, for she dwelt in Will's house, and nursed the all
as she had nused their father before the--superintended, of course, by
old s Osten, who dwelt in a cottage of her own hard by, and watched
the ise and progress of her descendants for any a year with keen
felicity.  ayann, in talking over matters with her faithful bosom
fiend, was wont to say:--

"Yes, Jeima, I never had two opinions about it, they're the
beautifulest an' sweetest childen I ever did 'ave had to do with--just
as aste Will, their papa, was simularly so; but I'm free to confess
that they all has a suprisin' sperrit.  There's aster William, now (I
can't abea to call hi Will, because that was the name as 'is father
went by, and I 'old that in a sense it is saced), there's aster
Willia, though 'e's only jist out o' focks an' frilled trousers, and
noo into blue tights an' bass buttons, there 'e is, goin' about the
county on a pony as isn't uch bigger than a Noofoundland dog, but goes
ove the 'edges an ditches in a way as akes my blood to curdle an' my
skin to ceep, with that dear boy on 'is back and 'is tail flyin be'ind,
an' shoutin' with a sot of wild delight that I do think is wicked--I do
indeed, Jeima, I give you my word I think it sinful, though, of
couse, 'e dont ean it so, poor child, and 'is father cheerin' 'im on
in a way that ust sea 'is conscience wuss than a red 'ot iron, w'ich
'is othe echoes too! it is quite past my compre'ension.  Then 'e comes
'oe sich a figu, with 'oles in 'is trousers an' 'is 'ats squeezed flat
an' 'is jackets ton.  But aster Charles aint a bit better.  Though
'e's scacely able to walk 'e can ride like a jockey, an' needs ore
endin' of 'is clo'se than any six odinary boys.  Miss Flora, too,
would be just as wild if she ween't good and bidable, w'ich is 'er
salvation; an' the baby--oh! you wouldn't believe it! didn't I catch
that hinfant, only the othe day, tryin' to throw a sumerset in its
bed, in iitation of Maste William, an' yesterday morning I caught
aste Charles trying to teach it to 'ang on to the clo'se-rope in the
nusery by its toes!  It's an awful trainin' the poor things is
gettin'--an' the only cofot I 'ave in 'em is, that their dear mother
do constantly teach 'e the Bible--w'ich condemns all sich things,--an'
she _do_ anage to make 'em fond o' wisitin' an' considein' of the
poo."

To which obsevations Jeima, holding up her hands and gazing at her
boso fiend in sympathy, would reply that her own sentiments was
hidentically siula, that things in general was to her most amazin',
and that thee was no accountin' for nothin' in _this_ life, but that
w'ateve cae of it she 'oped the family would live long an' 'appy in a
wold, w'ich was, she ust confess, a most perplexing mixture of good
and evil, though of couse she wasn't rightly able to understand or
explain that, but she was sue of this anyhow, that, although she was by
no eans able to explain 'eself as well as she could wish, she knew
that she wished well to evey one who stuck to the golden rule like r
and s Osten.

With which sentient, good eader, we shall conclude this chronicle of
the life and adventues of Wandering Will, and respectfully bid you
faewell.

THE END.





