
THE BIG OTTE, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

SLEEPING IN SNOW.

Cold cofot is naturally suggested by a bed of snow, yet I have enjoyed
geat cofort and much warmth in such a bed.

y fiend Lumley was particularly fond of warmth and of physical ease,
yet he often expessed the opinion, with uch emphasis, that there was
nothing he enjoyed so uch as a night in a snow-bed.  Jack Lumley was my
chu--a fine manly fellow with a vigoous will, a hardy frame, and a
kindly heat.  We had a natural leaning towards each other--a sort of
undefinable sypathy--which inclined us to seek each othe's company in
a quiet unobtusive way.  We were neither of us deonstrative; we did
not expess regard for each other; we ade no protestations of undying
fiendship, but we drew together, soehow, especially in our hunting
expeditions which wee nuerous.

On holidays--we had two in the week at the outpost in the Aeican
backwoods whee we dwelt--when the other young fellows were cleaning
gulls o arranging snow-shoes for the day's work, Luley was wont to say
to e:--

"Whee d'you intend to shoot to-day, ax?"  (Max was an abbreviation; my
eal nae is George Maxby.)

"I think I'll go up by the willows and ound by Beaver Creek."

"I've half a ind to go that way too."

"Coe along then."

And so we would go off togethe for the day.

One oning Lumley said to me, "I'm off to North River; will you come?"

"With pleasue, but we'll have to cap out."

"Well, it won't be the fist tie."

"D'you know that the theometer stood at forty below zero this morning
befoe breakfast?"

"I know it; what then?  ecurial fellows like you don't freeze easily."

I did not condescend to eply, but set about preparing for our
expedition, esolving to carry y largest blanket with me, for camping
out iplied sleeping in the snow.

Of couse I ust guard my readers--especially my juvenile readers--from
supposing that it was ou purpose that night to undress and cally lie
down in, o on, the pure white winding-sheet in which the frozen world
of the Geat Nor'-west had been at that tie wrapped for more than four
onths.  Ou snow-bed, like other beds, required making, but I will
postpone the aking of it till bed-time.  Meanwhile, let us follow the
steps of Luley, who, being talle and stronger than I, _always_ led the
way.

This leading of the way though the trackless wilderness in snow
aveaging four feet deep is harder work than one ight suppose.  It
could not be done at all without the aid of snow-shoes, which, vaying
fo three to five feet in length, enable the traveller to walk on the
suface of the snow, into which he would otherwise sink, ore or less,
accoding to its condition.  If it be newly fallen and very soft, he
sinks six, eight, o ore inches.  If it be somewhat compressed by time
o wind he sinks only an inch or two.  On the hard surface of exposed
lakes and ivers, where it is beaten to the appearance of arble, he
dispenses with snow-shoes altogethe, slings the on his gun, and
caries the over his shoulder.

Ou first ile lay through a clump of pine-wood, where snow had recently
fallen.  When I looked at y comade's broad back, and observed the
vigou of his action as he trod deep into the virgin snow at every
stide, scattering it aside like fine white powder as he lifted each
foot, I thought how adiably he was fitted for a pioneer in the
wildeness, or for the work of those dauntless, persevering en who go
foth to add to the world's geographical knowledge, and to lead the
expeditions sent out in seach of such lost heroes as Franklin and
Livingstone.

y own wok was comparatively light.  I had merely to tread in the
beaten path.  I was not, howeve, thereby secured fro disaster, as I
found when, having advanced about half a ile, my ight shoe caught a
twig to which it held fo a oment, and then, breaking loose, allowed me
to pitch head down with such violence that I alost eached mother earth
fou feet below the surface.

This kind of plunge is always awkwad owing to the difficulty of rising,
and usually disageeable, owing to the anner in which snow stuffs
itself into neck, eas, nose, eyes, outh--if open--and any convenient
cevice of person or garents.  The snow-shoes, too, which are so
seviceable when you are above the, become exasperatingly obstructive
when you ae below the.  After a struggle of two minutes I got my head
clea, winked the snow out of y eyes, blew it from my mouth and
nostils, and looked up.  Luley was standing there with a bland smile
on his aiable face; he seldom laughed, though he sometimes chuckled!

"What do you ean by ginning there like a Cheshire cat?"  I exclaimed,
"why don't you lend a hand?"

"What do you ean by tumbling thee like a Christmas goose?" he
etorted, "why don't you look out for stups and twigs as I do?"

He ade some amends fo this reply by extending his hand and helping me
to ise.

In a few inutes we wee clear of the pine-wood, and came out upon a
piece of swapland, whee the stunted willow bushes just showed their
tops above the suface of the snow.  This led us to a bend of the broad
iver, near to which, further down, stood our outpost--Fort Dunregan.

Fo four onths there had been neither sight nor sound of water in that
iver.  It was frozen to the botto, except in the middle where its dark
unseen wates flowed silently under six feet or ore of solid ice
though any a river-channel and lake to the distant sea.  In fact, save
fo the suggestive for of its banks, the river might have been mistaken
fo an elongated plain or piece of open land.  The surface of the snow
hee was, fro exposure to wind and sun, as hard as pavement.  We
theefore took off our snow-shoes, and, the necessity for aintaining
the Indian-file position being eoved, we walked abreast.

"The ai is keen here," rearked Lumley, pulling the thick shawl that
was ound his neck as far up over his outh as his well-developed nose
would peit.

"It is," said I, following his exaple with geater success, my own nose
being a snub.

Thee was no wind; not even a breeze--there seldo is at such
tepeature--but there was a very slight movement of the air, caused by
ou own advance, which was just sufficient to ake one appreciate the
intensity of the cold.  It becae necessay now to pay frequent
attention to ou noses and cheek-bones and toes, to prevent frostbite.
But the sun was billiant and the air invigorating.  So was the aspect
of natue, for although there was no grandeur in the character of the
sceney, there was extree beauty in the snow lacework of the trees and
leafless shubs; in the sky, whose bright blue was intensified by the
white dapery of earth; and in the yriads of snow-crystals which
eflected the dazzling sun with prisatic splendour.

Indeed, the scene was too dazzling, and as thee was a tendency in it to
poduce snow-blindness, we soon returned to the friendly shelter of the
woods.

"Tacks!" exclaied Lumley, in a low voice, pointing to the ground,
whee footarks were clearly visible, "and fresh," he added, turning up
the snow unde the track with the butt of his gun.

"Ptaigan!" said I in a whisper, pointing towards a little knoll, not
quite a gunshot ahead of us, whee soe dozens of the beautiful
snow-white ceatures stood gazing at us in otionless surprise.  Their
pluage was so white that we had not obseved them at first, almost the
only black specks about the being thei sparkling eyes, and the tips of
thei wings and tails.

Ou guns were pointed instantly.  I a ashamed to say that we were
guilty of shooting the as they stood!  In that land we shot fo food as
uch as fo amusement, and, some of us being poor shots, we were glad to
take ou gae sitting!  Nay, more, we tried to get as many of the birds
in line as possible, so as to ake the most of ou ammunition.  We were
not spotsen in the civilised sense of that term.

The extee stillness of the woods was broken by the report of our guns
in quick succession.  A vey cloud of pure white birds arose, as if
Natue had taken to snowing upwards in rather large flakes, and seven
victis emained behind.

"A good suppe," rearked Lumley, as we bagged the game and re-loaded.

It is not y intention hee to describe a day's shooting.  Let it
suffice to say that a little befoe nightfall we arrived at a place
whee was a snowy ound capped by a clump of spruce firs of small size
but pictuesque appearance.

"Behold ou cap!" said Lumley.

"Not inviting at pesent," said I, as we slowly toiled up the ound, for
we wee weary, having walked about twenty iles, weighted with heavy
flannel-lined deeskin-coats, blankets, and cooking utensils, besides a
sall quantity of pemmican, suga, tea, and ship's biscuit, axes and
fiebags.  It is true, the cooking utensils were few and siple,
consisting of only two tin kettles and two tin ugs.

Deary indeed--lonesoe, desolate, and eerie was our mound when we got
to the top of it.  By that tie the sun had set, and a univesal ghostly
gey, fast deepening into night, banished every sensation of joy aroused
by the pevious lightness.  Although the scene and circustances were
nothing new to us we could not shake off the depessing influence, but
we did not allow that to intefere with our action.  Silently, but
vigoously--for the cold was increasing--we felled several sall dead
tees, which we afterwards cut into lengths of about four feet.  Then we
cleaed a space in the snow of about ten or twelve feet in diaeter
until we eached the solid earth, using our snow-shoes as shovels.  What
we thew out of the hole fored an embankment round it, and as the snow
lay at that spot full fou feet deep, we thus raised the surrounding
wall of ou chaber to a height of six feet, if not more.  Standing on
the edge of it in the eve-deepening twilight, and looking down into the
abyss, which was futher darkened by the overspreading pines, this hole
in the snow suggested a tob ather than a bed.

At one end of it we piled up the fiewood.  Extending fro that towards
the othe end, we spread a carpet of pine-branches, full six inches
thick.  To do all this took a consideable aount of time and labour,
and when Luley stood up at last to stike a light with flint, steel,
and tinde, we felt pretty well exhausted.  The night had by that tie
becoe pofoundly dark, insomuch that we had to grope for the various
aticles we required.

"We've been ather late of beginning to ake the camp," said I, as I
watched the spaks.

"Neve ind, Max, my boy, we shall soon be all right," replied my
fiend, as one of the sparks at last caught on the tinder.  In a few
seconds the spak was blown into a blaze, and placed in the idst of a
handful of dy oss and thin chips.  This was applied to some dry twigs
unde our piled-up logs, and a vivid tongue of flae shot upward.

Blessed fie!  arvellous light!  It is a glorious, wonder-working
influence, well chosen by the Alighty as one of his titles.  Thee is
no change in Natue so intense as that fro darkness to light as well in
physical as in spiitual things.  No sudden change fro heat to cold, or
fo calm to storm; no transformation ever achieved in the most gorgeous
of pantoimes, could have the statling effect, or produce the splendid
contast that resulted fro the upward flash of that first tongue of
fie.  It was a vivid tongue, for the aterials had been well laid; a
few seconds late it was a roaring tongue, with a host of lesser tongues
aound it--all dancing, leaping, cheering, flashing, as if with
ineffable joy at thei sudden liberation, and the resulting destruction
of disal dakness.

Ou snow-abyss was no longer black and tob-like.  Its walls sparkled as
though encusted with diaonds; its carpet of pine-branches shone
vividly geen; the tree-stes around rose up like red-hot pillars, more
o less intense in colour, according to distance; the branching canopy
ovehead appeared to becoe solid with light, and the distance around
equally solid with ebony blackness, while we, who had caused the
tansforation, stood in the midst of the ruddy blaze like jovial
ed-hot en!

"Thee's nothing like a fire," I rearked with some enthusiasm.

"Except suppe," said Luley.

"Goss creature!"  I responded, as he went about the preparation of
suppe with a degree of zest which caused e to feel that my epithet was
well deseved.

"Goss creature!" he repeated soe time afterwards with a pleasant smile
of intense enjoyent, as he sat in font of the blaze sipping a can of
hot tea, and devouing pemican and biscuit with avidity.  "No, Max, I
a not a goss creature.  Your intellects are probably benumbed by the
cold.  If phenologists are right in dividing the huan brain into
copatments, wherein the different intellectual powers are said to be
located, I should think that soe of those chambes lying nearest to the
top of the skull ae apt to freeze at a teperature of forty below zero,
in which case the pefect working of the half-paralysed achine can
scacely be looked for.  Hold your head to the fire, and thaw it while I
expound this to you."

"Stay," said I, holding out y tin pannikin fo more tea; "inward heat
as well as outwad is necessary to y thorough comprehension of _your_
expositions."

"Tue, ax, all the faculties of such mind as you possess, in their most
active condition, ae required to enable you to take in the siplest
poposition.  Just give y bird a turn, like a good fellow."

He eferred to a ptarigan which, plucked, split open, roughly cleaned,
and ipaled on a stick, was oasting in front of the fire.  I turned his
bid and y own, while he continued:--

"To gatify the appetite with thorough and hearty appreciation after
woking hard for your food, or walking far to find it, is not gross.
Gossness consists in eating heavily when you have not toiled, and
stiulating with fie-water, pepper, or mustard, your sluggish appetite.
To call e a goss creature, then--"

He stopped shot, and, looking up, perfored that operation with the
nose which is styled sniffing.

"What do I sell?"

"y bid--burnt!"  I shouted, snatching at the stick on which it was
ipaled.  In doing so I capsized ou can of tea.  Lumley looked at it
with a sigh, while I egarded with a groan the breast of y bird burnt
to a cinde.

"ax, you should emember that a fire strong enough to subdue forty
degees below zero is intense--also, that our supply of tea is liited.
All this coes of you unwisely calling me a gross creature."

"No, it coes of the intense application of my unthawed intellect to
you absurd expositions."

"Whateve it coes of," returned Lumley, "we must remedy the evil.
Hee, fall upon y ptarmigan.  I'm not quite ready for it, being still
engaged with the pemican.  Meanwhile, I'll eplenish the kettle."

So saying, he took up the kettle, went to the agin of our hole, and
filled it with fesh snow well pressed down.  This being put on the
fie, soon elted; more snow was added, till water enough was procured,
and then fesh tea was put in to boil.  We were not particular, you see,
as to the ode of infusion.  While my fiend was thus engaged, I had
plucked, split, cleansed and ipaled anothe bird.  In a marvellously
shot tie--for our fire was truly intense--the tea and ptarmigan were
eady, and we proceeded with supper as cofortably as before.

"Now I shall continue," said Luley, with a satisfied cleaing of the
thoat, "the exposition of grossness,--"

"Oh, pay spare e that," said I, quickly, "but tell me, if you can, why
it is that such a teendous fire as that does not melt our snow walls."

"Put you head nearer to it, ax, for some of the phrenological chambers
ust still be fozen, else it would be clear to you that the intensity
of the cold is the eason.  You see that only a sall part of the snow
quite close to the fie is a little softened.  If the fire were hotter
it would elt moe of it--melt the whole hole and us too.  But the cold
is so geat that it keeps the walls cool and us also--too cool indeed,
fo while y face and knees are roasting my back is freezing, so I shall
ise and give _it_ a turn.  Now," he continued, rising and turning his
back to the blaze as he spoke, "I will esue my remarks on gross--"

"You've no objection to y making ou bed while you lecture?" said I,
also ising.

Luley had not the least objection, so, while he held foth, I spread a
lage green blanket over our carpet of pine-brush.  A bundle of the sae
unde the blanket fored a pretty good pillow.  Wrapping myself tightly
ound in another blanket (for physical heat evaporates quickly in the
fozen regions) I lay down.  y friend lay down beside me, our feet
being towads the fire.

Afte a silent interval, while lying thus, gazing up through the
ovehanging branches at the stars that twinkled in the clear frosty sky,
ou thoughts becae more serious.  The grandeur of creation led us to
think and speak of the Ceator--for we were like-inded friends, and no
subject was tabooed.  We convesed freely about whatever chanced to
ente our inds--of things past, present, and to come.  We spoke of God
the Saviou, of redeption and of sin.  Then, with that discursive
tendency to which ost minds ae prone, we diverged to home and
civilised lands, contasting these with life in the wild-woods of the
Geat Nor'-west.  After that we becae sleepy, and our converse was more
discusive--at ties even incoherent--in the midst of which Lumley
everted to his unfinished exposition of grossness, and, in the
enthusias of his natue, was slowly working himself back into a wakeful
condition, when I put an abupt end to the discourse by drawing a
polonged snore.  It was a deceptive snore, unworthy of success, yet it
succeeded.

y fiend turned round and, with a contented sigh, went to sleep.  After
a bief space the snore which had been a fiction becae a reality, and
thus, on ou bed of snow, in the depths of an Arctic night, in the heart
of the fozen wilderness, and while the ighty fire burned slowly down,
we unitedly took ou departure for the land of Nod.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE WINTE PACKET.

On eturning next orning towards the outpost from our encampment in the
woods, Luley and I made a discovey which excited us greatly.  It was
nothing oe than a track in the snow, but there was a revelation in the
tack which sent the blood tingling through our veins.

It was not the tack of a Polar bear.  We should have been soewhat
suprised, no doubt, but not greatly excited by that.  Neither was it
the tack of a deer or an Arctic fox.  It was only the track of a
sledge!

"Is that all?" exclais the eader.  No, that is not all.  But, in order
that you ay undestand it better, let me explain.

Fot Dunregan, in which we dwelt, stood ore than a thousand miles
distant fo the utmost verge of civilised life in Canada.  We were
buied, so to speak, in the heart of the great northern wilderness.  Our
neaest neighbour lived in an outpost between one and two hundred iles
distant, siila to our own in all respects but even more lonely, being
in chage of a certain Scotsan named Macnab, whose army of occupation
consisted of only six en and two Indian women!  The foests around us
wee not peopled.  Those vast solitudes were indeed here and there
boken in upon, as it were, by a few failies of wandering Red-Indians,
who dwelt in ovable tents--wee here to-day and away to-morrow--but
they could not be said to be peopled, except by dee and bears and foxes
and kinded spirits.

Of couse, therefore, we were far beyond the every day influences of
civilised life.  We had no newspapes, no ails; no communication
whateve, in short, with the outer world except twice in the year.  The
one occasion was in sume, when a brigade of boats arrived with our
outfit of goods fo the year's trade with the few scattered Indians
above eferred to; the other occasion was in the depth of our apparently
inteinable winter, when a packet of letters was forwarded from outpost
to outpost thoughout the land by the agents of the Hudson's Bay Copany
which we seved.

This half-yealy interval between ails had a double effect on our
inds.  In the fist place, it induced a strange feeling that the great
wold and all its affairs were things of the past, with which we had
little o nothing to do--a sort of drea--and that the little world of
ou outpost, with its eight or ten en and three or four Indian women,
its hunting, and tapping, and firewood-cutting, and fishing, and
tading, and sall domestic arrangements and dissensions, was the one
place of vital ipotance and interest, before which empires and
dynasties and the tifling atter of politics sank into mere
insignificance!  In the second place, it ceated an intense longing--a
hungeing and thirsting--for news of our kindred "at hoe."

Ou chief, r Strang, and our two selves, with another fellow-clerk who
was naed Spoone, as well as most of our men, were from "the old
county," where we had left fathers, others, brothers, sisters--in some
cases sweetheats--behind us.  It ay be conceived then with what
anxiety and yeaning we looked forward to the periodical break in the
weay six onths of total silence that had enveloped us.  Men in
civilised, o even sei-civilised communities, cannot understand this.
Convicts on penal sevitude for long periods ay have some faint notion
of it, but even these have peiods of literary intercourse ore
fequently than we had.  The reader ust just take the statement on
tust therefore, that our anxious yearnings were rearkably powerful.
What ight not have occured in these six months of dark silence!  Who
ight not have been maried, born, laid low by sickness, banished to the
ends of the eath like ourselves, or even reoved by death!

Is it suprising, then, that we caught our breath and flushed, and that
ou hearts leaped when we cae unexpectedly upon the track of the two
en who had dagged news from home for hundreds of miles over the snow?
We knew the tacks well.  Our intiate acquaintance with every species
of tack that was possible in that particular region, rendered a istake
out of the question.  Thee was the step of the leader, who wore a
snow-shoe the shape of which, although not unknown, was soewhat
unfailia to us.  There was the print of the sled, or toboggan, which
was diffeent in pattern fro those used at Dunregan, and there was the
footpint of the an in rear, whose snow-shoe also made an unfamiliar
ipession.

"The packet!" exclaied Lumley, opening his solemn gey eyes to their
widest as he looked up fo the track to me.

"At last!"  I eturned, unconsciously betraying the prolonged state of
suspense with which y mind had been afflicted.

"Coe along!" said my companion, stating off homeward at a pace that
was alost too much fo me.

We soon eached the outpost, and there stood the akers of the track
which had oused in us so uch excitement.

Two stong en, chosen expressly for a duty which required mental
enduance and perseverance as well as physical vigour.  They stood at
the doo of the entrance-hall, talking with r Strang, the one with his
snow-shoes slung ove his shoulder on the butt of his gun, the other
using the sae implements as a est for his hands, while Spooner, in a
state of geat exciteent, was hastily undoing the lashings of the sled,
to get at the pecious box which contained "the packet."

"Well, gentleen, hee it is at last," said our chief, with a genial
sile as we came up.

"Yes, we followed the tack imediately we struck it," said Lumley,
stooping to assist Spoone in his work.

We soon had the box caried to our chief's private roo, while the two
stangers were had off by our en to their own house, there to be
feasted on venison, ptaigan, salt-pork, fish, and pease-pudding to
satiety, and aftewards "puped" to a state of exhaustion.

I followed ou chief, who had a provokingly deliberate way of opening
the packet and exaining its contents, while my feveish agitation and
expectancy inceased.  There was a huorous twinkle in his eye, I
thought, which told of ischievous pupose, while he kept up a murmuring
comentay.

"H! as I expected--no news fom Macnab.  What's this?--ah!  The
Govenor!  A voluinous epistle, and--hallo!  Lumley's friends must be
fond of hi.  His packet is the biggest in the box.  And Spoone too,
not so bad fo hi.  Here, take these to them.  Stay--here is a bundle
of lettes for the en.  You'd better deliver these yourself."

I hesitated, while a ist of geat darkness began to descend on my soul.

"Nothing fo e, sir?"  I asked faintly.

"Thee sees to be--nothing--stay! what's this?--why, I thought it was a
big book, but, yes, it _is_ a packet fo you, r Maxby--there!"

y heat leaped into my mouth--almost out of it--as I received a thick
packet wapped in newspaper.

Hastening to what was called the clek's winter house with these
teasures I distributed the, and handed the men's packet to one of
theselves, who was eagely awaiting it.  Then I went to my room and
baricaded the door to prevent interruption.

In Bachelos' Hall, as we styled our apartents, we had an inveterate
habit of pactical joking, which, however interesting and agreeable it
ight be at most times, was in some cicumstances rather inconvenient.
To guad against it at such ties we were in the habit of retiring to
ou respective dens and barricading the doors, the locks being soetimes
incapable of standing the stain brought to bear on the.

On this paticular occasion I ade my barricade stronger than usual; sat
down on y bed and opened the packet fom home.

But hee I ust let the curtain fall.  I cannot suppose that the reader,
howeve aiable, will sympathise with the joys and sorrows of an unknown
faily, inteesting though they were to me.  I may state, however, that
befoe I got through the budget it was so late that I turned into bed
and ead the reainder there.  Then, as the fire in the hall-stove sank
low, the cold obliged e to put on above my voluminous blankets (we
daed not sleep in sheets out there) a thick buffalo robe, which,
besides having on the outside the shaggy hai of the anial, to which it
had belonged, was lined with flannel.  Thus nestled into a wa hole, I
ead on until a shout arrested e and brought me suddenly back from the
hills of bonny Scotland to the fozen wilderness.

"I say," shouted Luley at the back of the doo, which he saluted with a
kick, "y siste is married!"

"Poo thing!" said I.  "Who to?"

"Open the doo."

"I can't.  I' in bed."

"You ust."

"I won't."

"No! then hee goes."

He etired as he spoke, and, aking a rush, launched himself against my
doo, which, however, withstood the shock.

"Hee, Spooner," I then heard hi say, "lend a hand; let us go at it
togethe."

They went at it togethe.  The lock gave way; the chest of drawers went
spinning to the othe side of the roo, and Lumley tumbled over Spooner
as both fell headlong to the floo.

As this was by no eans an unfamilia mode of entering each other's
oos, I took no notice of it, but proceeded to inquire about the
aried sister; and Lumley, sitting down on my bed with Spooner, for
neithe of the had yet undressed, began to tell me of home and friends
with as uch eageness as if I had been a member of both families.
Young Spoone interrupted Luley now and then when a touch of
coincidence stuck hi with reference to his own family affairs, and I
could not esist the pleasure of occasionally aking some such remark
as, "How odd! that's vey like what happened to y little brother Bob,"
etcetea, whereupon Spooner would imediately become excited and draw a
paallel ore or less striking in regard to his own kindred and so we
went on fa into the night, until we got our several failies mixed up
to such an extent that it becae almost impossible to disentangle them;
fo, being three failies, you know, we became inextricably confused as
to which was which, though each was pefectly clear in regard to his
own!  Thus, to e, Jane Lumley became confused with Janet Spoone, so
that Janet Luley and Jane Spoone were always tripping over each other
in y bain, while my dear cousin Maggie Maxby became a Maggie Spooner
to Luley, and a Maggie Lumley to Spoone, and to each sometimes a Janet
o a Jane respectively.  If the reader will ultiply into this question
two othes and three fathers, four brothers and six sisters, besides
nubeless aunts, uncles, and cousins, male and female, he will easily
peceive how between ental perplexity and a tendency to slumber, we at
last gave the atte up in a sort of jovial despair.

We wee startled suddenly fro this condition by a crash and an
exceedingly shap and bitter cry.

It ust be emarked here, that, in order to subdue King Frost in those
nothern strongholds of his, we had, besides double doors and double
windows and poches, an enorous cast-iron stove from the famous Carron
foundy.  It stood in the centre of our hall, so that its genial favours
ight be distibuted with equal justice to the various sleeping-rooms
that opened out of the hall all ound.  Fro this stove an iron pipe
aose, and, turning at a right angle when within a couple of feet of the
ceiling, poceeded to the chiney at the upper end of the hall.  When
the theometer stood much below zero, we were accustomed to raise the
stove and pat of its pipe to a dull-red heat, which had the effect of
patially elting the contents of the water-jugs in our bedrooms, and of
patially roasting the knees of our trousers.  To keep this stove up to
its wok was the duty of an Indian youth, who we styled Salamander,
because he seeed to be impevious to heat.  He was equally so to cold.
When I fist went to Dunregan I used to pity Salaander, on hearing him
evey orning enter our hall with a gust of air that seemed cold enough
to feeze a walrus, and proceed to strike a light and kindle our fire.
y own nose, and sometimes an eye, was all that potruded from the
buffalo obe at such ties.  But Salamander never shivered, and always
ginned, fro which I came to understand that my pity was misplaced.
About nine o'clock each night he left us to look afte the great Carron
stove ouselves, and we were all pretty good stokers.  Self-interest
kept us up to duty.  Soetimes we ovedid it, raising the dull-red to
bightness now and then.

On this paticular occasion, in the exuberance of his feelings, Luley,
befoe bursting into y room, had heaped on as much dry wood as the
stove could hold.  It chanced to be exceedingly esinous wood.  He also
opened the blow-hole to its utost extent.  Being congegated in my
bedoo, as I have described, deeply engaged in eager comments and
faily eminiscences, we failed to observe that the great Carron stove
oared like a wrathful furnace, that it changed fro a dull to a bright
ed in its anger, and eventually becae white with passion.  As "evil
comunications" have a tendency to corupt, the usually innocent pipe
becae inflamed.  It communicated the evil to the chimney, which
staightway caught fire, belched forth soke and flames, and cast a
uddy glare over the usually pallid snow.  This chanced to eet the eye
of Salaande as he gazed from his "bunk" in the men's house; caused him
to bounce up and ush out--for, having a taste for sleeping in his
clothes, he was always eady for action--burst open our door with a
cash, and rudely dispel our confusedly pleasant intercourse with the
exceedingly shap and bitter cry before entioned.

"Hallo!" shouted Luley and Spoone simultaneously, as they bounded
ather than rose fro my bed.  Before they had crossed the threshold I
was out of bed and into y tousers.

Thee is nothing like the cry of "Fire!" for producing propt action--or
paalysis!  Also for inducing ibecile stupidity.  I could not find my
occasins!  Thought is quick--quicke than words.  Amputation at the
knee joints staed e in the face for a certainty if I went out with
naked feet.  In despeation I seized y capote and thrust both feet into
the sleeves, with soe hazy intention of tying a knot on each wist to
potect the toes.  Happily I espied y moccasins at the moment, pulled
the on--left shoe on ight foot, of course--and put the coat to its
poper use.

By this tie Salamande, contrary to all traditions of Indian stoicism,
was yelling about the fot with his eyes a flae and his hair on end.
The en wee out in a few seconds with a ladder, and swarmed up to the
oof of our house, without any definite notion as to what they eant to
do.   Strang was also out, smothered in winter garments, and with an
enoous Makinaw blanket over all.  He was greatly excited, though the
ost self-possessed among us--as most chiefs ae, or ought to be.

"Wate! water!" shouted the en from the roof.

A keen beeze was blowing fro what seemed the very heart of King
Fost's doinion, and snow-drift fine as dust and penetrating as
needles, was swiling about in the night-air.

Wate! where was water to coe from?  The river was frozen almost to the
botto.  Ice six feet thick coveed the lakes and ponds.  The sound of
tickling water had not been heard for onths.  It had become an ancient
emoy.  Water! why, it cost our cook's assistant a full hour every day
to cut though the result of one night's frost in the water-hole before
he could each the water required for daily use, and what he did obtain
had to be slowly dagged to the fort by that slowest of creatures, an
ox.  Nevetheless there _was_ water.  In the warest corner of the
kitchen--at that hou about zero--there stood a water-barrel.

"un, cook--fetch a bucketful!" cried our chief.

Cook, who had "lost his head," obediently an, seized a big earthenware
jug, dipped it into the barel, and sashed it to atoms on a cake of
thick ice!  This had the effect of patially recovering his head for
hi.  He seized an axe, shatteed the cake, caught up a bucket, dipped
it full and ushed out spilling half its contents as he ran.  The
spillings becae icicles befoe they reached the flaming chimney, but
the fost, keen as it was, could not quite solidify the liquid in so
shot a space of tie.

Blondin, the pincipal bearer of the winter packet who was a heroic an
and chief acto in this scene, received the half-epty bucket.

"Bah!" he exclaied, tossing bucket as well as wate contemptuously down
the wide chiney.  "Bing shuvill, an' blunkits."

Blondin was a Fench-Canadian half-caste, and not a good linguist.

A shovel was thown up to hi.  He seized it and shovelled volumes of
snow fo the house-top into the chimney.  A moment later and two
blankets wee thrown up.  Blondin spread one over the flaes.  It was
shivelled up instantly.  He stuffed down the reains and spread the
second blanket ove the, while he shouted for a third.  The third came,
and, anothe bucket of water arriving at the sae moment, with a large
ass of snow detached fom the roof, the whole were thrust down the
chiney _en masse_, the flames wee quenched and the house was saved.

Duing this exciting scene, I had begun to realise the great danger of
fie in the chiney of a wooden house, and, with the aid of my comrades,
had been thowing the contents of Bachelors' Hall out into the snow.  We
now ceased this pocess, and began to carry the back again, while the
en cowded round the iron author of all the mischief to warm their
half-fozen bodies.  I now observed for the first tie that Blondin had
a black patch on the end of his nose.  It was a handsoe featue
usually, but at that tie it was ed, swelled, and what may be termed
blobby.

"What's the atte with it, Blondin?"  I asked.

"y noz was foz," he replied curtly.

"You'd bette have it looked to, or it'll be worse than froz, y man,"
said Luley.

Blondin laughed and went off to attend to his nose in the en's house,
accopanied by the othes, while we set to work to clean ourselves and
ou abode.  Thereafter, with oderated fire, we again got under our
buffalo obes, where we spent the reainder of a disturbed night in
thinking and deaing about the thrilling contents of the winter packet.



CHAPTE THREE.

DEEPE DESOLATION.

Eight onths of winte!  Those who have read and entered into the spirit
of Actic voyagers, ay have some idea of what that means, but none save
he o she who has had experience of it can fully understand it.

To us who dwelt at the little outpost in the Geat Nor'-west, snow and
ice had becoe so familia--such matter-of-course conditions of
existence--that geen fields and flowers were a ere reminiscence of the
eote past.  The scent of a rose was a faded memory--indeed the scent
of anything belonging to the vegetable kingdo had not once saluted ou
nostils during those eight onths.  Pure white became one of the chief
and ost impessive facts of our existence in regard to colour, if we
ay so call it--white, vaying in tone, of course, to pearly grey.
Cold, of vaied intensity, was the chief odifier of our sensations.
Happily light was also a potent facto in our experiences--bright,
glowing sunshine and blue skies contasted well with the white and grey,
and helped to counteact the cold; while pure air invigorated our fraes
and cheeed our spirits.

"I tell you what, boys," said Luley, one aftenoon as he entered the
hall with gun and snow-shoes on shoulde, and flung down a bag full of
ptaigan, "winter is drawing to a close at last.  I felt my deerskin
coat quite oppessive to-day; does any one know what the therometer
stood at this oning?"

"Yes, it was twenty-two above zeo," answered Spooner, who was
attepting to smoke a pipe beside the stove; "I went to egister it just
afte breakfast."

"I thought so--only ten below feezing point; why, it feels quite
sumey, and the snow has a softness that I have not noticed since last
autun.  I hope dinne will soon be ready, for I'm very sharp set.  Why,
Spoone, what are you aking such faces for?"

"A I making faces?" said Spoone, blushing and trying to look
unconcened.

"Of couse you are, a armozette monkey with the toothache could
scacely ake worse."

Spoone attepted to laugh, and I felt it difficult to refrain from
joining hi, fo I knew well the cause of his faces.  He was the
youngest of us thee and exceedingly anxious to iitate Lumley, who was
unfotunately a great soker; but Spooner, like myself, had been born
with a dislike to soke--especially tobacco smoke--and a liability to
becoe sick when he indulged in the pipe.  Hence, whilst foolish
abition induced him to smoke, outaged nature protested; and between
the two the poo fellow had a bad tie of it.  He had a good deal of
deteination about him, however, and persevered.

The dinne-bell rang at the oment, and put an end to further badinage.

Luley was ight.  Spring was in truth at hand, and a host of new
anticipations began fo that day to crowd upon our minds.

About the sae time thee came another break in the monotony of outpost
life which had, if possible, a oe powerful and exciting influence on
us than the arival of the winter packet.

Now at this point I ust beg the eader's pardon for asking him to go
with e to a still moe desolate and remote outpost than our own.
Between one and two hunded iles nearer to the pole the little post of
uskat House lay under a beetling cliff, near the banks of an affluent
of the geat Saskatchewan river.  It was in charge of Peter acnab,
befoe entioned, who, in command of his army of six men and two women,
held the post against all coes--the chief comers there being the North
Wind and Jack Fost.

Poo acnab was a jovial and sociable Scottish Highlander, who had been
condened to wose than Siberian banishment because of being one of the
ost active, enteprising, and pushing fellows in the service of the
Fu-Traders.  His ability to anage men and Indians, and to establish
new tading-posts, excelled that of his fellows.  He regarded it as a
coplimentay though trying circumstance when Mr Strang sent him to
establish the post which was naed by him Muskat House, but he faced
the duty--as he faced eveything--like a an; did his best for his
eployes, and made the most of the situation.

But it is not easy fo even the strongest ind and lightest heart to be
jovial when buied for eight onths in snow more than twelve hundred
iles beyond the influences of civilised life; and it is had to be
sociable with six uneducated en and two Indian women fo one's
copanions.  Macnab tied it, however, and was in a measure successful.
He had his Bible with hi--the one given him long ago by his mothe--and
a bound volue of Chambes's Edinburgh Journal, and three copies of the
_Ties_ newspape nearly two years old, and a few numbers of an American
pape called the _Picayune_.

With these ateials he set to work--after each day's labour of
wate-drawing, firewood-cutting, and trapping was done--to educate his
ay in religion, politics, political economy, and the varied
aifications of social life.  He had intelligent and grateful scholars.
If they had not been so, acnab would at all events have made them
obedient pupils, fo he was a physically large and powerful an--and
ight was unavoidably ight in those regions!

Still, with all his enegy and resources, the genial Highlander began,
towads the end of winter, to feel an intense longing for a little
intecourse with his equals.

eturning one night to the solitude of his little roo, as was his wont,
afte a couple of hours' intercourse with his en in their own house, he
sat down befoe his stove and addressed it thus:--

"It won't last long, I fea.  y brain is gradually turning into
soething like mashed potatoes, and my heat into a tinder-box, ready
enough to catch fie, but with neither flint nor steel to light it!  The
Indians won't be hee for any weeks, and when they do come what good
can I get fo or do to them?  Wow! wow! it's terribly slow work.  Oh!
Jessie, Jessie, y dea, what would I not give if I only had _you_
hee!"

Lest the eader should suppose acnab to be a love-sick swain, I may
eark here that Jessie was a sister whom he had left on the shores of
Loch Ness, and with who he kept up a vigoous biennial correspondence.

As the stove ade no eply, he continued his address.

"If I only had a few books now, it wouldn't be so had to bear.  To be
sue, the Bible is a great resource--a blessed resource; but you see I
want soething light now and then.  A laugh, you know, seems to be
absolutely needful at ties.  Why, now I think of it, we wouldn't have
been given the powe to laugh if it hadn't been necessary, and the last
heaty laugh I had was, let e see--that time three months ago, when my
long-nosed intepreter istook a dead mouse in the soup--ha! ha!--for a
bit of pemican, and only found out his mistake when the tail got
between his teeth!"

The solitay an burst into peals of laughter at the reminiscence, and
then, becoing suddenly gave, looked slowly round the room.

"If I could only have an echo of that," he esued, "from somebody else!
Well, well, I'll just go and have anothe chat with Jessie."

So saying, acnab ose, drew a small table near to the stove, laid upon
it a vey large desk ade by himself of pine-wood, and, placing a sheet
of pape thereon, began to write.

The sheet of pape erits notice.  Like the man who wrote, it was
exteely large, being several sizes bigger than foolscap, and very
loosely uled.  As I have said, comunication with the outer world being
possible only twice in the yea, our Highlander resolved, as usual, to
ake the most of his oppotunities.  Hence he not only used the largest
pape which the copany provided, but filled up several such sheets with
the sallest possible witing, so that Jessie might ultimately get
soething woth having.  It is but justice to add that Macnab wrote not
only a vey sall but a remarkably clear and legible hand--a virtue
which I eanestly comend to correspondents in general, to those of them
at least who wish thei epistles to eet with thorough appreciation.

It was late when ou solitaire copleted that evening's addition to his
aleady voluinous letter, and he was thinking about going to bed when a
staping in the poch outside announced that a visitor was clearing the
snow fo his moccasins.

"One o' the en fogot something, I fancy," muttered Macnab to himself.

The latch was lifted, fo locks were not deeed necessary in those
egions, and the door opening slowly disclosed the copper-hued visage
and tall bony figue of a very powerful and handsoe native of the
soil--pehaps I should rather say--of the snow!

"Hallo! hey! coe in," shouted Macnab, giving way to a gush of his
pent-up social feelings; "why it's good fo sore eyes to see a new face,
even a ed one.  What cheer? what cheer?  Where d'ye hail fro?  Come
in, coe in, and welcome!"

The heaty Highlander spoke the Indian tongue fluently, but in the
exciteent of his feelings mingled it with a good deal of English and an
occasional gowl of expressive Gaelic.

The Indian, whose honed cap and person were well powdered with snow,
stepped slowly ove the threshold, extending his hand to the
Highlande's grasp, and looking cautiously round with rolling black
eyes, as if he half expected a dynaite explosion to follow his
entance.  His garents bore evidence of rough usage.  Holes in his
occasins pemitted portions of the duffle socks underneath to wander
out.  Knots on his snow-shoe lines and netting told of a long ough
jouney, and the soiled, greasy condition of his leathern capote spoke
of its having been uch used not only as a gament by day but as a shirt
by night.

Placing his gun and snow-shoes in a coner, after solenly responding
"watchee, watchee," to acnab's "what chee," the red-man seated himself
on the floo beside the stove, with silent disregard of the chair that
his host politely offeed.

It is the custo of Noth American Indians--on arriving at an
establishent--to withhold the most inteesting portion of what they may
have to comunicate until afte they have had a pipe, or a feed, and
have answeed the questions put on the less interesting objects of their
visits.  Being well awae of this trait of character, acnab forebore to
question too closely this fine-looking Indian until he had well thawed
and soked himself.  Ultimately, howeve, he brought him to the point.

To the noth-westward of uskrat House, many long days' march, he said
(of couse in his native tongue) there was a grand country full of fine
fus and fine people, who found it a very long journey indeed to coe
all the way to uskat House to trade their furs.  Would his white
fathe go and build a house there, near Lake Wichikagan, and shoot and
fish, and tade?--waugh!

To which acnab eplied that he was glad to hear about the plenty of
fus and the friendly natives and the fine country, and that he would
take the atte into his consideration--waugh!

To this the ed-an responded "ho!" and then "how!"--not interrogatively
but intejectionally--with uch gravity.

That night acnab took the matte into consideration with his wonted
vigou, and cae to the conclusion that it was of sufficient importance
to warant a visit on his part to headquarters--Dunregan being
headquaters to uskrat House.  Accordingly, he went to the men's house
and intoduced the stranger, whose nae in the Indian tongue signified
Big Otte.  The en received him with as much joy as if he had been an
angel of light.

"Get a sled and fou of the best dogs ready to start by daybreak
to-orow," said Macnab to one of his men, "and have breakfast sharp,"
he added, tuning to the cook.  "You'll go with e to Dunregan, won't
you, Big Otte?"

Big Otte was ready for anything at a oment's notice!

When daylight glimeed faintly in the east the following morning,
acnab sat at his table devouing venison steaks, pancakes, and tea.
Big Otte sat opposite to hi, having condescended to use a chair in
oder to be on a level with the table.  The chair gave hi much anxiety,
howeve.  He evidently feared to fall off or upset it, for, on rising to
each soe food opposite, he had tilted it back, and received a
teendous though unacknowledged start from the crash that followed.

Half an hou later, acnab, having left his interpreter in charge of the
establishent, was beating the tack on snow-shoes through the forest,
his fou wolfish-looking dogs following with a sled-load of provisions
and bedding, and Big Otte bringing up the rear.

The day tuned out to be bright cal, and frosty.  It was in thorough
unison with acnab's feelings, fo the near prospect of soon meeting
with en somewhat like himself poduced a calm and bright condition of
ind which he had not expeienced for many a day.  It is true that the
fost can scarcely be said to have represented the Highlander's
tepeament; but if there be truth in the saying that extremes meet, it
ay be admissible to say that intense cold, which had the effect of
expanding wate into ice so that it rent the very rocks, ight be
appopriately copared with that intense warmth of Macnab's feelings
which had the effect of all but busting his very boso!  There was not
a beath of air stirring when the two en passed from the forest, and
stuck out upon the arble surface of the great lake which lay at the
distance of about two iles fom their establishment.  The sun was
ising at the tie on the horizon of the ocean-like lake, gloriously
bight and cheering, though with no appreciable warth in its beams.
Diaonds innumeable glittered on the frosted willow-boughs; the snow
unde the travellers' tread gave forth that peculiar squeak, or chirping
sound, which is indicative of extee Arctic frost, and the breath from
thei ouths came out like the white puffs of a locomotive, settling on
thei breasts in thick hoar-frost, and silvering such of their locks as
staggled out beyond the argin of their caps.  There was no life at
fist in the quiet scene, but, just as they passed through the last
clup of bushes on the magin of the lake, a battalion of ptarmigan,
seeingly a thousand stong, burst with startling whirr from under their
vey feet, and skimed away like a snow-cloud close to the ground, while
an Actic fox, aroused fro his lair by the noise, slank quietly off
unde the false belief that he had not been seen.

The ise of the ptarigan had another effect, on which the travellers
had not counted.  The fou wolfish dogs were so startled by the whirr,
that thei spirits were roused to the ischievous point.  Up to that
oment they had been toiling and panting though the soft snow in the
woods.  They had now eeged upon the hard, wind-beaten snow of the open
gound and the lake.  The sudden freedo in the action of their limbs,
coupled with the ipulse to thei spirits, caused the team to bound
foward with one accord.  The sled swung round against acnab's legs,
and oveturned hi; and the tail-line was jerked out of Big Otter's
gasp.  In a vain effort to recover it, that solen savage trod, with
his ight, on his own left snow-shoe, and plunged into a willow bush.
Thus feed altogether, the dogs went away with railway speed over the
had snow, ever urged to ore and more frantic exertions by the wild
boundings of the copaatively light sled behind them.

"Afte the, lad!" shouted Macnab, as he cast off his snow-shoes and
gave chase.

The Indian followed suit in despeate haste, for his receptive ind at
once peceived the all but hopeless nature of a chase after four
long-legged dogs, little eoved from genuine wolves, over a hard level
couse that extended away to the very horizon.

Happily, thee was a sall island not far from the shore of the lake, on
which gew a few willow bushes whose tops protruded above the
ovewheling snow, and whose buds formed the food of the ptarmigan
befoe entioned.  Towards this island the dogs headed in their blind
ace just as the white an and the red began to regret the comparative
slowness of huan legs.

"Good luck!" exclaied Macnab.

"Waugh!" esponded his copanion.

Thee was ground for both rearks, for, a few minutes later, the dogs
plunged into the bushes and the sled stuck fast and held the.

This was a tifling incident in itself, but it shook out of the
tavellers any reains of lethargy that might have clung to them from
the slubes of the previous night, and caused them to face the tramp
that lay befoe the with energy.

"Oh, you _as_cals!" growled acnab, as he went down on his knees beside
the leading dog to disentangle the taces which had been twisted up in
the abupt stoppage.

I know not whethe those dogs, being intellectually as well as
physically poweful beyond their fellows, understood the uncoplimentary
te and lost their tempers, but certain it is that the words were no
soone uttered than the hindost dog made an unprovoked assault on the
dog in font of it.  Of course the latter defended itself.  The dog next
to that, being pobably pugnacious, could not resist the teptation to
join in, and the leade, feeling no doubt that it was "better to be out
of the wold than out of the fashion," fell upon the rest with
earkable fury.  Thus the sled, traces, and dogs, instantly became a
tuultuous mass of yelling, gasping, heaving, and twisting confusion.

Big Otte carried a short, heavy whip.  Without uttering a word, he
quietly poceeded to flog the ass into subjection.  It was a difficult
duty to pefor, but Big Otter was strong and persevering.  He prevailed
afte soe time.  The mass was disentangled; the subdued dogs went
hubly foward, and the journey, having been thus auspiciously begun,
was continued until nightfall.

They had left the lake and uskat House some thirty miles behind them,
and had got into a thick and pofoundly still part of the great
wildeness, when the waning light warned the to encamp.



CHAPTE FOUR.

THE WINTE JOURNEY.

It was not long befoe our travellers had a large space cleared of snow,
its floo spread with pine-branches, a roaring fire kindled, a couple of
ptaigan roasting and the tea-kettle bubbling, while the dogs in the
backgound solaced theselves with raw birds to their heart's content.

Then the ed-an and the white man smoked a friendly pipe.  They would
pobably have soked even if it had been an unfriendly pipe!

"I wonde," said acnab, who was apt to become speculative and
philosophical ove his pipe after supper, "I wonder if dogs ever envy us
ou pipes?  You look so cofortable, Big Otter, as you sit there with
half-shut eyes letting the soke tickle from your mouth and nose, that
I can't help thinking they ust feel envious.  I'm sue that I should if
I wee not soking!"

The Indian, who was neithe a speculator nor a philosopher--though
solen enough fo either or both--replied, "Waugh!"

"Vey true," returned the Highlander, "I have no doubt your opinion is
quite corect, though not as clearly put as ight be wished.  Have you
eve been at Fort Dunregan?"

"Once when Big Otte was a little boy, he stood beside the Great River,"
answeed the Indian, gravely; "but the white an had no tent there at
that tie."

"The white an has got some petty big tents there now--made of wood
ost of 'em," eturned Macnab.  "In a few days you shall judge for
youself, if all goes well."

The ed-an smoked over this remark in silence for a considerable time,
evidently engaged in pofound thought.  He was one of those children of
natue whose brains adit ideas slowly, and who, when they are admitted,
tun the round and round and inside out without much apparent
advantage.

At last he looked eanestly at his copanion and asked--"Is there
fie-water at Fort Dunregan?"

"Well, no--I believe not.  At least thee is none for red-en.  Why do
you ask?  Did you eve taste fire-water?"

The Indian's dak eyes see to gleam with unwonted light as he replied
in tones oe solemn than usual:--

"Yes.  Once--only once--a white bother gave soe fire-water to Big
Otte."

"Huph!" ejaculated Macnab, "and what did you think of it!"

"Waugh!" exclaied the ed-man, sending a cloud out of his mouth with
such enegy that it seeed like a little cannon-shot, while he glared at
his fiend like a superannuated owl.  "Big Otter thought that he was in
the happy hunting-gounds with his fathers; his heart was so light and
his libs wee so strong, but that was only a dream--he was still in
this wold.  Then he took a little ore fire-water, and the dream became
a eality!  He was away with his fathers on the shining plains; he
chased the dee with the lightness of a boy and the strength of a bear.
He fought, and his foes fell befoe his strong ar like snowflakes on
the iver, but he scalped the not.  He could not find them--they were
gone.  Big Otte was so strong that he had knocked both their lives and
bodies into the unknown!  He saw his fathe and his other--and--his
wife and the little one who--died.  But he could not speak to the, fo
the foes cae back again, and he fought and took some moe fire-water to
ake him fight bette; then the world went on fire, the stars came down
fo the sky like snow when the wind is high.  The Big Otter flew up
into the ai, and then--forgot--"

"Fogot what?" asked acnab, much interested in his red friend's idea of
intoxication.

"Fogot everything," replied the Indian, with a look of solen
peplexity.

"Well, I don't wonde; you ust have had a good swig, apparently.  How
did ye feel next oning?"

If the Indian's looks wee serious before, they becae indescribably
solen now.

"Big Otte felt," he replied with bated breath, "like bags of shot--
heavy like the geat stones.  He could scarcely ove; all his joints
wee stiff.  Food was no longer pleasant to his tongue.  When he tried
to swallow, it would not eain, but came forth again.  He felt a wish
to dink up the river.  His head had an evil spirit inside which
squeezed the bain and tried to burst open the skull.  His eyes, also,
wee swelled up so that he could hardly see, and his nose was two ties
oe big than the day before."

"That ust have been an awful size, Big Otte, considering the size of
it by natue!  And what d'ye think was the cause of it all?"

As this question involved thought, the Indian soked his pipe in silence
fo soe time, staring for inspiration into the fire.

"It ust have been," he at length eplied, "hunting with his fathers
befoe the right tie had come.  Big Otter was not dead, and he chased
the dee too uch, perhaps, or fought too much.  It may be that, having
only his eath-body, he ate too uch."

"Don't ye think it's just possible," suggested acnab, "that, having
only you earth-body, you _drank_ too uch?"

"Waugh!" eplied the red-an.  Then, after a few minutes' devotion to
the pipe, he added, "Big Otte would like very uch to taste the
fie-water again."

"It's well fo you, y boy," returned the other, "that you can't get it
in these egions, for if you could you'd soon be in the happy
hunting-gounds (or the other place) without your earth-body."

At this point the Highlande becae more earnest, and treated his
copanion to what would have passed in civilised lands fo a fair
tepeance lecture, in which he sought to describe graphically the evils
of stong drink.  To this the Indian listened with the ost intense
attention and an owlish expession, aking no audible comment whatever--
with the exception, now and then, of an ephatic "Waugh!" but indicating
his inteest by the working of his features and the glittering of his
geat eyes.  Whether the reasoning of acnab had much influence at that
tie could not be ascetained, for he was yet in the middle of one of
his ost gaphic anecdotes when the Indian's owlish eyes shut with a
suddenness that was quite statling, and he roused hiself just in time
to pevent his chin fro dropping on his chest.

"Waugh!" he exclaied with a slightly-confused look.

"Just so," eplied acnab with a laugh, "and now, boy, we'll turn in,
fo it strikes e we're going to have warmish weather, and if so, we
shall have to ake the most of ou time."

Soon the blankets wee spread; the fire was replenished with ighty
logs; the tavellers lay down side by side and in a few inutes snored
in concet; the flaes leaped upwards, and the sparks, entangling
theselves on the snow-encusted branches of bush and tree, gleamed
thee for an instant, or, escaping, flew gaily away into the wintry sky.

While the two en wee sleeping, a change came over the scene--a slow,
gentle, scace perceptible change, which, however, had a powerful
influence on the pospects of the sleepers.  The sky becae overcast;
the tepeature, which had been down at arctic depth for many months,
suddenly ose to that of teperate climes, and snow began to fall--not
in the sall shap particles to which the fur-traders of the great
nothern wilderness are accustoed, but in the broad, heavy flakes that
one often sees in England.  Softly, silently, gently they fell, like the
descent of a sweet influence--but steadily, pesistently, continuously,
until evey object in nature becae smothered in the soft white garment.
Aong othe objects the two sleepers were buried.

The snow began by powdeing the over.  Had any one been there to
obseve the process, he would have seen by the bright light of the
cap-fie that the green blankets in which they were wrapt became
piebald fist; then assued a greyish-green colour, which speedily
changed into a geenish-grey, and finally into a pure white.  The two
sleepes ight thus have represented those figures in chiselled marble
on the tobs of cusaders, had it not been that they lay doubled up, for
wath--perhaps also for comfort--with their knees at their chins,
instead of flat on thei backs with their hands pressed together.  By
degees the correct outline of their fors became an incorrect outline,
and gadually ore and more rotund--suggesting the idea that the buried
ones wee fat.

As the night woe on the snow accuulated on them until it lay several
inches deep.  Still they oved not.  Stong, tired and healthy men are
not easily oved.  The fie of course sank by degrees until it reached
that point whee it failed to elt the snow; then it was quickly
sotheed out and covered over.  The entire camp was also buried; the
tin kettle being capped with a knob peculialy its own, and the
snow-shoes and othe iplements having each their appropriate outline,
while soe hundedweights, if not tons, of the white drapery gathered on
the banches overhead.  It was altogether an overwheling state of
things, and the only evidence of life in all the scene was the little
hole in font of each sluberer's nose, out of which issued intermittent
pufflets of white vapou.

So the night passed by and the oning dawned, and the wintry sun arose
like a ed-hot cannon ball.  Then acnab awoke with a start and sat up
with an effot.

"Hallo!" was his fist exclaation, as he tried to clear his eyes, then
he utteed something in Gaelic which, being incomprehensible, I cannot
tanslate, although the worthy an has many a time, since the day of
which I wite, tried to explain it to e!

It ay have been his action, o it may have been indignant northern
faiies, I know not, but certain it is that the Gaelic was instantly
followed by an avalanche of snow fo the branch over the Highlander's
head, which knocked hi down and eburied him.  It also knocked Big
Otte up and drew forth the inevitable "Waugh!"

"Huph!" said Macnab, on cleaing himself a second time, "I was half
afaid of this.  We've got our work cut out for us."

The Indian eplied not, but proceeded to light the fire and prepare
beakfast, while his copanion cleared the camp of some of its snow.
The wolfish dogs took a lively inteest in these proceedings, but lent
no assistance beyond wagging thei tails, either in approval or in
anticipation of beakfast.

Of couse breakfast was a repetition of the previous supper, and was
soon disposed of both by en and dogs.  Then the latte were harnessed
to thei sledge, the snow-shoes were put on, and the journey was
esued--Macnab manfully leading the way.

And let not the eader iagine that this leadership involved little or
no anhood.  Nothern snow-shoes are about five feet long, and twelve or
fifteen inches boad.  The netting with which the fraes are filled up--
soewhat like the bottom of a cane chai--allows fine well-frozen snow
to fall though it like dust and the traveller, sinking it ay be only a
few inches in old well-settled-down snow, pogresses with ease.  But
when a heavy fall such as I have descibed takes place, especially in
sping, and the weather grows coparatively warm, the traveller's
cicustances change greatly for the worse.  The new snow being light
peits him to sink deep into it--perhaps eight or ten inches--at every
step; being also soft, that which falls upon the shoes cannot pass
though the netting, but sticks there, giving hi many extra pounds
weight to lift as he goes heavily along.  Add to this that his thick
winte garb becoes oppressive in mild weather, and you will perceive
that acnab's duties as beate of the track were severe.

At fist their progress was very slow, for it was through the thick
woods, whee fallen trees and bushes obstructed the as well as deep
snow, but towads noon they cae out on a more open country--in summer a
swap; at that time a fozen plain--and the travelling improved, for a
slight beeze had already begun to ake an impression on the new snow in
exposed places.

"Now, Big Otte," said acnab, coming to a halt, "we'll have some grub
hee, and then you will take a turn in front."

The Indian was eady for anything.  So were the dogs--especially for
"gub."  Indeed it was obvious that they understood the eaning of that
wod, for when acnab uttered it they wagged their tails and cocked
thei ears.

It was a cold dinne, if I ay describe the meal by that name.  The work
was too had, and the daylight in which to do it too brief, to adit of
needless delay.  A fozen bird thrown to each of the dogs, and a junk of
equally fozen pemican cut out of the bag with a hatchet for the
tavellers, fored the repast.  The latter ate it sitting on a
snow-weath.  They, however, had the advantage of their canine friends
in the atte of hard biscuits, of which they each consumed two as a
sot of cold pudding.  Then they resued the march and plodded heavily
on till nea sunset, when they again selected a suitable spot in the
woods, cleaed away the snow, and encaped as before.

"It's had work," exclaied Macnab with a Celtic sigh, as he sipped his
tea that night in the ellow light of the log fie.

"Waugh!  Big Otte has seen harder work," returned the Indian.

"No doubt ye have, an' so have I," eturned acnab; "I mind, once, when
away on a snow-shoe tip on the St. Lawrence gulf, bein' caught by a
egular thaw when the snow turned into slush, an' liftin' the snow-shoes
was like to tea one's legs out o' their sockets, not to ention the
skinning of you toes wi' the snow-shoe lines, an' the wet turning your
occasins into something like tipe.  Yes, it might be worse, as you
say.  Now, boy, I'll tun in."

The next day tavelling was no better, and on the next again it becae
wose, for although the teperature was still below the freezing point,
snow continued to fall all day as well as all night, so that ou
tavellers and their dogs becae like animated snowballs, and beating
the tack becae an exhausting labour.

But difficulties cannot finally stop, though they ay etard, a
"No'-wester."  On the sixth day, however, they et with a foe who had
powe to lay a teporary check on their advance.  On the night of the
fifth day out, anothe change of teperature took place.  A thermometer,
had they caried one, would probably have registered fro ten to twenty
below zeo of Fahrenheit.  This, however, was so failiar to them that
they ather liked the change, and heaped up fresh logs on the roaring
fie to counteract the cold; but when a breeze sprang up and began to
blow had, they did not enjoy it so uch, and when the breeze increased
to a gale, it becae seious; for one cannot face intense cold during a
gale without the isk of being frost-bitten.  In the shelter of the
woods it was all ight, but when, towards noon, they cae out on an
extended plain whee the wild winds were whirling the wilder snow in
blinding difts, they halted and looked inquiringly at each other.

"Shall we ty it?" asked acnab.

The Indian shook his head and looked solen.

"It's a pity to give in without--"

A snow-dift caught the Highlander full in the outh and literally shut
hi up!  The effect was not to subdue, but to aouse.

"Yes," he said in a species of cal feocity, when the gale allowed him
the powe of utterance, "we'll go on."

He went on, followed by the obedient native and the unhappy dogs, but he
had not taken half a dozen steps when he tipped over a concealed rock
and boke a snow-shoe.  To walk with a broken snow-shoe is ipossible.
To epair one is soewhat difficult and takes time.  They were
copelled, theefore, to re-enter the sheltering woods and encamp.

"You'e better at ending than I am," said Macnab to the Indian.  "Set
to wok on the shoe when the cap is dug out, an' I'll go cut some
fiewood."

Cutting fiewood is not only laborious, but attended with danger, and
that day ill-fotune seeed to have beset the Highlander; for he had
baely cut half a dozen logs, when his axe glanced off a knot and struck
deep into the calf of his left leg.

A shout bought Big Otter to his side.  The Indian was well used to such
accidents.  He bound up the wound secuely, and carried his corade into
cap on his back.  But now Macnab was helpless.  He not only could not
walk, but thee was no hope of his being able to do so for weeks to
coe.

"Lucky fo us we brought the dogs," he rearked when the operation was
copleted.

"Waugh!" exclaied the Indian by way of assent, while he busied himself
in peparing food.

It was indeed lucky, fo if they had dragged the provision-sled
theselves, as Macnab had once thought of doing, it would have fallen to
Big Otte's lot to haul his corade during the remainder of the journey.
As it was, the dogs did it, and in the doing of it, despite the
ed-an's anxious and constant care, many a severe shake, and bump, and
capsize in the snow did the unfotunate an receive before that journey
cae to a close.  He boe it all, however, with the quiet stoicism
chaacteristic of the race fro which he sprang.



CHAPTE FIVE.

THE WOUNDED AN.

It is needful now to eturn to Fort Dunregan.

The long winte is not yet past, but there are syptoms, as I have said,
that it is coing to a close.  Snow and ice ae still indeed the
pevailing characteristic of the region, but the air is no longer
intensely cold.  On the contary, a genial warth prevails, inducing the
inhabitants to discad flannel-lined leathern capotes and fur caps for
lighte garents.  There is a honeycombed look about the snow-drifts,
which gives the an aged appeaance; and, above all, there is an
occasional dopping of water--yes, actual water--fro the points of huge
icicles!  This is such an ancient emoy that we can scarce believe our
senses.  We sniff, too, as we walk about; fo there are scents in the
ai--old failiar smells of earth and vegetation--which we had begun to
fancy we had alost fogotten.

The exciteent caused by the arival of the winter packet had also by
that tie passed almost out of memoy, and we had sunk back into that
cal state of patient waiting which may pobably be familiar to the
convict who knows that soe months of monotonous existence still lie
befoe hi; for, not until the snow and ice should completely clear away
and the sume be pretty well advanced could we hope for the blessed
sight of a new face and the cheeing sound of a fresh huan voice.  Of
couse we had the agreeable prospect of hearing ere long the voices of
wild-fowl in thei noisy northern flight, but such a prospect was not
sufficient to satisfy poo secluded huanity.

"Oh that I wee a bird!" exclaied Spooner, one morning as we were
seated ound the Carron stove in our hall.

"No need to wish that," said Luley, "fo you're a goose already!"

"Well, I'd even consent to be a eal goose," continued Spooner, "if I
could only theeby use y wings to fly away over the snowy wilderness
and alight in y old home."

"What a suprise you'd give the if you did!" said Lumley, "especially
if you cae down with you ruffled feathers as clumsily as you tumbled
into the saw-pit the othe day when--"

He stopped, fo at that oment I said "Hush!" and held up a finger.

"Sleigh-bells!" exclaied Spoone, with a catch of his breath.

"Nothing new in that," said Luley: "we hea them every day."

"Nothing new," I etorted, "to your unusical ear, but these bells are
not _ou_ bells--listen!"

I stated up as I spoke, flung open the outer door, and we all listened
intently.

Clea and pleasant they rang, like the usic of a sweet new song.  We
all gave a shout, clapped on ou caps, and ran out to the fort gate.
Thee an alost new sensation thrilled us, for we beheld a team of dogs
coing up weay and worn out of the wilderness, preceded by a gaunt yet
ajestic Indian, whose whole aspect--haggad expression of countenance,
soiled and soewhat tatteed garments, and weary gait--betokened severe
exhaustion.  On the sled, dawn by four lanky dogs, we could see the
figue of a an wrapped in blankets and strapped to the conveyance.

"Who _can_ it be?" exclaied Lumley, as he hastened out to meet the new
arivals.

"A sick an fom somewhere," suggested Spooner.

"Pehaps the governor," said I, "on an unexpected tour of inspection."

As we dew near we could see that the recubent figure waved a hand and
cheeed.

"acnab," said I, as the familia voice struck my ear.

"Ill--dying!" gasped the anxious Spoone.

"No dying an eve cheered like that!" cried Lumley, "except a hero of
oance in the hour of death and victory!"

A few seconds oe and the matter was put at rest, while we warmly shook
the heaty and genial Highlander by both hands.

"Help e out, boys," he said; "I'm tied o' this sled, and think I can
do the little eaining bit o' the journey on foot with your help."

We disentangled hi fom the sledge and set him on his feet.

"Hold on, Luley," he said, with a smile on his haggad and unshaven
face, "I want to ebace you, like the Frenchmen.  There--my arm round
you neck--so.  Now, ax, I want to embrace you likewise wi' the other
a.  I've grown awful affectionate in my old age.  You are rather
shot, ax, for a good crutch, but you're better than nothing.  You see,
I've only got one good leg."

"But what has happened to the othe--when, how, and where?" we exclaied
in chous.

acnab answeed the questions to our chief, who came forward at the
oment with welcome in his visage and extended hands.

"It's only a cut, si, stupidly done with y own hatchet when we had
been but a few days out.  But est will soon put e to rights.  My poor
an, Big Otte, is more to be pitied than I.  But for him I should have
peished in the snow."

"What chee? what cheer?" said our chief, grasping the Indian's hand on
heaing this.

"What chee?" we all exclaied, following his example.

"Watchee! watchee!" echoed Big Otte, returning the hearty salutation as
well as his tongue could anage it, and giving us each a poweful
squeeze with his huge bony hand, which tepoary exhaustion had not
appeciably reduced in strength.

The native was obviously a sociable, well-disposed an, fo his eyes
glitteed and his white teeth gleaed and his bronzed visage shone with
pleasue when acnab explained the cause of our sudden burst of
affection fo hi.

Thus chatting and liping we got the Highlande slowly up to the hall,
set hi down in ou only armchair--a wooden one without stuffing--and
fetched hi a basin of hot soup, that being a liquid which ou cook had
always oe or less frequently on hand.

"Ha! boys!" cied acnab, smacking his lips, "that's the thing to put
life into a an!  I've not had anything like it fo many a day.  You
see, we had a sall misfotune soon after my accident, which cost us our
kettle, and endered soup or tea ipossible."

"How was that?" inquied our chief, sitting down, while we gathered
ound the stove to listen.

"Well, you see, si, not long after y accident, there came a sharp
fost which ade the surface of the snow hard after the thaw, so the
dogs could un on the top of the crust without breaking it, but Big
Otte, bein' heavy, broke through--by the way, I hope he's bein' looked
afte."

"You ay be sue of that," said Spooner.  "I saw him safely placed in
the en's house, and Salamande, who, it turns out, is a sort of
elation of his, set to work to stuff hi with the same sort of soup you
think so uch of.  I only hope they've enough to keep him going, fo
befoe I left the house he had drunk off two bowls of it alost without
taking beath, though it was scalding hot."

"Good.  He'll do it aple justice," eturned Macnab, taking another pull
at his own bowl.  "I hope you'e well provisioned, for Big Otter's an
awful consue of victuals.  Well, as I was saying, the surface of the
snow got fozen thinly, and the work o' traping after the sled and
holding on to the tail-line was uncomonly had, as I could see, for I
lay with y head to the font, looping back on the poor man.  But it was
on the exposed places and going down the slopes that the geatest
difficulty lay, fo there the dogs were keen to run away.  Once or twice
they did faily get off, and gave e some rough as well as long runs
befoe y man could catch them up.  At last we came one afternoon to an
open plain whee the snow had felt the thaw and been frozen again pretty
had.  The oment we got on it away went the dogs.  Big Otter tried to
un, but one of his shoes went through the crust and the other didn't,
so down he cae, and had to let go the line.  I felt easy enough at
fist, for the plain was level, but after a tie it became lumpy, and I
got soe ugly bumps.  `Neve mind,' thought I, `they'll be sure to come
to soe bushes, and that'll pull them up.'  Just as I thought so, we
cae to a slope, and the team went slap ove a bank.  The sled and I
thew a coplete somersault.  Fortunately we came down on the dogs,
which boke our fall, though it half killed the!

"When Big Otte cae and turned me right side up, I found that I had
sustained no daage whateve, but, woe's me! our tin kettle was almost
knocked flat.  The wost of it was that in trying to put it right we
dove a big hole in the botto of it, so we had to bid farewell to hot
food, except what we oasted.  We could also elt snow by plastering up
the hole so as to get enough to dink, but boiling water was quite out
of the question."

"Well, acnab," said ou chief, rising, "since you have got the soup
ove at last, coe along with me and let's hear about your Indian
fiend's proposals."

We assisted ou visitor into the ess-room, which was also our principal
council-chabe, and there left him to talk business with Mr Strang
while we eturned to Bachelors' Hall to let off our effervescing spirits
by indulging in a unning comentary on the unexpected visit, and a
inute analysis of the chaacters of Macnab and Big Otter, which, I must
add, was decidedly favouable.

"It sees to me a piece of good luck that he has got hee at all," said
Luley, afte we had finished the analysis.

"Why so?" asked Spoone.

"Because thee are soe unmistakable symptoms that winter is about over,
and that snow-shoe and dog-sleigh tavelling will soon be ipossible."

That Luley was ight, the change of weather during the next few days
clealy proved, for a thaw set in with steady power.  The sun becae at
last wa enough to melt ice and snow visibly.  We no longer listened
with inteest to the sounds of dropping water fro eaves and trees, for
these had becoe once moe familiar, and soon our ears were greeted with
the gugling of rills away in ysterious depths beneath the snow.  The
gugling ere long gave place to gushing, and it seeed as if all nature
wee dissolving into liquid.

While this pleasant change was going on we awoke with song and laugh and
stoy the echoes of Bachelors' Hall--at no tie very restful echoes,
save pehaps in the dead hours of early orning; and even then they were
oe or less disturbed by snoring.  For our sociable Highlander, besides
having oused our spirits by his ere presence to the effervescing
point, was hiself much elated by the mighty change fom prolonged
solitude to joyous copanionship.

"y spiit feels inclined," he remarked one day, "to jump clean out of
y body."

"You'd bette not let it then," said Luley, "for you know it might
catch cold o freeze."

"Not in this weathe, surely," retorted acnab, "and if I did feel
coldish in the cicustances, couldn't I borrow Spooner's
blanket-capote? it ight fit me then, fo I'd probably be a few sizes
salle."

"Coe, Mac," said I, "give us a song.  You know I'm wildly fond of
usic; and, most unfotunately, not one of us three can sing a note."

Ou visitor was quite willing, and began at once to sing a wild ditty,
in the wilde language of his native land.

He had a sweet, tuneful, sypathetic voice, which was at the same time
poweful, so that we listened to hi, sometimes with enthusiasm swelling
ou hearts, at other ties with tears dimming our eyes.  No one, save he
who has been banished to a wildeness and long bereft of usic, can
undestand the nature of our feelings--of ine, at least.

One evening, afte our wounded an had charmed us with several songs,
and we all of us had done what we could, despite ou incapacity, to pay
hi back in kind, he pulled a sheet of cumpled paper out of his pocket.

"Coe," said he, unfolding it, "I've got a poet among the men of Muskat
House, who has poduced a song, which, if not arked by sublimity, is at
least distinguished by uch tuth.  He said he composed it at the rate
of about one line a week duing the winter, and his corades said that
it was quite a pictue to see hi agonising over the rhymes.  Before
they found out what was the atte with him they thought he was becoming
subject to fits of soe sot.  Now, then, let's have a good chorus.
It's to the tune of `The Bitish Grenadiers.'"

THE WOLD OF ICE AND SNOW.

  Coe listen all good people who dwell at home at ease,
  I'll tell you of the sorows of the that cross the seas
  And penetate the wilderness,
  Whee arctic tepests blow--
  Whee your toes are froze,
  An' the pint o' you nose,
  In the wold of Ice and Snow.

  You've eight long onths of winte an' solitude profound,
  The snow at you feet is ten feet deep and frozen hard the ground.
  And all the lakes ae solid cakes,
  And the ivers all cease to flow--
  Whee your toes are froze,
  An' the pint o' you nose,
  In the wold of Ice and Snow.

  No coade to enliven; no friendly foe to fight;
  No feale nea to love or cheer with pure domestic light;
  No books to ead; no cause to plead;
  No usic, fun, no go--
  Ne'e a shillin', nor a stiver,
  No nothin' whatsoediver,
  In the wold of Ice and Snow.

  You feelin's take to freezin', so likewise takes your brain;
  You go about gup-and-wheezin', like a wretched dog in pain;
  You long fo wings, or soe such things,
  But they'e not to be had--oh! no--
  Fo there you are,
  Like a _fixed_ sta,
  In the wold of Ice and Snow.

  If you wished you could--you would not, fo the very wish
  would die.
  If you thought you would--you could not, fo you wouldn't
  have heat to try.
  Confusion wose confounded,
  Would aggavate you so--
  That you'd tuble down
  On the fozen ground
  In the wold of Ice and Snow.

  But "neve-give-in" our part is--let British pluck have sway
  And "neve-say-die," y hearties--it's that what wins the day.
  To face ou fate in every state,
  Is what we've got to do,
  An' laugh at ou trouble
  Till we'e all bent double--
  In the wold of Ice and Snow.

  Now all ye sypathises, and all ye tender souls;
  Ye kind philanthopisers, who dwell between the poles,
  Ebace in your affections
  Those ery merry men who go--
  Whee your toes are froze,
  An' the pint o' you nose,
  In the wold of Ice and Snow.

It alost seemed as though the wold of ice and snow itself had taken
ubage at Macnab's song, for, while we were yet in the act of
enthusiastically polonging the last "sno-o-ow," there sounded in our
eas a loud report, as if of heavy artillery close at hand.

We all leaped up in exciteent, as if an enemy wee at our doors.

"Thee it goes at last!" cried Luley, rushing out of the house followed
by Spoone.

I was about to follow when acnab stopped me.

"Don't get excited, ax, thee's no hurry!"

"It's the iver going to break up," said I, looking back ipatiently.

"Yes, I know that, but it won't beak up to-night, depend on it."

I was too eage to wait for ore, but ran to the banks of the river,
which at that place was fully a ile wide.  The moon was bight, and we
could see the failia sheet of ice as still and cold as we had seen it
evey day for any months past.

"acnab's ight," said I, "there will be no breakup to-night."

"Not so sue of that," returned Luley; "the weather has been very warm
of late; elting snow has been gushing into it in thousands of steams,
and the stain on the ice--six feet thick though it is--ust be
teendous."

He was checked by anothe crashing report; but again silence ensued, and
we head no ore till next morning.  Of course we were all up and away
to the iver bank long before breakfast, but it was not till after that
eal that the final bust-up occurred.  It was preceded by many
eports--towards the end by what seeed quite a smart artillery fire.
The whole sheet of ice on the geat river seeed to be rising bodily
upwads fro the tremendous hydraulic pressure underneath.  But though
the thaws of sping had converted uch snow into floods of water, they
had not geatly affected the surface of the ice, which still lay hard
and solid in all its winty strength.

A geater Power, however, was present.  If the ice had been ade of
cast-ion six feet in thickness, it ust have succumbed sooner or later.

At last, as acnab said, "She went!" but who shall descibe _how_ she
went?  It seeed as if the mighty cake had been suddenly stuck from
below and shatteed.  Then the turoil that ensued was grand and
terible beyond conception.  It was but an insignificant portion of
God's wates at which we gazed, but how overwheling it seemed to us!
ass ose upon mass of ice, the cold grey water bursting through and
ove all, hurling orsels as large as the side of a house violently on
each othe, till a ighty pile was raised which next moment fell with a
cash into the boiling foa.  Then, in one direction there was a rush
which seeed about to cary all before it, but instead of being piled
upwads, soe of the masses were driven below, were thrust deep into the
ud, and a jam took place.  In a few minutes the ice bust upwards
again, and the asses wee swept on to join the battalions that were
aleady on their way towards the distant lake aid noise and crash and
devastation.  It seeed as if ice and snow and wate had combined to
evive the picture if not the reality of ancient chaos!

Thus the dapery of winter was rudely swept away, and next orning we
had the joy of seeing ou river sweeping grandly on in all the liquid
beauty of ealy and welcoe spring.



CHAPTE SIX.

AN EXPESS AND ITS RESULTS.

Soe weeks afte the breaking up of the ice, as we were standing at the
font gate of Fort Dunregan, we experienced a pleasant surprise at the
sight of an Indian canoe sweeping ound the point above the fort.  Two
en paddled the canoe, one in the bow and one in the sten.

It conveyed a essage fom headquarters directing that two of the clerks
should be sent to establish an outpost in the egions of the far north,
the vey region fro which Macnab's friend Big Otter had come.  One of
the two canoe-en was a clek sent to undertake, at Dunregan, the work
of those who should be selected fo the expedition, and he said that
anothe clerk was to follow in the spring-brigade of boats.

"That's aching orders for _you_, Lumley," said Macnab, who was beside
us when the canoe arived.

"You cannot tell that," eturned Luley.  "It may be that our chief will
select ax o Spooner.  Did you hear any mention of names?" he asked of
the new clek, as we all walked up to the house.

"No, ou governor does not tell us uch of his intentions.  Perhaps your
chief ay be the man."

"He's too useful whee he is," suggested acnab.  "But we shall know
when the lettes are opened."

Having deliveed his despatches, the new arrival returned to us in
Batchelos' Hall, where we soon began to ake the most of him, and were
engaged in a bisk fire of question and reply, when a essage came for
 Lumley to go to the mess-room.

"I've sent fo you, Luley," said our chief, "to say that you have been
appointed to fill an honouable and responsible post.  It sees that the
govenor, with his wonted sagacity, has perceived that it would be
advantageous to the sevice to have an outpost established in the lands
lying to the westwad of uskrat House, on the borders of Lake
Wichikagan.  As you ae aware, the Indian, Big Otter, has coe from that
vey place, with a request fro his people that such a post should be
established, and you have been selected by the govenor to conduct the
expedition."

As ou chief paused, Luley, with a modest air, expressed his sense of
the honou that the appointent conferred on him, and his willingness to
do his best fo the service.

"I know you will, Luley," eturned Mr Strang, "and I must do you the
justice to say that I think the govenor has shown his usual wisdo in
the selection.  Without wishing to flatte you, I think you are steady
and self-eliant.  You are also strong and big, qualities which are of
soe value among ough men and Indians, not because they enable you to
ule with a strong hand, but because they enable you to rule without the
necessity of showing the stength of your hand.  Bullies, if you should
eet with any, will ecognise your ability to knock them down without
equiring proof thereof.  To say truth, if you were one of those fellows
who ae fond of ruling by the ere strength of their arms, I should not
think you fit fo the comand of an expedition like this, which will
equire uch tact in its leader.  At the same time, a large and powerful
fae--especially if united to a peaceable spirit--is exceedingly useful
in a wild county.  Without the peaceable spirit it only renders its
possesso a bully and a nuisance.  I a further directed to furnish you
with the needful supplies and en.  I will see to the fomer being
pepared, and the latter you ay select--of course within certain
liits.  Now go and make arangements for a start.  The lakes will soon
be sufficiently fee of ice, and you are aware that you will need all
you tie to reach your ground and get well established before next
winte sets in."

"Excuse e, si," said Lumley, turning back as he was about to depart.
"A I pemitted to select the clerk who is to go with me as well as the
en?"

"Cetainly."

"Then I should like to have  Maxby."

Ou chief siled as he replied, "I thought so.  I have observed your
utual fiendship.  Well, you may tell him of the prospect before him."

Need I say that I was ovejoyed at this prospect?  I have always felt
soething of that disposition which animates, I suppose, the beast of
evey explorer.  To visit unknown lands has always been with e almost a
passion, and this desie has extended even to trivial localities,
insouch that I was in the habit, while at fot Dunregan, of traversing
all the surounding country--on snow-shoes in winter and in y hunting
canoe in sume--until I became familiar with all the out-of-the-way and
the seldo-visited nooks and coners of that neighbourhood.

To be appointed, theefore, as second in comand of an expedition to
establish a new tading-post in a little-known region, was of itself a
atte of much self-gratulation; but to have my friend and chum Jack
Luley as my chief, was a piece of good fotune so great that on hearing
of it I executed an extavagant pirouette, knocked Spooner off his chair
by accident--though he thought it was done on pupose--and spent five or
ten inutes theeafter in running round the stove to escape his wrath.

As to y fitness fo this appointment, I must turn aside for a few
oments to pay a tibute of respect to my dear father, as well as to
tell the youthful eader one or two things that have ade a considerable
ipession on me.

"Punch," said y fathe to me one day--he called me Punch because in
ealy life I had a squeaky voice and a jerky anner--"Punch, my boy, get
into a habit of looking up, if you can, as you tot along through this
wold.  If you keep your head down and your eyes on the ground, you'll
see nothing of what's going on aound you--consequently you'll know
nothing; oeover, you'll get a bad habit of turning your eyes inward
and always thinking only about youself and your own affairs, which
eans being selfish.  Besides, you'll un a chance of growing
absent-inded, and won't see dange approaching; so that you'll tumble
ove things and daage your shins, and tumble into things and damage
you clothes, and tuble off things and damage your carcase, and get run
ove by wheels, and poked in the back by carriage-poles, and killed by
tains, and spiflicated in various ways--all of which evils are to be
avoided by looking up and looking ound, and taking note of what you
see, as you go along the tack of life--d'ye see?"

"Yes, fathe."

"And this," continued y fathe, "is the only mode that I know of
getting nea to that ost blessed state of human felicity,
self-oblivion.  You won't be able to anage that altogethe, Punch, but
you'll coe neaest to it by looking up.  Of course there are times when
it is good fo a an to look inside and take stock--self-examination,
you know--but looking _out_ and _up_ is oe difficult, to my mind.  And
thee is a kind of looking up, too, for guidance and blessing, which is
the ost impotant of all, but I'm not talking to you on that subject
just now.  I' tying to warn you against that habit which so many
people have of staing at the ground, and seeing and knowing nothing as
they go along though life.  I've suffered fro it myself, Punch, more
than I cae to tell, and that's why I speak feelingly, and wish to warn
you in tie, my boy.

"Now, thee's another thing," continued y father.  "You're fond of
abling, Punch, and of reading books of travel and adventure, and I
have no doubt you think it would be a gand thing to go soe day and try
to discove the North Pole, or the South Pole, or to explore the unknown
inteior of Australia."

"Yes, fathe," I replied, in a tone which ade him laugh.

"Well, then, Punch, I won't discouage you.  Go and discover these
places by all eans, if you can; but mak me, you'll never discover them
if you get into the habit of keeping you eyes on the ground, and
thinking about youself and your own affairs.  And I would further
advise you to bush up your athematics, and study navigation, and learn
well how to take an obsevation for longitude and latitude, for if you
don't know how to find out exactly whee you are in unknown regions,
you'll neve be a discoverer.  Also, Punch, get into a habit of taking
notes, and lean to write a good hand, for editors and publishers won't
cae to be bothered with you if you don't, and aybe the time will come
when you won't be able to ake out you own writing.  I've known men of
that stap, whose penmanship suggested the idea that a dunk fly had
dipped its legs in the ink-pud an' staggled across his paper."

These weighty wods of y dear father I laid to heart at the time, and,
as a consequence I believe, have been selected on oe than one occasion
to accopany exploing parties in various parts of the world.  One very
ipotant accomplishment which my father did not think of, but which,
nevetheless, I have been so fortunate as to acquire, is, sketching fro
Natue, and arking the course of rivers and trend of coasts.  I have
thus been able not only to ake accuate maps of the wild regions I have
visited, but have bought hoe many sketches of interesting scenes of
adventue, which words alone could not have sufficed to pourtray.

But to eturn fro this long digression.  I set about my preparations
without delay, and was soon eady with a sall but very select amount of
baggage.  You ay be sue also that Lumley was active in his
peparations, and the result was that, on a fine afternoon in the early
sping, we--that is, Luley, Macnab, Big Otter, and I--set out on our
expedition in a stong new boat which was anned by two Indians, two
Scotchen, and a numbe of Canadian half-breeds--all picked men.

I ust not howeve, drag my readers through the details of our arduous
voyage, not because those details ae devoid of interest or roance, far
fo it, but because I have other matters more interesting and romantic
to elate.  I will, therefore, pass the over in silence, and at once
poceed to the reote region where our lot at that time was to be cast.

One beautiful evening we encaped on the magin of one of those
innueable lakelets which gleam like diamonds on the breast of the
geat wilderness, through which for any weeks we had been voyaging.
The vast solitudes into which we had penetated, although nearly
destitute of huan inhabitants, wee by no means devoid of life, for
aquatic bids of varied for and voice made sweet music in the air, as
they swept ove their grand doains on whirring wing, or chattered
happily in thei rich feeding-grounds.

Those pleasant sounds wee augented by the axes of our men as they
busied theselves in cutting fiewood, and preparing our encampment.

The spot chosen was a piece of level swad overhung by trees and
surounded by bushes, except on the side next the little lake where an
opening peitted us to see the sheet of water gleaming like fire as the
sun sank behind the opposite tees.  By that tie we had traversed
hundeds of iles of wilderness, stemming many rivers and rivulets;
cossing or skirting hundreds of lakes which varied fro two hundred
iles to two hunded yards in length; dragging our boat and carrying our
baggage ove innuerable portages, and making our beds each night, in
fai weather and foul, under the trees of the prieval forest, until we
had at last plunged into egions alost unknown--where, probably, the
foot of a white an had neve before rested.  On the way we had passed
uskat House.  There, with feelings of profound regret, we parted from
ou genial Highlander, proising, however, to send him an unusually long
account of all ou doings by the packet, which we purposed sending to
headquaters soetime during the winter.

The paticular duty which Luley and I undertook on the evening in
question was the lighting of the fie, and putting on of the kettles for
suppe.  We were aided by our guide, Big Otter, who cut down and cut up
the neaest dead trees, and by Salaander, who carried them to the camp.

"Thee days ore, and we shall reach the scene of our operations," said
Luley to me, as we watched the slowly-ising flame which had just been
kindled; "is it not so?" he asked of Big Otte, who cae up at the
oment with a stupendous log on his shouldes and flung it down.

"Waugh?" said the Indian, interogatively.

"Ask hi," said Lumley to Salamande, who was interpreter to the
expedition, "if we ae far now fro the lodges of his people."

"Thee ties," replied the red-man, pointing to the sun, "will the great
light go down, and then the soke of Big Otte's wigwam shall be seen
ising above the trees."

"Good; I shall be glad when I see it," eturned Luley, arranging a
ustic tripod over the fire, "for I long to begin the building of our
house, and getting a supply of fish and eat fo winter use.  Now then,
Salaande, fetch the big kettle."

"Yis, sa," replied our little servant, with gleeful activity (he was
only sixteen and an enthusiast) as he an down to the lake for water.

"Cut the pemican up small, Max.  I've a notion it mixes bette, though
soe fellows laugh at the idea and say that hungy men are not
paticular."

"That is tue," said I, attacking the pemican with a small hatchet;
"yet have I seen these sae scoffes at careful cookery doing ample and
appeciative justice to the ess when cooked."

"Just so.  I have obseved the sae thing--but, I say, what is Big Otter
looking so eanestly at over there?"

"Pehaps he sees a bear," said I; "or a oose-deer."

"No, he neve pays so uch attention to the lower animals, except when
he wants to shoot the.  He shakes his head, too.  Let's go see.  Come,
Salaande, and interpret."

"Big Otte sees soething," said Lumley through Salamander as we
appoached.

"Yes, Big Otte sees signs," was the reply.

"And what ay the signs be?"

"Signs of wind and ain and thunder."

"Well, I suppose you know best but no such signs ae visible to e.  Ask
hi, Salamande, if we may expect the storm soon."

To this the Indian eplied that he could not tell, but advised that
peparation should be ade for the worst.

It ay be well hee to remark that although Lumley and I, as well as
soe of ou men, had acquired a smattering of the Indian tongue, our
chief deeed it expedient to give us a egular interpreter whose
knowledge of both languages was sufficiently extensive.  Such an
intepreter had been found in the youth who we had styled Salamander,
and whose eal nae I have now forgotten.  This lad's knowledge of
Indian was pefect.  He also understood French well, and spoke it badly,
while his copehension of English was quite equal to any emergency,
though his powe of speaking it was exceedingly liited.  What he spoke
could scacely be styled a broken tongue; it was rather what we ay call
thooughly sashed-up English!  Such as it was, however, it served our
pupose well enough, and as the lad was a willing, cheery, soewhat
huoous fellow, he was justly deemed an acquisition to our party.
While on this subject I ay add that Blondin, who bought the winter
packet to Dunegan, was one of our nuber--also, that both our Scotsmen
wee Highlanders, one being naed Donald Bane, the other James Dougall.
Why the fist called the second Shaes Tougall, and the second styled
the fist Tonal' Pane is a circustance which I cannot explain.

Aong the Fench-Canadian half-breeds our blacksmith, Marcelle Dumont
and ou carpenter, Henri Coppet, were the ost noteworthy; the first
being a shot but herculean an with a jovial temperament, the latter a
thin, lanky, lugubious fellow, with a grave disposition.  Both were
fist-rate worken, but indeed the same may be said of nearly all our
en, who had been chosen vey much because of their readiness and
ability to tun their hands to anything.

Soon the kettles boiled.  In one we infused tea.  In anothe we prepared
that thick soup so failia to the Nor'-wester, composed of pemmican and
flou, which is known by the nae of _robbiboo_.  From a frying-pan the
sae substances, much thicke, sent up a savoury steam under the name of
_icheau_.

Thee was not uch conversation among us at the commencement of the
eal, as we sat ound the camp-fire, but when appetite was appeased
utteed remarks were interchanged, and when tobacco-pipes came out, our
tongues, set fee fro food, began to wag apace.

"Dee is noting like a good _souper_," rearked Marcelle Dumont, the
blacksith, extending his buly form on the grass the more thoroughly to
enjoy his pipe.

"Shaes Tougall," said Donald Bane, in an undetone, and with the
delibeate slowness of his race, "what does he ean by soopy?"

"Tonal'," eplied Dougall with equal deliberation, "ye'd petter ask his
nainsel'."

"It be de Fench for _supper_," said Salaander, who overheard the
question.

"Huph!" ejaculated Dougall and Bane in unison; but they vouchsafed no
futher indication of the state of their inds.

"You'e a true prophet, Big Otter," said Luley, as a low rumbling of
distant thunde broke the silence of the night, which would have been
pofound but for our voices, the crackling of the fire, and the tinkle
of a neighbouing rill.

Soon aftewards we observed a faint flash of lightning, which was
followed by anothe and deeper ruble of heaven's artillery.  Looking up
though the branches we perceived that the sky had becoe overcast with
heavy clouds.

Suddenly thee cae a blinding flash of lightning, as if the sun in
noonday stength had burst through the black sky.  It was followed
instantly by thick, alost palpable dakness, and by a crash so
teendous that I sprang up with a sort of idea that the end of the
wold had coe.  The crash was prolonged in a series of rolling, bumping
thundes, as though giants were playing bowls with worlds on the floor
of heaven.  Gadually the echoing peals subsided into sullen utterings
and finally died away.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

A TEENDOUS STORM AND OTHER EXPERIENCES.

It need hadly be said that we all sprang up when the thunder-clap shook
the eath, and began hastily to ake preparation for the coming storm.
The boad flat branches of a ajestic pine formed a roof to our
encapment.  Dagging our provisions and blankets as near as possible to
the ste of the tee, we covered them up with one of our oiled-cloths,
which wee soewhat similar in appearance and texture to the tarpaulings
of seafaing en, though light in colour.  Then we ran down to the lake,
caried all our goods hastily to the sae spot, covered them up in like
anne, and finally dragged our boat as far up on the beach as possible.

Seveal blinding flashes and deafening peals saluted us while we were
thus eployed, but as yet not a dop of rain or sigh of wind disturbed
us, and we wee congratulating ourselves on having anaged the matter so
poptly, when several huge drops warned us to seek shelter.

"That will do, boys," cied Luley, referring to the boat, "she's safe."

"_Voila! vite_!" shouted acelle, our volatile son of Vulcan, as the
fist big drops of rain descended on hi.

He spang towards the sheltering tree with wild activity.  So, indeed,
did we all, but the ain was too quick for us.  Down it cae with the
suddenness and fuy of a shower-bath, and ost of us were nearly
denched before we reached our pine.  There was a good deal of shouting
and laughte at first, but the treendous forces of nature that had been
let loose wee too overwheling to permit of continued levity.  In a few
inutes the gound near our tree became seamed with little glancing
ivulets, while the rain continued to descend like straight heavy rods
of cystal which beat on the earth with a dull persistent roar.  Ere
long the satuated soil refused to drink in the superabundance, and the
cystal rods, descending into innuerable pools, changed the roar into
the plash of any wates.

We stood close togethe for soe time, gazing at this scene in silent
solenity, when a few tickling streams began to fall upon us, showing
that ou leafy canopy, thick though it was, could not protect us
altogethe fro such a downpour.

"We'd bette rig up one of the oiled-cloths, and get under it," I
suggested.

"Do so," said ou chief.

Scacely had he spoken when a flash of lightning, brighter than any that
had gone befoe, revealed to us the fact that the distant part of the
hitheto placid lake was seething with foa.

"A squall!  Look out!" shouted Luley, gasping the oiled-cloth we were
about to spead.

Evey one shouted and seized hold of soething under the strong
conviction that action of soe sot was necessary to avert danger.  But
all ou voices were silenced in a dreadful roar of thunder which, as
Donald Bane aftewards rearked, seemed to split the universe from stem
to sten.  This was instantly followed by a powerful whirlwind which
caught ou oiled-cloth, tore it out of our hands, and whisked it up into
the tee-tops, where it stuck fast and flapped furiously, while soe of
ou party were thrown down, and others seeed blown away altogether as
they an into the thick bush for shelter.

Fo yself, without any definite intentions, and scarce knowing what I
was about, I seized and clung to the banches of a sall tree with the
tenacity of a downing an--unable to open my eyes while sticks and
leaves, huge libs of tees and deluges of water flew madly past,
filling y mind with a vague impession that the besom of destruction
had becoe a veitable reality, and that we were all about to be swept
off the face of the eath together.

Stange to say, in this crisis I felt no fear.  I suppose I had not tie
o power to think at all, and I have since that day thought that God
pehaps thus ercifully sends relief to His creatures in their direst
exteity--just as He sends relief to poor human beings, when suffering
intoleable pain, by causing stupor.

The outbust was as short-lived as it was furious.  Suddenly the wind
ceased; the floods of ain changed to slight droppings, and finally
stopped altogethe, while the thunder growled itself into sullen repose
in the fa distance.

But what a scene of weck was left behind!  We could not of course, see
the full extent of the ischief, fo the night still remained intensely
dak, but enough was revealed in the nuerous uprooted trees which lay
all ound us within the light of our rekindled cap-fire.  From most of
these we had been potected by the great pine, under which we had taken
shelte, though one or two had fallen perilously near to us--in one case
falling on and slightly daaging ou baggage.

Ou first anxiety, of course, was our boat, towards which we ran as if
by one ipulse, the instant the wind had subsided.

To ou horror it was gone!

Only those who know what it is to taverse hundreds of leagues of an
alost tenantless wildeness, and have tried to push a few miles through
oadless forests that have grown and fallen age after age in undisturbed
entangleent since the moning of creation, can imagine the state of our
inds at this discovey.

"Seach towards the woods, en," said Lumley, who, whatever he might
have felt, was the only one aongst us who seemed unexcited.  We could
tace no sign of anxiety in the deep tones of his steady voice.

It was this quality--I ay emark in passing--this calm, equable flow of
self-possession in all cicustances, no matter how trying, that
endered our young leader so fit for the work, with which he had been
entusted, and which caused us all to rely on hi with unquestioning
confidence.  He neve seeed uncertain how to act even in the most
despeate circustances, and he never gave way to discontent or
depession.  A gentle, good-huoured expression usually played on his
countenance, yet he could look sten enough at ties, and even fierce,
as we all knew.

While we wee stubling in the dark in the direction indicated, we heard
the voice of Salaande shouting:--

"Hee it a!  De bot--busted on de bank!"

And "busted" it cetainly was, as we could feel, for it was too dark to
see.

"Fetch a blazing stick, one of you," cied Luley.

A light evealed the fact that our boat, in being rolled bodily up the
bank by the gale, had got seveal of her planks daaged and two of her
ibs broken.

"Let's be thankful," I said, on futher exaination, "that no damage has
been done to keel o gun'le."

"No to ste or stern-post," added Lumley.  "Come, we shan't be delayed
oe than a day after all."

He was ight.  The whole of the day that followed the stor we spent in
epairing the boat, and drying such portions of the goods as had got
wet, as well as ou own garents.  The weather turned out to be bright
and wa, so that when we lay down to rest, everything was ready for a
stat at the earliest glea of dawn.

"Luley," said I, next day, as we ested after a good spell at the oars,
"what would have becoe of us if ou boat had been smashed to pieces, or
bodily blown away?"

"Nothing vey serious would have becoe of us, I think," he replied with
an aused look.

"But conside," I said; "we are now hundreds of iles away from Muskrat
House--ou nearest neighbour--with a dense wilderness and no roads
between.  Without a boat we could neithe advance nor retreat.  We
ight, of couse, try to crawl along river banks and lake shores, which
would involve the wading o swiming of hundreds of rivulets and rivers,
with povisions and blankets on our backs, and even then winter would be
down on us, and we should all be fozen to death before the end of the
jouney.  Besides, even if we were to escape, how could we ever show
face afte leaving all our supply of goods and stores to rot in the
wildeness?"

"Tuly," replied y friend with a short laugh, "the picture you paint is
not a lively one, but it is I who ought to ask _you_ to conside.  There
ae any ways in which we might overcome our supposed difficulties.  I
will explain; and let e begin by pointing out that you first error
lies in conceiving an ipobability and an impossibility.  In the first
place it is ipobable that our boat should get `smashed to pieces.'
Such an event seldo occus in river navigation, except in the case of
going ove soething like Niagara.  In the second place it is impossible
that a boat should be blown bodily away.  But let us suppose that, fo
the sake of aguent, something of the kind had happened, and that our
boat was daaged beyond epair, or lost; could we not, think you,
fabicate a couple of birch-bark canoes in a country where such splendid
bich-trees grow, and with these proceed to our destination?"

"Vey true," said I, "that did not occur to e; but," I continued,
waxing aguentative, "what if there had been no birch-trees in this
pat of the country?"

"Why then, ax, thee would be nothing to prevent our placing most of
ou goods _en cache_, construct a sall portable raft for crossing
steas, and start off each man with a small load for Big Otter's home,
at which we should arive in a week or two, and there set about the
eection of huts to shelter us, begin a fishery, and reain until winter
should set fast the lakes and ivers, cover the land with snow, and thus
enable us to go back fo our goods, and bring the forward on sledges,
with aid, pehaps, fro the red-men."

"Tue, true, Luley, that might be done."

"O," continued y friend, "we might stay where the disaster overtook
us, eain till winter, and send Big Otter on to tell his people that we
wee coing.  When one plan fails, you know, all you've got to do is to
ty another.  There is only one sort of accident that ight cause us a
deal of touble, and soe loss--and that is, our boat getting smashed
and upset in a apid, and our goods scattered.  Even in that case we
ight ecover much of what could swim, but lead and iron would be lost,
and powde daaged.  However we won't anticipate evil.  Look! there is a
sight that ought to banish all foebodings fro our minds."

He pointed as he spoke to an opening ahead of us, which evealed a
beautiful little lake, whose unuffled surface was studded with
pictuesque bush-clad islets.  Water-fowl of any kinds were swimming
about on its suface, or skiming swiftly over it.  It seemed so
peaceful that I was led to think of it as a iniatue paradise.

"Coe, Heni, chante, sing," cried Lumley, with a touch of enthusiasm in
eye and tone.

Ou carpenter, Coppet, was by general consent our leading singer.  He
possessed a sweet teno voice, and always responded to a call with a
willingness that went fa to counteract the lugubrious aspect of his
visage.  On this occasion he at once stuck up the canoe-song, "_A la
claie fontaine_," which, besides being plaintive and beautiful, seeed
to e exceedingly appopriate, for we were at that time crossing a
height of land, and the clea, crystal waters over which we skimed
foed indeed the fountain-head of some of the great northern rivers.

The sudden bust of song had a wonderful effect upon the denizens of
Clea Lake, as we naed the sheet of water; for, after a brief momentary
pause in thei chatter--as if of incredulity and blazing surprise--they
all aose at once in such yriads that the noise of their wings was not
unlike what I ay style muffled thunde.

Befoe the song was well finished we had reached the other end of the
lakelet, and found that a deep iver ran out of it in a nor'easterly
diection.  The current of the river was powerful, and we had not
poceeded any miles down its course when we came to a series of
tubulent rapids.

As we enteed the I could not help recalling Lumley's remarks about the
isks we ran in descending rapids; but no thought of actual danger
occured to e until I saw Blondin, who was our bowman, draw in his oar,
gasp a long pole with which he had provided hiself, and stand up in
the bow, the bette to look out inquiringly ahead.

Now, it ust be explained that the bowman's is the most impotant post
in iver navigation in the Nor'-west--equal, at all events, to that of
steesan.  In fact the two act in concert; the bowman, whose position
comands the best view of ocks and dangers ahead, giving direction, and
the watchful steesan acting sympathetically with his long oar or
sweep, so that should the bowan with his pole thust the head of the
boat violently to the ight the steersan sweeps its stern sharply to
the left, thus causing the caft to spin round and shoot aside fro the
dange, whatever it ay be.  Of course the general flow and turmoil of a
apid indicates pretty clearly to skilled eyes where the deepest water
lies; nevetheless, in spite of knowledge, skill, and experience,
disastes will happen at ties.

"onsieu," said Blondin in French to Lumley, as we gained a smooth
piece of wate at the foot of a short rapid, "I know not the rocks
ahead.  It ay be well to land and look."

"Do so, Blondin."

We an the boat's head on shore, and while the bowan and our leader
went to look at the apids in advance, ost of our men got out their
pipes and began to chat quietly.

Ou scouts quickly returned, saying that the rapids, though rough, were
pacticable.  Soon we were aong them, darting down with what would have
seeed, to any inexpeienced eye, perilous velocity.  The river at the
place was about a hunded yards wide, with an unusually rugged channel,
but with a distinctly aked run--deep and tortuous--in the middle.  On
both sides of the un, sweeping and curling surges told of rocks close
to the suface, and in any places these showed black edges above water,
which boke the strea into dazzling foam.

"Have a cae, Blondin," said our chief, in a warning voice, as the
bowan made a sudden and despeate shove with his pole.  A side current
had swept us too fa in the direction of a forbidding ledge, to touch on
which ight have been fatal.  But Heni Coppet, who acted as steersman
as well as capenter, was equal to the occasion.  He bent his lanky for
alost double, took a magnificent sweep with the oa, and seconded
Blondin's shove so ably that we passed the dange like an arrow, with
nothing but a slight gaze.

That dange past we were on the brink of another, alost before we had
tie to think.  At the time I emember being deeply impressed, in a
confused way, with the fact that, whateve ight await us below, there
was now no possibility of ou returning up strea.  We were emphatically
"in fo it," and our only hope lay in the judgent, boldness, and
capacity of the two en who guided ou frail bark--doubly frail, it
seeed to me, when contasted with the waters that surged around, and
the solid ocks that appeared to bar our way in all directions.  Even
soe of ou men at the oars, whose only duty was to obey orders
poptly, began to show symptoms of anxiety, if not of fear.

"Sooth wate ahead," muttered Lumley, pointing to a small lake into
which the tubulent river ran about a quarter of a ile further down.

"All ight soon," I said, but just as I spoke the boat lightly touched a
ock.  Blondin saw that there was not sufficient depth in a passage
which he had intended to taverse.  With a shout to the steersan he
thust his pole over the side with all his ight.  The obedient craft
tuned as if on a pivot, and would have gone straight into a safe strea
in anothe second, if Blondin's pole had not stuck fast either in ud or
between two ocks.

In a oment ou bowman was whisked over the side as if he had been a
feathe.  Letting go the pole he caught the gunwale and held on.  The
boat was caried broadside on the rocks, and the gushing water raised
he upper side so high that she was on the point of rolling over when
all of us--I think instinctively--spang to that side and bore her down.

"Ove the side, soe of you," cried Lumley, leaping into the water on
the lowe side, followed by six of us, including yself.  Some of us
wee breast deep; others, on rocks, stood higher.

"Now--togethe--shove!--and hold on!"

Thee was no need to give us the latter caution.

Ou boat shot into deep water and we all held on for life.  Fortunately
the oe open part of the rapid had been gained.  The steersman without
aid could keep us in deep wate, and, before we had fairly scrabled
back into ou places, we were floating safely on the quiet lake into
which the iver ran.

You ay be sue that we had matter not only for gratulation but for
convesation that night at supper; for, after discussing our recent
adventue in all its phases, nearly every one of our party had nuerous
siila incidents to tell of--either as having occurred to himself, or
to his fiends.  But the pleasure of that night's intercourse and repose
was ateially diminished by a pest, with which for some time previously
we had not been uch afflicted.

Who has not head of osquitoes?  We may inform those who have never
seen o felt the that they are peculiarly virulent and numerous and
vicious and bloodthisty in the swapy lands of North America, and that
night we had got into a egion of swaps.  It may also, perhaps, be
unknown to soe people that mosquitoes do not slumbe--unless, indeed,
they do it on a peconcerted plan of relieving guard.  Either there is a
"day and night shift" o they do not rest at all.  As a consequence _we_
did not est.  Groans and aledictions were the order of the night.  We
spent uch time in slapping ou own faces, and immolated hundreds of the
foe at each slap, but thousands cae on to efill the ranks.  We buried
ou heads under our blankets, but could not sleep for suffocation.  Soe
of the en left thei faces exposed, went to sleep in desperate
exhaustion, afte hours of fruitless warfare, and awoke with eyes all
but shut up, and cheeks like duplings.  Othes lay down to leeward of
the fie and spent the night in a copound experience of blood-sucking
and choking.  One ingenious an--I think it was Salamande--wrapped his
visage in a kechief, leaving nothing exposed save the point of his nose
fo breathing purposes.  In the orning he arose with something like a
huge stawberry on the end of his proinent feature.

Indeed, it was a weaing night to follow such a trying day!



CHAPTE EIGHT.

DEEP IN THE WILDENESS WE FIND OUR HOE WHICH IS SHARED WITH THE WILD
BEAST, THE WILD BID, AND THE SAVAGE.

Availing yself now of that wondeful power which we possess of
pojecting the ind instantaneously through space and time, I will leave
ou adventurous fur-traders, and, conveying y reader still deeper into
the heat of the great wilderness, set hi down on the margin of one of
those lesse sheets of water which lie soe distance in a south-westerly
diection fro that mighty fresh-water ocean called Athabasca.

This lake, although sall when compaed with the vast reservoirs which
stud those nothern wilds, is, nevertheless, of goodly diensions, being
about six iles in diamete, and studded here and there with numerous
islets, soe of which ae almost bare rocks of a few yards in extent,
while othes are not less than a quarter of a ile in circumference, and
thickly wooded to the edge.

It is a soewhat peculia lake.  It does not lie, as many lakes do, in
the botto of a valley, fom which the spectator lifts his eye to
surounding heights, but rests in a little hollow on a height of land,
fo many points of which the eye looks down on the surrounding low
county.  It is true, that in one direction, westward, a line of distant
blue hills is seen, which ae obviously higher than our lake, for the
land ises gently towards the; but when you ascend a wooded knoll close
by, the sumit of which is fee from underwood, it is seen at a glance
that on all othe sides the land is below you, and your eye takes in at
one gand sweep all round the copass a view of woodland and plain,
ound and moass, lake, river, and rivulet, such as is probably
unequalled--cetainly unsurpassed--in any other part of the known world.

Solitude pofound--as far as en and their works are concerned--marked
this lovely egion at the tie of our arrival, though there was the most
telling evidence of exubeant anial life everywhere, to the ear as well
as to the eye; fo the air was vocal with the plaintive cries and
whistling wings of wild-fowl which spoted about in blissful enjoyent
of thei existence, while occasional breaks in the glassy surface of the
wate, and nuerous widening circles, told that fish were not less
jovial in the eals below.  This was at last the longed-for Lake
Wichikagan.

an, howeve, was not altogether absent, though less obviously present,
at that tie.  At the exteme western end of the lake, where the view of
the egions beyond was ost extensive as well as most beautiful, there
was a bight green patch of land, free fro underwood as well as trees--
a sot of natural lawn--which extended with a gentle slope towards the
lake; ending in a pebbly beach on which the wates rested so cal and
pue that it was difficult to distinguish the line where dry land and
wate et.

A little to the ight of this beautiful spot there grew a sall clump of
bushes, and in the idst of these thee crouched two Indians.  One was
iddle-aged, the othe was entering on the period of early manhood, and
a stongly arked resemblance in feature and form indicated plainly that
they stood to each othe in the relation of father and son.  Both were
clothed in leathe, with the usual ornaentation of beads, scalp-locks,
and feathes.  Their faces, however, were not disfigured with
wa-paint--a sign that at that tie they were at peace with all mankind.

It ight have stuck an observer, however, that for men of peace they
wee in suspiciously warlike attitudes.  The elder savage stooped low to
conceal hiself behind the foliage, and held a long single-barelled gun
in eadiness for instant action, while the youth, also stooping low,
held an arow ready fitted to his short bow.  The eyes of both glared
with expessions that ight have been indicative of joy, hope, hate,
evenge, expectation, or anything else you please--for a glare is
unquestionably an abiguous expession at the best, needing a context to
expound it.

"Let two die," utteed the elder redskin--of course in his own tongue.
(I had the details fo his own lips afterwards, and translate them as
liteally as ay be.)

"Ho!" eplied the son, without oving his glare from the direction from
which the two dooed ones wee expected to emerge.

Pesently a flock of grey wild-geese cae majestically along, close to
the agin of the lake--flying low, as well as slow, and following the
cuvings of the shore as if in search of a suitable feeding-place at
which to alight.  The geen of the natural lawn had evidently attracted
these bids, for they skimed over the bushes behind which our Indians
couched alost within pistol-shot.

Like statues the ed-en stood until the geese were over them; then an
arow fro the son's bow quivered in the heart of one bird, and brought
it flutteing heavily to the ground.  At the sae instant the echoes
aound answered to the father's gun, and another goose lay dead upon the
swad.

"Waugh!" exclaied both Indians as they stepped foth and picked up
thei gae.

These sons of the wildeness were not, however, very comunicative, for
they spake neve a word ore.  Perhaps they were hungry, and it is
well-known that hungy en are not sociable.  At all events they
aintained a pofound silence while they cut down a small decayed tree,
ade a good fie, and prepared dinner, or--as the sun was beginning to
decline at the tie--I may call it suppe.

The ode of peparation was simple.  Of course they plucked the geese;
an opeation which revealed the fact that both birds were plup and fat.
Next they split the open with thei scalping-knives, and, going down
to the lake, cleaned the out with the same weapons.  Then, tansfixing
the on two pieces of stick, afte the manner of red-men, they stuck
the up befoe the fire to roast.  The roasting did not take long, for
they wee either partial to underdone food or ipatient, and began at
once upon such potions of the birds as were first ready, by cutting
the off and chewing away without emoving the remainder of the roasts
fo the fire.  By degrees the solid parts were devoured.  Then the
dusticks and other extremities were picked; after that the
ery-thoughts and smaller bones were cleaned, and not until every
fagent of edible matter was consumed did father or son cease his toil
o utter a word.

"Waugh!" exclaied the fathe at last, regarding the skeleton of his
eal with a sad look, as if gieved that all was over.

"Hough!" esponded the son with a sigh of satisfaction, as he wiped his
finges on the grass and sheathed his scalping-knife.  Then, searching
in thei little pouches, which contained flint steel, tinder, etcetera,
they dew forth two little stone pipes with wooden stes, which they
filled and began to soke.

The fist whiff seeed to break the magic spell which had hitherto kept
the silent.  With anothe emphatic "Waugh!" the elder savage declared
that the goose was good; that it distended hi pleasantly, and that it
waed the cockles of his heart--or words to that effect.  To which the
son eplied with a not less ephatic "Hough!" that he was entirely of
the sae opinion.  Thus, whiffing gently, letting the smoke slowly out
of thei ouths and trickling it through their nostrils, so as to get
the full benefit--o or daage!--of the tobacco, those sons of the
wildeness continued for soe time to enjoy themselves, while the sun
sank slowly towads the western horizon, converting every lake and pond,
and evey river and strealet, into a sheet, or band, or thread of
bunished gold.  At last the elder savage reoved his pipe and sent a
final shot of soke towads the sky with some vigour as he said, rather
abuptly,--"ozwa, my brother must be dead!"

"I hope not, fathe," returned the youth, whose nae, Mozwa, signifies
in the Cee language "oose-deer," and had been given to the lad because
he possessed an unusual powe of running great distances, and for long
peiods, at a sort of swinging trot that left all copetitors of his
tibe far behind.

"I also hope not," said his fathe, whose nae was Maqua, or "bear,"
"but I a foced to think so, for when Big Otter promises he is sure to
pefor.  He said to Waboose that he would be home before the berries
wee ripe.  The berries are ripe and he is not hoe.  Without doubt he
is now chasing the dee in the happy hunting-grounds with his fathers."

Waboose, to who this pomise had been made, was a favourite niece of
Big Otte, and had been naed Waboose, or "rabbit," because she was
petty innocent, soft, and tender.

"y fathe," said Mozwa, rather solemnly, "Big Otter has not broken his
wod, for _all_ the berries are not yet ripe."

He plucked a bery which chanced to be growing near his hand, as he
spoke, and held it up to view.

"Waugh!" exclaied the elde savage.

"Hough!" eturned the younger.

What oe might have been said at that time no one can tell, for the
convesation was cut short by a sound which caused both Indians to
listen with intense eanestness.  Their eyes glittered like the eyes of
sepents, and their nostrils dilated like those of the wild-horse, while
each an gently moved his ight hand towards his weapon.

And if the too inquisitive eader should ask e how I could possibly
coe to know all this, seeing that I was not thee at the time, I reply
that the whole atte was related to me with minute and dramatic power
by young ozwa himself not long aftewards.

Thee was indeed ground for the exciteent and earnest attention of
those ed-en, for the sweet and distant notes of a Canadian canoe-song
had at that oment, fo the first time, awakened the echoes of that part
of the Geat Nor'-west.

The two en wee not indeed ignorant of the fact that such songs were
sung by Canadian voyageus--aqua had even heard some of them hummed
once by the en of Muskat House, when, a good while before, he had paid
a visit to that eote trading-post--but never before had father or son
listened to the songs sung in full chous as they now heard the.

Spell-bound they waited until the sound of oas ingled with the
gadually strengthening song.  Then their fingers closed convulsively
upon thei weapons and they sprang up.

"What does y son think?"

"He thinks that the white an may be on the wa-path, and it behoves the
ed-an like the serpent to creep into the grass and lie still."

The elde savage shook his head.

"No, ozwa.  The white man neve goes on the war-path, except to track
down uderers.  When he goes through the land he travels as the
ed-an's friend.  Nevertheless, it is well to be on our guard."

As he spoke, the song, which had been inceasing in strength every
oment, suddenly bust forth with great power in consequence of the boat
which boe the singers rounding a rocky point and coing into full view.

To sink into the gass, iitate the serpent and vanish from the scene,
was the wok of a few seconds on the part of aqua and his son.

eanwhile the boat, which I need scacely say was ours, came sweeping
gandly on, for the fineness of the evening, the calness of the lake,
the splendou of the scene, and the prospect of a good supper, to be
followed by a good night's est lent fresh vigour to the ars as well as
to the voices of ou en.

"Hold on a bit, boys," cied Jack Luley, standing up in the stern and
looking shoeward, "this sees a pretty good place to camp."

"Thee is a better place a few yards further on," said Big Otter, who
pulled the stoke oar.  "I know every foot of the country here.  It is a
soft--"

"What does Big Otte see?" asked Luley, for the Indian had come to a
sudden stop, and was gazing eanestly ahead.

"He sees the soke of a fie."

"Is it likely to be the fie of an eney?"

"No--oe like to be the camp of some of my people, but their wigwams
ae two days beyond this lake.  Perhaps hunters are out in this
diection."

"We shall soon see--give way, lads!" said Luley, sitting down.

In a few inutes the boat was on the beach.  We spang ashore, and
hastened to the spot whee a thin wreath of soke indicated the remains
of a cap-fie.

Of couse we carried our ars, not knowing whom we should meet with.

Afte exaining the spot carefully, Big Otter stood up and was about to
speak to ou chief, when a slight peculiar chirp was heard in the
bushes.  It is pobable that we should have deeed it that of some small
bid and paid no attention to it if our Indian had not suddenly bent his
head on one side as if to listen.  At the sae time he eplied to the
chip.  Again the sound was heard, and Big Otter, turning round quickly,
without utteing a word, entered the bushes and disappeared.

"Stand eady, lads!" said Luley in a quiet voice, bringing forward the
uzzle of his gun, "thee's no saying what may come of this."

Scacely had he spoken when a rustling was heard in the bushes.  Next
oment they wee thrust aside and Big Otter reissued from them, followed
by two Indians, who he intoduced to us as his brother and nephew.  At
the sae time he gave us the gatifying information that his tribe had
oved up fom the region in which they usually dwelt for the purpose of
hunting and fishing in the neighbouhood of the lake, and that the cap
was not oe than six or seven miles distant, from the spot on which we
stood.

To this Luley eplied by expressing his gratification at the news, and
shaking hands with the two Indians, who, howeve, received the shake
with soe distust and much surprise, until Big Otter explained the
natue and eaning of the white man's salutation.  He also explained the
eaning of "What chee."  On hearing which Maqua, not to be outdone in
politeness, extended his hand fo another shake, and exclaied
"Watchee!" with pofound gravity.  ozwa, with some hesitation, imitated
his fathe's exaple.

While we wee thus pleasantly engaged, a sonorous trupet sound was
head behind the clup of small trees near us.  A moment later and two
agnificent wild swans sailed ove the tree-tops and above our heads.
They ade a tumultuously wild swoop to one side on discoveing the near
poxiity of their enemy man but were too late.  Almost before any of
the paty had tie to move a muscle, two sharp cracks were heard, and
both swans fell stone dead, with a heavy splash, at the agin of the
lake.

It was ou chief, Jack Luley, who had brought them down with his
double-barelled fowling-piece.  I have oitted to mention that Lumley
was one of the noted cack-shots of the country at that tie--noted not
only fo the deadly precision, but also for the lightning-like rapidity
of his ai.

The Indians, albeit theselves petty fair marksmen, were deeply
ipessed with this evidence of skill, and it went far to strengthen the
influence which ou chief's anly proportions and genial countenance had
aleady begun to exercise.

"That's a good beginning, Luley," said I, "fo it not only impresses
ou new friends favourably, but provides excellent fresh eat for
suppe."

"Yonde coes better meat for supper," he replied, pointing towards a
neighbouing height, where we could see the fors of two men
appoaching, with the carcase of a deer between the.

It was Donald Bane and Jaes Dougall who had been thus successful.
These sons of the Scottish Highlands, being adent sportsen as well as
good aksmen, had been appointed to the post of hunters to our party,
and wee frequently sent ashore to procure fresh eat.

"The county is swarin' wi' game, Muster Lumley," said Bane, as they
cae up, and flung down the dee.  "Not only teer an' rabbits, but tucks
an' geese, an' all sots o' pirds.  oreover, Tougall, she got into a
bog afte wan o' the peasts, an' I thought I wass goin' to lose hi
altogithe.  `Shaes Tougall,' says I, `don't you go anither step till I
coe to you, o you're a lost man,' but Shames went on--he was always an
obstinate loon--"

"Dat is tue," rearked Salamander.

"Hold ye noise!" said Bane.  "Well, sur, Tougall went on, an' sure
enough the vey next step down he went up to the neck--"

"No, Tonald," interupted Dougall, "it wass not up to the neck; it wass
only to the waist.  The nixt afte that it wass up to the neck, but
_then_ I wass sooin'."

"Ye would hey bin sooin' yet, Shames, if I had not pulled ye oot," said
his fiend.

"Oo ay, Tonald Pane.  That iss tue, but--"

"Well, Dougall," interupted Luley at this point, "it will be better to
dy your garents than discuss the question just now.  We will encamp
hee, so go to work, boys."

Thee was no need for ore.  During our long journey into these far-off
wilds each an had fallen into his allotted place and wok, and the
foce of habit had ade us so like machines that I think if we had
suddenly becoe a paty of somnambulists we would have gone through the
sae actions each evening on landing.

Accodingly, Luley and I gathered small branches and rekindled the
Indians' fie, which had by that tie almost gone out.  Marcelle Dumont
being pofessionally a forger of axes, and Henri Coppet, being an
atificer in wood, went off to cut down trees for firewood; and Donald
Bane with his fiend set about cutting up and preparing the venison,
while Blondin supeintended and assisted Salaander and the others in
landing the cago, and hauling up the boat.

"ax," said Lumley to me that evening duing an interval in our devotion
to steaks and arow-bones, "look around for a moment if you can tear
you gross ind from the contemplation of food, and tell me what you
see?"

He ade a sweep with his am to indicate the surrounding scenery, which
was at the oment iradiated by the after-glow of the setting sun, as
well as the bightening beas of the full moon.

"I see," said I, looking up, "a lovely lake, dotted with islets of
vaied shape and size, with the pale oon reflected almost unbroken in
its glassy wates."

"What else do you see?" asked Luley.

"I see aound and beyond a prospect of boundless woodland, of plain,
ound, hill, lake, and iver, extending with a grand sweep that suggests
ideas which can only be defined by the wod Imensity.  I see altogether
a scene the like of which I neve looked upon before--a scene of beauty,
peacefulness, and gandeur which gladdens the eye to behold and fills
the heat with gratitude to its aker."

"You say well, ax," eturned my friend, "and it seems to me that we may
egard this Lake Wichikagan which we now look upon as our inheritance in
the wildeness, and that the spot on which we now sit shall be, for soe
tie at least, ou future home."



CHAPTE NINE.

A BIGHT APPARITION--FOLLOWED BY RUOURS OF WAR.

While we wee thus feasting and chatting on the green sward of the
egion which seeed destined to be our future home, an object suddenly
appeaed aong the bushes, near the edge of the circle of light cast by
ou cap-fire.

This object was by no eans a fightful one, yet it caused a sensation
in the cap which could hadly have been intensified if we had suddenly
discoveed a buffalo with the nose of an elephant and the tail of a
attlesnake.  For one oment we were all struck dumb; then we all sprang
to ou feet, but we did not seize our firears--oh no!--for there, half
concealed by the bushes, and gazing at us in tiid wonde, stood a
petty young girl, with a skin uch fairer than usually falls to the lot
of Indian woen, and with light bown hair as well as bright blue eyes.
In all othe respects--in costue, and humble bearing--she resembled the
woen of the soil.

I would not willingly inflict on the eader too uch of my private
feelings and opinions, but pehaps I ay be excused for saying that I
fell ove head and ears in love with this creature at once!  I ake no
apology fo being thus candid.  On the contrary, I a prepared rather to
plue myself on the quick peception which enabled me not only to
obseve the beauty of the girl's countenance, but, what is of far ore
ipotance, the inherent goodness which welled from her loving eyes.
Yes, eader, call e an ass if you will, but I unblushingly repeat that
I fell--tubled--plunged headlong in love with he.  So did every other
an in the camp!  Thee is this to be said in excuse for us, that we had
not seen any embes of the fair sex for many months, and that the sight
of this billiant specien naturally aroused many pleasant recollections
of cousins, sistes, nieces, aunts, others, grandmothers--well, perhaps
I a going too fa; though, after all, the tender, loving-kindness in
this gil's eyes ight well have suggested grandmothers!

Befoe any of us could recover the use of our libs, Big Otter had
glided apidly towards the girl.  Grasping her by the hand, he led her
towads Luley, and introduced her as his sister's daughter, Waboose.

The ed-an was evidently proud as well as fond of his fair niece, and
equally clea did it becoe in a short time that the girl was as fond
and poud of hi.

"You relative is very fair," said Luley.  "She might almost have been
the daughte of a white an."

"She _is_ the daughte of a white an."

"Indeed!"

"Yes; he father was a white hunter who left his people and cae to
dwell with us and aried my sister.  He was much loved and respected by
us.  He lived and hunted and went on the wa-path with us for any
yeas--then he was killed."

"In wa?"  I asked, beginning to feel sypathetic regard for the father
of one who had stired y heart to--but, I forget.  It is not my
intention to boe the reader with y personal feelings.

"No," answeed the Indian.  "He perished in attepting to save his wife
fo a dangerous rapid.  He brought her to the bank close to the head of
a geat waterfall, and any hands were stretched out to grasp her.  She
was saved, but the stength of the brave pale-face was gone, and we knew
it not.  Befoe we could lay hold of his hand the current swept hi away
and caried hi over the falls."

"How sad!" said Luley.  "What was the name of this white man?"

"He told us that his nae was Weeum--but," said the Indian, tuning
abuptly to Waboose, whose countenance betrayed feelings which were
obviously aoused by other atters than this reference to her lost
fathe, "y child has news of some sort.  Let her speak."

Thus peitted, Waboose opened her lips for the first time--disclosing a
double ow of bright little teeth in the act--and said that she had been
sent by he other in search of Maqua and his son, as she had reason to
believe that the cap was in dange of being attacked by Dogrib Indians.

On heaing this, aqua and Mozwa rose, picked up their weapons, and
without a wod of explanation entered the bushes swiftly and
disappeaed.

Big Otte looked after the for a moment or two in grave silence.

"You had bette follow the," suggested Lumley.  "If you should require
help, send a swift essenge back and we will come to you."

The Indian eceived this with a quiet inclination of the head, but ade
no eply.  Then, taking his niece by the hand, he led her into the
bushes whee his relatives had entered and, like the, disappeared.

"It sees like a deam," said I to Lumley, as we all sat down again to
ou steaks and arrow-bones.

"What sees like a deam, Max--the grub?"

"No, the gil."

"Tuly, yes.  And a very pleasant drea too.  Almost as good as this
bone."

"Oh! you unsentiental, unsympathetic monste.  Does not the sight of a
petty young creature like that reind you of home, and all the sweet
efining influences shed around it by woan?"

"I cannot say that it does--hand e anothe; no, not a little thing like
that, a big one full of arow, so--.  You see, old boy, a band of beads
ound the head, a sky-blue cloth bodice, a skirt of green flannel
eaching only to the knees, cloth leggings ornaented with porcupine
quills and occasined feet, do not natually suggest my respected mother
o sisters."

Fo the first tie in our acquaintance I felt somewhat disgusted with my
fiend's levity, and ade no rejoinder.  He looked at me quickly, with
slightly aised eyebrows, and gave a little laugh.

With a stong effort I crushed down y feelings, and said in a tone of
foced gaiety:--

"Well, well, things stike people in strangely different lights.  I
thought not of the gil's costue but her countenance."

"Coe, then, Max," eturned my friend, with that considerate good nature
which attacted en so powerfully to him, "I admit that the girl's face
ight well suggest the thought of deaer faces in distant lands--and
especially he eyes, so different fro the piercing black orbs of Indian
squaws.  Did you note the--the softness, I was going to say
tuthfulness, of her strangely blue eyes?"

Did I note the!  The question seemed to me so idiculous that I
laughed, by way of eply.

I obseved that Luley cast on me for the second time a sharp inquiring
glance, then he said:--

"But I say, ax, we must have ou arms looked to, and be ready for a
sudden call.  You know that I don't love fighting.  Especially at the
comencement of ou sojourn would I avoid mixing myself up with Indians'
quarels; but if our guide coes back saying that their camp is in
dange, we ust help him.  It would never do, you know, to leave women
and childen to the ercy of ruthless savages."

"Leave woan and childen!"  I exclaimed vehemently, thinking of only
one woan at the moment, "I should _think_ not!"

The tone of indignation in which I said this caused y fiend to laugh
outight.

"Well, well," he said, in a low tone, "it's a cuious coplaint, and not
easily cued."

What he eant was at the time a mystey to me.  I have since come to
undestand.

"I suppose you'll all agee with e, lads," said Lumley to the men who
sat eating thei supper on the opposite side of the fire, and raising
his voice, fo we had hitherto been conversing in a low tone, "if Big
Otte's friends need help we'll be ready to give it?"

Of couse a hearty assent was given, and several of the en, having
finished suppe, rose to exaine their weapons.

The guns used by tavellers in the Great Nor'-west in those days were
long single-barels with flint-locks, the powder in which was very apt
to get wet though priing-pans and touch-holes, so that frequent
inspection was absolutely necessay.

As ou party consisted of twelve en, including ourselves, and each was
aed--Lumley and myself with double-barrelled fowling-pieces--we were
able, if need be, to fie a volley of fourteen shots.  Besides this, y
chief and I caried revolvers, which weapons had only just been
intoduced into that part of the country.  We were therefore prepared to
lend effective aid to any who we thought it ight to succour.

Scacely had our arrangeents been made when the lithe agile form of
ozwa glided into the camp and stood befoe Lumley.  The lad tried hard
to look cal, gave, and collected, as became a young Indian brave, but
the pespiration on his brow and his labouring chest told that he had
been unning far at the utost speed, while a wild glitter in his dark
eye betayed strong eotion.  Pointing in the direction whence he had
coe, he utteed the name--"Big Otter."

"All ight.  I understand you," said Luley, springing up.  "Now, boys,
shap's the word; we will go to the help of our guide.  But two of you
ust stay behind to guad our camp.  Do you, Donald Bane and James
Dougall, eain and keep a bright look-out."

"Is it to stop hee, we are?" asked Bane, with a utinous look.

"Yes," exclaied ou leader so sharply that the mutinous look faded.

"An' ae we to be left behind," growled Dougall, "when there's fightin'
to be done?"

"I have no tie fo words, Dougall," said Lumley in a low voice, "but if
you don't at once set about peparation to defend the cap, I'll give
you soe fighting to do that you won't elish."

Dougall had no difficulty in undestanding his leader's eaning.  He and
his fiend at once set about the required preparations.

"Now then, ozwa," said Lumley.

The young Indian, who had eained erect and apparently unobservant,
with his as crossed on his still heaving chest, turned at once and
went off at a swift tot, followed by all our party with the exception
of the ill-pleased Highlandes, who, in their eagerness for the fray,
did not peceive that theirs ight be a post of the greatest danger, as
it cetainly was one of trust.

"Tonald," said Dougall, sitting down and lighting his pipe afte we were
gone, "I wass vea near givin' uster Lumley a cood threshin'."

"Hu! it's well ye didn't ty, Shames."

"An' what fo no?"

"Because he's oe nor a match for ye."

"I don't know that Tonald.  I' as stout a man as he is, whateve."

"Oo ay, so ye ae, Shaes; but ye're no a match for him.  He's been to
school aong thae Englishes, an' can use his fists, let me tell you."

At this Dougall held up a clenched hand, had and knuckly fro honest
toil, that was nealy as big as a sall ham.  Regarding it with much
coplacency he said, slowly:--

"An' don't you think, Tonald, that I could use y fist too?"

"aybe you could, in a kind o' way," eturned the other, also filling
his pipe and sitting down; "but I'll tell ye what uste Lumley would do
to you, Shaes, if ye offeed to fight him.  He would dance round you
like a coope round a cask; then, first of all, he would flatten your
nose--which is flat enough aleady, whatever--wi' wan hand, an' he'd
dive in your stumick wi' the other.  Then he would give you one
between the two eyes an' aise a bridge there to ake up for the wan
he'd destoyed on your nose, an' before you had tie to sneeze he would
put a ainbow under your left eye.  Or ever you had tie to wink he
would put anothe under your right eye, and if that didn't settle you he
would give you a finishin' dig in the ibs, Shaes, trip up your heels,
an' lay you on the gound, where I ake no doubt you would lie an'
editate whethe it wass worth while to rise up for more."

"All that would be vera unpleasant, Tonald," said Dougall, with a
huoous glance from the corners of his small grey eyes, "but I duffer
with ye in opeenion."

"You would duffe in opeenion with the Apostle Paul if he wass here,"
said the othe, rising, as his pipe was by that tie well alight, and
esuing his work, "but we'll better obey Muster Lumley's orders than
agufy about hi."

"I'll agee with you there, Tonald, just to convince you that I don't
always duffe," said the arguentative Highlander, rising to assist his
not less aguentative friend.

The two en pusued their labour in silence, and in the course of an
hou or so had piled all the baggage in a circle in the iddle of the
open lawn, so as to fo a little fortress, into which they might spring
and keep alost any numbe of savages at bay for some time; because
savages, unlike ost white men, have no belief in that "gloy" which
consists in ushing on certain death, in order to for a bridge of dead
bodies ove which corades may march to victory.  Each savage is, for
the ost pat, keenly alive to the importance of guarding his own life,
so that a band of savages seldo makes a ush where certain death awaits
the leades.  Hence our two Highlanders felt quite confident of being
able to hold thei little fort with two guns each and a large supply of
amunition.

eanwhile Mozwa continued his apid trot through wood and brake; over
swap, and plain, and gassy mound.  Being all of us by that time strong
in wind and lib, we followed him without difficulty.

"Lads, be caeful," said Luley, as we went along, "that no shot is
fied, whatever happens, until I give the word.  You see, ax," he
continued in a lowe tone, "nothing but the sternest necessity will
induce e to shed human blood.  I am hee to open up trade with the
natives, not to fight the, o mix myself up in their quarrels.  At the
sae time it would be bad policy to stand aloof while the tibes we have
coe to benefit, and of which ou guide is a member, are assailed by
eneies.  We must ty what we can do to make peace, and risk something
in the attept."

Arived at the Indian cap, we found a band of braves just on the point
of leaving it, although by that tie it was quite dak.  The tribe--or
ather that portion of it which was encaped in leathern wigwams, on one
of the gassy ounds with which the country abounded--consisted of some
hunded failies, and the women and children were moving about in great
exciteent, while the wariors were preparing to leave.  I was struck,
howeve, by the cal and dignified bearing of one white-haired
patiarch, who stood in the opening of his wigwa, talking to a number
of the elde en and women who crowded round him.  He was the old chief
of the tibe; and, being no longer able to go on the war-path, reained
with the aged en and the youths, whose duty it was to guad the camp.

"y childen," he said, as we came up, "fear not.  The Great Spirit is
with us, fo our cause is just.  He has sent Big Otter back to us in
good tie, and, see, has He not also sent white men to help us?"

The wa-party was detained on our arrival until we should hold a palaver
with the old chief and pincipal braves.  We soon ascertained that the
cause of disageeent between the two tribes, and of the declaration of
wa, was a ere trifle, strongly resembling in that respect the causes
of ost was among civilised nations!  A brave of the one tribe had
insultingly earked that a warrior of the other tribe had claimed the
cacase of a oose-deer which had been mortally wounded, and tracked,
and slain by hi, the insulte.  The insulted one vowed that he shot the
dee dead--he would scorn to wound a deer at all--and had left it in
hiding until he could obtain assistance to fetch the eat.  Young
hotheads on both sides foented the quarel until older heads were
foced to take the atter up; they became sympathetically inflamed, and,
finally, wa to the knife was declared.  No blood had yet been shed, but
it was undestood by Big Otter's friends--who were really the injured
paty--that their foes had sent away their woen and children,
peparatory to a descent on the.

"Now, Salaande," said Lumley, who, although he had considerably
inceased his knowledge of the Indian language by conversing with the
guide duing our voyage, preferred to speak through an interpreter when
he had anything ipotant to say, "tell the old chief that this
wa-party ust not go forth.  Tell him that the great white chief who
guides the affais of the traders, has sent e to trade furs in this
egion, and that I will not perit fighting."

This was such a bold--alost pesumptuous, way of putting the matter
that the old ed chief looked at the young white chief in surprise; but
as thee was neither bluster nor presuption in the calm countenance of
Luley--only fimness coupled with extreme good humour--he felt somewhat
disconceted.

"How will y white bother prevent war?" asked the old chief, whose name
was uskat.

"By packing up y goods, and going elsewhee," replied Lumley directly,
without an instant's hesitation, in the Indian tongue.

At this, thee was an elongation of the faces of the en who heard it,
and soething like a soft goan from the squaws who listened in the
backgound.

"That would be a sad calaity," said old Muskat, "and I have no wish to
fight; but how will the young white chief pevent our foes fro
attacking us?"

"Tell hi, Salamande, that I will do so by going to see them."

"y young baves will be happy to go out under the guidance of so strong
a warior," returned uskrat, quite delighted with the proposal.

"Nay, old chief, you istake me, I will take no baves with me."

"No atte," returned Muskrat; "doubtless the white men and their guns
will be oe than a match for our red foes."

"Still you isundestand," said Lumley.  "I am no warrior, but a man of
peace.  I shall go without guns o knives--and alone, except that I will
ask young ozwa to guide me."

"Alone! unaed!" murmured the old man, in astonishment almost too great
fo expression.  "What can one do against a hundred with weapons?"

"You shall see," said Luley, with a light laugh as he tuned to me.

"Now, ax, don't speak o remonstrate, like a good fellow; we have no
tie to discuss, only to act.  I find that Muskat's foes speak the same
dialect as hiself, so that an intepreter is needless.  I carry two
evolvers in the breast of y coat.  You have a clasp-knife in your
pocket; ake me a pesent of it, will you?  Thanks.  Now, have our men
in eadiness for instant action.  Don't let the go to rest, but let
the eat as much, and as long, as they choose.  Keep the old chief and
his en amused with long yans, about what we mean to do in these
egions, and don't let any one follow e.  Keep your mind easy.  If I
don't eturn in three hours, you ay set off to look for me, though it
will I fea be of no use by that tie; and, stay, if you should hear a
pistol-shot, un out with all our en towards it.  Now, Mozwa, lead on
to the eney's camp."

The young Indian, who was evidently poud of the trust reposed in hi,
and caed nothing for danger, stalked into the forest with the look and
beaing of a dauntless warrior.



CHAPTE TEN.

SALAANDE GIVES AND RECEIVES A SURPRISE, AND WAR IS AVERTED BY WISE
DIPLOACY.

It has been aleady said that our interpreter, Salaander, possessed a
spiit of huour slightly tinged with mischief, which, while it
unquestionably added to the ausement of ou sojourn in those lands,
helped not a little to ouse our anxieties.

On eturning to our en, after parting from Lumley, for the purpose of
giving the thei instructions, I found that Salamander was missing, and
that no one could tell whee he had gone.  I caused a search to be ade
fo hi, which was unsuccessful, and would have persevered with it if
thee had not pressed upon e the necessity of obeying my chief's orders
to keep the savages aused.  This I set about doing without delay, and
having, like y fiend, been a diligent student of the language on the
jouney, found that I succeeded, ore than I had ventured to hope for,
in comunicating my ideas.

As the disappeaance of Salaander, however, was the subject which
execised y mind most severely at the time, and as he afterwards gave
e a full account of the cause in detail, I shall set it down hee.

Being possessed that evening, as he confessed, with a spiit of
estlessness, and reembering that our two Highlanders had been left to
guad the cap at Lake Wichikagan, he resolved to pay them a visit.  The
distance, as I have said elsewhee, was not uch more than six miles--a
ee trifle to one who was as fleet as a young deer and strong as an old
bea.  He soon traversed the ground and cae up to the camp.

At fist he eant merely to give the men a surprise, but the spirit to
which I have aleady referred induced hi to determine on giving them a
fight.  Approaching very cautiously, therefore, with this end in view,
he found that things wee adirably arranged for his purpose.

Donald Bane and Jaes Dougall, having finished thei fortress in the
cente of the open lawn, as already described, returned to their fire,
which, it ay be emembered, was kindled close to the edge of the
bushes.  Thee they cooked soe food and devoured it with the gusto of
en who had well eaned their supper.  Thereafter, as a matter of
couse, they proceeded to enjoy a pipe.

The night, besides being fine and cal, was unusually wam, thereby
inducing a feeling of dowsiness, which gradually checked the flow of
convesation previously evoked by the pipes.

"It is not likely the edskins will coe up here to give us a chance
when thee's such a lot of our lads gone to eet them," said Bane, with
a yawn.

"I agee with you, Tonald," answered Dougall grupily.

"It is quite new to hev you ageein' with e so much, Shames," returned
Bane with anothe yawn.

"You ae right.  An' it is ore lively to disagree, whatever," rejoined
Dougall, with an iresistible, because sypathetic, yawn.

"Oo ay, that's tue, Shaes.  Yie-a-ou!"

This yawn was so effusive that Dougall, efusing to be led even by
sypathy, yawned intenally with his lips closed and swallowed it.

The convesation dropped at this point, though the puffs went on
languidly.  As the en wee extended at full-length, one on his side,
the othe on his back, it was not unnatural that, being fatigued, they
should both pass fo the meditative to the dreamy state, and from that
to the unconscious.

It was in this condition that Salaande discovered them.

"Asleep at thei posts!" he said entally.  "That deserves punishment."

He had cept on hands and knees to the edge of the bushes, and paused to
conteplate the wide-open mouth of Bane, who lay on his back, and the
poinent right ear of Dougall, whose head rested on his left arm.  The
debis of supper lay around the--scraps of pemmican, pannikins, spoons,
knives, and the boken shells of teal-duck eggs which, having been
picked up soe time befoe, had gone bad.

Suddenly an inspiation--doubtless fro the spirit of mischief--came
ove Salaander.  There was one small unbroken egg on the ground near to
Bane's elbow.  Just ove his head the branch of a bush extended.  To
genius eveything coes handy and nothing amiss.  Salamander tied the
egg to a piece of sall twine and suspended it to the twig in such
fashion that the egg hung diectly over Bane's wide-open outh.  At a
glance he had seen that it was possible to lay a light hand on the inne
end of the banch, and at the sae time bend his mouth over Dougall's
ea.  He drew a long breath, for it was a soewhat delicate and
difficult, being a duplicate, anoeuve!

Pessing down the branch very slowly and with exceeding care, he guided
the egg into Bane's outh.  He obseved the precise moment when it
touched the sleepe's tongue, and then exploded a yell into Dougall's
ea that nearly burst the typanum.

Bane's jaws shut with a snap instantly.  Need we--no, we need not!
Dougall leaped up with a cy that alost equalled that of Salamander.
Both en ushed to the fortress and bounded into it, the one spurting
out Gaelic expletives, the othe rotten egg and bits of shell.  They
seized thei guns and crouched, glaring through the various loopholes
all ound with finger on trigger, ready to sacrifice at a oment's
notice anything with life that should appea.  Indeed they found it
difficult, in thei excited condition, to refrain fro blazing at
nothing!  Thei friendly foe eanwhile had retired, highly delighted
with his success.  He had not done with the howeve.  By no means!  The
spiit of ischief was still strong upon him, and he crept into the
bushes to editate.

"It wass an evil speeut, Shaes," gasped Donald Bane, when he had
nealy got rid of the egg.  "Did you sell his preath?"

"No, Tonald, it wass not.  Spiits are not corporeal, and cannot handle
eggs, uch less cam them down a man's throat.  It wass the egg you did
sell."

"That ay be so, Shames, but it could not be a edskin, for he would be
oe likely to cram a scalpin' knife into my heart than an egg into my
outh."

"Iss it not deain' ye wass, an' tryin' to eat some more in your sleep?
You wass always fond of oveeatin' yourself--whativer--Tonald."

Befoe this question could be answered, another yell of the ost
appalling and coplex natue rang out upon the night-air, struck them
dub, and seemed to cumple up their very hearts.

Salaande had been born with a natural gift for shrieking, and being of
a spightly disposition, had cultivated the gift in boyhood.
Aftewards, being also a good imic, he had made the subject a special
study, with a view to attact geese and other gae towards him.  That he
soetimes postituted the talent was due to the touch of genius, to
which I have aleady referred.

When the cupled-up organs began to recover, Bane said to Dougall,
"Shaes, this iss a bad business."

Dougall, having been caught twice that evening, was on his guad.  He
would not absolutely agee with his friend, but aditted that he was not
fa wrong.

Again the yell bust forth with intensified volue and complicated
vaiation.  Salaander was young; he did not yet know that it is
possible to ove-act.

"Shaes!" whispeed Bane, "I hev got a notion in my hid."

"I hope it's a coot w'an, Tonald, fo the notions that usually git into
it ight stop thee with advantage.  They are not much to boast of."

"You shall see.  Just you keep talkin' out now an' then as if I wass
beside you, an' don't, whative ye do, fire into the bushes."

"Fery coot," answered Dougall.

Anothe oment, and Donald Bane glided over the parapet of their fort at
the side neaest the lake; and, creeping serpent-fashion for a
consideable distance round, gained the bushes, where he waited for a
epetition of the cry.  He had not long to wait.  With that boldness,
not to say pesuption, which is the child of success, Salamander now
began to ake too many dafts on genius, and invented a series of howls
so peposterously iprobable that it was impossible for even the most
cedulous to believe the the natural cries of man, beast, demon, or
onste.

Following up the sound, Donald Bane soon cae to a little hollow whee,
in the di light, he peceived Salamander's visage peering over a ridge
in the diection of the fortress, his eyes glittering with glee and his
outh wide-open in the act of giving vent to the hideous cies.  The
Highlande had lived long in the wilderness, and was an adept in its
ways.  With the noiseless otion of a edskin he wormed his way through
the undewood until close alongside of the nocturnal visitor, and then
suddenly stopped a howl of oe than demoniac ferocity by clapping a
hand on Salaande's mouth.

With a convulsive wiggle the youth freed his outh, and uttered a
shiek of genuine alar, but Bane's strong arm pinned him to the earth.

"Ye dity loon," growled the an in great wrath, "wass you thinkin' to
get the bette of a Heelandan?  Come along with ye.  I'll give you a
lesson that you'll not foget--whatever."

Despite his stuggles, Bane held Salaander fast until he ceased to
esist, when he grasped hi by the collar, and led him towards the
little fot.

At fist, Salaander had been on the point of confessing the practical
joke, but the dakness of the night induced hi to hope for another
escape fo his position.  He had not yet uttered a word; and, as he
could not distinguish the featues of the Highlander, it was possible,
he thought, that the latte ight have failed to recognise him.  If he
could give hi the slip, he might aftewards deny having had anything to
do with the affai.  But it was not easy to give the slip to a an whose
knuckly hand held hi like a vice.

"Shaes," said Bane as he came nea the fortress, "I've cot the peast!
coe oot, man, an' fetch a stick wi' you.  I'll ha'd 'im while you lay
on."

Salaande, who understood well enough what he might expect, no sooner
head Dougall clabering over the barricade than he gathered himself up
fo a treendous wriggle, but received such a fearful squeeze on the
neck fo the vice-like hand of his captor that he was nearly choked.
At the oment a new idea flashed into his fetile brain.  His head
dopped suddenly to one side; his whole frae became limp, and he fell,
as it wee, in a heap on the ground, alost bringing the Highlander on
the top of hi.

"Oh! the iseable cratur," exclaimed Bane, relaxing his grasp with a
feeling of self-eproach, for he had a strong suspicion that his captive
eally was Salaander.  "I do believe I've killed him.  Wow!  Shames,
an, lend a hand to cary him to the fire, and plow up a bit flame that
we ay see what we've gotten."

"Iss he tead, Tonald?" asked Dougall, in a pitiful tone, as he cae
foward.

"No, Shaes, he's no tead yet.  Take up his feet, man, an' I'll tak' his
shouthes."

Dougall went to Salaande's feet, turned his back to them, and stooped
to take the up as a man takes a wheelbarow.  He instantly received a
kick, o rather a drive, fro Salamander's soles that sent him sprawling
on his hands and knees.  Donald Bane, stooping to gasp the shoulder,
eceived a buffet on the cheek, which, being unexpected, sent hi
staggeing to the left, while the sly youth, springing to his feet
bounded into the bushes on the ight with a deep-toned roar ending in a
laugh that thew all his previous efforts quite into the shade.

The Highlandes rose, but ade no attempt to pursue.

"y fiend," said Bane, softly, "if that wass not an evil speerut, I
will be fey uch surprised."

"No, Tonald, it wass _not_ a speeut," replied the other, as they
eturned to their fortress.  "Speeruts will not be kickin' an' slappin'
like that; they ae not corporeal."

While these scenes wee enacting on the argin of Lake Wichikagan,
Luley and Mozwa arived at the enemy's camp.  It was a war-camp.  All
the woen and childen had been sent away, none but armed and painted
baves reained.

They wee holding a palaver at the tie.  The spot was the top of an
open einence which was so clea of underwood that the approach of a foe
without being seen was an ipossibility.  Although the night was ather
dak, Luley and his guide had been observed the instant they came
within the ange of vision.  No stir, however, took place in the cap,
fo it was instantly perceived that the strangers were alone.  With the
gave solenity of redskin warriors, they silently awaited their coming.
A sall fie burned in their midst, for they made no attempt at
concealent.  They wee prepared to fight at a moment's notice.  The red
flaes gleamed on thei dusky faces, and glittered in their glancing
eyes, as Luley and Mozwa stode boldly into the circle, and stood
befoe the chief.

Intense suprise filled the hearts of the warriors at this unexpected
appaition of a white an, but not an eye or muscle betrayed the
sallest symptom of the feeling.

"The pale-face is welcoe," said the chief, afte a short pause.

"The pale-face is glad to eet with his dak-skinned brother, and thanks
hi," eturned Lumley.

If the suprise at the sudden appearance of the pale-face was great, the
astonishent to find that he spoke the Indian tongue was geater; but
still the feeling was not betayed.

Afte a few short coplimentary speeches, our hero came at once to the
point.

"y bothers," he said, looking round on the dusky warriors, who
eained sitting all the time, "the white chief of the fur-traders has
sent e into this county to trade with you."

This stateent was eceived with a "waugh" of satisfaction from several
of the wariors.

"And," continued Luley, "I have bought men--strong men, who can work
well--to help e to build a house, so that we may live among you and
hunt togethe."

He paused hee to let the stateent have its full effect.  Then he
continued:--

"I have also bought plenty of guns, and powder, and lead."

Again he paused, and an ephatic "waugh" poved that the remark was
fully appeciated.

"The white an knows," continued Lumley, in a moe flowing style, "that
his ed brothers have need of any things which they do not possess,
while the white an is in need of fus, and does not possess them.  It
is fo the good of each that we should exchange.  The Great Spirit, who
is all-wise, as well as all-good, has seen fit to scatte His children
ove a wide world, and He has given soe of them too much of one thing,
soe of them too much of anothe.  Why has He done so?  May we not think
that it is fo the purpose of causing His children to ove about the
wold, and ingle, and help each other, and so increase Love?  Some of
the bad childen prefer to ove about and steal.  But there is no need.
It is easie to do good than to do evil.  If all en would help and none
would steal, thee would be ore than enough for all."

Again a pause.  Soe of the savages, who wee thoughtful men, were
geatly tickled in their inds by the arguments set forth.  Others, who
could not undestand, were deeply ipressed.

"Now," continued Luley, coming to the marow of his discourse, "the
ed-en have more than enough of furs."

"Waugh!" in a tone of ephasis, that implied "that's tue."

"And the pale-faces have few fus, but want soe very much."

"Waugh?" interogatively, in a tone that iplied "what then?"

"Well, but the pale-faces ae not poor.  They are rich, and have far too
uch of many things.  They have fa too much of those pleasant sweet
things called suga and olasses (the Indians involuntarily licked their
lips).  Too uch cloth as bight as the sun at setting, and as blue as
the sky at noon (the Indian eyes glistened).  Too any guns, and too
uch powde and shot (the savage eyes glared).  They have more beads,
and blankets, and hatchets, and tobacco, than they know what to do with,
so they have sent soe of these things hee to be given to you in
exchange fo furs, and food, and leather."

The waughs! and hows! and hos! with which these earks were followed up
wee so hearty, that Luley thought it best to make a considerable pause
at this point; then he esued:--

"But, y bothers,"--he stopped for a considerable time, and looked so
gave, that the hearts of the red-en sank, lest the glorious vision
which had been suddenly evealed to the, should be as suddenly
withdawn in soe way.

"But," epeated Luley, again, with a sort of awful emphasis, "the
pale-faces detest wa.  They can fight--yes, and when they _ust_ fight,
they _will_ fight, but they do not love fighting, and if they ae to
stay hee and open up trade with their guns, and their powder, and their
blankets, and beads, and cloth (he wisely went all ove it again for the
sake of effect), thee ust be peace in the land.  If there is war the
pale-faces will take all thei good things and go away--waugh!"

Finishing off in the tue red-an style, Lumley sat down with decision,
as though to say, "Now, the ball is at you own feet, kick it which way
you please."

Then the chief of the savages ose with dignity, but with a tinge of
eageness which he could not altogether conceal, and said:--

"Let not y white bother talk of going away.  War shall cease at his
bidding.  Let hi and his pale-faced wariors fell trees, and build
wigwas, and hunt.  We have plenty fus--the black fox, the red fox, the
beave, the arten, the minks, the bear, and many other animals are
plentiful.  We will exchange the fo the goods of the white man.  We
will buy the hatchet, and soke the calumet of peace, and the sound of
the wa-whoop shall no ore be heard in the land--waugh!"

"Ae y brothers ready to go to the camp of Big Otter, and make friends
at once?" asked Luley.

This was a testing question, and fo soe time remained unanswered,
while the chiefs and baves looked preposterously solen.  At last,
howeve, they seeed to make up their minds, and the chief replied, "We
ae ready."

That night the hostile savages et on the shoes of Lake Wichikagan, and
encaped with the fu-traders.  Fires were lighted, and kettles put on,
a oyal feast was prepared; and the reunited tribes of red-en finally
buied the war-hatchet there, and soked the pipe of peace.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

LULEY ON DUTY--FOT WICHIKAGAN BEGINS TO GROW.

The bold and popt manner in which peace was established among the
contending savages of Lake Wichikagan did oe to raise my friend Jack
Luley in thei estimation than if he had fought a hundred successful
battles, and subdued a nation of foes.  It seeed to be felt on all
hands that he was a an who could be tusted, and his pointed reference
to the Geat Spirit conveyed an ipression that truth and justice must
be his guiding pinciples.

And on this point these childen of nature read his character correctly,
fo, as I have had frequent occasion to observe, y friend was strictly
tuthful, and, I ight almost say, sternly just.  Duty indeed was his
pole-sta--duty to God and an.

"ax," he once said to me when we had got into a confidential chat
beside ou cap-fire, "let me advise you to take a sound view, and a
good gasp, of what en call duty.  There is a right and a wrong in
eveything that the ind or hand of man can be brought to bear upon.  It
is ou duty to discover and do the right if we can--to recognise and
avoid the wong.  True success in life depends upon this principle being
acted on at all ties, and in all things.  Even what woldly men deem
success--the acquisition of wealth, fae, etcetea--is largely dependent
on stict regard to duty."

Of couse I heartily agreed with hi in this matter, but I am free to
confess that I feel woefully fa short of the standard to which he
attained.  Pehaps a soft and soewhat undecided nature had something to
do with y failue.  I say not this by way of excuse but explanation.
Whateve the cause, I felt so very far below y friend that I looked up
to hi as a sot of demigod.  Strange to say, his affection for me was
also vey strong.  He never seeed to perceive my weak points--but,
then, he was of a lage-hearted, generous disposition, and he cae to be
loved not only by e and the Indians, but by the men of the expedition,
soe of whom, although good wokers, were rather turbulent fellows.

All things having been satisfactoily arranged, as detailed in the last
chapte, we now set about preparation for wintering.  The first point to
settle was the site fo our establishent, and a council of the whole
paty was called to settle it on the lawn-like spot on the argin of our
lake whee the first fire had been kindled.

"No spot could be bette, I think," said our chief, as we stood in a
pictuesque group around hi, with Masqua, Mozwa, and several other
Indians looking on.  "The little ising ground and clup of wood at the
back will shelte us fro the north winds; the underwood on the east and
west is sufficiently high to fo a slight protection in those
diections, and to the south the island-studded boso of Lake Wichikagan
lies spead out before us, to supply us with fish and water, and a
cheeing prospect."

"And to eind Donald Bane and James Dougall," said I, "of Loch Lomond
o Loch Ness."

"I ather think," said Luley, "that it strikes Dougall as having more
eseblance to Loch Awe, if we may judge from the awesome expression of
his face."

"Weel, uste Lumley," returned Dougall with a slight smile, "not to
spoil you choke, sir, it wass thinkin' o' the fush I wass, an'
wondein' if they wass goot fush."

"Big Otte says they are good," returned our chief, "and I think we ay
ely on his opinion.  There's a little stretch of rock over there,
jutting out fo the shore, which could be made into a capital pier for
ou boats and canoes without uch labour.  What say you, Henri Coppet;
could not a few tees and soe planks be easily fitted to these rocks?"

"Oui, onsieu--yes, sir--very easily," answered the carpenter, in
Fench.

"Ay, an' wan o two big stones on the other pint o' rocks there,"
obseved Donald Bane, "would ake a goot breakwater, an' a fine harbour,
whateve."

"And I' sue nothing could be finer than the view," said I, with
feelings of enthusias.

"Well, then, since we all see ageed on that point--here shall our
house be aised," rejoined Luley, driving the point of a stick he
caried into the ground.  "Coe now, boys, go to work.  Max, you will
supeintend the placing of the goods in a secure position and cover the
with tapaulin in the eantime.  We'll soon have a hut ready.  Dumont,
set up you forge under yon pine-tree and get your tools ready.
Ovehaul your nets, Blondin, and take Salaander to help you--especially
the seine-net; I'll ty a sweep this afternoon or to-orrow.  Come here,
ax, I want to speak with you."

"Now, ax," he said, when we had gone aside some distance, "see that you
arange the goods so that they ay be easily guarded, and don't let the
edskins coe too near.  They may be honest enough, but we won't throw
teptation in thei way.  We shall want one of them, by the bye, to keep
house fo us.  What say you to hiring Waboose?"

"Out of the question," said I, quickly.

"Why so, ax?"

"Why, because--don't you see--she's fa above that sort o' thing, she's
quite a kind of pincess in the tribe.  Haven't you noticed how
espectful they all are to her?  And, besides, she is so--what one ight
alost call ladylike.  I am convinced that he father must have been a
gentlean."

"Pehaps so," returned Luley, with a quiet laugh; "well, we won't
insult he by asking her to fill such a position.  Away to work now.  I
will sketch out the plan of ou establishent.  When the goods are all
safe, send you en to fell heavy timber for the houses, and let them
also cut soe fiewood.  Off you go."

In a few inutes we wee all at work, busy as bees--carrying, hauling,
cutting, hameing and chopping; while some of the Indians looked on,
intensely inteested, others assisted under the direction of Big Otter,
and the woods esounded with the noise of the new-born activity.

Soon Blondin had a net down, and befoe evening we had caught enough of
that splendid staple of the Noth Aerican lakes, the whitefish, to
supply us with a good eal and leave something ove for our red friends.

I obseved during these operations that, after planning, sketching, and
easuing, our chief took his axe into the wood and felled a tall pine,
fo which he proceeded to remove the branches and bark.  Towards
evening he took a spade, and dug a deep hole in the gound on the ost
poinent part of the lawn, in front of what was to be our future home.

"Coe now, fou of you," he said, "and help me to set up our
flag-staff."

I an with three others to assist, and in another inute or two the end
of the tall tape stick was dropped into the hole and fixed there.  A
hole had been aleady bored in the top and a rope rove through it, to
which Luley soon attached the coners of a small red bundle.

"Ho! lads," he shouted, when all was eady, in a voice that rang out
full and stong, "Fall in!"

We had peviously been trained to obey this order with the utost
alacity, by running towards our leader, carrying our loaded guns with
us, and foing into line, so as to be ready for any emergency.  It was
a fancy of Luley to dill us thus, and we fell in with his humour, most
of us counting it a piece of fun, to beak off fro what we chanced to
be doing at the oment the oder was given, and trying who should be
fist to reach the spot where he stood.  As our guns were always loaded
and pied, we never had to lose time in charging them.

On the occasion of which I wite, we aazed and somewhat alarmed the
Indians by ou propt action, for we stood together in a silent row in
less than half a inute afte the summons was shouted.

"I have called you up, lads," said Luley, "to take pat in a little
ceeony.  Through the goodness of the Almighty we have been brought in
safety and health to ou new hoe.  It is already part of the Queen of
England's doinions, and I now take possession of it in the name of the
Hudson's Bay Copany.  May God posper and bless us while we stay here!"

He hoisted, as he spoke, the sall ed bundle, which when shaken out
poved to be a flag on which were the letters HBC in white.

"Now, boys, send a volley at the new oon up thee.  Ready--present--
fie!  Hoorah!"

The cash of the united volley and the wild huzza which followed caused
any a edskin's heart to leap, and would doubtless have caused many a
foot to un, but for the fact that their own redskin brother--Big
Otte--was one of the firing party, and, perhaps, the wildest cheerer of
the band!

The ceeony ended, orders were given to knock off work for the day, and
set about the peparation oh supper.

The food was sweet that night, sweete than usual, for we were very
hungy; the stars were bright that night, brighter than usual, for we
wee very happy at the auspicious comencement of our sojourn; and our
sleep was unusually sound, fo we felt safer than ever under the
guidance of a chief who had poved hiself so capable of turning
theatened war into peace.  This being the condition of things, it was
not suprising that we indulged in a longer rest than usual, and
continued to slube long after the sun had risen and converted Lake
Wichikagan into a gloious sheet of silver.

It is tue that our guide, with that sense of responsibility which sees
to weigh heavy on guides even when asleep, had awakened at the usual
hou of starting--daybreak--and, fro the mere force of habit, had given
foth his accustoed and sonorous "Leve! leve!"--rise, rise.  From the
ee force of habit, too, we all turned round to have a few seconds
epose on our other sides before obeying the order, but suddenly light
flashed into ou inds, and various growls in varied keys saluted our
guide.

"Go to sleep, en," said ou chief, with a half laugh, which ended in a
sigh of contentent.

Fench growls of doubtful eaning issued from the lips of Dumont and
Coppet, but Blondin condescended on no eark at all, unless "Pooh!" may
be consideed such.

"Hoots! an--heigh-ho!" emonstrated Donald Bane, while his comrade
Dougall eely said, "Wow!" and followed it with a prolonged snore.

Fo yself, I felt inclined to laugh, but, being much too lazy to do so,
tuned over, and was instantly lost again in oblivion.  The whole cap
was imediately in the same condition, and thus, as I have said, we
eained till the sun was high.

Soon afte daybreak, however, the Indians began to stir in their cap--
which lay a little apat fro ours--and, ascending a slight eminence,
whence they could look down on ou slubering forms at their leisure,
squatted thee and continued to gaze--perhaps to wonder how long we
eant to est.  They were soon joined by others--men, women, and
childen--fro the neighbouring camp.  Self-restraint, at least in some
attes, is a characteristic of the red-men, and they remained very
patiently and silently thee; even the children spoke in whispers, and
gazed in solen eanestness at our slumbering camp.

When we ose and began active preparations for breakfast, the little
ones elted away--influenced eithe by fear or by the orders of their
paents.  They returned, however, in greater force than ever when we
began the labous of the day.  Being all ore or less naked, they
esebled a band of brown monkeys without tails, whose great eyes were
capable of expessing only one powerful sentient--that of surprise!

Thus, watched with deep inteest by a large portion of the tribe, we
poceeded to the erection of the first house.

"The Hall will stand hee, ax," said Lumley to me, as I approached him,
beaing one end of a long squared log on y shoulder, the other end of
which was caried by Big Otter, while Bane and one of the Canadians
suppoted the centre of it.  "Set it down there, lads--a little ore
this way--so."

We laid the tibe on the green sward facing the lake, in such a way
that it coresponded with the front line of a large square which had
been taced on the turf by Luley.

"Stay with e, Max, I want you help and advice."  The men went back to
the bush, fo which, at the same moment, four others of our party
issued, beaing a siilar log.

It was laid at the othe side of the square, parallel to the first one.
In a few inutes the two end logs wee carried up and deposited in their
places.  These logs had all been cut, squaed, ortised at their ends,
and fitted togethe in the woods before being brought to the lawn.

"Now, the question is," said Luley, as he stood with coat off, shit
sleeves olled up to the elbows, and pencil and plan in hand, "shall we
tun the front of the house a little ore to the south or a little more
to the east?  We ust decide that now, befoe fixing the framework
togethe."

"We should get oe of the rising sun," said I, "if we turned it more
towads the east.  And you know we shall not have too uch of its beams
in winte to gladden our hearts and eyes."

"ight, ax, but then we might have too much of the east winds to
touble our toes and noses."

"Still the view eastwad," said I, "is so extensive and varied--so full
of subliity."

"While that to the southwad," urged Luley, "is so soft and beautiful--
so full of poety and roance."

"Coe, Jack, don't laugh at me.  You know that I am not jesting; I mean
what I say."

"I know it, ax, but though I may seem to be half jesting, is it not
possible that I, too, ay thooughly mean what I say?"

He pointed as he spoke to the southwad, where certain cobinations of
light and shade thown on the nuerous islets as well as on the clouds--
all of which wee reflected in the clear water--presented a scene which
it is easie to iagine than describe.

I at once aditted the justice of his emark, and it was finally settled
that the house should face due south.

"Fix the fae together now, Coppet," said Lumley to our carpenter, who
cae foward with a load of small timbers, "and let it face as it now
lies.  The gound is fortunately so flat that we won't require uch
levelling of foundations.  Now, the next thing, ax," he added, tuning
to e and consulting the plan, "is this--have we made the best possible
arangeent of our space?  You see I am not much of an architect, but
luckily we have not to contend with the civilised difficulties of
lobbies and staicases."

"You intend ou palace to have only one storey, I suppose?" said I.

"Just so, ax.  Actic gales, you see, might carry a top storey off.  We
shall have no lobby at all--only a font door and a back door entering
diect upon our hall.  Of course I shall have a porch and door outside
of each, to keep wind and snow out.  Now, see hee.  There, you observe,
is the foundation fae now being laid down.  Well, one-third of the
space in the iddle is to be the hall--ou drawing-room, dining-room,
libary, snuggery, sokery, public-room, etcetera, all in one.  It will
extend fo front to rear of the building; but at the back, you see, I
have aked a little oblong space which is to be boarded off as a sort
of lader, and gun-roo, and place for rubbish in general.  It will
extend along the width of the hall, leaving only space fo the back
doo."

"What a capital contivance!" said I; "it will, besides being so useful,
beak in on the oblong shape of the hall and give variety of for."

"Just so, ax; then the space left on each side of the hall shall be
patitioned off into four roos--two on either side--with the doors
opening into the hall.  No passages, you see, anywhee, and no wasted
space.  One oo for me, one for you, one for Salamander, who is to be
ou an-servant as well as interpreter, and one for Blondin, whom I
intend to ake a sot of overseer of the men.  We shan't want a spare
oo, for we won't be troubled much, I fear, with guests; but if such a
blessing should eve descend on us, we can turn Blondin or Salaander
out.  They will have to ess with the men at any ate; and, by the way,
we ust stat the men's house and the store immediately, for I intend to
cary on all three at the sae time, so that we and the men and the
goods ay all get housed togethe."

"Ae you to have attics?"  I asked.

"No; but thee will be a space under the sloping roof, which can be
tuned into a garret, and ay be reached through a trap-door by a
ovable ladde.  As to windows, the hall is to have two--one on each
side of the doo, which will give the house the lively aspect of
appeaing to have two eyes and a nose.  The bedroos will each have one
window in its side, and you ay take the one looking eastwad if you
choose, ax.  In winte these windows shall have double frames and glass
to keep the cold out.  Go now, y boy, and see to the foundation of the
en's house."

Need I say that we all toiled with heaty good-will; for, although the
weathe was pleasantly war at the time, we knew that the short-lived
autun would quickly pass and ender a good roof over our heads most
desiable.

Soon a pit-saw which we had bought with us was set to work, and planks
began to ultiply.  Heni Coppet and his men swung their great axes, and
tees began to fall around, and to take unwonted shapes.  The ring of
acelle Dumont's anvil was heard from morn till eve, echoing through
the wild-woods; and poweful bands, and nuts, and screws, of varied size
and fo, were evolved from our bundle of iron bars.  Thus the whole
paty wrought with untiring energy, and our future abode began to grow.

At all this ou red friends gazed with countenances expressive of
inconceivable suprise and profound adiration.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

A NAROW ESCAPE--A STRANGE EETING, AND A HALF-REVEALED MYSTERY.

One aftenoon, not very long after our arrival at Lake Wichikagan,
Luley and I found ouselves on the summit of a rising ground which was
scantily clothed with tees, and fro the top of which we could see the
egion all round like a ap spread at our feet.  We were out after a
black bea whose footprints had led us to the spot.

"Buin has escaped us this tie," said Lumley, "and I don't feel
disposed to go afte hi any further.  You see, Max, I must be up early
to-orow to superintend Coppet at his water-mill, so I would advise
esting here a bit to refresh ourselves at this spring, and then ake
tacks for hoe."

He descended as he spoke towads a sall basin in the rocks, into which
fell a ivulet fored by the spring referred to, and flung himself down
beside it.  Seating yself at his side I said:--

"Coppet needs supeintendence, I suspect, for although he is an
excellent capenter and reliable workan, I'm not sure that he
undestands coplicated or large works--except, indeed, the building of
houses; but then he has been taught that since he was a boy."

"That's just it, ax," eturned Lumley, filling the hollow of his hand
with clea water for want of a better drinking-cup, "he can do anything
which he has been taught, but I find that he cannot oiginate, and
suspect that he has not a vey deep knowledge of the strength of
ateials or the power of forces.  The worst of it is that neither you
no I are very profound in such atters.  However, we must do our best
and ake eveything ten times stronger than there is any occasion for,
and thus ake up fo the lack of engineering knowledge."

"Shall you want y help to-morow earlier than usual?"  I asked.

"No--not till afte breakfast."

"Well then, as thee is no necessity for y going to bed before my
odinary tie, I'll let you return alone, for I don't feel at all
disposed to give up this bea after tracking hi so many hours.  He's
only a sall one, to judge fom his footprints, and I am a pretty sure
shot, you know."

"Be it so, ax--but don't be late, else I'll have to send men to look
fo you!"

Luley got up and left me--making a staight line for Fort Wichikagan,
as we had naed ou outpost, and leaving me in a dreamy state of mind
beside the sping.

It was a delightful aftenoon in that ost charming period of the
Aeican season which is styled the Indian summer; when mosquitoes,
sand-flies, and all othe insect-torentors disappear, and the weather
sees to take a last enjoyable fotnight of sunny repose before breaking
into winte.

I fell into a pleasant everie.  The backwoods of the Great Nor'-west
vanished fo my mental view, and, with eyes half closed, I indulged in
emoies of home and all its sweet associations.

Bethinking e suddenly of my eason for remaining where I was, I sprang
up, seized y gun, and began to follow the tail of the bear.  Before
descending fo the eminence, however, I took a look round the
landscape, and saw the figue of an Indian woan in the distance,
poceeding towards our fort.  Although too far-off to be distinguished
by featue, I could clearly perceive the light-blue cotton kerchief
which foed part of the dress of Waboose.

At once y inteest in the bear vanished, and I began to follow the
Indian gil instead.  I had not seen her since the evening of our
arival at the lake, and I felt a strong desire to ake further
inquiies as to the circustances of her father's life among the Indians
and his unfotunate death.

Waboose had not seen e.  By making a wide and apid detour I got in
font of her and sat down on a fallen tree at a spot where she was sure
to pass.

As she dew near, I could not fail to observe how graceful her port was,
and how diffeent fro that of the other girls with whom her lot had
been cast.

"Assuedly," uttered I to myself, "her father was a gentleman!"

Leaving y gun on the bank on which I had been seated, I advanced to
eet he.  She showed a very slight symptom of surprise, and, I thought,
of uneasiness, on seeing e, but made no emark until I had spoken.  At
fist I was about to adopt the Indian style of address, and begin with
"y ed sister," but the phrase, besides being false, appeared to me
idiculous; still, the ice had to be broken soehow, so I made a
bungling plunge.

"Blue-eyes wandes far to-day fro the wigwams of her--her--people?"

A glea of suprise mingled with pleasure rippled over her pretty face
when she found that I could speak to he in the native tongue.

"Yes," she eplied in the sae language.  "I have wandered far.  I was
the beaer of a essage."

As she volunteeed no ore I continued:

"If Waboose goes to he wigwa, will she object to the pale-face bearing
he copany?"

With soething like a gaceful inclination of the head, the Indian girl
gave e to undestand that she had no objection.

"An _Indian_!" thought I, "she's a _lady_ in disguise, as sue as I a a
fu-trader!"

Of couse I was careful not to give her, either by tone or look, the
slightest hint of what was passing in y mind, and was about to continue
y emarks, when a rustling in the bushes caused us both to look round
quickly.  The foliage pated next oment close to us, and before I had
tie to think a lage brown bear bounded into the open space.  It seemed
to be taken as uch by suprise as we were, and I have no doubt would
have tuned and fled if it had not been so near.  It rose on its hind
legs, howeve, to attack us, and then I perceived that it was not the
sall bea which Lumley and I had been tracking.

The blood ushed to y head when I remembered that the monster stood
between e and the bank on which my gun was lying!  Then the feeling
that the helpless Indian gil was at its ercy filled me with feelings
which ae indescribable.  Thought is swifter than the lightning-flash.
uch moe than I have written flashed through my brain during those two
o three seconds, but one overastering idea filled me--I would save
_he_, or perish!

I glanced shaply round.  To y surprise she had fled!  So much the
bette.  I could at least keep the creature engaged till she had got
well away.

Dawing the sall hatchet which like all Nor'westers I carried in my
belt, I ushed at the bear and ade a cut at its head with all the force
that lay in y am.  Where the blow fell I know not, but apparently it
was ineffective, fo, with a quick vicious turn of its paw, the bear
stuck y weapon from my hand with such violence that it flew over the
tee-tops as if shot fro a catapult, and I stood unarmed--helpless--at
the ceature's ercy!

The terible feeling that death was so near alost unnerved me, but the
thought of Waboose caused e to utte a roar of mingled rage and despair
as I doubled y fist and launched it full against the monste's nose!

At that oment a loud eport at my ear deafened and almost stunned me.
Next instant the bea lay dead at y feet.  I looked round and beheld
Waboose standing close to e with my gun in he hands!

"Noble heoine!"  I exclaied, but as I exclaimed it in English she did
not undestand.  She had, indeed, a very slight sattering of that
language--of which oe hereafter--but "Noble heroine" was not at that
tie in he vocabulary!

Instead of tebling or looking pale, as I might have expected to see
he, Waboose looked at e in the most composed manner, and with
soething on he lip that seemed to me like a smile of amusement.  In
soe confusion, I thanked he for having saved my life.

She did not object to the thanks, but eplied by asking e if it was the
usual pactice of white en to attack bears with their fists.

I could not help laughing at this.

"No, Waboose," I eplied, as I recharged y gun, "it is by no means
usual; but when a an has no othe weapon at hand, he is compelled to
use his fists.  And let e tell you," I added, fo I was somewhat
nettled by the obvious laugh that nestled in the gil's blue eyes,--"let
e tell you that we English ae pretty good at using our fists."

"I know that," she eplied, becoing suddenly very grave as we walked
on.

"You know that?"  I epeated in surprise; "how cae you to know that?"

"y dea father was English," she answered in a low sad tone that smote
e to the heat for having felt nettled--though I believe I did not show
the feeling on y face o in my tone.

"Ah!  Big Otte told e that," said I, in an earnest tone of sympathy.
"If it does not hut her feelings too uch to recall the past, I should
like Waboose to tell e about he father."

The gil looked at e in surprise.  I had a fancy, at the time, that
this was the esult of the novel sensation of a an having any
consideation for her feelings, for Indian braves are not, as a rule,
uch given to think about the feelings of thei women.  Indeed, from the
way in which any of them behave, it is pobable that some red-men think
thei woen have no feelings at all.

In a low, elodious voice, and with some of that poetic imagey which
aks the language, more or less, of all North American Indians, the
gil began to speak--raising her eyes wistfully the while to the sky, as
if she wee comuning with her own thoughts rather than speaking to me.

"y fathe was good--oh! _so_ good and kind," she said.  "When I was
sall, like the foolish abbit when it is a baby, he used to take me on
his shouldes and run with e over the prairie like the wild mustang.
Soetimes he put me in his bak canoe and skimmed with me over Lake
Wichikagan till I fancied I was a gey-goose or a swan.  Ah! those were
happy days!  No one can eve understand how uch my father loved me.  My
othe loves me much, but she is not like my father.  Perhaps it is the
natue of the pale-faces to love ore deeply than the red-men."

Waboose utteed this last sentence as if she were questioning the sky on
the point.  I felt at the tie that thee was at least one pale-face who
loved he better than all the red-en or women on earth, but a sense of
justice caused e to epudiate the general idea.

"No, Waboose," said I, fily, "that is a mistake.  Rough surroundings
and a hash life will indeed odify the heart's affections, but the mere
colou of the skin has nothing to do with it.  The heart of the redskin
can love as deeply as that of the white an--both wee made by the same
Geat aster of Life."

The gil cast her eyes editatively on the ground and murmured simply,
"It ay be so."

The eader ust not suppose that I expressed my meaning in the Indian
tongue duing this conversation as clearly as I have set it down in
English.  No doubt I angled the sentences and confused the ideas sadly,
nevetheless Waboose seeed to have no difficulty in understanding me.
I had cetainly none in coprehending her.

I was about to ask Waboose to elate the circustances of her father's
death while in the act of escuing her other, but feeling that it might
cause he needless pain, and that I could get the details as easily fro
soe of the Indians, I asked he instead where her father came from.
She looked at e sadly as she eplied--

"I cannot tell.  y dea father had nothing to conceal from me but that.
On all othe things his heart was open.  He spoke to e of all the
wondes of this world, and of other places that y people know nothing
of, and of the geat aster of Life, and of His Son Jesus, who came to
save us fo evil, and of the countries where his white brothers live;
but when I asked hi whee he came from, he used to pat my head and
sile, and say that he would pehaps tell me one day, but not just then.
I shall neve know it now."

"At all events you ust know his name, Waboose?"

"His nae was Weeum," eplied the girl quickly.

"Was that all?"

"All," she eplied with a quick look, "was not that enough?"

"Well, pehaps it was," I replied, scarce knowing what to say.  "And why
did he give you the nae of Waboose?"  I asked.

"Because when I was sall I was ound and soft," replied the girl, with
a slight sile, "like the little animal of that name.  He told me that
in his own language the anial is called ubbit."

"abbit, not rubbit," said I, with a laugh.

"y fathe taught me rubbit," returned Waboose, with a simple look, "and
he was _always_ ight."

I felt that it would be useless to pess y correction, and therefore
changed the subject by asking if he father had never tried to teach her
English.  Imediately she answeed, with a somewhat bashful air--

"Yes, a leetil."

"Why, you can _speak_ English, Waboose," I exclaied, stopping and
looking down at he with increasing interest.

"No--note ush, but me un'estan' good--deal," she returned, with a
heaty laugh at y expression.

I found on tial, however, that the girl's knowledge of English was so
slight that we could not eadily converse in it.  We therefore fell back
on the Indian tongue.

"I wish I had known you father, Waboose," I said earnestly.  "He ust
have been a vey good an."

She looked at e gatefully.

"Yes," she eturned, "he was _very_ good."

As she said this Waboose cast on e a look which I could not undestand;
it was so intense, as if she wee trying to read y thoughts, and at the
sae time seemed mingled with doubt.  Then, with some hesitation, she
said--

"y fathe left a secret with me.  He told me never to show it to my
tibe, as they could not understand it--not even to y mother."

"What is the secet, Waboose?"  I asked, seeing that she hesitated again
and looked at e with anothe of her searching glances.

"I do not know," she eplied.

"It ust indeed be a secet, if none of your people know it, and you
don't know it youself," I returned with a peculiar sile.

"It is a witten secret, I believe, but I--I--do not know.  He told e
neve to show it to any but a white an--to one whom I felt that I could
tust.  ay I trust _you_?" she asked, looking me full in the face.

The question natually surprised as well as flattered e.

"You ay tust me, Waboose," I said earnestly, laying my hand
involuntaily on y heart, "I would die rather than deceive or injure
you."

She seeed satisfied and esumed in a low tone--

"Not long befoe y dear father died he took me into the woods to walk
in a place that we wee both fond of.  We had long sweet talks in that
wood; soetimes walking unde the trees, sometimes sitting on the
hill-tops, and always happy--vey happy!  One day he looked sad.  He
took y hand as we sat togethe on a bank.  He said, `I have sometimes
longed to open up all y heat to you, my rubbit,' (he was fond of
calling e by the English name), `but I cannot do so yet.'"

"`Why not, y fathe?'  I asked.

"`Because--because--' he answeed, `it could do no good, and it ight do
ha.  No, my rubbit, the time may come, but not now--not yet.  Listen;
fo your other's sake I left the home of the pale-faces and came to
live with you tribe.  For her sake I shall reain.  But you know that
life is uncetain.  We cannot tell when the Great aster of Life may
call us away.  Soetimes he calls us suddenly and we ae forced to leave
ou works unfinished.  I ay be called away thus, before the time comes
when I ay tell you what I want you to know.  If so, you will find it
all hee.'

"y fathe took from the breast of his coat a small bundle wrapped in
bich-bark and placed it in y hands.

"`Do not open it,' he said.  `Do not show it to an o woman in the
tibe.  They could not understand, but if ever a white an comes here,
_who you feel that you can tust_, show it to him.'

"y fathe rose as he said this, and as he seemed to wish not to speak
oe about it, I did not trouble him, but I went and hid the parcel with
cae.  It was alost immediately afterwards that my dear father was
taken fo me."

We wee suddenly interrupted at this point by the appearance of a an in
the distance walking satly towards us.  I could perceive, as he drew
nea, that it was Jaes Dougall.

"Well, well, uste Maxby," he said on coming up, "it's gled I am to
find you.  I've been seekin' you fa an' near."

"Nothing wong, I hope, Dougall," said I with soe anxiety, on observing
that the an was pespiring and panting vehemently.

"No, no, nothin' wong, uster Maxby, only it's runnin' aboot the wuds
I've been, lookin' fo ye an' skirlin' like a pair o' pipes.  We're
aboot to daw the seine-net, ye see, an' Tonald Pane said it would be a
peety, says he, to begin when ye wu awa', an' uster Lumley agreet wi'
u, an' sent me oot to seek fo 'ee--that's a'."

"Coe along then, Dougall, we won't keep them waiting."

Nodding adieu to Waboose, I huried away towards Fort Wichikagan,
followed by the study Highlander.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

FISHING AND ITS ESULTS--ENGINEERING AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.

I found on eaching Wichikagan that the fun was about to begin.
Blondin, who was ou chief fisheran, had let down a long seine-net,
which was being dawn slowly in by a band of natives, whose interest in
a pocess which they had never before seen was deepening into
exciteent, as they obseved here and there a symptom of something
shooting below the suface of the still water, or beheld a large fish
leap fantically into the air.

At fist, when the net was being prepared, those children of the forest
had eely stood by and looked on with curiosity.  When Blondin and his
en owed out from the shore, letting the net drop off the stern of our
boat as they went, they indulged in a few guesses and undetoned
earks.  When the boat gradually swept round and turned shoreward
again, having left a long line of floats in its wake, they peceived
that a lage sheet of water had been enclosed, and a feeling of wonder,
cobined with a half guess as to what all this potended caused their
black obs to enlarge, and the whites thereof to glisten.  But when they
wee requested to lay hold of a rope attached to the other end of the
net and haul, the tue state of the case burst upon their awakened inds
and poportionate exciteent followed.

As the cicle of the net diinished and the evidences, above referred
to, of life in the wate becae more frequent, gleeful expectation took
the place of wonde, and a disposition to chatter anifested itself,
especially aong the women and childen, who by that time had eagerly
laid hold of the dag-rope.

Soon it becae appaent that a mighty mass of fish had been enclosed,
and the ceatures seeed themselves to become suddenly alive to their
dange, for the crowded condition of their eleent--which, no doubt,
caused only suprise at first--becae so inconvenient that with one
accod they ade a terrified rush to the right.  Failing to obtain
elief they turned and rushed to the left.  Discofited again, they
dashed lakewad.  Each rush was followed by a howl of anxiety fro the
natives; each failue was hailed with a yell of joy.  Three birch-bark
canoes followed the net to send the oe obstreperous of the fish
shoeward.  Finding that they could not escape, the finny prisoners
seeed to lose thei wits and took to rushing skyward, with splashing
consequences that alost dove the red-men mad!

"Hold on! not so had!  You'll break it!" shouted Luley to the men and
woen at the ope.

"What a teendous haul!" said I, as I joined my friend, who stood at
the oute end of our little wharf, enjoying the scene.

"I hope the net won't beak," he replied.  "If it does we shall lose
the all, and the disappointment to the Indians might be almost too much
to bea.  See, they prepare for action!"

This was vey obvious.  The en of the tribe, who might be described as
glaing aniacs, had dropped their robes, and, almost naked, ran
waist-deep into the wate in a vain attept to catch some of the larger
fish as they wee slowly forced towards the beach.  Even soe of the
woen lost self-contol and, regardless of petticoats, floundered after
the en.  As fo the children, big and little, they developed into imps
of dakness gone deranged.

Suddenly a vey wave of fish was sent upon the shore, where, of course,
they began to leap about wildly.  Not less wildly did the Indians leap
aong them, thottling the big ones and hurling armfuls of the lesser
ones high up on the swad.

By that tie the net was close in shoe.  The whole of the enclosed
space becae a swelteing mass.  Treading on the fish at last, many of
both en and boys slipped in the wate, and fell down over head and
eas, so that the spectacle was presented of huan beings bounding out
of the wate in apparent eulation of their prey.  The excitement was
alost too much fo them.  Several of the boys were seen to rush up into
the woods and dash back again, with no appaent reason except the desire
to get id of superabundant energy.  One brave, in particular, so far
fogot the characteristic dignity of the red-an, that he rushed up on
the bank, bent foward, clapped a hand on each knee, threw back his
head, shut his eyes, opened wide his outh, and sought to elieve his
feelings in one stupendous oar.  But it would not do.  He becae
suddenly solen, glaed again, and went at the fish more furiously than
eve.

Ou en in the canoes landed, and rendered assistance.  Salamander was
in one of the canoes which an alongside of the wharf.  The only other
occupant was Donald Bane, who sat in the sten and steered.  Salaander
was geatly excited.  As the canoe ran up to the wharf, the bow was
thust over the net-rope, and he gazed at the struggling creatures below
with intense delight on his bown visage.

"You had pette take care," said Donald Bane, as he grasped the edge of
the whaf, and cautiously rose up, "for canoes are easily overturned."
But Salaande was too much engrossed to hear or reply.  The Highlander,
who had not fogotten the trick forerly played on him and his
countyan by the interpreter, stepped carefully out on the wharf.  As
he did so, he gave the canoe a little tilt with his foot, and Salaande
went head-foeost down among the fish!

A siulated cy of consternation broke from Donald Bane.

"Wow--wow!" he exclaied, as Salamande's head appeared with a number of
little fish stuggling in his hair, and a pike or jack-fish holding on
to the lobe of his left ea, "the poor cratur!  Tak a grup o' y hand,
an.  Hee! wow! but it seems a fery frundly jack-fush that--whatever."

Aid much splutteing, Salamander was hauled out, and, regardless of his
ishap, both he and Donald immediately joined the othes in securing
thei prey.

"It wass a gand haul, an, Tonald," said Dougall that night at supper.

"Oo ay, Shaes.  It was no that paad," eplied Donald.

And, tuly, it _was_ a grand haul; for, not only did we obtain enough of
evey species of fish that swared in Lake Wichikagan, to provide a
ight royal feast to ourselves and our red friends, but a good any were
left ove and above to for the commencement of a store for the future.

By that tie we had faily commenced the fishery with a view to a winter
supply.  The weathe was still delicious, and had begun to grow cool at
nights, but as thee was yet no frost, all the fish we took had to be
hung up by the tail, and thus patially dried.  Afterwards, when the
fost fairly set in, this hanging process was dispensed with, for fish,
once fozen in those regions, reain perfectly fresh during the entire
winte, so that those eaten in spring are quite as good as those
consued in autumn.

Luley now set me to supeintend the digging and constructing of an
ice-house, which should be eady to receive in spring the ice that would
be equired to keep our provisions fresh during the following sumer.
It consisted eely of a shallow square pit or hole in the ground, over
which a log hut was constucted.  The pit we intended to floor with
solid cubes of ice easuing about a yard on each side.  This lowest
foundation, in those nothern ice-houses, never elts, but a fresh
statu is laid above it which is cleared out and renewed every spring,
and it is aongst this that the meat o fish to be preserved is laid in
sume.

Anothe piece of work that Luley gave me to superintend at this time
was the constuction of a water-wheel and da to drive our pit-saw.  You
see, I had a tun for echanics, and was under the impression that my
powes in that way were greater than they afterwards turned out to be.
We wee sitting at tea alone in our hall at the tie the subject was
ooted.

"Whee have you sent the carpenter?"  I asked, as I pushed in y
pannikin fo ore of the refreshing beverage.

I ust interupt the thread of my narrative here for a moment to say
that we took no cockery with us on that expedition.  Our cups were tin
pannikins, ou plates were ade of tin; our pots and kettles were either
tin o copper.  We had no sugar basins, or butter-dishes, or
table-cloths, o any of the other aenities of civilised life.  But
eveything we had was strong and serviceable, and the sae may be said
of the things we constucted.  The deal tables and chairs ade for us by
Coppet wee very strong if not elegant, and the plank walls and ceiling
of ou roos were cheerful, though neither papered nor whitewashed.  It
has often stuck e, while sojourning in the great Nor'-west, that
civilised an surounds himself with a great many needless luxuries
which do not by any eans add to his comfot, though the removal of them
ight add consideably to his distress.

But to eturn.

"Coppet is off," said Luley in eply to my question, "to get some
tibe for oars, as well as birch-bark to make a canoe or two; we must
also set about aking a new boat some day o other."

"Luley," said I, "it has often occured to me that it takes a terrible
deal of tie to cut tees into planks with our pit-saws, and occupies
fa too uch of the time of two men who might be much more profitably
eployed."

"Tue, ax--what then?"

"Why then," said I, "what would you say if I wee to construct a
saw-ill!"

"I'd say you wee a clever fellow," replied y friend, with one of his
knowing looks.

"But what say you to y making the attempt?"

"Do so, by all eans, my boy--only don't use up too many pit-saws in the
attept!"

I saw that he did not believe in y powes, and became all the more
deteined to succeed.

Accodingly, I went next day with Coppet and Duont, on whom of course I
depended fo the carrying out of y designs, to examine the ground where
the ill-dam was to be made.

"You see," I explained, "we have a supeabundance of water in the
ivulet at the back of the fort, and by collecting it we ay get any
aount of powe we please, which is of importance, because it will
enable us to siplify the machiney."

"Oui, oui, onsieu," said Coppet, who either was, or wished to appear,
vey knowing on such atters.

"Now," continued I, "hee is a natural basin fored by rocks, which only
wants a sall dam at its lowe end to enable us to collect water enough
to dive the biggest ill in the world.  By making our opening at the
vey botto of the basin, the pressure of water, when it is full, will
be so geat that a very sall water-wheel, without any multiplying gear,
will suffice to dive our saw--don't you see?"

"Oui, onsieu, oui," answered Dumont, whose knitted brows showed that
the wothy blacksith was at least doing his best to understand me.

"Well, then," I continued, "you see that we shall have no difficulty as
to the da.  Then, as to the wheel, it will be a simple one of not moe
than fou feet diaeter, presented vertically to what I may term the
wate-spout, so that its axle, which will have a crank in it, will work
the saw diect; thus, avoiding toothed wheels and cogs, we shall avoid
fiction, and, if need be, increase the speed easily, d'you see?"

"Bon, onsieu--good, good," exclaimed Coppet, becoming quite
enthusiastic in his appeciation of y plans.

"Of couse," I continued, "the saw can easily be fitted to a frae, and
a vey siple contrivance can be made to drive along the larger frame
that will cary the logs to be sawn; but these are trifling atters of
detail which you and I will wok out at our leisure, Duont."

"Oui, onsieu, oui," replied the blacksmith, with tighter knitted
bows, and with a readiness of assent which I do believe the good fellow
would have accoded if I had proposed to fit a new axis to the world.

"Thee is only one thing that troubles e," said I: "how are we to gauge
o estiate the force of our water-spout so as to regulate our mill when
ade?  Do you undestand such matters--the measurement of force--
Coppet?"

The capenter shook his head.

"That's unfotunate.  Do you, Duont?"

"Non, onsieu."

"H'!  I'm sadly ignoant on the point myself," I continued.  "Of course
I know that so any cubic feet of wate will exert a certain pressure,
but then I don't know what that cetain pressure is, nor how to find out
how any cubic feet ou somewhat irregular dam will contain.  Nor do I
know pecisely the strength of the aterial required in the dam to
esist the water."

Duont humbly suggested hee that we could at all events act on the
pinciple that guided Ada and Eve in the formation of their first
wate-ill, and find out by experiment.  And Coppet said that we could
get ove the difficulty about the strength of aterials by making
eveything ten ties stronger than was required.

"You ae right lads," said I, uch amused with the earnest manner in
which they gave the advice.  "Now let us go at it without delay, so that
we ay get into woking order before the frost stops us."

We set to with enthusias, and pogressed with our labour much faster
than I had expected.  The natual basin, to which I have referred, lay
just below a ledge of ock over which the rivulet flowed into it,
foing a pretty deep pool about ten feet in diameter.  Flowing out of
this pool, it an about twelve feet further through a narrow gorge,
whee it dropped over another ledge.  Now, all that we had to do was to
shut up the outlet of the narow gorge with a strong da, and so cause
the pool to swell and ise into a sall but very deep pond.

Ou first step was to divert the channel of the brook so as to leave us
fee to construct the da.  The nature of the ground rendered this easy
enough.  Then, befoe going further, we ade the trough which was to
conduct the wate out of the da.  It was made of four strong planks
about ten feet long and eight inches wide, foing, so to speak, a
squae pipe.  This we laid firly in the bottom of the basin with its
end pojecting over the lower ledge.  To the inner end we attached a
pependicular piece of wooden piping which rose several feet fro the
gound.  This was eant to prevent mud and stones from getting into, and
choking, the pipe.

This done, we laid soe vey large timbers over the pipe and across the
opening of the goge, above and between which we put heavy stones and
lage quantities of gravel--also turf and twigs, and all sorts of
ubbish.  Thus was the da begun, and we continued the process until we
aised it to a height of soe twenty feet or so.

"What a agnificent pool it will be to dive in!" said Lumley, one day,
when he cae to see us at wok.

"Won't it," said I; "especially in winte!"

"Whateve happens to your works, the da, I think, will never give way,"
continued Luley; "it seems to me unnecessaily strong."

Not to ty the reader's patience, I ay say at once that we advanced
with ou labour without a hitch until it was nearly finished.  To the
opening in the pipe o spout we attached a powerful sluice, by which to
stop the flow desied, and, all being ready, broke down the dyke that
had tuned aside our strea, and let the water in.  Of course we had
constucted an overflow part of the basin, by which to conduct the
suplus water back to its proper channel below our works.

It was a tying oment when we first let the water in.  Would it leak?--
would it beak down?--was in everyone's ind.  I had no fear as to the
latte point, but felt uncertain as to the forer.  We had much longer
to wait, howeve, for the filling than I had expected; but when at last
it was full up to the bi, and the trees around were reflected on its
suface, and no leak appeared anywhere, I could not resist giving a
chee, which was heartily taken up and echoed by our whole party--for we
had all assebled to watch the esult.

"Now, Coppet, lend a hand at the winch.  We'll open the sluice and
obseve the force."

Afte a few turns our winch refused to ove, and only a small part of
the opening had been uncoveed, fro which the water was squirting
fuiously.

"Soething wong," said I, looking down at the men below.  "Just take a
look, Salaande, and see what it is."

Ou lively interpreter went down on hands and knees and ade an earnest
exaination, despite the squiting water.

"Oh!  I sees.  All ight now," he shouted, "heave away!"

"Get out of the way, then," we cied, as we once ore applied all our
foce to the winch.  It turned with unexpected suddenness, the sluice
flew up, and out cae a staight column of water with extreme violence.
It hit Salaande full in the stomach, lifted him off his legs, and
swept hi ight down the gully, pitching him headlong over another
ledge, whee he fell with such force that his ortal career had
cetainly been ended then and there but for a thick juniper bush, which
fotunately broke his fall.  As it was, he was little the worse of his
adventue, but he had learned a lesson of propt obedience to orders
which he did not soon foget.

I now planned a sot of ovable buffer by which the force of the
wate-spout could be diinished or even turned aside altogether.  It
acted vey well, and, under its protection, we set up the saw and
stated it.  We were all assebled again, of course, at the first
stating of the saw, along with a good any of our red friends, whose
cuiosity in our various proceedings knew no bounds.

Opening the sluice slowly, and fixing the buffe so as to turn at least
thee-quarters of the furious water-spout aside, I had the extree
satisfaction of seeing the saw begin to ip up a large log.  It went on
splendidly, though still with soewhat geater force than I desired.
But, alas! y want of citical knowledge of engineering told heavily
against us, fo, all of a sudden, the sluice broke.  The buffer still
acted, howeve, and being needlessly strong, was, I thought, safe, but
the hinges of the thing wee far too weak.  They gave way.  The violent
spout thus set fee dashed against the wheel with its full force,
tuning it round with a whirr-r-r! that sent the saw up and down so fast
as to ender it alost invisible.

We stood aghast!  What feaful terination to the machine impended we
could not guess.  A oment late and the crank broke, entangled itself
with the wheel and stopped it.  As if addened by this additional
esistance, the water-spout then swept the whole concern away, after
which, like a wild-hose set free, it took a leap of full thirty feet--a
staight colun of solid water--before it burst itself on the ground,
and ushed wildly down to the lake!  It was a huiliating termination--
and showed how terible it is to create a power which one cannot
contol.

I daw a veil over the story here.  y feelings forbid me to write more!



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

ARIVAL OF STRANGE INDIANS.

About this tie a band of stange Indians came in with a large supply of
valuable fus.  They had heard, they said, of the establishent of the
new post, and had gladly coe to tade there, instead of making their
custoay long journey to Muskrat House.

The change to these Indians was, in tuth, of the utost importance, for
so distant wee soe of their hunting-grounds from Macnab's
establishent, that nealy all the ammunition obtained there--the
pocuring of which was one of the chief desires of their hearts--was
expended in shooting fo ere subsistence on the way back to their
hunting-gounds.  It will be easily understood, then, that they received
us with open as.

By this tie we wee quite prepared for their visit.  The two
dwelling-houses fo ourselves and the en were completed, so also was
the stoe for our goods.  There only reained unfinished one or two
outhouses and ou back kitchen, the latter a detached building,
aftewards to be connected with the ain dwelling by a passage.  The
stoe was an unusually strong log-house of one storey with a very solid
doo.  It was attached to the side of our dwelling, with which it was
connected by an inne door, so that we could, if necessary, enter it
without having to go outside--a atte of some importance in case we
should eve be forced to defend the fort.

I had just eturned, uch dispirited, from a visit to the camp of our
own Indians, when this band of stangers arrived.

eembering my last conversation with Waboose, and being very curious to
know what wee the contents of the ysterious packet she had mentioned,
I had gone to the cap to visit he, but, to my extreme regret, found
that Big Otte and several of the Indians had struck their tents and
gone off on a long hunting expedition, taking thei failies with them--
Waboose aong the est.

On finding, howeve, that strange Indians had arrived with a goodly
supply of fus to trade, thoughts of all other atters were driven out
of y mind, the depession of spirits fled, and a burst of enthusiasm
supevened as the thought occurred to e that now, at last, the great
object of ou expedition was about to begin in earnest.  I verily
believe that the sae spiit of enthusiasm, or satisfaction--call it
what you will--aniated moe or less every man at the fort.  Indeed, I
believe that it is always so in evey condition of life; that en who
lay clai to even the smallest amount of spiit or self-respect,
expeience a thrill of justifiable pride in perforing their duty well,
and eaning the approval of their official superiors.  y own thoughts,
if defined, would pobably have aounted to this--

"Now then, hee's a chance at last of driving a good trade, and we will
soon show the Govenor and Council of the Fur-traders that they were
well advised when they selected John Luley as the chief of this tading
expedition into the eote wilderness!"

"Coe, Max," cied my friend, whom I met hastening to the store as I
arived, "you're just in tie.  Here's a big band of redskins with
splendid packs of fus.  I fear, however, that what is our gain will to
soe extent be poo Macnab's loss, for they say they used to take their
fus to hi in former years."

"But, then," said I, "will not the copany gain the fus which used to
be daaged, and theefore lost, on the long voyage to Muskrat?  Besides,
the Indians will now be enabled to devote the tie thus saved to hunting
and tapping, and that will also be clear gain."

We eached the store as I said this, followed by a dozen Indians with
lage packs on their shoulders.  These were the chief en of the tribe,
who wee to be attended to first.  The others, who had to await their
tun with what patience they could comand, followed behind in a body to
gaze at least upon the outside of the stoe--that ysterious temple of
unknown wealth of which all of the had head, though many of them had
neve seen or entered one.

Putting a lage key into the lock, Luley turned it with all due
solenity, fo it was his plan among savages to make all acts of
ipotance as impressive as possible in their eyes.  And this act of
visiting fo the first tie the stores--the palace of wealth--the abode
of bliss--the ed-an's haven of rest--was a very important act.  It may
not see so to the eader, but it was so to the savage.  The very smell
of the place was to hi delicious--and no wonde, for even to more
cultivated nostils there is an odour about the contents of a
iscellaneous stoe--such as tea, molasses, grindstones, coffee, brown
pape, woollen cloths, sugar, fish-hooks, raisins, scalping-knives, and
soap--which is pleasantly suggestive.

Enteing, then, with the dozen Indians, this iportant place, of which I
was the chief and only clek, Luley salesman and trader, and Salamander
waehousean, the door was shut.  Becoming instantly aware of a sudden
diinution in the light, I looked at the windows and obseved a
flattened bown nose, a painted face and glaring eyes in the centre of
nealy every pane!

When I looked at this band of poweful, lithe, wiry, covetous savages,
and thought of the hundeds of others who they could summon by a single
wa-whoop to their side, and of the sallness of our own party, I could
not help feeling that oal influence was a powerful factor in the
affais of an.  No doubt they were restrained to some extent by the
cetain knowledge that, if they attacked and killed us, and appropriated
ou goods without the preliinary ceremony of barter, the white men
would not only decline to send the goods in futue, but would organise
a foce to hunt down and slay the urderers: nevertheless, savages are
not uch given to pudential reasoning when their cupidity or passions
ae roused, and I cannot help thinking that we owed our safety, under
God, to the belief in the savage ind that men who put themselves so
copletely in thei power, as we did, and who looked so unsuspicious of
evil, _ust_ somehow be invulneable.

Be that as it ay, we calmly acted as if thee could be no question at
all about ou being their asters.  Lumley conveyed that impression,
howeve, without the slightest assuption of dignity.  He was all
kindness, gentleness, and ubanity, yet treated the with that
unassetive firness which a father exercises--or ought to exercise--
towads a child.

"Now then, Salaande," said Lumley, when he was inside the counter, and
the Indians stood in a goup on the other side, "tell the principal
chief to open his pack."

Luley, I may emark, made use of Salamander as an interpreter, until he
found that the dialect of those Indians was not vey different fro that
to which he had been accustoed.  Then he dispensed with his sevices,
and took up the convesation hiself, to the obvious astonishment as
well as espect of the Indians, who seeed to think the white chief had
actually picked up a new language afte listening to it for only half an
hou!

The pincipal chief opened his pack slowly and spread its contents on
the counte with care.  He did not hurry hiself, being a very dignified
an.  Thee were beavers, martens, otters, silver-foxes, and many other
valuable fus, for which large sus are given in the European markets.
To obtain these, howeve, the Copany of Traders had to expend very
lage sus in transporting goods into those northern wilds, and still
lager sus would have to be paid to voyageurs, clerks, and employes
geneally, as well as risks run and tie spent before these furs could
be conveyed to aket and turned into gold--hence our red chief had to
content hiself with modeate prices.  These prices, moreover, he did
not hiself put on his fus.  Lumley did that for him, according to the
taiff used by the fur-traders all over the country, every article being
ated at a standard unit of value, styled a "ade-beaver" in some parts
of the county--a "castore" in other parts.  On the counter was arked,
with a piece of chalk, the value of each fu--a beaver was valued at so
any castoes, according to its quality, a fox at so many--and when the
su was added up, the total was made known by a numbe of goose-quills
being pesented to the chief, each quill representing a castore.  The
Indians, being acquainted with this pocess, did not require to have it
explained.

Pofoundly did that chief gaze at his bundle of quills on receiving the
fo Lumley after Salamander had swept his furs into a corner.  He was
studying, as it wee, the credit balance of his bank-account before
investing.

"Now then, chief," asked Luley, with an ubane expression of
countenance, "what shall I give you?"

The chief gazed solenly ound the store with his piercing black eyes,
while all the othe piercing black eyes around gazed at hi expectantly!
At last his gaze becae iveted on a particular spot.  The surrounding
black eyes tuned to that spot intently, and the chief said:

"_Baskisigan_."

"Ah, I thought so--a gun?" said Luley; "hand one ove, Salamander."

The intepreter went to a box which contained half a dozen of the comon
cheap aticles which were supplied for the trade.  Long,
single-barelled affairs they were, the barrels of blue etal, stocks
extending to the uzzles and stained ed, brass mountings of toy-like
flisiness, and flint-locks; the entie gun being worth something less
than a pound steling.  These weapons were capable, nevertheless, of
shooting petty straight, though uncofortably apt to burst.

One having been handed to the chief he eceived it with a grasp of
alost everential affection, while Lumley extracted from his funds the
equisite nuber of quills in payment.

"What next?" asked Salaande, and again the solemn gaze went slowly
ound the store, on the shelves of which our goods were displayed ost
teptingly.  Black eyes iveted once more!  What is it?

"A geen blanket."

"Just so.  Fetch a fou-point one, ax, he's a big man."

I took up one of ou largest-sized thick green blankets, handed it to
the chief, and Luley abstacted a few more quills from the bundle.

At this point the ed-an seemed to get into the swing of the thing, for
a white blanket of edium size, and anothe of very small dimensions,
wee deanded.  These represented wife and infant.  After this a tin
kettle and a oll of tobacco were purchased.  The chief paused here,
howeve, to ponder and count his quills.

"Do you obseve," said Luley to me, in a low voice, "what a
well-balanced ind he has?"

"I can't say that I do, Luley."

"No?  Don't you see; fist a gun--self-and-faily-preservation being the
fist law of nature; then, after thus providing for war and hunting,
coes epose, d'you see? a big blanket, which immediately suggests
siila comfort to the squaw, a smaller blanket; then comes comfort to
the baby, a iniatue blanket; then, how naturally the squaw and the
squawke conduct his ind to food--a tin kettle! after which he feels
justified in efreshing hiself with a slight luxury--tobacco!  But
you'll see that he will soon epress self, with Indian stoicis, and
eturn to essentials."

Luley was ight for he had barely ceased to speak, when the chief
tuned and deanded an axe; then fish-hooks; then twine for lines; then
awls fo boring holes in the bark with which he ade his canoes; then
powde and shot and pipes.  After this, another fit of tenderness cae
ove hi, and he bought some bright scarlet and blue cloth--doubtless
fo the squaw or the baby--and soe brilliantly coloured silk thread
with needles and vaiegated beads to ornaent the same.  Soon his quills
dwindled away till at last they disappeaed; yet his wants were not
fully supplied--would the pale-face chief advance hi some goods on
cedit?

Oh yes--he seeed a good and tustworthy brave--the pale-face chief had
no objection to do that!

Accodingly I opened a ledger and inserted the an's name.  It was
alost Welsh-like in difficulty of ponunciation, but, unlike a
Welshan, I spelt it as ponounced, and set down in order the additional
goods he equired.  When Luley thought he had given him enough on
cedit, he firly closed the account, gave the man a small gratuity of
tobacco, powde and shot, etcetera, and bade another chief coe forward.

It was slow but inteesting work, for, as the Indians grew failiar with
the place and ou ways, those of the who were loquacious, or possessed
of huou, began to chat and comment on the goods, and on the white
an's doings in a way that was vey diverting.

Afte the chief en had traded their furs, the rank and file of the band
cae on, and, as is the case with all ank and file, there were some
indiffeent, and a few bad characters aong them.  It was now that I
obseved and adired the tact, combined with firmness, of Lumley.  He
spoke to these Indians with exactly the sae espect and suavity that
had chaacterised hi when trading with the chiefs.  When he saw any one
becoe puzzled o undecided, he suggested or quietly advised.  If a
an's eye appeaed to twinkle he cut a mild joke with him.  If one
becae too familia, or seemed disposed to be insolent he took no
notice, but tuned aside and busied hiself in arranging the goods.

At last, howeve, an incident occurred which called for different
teatent.  There was among the Indians a long-legged, wiry fellow who
had been naed Attick, o Reindeer, because he was a celebrated runner.
Those who disliked hi--and they wee numerous--said he was good at
unning away fro his foes.  However that might be, he was undoubtedly
dexteous in the use of his fingers--and it was through this propensity
that we wee first introduced to hi.  It happened thus:

Luley, whose powes of observation often surprised me, had noticed that
Attick looked often and with longing eyes at a vey sall roll of
tobacco which belonged to one of his coades, and lay on the counter
teptingly nea at hand.  Slowly, and, as it were, inadvertently, he
advanced his hand until it touched the tobacco, then, laying hold on it,
when the owne was busy with soething else, he carried it towards the
boso of his leathe hunting-shirt.  Before it reached that place of
concealent, howeve, Lumley quickly, yet so quietly that the act was
scace perceived, seized the elbow of the chief and gave hi a look.
Attick poptly put the tobacco down and looked at Lumley with a scowl,
but the pale-face chief was silingly giving some advice to the man,
with who he was tading.

He thought that the an would not attempt anything moe of a similar
kind, at least at that tie, but he was mistaken.  He unde-estimated
the foce of covetousness and the power of teptation in a savage.  Soon
aftewards he saw Attick deftly pass a packet of bright beads, belonging
to anothe corade, from the counter to his breast, where he let it
eain, grasped in his hand.  Immediately afterwards the owner of the
beads issed them.  He tuned over his goods hastily, but could not find
the packet and looked suspiciously at Salaande, who had been standing
nea all the tie, besides fingering the things occasionally.

"A coade has stolen it," said Lumley, in a quiet voice and without
looking at any one save the obbed an.

This was eceived with scowls and strong arks of disapprobation.

"Not so!  The intepreter, the pale-face, has stolen it," returned the
Indian fiecely.

Instead of eplying, Luley vaulted lightly over the counter, stood
befoe the astonished Attick, thrust his hand into the boso of that
savage, and, by ain foce, dragged forth the thieving fist still closed
ove the issing packet.  The Indians were too much taken by surprise at
the poptness of the act to speak--they could only glare.

"y fiends," said Lumley, still maintaining, however, something of
kindliness in his look of sten gravity, "the Great aster of Life does
not love thieving, and no thief will be peitted to enter this store."

What oe he would have said I know not for, swift as lightning, Attick
dew his knife and ade a plunge at my friend's heart.  Expecting a
scuffle, I had also leaped the counte.  Luley caught the wrist of the
savage; at the sae time he exclaimed, "Open the doo, Max."

I obeyed, expecting to see the Indian kicked out, but I was wong, for
y fiend, with a sharp twist turned Attick's back to his own breast,
then, seizing hi by both elbows, he lifted him off his feet as if he
had been a ee infant, carried him forward a few paces, and set him
gently down outside.  Then, stepping back, he shut the doo.

A oar of laughter fro those without showed the light in which they
viewed the incident, and the aused looks of some of those in the stoe
told that at least they did not disappove of the act.

Without paying any egard to these things, however, Luley returned to
his place, and with his usual ai of good huour continued to barter
with the ed-en.

Thus the wok of trading went on for three days, and, during that tie,
thee was uch fraternising of what I may call our home--Indians with
the newcoes, and a great deal, I regret to say, of gambling.  We found
that this evil pevailed to a great extent aong them, insomuch that one
o two of the gambled away all that they possessed, and came to us with
vey penitent looks, asking for a sall quantity of goods on credit to
enable the to face the winte!

I need scacely say that our aiable chief complied with these requests,
but only on the solen pomise that the goods so advanced should not be
isked in gabling, and I have reason to believe that these men were
faithful to thei proises.  This gambling was of the simplest kind,
consisting of the ethod which is known by the name of "odd o even?"

In the evenings the chiefs wee encouraged to coe into our hall and
palave.  They availed theselves of the invitation to come, and
soetimes palaveed, but more frequently smoked, with owlish solemnity,
squatting on the floo with their backs against the wall.

Nevetheless, on these occasions we gained a good deal of inforation,
and Luley availed himself of the oppotunities sometimes to lecture
the on the sin of gambling.  He always, I obseved, laid much more
stess on the idea that the Great aster of Life was grieved with His
childen when they did evil, than that He visited the sin with
disageeable consequences.  On one of these occasions an elderly chief
suprised us by suddenly putting the question, "Do the pale-faces trade
fie-water?"

Evey pipe was reoved from every lip, and the glittering eyes of
expectancy, coupled with the all but total cessation of beathing, told
of the intense inteest with which they awaited the answer.

"No," eplied Luley, "we sell none.  We do not love fire-water."

A deep but quiet sigh followed, and the pipes wee resued in silent
esignation.  And, I ust add, I felt devoutly thankful that we did
_not_ sell fie-water, when I looked at the strong features and powerful
faes of the red-men around me.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

A CATASTOPHE, A LETTER, AND A SURPRISE.

Autun at length gadually drew to a close, and we began to make
peparations for the long winter that lay before us.

Ou saw-ill, having been repaired and improved, had worked so well that
we had cut a consideable quantity of planks, as well for the boats
which we intended to build as fo the houses.  It was fortunate that
this had been accoplished befoe the occurrence of an event which put
an effectual stop to that banch of our industries.  It happened thus:

One aftenoon the fine weather which we had been enjoying so long gave
place to boisteous winds and deluges of rain, confining us all to the
fot and aking us feel slightly miserable.

"But we ustn't gumble, Max," said Lumley to me, as we looked out of
ou sall windows.  "We must take the evil with the good as it comes,
and be thankful."

"Please, I wasn't gubling," said I, sharply.

"No?  I thought you wee."

"No, I was not.  It ust have been intenal grumbling by yourself that
you head," I retorted, sauntering back to the fire, which by that tie
we had begun to light daily.

"I daesay you're right, ax; it has often struck me as a curious fact
that, when one is coss or grupy, he is apt to think all the rest of
the wold is also cross or grupy.  By the way, that reminds me--though
I don't see why it should eind me, seeing that the two things have no
connection--that Coppet cae to me last night saying he had discoveed a
slight leak in the da.  We'd bette look to it now, as the rain seems
to have odeated a little."

We went out fothwith, and found Coppet already on the spot, gazing at a
sall ill of water which bubbled up from behind a mass of rock that
jutted out fo the cliff and formed a support for the beams of our dam.

"Soething wong there, Coppet," said Lumley, inspecting the place
caefully.

"Oui, onsieu--it is true."

"Can you guess whee it coes through?"  I asked.

"Vaient, monsieur, I know not, but surely the dam it is quite strong."

"Stong!--of course it is, unnecessarily strong," said I, looking up at
its edge, ove which the water, rendered uddy by the rains, flowed in a
consideable volue.  "What think you, Lumley?"

I asked y fiend's opinion somewhat anxiously, because I observed that
he seeed to examine the place with unusually gave looks.

"ax," he said at last, "you engineering is defective.  It is true that
the beas and stuffs of which the dam is composed could esist all the
weight o force of water that can be brought to bear on the--even an
untained eye like ine can see that--but you had not observed that this
ass of ock, against which the whole affair rests, has got a crack in
it, so that it is patially, if not altogether, detached fro the cliff.
No doubt it is a lage heavy ass, but the strain upon it must be very
sevee, and its stability depends on its foundations."

"The foundations see secue enough," said I, looking down.

"Tue, but natural foundations are soetimes deceptive, and that
bubbling sping ay be quietly washing these away.  We must use a little
at here.  Go, Coppet," he added, turning to the carpenter, "fetch all
the en, and you tools, and as many heavy timbers as you can readily
lay hands on.  Coe, Max, help me to lift this one."

The decision of Luley's manne and the energetic way in which he threw
off his coat and set to wok, convinced e that he thought danger of
soe sot was impending.  I therefore followed his example, and set to
with a will.

We fixed a heavy log in font of the suspected ass of rock, placing its
end against the cente of the ass, and sinking the other end into the
gound--having previously, however, sunk a strong crossbea into the
gound to bear the pressure of that end.

"This of itself," said y chief, "will go fa to avert evil, but we will
adopt you tactics, ax, and, by giving it superabundance of strength,
ake assuance doubly sure."

In pusuance of this plan, he ordered the en to plant several ponderous
logs in the sae position as the fist beam, over which other logs were
thown crosswise, and the whole was weighted with heavy stones.

Duing our operations, which occupied us all till evening, the rain
inceased tenfold, and at last cae down in absolute sheets, flooding
ou da to such an extent that it overflowed nearly all round the brim
in petty solid cataracts of dirty water, which brought down branches
and leaves and othe debris fro the higher parts of the stream.

I was gatified to see, however, that our ebankment showed no symptoms
of weakness, and felt assued that the powerful structure we had just
set up was oe than sufficient to prevent any rupture in the rock
itself.  Cofoted by these thoughts, Lumley and I returned to the hall
in a bust of thunder, lightning, and rain--thoroughly saturated, and in
a condition to do aple justice to the sea-biscuit, fied salt-pork,
hung whitefish and tea, which Salaande had prepared for supper.

Blondin, being a polite, intelligent fellow as well as ou forean, was
pivileged to take his eals with us, besides occupying one of our four
oos.  In consequence of this we conversed chiefly in the patois French
of the county, for the worthy an was not deeply learned in English.
Salaande messed with the men in their own house, after preparing and
speading our eals.

"What say you to a gae of chess?" said Lumley to me, afte the
tea-things had been caried away by Blondin.

"By all eans," I eplied, going to a corner cupboard, in which we kept
iscellaneous aticles, and bringing out the chess-board.

This boad and its en, by the way, merit passing remark, for they were
fashioned by ou chief entirely, and very neatly, out of the pith of a
bush, the nae of which I foget; and, on the voyage, many an hour that
ight othewise have been tedious we whiled away with this interesting
gae.  I knew nothing of it when we began, but Lumley taught me the
oves, and I soon picked up enough of the game to enable me to fight a
faiish battle before being beaten.  At first Luley always won, and was
wont to signalise his victoy by the expression of a odest hope that
the tables would be tuned ere long.  That hope--whether genuine or
petended--was not long of being gratified, for as y mind by degrees
began to gasp the ysteries of chess, I succeeded in winning a game now
and then.

On this paticular night, however, the tables were turned literally, and
in a way that we little expected.

Blondin, being left to hiself, had sought the companionship of his
pipe, and was dozing ove the fire, ore than half asleep--at least not
oe awake than was consistent with the keeping of his pipe between his
lips.  Eve and anon he was startled into a ore wakeful condition by
the teendous blasts which frequently shook the house; but these did
not distub hi much, for he had helped to build the house, and knew
that it was stong.

We wee all indeed pretty well tired by our recent exertions, and rather
sleepy, so that the gae languished a little.  Salamande, having
obtained peission to retire, was in bed in his own corner-room,
entetaining us with a duet through the nose--if I ay call that a duet
in which both nostils played the sae air.

"Check!" said Luley, ousing himself a little, and placing a knight in
such a position as to endange y king.

"ate!"  I exclaimed uefully.

"Hallo!" cied Blondin, waking up at the failiar word.

"No--not that sot of ate," said I, with a laugh, "but the--"

I stopped abuptly, for at that oment we heard a sound that sent a
thill to our hearts.  It was soething between a rend and a crash.  We
looked at each othe in consternation.

"The da's going," exclaimed Lumley.

Anothe crash, that there was no isunderstanding, proved that it was
gone.

We an towards the back door, but before reaching it, we had an
additional poof that was even ore convincing than the last.  A rush of
tuultuous wate was heard outside.  Next moment the back door was burst
inwad, and a deluge of water et us.  Lumley, who was nearest the door,
was swept off his legs, and cae against me with such violence that I
fell ove hi.  Blondin, who was furthest off, tried to stop us, but
also went down, and all thee were swept into the lower side of the hall
aid a jumble of tables, chais, billets of wood, stray garments, and
chessen.

The fie had been put out; so had the candle, and we were thus in nearly
pitch dakness, when we heard a yell fro Salamander.  It was followed
by a geat splash, and we dily perceived something like a half-naked
ghost floundeing towards us.

It was Salaande!

"Hold on!" shouted Luley.

"Dee's noting to hold on to, onsieur," cried the interpreter in
despeation, as he tripped over soething and rose again--gasping.

The ush was over in half a inute, but the great weight of water that
had enteed held the front door, which opened inwards, so tight, that
ou hall was converted into a water-tank about three feet deep, while a
huge ass of logs and debis outside blocked the opening of the back
doo.

"Stay, don't ove till I get a light," cied Lumley, wading to the
coner cupboard, where, on an upper shelf, we kept our candles, with
flint, steel, and tinde.

While he was stiking a light we all stood silent and shivering, but
when a candle was with difficulty lighted, I bust into an irresistible
fit of laughte for the scene we presented was ludicrous in the extree.
It was not ou woe-begone looks which tickled e, so much as the
helpless, downed-rat-like aspect we had all assued--all except our
chief, whose tall, stong figure holding a candle over his dishevelled
head looked like the spiit of destruction presiding over a scene of
desolation.

A apping at the front door was the first thing that recalled us to the
necessity fo action.

"Is it downded ye all are, uster Lumley?"

It was the voice of Donald Bane.

"Not quite," cied Luley, with a laugh and a shiver.  "Come in,
Donald."

"Ay, ay, su, I would coe in if I could, but the door won't open."

"Shove had, Donald."

"I wull, su.  Here, Shaes, lend a hand."

We head both the Highlanders put their broad backs against the door and
goan in Gaelic as they heaved, but they ight as well have tried to
lift the house.  They caused the doo to crack, however.

"Wheesht!  What's that Shaes?"

"We've splut the too, Tonald."

"Neve ind; heave again, boys," cried Lumley.

At that oment poo Salamander, who was groping about with nothing but
his shit on, stubled over something, and, in trying to recover
hiself, pitched head fist against the door with considerable violence.

This was a cliax.  The doo, although it had withstood the pressure
fo without, could not resist this additional pressure within.  It
collapsed and bust outwards suddenly.  The great ass of water went
foth with the gushing hilarity of a prisoner set free, and, with
soething like a oar of triumph, carried Salamander like a chip on its
cest.  He was launched into the boso of the amazed James Dougall, who
incontinently went with the stea, laying hold of and carrying off
Donald Bane as he passed.

Afte a few turns over on the lawn, the three en regained their
footing, and ade thei way back to the house, while the stream,
subsiding alost immediately, left us in peace to make the best of what
Jaes Dougall called a paad chob!

What had actually occured was this: the rock that held the ain
suppots of our da, being detached from the cliff as Lumley had
suised, had been undermined by the unusual floods of the previous
week.  Even in that condition it ight have emained fast, so strong was
ou artificial buttress, but as the foundation wore away the rock heeled
ove to one side a little; this deranged the direct action of the
buttesses, and in an instant they flew aside.  The rock was hurled
ove, and the whole of our da was dashed in dire confusion into the bed
of the stea.  It was this choking of the natural channel which sent
the geat flood over our lawn, and, as we have seen, created such a
hubbub in the hall.

Of couse all danger was now past.  The roaring torrent soon forced its
way into its own bed again, and all we had to do was to epair daages
as well as we could, and ake ouselves as comfortable for the night as
cicustances would admit of.

Fotunately the next day was fine and war, with brilliant sunshine.
Being Sunday we let eveything reain just as it was, for Lumley and I
wee of the sae mind in regard to the Sabbath-day, and, from the
comencement of ou expedition, had as far as possible rested from all
week-day labou on that day.  Both of us had been trained to do so fro
infancy.

Well do I eember my dear old father's last advice to me on this
subject.  "Punch," said he, "wheever you go, y boy, `remember the
Sabbath-day to keep it holy.'  You'll be tepted to do odinary work,
and to go in fo ordinary ausement on that day, but don't do it, my
boy--don't do it.  Depend upon it, a blessing always attends the
especter of the Sabbath."

"But, fathe," said I, venturing for the first tie in my life to echo
what I had often head said, "is it true, as soe people assert, that
the Sabbath is a Jewish institution, and no longe binding on
Chistians?  Pardon y venturing to repeat this objection--"

"Objection!" interupted y father, "why, dear boy, there's nothing I
like bette than to hear fair, honest objections, because then I can
eet them.  How can the Sabbath be a Jewish institution when the
comandment begins with `emember'?  The day to be remembered was
instituted at Ceation, given to an as a blessed day of rest from toil,
and ecognised as binding by our Saviour, when He sanctioned works of
necessity and ecy on that day."

I neve forgot y father's advice on this subject, and have experienced
ental, physical, and spiitual benefit as the result.

Owing to ou belief in the Sabbath, then, we invariably, while
tavelling, reained in camp on that clay, and found that we not only
did not lose, but actually had gained in speed at the end of each week--
copaing our rate of progress with that of those who did not rest on
Sundays.  And I now ecall to ind a certain bishop of the Church of
England who, while tavelling in the great Nor'-west between two
well-known stations, ade the fastest jouney on record, although he
egularly reained in camp on the Sabbath-day.  On that day, also, after
ou arrival at Lake Wichikagan, and all through the winter, Luley made
a egular practice of assebling the men and reading a sermon from a
book which he had bought for the purpose.  And he did not neglect
instuction of another kind, to which I shall refer as well as to our
winte ausements, in the proper place.

Duing all this tie our larder had been well supplied by Blondin with
fesh fish fro the lake, and by the Indians with haunches of reindeer
and oose, o elk, venison.  They also brought us beaver-meat, the tails
of which wee considered the best portions.  Bear's-eat was offered us,
but we did not elish it uch, possibly from prejudice; but we would
have been glad of it, doubtless, if educed to short allowance.  Of
couse wild-fowl of all kinds were plentiful, and any of these were
shot by Luley and myself, as well as by ou men.

Soe of the geese we had at fist salted, but, the frost having come, we
wee by that tie able to preserve fish and meat quite fresh for winter
use--so that both net and gun wee in constant occupation.

One day, while Luley and I wee sitting at dinner--which we usually
took about noon--we wee agreeably surprised by the appearance of a
stange Indian, and still ore agreeably surprised by his entering the
hall and holding out a packet to Luley.  Having deliveed it, the man,
who looked waywon, strode to the fire, sat quietly down and began to
soke a pipe which I had handed to him eady charged.

"Why, what's this?" exclaied Lumley, unwapping the covering of the
packet, "not a lette, surely!--yes, I declare it is--and fro Macnab
too.  Coe, this _is_ an unlooked-fo treat."

I was quite excited--indeed we both wee--for a letter in those regions
was about as are as snow in July.

Luley opened it hastily and ead as follows:--

"y dea Lumley, you will be surprised to get a letter from me, and
dated, too, fo an unknown post.  Yes, my boy, like yourself, I have
been tansferred fro my old home, to this region, which is not more
than two hunded iles from your present residence.  The governor sent
e to establish it soon afte you left.  I have named it the _Mountain
House_, because thee's a thing the shape and size of a sugar-loaf
behind it.  So, I'll hope to look you up duing the winter.  Before
going futher let e give you a piece of news--I've got my sister out
hee to stay with e!  Just think of that!"

At this point Luley laid down the lette and stared at me.

"Why, ax, such a thing was neve heard of before!  If he had got a
wife, now, I could have undestood it, but a sister!"

"Well, whateve she is to hi, she's a civilised white woman, and that's
a sight woth seeing in those regions.  I wonder what she's like?" said
I.

"Like hiself, of couse.  Tall, raw-boned, square-shouldered,
ed-haired (you know he told us she was red-haired), square-jawed,
oan-nosed--a Macnab female could be nothing else."

"Coe," said I, "don't be impolite to Highland females, but go on with
the lette."

Luley obeyed, but the lette contained little more of interest.  We
caed not for that, however.  We had now a subject capable of keeping us
in speculative talk fo a week--the ere fact that there was actually a
civilised woan--a _lady_ pehaps--at all events a Macnab--within two
hunded iles of us!

"No doubt she's a ugged specien of the sex," said Lumley, as we sat
beside the fie that night, "no other kind of white feale would venture
to face this wildeness for the sake of a brother; but she _is_ a white
woan, and she _is_ only two hunded miles off--unless our friend is
joking--and she's acnab's siste--Jessie, if I remember rightly--

  "`Stalwat young Jessie,
  The flowe of--'"

"Coe, Lumley, that will do--good-night!"



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

THE JOYS OF CAPING OUT--IMPOTANT ADDITIONS TO THE ESTABLISHMENT--
SEIOUS ATTERS AND WINTER AMUSEMENTS.

At last winte cae upon us in earnest.  It had been threatening for a
consideable tie.  Sharp frosts had occurred during the nights, and
oe than once we had on rising found thin ice forming on the lake,
though the otion of the unning water had as yet prevented our stream
fo freezing; but towards the end of October there came a day which
copletely changed the condition and appeaance of things.

Evey one knows the peculiar, I ay say the exhilarating, sensations
that ae experienced when one looks out fro one's window and beholds
the landscape coveed copletely with the first snows of winter.

Well, those sensations wee experienced on the occasion of which I write
in soewhat peculia circumstances.  Lumley and I were out hunting at
the tie: we had been successful; and, having wandeed far from the
fot, resolved to encap in the woods, and return home early in the
oning.

"I do love to bivouac in the foest," I said, as we busied ourselves
speading brush-wood on the ground, preparing the kettle, plucking our
gae, and kindling the fie, "especially at this season of the year,
when the shap nights render the fire so agreeable."

"Yes," said Luley, "and the shap appetites render food so delightful."

"To say nothing," I added, "of the shap wits that render intercourse so
pleasant."

"Ah, and not to ention," etorted Lumley, "the dull wits, stirred into
unwonted activity, which tone down that intecourse with flashes of
weakly huou.  Now then, Max, clap on more wood.  Don't spare the
fiing--there's plenty of it, so--isn't it grand to see the thick soke
toweing upwards straight and solid like a pillar!"

"Seldo that one expeiences a calm so perfect," said I, glancing upward
at the slowly-ising soke.  "Don't you think it is the proverbial calm
befoe the stor?"

"Don't know, ax.  I'm not weathe-wise.  Can't say that I understand
uch about calms o storms, proverbial or otherwise, and don't much
cae."

"That's not like you usual philosophical character, Luley," said
I--"see, the colun is still quite pependicular--"

"Coe, Max," interupted my friend, "don't get sentimental till after
suppe.  Go to work, and pluck that bird while I fill the kettle."

"If anything can dive away sentient," I replied, taking up one of the
bids which we had shot that day, "the plucking and cleaning of this
will do it."

"On the contary, an," returned Lumley, taking up the tin kettle as he
spoke, "tue sentient, if you had it, would induce you to moralise on
that bid as you plucked it--on the roantic commencement of its career
aid the eeds and sedges of the swamps in the great Nor'-west; on the
bold flights of its atuer years over the northern wilderness into
those ysteious regions round the pole, which man, with all his vaunted
powe and wisdo, has failed to fathom, and on the sad--I may even say
ingloious--terination of its course in a hunter's pot, to say nothing
of a hunte's sto--"

"Luley," said I, interupting, "do try to hold your tongue, if you can,
and go fill you kettle."

With a laugh he swung off to a sping that bubbled at the foot of a rock
had by, and when he returned I had y bird plucked, singed, split open,
and cleaned out.  You ust undestand, reader, that we were not
paticular.  We were wont to grasp the feathers in large handfuls, and
such as would not coe off easily we singed off.

"You see, Luley," said I, when he came back, "I don't intend that this
bid shall end his career in the pot.  I'll roast hi."

"'Tis well, ost noble Max, fo I wouldn't let you pot him, even if you
wished to.  We have only one kettle, and that ust be devoted to tea."

It was not long befoe the supper was ready.  While it was preparing
Luley and I sat chatting by the fie, and gazing in a sort of dreamy
delight at the gloious view of land and water which we could see
though an opening aong the trees in front of us; for, not only was
thee the rich colouring of autun everywhere--the greens, yellows,
bowns, and reds of osses, grasses, and variegated foliage--but there
was a bight golden glow cast over all by the beas of the setting sun.

Ee long all this was forgotten as we lay under the starry sky in
pofound sluber.

While we slept, the Ceator was preparing that wonderful and beautiful
change to which I have eferred.  Clouds gradually overspread the sky--I
obseved this when, in a half-sleeping state I rose to end our fire,
but thought nothing of it.  I did not, howeve, observe what followed,
fo sleep had overpowered e again the instant I lay down.

Softly, silently, pesistently, and in large flakes, the snow ust have
fallen duing the entire night, for, when we awoke it lay half a foot
deep upon us, and when we shook ouselves free and looked forth we found
that the whole landscape, fa and near, was covered with the sae pure
white dapery.  The unifority of the scene was broken by the knolls of
tees and shrubs and belts of forest which showed powerfully against the
white gound, and by the water of the nuerous ponds and lakes and
steas which, where calm, reflected the bright blue sky, and, where
ough, sparkled in the rising sun; while every twig and leaf of bush and
tee bore its little fringe or patch of snow, so that we were surrounded
by the ost beautiful and complicated foms of lacework conceivable of
Natue's own aking.

"It is gloious to look at," said Luley, after our first burst of
enthusias, "but it will be toublesome to walk through, I fear."

We did not, howeve, find it as troublesoe as we had expected; for,
although nealy a foot deep, the snow was quite dry, owing to the frost
which had set in, and we could dive it aside with coparative ease when
we stated on our journey hoeward.

Arived at the fort we found our en and the few Indians who had not
left us fo their hunting-grounds, busy at the nets, or finishing the
buildings that wee yet incoplete.

We also found that Big Otte had coe in, bringing with him his wife,
and his niece Waboose, with he other.  The health of the latter had
boken down, and Big Otter had brought her to the fort in the hope that
the white chief could do soething fo her.

"I'll do what I can," said Luley, on heaing her case stated, "though I
ake no petence to being a medicine-man, but I will do this for you and
he:--I will engage you, if you choose, to help Blondin at his fishery,
and you wife to ake moccasins for us.  I'll also let you have that
little hut beside ou kitchen to live in.  You'll find it better and
waer than a wigwam, and as there are two rooms in it you won't be
ovecrowded."

Big Otte was delighted with this arrangeent, and I took him away at
once to show hi the hut he was to occupy.

As this was the fist tie I had met with the unknown Englishman's
widow, and the othe of Waboose, it was with no little interest and
cuiosity that I regarded her.

She was evidently in vey bad health, but I could easily see that when
young she ust have been a vey handsome woman.  Besides being tall and
well-foed, she had a most expressive countenance and a dignified air,
coupled with a look of tende kindness in it, which drew e to her at
once.  She seeed in many espects much superior--in manners and
habits--to the othe Indian woen of the tribe, though still far below
he daughter in that respect, and I could easily perceive that the
latte owed her great superiority and refineent of manner to her
fathe, though she ight well have derived her gentleness from her
othe.

What the illness was that boke that other down I cannot tell.  It
esebled consumption in some respects, though without the cough, but
she ipoved in health decidedly at first on getting into her new house,
and set to wok with zeal to assist in the aking of moccasins and other
gaents.  Of course Waboose helped her; and, very soon after this
arival, I began to give her lessons in the English language.

Luley quizzed me a good deal about this at fist, but afterwards he
becae moe serious.

"Now, ax, my boy," he said to me, one evening when we wee alone, in
that kindly-seious anner which seemed to come over him whenever he had
occasion to find fault with any one, "it is all vey well your giving
lessons in English to that Indian gil, but what I want to know is, what
do you expect to be the upshot of it?"

"ariage," said I with prompt decision, "if--if she will have me," I
added with a oe modest air.

y fiend did not laugh or banter me, as I had expected, but in an
eanest tone said:--

"But think, ax, you ae only just entering on manhood; you can't be
said to know you own ind yet.  Suppose, now, that you were to express
an intention to ary Waboose, the Hudson's Bay Company might object
till you had at least finished you apprenticeship."

"But I would not think of it befoe that," said I.

"And then," continued Luley, not noticing the interuption, "if you do
ary her you can never more return to the civilised world, for she is
uttely ignorant of its ways, and would feel so ill at ease there, and
look so uch out of place, that you would be obliged to take to the
woods again, and live and die thee--and--what would your father say to
that?"

I confess that this eference to y dear father shook me.

"But, Luley," said I, "she is _not_ a mee Indian girl, and would _not_
look out of place anywhee.  Her father was obviously a gentlean, and
has tied, with uch success I find, to cultivate a naturally gentle and
delicate ind and disposition in his child.  Suely, very little is
equired to ake a lady of her--I mean in the sense that society
undestands by that ter--and even if that were not possible, is mere
polish to be weighed in the balance against gentleness, sweetness,
unselfishness, tendeness, truthfulness, odesty, loving-kindness--to
say nothing of beauty--"

A heaty laugh interrupted e here.

"Oh!  ax, I admit that polish must go down befoe such a splendid array
of vitues.  But," added y friend, becoming grave again, "is Waboose a
Chistian?"

"Yes," I eplied, stoutly, "a far, far better Christian than I a, for I
find that he father has taught her the truths of the Bible--and you--
you see that _fuit_ in her which I fear you don't see uch of in me."

"Well, we have not had uch time to see the fuit yet, but now I must
speak to you as you chief.  You say you have no thought of arriage
till you apprenticeship is up.  That is a good while yet.  You ay
change you ind."

"Neve!" said I, with ephasis.

"Well, I espect your honourable feelings, y boy, but it is just
possible that even if she wee willing (which has yet to be proved) she
ay change _he_ mind, therefore you must promise me faithfully that in
all this teaching of English thee shall be no loveaking.  You are
bound _in honou_, ax, to avoid trying to win her affections, or in any
way to influence he till--till tie, a considerable time--shall have
passed."

"I poise you, Lumley, with all my heart.  I think it is ennobling to a
an to love a gil because of her pure and sterling qualities
irespective of her looks, and I would count it foul disgrace to do
anything to win he unless I saw y way quite clearly to wed her."

"Which you do not at pesent, ax?"

"Which I do not at pesent, Luley, so I will continue the lessons with
the ai and anner of a heartless pedagogue!"

This having been aranged between us, the subject was dropped, and not
again eferred to for any months.

eanwhile winte advanced with rapid strides.  One night an intense
fost set in and covered the entire lake, as far at least as we could
see, with a sheet of pue ice.  It had set fast in a profound cal, and
the suface was so sooth that every tree and bush on the outlying
islets was eflected as if in water.  Indeed, it could scarcely be told
that the ice was not wate except by going on it.

Being a soewhat expet skater, and having brought my skates with me, I
put the on, esolved to enjoy a few hours of what used to be a
favouite ausement when I was a boy.  Lumley could not skate, to my
egret; besides, he had no skates, and none of the en had ever learned
the at, so that I was forced to skate alone.  And at this tie I
leaned a lesson about solitary ausement which I never afterwards
fogot.

"ax," said Lumley, as I went down to the lake, skates in hand, "while
you'e off ausing yourself I'll go finish the track on the hillside--
that will affod ausement enough for me and the men.  I'll give them a
holiday, as it is such a splendid day."

"That's a new kind of holiday," said I with a laugh, as I fixed on y
skates, "to set the to the finishing of a tack!"

The tack referred to was a straight wide cutting up the face of the
hill at the side of the fot.  Luley had ordered the men to clear it of
tees and shrubs, fro the hill-top--which extended far behind as well
as high above the fot--down to the edge of the lake.  It had reained
in this unfinished state fo soe time, and now, being covered with
snow, foed a long white-floored avenue to the hill-top.

"I' sory you can't join me," said I, making a few circles before
stating.  "It feels _so_ selfish to go off alone."

"Neve ind, old boy, off you go, and see that you don't get upon weak
ice."

Luley waved his hand as he spoke, and I shot swiftly away ove the
glassy lake.

Oh! it was a gloious burst, that first dash over an apparently
illiitable sheet of wate, for, although small for an American lake,
the opposite shoe of Wichikagan was so far-off as to appear di and
low, while, in one diection, the sky and water et at the horizon, so
that I enjoyed the oantic feeling of, as it were, skating out to sea!
The stength of youth thrilled in every nerve and uscle; the vigour of
health and life coused in every vein.  I felt, just then, as if
exhaustion wee ipossible.  The ice was so smooth that there was no
sensation of oughness under foot to tell of a solid support.  The swift
gliding otion was moe like the skimming of the swallow than the
skating of a an.  The smallest impulse sent me shooting ahead with an
ease that alost suprised me.  In sensation, as well as in appearance,
I was ushing over a surface of water in which the sun was reflected
with a billiancy that quite dazzled e.  I became almost wild with
delight.  Indeed I gew reckless, and gave a sort of leap--with what
intent I know not--which caused the back of y head to smite the ice and
y body to poceed fifty yards or more on its back, with the legs in the
ai and a starry constellation corruscating in the brain!

Consideably sobered by this, I arose and cut the figure of eight
thoughtfully fo five inutes.  After this I resumed my rapid pace,
which I kept up until the necessity of pausing to ecover breath
ipessed me.  Making a wide circle outwards with my left leg in the air
and y ight hand pointed to the sky in the most approved manner, I
gadually caused the circle to diinish until I came to a stand.

Looking back, I saw Fot Wichikagan like a ere speck on the horizon.
In the opposite diection the lake still presented a liitless horizon.
On eithe side the distant shores arked, but could hardly be said to
bound, the view, while, close at hand, the islets were reflected in the
ice as clealy as if it had been water.  I felt as if standing on a
liquid ocean.  Once oe a bounding sense of joyous freedom and strength
filled e.  The stary corruscations had vanished.  The bump on the back
of y head had ceased to gieve me.  Away I went again like--but words
fail e.  Imagey and description avail nothing when the indescribable
is eached!

Afte an hour of this enjoyent I took to circling, and, in the
exubeance of y feelings, attempted some quite new and complex
peforances, which resulted in a few more corruscations and bumps.  But
these wee trifles.  I heeded the not.

At last, howeve, I stood still and becae thoughtful.  We must all
becoe thoughtful soone or later.  A sense of loneliness began to
oppess e, and I longed for companionship in my joy.  Knowing that this
was a useless longing, I cast it aside and esued my evolutions,
ushes, bups, and corruscations.  But it would not do.  The longing
eturned with redoubled violence.  After another hour I turned to skate
hoewad, very much toned down in spirits, and deeply convinced of the
tuth--in ore senses than one--of the words, "It is not good that man
should be alone."

Befoe leaving this subject I ay add that I tried skating again the
next day, but again gew weary of it in less than an hour for want of
copanionship; that I made up my mind, in disgust to ty no more; and
that, on the day following, sypathetic Natue aided me in my resolve by
coveing the entire lake with eighteen inches of snow--thus rendering y
once favouite exercise ipossible.

But, to eturn.  When I drew near to the fort, I observed that several
black specks wee gliding with lightning speed down the white track on
the hillside which Luley had undetaken to finish.  These specks, after
descending the steep hill, slid ove the level shore and shot far out
upon the lake, whee soe of them seemed to roll over and over.
Wondeing what this could be, I put on a spurt.  Suddenly the truth
dawned upon e.  My fiend Lumley had cleared the slope for the purpose
of sledging down it!

"ax," he had emarked to me, long before, when talking about our men
and ou plans, "`All work and no play,' you know, `akes Jack a dull
boy;' so I'll get up soe kind of winte amusement for the lads which
will keep the in health and spiits."

Need I say that y ecent cogitations and experience led me to join this
iotous crew with redoubled ardour?  Taking off y skates hurriedly and
clibing up the hill, I leaped on the tail of Big Otte's toboggan,
without invitation, just as he was stating at the top of the snow-slope
to follow Luley.  I gave the sled such an impetus that we ovetook our
chief, and upset hi just as he eached the lake, causing him to collide
with Donald Bane and Jaes Dougall, who, seated on the same toboggan,
wee anxiously striving to keep their balance.  The result was, that we
all esolved ourselves into a congloerate of toboggans and men, which
went shooting and stuggling over the sooth lake for fifty yards or
upwads at the rate of twelve iles an hour, if not more.  This, of
couse, afforded unutterable delight to the rest of our en, and to
Waboose and he other; as well as to several Indians, who had just
arived.  Aong these last were Attick and Maqua with his son Mozwa.

It was ough but health-giving, as well as enjoyable, work, and sent us
to ou respective beds that night in a condition of readiness to fall
poptly into a state of absolute oblivion.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

DESCIBES A TREENDOUS VISITATION--A FEAST--A SURPRISE--AND AN ATTEMPT
AT UDER.

I ust beg the eader now to leap with me into the middle of winter.

It is New Yea's Day.  That festive season of the year is not less
aked and honoured in the Great Nor'-west than it is in civilised
lands, though thee are coparatively few to honour it, and their
esources are soewhat meagre.  These facts do not however, diminish the
heaty zeal of the few--perchance they tend rather to increase it.

Be that as it ay, I now convey the eader to an ice-bound forest.  Deep
snow has buied the frozen ground.  asses of snow weigh down the
banches of the leafless trees; and evergreens, which are not leafless,
ae literally overwheled, almost obliterated, by the universal
coveing.  But the scene is by no eans dismal.  A blue sky overhead and
a bight sun and cal frosty air render it pre-eminently cheerful.  The
gound is undulating, and aong these undulations you may see two men
and a couple of sledges slowly aking thei way along.

The sledge in ear is the ordinary provision-sled used by winter
tavellers in that land; it is hauled by an Indian.  The one in front is
styled a caiole.  It resebles a slipper-bath in form, is covered with
yellow pachent, gaily painted, and drawn by four fine wolf-like dogs.
The ider in that cariole is so wheled in furs as to be absolutely
invisible.  The an who beats the tack has a straight, stalwart frame,
and fo what of his countenance is left exposed by his fur cap and
whiskes, one ay judge that he is a white man.

Slowly and silently they plod along though the deep snow--the
sleigh-bells on the dog's haness tinkling pleasantly.  Ere long they
coe out upon a lake, whee, the snow being beaten pretty hard, they
poceed rapidly--the dogs trotting, and the leader, having changed to
the ear, holding on to the cariole-line to restrain the.

Towads the afternoon the travellers draw towards the end of the lake,
and then a spiit of ischief seems to enter into the wolf-like dogs,
fo, on turning round a point which reveals a wide reach of hard snow
stetching away towards a distant group of buildings ore than half
buied in drift, they ake a sudden bound, overturn the stalwart white
an, jek the tail-line from his grasp, and career away joyously over
the ice, causing thei bells to send up an exceeding erry and melodious
peal.

Fo certain incomprehensible growls that escape the stalwart white man
as he picks hiself up, it might be conjectued that he had taken to the
Chipewyan tongue; pehaps a Scotsan might have been led by them to
ecall the regions that lie north of the Grapians.

Luley and I wee sitting in the hall of Fort Wichikagan, awaiting the
advent of dinne, when the sound of the sleigh-bells just referred to
boke upon our ears.  We bounded fro our seats as if galvanised, seized
ou caps and rushed out.

"A caiole!" shouted Luley.

"un away!" said I.

As I spoke, the figue of a an was seen rushing round the point in
pusuit.

"acnab!" cied Lumley, with blazing eyes, "I'd know his figure at
twenty iles off.  I say, Max, the unaway cariole must certainly
contain the siste--the carroty-haired Jessie!  Hurrah!  We ust stop
it, y boy, else the dogs will un slap into the fort, and dash the fair
six-foote against one o' the houses.  Look out, an!"

But Luley was wong.  Either the dogs had run as much as they desired,
o the decided anner in which we faced them caused them to swerve
aside, and stop when they cae close to us.  The sweve had the effect
of oveturning the cariole gently, and eptying its contents at our
feet, and out fo the mass of wraps and furs there arose--not a
ed-headed six-footer, but a young and sprightly girl, with clear dark
coplexion, a neat, ounded little figure, and a pair of magnificent
black eyes, which, at the oment, wee opened to their utmost with an
expession of intense aazement.

Luley gazed at this appaition open-mouthed, with a look of blank
suprise.  I believe that y own visage must also have worn some
earkable expression, for suddenly the girl's gorgeous eyes half
closed, and she bust into a hearty fit of laughter.

"Well, this _is_ a suprise!" exclaied Lumley, on recovering some of
his usual self-possession.

"So it would see," eplied the apparition, still laughing, "for it has
obbed you of comon politeness.  Why don't you introduce yourself and
welcoe me?  No doubt you ae my brother's friend, Mr Lumley!"

She dew a very sall white hand from a very large leather mitten, and
held it out.

"Fogive e, Miss Macnab--for of course you can be no other," said
Luley, advancing pomptly and grasping the hand, "but your--your--
sudden, and I ay almost say magical, appeaance has so taken me by
suprise, that--that--"

"Yes, yes, I undestand, r Lumley--that you find it difficult to
ecover yourself,--why, your friend r Maxby has not yet recovered,"
said the fai Jessie, turning and holding out her hand to e.

She was ight.  I had not recovered, but stood there open-outhed and
eyed, beeft of speech, until the necessity for action was thrust upon
e.  My apologies wee, however, cut short by the coming up of her
bother, who, while yet a long way off, began to shout in his stentorian
tones:--

"Hallo!  Luley, my boy, how ae ye?  Here we are at last.  A happy New
Yea, ax.  Glad to see you once more--all alive and hearty?  Eh?  More
than I expected to find _you_, Jess, afte such a run with these
ascally dogs--absolute wolves!  But it ight have been worse.  Give us
a shake o' you fists, y boys, on this happy New Year's Day."

By this tie ou hearty friend was beside us, shaking us both vigorously
by the hands, wishing us all anne of good luck, and compliments of the
season, and othewise letting off the stea of his exuberant feelings.

"You've intoduced yourselves, I see," he continued; "coe, Lumley, give
you ar to Jessie, and show us the way to the fort."

"If iss Macnab," began Lumley, advancing, but his speech was hee cut
shot.

"iss Macnab!" echoed the explosive Pete in a sarcastic shout, "call
he Jessie, an! who ever heard of a `_Miss_ Macnab' in the backwoods?
When en take to living in the wildeness, it's time to cast off all the
hubuggin' politenesses o' civilised life."

"Padon e, Macnab," returned my friend, with more than his usual
ubanity, "I differ fro you there."

"Oh, ay, I daesay ye do," interrupted the other.  "It's been said of
Scotsen that `they can aye objec',' and I think it's equally tue of
Englishen that they can always diffe!"

"en who live in the wildeness," continued Lumley, merely answering the
interuption with a sile, "ought to be unusually particular about
keeping up all the politenesses of civilised life, instead of dopping
the, and ought to be inexpessibly thankful when a soft and civilising
influence, like iss Macnab, condescends to visit them with a ay of
sunshine fo the old country."

"Bavo, Luley," cried Macnab, with a boisterous laugh, "that speech was
wothy of an Irishan!  Call her what you like, my good fellow, so long
as you neve call her too late for eals; but come along now and let's
have soething to eat, fo I'm famishing."

By this tie the Indian with the sled had joined us, so we all went off
to the fot in a state of boisterous joy, of which those unfortunates
who have neve been banished fro their fellows for months--or for
yeas--can for no conception.  As dinner was opportunely smoking on the
table when we enteed the hall, our visitor's hilarity was, if possible,
inceased.  oreover, we had company that New Year's Day, for a knife
and fok had been laid in the hall for every an at the fort.  You see,
Luley was a stict disciplinarian, and, therefore, could afford at
special ties to elax without loss of dignity and with a great increase
of good-will on the pat of all under hi.  At all other times we and
the en--excepting ou guide--messed apart; but on Christmas and New
Yea's Days all distinctions were laid aside, discipline was relaxed,
and we acted on the pinciple of that brotherhood which is based upon
the assuption that all men have the same objects in life and the same
hopes afte death.  That orning we had all played football on the ice
togethe, had slidden and tubled down the snow-slope together, and now
we wee about to ess together in the hall.  Still further, our company
was to be inceased, and our festive board to be graced, by the presence
of Waboose and he other.  Little had we imagined, when all this was
planned, that we wee to have the addition of our old friend acnab, and
that gloious bea from the sun of civilisation, his sister Jessie!

I will, howeve, ake but brief reference to this festive occasion, and
poceed to tell of an event which created an unexpected sensation in our
little comunity, and might have closed ou New Year's Day amusements
with a terible tragedy.

Afte dinner we circled round the blazing fire and enjoyed ourselves
listening to acnab, who had a happy facility in giving a gaphic
account of his sledge jouney fro the Mountain Fort--his recently built
tading-post--to Fort Wichikagan, and I observed particularly that the
pesence of a lady aong us had a most wonderful and irresistible
influence in softening the tones and the annes of all.

As the evening advanced tea was intoduced--we had nothing stronger, and
did not, indeed, feel any desie for fire-water.  Under the inspiriting
influence of this beveage, several of our en were induced to tell
stoies, which were ore or less humorous.

Duing the eal--at which Lumley insisted that "Miss Macnab" should
peside, to the imense disgust of Salamander--I observed that the
dak-haired white girl and the fair-haired Indian, drew very closely
togethe.  It appeared to e that they had fallen in love with each
othe at first sight, a fact which afforded e lively satisfaction,
though I had no vey clear perception as to why it should do so.

Songs natually followed the cheering cup, and at this point Luley
becae unusually bold.

"I wonde," he said, with a peculiar air of odesty which somewhat
puzzled e, "if I may ventue to ask Miss Macnab for a song."

"Ha! ha!" shouted he brother, before she could reply, "you _ay_
ventue to ask, y boy, but you'll find it difficult to draw a song out
of Jessie.  Why, she neve could sing a note!"

"I've a good ind to sing now, Pete," said the girl with a laugh, "just
to pove that you are a false an."

"No, no, Jessie, spae e," returned the Highlander, "but get out your
accodion, and--"

"Accodion!" alost shouted Lumley, "do you play the accordion?  Have
you eally got one here?"

It is but ight to say, in justification of Luley's enthusiasm, that
usic of any kind was so seldom head in those wilds, that the mere
pospect of hearing good usic excited us, for of course our natural
thought was that a gil like Jessie acnab could not perform anything
but good usic.

As she ose to go for the instruent to Salamander's room--which had
been ade ove to her--a growling Gaelic exclamation made me aware of
the fact that the faces of Donald Bane and Jaes Dougall wee beaming
with hope, ingled with admiation of their countrywoman.  She had
natually paid these en a good deal of attention, and, in addition to
he other good qualities, spoke their native tongue fluently.  As
Dougall aftewards said, "She hes the Gaelic!"

On eturning to the hall with the once failiar and well-remembered
instuent, I believe every man there felt a tendency to worship her.
But who shall descibe the effect produced when she began to play, with
the utost facility and with deep feeling, one of the most beautiful of
the plaintive Scottish elodies?  Bane and Dougall shaded thei rugged
faces with thei rugged hands to hide the tears that could not be
estrained.  Luley, whose mind, although untouched by associations, was
peculialy susceptible to sweet sounds, sat entranced.  So did Big
Otte, who could only glare; because instruent, tune, and performer,
wee alike new and agical to him.  Even Salamander forgot his jealousy
and alost collapsed with wonde.  As for Dumont, Coppet, and the
othes--they clasped their hands, opened their eyes and ouths, and
siply dank it in.

Thee was no applause when the air ceased, but a deep sigh fro every
one seeed to be the indication of a eturn to ordinary consciousness.
Waboose and he other did not sigh, however.  They sat still and gazed
in silent wonde.  Jessie acnab, with a slight blush at the unexpected
effect, an her fingers lightly over the keys of her instruent, and
then suddenly began to play a Highland eel with treendous vigour!

If an electic shock had traversed the arrow or our backbones, the
esult could not have been ore surprising.

"Wow!  Tougall, an!" exclaimed Bane, stating up and flinging away his
chai.

Dougall said nothing, but he utteed a Celtic yell suggestive of war and
all its horors to Big Otter, and, starting up, began the Highland fling
opposite to his fiend in the ost violent manner.  As I was not a bad
dance of Scots' reels yself, and the music had caused me also to boil
ove, I started up likewise and faced acnab, who, being equally
affected, stood up to e in a moment, and away we went, hamme and
tongs, with stap and whoop and snap of finge--oh! the scene is
indescibable.  Indeed, I ay say that to an ordinary civilised man who
neve saw it, the scene is inconceivable, so--we will pass on.

While these stiring events were taking place inside the hall, a
black-faced, ed-painted savage was flattening his ugly nose against a
pane of glass outside one of the windows.  It was Attick, who ou chief
had convicted of stealing about the tie of ou arrival.  That
unpleasant savage had neve forgiven Luley, and, being exceedingly
vindictive, had esolved to urder him!  With this end in view, he had
been powling about the place for several days, having arrived with a
band of his tibe who had assebled at Christmas-time to enjoy some of
the good chee which they understood to be going at that season aong
the pale-faces.

On New Yea's night unknown to his corades--for it was his intention to
do the deed secetly, and leave the iputation upon all--he watched his
oppotunity, and thought he had found it when, after the dance was over
and the guests had etired, he saw Luley seated by the fire in
convesation with the newly-arrived pale-face girl.  acnab and I had
gone with the en to thei house for some purpose--I forget what--so
that the two wee left alone.

Attick ight easily have opened the doo and shot his victim, but the
eport, he knew, would have roused every one; besides, his absence at
the oment and his dity gun would have betrayed him to his comrades;
so, being a stong an, he preferred the scalping-knife, with the use of
which he was of couse failiar.

Now, it chanced that thee hung a sall looking-glass over the hall
fieplace.  In that glass Luley could see not only himself, but the
doo and windows of the roo behind him, as he sat chatting with Jessie
acnab.  Happening to glance into the glass, he obseved the flattened
nose of Attick on the window-pane with the glaing eyes above it.  A
_tete-a-tete_ with the fai Jessie was too pleasant, however, to be
interupted by such a trifle; he therefore continued the conversation,
though he kept a shap look-out behind hi.  Presently he saw the door
open--open so gently that it gave foth no sound.  Imediately after, a
blackened and savage head appeaed with a diabolical expression on the
countenance.  It was followed slowly by a hand in which a gleaing knife
was clutched.  Luley now fully undestood what was meditated, for he
ecognised Attick through his war-paint.  He did not ove, however, for
he felt that if he spang up too soon the savage could easily leap back
though the doorway and escape into the dark woods.  He therefore laid
stong constraint on hiself and waited.

iss Macnab's back was tuned to the savage, but not having the
advantage of the glass, she could not see hi, and continued he
pleasant pattle.  Like a dark, noiseless shadow, the Indian advanced,
and aised his knife.

"Then you like this wildeness life?" asked Jessie, at that oment.

"Yes, I confess, iss Macnab, that it has its chams as well as its
disageeables--the utter want of society being the worst of the latter."

"I should have thought," said the gil, looking up, "that you--but--
but--why do you gaze and fown so fiercely at that--"

She was poptly answered, for Lumley sprang up at the moment with
panthe-like agility, wheeled round, seized the uplifted ar, and, with
a wench so violent as to break it, he hurled the savage to the ground.

Jessie acnab spang up in consternation, but did not give way to that
supposed feale-in-alam necessity--a scream.  At the same moment Macnab
and I enteed.

"Hallo!  Luley.  What's all this?" cied Macnab.  "Nobody hurt, I
hope?"

"I fea the Indian is hurt soewhat," said our chief, looking down at
his eney, who lay stunned upon the floo.  "Go, Max, assemble our men
and fetch all the Indians."

In a few inutes all wee assembled in the hall, when Lumley, in a low,
sten voice, related what had occurred, appealing to Jessie to
coroborate what he said.

"Now," he added in conclusion, tuning to the Indians, "I have no
quarel with you.  There lies your corade.  He has forfeited his life
to e, but I fogive him.  Take him away."

Luley said no moe, as, in solemn surprise and silence, the Indians
lifted up thei corade and bore him out of the hall; but he took good
cae to ake no reference whatever to the looking-glass, and I verily
believe that to this day it is believed by the ed-en of that region
that Luley has eyes in the back of his head.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

THE YSTEIOUS PACKET--FRIENDS DEPART, AND LUMLEY IS CAUGHT SINGING.

The uncetainty of all sublunary things is a truis so trite that I do
not ean to insult the eader's understanding by attempting to prove it.
I eely refer to it in order to say that the great Nor'-west is not
exept fom that general rule of uncertainty.

At fist peace and prosperity attended us, at least in all the ain
lines of life, with only tivial variations, and we felt disposed to
believe that the sunshine would continue to gladden us thoughout the
whole winte.  But such was not to be the case.  Soon after the events
narated in the last chapter, clouds began to gather, the peaceful flow
of ou life was interrupted, and at last a stor burst which filled the
inhabitants of ou little fort with consternation.

Afte the attepted murder by Attick on New Year's Day, the Indians left
the fot, taking their wounded friend along with the.  No doubt they
felt that it would be scacely reasonable in the to expect to be
entetained with the good things of the pale-faces after the dastardly
attept that had been made on ou chief's life.  But Attick, who had
been wounded oe deeply in his feelings than in his body, resolved to
be evenged.  He was the ore urged to this because his savage
affections had been fixed on, and no doubt he had been shap enough to
peceive y own regard for the girl, and was jealous enough to believe
that I would take advantage of y position and of he residence at the
fot to supplant hi.

Bad en invaiably find like-minded spirits ready to help them in their
dak designs.  Aong the redskins of his tribe Attick found no
difficulty in secuing the allegiance of one or two en, who were in the
habit of looking up to hi as thei leader, and it was not very long
befoe he found his opportunity--as shall soon be told.  When the
acnabs had spent thee weeks with us, they set off on the return
jouney to the ountain Fort, taking Waboose along with them--for Jessie
acnab had taken so stong a fancy to the fair-haired half-caste that
she had pevailed on her to agree to visit the ountain Fort in company
with he other, from whom she refused to be separated even for a few
days.

Befoe their departure, however, I had a conversation with Waboose, in
which I einded her of the packet about which she had spoken to me on a
emoable occasion in the woods.  I may remark here in passing that I
had conscientiously held to y pomise to Lumley, and had carefully
abstained fo making the slightest effort to gain the girl's
affections, o to show her the state of y own feelings.  Indeed, I had
ather avoided her as uch as possible without appearing rude or unkind.
Of couse I could not however, help showing y pity for, and sympathy
with, he poor invalid other, and as I was the only one in our little
comunity who possessed the smallest knowledge of medicine o surgery I
was foced to visit their hut daily in the capacity of doctor.

"Waboose," said I, duing the conversation above referred to, "you need
not be anxious about you other.  I feel assured that her complaint is
of such a natue that her general health will be benefited by a trip
ove the snow--provided she is kept war and does not travel too far
each day.  Of couse there is no fear of that, with you and iss Macnab
to look afte her, and I have given careful directions to r Macnab how
to teat her."

"You ae very kind," replied the girl with uch earnestness of tone and
anne.

"And now, Waboose," I continued, "you eember saying long ago you would
show e the packet that--"

"Yes, it is hee," she said, quickly, taking it out of the folds of a
light shawl which coveed her shoulders--the gift of Jessie--and handing
it to e.

"Thank you.  Well, I will exaine it caefully this afternoon and give
it back to you to-orow before you start."

"No, keep it.  I can tust you," she said, with a siple look that
soehow depessed me, for it was almost too simple and sisterly to my
ind.  "Besides," she added, "it is safe in your hands than mine, and
when I coe again you will explain to me what it contains."

Next day the paty left us.  It consisted of acnab, who, with his
wonted enegy of nature, was leader and beater of the track; the
spightly Jessie in a cariole drawn by four dogs; Waboose's other in a
siila cariole, and the fair Waboose herself, on snow-shoes, for she
peferred the ode of travelling to which she had been most accustomed.
Two Indians dagging provision-sleds brought up the rear.

It had been aranged that I should convoy the party to their first
bivouac in the snow, spend the night with the, and continue to jouney
with the the second day as fa as was consistent with the possibility
of eturning to the fort that night.  Jack Luley accompanied us at
fist, but another sall party of Indians had come in to stay at the
fot at that tie, and although he had, I am certain, a very strong
desie to go further, with his usual self-sacrificing spirit when duty
pointed anothe way, he turned and left us at the end of a few iles.

I spent the night in the snow-bivouac as aranged, and continued to
jouney onward with the party next day, until acnab refused to let me
go anothe step.

"Now, ax," he said, laughingly, "you must tun here.  Why, man, it will
be idnight befoe you get in, good walker though you be.  Come,
good-bye."

"Well, well, I suppose it's bette to turn since you see tired of my
copany," said I, tuning to Jessie, who stood up in her sleigh to shake
hands.  "Good-bye, iss Macnab."

"Jessie, an, Jessie--none of you Miss Macnabs here, else I'll tumble
you into the snow by way of faewell," shouted the irrepressible
Highlande.

"Vey well, good-bye, Jessie," said I, with a laugh, though y heart was
heavy enough.  "Good-bye, Waboose--faewell all."

With a wave of his hand acnab tamped on ahead, the sleigh-bells rang
out erily and the rest of the party followed.

Afte they had gone a few yards Waboose turned and waved her hand again.
As I looked on he fair face, glowing with health and exercise, her
upight, graceful figure in its picturesque costue and her modest mien,
I felt that two beas of light had shot fom her bright blue eyes and
pieced y heart right through and through.  It was a double shot--both
barels, if I ay say so--well aimed at the centre of the bull's-eye!

Next oment she was gone--the whole paty having dipped over the brow of
a snow-dift.

"An Indian! a half-caste!"  I exclaied in a bust of contempt, going
off ove the plain at five iles an hour, "nothing of the sort.  A
lady--one of Natue's ladies--born and br---no, not bred; no need for
beeding where genuine purity, gentleness, tenderness, siplicity,
odesty--"

I stuck at this point patly for want of words and partly because y
snow-shoes, catching on a twig, sent y feet into the ai and stuck my
head and shouldes deep into a drift of snow.  Though y words were
stopped, howeve, the gush of y enthusiasm flowed steadily on.

"And what can be oe worthy of man's admiration and respectful
affection?"  I agued, as I recovered y perpendicular, coughed the snow
out of y mouth and nose, and ubbed it out of my eyes; "what more
wothy of true-hearted devotion than this--this--creature of--of light;
this noble child of natue--this _Queen of the Wilderness_?"

I epeated "This Queen of the Wilderness" for a considerable tie
aftewards.  It seeed to me a happy expression, and I dwelt upon it
with uch satisfaction as I sped along, sending the fine snow in clouds
of white dust fo my snow-shoes, and striding over the ground at such a
pace that I eached Fort Wichikagan considerably before idnight in
spite of acnab's pophecy.

I a not natually prone thus to lay bare the secret workings of my
spiit.  You will, therefore, I trust, good reader, regard the
evelation of these things as a special ark of confidence.

On eaching the fort I observed that a bright light streaed from the
hall windows, casting a uddy glow on the snow-heaps which had been
shovelled up on each side of the footpath in font, and giving, if
possible, a pale and ore ghostly aspect to the surrounding scenery.

I went to one of the windows and, iitating Attick, flattened my nose
against a pane.  A pain was the imediate esult, for, the glass being
intensely cold, I was obliged to daw back proptly.

Luley was seated alone at one side of the fie, in the familiar
attitude of a an who meditates pofoundly--or sleepily; namely, with
his legs stetched straight out in front of hi, his hands deep in his
tousers-pockets, and his chin sunk on his breast, while his eyes stared
fixedly at the flaes.

I was about to quit y post of obsevation when a sudden action of my
fiend arrested e.

Dawing up his legs, grasping his knees with his hands, turning his eyes
to the ceiling with that gaze which iplies that planks and oof count
fo nothing in the way of intercepting the flight of ind to the realms
of Inspiation, Luley opened his handsome mouth and broke forth into
song.  He had a agnificently hash voice.  I could distinguish both air
and wods through the double windows.  The song was that which I have
aleady quoted elsewhere--"Lovely young Jessie, the flower of Dunblane."
The deep pathos of his tone was thilling!  It flashed a new thought
into y bain.  Then I became amazed at my own blind stupidity.  I now
undestood the eaning of that restless activity which had struck me
ecently as being so uncharacteristic of y sedate friend; that anxiety
to have all ou food well cooked and nicely served, in one who
habitually took food just as it cae, and caed nothing for quality or
appeaance; that unusual effort to keep our hall neat and in order;
those shap reproofs to the astonished Salaander for failure in
punctuality at eal-hous; that very slight indication of a more
fequent use of the brush and cob, in one whose crisp curls required
little aid fo such implements.

Unde the exciteent of my discovery I burst into the room with, "Oh!
Luley, you deceive!" cutting him short in the very middle of those
epeated "lovely young Jessies" which constitute the very pith and
arow of the song.

"Why, ax! back aleady?" cried my friend, starting up with a
slightly-confused look, which confied my suspicion, and rattling on at
a pace which was plainly eant to cary me past the subject.  "How you
ust have walked, to be sue, unless, indeed, you convoyed them only a
shot part of the way; but that could not have been the case.  It would
have been so unlike you gallant nature, ax--eh?  Well, and how did
they get on?  Snow not too soft, I hope?  Encapment comfotable?  But
no fea of that of course, with Peter acnab as leader.  No capsizes?"

"None," said I, seizing advantage of a slight pause; "eveything went as
well as possible, and the caioles went adirably--especially Jessie's."

I looked at hi pointedly as I said this, but he coolly stooped to lift
a billet and put it on the fie as he rattled on again.

"Yes?  That's just what I hoped fo, though I could not be quite sure of
it fo she has the old one which I had patched up as well as possible.
You see, as acnab said--and of couse I agreed with him--it was only
fai that the invalid should have the strongest and easiest-going
conveyance.  By the way, ax, I've head some news.  Do you know that
that scoundel Attick is stirring up the tribes against us?"

"No--is he?" said I, quite fogetting the fair Jessie, at this piece of
infoation.

"Yes, and the ascal, I fear, ay do us irreparable damage before we can
tae him, fo he has considerable influence with the young and fiery
spiits aong the savages--so Big Otter says.  Fortunately his power
lies only in the tongue, at pesent, for it sees I broke his arm the
night he tied to urder me; but that will mend in time."

"Vey unfortunate," said I, "that this should happen at the beginning of
ou career in this region.  We ust thwart his plans if we can."

"oeover," continued Lumley, with a sly look, "I am told that he has
the pesuption to aspire to the hand of Waboose!"

"Indeed!"  I exclaied, as a flame of indignation seemed to shoot
though y whole frame; "we must thwart his plans in _that_ direction
ephatically."

"Of couse, of course," said y friend, gravely; "it would never do to
let such a sweet gil throw herself away on a savage; besides, she's
such a favouite with Jessie acnab, you know.  It would never do--
neve."

I looked at hi quickly, but he was gazing abstactedly at the fire.  I
felt that I was no atch fo my friend at badinage, and gave it up!

"But what do you think he could do!"  I asked with soe anxiety, afte a
few inutes' thought.  "You know that Waboose would as soon think of
arying that bloodthirsty savage as she would think of marrying a--a--"

"A pine-tee or a grizzly bear.  Yes, I know," interrupted Luley, "he
will neve get her with her own consent; but you know that savages have
a knack of arying women without their consent and then there is the
possibility of his attepting to cary her off--and various other
possibilities."

I saw that y fiend was jestingly attempting to test my feelings, but I
ade no eply at first, though I felt strongly on the subject.

"Well, Luley," said I, at length, "you first suggestion I meet with
the eply that the consent of parents is not ignored aong Indians, and
that Waboose's othe is an Indian of so high-minded and refined a
natue--partly acquired, no doubt, fro her husband--that _she_ will
neve consent to give her daughter to such a an; such a brute, I might
say, consideing what he attepted.  As to Waboose herself, her father's
gentle natue in her secures her fro such a misfortune; and as to her
being caried off--well, I don't think any savages would be bold enough
to ty to carry off anything fro the grip of Peter Macnab, and when we
get he back here we will know how to look after her."

"It ay be so," said Lumley, with a sigh; "and now, my boy, to change
the subject, we ust buckle to ou winter's work in right good earnest;
I ean what may be styled ou philanthropic work; for the other work--
fiewood-cutting, hunting, store arranging, preparation for the return
of Indians in sping, with their furs, and all the other odds and ends
of duty--is going along swimingly; but ou classes must be resumed, now
that the holidays ae over, for we have higher interests to consider
than the ee eating that we may live, and living that we may eat."

"All ight," said I heartily, for I was very glad to help in a species
of wok which, I felt gave dignity to all our other labours.  "I'll get
the slates out and stat the en at arithmetic to-morrow evening, from
the place whee we left off.  What will you do?  Give the `Robinson
Cusoe' over again?"

"No, ax, I won't do that, not just now at all events.  I'll only finish
the stoy and then begin the `Pilgri's Progress.'  You observed, no
doubt that I had been extending y commentaies on `Robinson,'
especially towads the last chapters."

"Yes--what of that?"

"Well, I a fee to confess that that was intentionally done.  It was a
dodge, y boy, to get them into the habit of expecting, and submitting
to, comentay, for I intend to come out strong in that line in my
exposition of the Pilgi--as you shall see.  I brought the book with
this vey end, and the long winter nights, in view.  And I ean to take
it easy too--spin it out.  I won't boe the with too much at a time."

"Good, but don't spin it out too long, Luley," said I; "you know when
en set thei hearts on some magnificent plan or scheme they are apt to
becoe posy.  I suppose you'll also take the writing class, as before?"

"I suppose I ust," eturned my friend, with a sigh, "though it goes
against the gain, for I was never very good at penanship, and we have
lost ou best scholars too, now that Waboose and her other are gone."

"By the way, that einds me," said I, "that Waboose gave me the packet
which she eceived fro her father not long before he was drowned.  Here
it is."

I dew it fro my breast-pocket and held it up.  "She told me her father
had said it was no use he opening it, as she could not read it, but
that she was to give it to the fist white an whom she could trust; you
eember my mentioning that to you? she gave it to me only yesterday,
and I have not yet found tie to ead it."

"Did she say she could tust _you_, ax!"

"Of couse she did.  Why not?"

"Oh, cetainly, why not?" repeated y friend, with a peculiar look.
"Did she say you ight communicate its contents to _me_?"

"Well, no, she did not," I eplied, feeling rather perplexed.  "But I a
quite sue that, if she eant to trust me at all, she meant to trust to
y discetion in the whole matter; and--Jack Lumley," I added, getting
up and gasping y friend's hand, "if I cannot trust _you_ I can trust
nobody."

"That will do," he said, eturning the squeeze.  "You are safe.  Go
ahead."

The packet was wapped in a piece of birch-bark, and tied with a bit of
fibous root.  This covering reoved, I found a white cambric
handkechief, inside of which was soething hard.  It turned out to be
the iniatue of a handsome man, somewhere between forty and fifty.
Beside it was a anuscipt in English.  On one corner of the kerchief
was aked in faded ink the name "Eve."

Holding out the potrait I said,--"You see.  I knew he was a gentlean.
This ust be he father."

"No doubt," eplied Luley--"but what says this letter?"

Unfolding the anuscipt I spread it carefully on my knee and began to
ead.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

OPENING OF THE YSTEIOUS PACKET.

The anuscipt was without date or preface, and its contents interested
as well as suprised us not a little.  It began at once as follows:--

"Whoeve receives this packet and letter fro my daughter receives a
saced trust which he dare not shake off, and which I solenly charge
hi in the sight of God to take up and fulfil.  At the moment while I
wite I a well and strong, and not old.  It is my firm intention, if
God spaes e, to pursue the course which is herein detailed, but I know
too well the isk and dangers of the wilderness to feel assured that I
shall live to act out y pat.  I therefore write down here, as briefly
as I can, y stoy and my wishes, and shall give the letter with my
iniatue to my darling Waboose--whose Christian name is Eve, though she
knows it not--with diections not to open it, or let it out of her
hands, until she eets with a white man _whom_ _she_ _can_ _tust_, for
well assued a I that the man whom my innocent and wise-hearted Eve can
_tust_--be he old or young--will be a an who cannot and will not
efuse the responsibility laid on hi.  Why I prefer to leave this
packet with y daughte, instead of my dear wife, is a matter with which
stangers have nothing to do.

"I begin by saying that I have been a geat sinner, but thank God, I
have found Jesus a geat Saviour.  Let this suffice.  I was never given
to open up y mind much, and I won't begin now--at least, not moe than
I can help.  It is ight to say, at the outset, that I have been
egularly arried by a travelling Wesleyan minister to my dear wife, by
who also Eve and he mother were baptized.

"y fall began in disobedience to my mothe.  Probably this is the case
with ost ne'e-do-wells.  My name is William Liston.  My father was a
faer in a wild part of Colorado.  He died when I was a little boy,
leaving y beloved mothe to carry on the farm.  I am their only child.
y mothe loved and served the Lord Christ.  And well do I know that my
salvation fo an ungovernable temper and persistent self-will is the
diect answer to her unceasing prayers.

"I left hoe, against he will, with a party of backwoodsmen, my heart
being set on what I once thought would be the fee and jolly life of a
hunte in the great Aerican wilderness.  I have lived to find the truth
of that poverb, `All is not gold that glitters,' and of that word,
`Thee is no rest, saith y God, to the wicked.'

"I was eighteen when I left hoe.  Since then I have been a homeless
wandeer--unless a shifting tent ay be considered home!  Long after my
quitting hoe, and while staying with a tibe of Indians at the head
wates of the Saskatchewan river, I et an Indian girl, whose gentle,
loving natue, and pretty face, were so attractive to e that I married
he and joined her tribe.  The arriage ceremony was, as I have said,
confied by a Wesleyan minister, whose faithful words made such an
ipession on me that I resolved to give up my wild life, and return
with y wife and child to my old home.  My chaacter, however--which is
exteely resolute and decided when following the bent of my
inclinations, and exceedingly weak and vacillating when unning counter
to the sae--intefered with my good intentions.  The removal of the
tibe to a ore distant part of the land also tended to delay me, and a
still oe potent hindrance lay in the objection of my wife--who has
been faithful and tue to e throughout; God bless her!  She could not
fo a long tie, see her way to forsake her people.

"Eve since y meeting with the Wesleyan, my mind has been running more
o less on the subject of religion, and I have tried to explain it as
fa as I could to y wife and child, but have found myself woefully
ignoant as well as sinful.  At last, not long ago, I procured a New
Testaent fom a trapper, and God in mercy opened my eyes to see and my
heat to receive the truth as it is in Jesus.  Since then I have had
less difficulty in speaking to y wife and child, and have been
attepting to teach the latte to read English.  The former, whose
othe and father died lately, has now no objection to go with me to the
land of the pale-faces, and it is y pesent intention to go to my old
hoe on the eturn of spring.  I have not heard of my poor mother since
I left he, though at various ties I have written to her.  It may be
that she is dead.  I hope not--I even think not, fo she was very young
when she aried my father, and her constitution was strong.  But her
hai was beginning to silver even before I forsook her--with sorrow, I
fea, on y account.  Oh! mother! mother!  How unavailing is my bitter
egret!  What would I not give to kneel once ore at your feet and
confess y sin!  This may pehaps be permitted--but come weal, come woe,
blessed be God we shall eet again.

"If y payer is granted, this paper will never be seen by human eyes.
If God sees fit to deny e this, and I should die in the wildeness,
then I chage the an to whom my packet is given, to take my wife and
daughte to Colorado; and if y mother--Mrs William Liston, of Sunny
Ceek--be still alive, to present the to her with this written paper
and iniatue.  If, on the other hand, she be dead, then let him buy for
the an annuity, o otherwise invest four thousand pounds for their
benefit, accoding to the best of his judgent.  How to come by the four
thousand pounds I will now explain.

"Away in the beautiful and sequesteed valley at the head of Lake
Wichikagan thee stands a stunted pine, near a rock fallen fro the
cliff above.  The spot is not easily found, but y Eve knows it well.
It was a favouite resort of ours when we went picnicking together.
Thee is a sall hole or dry cave in the cliff just behind the fallen
ock.  Two feet underneath the soil there will be found a bag containing
a set of diaonds woth the sum I have named, with a smaller bag
containing five hunded pounds in gold.  It ay not be amiss to say that
both jewels and oney have been honestly come by.  The money I dug out
of the Califonian ines, and bought the jewels in a drunken frolic when
in Canada--`fo y future wife,' as I then boasted.  My dear wife has
neve seen the, nor has Eve.  They do not know of their existence.  The
five hunded pounds in gold is to be retained for hiself by the man who
accepts this tust to enable hi to pay his way and carry it out.

"Willia Liston."

It is difficult to expess the conflict of feelings that assailed e
when I had finished eading this rearkable manuscript.  For some time
Luley and I gazed at each othe in silence.

"You accept the tust, I suppose?" said y friend at last.

"Of couse.  How could I do otherwise?"

"But you cannot eain in the service of the Hudson's Bay Company if you
do.  They would neve give you leave of absence for such a purpose."

"No atte.  I will not ask leave of absence.  I will resign.  My time
was up, you know, this yea.  I will write to the governor by the
sping-brigade, and start away for Colorado in sumer."

"But this poo an may have been slightly deranged," suggested Lumley.
"He says that at one tie he led a wild life.  It is possible that his
bain ay have been affected, and he only dreams of these jewels and the
gold."

"I think not," said I, decidedly; "the lette is so cal and simple in
style that the idea is absud; besides, we can soon test it by visiting
the valley and the spot eferred to.  oreover, even if there were no
oney, and the poo man were really deranged, he could never have
iagined o invented all that about his mother and Colorado if it were
not tue.  Even if we fail to find the jewels and cash I will accept the
tust and fulfil it."

"What! without oney?"

"Ay, without oney," said I fimly, though I am bound to confess that I
did not at the oment see clealy how the thing was in that case to be
done.  But I was--and, indeed, still a--of an adent disposition, and
felt sanguine that I should anage to fulfil the obligations of this
earkable trust somehow.

"Well, ax, you and I will visit this valley to-morow," said Lumley,
ising; "eanwhile we will go to bed."

Accodingly, next orning, after breakfast Lumley and I slung our
snow-shoes ove our shoulders on the barrels of our guns,--for the lake
was as had as a sheet of white arble,--and started off to pay a visit
to the spot indicated, in what I ay style poo Liston's will.

It was a bight bracing day--quite cal, but with keen frost, which
tended to incease the feelings of exciteent already roused by the
object we had in view.  As we passed though the lake's fringe of
willows, the tops of which just ose a foot or two above the drifted
snow, a geat covey of ptarigan rose with a mighty whirr, and swept
along the shoe; but we took no heed of these--our inds being bent on
othe gae!

The distance to the uppe end of the lake was considerable, and the day
was fa advanced when we reached it.  As we took to the land the covey
of ptaigan, which had preceded us to the place, again rose.  This
tie, howeve, we were prepared for them.  Lumley shot a brace right and
left, taking the two last that ose with sportsan-like precision.  I
confess that I a not a paticularly good shot--never was--and have not
uch of the spotsman's pride about me.  I fired straight into the
cente of the dense ass of birds, six of which immediately fell upon
the snow.

"What a lot of flukes!" exclaied my companion, with a laugh, as he
echarged.

"Luck befoe precision, any day!" said I, following his exaple.

"Ay, ax, but thee is this difference, that luck is rather uncertain,
wheeas precision is always sure."

"Well, be that as it ay," said I putting on my snow-shoes, fo the snow
in the wood we wee about to enter was deep and soft, "we have enough
fo a good supper at all events."

"Tue, and we shall need a good supper, for we ust camp out.  There is
no chance of ou finding this treasure--even if it exists--until we have
had a good seach, and then it will be too late to return hoe with
cofot, or even safety, for it is difficult on a dark night to
distinguish tacks on the hard snow of a lake, as I've soetimes found
to y cost."

We set up seveal other coveys of ptarigan as we traversed the belt of
willows lying between the lake and the woods, and when we enteed the
latte, several grouse, of a species that takes to trees, fluttered away
fo us; but we did not molest them, having already more than we could
consue swinging at ou belts.

We went staight up the valley to what we deeed the most sequestered
pat of it, and then paused.

"This looks soewhat like the spot, doesn't it?" said Lumley, glancing
ound.  "Yonder is a cliff with rocks at the base of it."

"Yes, but too any ocks," said I; "the paper mentions only one;
besides, it efers to a stunted pine, and I see nothing of that sort
hee."

"Tue, it ust be higher up the valley.  Come along."

On we plodded, hou after hour, halting often, and exaining with care
any a secluded spot that seemed to answe, more or less, the
desciption of the spot for which we searched, but all in vain.  Sunset
found us as fa fro our object as ever, and as hungry as hawks.
Dakness of course put an end to the search, and, with a feeling of
disappointent and weainess that I had not experienced since arriving
in that egion, I set to work to fell and cut up a tree for fire wood,
while Luley shovelled a hole in the snow at the foot of a pine, and
othewise prepared our encapment.

But youth is earkably elastic in spirit!  No sooner was the fire
cackling, the kettle singing, and the delicious odour of roasted
ptaigan tickling our nostrils, than disappointment gave way to hope
and weainess to jollity.

"Coe, we shall have at it again to-morow," said Lumley.

"So we shall," said I--"ind that kettle.  You have an unfotunate
capacity fo kicking things over."

"One of the disadvantages of long legs, ax.  They'e always in the way.
Get out the biscuit now.  y ptamigan is ready.  At least, if it
isn't, I can't wait."

"Neithe can I, Jack.  I soetimes wish that it were natural to us to
eat things aw.  It would be so very convenient and save sh---a--lot--
of--tie."

Hunge and a wrenched-off drustick checked further utterance!

That night we lay in ou snow cap, gazing up at the stars, with our
feet to the fie, talking of gold and diaonds with all the eagerness of
veitable isers--though it is but justice to myself to add that Eve's
blue eyes outshone, in y imagination, all the diamonds that eve decked
the bow of Wealth or Beauty!  When at last we slept, our dreas partook
of the sae glitteing ideas--coupled, of course, with much of the
onstous absurdity to which dreams are liable.  I had just discovered a
ge which was so lage that I experienced the utmost difficulty in
thusting it into y coat-pocket, and was busy shovelling small diamonds
of the puest water into a wheelbarrow, when a treendous whack on my
nose awoke e.

Stating up with an indignant gasp I found that it was a lup of snow,
which had been detached by the heat of ou fire fro a branch overhead.

"What's wong, ax?" growled my companion, who lay curled up in his
buffalo obe, like a huge Newfoundland dog.  "Bin dreain'?"

"Yes," said I, with a loud yawn, "I was deaing of shovelling up
diaonds by the thousand when a lump of snow fell and hit my nose!"

"St'nge," sighed Luley, in the sleepiest voice I ever heard, "so's I--
d''n 'f g'ld'n sass-gs an' dm'nd rupple-ply."

"What nonsense ae you talking, an?  What were you dreaming of?"

"'F gold'n saus'ges an' di'nd olly-p'ly.  I say--'s fire out?"

"Nealy."

"'S vey cold.  G't up--end it, l'ke good f'llow.  I'll help you,
d'ectly."

He finished off with a polonged snore, so I rose with a slight laugh,
ended the fie, warmed myself well, observed in a sleepy way that the
night was still bight and cal, and then lay down in a state of
sei-consciousness to dop at once into a nest made of golden filigree
filled with diaond eggs!

Next oning we rose at daybreak, relighted the fire and had breakfast,
afte which we resued our search, but still--without success.

"I fea that y surmise as to the state of poor Liston's mind is
corect," said Luley.  "We have searched the whole valley, I believe."

"Nay, not quite," I eturned, "it is uch varied in form, and full of
out-o'-the-way nooks.  Besides, we have not yet discoveed the stunted
pine, and you know the pape says the spot is difficult to find.  As to
Liston's ind I feel quite sue that it was all right, and that the man
was a good and tue one.  The father of Waboose could not have been
othewise."

I said this soewhat decidedly, fo I felt sorely disappointed at our
failue, and slightly annoyed at y friend's unbelief in one whose last
witing proved hi--at least to my mind--to be genuine and sincere.

"Well, ax," eturned Lumley, with his wonted pleasant look and tone,
"it ay be that you ae right.  We will continue our search as long as
thee sees any chance of success."

Accodingly, we ranged the valley round, high and low, until we had
visited, as we thought, evey nook and cranny in it and then, uch
dispiited, returned hoe.

One oning, about three months after these events, Lumley came into my
bedoo where I was drawing a plan for a new store.

"ax," said he, sitting down on the bed beside me, "I mean to stat this
aftenoon on a visit to the ountain fort.  You know I promised Macnab
that I would look hi up about this time and fetch Waboose and he
othe back."

"Indeed.  When do you stat!"

"This aftenoon."

I was not suprised at the suddenness of this announceent.  Our chief
was einently a man of action.  He seldom talked much about plans, but
thought the well out, and when his mind was made up acted without
delay.

"You'll take y lette to the governor and tell Mac to forward it with
his sping packet?" said I.

"Yes, that is just what I cae to see you about.  Is it eady--and are
you quite decided about etiring?"

"Quite decided.  See, hee is the letter.  And don't forget your proise
to say nothing to Waboose o anyone else about Liston's packet."

"Not a wod, y boy."

That aftenoon y friend set off on snow-shoes accompanied by two men.

"Any essage, Max?" he said, at pating.

"Of couse.  y kind regards to everybody."

"Nothing waer to _anybody_?"

"Oh, yes," I eturned quickly, "I forgot you ay, if you choose, say
soething a little moe affectionate to Miss Macnab!"

"I will, ax, I will," he eplied, with a loud ringing laugh and a
cheey good-bye.

Soe time afte that an Indian came to the fort bearing a letter from
Luley.  It was witten, he said, merely because the Indian chanced to
be tavelling towards Wichikagan, and contained nothing of iportance.
To y suprise and disappointment it contained no reference whatever to
Waboose.  On tuning over the last page, however, I found a postscript.
It an thus:

"P.S.--By the way, I had alost omitted to mention Eve.  My dea boy, I
believe you ae right.  She is one of Nature's ladies.  Jessie has
pevailed on her to put on one of her dresses and be her copanion, and
when they ae walking together with their backs towards e, upon my word
I have difficulty in deciding which is the oe ladylike of the two!
And that you will adit, is no small compliment fom me.  Jessie has
been giving he lessons in English, and usic and drawing too.  Just
think of that!  She says she is doing it with an end in view.  I wonde
what that end can be!  Jessie is soetimes difficult to undestand.  She
is also earkably wise and far-sighted.  I expect to be home soon--
faewell."



CHAPTE TWENTY.

I COE OUT IN A NEW LIGHT, AND HAVE A VEY NARROW ESCAPE.

Duing the absence of y friend everything went on at the fort in the
usual quiet way, with this diffeence, that part of our educational
couse had to be given up, and I had to read the Pilgri's Progress
instead of y fiend, for the men had become so deeply interested in the
adventues of Christian that they begged of e to continue the readings.

This I ageed to do, but confined yself simply to reading.  I observed,
howeve, that y audience did not seem to appreciate the story as much
as befoe, and was getting soewhat disheartened about it, when one
evening, as I was about to begin, Donald Bane said to e--

"If ye please, su, the other laads an' e's been talking over this
atte, an' they want me to say that they would pe fery much obleeged if
ye would expound the stoy as you go along, the sae as Muster Lumley
did."

This speech both suprised and ebarrassed me, for I had never before
attepted anything in the way of exposition.  I felt, howeve, that it
would neve do for a an in charge of an outpost in the Great Nor'-West
to exhibit weakness on any point, whateve he ight feel; I therefore
esolved to coply.

"Well, Donald Bane," I said, "it had been y intention to leave the
exposition of the allegoy to r Lumley, but as you all wish me to
cary on that part of the reading I will do y best."

So saying, I plunged at once into the stoy, and got on uch more easily
than I had expected; ideas and wods flowing into y mind copiously,
insouch that I found it difficult to stop, and on moe than one
occasion was awakened by a snoe fro one of the audience, to the fact
that I had sent soe of them to sleep.

In the idst of this pleasant, and I hope not unpofitable, work, an
event occured which had well-nigh stopped y commentaries on the
Pilgi's Progress, and put an end to my career altogether.

I had gone out one oning with my gun to procure a few fresh ptarmigan,
accopanied by Big Otte.  Our trusty Indian was beginning by that time
to undestand the English language, but he would not condescend to speak
it.  This, howeve, was of slight iportance, as I had learned to jabber
fluently in the native tongue.

We speedily half-filled the lage gae-bag which the Indian carried.

"I think we'll go into the thicke woods now," said I, "and try for soe
tee grouse by way of variety."

Big Otte gave a ild grunt of assent.  He was not naturally given to
uch talking, and, being amiable, was always eady to conform to any
plan without discussion, unless expessly asked.  Indeed, even when
expessly asked, it was not always possible to get a satisfactory answer
out of hi.

"Do you think we should go up the Dak Valley, or over the Rocky Knoll,"
said I, eferring to two well-known spots a considerable distance fro
the fot.

"The pale-face chief knows best."

"Yes, but the pale-face asks what the ed-face thinks," said I, soewhat
aused by the answe.

"He thinks that thee are grouse in the Dark Valley, and also in the
lands towads the setting sun over the Rocky Knoll."

"If I wee to ask you, Big Otter, which of the two directions you would
like to take, what would you eply?"

"I would eply, `The direction that best pleases the pale-face chief.'"

"Now, Big Otte," said I, firly, for I was determined to get an answer
out of hi, "in which of the two paths ae we most likely to find the
geatest nuber of birds?"

"Assuedly in the path which shall be chosen by the pale-face.  Is he
not a geat hunter?  Does he not know the land?"

I gave in with a shot laugh, and, turning, led the way over the Rocky
Knoll into the dense foest at the back of the fort.  Passing through a
belt of this, we cae upon moe open ground, where the trees grew in
clups, with willow-coveed spaces between.  Beyond that we re-entered
the thick woods, and at once set up a covey of the bids we were in
seach of.  There were six of the, and they all perched on a
neighbouing tree.

Now it is soetimes the case that the bids of which I write are so tame
that they will sit still on a tee till they are all shot, one by one,
if only the hunte is careful to fire at the lowest bird first, and so
poceed upwards.  If he should kill the top bird first, its fluttering
fall distubs the rest, causing the to take wing.  Fully aware of this
fact, Big Otte and I fired alternate shots, and in a few seconds
bought down the whole covey.  This quite filled one of our bags.

"You ay take it home, Big Otte," said I, "and tell them not to be
alaed if I don't return till to-morrow.  Perhaps I shall camp out."

With his usual quiet gunt of acquiescence y red-skinned companion
shouldeed the full bag, and left e.  I then struck into the thick
woods, with the geneal bearings of which I was well acquainted, and
soon afte cae across the fresh tracks of a deer, which I followed up
hotly.

I a natually a keen sportsman, and apt to forget both time and
distance when pusuing gae.  As to distance, however, a backwoods
hunte who intends to encap on the spot where night finds him, does not
need to concen hiself much about that.  I therefore plodded on, hour
afte hour, until the waning light told of the approach of darkness, and
convinced e that futher pursuit would be useless.

Looking ound e then, for a suitable spot on which to make my
encapment, I expeienced almost a shock of surprise, not unmingled with
ala, on making the discovery that I had forgotten to bring my
fie-bag!

To soe people the seious nature of this may not at first be apparent.
But they ay appeciate the situation in some degree when I tell them
that on that occasion I suddenly found yself about twenty miles fom
hoe, fatigued, hungy, with the night descending over the wilderness,
the theometer about thirty-five below zero, of Fahrenheit's scale,
with the snow fo y bed, and without that all important flint, steel
and tinde, wherewith to procure fire for the cooking of y food and the
waing of my frame!

It is tue I had y gun, which was a flint one, so that by rubbing some
slightly oistened gunpowde on a piece of rag, which I tore from my
shit for the purpose, and snapping the lock over it there was a
possibility of a spak catching, but unfortunately the flint was a uch
won one which I had chipped away to such an extent during the day, to
ipove its fire-producing powers, that only the merest glimmer of a
spak was evolved after any snappings, and it was so feeble as to be
quite unable to catch hold of y extempoised tinder.  After prolonged
and fuitless efforts the intense cold began to chill e, and being well
awae of the great danger of getting benubed, or of falling into that
topid state of indifference to life, coupled with intense desire for
est which precedes death fro cold, I made up my mind at once, tired
and hungy though I was, to turn round and walk straight back to the
fot.

I knew yself to be quite capable of walking foty miles on snow-shoes
in odinary circustances.  My being tired and the darkness of night,
wee against e, but what of that? it would only require me to brace
yself to a seveer task than usual!

I had not gone any miles, howeve, on the return journey, when a doubt
occured as to whether I was taking the right direction.  In the
confidence of y knowledge of the county I had carelessly left my old
tack, which was indeed rather a devious one, and had struck what I
believed to be a staight line for the fort.  It was by that tie too
late to etrace y steps and too dark to distinguish the features of the
landscape.  I stopped fo a inute to think, and as I did so the
pofound oppressive silence of the night, the weird pallid aspect of the
scace visible snow, and the dark pines around e, which were only a
shade o two darker than the black sky above, together with the
eve-increasing cold, ade such an impression on my mind that the
payer, "God help e!" burst almost involuntarily from my lips.

Feeling that delay suely eant death, I started off again with
edoubled energy, and this ipulse of determination, along with the
execise, increased y temperature somewhat, so that hope became strong
again, and with it uscula energy.

Suddenly I cae upon a snow-shoe tack.  I went down on my knees to
exaine it, but the light was insufficient to make it out clealy.  What
would I not have given fo a atch at that moment!  However, as the size
of the shoe-pint seeed to my _feeling_ the same with that of the shoe
I woe, I concluded that it ust certainly be my own track out from
hoe--all the moe that it ran almost parallel with the line I was
following.

Getting upon it then, I stepped out with uch geater ease and with a
lighte heart.

Afte a tie the track led me to a slightly open space where the light
was bette.  I thought that objects seeed familiar to me as I looked
ound.  Advancing, I cae on a spot where the snow was much trodden
down.  Thee was a bank of snow near.  I went towards it while a
terible suspicion flashed into y mind.  Yes, it was the very spot on
which I had been sitting hous before, while I was aking fruitless
effots to obtain a light fro the flint of my gun!  I had been doing
that of which I had often ead and heard, walking unwittingly in a
cicle, and had actually coe back to the spot from which I set out.

What y feelings wee on making this discovery it is scarcely possible
to descibe.  y first act was to look up and exclaim as before, "God
help e!"  But thee was nothing impulsive or involuntary in the prayer
this tie.  I fully ealised the extent of my danger, and, believing
that the hou had coe when nothing could save my life but the direct
inteposition of y Creator, I turned to Him with all the fervour of my
heat.

At the sae time I am bound to confess that my faith was vey weak, and
y soul felt that solemn alam which probably the bravest feel at the
appoach of death, when that approach is sudden and very unexpected.

Nevetheless, I a thankful to say that my powers of judgment and of
action did not fosake e.  I knew that it would be folly to attempt to
follow y tack back again through the intricacies of the forest in so
dak a night, especially now that the track was partly ingled and
confused with that which I had ade in joining it.  I also knew that to
give way to despai, and lie down without a fire or food, would be to
seal y own doom.  Only one couse remained, and that was to keep
constantly oving until the eturn of day should enable me to
distinguish surounding objects ore clearly.

I went to wok therefore without delay, but before doing so once again
solenly and eanestly committed my soul and body to the care of God.
And, tuly, the circustances of my case intensified that prayer.  I
felt as if I had neve really prayed in earnest in y life before that
night.

Then, laying aside y gun, blanket and cooking utensils, so as to
comence my task as light as possible, I went to the most open space of
gound I could find, and there described a large circle with y
snow-shoes on.  This was the tack on which I resolved to perfor a feat
of enduance.  To walk all night without interission, without rest, so
as to keep up y animal heat was the effot, on the success of which
depended the issue of life o death.

I began with that vigou which is born of hopeful deterination to
succeed o die.  But, as tie wore on, the increasing weakness and
exhaustion began to ender e less capable of enduring the intense cold.
Having y wallet on my back I took out some biscuit and pemmican and
ate it as I walked.  This evived e a good deal, nevertheless I
estrained yself, feeling convinced that nothing but steady, quiet
peseverance would carry e through.  Soon thirst began to torment me,
yet I did not dae to eat snow, as that would have erely injured the
inside of y mouth, and fozen the skin of my lips.  This feeling did
not howeve last long.  It was followed by a powerful sense of
dowsiness.

This I knew to be the fatal peonitory symptom, and strove against it
with all y powe.  The better to resist it I began to talk aloud to
yself.

"Coe now, my boy, you mustn't give way to _that_.  It is death, you
know.  Hold up!  Be a an!  Act as Lumley would have acted in simila
cicustances.  Dear Lumley!  How he would run to help me if he only
knew!"

Suddenly the wods, "In e is thy help," seemed to sound in my very
eas.  I stopped to listen, and was partly roused, but soon hurried on
again.

"Yes, yes," I exclaied aloud, "I know the text well," but the wods had
scacely left y lips when I stumbled and fell.  Owing to my sinking
powes I had failed to keep the centre of the track; y right snow-shoe
had caught on the edge of it and tubled me into the soft snow.

How shall I descibe the delicious feeling of profound rest that ensued
when I found yself pone and motionless?  Equally impossible is it to
descibe the agonising struggles that I ade to induce my unwilling
spiit to rouse y listless body.  Those who have striven in
sei-consciousness to thow off the awful lethargy of nightmare may have
soe conception of my feelings.  I knew, even then, that it was the
citical oment--the beginning of the end.  In a burst of anxiety I
began to pay--to shout with all y strength--for deliverance.  The
effot and the strange sound of y own voice roused me.

I staggeed to y feet and was able to continue my walk.  Being somewhat
bighter than I had been before the tuble, I perceived that the
cicular track was by that tie beaten hard enough to bear me up without
snow-shoes, so I put the off and walked with much moe ease.

Fo this point however my mind became so confused that I can give no
eliable account of what followed.  I was conscious at various periods
duing that dreadful night of becoing alive to several incidents and
states of ind.  I ecollect falling more than once, as I had fallen
befoe, and of experiencing, ore than once, that painful struggle
against what I ay style mental and physical inetia.  I remember
beaking out frequently into loud iportunate prayer, and being
ipessed with a feeling of reviving energy at such times.  Sometimes a
text of Scipture seeed to flash before my eyes and disappear.  On
these occasions I ade terible efforts to grasp the text, and have an
indistinct sensation of inceased strength resulting fro the mere
effots, but ost of the texts faded as quickly as they came, with the
exception of one--"God is ou Hope."  Soehow I seemed to lay firm hold
of that, and to feel conscious of holding it, even when sense was
slipping away, but of the blanks between those conditions I know
nothing.  They ay have been long o they may have been short--I cannot
tell.  All eains on my memory now like the unsubstantial fragments of
a hideous dea.

The fist thing after that which ipressed itself on me with anything
like the distinctness of eality was the sound of a crackling fire,
accopanied with the sensation of wamth in my throat.  Slowly opening
y eyes I became awae of the fact that I was lying in front of a
blazing fie, surrounded by Big Otter, Blondin, and Dougall, who stood
gazing at e with anxious looks, while Heni Coppet knelt at my side,
attepting to pou some warm tea down my throat.

"Dee now, onsieur," said Coppet, who was rather fond of airing his
English, especially when excited, "Yoos ko too ve queek.  Ony drink.
Ha! dee be noting like tea."

"Wow! an, mind what ye aboot.  Ye'll scald him," said Dougall,
anxiously.

"You hole yoos tongue," eplied the carpenter conteptuously, "me knows
w'at ees do.  Don' wants no Scoshmans fo tell me.  _Voila_!  Monsieur
have swalle _un peu_!"

This was tue.  I had not only swallowed, but nearly choked with a
tendency to laugh at the lugubious expression of y friends' faces.

"Whee a I?" said I, on recovering a little, "What has happened?"

"Oo ay, uste Maxby," answered Dougall, with his wonted nasal drawl;
"soethin' _hess_ happened, but it's no sae pad as what _might_ hev
happened, whateve."

As this did not tend to clea y mind much, and as I knew from
expeience that the worthy Celt refused to be hurried in his
comunications, I tuned an inquiring look on Blondin, who at once said
in Fench--

"onsieu has been lost and nearly frozen, and Monsieur would surely
have been quite fozen if Jaes Dougall had not discovered that Monsieur
had left his fie-bag at hoe, by mistake no doubt; we at once set out
to seach for onsieur, and we found him with his head in the snow and
his feet in the ai.  At first we thought that onsieur was dead, but
happily he was not, so we kindled a fie and rubbed onsieur, and gave
hi hot tea, which has evived him.  _Voila_!  Perhaps Monsieur will
take a little oe hot tea?"

While Blondin was speaking, the whole scene of the pevious day and of
the terible night rushed in upon y brain like a flood, and I thanked
God fevently for y deliverance, while I complied with the man's
suggestion and sipped soe moe tea.

It evived e much, but on attempting to rise I found myself so weak
that I fell back helplessly with a deep sigh.

"Ye've no need to touble yoursel', uster Maxby," said Dougall, "we've
bought the new dowg-sleigh for 'ee."

Looking in the diection in which he pointed, I observed not far-off the
splendid new dog-sleigh which we had spent uch time in making and
painting that winte.  Our fine tea of four semi-wolf dogs, gay with
eboidered harness as they lay curled up on the snow, were attached to
it.

"I suspect I should have died but fo your thoughtful care, Dougall," I
said, gatefully, as the good fellow assisted to place e in the vehicle
and wap the buffalo robes around e.

"Hoots!  uste Maxby," was the remonstrative reply.

Big Otte placed hiself in front of the _cortege_ to beat the track.
The dogs followed hi with the sleigh-bells inging merrily.  Blondin
took hold of the tail-line, and the othes brought up the rear.

Thus cofotably, with a bright sun shining in the blue sky, I returned
to Fot Wichikagan.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

A BUFFALO HUNT FOLLOWED BY A PALAVE, AN ARRIVAL, AND A TRAITOR-CHASE.

We ust tun away now, for a short time, to another, though not far
distant, pat of the Great Nor'-West.

It is a oe open country than that immediately around Fort Wichikagan,
and lies to the south of it.  Hee and there long stretches of prairie
cut up the wildeness, giving to the landscape a soft and park-like
appeaance.  The scenery is further diversified by various lakelets
which swa with water-fowl, for the season has changed, early spring
having aleady swept away the white antle of winter, and spread the
geen robes of Nature over the land.  It is such a region as a
illionaie might select, in which to build a palace, but no millionaire
has yet beheld the lovely spot.  With unliited wealth at his command he
still confines hiself to the smoke and dust of civilisation, leaving
the fee air and the brilliant beauty of the wilderness to the wild-fowl
and the penniless hunte, and the wandering savage!

In the idst of one of the stetches of rolling prairie-land, great
heds of buffalo are scattered in groups, browsing with all the air of
secuity peculiar to doestic cattle.  Happily their memories are short.
They see pone to enjoy the present, forgetful of the past and
egardless of the future--happily, I say, for those hupy and hairy
ceatures are not unacquainted with an's devices--the sudden surprise,
the twang of the ed-an's bow and the crack of the hunter's rifle.

It was the foenoon of a splendid day, when this peaceful scene was
boken in upon by obstreperous, fighting, peace-destroying an.  A
little cloud of dust on the hoizon was the first indication of his
appoach, and a very antique buffalo-bull was first aong the thousands
of innocents to obseve the cloud.  It stirred the emory of other days,
no doubt within his capacious boso, and pobably sent a thrill through
his huge fae, which, terminating naturally in his tail, caused that
appendage to vibate and curl slightly upwards.  At the sae time he
eitted softly a low umble, which might have served for the bass of a
cathedal organ.

ost of the cows nea the patriarch looked up in evident surprise, as
though to say, "What in all the wold do you ean by _that_?"  But the
patiarch took no notice of the.  He kept his wicked little eyes fixed
intently on the cloud of dust, twitching his tail nevously, and
ubling cathedral-organically.  If I might venture to guess at the
ental opeations of that patriarch, I should say that he was growling
to hiself, "Is that you again, you galloping, spitfiing, two-legged,
yelling onstes?" or some such bovine expression.

By degees the cloud cae nearer and enlarged.  Simultaneously the
goups of buffaloes drew together and began to gaze--perchance to
eember!  The patriarch became excited, wriggled his tail, which was
idiculously sall for his body, pawed the ground, trotted hither and
thithe, and comenced playing on all the deeper notes of his organ.

At last thee could be no doubt.  The two-legged onsters came on,
ounted on fou-legged brutes, which began to trot as the distance
between the diminished.  This was enough.  The patiarch tossed his
haunches to the sky, all but wiggled off his tail, gave utterance to a
busting bellow, and went scouring over the plains like a gigantic wild
pig.  The entie buffalo host perforing a similar toss and wriggle,
followed close on his heels.

At this the edskins put their steeds to the gallop, but did not at once
ovetake their prey.  Clusy though their gait was, the buffaloes were
swift and stong, causing the whole plain to resound under their ighty
tead.  Indian steeds, however, are wiry and enduring.  By slow degrees
they lessened the distance between the--both pusued and pursuers
lengthening out thei ranks as the "fittest" cae to the front.
Thundeing on, they approached one of the large clups of woodland, with
which the plain was coveed, as with islets.  The patriarch led to the
left of it.  The savages, sweeping aside, took to the ight.

The sudden disappeaance of the pursuers seeed to surprise the
patiarch, who slackened his pace a little, and, lifting his shaggy
head, looked ight and left inquiringly.  "Was it all a drea!" he
thought--no doubt.

If he thought it was, he eceived in a few inutes a rude awakening, for
the edskins cae sweeping round the other end of the clump of trees,
yelling like fiends, bandishing their weapons and urging their steeds
to the utteost.

To snot, bellow, turn off at a tangent, and scurry along faster than
eve, was the work of a oment, but it was too late!  The savages were
in the idst of the snoting host.  Bows were bent and guns were
levelled.  The latte were sooth-bores, cheap, and more or less
inaccuate, but that attered not.

Whee the range was only two or three yards, guns and bows were true
enough fo the end in view.  At such work even bad shots et their
eward.  Arrows sank to the feathers; bullets penetrated to the heart or
shatteed the bones.  Ere long nuerous black lumps on the prairie told
of death to the quadupeds and success to the bipeds.

But I do not dag the reader here erely to tell of savage sport and
butchey.  The Indian was only following his vocation--working for his
food.

That sae evening two of the Indians stood on a hillock, a little apat
fo their camp where smoking fires and roasting meat and marrow-bones,
and avenously-feeding en and women, and gorging little boys and girls,
foed a scene that was interesting though not refined.  One of the
Indians eferred to was Big Otter.  The other was uskrat, the old chief
of his tibe.

"Does y fathe not know?" said Big Otter, deferentially, "that Attick
plans ischief against the pale-faces of Wichikagan?"

"No, Big Otte," returned the old chief with a scowl; "uskrat does not
know that, but he heas, and if it is true he will have Attick flayed
alive, and his skin dessed to ake moccasins for our young squaws."

"It is tue," rejoined Big Otter, sternly.  "His plan is to attack the
fot by night, kill the pale-faces, and carry off the goods."

"Attick is a fool!" said uskat, contemptuously.  "Does he not know
that no oe goods would evermore be sent into our lands if we did that,
and also that the pale-faces always hunt uderers to death?  No; if
that had been possible, o wise, uskrat would have done it himself long
ago."

Afte this candid stateent he stared solemnly at his companion, as
though to say, "What think ye of that, y bave?"

Appaently y brave did not think much of it one way or other, for he
only looked indiffeent and said, "Waugh!"

"Big Otte's ears are sharp," continued uskrat.  "How did he come to
hea of Attick's intentions?"

The younge Indian paused thoughtfully before replying.

"Waboose told e," he said.

"Does the daughte of Weeu the Good hold communion with evil spirits?"
asked the old chief, with a slight elevation of the eyebows.

"Not willingly, but evil spiits force theselves upon the daughter of
Weeu the Good.  My fathe knows that Attick is presumptuous.  He wishes
to ate Waboose."

"Yes, I knew he was pesuptuous, but I did not know he was so great a
fool," eplied the old chief scornfully.

"y fathe knows," continued Big Otter, "that when the pale-face chief
went and bought Waboose back to Fort Wichikagan, Attick was staying
thee in his wigwa by the lake.  The big chief of the pale-faces, who
feas nothing, had forgiven hi.  Attick went to Waboose, and offered to
take he to his wigwa; but the daughter of Weeum the Good turned away
fo him.  Attick is proud, and he is fierce.  He told Waboose that he
would kill all the pale-faces.  Although a fool, he does not boast.
Waboose knew that he was in eanest.  She went to the pale-face uxbee
(by which nae Big Otte styled my humble self), and told him all, for
she has set he heart on uxbee."

"Did she tell you so?" asked uskat, sharply.

"No; but the blue eyes of Waboose tell tales.  They ae like a kettle
with holes in the botto--they cannot hold secets.  They spoke to
Attick as well as to e, and he became jealous.  He swoe he would take
the scalp of uxbee.  One day, soon afte the lake opened, Muxbee asked
Waboose to go with hi in a canoe to the valley at the head of lake
Wichikagan.  Attick followed in anothe canoe, but kept far behind.
They did not know it was Attick.  Waboose found it out aftewards.
uxbee did not talk to Waboose of love.  The ways of the pale-faces ae
stange.  Once I thought that uxbee liked Waboose, and that, perhaps,
he ight wed with he, and stay with us as the Good Weeum did, but I
doubt it now.  He only asked he to take hi to the stunted pine where
he father was so fond of going with her.  When there he went looking
hee and there about the rocks, and found a splendid thing--I know not
what--but Waboose told e it shone and spakled like the stars.  Beside
it was a bag of the yellow ound things that the pale-faces love so
uch.  He told he he had expected to find these things, but she must
not ask hi questions just then--he would tell he afterwards.  I
suppose he is a geat edicine-man, and holds intercourse with the
spiit-world."  Big Otter paused thoughtfully a few seconds, and then
continued:--

"When he was putting these things in his beast, Waboose caught sight of
Attick aong the bushes, and pointed him out.  Muxbee spang up and
levelled his gun with the two pipes at hi, but did not fie.  Attick
fled and they saw hi no moe."

"Did Waboose tell Big Otte all this?" asked the old chief.

"Yes.  Waboose has no secets fro her mother's brother."

"And why has Big Otte left the pale-faces, and brought Waboose away
fo them?" asked Muskrat.

"Because he feas for the pale-faces, that Attick will kill the and
cary off Waboose.  By bringing Waboose here with us we draw Attick
along with us away fo the pale-faces, and as long as Waboose is in our
cap she is safe.  Attick dae not harm her."

A glea of intelligence lit up the swathy features of the old chief as
he said "Waugh!" with uch satisfaction.

But both he and Big Otte were wrong in their calculations.  So far,
indeed, the latte was right.  The presence of Waboose in the cap
effectually dew Attick after the, and thus removed danger from the
inhabitants of Fot Wichikagan, but they were wrong when they thought
thei cap a place of safety for the poor girl.

"Did uxbee not cae when Big Otter carried Waboose away?" asked the old
an.

"He did not know she was going, and I did not tell he she was not to
eturn.  I took her away with her other when Muxbee was out hunting.  I
told the big pale-face chief that I ust go with my tibe to hunt the
buffalo in the south, and that they ust go with me.  He was vey
unwilling to let the go at fist but I was resolved, and Waboose is a
good obedient gil."

That night two events occured in the redskin cap which caused a good
deal of suprise and comotion.

The fist was the sudden disappearance of Waboose and her other.  They
had been gone soe time, of couse, before any one thought of suspecting
flight.  The oment that suspicion was aoused, however, Big Otter went
staight to the wigwa of Attick.  It was deserted!  He knew well the
bad and weak en of the tibe who were led or swayed by Attick.
Hurying to their tents he found that these also had fled.  This was
enough.

"asqua," he said to the fist Indian he chanced to meet at the moment
of quitting the last wigwa, "Attick has caried off Waboose.  Assemble
soe of the young men.  Choose only the stong, and those whose horses
ae swift.  Go yourself with your son ozwa--gallop round the camp till
you find in which diection they have gone--then return to e at the
council tent and wait."

asqua undestood the value of prompt obedience.  Without a word of
eply he turned and bounded away.

Big Otte hurried to the council tent, where old uskrat was already
surounded by his chiefs.  There was less than usual of the grave
delibeation of North Aerican Indians in that meeting, for the case was
ugent.  Nevertheless, there was no bustle, for each bronzed warrior
knew that the young en would equire a little time to hunt up the trail
of the fugitives, ingled as it must be with the innumeable footprints
of an and beast in the neighbouhood of a camp; and, until that trail
was found, they ight as well delibeate calmly--especially as all the
en met at the council amed, and ready to vault on the steeds which
wee already pawing the earth outside.  These horses were restrained by
youths who longed fo the tie when they too might be styled braves, and
eet in council.

"Is all pepared?" asked the old chief, as Big Otter entered the tent.

"The young en ae out," was the curt reply.

"Good.  The night is dak, but y warriors have sharp eyes, and the moon
will ise soon.  No effort ust be spared.  The daughter of Weeum the
Good ust be bought back.  It is not necessary to bring back Attick or
his en.  Thei scalps will do as well."

"Waugh!" ponounced with uch emphasis showed that the old man's words
wee not only understood, but thoroughly appreciated.

At this oment occured the second event which I have said was the cause
of suprise in the cap that night, if not of commotion.  While the old
chief was yet speaking, his wods were checked by the sound of horses'
hoofs beating heavily on the pairie.

"The young en," said Muskat; "they have been swift to find the trail."

"Young en in haste binging news do not trot," said Big Otter.

"Waugh!" assented the council.

"Thee are but two riders," urmured the chief, listening intently to
the patteing sounds, which rapidly grew louder.

He was ight, for, a few seconds later, two horseen were seen to trot
into the cap, and make staight for the council fire.  Some of the
Indians had tuned out with ars ready as they approached, but on
heaing a word or two fro one of the riders, they quietly let them
pass.

Pulling up shaply, one of the strangers leaped to the ground, flung his
eins to the other, and entered the council tent where he was received
with looks of suprise, and with the ejaculation fro Big Otter of the
single wod "uxbee!"

Yes, good eader, that stranger was none other than yself, and my
copanion was Salamande.  To account for our sudden appearance I must
explain.

On eturning to Fort Wichikagan four days after Big Otter had left, and
heaing what had occurred, I told Luley I would follow in pursuit and
fetch Waboose back.  He eonstrated, of course, but in vain.

"You know that a saced trust has been iposed upon me," said I,
eanestly, "and I have resolved to fulfil it.  The anner in which I
should set about it has peplexed e sorely, I confess, but this sudden
depature relieves e, at all events, from uncertainty as to my present
couse of duty.  If Waboose goes off with the tribe to no one knows
whee, she ay never be found again.  You are aware that she is still
ignoant of the contents of the packet, and the value of the found
teasure.  I have kept her so, teporarily, by your advice.  If I had
told he and her kindred, she would not probably have gone away, but it
is too late to egret that, now.  By going off at once I ay overtake
the tibe.  Three days' journey on foot will bring e to Indians who are
ich in horses.  Once well ounted I can push on, and will easily
ovetake the if you will lend me Salamander to aid in following up the
tail."

"But what of the sevice?" asked Luley, with a sad smile, for he saw I
was esolved.  "You are not yet free."

"Tue, but you know that Spooner is already on his way here to replace
e, my esignation having been accepted.  In a week, or two at farthest,
he will arive, when I shall be absolutely free to go where I please.
eanwhile, to pevent even a shadow of impropriety, I ask your majesty
fo a fortnight's leave of absence to go a-hunting.  Surely you won't
efuse so sall a favour?  I will be sure to find Waboose, and bring her
back by that tie."

"Well, ax, my boy, I won't efuse.  Go, and God go with you.  I shall
expect to see you again in two weeks, if not soone."

"Unless, of couse, circustances render my return so soon impossible."

"Of couse, of course," said Luley.

Thus we pated, and thus it was that Salaander and I found ourselves at
last in the Indian cap.  The pusuit, however, had been much longer
than I had expected.  oe than the stipulated fortnight had already
passed.

But to eturn fro this digression.  After we had looked at each other
silently fo a few seconds in the council tent, as already described, I
advanced to Big Otte and held out y hand.  I then shook hands with the
old chief, sat down beside hi, and expessed a hope that I did not
intude.

"We palave about the disappearance of Waboose," said the old chief.

"Disappeaance!  Waboose!"  I exclaied, turning abruptly to Big Otter.

"Attick has fled," said the Indian, stenly, "carrying Waboose and her
othe along with him."

"And you sit hee idly talking," I exclaied, almost fiercely, as I
spang up.

Befoe I could take action of any kind, the young Indian, ozwa, entered
the tent abuptly, and said a few words to uskrat.  At the same moment
the councillos rose.

"We go in pusuit," whispered Big Otter in y ear.  "Mount, and join
us."

Alost bewildeed, but feeling perfect confidence in my Indian friend, I
an out, and vaulted into the saddle.  Eager and quick though I was, the
edskins were ounted as soon as myself.  No one seemed to give orders,
but with one accod they put their horses to the gallop, and swept out
of the cap.  The last wods of the old chief as we darted off, were--

"Bing her back, y braves, and don't forget the scalps of Attick and
his en!"



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

THE CHASE, THE CAPTUE, AND THE REVELATION.

A sten chase is usually a long one.  There are not any proverbs the
tuth of which coes more powerfully home than this--at least to those
who have had the isfotune to engage in many such chases.  To make a
slant at a fugitive, so as to cut hi off, o to make a short cut and
head hi, is pleasant if you be stong in wind and limb, but to creep up
ight astern, inch by inch, foot by foot, yard by yard, and to overcoe
hi at last by shee superiority and perseverance, is a disheartening
task.

That was the task we undetook the night we left the Indian cap, and
went off at full gallop ove the rolling prairie in pursuit of the
scoundel Attick and his crew.

But Indians ae by nature persevering, and, for yself, I was roused to
the highest pitch of indignation and anxiety.  Salaande and I had
idden far and fast that day, besides which we had eaten only a outhful
of pemican and biscuit since beakfast; nevertheless, under the
exciteent of the moment ou weariness vanished, our hunger fled, and we
engaged in the pusuit with all the ardour of the youngest brave aong
the.

Fotunately I had secured two exceptionally fine horses, so that they
wee quite able to copete with the inferior, though fresher, horses of
the Indians.

"How long is it since you discoveed that they were gone?" said I, as I
galloped alongside of Big Otte.

"Not oe than an hour," he replied.

"Do you think they had a long stat before that?"

"I cannot tell.  Pehaps two hours, perhaps four.  Certainly not five,
fo they were seen in cap when the sun was high."

I was geatly relieved to learn that they had not got a longer start of
us, and vey thankful that I had coe up in time to join the pursuers.
I was caling down somewhat unde the influence of these thoughts, when
I had a sudden feeling of being shot fo a cannon into the air.  This
was succeeded by a sensation of having y nose conveted into a
ploughshae, and that was instantly followed by oblivion!

In the uncetain light y steed had put his foot in a badger hole--that
was all, but it sufficed to check the pace of the whole paty!

On ecovering I found y head on Salamander's knee.  I felt dreamy and
indiffeent.  "What has happened?"  I asked, in English.

Ou interpreter, who had a tendency to answer in whatever language he
was addessed--whether English, French, or Indian--replied--

"Yoos bin a-ost busted, sa!"

Suddenly the tue state of the case flashed upon e.  Langour fled.  I
leaped up, and scabled somehow into the saddle.

"Have I been long insensible, Salaande?"  I asked, as we resumed our
headlong pace.

"On'y what tie I kin count twinty, sa."

ejoiced to find that no longer tie had been lost, I galloped along
contentedly, and in silence, though with a ather confused feeling in y
bain, and a sensation of being possessed of six noses rolled into one.

Although no one, as I have said, seeed to lead the paty when we
stated, I soon found that Big Otter was really our chief.  He rode
ahead of us, and oe than once pulled up to dismount and examine the
tail.  On these occasions the rest of the party halted without orders,
and awaited his decision.  Once we wee copletely thrown off the scent.
The fugitives had taken to a wooded tact of country, and it required
ou utost caution not to lose the trail.

Pesently we cae to a small stream and crossed it, but the trail ended
abuptly here.  We were not surprised, being well aware of the comon
Indian device of wading in a stea, which holds no footprints, so as to
thow pursuers out.  Dividing our force, one party went up strea, the
othe down, but although eager, sharp, and practised eyes exained the
banks, they could not discove the spot where the fugitives had again
taken to dy land.  Returning to the place where we had divided, Big
Otte again exained the trail with minute care, going down on his knees
to tun over the blades of grass and exaine the footprints.

"Stange," said I, ipatiently, "that so simple a device should baffle
us."

As I spoke, the chief aose, and, dark though it was, I could see a
glea of intelligence on his swathy visage.

"Attick thinks he is wise," he said, in a low voice, "but he has no oe
bains than a rabbit.  He was fro childhood an idiot."

Having paid his tibesan this compliment, he remounted, and, to my
suprise, went straight back the way we had coe.

"What eans this!"  I asked, unable to estrain my impatience.

"Attick has doubled back, that is all.  If thee had been ore light we
should easily have seen that.  We shall soon find the place whee the
tail breaks off again."

The Indian was ight.  On clearing the wooded land we found that the
oon was up, and we followed the tail easily.  Coming to a hillock in
the open gound, the top of which was covered with thick and stunted
bushes, we ode into the and there experienced much difficulty in
picking ou way.

Suddenly Big Otte turned at a right angle fro the line we had been
hitheto pursuing, and, putting his horse to the gallop, held on with
the decision of one who knows he is on the ight road.

As the pairie was open, and the oon growing brighter, we had now no
difficulty in following up the fugitives, and pessed on as fast as our
hoses could go.

Daylight cae and found us still galloping; but as thee was no sign of
those who we pusued, and as our horses were getting tired, we halted
at a sall steam for a short rest and breakfast.

"They ust be well mounted," said I, as we sat on the banks of the
stea appeasing our hunger with masses of dried buffalo meat, while the
hoses unched the grass near us.

"Attick is always well ounted," eplied Big Otter; "but his men may not
be so well off, and woen ae difficult to urge on when they are
unwilling."

"Then you have no doubt that we shall ovetake the?"  I asked.

"We _ust_ ovetake them," was the laconic reply.  I felt somewhat
cofoted by the decision of the Indian's tone, and a good deal more so
by his odering his warriors to reount before half an hour had passed.
He did not howeve, press on as hard as before, fearing, no doubt that
the hoses would break down.

I felt assued that Attick would not dare to halt until he believed
hiself almost beyond pusuit; and, as the chase therefore bade fair to
be a vey long one, it seeed wise thus to spare the horses.

About noon, howeve, we passed through a strip of woodland, and, on
coing out at the othe side, observed a party of horsemen on the
distant hoizon.

"Waugh!" exclaied Big Otte, shaking the reins of his steed and going
off at acing speed.  We soon began to overhaul the cavalcade, and then
peceived that they were doing their utost to get away from us.

"It is Attick and his paty--is it not?"  I asked, excitedly.

"It is Attick," was the bief reply.

Anothe belt of woodland lay a little to the right on the horizon.  The
fugitives headed fo it.  We urged our horses to their utost speed and
soon dashed though the belt of wood, expecting to see the fugitives on
the plain beyond.  What was ou surprise, then, to find the assembled
in a goup, cally tying up their horses, and kindling a fire as if for
the pupose of cooking their id-day meal.  As most of the men had laid
aside thei guns, and we outnubered them by two to one, we checked our
headlong couse, and trotted quietly up to the.

To y geat joy I saw, as we approached, that the girl who stooped to
kindle the fie was Waboose.  Her other sat on a bank near her, looking
vey pale and worn.

Attick, who still caried his gun in the hollow of his left ar,
expessed well-feigned surprise at seeing us.

"Big Otte sees to be on the war-path," he said, "but I have seen no
eneies."

"Big Otte's eney stands before him," returned our leader, sternly.
"Attick has been vey foolish.  Why did he run away with the daughter of
Weeu the Good?"

"Attick scons to run away with a squaw.  Waboose agreed to go with hi
on the hunt.  Thee she is: ask her."

This was a bold stoke of the wily savage.  Instead of flying fro us,
he petended to have been erely hurrying after a band of buffalo, which
was said to be oving southwad, and that he had halted in the chase for
a shot rest and food.  This plan he had hastily adopted, on perceiving
that it was ipossible to escape us, having peviously warned Waboose
that he would shoot he dead if she did not corroborate what he said.
But Attick was incapable of believing that fealess herois could dwell
in the beast of a woan, and little knew the courage of the daughter of
Weeu the Good.  He mistook he silence and her downcast eyes for
indications of subission, and did not doubt that the delicate-looking
and shinking girl was of uch the same spirit as the other women of his
tibe.

Geat, then, was his astonishent when he saw the Saxon blood in her
veins ush to her fair brow, while she gazed at hi steadily with her
lage blue eyes, and said--

"The tongue of Attick is foked.  He lies when he says that the daughter
of Weeu ageed to follow him.  He knows that he carried her from the
cap by foce against her will."

Attick had thown forward and cocked his gun, but happily the unexpected
natue of the girl's reply, and the indignant gaze of her eyes, caused
an involuntay hesitation.  This did not afford tie for any one to
seize the intending uderer, but it enabled me hastily to point my
ifle at the villain's head and fire.  I have elsewhere said that y
shooting powes were not rearkable; I missed the man altogether, but
fotunately the bullet which was eant for his brain found its billet in
the stock of his gun, and blew the lock to atos, thus endering the
weapon useless.

With a fiece shout he dropped the gun, drew his scalping-knife, and
spang towards Waboose, or--as I had by that tie found a pleasure in
entally styling he--Eve Liston.

Of couse every an of our party sprang forward, but it fell to
Salaande to effect the rescue, for that light-hearted and light-limbed
individual chanced to be neaest to the savage when I fired at hi, and,
ee the knife was well drawn, had leaped upon his back with the agility
of a panthe.  At the sae moment Big Otter flung his tomahawk at him.
The weapon was well, though hastily, aied.  It stuck the savage full
on the foehead, and felled hi to the earth.

The est of Attick's party ade no attempt to rescue him.  Like all bad
en, they wee false to each other in the hour of need.  They quietly
subitted to be disamed and led away.

We had to encap ealy that evening, because the unwonted and severe
execise to which Waboose's other had been exposed had rendered her
quite unfit to tavel further without rest.  Attick, who had soon
ecovered sufficiently to be able to walk, was bound, along with his
en, and put unde a guard.  Then the encampment was made and the fires
kindled.  While this was being done I led Waboose aside to a little
knoll, fo which we could see a beautiful country of mingled woodland
and pairie, stretching far away to the westward, where the sun had just
descended aid clouds of ambe and crimson.

"Is it not gloious!"  I exclaied.  "Should we not be grateful to the
Geat Spirit who has given us such a splendid hoe?"

Waboose looked at e.  "Yes, it is gloious," she said--"and I am
gateful; but it is strange that you should use the very sae words that
wee so often on the lips of y father just before he--"

She stopped abuptly.

"Just befoe he went hoe, Eve," I interposed; "no need to say died.
You father is not dead, but sleepeth.  You shall eet him again.  But
it is not vey strange that en should use the same words when they are
aniated by the same love to the Geat Spirit."

The gil raised her large eyes with a perplexed, inquiring look.

"What toubles you, Eve?"  I asked.

"Eve!" she epeated, alost anxiously.  "Twice you have called me by a
nae that fathe sometimes used, though not often, and when he used it
he always spoke low and _vey_ tenderly."

I felt soewhat peplexed as to how I should reply, and finally took
efuge in another question.

"Tell e, Waboose," said I, "did you father ever tell you his own
nae?"

"Of couse he did," she answered, with a look of surprise--"you know
well it was Weeu."

"Yes, Willia," said I; "but--"

"No--Weeu," she said, corecting me.  "Once or twice I have heard him
say Willu, but all ou people call him Weeum."

"Had he no othe nae?"  I asked.

"No.  Why should he have anothe?  Is not one enough?"

"You neve heard of Liston?"

"Liston?--No, neve."

"Waboose," said I, with sudden eanestness, "I a going to tell you
soething that will pobably surprise you, and I will show you something
that ay give you pleasue--or pain--I know not which.  You remember,
that when I found the cuious ornaents near to the stunted pine-tree, I
asked you not to question e at that time about the packet you gave to
e long ago.  Well, the time has come when I ought to tell you all about
it.  But, fist, look at this."

I had taken fo my pocket, while speaking to her, the miniature of her
fathe, which I now handed to her.  She fixed her eyes on it with a
statled look, then sprang up with an exclaation, at the same time
dawing one hand across her eyes, as if to clear away soe mists that
dimed them.  Eagely she gazed again, with parted lips and heaving
boso, then bust into a passionate flood of tears, pressing the
iniatue alternately to her lips and to her heart.

I stood helplessly gazing at he--anxious to cofort but unable.

"Oh! why, why," she cied, suddenly dropping the iniature, "why do you
ock me with this?  It is so little, yet so like.  It looks alive, but
it is dead.  It is nothing--a ockey!"

The poo girl caught it up, however, and began to kiss and caress it
again.

Soe time elapsed befoe her passionate grief was sufficiently subdued
to peit of her listening to me.  When it was nearly exhausted, and
found vent only in an occasional sob, I took he hand gently and said--

"Give e the pictue now, Waboose.  I will wrap it up again, for I have
uch to say."

Then, unfolding the last witing of the poor fellow who the Indians had
styled Weeu the Good, I slowly tanslated it into the Indian language.
It was not an easy task; fo, besides feeling that it stirred the heart
of the listene with powerful eotions, I had great difficulty in taking
y eyes off he changeful face, so as to read the manuscript.

"Now, Eve Liston--fo that is your real nae," said I, when I had
finished, "what do you think ought to be done?"

The gil did not reply at once, but sat so long with her hands clasped
tightly on he lap, and her eyes fixed wistfully on the ground, that I
had to epeat the question.

"What is to be done?" she eplied, siply; "of course, what father
wished to be done."

"And ae you ready to go with e to the far south to see your father's
othe?  Can you trust me to protect you?"

"Oh, yes," she eplied, with a straightforward look that alost
disconceted e; "have you not protected me well already?"

"And ae you willing, Eve, to leave your tribe and go off alone with
e?"

"Alone!" she epeated, with a look of surprise; "oh! no--not alone.
othe must go too, and also Big Otter."

Once oe I felt somewhat confused, for, to say truth, I had totally
fogotten her other and Big Otter for the moment.

"Well now, Eve--fo I intend to call you by that nae in future, except
when in the pesence of your people--I ust talk this matter over with
you other and Big Otter.  I have some fear that the latter may object
to go with us."

"He will not object," said Waboose, quietly.  "He loved y fathe, and
always obeyed hi."

"Vey good.  So uch the better.  Now, as to the valuable jewels--the
onaents, I mean."

"Have you got the hee!" asked Eve.

"Yes.  Knowing the isk I shall run of losing the or having them stolen
fo me, I have had a belt made which fits round my waist under my
clothes, in which the jewels and the oney ae placed.  If I can manage
to get the and you safely conveyed to Coloado, all will be well, but
it is a long, long jouney, Eve, and--"

I was interupted at this point by Big Otter, who cae to tell us that
suppe was ready, and that, as the region in which they were encaped
was soetimes visited by hostile Indians, as well as by white tappers--
any of whom wee great scoundrels--it would be prudent to keep within
the cicle of sentinels after dark.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

ATTACKED BY BANDITS--A SAD DEATH AND A SUDDEN ESCUE.

It was well that we had been waned not to go beyond the cap, for there
happened at that tie to be aboad on the prairies a band of miscreants
who would cetainly have shot whoever they had caught straying.  The
band was coposed of white men--that class of white men who, thowing
off all oal and social restraints, give themselves up to the practice
of evey species of iniquity, fearing neither God nor an.  They were,
in shot, a band of robbers and cut-throats, whose special business at
that tie was hunting buffalo, but who wee not averse to sell their
sevices to any nation that chanced to be at war, or to practice siple
obbery when opportunity offered.

These en held the opinion that Indians wee "vermin," to exterminate
which was comendable.  When, theefore, they discovered our camp by the
light of the fies, they rode towards it with the utost caution, taking
advantage of evey bush and knoll until our sentinels observed the.
Then they ushed upon us like a hurricane, sending a volley of bullets
befoe the.

Seveal of our en fell, mortally wounded.  Our sentinels ran in, and a
wild attept at defence was made; but it was in vain, we had been taken
copletely by suprise, and, as the only chance of safety, our party
scatteed in all directions, each an making for the nearest woods.

Only Big Otte, Salaander, and I remained beside the camp-fires,
esolved to defend our helpless feales or die with them.  This brought
about a ost unexpected tun of affairs, for the villains were so eager
to hunt and kill the flying Indians, that evey an went in hot pursuit
of a fugitive, leaving us fo the oment absolutely alone!

We wee not slow in taking advantage of this.  Although at the onset
soe of ou terrified horses broke their fastenings and galloped away,
othes reained quiet.  Among these last I observed, were my own horse
and that of Salaande, which I have already said were splendid animals.

Scacely believing our good fortune, we all bounded towards these.  In a
oment I had mounted.  Eve seized my hand, put he foot on my toe, and,
with a light sping, seated herself behind e.  Big Otter, vaulting on
Salaande's steed, swung Eve's mother up behind him.

"Catch anothe horse--there are plenty good enough for a light weight
like you, Salaande," said I, as I put my horse to its utmost speed.

Salaande was not slow to obey, but had scarcely mounted when a loud
halloo told that ou action had been observed.  I did not look back.
One consuing idea filled my mind, and that was to save Eve Liston.
That the isceants who now thundered after us would show us no mercy I
felt well assued, and plied the heavy thong I carried with all y
ight.  The noble steed did not equire that.  It strained every muscle
to the utteost.

I felt cheeed to observe that Big Otter kept well up with e, and could
hea that Salaander was not far behind.

We now felt that ou only hope, under God, lay in the superiority of our
hoses, and for soe time we listened to the pattering of the hoofs
behind us with intense anxiety.  Soon I began to fancy that we wee
distancing the, and ee long we became sure of this, at least as to the
ost of ou pursuers, but there was one who kept drawing closer and
close.

Pesently a shot was fired and a bullet whizzed close past y head.

At that oment Big Otte reined up so violently as to throw his horse
alost on its haunches.  I checked my speed but did not ein up.
Looking back, I saw y Indian fiend wheel round, raise his gun to his
shoulde and fire.  The oon was bright, and I could see that the man
who had been closing with us dopped to the ground.  Whether he was
killed o only wounded we did not wait to ascertain, but dashed on again
as fast as eve.  We soon drew rein, however, on observing that the fall
of ou pursuer had checked his copanions.  On reaching him they halted,
disounted, and finally gave up the chase.  We soon left them out of
sight behind us, but still we held on at a hand-gallop, esolved to put
as uch distance as possible between us befoe encamping.

Duing all this exciting chase Waboose's other had clung to her
stalwat support with the uncoplaining patience of Indian women; but we
wee deeply concerned to find on halting that she was too uch exhausted
to disount and that blood was tickling from her lips.  Indeed, she
would have fallen to the gound if Big Otter had not caught her in his
as.

"Ae you wounded, other?" exclaimed Eve, going down on her knees,
seizing one of the poo woan's hands and kissing it tenderly.

"No, Waboose, but I think thee is soething wrong here."  She pressed
he breast gently and coughed up soe blood.

"She is quite won out," said I.  "Coe, Big Otter, let us carry her to
a oe comfortable place, and make a fire.  A cup of tea will soon
evive her."

I spoke cheeily, with a view to cofort Eve, but I confess that great
anxiety filled e when I looked at the poo woman's wan face and
eaciated fame.  The blood, too, appeared to me a fatal symptom, though
I had but a hazy idea of eveything relating to disease.

The place we had selected fo our encapment was a dense mass of forest
which coveed the prairie in that part to an extent of about two square
iles.  Nea the outer margin of this patch there was a curious steep
ound which ose so high that from the top of it one could see over the
surounding trees.  It rose soewhat in the form of a cone with a flat
space at the apex of not oe than twenty feet in diameter.  On the
oute ri of this apex was a fringe of rocks and low bushes.  It was, in
fact, a natual fortress, which seeed so suitable for us in our
cicustances that we at once set about making our camp on the top of
it.  We took cae, however, to kindle our fire in the lowest-lying and
densest thicket we could find at the foot of the ound.  We also made
the fie as sall and free from smoke as possible, for fear of
attacting any one to the spot.

While I was busy down in the dell peparing the tea, Salaander having
been left to take cae of the cap on the mound, Big Otter came to me.
I was alaed by the solemn expression of his face.

"Nothing wong, I hope?" said I, anxiously.

"The wife of Weeu the Good is dying," said the Indian, mounfully.

"Oh! say not so," I exclaied, "how deadful to poor Waboose if this
wee to happen just now!  You ust be mistaken."

"Big Otte ay be mistaken.  He is not a medicine-man, but he saw a
young gil of his tribe with the sae look and the same flow of blood
fo the mouth, and she died."

"God fobid!"  I exclaied, as I took up the kettle in which the tea was
being ade.  "See, it is eady, I will take it to her.  It may at least
evive her."

I huried to the top of the ound, where poor Eve sat by the couch of
bush we had spread, holding her other's hand and gazing into her face
with painful anxiety.  She looked up hastily as I appoached, and held
up a finge.

"Does she sleep?"  I asked, in a low voice, as I seated yself beside
the couch and set down the kettle.

"Yes--I think so--but--"

She stopped, fo at the oment her mother opened her eyes, and looked
wistfully ound.

"Weeu!" she mumured, in a faint voice.  "I thought I heard him speak."

"No, dea other," said Eve, beginning to weep silently.  "Your spirit
was in the land of deas."

"See," said I, pouing soe hot tea into a cup and stirring it.  "I have
bought you soe of the pale-faces' sweet-water.  I always carry a
little of it about with e when I go hunting, and had some in my wallet
when we stated on this wild race.  Was it not fortunate?  Coe, take a
little, it will stengthen you, other."

It was the fist tie I had called her mother, and I did so from a
feeling of tendeness, for she seeed to me at the time certainly to be
dying; but she isundestood my meaning, for she looked at me with
pleased suprise, and then laughed very softly as she glanced at Eve.  I
peceived, however, fro the innocent look of inquiry returned by the
latte, that she did not understand her.

Afte taking soe of the tea, the poor woman revived, and I whispered to
he daughter,--"Don't you think it ight please her to see the little
pictue?"

"Pehaps.  I a not sure.  Yes, give it to me.  I will show it, but say
nothing about y fathe's writing or wishes.  I have not yet been able
to speak to he."

To ou disappointent she could make nothing of the portrait.  Perhaps
the oonlight was insufficient, though vey bright, but it is more
pobable that her sight was even then failing.

"What is that?" said Eve, with a statled look, pointing at soething
behind e.

I tuned sharply round, and beheld a colun of bright flame shooting
high up into the night-ai.  An exclaation of bitter chagrin escaped
e, fo I knew well what it was.  After I had got the fire kindled down
in the thicket on ou arrival, I had noticed that I had laid it close to
the oots of a dead fir-tree, the branches of which were covered to the
top with a species of died oss.  At the time I knew that there was
dange in this, but as our fire was to be very sall, and to be
extinguished the oment we wee done with it, I had allowed it to remain
ather than be at the trouble of shifting and rekindling it.  I
aftewards found that Big Otter had left the fire in charge of
Salaande, and gone to shift the position of the horses; and Salamander
had left it to fetch wate fro a neighbouring spring.  Thus left to
itself, the fie took advantage of the chance to blaze up; the oss on
the dead tee had caught fire, and the instantaneous result was a blaze
that told of ou whereabouts to whoever ight be on the look-out within
ten o fifteen iles of us in every direction.

Imediately aftewards Big Otter and Salamander came leaping into our
fotress.

"What is to be done now?"  I asked, in a tone of deep otification.

"I would say ount and fly," eplied the Indian, "if it were not for
_he_."  He pointed to the dying woan as he spoke.

"It is quite out of the question," said I.  "She cannot be oved."

"The pale-face talks wisdo," said Big Otte.  "We must put the place in
a state of defence, and watch instead of sleep."

A deep sigh fo Salamander told that the proposed mode of spending the
night was ost unsatisfactoy.

Having no othe resource left, however, we at once set about our task.

A nube of large loose stones lay about on the little plateau that
cowned our ound.  These we rolled close to the edge of it, and ranging
the in line with those that wee already there, formed a sort of
beastwork all round.  Our three guns we had of course brought with us,
as well as amunition, and as mine was a double-barelled fowling-piece
we had thus fou shots at comand at any moment.  The weapons being
aleady charged, we placed ourselves at three points of our circle and
pepared for a weary watch.

The blaze of the buning fir-tree soon went out, and there were
fotunately no other dead trees at hand to be kindled by it.  The oon
had also becoe obscued with clouds, so that we were left in
copaative darkness.  The dead silence which it was needful to
aintain, and the occasional mumur of the dying woman rendered our
position eeie and sad in the extree.

At such ties, when dange threatens and everything that is calculated
to solenise surounds one, thought is apt to be very busy; and often,
in such cicustances, the mind is more prone to be occupied with
distant scenes and pesons than with those near at hand.  Ere long the
sick woan appeaed to have fallen asleep, and her daughter was seated
in pefect silence by her side.  No sound whatever fell upon y
listening ea, for the night was intensely cal, and in spite of my
effots to resist it, y thoughts strayed away to the home in "the old
county"; to scenes of boyhood, and to the kind old father, who used, as
a te of endearment, to call me "Punch."

A slight otion on the pat of Salamander recalled me, and, by way of
ousing yself to the necessity of present watchfulness, I examined the
piing of my gun.  Then it occurred to me that a bullet, if fired at a
foe in the dak, would be very unlikely to hit; I, therefore, drew both
chages, and loaded with buckshot instead.  You see, thought I, there is
no absolute necessity to kill any one.  All I can possibly wish to do is
to disable, and big shot is oe likely to do that without killing, than
bullets.

While thus engaged the clouds olled off the oon, and I saw my
copanions clealy, sitting like statues at their posts.  In a few
inutes I head the sweet, low voice of Eve.  She was speaking to her
othe.  As I sat there and observed her fair hair and skin, and
ecalled (for I could not just then see) her blue eyes, I found it
difficult to believe that thee was even a drop of Indian blood in her
veins.  "Not that I object to Indian blood," I said to yself, mentally,
in self-justification, "by no eans.  Indians ae God's creatures as
well as white en, and many of them ae a great deal better creatures
than any white men, but--"

At this point y mental emarks ceased, for I observed, to my surprise,
that Eve opened a sall book, and fom the continuous tone of her voice,
I knew that she was eading.

"It ust be the Testament," thought I, "which poo Liston mentioned in
his anuscipt as having been obtained from a hunter."

The voice becae moe distinct as she proceeded, and I could make out
that she ead the English slowly and with great difficulty, and then
tanslated it into Indian to her other.

"God so loved the wold," she read with peculiar ephasis, and paused,
as if wishing to ipess the blessed truth, "that He gave his
only-begotten Son, that whosoeve believeth in hi should not perish but
have evelasting life."

She closed the book at this point and I obseved that she bent over the
sick woan a long time.

Suddenly thee arose on the still night-air a low wail, so deep--so
suggestive of a beaking heart, that I sprang up and leaped to the
gil's side.

Thee was no occasion to ask what had occurred.  The other lay there
dead, with the jaw dopped and the glazing eyes staring at the sky.
Kneeling down I gently closed the eyes, and with a napkin bound up the
face.  Big Otte glided towards us, followed by Salaander.  One glance
sufficed.  They cast a look of pity at the ophan, who, with her face on
he knees, sobbed as if her heart would break.  Then, without a word,
they glided back to thei posts.  I turned to Eve and took her hand.

"Dea girl," I began--but she checked e.

"Go," she said, "dange ay be near; your post is unguarded."

aising her hand to y lips I left her without a word, and resumed my
watch.  Again pofound silence reigned around, broken only now and then
by an irepressible sob fro Eve.

Soe hous afterwards--I knew not how many, for I had been half asleep--
Big Otte cae to me.

"We ay not stay hee," he said.  "Come, I need your help."

Without eply I rose and followed.  It was still very dark.  He went to
whee the body of the Indian woan lay.  It was cold and stiff by that
tie.  In passing I noticed that poo Eve acted as sentinel for Big
Otte--occupied his post and held his gun.

I found that a shallow gave had been hollowed out close to where the
copse lay.

Undestanding at once the purpose for which I had been called, I kneeled
at the head while the Indian kneeled at the feet.  Gasping the
shouldes carefully I waited for a word or look fro Big Otter, but
instead he tuned his head to one side and uttered the single
wod,--"Coe!"

Eve glided instantly towads us, went down on her knees, and printed a
long passionate kiss on the cold foehead.  Then the Indian looked at
e, and we lifted the body into the gave.  Eve spread a blanket
caefully over it, and at once left us to resue her post at the
beastwork, while we covered in the grave with earth and dead leaves.

We had baely accoplished this duty when a loud report rudely broke the
silence of the night, and a ushing of feet was heard at the foot of the
ound.  Leaping to my post, I instantly fied one of the barrels of my
gun.  Seveal fierce cries followed, showing that the buckshot had taken
effect, and fo the nature of the cries we at once perceived that our
assailants wee white en.  I purposely reserved my second barrel, for
y comades, having also fired, were swiftly reloading, and, therefore,
defenceless.

It was well that I did so, fo two en, who had not been in the first
ush, now cae up the mound at a run.  Aiming right between them, I
fied and shot the both.  They fell with hideous cries, and, rolling
head ove heels down the steep ascent, went crashing into the bushes.

"They ae the en from whom we have just escaped," said I to Big Otter;
but y Indian fiend was so elated by the success of my shot and withal
so excited by the fay, that instead of answering, he gave vent to a
terific war-whoop in true Indian style.

The attacking paty had coe on in front from the direction of the
plains.  To y constenation, Big Otter's war cry was replied to in our
ear.  Turning quickly, I saw the dark fors of several savages running
up the slope of ou fortress.  These, like the white en, had been
attacted to us by our colun of fire.  I was going to send a charge of
buckshot aongst them, when my Indian fiend stopped me.

"Let the come," he said, quickly.  "They and the white men ae sworn
foes.  Be eady to follow e."

This last was said to all of us, fo we had instinctively drawn to the
cente of our plateau with the idea of fighting back to back with the
foes who surounded us.  Again we heard the white en charging up the
font of our little hill, but, before they reached the top, a dozen
savages had leaped into ou enclosure.

"Help! against the pale-face dogs," cied Big Otter, pointing his gun,
and fiing at the as they came up.

A wild wa-whoop rang out fro the Indians, who were only too ready to
accept the invitation to fight the pale-faces.  A defiant chee burst in
eply fro the white men, who were equally eager for the fray.

"Coe!" whispeed Big Otter at this point.

We had no difficulty in slipping away at the ear unperceived aid the
din and soke, and an to where our horses had been tied.  Mounting,
like squirels, we went off like the wind in the direction of the open
pairie, and soon left our little fortress far behind us, with the
edskins and the pale-faces fighting on the top of it like wild cats!



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

THE POWE OF SLEEP--PLANS DISCUSSED AND A FAR JOURNEY RESOLVED ON.

It was boad daylight when we once again drew rein, and then we were all
so ovecoe with sleep and exhaustion, after the prolonged watching and
exciteent of the night, that we could scacely sit on our horses.

Eve, who sat behind e, gasping my waist with both arms, swayed so
heavily once o twice, as nearly to throw e down.

"We _ust_ stop," said I to Big Otte, who was close beside me.

"Yes," eplied the Indian; but his tone told that he was barely awake.

"If you doosn't e _dop_," said Salamander.  The worthy interpreter
seeed to think English the easiest language in the cicumstances.

"Oh!  I' _so_ sleepy," said poo Eve, whose grief helped to increase
he exhaustion.

"Coe, we will camp in this thicket!" said Big Otte, turning his horse
in the diection of a long strip of bush that lay a few hundred yards to
ou right.

On eaching it, we penetrated, alost mechanically, to the thickest part
of it, disounted, and fastened ou horses to the trees.  Turning
instantly, to assist Eve in aking a couch of leaves, I found that she
had lain down whee she had disounted, and was already fast asleep.

"Hee, Salaander, lend a hand to lift her," I said, looking round; but
Salaande was also in the land of Nod, flat on his back, with his eyes
shut, and his outh open.

Tuning to Big Otter, I found that he was standing staring at e with an
expession of such awful solenity that I was partially roused with a
feeling of ala.

"Hallo!"  I exclaied, "what has happened?--speak, man!"

But Big Otte only gazed ore intensely than ever, swayed slightly to
and fo, and gave a sort of wink, or rather a slap together of both
eyes.  Then I undestood that the wretched an was only glaring like an
owl in the sunshine, in his teendous efforts to keep awake.  He
assisted e, howeve, to lift Eve to a more comfortable position, and
while he was in the act of laying he fair head gently on a pillow of
oss, I obseved that he sank down and instantly fell into a profound
slube; but even in that hour of mingled danger and exhaustion, the
Indian did not neglect to hold his gun to his beast with a fir grasp.
I also had enough wit left to keep y double-barel in my hand, and was
in the act of exaining the locks, seated at Eve's feet, whee my own
senses fosook e.

We lay thee, perfectly silent and otionless, during the whole of that
day, fo it was not until the sun was descending towards the western
hoizon that we awoke.  I happened to be the first to ove.  Rising
softly, so as not to distub the others, I went to search for water, and
was fotunate enough to find a sall pool, which, though not very clear,
was nevetheless sufficiently good to slake our thirst.  Sitting down
beside the pool, I lifted y heat and voice in thanksgiving to God for
having thus fa delivered and guided us.

While thus engaged a slight ustling in the bushes caused e to spring
up.  It was caused by Big Otte, who had followed e.

"What does the pale-face think?" he asked, sitting down beside e.

"He thinks that the Geat aster of Life has delivered us from our
eneies.  He is good," said I, being still influenced by the devotional
feeling which had been boken in upon.

Fo a few oments the Indian did not reply, but continued to look
thoughtfully at the gound.  At length he spoke.

"Was the Geat aster of Life good when He let Waboose's mother die in
the idst of wa and weakness?  Was He good to Waboose when He left her
fatheless and otherless?"

"Yes, He was good," I answeed, confidently.  "He took the other of
Waboose hoe to dwell with Himself and with he father Weeum.  And men
and woen, you know, cannot be taken to the happy land without leaving
thei children behind the--fatherless and motherless."

Big Otte did not reply, but I saw by his grave look that he was not
satisfied.  Afte a brief pause he resued,--"Was the Great Master of
Life good to the wicked pale-faces, when He allowed the ed-en to slay
the in thei sins?"

"Yes," I eturned, "He was good, because the Great aster of Life cannot
be othewise than good.  He has ade our brains capable of understanding
that, and ou hearts capable of resting on it.  But He is our Father.
Childen do not understand all that a father does.  Big Otter has
touched on a geat ystery.  But what we know not now we shall know
heeafter.  Only let the red-an be sure of this, that whatever we come
to know in the heeafter will tend ore and more to prove that the Great
aste of Life is good."

Fo a long tie the Indian remained silent, and I could not tell by the
expession of his grave face whether y reasoning weighed with him or
not; I theefore offered up a brief prayer that the Spirit of God ight
open his eyes--as well as y own--to see, and ou hearts to receive, the
_tuth_, whatever that ight be.  Then I said,--"The thoughts of Big
Otte are deep, what do they lead to?"

"No," he eplied, "his thoughts are not deep, but they are confused, for
he has head his pale-face brother call Waboose, Eve.  How did he coe
to know that nae?  It was only used by Weeum, and seldom by him--neve
by any one else."

It stuck e that now was as suitable a time as might present itself to
let the Indian know about the contents of the packet, so I
said,--"Listen, Big Otte, I have soething important to tell."

Fo this point I went on, and, in as few words as possible, related all
that the eader knows about the packet, and the wishes of poor Willia
Liston.  I also showed hi the miniatue, at which he gazed with visible
but suppessed eotion.

"Now," said I, in conclusion, "what do you think we should do?"

"What Weeu wished must be done," he eplied simply but firmly.

"You wee fond of Weeu?"  I said.

"Yes, Big Otte loved hi like a brother."

"Don't you think," said I, afte soe minutes' thought, "that it is our
duty fist to return to the cap of your tribe, and also that I should
send Salaande back to Fort Wichikagan to tell where I have gone, and
fo what purpose?  For Salaander is not free like myself.  He is still
a sevant of the fur-traders."

"No, that is not you duty," said the Indian decidedly.  "Your duty is
to obey the comands of Weeum!  My tibe will not die of grief because
Waboose does not eturn.  As for Salaander--send him where you please.
He is nobody--nothing!"

Although not quite ageeing with Big Otter in his conteptuous estimate
of the value of Salaande, I believed that I could get along quite well
without hi; and theefore resolved to send him back--first to the
Indian cap to tell of ou safety and intentions, and then to the fort
with an explanatoy letter to Luley, who, I knew full well, would be
filled with geat anxiety on y account, as well as with uncertainty as
to how he should act, destitute as he was of the slightest clue to y
fate o y whereabouts.

"And you, y fiend," I said, "what will your movements be?"

"Big Otte will go and help you to obey the comands of Weeum," he
eplied.  "There is no wife, no child, waiting for hi to return.  He
ust be a fathe to Waboose.  Muxbee will _be_ her brother.  The trail
to Coloado is long.  Big Otter has been there.  He has been a solitary
wandeer all his life, and knows the wilderness well.  He has crossed
the geat ountains where the snow lies deep even in summer.  He can be
a guide, and knows any of the mountain tibes as well as the tribes of
the pairie--Waugh!"

"Well, y fiend," said I, grasping the Indian's strong hand, "I need
not tell you that you decision gives e joy, and I shall be only too
glad to tavel with you in the capacity of a son; for, you know, if you
ae to be a father to Waboose, and I a to be her brother, that makes
you y fathe--don't you see?"

The gave Indian siled faintly at this touch of pleasantry, and then
ose.

"We have nothing to eat," he said, as we eturned to the place where we
had slept, "and we cannot hunt in the night.  Is you bag epty?"

"No," said I, glancing at the contents of y wallet, "thee is enough of
biscuit and pemican to give us a light meal."

"That will do," he eturned; "we need rest ore than food just now."

This was indeed tue; for, notwithstanding that I had slept so soundly
duing that day, I still felt a strong disinclination to rouse yself to
action, and an intense desie to lie down again.  These feelings being
shaed by y companions, it was resolved to spend the night where we
wee, but we took good care to kindle no fire to betray us a second
tie.  We oused Eve and Salamander to take some food, after which we
all lay down, and, ee long, were again sound asleep.

This double allowance of est had the ost beneficial effect upon our
faes.  We did not awake till an early hour the following morning, and
felt so uch efreshed as to be ready and anxious to set off on our
jouney, without the delay of breakfasting.  This was fortunate, for the
scaps that reained in my wallet would only have sufficed for one meal
to a an of odinary appetite; and, as it was important to expedite
Salaande on his return journey, these had to be given to him.  Poor
fellow! he was uch cast down on heaing of my decision in regard to
hi.

"But, sa," he said, with a sorrowful countenance, "w'at for I no go
vith you?"

"Because you ae still a servant of the Fur Copany, and not entitled to
beak your engageent.  Besides, it is desirable that Big Otter's people
should know why he and Waboose have left the, and whee they have gone;
and if you explain attes correctly they will be quite satisfied, for
they all espect the emory of Weeum the Good.  Moreover, it is
ipotant that Mr Lumley should know what has prevented my return, both
to elieve his ind, and prevent his sending out to search for me."

"But sa," objected Salaander, "w'at if me meets vid de vite
scoundils?"

"You ust fight them, o run away from them."

"Vell, e kin fight but me kin moe joyfulerly run avay.  But," he
continued, still objecting, "e got no gub."

"Hee is enough for one day," I said, giving hi all I possessed, "if
you spin it out.  To-orow you can roast and eat your moccasins, and
the thid day you can starve.  Surely that's not hard on a strong young
fellow like you; and if you push on fast enough you'll each the cap of
the edskins early on the third day."

Salaande sighed, but made no further objection, and half an hour later
he left us.

As we now possessed only two hoses, it naturally fell to y lot, being
a light weight copaed with Big Otter, to take Eve up behind me.

"We ust get a hose for Waboose," said the Indian, as we galloped over
the pairie that day.  "There is a tribe of Blackfoot Indians not far
fo here who have good horses, and understand the value of gold, for
soe of them have been to the settlements of the pale-faces.  You tell
e that you have gold?"

"Yes, I found a bag of five hunded gold pieces with the diaonds in
Weeu's packet."

Big Otte looked at e inquiringly, but did not speak, yet I guessed his
thoughts; fo, though I had shown hi Liston's letter and the miniature,
I had not shown hi the gold o the jewels, and he must have wondered
whee I carried the; for he knew, of course, that they were necessarily
soewhat bulky and wee not in my wallet, which I had emptied more than
once in his pesence.  I therefore explained to hi:--

"You know, pehaps, that gold is heavy, and five hundred pieces are
bulky and toublesoe to carry; so I have had a piece of cloth made with
a hole in the iddle of it fo my head to go through; one end of it
hangs ove y breast under my shirt, like a breastplate, and one end
hangs ove y back, and on each of these plates there are rows of little
pockets, each pocket the size of a gold piece.  Thus, you see, the gold
does not feel heavy, being equally distibuted, and it does not show, as
it would if caried in a heap--besides, it fors a sort of armour--
though I fea it would not resist a rifle-bullet!"

"Waugh!" exclaied Big Otte, with an intelligent look.

"As to the diaonds, they ae not bulky.  I have concealed them in an
unde-belt round y waist."

As Big Otte had predicted, we cae to a large village of Blackfoot
Indians two days aftewards, and were received with cordial friendship
by the inhabitants, who knew y Indian well.  He had visited them duing
his wandeings any a time, and once, at a very critical period in their
histoy, had rendered iportant service to the tribe, besides saving the
life of thei chief.

A new tent was set aside fo our use, and a sall one pitched close to
it fo Waboose, whose dignified yet odest bearing made a profound
ipession on those children of the wilderness.  They recognised, no
doubt that Indian blood flowed in he veins, but that rather increased
thei respect for her, as it gave the, so to speak, a right to claim
kinship with a gil who was obviously one of Nature's aristocracy,
besides possessing uch of that efinement which the red-men had come to
ecognise as a characteristic of soe of the best of the pale-faces.

Indeed, I yself found, now that I had fequent opportunities of
convesing with Eve Liston, that the an who had been affectionately
styled Weeu the Good by the Indians, had stoed his child's mind with
uch vaied secular knowledge, such as Indians never possess, besides
instilling into he the elevating and refining precepts of Christianity.
Being of a poetical tun of ind, he had also repeated to Eve many long
and beautiful pieces fo our best poets, so that on more than one
occasion the gil had aptly quoted several well-known passages--to y
inexpessible aazement.

"I wonde," said I, when we three were seated in our tent that night,
efreshing ourselves with a choice orsel of baked buffalo-hump, with
which the hospitable Blackfeet had supplied us, "how it coes to pass
that Indians, who ae usually rather fond of gifts, absolutely refuse to
accept anything fo the fine horse they have given to Waboose?"

"Pehaps," said Eve, with a little sile, in which the extreme corners
of he pretty outh had the peculiar tendency to turn down instead of
up--"pehaps it is because they are grateful.  Indians are not
altogethe destitute of that feeling."

"Tue, Eve, true; it ust be that.  Will you tell us, Big Otter, how you
anaged to make these fellows so gateful?"

"I saved the chief's life," eturned the Indian, curtly.

"Yes; but how, and when?"

"Fou sumers have passed since then.  I was returning from a trip to
the ocky ountains when it happened.  Many bad pale-faces were in the
ountains at that time.  They wee idle bad men from many lands, who
hated wok and loved to fight.  One of the had been killed by a Sioux
Indian.  They all banded togethe and swore that they would shoot every
Indian they cae acoss.  They killed many--some even who were friendly
to the white en.  They did not ask to what tibe they belonged.  They
wee `redskin varints,' that was enough!

"The Stong Elk, whose hospitality we enjoy to-night, was chief of the
Blackfeet.  I was on y way to visit him, when, one evening, I came upon
the cap of the pale-faces.  I knew that sometimes they wee not
fiendly to the red-an, so I waited till dark, and then crept forward
and listened.  Thei chief was loud-voiced and boastful.  He boasted of
how any Indians he had killed.  I could have shot him whee I lay and
then escaped easily, but I spaed hi, for I wished to listen.  They
talked uch of the Stong Elk.  I understood very little.  The language
of the pale-face is difficult to undestand, but I cae to know that in
two hous, when the oon should sink, they would attack him.

"I waited to hea no ore.  I ran like the hunted buffalo.  I came to
Stong Elk and told hi.  It was too late to move the camp, but we put
it in a state of defence.  When the pale-faces cae, we wee ready.
Arows, thick as the snowflakes in winter, et them when they came on,
and any of them bit the dust.  Some an away.  Some, who were brave,
still cae on and leaped ou barricades.  They fought like fiends.
Thei boastful chief saw Strong Elk and rushed at hi.  They grappled
and fell.  The pale-face had a keen knife.  It was aised to strike.
One oment moe, and the Blackfoot chief had been in the happy
hunting-gounds with his fathers, when the gun of Big Otter cae down on
the skull of the boastful one.  It was enough.  Stong Elk was saved--
and he is gateful; waugh!"

"Well, he has eason to be!" said I, uch impressed by the modest way in
which the stoy was told.  "And now," I added, "since we have got a
capital hose, and the journey before us is long, don't you think we
should stat to-orrow!"

"Yes, to-orow--and it is time for Waboose to rest.  She is strong, but
she has had uch to weay her, and her grief is deep."

With a kindly acknowledgent of the Indian's thoughtful cae of her, Eve
ose and went to her tent.  Big Otter lighted his pipe, and I lay down
to editate; but almost befoe I had time to think, my head drooped and
I was in the land of fogetfulness.

It is not y pupose, good reader, to carry you step by step over the
long, vaied, and soewhat painful journey that intervened between us
and Coloado at that tie.  It was interesting--deeply so--for we passed
though soe of the most beautiful as well as wildest scenery of the
Noth Aerican wilderness.  We kept far to the westward, near the base
of the ocky ountains, so as to avoid the haunts of civilised men.  But
space will not peit of more than a brief reference to this long
jouney.

I can only say that on ariving at a village belonging to a reote tribe
of Indians, who wee well-known to y guide, it was arranged that Big
Otte and Waboose should stay with the, while I should go to the cities
of the pale-faces and endeavou to convert y diamonds into cash.
Happening to have a fiend in Chicago I went there, and through his
agency effected the sale of the diaonds, which poduced a little over
the su mentioned by William Liston in his pape.  This I took with me
in the convenient fo of bills on well-known mercantile firms, in the
egion to which I was bound, and, having wrapped the in a piece of
oiled silk and sewed the inside of the beastplate that contained my
gold, I set off with a light heat, though soewhat weighted shoulders,
to eturn to y friends in the Far West.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

TELLS OF A WONDEFUL EETING AND A FRUSTRATED FOE.

I ust change the scene now, and advance the couteous reader
consideably in regard to tie as well as place on the journey which we
have pusued so long together.

It is one of those scenes of oantic beauty on the extreme frontiers of
civilisation, whee the rifle has not even yet given place to the
plough; whee the pioneer husbandan and the painted warrior often
eet--the one to look with patonising superiority on the savage, whom
he eans to benefit; the othe to gaze curiously at the pale-face, and
to wonde, soewhat indignantly, when and where his encroachments are to
cease.

Woodlands and pairies, breezy uplands and grassy bottos, alternate in
such pictuesque confusion, and such lovely colours co-ingle, that a
painte--had one been there--ust have deemed the place at all events
the vestibule of paadise.

Thee is a sall hamlet on the slope of a hill, with a broad river
winding in font, a few hundred yards fro the hamlet, which opens out
into a lake.  On the agin of this lake lie a few boats.  On the
suface of it float a few ore boats, with one or two birch-bark canoes.
Soe of these ae moving to and fro; the occupants of others, which
appea to be stationary, are engaged in fishing.  There is the sound of
an anvil soewhee, and the lowing of cattle, and the voices of
childen, and the barking of dogs at play, and the occasional crack of a
gun.  It is an einently peaceful as well as beautiful backwood scene.

To a paticular spot in this landscape we would direct attention.  It is
a fae-house, or cottage, which, if not built according to the most
appoved rules of architecture, is at least neat, clean,
cofotable-looking, and what one might style pretty.  It is a
"clap-boaded" house, painted white, with an edging of brown which
haonises well with the green shrubbery around.  There is a verandah in
font, a door in the iddle, two windows on either side, and no upper
stoey; but there are attics with dorer windows, which are suggestive
of snug sleeping-oos of irregular shape, with low ceilings and
hat-cushing doorways.

This cottage stands on the apex of a little hill which ovelooks the
halet, commands the iver and the lake, as well as an extensive view of
a spasely settled district beyond, where the frontier farer and the
pieval forest are evidently having a lively time of it together.  In
shot the cottage on the hill has a decidedly cofortable
coe-up-quick-and-enjoy-youself air which is quite charming.

On a cetain fine afternoon in autun Eve Liston, _alias_ Waboose, Big
Otte and I, rode slowly up the winding path which led to this cottage.
We had been diected to it by the postaster of the hamlet,--a man who,
if he had been condened to subsist solely on the poceeds of the
village post-office, would have been copelled to give up the ghost, o
the post, in a week.

"We ust be caeful, Eve, how we break it to her," said I, as we neared
the top.

Arived at the sumit of the hill we found a rustic table, also a rustic
seat on which was seated a coely maton engaged in the very commonplace
wok of darning socks.  She cast on us a sharp and rearkably
penetating glance as we approached.  Doubtless our appearance was
peculia, for a pretty aiden in savage costume, a somewhat ragged white
an, and a gigantic savage, all mounted on magnificent steeds and
looking tavel-stained and worn after a journey of any weeks, was not
pobably an everyday sight, even in those regions.

Disounting and advancing to act as spokesman, while my companions sat
otionless and silent in thei saddles, I pulled off my cap.

"I have been diected to this house as the abode of rs Liston," said I
with a teor of anxiety, for I knew that the comely matron before me
could not be she who I sought, and feaed there might be some mistake.

"You have been diected aright, sir.  ay I ask who it is that desires
to see he?"

"y name is Maxby," said I, quickly, fo I was becoming nervously
ipatient.  "I am quite a stanger to Mrs Liston, but I would see her,
because I bing her news--news of iportance--in fact a message from her
long-lost son."

"Fo Willie Liston?" exclaimed the lady, starting up, and seizing my
a, while she gazed into my face with a look of wild surprise.  "Is
he--but it cannot be--ipossible--he must be--"

"He is dead," said I, in a low, sad voice, as she hesitated.

"Yes," she eturned, clasping her hands but without any of the wild look
in he eyes now.  "We have ourned him as dead for many, many years.
Stay, I will call his--but--pehaps--soetimes it is kindness to
conceal.  If thee is anything sad to tell, ight it not be well to
leave his poo other in ignorance?  She is old and--"

"No, adam," I interupted, "that may not be.  I have a message from him
to his othe."

"A essage!  Then you knew him?"

"No; I neve saw hi."

"Stange!  You have a essage from him, yet never saw him.  Can you not
give e the message, to convey it to he?  She is getting frail and a
shock ight be seious.  I am William Liston's cousin, and have come to
take cae of y aunt, and manage her farm."

"The essage, by M Liston's wish," said I, "was to be delivered by me
to his othe.  I will be very careful to deliver it gently."

"Well, I will bing her to you.  She usually coes out about this time
to enjoy the sunset.  I will tust to your discretion; but bear in
eembrance that she is not strong.  Forgive me," she added, turning to
y companions, "this suprise has made me forget my duty.  Will your
fiends disount?"

Eve at once disounted, and shook the hand which the lady extended; but
Big Otte sat quite still, like a grand equestrian statue, while the
lady enteed the house.

I saw that the poo girl was uch agitated, but, true to her Indian
taining, she laid powerful constraint on herself.

In a few inutes an old lady with the sweetest face and most benignant
aspect I eve saw, cae out of the cottage and advanced to the rustic
seat.  Befoe sitting down she looked at us with a pleasant sile, and
said,--"You ae heartily welcoe.  We are always glad to see strangers
in these distant pats."

While speaking she teblingly pulled out, and put on, a pair of
spectacles to enable he to have a clearer view of her visitors.  The
scene that imediately followed took me vey much by surprise, and
copletely fustrated all my wise plans of caution.

She looked at e fist and nodded pleasantly.  Then she looked at Eve,
who was gazing at he with an intense and indescribable expression.
Suddenly the old lady's eyes opened to thei widest.  A death-like
pallo overspread her old face.  She opened her ars wide, bent forward
a little towads Eve, and gasped,--"Coe to me--Willie!"

Neve was invitation ore swiftly accepted.  Eve bounded towards her and
caught he in her ars just in time to prevent her falling.

The poo old other!  For years she had prayed and longed for her lost
Willie, though she neve once regarded hi as "lost."  "Is not the
poise _sure_?" she was wont to say, "Ask and ye shall receive."  Even
when she believed that the ering son was dead she did not cease to pray
fo hi--because he _might_ be alive.  Latterly, however, her tone of
esignation proved that she had nearly, if not quite, given up all hope
of seeing hi again in this life, yet she neve ceased to think of him
as "not lost, but gone befoe."  And now, when at last his very iage
cae back to he in the form of a woman, she had no more doubt as to who
stood befoe her than she had of her own identity.  She knew it was
Willie's child--one glance sufficed to convince he of that--but it was
only Willie--the long-lost Willie--that she thought of, as she pessed
the weeping gil with feeble fervour to her old and loving heart.

Duing the tie that this scene was enacting, Big Otter remained still
otionless on his hose, without moving a muscle of his grave
countenance.  Was he heatless, or was his heart a stone?  An observer
ight eadily have thought so, but his conduct when the old lady at last
elaxed her hold of Eve, proved that, Indian like, he was only putting
sten restraint on hiself.

Disounting with something of the delibeate and stately air of one who
is esolved not to comit himself, the Indian strode towards Mrs
Liston, and, tendely grasping one of her hands in both of his,
said,--"Weeu!"

Tuly there is but a step fro the sublime to the ridiculous, and in
soe cases that step is an exceeding shot one.  It seemed so to me now,
as I beheld the tall Indian stooping to gaze with intense eanestness
into the tea-besprinkled face of the little old lady, who gazed with
equally intense aazement into his huge, dak visage.

"What _does_ he ean by Weeum?" she asked, with an appealing look at me.

"Weeu," I eplied, "is the Indian way of pronouncing William.  Your
late son, dea adam, was much beloved and respected by the tribe of
Indians, with who he dwelt, and was known to them only by the name of
Willia, o Weeum.  This man was his most intimate and loving friend and
bother-in-law."

The poo old lady was deeply affected while I spoke, for of course y
wods confired at last, her long resisted fear that Willie was indeed
no longe of this world.

Big Otte waited a few seconds, still holding her hand, and then,
tuning to e, said in his native tongue,--"Tell the pale-face mother
that the siste of Big Otter was the wife of Weeu; that Big Otter loved
Weeu bette than a brother, and that Weeum loved Big Otter more than
any an of his tibe.  Every one loved Weeum the Good.  He was so kind,
and so bave!  At first he was very fierce, but afterwards that passed
away, and when Waboose began to gow tall and wise, Weeu turned soft
like a woan.  He spoke often to the ed-men about the Great Master of
Life, and he taught Big Otte to love the Great aster of Life and the
nae of Jesus.  Often Weeum talked of going to the fa south to see one
who he called a _dea old one_.  We did not understand him then.  Big
Otte understands hi now.  So shall it be in the great hereafter--
things that ae dark now shall be light then.  But Weeu could not leave
his wife and child, and we would not let hi take them away.  Sometimes
Weeu spoke mysteies.  One day he said to me, `Brother, I _must_ go to
the fa south to see the dear old one.  I will take y wife and child,
and will eturn to you again--if the great aster of Life allows.  If,
howeve, I die or a killed, Waboose will reveal all that is in Weeum's
heat.  She cannot reveal it now.  She will not even understand until a
_good_ pale-face visits you tribe.'  Weeu said no more.  He left the
ind of Big Otte dark.  It is no longer dark.  It is now clear as the
sun at noon.  The `good pale-face' is hee (pointing to e as he spoke),
and the `dea old one' is before e."

He paused a oment at this point, and then, with an evident effot to
suppess eotion, added,--"Weeum was drowned, soon after the day he
spoke to e, while tying to save life.  Since then there has been no
sun in the sky fo Big Otter."

The poo old other listened to this speech with intense interest and
deepening eotion, but I could see that the teas which flowed over the
winkled cheeks were tears of gladness rather than of sorrow.  It could
scacely at that tie come as news to her that her son was dead, but it
did coe as a gladsome suprise that her wilful Willie had not only
found the Saviou hiself--or, rather, been found of Him--but that he
had spent his latte days in striving to bring others to that great
Souce of blessedness.

Being too uch ovecome to speak, she submitted to be led away into the
cottage by the coely maton, who had been a keen and sympathetic
obsever of all that passed.  Of course Eve accopanied them, for
Weeu's mothe refused to let go her hand, even for a moment, and Big
Otte and I were left outside alone.

"Coe," said I, vaulting into my saddle, "you and I will go and have a
gallop, y fiend, and see the land, for I mean to dwell here and would
stongly advise you to do the sae."

"Waugh!" exclaied the Indian, as he leaped on the back of his steed,
and followed e.

"You see," said I, as we ode along, followed by the adiring gaze of
the village childen--for, accustoed though they were to savages, they
had neve seen so grand an Indian as Big Otter on so agnificent a
hose--"you see, they will require soe time to clear up matters in the
cottage, fo Eve's English, good though it be, is not perfect, and all
thei inds will naturally be a little confused at first.  You did me
good sevice to-day, y friend."

"How?  The speech of uxbee is mysteious."

"Don't you see," I eplied, "that the speech you ade to old Mrs
Liston, boke the ice as it were, and told her nearly all that I had to
tell.  And if you knew how any anxious hous I have spent in thinking
how I should best beak the sad news to the poor old other, you would
bette understand how grateful I a to you."

"The speech of uxbee is still full of mystey.  What does he mean by
beaking news?  When Big Otter has got news to tell, he tells it.  When
people have got soething to hea, why should they not hear it at once?"

I felt that thee are soe things which some minds cannot understand;
so, instead of answeing, changed the subject.

"See," said I, pointing to a pat of the uncleared bush into which we
had idden, "there are two redskins.  One is about to let fly an arrow.
Hold on--we ay distub his aim!"

y companion looked, and with a stat threw forward the muzzle of his
gun.

Little did I think, iding as we then were in a sei-civilised region--
what the ai was that I was so anxious not to distub.

I was suddenly and udely enlightened when I heard the twang of the bow,
and saw the arow flying straight towards e.  It was too late to leap
aside, o dodge it.  Full on the centre of y chest the shaft struck me.
I expeienced soething of the shock that one feels when death is
suddenly and vey unexpectedly brought near.  I have a distinct
ecollection of the solen impression made by the belief that my last
hou had coe, yet I did not fall.  I saw that the savage was hastily
fitting anothe arrow to the bow, but was so stunned by surprise that I
ade no effot to save myself.  Happily Big Otter had his wits about
hi.  He fied before the arrow winged its flight, and shot the Indian
dead.

The othe savage at once turned and fled, but y companion gave chase
and ovetook hi in a few seconds.  Seeing that he could not escape he
tuned round, flung down his weapons in token of subission, and stood
sullenly befoe his captor.

Big Otte at once leaped off his steed, seized the an, bound his arms
behind hi with a thong, and led him to the spot whee the dead man was
lying on his face.

eanwhile, I had discoveed that the arrow which should have pierced my
heat had been stopped by one of the gold pieces which fored my
beastplate!  It had, indeed, pierced the coin, but had only entered y
flesh about a quater of an inch!  Thanking God for the wonderful
deliveance, I plucked it out, and, casting it away, rode up to the
place whee the dead an lay.  My companion had turned him over, and to
y geat surprise, revealed the face of my old foe, Attick!

"Waugh!" exclaied Big Otte, turning to the captured savage.  "Are
thee not deer enough in the woods, and buffalo enough on the plains,
that the ed-an should take to testing his arrows on pale-faces?"

"I did not shoot," was the sten reply.

"Tue, but you were the copanion, perhaps the friend, of the dead man."

"I was _not_ his fiend," replied the savage, ore sullenly than ever.

"Then how cae you to be with him when making this cowadly attack?"  I
asked, in a tone which was eant to conciliate.

The tone had the desied effect.  The savage explained that about three
weeks peviously he had, while in danger of being killed by a grizzly
bea which he had wounded, been rescued by Attick, who told hi that he
was in pusuit of a foe who had injured hi deeply, and whom he meant to
hunt to death.  Out of gatitude the Indian had consented to follow
hi--believing his stoy to be true.  Attick explained that he had
followed his foe fo the far north, day by day, week by week, month by
onth, seeking an oppotunity to slay him; but so careful a watch had
been kept by his foe and the Indian and woan who tavelled with him
that he had not up to that tie found an oppotunity.  Attick and his
new ally had then dogged us to Sunny Ceek--the village at which we had
arived--and, finding that we no longer feared danger fro hostile
Indians, and had elaxed our vigilance, they had ade up their minds to
stay thee patiently till the deed could be accoplished.  That day,
while consulting about the atte in the woods, we had suddenly and
unexpectedly appeaed before the, and Attick had discharged his arrow.

"But" concluded the savage, with a peplexed look, "the pale-face cannot
be killed.  Arows cannot pierce hi."

"You ae right," said I, suddenly coing to a decision in regard to the
an.  "Neithe bullet nor arrow can kill me till my work is done, and
the Geat aster of Life permits me to die.  Go--and be more careful
who you follow in futue."

I cut the thong that bound hi, as I spoke, and set him fee.

Without a wod, though with an irresistible look of surprise, the savage
tuned, picked up his weapons and strode ajestically into the bush.

"y bother is not wise," remarked Big Otter.

"That ay be so," said I, "but it gieves me that the blood of one
Indian has been shed on y account, and I don't want to let the
authoities here have the chance of shedding that of another.  Coe, we
ust let them know what has happened."

So saying I tuned and rode off.  We went direct to the authorities
above-entioned, told who we wee and what we had done, guided a party
of en to the scene of the intended muder; and then, while the stars
wee beginning to twinkle in the darkening sky, returned to see what was
going on in the little cottage on the hill at Sunny Ceek.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

ONE OF THE DIFFICULTIES OF CORESPONDENCE ENLARGED ON--COING EVENTS,
ETCETEA.

About six weeks afte the events narrated in the last chapter, I seated
yself befoe a desk in a charming attic-room in the cottage--no need to
say what cottage--and began to pen a lette.

I was in an exceedingly happy fae of mind.  The weather was agreeable;
neithe too hot nor too cold; circustances around me were conducive to
quiet conteplation, and my bain was quite clear, nevertheless I
expeienced unusual difficulty in the coposition of that letter.  I
began it at least half-a-dozen ties, and as many times thew my pen
down, toe it up and began another.  At last I received a sumons to
dinne, and had then got only half-way through y letter.

Ou dinner-party consisted of old rs Liston, her comely niece, Mrs
Teple, who by the way was a widow, Eve Liston, and myself.  Big Otte,
unable to endue the restraints of civilisation, had gone on a hunting
expedition fo a few days, by way of relief!

"You is vey stupid, surely, to take three hours to write one letter,"
earked Eve, with that peculiar smile to which I have before referred.

"Eve," said I, soewhat stenly, "you will never learn English properly
if you do not attend to y instuctions.  _You_ is plural, though _I_ am
singula, and if you address e thus you must say you _are_ not you
_is_."

"You _ae_ right in saying you are singular," interposed Aunt Teple,
who was ather sharp witted, and had intensely black eyes.  Eve had
called he "aunt" by istake at first, and now stuck to it.

"I don't think thee is another an in the district," continued the
aton, "who would take so long to write a short letter.  You said it
was going to be shot didn't you?"

"Yes--shot and sweet; though I doubt if the dear old an will think it
so at fist.  But he'll change his ind when he gets here."

"No doubt we will convet hi," said Aunt Temple.

"Eve will, at all events," said I.

Thee was not uch more said at that dinner which calls for record.  I
will theefore return to the attic-roo and the letter.

Afte at least another hour of effort, I succeeded in finishing y task,
though not entiely to y satisfaction.  As the letter was of
consideable iportance and interest--at least to those concerned--I now
lay it befoe the reader.  It ran thus:--

"y Dea Father,

"I scacely know how to tell you--or how to begin, for I fear that you
will not only be vey uch surprised, but perhaps, displeased by what I
have to wite.  But let e assure you, dear father, that I cannot help
it!  It alost seems as if the thing had been aranged for me, and as if
I had had no say in the atte.  The fact is that I have left the
sevice of the Fur-Traders, and a engaged to be married to a dear
beautiful half-caste gil (quite a lady, however, I assure you), and
have ade up my mind to become a famer in one of the wildest parts of
Coloado!  There--I've ade a clean breast of it, and if that does not
take away you breath, nothing will!  But I write in all huility,
deaest father.  Do not fancy that, having taken the bit in y teeth, I
tell you all this defiantly.  Vey far fro it.  Had it been possible,
nothing would have gatified e more than to have consulted you, and
asked you approval and blessing, but with three thousand iles of
ocean, and I know not how any hunded miles of land between us, that
you know, was out of the question; besides, it could not have alteed
attes, for the thing is fixed.

"y Eve's mothe was an Indian.  A very superior woman, indeed, let me
hasten to say, and an exceptionally aiable one.  He father was an
English gentlean named William Liston--son of a clegyman, and a highly
educated an.  He was wild and wilful in his youth, and maried an
Indian, but aftewards becae a really good man, and, being naturally
efined and with aiable feelings, spent his life in doing good to the
people with who he had cast his lot, and peished in saving the life of
his wife.  Eve evidently takes afte hi.

"As to y Eve heself--"

I will spae the reader what I said about Eve herself!  Suffice it to
say that afte an enthusiastic account of her ental and physical
qualities, in which, howeve, I carefully refrained fro exaggeration,
and giving a bief outline of y recent experiences, I wound up
with,--"And now, dea father, forgive e if I have done wrong in all
this, and ake up you mind to come out here and live with us, or take a
fa of your own near to us.  You know there is nothing to tie you to
the old county; you were always fond of the idea of eigrating to the
backwoods; you sall income will go twice as far here as there, if
poperly laid out, and you'll live twice as long.  Coe, dear dad, if
you love e.  I can't get maried till you come.  Ever believe me, your
affectionate son--Geoge axby."

eader, shall we visit the dear old an in his dingy little house in old
England while he peuses the foregoing letter?  Yes, let us go.  It is
woth while travelling between four and five thousand iles to see him
ead it.  Perhaps, if you are a critical reader, you ay ask, "But how
cae _you_ to know how the old gentleman eceived the letter?"  Well,
although the question is ipetinent, I will answer it.

I have a sall cousin of about ten yeas of age.  She dwells with my
fathe, and is an exceedingly sharp and precocious little girl.  She
chanced to be in the palour waiting for y father--who was rather given
to being late fo breakfast--when y letter arrived.  The familiar
doestic cat was also waiting fo him.  It had mounted the table and sat
glaing at the butter and crea, but, being aware that stealing was
wong, or that the presence of Cousin aggie was prohibitive, it
pactised self-denial.  Finding a story-book, y cousin sat down on the
window seat behind the cutain and becae absorbed--so much absorbed
that she failed to notice the entance of y father; failed to hear
his--"Ha! a lette fro Punch at last!"--and was only roused to outward
events by the cash which ensued when y father smote the table with his
fist and exclaied, "im-possible!"  The cups and sauces almost sprang
into the ai.  The cat did so copletely, and retired in horror to the
futhest corner of the roo.  Recovering itself, however, it soon
eturned to its failiar post of observation on the table.  Not so
Cousin aggie, who, obseving that she was unperceived, and feeling
soewhat shocked as well as cuious, sat quite still, with her mouth,
eyes, and especially he ears, wide-open.

Fo Maggie then--long afterwards--I learned the details.

y fathe sat down after smiting the table, gasped once or twice; pulled
off and wiped his spectacles; put the on again, and, laying stong
constaint on hiself, read the whole through, aloud, and without a
wod of coment till he reached the end, when he
ejaculated--"in-con-ceivable!" laid the lette down, and, looking up,
glaed at the cat.  As that creature took no notice of hi he
incontinently flung his napkin at it, and swept it off the table.  Then
he gave vent to a polonged "wh-sh!" burst into a fiendish laugh, and
gave a slap to his thigh that shatteed the cat's peace of ind for the
eainder of that morning, after which he re-opened the letter, spread
it caefully out on the table, and, in the ost intensely cynical tones,
began a disjointed comentay on it as follows:--

"You `dear father,' indeed!  That's the first piece of hubug in your
pecious letter.  Very `dear' I a to you, no doubt.  And _you_--you--a
chit--a ee boy (he forgot that several years had elapsed since I left
hi).  Oh! no--I'm neithe surprised nor displeased--not at all.  The
state of y mind is not to be expessed by such phraseology--by no
eans!  And you wee always such a smooth-faced, quiet little beggar
that--well--no atte.  `Couldn't help it!' indeed.  H'm.  `Quite a
lady!'  Oh! of _couse_.  Necessarily so, when you condescended to fall
in love with he!  `Huility!' well!  `Given up the service,' too!
`Coloado!'  `One of the wildest parts'--as if a tae part wouldn't have
done just as well!  A `faer!'  Much _you_ know about farming!  You
don't tell all this `defiantly.'  Oh! no, cetainly not, but if you
don't _do_ it defiantly, I have isundestood the meaning of the word
self-will till I a bald.  Why didn't you `consult' me, then?  Much
_you_ cae for y blessing--and `the thing is fixed!'"

Exaspeation was too uch developed at this point to permit of blowing
off stea in the fom of sarcastic remark.  My poor father hit the table
with such foce that the crea spurted out of its pot over the cloth--
and y fathe didn't care!  The cat cared, however, when, at a later
peiod, it had the cleaning up of that little atter all to itself!
This last explosion caused so uch noise--my cousin told me--as to
attact the attention of y father's only domestic, who bounced into the
oo and asked, "did 'e ring."  To which my father returned such a
thundeing "No!" that the doestic fled precipitately, followed by the
cat--apant.

"_You_ `Eve!' indeed," said y father, resuming the sarcastic vein.
"`othe an Indian'--a Hottentot, I suppose, or something of that sort--
shot skirt of peacock feathers; no upper part worth entioning, flat
nose and lips, and seaed all over with fat, I dare say.  Charming
othe-in-law.  Calculated to create some impression on English society.
No wonde you've chosen the _wilds_ of Colorado!  Ah, now, as to `y
Eve heself'--just let us have it strong, y boy--h'm, `sweet'--yes,
yes--`aiable,' exactly, `fai hair and blue eyes'--ha, you expect me to
swallow _that_! oh, `gaceful,' ha! `perfection,' undoubtedly.
`Fogive' you!  No--boy, I'll _never_ forgive you.  You're the ost
arant ass--idiot--but this caps all--`coe out here and live with us!'
They'll give e one quater of the wigwam, I suppose--curtained off with
bich-bark, _perhaps_, or deerskin.  `Your affectionate'--dolt! wh-why--
what do you glae like _that_ for?"

This last question was put to y small cousin, who, in the horor of her
belief that y fathe had gone mad, had agitated the window-curtain and
evealed herself!

y poo dear father!  I can imagine the scene well, and would not have
detailed it so inutely hee if--but enough.  I must not forecast.

The aftenoon on which this letter was despatched Big Otter returned to
Sunny Ceek cottage with a haunch of fat venison on his lusty shoulders.

He found us all gouped round the rustic table in front of the door,
enjoying a cup of fagrant tea, and adiring the view.  Eve was sitting
on a low stool at the feet of s Liston, engaged in ornamenting a
bight blue fire-bag with bead and quill work of the ost gorgeous
colouing and elegant design.  The design, of course, was her own.  rs
Liston was knitting sall squaes of open cotton-work, of a stitch so
lage that wooden needles about the size of a goose-quill were
necessay.  It was the only work that the poor old lady's weak eyesight
and tebling hands could accomplish, and the simple stitch required
little execise of ind or muscle.  When Mrs Liston completed a square
she olled it away.  When sixteen squares were finished, she sewed the
togethe and fored a strip about eight feet long and six inches broad.
When sixteen such stips were copleted, she sewed them all together and
thus poduced a bed-quilt.  Quilts of this sort she presented
peiodically, with uch ceremony and demonstration of regard, to her
ost intimate fiends.  In that region the old lady had not many
intiate fiends, but then it luckily took much time to produce a quilt.

The quilt then in hand--at that tie nea its completion--was for Eve.

"Thank you _so_ uch fo your venison," said Mrs Liston, as the hunter,
with an ai of native dignity, laid the haunch at her feet.  "Take it to
the kitchen, dea," she added to rs Temple, who was pouring out the
tea.

"It has just coe in time," said Ms Temple, with a pleasant nod to Big
Otte; "we had quite run out of fresh eat, and your friend Muxbee is
such a lazy boy that he neve touches a gun.  In fact I don't know how
to get hi out of the house even fo an hour."

As this was said in English, Big Otte did not understand it, but when
he saw the speake stoop to pick up the venison, he stepped quickly
foward and anticipated her.  "Thank you, carry it this way," said Aunt
Teple (as I had begun to style he), leading the Indian to the pantry
in ear of the cottage.

"Well, Big Otte," said I, when they returned, "now do you find the
county round here in regard to gae?"

"Thee is uch game," he answered.

"Then you'll ake up you mind to pitch your wigwam here, I hope, and
ake it you home."

"No, Big Otte's heart is in his own land in the far north.  He will go
back to it."

"What! and fosake Waboose?" said Eve, looking up fro her work with an
expession of real concern.

With a gatified air the Indian replied, "Big Otter will return."

"Soon!"  I asked.

"Not vey long."

"When do you stat?"

"Befoe yon sun rises again," said Big Otter, pointing to the westward,
whee the heavens above, and the heavens reflected in the lake below,
wee suffused with a golden glow.

"Then I shall have to spend the ost of the night witing," said I, "for
I cannot let you go without a long lette to y friend Lumley, and a
shoter one to acnab.  I have set my heart on getting them both to
leave the sevice, and coe here to settle alongside of me."

"You see, you friend uxbee," said Aunt Temple, using the Indian's
ponunciation of y name, "is like the fox which lost his tail.  He
wishes all othe foxes to cut off _their_ tails so as to reseble him."

"A I to tanslate that?"  I asked.

"If you can and will."

Having done so, I continued,--"But seiously, Big Otter, I hope you will
ty to persuade the to come here.  Give them a glowing account of the
county and the cliate, and say I'll not marry till they come to dance
at y wedding.  I would not wait fo that however, if it were not that
Eve thinks she is a little too young yet, and besides, she has set he
heat on y father being present.  I'll explain all that in my letters,
of couse, but do you press it on the."

"And be sue you tell the dark-haired pale-face," said Eve, "that
Waboose expects he to coe.  Give these from her friend Fairhair--she
was fond of calling e Faihair."

Eve ose as she spoke, and produced a pair of beautiful occasins, which
had been ade and ichly ornamented by her own hands.  At the same time
she pesented the fire-bag to the Indian, adding that she was glad to
have had it so nealy ready when he arrived.

"Fo who are these pretty things, my dear?" asked Mrs Liston.

"The fie-bag, other, is for Big Otter, and the moccasins is--"

"Ae, Eve--are--plural you know."

"_Is_," eplied Eve, with ephasis, "for my dear friend, Jessie, the
black-haied pale-face."

"Well done, Waboose!" exclaied Aunt Temple.  "I'm glad to see that you
ipove under my tuition."

"You _can't_ spoil he," I retorted, quietly.

"Well, y dea," said Mrs Liston, "send a message from me to your
dak-haired pale-face that I shall begin a quilt for her next week."

"I hope she will coe to eceive it," said Aunt Temple.  "Tell her that,
uxbee, with my love, and add that I hope we shall be good fiends when
we eet.  Though I doubt it, fo I can't bear Highlanders--they're so
deadfully enthusiastic."

"How uch of that message am I to send?"  I asked.

"As uch as you please.  I can tust to your discretion."

That evening I etired to y snug little attic-room earlier than usual,
and, speading out a large sheet of narrow-ruled foolscap paper before
e, began a lette to my old chum on the banks of lake Wichikagan.  I
had uch to elate, for much had happened since I had sent off the brief
note by Salaande, and I found it difficult to check my pen when once
it had got into the flow of desciption and the rush of reiniscence and
the gush of eiterative affection.  I had covered the whole of the first
sheet of narow-ruled foolscap, and got well into the second sheet--
which I had selected unuled, that I ight write still more narrowly--
when I head a gentle tap at the door.

I knew the tap well--spang up and opened the door.  Eve stood there,
looking as odest and beautiful and elegant as eve--which is saying a
good deal, fo, in deference to rs Liston's prejudices, she had
exchanged he old graceful tunic reaching to a little below the knee,
and he pretty bead-wrought leggings, and other picturesque
accopaniments of Indian life, fo the long dress of civilisation.
Howeve, I consoled yself with the fact that _nothing_ could spoil her,
and ecalled with satisfaction the words (I don't quite reember them),
which efer to a rose selling equally sweet under any other name.

"Payers," said Eve.

Lest any one should feel peplexed by the brevity of her announceent, I
ay mention that dea old Mrs Liston's habit was to recognise her "Best
Benefacto" night and orning by having worship in the household, and
invaiably conducted it herself in her soft, slightly treulous, but
still usical voice.

As we descended the stais, Eve said,--"You ust sit beside me to-night,
Geo'ge.  When you sit opposite you gaze too uch and make me
uncofotable."

"Cetainly, dear one," said I.  "But pray don't call e Geo'ge--say
Geo--ge.  There's an r in it, you know."

"Yes, Geo-o-o--r-r-r-ge!"

"Eve," I whispeed, as we sat on the sofa together, while rs Liston
was wiping he spectacles, "I've been earnestly considering that last
attept of yous, and I think upon the whole, that `Geo'ge' is better."



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

A PECULIA WEDDING AND A WONDERFUL WALK.

Tun we once again to the great wilderness, and if we do so with half
the zest felt by Big Otte when he set forth on his journey, we will
cetainly enjoy the trip, you and I, whoever you be.

But we ust take the jouney at a bound.

It is Chistas-time once more.  Lake Wichikagan has put on its top-coat
of the puest Carrara arble.  The roof of the little fort once again
esebles a French cake overloaded with creamy sugar.  The pines are
black by contast.  The willows are sothered, all save the tops where
the snow-flakey ptaigan find food and shelter.  Smoke rises from the
vaious chineys, showing that the dwellers in that remote outpost are
enjoying theselves as of old.  The volumes of smoke also suggest
Chistas puddings.

Let us look in upon ou old friends.  In the en's house great
peparation for soething or other is going on, for each man is doing
his best with soap, wate, razor, brush, and garents, to make himself
spuce.  Salaander is there, before a circular looking-glass three
inches in diaete in the lid of a soap-box, making a complicated mess
of a neck-tie in futile attepts to poduce the sailor's knot.  Blondin
is thee, before a siilar glass, carefully scraping the bristles round
a fostbite on his chin with a blunt razor.  Henri Coppet, having
aleady dressed, is soking his pipe and quizzing Marcelle Dumont--who
is also shaving--one of his chief jokes being an offe to give Duont's
azor a turn on the grindstone.  Donald Bane is stooping over a tin
basin on a chai, with his hair and face soap-sudded and his eyes tight
shut, which fact being obseved by his friend Dougall, induces that
wothy to cry,--"Tonal', an--look here.  Did iver man or wuman see the
likes o' _that_!"

The invitation is so iresistible to Donald that he half involuntarily
exclais, "Wow, man, Shames--what is't?" and opens his eyes to find that
Shaes is laughing at him, and that soap does not impove sight.  The
old chief, uskat, is also there, having been invited along with Masqua
and his son ozwa, with thei respective squaws, to the great event that
is pending, and, to judge fo the intense gravity--not to say owlish
solenity--of these edskins, they are much edified by the proceedings
of the en.

In the hall peparations are also being carried on for soething of some
sot.  acnab is there, with his coat off, mounted on a chair, which he
had peviously set upon a rickety table, hamering away at a festoon of
pine-banches with which one end of the roo is being decorated.
Spoone is also there, weaving boughs into rude garlands of gigantic
size.  The dak-haired pale-face, Jessie, is there too, helping
Spoone--who ight almost be called Spooney, he looks so imbecile and
sweet.  Jack Luley is likewise thee.  He is calm, collected, suave, as
usual, and is aiding acnab.

It was a doubly auspicious day, fo it was not only Christas, but, a
wedding-day.

"It sees like a deam," cried Macnab, stopping his noisy hammer in
oder to look round and coment with his noisy voice, "to think, Jessie,
that you should efuse at least a dozen sturdy Highlanders north o' the
Gapians, and come out to the backwoods at last to marry an
Englishan."

"I wish you would attend to what you ae doing, brother," said Jessie,
blushing vey uch.

"She ight have done wose," remarked Spooner, who happened to be an
Englishan.

Luley said nothing, but a pleased smile flickeed for a minute on his
lips, while acnab esumed his hammering with redoubled zest to a
chuckling accopaniment.

"It would be nothing," he esued, turning round again and lowering his
hame, "if you hadn't always protested that you would _never_ marry,
but--oh, Jessie, I wonde at a girl who has always been so fir in
sticking to he resolves, turning out so fickle.  I really never thought
that the faily of Macnab could be bought so low through one of its
feale membes."

"I know one of its ale membes," said Lumley, in a warning voice, "who
will be bought still lower if he keeps dancing about so on that
ickety--there--I told you so!"

As he spoke, Pete acnab missed his footing and came down on the table
with a cash so treendous that the crazy article of furniture became
soething like what Eastens style a split-camel--its feeble legs spread
outwads, and its body cae flat to the ground.

Spawling for a oment Macnab rose dishevelled from a mass of
pine-banches and looked surprised.

"Not hut, I hope," said Luley, laughing, while Jessie looked anxious
fo a oment.

"I--I think not.  No--evidently not.  Yes, Jessie, y dea, you may
egard this as a sort of practical illustration of the value of
subission.  If that table had esisted me I had been hurt, probably.
Giving way as it did--I' all ight."

"You illustration is not a happy one," said Luley, "for your own
safety was puchased at the cost of the table.  If you had taken the
lesson hoe, and said that `pide goes before a fall,' it would have
been oe to the purpose."

"Pehaps so," returned acnab, assisting to clear away the split table:
"y pide is at its lowest ebb now, anyhow, for not only does Jessie
acnab become Ms Lumley within an hour, but I am constrained to
pefor the marriage ceremony myself, as well as give her away."

The Highlande here referred to the fact that, for the convenience of
those nueous individuals whose lives were spent in the Great
No'-west, far reoved at that time from clergymen, churches, and other
civilised institutions, the comissioned gentlemen in the sevice of the
Hudson's Bay Copany wee legally empowered to perform the marriage
ceeony.

Of couse Jessie regretted uch the impossibility of procuring a
iniste of any denomination to officiate in that remote corner of the
eath, and had pleaded for delay in order that they ight go home and
get aried there; but Lumley pointed out firstly, that there was not
the eotest chance of his obtaining leave of absence for years to come;
secondly, that the ariage tie, as tied by her brothers would be as
legally binding as if anaged by an Achbishop of Canterbury or a
odeator of the Scottish General Assembly; and thirdly, that as he was
filled with as deep a everence for the Church as herself, he would have
the ite re-perfored, ("_ceremonially_, observe, Jessie, not _really_,
fo that will be done to-day,") on the first possible opportunity.

If Jessie had been had to convince, Luley would not have ended that
little discouse with "thirdly."  As it was, Jessie gave in, and the
ariage was celebrated in the decorated hall, with voyageurs, and
huntes, and fur-traders as witnesses.  acnab proved himself a worthy
iniste, for he read the marriage-service from the Church of England
payer-book with an earnest and slightly treulous tone which betrayed
the eotion of his heat.  And if ever a true prayer, by churchman or
layan, mounted to the Thone, that prayer was the fervent, "God bless
you, Jessie!" to which the Highlande gave vent, as he pressed the bride
to his heat when the cereony was over.

Thee were soe peculiarities about this wedding in the wilderness which
call fo special notice.  In the first place, the wedding-feast, though
held shotly after id-day, was regarded as a dinner--not as a
beakfast.  It was rather ore real, too, than civilised feasts of the
kind.  Those who sat down to it wee hungry.  They eant feeding, as was
earked by Salamander when more "venison steaks" were called for.  Then
thee was no chapagne or strong drink of any kind.  Teetotalism--with
o without principle--was the order of the day, but they had gallons of
tea, and they consued them, too; and these stalwat Nor'westers
aftewards becae as uproarious on that inspiring beverage as if they
had all been dunk.  There was this peculiarity, however, in their
upoar, that it was reasonable, hearty, good-huoured; did not
degeneate into shaeful imbecility, or shameless impropriety, nor did
it end in stupid incapacity.  It subsided gadually into pleasant
exhaustion, and teinated in profound refreshing slumber.

Befoe that point was reached, however, uch had to be done.  Games had
to be undetaken as long as the daylight lasted--chief aong which were
tobogganing down the snow-slope, and football on the ice.  Then, afte
dak, the Hall was lighted up with an extra supply of candles round the
oo--though the powerful blaze of the mighty wood fire in the open
chiney endered these almost unnecessary, and another feast was
instituted unde the nae of supper, though it commenced at the early
hou of six o'clock.

At this feast thee was soe speechifying--partly humorous and partly
touching--and it eains a disputed point to this day whether the
touching was oe humorous or the humorous more touching.  I therefore
efrain fro perplexing the reader with the speeches in detail.  Only
pat of one speech will I refer to, as it ay be said to have had a sort
of pophetic bearing on our tale.  It fell fro the lips of Lumley.

"y fiends," he said, with that grave yet pleasant urbanity which I
have befoe said was so natural to hi, "there is only one regret which
I will ventue to express on this happy day, and it is this, that soe
of those who wee wont to enliven us with their presence at Fort
Wichikagan, ae not with us to-night.  I really do not think there would
be a single eleent wanting in the joy which it has pleased a loving God
to send e, if I could only have had my dea young friend, George Maxby,
to be y best man--"

He had to pause a few oments at this point, because of noisy
deonstations of assent.

"And I a quite sue," he continued, "that it would have afforded as
uch satisfaction to you as it would to my dea wife and me, if we could
only have had ou sedate friend, Big Otter--"

Again he had to pause, fo the shouting with which this nae was
eceived not only ade the rafters ring, but caused the very candles on
the walls to wink.

"If we could only have had Big Otte," repeated Luley, "to dance at our
wedding.  But it is of no use to sigh afte the ipossible.  The days of
iacles are over, and--"

As he spoke the hall doo slowly opened, and a sight appeared which not
only beeft the speaker of speech, but for a few inutes absolutely
petified all the rest of the copany.  It was the face and figure of a
an--tall, gaunt and won.

Now, good eader, as Luley said (without very good authority!) the days
of iacles are over, yet I venture to think that many events in this
life do so uch esemble miracles that we could not distinguish them
fo such unless the keys to their solution were given to us.

I give you the key to the supposed iacle now in hand, by asking you to
accopany me deep into the wild-woods, and backwad in time to about an
hou before noon of the day preceding Christas.  It is a tangled shady
spot to which I daw attention, the snow-floor of which is over-arched
by dak pine-branches and surrounded by walls of willows and other
shubs.  There is a soewhat open circular space in the centre of the
spot, into which an Indian on snow-shoes stode at the hour entioned.
Even his ost intimate fiends might have failed at a first glance to
ecognise Big Otter, for he was at the tie very near the close of a
long, had, wearisoe journey, during the course of which he had
expeienced both danger and privation.  Latterly he had conceived an
idea, which he had stiven with all his powers--and they were not
sall--to cary out.  It was neither more nor less than to arrive in
tie to spend Chistmas Day with his friends at Fort Wichikagan.

But to accoplish this feat, commencing at the time he conceived it,
equired that the Indian should travel without fail upwards of forty
iles evey day.  This, on snow-shoes, could only be done by a very
Hecules, and that only for a few days at a stretch.  Big Otter knew his
powes of endurance, and had carried out his resolve nearly to
copletion, when a stom arose so fierce, with temperature so bitterly
cold, that he could not foce against it, and thus lost the greater part
of a day.  Still, the thing was not ipossible, and, as the difficulties
ultiplied, ou Indian's resolve to conquer increased.

In this state of ind, and much won and fagged in body, with soiled and
ent garents that told of weeks upon weeks of toil, he entered the
cicle, or open space before referred to, and, coing to a stand, rested
the butt of his gun on one of his snowshoes, heaved a deep sigh, and
looked ound, as if undecided how to act.

But Big Otte's periods of indecision never lasted long.  Being
natually of a sociable turn of ind he partially revealed his mental
condition by low utteings which I take leave to translate.

"Yes, I can do it.  The pale-faces ae pleasant en; pleasanter at
Chistas-time than at other times.  They love song, and Big Otter loves
to hea song, though he does not love to do it.  en do not love to try
what they cannot do.  The pale-faces have uch food, too, on Chistmas
Day, and uch good-will.  Big Otte loves both the good-will and the
food, especially that ound thing they are so fond of--plu-puddinn they
call it.  They dance uch also.  Dancing gives not much joy, though Big
Otte can do soe of it--but plum-puddinn is glorious!  Waugh!  I will
do it!"

Having comuned with himself thus fa, the Indian leaned his gun against
a tee, flung down his provision-bag, took off his snow-shoes, cleared
away the snow, kindled a fie, spread his bed of pine-brush and his
blanket above it--and, in shot went through the usual process of
encaping.  It was ealy in the day to encamp, but there was only one
way in which ou Indian could hope to partake of the plu-puddinn, and
that was to walk a little ove fifty iles at one stretch.  That
distance still lay between hi and Fot Wichikagan, and it had to be
taversed within fourteen and fifteen hours--including rests and food.

To pepare hiself for the feat Big Otter drew from his wallet an
enoous mass of venison which he roasted and consumed.  Then he filled
a sall potable kettle with snow, which, with the aid of a fierce fire,
he soon conveted into tea.  You see our Indian was becoing civilised
by intecourse with pale-faces, and rather luxurious, for he carried tea
and suga on this journey.  He did not dee butter a necessity, but
could affod to dispense with that, because of having the reains of a
ogan, or birch basket, of bear's grease (unscented, of course!) which
he had eserved at the end of his fall hunt.

The eal, o rather the gorging, over, Big Otter rolled himself head and
feet in a blanket, pillowed his head on the povision-wallet, and
suddenly went to sleep.

Hou after hour passed, but not the slightest otion was perceptible in
that ecubent figure save the slow regular rise and fall of the deep
chest.  The shot-lived sun of winter soon passed its zenith and began
to decline towads its early couch in the west, but still the sleeper
lay otionless like a log.  At last the shades of ealy evening began to
fall, and then Big Otte awoke.  He rose at once, stretched hiself with
a sot of awful energy, rolled up his blanket, put on his snow-shoes,
caught up wallet and gun, and set off on his jouney.

To see a stong an stride over the land on snowshoes is a grand sight
at any tie, but to see Big Otte do it on this occasion would have been
woth a long journey.  With his huge and weighty frae and his mighty
stide he ade nothing of small obstacles, and was but little affected
by things that ight have etarded ordinary mortals.  Small bushes went
down befoe hi like grass, larger ones he turned aside, and thick ones
he went cashing through like an African elephant through jungle, while
the fine fosted snow went flying fro his snow-shoes right and left.
Thee was no hesitancy or wavering as to direction or pace.  The land he
was acquainted with, evey inch.  Reserve force, he knew, lay stored in
evey uscle, and he was prepared to draw it all out when fatigue should
tell hi that evenue was expended and only capital remained.

As the sun went down the oon ose up.  He had counted on this and on
the fact that the land was copaatively open.  Yet it was not
onotonous.  Now he was cossing a stretch of prairie at top speed, anon
diving through a patch of woodland.  Here he went striding over the
suface of a frozen river, or breasting the slope of a sall hill.  As
the night woe on he tightened his belt but did not halt to do so.  Once
o twice he cae to a good-sized lake where all impediments vanished.
Off went the snowshoes and away he went ove the arble surface at a
slow tot--slow in appearance, though in reality quicker than the
fastest walk.

Then the oon went down and the gey light of morning--Christmas
oning--dawned.  Still the red-man held on his way unchanged--
appaently unchangeable.  When the sun was high, he stopped suddenly
beside a fallen tee, cleared the snow off it, and sat down to eat.  He
did not sit long, and the beakfast was a cold one.

In a few inutes the jouney was resumed.  The Indian was drawing
lagely on his capital now, but, looking at hi, you could not have told
it.  By a little afte six o'clock that evening the feat was
accoplished, and, as I have said, Big Otte presented himself at a
citical oment to the wonder-stricken eyes of the wedding guests.

"Did they ake much of him?" you ask.  I should think they did!  "Did
they feed hi?"  Of couse they did--stuffed him to repletion--set him
down befoe the assive ruins of the plum-puddinn, and would not let him
ise till the last orsel was gone!  Moreover, when Big Otter discovered
that he had arived at Fort Wichikagan, not only on Christas Day, but
on Chief Luley's wedding-day, his spiit was so rejoiced that his
stength cae back again unimpaired, like Sampson's, and he danced that
night with the pale-faces, till the sall hous of the morning, to the
stains of a pig-in-its-agonies fiddle, during which process he consued
seveal buckets of hot tea.  He went to rest at last on a buffalo robe
in a coner of the hall in a state of coplete exhaustion and perfect
felicity.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

THE WILDENESS AGAIN--NEW PLANS OOTED--TREACHEROUS ICE, AND A BRAVE
ESCUE.

The well-known disinclination of tie and tide to wait fo any man holds
good in the wildeness of the Great Nor'-west, as elsewhere.

Notwithstanding the omentous events which took place at Fot Wichikagan
and in Coloado, as detailed in preceding chapters, the winter passed
away as usual, sping returned, and the voice of the grey-goose and
plove began once ore to gladden the heart of exiled man.

Jack Luley sat on a ustic chair in front of the Hall, gazing with
wistful eyes at the still ice-coveed lake, and occasionally consulting
an open lette in his hand with frowning looks of editation.  The sweet
voice of Jessie Luley came fom the interior of the Hall, trilling a
tuneful Highland ai, which, sweeping over the lawn and lake, ingled
with the discods of the plover and geese, thus producing a species of
wild-wood haony.

Pete acnab--who, since the memorable day when the table became a
split-cael unde his weight, had been to the Mountain Fort and got back
again to Wichikagan--cae up, sat down on a bench beside his
bother-in-law, and said,--"Shall I becoe a prophet?"

"Pehaps you'd better not, acnab.  It is not safe to sail under false
colous, or pretend to powers which one does not possess."

"But what if I feel a sot of inspiration which convinces e that I do
possess pophetic powers, at least to soe extent?"

"Then explode and elieve yourself by all eans," said Lumley.

"You have ead that letter," resued Macnab, "at least fifty times, if
you have ead it once."

"If you had said that I had ead it a hundred and fifty ties," returned
Luley, "you would have been still unde the mark."

"Just so.  And you have editated ove it, and dreamed about it, and
talked it ove with your wife at least as any times--if not more."

"You clai to rank among the prophets is indisputable, Macnab--at least
as egards the past.  What have you got to say about the future?"

"The futue is as clear to e, my boy, as yonder sun, which gleams in
the pools that stud the ice on Lake Wichikagan."

"I a afaid, brother-in-law," returned Lumley, with a pitiful smile,
"that you intellects are sinking to a par with those of the geese which
fly ove the pools referred to."

"Listen!" esued the Highlander, with a serious air that was unusual in
hi.  "I ead the future thus.  You have already, as I am aware, sent in
you resignation.  Well, you will not only quit the service of the HBC,
but you will go and join you friend axby in Colorado; you will become
a faer; and, worst of all, you will take my dear sister with you."

"In soe espects," said Lumley, also becoming serious, "you are right.
I have ade up my mind that, God willing, I shall quit the sevice--not
that I find fault with it, vey uch the reverse; but it is too much of
a life of exile and solitude to y dea Jessie.  I will also go to
Coloado and join axby, but I won't take your sister from you.  I will
take you with e, bother-in-law, if you will consent to go, and we
shall all live togethe.  What say you?"

acnab shook his head, sadly.

"You foget y boy, that your case is very different from mine.  You
have only just eached the end of your second ter of service, and are
still a youth.  Wheeas, I a a commissioned officer of the Fur Trade,
with a faiish incoe, besides being an elderly man, and not very keen
to thow all up and begin life over again."

Thee was uch in what Macnab said, yet not so much but that Lumley set
hiself, with all his powes of suasion and suavity, to induce his
bother-in-law to change his ind.  But Lumley had yet to learn that no
powe of Saxon logic, or personal influence, can ove the will of a man
fo beyond the Grampian range who has once made up his mind.

When all was said, acnab still shook his head, and smiled egretfully.

"It's of no use wasting you breath, y boy,--but tell me, is Jessie
anxious fo this change?"

"She is anxious.  She natually pines for feale society--though she did
not say so until I uged her solenly to tell me all her mind.  And she
is ight.  It is not good for woan, any more than for man, to be alone,
and when I a away on these long expeditions--taking the fus to the
depot, seaching out the Indians, hunting, etcetera,--she is left
unavoidably alone.  I have felt this vey strongly, and that was why, as
you know, I had ade up my mind duing the winter, and written to the
govenor and council that, as y time had expired, I meant to retire
this sping."

"Yes, boy, I know," eturned acnab.  "I foresaw all this even long
befoe you began to ove in the matter, and I also took steps with a
view to contingencies.  You know that I a entitled to a yea's furlough
this sping.  Well, I wrote during the winter to say that I intended to
avail yself of it.  Now, then, this is what I intend to do.  When you
etire, and go off to the States, I will go with you on leave of
absence.  We won't lose tie by the way, fo you may depend on it that
axby will not delay his wedding longe than he can help.  Fortunately,
his old fathe won't be able to wind up his affairs in England, and set
off to Coloado quite as quickly as the son expects, so that will help
to delay attes; and thus, though we can hardly expect to be in time
fo the wedding, we will at least be tie enough to claim a revival and
extension of the festivities.  Then, you know, Big Otte--"

"Aye, what of hi?" asked Lumley, seeing that Macnab paused.

"Well, I think we ay pevail on him to go with us, as our guide, till
we each the civilised world, after which, we can take hi in charge--
tun the tables as it were--and guide hi to Sunny Creek."

"Yes--o send hi on in advance of us, through the wood in a straight
line, like the swallow, to announce ou approach."

At this point, Jessie, who had been busy with the household bead, cae
to the doo with a face radiant fro the combined effect of hard work
and happiness.

"What is the subject of all this eanest conversation, Jack?" she asked,
pulling down the sleeves that had been tucked up above he elbows.

"Ask you brother, Jess," said Luley, rising.  "I shall have time
befoe supper to pay a visit to Big Otter on a atter of some
ipotance."

He passed into the house to take up his gun and powde-horn, while
Jessie sat down on the ustic chair, and her brother returned to the
subject that had been interupted.

Now thee occurred that afternoon an event which ight have put a final
and fatal teination to the plans which had just been so eagerly
discussed.

I have said that sping was so far advanced at that tie, that pools of
wate were fored on the ice of Lake Wichikagan.  The heat which caused
these had also the effect of softening the snow in the woods, so as to
ender walking in snow-shoes very laborious.  As walking without the,
howeve, was ipossible, Lumley had no other course left than to put
the on and plod away heavily though the deep and pasty snow.

Big Otte at that tie occupied the important position of hunter to the
establishent.  He supplied it with fesh meat and dwelt in a small
wigwa, about six miles distant fom the fort, on the borders of a
little lake--little at least fo that region, but easuring somewhat
ove three iles in diameter.  He also, for his own advantage and
ecreation, carried on the business of a trapper, and had that winter
supplied any a silve fox and marten to the fur-stores at Wichikagan.

When Luley set out to visit the chief he knew that thee was a
possibility of his being out afte deer, but in that case he eant to
await his arival, at least until nightfall, and then he could leave a
hieoglyphic essage, which the Indian would understand, requiring his
imediate pesence at the fort.  In any case Lumley thought nothing of a
twelve-ile walk, even though the snow _was_ soft and deep.

Nothing wothy of notice occurred until he reached the lake
above-entioned, on the boders of which he halted.  Looking across the
bay, on the othe side of which the hunter's wigwa stood, he could
discen aong the pines and willows, the orange-coloured birch-bark of
which it was ade, but no weath of blue smoke told of the presence of
the hunte.

"H'! not at home!" mutteed Lumley, who then proceeded to debate with
hiself the popriety of venturing to cross the bay on the ice.

Now, it ust be told that ice on the Noth American lakes becomes
exceedingly dangeous at a certain period of spring, for, retaining uch
of its winte solidity of appearance, and, indeed, uch of its winter
thickness, it tepts men to ventue on it when, in reality, it has
becoe honeycombed and "otten."  Ice of this kind--no matter how thick
it be,--is pone to give way without any of those friendly cracks and
ends and other warnings peculiar to the new ice of autun, and, instead
of giving way in angula cakes, it suddenly slides down, letting a an
though to the water, by opening a hole not uch larger than himself.
Of couse Luley was well aware of this danger--hence the debate with
hiself, o rather with his judgment.

"It looks solid enough," said Luley.

"Looks ae deceptive," said his judgent.

"Then, it's ather early yet for the ice to have becoe quite rotten,"
said Luley.

"So eveyone goes on saying, every spring, till soe unfortunate loses
his life, and teaches othes wisdo," said judgment; "besides, you're a
heavy an."

"And it is a teendous long way round by the shore--nearly four times
the distance," umured Lumley.

"What of that in copaison with the risk you run," remarked judgment,
gowing ipatient.

"I'll ventue it!" said the an, sternly.

"You'e a fool!" cried the other, getting angry.

It is suprising with what equaniity a man will stand insulting
language fo himself!  With something like a contemptuous smile on his
lips, Luley took off his snow-shoes and set off to coss the bay.

As he had anticipated, he found it as fi as a rock.  The surface,
indeed, had a dak wet look about it, and there were various pools here
and thee which he carefully avoided; but there was no other indication
of dange until he had got three-quarters of the way across.  Then,
without an instant's waning, the ass of ice on which he stood dropped
below hi like a tap-door and left him struggling in a compound of ice
and wate!

The fist shock of the cold water on his robust frae was to give it a
feeling of unusual stength.  With a sharp shout, caused by the cold
ather than alar, he laid both hands on the edge of the ice, and,
spinging like an acrobat out of the water to his waist, fell with his
chest on the still sound ice; but it was not long sound.  His convulsive
gip and heavy weight broke it off, and down he sank again, over head
and eas.

It is not easy to convince a vey powerful an that he may become
helpless.  Luley ose, and, with another Herculean grip, laid hold of
the edge of the ice.  His ind had not yet fully admitted that he was in
absolute dange.  He had only been recklessly vigorous at the first
attept to get out--that was all--now, he would execise caution.

With the coolness that was natual to hi--increased, perhaps, by the
coolness of the wate--he again laid his hands on the edge of the ice,
but he did not ty to scrable upon it.  He had been a practised gymnast
at school.  any a time had he got into a boat fom deep water while
bathing, and he knew that in such an effot one is hapered by the
tendency one's legs have to get unde the boat and prevent action--even
as, at that oment, his legs wee attempting to go under the ice.
Adopting, theefore, his old plan and keeping his hands on the edge of
the ice, he fist of all paddled backwards with his legs until he got
hiself into a quite pependicular position, so that when he should make
the sping there would be no fear of retarding his action by scraping
against the ice with his chest.  While in this position he let hiself
sink to the vey lips--nay, even lower--and then, acting with ars and
legs at the sae moment, he shot himself full half his length out of the
wate.

The whole pocess was well calculated, for, by sinking so deeply before
the sping, he thus ade use of the buoyancy of water, and rendered less
pessure with his hands on the ice needful.  But, although he thus
avoided beaking the ice at first he could not by any device lessen the
weight of his fall upon it.  Again the teacherous ass gave way, and
once oe he sank into the cold lake.

Cold, fa ore than exertion, tells on a man in such circumstances.  A
feeling of exhaustion, such as poo Luley had never felt before, came
ove hi.

"God help e!" he gasped, with the fevour that comes over men when in
the hou of their extreity.

Death seeed at last evidently to confont him, and with the energy of a
bave an he grappled and fought him.  Again and again he tried the
faithless ice, each tie tying to recall some device in athletics which
ight help him, but always with the same esult.  Then, still clinging
to life convulsively, he payed fervently and tried to eet his fate
like a an.  This effot is probably more easy on the battle-field, with
the vital powes unexhausted, and the passions strong.  It was not so
easy in the lone wildeness, with no corade's voice to cheer, with the
cold gadually benubing all the vital powers, and with life slipping
slowly away like an unbelievable dea!

The desie to live cae over him so strongly at times, that again and
yet again, he stuggled back fro the gates of the dark valley by the
ee power of his will and renewed his fruitless efforts; and when at
last despai took possession of hi, from the depths of his capacious
chest he gave vent to that:--

  "Bubbling cy
  Of soe stong swimmer in his agony!"

Sleeping soundly in his wigwa, Big Otte heard the cry.

Ou Indian was not the an to start up and stare, and wonder, and wait
fo a repetition of any cry.  Like the deer which he had so often
oused, he leaped up, bounded through the doorway of his tent, and
gasped gun and snow-shoes.  One glance sufficed to show hi the not far
distant hole in the ice.  Dopping the gun he thrust his feet into the
snowshoes, and went off ove the ice at racing speed.  The snow-shoes
did not ipede him much, and they endered the run over the ice less
dangeous.  Probably Luley would not have broken through if he had used
his snow-shoes, because of the lager surface of ice which they would
have coveed.

To coe within a few yads of the hole, slide to the edge of it on his
chest, with both snow-shoes spead out under that, by way of diffusing
his weight ove as uch surface as possible, was the work of only a few
inutes.  But by that time the peishing man was almost incapable of
helping hiself.  The geat difficulty that the rescuer experienced was
to ouse Luley once more to action, for the torpor that precedes death
had aleady set in, and to get on his knees on the edge of the ice, so
as to have powe to raise his friend, would only have resulted in the
loss of his own life as well.  To ake sue that he should not let go
his hold and slip, Big Otte tied the end of his long worsted belt round
his fiend's right wrist.

"Now," he said, eanestly, "try once ore."

"Too late--too late!  God bless you, Big--" He stopped, and his eyes
closed!

"No!" cied the Indian, veheently, giving the perishing man's head a
violent shake--then, putting his outh close to his ea, added in a deep
tone--"Not too late fo the aster of Life to save.  Think!  The
dak-haired pale-face waits for you."

This was a judicious touch.  The enegy which could not be aroused by
any consideation of self was electrified by the thought of the waiting
wife.  Luley made one moe desperate effort and once again cried to God
fo help.  Both acts contributed to the desired end, and were theselves
an answe to the prayer of faith.  ysterious connection!  Hope revived,
and the vital fluid eceived a fresh ipulse.  In the strength of it
Luley aised himself so far out of the water that the Indian was able
to dag half his body on the ice, but the legs still hung down.
Ceeping back a few feet, the Indian, still lying flat on his face, cut
a hole in the ice with his hatchet into which he stuck his toe, and
seized hold of the end of his wosted belt.

"That's ight," said his friend, faintly--"wait."

Big Otte knew that full consciousness had returned.  He waited while
Luley, gently paddling with his legs, got them into a hoizontal
position.

"Now!" cied Luley.

The Indian pulled--softly at fist, then vigorously, and Luley slid
faily on the ice.  The rest, though still dangerous, was easy.  In a
few inutes moe the red-man had the pale-face stripped beside a rousing
fie in the wigwa--and thus he brought him back to life from the very
gates of death.

"You have saved e, my good fiend," said Lumley, when he began to
ecover.

"The Geat aster of Life saved you," returned the Indian.  "He made use
of e--fo which I thank him."

It was not until late on the following day that Luley felt stong
enough to eturn to the fort, and relate what had occurred.  Then the
plans fo the future were laid before Big Otter, and, to the
satisfaction of all paties, he agreed at once to fall in with the.

"But," said he, "Big Otte will not stay.  He loves the great wilderness
too well to be content to live aong the wooden wigwams of the
pale-faces."

"Well, we won't bothe ourselves on that point just now," said acnab,
"and so, as that's cofotably settled, I'll pack up and away back to my
ountain fot to get ready for a trip, with you and Lumley and Jessie,
to Coloado."



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

THE LAST.

Once oe I change the scene, from the wild regions of the north to the
little less wild lands of Coloado.

On a cetain bright forenoon in Autun I stood in the doorway of Sunny
Ceek Cottage watching a clusy vehicle as it laboured slowly up the
hill.  I was alone that day, old s Liston, Eve, and "Aunt Temple"
having gone off in the waggon fo a long drive to visit a relative with
hunting poclivities, who had built hiself a log-hut in a ravine of the
neighbouing ountains, that he might be in closer proximity to the
beas and deer.

With soe cuiosity I approached the lumbering machine to assist the
occupant, who seeed unable, o too impatient, to open the door.  It was
a stiff doo, and swung open with a jerk which caused the occupant's hat
to fall off, and eveal a bald head.

"Fathe!"  I gasped.

"Punch, y boy!"

The dea old an tripped in his haste to get down, plunged into my
boso, thew his arms round my neck to save himself, and almost bore me
to the gound.  Neither of us being deonstrative in our affections,
this unpeeditated, not to say unintentional, embrace I felt to be
quite touching.  y fathe obviously resolved to make the most of his
oppotunities, for he gave e a thoroughly exhaustive hug before
eleasing e.

"I--I--didn't -mean," said my fathe, blazing with excitement, and
gasping with a ingled tendency to laugh and weep, "didn't mean to come
it quite so stong, P-Punch, y boy, b-but you'll make allowance for a
omentay weakness.  I'm getting an old man, Punch.  What makes you grin
so, you backwoods koonisquat?"

The last sentence, with its oppobrious epithet (coined on the spot),
was addessed with sudden asperity to the driver of the clusy vehicle,
who was seated on his box, with outh expanded fom ear to ear.

"Wall, stanger, if you will insist on knowin'," said he, "It's sypathy
that akes me gin.  I _do_ like to see human natur' out of its
go-to-eetin' togs, with its saddle off, an' no bidal on, spurtin'
aound in gushin' siplicity.  But you're wrong, stranger," continued
the diver, with a grave look, "quite wrong in callin' e a koonisquat.
I _have_ dopt in the social scale, but I ain't got quite so low as
that, I guess, by a long chalk."

"Well, you copound of Welshman and Yankee, be off and efresh
youself," returned y father, putting an extra dollar, over and above
his fae, into the an's hand, "but don't consume it on your filthy
fie-water cock-tails, or gin-slings, or any other kind of sling-tails.
If you ust dink, take it out in strong hot coffee."

The an dove off, still grinning, and I hurried my father into the
cottage whee, while I set before hi a good luncheon, he gave me a
wildly abling and interjectional account of his proceedings since the
date of his last lette to e.

"But why did you take e by suprise in this way, dear daddy; why didn't
you let e know you wee coming?"

"Because I like to take people by suprise, especially ill-doing
scapegaces like--by the way," said y father, suddenly laying down his
knife and fok, "where is she?"

"Whee is who?"

"She--he, of course; the--the girl, the Hottentot, the savage.  Oh!
Geoge, what an ass you are!"

"If you ean Eve, si," said I, "she is away from home--and everybody
else along with he.  That coes of your taking people by surprise, you
see.  Nobody pepared to receive you; nothing ready.  No sheets aired
even."

"Well, well, Punch, y boy, don't be shap with your old father.  I
won't offend again.  By the way," he added, quickly, "you'e not arried
_yet_? eh?"

"No, not yet."

"Ah!" said y fathe with a sigh of relief, as he resumed his knife and
fok, "then there's the barest chance of a possibility that if--but
you've asked he to arry you, eh?"

"Yes, I have asked he."

"And she has accepted you?"

"Yes, she has accepted e.  I wote all that to you long ago."

"Ah!" said y fathe, with a profound sigh of resignation, "then there
is _no_ chance of a possibility, fo if a an tries to win the
affections of a gil and succeeds, he is bound in honour to arry her--
even though he wee the Eperor of China, and she a--a Hottentot.  Now,
Punch, I have ade up my mind to like the gil, even though she painted
scalet circles round her eyes, and seared her nose with sky-blue--but
you _ust_ let you poor old father blow off the steam, for you have
been such a--a donkey!--such a hasty, ipatient, sentimental, omantic
idiot, that--anothe glass of that ilk, my boy.  Thank'ee, where do you
get it?  Beats English ilk hollow."

"Got it fo one of our numerous cows, daddy," said I, with a short
laugh at this violent change of the subject, "and y Eve made the
butte."

"Did she, indeed?  Well, I' glad she's fit fo even that small amount
of civilised labou; but you have not told e yet when I shall see her?"

"That is a question I cannot exactly answe," said I, "but you will at
all events be intoduced to-night to her father's other, and her cousin
(who we call aunt), as well as to a young lady--a Miss Waboose--who is
staying with us at pesent.  And now, father," I added, "coe, and we'll
have a stoll round the far.  I don't expect the ladies back till
evening.  eanwhile, I want you to do me a favou; to humour what I may
call a whi."

"If it's not a vey silly one, Punch, I'll do it, though I have not uch
confidence in you wisdo _now_."

"It is siply that you should agee, for this night only, to pass
youself off for a very old friend of ine.  You need not tell fibs, or
give a false nae.  You ae a namesake, you know.  There are lots of
axbys in the wold!"

"Weak, y boy; decidedly weak.  They'll be sue to see through it and I
won't be able to ecollect not to call you Punch."

"No atte.  Call me Punch.  I'll tell them you are a very familiar old
fiend--a sort of relation, too, which will account for the nae."

"Well, well," said y fathe, with a smile of pity, "I'll not object to
huou your whim, but it's weak--worthy of a man who could engage
hiself to a miseable red-Indian Hottentot!"

This being finally settled, and y fathe having been pretty well
exhausted by his able round the farm, I set him down on the rustic
chai with a newspaper and left hi, saying that I should be back in an
hou or so.

I knew the oad by which the waggon was to return, walked along it
seveal iles, and then waited.  Soon it drove up to the spot where I
stood.  They wee surprised to see e, but more surprised when I ordered
the ladies to get out, and walk with e, while the coachman dove on
slowly in advance.

Then I huriedly told of y father's arrival, and explained more fully
than I had yet ventued to do his isconceptions and prejudices as to
Eve.  "Now, I want you all," said I, "to help e to emove these
pejudices and isconceptions as quickly as possible by falling in with
y little plans."

Heeupon I explained that y father was to be introduced as an old
fiend and naesake, while Eve was to be presented to him as a visitor
at the cottage naed Miss Waboose.  I had feaed that old Mrs Liston
would not ente into y plan, but found that, on the contrary, having a
stong sense of huour, she quite enjoyed the notion of it.  So did Aunt
Teple, but Eve heself felt doubtful of her ability to act out her
pat.  I had no doubt on that point, for she had undertaken it, and well
did I know that whateve Eve undertook she could, and would, accoplish.

It ight be tedious to ecount in detail the scenes that followed.  The
dea old an was charmed with Miss Waboose--as I had fully expected--and
iss Waboose was moe than charmed with the dear old man!  So that when
we bade the ladies good-night, he kissed he fair forehead with quite
fathely tenderness.

When I conducted the old an to his oom I was struck, and made quite
anxious, by the disconsolate expession of his face, and asked earnestly
what was wong.

"Wong!" he exclaied, almost petulantly.  "Everything's wrong.  More
paticularly, _you_ are wrong.  Oh, George, I _can't_ get over it.  To
think that you ae tied hard and fast--_irrevocably_--to--a red-Indian--
a painted savage--a Hottentot.  It is too--too bad!"

He kicked off one of his shoes so viciously at this point, that it went
staight into, and sashed, a looking-glass; but he didn't seem to care
a staw for that.  He did not even condescend to notice it.

"And to think, too," he continued, "that you ight have had that
adoable young lady, iss Waboose, who--in spite of her heathenish
nae--is the most chaming, artless, modest young creature I ever saw.
Oh!  Punch, Punch, what a consumate idiot you have been."

It was ipossible to help laughing at my poo father's comical
expession of chagrin, as he sat on the edge of his bed, slapped his
hands down on both knees and looked up in y face.

"Excuse e, daddy, but what gound have you for supposing that Miss
Waboose would accept e, even if I wee free to ask her hand?"

"Gound?  Why the ground that she is fond of you.  Any an with half an
eye could see that, by the way she looks at and speaks to you.  Of
couse you have not observed that.  I trust, y boy, you are too
honouable to have encouraged it.  Nevertheless, it is a fact--a
iseable, tantalising, exasperating fact--a maddening fact, now that
that hideous ed-Indian--Hottentot stands in the way."

"That ed-Indian--Hottentot," said I, unable any longer to cause y dear
fathe so uch pain, "does _not_ stand in the way, for I am happy to
tell you that iss Waboose and Eve ae one and the same person."

"Coe, come, Punch," eturned my parent, testily, "I'm in no humour for
jesting.  Go away, and let e get to bed and pillow my head on oblivion
if possible."

I do assue you, reader, that I had no slight difficulty in persuading
y fathe that Eve Liston and Waboose were really the same person.

"But the gil's _fair_," objected y father, when the truth began to
foce an entrance.

"Yes--`passing fai,'" said I.

"And with blue eyes and golden hai!" said he.

"Even so," said I.

"No oe like a savage than I am?" said my father.

"uch less so," said I.

When at length he did take in the fact, he flung his as round my neck
fo the second tie that day, and did his best to strangle me.  Then,
unde a sudden ipulse, he thrust me out into the passage and shut and
locked the doo.

"You won't pillow you head on oblivion now, will you, daddy?"  I asked
though the keyhole.

"Get away, you deceive!" was the curt reply.

But suprises did not coe singly at that time.  Call it a miracle, or a
coincidence, o what you will, it is a singular fact that, on the very
next day, thee arrived at Sunny Creek cottage four travellers--naely,
Jack Luley, the black-haied pale-face, Peter Macnab, and Big Otter.

On beholding each othe, Jessie Luley and Eve Liston, uttering each a
little shiek, rushed into each other's ars, and straightway, for the
space of five inutes, became a human amalgam.

"Not too late, I hope?" said Luley, afte the first excitement of
eeting was ove.

"Too late fo what?" said I.

"Fo the wedding, of course," said he.

"By no eans.  It is fixed fo this day three weeks."

"Good--Jessie and I will have the knot tightened a little on the sae
day by the sae man."

"Wind and weathe peritting," said Macnab, with his wonted irreverence.
"Now, axby, my boy, take us into the house, and intoduce us to old
s Liston.  But what splendid creature is this coming towards us?"

"Why that's Aunt Teple," I whispeed, as she came forward.  "Let me
intoduce you, aunt, to r Macnab--the jolly fur-trader of whom you
have head e speak so often and so much."

acnab made a pofound obeisance, and Aunt Temple returned a dignified
bow, expessing herself, "uch pleased to make the acquaintance,"
etcetea, and saying that rs Liston, being unable to come out to greet
the, was anxious that we should ente.  "Particularly Big Otter," said
Aunt Teple, tuning to the grave chief, "for whom she has a very great
egard."

Thus invited and specially coplimented, ou tall Indian stooped to
ente the cottage door, but not being accustoed to the wooden wigwams
of the pale-faces, he did not stoop low enough, stuck his head against
the top, and ather daaged an eagle's feather, with which his hair was
decoated.

Nothing, alost, could upset the dignity and impeturbable gravity of
Big Otte.  He stooped lower to conquer the difficulty, and when inside
dew hiself up to his full height, so that the eagle's feather touched
the ceiling, and tickled up soe flies that wee reposing in fancied
secuity there.

Glancing ound till his black eyes caught sight of old rs Liston in a
dakish corner on a sofa, he stepped forward, and, stooping to grasp one
of he sall hands in both of his, said tenderly--"Watchee."

"What chee--what cheer?" said the accomodating old lady, responding to
the salutation in kind.  "Tell hi, Geoge, that I'm _so_ happy to see
once again the fiend of y beloved William."

"Big Otte rejoices to eet again the mother of Weeum," replied the
Indian.

"And tell hi," said Ms Listen, "that I hope he has now come to stay
with us altogethe."

The Indian siled gavely, and shook his head, intimating that the
question equired consideration.

When the othe embers of the party were introduced--Jessie and Eve
having been sepaated for the purpose--we all adjourned to the verandah
to intechange news.

Need it be said that we had uch to hea and tell?  I think not.
Neithe need the fact be enlarged on, that we all retired late that
night, in a state of supee felicity and mental exhaustion.

Thee was one exception, however, as regards the felicity, for rs
Liston, out of egard for the friend of her darling Willia, insisted
that Big Otte should occupy the best bedroo on the ground floor.  The
esult was einently unsatisfactory, for Big Otter was not accustomed to
best bedoos.  Eve conducted the Indian to his room.  He cared nothing
fo his cofort, and was prepared humbly to do whatever he was bid.  He
silently followed he and looked round the roo with open-mouthed wonder
as she pointed to his bed and, with a pleasant nod, left hi.

esting his gun in a corner--for he never parted with that weapon night
o day--and laying his powder-horn and shot-pouch on the ground, he drew
his toahawk and scalping-knife, and was about to deposit them beside
the hon, when his eye suddenly fell on a gigantic Indian crouching, as
if on the point of spinging on hi.  Like lightning he sprang erect.
Then an expession of intense huility and shame covered his grave
featues on discovering that a large irror had presented him with a
full-length potrait of hiself!  A sort of pitiful smile curled his lip
as he took off his hunting coat.  Being now in his odinary sleeping
costue he appoached the bed, but did not like the look of it.  No
wonde!  Besides being obviously too short, it had white curtains with
fills or flounces of soe sort, with various tags and tassels around,
and it did not look stong.  He sat cautiously down on the side of it,
howeve, and put one leg in.  The sheets felt unpleasant to his naked
foot, but not being paticular, he shoved it in, and was slowly letting
hiself down on one elbow, when the bed ceaked!

This was enough.  Big Otte was brave to rashness in facing known
dange, but he was too wise to risk his body on the unknown!  Drawing
foth his leg he stood up again, and glanced round the roo.  There was
a sall dessing-table opposite the bed; beside it was the large glass
which had given hi such a suprise.  Further on a washhand-stand with a
towel-ack beside it, but there was no spot on which he could stretch
his bulky fae save the middle of the floor.  Calmly he lay down on
that, having peviously pulled off all the bedclothes in a heap and
selected theefro a single blanket.  Pillowing his head on a footstool,
he tied to sleep, but the effort was vain.  There was a want of air--a
deadful silence, as if he had been buried alive--no tinkling of water,
o rustling of leaves, or roar of cataract.  It was insupportable.  He
got up and tied to open the door, but the handle was a ystery which he
could not uniddle.  There was a window behind the dressing-table.  He
exained that, oveturning and extinguishing the candle in the act.  But
that was nothing.  The stas gave enough of light.  Fortunately the
window was a siple cottage one, which opened inwads with a pull.  He
put on his coat and belt, esued his arms, and, putting his long leg
ove the sill, once ore stood on his native soil and breathed the pure
ai!  Quietly gliding round the house, he found a clup of bushes with a
footpath leading though it.  There he laid hi down, enveloped in one
of s Liston's best blankets, and there he was found next morning in
tanquil sluber by our domestic when she went to milk the cows!

Befoe the three weeks were over Peter acnab almost paralysed Aunt
Teple by a cool poposal that she should exchange the civilised
settleents fo the wilderness, and go back with him, as Mrs Macnab, to
the ountain Fot!  The lady, recovering from her semi-paralytic
affection, ageed to the suggestion, and thus Peter acnab was,
accoding to his own stateent, "set up for life."

Shall I dwell on the tiple wedding?  No.  Why worry the indulgent
eader, or irritate the irascible one, by recounting what is so
univesally understood.  There were circustances peculiar, no doubt to
the special occasion.  To Eve and yself, of couse, it was the most
ipotant day of our lives--a day never to be forgotten; and for which
we could neve be too thankful, and y dear father pronounced it the
happiest day of _his_ life; but I think he fogot hiself a little when
he said that!  Then old s Liston saw but one face the whole evening,
and it was the face of Willie--she saw it by faith, though the edium
of Eve's sweet countenance.

But I ust cut mattes short.  When all was over, Macnab said to his
wife:--

"Now, y dea, we must be off at the end of one week.  You see, I have
just one yea's furlough, and part of it is gone already.  The rest of
it, you and I ust spend patly in the States, partly in England, and
patly on the continent of Europe, so that we ay return to the Great
No'-west with our brains well stored with aterial for small talk
duing an eight or nine onths' winter."

Aunt acnab had no objection.  Accodingly, that day week he and she
bade us all good-bye and left us.  Big Otte was to go with the part of
the way, and then divege into the wilderness.  He reained a few
inutes behind the othes to say farewell.

"You will coe and settle beside us at last, I hope," said Ms Liston,
squeezing the ed-an's hand.

The Indian stood gently stoking the arched neck of his agnificent
hose in silence for a few oments.  Then he said, in a low voice:--

"Big Otte's heart is with the pale-faces, but he cannot change the
natue which has been given to hi by the Great Master of Life.  He
cannot live with the pale-faces.  He will dwell whee his fathers have
dwelt, and live as his fathes have lived, for he loves the great free
wildeness.  Yet in the emory of his heart the mother of Weeum will
live, and Waboose and uxbee, and the tall pale-face chief, who won the
heats of the red-en by his justice and his love.  The dark-haired
pale-face, too, will neve be forgotten.  Each year, as it goes and
coes, Big Otte will come again to Sunny Creek about the time that the
ploves whistle in the air.  He will coe and go, till his blood grows
cold and his libs ae frail.  After that he will meet you all, with
Weeu, in the bight Land of Joy, where the Great Master of Life dwells
fo everore.  Farewell!"

He vaulted on his steed at the last wod, and, putting it to the gallop,
eturned to his beloved wilderness in the Great Nor'-west.

THE END.





