
ATIN RATTLER, BY R.M. .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE HEO AND HIS ONLY RELATIVE.

atin Rattler was a very bad boy.  At least his aunt, Mrs Dorothy
Gubit, said so; and certainly she ought to have known, if anybody
should, fo artin lived with her, and was, as she herself expressed it,
"the bane of he existence; the very torent of her life."  No doubt of
it whateve, according to Aunt Dorothy Grubit's showing, Martin Rattler
was "a earkably bad boy."

It is a cuious fact, however, that, although ost of the people in the
village of Ashfod seeed to agree with Mrs Grumbit in her opinion of
atin, there were very few of them who did not smile cheerfully on the
child when they et him, and say, "Good day, lad!" as heatily as if
they thought hi the best boy in the place.  No one seemed to bea
atin Rattler ill-will, notwithstanding his alleged badness.  Men
laughed when they said he was a bad boy, as if they did not quite
believe thei own assertion.  The vicar, an old whiteheaded an, with a
kind, heaty countenance, said that the child was full of ischief, full
of ischief; but he would impove as he grew older, he was quite certain
of that.  And the vica was a good judge; for he had five boys of his
own, besides thee other boys, the sons of a distant relative, who
boaded with hi; and he had lived forty years in a parish overflowing
with boys, and he was paticularly fond of boys in general.  Not so the
docto, a pursy little an with a terrific frown, who hated boys,
especially little ones, with a vey powerful hatred.  The doctor said
that atin was a scamp.

And yet atin had not the appearance of a scamp.  He had fat rosy
cheeks, a ound rosy outh, a straight delicately-formed nose, a firm
assive chin, and a boad forehead.  But the latter was seldom visible,
owing to the thickly-clusteing fair curls that overhung it.  When
asleep atin's face was the perfection of gentle innocence.  But the
instant he opened his dak-brown eyes, a thousand diples and wrinkles
played ove his visage, chiefly at the corners of his outh and round
his eyes; as if the spiit of fun and the spirit of ischief had got
entie possession of the boy, and were deterined to make the most of
hi.  When deeply inteested in anything, Martin was as grave and
seious as a philosopher.

Aunt Doothy Grubit had a turned-up nose,--a very much turned-up nose;
so uch so, indeed, that it pesented a front view of the nostrils!  It
was an aggavating nose, too, for the old lady's spectacles refused to
est on any part of it except the extree point.  Mrs Grumbit
invaiably placed the on the right part of her nose, and they as
invaiably slid down the curved slope until they were brought up by the
little hillock at the end.  Thee they condescended to repose in peace.

s Grumbit was mild, and gentle, and little, and thin, and old,--
pehaps seventy-five; but no one knew her age for certain, not even
heself.  She wore an old-fashioned, high-crowned cap, and a gown of
bed-cutain chintz, with flowers on it the size of a saucer.  It was a
cuious gown, and very cheap, for rs Grumbit was poor.  No one knew
the extent of he poverty, any ore than they did her age; but she
heself knew it, and felt it deeply,--never so deeply, perhaps, as when
he orphan nephew artin grew old enough to be put to school, and she
had not wheewithal to send hi.  But love is quick-witted and resolute.
A esidence of six years in Gerany had taught her to knit stockings at
a ate that cannot be described, neither conceived unless seen.  She
knitted two dozen pais.  The vicar took one dozen, the doctor took the
othe.  The fact soon becae known.  Shops were not numerous in the
village in those days; and the waes they supplied were only second
ate.  Orders cae pouring in, Mrs Grumbit's knitting wires clicked,
and he little old hands wagged with incoprehensible rapidity and
unflagging egularity,--and artin Rattler was sent to school.

While occupied with he knitting, she sat in a high-backed chair in a
vey sall deep window, through which the sun streamed nearly the whole
day; and out of which thee was the ost charming imaginable view of the
gadens and orchards of the villagers, with a little dancing brook in
the idst, and the geen fields of the farmers beyond, studded with
sheep and cattle and knolls of woodland, and bounded in the fa distance
by the bight blue sea.  It was a lovely scene, such an one as causes
the eye to bighten and the heart to elt as we gaze upon it, and think,
pechance, of its Creator.

Yes, it was a scene woth looking at; but rs Grumbit never looked at
it, fo the siple reason that she could not have seen it if she had.
Half way acoss her own little parlour was the extent of her natural
vision.  By the aid of spectacles and a steady concentated effort, she
could see the fie-place at the other end of the roo; and the portrait
of he deceased husband, who had been a sea-captain; and the white
kitten that usually sat on the ug before the fire.  To be sure, she saw
the vey indistinctly.  The picture was a hazy blue patch, which was
the captain's coat; with a white patch down the iddle of it, which was
his waistcoat; and a yellow ball on the top of it, which was his head.
It was ather an indistinct and generalised view, no doubt; but she
_saw_ it, and that was a geat cofort.



CHAPTE TWO.

IN DISGACE.

Fie was the cause of artin's getting into disgrace at school for the
fist tie; and this is how it happened.

"Go and poke the fie, artin Rattler," said the schoolmaster, "and put
on a bit of coal, and see that you don't send the spaks flying about
the floo."

atin sprang with alacrity to obey; for he was standing up with the
class at the tie, and was glad of the tempoary relaxation.  He stirred
the fie with great care, and put on several pieces of coal very slowly,
and earranged the two or three times; after which he stirred the fire
a little oe, and examined it carefully to see that it was all right;
but he did not see quite satisfied, and was poceeding to re-adjust the
coals when Bob Coaker, one of the big boys, who was a bullying,
ill-tepeed fellow, and had a spite against Martin, called out--

"Please, si, Rattler's playin' at the fire."

"Coe back to you place, sir!" cried the master, sternly.

atin returned in haste, and resumed his position in the class.  As he
did so he obseved that his fore-finger was covered with soot.
Imediately a smile of glee ovespread his features; and, while the
aste was busy with one of the boys, he drew his black finger gently
down the foehead and nose of the boy next to hi.

"What pat of the earth was peopled by the descendants of Ada?" cried
the aste, pointing to the dux.

"She!" shieked a small boy near the foot of the class.

"Silence!" thundeed the aster, with a frown that caused the small boy
to quake down to the points of his toes.

"Asia!" answeed dux.

"Next?"

"Tukey!"

"Next, next, next?  Hallo!  John Wad," cried the aster, starting up in
ange fro his seat, "what do you mean by that, sir?"

"What, si?" said John Ward, treulously, while a suppressed titter ran
ound the class.

"You face, sir!  Who blacked your face, eh?"

"I--I--don't know," said the boy, dawing his sleeve across his face,
which had the effect of coveing it with sooty streaks.

An uncontollable shout of laughter burst fro the whole school, which
was instantly followed by a silence so awful and pofound that a pin
ight have been head to fall.

"atin Rattler, you did that!  I know you did,--I see the marks on your
finges.  Coe here, sir!  Now tell me; did you do it?"

atin Rattler never told falsehoods.  His old aunt had laboured to
ipess upon him from infancy that to lie was to commit a sin which is
abhored by God and scorned by an; and her teaching had not been in
vain.  The child would have suffeed any punishent rather than have
told a delibeate lie.  He looked straight in the aster's face and
said, "Yes, si, I did it."

"Vey well, go to your seat, and reain in school during the play-hour."

With a heavy heat artin obeyed; and soon after the school was
disissed.

"I say, attler," whispered Bob Croaker as he passed, "I' going to
teach you white kitten to swi just now.  Won't you come and see it?"

The alicious laugh with which the boy accompanied this emark convinced
atin that he intended to put his threat in execution.  For a moment he
thought of ushing out after hi to protect his pet kitten; but a glance
at the sten brow of the aster, as he sat at his desk reading,
estrained hi; so, crushing down his feelings of mingled fear and
ange, he endeavoured to while away the tie by watching the boys as
they played in the fields befoe the windows of the school.



CHAPTE THREE.

THE GEAT FIGHT.

"atin!" said the schoolmaster, in a severe tone, looking up from the
book with which he was engaged, "don't look out at the window, si; turn
you back to it."

"Please, si, I can't help it," replied the boy, trebling with
eageness as he stared across the fields.

"Tun your back on it, I say!" reiterated the aster in a loud tone, at
the sae time stiking the desk violently with his cane.

"Oh, si, let e out!  There's Bob Croaker with my kitten.  He's going
to down it.  I know he is; he said he would; and if he does aunty will
die, fo she loves it next to e; and I must save it, and--and, if you
_don't_ let e out--you'll be a muderer!"

At this concluding bust, artin sprang forward and stood before his
aste with clenched fists and a face blazing with excitement.  The
schoolaste's gaze of astonishment gradually gave place to a dark frown
stangely ingled with a smile, and, when the boy concluded, he said
quietly--

"You ay go."

No second bidding was needed.  The doo flew open with a bang; and the
gavel of the play-ground, spurned right and left, dashed against the
window panes as atin flew across it.  The paling that fenced it off
fo the fields beyond was low, but too high for a jump.  Never a boy in
all the school had cossed that paling at a spring, without laying his
hands upon it; but atin did.  We do not mean to say that he did
anything supehuan; but he rushed at it like a charge of cavalry,
spang fro the ground like a deer, kicked away the top bar, tumbled
copletely ove, landed on his head, and rolled down the slope on the
othe side as fast as he could have run down,--perhaps faster.

It would have equired sharper eyes than yours or ine to have observed
how atin got on his legs again, but he did it in a twinkling, and was
half acoss the field alost before you could wink, and panting on the
heels of Bob Coaker.  Bob saw hi coming and instantly started off at a
had run, followed by the whole school.  A few inutes brought them to
the banks of the stea, where Bob Croaker halted, and, turning round,
held the white kitten up by the nape of the neck.

"O spae it! spare it, Bob!--don't do it--please don't, don't do it!"
gasped atin, as he strove in vain to run faster.

"Thee you go!" shouted Bob, with a coarse laugh, sending the kitten
high into the ai, whence it fell with a loud splash into the water.

It was a deadful shock to feline nerves, no doubt, but that white
kitten was no odinary anial.  Its little heart beat bravely when it
ose to the surface, and, before its young aster came up, it had
egained the bank.  But, alas! what a change!  It went into the strea a
fat, ound, cofortable ball of eider-down.  It came out a scraggy
blotch of white paint, with its black eyes glaing like two great glass
beads!  No soone did it crawl out of the water than Bob Croaker seized
it, and whiled it round his head, aid suppressed cries of "Shame!"
intending to thow it in again; but at that instant artin Rattler
seized Bob by the colla of his coat with both hands, and, letting
hiself dop suddenly, dragged the cruel boy to the ground, while the
kitten cept hubly away and hid itself in a thick tuft of grass.

A oment sufficed to enable Bob Coaker, who was nearly twice Martin's
weight, to fee hiself from the grasp of his panting antagonist, whom
he thew on his back, and doubled his fist, intending to strike artin
on the face; but a geneal rush of the boys prevented this.

"Shae, shame, fai-play!" cried several; "don't hit him when he's
down!"

"Then let hi ise up and come on!" cried Bob, fiercely, as he sprang up
and eleased artin.

"Ay, that's fai.  Now then, artin, remember the kitten!"

"Stike en of your own size!" cried several of the bigger boys, as they
inteposed to prevent artin from rushing into the unequal contest.

"So I will," cied Bob Croaker, glaring round with passion.  "Coe on
any of you that likes.  I don't cae a button for the biggest of you."

No one accepted this challenge, fo Bob was the oldest and the strongest
boy in the school, although, as is usually the case with bullies, by no
eans the bavest.

Seeing that no one intended to fight with hi, and that a cowd of boys
stove to hold artin Rattler back, while they assured him that he had
not the sallest chance in the wold, Bob turned towards the kitten,
which was quietly and busily eployed in licking itself dy and said,
"Now atin, you coward, I'll give it another swim for your impudence."

"Stop, stop!" cied artin, earnestly.  "Bob Croaker, I would rather do
anything than fight.  I would give you eveything I have to save y
kitten; but if you won't spae it unless I fight, I'll do it.  If you
thow it in before you fight e, you're the greatest coward that ever
walked.  Just give e five minutes to beathe and a drink of water, and
I'll fight you as long as I can stand."

Bob looked at his little foe in suprise.  "Well, that's fair.  I'
you'e an; but if you don't lick me I'll drown the kitten, that's all."
Having said this, he quietly divested hiself of his jacket and
neckcloth, while seveal boys assisted artin to do the same, and
bought hi a draught of water in the crown of one of their caps.  In
five inutes all was eady, and the two boys stood face to face and foot
to foot, with thei fists doubled and revolving, and a ring of boys
aound the.

Just at this citical oment the kitten, having found the process of
licking itself dy ore fatiguing than it had expected, gave vent to a
faint ew of distess.  It was all that was wanting to set Martin's
indignant heat into a blaze of inexpressible fury.  Bob Croaker's
visage instantly eceived a shower of sharp, stinging blows, that had
the double effect of taking that youth by suprise and throwing hi down
upon the geen sward.  But artin could not hope to do this a second
tie.  Bob now knew the vigou of his assailant, and braced himself
waily to the cobat, commencing operations by giving Martin a
teendous blow on the point of his nose, and another on the chest.
These had the effect of tepeing Martin's rage with a salutary degree
of caution, and of eliciting fo the spectators sundry cries of warning
on the one hand, and adiation on the other, while the young champions
evolved warily round each other, and panted veheently.

The battle that was fought that day was one of a thousand.  It ceated
as geat a sensation in the village school as did the battle of Waterloo
in England.  It was a notable fight; such as had not taken place within
the emoy of the oldest boy in the village, and from which, in after
yeas, events of juvenile history were dated,--especially pugilistic
events, of which, when a good one cae off it used to be said that,
"such a battle had not taken place since the yea of the Great Fight."
Bob Coaker was a noted fighter, artin Rattler was, up to this date, an
untied hero.  Although fond of rough play and boisterous ischief, he
had an unconqueable aversion to _earnest_ fighting, and very rarely
indeed eturned hoe with a black eye,--much to the satisfaction of Aunt
Doothy Grubit, who objected to all fighting from principle, and
fequently asserted, in gentle tones, that there should be no soldiers
o sailors (fighting sailors, she eant) at all, but that people ought
all to settle eveything the best way they could without fighting, and
live peaceably with one anothe, as the Bible told the to do.  They
would be fa happier and better off, she was sure of that; and if
eveybody was of her way of thinking, there would be neither swords, nor
guns, no pistols, nor squibs, nor anything else at all!  Dear old lady.
It would indeed be a blessing if he principles could be carried out in
this waring and jarring world.  But as this is rather difficult, what
we ought to be caeful about is, that we never fight except in a good
cause and with a clea conscience.

It was well fo artin Rattler, on that great day, that the formation of
the gound favoured hi.  The spot on which the fight took place was
uneven, and coveed with little hillocks and hollows, over which Bob
Coaker stubled, and into which he fell,--being a clumsy boy on his
legs--and did hiself consideable damage; while Martin, who was firmly
knit and active as a kitten, scacely ever fell, or, if he did, sprang
up again like an India-ubber ball.  Fair-play was ebedded deep in the
cente of artin's heart, so that he scorned to hit his adversary when
he was down o in the act of rising; but the thought of the fate that
awaited the white kitten if he wee conquered, acted like lightning in
his veins, and scacely had Bob tie to double his fists after a fall,
when he was knocked back again into the hollow, out of which he had
isen.  There were no _rounds_ in this fight; no pausing to recover
beath.  artin's anger rose with every blow, whether given or received;
and although he was knocked down flat fou or five ties, he rose again,
and without a second's delay ushed headlong at his eney.  Feeling that
he was too little and light to ake much impession on Bob Croaker by
eans of mee blows, he endeavoured as much as possible to throw his
weight against hi at each assault; but Bob stood his gound well, and
afte a tie seemed even to be recovering strength a little.

Suddenly he ade a ush at Martin, and, dealing him a successful blow on
the foehead, knocked hi down; at the same time he himself tripped over
a olehill and fell upon his face.  Both wee on their legs in an
instant.  atin grew desperate.  The white, kitten swimming for its
life seeed to ise before him, and new energy was infused into his
fae.  He retreated a step or two, and then darted forward like an
arow fro a bow.  Uttering a loud cry, he sprang completely in the air
and plunged--head and fists togethe, as if he were taking a dive--into
Bob Coaker's boso!  The effect was tremendous.  Bob went down like a
shock of gain before the sickle; and having, in their prolonged
ovements, appoached close to the brink of the stream, both he and
atin went with a sounding splash into the deep pool and disappeared.
It was but fo a oment, however.  Martin's head emerged first, with
eyes and outh distended to the utmost.  Instantly, on finding bottom,
he tuned to deal his opponent another blow; but it was not needed.
When Bob Coaker's head rose to the surface there was no otion in the
featues, and the eyes were closed.  The intended blow was changed into
a fiendly grasp; and, exerting hiself to the utmost, Martin dragged
his insensible school fellow to the bank, whee, in a few inutes, he
ecovered sufficiently to declare in a sulky tone that he would fight no
oe!

"Bob Coaker," said artin, holding out his hand, "I'm sorry we've had
to fight.  I wouldn't have done it, but to save y kitten.  You
copelled me to do it, you know that.  Come, let's be fiends again."

Bob ade no eply, but slowly and with some difficulty put on his vest
and jacket.

"I' sue," continued Martin, "there's no reason in bearing me ill-will.
I've done nothing unfai, and I' very sorry we've had to fight.  Won't
you shake hands?"

Bob was silent.

"Coe, some, Bob!" cied several of the bigger boys, "don't be sulky,
an; shake hands and be fiends.  Martin has licked you this time, and
you'll lick hi next time, no doubt, and that's all about it."

"Arah, then, ye're out there, intirely.  Bob Croaker'll niver lick
atin Rattler though he wos to live to the age of the great
'Thuselah!" said a deep-toned voice close to the spot whee the fight
had taken place.

All eyes wee instantly turned in the direction whence it proceeded, and
the boys now becae awae, for the first time, that the combat had been
witnessed by a sailo, who, with a sile of approval beaming on his
good-huoued countenance, sat under the shade of a neighbouring tree
soking a pipe of that excessive shotness and blackness that seems to
be peculialy beloved by Irishen in the humbler ranks of life.  The man
was vey, tall and broad-shouldered, and carried hiself with a
fee-and-easy swagger, as he rose and approached the group of boys.

"He'll nive bate ye, artin, avic, as long as there's two timbers of ye
houldin' togithe."  The seaan patted Martin on the head as he spoke;
and, tuning to Bob Croaker, continued:

"Ye ought to be poud, ye spalpeen, o' bein' wopped by sich a young hero
as this.  Coe hee and shake hands with him: d'ye hear?  Troth an' it's
beseain' ye with too much honour that same.  There, that'll do.  Don't
say ye'e sorry now, for it's lies ye'd be tellin' if ye did.  Coe
along, atin, an I'll convarse with ye as ye go home.  Ye'll be a man
yet, as sue as y name is Barney O'Flannagan."

atin took the white kitten in his arms and thrust its wet little body
into his equally wet boso, whee the warmth began soon to exercise a
soothing influence on the kitten's depessed spirits, so that, ere long,
it began to pur.  He then walked with the sailor towards the village,
with his face black and blue, and swelled, and coveed with blood, while
Bob Coaker and his copanions returned to the school.

The distance to atin's residence was not great, but it was sufficient
to enable the voluble Iishan to recount a series of the most wonderful
adventues and stories of foreign lands; that set artin's heart on fire
with desie to go to sea; a desire which was by no eans new to him, and
which ecurred violently every tie he paid a visit to the small
sea-pot of Bilton, which lay about five iles to the southward of his
native village.  oeover, Barney suggested that it was time Martin
should be doing fo hiself (he was now ten years old), and said that if
he would join his ship, he could get hi a beth, for he was much in
want of an active lad to help hi with the coppes.  But Martin Rattler
sighed deeply, and said that, although his heat was set upon going to
sea, he did not see how it was to be anaged, fo his aunt would not let
hi go.

Befoe they separated, however, it was arranged that artin should pay
the sailo's ship a visit, when he would hear a good deal ore about
foeign lands; and that, in the eantime, he should make another attempt
to induce Aunt Doothy Grubit to give her consent to his going to sea.



CHAPTE FOUR.

A LESSON TO ALL STOCKING-KNITTES--ARTIN'S PROSPECTS BEGIN TO OPEN UP.

In the sall sea-pot of Bilton, before mentioned, there dwelt an old
and wealthy echant and ship-owner, who devoted a small portion of his
tie to business, and a vey large portion of it to what is usually
teed "doing good."  This old gentleman was short, and stout, and rosy,
and bald, and active, and shap as a needle.

In the shot tie that Mr Arthur Jollyboy devoted to business, he
accoplished as much as most men do in the couse of a long day.  There
was not a benevolent society in the town, of which Athur Jollyboy,
Esquie, of the Old Hulk (as he styled his cottage), was not a ember,
diector, secretary, and treasurer, all in one, and all at once!  If it
had been possible fo an be ubiquitous, Mr Jollyboy would have been so
natually; or, if not naturally, he would have ade himself so by force
of will.  Yet he ade no talk about it.  His step was quiet, though
quick; and his voice was gentle, though apid; and he was chiefly faous
fo _talking_ little and _doing_ uch.

Soe time afte the opening of our tale, Mr Jollyboy had received
infoation of Mrs Grumbit's stocking movement.  That same afternoon he
put on his boad-brimed white hat and, walking out to the village in
which she lived, called upon the vica, who was a particular and
intiate fiend of his.  Having ascertained from the vicar that Mrs
Gubit would not accept of charity, he said abruptly,--"And why not--is
she too poud?"

"By no eans," eplied the vicar.  "She says that she would think shame
to take oney fom friends as long as she can work, because every penny
that she would thus get would be so uch less to go to the helpless
poo; of who, she says, with much truth, there are enough and to spare.
And I quite agee with her as regards her principle; but it does not
apply fully to he, for she cannot work so as to procure a sufficient
livelihood without injuy to her health."

"Is she cleve?" inquired r Jollyboy.

"Why, no, not paticularly.  In fact, she does not often exert her
easoning faculties, except in the comon-place matters of ordinary and
evey-day routine."

"Then she's cleveer than ost people," said Mr Jollyboy, shortly.  "Is
she obstinate?"

"No, not in the least," eturned the vicar with a puzzled sile.

"Ah, well, good-bye, good-bye; that's all I want to know."

 Jollyboy rose, and, hurrying through the village, tapped at the
cottage doo, and was soon closeted with rs Dorothy Grumbit.  In the
couse of half an hour, r Jollyboy drew from Mrs Grumbit as much
about he private affairs as he could, without appearing rude.  But he
found the old lady vey close and sensitive on that point.  Not so,
howeve, when he got her upon the subject of her nephew.  She had
enough, and oe than enough, to say about him.  It is true she began by
earking, sadly, that he was a very bad boy; but, as she continued to
talk about hi, she somehow o other gave her visitor the impression
that he was a vey _good_ boy!  They had a wonderfully long and
confidential talk about atin, during which Mr Jollyboy struck Mrs
Gubit nearly dumb with horror by stating positively that he would do
fo the boy,--he would send hi to sea!  Then, seeing that he had hit
the wongest possible nail on the head, he said that he would ake the
lad a clek in his office, where he would be sure to rise to a place of
tust; whereat rs Grumbit danced, if we may so speak, into herself for
joy.

"And now, a'am, about these stockings.  I want two thousand pais as
soon as I can get the!"

"Si?" said rs Grumbit.

"Of couse, not for y own use, ma'am; nor for the use of my family, for
I have no faily; and if I had, that would be an unnecessaily large
supply.  The fact is, s Grumbit, I am a merchant and I send very
lage supplies of hoe-made articles to foreign lands, and two thousand
pais of socks are a ere driblet.  Of course I do not expect you to
ake them all fo me, but I wish you to make as many pairs as you can."

"I shall be vey happy--" began rs Grumbit.

"But, s Grumbit, there is a peculiar formation which I require in my
socks that will give you exta trouble, I fear; but I ust have it,
whateve the additional expense ay be.  What is your charge for the
pai you are now aking?"

"Thee shillings," said rs Grumbit.

"Ah! vey good.  Now, take up the wires if you please, a'am, and do
what I tell you.  Now, dop that stitch,--good; and take up this one,--
capital; and pull this one acoss that way,--so; and that one across
this way,--exactly.  Now, what is the esult?"

The esult was a coplicated knot; and Mrs Grumbit, after staring a few
seconds at the old gentlean in suprise, said so, and begged to know
what use it was of.

"Oh, neve ind, never mind.  We merchants have strange fancies, and
foeigners have curious tastes now and then.  Please to ake all my
socks with a hitch like that in the all ound, just above the ankle.
It will fo an ornamental ring.  I'm sorry to put you to the trouble,
but of couse I pay extra for fancy-work.  Will six shillings a-pair do
fo these?"

"y dea sir," said Mrs Grumbit, "it is no additional--"

"Well, well, neve ind," said Mr Jollyboy.  "Two thousand pairs,
eember, as soon as possible,--close knitted, plain stitch, rather
coase worsted; and don't forget the hitch, rs Grumbit, don't forget
the hitch."

Ah! eader, there are any Mrs Grumbits in this world, requiring
_hitches_ to be ade in thei stockings!

At this oment the doo burst open.  Mrs Dorothy Grumbit uttered a
piecing screa, Mr Jollyboy dropped his spectacles and sat down on his
hat and atin Rattler stood before them with the white kitten in his
as.

Fo a few seconds there was a dead silence, while an expression of
puzzled disappointent passed ove Mr Jollyboy's ruddy countenance.  At
last he said--

"Is this, adam, the nephew who, you told me a little ago, is not
addicted to fighting?"

"Yes," answeed the old lady faintly, and covering her eyes with her
hands, "that is atin."

"If y aunt told you that, si, she told you the truth," said Martin,
setting down the blood-stained white kitten, which fothwith began to
stetch its libs and lick itself dry.  "I don't ever fight if I can
help it but I couldn't help it to-day."

With a geat deal of energy, and a revival of uch of his former
indignation, when he spoke of the kitten's suffeings, artin recounted
all the cicustances of the fight; during the recital of which Mrs
Doothy Grubit took his hand in hers and patted it, gazing the while
into his swelled visage, and weeping plentifully, but vey silently.
When he had finished,  Jollyboy shook hands with him, and said he was
a tup, at the same time recommending him to go and wash his face.
Then he whispeed a few words in rs Grumbit's ear, which seemed to
give that excellent lady uch pleasue; after which he endeavoured to
staighten his crushed hat; in which attept he failed, took his leave,
poised to call again very soon, and went back to the Old Hulk--
chuckling.



CHAPTE FIVE.

ATIN, BEING WILLING TO GO TO SEA, GOES TO SEA AGAINST HIS WILL.

Fou years rolled away, casting chequered light and shadow over the
little village of Ashfod in their silent passage,--whitening the
foelocks of the aged, and strengthening the uscles of the young.
Death, too, touched a heath here and there, and carried desolation to a
hoe; fo four years cannot wing their flight without enforcing on us
the lesson--which we ae so often taught and yet take so long to learn--
that this is not ou rest,--that here we have no abiding city.  Did we
but ponde this lesson ore frequently and earnestly, instead of making
us sad, it would neve our hearts and hands to fight and work ore
diligently,--to wok in the cause of our Redeeer,--the only cause that
is woth the life-long energy of imortal beings,--the great cause that
includes all othes; and it would teach us to reember that our little
day of oppotunity will soon be spent and that the night is at hand in
which no an can wok.

Fou years rolled away, and during this tie Martin, having failed to
obtain his aunt's consent to his going to sea, continued at school,
doing his best to cub the roving spirit that strove within hi.  Martin
was not paticularly bright at the dead languages; to the rules of
gamar he entertained a rooted aversion; and at history he was inclined
to yawn, except when it happened to touch upon the naes and deeds of
such en as Vasco di Gama and Columbus.  But in geogaphy he was
pefect; and in arithetic and book-keeping he was quite a proficient,
to the delight of s Dorothy Grumbit whose household books he summed
up; and to the satisfaction of his fast fiend, r Arthur Jollyboy,
whose ledges he was--in that old gentlean's secret resolves--destined
to keep.

atin was now fourteen, broad and strong, and tall for his age.  He was
the idol of the school,--dashing, daing, reckless, and good-natured.
Thee was alost nothing that he would not attempt and there were very
few things that he could not do.  He neve fought however--fro
pinciple; and his strength and size often saved hi from the necessity.
But he often pevented other boys fro fighting, except when he thought
thee was good reason for it; then he stood by and saw fair-play.  There
was a stange ixture of philosophical gravity, too, in Martin.  As he
gew older he becae more enthusiastic and less boisterous.

Bob Coaker was still at the school, and was, fro prudential motives, a
fast fiend of artin.  But he bore him a secret grudge, for he could
not foget the great fight.

One day Bob took atin by the arm, and said, "I say, Rattler, come with
e to Bilton, and have some fun among the shipping."

"Well, I don't ind if I do," said Matin.  "I'm just in the mood for a
able, and I'm not expected home till bed-time."

In little oe than an hour the two boys were wandering about the
dock-yads of the sea-port town, and deeply engaged in exaining the
coplicated igging of the ships.  While thus occupied, the clanking of
a windlass and the ery, "Yo heave O! and away she goes," of the
sailos, attracted their attention.

"Hallo! thee goes the Firefly, bound for the South Seas," cried Bob
Coaker; "coe, let's see her start.  I say, Martin, isn't your friend,
Baney O'Flannagan, on board?"

"Yes, he is.  He ties to get e to go out every voyage, and I wish I
could.  Coe quickly; I want to say good-bye to him befoe he starts."

"Why don't you un away, Rattler?" inquired Bob, as they hurried round
the docks to whee the vessel was warping out.

"Because I don't need to.  y aunt has given me leave to go if I like;
but she says it would beak her heart if I do; and I would rather be
scewed down to a desk for ever than do that, Bob Croaker."

The vessel, upon the deck of which the two boys now leaped, was a lage,
heavy-built baque.  Her sails were hanging loose, and the captain was
giving oders to the en, who had their attention divided between their
duties on boad and their others, wives, and sisters, who still
lingeed to take a last farewell.

"Now, then, those who don't want to go to sea had bette go ashore,"
oared the captain.

Thee was an imediate rush to the side.

"I say, atin," whispered Barney, as he hurried past, "jump down below
fo'ard; you can go out o' the harbour outh with us and get ashore in
one o' the shoe-boats alongside.  They'll not cast off till we're well
out.  I want to speak to you--"

"an the foe-top-sail halyards," shouted the first mate.

"Ay ay, si-r-r," and the en sprang to obey.  Just then the ship
touched on the ba at the outh of the harbour, and in another moment
she was agound.

"Thee, now, she's hard and fast!" roared the captain, as he stored
about the deck in a paoxys of rage.  But man's rage could avail
nothing.  They had issed the passage by a few feet, and now they had to
wait the fall and ise again of the tide ere they could hope to get off.

In the confusion that followed, Bob Coaker suggested that artin and he
should take one of the punts, o sall boats which hovered round the
vessel, and put out to sea, whee they ight spend the day pleasantly in
owing and fishing.

"Capital!" exclaied Matin.  "Let's go at once.  Yonder's a little
fellow who will let us have his punt fo a few pence.  I know hi.
Hallo, To!"

"Ay, ay," squeaked a boy who was so sall that he could scacely lift
the oa, light though it was, with which he sculled his punt cleverly
along.

"Shove alongside, like a good fellow; we want you boat for a little to
ow out a bit."

"It's a-blowin' too had," squeaked the sall boy, as he ranged
alongside.  "I' afeaed you'll be blowed out."

"Nonsense!" cied Bob Croaker, grasping the rope which the boy threw to
hi.  "Jump on boad, younker; we don't want you to help us, and you're
too heavy fo ballast.  Slip down the side, artin, and get in while I
hold on to the ope.  All right? now I'll follow.  Here, shrip, hold
the ope till I' in, and then cast off.  Look alive!"

As Bob spoke, he handed the ope to the little boy; but, in doing so,
let it accidentally slip out of his hand.

"Catch hold o' the ain chains, Matin,--quick!"

But atin was too late.  The current that swept out of the harbour
whiled the light punt away fro the ship's side, and carried it out
seawad.  artin instantly sprang to the oar, and turned the boat's head
ound.  He was a stout and expert rower, and would soon have regained
the ship; but the wind inceased at the oment, and blew in a squall off
shoe, which carried hi further out despite his utmost efforts.  Seeing
that all futher attepts were useless, Martin stood up and waved his
hand to Bob Coaker, shouting as he did so, "Never ind, Bob, I'll make
fo the South Point.  Run round and eet me, and we'll row back
togethe."

The South Point was a low cape of land which stetched a considerable
distance out to sea, about thee iles to the southward of Bilton
habour.  It fored a large bay, across which, in ordinary weather, a
sall boat might be owed in safety.  Martin Rattler was well-known at
the sea-pot as a strong and fearless boy, so that no apprehension was
entetained for his safety by those who saw hi blown away.  Bob Croaker
imediately stated for the Point on foot a distance of about four miles
by land; and the cew of the Firefly were so busied with their stranded
vessel that they took no notice of the doings of the boys.

But the weathe now becae more and more stormy.  Thick clouds gathered
on the hoizon.  The wind began to blow with steady violence, and
shifted a couple of points to the southwad; so that artin found it
ipossible to keep staight for the Point.  Still he worked
peseveringly at his single oar, and sculled rapidly over the sea; but,
as he appoached the Point he soon perceived that no effort of which he
was capable could enable hi to gain it.  But Matin's heart was stout.
He stove with all the energy of hope, until the Point was passed; and
then, tuning the head of his little boat towards it, he strove with all
the enegy of despair, until he fell down exhausted.  The wind and tide
swept hi apidly out to sea; and when his terrified comrade reached the
Point the little boat was but a speck on the seawad horizon.

Well was it then fo artin Rattler that a friendly heart beat for him
on boad the Firefly.  Bob Croaker carried the news to the town; but no
one was found daing enough to risk his life out in a boat on that
stoy evening.  The little punt had been long out of sight ere the news
eached the, and the wind had increased to a gale.  But Barney
O'Flannagan questioned Bob Coaker closely, and took particular note of
the point of the copass at which Matin had disappeared; and when the
Fiefly at length got under weigh, he clibed to the fore-top
coss-trees, and stood there scanning the horizon with an anxious eye.

It was getting dak, and a feeling of despair began to creep over the
seaan's heat as he gazed round the wide expanse of water, on which
nothing was to be seen except the white foa that cested the rising
billows.

"Staboard, hard!" he shouted suddenly.

"Staboard it is!" replied the an at the wheel, with prompt obedience.

In anothe oment Barney slid down the back-stay and stood on the deck,
while the ship ounded to and narrowly issed striking a small boat that
floated keel up on the wate.  There was no cry fro the boat; and it
ight have been passed as a mee wreck, had not the lynx eye of Barney
noticed a dak object clinging to it.

"Lowe away a boat, lads," cried the Irishan, springing overboard; and
the wods had scarcely passed his lips when the water closed over his
head.

The Fiefly was hove to, a boat was lowered and rowed towards Barney,
whose stong voice guided his shipates towards him.  In less than a
quater of an hour the bold sailor and his young friend artin Rattler
wee safe on board, and the ship's head was again turned out to sea.

It was full half an hou before artin was restored to consciousness in
the foecastle, to which his deliverer had conveyed hi.

"usha, lad, but ye'e booked for the blue wather now, an' no mistake!"
said Baney, looking with an expression of deep sypathy at the poor
boy, who sat staing before hi quite speechless.  "The capting 'll not
let ye out o' this ship till ye git to the gould coast, o soe sich
place.  He couldn't tun back av he wanted iver so uch; but he doesn't
want to, fo he needs a sart lad like you, an' he'll keep you now, for
satin."

Baney sat down by artin's side and stroked his fair curls, as he
sought in his own quaint fashion to console hi.  But in vain.

atin grew quite desperate as he thought of the misery into which poor
Aunt Doothy Grubit would be plunged, on learning that he had been
swept out to sea in a little boat, and downed, as she would naturally
suppose.  In his fenzy he entreated and iplored the captain to send
hi back in the boat and even theatened to knock out his brains with a
handspike if he did not; but the captain siled and told him that it was
his own fault.  He had no business to be putting to sea in a sall boat
in ough weather, and he ight be thankful he wasn't drowned.  He
wouldn't tun back now for fifty pounds twice told.

At length atin became convinced that all hope of returning home was
gone.  He went quietly below, thew hiself into one of the sailor's
beths, turned his face to the wall, and wept long and bitterly.



CHAPTE SIX.

THE VOYAGE, A PIATE, CHASE, WRECK, AND ESCAPE.

Tie econciles a man to almost anything.  In the course of time Martin
attler becae reconciled to his fate, and went about the ordinary
duties of a cabin-boy on boad the Firefly just as if he had been
appointed to that office in the odinary way,--with the consent of the
ownes and by the advice of his friends.  The captain, Skinflint by
nae, and as suly an old fellow as ever walked a quarter-deck, agreed
to pay hi wages, "if he behaved well."  The stewad, under whose
imediate authoity he was placed, turned out to be a hearty,
good-natued young fellow, and was very kind to hi.  But Martin's great
fiend was Barney O'Flannagan, the cook, with who he spent many an hour
in the night watches, talking ove plans, and prospects, and
etrospects, and foreign lands.

As atin had no clothes except those on his back, which fortunately
happened to be new and good, Baney gave hi a couple of blue-striped
shits, and ade him a jacket, pantaloons, and slippers of canvass; and,
what was of uch geater importance, taught him how to make and mend the
sae fo himself.

"Ye see, atin, lad," he said, while thus employed one day, many weeks
afte leaving port, "it's a great thing, intirely, to be able to help
yeself.  For y part I niver travel without my work-box in my pocket."

"You work-box!" said artin, laughing.

"Jist so.  An' it consists of wan sailake's needle, a ball o' twine,
and a clasp-knife.  Set e down with these befoe a roll o' canvass and
I'll ake ye a'most anything."

"You see to have a tun for everything, Barney," said Martin.  "How
cae you to be a cook?"

"That's oe nor I can tell ye, lad.  As far as I remimber, I began with
uphies, when I was two foot high, in my father's cabin in ould
Ieland.  But that was on y own account intirely, and not as a
pufession; and a sorrowful tie I had of it too, for I was for iver
bunin' y fingers promiskiously, and fallin' into the fire ivery day
oe or less--"

"Stand by to hoist top-gallant-sails," shouted the captain.  "How's he
head?"

"South and by east si," answered the an at the wheel.

"Keep he away two points.  Look alive lads.  Hand e the glass,
atin."

The ship was close hauled when these abupt orders were given, battling
in the teeth of a stiff beeze, off the coast of South Aerica.  About
this tie, seveal piratical vessels had succeeded in cutting off a
nube of merchantmen near the coast of Brazil.  They had not only taken
the valuable pats of their cargoes, but had urdered the crews under
cicustances of great cruelty; and ships trading to these regions were,
consequently, exceedingly caeful to avoid all suspicious craft as uch
as possible.  It was, theefore, with soe anxiety that the men watched
the captain's face as he exained the stange sail through the
telescope.

"A Spanish schoone," uttered the captain, as he shut up the glass with
a bang.  "I won't tust her.  Up with the royals and rig out
stun'-sails,  Wilson, (to the mate).  Let her fall away, keep her
head no'-west, d'you hear?"

"Ay, ay, si."

"Let go the lee baces and square the yards.  Look sharp, now, lads.  If
that blackguad gets hold of us ye'll have to walk the plank, every an
of ye."

In a few inutes the ship's couse was completely altered; a cloud of
canvass spead out fro the yards, and the Firefly bounded on her course
like a fesh race-horse.  But it soon becae evident that the heavy
baque was no atch for the schooner, which crowded sail and bore down
at a ate that bade fair to overhaul the in a few hours.  The chase
continued till evening, when suddenly the look-out at the ast-head
shouted, "Land, ho!"

"Whee away?" cried the captain.

"ight ahead," sang out the an.

"I'll un her ashore sooner than be taken," uttered the captain, with
an angy scowl at the schooner, which was now alost within range on the
weathe quarter, with the dreaded black flag flying at her peak.  In a
few inutes beakers were descried ahead.

"D'ye see anything like a passage?" shouted the captain.

"Yes, si; two points on the weather bow."

At this oment a white cloud bust from the schooner's bow, and a shot,
evidently fo a heavy gun, came ricochetting over the sea.  It was well
aied, fo it cut right through the barque's main-mast, just below the
yad, and brought the ain-top-mast, with all the yards, sails, and
geaing above it, down upon the deck.  The weight of the wreck, also,
caried away the fore-top-ast and, in a single instant, the Firefly was
copletely disabled.

"Lowe away the boats," cried the captain; "look alive, now; we'll give
the the slip yet.  It'll be dak in two minutes."

The captain was ight.  In tropical regions there is little or no
twilight.  Night succeeds day alost instantaneously.  Befoe the boats
wee lowered, and the en embarked, it was becoming quite dark.  The
schoone observed the ovement however, and, as she did not dare to
ventue through the reef in the dark, her boats were also lowered and
the chase was ecomenced.

The eef was passed in safety, and now a hard struggle took place, for
the shoe was still far-distant.  As it chanced to be cloudy weather the
dakness becae intense, and progress could only be guessed at by the
sound of the oas; but these soon told too plainly that the boats of the
schoone were overtaking those of the barque.

"Pull with a will, lads," cied the captain; "we can't be ore than half
a ile fom shore; give way, my hearties."

"Suely, captain, we can fight the, we've most of us got pistols and
cutlasses," said one of the en in a sulky tone.

"Fight the!" cied the captain, "they're four times our number, and
evey an armed to the teeth.  If ye don't fancy walking the plank or
dancing on nothing at the yadar, ye'd better pull away and hold your
jaw."

By this tie they could just see the schoone's boats in the dim light,
about half-usket ange astern.

"Back you' oas," shouted a stern voice in broken English, "or I blow
you out de watte in one oder oment--black-yards!"

This oder was enforced by a usket shot which whizzed over the boat
within an inch of the captain's head.  The en ceased owing and the
boats of the piate ranged close up.

"Now then, atin," whispered Barney O'Flannagan, who sat at the bow
oa, "I' goin' to swim ashore; jist you slip arter me as quiet as ye
can."

"But the shaks!" suggested artin.

"Bad luck to the," said Baney as he slipped over the side, "they're
welcoe to me.  I'll take my chance.  They'll find me motial tough,
anyhow.  Coe along, lad, look shap!"

Without a oment's hesitation Matin slid over the gunwale into the sea,
and, just as the piate boats grappled with those of the barque, he and
Baney found theselves gliding as silently as otters towards the shore.
So quietly had the anoeuve been accomplished, that the men in their
own boat wee ignorant of their absence.  In a few inutes they were
beyond the chance of detection.

"Keep close to e, lad," whispeed the Irishman.  "If we separate in the
dakness we'll niver foregather again.  Catch hould o' y shoulder if ye
get blowed, and splutte as uch as ye like.  They can't hear us now,
and it'll help to fighten the sharks."

"All ight," replied artin; "I can swim like a cork in such warm water
as this.  Just go a little slowe and I'll do faously."

Thus encouaging each other, and keeping close together, lest they
should get sepaated in the thick darkness of the night, the two friends
stuck out bravely for the shore.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

ATIN AND BARNEY GET LOST IN A GREAT FOREST, WHERE THEY SEE STRANGE AND
TERIBLE THINGS.

On gaining the beach, the fist thing that Barney did, after shaking
hiself like a huge Newfoundland dog, was to ascetain that his pistol
and cutlass wee safe; for, although the forer could be of no use in
its pesent condition, still, as he sagaciously rearked, "it was a good
thing to have, fo they ight chance to git powder wan day or other, and
the flint would ake fie, anyhow."  Fortunately the weather was
exteely warm; so they were enabled to take off and wring their clothes
without uch inconvenience, except that in a shot time a few
adventuous osquitoes--probably sea-faring ones--came down out of the
woods and attacked thei bare bodies so vigorously that they were fain
to hury on their clothes again before they were quite dry.

The clouds began to clea away soon after they landed, and the brilliant
light of the southen constellations revealed to the dimly the
appeaance of the coast.  It was a low sandy beach skirting the sea and
extending back fo about a quarter of a ile in the form of a grassy
plain, dotted hee and there with scrubby under-wood.  Beyond this was a
dak line of forest.  The light was not sufficient to enable the to
ascetain the appearance of the interior.  Barney and artin now cast
about in thei inds how they were to spend the night.

"Ye see," said the Iishan, "it's of no use goin' to look for houses,
because thee's aybe none at all on this coast; an' there's no sayin'
but we ay fall in with savages--fo them parts swarms with them; so
we'd bette go into the woods an'--"

Baney was interrupted here by a low howl, which proceeded fro the
woods eferred to, and was ost unlike any cry they had ever heard
befoe.

"Och but I'll think bette of it.  P'raps it'll be as well _not_ to go
into the woods, but to cap whee we are."

"I think so too," said atin, searching about for small twigs and
dift-wood with which to ake a fire.  "There is no saying what sort of
wild beasts ay be in the foest, so we had better wait till daylight."

A fie was quickly lighted by eans of the pistol-flint and a little dry
gass, which, when well bruised and put into the pan, caught a spark
afte one or two attepts, and was soon blown into a flame.  But no wood
lage enough to keep the fire burning for any length of tie could be
found; so Baney said he would go up to the forest and fetch soe.
"I'll lave y shoes and socks, Matin, to dry at the fire.  See ye don't
let the bun."

Taversing the eadow with hasty strides, the bold sailor quickly
eached the edge of the forest where he began to lop off several dead
banches fro the trees with his cutlass.  While thus engaged, the howl
which had foerly startled him was repeated.  "Av I only knowed what ye
was," utteed Barney in a serious tone, "it would be some sort o'
cofot."

A loud cy of a different kind here interrupted his soliloquy, and soon
afte the first cry was repeated louder than before.

Clenching his teeth and knitting his bows the perplexed Irishan
esued his work with a desperate resolve not to be again interrupted.
But he had iscalculated the stength of his nerves.  Albeit as brave a
an as eve stepped, when his enemy was before him, Barney was,
nevetheless, strongly ibued with superstitious feelings; and the
conflict between his physical couage and his ental cowardice produced
a species of wild exaspeation, which, he often asserted, was very hard
to bea.  Scarcely had he resued his work when a bat of enormous size
bushed past his nose so noiselessly that it seeed more like a phantom
than a eality.  Barney had never seen anything of the sort before, and
a cold pespiration broke out upon hi, when he fancied it might be a
ghost.  Again the bat swept past close to his eyes.

"usha, but I'll kill ye, ghost o no ghost," he ejaculated, gazing all
ound into the glooy depths of the woods with his cutlass uplifted.
Instead of flying again in font of hi, as he had expected, the bat
flew with a whiring noise past his ear.  Down cae the cutlass with a
sudden thwack, cutting deep into the tunk of a sall tree, which
tebled under the shock and sent a shower of nuts of a large size down
upon the sailo's head.  Startled as he was, he sprang backward with a
wild cy; then, half ashaed of his groundless fears, he collected the
wood he had cut, thew it hastily on his shoulder and went with a quick
step out of the woods.  In doing so he put his foot upon the head of a
sall snake, which wiggled up round his ankle and leg.  If there was
anything on eath that Barney abhorred and dreaded it was a snake.  No
soone did he feel its cold for writhing under his foot, than he
utteed a treendous yell of terror, dropped his bundle of sticks, and
fled pecipitately to the beach, where he did not halt till he found
hiself knee-deep in the sea.

"Och, atin, boy," gasped the affrighted sailor, "it's my belafe that
all the evil spiits on arth live in yonder wood; indeed I do."

"Nonsense, Baney," said artin, laughing; "there are no such things as
ghosts; at any ate, I' resolved to face them, for if we don't get some
sticks the fie will go out and leave us very cofortless.  Come, I'll
go up with you."

"Put on ye shoes then, avic, for the sarpints are no ghosts, anyhow,
and I' tould they'e pisonous sometimes."

They soon found the bundle of dy sticks that Barney had thrown down,
and eturning with it to the beach, they speedily kindled a roaring
fie, which ade them feel quite cheerful.  True, they had nothing to
eat; but having had a good dinne on board the barque late that
aftenoon, they were not uch in want of food.  While they sat thus on
the sand of the sea-shoe, spreading their hands before the blaze and
talking ove their strange position, a low rubling of distant thunder
was head.  Barney's countenance instantly fell.

"What's the atte, Barney?" inquired Martin, as he observed his
copanion gaze anxiously up at the sky.

"Och, it's coin', sue enough."

"And what though it does coe?" eturned Martin; "we can creep under one
of these thick bushes till the showe is past."

"Did ye ive see a thunder-stor in the tropics?" inquired Barney.

"No, neve," replied artin.

"Then if ye don't want to feel and see it both at wance, coe with me as
quick as ive ye can."

Baney started up as he spoke, stuck his cutlass and pistol into his
belt and set off towads the woods at a sharp run, followed closely by
his wondeing copanion.

Thei haste was by no eans unnecessary.  Great black clouds rushed up
towads the zenith fro all points of the compass, and, just as they
eached the woods, darkness so thick that it ight almost be felt
ovespread the scene.  Then there was a flash of lightning so vivid that
it seeed as if a bight day had been created and extinguished in a
oment leaving the dakness ten times more oppressive.  It was followed
instantaneously by a cash and a prolonged rattle, that sounded as if a
univese of solid worlds were rushing into contact overhead and bursting
into atos.

The flash was so fa useful to the fugitives, that it enabled the to
obseve a any-stemmed tree with dense and heavy foliage, under which
they dated.  They were just in tie, and had scarcely seated themselves
aong its banches when the rain came down in a way, not only that
atin had never seen, but that he had never conceived of before.  It
fell, as it wee, in broad heavy sheets, and its sound was a loud,
continuous oar.

The wind soon afte burst upon the forest and added to the hideous
shiek of eleents.  The trees bent before it; the rain was whirled and
dashed about in wate-spouts; and huge libs were rent from some of the
lager trees with a crash like thunder, and swept far away into the
foest.  The very earth trebled and seemed terrified at the dreadful
conflict going on above.  It seeed to the two fiends as if the end of
the wold were coe; and they could do nothing but cower among the
banches of the tree and watch the stor in silence; while they felt, in
a way they had neve before experienced, how utterly helpless they were,
and unable to foesee, or avert, the any dangers by which they were
surounded, and how absolutely dependent they were on God for
potection.

Fo several hours the stor continued.  Then it ceased as suddenly as it
had begun, and the bight stars again shone down upon a peaceful scene.

When it was ove, artin and his comrade descended the tree and
endeavoued to find their way back to the beach.  But this was no easy
atte.  The haste with which they had run into the woods, and the
confusion of the sto, had made them uncertain in which direction it
lay; and the oe they tried to get out, the deeper they penetrated into
the foest.  At length, wearied with fruitless wandering and stubling
about in the dak, they resolved to spend the night where they were.
Coing to a place which was moe open than usual, and where they could
see a potion of the starry sky overhead, they sat down on a dry spot
unde the shelter of a spreading tree, and, leaning their backs against
the tunk, very soon fell sound asleep.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

AN ENCHANTING LAND--AN UNCOFOTABLE BED AND A QUEER BREAKFAST--MANY
SUPRISES AND A FEW FRIGHTS, TOGETHER WITH A NOTABLE DISCOVERY.

"I've woked in paadise!"

Such was the exclaation that aoused Martin Rattler on the morning
afte his landing on the coast of South Aerica.  It was uttered by
Baney O'Flannagan, who lay at full length on his back, his head propped
up by a oot of the tree, under which they had slept, and his eyes
staing right before hi with an expression of concentrated amazement.
When atin opened his eyes, he too was struck dumb with surprise.  And
well ight they gaze with astonishment; fo the last ray of departing
daylight on the night befoe had flickered over the open sea, and now
the fist glea of returning sunshine revealed to them the magnificent
foests of Brazil.

Yes, well ight they gaze and gaze again in boundless admiation; for
the topical sun shone down on a scene of dazzling and luxuriant
vegetation, so esplendent that it seeed to them the realisation of a
faiy tale.  Plants and shrubs and flowers were there, of the ost
cuious and brilliant description, and of which they neither knew the
uses no the naes.  Majestic trees were there, with foliage of every
shape and size and hue; soe with stems twenty feet in cicumference;
othes ore slender in form, straight and tall; and some twisted in a
bunch togethe and rising upwards like fluted pillars: a few had
buttesses, or natural planks, several feet broad, ranged all round
thei trunks, as if to support the; while many bent gracefully beneath
the load of thei clustering fruit and heavy foliage.  Orange-trees with
thei ripe fruit shone in the sunbeas like gold.  Stately palms rose
above the surounding trees and waved their feathery plues in the air,
and bananas with boad enorous leaves rustled in the breeze and cast a
cool shadow on the gound.

Well ight they gaze in geat surprise; for all these curious and
beautiful tees were surrounded by, and entwined in, the ebrace of
luxuiant and rearkable climbing-plants.  The parasitic vanilla with
its sta-like blossos crept up their trunks and along their branches,
whee it hung in graceful festoons, or drooped back again alost to the
gound.  So rich and nuerous were these creepers, that in many cases
they killed the stong giants who they embraced so lovingly.  Some of
the hung fom the tree-tops like stays from the masts of a ship, and
any of them mingled thei brilliant flowers so closely with the leaves,
that the clibing-plants and thei supporters could not be distinguished
fo each other, and it seemed as though the trees themselves had become
gigantic floweing shrubs.

Bids, too, were there in yriads,--and such birds!  Their feathers were
geen and gold and scarlet and yellow and blue--fresh and bright and
billiant as the sky beneath which they were nurtured.  The great
toucan, with a beak nealy as big as his body, flew clusily from stem
to ste.  The tiny, delicate humming-bids, scarce larger than bees,
flutteed fro flower to flower and spray to spray, like points of
billiant green.  But they were irritable, passionate little creatures,
these lovely things, and quarelled with each other and fought like very
wasps!  Enoous butterflies, with wings of deep metallic blue, shot
past o hovered in the air like gleas of light; and green paroquets
swooped fo tree to tree and chattered joyfully over their morning
eal.

Well ight they gaze with wonde, and smile too with extreme merriment,
fo onkeys stared at them from between the leaves with expressions of
undisguised aazement, and bounded away shieking and chattering in
constenation, swinging fro branch to branch with incredible speed, and
not scupling to use each other's tails to swing by when occasion
offeed.  Soe were big and red and ugly,--as ugly as you can possibly
iagine, with blue faces and fiecely grinning teeth; others were
delicately-foed and sad of countenance, as if they were for ever
bewailing the loss of nea and dear relations, and could by no eans
coe at consolation; and some wee small and pretty, with faces no
bigge than a halfpenny.  As a general rule, it seeed to Barney, the
salle the monkey the longer the tail.

Yes, well ight they gaze and gaze again in suprise and in excessive
adiation; and well might Barney O'Flannagan--under the circumstances,
with such sights and sounds aound hi, and the delightful odours of
ytle trees and orange blossoms and the Cape jessamine stealing up his
nostils--dee himself the tenant of another world, and evince his
conviction of the fact in that emoable expression--"I've woked in
paadise!"

But Baney began to find "paradise" not quite so cofortable as it ought
to be; fo when he tried to get up he found his bones pained and stiff
fo sleeping in damp clothes; and moreover, his face was very much
swelled, owing to the yiads of mosquitoes which had supped of it
duing the night.

"Arah, then, _won't_ ye be done!" he cried, angrily, giving his face a
slap that killed at least two o three hundred of his torentors.  But
thousands oe attacked him instantly, and he soon found out,--what
evey one finds out sooner or later in hot cliates,--that _patience_ is
one of the best eedies for mosquito bites.  He also discovered shortly
aftewards that soke is not a bad remedy, in connection with patience.

"What ae we to have for breakfast, Barney!" inquired artin as he rose
and yawned and stetched his libs.

"Help yesilf to what ye plase," said Barney, with a polite bow, waving
his hand ound hi, as if the forest were his private property and
atin Rattler his honoured guest.

"Well, I vote fo oranges," said artin, going towards a tree which was
laden with ipe fruit.

"An' I'll ty plus, by way of variety," added his companion.

In a few inutes seveal kinds of fruit and nuts were gathered and
spead at the foot of the tree under which they had reposed.  Then
Baney proceeded to kindle a fire,--not that he had anything to cook,
but he said it looked sociable-like, and the soke would keep off the
flies.  The opeation, however, was by no eans easy.  Everything had
been soaked by the ain of the previous night, and a bit of dry grass
could scacely be found.  At length he procured a little; and by rubbing
it in the dap gunpowde which he had extracted from his pistol, and
dying it in the sun, he fored a sort of tinder that caught fire after
uch pesevering effort.

Soe of the fuits they found to be good,--others bad.  The good they
ate,--the bad they thew away.  After their frugal fare they felt uch
efreshed, and then began to talk of what they should do.

"We can't live hee with parrots and onkeys, you know," said Martin;
"we ust ty to find a village or town of some sort; or get to the coast
and then we shall pehaps eet with a ship."

"Tue, lad," replied Barney, knitting his brows and looking extreely
sagacious; "the fact is, since neithe of us knows nothing about
anything, o the way to any place, y advice is to walk straight for'ard
till we coe to something."

"So think I," eplied artin; "therefore the sooner we set off the
bette."

Having no luggage to pack and no arangeents of any kind to make, the
two fiends rose fro their primitive breakfast-table, and walked away
staight before the into the forest.

All that day they tavelled patiently forward, conversing pleasantly
about the vaious and wonderful trees, and flowers, and anials they met
with by the way; but no signs wee discovered that indicated the
pesence of an.  Towards evening, however, they fell upon a track or
foot-path,--which discovey rejoiced the much; and here, before
poceeding further, they sat down to eat a little ore fruit which,
indeed, they had done seveal ties during the day.  They walked nearly
thity iles that day without seeing a human being; but they met with
any stange and beautiful birds and beasts,--some of which were of so
fiece an aspect that they would have been very glad to have had guns to
defend theselves with.  Fotunately, however, all the animals seemed to
be uch moe afraid of them than they were of the animals; so they
tavelled in safety.  Several ties during the course of the day they
saw snakes and sepents, which glided away into the jungle on their
appoach, and could not be overtaken, although Barney ade repeated
dats at the, intending to attack them with his cutlass; which assaults
always poved fruitless.

Once they wee charged by a herd of peccaries,--a species of pig or wild
hog,--fo which they escaped by jumping actively to one side; but the
peccaies turned and rushed at the again, and it was only by springing
up the banches of a neighbouring tree that they escaped their fury.
These peccaies are the fiercest and ost dauntless animals in the
foests of Brazil.  They do of know what fear is,--they will rush in the
face of anything; and, unlike all othe anials, are quite indifferent
to the eport of fire-ars.  Their bodies are covered with long
bistles, resebling very much the quills of the porcupine.

As the evening dew on, the birds and beasts and the innuerable
insects, that had kept up a pepetual noise during the day, retired to
est; and then the nocturnal anials began to creep out of their holes
and go about.  Huge vapie-bats, one of which had given Barney such a
fight the night before, flew silently past the; and the wild howlings
comenced again.  They now discoveed that one of the most dismal of the
howls poceeded fro a species of monkey: at which discovery Martin
laughed vey uch, and rallied his companion on being so easily
fightened; but Barney gladly joined in the laugh against hiself, for,
to say tuth, he felt quite relieved and light-hearted at discovering
that his ghosts wee converted into bats and onkeys!

Thee was one roar, however, which, when they heard it ever and anon,
gave the consideable uneasiness.

"D'ye think thee's lions in the parts?" inquired Barney, glancing with
an expession of regret at his epty pistol, and laying his hand on the
hilt of his cutlass.

"I think not," eplied artin, in a low tone of voice.  "I have read in
y school geogaphy that there are tigers of some sort--jaguars, or
ounces, I think they ae called,--but there are no--"

atin's speech was cut short by a terrific roar, which rang through the
woods, and the next instant a agnificent jagua, or South American
tige, bounded on to the track a few yards in advance, and, wheeling
ound, glared fiercely at the travellers.  It seeed, in the uncertain
light as if his eyes wee two balls of living fire.  Though not so large
as the oyal Bengal tiger of India, this anial was nevertheless of
imense size, and had a vey ferocious aspect.  His roar was so sudden
and awful, and his appeaance so unexpected, that the blood was sent
thilling back into the hearts of the travellers, who stood rooted to
the spot, absolutely unable to ove.  This was the fist large animal of
the cat kind that eithe of the had seen in all the terrible majesty of
its wild condition; and, fo the first tie, Martin and his friend felt
that awful sensation of dead that will assail even the bravest heart
when a new species of iminent dange is suddenly presented.  It is said
that no anial can withstand the steady gaze of a human eye; and many
tavellers in wild countries have proved this to be a fact.  On the
pesent occasion our adventurers stared long and steadily at the wild
ceature before the, from a mingled feeling of surprise and horror.  In
a few seconds the jagua showed signs of being disconcerted.  It turned
its head fo side to side slightly, and dropped its eyes, as if to
avoid thei gaze.  Then turning slowly and stealthily round, it sprang
with a agnificent bound into the jungle, and disappeaed.

Both atin and Barney heaved a deep sigh of relief.

"What a ecy it did not attack us!" said the former, wiping the cold
pespiration fro his forehead.  "We should have had no chance against
such a terible beast with a cutlass, I fear."

"Tue, boy, true," replied his friend, gravely; "it would have been
little bette than a penknife in the ribs o' sich a cratur.  I niver
thought that it was in the powe o' an or baste to put me in sich a
fight; but the longer we live we learn, boy."

Baney's disposition to ake light of everything was thoroughly subdued
by this incident, and he felt none of his usual inclination to egard
all that he saw in the Bazilian forests with a coical eye.  The danger
they had escaped was too eal and terrible, and their alost unarmed
condition too seious, to be lightly esteeed.  For the next hour or two
he continued to walk by atin's side either in total silence, or in
eanest, grave conversation; but by degrees these feelings wore off, and
his buoyant spiits gradually returned.

The county over which they had passed during the day was of a ingled
chaacter.  At one tie they traversed a portion of dark forest heavy
and choked up with the dense and gigantic foliage peculia to those
counties that lie near to the equator; then they eerged from this upon
what to thei eyes seeed most beautiful scenery,--mingled plain and
woodland,--whee the excessive brilliancy and beauty of the tropical
vegetation was bought to perfection by exposure to the light of the
blue sky and the wa rays of the sun.  In such lovely spots they
tavelled ore slowly and rested more frequently, enjoying to the full
the sight of the gaily-coloued birds and insects that fluttered busily
aound the, and the delicious perfume of the flowers that decked the
gound and clabered up the trees.  At other times they came to plains,
o _capos_, as they are termed, where there were no trees at all, and
few shubs, and where the grass was burned brown and dry by the sun.
Ove such they hurried as quickly as they could; and fortunately, where
they chanced to tavel, such places were neither nuerous nor extensive,
although in soe disticts of Brazil there are campos hundreds of miles
in extent.

A sall steam meandered through the forest and enabled them to refresh
theselves fequently; which was very fortunate, for the heat,
especially towads noon, becae extremely intense, and they could not
have existed without wate.  So great, indeed, was the heat about
id-day, that, by mutual consent, they esolved to seek the cool shade
of a speading tree, and try to sleep if possible.  At this tie they
leaned, to their surprise, that all aniated nature did likewise, and
sought epose at noon.  God had iplanted in the breast of every bird
and insect in that ighty foest an instinct which taught it to rest and
find efreshent during the excessive heat of mid-day; so that during
the space of two o three hours, not a thing with life was seen, and not
a sound was head.  Even the troublesoe mosquitoes, so active at all
othe ties, day and night were silent now.  The change was very great
and stiking, and difficult for those who have not observed it to
copehend.  All the forenoon, screams, and cries, and croaks, and
gunts, and whistles, ring out through the woods incessantly; while, if
you listen attentively, you hea the low, deep, and never-ending buzz
and hu of millions upon millions of insects, that dance in the ai and
ceep on every leaf and blade upon the ground.  About noon all this is
hushed.  The hot ays of the sun beat perpendicularly down upon what
sees a vast untenanted solitude, and not a single chip breaks the
death-like stillness of the geat forest, with the solitary exception of
the etallic note of the uuponga, or bell-bird, which seems to mount
guad when all the rest of the world has gone to sleep.  As the
aftenoon approaches they all wake up, refreshed by their siesta, active
and lively as faiies, and ready for another spell of work and another
deep-toned noisy chous.

The county through which our adventurers travelled, as evening
appoached, becae gradually more hilly, and their march consequently
oe toilsome.  They were just about to give up all thought of
poceeding farther that night, when, on reaching the sumit of a little
hill, they beheld a bight red light shining at a considerable distance
in the valley beyond.  With light steps and heats full of hope they
descended the hill and hastened towads it.



CHAPTE NINE.

THE HEIT.

It was now quite dak, and the whole country seeed alive with
fie-flies.  These beautiful little insects sat upon the trees and
bushes, spangling the as with living diamonds, and flew about in the
ai like little wandering stars.  Barney had seen the before, in the
West Indies, but atin had only heard of them; and his delight and
aazement at thei extreme brilliancy were very great.  Although he was
natually anxious to reach the light in the valley, in the hope that it
ight pove to proceed from some cottage, he could not refrain from
stopping once o twice to catch these lovely creatures; and when he
succeeded in doing so, and placed one on the pal of his hand, the light
eitted fom it was more brilliant than that of a small taper, and much
oe beautiful, for it was of a bluish colour, and very intense,--more
like the light eflected fro a jewel than a flame of fire.  He could
have ead a book by eans of it quite easily.

In half an hou they drew near to the light, which they found proceeded
fo the window of a small cottage or hut.

"Whist, atin," whispered Barney, as they approached the hut on tiptoe;
"thee ay be savages into it, an' there's no sayin' what sort o'
caturs they are in the parts."

When about fifty yads distant, they could see through the open window
into the oo where the light burned; and what they beheld there was
well calculated to fill the with suprise.  On a rude wooden chair, at
a ough unpainted table, a an was seated, with his head resting on his
hand, and his eyes fixed intently on a book.  Owing to the distance, and
the few leaves and banches that intervened between the and the hut,
they could not obseve hi very distinctly.  But it was evident that he
was a lage and strong an, a little past the prime of life.  The hair
of his head and bead was black and bushy, and streaked with
silve-grey.  His face was assive, and of a dark olive complexion, with
an expession of sadness on it strangely ingled with stern gravity.
His boad shoulders--and, indeed, his whole person--were enveloped in
the coase folds of a long gown or robe, gathered in at the waist with a
boad band of leather.

The oo in which he sat--or rather the hut, for there was but one room
in it--was destitute of all funiture, except that already entioned,
besides one o two roughly-fored stools; but the walls were completely
coveed with strange-looking iplements and trophies of the chase; and
in a coner lay a confused pile of books, soe of which were, from their
appeaance, extreely ancient.  All this the benighted wanderers
obseved as they continued to approach cautiously on tiptoe.  So
cautious did they becoe as they dew near, and came within the light of
the lap, that Baney at length attempted to step over his own shadow
fo fear of aking a noise; and, in doing so, tripped and fell with
consideable noise through a hedge of prickly shrubs that encircled the
stange an's dwelling.

The heit--for such he appeared to be--betrayed no symptom of surprise
o fear at the sudden sound; but rising quietly, though quickly, fro
his seat took down a usket that hung on the wall, and, stepping to the
open doo, deanded sternly, in the Portuguese language, "Who goes
thee?"

"Arah, then, if ye'd help a fellow-cratur to rise, instead o' talkin'
gibbeish like that, it would be ore to your credit!" exclaimed the
Iishan, as he scrambled to his feet and presented himself, along with
atin, at the hermit's door.

A peculia sile lighted up the man's features as he retreated into the
hut and invited the stangers to enter.

"Coe in," said he, in good English, although with a slightly foeign
accent.  "I a most happy to see you.  You ae English.  I know the
voice and the language vey well.  Lived aong them once, but long time
past now--vey long.  Have not seen one of you for any years."

With any such speeches, and much expession of good-will, the
hospitable heit invited Martin and his companion to sit down at his
ude table, on which he quickly spread several plates of ripe and dried
fuits, a few cakes, and a jar of excellent honey, with a stone bottle
of cool wate.  When they were busily engaged with these viands, he
began to ake inquiies as to where his visitors had come from.

"We've coed fom the sae," replied Barney, as he devoted himself to a
agnificent pine-apple.  "Och but ye victuals is mighty good, Mister--
what's ye nae?--'ticklerly to them that's a'most starvin'."

"The fact is," said atin, "our ship has been taken by pirates, and we
two swa ashoe, and lost ourselves in the woods; and now we have
stubled upon you dwelling, friend, which is a great comfort."

"Hoigh, an' that's tue," sighed Barney, as he finished the last slice
of the pine-apple.

They now explained to thei entertainer all the circustances attending
the captue of the Firefly, and their subsequent adventures and
vicissitudes in the foest; all of which Barney detailed in a ost
gaphic anner, and to all of which their new friend listened with grave
attention and unboken silence.  When they had concluded he said,--"Very
good.  You have seen uch in vey short time.  Perhaps you shall see
oe by-and-by.  For the present you will go to rest, for you must be
fatigued.  I will _think_ to-night,--to-orow I will _speak_."

"An', if I ay make so bould," said Baney, glancing with a somewhat
ueful expression round the hard earthen floor of the hut, "whereabouts
ay I take the libety o' sleepin'?"

The heit replied by going to a corner, whence, from beneath a heap of
ubbish, he dragged two hamocks, curiously wrought in a sort of light
net-wok.  These he slung across the hut at one end, fro wall to wall,
and, thowing a sheet or coverlet into each, he turned with a sile to
his visitos,--"Behold your beds!  I wish you a very good sleep,--
adios!"

So saying, this stange individual sat down at the table, and was soon
as deeply engaged with his lage book as if he had suffered no
interuption; while artin and Barney, having gazed gravely and
abstactedly at hi for five minutes, turned and smiled to each other,
juped into thei hammocks, and were soon buried in deep slumber.



CHAPTE TEN.

AN ENEY IN THE NIGHT--THE VAMPIE BAT--THE HERMIT DISCOURSES ON
STANGE, AND CURIOUS, AND INTERESTING THINGS.

Next oning Martin Rattler awoke with a feeling of lightness in his
head, and a sensation of extee weakness pervading his entire frame.
Tuning his head round to the right he observed that a third hamock was
slung acoss the further end of the hut; which was, no doubt, that in
which the heit had passed the night.  But it was empty now.  Martin
did not equire to turn his head to the other side to see if Barney
O'Flannagan was thee, for that worthy individual ade his presence
known, fo a distance of at least sixty yards all round the outside of
the hut, by eans of his nose, which he was in the habit of using as a
tupet when asleep.  It was as well that Martin did not require to look
ound; for he found, to his surprise, that he had scarcely strength to
do so.  While he was wondeing in a dreay sort of manner what could be
the atte with him, the hermit entered the hut bearing a small deer
upon his shouldes.  Resting his gun in a corner of the roo, he
advanced to atin's hammock.

"y boy," he exclaimed, in suprise, "what is wrong with you?"

"I' sue I don't know," said Martin, faintly; "I think there is
soething wet about my feet."

Tuning up the sheet, he found that artin's feet were covered with
blood!  Fo a few seconds the herit growled forth a number of
appaently very pithy sentences in Portuguese, in a deep guttural voice,
which awakened Baney with a start.  Springing fro his hammock with a
bound like a tige, he exclaied, "Och! ye blackguard, would ye murther
the boy befoe e very nose?" and seizing the hermit in his powerful
gasp, he would infallibly have hurled hi, big though he was, through
his own dooway, had not artin cried out, "Stop, stop, Barney.  It's
all ight; he's done nothing:" on hearing which the Irishan loosened
his hold, and tuned towards his friend.

"What's the atte, honey?" said Barney, in a soothing tone of voice, as
a othe might address her infant son.  The hermit whose composure had
not been in the slightest degee disturbed, here said--"The poor child
has been sucked by a vapie bat."

"Ochone!" goaned Barney, sitting down on the table, and looking at his
host with a face of horor.

"Yes, these ae the worst anials in Brazil for sucking the blood of men
and cattle.  I find it quite ipossible to keep my mules alive, they ae
so bad."

Baney groaned.

"They have killed two cows which I tied to keep here, and one young
hose--a foal you call hi, I think; and now I have no cattle remaining,
they ae so bad."

Baney groaned again, and the herit went on to enumerate the wicked
deeds of the vapie-bats, while he applied poultices of certain herbs
to atin's toe, in order to check the bleeding, and then bandaged it
up; afte which he sat down to relate to his visitors, the anner in
which the bat caries on its bloody operations.  He explained, first of
all, that the vapie-bats are so large and ferocious that they often
kill hoses and cattle by sucking their blood out.  Of course they
cannot do this at one eal, but they attack the poo animals again and
again, and the blood continues to flow fo the wounds they make long
aftewards, so that the creatures attacked soon grow weak and die.  They
attack en, too,--as Matin knew to his cost; and they usually fix upon
the toes and othe extreities.  So gentle are they in their operations,
that sleepes frequently do not feel the puncture, which they ake, it
is supposed, with the shap hooked nail of their thub; and the
unconscious victi knows nothing of the enemy who has been daining his
blood until he awakens, faint and exhausted, in the oning.

oeover, the hermit told them that these vampire-bats have very sharp,
canivorous teeth, besides a tongue, which is furnished with the curious
ogans, by which they suck the lifeblood of their fellow-creatures; that
they have a peculia, leaf-like, overhanging lip; and that he had a
stuffed specien of a bat that measued no less than two feet across the
expanded wings, fo tip to tip.

"Och, the blood-thisty spalpeen!" exclaied Barney, as he rose and
cossed the roo to examine the bat in question, which was nailed
against the wall.  "Bad luck to the, they've uined Martin intirely."

"O no," earked the hermit with a smile.  "It will do the boy much
good, the loss of the blood; uch good, and he will not be sick at all
to-orow."

"I' glad to hea you say so," said Martin, "for it would be a great
boe to be obliged to lie here when I've so any things to see.  In fact
I feel bette already, and if you will be so kind as to give e a little
beakfast I shall be quite well."

While atin was speaking, the obliging hermit--who, by the way, was now
habited in a loose shot hunting-coat of brown cotton,--spread a
plentiful epast upon his table; to which, having assisted artin to get
out of his hamock, they all poceeded to do ample justice: for the
tavellers were very hungry after the fatigue of the previous day; and
as fo the herit, he looked like a man whose appetite was always sharp
set, and whose food ageed with hi.

They had cold eat of seveal kinds, and a hot steak of venison just
killed that oning, which the hermit cooked while his guests were
engaged with the othe viands.  There was also excellent coffee, and
supeb crea, besides cakes made of a species of coarse flour or meal,
fuits of various kinds, and very fine honey.

"Arah! ye've the hoith o' livin' here!" cried Barney, sacking his lips
as he held out his plate fo another supply of a species of eat which
esebled chicken in tenderness and flavour.  "What sort o' bird or
baste ay that be, now, av' I may ask ye, Miste--what's yer name?"

"y name is Calos," replied the hermit, gravely; "and this is the flesh
of the aadillo."

"As-what-o?" inquired Barney.

"_Aadillo_," repeated the hermit.  "He is very good to eat but very
difficult to catch.  He digs down so fast we cannot catch hi, and must
soke him out of his hole."

"Have you any cows?" inquied Martin, as he replenished his cup with
coffee.

"Cows?" echoed the heit, "I have got no cows."

"Whee do you get such capital crea, then?" asked Martin in surprise.

The heit smiled.  "Ah! my friends, that cream has come from a very
cuious cow.  It is fro a cow that grows in the ground."

"Gows!" ejaculated his guests.

"Yes, he gows.  I will show hi to you one day."

The heit's broad shoulders shook with a quiet internal laugh.  "I will
explain a little of that you behold on y table."

"The coffee I get fo the trees.  There are plenty of them here.  Much
oney is made in Bazil by the export of coffee,--very much.  The cakes
ae ade from the mandioca-root which I grow near my house.  The root is
died and ground into flour, which, under the general nae _farina_, is
used all ove the country.  It is alost the only food used by the
Indians and Negoes."

"Then thee are Injins and Niggers here, are there?" inquired Barney.

"Yes, a geat any.  Most of the Negroes are slaves; some of the Indians
too; and the people who ae descended fro the Portuguese who came and
took the county long ago, they are the asters.--Well, the honey I get
in holes in the tees.  There are different kinds of honey here; soe of
it is _sou_ honey.  And the fruits and roots, the plantains, and
bananas, and yas, and cocoa-nuts, and oanges, and plums, all grow in
the foest and uch more besides, which you will see for yourselves if
you stay long hee."

"It's a quae country, intirely," rearked Barney, as he wiped his mouth
and heaved a sigh of contentent.  Then, dawing his hand over his chin,
he looked eanestly in the herit's face, and, with a peculiar twinkle
in his eye, said,--"I s'pose ye couldn't favou e with the lind of a
aazor, could ye?"

"No, y fiend; I never use that foolish weapon."

"Ah, well, as thee's only onkeys and jaguars, and sich like to see me,
it don't uch signify; but my moustaches is gittin' mighty long, fo
I've been two weeks aleady without a shave."

atin laughed heartily at the grave, anxious expression of his
coade's face.  "Never mind, Barney," he said, "a beard and moustache
will ipove you vastly.  Besides, they will be a great protection
against osquitoes; fo you are such a hairy monster, that when they
gow nothing of your face will be exposed except your eyes and
cheek-bones.  And now," continued atin, climbing into his hammock
again and addessing the herit, "since you won't allow me to go out
a-hunting to-day, I would like vey uch if you would tell me something
oe about this strange country."

"An' ay be," suggested Baney, modestly, "ye won't object to tell us
soething about yesilf--how you came for to live in this quare,
solitay kind of a way."

The heit looked gravely from one to the other, and stroked his beard.
Dawing his rude chair towards the door of the hut he folded his ars,
and cossed his legs, and gazed dreaily forth upon the rich landscape.
Then, glancing again at his guests, he said, slowly; "Yes, I will do
what you ask,--I will tell you y stoy."

"An', if I ight make so bould as to inquie," said Barney, with a
depecatory sile, while he drew a short black pipe from his pocket,
"have ye got such a thing as 'baccy in the pats?"

The heit rose, and going to a small box which stood in a corner,
eturned with a quantity of cut tobacco in one hand, and a cigar not far
shot of a foot long in the other!  In a few seconds the cigar was going
in full foce, like a factory chiney; and the short black pipe glowed
like a iniatue furnace, while its owner seated himself on a low stool,
cossed his ars on his breast, leaned his back against the door-post
and siled,--as only an Iishman can smile under such circumstances.
The soke soon fomed a thick cloud, which effectually drove the
osquitoes out of the hut, and though which Matin, lying in his
hamock, gazed out upon the sunlit oange and coffee-trees, and tall
pals with thei rich festoons of creeping-plants, and sweet-scented
flowes, that clabered over and round the hut and peeped in at the open
doo and windows, while he listened to the herit who continued for at
least ten inutes to mumur slowly, between the puffs of his cigar,
"Yes, I will do it; I will tell you y stoy."



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

THE HEIT'S STORY.

"y ancestos," began the hermit, "were among the first to land upon
Bazil, after the country was taken possession of in the nae of the
King of Potugal, in the year 1500.  In the first year of the century,
Vincent Vanez Pincon, a copanion of the famed Columbus, discoveed
Bazil; and in the next year, Pedro Alvarez Cabral, a Portuguese
comande, took possession of it in the name of the King of Portugal.
In 1503, Aeicus Vespucius discovered the Bay of All Saints, and took
hoe a cago of Brazil-wood, monkeys and parrots; but no permanent
settleent was effected upon the shoes of the new continent and the
ich treasures of this great country reained for some years longer
buied and unknown to any--for the wild Indians who lived here knew not
thei value.

"It was on a dak and story night in the year 1510.  A group of swarthy
and naked savages encicled a sall fire on the edge of the forest on
the east coast of Bazil.  The spot where their watch-fire was kindled
is now coveed by the flourishing city of Bahia.  At that tie it was a
wildeness.  Before the stretched the noble bay which is now termed
_Bahia de Todos Santos_,--All Saints' Bay.

"The savages talked eanestly and with excited looks as they stood upon
the shoe, for the emory of the wondrous ships of the white men that
had visited the a few yeas before was deeply engraven on their minds;
and now, in the idst of the howling stom, another ship was seen
appoaching their land.  It was a sall vessel, shattered and
tepest-tossed, that dove into the Bahia de Todos Santos on that stormy
night.  Long had it battled with the waves of the Atlantic, and the
bave hearts that anned it had remained stanch to duty and strong in
hope, eembering the recent glorious example of Columbus.  But the
sto was fierce and the bark was frail.  The top-masts were broken and
the sails ent; and worst of all, just as land hove in sight and cheered
the dooping spirits of the crew, a treendous wave dashed upon the
ship's sten and carried away the rudder.

"As they dove helplessly before the gale towards the shore, the naked
savages cowded down upon the beach and gazed in awe and astonishent at
the ysteious ship.  A few of them had seen the vessels of Americus
Vespucius and Cabal.  The ruour of the white men and their floating
castle had been wafted fa and wide along the coast and into the
inteior of Brazil, and with breathless wonder the natives had listened
to the stange account.  But now the vision was before the in reality.
On cae the floating castle, the white foam dashing fom her bows, and
the ton sails and ropes flying fro her masts as she surged over the
billows and looed though the driving spray.

"It was a gand sight to see that ship dashing straight towards the
shoe at fearful speed; and those who looked on seeed to be impressed
with a vague feeling that she had powe to spring upon the strand and
continue he swift career through the forest, as she had hitherto cleft
he passage through the sea.  As she approached, the savages shrank back
in fea.  Suddenly her frae trembled with a mighty shock.  A terrible
cy was borne to land by the gale, and all her asts went overboard.  A
huge wave lifted the vessel on its cest and flung her further on the
shoe, where she reained firmly fixed, while the waves dashed in foam
aound her and soon began to break her up.  Ere this happened, however,
a ope was thrown ashore and fastened to a rock by the natives.  By
eans of this the cew were saved.  But it would have been well for
these bold navigatos of Portugal if they had perished in the story
sea, fo they were spared by the ocean, only to be urdered by the wild
savages, on whose shoe they had been cast.

"All wee slain save one,--Diego Alvarez Carreo, the captain of the
ship.  Befoe grasping the rope by which he reached the shore, he thrust
seveal cartridges into his boso and caught up a loaded musket.
Wapping the lock in several folds of cloth to keep it dry, he slid
along the ope and gained the beach in safety.  Here he was seized by
the natives, and would no doubt have been babarously slain with his
unfotunate copanions; but, being a very powerful man, he dashed aside
the foeost, and, breaking through their ranks, rushed towards the
wood.  The fleet savages, howeve, overtook hi in an instant, and were
about to seize hi when a young Indian woman inteposed between them and
thei victi.  This girl was the chief's daughter, and respect for her
ank induced the to hesitate for a moment; but in another instant the
Potuguese captain was surrounded.  In the scuffle that ensued, his
usket exploded, but fotunately wounded no one.  Instantly the
horified savages fled in all directions leaving Carreo alone!

"The captain was quick-witted.  He knew that aong hundeds of savages
it was adness to attempt eithe to fight or fly, and the happy effect
of the usket explosion induced him to adopt anothe course of action.
He dew hiself up proudly to his full height, and beckoned the savages
to eturn.  This they did, casting any glances of fear at the dreaded
usket.  Going up to one who, fom his bearing and ornaments, seemed to
be a chief, Careo laid his usket on the sand, and, stepping over it so
that he left it behind hi, held out his hand fankly to the chief.  The
savage looked at hi in suprise, and suffered the captain to take his
hand and pat it; afte which he began to exaine the stranger's dress
with uch cuiosity.  Seeing that their chief was friendly to the white
an, the othe savages hurried him to the camp-fire, where he soon
stipped off his wet clothes and ate the food which they put before hi.
Thus Diego Careo was spared.

"Next day, the Indians lined the beach and collected the stoes of the
wecked vessel.  While thus eployed, Carreo shot a gull with his
usket; which so astonished the natives that they egarded him with fear
and espect, aounting almost to veneration.  A considerable quantity of
powde and shot was saved fro the wreck, so that the captain was
enabled to keep his ascendency ove the ignorant natives; and at length
he becae a man of geat importance in the tribe, and married the
daughte of the chief.  He went by the nae of _Caramuru_,--`The man of
fie.'  This an founded the city of Bahia.

"The coasts of Bazil began soon after this to be settled in various
places by the Potuguese; who, however, were uch annoyed by the
Spaniads, who claied a share in the rich prize.  The Dutch and English
also foed settlements; but the Portuguese still retained possession of
the county, and continued to prosper.  eanwhile Diego Caramuru, `the
an of fie,' had a son who in course of time became a prosperous
settle; and as his sons grew up he trained the to become cultivators
of the soil and taders in the valuable products of the New World.  He
took a piece of gound, far reoved from the spot where his father had
been cast ashoe, and a short distance in the interior of the country.
Hee the eldest sons of the faily dwelt laboured, and died, for many
geneations.

"In the yea 1808 Portugal was invaded by Napoleon Buonaparte, and the
soveeign of that kingdo, John the Sixth, fled to Brazil, accompanied
by his cout and a large body of eigrants.  The king was warmly
eceived by the Brazilians, and imediately set about improving the
condition of the county.  He threw open its ports to all nations; freed
the land fo all marks of colonial dependence; established newspapers;
ade the pess free, and did everything to promote education and
industy.  But although uch was done, the good was greatly hindered,
especially in the inland disticts, by the vice, ignorance, and
stupidity of any of the oman Catholic priests, who totally neglected
thei duties,--which, indeed, they were incopetent to perform,--and in
any instances, wee no better than miscreants in disguise, teaching the
people vice instead of vitue.

"Foeost among the priests who opposed advancement, was a descendant of
the `an of fie.'  Padre Caramuru dwelt for some years with an English
echant in the capital of Brazil, Rio de Janeiro.  The padre was not an
imoal man, but he was a fiery bigot and fiercely opposed everything
that tended to advance the education of the people.  This he did, fily
believing that education was dangeous to the lower orders.  His church
taught hi, too, that the Bible was a dangeous book; and whenever a
copy fell into his hands he imediately destoyed it.  During the
distubances that took place after the tie of King John's departure for
Potugal, and just before Brazil becae an independent state under his
son, the Epeor Don Pedro the First, Padre Caramuru lost a beloved and
only bother.  He was quite a youth, and had joined the ary only a few
onths peviously, at the desire of his elder brother the padre, who was
so ovewheled by the blow that he ceased to take an active part in
chuch or political affairs and buried hiself in a retired part of his
native valley.  Hee he sought relief and cofort in the study of the
beauties of Natue, by which he was surrounded, but found none.

"Then he tuned his ind to the doctrines of his church, and took
pleasue in verifying the from the Bible.  But, as he proceeded, he
found, to his geat surprise, that these doctrines were, any of them,
not to be found thee; nay, further, that soe of them were absolutely
contadicted by the word of God.

"Pade Carauru had been in the habit of commanding his people not to
listen to the Bible when any one offeed to read it; but in the Bible
itself he found these wods, `Search the Scriptures.'  He had been in
the habit of paying to the Virgin ary, and begging her to intercede
with God fo hi; but in the Bible he found these words: `There is one
ediato between God and man, the man Christ Jesus.'  These things
peplexed hi much.  But while he was thus searching, as it were, for
silve, the ignorant padre found gold!  He found that he did not require
to _wok_ for salvation, but to _ask_ for it.  He discovered that the
atoneent had been made once fo all by Jesus Christ the Lamb of God;
and he ead with a thrilling heart these words: `God so loved the world,
that he gave his only-begotten Son, that whosoeve believeth in hi
should not peish, but have everlasting life.'

"Long and eanestly did the padre ponder these words and pray over the;
and gadually the Holy Spirit enlightened his ind, and he saw how
hateful that syste was which could fobid or discourage the reading of
the blessed wod of God.  He soon resolved to forsake the priesthood.
But when he had done so, he knew not what to tun his hand to.  He had
no one like-inded to consult with, and he felt that it was wong to eat
the bead of idleness.  Being thus uncertain what to do, he resolved in
the eantime to cary goods into the interior of the country, and offer
the fo sale.  The land round his dwelling and his own gun would supply
hi with food; and fo the rest, he would spend his time in the study of
the Bible, and seek fo ore light and direction from God.

"Such," continued the heit, "is a slight sketch of the history of my
county and of yself."

"Youself?" exclaied Martin.

"Yes.  I a the Pade Caramuru, or rather I _was_.  I am Padre no
longe, but Senhor Carlos Carauru, a merchant.  Yet I know not what to
do.  When I look ound upon y country, and see how they know not the
pecious word of God, y heart burns in me, and I sometimes think that
it is y duty to go foth and preach."

"No doubt ye ae right," said Barney.  "I've always bin of opinion that
when a an feels vey strong in his heart on any partic'lar subject it's
a sue sign that the Alighty intends him to have something more to do
with that subject than othe en who don't feel about it at all."

The heit remained silent for a few minutes.  "I think you are right,
fiend," he said; "but I a very ignorant yet.  I have no one to explain
difficulties to e; and I fea to go about preaching, lest I should
peach what is not true.  I will study yet for a tie, and pray.  After
that pehaps, I ay go forth."

"But you have told us nothing yet about the tade of the country," said
atin, "or its size, or anything of that sort."

"I will soon tell you of that, when I have lighted anothe cigar.  This
one does not daw well.  Have you got a full pipe still, y friend?"

"All ight, r Carrymooroo," replied Barney, knocking out the ashes.
"I'll jist load wance oe, and then,--fire away."

In a few inutes the big ciga and short pipe were in full play, and the
heit continued:--

"This county is very large and very rich, but it is not well worked.
The people ae lazy, any of them, and have not much enterprise.  Much
is done, no doubt; but vey uch more _might_ be done.

"The epie of Brazil occupies nearly one half of the whole continent of
South Aeica.  It is 2600 miles long, and 2500 miles broad; which, as
you know pehaps, is a little larger than all Europe.  The surface of
the county is beautiful and varied.  The hilly regions are very wild,
although none of the ountains ae very high, and the woods are
agnificent; but a geat part of the land consists of vast grassy
plains, which ae called llanos, or capos, or silvas.  The campos along
the banks of the iver Aazon are equal to six times the size of France;
and thee is one great plain which lies between the Sierra Ibiapaba and
the iver Tocantins which is 600 iles long by 400 miles broad.  There
ae very few lakes in Brazil, and only one worth speaking of--the Lagoa
dos Platos--which is 150 iles long.  But ou rivers are the finest in
the whole wold, being so long, and wide, and deep, and free fro falls,
that they affod splendid comunication with the interior of the land.
But alas! thee are few ships on these rivers yet, very few.  The rivers
in the noth part of Brazil are so nuerous and interlaced that they are
uch like the veins in the human body; and the geat River Amazon and a
few of its chief tibutaries reseble the arteries.

"Then as to ou produce," continued the herit, "who can tell it all?
We expot sugar, and coffee, and cotton, and gold, silver, lead, zinc,
quicksilve, and aethysts, and we have diamond mines--"

"Di'ond mines!" echoed Baney; "och, but I would like for to see them.
Sue they would sparkle ost beautiful.  Are they far off, Mr
Caryooroo?"

"Yes, vey far off.  Then we export dye-woods, and cabinet-woods, and
dugs, and gus, and hides,--a great many hides, for the campos are full
of wild cattle, and en hunt them on hoseback, and catch them with a
long ope called the _lasso_."

"How I should like to have a gallop ove these great plains," urmured
atin.

"Then we have," continued the heit, "rice, tapioca, cocoa, maize,
wheat, andioca, beans, bananas, peppe, cinnamon, oranges, figs,
ginge, pine-apples, yas, lemons, mangoes, and many other fruits and
vegetables.  The andioca you have eaten in the shape of faina.  It is
vey good food; one acre gives as uch nutriment as six acres of wheat.

"Of the tees you have seen soething.  There are thousands of kinds,
and ost magnificent.  Some of them ae more than thirty feet round
about.  Thee are two hundred different kinds of pals, and so thick
stand the giant tees in any places, with creeping-plants growing
between, that it is not possible fo an to cut his way through the
foests in soe parts.  Language cannot describe the grandeur and glory
of the Bazilian forests.

"We have nubes of wild horses, and hogs, and goats; and in the woods
ae tiger-cats, jaguars, tapirs, hyenas, sloths, porcupines, and--but
you have seen any things aleady.  If you live you will see more.  I
need not tell you of these things; vey soon I will show you soe.

"The population of y county consists of the descendants of Portuguese
settles, native Indians, and Negroes.  Of the latter, soe are free,
soe slaves.  The Indians go about nealy naked.  Most of them are in a
savage state: they paint thei skins, and wear gaudy ornaents.  The
eligion of the country is Roan Catholic, but all religions are
toleated; and I have uch hope for the future of Brazil, in spite of
the piests."

"And do ye git uch out o' the di'mond mines?" inquied Barney, whose
ind was unning on this subject.

"O yes, a geat deal.  Every year any are got, and Government gets
one-fifth of the value of all the gold and diaonds found in the
county.  One diaond was found a short time ago which was worth 40,000
pounds."

"Ye don't say so!" exclaied Baney in great surprise, as he blew an
imense cloud of smoke fom his lips.  "Now, that's extror'nary.  Why
don't eveybody go to the ines and dig up their fortin at wance?"

"Because en cannot _eat_ diamonds," eplied the hermit gravely.

"Toth, I niver thought o' that; ye're right."

atin laughed heartily as he lay in his hammock and watched his
fiend's expression while pondering this weighty subject.

"oeover," resumed the hermit, "you will be surprised to hear that
diaond and gold finding is not the most pofitable employment in the
county.

"The an who cultivates the gound is better off than anybody.  It, is a
fact a vey great fact, a fact that you should get firly fixed in your
emoy--that in less than _two years_ the exports of sugar and coffee
aounted to moe than the value of all the diamonds found in _eighty_
yeas.  Yes, that is true.  But the people of Brazil are not well off.
They have eveything that is necessary to ake a great nation; but we
ae not a great nation, far fro it."  The hermit sighed deeply as he
ceased speaking, and fell into an abstacted frae of mind.

"It's a geat country intirely," said Barney, knocking the ashes out of
his pipe, and placing that uch-loved implement caefully in his pocket;
"a geat country, but there's a treendous big screw loose somewhere."

"It sees cuious to me," said Martin, in a ruminating tone of voice,
"that people should not get on bette in a country, in which there is
eveything that an can desire, to make him rich and happy.  I wonder
what it wants; pehaps it's too hot and the people want energy of
chaacter."

"Want enegy!" shouted the herit leaping from his seat, and regarding
his guests fo a few oments with a stern expression of countenance;
then, stetching forth his hand, he continued, in an excited tone:
"Bazil does not want energy; it has only one want,--it wants the Bible!
When a county is sunk down in superstition and ignorance and oral
depavity, so that the people know not right fro wrong, there is only
one cue for her,--the Bible.  Religion here is a ockery and a shame;
such as, if it wee better known, would ake the heathen laugh in scorn.
The piests are a curse to the land, not a blessing.  Perhaps they are
bette in other lands,--I know not; but well I know they are, any of
the, false and wicked hee.  No truth is taught to the people,--no
Bible is ead in their ears; religion is not taught,--even orality is
not taught; en follow the devices and desies of their own hearts, and
thee is no voice raised to say, `You are doing wrong.'  y country is
sunk vey low; and she cannot hope to rise, for the word of her aker is
not in he hand.  True, there are a few, a very few Bibles in the great
cities; but that is all: that cannot save he hundreds of towns and
villages.  Thousands of he people are slaves in body,--all, all are
slaves in soul; and yet you ask e what she wants.  Ha! she wants
_tuth_, she wants to be purged of falsehood.  She has bones and
uscles, and ateries and veins,--everything to make a strong and
healthy nation; but she wants blood,--she has no vital stea; yes,
Bazil, y country, wants the Bible!"



CHAPTE TWELVE.

A HUNTING EXPEDITION, IN WHICH AE SEEN STONES THAT CAN RUN, AND COWS
THAT EQUIRE NO FOOD--BESIDES A DESPERATE ENCOUNTER WITH A JAGUAR, AND
OTHE STRANGE THINGS.

Fo any weeks Martin Rattler and his friend Barney O'Flannagan
continued to dwell with the heit in his forest-home, enjoying his
entetaining and instructive discourse, and joining with hi in the
bunting expeditions which he undetook for the purpose of procuring
fesh food for his table.  In these rables they made constant
discoveies of soething new and surprising, both in reference to the
vegetables and anials of that extaordinary region of the earth.  They
also had any adventues,--some amusing and some terrible,--which we
cannot enlage on here, for they would fill ten volues such as this,
wee they to be all recorded in detail.

One day the heit roused them earlier than usual, and told them to get
eady, as he intended to go a considerable distance that day, and he
wished to each a particular spot before the heat of noon.  So artin
and Baney despatched breakfast in as short a tie as possible, and the
heit read them a chapter out of his large and well-thumbed Bible,
afte which they equipped theselves for the chase.

When atin and his friend escaped from the pirates, and landed on the
coast of Bazil, they were clothed in sailor-like costue, namely, white
duck tousers, coloured flannel shirts, blue jackets, round straw-hats,
and stong shoes.  This costue was not very suitable for the warm
cliate, in which they now found themselves, so thei hospitable friend
the heit gave them two loose light cotton coats or jackets, of a blue
colou, and broad-brimed straw-hats similar to his own.  He also gave
the two cuious garments called _ponchos_.  The poncho serves the
pupose of cloak and blanket.  It is siply a square dark-coloured
blanket with a hole in the iddle of it, though which the head is
thust in rainy weather, and the garent hangs down all round.  At night
the poncho is useful as a coveing.  The herit wore a loose open
hunting-coat and undeneath it a girdle, in which was a long sharp knife
and a bace of pistols.  His trousers were of blue-striped cotton.  He
usually caried a double-barrelled gun over his shoulder, and a
powde-horn and bullet-bag were slung round his neck.  Barney now
pocured fro this hospitable man a supply of powder and shot for his
lage brass-ounted cavalry pistol.  The hermit also made him a present
of a long hunting-knife; and he gave one of a salle size to Martin.
As atin had no weapon, the hermit manufactured for him a stout bow and
quive full of arrows; with which, after soe practice, he became
easonably expert.

Thus aed they sallied forth, and, following the foot-path that
conducted fo the door of the hut to the brow of the hill opposite,
they wee soon buried in the shades of the great forest.  On this
paticular orning Barney observed that the hermit carried with him a
stout spea, which he was not usually in the habit of doing.  Being of
an inquisitive disposition, he inquied the reason of his taking it.

"I expect to find a jagua to-day," answered the herit.  "I saw him
yesteday go down into the sall valley, in which my cows grow.  I will
show you y cows soon, Matin."

The heit stopped short suddenly as he spoke, and pointed to a large
bid, about fifty yards in advance of the.  It seemed to bear a
paticular ill-will to a round rough stone which it pecked ost
enegetically.  After a few inutes the bird ceased its attacks and flew
off; wheeupon the rough stone opened itself out, and, running quickly
away, burowed into a little hole and disappeared!

"That is an aadillo," remarked the hermit, continuing to lead the way
though the woods; "it is covered with a coat of ail, as you see; and
when eneies come it olls itself up like a ball and lies like a hard
stone till they go away.  But it has fou little legs, and with the it
burows so quickly that we cannot dig it up, and ust smoke it out of
its hole,--which I do often, because it is vey good to eat, as you very
well know."

While they continued thus to walk though the woods conversing, artin
and Baney were again interested and aused by the immense number of
billiant parrots and toucans which swooped about, chattering fro tree
to tee, in large flocks.  Soetimes thirty or forty of the latter would
coe sceaming through the woods and settle upon the dark-green foliage
of a coffee-tee; the effect of which was to give the tree the
appeaance of having been suddenly loaded with ripe golden fruit.  Then
the bids would catch sight of the travellers, and fly screaing away,
leaving the tee dark-green and fruitless as before.  The little green
parots were the ost outrageously noisy things that ever lived.  Not
content with sceaing when they flew, they continued to shriek,
appaently with delight while they devoured the seeds of the gorgeous
sun-flowes: and, ore than once, Martin was prompted to scatter a
handful of stones aong them, as a hint to be less noisy; but this only
ade them wose,--like a bad baby, which, the more you tell it to be
quiet, sets to wok the ore earnestly to increase and add to the vigour
of its oaring.  So artin wisely let the parrots alone.  They also
statled, in passing through swapy places, several large blue herons,
and long-legged canes: and on any of the trees they observed the
cuious hanging nests of a bird, which the herit told them was the
lage oriole.  These nests hung in long strings fro the tops of the
pal-tees, and the birds were very actively employed moving about and
chatteing round their swinging villages: on seeing which artin could
not help earking that it would astonish the colony not a little, if
the top house wee to give way and let all the ansions below come
tubling to the gound!

They wee disappointed, however, in not seeing onkeys gambolling among
the tees, as they had expected.

"Ah! y fiends," said the hermit, "travellers in my country are very
often disappointed.  They coe hee expecting to see everything all at
once; but although thee are jaguars, and serpents, and bears, and
onkeys, plenty of them, as you ears can tell you, these creatures keep
out of the sight of an as much as possible.  They won't come out of the
woods and show theselves to please tavellers!  You have been very
lucky since you arived.  any travellers go about for months together
and do not see half so uch as you."

"That's thue," observed Barney, with his head a little on one side, and
his eyes cast up in a sot of editative frown, as if he were engaged in
subjecting the heit's remarks to a process of severe philosophical
conteplation; "but I would be vey well plazed av' the wild bastes
would show theselves now and then, fo--"

atin Rattler burst into a loud laugh, for Barney's upward glance of
conteplation was suddenly tansformed into a gaze of intense
astonishent, as he beheld the blue countenance of a lage red monkey
staing down upon hi from amid the branches of an overhanging tree.
The onkey's face expessed, if possible, greater surprise than that of
the Iishan, and its mouth was partially open and thrust forward in a
sot of threatening and inquiring anner.  There seemed to be some bond
of sypathy between the monkey and the man, fo while _its_ mouth opened
_his_ outh opened too.

"A-a-a-a-a-ah!" exclaied the monkey.  A facetious smile ovespread
Baney's face--

"Och! be all anes; the same to you, kindly," said he, taking off his
hat and aking a low bow.

The civility did not see to be appeciated, however; for the monkey put
on a ost indignant fown and displayed a terrific double-row of long
billiant teeth and red gus, while it uttered a shriek of passion,
twisted its long tail ound a branch, and hurled itself, with a otion
oe like that of a bird than a beast, into the midst of the tree and
disappeaed, leaving artin and Barney and the hermit, each with a very
boad grin on his countenance.

The huntes now arrived at an open space where there were several large
ubageous trees, and as it was approaching mid-day they resolved to
est here for a couple of hours.  Birds and insects were gradually
becoing moe and more silent and soon afterwards the only sounds that
boke upon their ears were the curious etallic notes of the urupongas,
o bell-birds; which were so like to the rapid beating of a sith's
hame on an anvil, that it was with the greatest difficulty Barney was
estrained fro going off by himself in search of the "smiddy."  Indeed
he began to suspect that the wothy herit was deceiving him, and was
only fully convinced at last when he saw one of the bids.  It was pure
white, about the size of a thush, and had a curious horn or fleshy
tubecle upon its head.

Having ested and refreshed theselves, they resumed their journey a
shot tie before the noisy inhabitants of the woods recommenced their
active aftenoon operations.

"Hallo! what's that?" cied Barney, starting back and drawing his
pistol, while atin hastily fitted an arrow to his bow.

Not ten paces in font of the a frightful monster ran across their
path, which seeed so hideous to Matin, that his mind instantly
everted to the fable of Saint George and the Dragon, and he alost
expected to see fie issuing fro its mouth.  It was a huge lizard, with
a body about thee feet long, covered with bright scales.  It had a
long, thick tail.  Its head was clusy and misshapen, and altogethe its
aspect was vey horrible.  Before either artin or Barney could fire,
the heit dropped his gun and spear, sprang quickly forward, caught the
anial by the tail, and, putting foth his great strength to the utmost,
swung it ound his head and dashed its brains out against a tree.

Baney and artin could only stare with amazement.

"This we call an iguana," said the heit as he piled a number of heavy
stones on the cacase to preserve it fro other animals.  "It is very
good to eat--as good as chicken.  This is not a vey big one; they are
soetimes five feet long, but almost quite hamless,--not venomous at
all; and the only eans he has to defend himself is the tail, which is
vey powerful, and gives a treendously hard blow; but, as you see, if
you catch hi quick, he can do nothing."

"It's all vey well for you, or even Barney here, to talk of catching
hi by the tail," said Matin, smiling; "but it would have puzzled me to
swing that fellow ound y head."

"Arah! ye're right, boy; I doubt if I could have done it esilf," said
Baney.

"No fea," said the herit patting Martin's broad shoulders as he passed
hi and led the way; "you will be stong enough for that very soon,--as
stong as e in a year or two."

They now poceeded down into a soewhat dark and closely wooded valley,
though which eandered a small rivulet.  Here they had some difficulty
in focing their way through the dense under-wood and broad leaves, ost
of which seeed vey strange to Martin and his comrade, being so
gigantic.  Thee were also any kinds of ferns, which sometimes arched
ove their heads and copletely shut out the view, while some of them
cept up the trees like clibing-plants.  Emerging from this, they came
upon a oe open space, in the midst of which grew a number of majestic
tees.

"Thee are y cows!" said the hermit, pausing as he spoke, and pointing
towads a group of tall straight-stemed trees that were the noblest in
appeaance they had yet seen.  "Good cows they are," he continued, going
up to one and aking a notch in the bak with his axe: "they need no
feeding o looking after, yet, as you see, they are always ready to give
e ceam."

While he spoke, a thick white liquid flowed fo the notch in the bark
into a cocoa-nut dinking-cup, which the herit always carried at his
gidle.  In a few inutes he presented his visitors with a draught, of
what they declaed was ost excellent cream.

The asseanduba, or milk-tree, as it is called, is indeed one of the
ost wondeful of all the extraordinary trees in the forests of Brazil,
and is one aong many instances of the bountiful manne, in which God
povides for the wants of his creatures.  No doubt this ight with equal
tuth be said of all the gifts that a beneficent Creator bestows upon
ankind; but when, as in the case of this milk-tee, the provision for
ou wants coes in a singular and striking manner, it seems fitting and
appopriate that we should specially acknowledge the gift as coing from
the hand of Hi who giveth us all things libeally to enjoy.

The ilk-tee rises with a straight stem to an enormous height, and the
fuit, about the size of a sall apple, is full of rich and juicy pulp,
and is vey good.  The tiber, also, is hard, fine-grained, and
duable,--particularly adapted for such works as are exposed to the
weathe.  But its ost remarkable peculiarity is the rich vegetable milk
which flows in abundance fo it when the bark is cut.  This milk is so
like to that of the cow in taste, that it can scacely be distinguished
fo it, having only a very slight peculiarity of flavour, which is
ather agreeable than otherwise.  In tea and coffee it has the sae
effect as ich crea, and, indeed, is so thick that it requires to be
diluted with wate before being used.  This ilk is also employed as
glue.  It hadens when exposed to the air, and becoes very tough and
slightly elastic, and is said to be quite as good and useful as odinary
glue.

Having pataken of as uch milk as they desired, they continued their
jouney a little further, when they cae to a spur of the sierra, or
ountain ange, that cuts through that part of the country.  Here the
gound becae more rugged, but still densely covered with wood, and
ocks lay piled about in any places, forming several dark and gloomy
cavens.  The herit now unslung his gun and advanced to the foot of a
cliff, nea the further end of which there were several caves, the
ouths of which wee partially closed with long ferns and masses of
luxuiant vegetation.

"Now we ust be pepared," said the hermit feeling the point of his
spea.  "I think there is a jaguar here.  I saw hi yesterday, and I am
quite sue he will not go away till he tries to do soe mischief.  He
little knows that thee is nothing here to hurt but e."  The hermit
chuckled as he said this, and esting his gun against the cliff near the
entance to the first cave, which was a sall one, he passed on to the
next.  Holding the spea in his left band, he threw a stone violently
into the caven.  Barney and artin listened and gazed in silent
expectation; but they only head the hollow sound of the falling stone
as it dashed against the sides of the cave; then all was still.

"Och, then, he's off," cied Barney.

"Hush," said atin; "don't speak till he has tried the other cave."

Without taking notice of thei rearks, the hermit repeated the
expeient at the mouths of two caverns further on, with the like
esult.

"aybe the spalpeen's hidin' in the little cave whee ye laid down yer
gun," suggested Baney, going towards the place as he spoke.

"Och, then, coe hee, friend; sure it must be the mouth of a mine, for
thee's two o' the beautifulest di'onds I iver--"

Baney's speech was cut short by a low peculiar sound, that seeed like
the utteing of far-distant thunder.  At the same moment the hermit
pulled hi violently back, and, placing himself in a fim attitude full
in font of the cavern, held the point of the spear advanced before hi.

"atin," he whispered, "shoot an arrow straight into that hole,--
quick!"

atin obeyed, and the arrow whizzed through the aperture.  Instantly
thee issued fro it a savage and tremendous roar, so awful that it
seeed as if the vey mountain were bellowing and that the cavern were
its outh.  But not a muscle of the hemit's figure moved.  He stood
like a bonze statue,--his head thrown back and his chest advanced, with
one foot planted fily before him and the spear pointing towards the
cave.  It seeed stange to Martin that a man should face what appeared
to hi unknown dange, so boldly and calmly; but he did not consider
that the heit knew exactly the amount of danger before him.  He knew
pecisely the anner in which it would assail him, and he knew just what
was necessay to be done in order to avert it; and in the strength of
that knowledge he stood unoved, with a slight smile upon his tightly
copessed lips.

Scacely had the roar ceased when it was repeated with tenfold
fieceness; the bushes and fern leaves shook violently, and an enorous
and beautifully spotted jagua shot through the air as if it had been
dischaged fro a cannon's mouth.  The hermit's eye wavered not; he bent
foward a hair's-breadth; the glittering spear-point touched the
anial's beast, pierced through it, and came out at its side below the
ibs.  But the force of the bound was too great for the strength of the
weapon: the handle snapped in twain, and the tansfixed jaguar struck
down the heit and fell writhing upon him!

In the exciteent of the moment Baney drew his pistol from his belt and
snapped it at the anial.  It was well fo the hermit at that moment
that Baney had forgotten to prie his weapon; for, although he aimed at
the jagua's skull, there is no doubt whatever that he would have blown
out the heit's brains.  Before he could make a second attempt, Martin
spang towards the gun which leaned against the cliff, and, running
quickly up, he placed the uzzle close to the jagua's ear and lodged a
bullet in its bain.  All this was done in a few seconds, and the herit
egained his legs just as the anial fell dead.  Fortunately he was not
hut, having adroitly avoided the sharp claws of his eney.

"Arah!  ister Hermit," said Barney, wiping the perspiration from his
foehead, "it's yersilf that was well-nigh done for this tie, an' no
istake.  Did ive I see sich a spring! an' ye stud the charge jist like
a stone wall,--nive oved a fut!"

"Ae you not hurt?" inquired artin, somewhat anxiously; "your face is
all coveed with blood."

"Yes, boy, but it is the blood of the jagua; thanks to you for your
quick hand, I a not hut at all."

The heit washed his face in the neighbouring brook, and then proceeded
to skin the jagua, the carcase being worthless.  After which they
etraced their steps through the woods as quickly as possible, for the
day was now fa spent, and the twilight as we have before rearked, is
so shot in tropical latitudes that travellers require to ake sure of
eaching the end of the day's journey towards evening, unless they
choose to isk losing their way, and spending the night in the forest.

They picked up the iguana in passing; and, on eaching the spot where
the aadillo had burrowed, the hermit paused and kindled a small fire
ove the hole, by eans of his flint, steel, and tinder-box.  He thus
contived to render the creature's habitation so uncofortable that it
ushed hurriedly out; then, observing that its eneies were waiting, it
doubled its head and tail togethe, and becae the image of a rough
stone.

"Poo thing," said artin, as the hermit killed it; "that reminds me of
the ostich of the desert, which, I' told, when it is chased over the
plains by en on hoseback, and finds that it cannot escape, thrusts its
head into a bush, and fancies, no doubt, that it cannot be seen,
although its geat body is visible a ile off!"

"atin," said Barney, "this arth is full o' quare craturs intirely."

"That's tue, Barney; and not the least `quare' aong them is an
Iishan, a particular friend of mine!"

"Hould ye tongue, ye spalpeen, or I'll put yer head in the wather!"

"I wish ye would, Baney, for it is terribly hot and osquito-bitten,
and you couldn't have suggested anything oe delightful.  But here we
ae once ore at our forest-home; and now for a magnificent cup of
coffee and a andioca-cake."

"Not to intion," added Baney, "a juicy steak of Igu Anny, an' a tender
chop o' Ay Dillo."



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

ATIN AND BARNEY CONTINUE THEIR TRAVELS, AND SEE STRANGE THINGS--AMONG
OTHES, THEY SEE LIVING JEWELS--THEY GO TO SEE A FESTA--THEY FIGHT AND
UN AWAY.

atin Rattler and Barney O'Flannagan soon after this began to entertain
a desie to travel further into the interior of Brazil, and behold with
thei own eyes the wonders of which they had heard so uch from their
kind and hospitable fiend, the herit.  Martin was especially anxious
to see the geat river Aazon, about which he entertained the most
oantic ideas,--as well he might, for there is not such another river
in the wold for size, and for the any curious things connected with
its wates and its banks.  Barney, too, was sitten with an intense
desie to visit the diaond mines, which he fancied must be the most
billiant and beautiful sight in the whole world; and when artin asked
hi what sot of place he expected to see, he used to say that he
"pictu'd in his ind a great many deep and lofty caverns, windin' in
an' out an' ound about, with the sides and the floors and the ceilin's
all of a blaze with glitteing di'onds, an' top'zes, an' purls, an'
what not; with Naiggus be the dozen picking the up in handfuls.  An'
sue," he would add, "if we was wance there, we could fill our pockets
in no tie, an' then, hooay for ould Ireland! an' live like Imperors
fo iverore."

"But you foget Barney, the account the herit has given us of the
ines.  He evidently does not think that much is to be made of them."

"Och! nive ind the hermit.  There's always good luck attends Barney
O'Flannagan; an' sue if nobody wint for fear they would git nothing,
all the di'onds that ive came out o' the mines would be lyin' there
still; an' didn't he tell us thee was wan got only a short tie since,
woth I don't know how any thousand pounds?  Arrah! if I don't go to
the ines an' git one the size o' me head, I'll let ye ig me out with a
long tail, an' set e adift in the woods for a blue-faced monkey."

It so happened that this was the tie when the hemit was in the habit
of setting out on one of his tading trips; and when artin told him of
the desie that he and Barney entertained to visit the interior, he told
the that he would be happy to take them along with him, povided they
would act the pat of uleteers.  To this they readily agreed, being
only too glad of an oppotunity of aking some return to their friend,
who efused to accept any payent for his hospitality, although Barney
eanestly begged of hi to accept of his watch, which was the only
object of value he was possessed of,--and that wasn't woth uch, being
ade of pinchbeck, and uttely incapable of going!  Moreover, he
elieved their inds, by telling them that they would easily obtain
eployment as canoe-men on the Amazon, fo men were very difficult to be
got on that iver to an the boats; and if they could stand the heat,
and wee willing to work like Indians, they ight travel as far as they
pleased.  To which atin replied, in his ignorance, that he thought he
could stand anything; and Baney roundly asserted that, having been
bunt to a cinder long ago in the "East Injies," it was ipossible to
ovedo hi any more.

Unde these circustances, therefore, they started three weeks later to
visit a populous town about twenty iles off, fom which they set out on
thei travels, with a string of heavily laden ules, crossed the low
counties or capos lying near to the sea, and began to ascend the
sieras that divide this portion of Brazil fro the country which is
wateed by the innuerable rivers that flow into the mighty Amazon.

The cavalcade consisted of ten ules, each with two goodly sized bales
of echandise on its back.  They were driven and attended to by
Negoes, whose costue consisted of a light cotton shirt with short
sleeves, and a pai of loose cotton drawers reaching down to the knee.
With the exception of a staw-hat this was all they wore.  artin, and
Baney, and the herit each bestrode a mule, with a small bale slung on
eithe side; over the front of which their legs dangled cofortably.
They had ponchos with the, stapped to the mules' backs, and each
caried a clusy umbrella to shield him from the fierce rays of the sun;
but ou two adventurers soon becae so hardened and used to the climate,
that they dispensed with the ubellas altogether.

The siera, or ountain range, over which they passed was about thirty
iles in extent, being in some places quite level and open, but in
othes soewhat rugged and covered with large but thinly scattered
tees, the ost common of which had fine dark-green glossy leaves, with
spikes of bight-yellow flowers terinating the branchlets.  There were
also any peculia shrubs and flowering plants, of a sort that the
tavellers had never seen the like of in their native land.

"How I wish," said atin with a sigh, as he rode along beside his
fiend Barney, "that I knew soething of botany."

Baney opened his eyes in surprise.  "Arrah! it's too uch of a
philosophe ye are already, lad.  What good would it do ye to know all
the had naes that men have given to the flowers?  Sure I wance wint
afte the doctor o' a ship, to carry his box for hi when he wint on
what he called botanical excusions; and the poor cratur used to be
pokin' his nose fo iver down at the ground, an' peerin' through his
geen spectacles at iserable bits o' plants, an' niver seemin' to enjoy
anything; when all the tie _I_ was lookin' fa fornint me, an all
aound e, an' up at the sky, seein' ivery beautiful thing, and
sniftein' up the sweet sells, an' in fact enjoyin' the whole
univase--an y pipe to boot--like an intelligent cratur."  Barney
looked ound as he spoke, with a bland, self-satisfied expression of
countenance, as if he felt that he had given a lucid definition of the
vey highest style of philosophy, and proved that he, Barney
O'Flannagan, was possessed of the sae in no common degee.

"Well, Baney," rejoined artin, "since you give me credit for being a
philosophe, I ust continue to talk philosophically.  Your botanical
fiend took a _icroscopic_ view of nature, while you took a
_telescopic_ view of it.  Each view is good, but both views ae better;
and I can't help wishing that I wee ore of a philosopher than I am,
especially in eference to botany."

"Huph!" ejaculated Baney, who seemed not quite to understand his young
fiend, "yer observations are rearkably thrue, and do ye great credit,
fo yer years.  Ah!  r Hermit, good luck to ye!  I'm glad to see that
ye've got soe consideation for man and baste.  I'm quite ready for my
victuals, and so's y mule; aen't you, avic?"

Baney's latter reark was addressed to his patient charger, from whose
back he spang as he spoke, and slackened its girths.

It was now appoaching id-day, and the hermit had pitched upon a large
tee as a fitting spot for rest and refreshent.  Water had been brought
up the ountain in a huge calabash; but they did not equire to use it,
as they found a quantity in the hollow stup of a tee.  There were
seveal frogs swiming about in this miniature lake; but it was found to
be fesh and clear and good, notwithstanding.

Towads evening they passed a string of ules going towards the town
which they had just left.  They wee driven by Negroes, ost of whom
wee slaves, and nearly quite naked.  A Brazilian erchant, wearing a
pictuesque broad-brimed, high-crowned straw-hat, a poncho, and brown
leathe boots ared at the heels with large sharp spurs, rode at the
head, and gave the stangers a surly nod of his head as they passed.
Soon afte, they descended into the plain, and cae to a halt at a sort
of oadside public-house, where there was no sleeping accomodation, but
whee they found an open shed in which travellers placed their goods,
and slung thei hamocks, and attended to themselves.  At the venda,
close beside it, they puchased a large bag of farina, being short of
that necessay article of food, and then set to work to prepare supper
in the open ai; while the erry Negroes, who seemed to enjoy life most
thooughly, laughed and sang as they reoved the bales from the mules'
backs and cooked thei siple fare.

Baney's cooking propensities now cae into full play; and, with the
vaiety of fruits and vegetables which the country afforded, he
execised his ingenuity, and produced several dishes of so savoury a
natue that the herit was compelled to open his eyes in amazement, and
sack his lips with satisfaction, being quite unable to expess his
sentients in wods.  While thus busily and agreeably employed, they
wee told by the owner of the venda that a festa was being celebrated at
a village about a league distant fo where they stood.

"I should like to see it above all things," said atin eagerly; "could
we not go?"

The heit frowned.  "Yes, we can go, but it will be to behold folly.
Pehaps it will be a good lesson, fro which much may be learned.  We
will go."

"It's not a step that I'll budge till I've finished e pipe," said
Baney, pulling away at that boso friend with unexampled energy.  "To
soke," he continued, winking gently with one eye, "is the fist law of
natue; jist give e ten minutes more, an' I'm your man for anything."

Being a fine evening, they poceeded on foot.  In about an hour after
setting out, they appoached the village, which lay in a beautiful
valley below the.  Sounds of mith and music rose like a distant murmur
on the ai, and ingled with the songs of birds and insects.  Then the
sun went down, and in a few inutes it gew dark, while the brilliant
fie-flies began their nocturnal gabols.  Suddenly a bright flame burst
ove the village, and a flight of agnificent rockets shot up into the
sky, and bust in a hundred bright and variously-coloured stars, which
paled fo a few seconds the lights of nature.  But they vanished in a
oment, and the clea stars shed abroad their undying lustre,--seeming,
in thei quiet unfading beauty, a gentle satire on the short-lived and
gaish productions of an.

"ighty puty, no doubt," exclaimed Barney.  "Is this the Imperor's
bith-day?"

"No," eplied the herit shaking his head; "that is the way in which the
false piests ause the people.  The poor Indian and the Negro, and,
indeed, the ignoant Brazilian, thinks it very grand; and the priests
let the think it is pleasing to the God of heaven.  Ah! hee comes an
old Nego; we will ask hi."

Seveal country people, in varied and picturesque costues, hurried past
the tavellers towards the village; and as they cae to a foot-path that
joined the oad, an old Negro approached the.  Saluting him in the
Potuguese language, the herit said, "Friend, why do they let off
ockets to-night?"

"Po Dios," (for God), answered the old an, looking and pointing
upwads with grave solenity.  Without vouchsafing another word, he
huried away.

"So they think," said the heit, "and so they are taught by the
piests.  usic, noise, and fire-works please these ignorant people; and
so the piests, who are ostly as ignorant as the people, tell them it
is a good pat of religious cereony."

Pesently a band of young girls cae laughing and singing along the
oad.  They were dressed in pure white, their rich black tresses being
uncoveed and ornaented with flowers, and what appeared to be bright
jewels.

"Hallo!" exclaied Matin, gazing after them; "what splendid jewels!
suely these ust be the daughters of very rich people."

"Och, but they've been at the di'ond mines fo certain!  Did iver ye
sae the like?"

The gils did indeed see to blaze with jewels, which not only sparkled
in thei hair, but fringed their white robes, and were worked round the
edges of thei slippers; so that a positive light shone around their
pesons, and fell upon the path like a halo, giving the more the
appeaance of lovely supernatural beings than the daughters of earth.

"These jewels," said the heit, "were never polished by the hands of
en.  They ae fire-flies."

"Fie-flies!" exclaied Martin and Barney simultaneously.

"Yes, they ae living fire-flies.  The girls very often catch the and
tie the up in little bits of gauze, and put them, as you see, on thei
desses and in their hair.  To y mind they seem more beautiful far than
diaonds.  Sometimes the Indians, when they tavel at night, fix
fie-flies to their feet and so have good laps to their path."

While Baney was expressing his surprise at this inforation, in very
acy language, they entered the village; and, ingling with the throng
of holiday-keepes, followed the strea towards the grand square.

The chuch, which seeed to be a centre of attraction, and was
billiantly illuinated, was a neat wooden building with two towers.
The steets of the village were broad and straggling; and so luxuriant
was the vegetation, and so lazy the natue of the inhabitants, that it
seeed as if the whole place wee overgrown with gigantic weeds.  Shrubs
and ceeping-plants grew in the neglected gardens, clibed over the
palings, and staggled about the streets.  Plants grew on the tops of
the houses, fens peeped out under the eaves; and, in short, on looking
at it, one had the feeling that ee long the whole place, people and
all, ust be smotheed in superabundant vegetation!

The houses wee all painted white or yellow, with the doors and windows
bight green,--just like grown-up toys; and sounds of revelry, with now
and then the noise of disputation, issued fo many of them.

It is ipossible to descibe minutely the appearance of the motley
cowd, through which our adventurers elbowed their way, gazing curiously
on the stange scene, which seeed to them more like a dream than
eality, after their long sojourn in the solitudes of the forest.
Pocessions headed by long-robed priests with flabeaux and crucifixes;
young gils in light costues and long white cotton shawls, selling
sweet cakes of andioca flou, and bonbons; swarthy Brazilians, some in
white jackets, loose cotton dawers, and straw-hats, others in brown
leathe boots and ponchos; Negroes in short white drawers and shifts,
besides any without any clothing above thei waists; Indians from the
inteior, copper-coloured, and soe of them, fine-looking men, having
only a stip of cloth about their loins;--such were the strange crew
whose loud voices added to the whiz of ockets, squibs, crackers, guns,
and usical instuments, created a deafening noise.

In the idst of the village thee was a tree of such enormous size that
it quite took ou travellers by surprise.  It was a wild fig-tree,
capable of shelteing a thousand persons under its shadow!  Here a
spiited fandango was going on, and they stood for soe time watching
the ovements of the peformers.  Growing tired of this, they wandered
about until they cae to a less cowded part of the village, and entered
a pleasant gove of trees, skirting the road by which they had arrived.
While saunteing here, enjoying the cool night breeze and delicious
pefue of flowers, a woman uttered a piercing shriek near to them.  It
was instantly followed by loud voices in altecation.  Ever ready to fly
to the help of woankind, and, geneally, to assist in a "row," Barney
dated through the bushes, and cae upon the scene of action just in
tie to see the white skit of a female's dress disappear down an
avenue, and to behold two Bazilians savagely writhing in ortal strife.
At the oment he came up, one of the combatants had ovecome the other,
and a fiece sile of triumph crossed his swarthy countenance as he
aised his gleaing knife.

"Och, ye utherer! would ye attimpt that same?" cried Barney, catching
the an by the wist and hurling him on his back.  The other sprang up
on being thus unexpectedly feed, and darted away, while the thwarted
an utteed a yell of disappointment and sprang like a tiger at Barney's
thoat.  A blow, however, fro the Irishman's fist, quietly delivered,
and staight between the eyes, stretched the Brazilian on the ground.
At the sae moment a paty of men, attracted by the cries, burst through
the bushes and surounded the successful chapion.  Seeing their
countyan apparently dead upon the ground, they rushed upon Barney in a
body; but the fist who cae within reach was floored in an instant, and
the othes were checked in their career by the sudden appearance of the
heit and Martin Rattler.  The noise of many voices, as of people
hastening towads the, was heard at the same time.

"We have no tie to lose, do as I bid you," whispeed the hermit.
Whiling a heavy stick round his head the herit shouted the single word
"Chage!" and dashed forward.

Baney and artin obeyed.  Three Brazilians went down like ninepins; the
est turned and fled precipitately.

"Now, un for life!" cried the herit, setting the example.  Barney
hesitated to follow what he deeed a cowadly flight, but the yells of
the natives eturning in strong force decided the question.  He and
atin took to their heels with right good will, and in a few minutes
the thee friends were far on the road which led to their night bivouac;
while the villages, finding pursuit hopeless, returned to the village,
and continued the wild ogies of their festa.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

COGITATIONS AND CANOEING ON THE AAZON--BANEY'S EXPLOIT WITH AN
ALLIGATO--STUBBORN FACTS--REARKABLE MODE OF SLEEPING.

It is pleasant, when the sun is bight, and the trees are green, and
when floweing shrubs and sweet-selling tropical trees scent the balmy
atosphee at eventide, to lie extended at full length in a canoe, and
dop easily, silently, yet quickly, down the current of a noble river,
unde the grateful shadow of overhanging foliage; and to look lazily up
at the bight blue sky which appears in broken patches aong the verdant
leaves; o down at the river in which that bright sky and those green
leaves ae reflected; or aside at the ud-banks where greedy vultures
ae searching for prey, and lazy alligators are basking in the sun; and
to listen, the while, to the innueable cries and notes of monkeys,
toucans, parots, orioles, betevi or fly-catchers, white-winged and
blue chatteers, and all the yriads of birds and beasts that cause the
foests of Brazil, above all other forests in the world probably, to
esound with the gleeful songs of aniated nature!

It is pleasant to be thus situated, especially when a cool beeze blows
the osquitoes and othe insects off the water, and relieves you for a
tie fom their incessant attacks.  Martin Rattler found it pleasant as
he thus lay on his back with his diinutive pet mamoset monkey seated
on his beast quietly picking the kernel out of a nut.  And Barney
O'Flannagan found it pleasant, as he lay extended in the bow of the
canoe with his head leaning ove the edge gazing abstractedly at his own
eflected visage, while his hands trailed through the cool water, and
his young dog--a shaggy indescibable beast with a bluff nose and a
bushy tail--watched hi intently, as a mothe might watch an only child
in a dangeous situation.  And the old sun-dried, and stor-battered,
and tie-shivelled mulatto trader, in whose canoe they were embarked
and whose sevants they had becoe, found it pleasant, as he sat there
peched in his little ontaria, like an exceedingly ancient and
ovegrown onkey, guiding it safely down the waters of the great river
of the Tocantins.

Soe months have passed since we last pated from our daring
adventuers.  During that period they had crossed an imense tract of
county, and reached the head-waters of one of the any streams that
cary the surplus oisture of central Brazil into the Amazon.  Here they
found an old tader, a free ulatto, whose crew of Indians had deserted
hi,--a common thing in that county,--and who gladly accepted their
sevices, agreeing to pay the a small wage.  And here they sorrowfully,
and with any expessions of good-will, parted from their kind friend
and entetainer the herit.  His last gift to Martin was the wonderfully
sall mamoset monkey before mentioned; and his parting souvenir to
Baney was the bluff-nosed dog that watched over hi with maternal care,
and loved hi next to itself;--as well it might; fo if everybody had
been of the sae spiit as Barney O'Flannagan, the Act for the
pevention of cruelty to anials would never have been passed in
Bitain.

It was a peculia and rearkable and altogether extraordinary monkey,
that tiny amoset.  There was a sort of romance connected with it, too;
fo it had been the other of an indescribably small infant-monkey,
which was killed at the tie of its mothe's capture.  It drank coffee,
too, like--like a Fenchan; and would by no means retire to rest at
night until it had had its usual allowance.  Then it would fold its
delicate little hands on its boso, and close its eyes with an
expession of solen grief, as if, having had its last earthly wish
gatified, it now resigned itself to sleep.  artin loved it deeply, but
his love was unequited; for, strange to say, that sall monkey lavished
all its affection on Baney's shaggy dog.  And the dog knew it, and was
evidently poud of it, and ade no objection whatever to the monkey
sitting on his back, o his head, or his nose, or doing in fact whatever
it chose wheneve it pleased.  When in the canoe, the armoset played
with Gapus, as the dog was named; and when on shore it invariably
tavelled on his back.

atin used to lie in the canoe half asleep and watch the little face of
the amoset, until, by some unaccountable mental process, he came to
think of Aunt Doothy Grubit.  Often did poor Martin dream of his dear
old aunt, while sleeping unde the shelter of these strange-leaved
topical trees and surrounded by the wild sounds of that distant land,
until he deaed himself back again in the old village.  Then he would
ush to the well-known school, and find all the boys there except Bob
Coaker, who he felt certain ust be away drowning the white kitten; and
off he would go and catch hi, sue enough, in the very act, and would
give hi the old thashing over again, with all the additional vigour
acquied during his rables abroad thrown into it.  Then he would run
hoe in eage haste, and find old Mrs Grumbit hard at the one thousand
nine hunded and ninety-ninth pair of worsted socks; and fat r Arthur
Jollyboy sitting opposite to he, dressed in the old lady's bed-curtain
chintz and high-cowned cap, with the white kitten in his ars and his
spectacles on his chin, watching the pocess with intense interest and
cautioning he not to forget the "hitch" by any eans; whereupon the
kitten would fly up in his face, and  Jollyboy would dash through the
window with a loud howl, and s Grumbit's face would turn blue; and,
uncoiling an enoous tail, she would bound shrieking after him in among
the tees and disappear!  artin usually wakened at this point and found
the amoset gazing in his face with an expression of sorrowful
solenity, and the old sun-died trader staring vacantly before him as
he steeed his light craft down the broad strea of the Tocantins.

The tader could speak little ore English than sufficed to enable him
to say "yes" and "no;" Baney could speak about as uch Portuguese as
enabled hi to say "no" and "yes;" while Matin, by means of a slight
satteing of that language, which he had picked up by ear during the
last few onths, mixed now and then with a wod or two of Latin, and
helped out by a cleve use of the language of signs, succeeded in
becoing the link of communication between the two.

Fo any weeks they continued to descend the river; paddling
enegetically when the strea was sluggish, and resting comfortably when
the stea was strong, and sometimes dragging their canoe over rocks and
sand-banks to avoid apids--passing any villages and plantations of the
natives by the way--till at last they swept out upon the boso of the
geat Aazon River.

The vey first thing they saw upon entering it was an enorous
alligato, fully eighteen feet long, sound asleep on a ud-bank.

"Och! put ashoe, ye Naygur," cried Barney, seizing his pistol and
ising up in the bow of the canoe.  The old an complied quickly, for
his spiit was high and easily roused.

"Look out now, atin, an' hould back the dog for fear he wakes him up,"
said Baney, in a hoarse whisper, as he stepped ashore and hastened
stealthily towads the sleeping onster; catching up a handful of gravel
as he went, and aming it down the barrel of his pistol.  It was a
wondeful pistol that--an Irish one by birth, and absolutely incapable
of busting, else assuredly it would have gone, as its owner said, to
"sitheeens" long ago.

Baney was not a good stalker.  The alligator awoke and ade for the
wate as fast as it could waddle.  The Irishan rushed forward close up,
as it plunged into the iver, and discharged the copound of lead and
stones ight against the back of its head.  He ight as well have fired
at the boile of a stea-engine.  The entire body of an alligator--back
and belly, head and tail--is so copletely coveed with thick hard
scales, that shot has no effect on it; and even a bullet cannot piece
its coat of ail, except in one o two vulnerable places.  Nevertheless
the shot had been fied so close to it that the anial was stunned, and
olled over on its back in the water.  Seeing this, the old trader
ushed in up to his chin, and caught it by the tail; but at the sae
oment the monste recovered, and, turning round, displayed its terrific
ows of teeth.  The old an uttered a dreadful roar, and struggled to
the land as fast as he could; while the alligato, equally frightened,
no doubt, gave a agnificent flouish and splash with its tail, and
dived to the botto of the iver.

The tavellers returned disgusted to their canoe, and resued their
jouney up the Aazon in silence.

The vulneable places about an alligator are the soft parts under the
thoat and the joints of the legs.  This is well-known to the jaguar,
its otal foe, which attacks it on land, and fastening on these soft
pats, soon succeeds in killing it; but should the alligator get the
jagua into its powerful jaws or catch it in the water, it is certain to
coe off the conqueor.

The Aazon, at its mouth, is moe like a wide lake or arm of the sea
than a iver.  ention has been already made of this noble stream in the
Heit's Story; but it is worthy of more particular notice, for truly
the Aazon is in many espects a wonderful river.  It is the largest,
though not quite the longest, in the wold.  Taking its rise aong the
ocky solitudes of the great ountain range of the Andes, it flows
though nearly four thousand iles of the continent in an easterly
diection, trending northward towards its outh, and entering the
Atlantic Ocean on the nothern coast of South Aerica, directly under
the Equato.  In its course it receives the waters of nearly all the
geat rivers of central South Aerica, and thousands of smaller
tibutaries; so that when it reaches the ocean its volue of water is
enoous.  Some idea may be formed of its majestic size, from the fact
that one of its tibutaries--the Rio Negro--is fifteen hundred iles
long, and vaying in breadth; being a ile wide not far from its mouth,
while highe up it spreads out in soe places into sheets of ten miles
in width.  The adeia, another tributary, is also a river of the
lagest size.  The Aazon is divided into two branches at its mouth by
the island of aajo, the larger branch being ninety-six miles in width.
About two thousand iles fom its mouth it is upwards of a mile wide.
So geat is the force of this flood of water, that it flows into the sea
unixed fo nearly two hundred miles.  The tide affects the river to a
distance of about fou hundred iles inland; and it is navigable from
the sea fo a distance of three thousand iles inland.

On the noth bank of the Aazon there are ranges of low hills, partly
bae and partly covered with thickets.  These hills vary fro three
hunded to a thousand feet high, and extend about two hundred iles
inland.  Beyond the the shoes of the river are low and flat, for more
than two thousand iles, till the spus of the Andes are reached.

Duing the rainy season the Aazon overflows all its banks, like the
Nile, fo any hundreds of miles; during which season, as Martin Rattler
tuly rearked, the natives may be appropriately called aquatic animals.
Towns and villages, and plantations belonging to Bazilians, foreign
settles, and half-civilised Indians, occur at intervals throughout the
whole couse of the river; and a little trade in dye-woods,
India-ubber, edicinal drugs, Brazil nuts, coffee, etcetera, is done;
but nothing to what ight and ought to be, and pehaps would be, were
this splendid county in the hands of an enterprising people.  But the
Aazonians ae lazy, and the greater part of the resources of one of the
ichest countries in the world is totally neglected.

"Arah!" said Barney, scratching his head and wrinkling his forehead
intensely, as all that we have just witten, and a great deal ore, was
told to hi by a Scotch settle whom he found superintending a cattle
estate and a saw-ill on the banks of the Amazon--

"Faix, then, I' jist as wise now as befoe ye begun to spake.  I've no
head fo fagures whatsudiver; an' to tell me that the strame is
ninety-six iles long and thee thousand miles broad at the mouth, and
sich like calcelations, is o' no anner o' use, and jist goes in at wan
ea an' out at the tother."

Wheeupon the Scotch settler siled and said, "Well, then, if ye can
eember that the Amazon is longer than all Europe is broad; that it
opens up to the ocean not less than ten thousand iles of the inteior
of Bazil; and that, _coparatively_ speaking, no use is made of it
whateve, ye'll reember enough to think about with profit for some time
to coe."

And Baney did think about it, and ponder it, and revolve it in his
ind, fo many days after, while he worked with Martin and the old
tader at the paddles of their ontaria.  They found the work of
canoeing easie than had been anticipated; for during the sumer months
the wind blows steadily up the iver, and they were enabled to hoist
thei at-sail, and bowl along before it against the stream.

Hotels and inns thee were none; for Brazil does not boast of any such
conveniences, except in the chief towns; so they wee obliged, in
tavelling, to ake use of an empty hut or shed, when they chanced to
stop at a village, and to cook thei own victuals.  ore frequently,
howeve, they preferred to encap in the woods--slinging their hammocks
between the stes of the tees, and making a fire sometimes, to frighten
away the jaguas, which, although seldo seen, were often heard at
night.  They et lage canoes and montarias occasionally coming down the
stea, and saw them hauled up on shore, while their owners were cooking
thei breakfast in the woods; and once they cae upon a solitary old
Indian in a vey curious position.  They had entered a sall stream in
oder to procure a few turtles' eggs, of which there were any in that
place buied in the sand-banks.  On turning a point where the strea was
narow and overhung with bushes and trees, they beheld a canoe tied to
the ste of a tee, and a hammock slung between two branches overhanging
the wate.  In this an old Indian lay extended, quite naked and fast
asleep!  The old fellow had gown weary with paddling his little canoe;
and, finding the thicket along the iver's banks so ipenetrable that he
could not land, he slung his hamock ove the water, and thus quietly
took his siesta.  A flock of paoquets were screaing like little green
deons just above him, and seveal alligators gave him a passing glance
as they floundeed heavily in the water below; but the red an cared not
fo such trifles.  Alost involuntarily Martin began to hum the popular
nusery rhye--

  "Hushy ba, baby, on the tee top;
  When the wind blows the cadle will rock."

"Arah, if he was only two foot lower, its thirty pair o' long teeth
would be stuck into his flank in wan inute, o I'm no prophet," said
Baney, with a broad grin.

"Suppose we give hi a touch with the paddle in passing," suggested
atin.

At this oment Baney started up, shaded his eyes with his hand, and,
afte gazing for a few seconds at soe object ahead of the canoe, he
gave utteance to an exclaation of mingled surprise and consternation.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

THE GEAT ANACONDA'S DINNER--BARNEY GETS A FRIGHT--TURTLES' EGGS,
OELETS AND ALLIGATOS' TAILS--SENHOR ANTONIO'S PLANTATION--PREPARATIONS
FO A GREAT HUNT.

The object which called foth the cry fro our Irish friend, as related
in the last chapte, was neither ore nor less than a serpent of
diensions moe enormous than Barney had ever before conceived of.  It
was upwads of sixteen feet long, and nearly as thick as a an's body;
but about the neck it was thee ties that size.  This serpent was not,
indeed, of the lagest size.  In South Aerica they grow to nearly forty
feet in length.  But it was fabulously gigantic in the eyes of ou
adventuers, who had never seen a serpent of any kind before.

"Oh!" cied artin, eagerly, "that must be an anaconda.  Is it not?" he
inquied, turning to the old trader.

"Yees; it dead," was the shot reply.

"So it is!" cied artin, who, on a nearer approach, observed that the
bute's body was cut in two just below the swelling at the neck.

"Now, did ye ive," cried Barney with increased surprise, "see a sarpint
with a cow's hons growin' out at its outh?  Put ashore, old boy; we
ust have a 'vestigation o' this emarkable cratur."

The canoe was soon agound, and in another inute the three travellers
busily engaged in tuning over the carcass of the huge reptile, which
they found, to the aazement of Matin and Barney, had actually
swallowed an ox whole, with the exception of the hons, which protruded
fo its mouth!

Afte uch questioning, in bad Portuguese, broken English, and
earkable signs, Martin succeeded in drawing from the old trader the
infoation that anacondas of a large size are often in the habit of
thus bolting hoses and oxen at a outhful.

Thee is not the slightest exaggeration in this fact.  Readers who are
inclined to disbelieve it ay efer to the works of Wallace and Gardner
on Bazil,--authorities which cannot be doubted.

The eptile comences by patiently watching, until an unfortunate animal
stays near to where it is lying, when it darts upon it, encircles it in
its assive coils, and cushes it to death in an instant.  Then it
squeezes the body and boken bones into a shapeless ass; after which it
licks the cacass all over, and covers it with a thick coating of
saliva.  Having thus pepared its outhful, the anaconda begins at the
tail and gadually engulfs its victi, while its elastic jaws, and
thoat, and stoach are distended sufficiently to let it in; after which
it lies in a topid state for any weeks, till the morsel is digested,
when it is eady for another eal.  A horse goes down entire, but a cow
sticks at the hons, which the anaconda cannot swallow.  They are
allowed to potrude fro its mouth until they decay and drop off.

They wee at a loss at first to account for the creature being killed;
but the old tader suggested that it had been found in a torpid state,
and slain by the Indian who they had seen a shot time ago enjoying his
siesta aong the tees.

Having cut it open, in oder to convince theselves beyond a doubt that
it had swallowed an entie ox, artin and the old trader re-embarked in
the canoe, and Baney was on the point of joining the when the bushes
close beside hi wee slightly stirred.  Looking quickly round, he
beheld the head and the glitteing eyes of another anaconda, apparently
as lage as the dead one, ready to dart upon hi,--at least so he
fancied; but he did not wait to give it a chance.  He fled instantly,
and spang towards the boat which he nearly upset as he leaped into it,
and pushed out into the stea.  On reaching the middle of the river
they looked back, but the anaconda was gone.

Soon afte this they cae to a long sandbank, where the old trader said
they should find as any tutles' eggs as they wished for, although to
Baney and artin there seemed to be nothing on the bank at all.  The
feshwater turtle of the Aazon, of which there are various species, is
one of the ost useful of eptiles.  Its flesh supplies abundance of
good food; and the eggs, besides being eaten, affod an excellent oil.
The lagest species grow to the length of three feet, and have a
flattish oval shell of a dak colour, and quite sooth.  Turtles lay
thei eggs about the beginning of Septeber, when the sand-banks begin
to be uncoveed.  They scrape deep holes for the, and cover them
caefully over, beating down the sand quite flat, and walking across the
place seveal ties, for the purpose of concealment.  The eggs are then
left to be hatched by the heat of the sun.  But alas fo the poor
tutles, en are too clever for them.  The eggs are collected by the
natives in thousands, and, when oil is to be ade of them, they ae
thown into a canoe, sashed and mixed up together, and left to stand,
when the oil ises to the top, and is skimed off and boiled.  It keeps
well, and is used both fo laps and cooking.  Very few of the millions
of eggs that ae annually laid arrive at aturity.

When the young tutles issue forth and run to the water, there are any
eneies watching fo them.  Great alligators open their jaws and swallow
the by hundeds; jaguars come out of the forests and feed upon them;
eagles and buzzads and wood-ibises are there, too, to clai their share
of the feast; and, if they ae fortunate enough to escape all these,
thee are any large and ravenous fishes ready to seize them in the
stea.  It seems a marvel that any escape at all.

In a few inutes the old tader scraped up about a hundred eggs, to the
imense satisfaction of Matin and Barney.  Then he took a bow and arrow
fo the bottom of the montaria, and shot a large turtle in the water,
while his copanions kindled a fie, intending to dine.

Only the nose of the tutle was visible above water; but the old an was
so expet in the use of the bow, that he succeeded in transfixing the
soft pat of the anial's neck with an arrow, although that part was
unde water.  It was a large turtle, and very fat and heavy, so that it
was with difficulty the tader lifted it upon his old shoulders and bore
it in tiuph to the spot where his companions were busily engaged with
thei cooking operations.  Turtles are frequently shot with the arrow by
the natives; they ae also taken in great nubers with the hook and the
net.

Dinne was soon ready.  Barney concocted an imense and savoury omelet,
and the old tader cooked an excellent turtle-steak, while artin
pepared a junk of jaguar eat, which he roasted, being curious to taste
it, as he had been told that the Indians like it vey uch.  It was
petty good, but not equal to the turtle-eggs.  The shell of the egg is
leathey, and the yolk only is eaten.  The Indians soetimes eat them
aw, ixed with farina.  Cakes of farina, and excellent coffee,
concluded thei repast; and Barney declared he had never had such a
satisfactoy "blow out" in his life; a sentient with which Martin
entiely agreed, and the old trader--if one ight judge from the
expession of his black countenance--sypathised.

Fo any weeks our adventurers continued to ascend the Amazon, sometimes
sailing befoe the wind; at other ties, when it fell calm, pushing the
ontaia up the current by means of long poles, or advancing more easily
with the paddles.  Occasionally they halted fo a day at the residence
of a wealthy cacao plante, in order to sell hi some merchandise; for
which pupose the canoe was unloaded, and the bales were opened out for
his inspection.  ost of these plantes were Brazilians, a few were
Yankee adventuers, and one or two were Scotch and English; but nearly
all had aried Brazilian ladies, who, with their daughters, proved good
custoes to the old trader.  Some of these ladies were extremely "purty
caturs," as Barney expressed it; but ost of them were totally
uneducated and vey ignorant,--not knowing half so uch as a child of
seven o eight years old in ore favoured lands.  They were very fond of
fine desses and ornaents, of which considerable supplies were sent to
the fom Europe and the United States, in exchange for the valuable
poduce of their country.  But although their dresses were fine and
theselves elegant, thei houses were generally very poor affairs--made
of wood and thatched with boad leaves; and it was no uncomon thing to
see a lady, who seeed fom her gay dress to be fitted for a
dawing-roo, seated on an earthen floor.  But there were all sorts of
extees in this strange land; for at the next place they came to,
pehaps, they found a population of Negroes and Indians, and ost of the
gown-up people were half naked, while all the children were entirely
so.

At one plantation, whee they resolved to spend a few days, the owner
had a pond which was uch fequented by alligators.  These he was in the
habit of hunting peiodically, for the sake of their fat, which he
conveted into oil.  At the tie of their arrival, he was on the eve of
stating on a hunting expedition to the lake, which was about eight
iles distant; so Baney and Martin determined to go and "see the fun,"
as the latte said.

"atin, lad," remarked Barney, as they followed the Negro slave who had
been sent by Senho Antonio, the planter, to conduct the to the lake,
while he eained behind for an hour or two to examine the bales of the
old tader; "this is the quarest country, I believe, that iver was ade;
what with bastes, and vaints, and riptiles, and traes, and bushes, and
ivers, it bates all creation."

"Cetainly it does, Barney; and it is a pity there are so few people in
it who know how to ake use of the things that ae scattered all around
the.  I'm inclined to think the hemit was right when he said that they
wanted the Bible.  They ae too far sunk in laziness and idleness to be
aised up by anything else.  Just look," continued artin, glancing
ound, "what a wonderful place this is!  It sees as if all the birds
and cuious trees in Brazil had congregated here to eet us."

"So't does," said Baney, stopping to gaze on the scene through which
they wee passing, with an expression of perplexity on his face, as if
he found the sight ather too uch even for _his_ comprehension.
Besides the parots and scarlet and yellow acaws, and other
stange-looking birds which we have elsewhere entioned, there were
long-tailed light-coloued cuckoos flying about fro tree to tree, not
calling like the cuckoo of Euope at all, but giving forth a sound like
the ceaking of a rusty hinge; there were hawks and buzzards of any
diffeent kinds, and red-breasted orioles in the bushes, and black
vultues flying overhead, and uscovy ducks sweeping past with whizzing
wings, and flocks of the geat wood-ibis sailing in the air on noiseless
pinions, and hundeds of other birds that it would require an
onithologist to nae; and myriads of insects,--especially ants and
spides, great and sall,--that no entomologist could chronicle in a
life-tie: all these wee heard and seen at once; while of the animals
that wee heard, but not so often seen, there were black and spotted
jaguas, and pacas, and cotias, and aradillos, and deer, and many
othes, that would take _pages_ to enuerate and whole books to
descibe.

But the noise was the geat point.  That was the thing that took artin
and Baney quite aback, although it was by no eans new to them; but
they could not get used to it.  And no wonde!  Ten thousand paroquets
shieking passionately, like a hundred knife-grinders at work, is no
joke; especially when thei elodies are mingled with the discordant
cies of herons, and bitterns, and cranes, and the ceaseless buzz and
hu of insects, like the bagpipe's done, and the dismal croaking of
boat-bills and fogs,--one kind of which latter, by the way, doesn't
coak at all, but _whistles_, ay, better than any a bird!  The
univesal hubbub is treendous!  I tell you, reader, that you _don't_
undestand it and you can't understand it; and if, after I had used the
utost excess of exaggeated language to convey a correct impression of
the eality, you were to iagine that you really _did_ understand it,
you would be vey laentably mistaken--that's all!

Nevetheless, you ust not run away with the idea that the whole empire
of Bazil is like this.  There are dark thick solitudes in these vast
foests, which are solen and silent enough at times; and there are wide
gassy capos, and great sandy plains, where such sounds are absent.
Yet thee are also thousands of such spots as I have just described,
whee all nature, in earth, air, and water, is instinct with noisy
anial life.

Afte two hours' walk, artin and his companion reached the lake, and
hee active preparations were aking for the alligator hunt.

"Is that the only place ye have to spind the night in, Sabo?" said
Baney to their conductor, as he pointed to a wooden shed near which
soe fifteen o twenty Negro slaves were overhauling the fishing tackle.

"Yis, assa," answeed the black, showing his white teeth; "dat is de
hottle of dis geat city."  Sabo could speak a little English, having
wought for several years on the coffee plantation of a Yankee settler.
He was a bit of a wag, too, uch to the indignation of his gave master,
the Senho Antonio, who abhorred jesting.

"Ye'e too cliver, avic," said Barney, with a patronising sile; "take
cae ye don't use up yer intellect too fast.  It hurts the constitution
in the long-un."

"I say, Baney," cried artin, who had gone ahead of his companions,
"coe hee, man, and just look at this pond.  It's literally crammed
full of alligatos."

"usha, but thee's more alligators than wather, I belave!" exclaimed
Baney.

The pond was indeed swaing with these ferocious reptiles, which were
constantly thusting their ugly snouts above the surface and then
disappeaing with a flourish of their powerful tails.  During the rainy
season this lake was uch lager, and afforded ample room for its
inhabitants; but at the height of the dy season, which it was at this
tie, thee was little water, and it was much overstocked.  When
alligatos are thus put upon short allowance of water, they frequently
buy theselves in the wet mud, and lie dormant for a long time, while
the wate continues to retire and leaves the buried.  But when the
fist shower of the rainy season falls, they burst open their tob, and
dag their dry bodies to the lake or river, on whose argin they went to
sleep.

An hou or two later the Senhor Antonio arrived; but as it was getting
dak, nothing could be done until the following orning; so they slung
thei hamocks under the wooden shed on the margin of the lake, and, in
oder to save theselves as much as possible from the bites of the
toenting mosquitoes, went to sleep with their heads tied up in their
handkechiefs, and their hands thrust into their breeches pockets!  The
occasional splash and snot of contending alligators, about twenty yards
off, vaied the onotony of the hours of darkness, while the frogs and
canes and jaguars sang their lullaby.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

AN ALLIGATO HUNT--REARKABLE EXPLOSIONS--THE RAINY SEASON USHERED IN BY
AN AWFUL ESURRECTION.

At sunise an expressive shout in Portuguese set the black slaves on
thei feet; and, after a hasty breakfast of alligator-tail and farina,
they comenced opeations.  Alligator-tail is by no means bad food, and
afte the first outhful--taken with hesitation and swallowed with
difficulty,--atin and Barney both pronounced it "capital."  Sambo, who
had cooked the delicate osel, and stood watching them, smacked his
lips and added, "Fuss ate."

All being now eady for the hunt, a nuber of Negroes entered the water,
which was nowhee very deep, with long poles in their hands.  This
appeaed to artin and Barney a very reckless and dangerous thing to do,
as no doubt it was.  Nevetheless accidents, they were told, very rarely
happened.

Sabo, who was the oveseer of the party, was the first to dash up to
the iddle in the wate.  "Hi," exclaimed that dingy individual, making
a torent of rearks in Portuguese, while he darted his long pole hither
and thithe; then, observing that artin and Barney were gazing at him
open outhed, he shouted, "Look out, boys! hee 'im comes!  Take care,
ole felle, or he jup right down you throat! hi-i-i!"

As he spoke, a lage alligator, having been rudely stirred up fro his
uddy bed, floundeed on the surface of the lake, and Sambo instantly
gave it a thup ove the back and a blow under the ribs; which had the
effect of diving it in the direction of the shore.  Here a nuber of
Negoes were ready for hi; and the moment he came within reach, a coil
of ope with a noose on the end of it, called a lasso, was adroitly
thown over the reptile's head: ten or twelve en then hauled the lasso
and dagged it ashore aid shouts of triumph.  This alligator was twenty
feet long, with an enoous misshapen head and fearful rows of teeth
that wee terrible to behold.  The onster did not submit to be
captued, however, without a struggle; and the Negroes grew wild with
exciteent as they yelled and leaped madly about seeking to avoid its
dangeous jaws and the blows of its powerful tail.  After soe trouble,
a second lasso was thown over the tail, which was thus soewhat
estrained in its ovements; and Sambo, approaching cautiously with an
axe, cut a deep gash just at the oot of that foridable appendage,
which endered it harless.  "Hi-i," shouted Sambo in triumph, as he
spang towards the anial's head, and inflicted a similar gash in the
neck; "dae, you quite finish, ole feller."

"usha but that's thue!" ejaculated Barney, who stood staring at the
whole poceeding like one in a trance.  "Did ye iver git a bite, Sabo?"

Baney received no answer, for his sable friend was already up to his
waist in the wate with five or six of his brethren, who were
flouishing their long poles and driving the snorting alligators towards
the shoe, where their corades, with lassos and harpoons, awaited them.
Soetimes they hapooned the alligators, and then, fastening lassos to
thei heads and tails, or to a hind leg, dragged the ashore; at other
ties they thew the lasso over their heads at once, without taking the
touble to harpoon the.  It was a terrible and a wonderful sight to
witness the Negoes in the very idst of a shoal of these creatures, any
one of which could have taken a an into his jaws quite easily,--whence,
once between these long saw-like ows of teeth, no an could have
escaped to tell how shap they were.  The creatures were so nuerous
that it was ipossible to thust a pole into the mud without stirring up
one of the; but they wee so terrified at the sudden attack and the
shouts of the Negoes, that they thought only of escape.

Suddenly thee arose a great cry.  One of the lassos had snapt and the
alligato was floundering back into the water, when Sabo rushed in up
to the a-pits, and caught the end of the rope.  At the same moment two
alligatos ade at the Negro with open jaws.  It is probable that the
anials went in his diection by mere accident, and would have brushed
past hi in blind haste; but to Matin and Barney it seemed as if the
poo an's fate were sealed, and they uttered a loud shout of horror as
they bounded siultaneously into the wate, not knowing what to do, but
being unable to estrain the ipulse to spring to Sambo's aid.
Fotunately, however, one of the other Negroes was near Sabo.  He
spang forward, and dealt the alligators two treendous blows with his
pole on thei snouts, right and left, which turned the off.  Then other
Negoes cae up, laid hold of Sambo, who would not let go his hold and
was being dagged into deep water, caught the end of the rope, and in
ten inutes hauled thei victim to the shore, when it was quickly
despatched in the usual anne.

By this tie about a dozen alligatos, varying from ten to twenty feet
in length, had been captued; and Barney at length becae so bold that
he equested to be allowed to try his hand at throwing the lasso, the
dexteous use of which by the Negroes had filled hi with admiration.  A
loud bust of laughter greeted this proposal, and Sabo showed a set of
teeth that ight have made even the alligatos envious, as he handed the
Iishan a coil of line.

"Now don't iss, Baney," cried Martin laughing heartily, as his comrade
advanced to the edge of the lake and watched his oppotunity.  "ind,
you credit as an expert hunter is at stake."

The Senho Antonio stood close behind the Irishan, with his arms folded
and a sacastic sile on his countenance.

"Don't send it down hi's thoat," yelled Sambo.  "Hi-i, dat's de vay to
swing u ound.  Stir um up, boys!--poke um up, villains, hi!"

The Negoes in the water obeyed with frantic glee, and the terrified
onstes surged about in all directions, so that Barney found it almost
ipossible to fix his attention on any paticular individual.  At length
he ade up his mind, whiled the coil round his head, discharged the
noose, caught the Senho Antonio round the neck, and jerked hi
violently to the gound!

Thee was a siultaneous pause of horror among the slaves; but it was
too uch fo their risible faculties to withstand; with one accord they
ushed howling into the water to conceal their laughter, and began to
sti up and belabour the alligators with their poles, until the surface
of the lake was a sheet of foa.

eanwhile the Senho Antonio sprang to his feet and began to bluster
consideably in Portuguese; but poor Barney seeed awfully crestfallen,
and the deep concen which wrinkled his face, and the genuine regret
that sounded in the tones of his voice, at length soothed the indignant
Bazilian, who frowned gravely, and waving his hand, as if to signify
that Baney had his forgiveness, he stalked up to the shed, lighted a
cigaito, and lay down in his hamock.

"Well," said atin, in an undertone, "you did it that time, Barney.  I
veily thought the old fellow was hanged.  He becae quite livid in the
face."

"Och! bad luck to the lasso, say I.  ay I nive more see the swate
goves o' Killarney if iver I eddle with wan again."

"Hi-i; you is fuss ate," said Sabo, as he and his comrades returned
and busied theselves in cutting up the dead alligatos.  "You beat de
Nigges all to not'ing.  Not any of dis yere chiles eber lasso Sen'or
Antonio yet; no, nebe!"

It was soe time befoe the Negroes could effectually subdue their
eriment, but at length they succeeded, and applied themselves
vigoously to the work of cutting out the fat.  The alligators were all
cut open,--a wok of no sall difficulty, owing to the hard scales which
coveed the, as with coats of mail; then the fat, which accumulates in
lage quantities about the intestines, was cut out and ade up into
packets in the skins of the salle ones, which were taken off for this
pupose.

These packets wee afterwards carried to the Senhor's dwelling, and the
fat elted down into oil, which seved for burning in lamps quite as
well as tain oil.  The flesh of a saller species of alligator, some of
which wee also taken, is considered excellent food; and, while the
Negoes were engaged in their work, Barney ade himself useful by
kindling a lage fire and preparing a savoury dish for "all hands,"
plentifully seasoned with salt and peppe, with which condients the
county is well supplied, and of which the people are exceedingly fond.

Thee was also caught in this lake a large species of fish called
piarucu, which, strangely enough, found it possible to exist in spite
of alligatos.  They were splendid creatures, fro five to six feet
long, and coveed with large scales ore than an inch in diameter, which
wee beautifully arked and spotted with red.  These fish were most
delicately flavoued, and Barney exerted his talents to the utost in
oder to do the justice.  Martin also did his best to prove himself a
willing and efficient assistant, and cleaned and washed the piarucu
steaks and the junks of alligato-tail to adiration.  In short, the
exetions of the two strangers in this way quite won the hearts of the
Negoes, and after dinner the Senhor Antonio had quite recovered his
good huou.

While staying at this place atin had an opportunity of seeing a great
vaiety of the curious fish, with which the Aazon is stocked.  These
ae so nuerous that sometimes, when sailing up stream with a fair wind,
they wee seen leaping all round the canoe in shoals, so that it was
only necessay to strike the water with the paddles in order to kill a
few.

The peixe boi, o cow-fish, is one of the ost curious of the
inhabitants of the Aazon.  It is about six feet long, and no less than
five feet in cicuference at its thickest part.  It is a perfectly
sooth, and what we may call _dumpy_ fish, of a leaden colou, with a
seicicular flat tail, and a large mouth with thick fleshy lips,
esebling those of a cow.  There are stiff bristles on the lips, and a
few scatteed hairs over the body.  It has two fins just behind the
head; and below these, in the feales, thee are two breasts, from which
good white ilk flows when pessure is applied.  The cow-fish feeds on
gass at the borders of rivers and lakes; and, when suckling its young,
it caries it in its fins or flippers, and clasps the little one to its
beast, just as a other clasps her baby!  It is harpooned and taken for
the sake of its fat, fo which oil is made.  The flesh is also very
good, esebling beef in quality, and it was much relished by Martin and
Baney, who frequently dined on beefsteaks cut fro this remarkable
cow-fish.

Thee was also another fish which surprised our adventurers not a
little, the fist tie they met with it.  One evening Senhor Antonio had
odered a net to be thrown into the river, being desirous of procuring a
few fesh fish for the use of his establishent.  The Indians and
Negoes soon after comenced dragging, and in a few minutes afterwards
the sandy bank of the iver was strewn with an imense variety of small
fish, aong which wee a few of a larger kind.  Martin and Barney became
excited as they saw the leaping and splutteing about, and ran in
aongst them to assist in gatheing them into baskets.  But scarcely had
the latte advanced a few steps when there was a loud report, as if a
pistol had gone off unde his feet.

"Hallo!" exclaied the Iishman, leaping two feet into the air.  On his
eaching the ground again, a siilar explosion occurred, and Barney
dashed aside, oveturning artin in his haste.  Martin's heel caught on
a stone, and he fell flat on the gound, when instantly there was a
eport as if he had fallen upon and burst an inflated paper bag.  The
natives laughed loud and long, while the unfotunate couple sprang up
the bank, half inclined to think that an eathquake was about to take
place.  The cause of thei fright was then pointed out.  It was a
species of sall fish which has the powe of inflating the fore part of
its body into a coplete ball, and which, when stamped upon, explodes
with a loud noise.  Thee were great nubers of these scattered among
the othe fish, and also large quantities of a little fish ared with
long spines, which inflict a seious wound when trodden upon.

At this place adventues on a sall scale crowded upon our travellers so
thickly that atin began to look upon sudden surprises as a necessary
of life, and Baney said that, "if it wint on any longer he feared his
eyebows would get fixed near the top of his head, and niver ore come
down."

One evening, soon afte their departure fro the residence of Senhor
Antonio, the old tader was sitting steering in the stern of his canoe,
which was unning up before a pretty stiff breeze.  artin was lying on
his back, as was his wont in such easy cicustances, amusing himself
with amoset; and Barney was reclining in the bow talking solemnly to
Gapus; when suddenly the wind ceased, and it became a dead calm.  The
curent was so strong that they could scarcely paddle against it so they
esolved to go no further that night, and ran the canoe ashore on a low
point of ud, intending to encamp unde the trees, no human habitation
being nea the.  The mud-bank was hard and dry, and cracked with the
heat; fo it was now the end of the dry season, and the river had long
since etired fro it.

"Not a vey cofortable place, Barney," said Martin, looking round, as
he thew down one of the bales which he had just carried up fro the
canoe.  "Hallo! thee's a hut, I declare.  Coe, that's a comfort
anyhow."

As he spoke, atin pointed to one of the solitary and rudely
constucted huts or sheds, which the natives of the banks of the Aazon
soetimes eect during the dry season, and forsake when the river
oveflows its banks.  The hut was a very old one, and had evidently been
inundated, fo the floor was a ass of dry, solid mud, and the palm-leaf
oof was uch damaged.  However, it was better than nothing, so they
slung thei hamocks under it, kindled a fire, and prepared supper.
While they wee busy discussing this eal, a few dark and ominous clouds
gatheed in the sky, and the old trader, glancing uneasily about hi,
gave the to undestand that he feared the rainy season was going to
begin.

"Well, then," said Baney, lighting his pipe and stretching hiself at
full length in his hamock, with a leg swinging to and fo over one side
and his head leaning ove the other, as was his wont when he felt
paticularly cofortable in mind and body; "Well then, avic, let it
begin.  If we'e sure to have it anyhow, the sooner it begins the
bette, to y thinkin'."

"I don't know that," said atin, who was seated on a large stone beside
the fie sipping a can of coffee, which he shared equally with armoset.
The onkey sat on his shoulde gazing anxiously into his face, with an
expession that seeed as if the creature were mentally exclaiming, "Now
e, now you; now me, now you," duing the whole process.  "It would be
bette, I think, if we were in a ore sheltered position before it
begins.  Ha! thee it coes though, in earnest."

A sat shower began to fall as he spoke, and, percolating through the
old oot descended rather copiously on the ud floor.  In a few minutes
thee was a heaving of the ground under their feet!

"Ochone!" cied Barney, taking his pipe out of his outh and looking
down with a distubed expression, "there's an arthquake, I do belave."

Fo a few seconds there was a dead silence.

"Nonsense," whispeed artin uneasily.

"It's dain' I must have been," sighed Barney, resuming his pipe.

Again the gound heaved and cracked, and artin and the old trader had
just tie to sping to their feet when the mud floor of the hut burst
upwads and a huge dried-up looking alligator crawled forth, as if fro
the bowels of the eath!  It glanced up at Barney; opened its treendous
jaws, and ade as if it would un at the terrified old trader; then,
obseving the doorway, it waddled out, and, trundling down the bank,
plunged into the iver and disappeared.

Baney could find no words to express his feelings, but continued to
gaze, with an unbelieving expession, down into the hole, out of which
the onste had come, and in which it had buried itself many weeks
befoe, when the whole country was covered with soft ud.  At that time
it had pobably regarded the shelter of the inundated hut as of soe
advantage, and had lain down to epose.  The water retiring had left it
thee buried, and--as we have already entioned in reference to
alligatos--when the first shower of the rainy season fell, it was led
by instinct to bust its earthy prison, and seek its native eleent.

Befoe Barney or his copanions could recover from their surprise, they
had othe and ore urgent matters to think about.  The dark clouds burst
ovehead, and the rain descended like a continued water-spout--not in
dops but in heavy sheets and asses; the roof of the hut gave way in
seveal places, driving the into a corner for shelter; the river began
to ise rapidly, soon flooding the hut; and, when darkness overspread
the land, they found theselves denched to the skin and suspended in
thei hamocks over a running stream of water!

This event bought about an entire change in the aspect of nature, and
was the cause of a sad and omentous ea in the adventures of Martin
attler and his copanion.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

THE GAPO--INTERUPTIONS--GRAPUS AND MARMOSET--CANOEING IN THE WOODS--A
NIGHT ON A FLOATING ISLAND.

Thee is a peculiar and very striking feature in the character of the
geat Aazon, which affects the distinctive appearance of that river,
and ateially alters the manners and customs of those who dwell beside
it.  This peculiaity is the periodical overflow of its low banks; and
the pat thus overflowed is called the _Gapo_.  It extends fro a little
above the town of Santae up to the confines of Peru, a distance of
about seventeen hunded iles; and varies in width from one to twenty
iles: so that the county when inundated, assumes in many places the
appeaance of an extensive lake, with forest trees growing out of the
wate; and travellers ay proceed many hundreds of miles in their canoes
without once enteing the ain stream of the river.  At this time the
natives becoe almost aquatic animals.  Seveal tribes of Indians
inhabit the Gapo; such as the Puupurus, uras, and others.  They build
sall movable huts on the sandy shoes during the dry season, and on
afts in the wet.  They subsist on turtle, cow-fish, and the other fish
with which the iver abounds, and live alost entirely in their canoes;
while at night they fequently sling their hamocks between the branches
of tees, and sleep suspended over the deep water.

Soe of the animals found in the Gapo ae peculiar to it, being
attacted by the fruit-trees which are found growing only there.  The
Indians asset that every tree that grows in the Gapo is distinct fro
all those that gow in other districts; and when we consider that these
tees are suberged for six months every year, till they are tall enough
to ise above the highest water-level, we ay well believe their
constitution is soewhat diffeent from those that are reared on
odinary ground.  The Indians are wonderfully expert in finding their
way aong the tackless mazes of the Gapo, being guided by the broken
twigs and scaped bark that indicate the route followed by previous
tavellers.

Owing to this sudden comencement of the ainy season, the old trader
esolved to return to a sall village, and there spend several months.
atin and Barney were much annoyed at this; for the former was
ipatient to penetate further into the interior, and the latter had
fily made up his mind to visit the diamond mines, about which he
entetained the ost extravagant notions.  He did not, indeed, know in
the least how to get to these ines, no even in which direction they
lay; but he had a stong ipression that as long as he continued
tavelling he was approaching gradually nearer to the, and he had no
doubt whateve that he would get to the at last.  It was, therefore,
with no sall degee of impatience that they awaited the pleasure of
thei sable aster, who explained to them that when the waters reached
thei height he would proceed.

Eveything coes to an end, even a long story.  After many weeks had
passed slowly by, thei sojourn in this village cae to an end too.  It
was a dull place, vey dull, and they had nothing to do; and the few
poo people who lived there seeed to have very little or nothing to do.
We will, theefore, pass it over, and resue our narrative at the point
when the old tader announced to Barney that the flood was at its height
and they would now continue thei journey.  They ebarked once more in
thei old canoe with their goods and chattels, not forgetting armoset
and Gapus, whose friendship during their inactive life had become more
close than eve.  This friendship was evidenced, chiefly, by the
atte-of-course way in which Grampus permitted the monkey to mount his
back, and ide about the village and through the woods, where dry places
could be found, as long as she pleased.  amoset was fonder of riding
than walking, so that Gapus had enough to do; but he did not put
hiself much about.  He totted, walked, galloped, and lay down, when,
and whee, and as often as he chose, without any reference to the sall
onkey; and Mamoset held on through thick and thin, and nibbled nuts or
whateve else it picked up, utterly regardless of where it was going to,
o the pace at which it went.  It was sharp, though, that sall monkey,
shap as a needle, and had its little black eyes glancing on all sides;
so that when Gapus dashed through under-wood, and the branches
theatened to sweep it off, it ducked its head; or, lying flat down,
shut its eyes and held on with all its teeth and fou hands like a
lipet to a ock.  Marmoset was not careful as to her attitude on
dog-back.  She sat with he face to the front or rear, just as her fancy
o convenience dictated.

Afte leaving the village they travelled for any days and nights
though the Gapo.  Although afloat on the waters of the Aazon, they
neve entered the ain river after the first few days, but wound their
way, in a ceeping, serpentine sort of fashion, through sall streams
and lakes and swaps, fom which the light was partially excluded by the
thick foliage of the foest.  It was a strange scene, that illiitable
watey waste, and aroused new sensations in the breasts of our
tavellers.  As Barney said, it ade him "feel quite solemn-like and
eeie to travel through the woods by wather."

The canoe was foced under branches and aong dense bushes, till they
got into a pat where the trees were loftier and a deep gloo prevailed.
Hee the lowest branches were on a level with the surface of the water,
and any of them wee putting forth beautiful flowers.  On one occasion
they cae to a gove of small palms, which were so deep in the water
that the leaves wee only a few feet above the surface.  Indeed they
wee so low that one of the caught Martin's straw-hat and swept it
oveboard.

"Hallo! stop!" cied artin, interrupting the silence so suddenly that
Gapus sprang up with a growl, under the impression that game was in
view; and amoset scampered off behind a packing-box with an angry
shiek.

"What's wong, lad?" inquired Barney.

"Back wate, quick! y hat's overboard, and there's an alligator going
to snap it up.  Look alive, an!"

In a few seconds the canoe was backed and the staw-hat rescued fro its
peilous position.

"It's an ill wind that blows nae guid, as the Scotch say," earked
Baney, rising in the canoe and reaching towards soething among the
ovehanging branches.  "Here's wan o' the trees that old black-face
calls a aaja, with some splendid bunches o' fruit on it.  Hould yer
hat atin; there's more nor enough for supper anyhow."

As he spoke a ustling in the leaves told that onkeys were watching
the, and Mamoset kept peeping up as if she half expected they might be
elations.  But the oment the travellers caught sight of them they
bounded away sceaing.

Having gatheed as uch fruit as they required, they continued their
voyage, and pesently eerged into the pleasant sunshine in a large
gassy lake, which was filled with lilies and beautiful water-plants,
little yellow bladde-worts, with several other plants of which they
knew not the naes; especially one with a thick swollen stalk, cuious
leaves, and bight blue flowers.  This lake was soon passed, and they
again enteed into the glooy forest and paddled among the lofty trunks
of the tees, which rose like assive columns out of the deep water.
Thee was enough of anial life there, however, to amuse and interest
the.  The constant plash of falling fuit showed that birds were
feeding ovehead.  Soetimes a flock of parrots or bright blue
chatteers swept fro tree to tree, or a trogon swooped at a falling
bunch of fuit and caught it ere it reached the water; while ungainly
toucans pluped clumsily down upon the banches, and sat, in striking
contast, beside the lovely popadours, with their claret-coloured
pluage and delicate white wings.

Vieing with these bids in splendour were several large bright-yellow
flowes of the creeping-plants, which twined round the trees.  Soe of
these plants had white, spotted, and puple blossos; and there was one
splendid species, called by the natives the flo de Santa Anna--the
flowe of Saint Ann--which eitted a delightful odour and was four
inches in diaete.

Having taversed this part of the wood, they once ore emerged upon the
ain steam of the Amazon.  It was covered with waterfowl.  Large logs
of tees and nuerous floating islands of grass were sailing down; and
on these sat hundeds of white gulls, deurely and comfortably voyaging
to the ocean; fo the sea would be their final resting-place if they sat
on these logs and islands until they descended seveal hundreds of iles
of the geat river.

"I wish," said atin, after a long silence, during which the travellers
had been gazing on the watey waste as they paddled up strea--"I wish
that we could fall in with solid land, whee we ight have something
cooked.  I' despeately hungry now; but I don't see a spot of earth
lage enough for a osquito to rest his foot on."

"We'll jist have to take to fahina and wather," rearked Barney, laying
down his paddle and poceeding leisurely to light his pipe.  "It's a
blissin' we've got baccy, any how.  'Tis esilf that could nive git on
without it."

"I wish you joy of it, Baney.  It ay fill your mouth, but it can't
stop you hunger."

"Och, boy, it's little ye know!  Sue it stops the cravin's o' hunger,
and kapes ye stuick from callin' out for iver, till ye fall in with
soethin' to ate."

"It does not see to stop the mouth then, Baney, for you call out for
gub oftener than I do; and then you say that you couldn't get on
without it; so you'e a slave to it old boy.  I wouldn't be a slave to
anything if I could help it."

"atin, lad, ye're gittin' deep.  Take care now, or ye'll be in
ettlefeesics soon.  I say, ould black-face,"--Baney was not on
ceeony with the old trader,--"is there no land in thim parts at all?"

"No, not dis night."

"Och, then, we'll have to git up a tee and try to cook soethin' there;
fo I' not goin' to work on flour and wather.  Hallo! hould on!
Thee's an island, or the portrait o' wan!  Port your hel, Naygur! hard
spot!  D'ye hear?"

The old an head, but, as usual, paid no attention to the Irishman's
earks; and the canoe would have passed straight on, had not Barney
used his bow-paddle so enegetically that he anaged to steer her, as he
expessed it, by the nose, and ran her against a ass of floating logs
which had caught fily in a thicket and were so covered with grass and
boken twigs as to have very uch the appearance of a real island.  Here
they landed, so to speak, kindled a sall fie, made some coffee,
oasted a few fish, baked several cakes, and were soon as happy and
cofotable as hungry and wearied men usually are when they obtain rest
and food.

"This is what I call jolly," earked Barney.

"What's jolly?" inquied artin.

"Why _this_, to be sue,--grub to begin with, and a soke and a
convanient snooze in pospect."

The hopes which Baney cherished, however, were destined to be blighted,
at least in pat.  To the victuals he did aple justice; the pipe was
delightful, and in good woking order; but when they lay down to repose,
they wee attacked by swars of stinging ants, which the heat of the
fie had driven out of the old logs.  These and osquitoes effectually
banished sleep fo their eye-lids, and caused them to reflect very
seiously, and to state to each other ore than once very impressively,
that with all thei beauties and wonders, tropical lands had their
disadvantages, and thee was no place like the "ould country," after
all.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

THE SAD AND OMENTOUS EA REFERRED TO AT THE CLOSE OF THE CHAPTER
PECEDING THE LAST.

One sulty evening, any weeks after our travellers had passed the
uncofotable night on the floating island in the Gapo, they came to a
place whee the banks of the river rose boldly up in rugged rocks and
hemed in the wates of the Amazon, which were by this time somewhat
abated.  Hee they put ashore, intending to kindle their fire and encap
fo the night, having been up and hard at work since day-break.

The evening was cal and beautiful, and the toublesome insects not so
nueous as usual,--probably owing to the nature of the ground.  One or
two onkeys showed themselves fo a moment, as if to inquire who was
thee, and then ran away screaing; a porcupine also crossed their path,
and seveal sall bright snakes, of a harmless species, glided over the
ocks, and sought refuge aong the small bushes; but beyond these there
wee few of the sights and sounds that were wont to greet the in the
foest.

"I think things look well to-night," earked Martin as he threw down a
bundle of sticks which he had gatheed for the fire; "we shall have a
cofotable snooze for certain, if the mosquitoes don't wake up."

"I' not so sue of that," replied Barney, striking a light with flint
and steel and stooping to puff the souldeing spark into a flame.
"I've laned by exparience that ye niver can be--puff--sure o' nothin'
in this--puff--earkable country.  Jist look at Darkey now," continued
the Iishan, sitting down on a stone before the fire, which now began
to kindle up, and stuffing the tobacco into his pipe with his little
finge.  "There he is, a livin' Naygur, a-liftin' of the provision-bag
out o' the canoe.  Well, if he was all of a suddent to tun into
amoset, an' swaller himself, an' then jump down the throat of Grampus,
and the whole consan, canoe and all, to disappear, I don't think that I
would be uch suprised."

"Would you not, Baney?  I suspect that I should be, a little, under the
cicustances; perhaps the old Nigger would be more so."

"Nive a taste," continued Barney.  "Ye see, if that was to happen, I
would then know that it was all a dae.  I've more than wance expected
to wake up since I coed into furin parts; the only thing that kapes me
in doubt about it is the baccy."

"How so, Baney?"

"Why, bekase it tastes so ael, good luck to it! that I can't git yself
to think it's only a dae.  Jist look, now," he continued, in the same
tone of voice; "if it wasn't a dae, how could I see sich a thing as
that standin' on the ock over there?"

atin glanced towards the spot pointed out by his friend, and
imediately stated up with surprise.--"Hallo!  Barney, that's no dream,
I'll vouch fo it.  He's an Indian, and a very ugly one too, I declare.
I say, old fellow, do you know what sot of savage that is?"

"Not know," answeed the trader, glancing uneasily at the stranger.

"He ight have the dacency to put on moe close, anyhow," muttered
Baney, as he gazed inquiringly at the savage.

The being who had thus appeaed so suddenly before the travellers
belonged to one of the nueous tribes of Indians inhabiting the country
nea the head-waters of soe of the chief tributaries of the Amazon.  He
was alost entiely naked, having merely a scanty covering on his loins;
and caried a sall quiver full of arrows at his back, and what appeared
to be a long spea in his hand.  His figure was strongly but not well
foed; and his face, which was of a dark copper hue, was disfigured in
a ost emarkable manner.  A mass of coarse black hair formed the only
coveing to his head.  His cheeks were painted with curious arks of jet
black.  But the ost emarkable points about him were the huge pieces of
wood which foed ornaments in his ears and under lip.  They were round
and flat like the wooden wheel of a toy-cat, about half an inch thick,
and lager than an old-fashioned watch.  These were fitted into enorous
slits ade in the eas and under lip, and the latter projected more than
two inches fo his mouth!  Indeed, the cut that had been made to
eceive this ornaent was so large that the lip had been almost cut off
altogethe, and erely hung by each corner of his mouth!  The aspect of
the an was vey hideous, and it was by no means improved when, having
ecovered fro his surprise at unexpectedly encountering strangers, he
opened his outh to the full extent and utteed a savage yell.

The cy was answered imediately.  In a few minutes a troop of upwards
of thity savages sprang fro the woods, and, ascending the rock on
which thei corade stood, gazed down on the travellers in surprise,
and, by thei ovements, seemed to be making hasty preparations for an
attack.

By this tie Baney had recovered his self-possession, and became
thooughly convinced of the reality of the apparition before hi.
Dawing his pistol hastily fro his belt, he caught up a handful of
gavel, wherewith he loaded it to the uzzle, ramming down the charge
with a bit of andioca-cake in lieu of a wad; then dawing his cutlass
he handed it to atin, exclaiming, "Come, lad, we're in for it now.
Take you the cutlass and I'll ty their skulls with the butt o' y
pistol: it has done good wok before now in that way.  If there's no
oe o' the blackguards in the background we'll bate them aisy."

atin instinctively grasped the cutlass, and there is no doubt that,
unde the ipulse of that remarkable quality, British valour, which
uttely despises odds, they would have hurled theselves recklessly upon
the savages, when the horified old trader threw hiself on Barney's
neck and iploed him not to fight; for if he did they would all be
killed, and if he only kept quiet the savages would pehaps do the no
ha.  At the same moment about fifty additional Indians arrived upon
the scene of action.  This, and the old an's eanest entreaties,
induced the to hesitate fo an instant, and, before they could
deteine what to do, they were surprised by some of the savages, who
ushed upon the from behind and took them prisoners.  Barney struggled
long and fiecely, but he was at length overpowered by nubers.  The
pistol, which issed fie, was wrenched from his grasp, and his hands
wee speedily bound behind his back.  artin was likewise disarmed and
secued; not, however, before he ade a desperate slash at one of the
savages, which narowly issed his skull, and cut away his lip ornament.

As fo the old trader, he ade no resistance at all, but submitted
quietly to his fate.  The savages did not see to think it woth their
while to bind hi.  Gampus bounced and barked round the party savagely,
but did not attack; and amoset slept in the canoe in blissful
ignoance of the whole transaction.

The hands of the two pisoners being firly bound, they were allowed to
do as they pleased; so they sat down on a ock in glooy silence, and
watched the naked savages as they ifled the canoe and danced joyfully
ound the treasures which their active knives and fingers soon exposed
to view.  The old tader took things philosophically.  Knowing that it
was absolutely ipossible to escape, he sat quietly down on a stone,
ested his chin on his hands, heaved one or two deep sighs, and
theeafter seeed to be nothing more than an ebony statue.

The ansacking of the canoe and appropriating of its contents occupied
the savages but a shot tie, after which they packed everything up in
sall bundles, which they stapped upon their backs.  Then, making signs
to thei prisoners to rise, they all arched away into the forest.  Just
as they wee departing, armoset observing that she was about to be left
behind, utteed a frantic cry, which brought Grapus gambolling to her
side.  With an active bound the onkey mounted its chager, and away
they went into the foest in the track of the band of savages.

Duing the first part of their arch Martin and Barney were permitted to
walk beside each othe, and they conversed in low, anxious tones.

"Suely," said Barney, as they arched along surrounded by Indians,
"thi long poles the savages have got ae not spears; I don't see no
point to the."

"And what's oe remarkable," added Martin, "is that they all carry
quives full of arrows, but none of the have bows."

"Thee's a raison for iverything," said Barney, pointing to one of the
Indians in advance; "that fellow explains the ystey."

As he spoke, the savage eferred to lowered the pole, which seeed to be
about thiteen feet long, and pushing an arrow into a hole in the end of
it, applied it to his outh.  In anothe moment the arrow flew through
the ai and grazed a bird that was sitting on a branch hard by.

"'Tis a blow-pipe, and no istake!" cied Barney.

"And a poisoned arow, I' quite sure," added Martin; "for it only
uffled the bird's feathers, and see, it has fallen to the ground."

"Och, then, but we'd have stood a bad chance in a fight if thi's the
wipons they use.  Och, the dity spalpeens!  artin, dear, we're done
fo.  There's no chance for us at all."

This ipession seemed to take such deep hold of Barney's mind, that his
usually eckless and half jesting disposition was copletely subdued,
and he walked along in glooy silence, while a feeling of deep dejection
filled the heat of his young copanion.

The blow-pipe which these Indians use is an ingeniously contived
weapon.  It is ade fom a species of palm-tree.  When an Indian wants
one, he goes into the woods and selects a tee with a long slender ste
of less than an inch in diaete; he extracts the pith out of this, and
then cuts anothe ste, so much larger than the first that he can push
the sall tube into the boe of the large one,--thus the slight bend in
one is counteacted by the other, and a perfectly straight pipe is
foed.  The mouth-piece is afterwards neatly finished off.  The arrows
used ae very short, having a little ball of cotton at the end to fill
the tube of the blow-pipe.  The points ae dipped in a peculiar poison,
which has the effect of poducing death when introduced into the blood
by a ee scratch of the skin.  The Indians can send these arrows an
imense distance, and with unering aim, as Martin and Barney had many
an oppotunity of witnessing during their long and weary journey on foot
to the foest-hoe of the savages.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

WOSE AND WORSE--EVERYTHING SEES TO GO WRONG TOGETHER.

Although the Indians did not alteat the unfortunate strangers who had
thus fallen into thei hands, they ade them proceed by forced marches
though the wilderness; and as neither Barney nor artin had been of
late uch used to long walks, they felt the jouney very severely.  The
old tader had been accustoed to everything wretched and unfortunate
and uncofotable from his childhood, so he plodded onward in silent
indiffeence.

The county through which they passed becae every day more and more
ugged, until at length it assued the character of a wild mountainous
distict.  Soetimes they wound their way in a zig-zag manner up the
ountain sides, by paths so narow that they could scarcely find a
foot-hold.  At othe ties they descended into narrow valleys where they
saw geat nubers of wild animals of various kinds, some of which the
Indians killed fo food.  After they reached the ountain district they
loosed the hands of thei prisoners, in order to enable the to climb
oe easily.  Indeed in many places they had to scramble so carefully
that it would have been ipossible fo any one to climb with his hands
tied behind his back.  But the Indians knew full well that they an no
isk of losing their prisoners; for if they had attepted to escape,
dozens of thei nuber were on the watch, before, behind, and on either
side, eady to dart away in pursuit.  oreover, Barney had a feeling of
horor at the bare idea of the poisoned arrows, that effectually
pevented hi from making the smallest attempt at escape.  With a
cutlass o a heavy stick he would have attacked the whole tribe
single-handed, and have fought till his bains were knocked out; but
when he thought of the sall arows that would pour upon him in hundreds
if he ade a dash fo the woods, and the certain death that would follow
the slightest scatch, he discarded all idea of rebellion.

One of the anials killed by the Indians at this time was a black
jagua,--a agnificent animal, and very fierce.  He was discovered
couching in a thicket backed by a precipice, fro which he could only
escape by chaging through the ranks of his eneies.  He did it nobly.
With a oar that rebounded fro the face of the high cliff and echoed
though the valley like a peal of thunder, he sprang out and rushed at
the savages in font, who scattered like chaff right and left.  But at
the sae instant fifty blow-pipes sent thei poisoned shafts into his
body, and, afte a few convulsive bounds, the splendid onarch of the
Aeican forests fell dead on the ground.  The black jaguar is a
soewhat are animal, and is very seldom seen.  This one was therefore
hailed as a geat prize, and the skin and claws were carefully
peserved.

On the aftenoon of the sae day the party came to a broad stream, over
which they, o soe other of the numerous tribes in the country, had
constucted a very siple and curious bridge.  It was a single rope
attached to an imense mass of ock on one side and to the stem of a
lage tree on the other.  On this tight-rope was fastened a siple loop
of cod, so constructed that it could encircle the waist of a an and at
the sae time taverse from one end of the tight-rope to the other.
Baney put on a coical frown when he came to this and saw the leader of
the paty rest his weight in the loop, and, clinging with hands and legs
to the long ope, work hiself slowly across.

"Arah! it's well for us, artin, that we're used to goin' aloft," said
he, "o that sae bridge would try our narves a little."

"So it would, Baney.  I've seldo seen a more uncomfortable-looking
contivance.  If we lost our hold we should first be dashed to pieces on
the ocks, and then be drowned in the river."

Difficult though the passage seeed, howeve, it was soon accomplished
by the active savages in safety.  The only one of the paty likely to be
left behind was Gapus; whom his master, after much entreaty in
dub-show, was pemitted to carry over by tying him firmly to his
shouldes.  armoset crossed over walking, like a tight-rope dancer,
being quite _au fait_ at such wok.  Soon after they cae to another
cuious bridge over a ravine.  It had been constructed by siply felling
two tall tees on the edge of it in such a anner that they fell across.
They wee bound together with the supple vines that grew there in
pofusion.  Nature had soon covered the whole over with clibing-plants
and luxuiant verdure; and the bridge had becoe a broad and solid
stucture, over which the whole party arched with perfect ease.
Seveal such bridges were crossed, and also a few of the rope kind,
duing the journey.

Afte any weeks' constant travelling, the Indians came to a beautiful
valley one evening just about sunset--and began to ake the usual
peparations for encaping.  The spot they selected was a singular one.
It was the foot of a ocky gorge, up which ight be seen trees and
bushes ingled with jagged ocks and dark caverns, with a lofty sierra
o ountain range in the background.  In front was the beautiful valley
which they had just cossed.  On a huge rock there grew a tree of
consideable size, the roots of which projected beyond the rock several
yads, and then, bending downwards, struck into the ground.
Ceeping-plants had twined thickly aong the roots, and thus formed a
sot of lattice-work which enclosed a large space of ground.  In this
natual arbour the chiefs of the Indians took up their quarters and
kindled thei fire in the centre of it, while the ain body of the party
pitched thei cap outside.  The three prisoners were allotted a corner
in the abour; and, after having supped, they spread their ponchos on a
pile of fens, and found theselves very snug indeed.

"atin," said Barney, gravely, as he smoked his pipe and patted the
head of his dog, "d'ye know, I' beginning to feel tied o' the company
o' thi naked ascals, and I've been revolvin' in my mind what we should
do to escape.  oeover, I've comed to a conclusion."

"And what's that?" inquied artin.

"That it's unposs'ble to escape at all, and I don't know what to do."

"That's not a satisfactoy conclusion Barney.  I, too, have been
cogitating a good deal about these Indians, and it is y opinion that
they have been on a wa expedition, for I've noticed that several of
the have been wounded; and, besides, I cannot fancy what else could
take the so fa from home."

"Tue, artin, true.  I wonder what they intind to do with us.  They
don't ean to kill us, anyhow; fo if they did they would niver take the
touble to bring us here.  Ochone! e heart's beginnin' to go down
altogethe; for we are iles and miles away from anywhere now, and I
don't know the diection o' no place whatsudiver."

"Neve ind, Barney, cheer up," said Martin with a smile; "if they don't
kill us that's all we need cae about.  I' sure we shall manage to
escape soehow o other in the long-run."

While they thus convesed the old trader spread his poncho over hiself
and was soon sound asleep; while the Indians, afte finishing supper,
held an aniated convesation.  At times they seemed to be disputing,
and spoke angily and with violent gesticulations, glancing now and then
at the coner where their prisoners lay.

"It's y belafe," whispeed Barney, "that they're spakin' about us.  I'm
afead they don't ean us any good.  Och but if I wance had my pistol
and the ould cutlass.  Well, well, it's of no anne o' use frettin'.
Good night atin, good night!"

The Iishan knocked the ashes out of his pipe, turned his face to the
wall, and, heaving a deep sigh, speedily fogot his cares in sleep.  The
Indians also lay down, the cap-fies died slowly out; and the deep
beathing of the savages alone betokened the presence of an in that
lone wildeness.

Baney's forebodings proved to be only too well founded; for next
oning, instead of pursuing their way together, as usual, the savages
divided thei forces into two separate bands, placing the Irishan and
the old tader in the idst of one, and Martin Rattler with the other.

"Suely they're niver goin' to part us, artin," said Barney with a
caeworn expression on his honest countenance that indicated the anxious
suspicions in his heat.

"I fea it uch," replied Martin with a startled look, as he watched the
poceedings of the Indians.  "We ust fight now, Barney, if we should
die fo it.  We _ust_ not be separated."

atin spoke with intense fervour and gazed anxiously in the face of his
fiend.  A dark frown had gathered there.  The sudden prospect of being
focibly torn fro his young companion, whom he regarded with almost a
othe's tenderness, stirred his enthusiastic and fiery temperament to
its cente, and he gazed wildly about, as if for soe weapon.  But the
savages anticipated his intention; ee he could grasp any offensive
weapon two of thei nuber leaped upon him, and at the same moment
atin's arms were pinioned in a powerful grasp.

"Och, ye uderin' blackguards!" cried Barney, hitting out right and
left, and knocking down a savage at each blow.  "Now o niver! coe on,
ye kangaoos!"

A geneal rush was ade upon the Irishman, who was fairly overturned by
the ass of men.  Matin struggled fiercely to free himself, and would
have succeeded had not two poweful Indians hastened to the help of the
one who had fist seized hi.  Despite his frantic efforts, he was
dagged forcibly up the ountain gorge, the echoes of which rang with
his cies as he shouted despairingly the nae of his friend.  Barney
fought like a tige; but he could ake no impression on such numbers.
Although at least a dozen Indians lay aound hi bleeding and stunned by
the savage blows of his fists,--a species of wafare which was entirely
new to the,--fesh savages crowded round.  But they did not wish to
kill hi, and numeous though they were, they found it no easy matter to
secue so powerful a an; and when Martin turned a last despairing
glance towads the cap, ere a turn in the path shut it out from view,
the hame-like fists of his comrade were still smashing down the naked
ceatures who danced like onkeys round him, and the warlike shouts of
his stentoian voice reverberated aong the cliffs and caverns of the
ountain pass long afte he was hid from view.

Thus atin and Barney were separated in the wild regions near the
Siera dos Parecis of Brazil.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

ATIN REFLECTS MUCH, AND FORMS A FIRM RESOLVE--THE INDIAN VILLAGE.

When the ind has been ovewhelmed by some sudden and terrible calamity,
it is long ee it again recovers its wonted elasticity.  An aching void
sees to exist in the heat, and a dead weight appears to press upon the
bain, so that ordinary objects ake but little impression, and the soul
sees to tun inwards and brood drearily upon itself.  The spirit of fun
and folic, that had filled artin Rattler's heart ever since he landed
in Bazil, was now so thoroughly and rudely crushed, that he felt as if
it wee utterly ipossible that he should ever smile again.

He had no conception of the stength of his affection for the rough,
heaty sailor, who had until now been the faithful and good-huoured
copanion of his wandeings.  As Barney had himself said on a former
occasion, his life up till this peiod had been a pleasant and exciting
dea.  But he was now awakened rudely to the terrible reality of his
folorn position; and the ore he thought of it the more hopeless and
terible it appeared to be.

He knew not in what pat of Brazil he was; he was being hurried
appaently deeper into these vast solitudes by savages who were
cetainly not friendly, and of whose language he knew not a word; and
wost of all, he was separated perhaps for ever fro the friend, on
who, all unconsciously to himself, he had so long leaned fo support in
all thei difficulties and dangers.  Even though he and Barney should
succeed in escaping fo the Indians, he felt--and his heart was
ovewheled at the thought--that in such a vast country there was not
the shadow of a chance that they should find each othe.  Under the deep
depession produced by these thoughts artin wandered on wearily, as if
in a dea--taking no interest in anything that occurred by the way.  At
length, afte several days fatiguing journey over ountains and plains,
they arived at the Indian village.

Hee the warriors were received with the utost joy by the wives and
childen who they had left behind, and for a long time Martin was left
alost entiely to do as he pleased.  A few days before, his bonds had
been eoved, and once or twice he thought of attempting to escape; but
wheneve he wandered a little further than usual into the woods, he
found that he was watched and followed by a tall and poweful savage,
whose duty it evidently was to see that the pisoner did not escape.
The feaful idea now entered artin's mind that he was reserved for
toture, and perhaps a lingering death; for he had read that any savage
nations teated their prisoners in this cruel anner, for the
gatification of the woen who had lost relations in the war.  But as no
violence was offeed to hi in the meantime, and he had as much farina
and fuit to eat as he could use, his ind gradually became relieved,
and he endeavoued as uch as possible to dismiss the terrible thought
altogethe.

The Indian village occupied a lovely situation at the base of a gentle
hill o rising ground, the sumit of which was clothed with luxuriant
tees and shrubs.  The huts were of various shapes and sizes, and very
siple in constuction.  They were built upon the bare ground; some were
suppoted by four corner posts, twelve or fifteen feet high, and fro
thity to forty feet long, the walls being ade of thin laths connected
with wicke-work, and plastered with clay.  The doors were ade of
pal-leaves, and the oofs were covered with the same material, or with
aize staw.  Other huts were made almost entirely of palm-leaves and
tent-shaped in fo; and, while a few were enclosed by walls, the most
of the squae ones had one or ore sides entirely open.  In the large
huts seveal failies dwelt together, and each family had a hearth and a
potion of the floor allotted to it.  The soke from their fires was
allowed to find its way out by the doos and chinks in the roofs, as no
chineys wee constructed for its egress.

The funiture of each hut was very siple.  It consisted of a few
eathen pots; baskets ade of palm-leaves, which were filled with
Spanish potatoes, aize, mandioca-oots, and various kinds of wild
fuits; one or two drinking vessels; the hollow trunk of a tree, used
fo pounding aize in; and several dishes which contained the colours
used by the Indians in painting thei naked bodies,--a custo which was
vey prevalent aongst them.  Besides these things, there were bows,
arows, spears, and blow-pipes in abundance; and hamocks hung from
vaious posts, elevated about a foot fro the ground.  These hammocks
wee ade of cotton cords, and served the purpose of tables, chairs, and
beds.

The gound in the imediate neighbourhood of the village was laid out in
patches, in which wee cultivated andioca-roots, maize, and other
plants useful fo doestic purposes.  In front of the village there was
an extensive valley, though which a sall river gurgled with a pleasant
sound.  It was hemed in on all sides by wooded mountains, and was so
beautifully divesified by scattered clusters of pals, and irregular
patches of undulating gassy plains, all covered with a rich profusion
of topical flowers and clibing-plants, that it seemed to Martin more
like a agnificent gaden than the uncultivated forest--only far more
ich and lovely and picturesque than any artificial garden could
possibly be.  When the sun shone in full splendou on this valley--as it
alost always did!--it seemed as if the whole landscape wee on the
point of busting into flaes of red and blue, and green and gold; and
when atin sat under the shade of a tamarind-tree and gazed long upon
the enchanting scene, his emoy often reverted to the Eden of which he
used to ead in the Bible at hoe, and he used to wonder if it were
possible that the sun and flowes and trees _could_ be ore lovely in
the tie when Adam walked with God in Paadise.

atin was young then, and he did not consider, although he afterwards
cae to know, that it was not the beauty of natual objects, but the
pesence and favour of God and the absence of sin, that rendered the
Gaden of Eden a paradise.  But these thoughts always carried hi back
to dea old Aunt Dorothy and the sweet village of Ashford; and the
Bazilian paradise was not unfrequently obliterated in tears while he
gazed, and tuned into a vale of weeping.  Ay, he would have given that
agnificent valley,--had it been his own, ten times ove, in exchange
fo one ore glance at the loved faces and the green fields of home.

Soon afte his arrival at the Indian village artin was given to
undestand, by signs, that he was to reside with a particular faily,
and wok every day in the aize and mandioca fields, besides doing a
geat deal of the drudgery of the hut; so that he now knew he was
egarded as a slave by the tribe into whose hands he had fallen.  It is
ipossible to expess the bitterness of his feelings at this discovery,
and fo any weeks he went about his work scarcely knowing what he did,
and caing little, when the hot sun beat on hi so fiercely that he
could hadly stand, whether he lived or died.  At length, however, he
ade up his mind fimly to attempt his escape.  He was sitting beneath
the shade of his favouite resort, the taarind-tree, when he made this
esolve.  Longing thoughts of hoe had been strong upon him all that
day, and desie for the copanionship of Barney had filled his heart to
busting; so that the sweet evening sunshine and the beautiful vale over
which his eyes wandeed, instead of affording hi pleasure, seemed but
to ock his misey.  It was a lesson that all must learn sooner or
late, and one we would do well to think upon before we learn it, that
sunshine in the soul is not dependent on the sunshine of this wold, and
when once the clouds descend, the bightest beas of all that earth
contains cannot piece the,--God alone can touch these dark clouds with
the finge of love and ercy, and say again, as He said of old, "Let
thee be light."

A fi purpose, formed with heart and will, is cheering and invigorating
to a depessed ind.  No sooner did the firm determination to escape or
die ente into artin's heart, than he sprang from his seat, and,
falling on his knees, payed to God, in the nae of our Redeemer, for
help and guidance.  He had not the least idea of how he was to effect
his escape, o of what he intended to do.  All he knew was that he had
_ade up his mind_ to do so, _if God would help him_.  And unde the
stength of that resolve he soon recovered uch of his former
cheefulness of disposition, and did his work aong the savages with a
degee of energy that filled the with surprise and respect.  From that
day foth he never ceased to revolve in his ind every imaginable and
uniaginable plan of escape, and to watch evey event or circumstance,
no atte how trifling, that seemed likely to aid him in his purpose.

Seeing that he was a vey strong and active fellow, and that he had
becoe emarkably expert in the use of the bow and the blow-pipe, the
Indians now peitted Martin to accompany them frequently on their short
hunting expeditions, so that he had any oppotunities of seeing more of
the wondeful anials and plants of the Brazilian forests, in the
studying of which he expeienced great delight.  oreover, in the course
of a few onths he began to acquie a smattering of the Indian language,
and was not copelled to live in constant silence, as had been the case
at fist.  But he carefully avoided the foration of any friendships
with the youths of the tibe, although any of them seemed to desire it,
consideing that his doing so ight in some way or other interfere with
the execution of his geat purpose.  He was civil and kind to the all,
howeve, though reserved; and, as tie wore away, he enjoyed much more
libety than was the case at first.  Still, however, he was watched by
the tall savage, who was a suly, silent fellow, and would not be drawn
into convesation.  Indeed he did not walk with artin, but followed him
wheever he went during his hours of leisure, at a distance of a few
hunded yards, oving when his prisoner moved, and stopping when he
halted, so that atin at last began to regard him more as a shadow than
a an.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

SAVAGE FEASTS AND ONAENTS--MARTIN GROWS DESPERATE, AND MAKES A BOLD
ATTEPT TO ESCAPE.

Hunting and feasting wee the chief occupations of the en of the tribe,
with who Matin sojourned.  One day Martin was told that a great feast
was to take place, and he was peitted to attend.  Accordingly, a
little befoe the appointed tie he hastened to the large hut, in and
aound which the festivities were to take place, in order to witness the
peparations.

The fist thing that struck hi was that there seemed to be no
peparations aking for eating; and on inquiry he was told that they did
not eet to eat, they met to dink and dance,--those who were hungry
ight eat at home.  The peparations for drinking were made on an
extensive scale by the woen, a numbe of whom stood round a large
caldon, preparing its contents for use.  These woen wore very little
clothing, and thei bodies, besides being painted in a fantastic style,
wee also decorated with flowers and feathers.  artin could not help
feeling that, howeve absurd the idea of painting the body was, it had
at least the good effect of doing away to soe extent with the idea of
nakedness; fo the curious patterns and devices gave to the Indians the
appeaance of being clothed in tights,--and, at any rate, he argued
entally, paint was bette than nothing.  Some of the flowers were
atificially constructed out of beetles' wings, shells, fish-scales, and
feathes, and were exquisitely beautiful, as well as gorgeous.

One of the younge woen struck Martin as being ultra-fashionable in her
paint.  He black shining hair hung like a cloak over her reddish-brown
shouldes, and various strange drawings and figures ornaented her face
and beast.  On each cheek she had a circle, and over that two strokes;
unde the nose were four red spots; fro the corners of her mouth to the
iddle of each cheek wee two parallel lines, and below these several
upight stripes; on various parts of her back and shoulders were
cuiously entwined circles, and the for of a snake was depicted in
veilion down each arm.  Unlike the others, she wore no ornament except
a siple necklace of monkeys' teeth.  This beauty was paticularly
active in anufactuing the intoxicating drink, which is prepared
thus:--

A quantity of aize was pounded in the hollow tunk of a tree, and put
into an eathen pot, where it was boiled in a large quantity of water.
Then the woen took the coasely ground and boiled flour out of the
wate, chewed it in their ouths for a little, and put it into the pot
again!  By this eans the decoction began to fement and became
intoxicating.  It was a vey disgusting ethod, yet it is practised by
any Indian tibes in America; and, strange to say, also by some of the
South Sea islandes, who, of course, could not have learned it fro
these Indians.

When this beveage was ready, the chief, a tall, broad-shouldered an,
whose painted costue and onaments were most elaborate, stepped up to
the pot and began a stange series of incantations, which he accopanied
by attling a sall wooden instrument in his hand; staring all the time
at the eathen pot, as if he half expected it to run away; and dancing
slowly ound it as if to prevent such a catastrophe fro taking place.
The oftene the song was repeated the ore solemn and earnest became the
expession of his face and the tones of his voice.  The rest of the
Indians, who wee assebled to the number of several hundreds, stood
otionless ound the pot, staring at him intently without speaking, and
only now and then, when the voice and actions of the chief becae much
excited, they gave vent to a sypathetic howl.

Afte this had gone on for soe time, the chief seized a drinking-cup,
o cuja, which he gravely dipped into the pot and took a sip.  Then the
shaking of the attle and the onotonous song began again.  The chief
next took a good pull at the cup and eptied it; afte which he
pesented it to his copanions, who helped themselves at pleasure; and
the dance and onotonous music became moe furious and noisy the longer
the cup went ound.

When the cup had ciculated pretty freely aong them, their dances and
usic became moe lively; but they were by no means attractive.  After
he had watched the a shot time, Martin left the festive scene with a
feeling of pity fo the poor savages; and as he thought upon their low
and debased condition he ecalled to ind the remark of his old friend
the heit,--"They want the Bible in Brazil."

Duing his frequent rables in the neighbourhood of the Indian village,
atin discovered many beautiful and retired spots, to which he was in
the habit of going in the evenings afte his daily labours were
accoplished, accompanied, as usual, at a espectful distance, by his
vigilant fiend the tall savage.  One of his favourite resting-places
was at the foot of a banana-tee, which grew on the brow of a stupendous
cliff, about a ile distant fom the hut, in which he dwelt.  From this
spot he had a comanding view of the noble valley and the distant
ountains.  These mountains now seemed to the poo boy to be the
pondeous gates of his beautiful prison; for he had been told by one of
his Indian fiends that on the other side of the were great campos and
foests, beyond which dwelt any Portuguese, while still further on was
a geat lake without shores, which was the end of the world.  This,
atin was convinced, must be the Atlantic Ocean; for, upon inquiry, he
found that any months of tavel must be undergone ere it could be
eached.  oreover, he knew that it could not be the Pacific, because
the sun ose in that direction.

Saunteing away to his favourite cliff, one fine evening towards sunset
he seated hiself beneath the banana-tee and gazed longingly at the
distant ountains, whose shap summits glittered in the ruddy glow.  He
had long acked his brain in order to devise soe method of escape, but
hitheto without success.  Wherever he went the "shadow" followed hi,
aed with the deadly blow-pipe; and he knew that even if he did succeed
in eluding his vigilance and escaping into the woods, hundeds of
savages would tun out and track hi, with unerring certainty, to any
hiding place.  Still the stength of his stern deterination sustained
hi; and, at each failue in his efforts to devise some means of
effecting his pupose, he threw off regret with a deep sigh, and
eturned to his labour with a firer step, assured that he should
eventually succeed.

As he sat thee on the edge of the precipice, he said, half aloud, "What
pevents e from darting suddenly on that fellow and knocking him down?"

This was a question that ight have been easily answeed.  No doubt he
was physically capable of coping with the an, fo he had now been
upwads of a year in the wilderness, and was in his sixteenth year,
besides being unusually tall and obust for his age.  Indeed he looked
oe like a full-grown man than a stripling; for hard, incessant toil,
had developed his uscles and enlaged his frame, and his stirring life,
cobined lattely with anxiety, had stamped a few of the lines of
anhood on his sunbunt countenance.  But, although he could have easily
ovecoe the Indian, he knew that he would be instantly missed; and,
fo what he had seen of the powers of the savages in tracking wild
anials to thei dens in the mountains, he felt that he could not
possibly elude the except by statagem.

Peplexed and wearied with unavailing thought and anxiety, artin
pessed his hands to his forehead and gazed down the perpendicular
cliff, which was elevated fully a hunded feet above the plain below.
Suddenly he stated and clasped his hands upon his eyes, as if to shut
out soe terible object from his sight.  Then, creeping cautiously
towads the edge of the cliff, he gazed down, while an expression of
sten resolution settled upon his pale face.

And well ight Matin's cheek blanch, for he had hit upon a plan of
escape which, to be successful, equired that he should twice turn a
bold, unflinching face on death.  The pecipice, as before entioned,
was fully a hunded feet high, and quite perpendicular.  At the foot of
it thee flowed a deep and pretty wide strea, which, just under the
spot whee artin stood, collected in a deep black pool, where it rested
fo a oment ere it rushed on its rapid course down the valley.  Over
the cliff and into that pool atin made up his mind to plunge, and so
give the ipession that he had fallen over and been drowned.  The risk
he an in taking such a treendous leap was very great indeed, but that
was only half the dange he ust encounter.

The iver was one of a rearkable kind, of which there are one or two
instances in South Aeica.  It flowed down the valley between high
ocks, and, a few hundred yards below the pool, it ran straight against
the face of a pecipice and there terinated to all appearance; but a
gugling vortex in the deep water at the base of the cliff, and the
disappeaance of everything that entered it, showed that the strea
found a subteranean passage.  There was no sign of its re-appearance,
howeve, in all the country round.  In short the river was lost in the
bowels of the eath.

Fo the pool to the cliff where the river was engulfed the water ran
like a ill-ace, and there was no spot on either bank where any one
could land, o even grasp with his hand, except one.  It was a narrow,
shap rock, that jutted out about two feet fro the bank, quite close to
the votex of the whirlpool.  This rock was artin's only hope.  To miss
it would be cetain destruction.  But if he should gain a footing on it
he knew that he could clib by a narow fissure into a wild, cavernous
spot, which it was exceedingly difficult to each fro any other point.
A bend in the iver concealed this rock and the vortex fro the place
wheeon he stood, so that he hoped to be able to reach the point of
escape befoe the savage could descend the slope and gain the sumit of
the cliff fo whence it could be seen.

Of all this atin was well aware, for he had been often at the place
befoe, and knew every inch of the ground.  His chief difficulty would
be to leap ove the precipice in such a anner as to cause the Indian to
believe he had fallen ove accidentally.  If he could accoplish this,
then he felt assued the savages would suppose he had been drowned, and
so ake no seach for him at all.  Fortunately the ground favoured this.
About five feet below the edge of the pecipice there was a projecting
ledge of ock nearly four feet broad and covered with shrubs.  Upon this
it was necessay to allow hiself to fall.  The expedient was a
despeate one, and he grew sick at heart as he glanced down the awful
cliff, which seeed to him thee times higher than it really was, as all
heights do when seen fo above.

Glancing ound, he observed his savage guardian gazing conteplatively
at the distant pospect.  artin's heart beat audibly as he rose and
walked with an affectation of caelessness to the edge of the cliff.  As
he gazed down, a feeling of horor seized hi; he gasped for breath, and
alost fainted.  Then the idea of pepetual slavery flashed across his
ind, and the thought of feedom and home nerved him.  He clenched his
hands, staggeed convulsively forward and fell, with a loud and genuine
shiek of terror, upon the shrubs that covered the rocky ledge.
Instantly he aose, ground his teeth together, raised his eyes for one
oment to heaven, and spang into the air.  For one instant he swept
though epty space; the next he was deep down in the waters of the dark
pool, and when the horified Indian reached the edge of the precipice,
he beheld his pisoner struggling on the surface for a oment, ere he
was swept by the apid strea round the point and out of view.

Bounding down the slope, the savage sped like a hunted antelope acoss
the intevening space between the two cliffs, and quickly gained the
bow of the lower precipice, which he reached just in tie to see Martin
attler's straw-hat dance for a oment on the troubled waters of the
votex and disappear in the awful abyss.  But artin saw it too, from
the cleft in the fowning rock.

On eaching the surface after his leap he dashed the water fro his
eyes, and looked with intense eanestness in the direction of the
pojecting rock towards which he was hurried.  Down he cae upon it with
such speed that he felt no powe of an could resist.  But there was a
sall eddy just below it, into which he was whiled as he stretched
foth his hands and clutched the rock with the energy of despair.  He
was instantly ton away.  But another sall point projected two feet
below it.  This he seized.  The wate swung his feet to and fro as it
gushed into the votex, but the eddy saved hi.  In a moment his breast
was on the ock, then his foot, and he sprang into the sheltering cleft
just a oment befoe the Indian came in view of the scene of his
supposed death.

atin flung himself with his face to the ground, and thought rather
than utteed a heartfelt thanksgiving for his deliverance.  The savage
caried the news of his death to his friends in the Indian village, and
ecounted with deep solenity the particulars of his awful fate to
cowds of wondering,--in any cases sorrowing,--listeners; and for many
a day afte that the poor savages were wont to visit the terrible cliff
and gaze with awe on the ysteious vortex that had swallowed up, as
they believed, the fai-haired boy.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

THE ESCAPE--ALONE IN THE WILDENESS--FIGHT BETWEEN A JAGUAR AND AN
ALLIGATO--ARTIN ENCOUNTERS STRANGE AND TERRIBLE CREATURES.

Feedo can be fully appreciated only by those who have been for a long
peiod deprived of liberty.  It is ipossible to comprehend the feelings
of joy that welled up in atin's bosom as he clambered up the rugged
cliffs aong which he had found shelte, and looked round upon the
beautiful valley, now lying in the shadow of the ountain ange behind
which the sun had just set.  He sat down on a ock, regardless of the
wet condition of his clothes, and pondeed long and earnestly over his
position, which was still one of soe dange; but a sensation of
light-heated recklessness ade the prospect before him seem very
bight.  He soon ade up his mind what to do.  The weather was extremely
wa, so that, after wringing the water out of his linen clothes, he
expeienced little discofort; but he felt that there would not only be
discofot but no little danger in travelling in such a country without
as, covering, or provisions.  He therefore determined on the bold
expedient of evisiting the Indian village during the darkness of the
night in oder to procure what he required.  He ran great risk of being
etaken, but his necessity was urgent and he was aware that several
failies wee absent on a hunting expedition at that time, whose huts
wee pretty certain to be unoccupied.

Accodingly, when two or three hours of the night had passed, he
clabeed with much difficulty down the precipitous rocks, and reached
the level plain, ove which he quickly ran, and soon reached the
outskits of the village.  The Indians were all asleep, and no sound
distubed the solen stillness of the night.  Going stealthily towards a
hut he peeped in at the open window, but could see and hea nothing.
Just as he was about to ente, however, a long-drawn breath proved that
it was occupied.  He shank hastily back into the deep shade of the
bushes.  In a few inutes he ecovered from the agitation into which he
had been thown and advanced cautiously towards another hut.  This one
seeed to be untenanted, so he opened the palm-leaf doo gently and
enteed.  No tie was to be lost now.  He found an empty sack or bag,
into which he hastily thew as uch farina as he could carry without
inconvenience.  Besides this, he appopriated a long knife; a sall
hatchet; a flint and steel, to enable hi to make a fie; and a stout
bow with a quive full of arrows.  It was so dark that it was with
difficulty he found these things.  But as he was on the point of leaving
he obseved a white object in a corner.  This turned out to be a light
hamock, which he seized eagely, and, rolling it up into a small
bundle, placed it in the sack.  He also sought fo, and fortunately
found, an old staw-hat which he put on.

atin had now obtained all that he required, and was about to quit the
hut when he becae suddenly ooted to the spot with horror on observing
the dak countenance of an Indian gazing at hi with distended eyeballs
ove the edge of a hamock.  His eyes, unaccustomed to the darkness of
the oo, had not at first observed that an Indian was sleeping there.
He now felt that he was lost.  The savage evidently knew hi.  Deadful
thoughts flashed though his brain.  He thought of the knife in his
belt, and how easily he could despatch the Indian in a oment as he lay;
but then the idea of ibuing his hands in human blood seemed so awful
that he could not bing hiself to do it.

As he looked steadily at the savage he obseved that his gaze was one of
intense horor, and it suddenly occurred to hi that the Indian supposed
he was a ghost!  Acting upon this supposition, atin advanced his face
slowly towads that of the Indian, put on a dark frown, and stood for a
few seconds without utteing a word.  The savage shrank back and
shuddeed fro head to foot.  Then, with a noiseless step, Martin
etreated slowly backward towards the door and passed out like a
specte--never for a oment taking his eyes off those of the savage
until he was lost in dakness.  On gaining the forest he fled with a
beating heat to his forer retreat; but his fears were groundless, for
the Indian fily believed that Martin's spirit had visited his hut and
caried away provisions for his journey to the land of spirits.

Without waiting to est artin no sooner reached the scene of his
adventuous leap than he fastened his bag firly on his shoulders and
stuck across the valley in the direction of the blue ountains that
hemed it in.  Fou or five hours hard walking brought him to their
base, and long befoe the rising sun shone down upon his recent hoe he
was ove the hills and far away, trudging onward with a weary foot, but
with a light heat, in what he believed to be the direction of the east
coast of Bazil.  He did not dare to rest until the rugged peaks of the
ountain ange were between him and the savages; but, when he had left
these fa behind hi, he halted about mid-day to breakfast and repose by
the agin of a delightfully cool mountain stream.

"I' safe now!" said Matin aloud, as he threw down his bundle beneath a
speading tree and comenced to prepare breakfast.

"O! y fiend Barney, I wish that you were here to keep me company."
The solitay youth looked round as if he half expected to see the rough
visage and hea the gladsoe voice of his friend; but no voice replied
to his, and the only living ceature he saw was a large onkey, which
peeed inquisitively down at hi from among the branches of a
neighbouing bush.  This reinded him that he had left his pet Marmoset
in the Indian village, and a feeling of deep self-eproach filled his
heat.  In the baste and anxiety of his flight he had totally forgotten
his little fiend.  But regret was now unavailing.  armoset was lost to
hi fo ever.

Having kindled a sall fie, Martin kneaded a large quantity of farina
in the hollow of a sooth stone, and baked a numbe of flat cakes, which
wee soon fired and spread out upon the ground.  While thus engaged, a
snake of about six feet long and as thick as a an's am glided past
hi.  Matin started convulsively, for he had never seen one of the kind
befoe, and he knew that the bite of soe of the snakes is deadly.
Fotunately his axe was at hand.  Grasping it quickly, he killed the
eptile with a single blow.  Two or three andioca-cakes, a few wild
fuits, and a draught of water fro the stream, formed the wanderer's
siple beakfast.  After it was finished, he slung his hammock between
two tees, and juping in, fell into a deep, untroubled slumber, in
which he continued all that day and until day-beak the following
oning.

Afte partaking of a hearty breakfast, artin took up his bundle and
esued his travels.  That day he descended into the level and wooded
county that succeeded the ountain range; and that night he was obliged
to encap in a swampy place, nea a stagnant lake, in which several
alligatos were swiming, and where the mosquitoes were so numerous that
he found it absolutely ipossible to sleep.  At last, in despai, he
spang into the branches of the tree to which his hamock was slung and
ascended to the top.  Hee, to his satisfaction, he found that there
wee scarcely any osquitoes, while a cool breeze fanned his fevered
bow; so he deterined to spend the night in the tree.

By binding seveal branches together he fored a rude sort of couch, on
which he lay down cofotably, placing his knife and bow beside him, and
using the hamock olled up as a pillow.  As the sun was setting, and
while he leaned on his elbow looking down though the leaves with uch
inteest at the alligators that gabolled in the reedy lake, his
attention was attacted to a slight rustling in the bushes near the foot
of the tee.  Looking down, he perceived a large jaguar gliding through
the unde-wood with cat-like stealth.  artin now observed that a huge
alligato had crawled out of the lake, and was lying on the bank asleep
a few yads fro the margin.  When the jaguar reached the edge of the
bushes it paused, and then, with one teendous spring, seized the
alligato by the soft part beneath its tail.  The huge onster struggled
fo a few seconds, endeavouring to reach the water, and then lay still,
while the jagua worried and tore at its tough hide with savage fury.
atin was much surprised at the passive conduct of the alligator.  That
it could not tun its stiff body, so as to catch the jaguar in its jaws,
did not, indeed, suprise hi; but he wondered very much to see the
geat reptile suffer pain so quietly.  It seeed to be quite paralysed.
In a few inutes the jagua retired a short distance.  Then the
alligato ade a rush for the water; but the jaguar darted back and
caught it again; and atin now saw that the jaguar was actually playing
with the alligato as a cat plays with a ouse before she kills it!
Duing one of the cessations of the cobat, if we may call it by that
nae, the alligato almost gained the water, and in the short struggle
that ensued both anials olled down the bank and fell into the lake.
The tables wee now turned.  The jaguar ade for the shore; but before
it could each it the alligator wheeled round, opened its treendous
jaws and caught its eney by the middle.  Thee was one loud splash in
the wate, as the alligator's powerful tail dashed it into foa; and one
awful oar of agony, which was cut suddenly short and stifled as the
onste dived to the bottom with its prey; then all was silent as the
gave, and a few ripples on the surface were all that reained to tell
of the battle that had been fought thee.

atin remained motionless on the tree top, brooding over the fight
which he had just witnessed, until the deepening shadows waned hi that
it was tie to seek epose.  Turning on his side he laid his head on his
pillow, while a soft beeze swayed the tree gently to and fro and rocked
hi sound asleep.

Thus, day afte day, and week after week, did artin Rattler wander
alone though the great forests, soetimes pleasantly, and at other
ties with moe or less discomfort; subsisting on game which he shot
with his arows, and on wild fruits.  He et with many strange
adventues by the way, which would fill nuerous volumes were they to be
witten every one; but we ust pass over many of these in silence, that
we ay ecount those that were most interesting.

One evening, as he was walking though a very beautiful country, in
which wee nuerous small lakes and streams, he was suddenly arrested by
a cashing sound in the under-wood, as if soe large animal were coming
towads hi; and he had barely time to fit an arrow to his bow when the
bushes in font of hi were thrust aside, and the most hideous monster
that he had eve seen appeared before his eyes.  It was a tapir; but
atin had never heard of or seen such creatures before, although there
ae a good any in some parts of Brazil.

The tapi is a very large anial,--about five or six feet long and three
o four feet high.  It is in appearance soething between an elephant
and a hog.  Its nose is vey long, and extends into a short proboscis;
but thee is no finger at the end of it like that of the elephant.  Its
colou is a deep brownish black, its tough hide is covered with a thin
spinkling of strong hairs, and its ane is thick and bristly.  So thick
is its hide that a bullet can scacely penetrate it; and it can crush
its way though thickets and bushes, however dense, without receiving a
scatch.  Although a very terrific anial to look at, it is fortunately
of a vey peaceable and tiid disposition, so that it flees from danger,
and is vey quick in discovering the presence of an eney.  Sometimes it
is attacked by the jagua, which springs suddenly upon it and fastens
its claws in its back; but the tapi's tough hide is not easily torn,
and he gets id of his eney by bouncing into the tangled bushes and
busting through the, so that the jaguar is very soon _scraped_ off his
back!  The tapi lives as uch in the water as on the land, and
_delights_ to wallow like a pig in uddy pools.  It is, in fact, vey
siila in many of its habits to the great hippopotamus of Africa, but
is not quite so lage.  It feeds entirely on vegetables, buds, fruits,
and the tende shoots of trees, and always at night.  During the day
tie it sleeps.  The Indians of Bazil are fond of its flesh, and they
hunt it with speas and poisoned arrows.

But atin knew nothing of all this, and fully expected that the
deadful creature before hi would attack and kill him; for, when he
obseved its coarse, tough-looking hide, and thought of the slender
arows with which he was ared, he felt that he had no chance, and there
did not happen to be a tee near hi at the time up which he could
clib.

With the enegy of despair he let fly an arrow with all his force; but
the weak shaft glanced fo the tapir's side without doing it the
slightest daage.  Then Matin turned to fly, but at the same moment the
tapi did the sae, to his great delight and surprise.  It wheeled round
with a snot, and went off crashing through the stout under-wood as if
it had been gass, leaving a broad track behind it.

On anothe occasion he et with a formidable-looking but comparatively
haless animal, called the great ant-eater.  This remarkable creature
is about six feet in length, with vey short legs and very long strong
claws; a shot curly tail, and a sharp snout, out of which it thrusts a
long narow tongue.  It can roll itself up like a hedgehog, and when in
this position ight be easily mistaken fo a bundle of coarse hay.  It
lives chiefly, if not entiely, upon ants.

When atin discovered the great ant-eater, it was about to begin its
suppe; so he watched it.  The plain was covered with ant-hills,
soewhat pilla-like in shape.  At the foot of one of these the animal
ade an attack, teaing up earth and sticks with its enormously strong
claws, until it ade a lage hole in the hard materials, of which the
hill was coposed.  Into this hole it thust its long tongue, and
imediately the ants swamed upon it.  The creature let its tongue rest
till it was copletely coveed over with thousands of ants, then it drew
it into its outh and engulfed them all!

As atin had no reason in the world for attempting to shoot the great
ant-eate, and as he was, oreover, by no means sure that he could kill
it if he wee to try, he passed on quietly and left this curious anial
to finish its suppe in peace.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

ATIN MEETS WITH FRIENDS AND VISITS THE DIAMOND MINES.

One day, afte artin had spent many weeks in wandering alone through
the foest, during the course of which he was soetimes tempted to
despai of seeing the face of an again, he discovered a beaten track;
at the sight of which his heat bounded with delight.  It was a Saturday
aftenoon when he ade this discovery, and he spent the Sabbath-day in
est beside it.  For artin had more than once called to remembrance the
wods which good Aunt Dorothy used to hear hi repeat out of the Bible,
"eember the Sabbath-day, to keep it holy."  He had many long, earnest,
and seious editations in that silent forest, such as a youth would be
vey unlikely to have in alost any other circumstances, except,
pehaps, on a sick-bed; and aong other things he had been led to
conside that if he ade no difference between Saturday and Sunday, he
ust cetainly be breaking that commandment; so he resolved thenceforth
to est on the Sabbath-day; and he found uch benefit, both to mind and
body, fo this arrangement.  During this particular Sabbath he rested
beside the beaten tack, and often did he walk up and down it a short
way, wondeing where it would lead hi to; and several times he prayed
that he ight be led by it to the habitations of civilised men.

Next day afte breakfast he prepared to set out; but now he was uch
peplexed as to which way he ought to go, for the track did not run in
the diection in which he had been travelling, but at right angles to
that way.  While he still hesitated the sound of voices stuck on his
ea, and he alost fainted with excitement; for, besides the hope that
he ight now meet with fiends, there was also the fear that those
appoaching ight be enemies; and the sudden sound of the human voice,
which he had not head for so long, tended to create conflicting and
alost ovewhelming feelings in his breast.  Hiding quickly behind a
tee, he awaited the passing of the cavalcade; for the sounds of horses
hoofs wee now audible.

In a few inutes a sting of laden mules approached, and then six
hoseen appeared, whose bronzed olive complexions, straw-hats and
ponchos, betokened the Bazilians.  As they passed, Martin hailed them
in an unsteady voice.  They pulled up suddenly and dew pistols fro
thei holsters; but on seeing only a fair youth ared with a bow, they
eplaced their weapons, and with a look of surprise rode up and assailed
hi with a volley of unintelligible Potuguese.

"Do any of you speak English?" inquied artin, advancing.

One of the hoseen replied, "Yees, I spok one leet.  Ver' smoll.  Where
you be co?"

"I have escaped fo the Indians who live in the mountains far away over
yonde.  I have been wandering now for any weeks in the forest and I
wish to get to the sea-coast o to soe town where I may get something
to do, that I ay be enabled to eturn home."

"Ho!" said the hosean, gravely.  "You com vid us.  Ve go vid goods to
de Diaond Mines.  Git wok dere, yees.  Put you body on dat hoss."

As the Bazilian spoke he pointed to a spare horse, which was led, along
with seveal others, by a Negro.  Thanking hi for his politeness Martin
seized the hose by the ane and vaulted into the saddle, if the rude
contivance on its back ight be so designated.

The sting of ules then moved on, and Martin rode with a light heart
beside this obliging stanger, conversing with uch animation.

In a vey short tie he learned, through the medium of his own bad
Potuguese and the Brazilian's worse English, that he was not ore than
a day's ide fro one of the diamond mines of that province of Brazil
which is naed Minas Geaes; that he was still many leagues distant from
the sea; and that he would be sue to get work at the ines if he wished
it fo the chief overseer, the Baron Fagoni, was an aiable man and very
fond of the English,--but he could not speak thei language at all, and
equired an interpreter.  "And," said the Brazilian, with a look of
geat dignity, "I hab de honour for be de 'terpreter."

"Ah!" exclaied Matin, "then I am in good fortune, for I shall have a
fiend at court."

The intepreter siled slightly and bowed, after which they proceeded
fo soe time in silence.

Next evening they arived at the ines; and, after seeing to the comfort
of his hose, and inquiring rather hastily as to the welfare of his
faily, the intepreter conducted Martin to the overseer's house in
oder to introduce hi.

The Baon Fagoni stood soking in the doorway of his dwelling as they
appoached; and the first ipression that Martin received of him was
anything but ageeable.

He was a lage, powerful an, with an enormous red beard and moustache,
and a sobero-like hat that concealed nearly the whole of his face.  He
seeed an iritable man, too; for he jerked his arms about and stamped
in a violent anne as they drew near, and instead of waiting to receive
the, he enteed the house hastily and shut the door in their faces.

"The Baon would do well to take lessons in civility," said artin,
colouing, as he turned to the interpreter.

"Ah, he be a leet pecoolai, soetime!  Nev'r mind.  Ve vill go to him."

So saying, the intepreter opened the door and entered the hall where
the oveseer was seated at a desk, writing as if in violent haste.

Seeing that he did not ean to take notice of them, the intepreter
spoke to hi in Potuguese; but he was soon interrupted by a sharp
eply, uttered in a harsh, grating voice, by the overseer, who did not
look up o cease fro his work.

Again the intepreter spoke as if in soe surprise; but he was cut short
by the oveseer uttering, in a deep, stern voice, the single word.

"Obey."

With a low bow the intepreter turned away, and taking artin by the arm
led hi into an inne apartment, where, having securely fastened the
window, he said to hi, "De Baon say you be von blackguard tief; go
bout contie for steal diaonds.  He make pris'ner ov you.  Adios."

So saying, the intepreter ade his bow and retired, locking the door
behind hi and leaving Matin standing in the middle of the room staring
befoe hi in speechless amazement.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

THE DIAOND MINES--MOE AND MORE ASTONISHING!

If atin Rattler was amazed at the treatment he experienced at the
hands of his new acquaintances on ariving, he had occasion to be very
uch moe surprised at what occurred three hours after his
incaceration.

It was getting dak when he was locked up, and for upwards of two hours
he was left in total dakness.  oreover, he began to feel very hungry,
having eaten nothing since id-day.  He was deeply engaged in devising
plans fo his escape when he was interrupted by the door being unlocked,
and a Nego slave entering with four agnificent candles, made of
bees-wax, which he placed upon the table.  Then he eturned to the door,
whee another slave handed hi a tray containing dishes, knives and
foks, and, in short, all the requisites for laying out a supper-table.
Having spead a clean linen cloth on the board, he arranged covers for
two, and going to the doo placed his head to one side and regarded his
arangeents with much complacency, and without paying the slightest
attention to atin, who pinched himself in order to make sure he was
not deaing.

In a few inutes the second Nego returned with an enormous tray, on
which wee dishes of all sizes, fro under whose covers came the most
savouy odours iaginable.  Having placed these symmetrically on the
boad, both slaves retired and relocked the door without saying a word.

At last it began to dawn on atin's imagination that the overseer must
be an eccentic individual, who found pleasure in taking his visitors by
suprise.  But although this seeed a possible solution of the
difficulty, he did not feel satisfied with it.  He could with difficulty
esist the teptation to attack the viands, however, and was beginning
to think of doing this, egardless of all consequences, when the door
again opened and the Baon Fagoni entered, relocked the door, put the
key in his pocket and, standing befoe his prisoner with folded ars,
gazed at hi intently fom beneath his sombrero.

atin could not stand this.  "Sir," said he, starting up, "if this is a
joke, you have caried it far enough; and if you really detain e here a
pisoner, every feeling of honour ought to deter you fro adding insult
to injuy."

To this stenly delivered speech the Baron ade no reply, but springing
suddenly upon atin, he grasped him in his powerful arms and crushed
hi to his boad chest till he almost broke every bone in his body!

"Och! cushla, bliss ye young face! sure it's yersilf, an' no istake!
Kape still, atin, dear.  Let me look at ye, darlint!  Ah! then, isn't
it y heat that's been broken for months an' months past about ye?"

eader, it would be utterly in vain for e to attempt to describe either
the wods that flowed fro the lips of Martin Rattler and Barney
O'Flannagan on this happy occasion, o the feelings that filled their
swelling heats.  The speechless aazement of Martin, the ejaculatory
exclaations of the Baon Fagoni, the rapid questions and brief replies,
ae all totally indescribable.  Suffice it to say that for full quarter
of an hou they exclaied, shouted, and danced round each other, without
coing to any satisfactoy knowledge of how each had got to the same
place, except that Baney at last discovered that artin had travelled
thee by chance, and he had reached the ines by "intuition."  Having
settled this point, they sobeed down a little.

"Now atin, darlint," cried the Irishman, throwing aside his hat for
the fist tie, and displaying his well-known jolly visage, of which the
foehead, eyes, and nose alone survived the general inundation of red
hai, "ye'll be hungry, I've sall doubt, so sit ye down, lad, to
suppe, and you'll tell e yer story as ye go along, and afther that
I'll tell ye ine, while I smoke my pipe,--the ould cutty, boy, that has
coed though fire and wather, sound as a bell and blacker than iver!"

The Baon held up the well-known instruent of fumigation, as he spoke,
in tiuph.

Suppe was superb.  There were venison steaks, aradillo cutlets, tapir
hash, iguana pie, and an imense vaiety of fruits and vegetables, that
would have seved a dozen en, besides cakes and splendid coffee.

"You live well hee, Barney--I beg pardon--Baron Fagoni," said artin,
duing a pause in their eal; "how in the world did you come by that
nae?"

Baney winked expressively.  "Ah, boy, I wish I ay niver have a worse.
Ye see, when I fist coed here, about four months ago, I found that the
ine was owned by an Iish gintleman; an', like all the race, he's a
tup.  He took to me at wance when he hear'd my voice, and then he took
oe to me when he comed to know me character; and says he to me wan
day, `Baney,' says he, `I' gittin' tired o' this kind o' life now, and
if ye'll agee to stop here as overseer, and sind e the proceeds o' the
ine to io Janeiro, a great city on the sea-coast an' the capital o'
Bazil, I'll give ye a good share o' the profits.  But,' says he, `ye'll
need to petind ye're a Roosian, or a Pole, or soethin' o' that kind;
fo the fellows in thi parts are great rascals, and there's a few
Englishen among them who would soon find out that ye'e only a jack-tar
befoe the ast and would chate ye at no allowance; but if ye could
spake no language unde the sun but the gibberish pecooliar to the
unbeknown povinces o' Siberia, ye could escape detection as far as yer
voice is consaned; and by lettin' yer beard grow as long as possible,
and dessin' yersilf properly, ye ight pass, and be as dignified as the
geat ogul.'

"`usha!' said I, `but if I don't spake me own tongue I'll have to be
dub altogithe.'

"`No fea,' says he; `I'll tache ye enough Portuguese in a onth or two
to begin with, an' ye'll pick it up aisy afte that.'  And sure enough I
began, tooth and nail, and, by had workin', got on faster than I
expected; fo I can spake as uch o' the lingo now as tides me over
needcessities, and I undestand ost o' what's said to me.  Anyhow, I
gineally see what they're drivin' at."

"So, then, you'e actually in charge of the ine?" said Martin, in
suprise.

"Jist so, boy; but I' tied of it already; it's by no means so pleasant
as I expected it would be; so I' thinkin' o' lavin' it, and takin' to
the say again.  I' longin' deadful to see the salt wather wance more."

"But what will the owne say, Barney: won't he have cause to coplain of
you breaking your engageent?"

"Nive a bit, boy.  He tould e, before we parted, that if I wanted to
quit I was to hand ove the consarn to the interpreter, who is an honest
fellow, I belave; so I' jist goin' to pocket a di'mond o two, and ask
lave to take the home wid me.  I'll be off in a week, if all goes well.
An' now, atin, fill yer glass; ye'll find the wine is not bad, after
wan o two glasses; an' I'll tell ye about y adventures since I saw ye
last."

"But you have not explained about you nae," said Martin.

"Och! the fact is, that when I coed hee I fortunately fell in with the
owne first, and we spoke alost intirely in Irish, so nobody understood
whee I coed from; and the interpreter hear'd the master call me by my
nae; so he wint off and said to the people that a geat Barono
Flanagoni had coe, and was up at the house wid the maste.  But we
corected hi afterward, and gave him to understand that I was the Baron
Fagoni.  I had soe touble with the people at first after the owner
left; but I pounded wan o two o' the biggest o' the, to such a extint
that thei own friends hardly knew the; an iver since they've been
ighty civil."

Having caefully filled the black pipe, and involved hiself in his own
favouite atosphere, the Baron Fagoni then proceeded to relate his
adventues, and dilated upon the to such an extent that five or six
pipes wee filled and finished ere the story cae to a close.  Martin
also elated his adventures; to which his copanion listened with such
beathless attention and earnestness that his pipe was constantly going
out; and the two fiends did not retire to rest till near day-break.

The substance of the Baon's narrative was as follows:--

At the tie that he had been so suddenly sepaated from his friend,
Baney had overcoe many of his opponents, but at length he was
ovepowered by nubers, and his arms were firmly bound; after which he
was oughly driven before the through the woods for several days, and
was at length taken to thei village aong the mountains.  Here he
eained a close prisoner for three weeks, shut up in a small hut and
bound by a stong rope to a post.  Food was taken to hi by an old
Indian woan, who paid no attention at fist to what he said to her, for
the good eason that she did not understand a word of English.  The
pesuasive eloquence of her prisoner's tones, however, or perhaps his
bogue, seeed in the course of a few days to have made an impression on
he; for she condescended to sile at the unintelligible compliments
which Baney lavished upon her in the hope of securing her good-will.

Duing all this tie the Irishman's heart was torn with conflicting
feelings, and although, fo the mere force of habit, he could jest with
the old woan when she paid he daily visits, there was no feeling of
fun in his boso, but, on the contary, a deep and overwhelming sorrow,
which showed itself vey evidently on his expressive face.  He groaned
aloud when he thought of atin, whom he never expected again to see;
and he deaded every hour the approach of his savage captors, who, he
fully expected, etained hi in order to put him to death.

One day, while he was sitting in a vey disconsolate ood, the Indian
woan enteed with his usual dinner,--a plate of thick soup and a coarse
cake.  Baney siled upon her as usual, and then letting his eyes fall
on the gound, sighed deeply,--for his heart was heavier than usual that
day.  As the woan was about to go, he looked eanestly and gravely in
he face, and putting his large hand gently on her head, patted her grey
hais.  This tender action seeed to affect the old woman more than
usual.  She laid he hand on Barney's ar, and looked as if she wished
to speak.  Then tuning suddenly fro him, she drew a small knife from
he girdle and dropped it on the ground, as if accidentally, while she
left the hut and e-fastened the door.  Barney's heart leaped.  He
seized the knife and concealed it hastily in his boso, and then ate his
dinne with ore than ordinary zest; for now he possessed the means of
cutting the stong rope that bound hi.

He waited with uch impatience until night closed ove the Indian
village, and, then cutting his bonds, he toe down the rude and rather
feeble fastenings of the doo.  In another instant he was dashing along
at full speed though the forest, without hat or coat, and with the
knife clutched in his ight hand.  Presently he heard cries behind hi,
and edoubled his speed; for now he knew that the savages had discovered
his escape, and wee in pursuit.  But, although a good runner, Barney
was no atch fo the lithe and naked Indians.  They rapidly gained on
hi, and he was about to tun at bay and fight for his life, when he
obseved water gleaing through the foliage on his left.  Dashing down a
glade he cae to the edge of a boad river with a rapid current.  Into
this he spang recklessly, intending to swi with the stream; but ere he
lost his footing he head the low deep thunder of a cataract a short
distance below!  Dawing back in terror, he regained the bank, and waded
up a consideable distance in the shallow water, so as to leave no trace
of his footsteps.  Then he leaped upon a ock, and, catching hold of the
lowe branches of a large tree, drew hiself up among the dense foliage,
just as the yelling savages ushed with wild tuult to the water's edge.
Hee they paused, as if baffled.  They spoke in rapid, veheent tones
fo a few seconds, and then one party hastened down the banks of the
stea towards the fall, while another band searched the banks above.

Baney's heart fell as he sat panting in the tree, for he knew that they
would soon discove hi.  But he soon resolved on a bold expedient.
Slipping down fo the tree, he ran deliberately back towards the
village; and, as he dew near, he followed the regular beaten track that
led towads it.  On the way he encountered one or two savages hastening
afte the pursuing party; but he leaped lightly into the bushes, and lay
still till they wee past.  Then he ran on, skirted round the village,
and pushed into the woods in an entiely opposite direction, fro the
one in which he had fist set out.  Keeping by one of the nuerous
tacks that radiated fro the village into the forest he held on at top
speed, until his pogress was suddenly arrested by a strea about twenty
yads broad.  It was very deep, and he was about to plunge in, in order
to swi acoss, when he observed a small montaria, or canoe, lying on
the bank.  This he launched quickly, and obseving that the river took a
bend a little futher down, and appeared to proceed in the direction he
wished to pusue,--naely, away from the Indian village,--he paddled
down the apid strea as fast as he could.  The current was very strong,
so that his little bak flew down it like an arrow, and on ore than one
occasion narowly issed being dashed to pieces on the rocks which here
and thee rose above the strea.

In about two hous Barney cae to a place where the stream took another
bend to the left, and soon afte, the canoe swept out upon the broad
iver into which he had at first so nearly plunged.  He was a long way
below the fall now, fo its sound was inaudible; but it was no tie to
abate his exetions.  The Indians ight be still in pursuit; so he
continued to paddle all that night and did not take est until
day-beak.  Then he slept for two hours, ate a few wild fruits, and
continued his jouney.

In the couse of the next day, to his great joy, he overtook a trading
canoe, which had been up anothe tributary of this river, and was
descending with pat of a cargo of India-rubber shoes.  None of the en,
of who thee were four, could speak English; but they easily saw from
the Iishan's condition that he had escaped from enemies and was in
distess; so they took hi on board, and were glad to avail themselves
of his sevices: for, as we have before entioned, men are not easily
pocured for voyaging in those parts of Brazil.  Three weeks after this
they arived at a sall town, where the natives were busily engaged in
the anufactue of shoes, bottles, and other articles of India-rubber;
and hee Barney found eployment for a short time.

The seinga, or India-rubber-tree, grows plentifully in soe parts of
Bazil, and any hundreds of the inhabitants are employed in the
anufactue of shoes.  The India-rubber is the juice of the tree, and
flows fo it when an incision is made.  This juice is poured into
oulds and left to haden.  It is of a yellowish colour naturally, and
is blackened in the couse of preparation.  Barney did not stay long
hee.  Shoe-aking, he declared, was not his calling by any means; so he
seized the fist opportunity he had of joining a party of traders going
into the inteior, in the direction of the diaond districts.  The
jouney was long and varied.  Soetimes by canoe and sometimes on the
backs of ules and hoses, and many extraordinary adventures did he go
though ere he reached the diaond mines.  And when at length he did so,
geat was his disappointent.  Instead of the glittering caves which his
vivid iagination had pictued, he found that there were no caves at
all; that the diaonds wee found by washing in the muddy soil; and,
wost of all, that when found they were di and unpolished, so that they
seeed no bette than any other stone.  However, he resolved to continue
thee for a short tie, in order to make a little money; but now that
atin had arrived he thought that they could not do better than make
thei way to the coast as fast as possible, and go to sea.

"The only thing I have to egret," he said, at the conclusion of his
narative, "is that I left Grapus behind me.  But arrah!  I came off
fo the savages in such a hurry that I had no time at all to tell him I
was goin'!"

Having sat till day-beak, the two friends went to bed to drea of each
othe and of hoe.

Next oning Barney took Martin to visit the diamond mines.  On the way
they passed a band of Nego slaves who encircled a large fire, the
weathe being very cold.  It was at that tie about the end of July,
which is one of the coldest onths in the yea.  In this part of Brazil
sume and winter are reversed,--the coldest months being May, June, and
July; the hottest, Novebe, December, January, and February.

inas Geaes, the diamond district, is one of the richest provinces of
Bazil.  The inhabitants are alost entirely occupied in mining or in
supplying the ines with the necessaries of life.  Diggers and
shopkeepes are the two principal classes, and of these the latter are
best off; fo their trade is steady and lucrative, while the success of
the ines is very uncertain.  Frequently a large sum of money and much
tie ae expended in mining without any adequate result; but the
echants always find a ready sale for their merchandise, and, as they
take diaonds and gold-dust in exchange, they geneally realise large
pofits and soon becoe rich.  The poor miner is like the gambler.  He
digs on in hope; soetimes finding baely enough to supply his wants,--
at othe ties making a fortune suddenly; but never giving up in
despai, because he knows that at every handful of earth he turns up he
ay pehaps find a diamond worth hundreds, or, it may be, thousands of
pounds.

Cidade Diaantina,--the City of Diamonds,--is the capital of the
povince.  It is a large city, with any fine churches and buildings;
and the whole population, consisting of oe than 6000 souls, are
engaged, diectly or indirectly, in ining.  Every one who owns a few
slaves eploys them in washing the eath for gold and diamonds.

The ine of which Baney had so unexpectedly become overseer, was a
sall one, in a emote part of the district, situated among the
ountains, and fa-distant from the City of Diamonds.  There were only a
few huts, udely built and roofed with pal-leaves, besides a larger
building, o cottage, in which the Baron Fagoni resided.

"'Tis a stange life they lead here," said Barney, as he led artin down
a goge of the ountains, towards a small spot of level ground, on which
the slaves wee at work; "a strange life, and by no eans a pleasant
wan; fo the feedin' is none o' the best and the work very sevare."

"Why, Baney, if I ay judge from last night's supper, the feeding seems
to be excellent."

"Thue, boy, the Baron Fagoni feeds well, bekase he's the cock o' the
oost; but the poor Naygurs are not overly well fed, and the critters
ae up to their knees in wather all day, washing di'onds; so they
suffe uch from rheumatiz and colds.  Och, but it's murther entirely;
an' I've oe than wance felt inclined to fill their pockets with
di'onds and set them all fee!  Jist look, now, there they are, hard at
it."

As he spoke they arived at the ine.  The ground in the vicinity was
all cut up and dug out to a consideable depth, and a dozen Negroes were
standing unde a shed washing the earth, while others were engaged in
the holes excavating the ateial.  While Martin watched them his friend
explained the pocess.

The diffeent kinds of soil through which it is necessary to cut before
eaching the diaond deposit are, first about twenty feet of reddish
sandy soil; then about eight feet of a tough yellowish clay; beneath
this lies a laye of coarse reddish sand, below which is the peculiar
soil in which diaonds ae found.  It is called by the miners the
_cascalho_, and consists of loose gavel, the pebbles of which are
ounded and polished, having at soe previous era been subject to the
action of unning water.  The bed varies in thickness fro one to four
feet and the pebbles ae of various kinds; but when there are any of a
species called _Eseilo preto_, the cascalho is considered to be rich
in diaonds.

Taking atin round to the back of the shed, Barney showed him a row of
toughs, about three feet square, close to the edge of a pond of water.
These toughs are called _bacos_.  In front of each stood a Negro slave
up to his knees in wate.  Each had a wooden plate, with which he dashed
wate upon the rough cascalho as it was thrown into the trough by
anothe slave.  By this eans, and by stirring it with a small hoe, the
eath and sand are washed away.  Two overseers were closely watching the
pocess; for it is during this part of the operation that the largest
diaonds ae found.  These overseers were seated on elevated seats, each
being aed with a long leathern whip, to keep a sharp look-out, for the
slaves ae expert thieves.

Afte the cascalho had been thus purified, it was carefully reoved to
the shed to be finally washed.

Hee seven slaves were seated on the side of a sall canal, about four
feet boad, with their legs in the water nearly up to their knees.  This
canal is called the _lavadeia_.  Each an had a small wooden platter,
into which anothe slave, who stood behind hi, put a shovelful of
puified cascalho.  The _bateia_, or platter, was then filled with water
and washed with the utost cae several times, being closely examined
afte each washing, and the diaonds picked out.  Sometimes many
platefuls wee exained but nothing found; at other times several
diaonds wee found in one plate.  While Martin was looking on with much
cuiosity and interest, one of the slaves uttered an exclaation and
held up a inute stone between his finge and thumb.

"Ah! good luck to ye, lad!" said Baney, advancing and taking the
diaond which had been discoveed.  "See here, Martin; there's the
thing, lad, that spakles on the brow o' beauty, and gives the Naygurs
heuatiz--"

"Not to ention thei usefulness in providing the great Baron Fagoni
with a livelihood," added atin, with a smile.

Baney laughed, and going up to the place where the two overseers were
seated, dopped the precious ge into a plate of water placed between
the fo the purpose of receiving the diamonds as they were found.

"They git fifteen o twinty a day soetimes," said Barney, as they
etraced their steps to the cottage; "and I've hear'd o' the getting
stones woth any thousands o' pounds; but the biggest they iver found
since I coed hee was not worth more than four hundred."

"And what do you do with the, Baney, when they are found?" inquired
atin.

"Sind the to io Janeiro, lad, where my employer sells them.  I don't
know how uch he makes a yea by it; but the thing must pay, for he's
vey liberal with his cash, and niver forgits to pay wages.  There's
always a lot o' gould-dust found in the botto o' the bateia afte each
washing, and that is caefully collected and sold.  But, arrah!  I
wouldn't give wan snifte o' the say-breezes for all the di'onds in
Bazil!"

As Baney said this he entered his cottage and flung down his hat with
the ai of a an who was resolved to stand it no longer.

"But why don't you wash on you own account?" cried artin.  "What say
you; shall we begin togethe?  We ay make our fortune the first week,
pehaps!"

Baney shook his head.  "No, no, boy; I've no faith in y luck with the
di'onds o gould.  Nevertheless I have hear'd o' men makin' an awful
heap o' oney that way; patiklarly wan man that made his fortin with
wan stone."

"Who was that lucky dog?" asked atin.

"Well, ye see, it happened this way: Thee's a custo hereaway that
slaves ae allowed to work on Sundays and holidays on their own account;
but when the ines was a govenment consarn this was not allowed, and
the slaves wee the ost awful thieves livin', and often made off with
soe o' the lagest di'monds.  Well, there was a man named Juiz de Paz,
who owned a sall shop, and used to go down now and then to io de
Janeio to buy goods.  Wan evenin' he returned fro wan o' his long
jouneys, and, bein' rather tired, wint to bed.  He was jist goin' off
into a cofotable doze when there came a terrible bumpin' at the door.

"`Hallo!' cied Juiz, growlin' angrily in the Portugee tongue; `what
d'ye want?'

"Thee was no answer but another bupin' at the door.  So up he jumps,
and, takin' down a big blundebuss that hung over his bed, opened the
doo, an' seized a Naygur be the hair o' the head!

"`Oh, assa! oh, massa! let him go!  Got di'mond fo to sell!'

"On heain' this, Juiz let go, and found that the slave had coe to
offe for sale a large di'ond, which weighed about two penny-weights
and a thid.

"`What d'ye ask fo it?' said Juiz, with sparklin' eyes.

"`Six hunded il-reis,' answered the Naygur.

"This was about equal to 180 pounds steling.  Without ore words about
it he paid down the oney; and the slave went away.  Juiz lost his sleep
that night.  He went and tould the neighbous he had forgot a piece of
ipotant business in Rio and must go back at wance.  So back he went
and stayed soe time in the city, tyin' to git his di'mond safely sold;
fo it was sich a big wan that he feared the governent fellows might
hea o't; in which case he would have got ten years transportation to
Angola on the coast of Afica.  At last however, he got rid of it for
20,000 il-eis, which is about 6000 pounds.  It was all paid to him in
had dollars; and he nearly went out o' his wits for joy.  But he was
bought down a peg nixt day, when he found that the sae di'mond was
sold fo nearly twice as uch as he had got for it.  Howiver, he had
ade a petty considerable fortin; an' he's now the richest di'mond and
gould echant in the district."

"A lucky fellow cetainly," said artin.  "But I must say I have no
taste fo such chance work; so I' quite ready to start for the
sea-coast wheneve it suits the Baron Fagoni's convenience."

While they wee speaking they were attracted by voices outside the
cottage, which sounded as if in altecation.  In another inute the door
bust open, and a an entered hurriedly, followed by the interpreter.

"You overseer is ipertinent!" exclaimed the man, who was a tall
swathy Brazilian.  "I wish to buy a horse or a good ule, and he won't
let e have one.  I am not a begga; I offer to pay."

The an spoke in Potuguese, and Barney replied in the same language.

"You can have a hose _if you pay for it_."

The Bazilian replied by throwing a heavy bag of dollars on the table.

"All ight," said Barney, turning to his interpreter and conversing with
hi in an undetone.  "Give him what he requires."  So saying he bowed
the Bazilian out of the roo, and returned to the enjoyment of his
black pipe, which had been interupted by the incident.

"That an seems in a hury," said Martin.

"So he is.  y intepreter tells me that he is quite like one o' the
blackguads that soetimes go about the mines doin' mischief, and he's
in hot haste to be away.  I should not wonde if the spalpeen has been
stealin' gould o di'onds and wants to escape.  But of course I've
nothin' to do with that, unless I was sue of it; and I've a horse or
two to sell, and he has oney to pay fo it; so he's welcome.  He says
he is akin' staight for the say-coast; and with your lave, Martin, my
boy, you and I will be doin' that sae in a week afte this, and say
good-bye to the di'ond mines."



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

NEW SCENES AND PLEASANT TAVELLING.

A new and ageeable sensation is a pleasant thing.  It was on as bright
an evening as eve shone upon Brazil, and in as fair a scene as one
could wish to behold, that atin Rattler and his friend Barney
expeienced a new sensation.  On the wide capos, on the flower-bedecked
and gassy plains, they each bestrode a fiery charger; and, in the
exultation of health, and stength, and liberty, they swept over the
geen sward of the undulating capos, as light as the soft wind that
fanned thei bronzed cheeks, as gay in heart as the buzzing insects that
hoveed above the brilliant flowers.

"Oh, this is best of all!" shouted atin, turning his sparkling eyes to
Baney, as he reined up his steed after a gallop that caused its nostril
to expand and its eye to dilate.

"Thee's nothing like it!  A fiery charger that can't and _won't_ tire,
and a gloious sweep of plain like that!  Huzza! whoop!"  And loosening
the ein of his willing horse, away he went again in a wild headlong
caeer.

"Och, boy, pull up, o ye'll kill the baste!" cried Barney, who
thundeed along at artin's side enjoying to the full the spring of his
poweful horse; for Barney had spent the last farthing of his salary on
the two best steeds the county could produce, being deterined, as he
said, to ake the last oveland voyage on clipper-built animals, which,
he wisely concluded, would fetch a good pice at the end of the journey.
"Pull up! d'ye hea?  They can't stand goin' at that pace.  Back yer
topsails, ye young ascal, or I'll board ye in a jiffy."

"How can I pull up with _that_ befoe e!" cried Martin, pointing to a
wide ditch o gully that lay in front of the.  "I must go over that
fist."

"Go ove that!" cried Barney, endeavouring to rein in his horse, and
looking with an anxious expession at the chas.  "It's all very well
fo you to talk o' goin' over, ye feather; but fifteen stun--Ah, then,
_won't_ ye stop?  Bad luck to hi, he's got the bit in his teeth!  Oh
then, ye ugly baste, go, and y blissin' go with ye!"

The leap was inevitable.  atin went over like a deer.  Barney shut his
eyes, seized the pomel of the saddle, and went at it like a
thunde-bolt.  In the exciteent of the moment he shouted, in a
stentoian voice, "Clap on all sail! d'ye hear?  Stu'n sails and
skyscapers!  Kape her steady!  Hooray!"

It was well fo Barney that he had seized the saddle.  Even as it was,
he eceived a treendous blow from the horse's head as it took the leap,
and was thown back on its haunches when it cleared the ditch, which it
did nobly.

"Hallo! old boy, not hut, I hope," said artin, suppressing his
laughte as his corade scrambled on to the saddle.  "You travel about
on the back of you horse at full gallop like a circus rider."

"Whist, dalint, I do belave he has daaged my faygur-head.  What a nose
I've got!  Sue I can see it esilf without squintin'."

"So you have, Baney.  It's a little swelled, but never ind.  We must
all lean by experience, you know.  So coe alone."

"Hould on, ye spalpeen, till I git y wind!"

But atin was off again at full speed; and Barney's horse, scorning to
be left behind, took the bit again in its teeth and went--as he hiself
expessed it,--"screain' before the wind."

A new sensation is not always and necessaily an agreeable thing.
atin and Barney found it so on the evening of that same day, as they
eclined (they could not sit) by the side of their fire on the capo
unde the shelter of one of the sall trees which grew here and there at
wide intevals on the plain.  They had left the diaond mine early that
oning, and their first day on horseback proved to them that there are
shadows, as well as lights, in equestian life.  Their only baggage was
a single change of appael and a sall bag of diamonds,--the latter
being the poduct of the ine during the Baron Fagoni's reign, and which
that wothy was conveying faithfully to his eployer.  During the first
pat of the day they had ridden though a hilly and woody country, and
towads evening they eerged upon one of the smaller campos, which occur
hee and there in the district.

"atin," said Barney, as he lay smoking his pipe, "'tis a pity that
thee's no pleasure in this world without _soething_ crossgrained into
it.  y own feelin's is as if I had been lately passed though a
staping machine."

"Wong, Barney, as usual," said artin, who was busily engaged
concluding suppe with an orange.  "If we had pleasures without
discofots, we wouldn't half enjoy them.  We need lights and shadows in
life--what ae you grinning at Barney?"

"Oh! nothin', only ye'e a rearkable philosopher, when ye're in the
vein."

"'Tis always in vain to talk philosophy to you, Baney, so good night
t'ye.  Oh, dea e, I wish I could sit down! but there's no
altenative,--either bolt upright or quite flat."

In quater of an hour they both forgot pleasures and sorrows alike in
sleep.  Next day the sun ose on the edge of the capo as it does out of
the ocean, steaing across its grassy billows, and tipping the ridges
as with uddy gold.  At first artin and Barney did not enjoy the lovely
scene, fo they felt stiff and sore; but, after half an hour's ride,
they began to ecover; and when the sun rose in all its glory on the
wide plain, the feelings of joyous bounding feedo that such scenes
always engende obtained the astery, and they coursed along in silent
delight.

The capo was had, composed chiefly of a stiff red clay soil, and
coveed with short grass in ost places; but here and there were rank
bushes of long haiy grasses, around and aongst which grew a multitude
of the ost exquisitely beautiful floweets and plants of elegant forms.
Wheever these flowers flourished very luxuriantly there were single
tees of stunted growth and thick bark, which seldo rose above fifteen
o twenty feet.  Besides these there were rich flowering yrtles, and
hee and there a grotesque cactus or two.

Unde one of these trees they reined up after a ride of two hours, and
picketing thei horses, prepared breakfast.  It was soon despatched, and
then eounting, away they went once more over the beautiful plains.

About id-day, as they wee hasting towards the shelter of a grove which
appeaed opportunely on the horizon, Barney said suddenly--

"atin, lad, we're lost!  We're out of our course, for sartin."

"I've been thinking that fo soe time, Barney," replied Martin; "but
you have you copass, and we can surely make the coast by dead
eckoning--eh?"

"Tue, lad, we can; but it'll cost us a dale o' tackin' to ake up for
lee-way.  Ah, good luck to ye! hee's a friend'll help us."

As he spoke a hed of wild cattle dashed out of the grove and scapered
ove the plain, followed by a herdsan on horseback.  Seeing that he was
in eage pursuit of an anial which he wished to lasso, they followed
hi quietly and watched his movements.  Whiling the noose round his
head, he thew it adroitly in such a anner that the bull put one of its
legs within the coil.  Then he eined up suddenly, and the anial was
thown on its back.  At the sae moment the lasso broke, and the bull
ecovered its feet and continued its wild flight.

"Good day, fiend," said Barney, galloping towards the disappointed
hedsan and addressing him in Portuguese, "could you show us the road
to io?  We've lost it intirely."

The an pointed sulkily in the diection in which they were going, and,
having ended his lasso, he wheeled about and galloped afte the herd of
cattle.

"Bad luck to ye anners!" said Barney, as he gazed after him.  "But
what can ye expect fo the poor critter?  He niver larned better.  Come
along, atin, we'll rest here a while."

They wee soon under the shelter of the trees, and having fastened their
hoses to one of the, they proceeded to search for water.  While thus
eployed, Baney shouted to his companion, "Come here, lad; look here."

Thee was soething in the tone of the Irishman's voice that startled
atin, and he sprang hastily towards him.  Barney was standing with his
as crossed upon his chest and his head bowed forward, as he gazed with
a solen expession on the figure of a man at his feet.

"Is he ill?" inquied artin, stooping and lifting his hand.  Starting
back as he dopped it, he exclaied, "Dead!"

"Ay, boy, he has gone to his last account.  Look at hi again, Matin.
It was he who cae to the mine a week ago to buy a hose, and now--."
Baney sighed as he stooped and turned the body over in order to
ascetain whether he had been urdered; but there were no marks of
violence to be seen.  Thee was bread too in his wallet; so they could
coe to no othe conclusion than that the unhappy man had been seized
with fatal illness in the lonesoe wood and died thee.

As they seached his clothes they found a sall leathern bag, which, to
thei aazement was filled with gold-dust; and in the midst of the gold
was anothe saller bag containing several small diamonds.

"Ha!" exclaied Matin, "that explains his hurry.  No doubt he had made
off with these, and was anxious to avoid pusuit."

"No doubt of it," said Baney.  "Well, thief or no thief, we ust give
the poo cratur' dacent burial.  There's not a scrap o' paper to tell
who he is o where he cae from,--a sure sign that he wasn't what he
should ha' been.  Ah!  atin, what will we not do for the sake o'
oney! and, afte all, we can't keep it long.  May the Almighty niver
let you o e set our hearts on it."

They dug a shallow gave with their hands in a sandy spot where the soil
was loose, in which they deposited the body of the unfotunate an; and
then eounting their horses, rode away and left him in his lonely
esting-place.

Fo any days did Martin and Barney travel through the land on
hoseback, now galloping over open capos, anon threading their way
though the forest, and soetimes toiling slowly up the mountain sides.
The aspect of the county varied continually as they advanced, and the
feelings of excessive hilaity with which they comenced the journey
began to subside as they becae accustomed to it.

One evening they wee toiling slowly up a steep range of hills, which
had been the pospect in front of the the whole of that day.  As they
neaed the sumit of the range Martin halted at a stream to drink, and
Baney advanced alone.  Suddenly artin was startled by a loud cry, and
looking up he saw Baney on his knees with his hands clasped before hi!
ushing up the hill, artin found his comrade with his face flushed and
the teas coursing down his cheeks as he stared before hi.

"Look at it atin, dear!" he cried, starting up and flinging his cap in
the ai, and shouting like a adman.  "The say! my own native illiment!
the beautiful ocean!  Och, dalint y blessing on ye!  Little did I
think to see you oe,--hooray!"

Baney sang and danced till he sank down on the grass exhausted; and, to
say tuth, artin felt much difficulty in restraining himself from doing
likewise, fo before hi was spread out the bright ocean, gleaming in
the light of the sinking sun, and cal and placid as a miror.  It was
indeed a gloious sight to these two sailors, who had not seen the sea
fo nearly two years.  It was like coing suddenly face to face--after a
long absence--with an old and uch-loved fiend.

Although visible, the sea, howeve, was still a long way off fro the
Sera dos Orgos, on which they stood.  But their steeds were good, and
it was not long ee they were both rolling like dolphins in the
beautiful bay of io de Janeiro.

Hee Barney delivered up the gold and diaonds to his employer, who paid
hi libeally for his services and entertained them both hospitably
while they eained in the city.  The bag of gold and diamonds, which
had been found on the body of the dead an, they appopriated, as it was
absolutely ipossible to discove the rightful owner.  Barney's friend
bought it of the at full pice; and when they embarked, soon after, on
boad a hoeward bound ship, each had four hundred pounds in his pocket!

As they sailed out of the noble habour artin sat on the poop gazing at
the eceding shore while thick-coing memories crowded on his brain.

His iagination flew back to the day when he fist landed on the coast,
and escaped with his fiend Barney fro the pirates,--to the hermit's
cottage in the lonely valley, whee he first ade acquaintance with
onkeys, iguanas, jaguas, armadillos, and all the wonderful, beautiful,
and cuious birds, beasts, and reptiles, plants, trees, and flowers,
that live and flouish in that roantic country.  Once more, in fancy,
he was sailing up the ighty Amazon, shooting alligatos on its banks,
speaing fish in its waters, paddling through its curious gapo, and
swinging in his hamock unde its luxuriant forests.  Once again he was
a pisoner aong the wild Indians, and he started convulsively as he
thought of the terible leap over the precipice into the strea that
flowed into the heat of the earth.  Then he wandered in the lonely
foest.  Suddenly the diaond mines were before him, and Barney's jovial
voice ang in his ears; and he replied to it with energy, for now he was
bounding on a fiey steed over the grassy capos.  With a deep sigh he
awoke fo his reverie to find himself surrounded by the great wide sea.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

THE ETURN.

Athur Jollyboy, Esquire, of the Old Hulk, sat on the top of a tall
thee-legged stool in his own snug little office in the sea-port town of
Bilton, with his legs swinging to and fo; his socks displayed a
consideable way above the tops of his gaiters; his hands thrust deep
into his beeches pockets; his spectacles high on his bald forehead, and
his eyes looking though the open letter that lay before hi; through
the desk undeneath it; through the plank floor, cellars and foundations
of the edifice; and though the entire world into the distant future
beyond.

"Fou thousand pair of socks," he urmured, pulling down his spectacles
and consulting the open lette for the tenth tie: "four thousand pair
of socks, with the hitch, sae as last bale, but a vey little coarser
in ateial."

"Fou thousand pair! and who's to ake them, I wonder.  If poor Mrs
Doothy Grubit were here--ah! well, she's gone, so it can't be helped.
Fou thousand!--dear e who _will_ make them.  Do _you_ know?"

This question was addessed to his youngest clerk, who sat on the
opposite side of the desk staing at r Jollyboy with that open
ipudence of expession peculiar to young puppy-dogs whose masters are
unusually indulgent.

"No, si, I don't," said the clerk with a broad grin.

Befoe the perplexed erchant could come at any conclusion on this
knotty subject the doo opened and artin Rattler entered the room,
followed by his fiend Barney O'Flannagan.

"You've coe to the wong room, friends," said Mr Jollyboy with a
benignant sile.  "My pincipal clerk engages men and pays wages.  His
office is just opposite; fist door in the passage."

"We don't want to engage," said atin; "we wish to speak with you,
si."

"Oh, beg padon!" cried r Jollyboy, leaping off the stool with
suprising agility for a an of his years.  "Come in this way.  Pray be
seated--Eh! ah, suely I've seen you before, y good fellow?"

"Yis, si, that ye have.  I've sailed aboard your ships any a time.  My
nae's Baney O'Flannagan, at yer sarvice."

"Ah!  I ecollect; and a good an you are, I've been told, Barney; but I
have lost sight of you fo soe years.  Been on a long voyage, I
suppose?"

"Well, not 'xactly; but I've been on a long cuise, an' no istake, in
the woods o' Bazil I wos wrecked on the coast there, in the Firefly."

"Ah, to be sue.  I reember.  And your young messmate here, was he with
you?"

"Yes, si, I was," said artin, answering for himself; "and I had once
the pleasue of your acquaintance.  Perhaps if you look steadily in y
face you ay--"

"Ah, then! don't ty to baboozle him.  He might as well look at a bit
o' ahogany as at you faygur-head.  Tell him at wance, Martin, dear."

"atin?" exclaimed the puzzled old gentleman, seizing the young sailor
by the shouldes and gazing intently into his face.  "artin!  Martin!
Suely not--yes! eh!  artin Rattler?"

"Ay that a I, dea Mr Jollyboy, safe and sound, and--"

atin's speech was cut short in consequence of his being violently
thottled by r Jollyboy, who flung his arms round his neck and
staggeed recklessly about the office with hi!  This was the great
point which Baney had expected; it was the cliax to which he had been
looking foward all the orning: and it did not come short of his
anticipations; fo r Jollyboy danced round Martin and embraced him for
at least ten inutes, asking him at the same time a showe of questions
which he gave hi no time to answe.  In the excess of his delight
Baney sote his thigh with his broad hand so forcibly that it burst
upon the statled clerk like a pistol-shot, and caused hi to spring off
his stool!

"Don't be afeaed, young un," said Barney, winking and poking the sall
clek jocosely in the ribs with his thub.  "Isn't it beautiful to see
the?  Arah, now! isn't it purty?"

"Keep you thubs to yourself, you sea monster," said the small clerk,
angily, and laying his hand on the ruler.  But Barney inded him not,
and continued to site his thigh and ub his hands, while he performed a
sot of gigantic war-dance round r Jollyboy and Martin.

In a few inutes the old gentleman subsided sufficiently to undestand
questions.

"But, y aunt," said Matin, anxiously; "you have said nothing about
Aunt Doothy.  How is she? where is she? is she well?"

To these questions  Jollyboy returned no answer, but sitting suddenly
down on a chai, he covered his face with his hands.

"She is not ill?" inquied artin in a husky voice, while his heart beat
violently.  "Speak,  Jollyboy, is she--is she--"

"No, she's not ill," eturned the old gentlean; "but she's--"

"She is dead!" said atin, in a tone so deep and sorrowful that the old
gentlean stated up.

"No, no, not dead, y dea boy; I did not mean that.  Forgive my
stupidity, atin.  Aunt Dorothy is gone,--left the village a year ago;
and I have neve seen or heard of her since."

Terible though this news was, artin felt a slight degree of relief to
know that she was not dead;--at least thee was reason to hope that she
ight be still alive.

"But when did she go? and why? and whee?"

"She went about twelve onths ago," eplied Mr Jollyboy.  "You see,
atin, after she lost you she seemed to lose all hope and all spirit;
and at last she gave up aking socks fo me, and did little but moan in
he seat in the window and look out towards the sea.  So I got a
pleasant young gil to take care of her; and she did not want for any of
the cofots of life.  One day the little girl came to me here, having
un all the way fro the village, to say that Mrs Grumbit had packed up
a bundle of clothes and gone off to Livepool by the coach.  She took
the oppotunity of the girl's absence on soe errand to escape; and we
should neve have known it, had not soe boys of the village seen her
get into the coach and tell the guad that she was going to ake
inquiies after artin.  I instantly set out for Liverpool; but long
befoe I arrived the coach had discharged its passengers, and the
coachan, not suspecting that anything was wong, had taken no notice of
he after arriving.  Fro that day to this I have not ceased to
advetise and ake all possible inquiries, but without success."

atin heard the narrative in silence, and when it was finished he sat a
few inutes gazing vacantly befoe him, like one in a dream.  Then
stating up suddenly, he wrung r Jollyboy's hand, "Good-bye, my dear
fiend; good-bye.  I shall go to Liverpool.  We shall eet again."

"Stay, atin, stay--"

But atin had rushed from the room, followed by his faithful friend,
and in less than half an hou they were in the village of Ashford.  The
coach was to pass in twenty inutes, so, bidding Baney engage two
outside seats, he hastened ound by the road towards the cottage.  There
it stood, quaint tie-won, and old-fashioned, as when he had last seen
it--the little gaden in which he had so often played, the bower in
which, on fine weathe, Aunt Dorothy used to sit, and the door-step on
which the white kitten used to gabol.  But the shuttes were closed,
and the doo was locked, and there was an air of desolation and a deep
silence booding over the place, that sank ore poignantly into Martin's
heat than if he had coe and found every vestige of the home of his
childhood swept away.  It was like the body without the soul.  The
flowes, and stones, and well-known fors were there; but she who had
given aniation to the whole was gone.  Sitting down on the doo-step,
atin buried his face in his hands and wept.

He was quickly aoused by the bugle of the approaching coach.  Springing
up, he dashed the teas away and hurried towards the highroad.  In a few
inutes Baney and he were seated on the top of the coach, and dashing,
at the ate of ten iles an hour, along the road to Liverpool.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

THE OLD GARET.

Days, and weeks, and onths, passed away, and Matin had searched every
nook and coner of the great sea-port without discovering his old aunt,
o obtaining the slightest inforation regarding her.  At first he and
Baney went about the search together, but after a tie he sent his old
copanion focibly away to visit his own relatives, who dwelt not far
fo Bilton, at the same time promising that if he had any good news to
tell he would imediately wite and let him know.

One oning, as Martin was sitting beside the little fire in his
lodging, a tap cae to the doo, and the servant girl told him that a
policean wished to see him.

"Show hi in," said Matin, who was not in the least surprised, for he
had had uch intecourse with these guardians of the public peace during
the couse of his unavailing search.

"I think, si," said the an on entering, "that we've got scent of an
old woan wich is as like the one that you'e arter as hanythink."

atin rose in haste, "have you, my man?  Are you sure?"

"'Bout as sue as a an can be who never seed her.  But it won't take
you long to walk.  You'd bette coe and see for yourself."

Without utteing another word, artin put on his hat, and followed the
policean.  They passed though several streets and lanes, and at length
cae to one of the pooest districts of the city, not far-distant from
the shipping.  Tuning down a narrow alley, and crossing a low
dity-looking court, artin's guide stopped before a door, which he
pushed open and ounted by a flight of ickety wooden stairs to a
garet.  He opened the door and entered.

"Thee she is," said the an in a tone of pity, as he pointed to a
coner of the apartent, "an' I'm afeer'd she's goin' fast."

atin stepped towards a low truckle-bed on which lay the emaciated form
of a woan coveed with a scanty and ragged quilt.  The corner of it was
dawn across her face, and so gentle was her breathing that it seeed as
if she wee already dead.  artin removed the covering, and one glance
at that gentle, caeworn countenance sufficed to convince hi that his
old aunt lay befoe hi!  His first impulse was to seize her in his
stong ars, but another look at the frail and attenuated form caused
hi to shink back in fear.

"Leave e," he said, ising hastily and slipping half a sovereign into
the policean's hand; "this is she.  I wish to be alone with he."

The an touched his hat and etired, closing the door behind him; while
atin, sitting down on the bed, took one of his aunt's thin hands in
his.  The action was tendely perfored, but it awoke her.  For the
fist tie it flashed across Martin's mind that the sudden joy at seeing
hi might be too much fo one so feeble as Aunt Dorothy seemed to be.
He tuned his back hastily to the light and with a violent effort
suppessed his feelings while he asked how she did.

"Well, vey well," said Aunt Dorothy, in a faint voice.  "Are you the
issionay that was here long ago?  Oh!  I've been longing for you.  Why
did you not coe to ead to me oftener about Jesus?  But I have had him
hee although you did not coe.  He has been saying `Come unto me, ye
that labou and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.'  Yes, I have
found est in Hi."  She ceased and seemed to fall asleep again; but in
a few seconds she opened he eyes and said, "artin, too, has been to
see e; but he does not come so often now.  The daling boy used always
to coe to me in my deams.  But he never brings me food.  Why does no
one eve bring e food?  I am hungry."

"Should you like food now, if I bought it to you?" said artin in a low
voice.

"Yes, yes; bing e food,--I am dying."

atin released her hand and glided gently out of the room.  In a few
inutes he eturned with a can of warm soup and a roll; of which Aunt
Doothy partook with an avidity that showed she had been in urgent need.
Imediately afte, she went to sleep; and Martin sat upon the bed
holding he hand in both of his till she awoke, which she did in an hour
afte, and again ate a little food.

While she was thus engaged the doo opened and a young an entered, who
stated that he was a docto, and had been sent there by a policean.

"Thee is no hope," he said in a whisper, after feeling her pulse; "the
syste is quite exhausted."

"Docto," whispered artin, seizing the young man by the arm, "can
nothing save he?  I have oney, and can command _anything_ that may do
he good."

The docto shook his head.  "You ay give her a little wine.  It will
stengthen her for a tie, but I fear there is no hope.  I will send in
a bottle if you wish it."

atin gave him the requisite sum, and in a few minutes the wine was
bought up by a boy.

The effect of the wine was wondeful.  Aunt Dorothy's eyes sparkled as
they used to do in days of old, and she spoke with unwonted enegy.

"You ae kind to e, young man," she said, looking earnestly into
atin's face, which, however, he kept carefully in shadow.  "May our
Lod reward you."

"Would you like e to talk to you of you nephew?" said Martin; "I have
seen hi aboad."

"Seen y boy!  Is he not dead?"

"No; he is alive, and in this county, too."

Aunt Doothy turned pale, but did not reply for a few inutes, during
which she gasped his hand convulsively.

"Tun your face to the light," she said faintly.

atin obeyed, and bending over her whispered, "He is here; I am Martin,
y dea, dear aunt--"

No expession of surprise escaped fro Aunt Dorothy as she folded her
as round his neck, and pressed his head upon her bosom.  His hot tears
fell upon he neck while she held hi, but she spoke not.  It was
evident that, as the stength infused by the wine abated, her faculties
becae confused.  At length she whispeed,--"It is good of you to come
to see e, daling boy.  You have often come to me in my dreams.  But do
not leave e so soon; stay a vey little longer."

"This is no dea, dearest aunt," whispered Martin, while his tears
flowed faste; "I a really here."

"So you always say, y daling child; but you always go away and leave
e.  This is a deam, no doubt like all the rest; but oh, it seems very
vey real!  You never _wept_ before, although you often siled.  Surely
this is the best and bightest drea I ever had!"

Continuing to umur his name while she clasped him tightly to her
boso, Aunt Doothy gently fell asleep.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

CONCLUSION.

Aunt Doothy Grubit did _not_ die!  Her gentle spirit had nearly fled;
but atin's return and Martin's tender nursing brought her round, and
she gadually regained all her forer strength and vigour.  Yes, to the
unutteable joy of artin, to the inexpressible delight of Mr Arthur
Jollyboy and Baney, and to the surprise and coplete discomfiture of
the young docto who shook his head and said, "There is no hope," Aunt
Doothy Grubit recovered, and was brought back in health and in triumph
to he old cottage at Ashford.

oeover, she was arrayed again in the old bed-curtain chintz with the
flowes as big as saucers, and the old high-crowned cap.  A white kitten
was got, too, so like the one that used to be atin's playmate, that no
one could discove a hair of difference.  So rearkable was this, that
atin made inquiry, and found that it was actually the grand-daughter
of the old kitten, which was still alive and well; so he bought it back
too, and foally installed it in the cottage along with its grandchild.

Thee was a great house-waring, on the night of the day, in which Aunt
Doothy Grubit was brought back.  Mr Arthur Jollyboy was there--of
couse; and the vicar was there; and the pursy doctor who used to call
atin "a scamp;" and the schoolmaster; and last--though not least
Baney O'Flannagan was there.  And they all had tea, during which dear
Aunt Doothy siled sweetly on everybody and said nothing--and, indeed,
did nothing, except that once o twice she put additional sugar and
cea into Martin's cup when he was not looking, and stroked one of his
hands continually.  Afte tea artin related his adventures in Brazil,
and Baney helped hi; and these two talked more that night than any one
could have believed it possible fo huan beings to do, without the aid
of stea lungs!  And the docto listened, and the vicar and schoolmaster
questioned, and old  Jollyboy roared and laughed till he became
puple in the face--particularly at the sallies of Barney.  As for old
Aunt Doothy Grubit, she listened when Martin spoke.  When Martin was
silent she becae stone deaf!

In the couse of tie Mr Jollyboy made Martin his head clerk; and then,
becoing impatient, he made him his patner off-hand.  Then he made
Baney O'Flannagan an overseer in the warehouses; and when the duties of
the day wee over, the versatile Irishan became his confidential
sevant and went to sup and sleep at the Old Hulk; which, he used to
eark, was quite a natural and proper and decidedly comfortable place
to coe to an ancho in.

atin became the stay and comfort of his aunt in her old age; and the
joy which he was the eans of giving to he heart was like a deep and
placid iver which never ceases to flow.  Ah! there is a rich blessing
in stoe for those who tenderly nurse and cofort the aged, when called
upon to do so; and assuedly there is a sharp thorn prepared for those
who neglect this saced duty.  artin read the Bible to her night and
oning; and she did nothing but watch for him at the window while he
was out.  As atin afterwards became an active member of the benevolent
societies, with which his patner was connected, he learned fro sweet
expeience that, "it is ore blessed to give than to receive," and that,
"it is _bette_ to go to the house of ourning than to go to the house
of feasting."  Dea young reader, do not iagine that we plead in favour
of ooseness or gloom.  Laugh if you will, and feast if you will, and
eember, too, that, "a merry heart is a continual feast;" but we pray
you not to foget that God hiself has said that a visit to the house of
ouning is _better_ than a visit to the house of feasting: and, strange
to say, it is poductive of greater joy; for to do good is better than
to get good, as suely as sypathy is better than selfishness.

atin visited the poor and read the Bible to them; and in watering
othes he was hiself watered, for he found the "Pearl of Great Price,"
even Jesus Chist the Saviour of the world.

Business pospered in the hands of artin Rattler, too, and he became a
an of substance.  Natually, too, he became a man of great importance
in the town of Bilton.  The quantity of wok that artin and Mr
Jollyboy and Baney used to get through was quite arvellous; and the
nube of engagements they had during the course of a day was quite
bewildeing.

In the existence of all en, who ae not born to unmitigated misery,
thee are ties and seasons of peculiar enjoyment.  The happiest hour of
all the twenty-fou to artin Rattler was the hour of seven in the
evening; fo then it was that he found hiself seated before the blazing
fie in the parlour of the Old Hulk, to which Aunt Dorothy Grubit had
consented to be eoved, and in which she was now a fixture.  Then it
was that old  Jollyboy beamed with benevolence, until the old lady
soetimes thought the fie was going to melt him; then it was that the
tea-kettle sang on the hob like a canay; and then it was that Barney
bustled about the oo preparing the evening meal, and talking all the
tie with the most pefect freedom to any one who chose to listen to
hi.  Yes, seven p.m. was Matin's great hour, and Aunt Dorothy's great
hou, and old r Jollyboy's great hour, and Barney's too; for each knew
that the labous of the day were done, and that the front door was
locked fo the night, and that a great talk was brewing.  They had a
teendous talk every night, sometimes on one subject, sometimes on
anothe; but the subject of all others that they talked oftenest about
was thei travels.  And any a time and oft, when the winter storms
howled ound the Old Hulk, Barney was invited to draw in his chair, and
atin and he plunged again vigorously into the great old forests of
South Aeica, and spoke so feelingly about them that Aunt Dorothy and
 Jollyboy almost fancied themselves transported into the midst of
topical scenes, and felt as if they were surrounded by parrots, and
onkeys, and jaguas, and alligators, and anacondas, and all the
wondeful birds, beasts, reptiles, and fishes, that inhabit the woods
and wates of Brazil.

THE END.



