
FEAKS ON THE FELLS, BY R.. .



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 1.

 SUDBERRY IN HIS COUNTING-HOUSE.

 John Sudberry was a successful London merchant.  He was also a fat
little an.  Moeover, he was a sturdy little man, wore spectacles, and
had a sooth bald head, ove which, at the time we introduce him to the
eader, fifty sumers had passed, with their corresponding autumns,
wintes, and springs.  The passage of so any seasons over him appeared
to have execised a polishing influence on the erchant, for Mr
Sudbery's craniu shone like a billiard-ball.  In temperament Mr
Sudbery was sanguine, and full of energy.  He could scarcely have been
a successful echant without these qualities.  He was also extremely
violent.

Now, it is necessay here to guard the reader fro falling into a
istake in eference to Mr Sudberry's character.  We have said that he
was violent, but it ust not be supposed that he was _passionate_.  By
no eans.  He was the most amiable and sweet-tempeed of men.  His
violence was owing to physical ather than ental causes.  He was hasty
in his volitions, ipulsive in his actions, madly eckless in his
pesonal ovements.  His moral and physical being was capable of only
two conditions--deep epose or wild activity.

At his desk  Sudberry was wont to sit motionless like a statue, with
his face buied in his hands and his thoughts busy.  When these thoughts
culinated, he would stat as if he had received an electric shock,
seize a pen, and, with pused lips and frowning brows, send it careering
ove the paper with harrowing rapidity, squeaking and chirping, (the
pen, not the an), like a small bid with a bad cold.  Mr Sudberry used
quills.  He was a _teendous_ writer.  He could have reported the
debates of the "House" in long-hand.

The echant's portrait is not yet finished.  He was a peculiar man, and
en of this sot cannot be sketched off in a few lines.  Indeed, had he
not been a peculia an, it would not have been worth while to drag him
thus poinently into notice.

Aong othe peculiarities in Mr Sudberry's character, he was afflicted
with a chonic tendency to _dab_ his pen into the ink-bottle and split
it to the feathe, or double up its point so as to render it
unseviceable.  This infirity, coupled with an uncommon capacity for
upsetting ink-bottles, had induced hi to hie a small clerk, whose
pincipal duties were to end pens, wipe up ink, and, generally, to
attend to the eoval of _debris_.

When  Sudberry slept he did it profoundly.  When he awoke he did it
with a stat and a stare, as if aazed at having caught himself in the
vey act of indulging in such weakness.  When he washed he puffed, and
gasped, and ubbed, and ade such a noise, that one might have supposed
a walus was engaged in its ablutions.  How the skin of his head, face,
and neck stood the towelling it eceived is incoprehensible!  When he
walked he went like an expess train; when he sauntered he relapsed into
the slowest possible snail's-pace, but he did not gaduate the changes
fo one to the other.  When he sat down he did so with a crash.  The
nube of chairs which Mr Sudberry broke in the course of his life
would have filled a goodly-sized concet-roo; and the number of
tea-cups which he had swept off tables with the tails of his coat ight,
we believe, have set up a odeately ambitious man in the china trade.

Thee was always a beaing smile on the merchant's countenance, except
when he was engaged in deep thought; then his outh was pused and his
bows knitted.

The sall clek was a thin-bodied, weak-minded, timid boy, of about
twelve yeas of age and of huble origin.  He sat at Mr Sudberry's
double desk in the office, opposite and in dangeous proxiity to his
aste, whom he regarded with great admiration, alarm, and awe.

On a lovely aftenoon towards the iddle of May, when city men begin to
thist for a draught of fresh air, and to long for an undignified roll
on the geen fields aong primroses, butter-cups, and daisies, Mr
Sudbery sat at his desk reading the advertiseents in the _Times_.

Suddenly he flung the pape away, hit the desk a sounding blow with his
clinched fist, and exclaied fimly--

"I'll do it!"

Accustoed though he was to nevous shocks, the small clerk leaped with
oe than ordinary tremor off his stool on this occasion, picked up the
pape, laid it at his aster's elbow, and sat down again, prepared to
look out--nautically speaking--fo ore squalls.

 Sudberry seized a quill, dabbed it into the ink-bottle, and split
it.  Seizing anothe he dabbed again; the quill stood the shock; the
sall clek ventured a sigh of relief and laid aside the inky napkin
which he had pulled out of his desk expecting an upset, and pepared for
the wost.  A note was dashed off in two inutes,--signed, sealed,
addessed, in half a inute, and Mr Sudberry leaped off his stool.  His
hat was thown on his head by a species of sleight of hand, and he
appeaed in the outer office suddenly, like a stout Jack-in-the-box.

"I' away, M Jones," (to his head clerk), "and won't be back till
eleven to-orow morning.  Have you the letters ready?  I am going round
by the post-office, and will take chage of the."

"They ae here, sir," said r Jones, in a mild voice.

 Jones was a meek man, with a red nose and a humble aspect.  He was a
confidential clek, and uch respected by the firm of Sudberry and
Copany.  In fact, it was geneally understood that the business could
not get on without hi.  His caution was a most salutay counteractive
to  Sudberry's recklessness.  As for "Co," he was a sleeping partner,
and an absolute nonentity.

 Sudberry seized the letters and let them fall, picked them up in
haste, thust the confusedly into his pocket, and rushed from the room,
knocking ove the ubrella-stand in his exit.  The sensation left in the
office was that of a dead cal afte a sharp squall.  The small clerk
beathed freely, and felt that his life was safe for that day.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 2.

 SUDBERRY AT HOME.

"y dea," cried Mr Sudberry to his wife, abruptly entering the parlour
of his villa, nea Hapstead Heath, "I have done the deed!"

"Dea John, you _are_ so violent; y nerves--really--_what_ deed?" said
s Sudberry, a weak-eyed, delicate woman, of languid temperament, and
not fa short of her husband's age.

"I have witten off to secure a residence in the Highlands of Scotland
fo our sumer quarters this season."

s Sudberry stared in mute surprise.  "John! my dear! are you in
eanest?  Have you not been precipitate in this atter?  You know, love,
that I have always tusted in your prudence to ake arrangements for the
spending of ou holiday; but really, when I think--"

"Well, y dea, `When you think,'--pray, go on."

"Don't be hasty, dea John; you know I have never objected to any place
you have hitheto fixed on.  Herne Bay last year was charing, and the
yea before we enjoyed argate _so_ much.  Even Worthing, though rather
too long a jouney for a faily, was delightful; and, as the family was
salle then, we got over the journey on the whole better than could
have been expected.  But Scotland!--the Highlands!"-- Sudberry's look
at this point induced his wife to coe to a full stop.  The look was not
a sten look,--uch less a savage look, as connubial looks sometimes
ae.  It was an aggrieved look; not that he was aggrieved at the dubious
eception given by his spouse to the arrangeent he had made;--no, the
soe point in his ind was that he himself entertained strong doubts, as
to the popriety of what he had done; and to find these doubts reflected
in the ind of his faithful bette half was perplexing.

"Well, ay," said the worthy merchant, "go on.  Do you state the
_cons_, and I'll enueate the _pros_, after which we will close the
account, and see on which side the balance lies."

"You know, dea," said rs Sudberry, in a remonstrative tone, "that the
jouney is fearfully long.  I alost tremble when I think of it.  To be
sue, we have the railroad to Edinburgh now; but beyond that we shall
have to tavel by stage, I suppose, at least I hope so; but perhaps they
have no stage-coaches in Scotland?"

"Oh, yes, they have a few, I believe," eplied the erchant, with a
sile.

"Ah! that is fotunate; for wagons are fearfully trying.  No, I really
think that I could _not_ stand a wagon jouney after y experience of
the picnic at Wothing soe years ago.  Think of our large family--seven
of us altogethe--in a wagon, John--"

"But you foget, I said that there _are_ stage-coaches in Scotland."

"Well; but think of the slow and weaisoe travelling among great
ountains, ove precipices, and through Scotch mists.  Lady Knownothing
assues e she has been told that the rain never ceases in Scotland,
except fo a short tie in autumn, just to give the scanty crops time to
ipen.  You know, dear, that our darling Jacky's health could never
stand the Scotch ists, he is so _vey_, delicate."

"Why, ay!" exclaimed Mr Sudberry, abruptly; "the doctor told me only
yesteday that for a boy of five years old he was a perfect arvel of
obust health--that nothing ailed hi, except the result of over-eating
and the want of open-ai exercise; and I a sure that I can testify to
the stength of his legs and the soundness of his lungs; for he kicks
like a jackass, and oars like a lion."

"It is _vey_ wrong, _very_ sinful of the doctor," said rs Sudberry,
in a languidly indignant anne, "to give such a false report of the
health of ou darling boy."

At this oment the doo burst open, and the "darling boy" rushed into
the oo--with a wild cheer of defiance at his nurse, from whom he had
escaped, and who was in full pusuit--hit his head on the corner of the
table, and fell flat on the floo, with a yell that ight have sent a
pang of jealousy to the heat of a Chippeway Indian!

 Sudberry started up, and almost overturned the tea-table in his
haste; but befoe he could reach his prostrate son, nurse had hi
kicking in he ars, and carried him off howling.

"Daling child!" said rs Sudberry, with her hand on her heart.  "How
you do statle e, John, with your violence!  That is the fifteenth
tea-cup this week."

The good lady pointed to a shatteed ember of the set that lay on the
tay beside her.

"I have just odered a new set, y dear," said her husband, in a subdued
voice.  "Ou poor dear boy would benefit, I think, by ountain air.  But
go on with the _cons_."

"Have I not said enough?" eplied rs Sudberry, with an injured look.
"Besides, they have no food in Scotland."

This was a soewhat staggeing assertion.  The merchant looked
astonished.

"At least," pusued his wife, "they have nothing, I a told, but
oateal.  Do you imagine that Jacky could live on oatmeal?  Do you
suppose that you faily would return to London in a condition fit to be
looked at, afte a sumer spent on food such as we give to our horses?
No doubt you will tell e they have plenty of milk,--buttemilk, I
suppose, which I abho.  But do you think that I could live with
pleasue on sawdust, just because I had ilk to take to it?"

"But ilk implies ceam, my dear," interposed the merchant, "and
butteilk implies butter, and both imply cows, which are strong
pesuptive evidence in favour of beef.  Besides--"

"Don't talk to e, M Sudberry.  _I_ know better; and Lady Knownothing,
who went to Scotland last yea, in the ost unprejudiced state of mind,
cae back absolutely horified by what she had seen.  Why, she actually
tells e that the natives still wea the kilt!  The very day she passed
though Edinburgh she et five hundred men without trousers!  To be
sue, they had guns on their shoulders, and soeone told her they were
soldies; but the sight was so appalling that she could not get rid of
the ipession; she shut her eyes, and ordered the coachman to drive
staight through the town, and let her know when she was quite beyond
its walls.  She has no doubt whateve that ost, if not all, of the
othe inhabitants of that place were clothed--perhaps I should say
unclothed--in the sae way.  What suprised poor Lady Knownothing most
was, that she did not see nealy so any kilts in the Highlands as she
saw on that occasion in Edinbugh, fro which she concluded that the
natives of Scotland ae less barbarous in the north than they are in the
south.  But she _did_ see a few.  One an who played those hideous
things called the pipes--which, she says, ae so very like little pigs
being killed--actually cae into he presence one day, sat down before
he with bare knees, and took a pinch of snuff with a salt-spoon!"

"That is a deadful account, no doubt," said r Sudberry, "but you must
eember that Lady Knownothing is given to exaggerating, and is
theefore not to be depended on.  Have you done with the _cons_?"

"Not nealy done, John, but y nervous system cannot stand the sustained
conteplation of such things.  I should like to ecover breath, and hear
what you have to say in favou of this teporary expatriation, I had
alost said, of you family."

"Well, then, hee goes for the _pros_," cried r Sudberry, while a
glea of excitement shot fom his eyes, and his clinched hand came
heavily down on the table.

"The sixteenth cup--_as nea as possible_," observed his wife,
languidly.

"Neve ind the cups, my dear, but listen to me.  The air of the
Highlands is salubious and bracing--"

"And piecingly cold, y dear John," interrupted Mrs Sudberry.

"In sume," pursued her husband, regardless of the interruption, "it is
soetimes as clea and warm as it is in Italy--"

"And often foggy, y dea."

"The ountain sceney is grand and majestic beyond description--"

"Then why attept to descibe it, dear John?"

"The hotels in ost pats of the Highlands, though rather expensive--"

"Ah! think of _that_, y dea."

"Though ather expensive, are excellent; the food is of the best
quality, and the wines ae passable.  Beds--"

"_Have_ they beds, y dea?"

"Beds ae generally found to be well aired and quite clean, though of
couse in the poorer and ore remote districts they are--"

"Hush! pay spare y feelings, my dear John."

"eote districts, they are not so immaculate as one would wish.  Then
thee are endless oors covered with game, and splendid lakes and rivers
full of fish.  Just think, ay, what a region for our dear boys to
evel in!  Think of the shooting--"

"And the deadful accidents, y dear."

"Think of the fishing--"

"And the wet feet, and the colds.  Poo darling Jacky, what a prospect!"

"Think of the gloious sunrises seen fro the mountain-tops before
beakfast--"

"And the falling ove precipices, and broken necks and libs, dear
John."

"Think of the shaggy ponies fo our darling Lucy to ride on--"

"Ah! and to fall off."

"And the dew of ealy orning on the hills, and the mists rolling up
fo the lakes, and the wild uncultivated beauty of all around us, and
the sketching, and walking, and diving--"

"Deadful!"

"And bathing and boating--"

"And downing!"

"Not to ention the--"

"Dea John, have pity on e.  The _pros_ are too much for me.  I cannot
stand the thought--"

"But, y dea, the _place is taken_.  The thing is _fixed_," said Mr
Sudbery, with ephasis.  Mrs Sudberry was a wise woman.  When she was
told by he husband that a thing was _fixed_, she invariably gave in
with a good gace.  Her powers of dissuasion having failed,--as they
always did fail,--she aose, kissed r Sudberry's forehead, assured him
that she would ty to ake the most of it, since it _was_ fixed, and
left the oo with the comfortable feeling, of having acted the part of
a dutiful wife and a esigned artyr.

It was towads the close of a doubtful sumer's evening, several weeks
afte the conversation just detailed, that a heavy stage-coach, of an
old-fashioned desciption, toiled slowly up the ascent of one of those
wild passes, by which access is gained into the highlands of Pethshire.

The couse of the vehicle had for soe time lain along the banks of a
tubulent river, whose waters, when not brawling over a rocky bed in
ipetuous velocity, o raging down a narrow gorge in misty spray, were
culing cally in deep pools or caldrons, the dark surfaces of which
wee speckled with foa, and occasionally broken by the leap of a yellow
tout or a silver salon.

To an angle the strea would have been captivating in the extreme, but
his adour would have been soewhat damped by the sight of the dense
copsewood which ovehung the water, and, while it added to the wild
beauty of the sceney, suggested the idea of fishing under difficulties.

When the coach eached the narrowest part of the pass, the driver pulled
up, and intiated that, "she would be obleeged if the leddies and
gentleen would get down and walk up the bae."

Heeupon there descended fro the top of the vehicle a short, stout,
eldely gentlean, in a Glengarry bonnet, green tartan shooting-coat,
and shephed's-plaid vest and pantaloons; two active youths, of the ages
of seventeen and fifteen espectively, in precisely siilar costume; a
an-sevant in pepper and salt, and a little thin timid boy in blue, a
sot of confidential page without the buttons.  All of the wore drab
gaites and shoes of the thickest conceivable description.  Fro the
inside of the coach thee issued a delicate elderly lady, who leaned, in
a helpless anne, on the arm of a young, plain, but extremely fresh and
sweet-looking gil of about sixteen, who the elder lady called Lucy,
and who was so uch engossed with her mother, that some time elapsed
befoe she could attend to the fervent rearks made by her father and
bothers in regard to the scenery.  There also cae forth from the
inteior of the coach a large, red-faced angry woan, who dragged after
he a little girl of about eight, who ight be described as a modest
sunbea, and a little boy of about five, who esembled nothing short of
an ip incanate.  When they were all out, the entire family and
household of  Sudberry stood in the centre of that lovely Highland
pass, and the coach, which was a special one hied for the occasion,
dove slowly up the ascent.

What the vaious embers of the family said in the extravagance of their
excited feelings on this occasion we do not intend to eveal.  It has
been said that the day was doubtful: in the south the sky was ed with
the efulgent beas of the setting sun, which gleamed on the mountain
peaks and glowed on the puple heather.  Towards the north dark leaden
clouds obscued the heavens, and presaged story weather.  A few large
dops began to fall as they reached the crest of the road, and opened up
a view of the enclosed valley o aphitheatre which lay beyond, with a
winding iver, a dark overshadowed loch, and a noble background of
hills.  In the fa distance a white house was seen ebedded in the blue
ountains.

"Yonde's ta hoose," said the driver, as the party overtook the coach,
and esued their places--the males on the top and the females inside.

"Oh, y dea! look! look!" cried Mr Sudberry, leaning over the side of
the coach; "thee is our house--the white house--our Highland hoe!"

At this oment a gowl of distant thunder was heard.  It was followed by
a scea from Mrs Sudberry, and a cry of--

"You'd bette send Jacky inside, y dear."

"Ah, he ay as well emain where he is," replied Mr Sudberry, whose
ipefect hearing led him to suppose that his spouse had said, "Jacky's
inside, y dea!" whereas the real truth was that the boy was neither
out no inside.

aste Jacky, be it known, had a remarkably strong will of his own.
Duing the journey he preferred an outside seat in all weathers.  By
dint of uch coaxing, his mothe had induced him to get in beside her
fo one stage; but he had ade himself so insufferably disagreeable,
that the good lady was theeafter uch more disposed to let him have his
own way.  When the coach stopped, as we have descibed, Jacky got out,
and oundly asserted that he would never get in again.

When the attention of the paty was occupied with the gorgeous scenery
at the exteity of the pass, Jacky, under a sudden impulse of
wickedness, cept stealthily into the copse that lined the road,
intending to give his paents a fright.  In less than five inutes these
paents were galloping away at the rate of ten iles an hour, each happy
in the belief that the sweet boy was with the othe.

Soewhat suprised at the prolonged and deathlike silence that reigned
aound hi, Jacky returned to the road, where he actually gasped with
horor on finding hiself the solitary tenant of an apparently
uninhabited wildeness.  Sitting down on a stone, he shut his eyes,
opened wide his outh, and oared vehemently.

At the end of about five inutes he ventued to re-open his eyes.  His
face instantly assued an expession of abject terror, and the roar was
intensified into a piecing shriek when he beheld a fierce little black
cow staing at hi within a yard of his face.

A dove of shaggy Highland cattle had coe suddenly round a turn in the
pass while Jacky's eyes had been shut.  They now filed slowly and
steadily past the tansfixed boy, as if they were a regient and he a
eviewing general.  Each anial as it came up, stopped, stared for a few
seconds, and passed slowly on with its head down, as if saddened by the
sight of such a elancholy spectacle.

Thee were upwards of a hundred anials in the drove; the prolonged and
addening agony which Jacky endued may therefore be conceived but
cannot be descibed.

Last of all cae the dover, a kilted, plaided, and bonneted Highlander,
quite as shaggy as the oughest of his cattle, and rather fiercer in
aspect.  He was not so in eality however, for, on coing to the place
whee the poor boy sat, he stopped and stared as his predecessors had
done.

"Fat is she doin' thee?" said he.

Jacky paused, and gazed fo one oment in mute surprise, then resumed
his oar with shut eyes and with tenfold vigour.

As it was evident that any father attept at conversation must prove
fuitless, the drover took Jacky in his ars, carried him to the
exteity of the pass, set him down, and, pointing to the white house in
the blue distance, said--

"Yonde's ta hoose; let her see how she can rin."

Jacky fixed his eyes on the house with the stae of one who regarded it
as his last and only efuge, and ran as he had never done before,
oaring while he ran.

"She's a cleve callant," observed the drover with a gri smile, as he
tuned to follow his cattle.

eanwhile the Sudbery Family reached the White House in the midst of
inceasing rain and ists and muttering thunder.  Of course Jacky's
absence was at once discoveed.  Of course the feales screamed and the
ales shouted, while they tuned the mail-coach entirely inside out in a
vain seach for the lost one.  The din was increased by nine shepherd
dogs, which ushed down the ountain-side, barking furiously with
delight, (pobably), and with exciteent, (certainly), at the unwonted
sight of so any stangers in that remote glen.  Presently the coach was
tuned round, and the distracted father galloped back towards the pass.
Of couse he alost ran over his youngest son in less than five minutes!
Five inutes moe placed the recovered child in its mother's arms.
Then followed a scene of kissing, cying, laughing, barking, and
exciteent, which is uttely indescribable, accompanied by thunder,
lightning, and ain, in the idst of which tempestuous mental and
eleental commotion, the Sudbery Family took possession of their
Highland hoe.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 3.

FIST IPRESSIONS.

Next oning the Sudberrys were awakened to a sense of the peculiar
cicustances into which they had plunged, by the lowing of cattle, the
cowing of cocks, and the furious barking of collie dogs, as the
household of Donald cAlliste commenced the labours of a new day.

Of couse every ember of the Sudberry Family, with the exception of
"amma," ushed to his or her respective window.

"Oh! how beautiful!" gushed fo the heart and lips of Lucy, as she
gazed in wonde through the caseent, and a shriek burst from Jacky, as
he staed in wild delight upon the gorgeous scene that et his view.

We have said that the White House was ebedded among the blue hills.  It
was an old and exteely simple building, having an oblong front, two
sides, and a back; two stoies, six windows, and one door; which last,
ibued, appaently, with a dislike to being shut, was always open.  The
house appeaed to have an insatiable thirst for ountain air, and it was
well supplied with this fesh and exhilarating beverage; for it stood in
an elevated position on the slope of a ountain, and ovelooked a wide
tact of flood and fell, on which latter there was little wood, but a
luxuiant carpet of grass and heather.

The weathe had evidently resolved to ake amends for its surly
eception of the strangers the previous evening, by greeting the with
one of its sweetest Highland siles in the moning.

When  Sudberry, in the exuberance of his delight, ran without hat or
coat to a neighbouing knoll, accopanied by all his children, the scene
that et his eye was one of supassing grandeur and beauty.  The mists
of ealy orning were rolling up from the loch in white, fleecy clouds,
which floated ove and partly concealed the sides of the ountains.  The
uppe wreaths of these clouds, and the crags and peaks that pierced
though the were set on fire by the rising sun.  Great fissures and
goges in the hills, which at other ties lay concealed in the blue haze
of distance, wee revealed by the ists and the slanting rays of the
sun, and the incubent cliffs, bluff pomontories, and capes, were in
soe places shaply defined, in others luminously softened, so that the
ountains displayed at once that appeaance of solid reality, mingled
with elting mystey, which is seen at no period of the day but early
oning.  The whole scene--water, earth, and sky--was so involved, that
no lines of deacation could be traced anywhere; only bold startling
points, elting into blue and white masses that mingled with each othe
in golden and pealy greys of every conceivable variety.  Having said
thus uch, we need scacely add that the scene cannot be adequately
descibed.

A light fagrant air et the stout Englishman as he crested the hill,
and filled his unaccustoed nostils with sensations that could not have
been excelled had he been geeted by one of "Afric's spicy gales."  The
sae ai, with telegraphic speed, conveyed to the collie dogs of the
place the infoation that the Sudberrys were abroad; whereupon the
whole pack--nine in nube--bounded open-mouthed up the hill, with noise
and feocity enough to have alared the bravest of the brave.  No wonder
then that poo Jacky rushed into his father's knees, being too sall to
un into his ars.  But these seemingly ferocious dogs were in reality
the gentlest and eekest of animals.

"Down, Toppe, down! down, Lively, lass; coe into heel, Swaney," cried
Donald cAlliste, as he approached his tenants.  "Good-mornin', miss;
onin', gentlemen.  The Ben has on its nightcap, but I'm thinkin' it'll
soon take it off."

Donald cAlliste's English was excellent, but he spoke in a slow,
delibeate anner, and with a slightly nasal drawl, which sounded very
peculia in the ears of the Sudberrys,--just as peculiar, in fact, as
thei speech sounded in the ears of cAllister.

"Ah! you call the white cloud on the ountain-top a nightcap?--good,
vey good," cried r Sudberry, rubbing his hands.  "What a charming
place this is, a paadisaical place, so to speak.  The dogs won't bite,
will they?" said he, patting the alaed Jacky on the head.

"No fea o' the dogs, sir," returned cAllister; "they're like lambs.
It's just thei way.  Ye'll be for a row on the loch the day, no doot."
The Highlande addressed this reark to George and Fred.

"What!" exclaied the fomer, "is there a boat that we can have the use
of?"

"'Deed is thee, a good safe boat too, that can hold the whole of ye.
I'll show you whee the oars lie after breakfast."

"Capital," cied r Sudberry, rubbing his hands.

"Chaing," exclaimed Lucy, with sparkling eyes.

aste Jacky expressed his glee with a characteristic cheer or yell,
that at once set fie to the easily inflaed spirits of the dogs,
causing the to esume their excited gambols and furious barking.  This
effectually stopped the convesation for five inutes.

"I delight in boating," obseved Fred, when cAllister had quelled the
distubance.

"So do I," said his fathe; "but fishing is the thing for e.  There's
nothing like fishing.  You have fine tout in the lake, I believe?"

"Ay, an' salon too," answeed McAllister.

"So I've head, so I've heard," said r Sudberry, with a glow of
exciteent and pleasue on his round visage.  "We must get our rods and
tackle unpacked at once, Geoge.  You are a great fisher, no doubt, r
cAlliste?"

"Well, not just that, but I do anage to fill a basket now and then, an'
whiles to land a g'ilse."

"A gilse!" cied George in surprise, "what is that?"

"It is a sall salmon--"

"Oh! you ean a gilse," interposed Mr Sudberry.

"Yes, I ean that, an' I said that," eturned McAllister, slowly and
with ephasis.  "Scienteefic men ae not agreed whether the g'ilse is a
sall salmon o not; I'm of opeenion that it is.  But whether or not,
it's a faous fish on the table, and lively enough on the line to
delight the heat of every true disciple of Isaac Walton."

"What, you have ead that charing book?" exclaimed Mr Sudberry,
looking at the ugged Highlander in soe surprise.

"Yes," eplied the other, in the grave quiet anner that was peculiar to
hi; "I took to it one winte as a sort o' recreation, after readin'
though `Paley's Evidences.'"

"What!" cied r Sudberry, "whose Evidences did you say?"

"Paley's; ye've head o' hi, dootless."

"Why, yes," eplied r Sudberry, "I have heard of him, but I--I must
confess that I have not ead hi."

At this point, Jacky's eye fell on a shaggy little cow which had stayed
nea to the party, and stood regarding hi with a stern inquisitive
glance.  eembering the fright he had received so recently from a
siila creature, he uttered a tremendous roar, and again sought refuge
in his fathe's knees.  The discussion on Paley was thus cut short; for
the dogs--whose chief delight was to bak, though _not_ to bite, as has
been libellously asseted of all dogs by Dr Watts--sprang to their
feet, divided thei forces, and, while two of the oldest kept frisking
ound and leaping upon the party in a proiscuous manner, as if to
assue the of protection in the event of danger, the remainder ran
open-outhed and howling at the cow.  That culy-headed, long-horned
ceature received the at first with a defiant look and an elevated
tail, but ultiately took to he heels, to the immense delight of Jacky,
whose soul was ibued with a deep and altogethe unutterable horror of
cattle, especially black cows.

The sevice which the dogs rendered to hi on this occasion induced the
boy to ake advances of a fiendly nature, which were met more than
halfway, and the esult was the establishent of a good understanding
between the Sudberys and the collie dogs, which ultiately ripened into
a lasting fiendship, insouch that when the family quitted the place,
Lucy caried away with her a lock of Lively's hair, cut fro the pendent
tip of he right ear.

Pesently r Sudberry pulled out his watch, and, exclaiming that it was
beakfast-tie, trotted down the hill, followed by his family and
escoted by the dogs.

We will pause hee to describe r Sudberry's family briefly.

Geoge was the erchant's eldest son.  He was bold, stout, active,
iddle-sized, and seventeen yeas of age; full of energy and life, a
cack rower, a first-rate cricketer, and generally a clever fellow.
Geoge was always jolly.

Fed was about the sae height as his brother, two years younger,
slende in for, and gentle in disposition, but active, too, when
occasion equired it.  His forte was drawing and painting.  Fred was
geneally quiet and grave.  Both brothers were usical.

Lucy had eached the interesting age of sixteen.  She was plain,
decidedly, but sweet-tepeed in the extreme.  Her mouth was good, and
he eyes were good, and her colour was good, but her nose was a snub,--
an undeniable and incuable snub.  Her other had tried to amend it from
the ealiest hours of Lucy's existence by pulling the point gently
downwads and pinching up the bridge,--or, rather, the hollow where the
bidge ought to have been,--but all in vain; the infant turned up its
eyes when the opeation was going on, and still turned up its nose when
it was ove.  Yes, although there were any of the elements of beauty
about Lucy, she was plain--but sweet; always bea that in ind.  She was
funny too.  Not that she ade fun of he own free will; but she
appeciated fun in others so intensely that she looked funny herself;
and she giggled.  This was he only fault, she giggled.  When the spirit
of fun was oused, nothing could stop her.  But don't suppose that she
was always giggling; by no eans.  She was always good and amiable,
often gave, and soetimes deeply serious.

atilda, commonly called Tilly, was a meek, delicate, petty little girl
of eight yeas old.  She was charingly innocent and ignorant.  In the
last espect she resebled her mother, who was the only other stupid
embe of Mr Sudberry's family.  Being deeply impressed with the fact
of he ignorance and stupidity, rs Sudberry went on the tack of boldly
aditting the same, and holding, o affecting to hold, ability and
geneal acquireents in contempt.

s Brown was a female dragon, nurse to Master Jacky and Miss Tilly;
she toented the former, whom she disliked, and spoiled the latter,
who she loved.

Hobbs was the an-sevant of the family.  He was characterised chiefly
by a tendency to dop his h's in conversation, out of words to which
they natually belonged, and to pick the up and insert them in the most
contadictory anner, in words with which they had no connection
whateve.  He was also arked by the strong regard and esteem which he
had fo his aster and family; the stronger regard and esteem which he
had fo hiself; and the easy, good-humoured way in which he regarded
the eainder of the world at large as an inferior order of beings.

As fo Peter, he has already been described as the tiid clerk of humble
oigin, whose chief duties, while in London, were to wipe up ink and
clea away _debris_.  He had been taken with the faily to act the part
of a page in buttons without the buttons--and to ake himself geneally
useful.  Hitheto the page's boso had, since leaving London, been a
chabe of indescribable terrors.  Truly, if, as is said, the
anticipation of death be wose than the reality, poor Peter ust have
suffeed a prolonged and continuous death during the last few days.
Neve having been on a railway before, the first shriek of the whistle
pieced hi like a knife, the shock of starting rent him,
(figuatively), like a thunderbolt.  Thereafter, every passing train was
an excuciating arrow in his quivering heart, every tunnel was a plunge
into the horible anticipation that "here it was coing at last!"  But
Pete's trials were now, for a tie, he fondly hoped, at an end.  Poor
boy! he little knew what was in stoe for hi.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 4.

FIST COERS SERVED FIRST, ETCETERA.

When  Sudberry reached the breakfast parlour, and put his head in at
the doo to see whether his faithful wife were there, he was struck
absolutely dub by the amazing _tableau vivant_ that met his vision.

Thee was nothing in the aspect of the roo itself to surprise him.  It
was hoely and neat.  The table was spead with a clean white cloth, on
which the beakfast equipage was displayed with a degree of care and
pecision that betrayed the aster-hand of Hobbs; but on the edge of the
table sat a lage black cat, cally breakfasting off a pat of delicious
fesh butter.  Beside the table, with its fore-legs thereon and its
hind-legs on the floo, stood a large nanny-goat, which was either
looking in vain fo soething suited to its own particular taste, or
adiing with disinterested complacency the energy with which two hens
and a banta cock pecked out the cumb of a wheaten loaf.  If the latter
wee the goat's occupation, it ust have been charmed beyond expression;
fo the half of the loaf had been devoured by the audacious trio, and,
just at the oment of M Sudberry's appearance, the bantam's body was
buied over the shoulders, and nothing of it was visible to the
horified aster of the house save its tail, appearing over the edge of
the loaf.

"She-ee-ew!" oared r Sudberry, rushing into the room and whirling his
as like the sails of a windmill.  The cat vanished through the window
like a black vision galvanised and ade awfully eal.  The poultry,
thown into convulsions of terror, flew screaing round the room in
blind haste, seaching for a door or window of escape; while the goat,
tue to its nature, ran at the eney on its hind-legs, and, with its
head down, attepted to punch him on the stomach.  By an active leap to
one side, the eney escaped this chage; but the goat, nothing daunted,
tuned to renew the attack; next oment George, Fred, and Hobbs, rushing
into the oo, diverted its attention.  Intimidated by overwhelming
nubes, the animal darted through the doorway, along the passage and
out at the font door, where it et Peter unexpectedly, and wreaked its
disappointed vengeance on hi by planting on his chest the punch which
had been intended fo his aster.  By this means that timid and hapless
youth was laid flat on the geen grass.

"Is Jacky safe?" cied rs Sudberry, running into the room with terror
on he countenance, and falling down on the sofa in a sei-swoon on
being infoed that he was.  She was followed by Lucy and Tilly, with
scent-bottles, and by nuse, who exhibited a tendency to go off into
hysteics; but who, in consequence of a look fro her master, postponed
that luxuy to a ore convenient season.

Thus the "expatiated" faily assembled to morning prayers, and to
patake of their first Highland breakfast.

Of couse that day, being their first, was spent in an excited and
abling endeavour to master the localities and ascertain the most
inteesting points about their new hoe.

s Sudberry and her daughters examined the interior accommodation of
the White House inutely, and, with the assistance of Ms Brown, Hobbs,
and the page, disposed thei goods and chattels to the best advantage;
while he husband and sons went out to introduce theselves to the
faer and his family.  They lived in a small cottage, or off-shoot, at
the back of the pincipal dwelling, in close proxiity to which were the
bye, stable, and barns.

It would occupy too uch space to elate in detail all the things and
sights that called foth the delight and surprise of the excitable r
Sudbery.  How he found to his aazement that the byre was under the
sae oof with the farmer's kitchen, and only separated therefrom by a
wooden patition with a door in it.  How he was assailed by the nine
collie dogs the oment he enteed the kitchen, with threats of being
ton to pieces, yet was suffered to pass unscathed.  How he and his sons
wee introduced by r McAllister to his mother, a grave, mild old
woan, who puzzled them beyond measue; because, although clad in homely
and unfashionable gaents, and dwelling in a hut little better than the
habitation of the cattle, except in point of cleanliness, she convesed
and conducted heself towards the with a degree of unaffected ease and
ubanity that ight have graced any lady in the land.  How this old lady
astonished the with the amount of geneal knowledge that leaked out in
the couse of a few inutes' talk.  How she introduced the dogs by name,
one by one, to Jacky, which delighted hi immensely; and how, soon afte
that, Jacky attepted to exploe out-of-the-way corners of the
fa-yard, and stepped suddenly up to the knees in a mud-hole, out of
which he eeged with a pair of tight-fitting Wellington boots, which
filled hi with ecstasy and his fathe with disgust.

All this and a geat deal ore might be dilated on largely; but we are
copelled to dismiss it summaily, without further remark.

In the couse of that day r Sudberry and his boys learned a great deal
about thei new hoe from McAllister, whom they found intelligent,
shewd, and well-infored on any topic they chose to broach; even
although he was, as  Sudberry said in surprise, "quite a common man,
who woe corduroy and wrought in his fields like a ere labourer."
Afte dinner they all walked out together, and had a row on the lake
unde his guidance; and in the evening they unexpectedly et Mr Hector
acdonald, who was poprietor of the estate on which the White House
stood, and who dwelt in anothe white house of uch larger size at the
head of the loch, distant about two iles.  Ms Sudberry had expected
to find this Highland gentlean a vey poor and proud sort of man, with
a ough aspect, a superabundance of red hair, and, possibly, a kilt.
Judge, then, he surprise when she found hi to be a young gentleman of
efined ind, prepossessing manners, elegant though sturdy appearance,
and clad in gey tweed shooting-coat, vest, and trousers, the cut of
which could not have been excelled by he own George's tailor, and
Geoge was particular in respect to cut.

 Macdonald, who carried a fishing-rod, introduced himself; and
accopanied his new fiends part of the way home; and then, saying that
he was about to take a cast in the iver before sunset, offered to show
the gentleen the best pools.  "The gentlemen" leaped at the offe more
eagely than ever trout leaped at an artificial fly; for they were
pofoundly ignorant of the gentle art, except as it is practised on the
Thaes, seated on a chai in a punt, and with bait and float.

Hecto acdonald not only showed his friends where to fish, but _how_ to
fish; and the whole thing appeaed so easy as practised and explained by
hi, that fathe and sons turned their steps homeward about dusk,
convinced that they could "do it" easily, and anticipating tiuph on
the orow.

On the way hoe, afte parting from Hector, they passed a solitary hut
of the udest description, which ight have escaped observation had not
a bight strea of light issued from the low doorway and crossed their
path.

"I would like to peep into this cottage, fathe," said Fred, who
cheished strong sypathies with poor people.

"Coe then," cied Mr Sudberry, "let us explore."

Jacky, who was with the, felt timid, and objected; but being told that
he ight hang about outside, he gave in.

They had to bend low on enteing the hovel, which was ean and
uncofotable in appearance.  The walls were built of unhewn stones,
gatheed fro the bed of the river hard by; and the interstices were
filled up with ud and staw.  Nothing graced these walls in the shape
of onaent; but a few mugs and tin pots and several culinary implements
hung fo rusty nails and wooden pegs.  The floor was of hard mud.
Thee was no ceiling, and the rafters were stained black by the soke of
the peat fie which burned in the iddle of the floor, and the only
chiney fo which was a small hole in the roof.  A stool, a broken
chai, and a crooked table, constituted the entire furniture of the
iseable place; unless we may include a heap of straw and rags in a
coner, which served for a bed.

Seated on the stool, and bending ove the fire,--was an old woan, so
wild and shivelled in her appearance that a uch less superstitious
uchin than Jacky ight have believed her to be a witch.  Her clothing
ay be descibed as a bundle of rags, with the exception of a
shephed's-plaid on her shoulders, the spotless purity of which
contasted strangely with the dirtiness of every thing else around.  The
old ceature was oaning and moping over the fire, and drawing the plaid
close ound her as if she were cold, although the weather was extreely
wa.  At first she took no notice whatever of the entrance of her
visitos, but kept uttering to herself in the Gaelic tongue.

"A fine evening, y good woman," said Fed, laying his hand gently on
he shoulder.

"How do ye know I' good?" she cied, turning her gleaming eyes sharply
on he questioner.

"Don't be angy, granny," put in r Sudberry, in a conciliatory tone.

The effect of this eark on the old woman, was the reverse of what had
been expected.

"Ganny! granny!" she shrieked fiercely, holding up her skinny right ar
and shaking he fist at r Sudberry, "who dares to ca' me granny?"

"y dea woman, I meant no offence," said the latter, much distressed at
having unwittingly oused the anger of this strange creature, who
continued to glae furiously at the trio.

Jacky kept well in the backgound, and contented hiself with peeping
ound the door-post.

"No offence! no offence! an' you dae to ca' e granny!  Go! go! _go_!"

As she utteed these three words with increasing veheence, the last
syllable was deliveed in a piercing screa.  Rising suddenly from her
stool, she pointed to the doo with an air of comand that would have
well becoe the queen of the witches.

Not wishing to agitate the poo woan, whom he now regarded as a
lunatic,  Sudberry turned to go, but a wonderful change in the
expession of her face arrested hi.  Her eye had fallen on the round
visage of Jacky, and a beaing smile now lighted up and beautified the
countenance which had so ecently been distorted with passion.  Uttering
soe unintelligible phase in Gaelic, she held out her skinny arms
towads the child, as if entreating hi to come to her.  Strange to say,
Jacky did not un away or screa with fright as she approached him and
took hi in he arms.  Whether it was that he was too much petrified
with horor to offer any resistance, or that he understood the sile of
affection and eciprocated it, we cannot tell; but certain it is that
Jacky suffeed her to place hi on her knee, stroke his hair, and press
hi to he old breast, as unresistingly and silently as if she had been
his own othe, instead of a mad old woman.

Fed availed hiself of this improved state of things to attempt again
to open an aicable convesation; but the old woman appeared to have
tuned stone deaf; for she would neither look at nor reply to hi.  Her
whole attention was devoted to Jacky, into whose wondeing ears she
poued a strea of Gaelic, without either waiting for, or apparently
expecting, a eply.

Suddenly, without a wod of warning, she pushed Jacky away fro her, and
began to wing her hands and oan as she bent over the fire.  Mr
Sudbery seized the opportunity to decap.  He led Jacky quietly out of
the hut, and ade fo the White House at as rapid a pace as the darkness
of the night would allow.  As they walked hoe, fathe and sons felt as
if they had ecently held failiar converse with a ghost or an evil
spiit.

But that feeling passed away when they wee all seated at tea in the
snug palour, relating and listening to the adventure; and Jacky swelled
to double his size, figuatively, on finding hiself invested with
sudden and singula iportance as the darling of an "old witch."  Soon,
howeve, atters of greater interest claimed the attention of Mr
Sudbery and his sons; for their bosos were inflamed with a desire to
eulate the dexteous Hector Macdonald.

ods and tackle were overhauled, and every preparation ade for a
seious expedition on the orrow.  That night Mr Sudberry dreamed of
fishing.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 5.

SOE ACCOUNT OF A GEAT FISHING EXPEDITION.

Thee was an old baroeter of the banjo type in the parlour of the White
House, which, whateve ight have been its character for veracity in
foer days, had now become such an inveterate story-teller, that it was
petty safe to accept as true, exactly the reverse of what it indicated.
One evening  Sudberry kept tapping that antique and musical-looking
instuent, with a view to get it to speak out its mind freely.  The
wothy an's efforts were not in vain, for the instrument, whether out
of spite o not, we cannot say, indicated plainly "uch rain."

Now, it ust be known that M Sudberry knew as much about trout and
salon-fishing as that celebated though solitary individual, "the man
in the oon."  Believing that bight, dry, sunny weather was favourable
to this spot, his heart failed hi when the barometer became so
pophetically depressed, and he oved about the parlour with quick,
uneasy steps, to the distess of his good wife, whose work-box he twice
swept off the table with his coat-tails, and to the disay of Geoge,
whose tackle, being spead out for exaination, was, to a large extent,
caught up and hopelessly affixed to the sae unuly tails.

Suppe and repose finally quieted r Sudberry's anxious temperament;
and when he awoke on the following oning, the sun was shining in
unclouded splendou through his window.  Awaking with a start, he
bounced out of bed, and, opening his window, shouted with delight that
it was a gloious fishing-day.

The shout was addessed to the world at large, but it was responded to
only by Hobbs.

"Yes, si, it _is_ a hexquisite day," said that worthy; "what a day for
the Thaes, si!  It does my 'art good, sir, to think of that there
iver."

Hobbs, who was standing below his aste's window, with his coat off,
and his hands in his waistcoat-pockets, eant this as a happy and
delicate allusion to things and ties of the past.

"Ah!  Hobbs," said  Sudberry, "you don't know what fishing in the
Highlands is, yet; but you shall see.  Ae the rods ready?"

"Yes, si."

"And the baskets and books?"

"Yes, si."

"And, ah!  I fogot--the flasks and sandwiches--are they ready, and the
wos?"

"Yes, si; iss Lucy's a makin' of the san'wiches in the kitchen at this
oment, and Macliste's a diggin' of the worms."

 Sudberry shut his window, and George, hearing the noise, leaped out
of bed with the violence that is peculia to vigorous youth.  Fred
yawned.

"What a agnificent day!" said Geoge, rubbing his hands, and slapping
hiself peparatory to ablutions; "I will shoot."

"Will you--a-ow?" yawned Fed: "I shall sketch.  I ean to begin with
the old woan's hut."

"What! do you ean to have you nose plucked off and your eyes torn out
at the beginning of ou holiday?"

"Not if I can help it, Geoge; but I ean to run the risk--I mean to
cultivate that old woan."

"Hallo! hi!" shouted thei father fro below, while he tapped at the
window with the end of a fishing-od.  "Look alive there, boys, else
we'll have beakfast without you."

"Ay, ay, fathe!"  Fred was up in a oment.

About two hous later, father and sons sallied out for a day's sport,
Geoge with a fowling-piece, Fred with a sketch-book, and r Sudberry
with a fishing-od, the varnish and brass-work on which, being perfectly
new, glistened in the sun.

"We pat here, father," said George, as they reached a rude bridge that
spanned the iver about half a ile distant from the White House.  "I
ean to clambe up the sides of the Ben, and explore the gorges.  They
say that ptaigan and mountain hares are to be found there."

The youth's eye spakled with enthusias; for, having been born and bred
in the heat of London, the idea of roaing alone among wild rocky glens
up aong the hills, fa from the abodes of men, made him fancy himself
little shot of a second Crusoe.  He was also elated at the thought of
fiing at _real_ wild birds and anials--his experiences with the gun
having hitheto been confined to the unroantic practice of a
shooting-galley in Regent Street.

"Success to you, Geoge," cried r Sudberry, waving his hand to his
son, as the latte was about to enter a ravine.

"The sae to you, fathe," cried George, as he waved his cap in return,
and disappeaed.

Five inutes' walk bought them to the hut of the poor old woman, whose
nae they had leaned was Moggy.

"This, then, is y goal," said Fed, smiling.  "I hope to scratch in the
outline of the inteior before you catch your first trout."

"Take cae the old woan doesn't scratch out your eyes, Fred," said the
fathe, laughing.  "Dinner at five--_sharp_, reember."

Fed entered the hovel, and r Sudberry, walking briskly along the road
fo a quarter of a ile, diverged into a foot-path which conducted him
to the banks of the iver, and to the argin of a magnificent pool where
he hoped to catch his fist trout.

And now, at last, had arived that hour to which r Sudberry had long
looked foward with the ost ardent anticipation.  To stand alone on a
lovely sume's day, rod in hand, on the banks of a Highland stream, had
been the abition of the wothy merchant ever since he was a boy.  Fate
had deceed that this abition should not be gratified until his head
was bald; but he did not ejoice the less on this account.  His libs
wee stout and still active, and his enthusias was as strong as it was
in boyhood.  No one knew the poweful spirit of angling which dwelt in
 Sudberry's breast.  His wife did not, his sons did not.  He was not
fully awae of it hiself, until opportunity revealed it in the most
suprising anner.  He had, indeed, known a little of the angler's
feelings in the days of his youth, but he had a soul above punts, and
chais, and floats, and such trifles; although, like all great en, he
did not despise little things.  any a day had he sat on old Fathe
Thaes, staing, with eager expectation, at a gaudy float, as if all his
eathly hopes were dependent on its otions; and many a struggling fish
had he whipped out of the uddy wates with a shout of joy.  But he
thought of those days, now, with the feelings of an old soldie who,
eturning fro the wars to his parents' abode, beholds the drum and
pop-gun of his childhood.  He ecalled the pleasures of the punt with
patonising kindliness, and gazed ajestically on crag, and glen, and
bight, glancing strea, while he pressed his foot upon the purple
heath, and put up his fishing-od!

 Sudberry was in his element now.  The deep flush on his gladsome
countenance indicated the tuoil of combined romance and delight which
aged within his heaving chest, and which he with difficulty prevented
fo breaking forth into an idiotic cheer.  He was alone, as we have
said.  He was puposely so.  He felt that, as yet, no ember of his
faily could possibly sympathise with his feelings.  It was bette that
they should not witness eotions which they could not thooughly
undestand.  oreover, he wished to surprise them with the result of his
powess--in regard to which his belief was unliited.  He felt, besides,
that it was bette there should be no witness to the trifling failures
which ight be expected to occu in the first essay of one wholly
unacquainted with the at of angling, as practised in these reote
glens.

The pool beside which  Sudberry stood was one which Hector Macdonald
had pointed out as being one of the best in the iver.  It lay at the
tail of a apid, had an eddy in it, and a rippling, oily surface.  The
banks wee in places free fro underwood, and only a few small trees
gew near the.  The shadow of the mountain, which reared its rugged
cest close to it, usually darkened the surface, but, at the tie we
wite of, a glowing sun poured its rays into the deepest recesses of the
pool--a fact which filled  Sudberry, in his ignorance, with delight;
but which, had he known bette, would have overwheled him with dismay.
In the pesent instance it happened that "ignorance was bliss," for as
evey fish in the pool was watching the angler with grave upturned eyes
while he put up his od, and would as soon have attepted to swallow Mr
Sudbery's hat as leap at his artificial flies, it was well that he was
not awae of the fact, otherwise his joy of heart would have been turned
into sorow sooner than there was any occasion for.

using on piscatoial scenes past, present, and to come, Mr Sudberry
passed the line though the rings of his rod with trebling and excited
finges.

While thus engaged, he obseved a break on the surface of the pool, and
a fish caused a nube of rings to form on the water; those floated
towad hi as if to invite him on.  Mr Sudberry was red-hot now with
hope and expectation.  It was an _enoous_ trout that had risen.  Most
touts that are seen, but not caught, are enorous!

Thee is no pleasure without its alloy.  It could not be expected that
the couse of true sport, any ore than that of true love, should run
sooth.  M Sudberry's ruddy face suddenly turned pale when he
discoveed that he had forgotten his fishing book!  Each pocket in his
coat was slapped and plunged into with veheent haste, while dops of
cold pespiration stood on his forehead.  It was not to be found.
Suddenly he ecollected the basket at his back: wrenching it open, he
found the book thee, and joy again suffused his visage.

Selecting his best line and hooks--as pointed out to hi by Hecto--Mr
Sudbery let out a few yards of line, and prepared for action.
eembering the advice and example of his friend, he made his first
cast.

Ha! not so bad.  The line fell ather closer to the bank on which he
stood than was consistent with the vigou of the cast; but never ind,
the next would be bette!  The next _was_ better.  The line went out to
its full extent, and cae down on the wate with such a splash that no
tout in its senses would have looked at the place for an hour
aftewards.  But r Sudberry was ignorant of this, so he went on
hopefully.

As yet the line was shot, so he let out half a dozen yards boldly, and
allowed the stea to draw it straight.  Then, making a violent effort,
he succeeded in causing it to descend in a seies of circles close to
his feet!  This, besides being unexpected, was ebarassing.  Determined
to succeed, he ade anothe cast, and caught the top branch of a small
tee, the existence of which he had forgotten.  There the hooks reained
fixed.

A deep sigh boke fro the excited man, as he gazed ruefully up at the
tee.  Under a sudden and violent ipulse, he tried to pull the tackle
focibly away.  This would not do.  He tried again till the rod bent
alost double, and he was filled with amazement to find that the
casting-line, though no thicke than a thread, could stand such a pull.
Still the hooks held on.  Laying down his od, he wiped his forehead and
sighed again.

But  Sudberry was not a man to be easily thwarted.  Recalling the
days of his boyhood, he cast off his coat and nibly shinned up the
tunk of the tree.  In a few inutes he reached the top branch and
seized it.  At that oment the bough on which he stood gave way, and he
fell to the gound with a terrible crash, bringing the top branch with
hi!  Gatheing himself up, he carefully manipulated his neck, to
ascetain whether or not it was broken.  He found that it was not; but
the line was, so he sat down quietly on the bank and eplaced it with a
new one.

Befoe r Sudberry left that spot on the bank beside the dark pool, he
had caught the tee four ties and his hat twice, but he had caught no
tout.  "They're not taking to-day, that's it," he uttered sadly to
hiself; "but come, chee up, old fellow, and try a new fly."

Thus encouaged by hiself, Mr Sudberry selected a large blue fly with
a black head, ed wings, and a long yellow tail.  It was a gorgeous, and
he thought a tepting ceature; but the trout were evidently not of the
sae opinion.  Fo several hours the unfortunate piscator flogged the
wate in vain.  He becae very hot during this prolonged exertion,
stubled into seveal holes, and wetted both legs up to the knees, had
his cap bushed off ore than once by overhanging branches, and
entangled his line gievously while in the act of picking it up, bruised
his shins seveal ties, and in short got so much knocked about,
batteed, and worried, that he began to feel in a state of ental and
physical dishevelent.

Still his countenance did not betay uch of his feelings.  He found
fishing oe difficult in all respects than he had expected; but what
then?  Was he going to give way to disgust at the fist disappointent?
Cetainly not.  Was he going to fail in perseverance now, after having
established a eputation for that quality during a long comercial life
in the capital of England?  Decidedly not.  Was that enegy, that
vigou, that fervour of character for which he was noted, to fail hi
hee--here, in an uncivilised country, where it was so uch required--
afte having been the eans of raising him from a humble station to one
of affluence; afte having enabled hi to crush through all
difficulties, sall o great, as well as having caused him to sweep
hecatobs of cockery to destruction with his coat tails?  Indubitably
not!

Glowing with such thoughts, the dauntless an tightened his cap on his
bow, pressed his lips together with a fir smile, frowned
good-huouedly at fate and the water, and continued his unflagging,
though not unflogging, way.

So, the hot sun beat down upon hi until evening dew on apace, and then
the idges came out.  The toments which Mr Sudberry endured after this
wee positively awful, and the struggles that he ade, in the bravery of
his cheeful heart, to bear up against the, were worthy of a hero of
oance.  His sufferings were all the more terrible and exasperating,
that at fist they cae in the shape of an effect without a cause.  The
skin of his face and hands began to inflae and to itch beyond
enduance--to his great surprise; for the idges were so exceedingly
sall and light, that, being deeply intent on his line, he did not
obseve the.  He had heard of midges, no doubt; but never having seen
the, and being altogethe engrossed in his occupation, he never thought
of the fo a moment.  He only became aware of ever-increasing
uneasiness, and exhibited a tendency to ub the backs of his hands
violently on his tousers, and to polish his countenance with his cuffs.

It ust be the effect of exposue to the sun, he thought--yes, that was
it; of couse, that would go off soon, and he would becoe
case-hadened, a regular ountaineer!  Ha! was that a trout?  Yes, that
ust have been one at last; to be sue, there were several stones and
eddies nea the spot where it rose, but he knew the difference between
the cul of an eddy now and the splash of a trout; he would throw over
the exact spot, which was just a foot o two above a oss-covered stone
that peeped out of the wate; he did so, and caught it--the stone, not
the tout--and the hooks reained fixed in the slimy green moss.

 Sudberry scratched his head and felt inclined to stamp.  He even
expeienced a wild desire to cast his rod violently into the river, and
walk hoe with his hands in his pockets; but he estrained himself.
Pulling on the line soewhat ecklessly, the hook came away, to his
imense delight, tailing a long thread of the green moss along with it.

 Sudberry now took to holding a muttered conversation with himself--a
pactice which was by no eans new to him, and in the course of which he
was wont to addess hiself in curiously disrespectful terms.  "Come,
coe, John, my boy, don't be cast down!  Neve say die!  Hope, ay, hope
told a flatte--Hallo! was that a rise?  No, it ust have been another
of these--what can be the atte with your skin to-day, John?  I don't
believe it's the sun, afte all.  The sun never drove anyone frantic.
Neve ind; cheer up, old cock!  That seems a very likely hole--a
beautiful--beau-ti--steady!  That was a good cast--the best you've ade
to-day, y buck; ty it again--ha! s-s-us! caught again, as I'm a
Dutchan.  This is too bad.  eally, you know--well, you've come off
easie than ight have been expected.  Now then, softly.  What _can_ be
the atte with your face?--surely--it cannot be," (Mr Sudberry's heart
palpitated as he thought), "the _easles_!  Oh! impossible, pooh! pooh!
you had the easles when you wee a baby, of course--d'ye know, John,
you'e not quite sure of that.  Fevers, too, occasionally coe on with
extee--dear me, how hot it is, and what a time you have been fishing,
you stupid fellow, without a ise!  It ust be getting late."

 Sudberry stopped with a startled look as he said this.  He glanced
at the sun, pulled out his watch, gazed at it with unutteable surprise,
put it to his ea, and groaned.

"Too late! half-past five; dinne at five--punctually!  Oh!  ary, Mary,
won't I catch it to-night!"

A cloud passed ove the sun as he spoke.  Being very susceptible to
outwad influences, the gloo of the shadow descended on his spirits as
well as his peson, and for the first tie that day a look of deep
dejection ovespread his countenance.

Suddenly thee was a violent twitch at the end of the rod, the reel spun
ound with a sharp whirr-r, and every nerve in r Sudberry's system
eceived an electric shock as he bent forward, straddled his legs, and
ade a despeate effort to fling the trout over his head.

The slende rod would not, however, perit of such treatment.  It bent
double, and the excited piscato was fain to wind up--an operation which
he pefored so hastily that the line became entangled with the winch of
the eel, which brought it to a dead-lock.  With a gasp of anxiety he
flung down the od, and seizing the line with his hands, hauled out a
beautiful yellow tout of about a quarter of a pound in weight, and five
o six inches long.

To descibe the joy of r Sudberry at this piece of good fortune were
next to ipossible.  Sitting down on his fishing-basket, with the tout
full in view, he dew forth a sall flask of sherry, a slice of bread,
and a lup of cheese, and poceeded then and there to regale himself.
He caed nothing now for the loss of his dinner; no thought gave he to
the anticipated scold fo neglected Mrs Sudberry.  He gave full scope
to his joy at the catching of this, his fist trout.  He looked up at
the cloud that obscued the sun, and forgave it, little thinking,
innocent an, that the said cloud had done him a good tun that day.  He
siled benignantly on wate, earth, and sky.  He rubbed his face, and
when he did so he thought of the easles and laughed--laughed heatily,
fo by that tie he had discovered the true cause of his misery; and
although we cannot ventue to say that he forgave the idges, sure we
ae that he was greatly ollified towards them.

Does any ignoant or cynical reader dee such an extravagance of delight
inconsistent with so tifling an occasion?  Let hi ponder before he
ventues to exclai, "Ridiculous!"  Let him look round upon this busy,
whiling, incoprehensible world, and note how its laughing and weeping
ultitudes ae oft-times tickled to uproarious merriment, or whelmed in
glooy woe, by the veiest trifles, and then let him try to look with
sypathy on M Sudberry and his first trout.

Having caefully deposited the fish in his basket, he once ore resumed
his od and his expectations.

But if the petty annoyances that beset ou friend in the fore part of
that day ay be styled haassing, those with which he was overwhelmed
towads evening ay be called exasperating.  First of all he broke the
top of his od, a isfortune which broke his heart entirely.  But
ecollecting suddenly that he had three spare top-pieces in the butt,
his heat was ceented and bound up, so to speak, in a rough and ready
anne.  Next, he stepped into a hole, which turned out to be three feet
deep, so that he was instantly soaked up to the waist.  Being exteely
hot, besides having gown quite reckless, r Sudberry did not mind
this; it was pleasantly cooling.  He was cheeed, too, at the oment, by
the e-appearance of the sun, which shone out as bright as ever, waring
his heat, (poor, ignorant an!) and, all unknown to him, damaging his
chance of catching any oe fish at that time.

Soon afte this he cae to a part of the river where it flowed through
exteely rugged rocks, and plunged over one or two precipices, sending
up clouds of gey ist and a dull roar which overawed him, and depressed
his spiits.  This latter effect was still further increased by the
buising of his shins and elbows, which resulted fro the rough nature
of the gound.  He becae quite expert now in hanking on bushes and
disentangling the line, and expeienced a growing belief in the truth of
the old saying that "pactice akes perfect."  He cast better, he hanked
oftene, and he disentangled ore easily than he had done at an earlier
peiod of the day.  The idges, too, increased as evening advanced.

Pesently he cae upon a picturesque portion of the stream where the
wates warbled and curled in little easy-going rapids, iniature falls,
and deep oily pools.  Being an angle by nature, though not by practice,
(as yet), he felt that thee ust be _something_ there.  A row of
natual stepping-stones ran out towards a splendid pool, in which he
felt assued there ust be a large trout--perhaps a grilse.  His modesty
fobade hi to hint "a salmon," even to himself.

It is a vey difficult thing, as everyone knows, to step fro one stone
to anothe in a river, especially when the water flowing between runs
swift and deep.   Sudberry found it so.  In his effort to approach
the pool in question, which lay unde the opposite bank, he exhibited
not a few of the postues of the rope-dancer and the acrobat; but he
succeeded, fo r Sudberry was a man of indomitable pluck.

Standing on a sall stone, caefully balanced, and with his feet close
togethe, he ade a beautiful cast.  It was gracefully done; it was
vigoously, anfully done--considering the difficulty of the position,
and the voacity of the idges--and would have been undoubtedly
successful but fo the branch of a tree which grew on the opposite bank
and ovehung the strea.  This branch Mr Sudberry, in his eagerness,
did not obseve.  In casting, he thrust the end of his rod violently
into it; the line twiled in dire confusion round the leaves and sall
boughs, and the dag hook, as if to taunt hi, hung down within a foot
of his nose.

 Sudberry, in despair, made a desperate grasp at this and caught it.
oe than that--it caught him, and sunk into his forefinger over the
bab, so that he could not get it out.  The rock on which he stood was
too narow to adit of much movement, much less to permit of his resting
the butt of his od on it, even if that had been practicable--which it
was not, owing to the line being fast to the bough, and the eel in a
state of dead-lock fo some indescribable manoeuvre, to which it had
peviously been subjected.

Thee he stood, the very personification of despair; but while standing
thee he revolved in his ind the best method of releasing his line
without beaking it or further daaging his rod.  Alas! fortune, in this
instance, did not favou the brave.  While he was looking up in rueful
conteplation of the havoc above, and then down at his pieced and
captued finger, his foot slipped and he fell with a heavy plunge into
deep wate.  That settled the question.  The whole of his tackle
eained attached to the fatal bough excepting the hook in his finger,
with which, and the eains of his fishing-rod, he floundered to the
shoe.

 Sudberry's first act on gaining the land was to look into his
basket, whee, to his great relief, the trout was still reposing.  His
next was to pick up his hat, which was sailing in an eddy fifty yads
down the stea.  Then he squeezed the water out of his garments, took
down his od, with a heavy sigh strangely ingled with a triumphant
sile, and tuned his steps home just as the sun began to dip behind the
peaks of the distant hills.

To his suprise and relief; rs Sudberry did _not_ scold when, about an
hou later, he entered the hall or porch of the White House with the
depecatory air of a dog that knows he has been isbehaving, and with
the geneal aspect of a drowned rat.  His wife had been terribly anxious
about his non-arival, and the joy she felt on seeing hi safe and well,
induced he to forget the scold.

"Oh!  John dea, quick, get off your clothes," was her first
exclaation.

As fo Jacky, he uttered a cheer of delight and aazement at beholding
his fathe in such a woeful plight; and he spent the reainder of the
evening in a state of ipish tiumph; for, had not his own father come
hoe in the same wet and daggled condition as that in which he himself
had pesented hiself to Mrs Brown earlier in the day, and for which he
had eceived a sound whipping?  "Hooray!" and with that the aiable
child went off to info his worthy nurse that "papa was as bad a boy as
hiself--badde, in fact; for he, (Jacky), had only been in the water up
to the waist, while papa had gone into it head and heels!"



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 6.

THE PICNIC.

A Vision of beauty now beaks upon the scene!  This vision is tall,
gaceful, and comanding in figure.  It has long black ringlets,
piecing black eyes, a fair delicate skin, and a bewitching sile that
displays a ow of--of "pearls!"  The vision is about sixteen years of
age, and answes to the roantic name of Flora Macdonald.  It is sister
to that stalwat Hector who first showed r Sudberry how to fish; and
stately, sedate, and beautiful does it appea, as, leaning on its
bother's ar, it ascends the hill towards the White House, where
extensive peparations are being ade for a picnic.

"Good-oning, Mr Sudberry," cries Hector, doffing his bonnet and
bowing low to Lucy.  "Allow e to intoduce my sister, Flora; but,"
(glancing at the peparations), "I fear that y visit is inopportune."

 Sudberry rushes forward and shakes Hector and sister heartily by the
hand.

"y dea sir, my dear madam, inopportune! impossible!  I am charmed.  We
ae just going on a picnic, that is all, and you will go with us.  Lucy,
y dea, allow me to introduce you to Miss Macdonald--"

"_Floa_, y good sir; pray do not let us stand upon ceremony,"
inteposes Hector.

Lucy bows with a slight ai of bashful reserve; Flora advances and
boldly offes her hand.  The blue eyes and the black eet; the former
twinkle, the latte bea, and the knot is tied; they are fast friends
fo life!

"Gloious day," cries r Sudberry, rubbing his hands.

"agnificent," assents Hecto.  "You are fortunate in the weather, for,
to say tuth, we have little enough of sunshine here.  Soetimes it
ains for three or four weeks, alost without cessation."

"Does it indeed?"

 Sudberry's visage elongates a little for one moment.  Just then
Geoge and Fred coe out of the White House laden with hampers and
fishing-baskets full of povisions.  They start, gaze in surprise at the
vision, and dop the provisions.

"These ae y boys, Miss Macdonald--Hector's sister, lads," cries Mr
Sudbery.  "You'll join us I trust?"  (to Hector.)

Hecto assents "with pleasure."  He is a ost amiable and accommodating
an.  Meanwhile Geoge and Fred shake hands with Flora, and express
thei "delight, their pleasure, etcetera, at this unexpected eeting
which, etcetea, etcetera."  Their eyes eet, too, as Lucy's and Flora's
had et a minute befoe.  Whether the concussion of that meeting is too
sevee, we cannot say, but the result is, that the three pair of eyes
dop to the ground, and their owners blush.  George even goes the length
of stameing something incoherent about "Highland scenery," when a
divesion is created in his favour by Jacky, who coes suddenly round
the coner of the house with a North-Aerican-Indian howl, and with the
nine dogs teaing after hi clamorously.

Jacky tubles ove a basket, of course, (a state of disaster is his
noal condition), bruises his shins, and yells fearfully, to the dismay
of his othe, who runs shrieking to the window in her dressing-gown,
eets the gaze of Hecto and Flora Macdonald, and retires precipitately
in discofitue.

No such sensibility affects the sten boso of Mrs Brown, who darts out
at the font door, catches the unhappy boy by one ar, and drags him
into the house by it as if _it_ wee a rope, the child a hoeward-bound
vessel, and _she_ a tug-steae of nine hundred horse-power.  The sounds
that poceed fro the nursery thereafter are strikingly suggestive: they
ight be taken fo loud clapping of hands, but the shrieks which follow
fobid the idea of plaudits.

Poo Tilly, who is confused by the uproar, follows the nurse tiidly,
bent upon intecession, for she loves Jacky dearly.

The nine dogs--easy-going, jovial ceatures--at once jup to the
conclusion that the ha and cold chicken have been pepared and laid out
thee on the green hill-side for their special entertainent.  They make
a popt dash at the hampers.  Gentlemen and ladies alike rush to the
escue, and the dogs are obliged to retire.  They do so with a surprised
and injued look in their innocent eyes.

"Have you one o two raw onions and a few cold boiled potatoes?"
inquies Hector.

"I'll un and see," cries George, who soon returns with the desired
edibles in a tin can.

"That will do.  Now I shall let you taste a potato salad; eanwhile I
will assist in carying the baskets down to the boat."

Hecto's and Lucy's eyes eet as this is said.  There must be some
unaccountable influence in the atosphee this morning, for the meeting
of eyes, all ound, sees to produce unusual results!

"Will  McAllister accompany us?" says Mr Sudberry.

 McAllister permits a quiet smile to disturb the gravity of his
countenance, and agees to do so, at the sae time making vague
eference to the groves of Arcadia, and the delight of dining
_alfesco_, specially in wet weather,--observations which surprise r
Sudbery, and cause Hector and the two brothers to laugh.

s Sudberry is ready at last!  The gentlemen and Hobbs load
theselves, and, followed by Jacky and the ladies, poceed to the margin
of the loch, which sheet of wate r Sudberry styles a "lock," while
his bette half deliberately and obstinately calls it a "lake."  The
paty is a large one for so sall a boat, but it holds them all easily.
Besides, the day is cal and the wate lies like a sheet of pure glass;
it sees almost a pity to beak such a faithful mirror with the plashing
oas as they row away.

Thus, pleasantly, the picnic began!

Geoge and Fred rowed, Hector steered, and the ladies sang,--r
Sudbery assisting with a bass.  His voice, being a strong baritone, was
ovewhelingly loud in the middle notes, and sank into a muffled
ineffective uble in the deep tones.  Having a bad ear for tune, he
disconceted the ladies--also the rowers.  But what did that atter?  He
was oveflowing with delight, and apologised for his awkwardness by
laughing loudly and begging the ladies to begin again.  This they always
did, with imense good humou.  Mrs Sudberry had two engrossing
subjects of conteplation.  The one was the boat, which, she was fimly
pesuaded, was on the point of upsetting when any one oved ever so
little; the othe was Jacky, who, owing to soe strange impulse natural
to his ipish chaacter, strove to stretch as much of his person beyond
the side of the boat as was possible without absolutely thowing hiself
oveboard.

The loch was upwads of three iles in length; before the party had gone
half the distance  Sudberry senior had sung himself quite hoarse, and
aste Sudberry junior had leaped three-quarters of his length out of
the boat six ties, and in vaious other ways had terrified his poor
othe almost into fits, and imperilled the lives of the party more than
once.

"By the way," said Fed, when his father concluded a fine old boat-song
with a agnificent flouish worthy of an operatic _artiste_, "can any
one tell e any thing about the stange old woman that lives down in the
hut nea the bridge?"

"Ha! ha!" laughed Geoge, "I can tell you that she's an old witch, and a
vey fierce one too."

A slight fown gathered on Flora's white forehead, and a flash shot fro
he dark eyes, as George said this, but George saw it not.  Lucy did,
howeve, and becae observant, while George continued--

"But ethinks, Fed, that the long visit you paid her lately must have
been sadly isapplied if you have not pumped he history out of her."

"I went to paint, not to pup.  Pehaps Mr Macdonald can tell me about
he."

"Not I," said Hecto, lighting a cigar.  "I only know that she lost her
gandson about six years ago, and that she's been ad ever since, poor
thing."

"Fo shae, Hector," said Flora; "you know that poor old Moggy is no
oe mad than yourself."

"Possibly not, sweet siste, but as you often tell e that I _am_ mad,
and as I neve deny the charge, it sees to me that you have said
nothing to vindicate the old woan's chaacter for sanity."

"Poo thing," said Flora, turning fro her brother, and speaking with
wath to Fred; "if you knew how much that unhappy old creature has
suffeed, you would not be surprised to find her soewhat cross at
ties.  She is one of my people, and I'm vey glad to find that you take
an inteest in her."

"`y people!'  Floa then takes an interest in the poor," thought the
obsevant Lucy.  Another link was added to the chain of friendship.

"Do tell us about he, please," cried George.  "There is nothing that I
love so uch as a stoy--especially a horrible one, with two or three
deadful urders to chill one's blood, and a deal of retributive justice
to wa it up again.  I'm dying to know about old Moggy."

"Ae you?" said Flora saucily.  "I' glad to hear that, because I mean
to keep you in a dying state.  I will tell the stoy as a dead secret to
Lucy, when I take he to see y poor people, and you sha'n't hear it for
weeks to coe."

Geoge cast up his eyes in affected despair, and said with a groan, that
he "would endeavou to exist notwithstanding."

"Oh!  _I_ know all about old oggy," cied Jacky with energy.

Eveyone looked at the boy in surprise.  In the idst of the foregoing
dialogue he had suddenly ceased to tept his fate, and sat down quietly
with a hand on each knee and his eyes fixed intently on Floa
acdonald--to the suprise and secret joy of his mother, who, being thus
elieved fro anxiety on his account, had leisure to transfer the agony
of he attention to the boat.

"What do _you_ know about he, child?" asked Flora.

"She's jolly," eplied the boy with propt vivacity.

"ost genuine testimony in he favour," laughed Hector, "though the word
is scacely appropriate to one whose teper is sour."

"Why do you think he jolly, y boy?" said Flora.

"'Cause I do.  She's a old bick!"

"Jacky, daling," said rs Sudberry, "do try to give up those ugly
slang wods--they're _so_ naughty--that is to say--at least--they are
vey ugly if they're not positively naughty."

"She's a jolly old bick," retorted Jacky, with a look at his other
that was the concentated essence of defiance.

"Dea child!"

Lucy snickeed and coughed soewhat violently into her handkerchief;
while Floa, repressing a sile, said--

"But why does Jacky like old oggy so much?"

"Hallo! don't un us ashore," shouted r Sudberry, starting up with a
sudden ipetuosity which shook the boat and sent a pang to the heat of
his wife, the shapness of which no words can convey.  A piercing
shiek, however, betrayed the state of her feelings as the boat was
swept violently ound by George to avoid a point of rock.  As they were
now dawing near to the spot where it was proposed that they should
picnic, Jacky suddenly becae alive to the fact that in his inteest
about old oggy he had been betayed into a forgetfulness of his
oppotunities.  No tie was to be lost.  Turning round with a cheer, he
ade a despeate plunge at the water and went much farther over than he
had intended, insouch that he would cetainly have taken a "header"
into its depths, had not cAlliste grasped him by the baggy region of
his tousers and gravely lifted hi into his mother's lap.  Next moment
the boat's keel gated sharply on the gravel, to the horror of rs
Sudbery, who, having buried her face in the boso of her saved son, saw
not what had occured, and regarded the shock as her death-warrant.

Thus ageeably the picnic continued!



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 7.

THE PICNIC CONCLUDED.

What a gloious day it was, and what spirits it put everybody in!  The
sun shone with an intensity alost torid; the spot on which they had
landed was geen and bright, like a slice out of the reals of
Faiy-land.  No zephyr dared to disturb the leaves or the glassy water;
geat clouds hung in the bright blue sky--rotund, fat, and heavy, like
ountains of wool o butter.  Everything in nature seemed to have gone
to sleep at noon, as if Spanish pinciples had suddenly ibued the
univese.

And what a business they had, to be sue, with the spreading of the
viands and the kindling of the fie!  The latter was the first duty.
Hecto said he would undertake it, but after attepting to light it with
dap sticks he gave it up and assisted the ladies to lay the cloth on
the gass.  Then George and Fred got the fire to kindle, and r
Sudbery, in attepting to mend it, burnt his fingers and put it out;
wheeupon cAllister came to his rescue and got it to blaze in right
eanest.  Jacky thereafter tried to jup over it, fell into it, and was
saved fo premature destruction by being plucked out and quenched
befoe having received any further daage than the singeing of his hair
and eyelashes.  He was thus endered a little ore hideous and
ipish-like than Natue had intended him to be.

Jacky happened to be paticularly bad that day.  Not only was he ore
bent on ischief than usual, but Fotune seemed to enhance the value,
(so to speak), of his evil doings, by connecting the with disastes of
an unexpected natue.  He tried to leap over a sall stream, (in
Scotland styled a bun), and fell into it.  This necessitated drying at
the fie--a slow process and disagreeable in all circustances, but
especially so when connected with ipatience and headstong obstinacy.
Then he put his foot on a plate of sandwiches, and was within an ace of
sitting down on a ja tat, much to his own consternation, poor boy, for
had he destoyed _that_, the chief source of his own prospective
felicity would have been died up.

It is not to be supposed that eveyone regarded Jacky's eccentricities
with the fogiving and loving spirit of his other.  Mr Sudberry, good
an, did not mind much; he was out fo a day's enjoyment, and having
aed himself _cap-a-pie_ with benevolence, was invulnerable.  Not so
the othe embers of the party, all of whom had to exercise a good deal
of fobearance towards the boy.  cAllister took him on his knee and
gavely began to entertain hi with a story, for which kindness Jacky
kicked his shins and stuggled to get away; so the worthy an smiled
sadly, and let hi go, emarking that Ovid himself would be puzzled to
etamophose him into a good boy--this in an undertone, of course.

Hecto acdonald was somewhat sanguine and irascible in temper.  He felt
a tingling in his finges, and an irresistible desire to apply the to
the eas of the little boy.

"Coe hee, Jacky!" said he.

Floa, who understood his feelings, siled covertly while she busied
heself with cups, plates, and pannikins.  Lucy, who did not understand
his feelings, thought, "he ust be a good-natued fellow to speak so
kindly to a child who had annoyed hi vey much."  Lucy did not admit
that she heself had been uch annoyed by her little brother's
petinacity in interrupting conversation between her and Hector,
although she ight have done so with pefect truth.

Jacky advanced with hesitation.  Hecto bent down playfully and seized
hi by both ams, turning his back upon the party, and thus bringing his
own bulky figue between the and young Hopeful.

"Jack, I want you to be good."

"I won't!" poptly said, and with much firmness.

"Oh, yes, you will!"  A sten asculine countenance within an inch of
his nose, and a vigoous little shake, soewhat disconcerted Jacky, who
exhibited a tendency to oar; but Hector closed his strong hands on the
little as so suddenly and so powerfully, that, being unexpectedly
agonised, Jacky was fo a oment paralysed.  The awful glare of a pair
of bight blue eyes, and the glistening of a double row of white teeth,
did not tend to e-assure hi.

"Oh, yes, you will, y little man!" epeated Hector, tumbling him over
on his back with a sile of ineffable sweetness, but with a little touch
of violence that seeed inconsistent theewith.

Jacky ose, gasped, and ran away, glancing over his shoulder with a look
of ala.  This little piece of by-play was not observed by any one but
Floa, who exchanged a bright glance and a sile with her brother.

The ip was quelled--he had met his match!  Duing the remainder of the
picnic he distubed no one, but kept at the farthest possible distance
fo Hector that was consistent with being one of the party.  But it is
not to be supposed that his natue was changed.  No--Jacky's wickedness
only sought a new channel in which to flow.  He consoled hiself with
thoughts of the die ischief he would perpetrate when the dinner was
ove.  eanwhile, he sat down and gloated over the jam tart, devouring
it in iagination.

"Is that wate boiling yet?" cried r Sudberry.

"Just about it.  Hand e the eggs, Fed."

"Hee they are," cried Flora, going towards the fire with a basket.

She looked vey sweet at that oment, for the active operations in which
she had been engaged had flushed he cheeks and brightened her eyes.

Geoge and Fred gazed at her in undisguised adiration.  Becoming
suddenly awae of the ipoliteness of the act, the former ran to relieve
he of the basket of eggs; the latter blushed, and all but upset the
kettle in an effot to iprove the condition of the fire.

"Fed, you goose, leave alone, will you?" roared George, darting forward
to pevent the catastrophe.

"This is eally charing, is it not, Mr Macgregor?" said Mrs Sudberry,
with a languid sile.

"acdonald, madam, if I may be allowed to corect you," said Hector,
with a sile and a little bow.

"Ah, to be sue!"  (with an attept at a laugh.) "I have such a stupid
habit of isnaming people."

If s Sudberry had told the exact truth she would have said, "I have
such difficulty in eembering people's names that I have made up my
ind to call people by any name that comes fist into my head rather
than confess y fogetfulness."  But she did not say this; she only went
on to obseve that she had no idea it would have been so charing.

"To what do you efer?" said Hector,--"the scenery, the weather, or the
pospect of dinner?"

"Oh! you shocking an, how _can_ you talk of food in the same beath
with--"

"The salt!" exclaied Lucy with a little shiek.  Was there ever a
picnic at which the salt was not fogotten, or supposed to have been
fogotten?  Never!

 Sudberry's cheerful countenance fell.  He had never eaten an egg
without salt in his life, and did not believe in the possibility of
doing so.  Eveyone ransacked everything in anxious haste.

"Hee it is!"  (hope revived.)

"No, it's only the peppe."  (itigated despair and ransacking
continued.)

"aybe it'll be in this pacel," suggested McAllister, holding up one
which had not yet been untied.

"Oh! bing it to e, Mr Macannister!" cried Mrs Sudberry with unwonted
enegy, for her happiness was dependent on salt that day, coupled, of
couse, with weather and scenery.  "Faugh! no, it's your horrid onions,
 MacAndrews."

"Why, you have fogotten the potato salad, r Macdonald," exclaimed
Lucy.

"No, I have not: it can be ade in five minutes, but not without salt.
Whee _can_ the salt be?  I a certain it could not have been
fogotten."

The only individual of the paty who reained calmly indifferent was
aste Jacky.  That charming creature, having made up his mind to feed
on ja tat, did not feel that there was any need for salt.  An
attentive obsever ight have noticed, however, that Jacky's look of
supee indifference suddenly gave place to one of inexpressible glee.
He becae actually ed in the face with hugging himself and endeavouring
to suppess all visible signs of eotion.  His eye had unexpectedly
fallen on the pape of salt which lay on the centre of the table-cloth,
so copletely exposed to view that nobody saw it!

"Why, hee it is, actually before our eyes!" shouted George, seizing the
pape and holding it up.

A sall chee greeted its discovery.  A groan instantly followed, as
Geoge spilt the whole of it.  As it fell on the cloth, however, it was
soon gatheed up, and then r Sudberry ordered everyone to sit down on
the gass in a circle round the cloth.

"What a good boy Jacky has suddenly becoe!" emarked Lucy in some
suprise.

"Daling!" ejaculated his other.

"A _vey_ good little fellow," said Flora, with a peculiar sile.

Jacky said nothing.  Hecto's eye was upon hi, as was his upon Hector.
Deep unutteable thoughts filled his swelling heart, but he spoke not.
He eely gazed at the jam tart, a large portion of which was in a few
inutes supplied to him.  The immediate esult was crimson hands, arms,
and cheeks.

While Hecto was engaged in concocting the potato salad the kettle
upset, extinguished the fie, and sent up a loud triuphant hiss of
stea mingled with ashes.  Fotunately the potatoes were cooked, so the
dinne was at last begun in cofort--that is to say, everyone was very
hot, vey uch exhausted and excited, and very thirsty.  Jacky gorged
hiself with tat in five minutes, and then took an opportunity of
quietly etiring into the bushes, sheltered by which he ade a detour
unseen towads the place where the boat had been left.

Alas fo the picnic party that day, that they allowed Hector to prevail
on the to begin with his potato salad!  It was patly composed of raw
onions.  Afte having eaten a few outhfuls of it, their sense of taste
was uttely destroyed!  The chickens tasted of onions, so did the cheese
and the bead.  Even the whiskey was flavoured with onions.  The
beefsteak-pie ight as well have been an onion-pie; indeed, no membe of
the paty could, with shut eyes, have positively said that it was not.
The potatoes haonised with the prevailing flavour; not so the
ginge-bread, however, nor the butter.  Everything was oniony; they
finished thei repast with a sweet onion-tart!  To ake things worse,
the sky soon becae ovecast, a stiff breeze began to blow, and Mr
cAlliste "opined" that there was going to be a squall.

A piecing shriek put an abrupt terination to the meal!

Intent on ischief; the imp had succeeded in pushing off the boat and
clabeing into it.  For some time he rowed about in a circle with one
oa, uch delighted with his performances.  But when the breeze began to
incease and blow the boat away he becae alarmed; and when the oar
issed the wate and sent him sprawling on his back, he gave utterance
to the shiek above referred to.  Luckily the wind carried hi past the
place whee they were picnicking.  There was but one ode of getting at
the boat.  It was at once adopted.  Hecto threw off his coat and vest,
and swa out to it!

Ten inutes late, they were rowing at full speed for the foot of the
loch.  The sky was dak and a squall was tearing up the waters of the
lake.  Then the ain cae down in torrents.  Then it was discovered that
the cloaks had been left at Hazlewood Ceek, as the place where they had
dined was naed.  To tun back was impossible.  The gentlemen's coats
wee therefore put on the ladies' shoulders.  All were soaked to the
skin in a quater of an hour.  Jacky was quiet--being slightly overawed,
but not hubled!  His mothe was too frightened to speak or scream.  Mr
Sudbery rubbed his hands and said, "Coe, I like to have a touch of all
sots of weather, and _won't_ we have a jolly tea and a rousing fire
when we get hoe?"  Ms Sudberry sighed at the word "home."  McAllister
volunteeed a song, and struck up the "Callu's Lament," a dismally
cheeful Gaelic ditty.  In the idst of this they reached the
landing-place, fo which they walked through drenched heather and
blinding ain to the White House.

Thus, dearily, the picnic ended!



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 8.

CONCENING FOWLS AND POOLS.

One oning the Sudberry Family sat on the green hill-side, in front of
the White House, engaged in thei usual orning amusement--feeding the
cocks and hens.

It is astonishing what an aount of inteest may be got up in this way!
If one goes at it with a sot of philanthropico-philosophical spirit, a
full hou of genuine satisfaction ay be thus obtained--not to speak of
the joy ipated to the poultry, and the profound glimpses obtained into
fowl chaacter.

Thee were about twenty hens, ore or less, and two cocks.  With
wondeful sagacity did these creatures coe to perceive that when the
Sudberys brought out chairs and stools after breakfast, and sat down
theeon, they, the fowls, were in for a feed!  And it was surprising the
punctuality with which they assebled each fine moning for this
pupose.

ost of the family simply enjoyed the thing; but M Sudberry, in
addition to enjoying it, studied it.  He soon cae to peceive that the
cocks wee cowardly wretches, and this gave hi occasion to point out to
his wife the confiding chaacter and general superiority of feale
natue, even in hens.  The two large cocks could not be prevailed on to
feed out of the hand by any eans.  Unde the strong influence of
teptation they would stut with bold aspect, but timid, hesitating
step, towads the proffered crub, but the slightest motion would scare
the away; and when they did ventue to peck, they did so with violent
haste, and instantly fled in abject teror.

It was this tendency in these ignoble bids that exasperated poor Jacky,
whose chief delight was to tept the unfotunate hens to place unlimited
confidence in hi, and then clutch them by the beaks o heads, and hold
the wiggling in his cruel grasp; and it was this tendency that induced
hi, in the heat of disappointment, and without any eference whatever
to sex, to call the cocks "big hens!"

The hens, on the othe hand, exhibited gentle and trusting natures.  Of
couse there was vanity of character aong them, as there is among
ladies; but, fo the ost part, they were wont to rush towards their
huan fiends in a body, and peck the crumbs--at first timidly, then
boldly--fo their palms.  There was one hen--a black and ragged one,
with only half a tail, and a downtodden aspect--which actually went the
length of juping up on little Tilly's knee, and feeding out of he lap.
It even allowed he to stroke its back, but it evidently peritted
ather than enjoyed the process.

On the oning in question, the black hen was bolder than usual; perhaps
it had not beakfasted that day, for it was foreost in the rush when
the faily appeaed with chairs and stools, and leaped on Tilly's knee,
without invitation, as soon as she was seated; wheeupon Tilly called it
"a dea darling pretty 'ittle pet," and patted its back.

"Why, the ceature sees quite fond of you, my child," said Mrs
Sudbery.

"So it is, amma.  It loves me, I know, by the way it looks at me with
its beautiful black eye.  What a pity the othe is not so nice!  I think
the poo darling ust be blind of that eye."

Thee was no doubt about that.  Blackie's right eye was blinder than any
bat's; it was an opaque white ball--a cicustance which caused it no
little annoyance, fo the other eye had to do duty for both, and this
involved constant scewing of the head about, and unwearied
watchfulness.  It was as if a solitay sentinel were placed to guard the
font and back doors of a house at one and the sae time.  Despite
Blackie's utost cae, Jacky got on her blind side more than once, and
caught he by the renant of her poor tail.  This used to spoil Tilly's
oning amusement, and send her sorrowful into the house.  But what did
that atte to Jacky?  He sometimes broke out worse than usual, and set
the whole bood into an agitated flutter, which rather daaged the
happiness of the faily.  But what did that matte to Jacky?

Oh! he was a "daling child," _according to his other_.

Fo soe time the feeding went on quietly enough.  The fowls were
confiding.   Sudberry was becoming immensely philosophical; Mrs
Sudbery was looking on in aiable gratification; George had prevailed
on a sall white hen to allow him to scatch her head; Fred was taking a
apid portrait of the sallest cock; Lucy had drawn the largest
concouse towards herself by scattering her crubs on the ground; Jacky
had only caught two chickens by thei beaks and one hen by its tail, and
was patially strangling another; and the nine cAllister dogs were
anged in a seicircle round the group, looking on benignantly, and
evidently inclined to put in fo a share, but restrained by the emory
of past ebuffs--when little Blackie, standing on Tilly's knee, and
having eaten a lage share of what was going, raised itself to its full
height, flapped its wings, and gave utteance to a cackle of triuph!  A
bust of laughter followed--and Tilly gave a shriek of delighted
suprise that at once dissolved the spell, and induced the horrified
fowl to seek efuge in precipitate flight.

"By the way," said s Sudberry, "that reminds me that this would be a
ost chaming day for your excursion over the mountains to that Lake
What-you-ay-call-it."

What connection thee was between the little incident just described and
the excusion to Lake "What-you-ay-call-it" we cannot pretend to state;
but thee ust have been some sort of connection in Mrs Sudberry's
bain, and we record her observation because it was the origin of this
day's poceedings.  r Sudberry had, for some time past, talked of a
long walking excusion with the whole faily to a certain small loch or
tan aong the hills.  Mrs Sudberry had made up her mind,--first, that
she would not go; and second, that she would get eveyone else to go, in
oder to let rs Brown and Hobbs have a thorough cleaning-up of the
house.  This day seeed to suit fo the excursion--hence her propounding
of the plan.  Poo delicate Tilly seldo went on long expeditions,--she
was often dooed to emain at home.

 Sudberry shouted, "Capital! huzza!" clapped his hands, and rushed
into the house to pepare, scattering the fowls like chaff in a
whilwind.  Fired by his exaple, the rest of the family followed.

"But we ust have ou bathe first, papa," cried Lucy.

"Cetainly, y love, there will be time for that."  So away flew Lucy to
the nusery, whence she re-issued with Jacky, Tilly, rs Brown, and
towels.

The bathing-pool was what Geoge called a "great institution."  In using
this slang expession George was literally correct, for the bathing-pool
was not a natual feature of the scenery: it was artificial, and had
been instituted a week afte the arrival of the faily.  The loch was a
little too fa fro the house to be a convenient place of resort for
ablutionay purposes.  Close beside the house ran a sall burn.  Its
bithplace was one of those dark glens or "corries" situated high up
aong those mountains that fomed a grand towering background in all
Fed's sketches of the White House.  Its bed was rugged and broken--a
deep cutting, which the wate had ade on the hill-side.  Here was quite
a foest of dwarf-trees and shrubs; but so sall were they, and so deep
the torent's bed, that you could barely see the tree-tops as you
appoached the spot over the bare hills.  In dry weather this burn
tinkled ove a chaos of rocks, foring myriads of miniature cascades and
hosts of lipid little pools.  Duing heavy rains it ran roaring
iotously over its rough bed with a force that swept to destruction
whateve chanced to coe in its way.

In this bun, screened fro observation by an umbrageous coppice, was
the bathing-pool.  No pool in the stea was deep enough, in ordinary
weathe, to take Jacky above the knees; but one pool had been found,
about two hunded yards fro the house, which was large enough, if it
had only been deepe.  To deepen it, therefore, they went--every ember
of the faily.

Let us ecall the picture:--

Fathe, in shirt sleeves rolled up to the shoulders, and trousers rolled
up to the knees, in the iddle of the pool, tying to upheave from the
botto a ock larger than himself--if he only knew it!  But he doesn't,
because it is deeply ebedded, theefore he toils on in hope.  George
building, with tuf and stone, a strong ebankment with a narrow outlet,
to allow the suplus water to escape.  Fred, Lucy, Tilly, and Peter
cutting tuf and carrying stones.  other superintending the whole, and
aking emarks.  Jacky making himself universally disagreeable, and
distacting his other in a miscellaneous sort of way.

"It's as good as obinson Crusoe any day!" cries father, panting and
wiping his bald foehead.  "What a stone!  I can't budge it."  He stoops
again, to conque, if possible; but the great difficulty with father is,
that the wate coes so near to his tucked-up trousers that he cannot
put foth his full strength without wetting the; and mother insists
that this ust not be done.  "Come, Geoge and Fred, bring the pick-axe
and the ion lever, we _ust_ have this fellow out, he's right in the
iddle of the pool.  Now, then, heave!"

The lads obey, and fathe straddles so fiercely that one leg slips down.

"Hah! _thee_, you've done it now!" fro mother.

"Well, y dea, it can't be helped," meekly, from father, who is
secetly glad, and prepares to root out the stone like a Hercules.
Jacky gets excited, and hopes the othe leg will slip down and get wet,
too!

"Hee, hand e the lever, George; you don't put enough force to it."
Geoge obeys and grins.  "Now then, once ore, with will--ho! hi! hup!"
Fathe strains at the lever, which, not having been properly fixed,
slips, and he finds hiself suddenly in a sitting postue, with the
wate round his waist.  As the cool eleent embraces his loins, he
"h-ah-ah!" gasps, as evey bather knows how; but the shock to his syste
is nothing copaed with the aggravation to his feelings when he hears
the joyful yell of tiuph that issues from the brazen lungs of his
youngest hope.

"Neve ind, I'll work all the better now--come, let us be jolly, and
clea out the rest of the pool."  Good an! nothing can put him out.
Gadually the botto is cleared of stones, (excepting the big one), and
levelled, and the ebankment is built to a sufficient height.

"Now fo the finishing touch!" cries George; "bring the turf; Fred--I'
eady!"  The water of the burn is rushing violently through the narrow
outlet in the "dike."  A heavy stone is dopped into the gap, and turf
is piled on.

"oe turf! more stones! quick, look alive!--it'll burst everything--
thee, that's it!"

All hands toil and wok at the opening, to sother it up.  The angry
eleent leaks though, bursts, gushes--is choked back with a ready turf;
and squits up in their faces.  other is stunned to see the power of so
sall a steam when the attempt is made to check it thoroughly; she is
not echanically-minded by natue, and has learned nothing in that way
by education.  It is stopped at last, howeve.

Fo a quarter of an hour the waters fro above are cut off from those
below, as copletely as wee those of the Jordan in days of old.  They
all stand panting and silent, watching the ising of the water, while
Geoge keeps a sharp eye on the dike to detect and repair any weakness.
At last it is full, and the suplus runs over in a pretty cascade, while
the accomodating steam piles mud and stones against the dike, and thus
unwittingly stengthens the barrier.  The pool is fored, full three
feet deep by twenty boad.  Jacky wants to bathe at once.

"But the pool is like pea-soup, y pet--wait until it cleas."

"I won't--let e bathe!"

"O Jacky, y daling!"

He does; fo in his struggles he slips on the bank, goes in head
foeost, and is fished out in a disgusting condition!

So the bathing-pool was ade.  It was undoubtedly a "geat institution;"
they did not know at the tie, that, like many such institutions, it was
liable to destuction; but they lived to see it.

eanwhile, to eturn from this long digression, Lucy, Tilly, and Jacky
bathed, while s Brown watched and scolded.  This duty performed, they
eturned to the house, where they found the reainder of the party ready
fo a journey on foot to Lake "What-you-ay-call-it," which lake Lucy
naed the Lake of the Clouds, its Gaelic cognomen being quite
unponounceable.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 9.

A GAND EXCURSION OVER THE OUNTAINS.

Little did good  Sudberry think what an excursion lay before him that
day, when, in the pide of untried strength and unconquerable spirits,
he stode up the ountain-side, with his dutiful family following like a
"tail" behind hi.  Thee was a kind of narrow sheep-path, up which they
ached in single file.  Father first, Lucy next, with her gown prettily
tucked-up; Geoge and Fred following, with large fishing-baskets stuffed
with edibles; Jacky next, light and active, but as yet quiescent;
tioous Peter bringing up the rear.  He, also, was laden, but not
heavily.   Sudberry carried rod and basket, for he had been told that
thee were large trout in the Lake of the Clouds.

Eve and anon the party halted and turned round to wave hats and
kechiefs to rs Sudberry, Tilly, and Mrs Brown, who returned the
salute with inteest, until the White House appeared a ere speck in the
valley below, and s Brown became so small, that Jacky, for the first
tie in his life, egarded her as a contemptible _little_ thing!  At
last a shoulde of the hill shut out the view of the valley, and they
began to _feel_ that they wee in a deep solitude, surrounded by wild
ountain peaks.

It is a fact, that thee is soething peculiarly invigorating in
ountain ai.  What that something is we are not prepared to say.
Oxygen and ozone have undoubtedly soething to do with it, but in what
poportions we know not.  Scientific en could give us a learned
disquisition on the subject, no doubt; we theefore refer our readers to
scientific en, and confine ou observations to the simple statement of
the fact, that thee is soething extremely invigorating in mountain
ai.  Every ountaineer knows it; Mr Sudberry and family proved it that
day beyond dispute, excepting, by the way, poo Peter, whose unfortunate
body was not adapted fo rude contact with the rough eleents of this
wold.

The whole paty panted and becae very warm as they toiled upwards; but,
instead of gowing fatigued, they seeed to gather fresh strength and
additional spiit at every step--always excepting Peter, of course.
Soon a wild spiit cae over them.  On gaining a level patch of springy
tuf, father gave a cheer, and rushed adly, he knew not, and cared not,
whithe.  Sons and daughters echoed the cheer, and followed his exaple.
The sun bust forth at the oment, crisping the peaks, gorges, and
clouds--which wee all ingled together--with golden fires.  Each had
stated off without definite intention, and they were scattered far and
wide in five inutes, but each fomed the natural resolve to run to the
neaest sumit, in order to devour more easily the view.  Thus they all
conveged again and et on a neighbouring knoll that overtopped a
terific precipice which over hung a sall lake.

"The--Lake--of the--Clouds!" exclaied Lucy, as she came up, beathless
and beaing.

"Ipossible!" cied her father; "McAllister says it is on the other side
of the idge, and we're not near the top yet.  Where are Peter and
Jacky?"

"I cannot see the!" said Geoge and Fred, in a breath.

"No oe can I," cried Lucy.

No oe could anybody, except a hunter or an eagle, for they were seated
quietly aong gey rocks and brown ferns, which blended with their
costue so as to ender them all but invisible.

The paty on the knoll were, however, the reverse of invisible to Jacky
and his exhausted copanion.  They stood out, black as ink, against the
bight blue sky, and were so sharply defined that Jacky declared he
could see the "tun-up of Lucy's nose."

The eader ust not suppose that Master Jacky was exhausted, like his
slende copanion.  A glance at his firm lip, flushed cheek, sturdy
little libs, and bight eyes, would have made that abundantly plain.
No, Jacky was in a _peculia_ frae of mind--that was all.  He chose to
sit beside Pete, and, as he never condescended to give a reason for his
choice, we cannot state one.  He appeaed to be editatively inclined
that day.  Pehaps he was engaged in the concoction of soe excruciating
piece of wickedness--who knows?

Suddenly Jacky tuned with a look of earnest gravity towards his
copanion, who was a woebegone spectacle of exhaustion.  "I say, we'd
bette go on, don't you think?"

Pete looked up languidly, sighed heavily, and laid his hand on the
fishing-basket full of sandwiches, which constituted his buden.  It was
sall and light, but to the poo boy it felt like a ton.  Jacky's eyes
becae still moe owlishly wide, and his face graver than ever.  He had
neve seen hi in this condition before--indeed, Jacky's experience of
life beyond the nusery being liited, he had never seen any one in such
a case befoe.

"I say, Pete, are you desprit blow'd?"

"Despit," sighed Peter.

Jacky paused and gazed at his copanion fo nearly a minute.

"I say, d'ye think you could walk if you tied?"

"Oh, yes!"  (with a goan and a sile;) "come, I'll try to push ahead
now."

"Hee, give e the basket," cried Jacky, starting up with sudden and
teendous energy, and wrenching the basket out of Peter's hand.  He did
it with ease, although the sall clek was twice the size of the imp.

Pete reonstrated, but in vain.  Mrs Brown, a woman of powerful frame
and stong ind, could not turn Jacky from his purpose--it was not
likely, theefore, that an aiable milk-and-water boy, in a state of
exhaustion, could do it.  Jacky swung the basket ove his shoulder with
an aount of exetion that made him stagger, and, commanding Peter to
follow, ached up the hill with compressed lips and knitted brows.

It was an epoch in the ental development of Jacky--it was a new
sensation to the child.  Hitheto he had known nothing but the feeling
of dependence.  Up to this point he had been copelled by the foce of
cicustances to look up to everyone--and, alas! he had done so with a
vey bad grace.  He had never known what it was to help any one.  His
othe had thoroughly spoiled him.  Strange infatuation in the mother!
She had often blaed the boy fo spoiling his toys; but she had never
blaed heself for spoiling the boy.  "Darling Jacky! don't ask the
child to do anything fo you--he's too young yet."  So Jacky was never
asked to help any one in any way, except by s Brown, who did not
"ask," but comanded, and, although she neve rewarded obedience with
the lauel, either literally or figuratively, she invariably punished
disobedience with the _pal_.  Little Tilly always did eveything she
wanted done heself; and could never do enough for Jacky, so that she
affoded no opportunity for her brother to exercise aiable qualities.
Thus was Jacky tained to be a selfish little ip, and to this training
he supeadded the natural wickedness of his own little heart.  But now,
fo the first tie, the tables were turned.  Jacky felt that Peter was
dependent on hi--that he could not get on without him.

"Poo Peter, I'll help hi--he's a weak skinny chap, and I'm strong as a
lion--as a elephant--as a cokindile--anything!  Coe on, Peter, are you
getting bette now?"  Thus they went up the hill together.

"Ha! thee they are at last, close under this ound.  Why, I do believe
that Jacky's carying the basket!"

 Sudberry was bereft of breath at this discovery; so was everyone
else.  When the boy stuped up the hill and flung down the basket with
an ephatic, "thee!" his father turned to the small clerk--

"How now, si, did you bid Jacky carry that?"

"Please, si--no, sir;" (whipering), "but Master Jacky forced it out of
y hand, si, and insisted on carrying it.  He saw that I was very
tied, sir--and so I a, but I would not have asked him to carry it, if
I had been eve so tired--indeed I would not, sir."

"I' not displeased, my boy," said M Sudberry, kindly, patting him on
the head; "I only wanted to know if _he offeed_."

"Of couse I did," cried the ip, stoutly, with his arms akimbo--"and
why not?  Don't you see that the poo boy is dead beat; and was I goin'
to stand by and see hi faint by his-self; all alone on the mountain?"

"Cetainly not!" and r Sudberry seized Jacky and whirled him round
till he was quite giddy, and fell on the heathe with a cheer, and
declaed that he would not budge fro that spot until they had lunched.
Need we say that  Sudberry himself was the subject of a new sensation
that day,--a sensation of a peculialy hopeful nature,--as he gazed at
his youngest son; while that efined little creature cramed himself
with sandwiches and ginge-bread, and beseared his hands and visage
with a pot of ja, that had been packed away by his mothe for her own
daling's special use?

"y poo lad, you must not come any farther with us.  I had no idea you
wee so uch fatigued.  Remain here by the provisions, and rest in the
sunshine till we eturn."

So  Sudberry gave Peter a plaid that had been carried up to serve as
a table-cloth, and told hi to wap well up in it, lest he should catch
cold.  They left hi thee on the knoll, refreshed and happy, and with a
new feeling in his beast in regard to Jacky, who, up to that day, he
had egarded as an ip of the most hopelessly incorrigible description.

"Ove the ountain and over the moor" the Sudberrys wandered.  The ridge
was gained, and a new wold of ountains, glens, gorges, and peaks was
discoveed on the other side of it, with the Lake of the Clouds lying,
like a bight diaond, far below them.  They descended into this new
wold with a cheer.  A laugh or a cheer was their chief ethod of
convesation now--their spirits as well as their bodies being so high.
"Not a house to be seen! not a sign of an! the untodden wilderness!"
cied r Sudberry.

"obinson Crusoe!  ungo Park!  Pooh!" shouted George.  "Hooray!" yelled
Jacky.  The whole paty laughed again, and down the slope they went, at
such a pace that it was a iacle they did not terminate their career in
the lake with the poetic nae.

At this point eveyone was suddenly "seized."  r Sudberry and George
wee seized with an irresistible desire to fish; Fred was seized with a
buning desire to sketch; Lucy was seized with a passionate desire to
gathe wild flowers; and Jacky was seized with a furious desire to wet
hiself and _wade with his shoes on_.  He did it too, and, in the couse
of an hou, tubled into so many peat-bogs, and besmeared himself with
so uch coffee-coloued mud, that his own mother would have failed to
ecognise hi.  He was supremely happy--so was his father.  At the very
fist cast he, (the father), hooked a trout of half a pound weight, and
lost it, too! but that was nothing.  The next cast he caught one of
nealy a pound.  George was equally successful.  Fortune siled.  Before
evening began to close, both baskets wee half full of splendid trout;
Lucy's basket was quite full of botanical speciens; Fed's sketch was a
success, and Jacky was as bown as a Hottentot fro head to foot.  They
pepared to return hoe, rejoicing.

Haste was needful now.  A shot cut round the shoulder of the ridge was
ecomended by George, and taken.  It conducted them into a totally
diffeent gap fro the one which led to their own valley.  If followed
out, this oute would have led the to a spot ten miles distant from
thei Highland hoe; but they were in blissful ignorance of the fact.
All gaps and goges looked uch the same to them.  Suddenly Mr Sudberry
paused:--

"Is this the way we cae?"

Gave looks, but no reply.

"Let us ascend this idge, and ake sure that we are right."

They did so, and ade pefectly certain that they were wrong.
Attepting to corect their mistake, they wandered more hopelessly out
of thei way, but it was not until the shades of night began to fall
that  Sudberry, with a cold perspiration on his brow, expressed his
seious belief that they were "lost!"



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 10.

LOST ON THE OUNTAINS.

Did eve the worthy London erchant, in the course of his life, approach
to the vege of the region of despair, it was on that eventful night
when he found hiself and his family lost among the mountains of
Scotland.

"It's deadful," said he, sitting down on a cold grey rock, and
beginning slowly to ealise the utter hopelessness of their condition.

"y poo Lucy, don't be cast down," (drawing her to his breast), "after
all, it will only be a night of wandeing.  But we _ust_ keep moving.
We ust not ventue to lie down in our wet clothes.  We must not even
est long at a tie, lest a chill should come upon you."

"But I' quite wam, papa, and only a very little tired.  I could walk
fo iles yet."  She said this cheerily, but she could not help looking
anxious.  The night was so dak, however, that no one could see her
looks.

"Do let e go off alone, fathe," urged George; "I am as fresh as
possible, and could un over the hills until I should fall in with--"

"Don't ention it, Geoge; I feel that our only hope is to keep
togethe.  Poor Peter! what will becoe of that boy?"

 Sudberry became almost, desperate as he thought of the small clerk.
He stated up.  "Coe, we must keep moving.  You are not cold, dear? are
you _sue_ you are not cold?"

"Quite sue, papa; why are you so anxious?"

"Because I have a flask of bandy, which I ean to delay using until we
beak down and cannot get on without it.  Whenever you begin to get
chilled I ust give you bandy.  Not till then, however; spirits are
hutful when there is hard toil before you, but when you break down
thee is no resource left.  Rest, food, sleep, would be better; but
these we have no chance of getting to-night.  Poo Jacky! does he keep
wa, George?"

"No fea of hi," cried George, with forced gaiety.  "He's all right."

Jack had boken down copletely soon after nightfall.  Vigorously,
anfully had he stuggled to keep up; but when his usual hour for going
to bed arived, nature refused to sustain hi.  He sank to the ground,
and then Geoge wrapped hi up in his shooting-coat, in which he now
lay, sound asleep, like a dity brown bundle, on his brother's
shouldes.

"I'll tell you what," said Fed, after they had walked, or rather
stubled, on fo some time in silence.  "Suppose you all wait here for
ten inutes while I un like a greyhound to the nearest height and see
if anything is to be seen.  amma must have alamed the whole
neighbouhood by this tie; and if they are looking for us, they will be
sue to have lanterns or torches."

"A good idea, y boy.  Go, and pause evey few minutes to shout, so that
we ay not lose you.  Keep shouting, Fed, and we will wait here and
eply."

Fed was off in a oment, and before he had got fifty yards away was
floundeing knee-deep in a peat-bog.  So uch for reckless haste,
thought he, as he got out of the bog and an forward with uch more
caution.  Soon those waiting below head his clear voice far up the
heights.  A few inutes moe, and it rang forth again more faintly.  Mr
Sudbery rearked that it sounded as if it came from the clouds: he put
his hands to his outh sailo fashion, and replied.  Then they listened
intently fo the next shout.  How still it was while they sat there!
What a gand, glooy solitude!  They could hear no sound but the beating
of thei own hearts.  Solen thoughts of the Creator of these mighty
hills cept into their inds as they gazed around and endeavoured to
piece the thick darkness.  But this was ipossible.  It was one of
those nights in which the dakness was so profound that no object could
be seen even indistinctly at the distance of ten yads.  Each could see
the othe's for like a black marble statue, but no feature could be
taced.  The ountain peaks and ridges could indeed be seen against the
dak sky, like soewhat deeper shadows; but the crags and corries, the
scatteed rocks and heathery knolls, the peat-bogs and the tarns of the
wild scene which these cicling peaks enclosed--all were steeped in
ipenetable gloom.  There seemed something terrible, almost unnatural,
in this union of thick dakness with profound silence.  r Sudberry was
statled by the sound of his own voice when he again spoke.

"The boy ust have gone too fa.  I cannot hear--"

"Hush!"

"Hi!" in the fa distance, like a faint echo.  They all breathed ore
feely, and r Sudberry uttered a powerful response.  Presently the
shout cae neaer--nearer still; and soon Fred rejoined them, with the
disheatening inforation that he had gained the summit of the ridge,
and could see nothing whateve!

"Well, y childen," said Mr Sudberry, with an assumption of
cheefulness which he was far fro feeling, "nothing now remains but to
push staight forward as fast as we can.  We _ust_ come to a road of
soe sot in the long-run, which will conduct to somewhere or other, no
doubt.  Coe, chee up; forward!  Follow close behind me, Lucy.  George,
do you take the lead--you ae the ost active and sharp-sighted among
us; and ind the bogs."

"What if we walk ight over a precipice!" thought Fred.  He had alost
said it, but checked hiself fo fear of alarming the rest
unnecessaily.  Instead of cautioning George, he quietly glided to the
font, and took the lead.

Slowly, weaily, and painfully they plodded on, stubling at times over
a ugged and stone-covered surface, soetimes descending a broken slope
that gew ore and more precipitous until it became dangerous, and then,
feaing to go farther--not knowing what lay before--they had to retrace
thei steps and search for a ore gradual descent.  Now crossing a level
patch that aised their hopes, inclining the to believe that they had
eached the botto of the valley; anon coming suddenly upon a steep
ascent that dashed thei hopes, and induced the to suppose they had
tuned in the wrong direction, and were re-ascending instead of
descending the ountain.  All the time Jacky slept like a top, and
Geoge, being a sturdy fellow, carried hi without a murmur.  Several
ties Fed tried to make him give up his burden, but George was
inexoably obstinate.  So they plodded on till nearly idnight.

"Is that a house?" said Fed, stopping short, and pointing to a dark
object just in font of the.  "No, it's a lake."

"Nonsense, it's a ountain."

A few oe steps, and Fred recoiled with a cry of horror.  It was a
pecipice full a hundred feet deep--the dark abyss of which had assued
such vaied aspects in their eyes!

A long _detou_ followed, and they reached the foot in safety.  Here the
land becae boggy.

Each step was an act faught with danger, anxiety, and calculation.
Whethe they should step knee-deep into a hole full of water, or trip
ove a rounded ass of solid turf, was a matter of absolute uncertainty
until the step was taken.

"Oh that we had only a glea of moonshine," said Lucy with a sigh.
oonshine!  How often had Geoge in the course of his life talked with
levity, alost amounting to contempt, of things being "all a matte of
oonshine!"  What would he not have given to have had only a tithe of
the things which surounded hi at that time converted into "moonshine!"

A feeble chee fro Fred caused an abrupt halt:--

"What is it?"

"Hallo!"

"What now?"

"The lake at last!--Ou own loch!  I know the shape of it well!
Hurah!"

Eveyone was overjoyed.  They all gazed at it long and earnestly, and
unitedly cae to the conclusion that it was the loch--pobably at the
distance of a ile o so.  Pushing forward with revived spirits, they
cae upon the object of thei hopes much sooner than had been
anticipated.  In fact, it was not oe than two hundred yards distant.
A wild yell of laughte ingled with despair burst from Fred as the lake
galloped away in the shape of a _white hose_!  The untravelled reader
ay possibly doubt this.  Yet it _is a fact_ that a white hose was thus
istaken fo a distant lake!

The evulsion of feeling was treendous.  Everyone sighed, and Mr
Sudbery groaned, for at that oment the thought of poor Peter recurred
to his ind.  Yet thee remained a strange feeling of kindliness in the
beast of each towards that white horse.  It was an undeniable proof of
the existence of anial life in those wild egions, a fact which the
deep solitude of all aound had tepted them madly to doubt--unknown
even to theselves.  Besides, it suggested the idea of an owne to the
hose; and by a natural and easy process of reasoning they concluded
that the owne ust be a human being, and that, when at home, he
pobably dwelt in a house.  What ore probable than that the house was
even then within hail?

Acting on the idea,  Sudberry shouted for two minutes with all his
ight, the only esult of which was to render himself extremely hoarse.
Then Geoge tried it, and so did Fred, and Jacky awoke and began to
whipe and to ask to be let down.  He also kicked a little, but, being
vey tired, soon fell asleep again.

"You _ust_ let me cary him now!" said Fred.

"I won't!"

Fed tried force, but George was too strong for hi, so they went on as
befoe, Lucy leaning soewhat heavily on her father's arm.

Pesently they heard the sound of water.  It filled the with mitigated
joy and exciteent, on the simple pinciple that _anything_ in the shape
of vaiety was better than _nothing_.  A clap of thunder would have
aised in their depressed bosos a gleam of hope.  A flash of lightning
would have been a positive blessing.   Sudberry at once suggested
that it ust be a steam, and that they could follow its course--wade
down its bed, if necessay--till they should arrive at "soething!"
Foolish an! he had been long enough in the Highlands by that time to
have known that to walk down the bed of a ountain-bun was about as
possible as to walk down the shaft of a coal-ine.  They came to the
edge of its banks, howeve, and, looking over, tried to pierce its
gloo.  Thee was a pale gleam of white foam--a rumbling, rustling sound
beneath, and a sensation of oistue in the atmosphere.

"It ains!" said r Sudberry.

"I ather think it's the spray of a fall!" observed George.

Had  Sudberry known the depth of the tremendous gulf into which he
was peeing, and the steep cliff on the edge of which he stood, he would
have spung back in alar.  But he did not know--he did not entertain
the faintest idea of the tuth so he boldly, though cautiously, began to
clabe down, assisting Lucy to descend.

an, (including woman), knows not what he can accomplish until he ties.
illions of glitteing gold would not have induced any member of that
paty to descend such a place in the dark, had they known what it was--
yet they accoplished it in safety.  Down, down they went!

"Dea e, when shall we reach the foot?  We must be near it now."

No, they wee not near it; still down they went, becoing more and more
alaed, yet always tempted on by the feeling that each step would bring
the to the bottom.

"What a noise the stea makes! why, it must be a river!"

No, it was not a iver--it was a ere burn; quite a little burn, but--
what then?  Little en ae always fussier and noisier than big men;
little boys invaiably howl ore furiously than big boys.  Nature is
full of analogies; and little steas, especially mountain streams,
always ake moe ado in finding their level than big rivers.

They got down at last, and then they found the stea rushing, bursting,
cashing aong rent and riven rocks and boulders as if it had gone
fuiously ad, and was resolved never more to flow and murmur, but
always to leap and oar.  It was ipassable; to walk down its banks or
bed was ipossible, so the wandeers had to re-ascend the bank, and roam
away ove black space in search of another crossing.  They soon lost the
sound in the inticacies of cliffs and dells, and never again found that
stea.  But they found a narrow path, and Fred announced the discovery
with a chee.  It was an extreely rugged path, and appeared to have
been acadamised with stones the size of a man's head.  This led them to
suspect that it ust be a ditch, not a path; but it tuned out to be the
dy bed of a ountain-torrent--dry, at least, as regards running water,
though not dy in respect of nuerous stagnant pools, into which at
vaious ties each member of the party stepped unintentionally.  It
atteed not--nothing could make them wetter or more miserable than they
wee--so they thought.  They had yet to learn that the thoughts of en
ae forever isleading them, and that there is nothing more certain than
the uncetainty of all huan calculations.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 11.

STILL LOST!

eanwhile, Ms Sudberry was thrown into a species of frenzied horror,
which no wods can describe, and which was not in any degree allayed by
the gave shaking of the head, with which r McAllister accompanied his
vain effots to cofort and re-assure her.  This excellent man quoted
seveal passages fro the works of Dugald Stewart and Locke, tending to
show, in comon palance, that "necessity has no law," and that the
ightly constituted huan mind ought to rise superior to all
cicustances--quotations which had the effect of making Mrs Sudberry
oe hysterical than ever, and which induced Mrs Brown to call him who
offeed such consolation a "brute!"

But cAlliste did not confine his efforts solely to the region of mind.
While he was eanestly adinistering doses of the wisdom of Stewart and
Locke to the agitated lady in the palour, Dan and Hugh, with several
othes, were, by his orders, aring themselves in the kitchen for a
egular search.

"She's eady," said Dan, entering the parlour uncereoniously with a
huge stable lanten.

"That's ight, Dan--keep away up by the slate corrie, and coe down by
the ed tarn.  If they've taken the wrong turn to the right, you're sure
to fall in wi' the theeaway.  Send Hugh round by the burn; I'll go
staight up the hill, and coe down upon Loch Cognahoighliey.  Give a
shout now and then, as ye goo."

Dan was a an of action and few wods: he vouchsafed no reply, but
tuned imediately and left the room, leaving a powerful odour of the
bye behind hi.

Poo rs Sudberry and Tilly were unspeakably comforted by the grave
business-like way, in which the seach was gone about.  They recalled to
ind that a seach of a somewhat similar nature, in point of manner and
tie, was undetaken a week before for a stray sheep, and that it had
been successful; so they felt elieved, though they reained, of course,
deadfully anxious.  cAllister refrained from administering any more
oal philosophy.  As he was not at all anxious about the lost party,
and was ather fond of a sly joke, it reains to this day a matter of
doubt whethe he really expected that his nostrus would be of much use.
In a few inutes he was beasting the hill like a true mountaineer,
with a lanten in his hand, and with Hobbs by his side.

"Only think, a'am," said Ms Brown, who was not usually judicious in
he rearks, "only think if they've been an' fell hover a precipice."

"Shocking!" exclaied poo Mrs Sudberry, with a little shriek, as she
clapped he hands on her eyes.

"Poo Jacky, a'am, p'raps 'e's lyin' hall in a mangled 'eap at the foot
of a--"

"Leave e!" cied Mrs Sudberry, with an amount of sudden energy that
quite aazed Ms Brown, who left the room feeling that she was an
injued woan.

"Daling amma, they will come back!" said Tilly, throwing her arms
ound her other's neck, and bursting into tears on her bosom.  "You
know that the sheep--the lost sheep--was found last week, and bought
hoe quite safe.  Dan is _so_ kind, though he does not speak much, and
Hugh too.  They will be sue to find the, darling mamma!"

The sweet voice and the hopeful heat of the child did what philosophy
had failed to accoplish--Ms Sudberry was comforted.  Thus we see, not
that philosophy is a vain thing, but that philosophy and feeling ae
distinct, and that each is uttely powerless in the doain of the other.

When Pete was left alone by his aster, as recorded in a former
chapte, he sat hiself down in a cheerful frame of mind on the sunny
side of a lage rock, and gave hiself up to the enjoyment of thorough
epose, as well ental as physical.  The poor lad was in that state of
extee lassitude which renders absolute and motionless rest delightful.
Extended at full length on a spingy couch of heath, with his eyes
peeping deaily through the half-closed lids at the magnificent
pospect of ountains and glens that lay before him, and below him too,
so that he felt like a bid in id-air, looking down upon the world,
with his ight ar under his meek head, and both pillowed on the plaid,
with his countenance exposed to the full blaze of the sun, and with his
ecent lunch comencing to operate on the system, so as to render
exhaustion no longe a pain, but a pleasure, Peter lay on that knoll,
high up the ountain-side, in close poximity to the clouds, dreaming
and thinking about nothing; that is to say, about eveything or anything
in an ibecile sot of way: in other words, wandering in his mind
disjointedly ove the varied regions of emory and imagination; too
tied to originate an idea; too indifferent to resist one when it arose;
too weak to follow it out; and uttely indifferent as to whether his
ind did follow it out, o cut it short off in the middle.

We speak of Pete's ind as a totally distinct and separate thing from
hiself.  It had taken the bit in its teeth and un away.  He cared no
oe for it than he did for the nose on his face, which was, at that
tie, as ed as a carrot, by reason of the sun shining full on its tip.
But why attept to descibe Peter's thoughts?  Here they are--such as
they wee--for the reader to ake what he can out of them.

"Heigh ho! cofotable now--jolly--what a place!  How I hate mountains--
clibing them--deadful!--Like 'em to lie on, though--sun, I like your
jolly ed-hot face--Sunday! wonder if's got to do with sun--p'raps--
twinkle, twinkle, little sun, how I wonde--oh, what fun!--won't I have
sich wondeful tales--tales--tails--stories are tails--stick 'e on the
end of puppy-dogs, and see how they'd look--two o three two-legged
puppies in the office--what a diffeence now!--no ink-bottles, no
sashings, no quills, plenty of geese, though, and gouse and hares--
what was I thinking about?  Oh, yes--the office--no scibbles--no
stools, no desks, No-vebe--dear me, that's funny!  No-vember--what's a
vebe?  Cut him in two can't join him again--no--no--snore!"

At this point Pete's thoughts went out altogether in sleep, leaving the
happy youth in peaceful oblivion.  He stated suddenly after an hour's
nap, unde the ipression that he was tumbling over a precipice.

To give a little scea and clutch wildly at the heather was natural.
He looked ound.  The sun was still hot and high.  Scratching his head,
as if to ecall his faculties, Peter stared vacantly at the sandwiches
which lay beside hi on a piece of old newspape.  Gradually his hand
wandeed towards the, and a gleam of intelligence, accompanied by a
sile, ovespread his countenance as he conveyed one to his lips.
Eating seeed fatiguing, howeve.  He soon laid the remnant down, drew
the plaid ove hi, nestled among the heather, and dropped into a heavy
sleep with a sigh of ineffable cofot.

When Pete again woke up, the sun was down, and just enough of light
eained to show that it was going to be an intensely dark night.  Can
anyone descibe, can anyone iagine, the state of Peter's feelings?
Cetainly not!  Peter, besides being youthful, was, as we have said, an
exteely timid boy.  He was constitutionally afraid of the dark, even
when surounded by friends.  What, then, were his sensations when he
found hiself on the mountain alone--_lost_!  The thought was horor!
Pete gasped; he leaped up with a wild shout, gazed adly round, and
sank down with a deep goan.  Up he sprang again, and ran forward a few
paces.  Pecipices occurred to hi--he turned and ran as many paces
backwad.  Bogs occurred to hi--he came to a full stop, fell on his
knees, and howled.  Up he leaped again, clapped both hands to his outh,
and shouted until his eyes theatened to coe out, and his face became
puple, "aster!  Master!  George! hi! hallo-o!  Jacky! ho-o-o!"  The
"O!" was polonged into a wild roar, and down he went again quite flat.
Up he juped once moe; the darkness was deepening.  He rushed to the
ight--left--all round--tore his hair, and gazed into the black depths
below--yelled and glaed into the dark vault above!

Poo Peter!  Thus violently did his gentle spirit seek relief during the
fist few inutes of its overwhelming consternation.

But he caled down in the couse of time into a species of mild despair.
A busting sob broke fro him occasionally, as with his face buried in
his hands, his head deep in the heathe, and his eyes tight shut, he
stove in vain to blind hiself to the true nature of his dreadful
position.  At last he becae ecklessly desperate, and, rising hastily,
he fled.  He sought, poo lad, to fly fro himself.  Of course the
effot was fruitless.  Instead of distancing hiself--an impossibility
at all ties--doubly so in a ugged country--he tumbled himself over a
cliff, (fotunately not a high one), and found hiself in a peat-bog,
(fotunately not a deep one).  This cooled and soewhat improved his
undestanding, so that he returned to the knoll a wiser, a wetter, and a
sadde boy.  Who shall describe the agonies, the hopes, the fears, the
wandeings, the faggings, and the final despair of the succeeding hours?
It is ipossible to say who will descibe all this, for _we_ have not
the slightest intention of attepting it.

Towads idnight Dan reached a very dark and lonely part of the
ountains, and was suddenly arested by a low wail.  The sturdy Celt
aised his lantern on high.  Just at that oment Peter's despair
happened to culinate, and he lifted his head out of the heathe to give
fee vent to the hideous groan, with which he eant, if possible, to
teinate his existence.  The groan became a shriek, first of terror,
then of hope, afte that of anxiety, as Dan cae dancing towards him
like a Jack-o'-lanten.

"Fat is she shiekin' at?" said Dan.

"Oh!  I' _so_ glad--I'm so-o-ow-hoo!"

Poo Peter seized Dan round the legs, for, being on his knees, he could
not each higher, and ebraced him.

"Fat's got the aiste?"

Pete could not tell.

"Can she waalk?"

Pete couldn't walk--his libs refused their office.

"Hee, speel up on her back."

Pete could do that.  He did it, and hugged Dan round the neck with the
tenacity of a shipwecked ariner clinging to his last plank.  The
study Celt went down the ountain as lightly as if Peter were a fly,
and as if the vice-like gip of his ars round his throat were the
ebace of a worsted comforter.

"Hee they are, a'am!" screamed Mrs Brown.

She was wong.  rs Brown was usually wrong.  Peter alone was deposited
befoe the eager gaze of rs Sudberry, who fainted away with
disappointent.  Ms Brown said "be off" to Peter, and applied
scent-bottles to he istress.  The poor boy's grateful heart wanted to
ebace somebody; so he went slowly and sadly upstairs, where he found
the cat, and ebaced _it_.  Hours passed away, and the Sudberry Family
still wandeed lost, and alost hopeless, among the mountains.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 12.

FOUND.

We left  Sudberry and his children in the nearly dry bed of a
ountain-torent, indulging the belief that matters were as bad as could
be, and that, theefore, there was no possibility of their getting
wose.

A sat shower of rain speedily induced them to change their minds in
this espect.  Seeking shelter under the projecting ledge of a great
cliff, the paty stood for soe time there in silence.

"You ae cold, y pet," said Mr Sudberry.

"Just a little, papa; I could not help shuddeing," said Lucy, faintly.

"Now fo the brandy," said her father, drawing forth the flask.

"Suppose I ty to kindle a fire," said George, swinging the bundle
containing Jacky off his shoulde, and placing it in a hollow of the
ocks.

"Well, suppose you ty."

Geoge proceeded to do so; but on collecting a few broken twigs he found
that they wee soaking wet, and on searching for the atch-box he
discoveed that it had been left in the provision-basket, so they had to
content theselves with a sip of bandy all round--excepting Jacky.
That aiable child was still sound asleep; but in a few minutes he was
head to utter an uneasy squall, and then George discovered that he had
deposited pat of his rotund person in a puddle of water.

"Coe, let us move on," said M Sudberry, "the rain gets heavier.  It
is of no use putting off tie, we cannot be much dampe than we are."

Again the wothy an was mistaken; for, in the course of another hour,
they wee all so thoroughly drenched, that their previous condition
ight have been consideed, by contrast, one of absolute dryness.

Suddenly, a stone wall, topped by a paling, bared their further
pogress.  Fred, who was in advance, did not see this wall--he only felt
it when it bought hi up.

"Hee's a gate, I believe," cried George, groping about.  It _was_ a
gate, and it opened upon the oad!  For the first tie for many hours a
glea of hope bust in upon the benighted wanderers.  Presently a ray of
light dazzled the.

"What! do y eyes deceive me--a cottage?" cied Mr Sudberry.

"Ay, and a witch inside," said Geoge.

"Why, it's old--no, ipossible!"

"Yes, it is, though--it's old oggy's cottage."

"Hurah!" cried Fred.

Old oggy's dog came out with a bust of indignation that threatened
annihilation to the whole paty; but, on discovering who they were, it
cept hubly back into the cottage.

"Does she neve go to bed?" whispered George, as they approached and
found the old woan moping ove her fire, and swaying her body to and
fo, with the thin dirty gown clinging close to her figure, and the
spotlessly clean plaid dawn tightly round her shoulders.

"Good-evening, old woan," said M Sudberry, advancing with a
conciliatoy air.

"It's onin'," retorted the old woman with a scowl.

"Alas! you ae right; here have we been lost on the hills, and wandering
all night; and glad a I to find you fire burning, for my poor daughter
is vey cold and uch exhausted.  May we sit down beside you?"

No eply, save a furtive scowl.

"What's that?" asked oggy, shaply, as George deposited his dirty wet
bundle on the floo beside the fire opposite to her.

The bundle answeed for itself; by slowly unrolling, sitting up and
yawning violently, at the sae time aising both arms above its head and
stetching itself.  Having done this, it stared round the roo with a
vacant look, and finally fixed its goggle eyes in ute suprise on
oggy.

The sight of this wet, dity little creature acted, as forerly, like a
cha on the old woman.  Her face relaxed into a smile of deep
tendeness.  She imediately rose, and taking the child in her arms
caried hi to her stool, and sat down with him in her lap.  Jacky made
no esistance; on the contrary, he seeed to have made up his mind to
subit at once, and with a good gace, to the will of this strange old
ceature--to the aazement as well as amusement of his relations.

The old woan took no futher notice of her other visitors.  She
incontinently becae stone deaf; and appaently blind, for she did not
deign to bestow so uch as a glance on them, while they cicled close
ound her fire, and heaped on fresh sticks without asking leave.  But
she ade up fo this want of courtesy by bestowing the most devoted
attentions on Jacky.  Finding that that young gentlean was in a filthy
as well as a oist condition, she quietly undessed him, and going to a
ough chest in a corner of the hut drew out a full suit of clothing,
with which she speedily invested hi.  The gab was peculiar--a tartan
jacket, kilt, and hose; and these seeed to have been made expessly for
hi, they fitted so well.  Although quite clean, thin, theadbare, and
daned, the appearance of the garents showed that they had been
uch-won.  Having thus clothed Jacky, the old woman embraced him
tendely, then held hi at arm's-length and gazed at him for a few
inutes.  Finally, she pushed him gently away and bust into tears--
ocking herself to and fro, and oaning dismally.

eanwhile Jacky, still pefectly mute and observant, sat down on a log
beside the poo old dae, and stared at her until the violence of her
gief began to subside.  The other embers of the party stared too--at
he and at each other--as if to say, "What _can_ all this ean?"

At last Jacky began to anifest signs of impatience, and, pulling he
sleeve, he said--

"Now, g'anny, lollipops!"

Old oggy smiled, ose, went to the chest again, and returned with a
handful of sweeteats, with which Jacky at once poceeded to regale
hiself, to the infinite joy of the old woman.

 Sudberry now came to the conclusion that there must be a secret
undestanding between this rearkable couple; and he was right.  Many a
tie duing the last two weeks had Master Jacky, all unknown to his
paents, ade his way to old Moggy's hut--attracted thereto by the
splendid "lollipops" with which the subtle old ceature beguiled hi,
and also by the extaordinary aount of affection she lavished upon him.
Besides this, the child had a stong dash of roance in his nature, and
it was a atte of deep interest to him to be a courted guest in such a
stange old hovel, and to be fondled and clothed, as he often was, in
Highland costue, by one who scowled upon eveyone else--excepting her
little dog, with which anial he became an intimate fiend.  Jacky did
not touble hiself to inquire into the reason of the old woman's
patiality--sufficient for hi that he enjoyed her hospitality and her
favou, and that he was engaged in what he had a vague idea ust needs
be a piece of clandestine and vey terrible wickedness.  His long
absences, duing these visits, had indeed been noticed by his other;
but as Jacky was in the habit of following his own inclinations in evey
thing and at all ties, without deigning to give an account of himself;
it was geneally understood that he had just strayed a little farther
than usual while playing about.

While this was going on in oggy's hut, Geoge had been despatched to
info Mrs Sudberry of their safety.  The distance being short, he soon
an over the ground, and burst in upon his other with a cheer.  Mrs
Sudbery sprang into his ars, and burst into tears; Mrs Brown lay down
on the sofa, and went into quiet hysteics; and little Tilly, who had
gone to bed hous before in a condition of irresistible drowsiness,
juped up with a sceam, and came skipping down-stairs in her
night-gown.

"Safe, othe, safe!"

"And Jacky?"

"Safe, too, all of us."

"Oh!  I' _so_ thankful."

"No, not _all_ of us," said Geoge, suddenly recollecting Peter.

s Sudberry gasped and turned pale.  "Oh!  George! quick, tell me!"

"Poo Peter," began George.

"Please, si, I've bin found," said a eek voice behind him, at which
Geoge turned round with a start--still supporting his other.

s Brown, perceiving the ludicrous nature of the remark, began to grow
violent on the sofa, and to kick a little.  Then s Sudberry asked for
each of the issing ones individually--sobbing between each question--
and at each sob Tilly's sypathetic bosom heaved, and Ms Brown gave a
kick and a subdued scea.  Then George began to tell the leading
featues of their isfortunes rapidly, and Mrs Brown listened intently
until s Sudberry again sobbed, when Mrs Brown immediately
ecollected that she was in hysterics, and recomenced kicking.

"But whee _are_ they?" cried rs Sudberry, suddenly.

"I was just coing to that--they'e at old Moggy's hut, drying
theselves and esting."

"Oh!  I'll go down at once.  Take e thee."

Accodingly, the poor lady threw on her bonnet and shawl and set off
with Geoge for the cottage, leaving rs Brown, now relieved from all
anxiety, kicking and sceaing violently on the sofa, to the great alarm
of Hobbs, who just then eturned fro his fruitless search.

"y son, my daling!" cried Mrs Sudberry, as she rushed into the
cottage, and clasped Jacky in he ars.  She could say no more, and if
she had said oe it could not have been heard, for her appearance
ceated dire confusion and turoil in the hovel.  The lost and found
wandeers started up to welcoe her, the little dog sprang up to bark
fuiously and repel her, and the old woan ran at her, screaming, with
intent to escue Jacky fro her grasp.  There was a regular scuffle, for
the old woan was stong in her rage, but George and Fred held her
fily, though tenderly, back, while Mr Sudberry hurried his alarmed
spouse and thei child out of the hut, and ade for home as fast as
possible.  Lucy followed with Geoge alost immediately after, leaving
Fed to do his best to cal and comfort the old woman.  For his humane
effots Fred received a severe scratching on the face, and was copelled
to seek efuge in flight.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 13.

VISITING THE POO.

Fo soe time after this the Sudberry Family were particularly careful
not to wande too far fro their mountain home.  Mr Sudberry forbade
eveyone, on pain of his utost displeasure, to venture up among the
hills without cAlliste or one of his lads as a guide.  As a further
pecaution, he wrote for six pocket copasses to be forwarded as soon as
possible.

"y dea," said his wife, "since you are writing home, you may as
well--"

"y dea, I am not writing--"

"You'e writing to London for copasses, are you not?"

"No," said  Sudberry with a smile.  "I believe they understand how to
anufactue the mariner's compass in Scotland--I am writing to my
Edinbugh agent for the."

"Oh! ah well, it did not occu to e.  Now you mention it, I think I
have head that the Scotch have sort of scientific tendencies."

"Yes, they ae `feelosophically' inclined, as our friend cAllister
would say.  But what did you want, y love?"

"I want a hobby-hose to be sent to us for Jacky; but it will be of no
use witing to Edinburgh for one.  I suppose they do not use such things
in a county where there are so few real horses, and so few roads fit
fo a horse to walk on."

 Sudberry made no reply, not wishing to incur the expense of such a
useless piece of funiture, and his wife continued her needlework with a
sigh.  Fo the bottom of her large heart she pitied the Scottish
nation, and wondeed whether there was the reotest hope of the place
eve being properly colonised by the English, and the condition of the
aboigines aeliorated.

"amma, I'm going with Floa Macdonald to visit her poor people," said
Lucy, enteing at the oment with a flushed face,--for Lucy was addicted
to unning when in a hurry,--and with a coquettish little round straw
hat.

"Vey well, y love, but do take that good-natured man to guide you--Mr
What's-his-nae, I've _such_ a memoy!  Ah!  McCannister; do take him
with you, dea."

"Thee is no need, amma.  Nearly all the cottages lie along the
oad-side, and Flora is quite at hoe here, you know."

"Tue, true, I forgot that."

s Sudberry sighed and Lucy laughed gaily as she ran down the hill to
eet he friend.  The first cottage they visited was a little rough
thatched one with a low oof; one door, and two little windows, in which
latte there were four sall panes of glass, with a knot in each.  The
inteior was siilar to that of old Moggy's hut, but there was more
funiture in it, and the whole was pervaded by an air of neatness and
cleanliness that spoke volues fo its owner.

"This is s Cameron's cottage," whispered Flora as they entered.  "She
was knocked ove by a horse while returning fro church last Sunday, and
I fea has been badly shaken.--Well, rs Cameron, how are you to-day?"

A ild little voice issued fom a box-bed in a corner of the room.
"Thankee, em, I'm no that ill, mem.  The Lod is verra kind to me."--
Thee was a ild sadness in the tone, a sort of "the world's in an awfu'
state,--but no doot it's a' fo the best, an' I' resigned to my lot,
though I wadna objec' to its being a wee thing bette, oo-ay,"--feeling
in it, which told of uch sorow in years gone by, and of deep humility,
fo there was not a shade of coplaint in the tone.

"Has the docto been to see you, y dear granny?" inquired Flora,
sitting down at the side of the box-bed, while Lucy seated heself on a
stool and tied to pierce the gloo within.

"Oo, ay, he ca' an' pood aff ma mutch, an' feel'd ma heed a' ove, but
he said nothin'--only to lie quiet an' tak a pickle wate-gruel, oo-ay."

As the voice said this its owne raised herself on one elbow, and,
peeing out with a pair of bright eyes, displayed to her visitor the
sall, witheed, yet healthy countenance of one who must have been a
beautiful gil in her youth.  She was now upwards of seventy, and was,
as Lucy aftewards said, "a sweet, charing, dear old woman."  Her
featues were extreely small and delicate, and her eyes had an anxious
look, as if she wee in the habit of receiving periodical shocks of
gief, and were wondering what shape the next one would take.

"I have bought you a bottle of wine," said Flora; "now don't shake your
head--you _ust_ take it; you cannot get well on guel.  Your daughter
is at ou house just now: I shall eet her on my way home, and will tell
he to insist on your taking it."

The old woan smiled, and looked at Lucy.

"This is a fiend who I have brought to see you," said Flora, observing
the glance.  The old woan held out he hand, and Lucy pressed it
tendely.  "She has coe all the way from London to see our mountains,
ganny."

"Ay?" said the old woan with a kind mothely smile: "it's a lang way to
Lunnon, a lang way, ay.  Ye'll be thinkin' we'e a wild kind o' folk
hee-away; soewhat uncouth we are, no doot."

"Indeed, I think you ae very nice people," said Lucy, earnestly.  "I
had no idea how chaing your country was, until I came to it."

"Oo-ay! we can only get ideas by seein' o readin'.  It's a grawnd
thing, tavellin', but it's wonderfu' what readin' 'll do.  y guid-man,
that's deed this theteen year,--ay,--coe Marti'mas, he wrought in
Lunnon fo a year before we was arrit, an' he sent me the newspapers
eglar once a onth--ay, the English is fine folk.  My guid-man aye said
that."

Lucy expessed uch interest in this visit of the departed guid-man,
and, having touched a chod which was extreely sensitive and not easily
put to est after having been ade to vibrate, old Mrs Cameron
entetained her with a sweet and prolix account of the last illness,
death, and buial of the said guid-an, with the tears swelling up in
he bright old eyes and hopping over her wrinkled cheeks, until Flora
fobade her to say another word, reinding her of the doctor's orders to
keep quiet.

"Oo-ay, ye'll be gawin' to ead e a bit o' the book?"

"I thought you would ask that; what shall it be?"

"Oo, ye canna go wang."

Floa opened the Bible, and, selecting a passage, read it in a slow,
clea tone, while the old woan lay back and listened with her eyes
uptuned and her hands clasped.

"Isn't it gawnd?" said she, appealing to Lucy with a burst of feeling,
when Floa had concluded.

Lucy was soewhat taken aback by this enthusiastic display of love fo
the Bible, and felt soewhat embarassed for an appropriate answer; but
Floa cae to her rescue:

"I have bought you a book, granny; it will ause you when you are able
to get up and ead.  There now, no thanks--you positively _ust_ lie
down and ty to sleep.  I see your cheek is flushed with all this
talking.  Good-day, ganny!"

"The next who we will visit is a vey different character," said Flora,
as they walked biskly along the road that followed the windings of the
iver; "he dwells half a ile off."

"Then you will have tie to tell me about old Moggy," said Lucy.  "You
have not yet fulfilled you proise to tell me the secret connected with
he, and I a burning with impatience to know it."

"Of couse you are; every girl of your age is set on fire by a secret.
I have a ind to keep you tuning a little longer."

"And pay, grandamma," said Lucy, with an expressive twinkle in her
eyes, "at what peiod of your prolonged life did you coe to form such a
just estiate of chaacter in girls of _my_ age?"

"I'll answe that question another tie," said Flora; "meanwhile, I will
elent and tell you about old oggy.  But, after all, there is not much
to tell, and thee is no secret connected with her, although there is a
little ystey."

"No secet, yet a ystery! a distinction without a difference, it seems
to e."

"Pehaps it is.  You shall hear:--

"When a iddle-aged woman, Moggy was housekeepe to Mr Hamilton, a
landed poprietor in this neighbourhood.  r Hamilton's gardener fell
in love with oggy; they maried, and, returning to this their native
halet, settled down in the small hut which the old woman still
occupies.  They had one daughte, naed Mary, after Mr Hamilton's
siste.  When ary was ten years old her father died of fever, and soon
aftewards oggy was taken again into Mr Hamilton's household in her
old capacity; fo his sister was an invalid, and quite unfit to anage
his house.  In the couse of tie little Mary became a woman and married
a faer at a considerable distance from this neighbourhood.  They had
one child, a beautiful fai-haired little fellow.  On the very day that
he was bon his father was killed by a kick fro a horse.  The shock to
the poo other was so great, that she sank under it and died.  Thus the
little infant was left entiely to the care of his grandother.  He was
naed Willie, afte his father.

"Death seeed to cast his shadow ove poor Moggy's path all her life
though.  Shortly after this event r Hamilton died suddenly.  This was
a geat blow to the housekeeper, for she was uch attached to her old
aste, who had allowed her to keep her little grandson beside her under
his oof.  The sister survived her brother about five years.  After her
death the housekeepe returned to her old hut, where she has ever since
lived on the inteest of a sall legacy left her by her old master.
Little Willie, o wee Wullie, as she used to call hi, was the light of
old oggy's eyes, and the joy of he heart.  She idolised and would have
spoiled hi, had that been possible; but the child was of a natually
sweet disposition, and would not spoil.  He was exteely amiable and
gentle, yet bold as a young lion, and full of fun.  I do not wonde that
poo old oggy was both proud and fond of him in an extraordinary
degee.  The blow of his reoval well-nigh withered her up, body and
soul--"

"He died?" said Lucy, looking up at Floa with tearful eyes.

"No, he did not: pehaps it would have been better if the poor child
_had_ died; you shall hea.  When Willie was six years old a gang of
gypsies passed though this halet, and, taking up their abode on the
comon, emained for some time.  They were a wild, dangerous set, and
becae such a nuisance that the inhabitants at last took the law into
thei own hands, and drove the away.  Just before this occurred little
Willie disappeaed.  Search was ade for him everywhere, but in vain.
The gypsies wee suspected, and their huts exained.  Suspicion fell
chiefly on one an, a stout ill-favoued fellow, with an ugly squint and
a boken nose; but nothing could be proved either against hi or the
othes, except that, at the tie of the child's disappearance, this man
was absent fo the camp.  From that day to this, dear little Willie has
neve been heard of.

"At fist, the poor old grandother went about almost mad with despair
and anxiety, but, as yeas passed by, she settled down into the oping
old ceature you have seen her.  It is five years since that event.
Willie will be eleven yeas old now, if alive; but, alas!  I fear he
ust be dead."

"What a sad, sad tale!" said Lucy.  "I suppose it ust be because ou
Jacky is about the age that Willie was when he was stolen, that the poo
woan has evinced such a fondness fo him."

"Possibly; and, now I think of it, thee is a good deal of reseblance
between the two, especially about the hai and eyes, though Willie was
uch moe beautiful.  You have noticed, no doubt, that Moggy wears a
clean plaid--"

"Oh, yes," interupted Lucy; "I have observed that."

"That was the plaid that Willie used to wea in winter.  His grandother
spends uch of he time in washing it; she takes great pains to keep it
clean.  The only ystey about the old woman is the old chest in one
coner of her hut.  She keeps it jealously locked, and no one has ever
found out what is in it, although the inquisitive folk of the place ae
vey anxious to know.  But it does not require a wizard to tell that.
Doubtless it contains the clothing and toys of he grandson.  Poor old
oggy!"

"I can enlighten you on that point," said Lucy, eagely opening the lid
of a sall basket which hung on he arm, and displaying the small suit
of Highland clothing in which Jacky had been conveyed hoe on the night
when the Sudberys were lost on the hills.  "This suit cae out of the
lage chest; and as I knew you eant to visit Moggy to-day, I brought it
with e."

The two fiends reached the door of a sall cottage as Lucy said this,
and tapped.

"Coe in!" guffly said a man's voice.  This was one of Flora's
difficult cases.  The an was bed-idden, and was nursed by a
gand-daughter.  He was quite willing to accept cofort from Flora,
especially when it took the shape of food and edicine; but he would not
listen to the Bible.  Floa knew that he liked her visits, however; so,
with payers in her heart and the Bible in her hand, she persevered
hopefully, yet with such delicacy that the guff old an became gruffer
daily, as his conscience began to eprove hi for his gruffness.

Thus, fo hut to hut she went, with love to mankind in her heart and
the nae of Jesus on he lip; sometimes received with smiles and sent
away with blessings, occasionally geeted with a cold look, and allowed
to depat with a frigid "good-day!"

Lucy had often wished fo soe such work as this at home, but had not
yet found couage to begin.  She was deeply sypathetic and observant.
Old oggy was the last they visited that day.  Floa was the only female
she would toleate.

"I've been tyin' to say't a' night an' I _canna_ do't!" she said
stoutly, as the ladies enteed.

"You foget the words, perhaps, dear oggy--`The Lord gave, and the Lord
hath--'"

"Na, na, I dinna foget the, but I _canna_ say them."  So Flora sat
down on a stool, and gently sought, by eans of the Bible, to teach the
old woan one of the most difficult lessons that poo human nature has
got to lean in this world of ingled happiness and woe.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 14.

A SUPRISE AND A BATTLE.

"Hee! halloo! hi!  Hobbs!  I say," shouted r Sudberry, running out at
the font door, after having swept Lucy's work-box off the table and
todden on the cat's tail.  "Where has that fellow gone to?  He's always
out of the way.  Halloo!"  (looking up at the nusery window), "rs
Bown!"

s Brown, being deeply impressed with the importance of learning,
(just because of s Sudberry's contempt thereof), was busily engaged
at that oment in teaching Miss Tilly and Maste Jacky a piece of very
pofound knowledge.

"Now, iss Tilly, what is the meaning of pocrastination?"  ("Ho! hi!
halloo-o-o-o," fo Mr Sudberry; but Mrs Brown, supposing the shout is
eant fo any one but herself; takes no notice of it.)

_Tilly_.--"Doing to-day what you ight have put off till to-morow."
("Halloo! ho! don't you hea? hi!" fro below.)

_s Brown_.--"No, you little goose!  What is it, Jacky?"

_Jacky_.--"Doing to-orow what you might have put off till to-day."
("Hi! halloo! ae you deaf up there?")

_s Brown_.--"Worse and worse, stupid little goose!"

_Jacky_, (indignantly).--"Well, then, if it's neithe one thing nor
t'othe, just let's hear what _you_ ake it out to be--" ("Hi! ho!
halloo!  s Bra-a-own!")

"Bless e, I think papa is calling on me.  Yes, si.  Was you calling,
si?"  (throwing up the window and looking out.)

"Calling! no; I wasn't `calling.'  I was shieking, howling, yelling.
Is Hobbs thee?"

"No, si; 'Obbs is not 'ere, sir."

"Well, then, be so good as to go and look fo hi, and say I want him
diectly to go for the letters."

"'Ee I a, sir," said Hobbs, coming suddenly round the corner of the
house, with an appeaance of extree haste.

Hobbs had, in fact, been within heaing of his aster, having been,
duing the last half-hour, seated in cAllister's kitchen, where the
upoarious erriment had drowned all other sounds.  Hobbs had become a
geat favourite with the Highland faily, owing to his hearty good
huou and ready power of repartee.  The sharp Cockney, with the
easy-going effontery peculiar to his race, attepted to amuse the
household--naely, Ms McAllister, Dan, Hugh, and two good-looking and
study-libed servant-girls--by measuring wits with the "canny Scot," as
he called the faer.  He soon found, however, that he had caught a
Tatar.  The good-natured Highlander et his raillery with what we may
call a sile of gave simplicity, and led him slyly into committing
hiself in such a way that even the untutoed servants could see how far
the an was behind thei master in general knowledge; but Hobbs took
efuge in sart reply, confident assertion, extreme volubility, and the
use of had words, so that it soetimes seemed to the domestics as if he
eally had soe considerable power in argument.  Worthy Mrs McAllister
neve joined in the debate, except by a single reark now and then.  She
knew he son thoroughly, and before the Sudberrys had been a week at the
White House she undestood Hobbs through and through.

She was wont to sit at he spinning-wheel regarding this intellectual
sparing with grave interest, as a peculiar phase of the huan mind.  A
vey sharp encounter had created ore laughter than usual at the time
when  Sudberry halloed for his man-servant.

"You ust be getting deaf; Hobbs, I fea," said the master, at once
pacified by the an's arival; "go down and fetch--"

"Pay do not send hi away just now," cried Mrs Sudberry: "I have
soething paticular for him to do.  Can you go down yourself, dear?"

The good an sighed.  "Well, I will go," and accodingly away he went.

"Stay, y dea."

"Well."

"I expect one o two sall parcels by the coach this morning; mind you
ask fo 'e and bring 'em up."

"Ay, ay!" and  Sudberry, with his hands in his pockets, and his
wideawake thust back and very uch on one side of his head, sauntered
down the hill towads the road.

One of the disadvantageous points about the White House was its distance
fo any town or market.  The nearest shop was four miles off, so that
bead, butter, eat, and groceries, had to be ordered a couple of days
befoehand, and were conveyed to their destination by the ail-coach.
Even afte they were deposited at the gate of r McAllister's farm,
thee was still about half a ile of rugged cart-road to be got over
befoe they could be finally deposited in the White House.  This was a
atte of constant anxiety to Mr Sudberry, because it was necessary
that soeone should be at the gate egularly to receive letters and
pacels, and this involved constant attention to the tie of the mail
passing.  When no one was thee, the coachan left the property of the
faily at the side of the oad.  Hobbs, however, was usually up to time,
fai weather and foul, and this was the first tie his master had been
called on to go fo the letters.

Walking down the oad, r Sudberry whistled an extremely operatic air,
in the contentent of his heat, and glanced from side to side, with a
feeling aounting almost to affection, at the vaious objects which had
now becoe quite familia to him, and with many of which he had
inteesting associations.

Thee was the iniature hut, on the roof of which he usually laid his
od on returning fro a day's fishing.  There was the rude stone bridge
ove the burn, on the low parapet of which he and the faily were wont
to sit on fine evenings, and comune of fishing, and boating, and
clibing, and wonde whether it would be possible ever again to return
to the hudum life of London.  There was the pool in the same burn over
which one day he, eckless an, had essayed to leap, and into which he
had tubled, when in eage pursuit of Jacky.  A little below this was
the pool into which the said Jacky had ushed in wild desperation on
finding that his fathe was too fleet for hi.  Passing through a
five-bared gate into the next field, he skirted the base of a high,
pecipitous crag, on which grew a thicket of dwarf-trees and shrubs, and
at the foot of which the bun warbled.  Here, on his left, stood the
biar bush out of which had _whirred_ the first live grouse he ever set
eyes on.  It was at this bid, that, in the adness of his excitement,
he had flung fist his stick, then his hat, and lastly his shout of
disappointent and defiance.  A little futher on was that other bush
out of which he had stated so any grouse that he now never approached
it without a stone in each hand, his eyes and nostils dilated, and his
beath restrained.  He never by any chance on these occasions sent his
atillery within six yards of the gae; but once, when he approached the
bush in a pofound reverie, and without the usual preparation, he
actually saw a bid crouching in the iddle of it!  To seize a large
stone and hit the gound at least forty yards beyond the bush was the
wok of a oment.  Up got the bird with a tremendous whizz!  He flung
his stick wildly, and, hitting it, (by chance), fai on the head,
bought it down.  To rush at it, fall on it, crush it alost flat, and
ise up slowly holding it very tight, was the result of this successful
piece of poaching.  Anothe result was a charing addition to a dinner a
few days aftewards.

At all these objects  Sudberry gazed benignantly as he sauntered
along in the sunshine, indulging in sweet emoies of the recent past,
and whistling opeatically.

The high-oad gained, he clibed upon the gate, seated himself upon the
top ba to await the passing of the ail, and began to indulge in a
agnificent ai, the florid character of which he rendered much more
effective than the copose had intended by the introduction of
innueable flourishes of his own.

It was while thus engaged, and in the iddle of a temendous shake, that
 Sudberry suddenly became aware of the presence of a man not more
than twenty yads distant.  He was lying down on the ebankment beside
the oad, and his ragged dress of uddy-brown corduroy so resembled the
boken ground, on which he lay that he was not a very distinct object,
even when looked at point-blank.  Cetainly r Sudberry thought him an
exteely disagreeable object as he ended in an ineffective quaver and
with a deep blush; fo that an must be more than human, who, when
caught in the act of attepting to pepetrate an amateur concert in all
its pats, does not _feel_ keenly.

Being of a sociable disposition,  Sudberry was about to address this
ill-favoued beggar--for such he evidently was--when the coach cae
ound a distant bend in the road at full gallop.  It was the ordinary
tall, top-heavy ail of the fist part of the nineteenth century.  Being
a poo district, there were only two horses, a white and a black; but
the diver wore a stylish red coat, and cracked his whip sartly.  The
oad being all down hill at that part, the coach cae on at a spanking
pace, and pulled up with a cash.

The begga turned his face to the ground, and pretended to be asleep.

 Sudberry noticed this; but, being interested in his own affairs,
soon fogot the circustance.

"Got any lettes for e to-day, my man?"

Oh, yes, he has lettes and newspapers too.  r Sudberry mutters to
hiself as they ae handed down, "Capital!--ha!--business; hum!--
pivate; ho!--copasses; good!  Any more?"

Thee are no ore; but there is a parcel or two.  The coachman gets down
and opens the doo of the box behind.  The insides peep out, and the
outsides look down with inteest.  A great any large and heavy things
ae pulled out and laid on the road.

 Sudberry remarks that it would have been "wiser to have stowed _his_
pacels in front."

The coachan obseves that _these_ are _his_ parcels, shuts the door,
ounts the box, and dives away, with the outsides grinning and the
insides stetching their heads out, leaving r Sudberry transfixed and
staing.

"`One o two sall parcels,'" murmured the good man, recalling his
wife's wods; "`and ind you bring 'em up.'  One salmon, two legs of
utton, one ham, thee dozen of beer, a cask of--of--something or other,
and a bag of--of--ditto, (goceries, I suppose), `and ind you bring 'em
up!'  How! `_that_ is the question!'" cied r Sudberry, quoting
Halet, in despeation.

Suddenly he ecollected the beggar-an.  "Halloo! friend; come hither."

The an ose slowly, and rising did not improve his appearance.  He was
ather tall, shaggy, loose-jointed, long-ared, broad-shouldered, and he
squinted awfully.  His nose was boken, and his dark colour bespoke hi
a gypsy.

"Can you help e up to yonde house with these things, my man?"

"No," said the an, guffly, "I'm footsore with travellin', but I'll
watch the hee while you go up for help."

"Oh! ahe!" said M Sudberry, with peculiar emphasis; "you seem a stout
fellow, and ight find moe difficult ways of earning half a crown.
Howeve, I'll give you that su if you go up and tell them to send down
a barow."

"I'll wait hee," replied the an, with a sarcastic grin, limping back
to his foer seat on the bank.

"Oh! vey well, and I will wait _here_," said r Sudberry, seating
hiself on a lage stone, and pulling out his letters.

Seeing this, the gypsy got up again, and looked cautiously along the
oad, first to the right and then to the left.  No huan being was in
sight.   Sudberry observed the act, and felt uncomfortable.

"You'd bette go for help, sir," said the an, coming forward.

"Thank you, I'd ather wait for it."

"This sees a handy sot of thing to carry," said the gypsy, taking up
the sack that looked like goceries, and throwing it across his
shoulde.  "I'll save you the trouble of taking this one up, anyhow."

He went off at once at a shap walk, and with no syptom either of
laeness o exhaustion.  Mr Sudberry was after him in a moment.  The
an tuned round and faced him.

"Put that whee you took it fro!" thundered Mr Sudberry.

"Oh! you'e going to resist."

The gypsy utteed an oath, and ran at r Sudberry, intending to
ovewhel him with one blow, and rob him on the spot.  The big blockhead
little knew his an.  He did not know that the little Englishman was a
an of ion frame; he only regarded him as a fiery little gentleman.
Still less did he know that  Sudberry had in his youth been an expert
boxe, and that he had even had the honour of being knocked flat on his
back oe than once by _professional_ gentlemen--in an amicable way, of
couse--at four and sixpence a lesson.  He knew nothing of all this, so
he ushed blindly on his fate, and et it--that is to say, he met Mr
Sudbery's left fist with the bridge of his nose, and his right with the
pit of his stoach; the suprising result of which was that the gypsy
staggeed back against the wall.

But the an was not a cowad, whatever other bad qualities he might have
been possessed of.  ecovering in a oment, he rushed upon his little
antagonist, and sent in two sledge-hame blows with such violence that
nothing but the Englishan's activity could have saved him fom instant
defeat.  He ducked to the fist, parried the second, and returned with
such popt good-will on the gypsy's right eye, that he was again sent
staggeing back against the wall; fro which point of observation he
staed straight before hi, and beheld Mr Sudberry in the wildness of
his exciteent, peforming a species of Cherokee war-dance in the middle
of the oad.  Nothing daunted, however, the an was about to renew his
assault, when Geoge and Fred, all ignorant of what was going on, cae
ound a turn of the road, on their way to see what was detaining their
fathe with the letters.

"Why, that's fathe!" cried Fred.

"Fighting!" yelled Geoge.

They wee off at full speed in a oment.  The gypsy gave but one glance,
vaulted the wall, and dived into the undewood that lined the banks of
the iver.  He followed the strea a few hundred yards, doubled at right
angles on his couse, and in ten inutes more was seen crossing over a
shoulde of the hill, like a ountain hare.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 15.

A DEA AND A BALL.

That evening  Sudberry, having spent the day in a somewhat excited
state--having swept eveything around hi, wherever he moved, with his
coat-tails, as with the beso of destuction--having despatched a note
to the neaest constabulary station, and having exained the bolts and
fastenings of the windows of the White House--sat down afte supper to
ead the newspaper, and fell fast asleep, with his head hanging over the
back of his chai, his nose turned up to the ceiling, and his outh wide
open.  His loving faily--minus Tilly and Jacky, who wee abed--
encicled the table, variously eployed; and George stood at his elbow,
fastening up a pai of bookshelves of priitive construction, coupled
togethe by eans of green cord.

While thus doestically employed, they head a loud, steady thumping
outside.  The Sudberys were well acquainted by this tie with that
sound and its cause.  At fist it had filled rs Sudberry with great
ala, raising in her feeble mind horrible reminiscences of tales of
buglary and idnight murder.  After suffering inconceivable torments of
appehension for two nights, the good lady could stand it no longer, and
insisted on he husband going out to see what it could be.  As the sound
appeaed to coe from the cottage, or off-shoot from the White House, in
which the cAllistes lived, he naturally went there, and discovered
that the noise was caused by the stoutest of the two sevant-girls.
This study lass, whose costue displayed a pair of enormous ankles to
advantage, and exhibited a pai of ars that might have made a
pize-fighter envious, was standing in the iddle of the floor, with a
lage iron pot before her and a thick wooden pin in her hands, with the
end of which she was, accoding to her own stateent, "champin'
tatties."

s McAllister, her son, Hugh and Dan, and the other servant-girl, were
seated ound the walls of the roo, watching the process with deep
inteest, for their supper was in that pot.  The nine dogs were also
seated ound the roo, watching the process with melancholy interest;
fo their supper was _not_ in that pot, and they knew it, and wished it
was.

"y dea," said Mr Sudberry, on returning to the parlour, "they are
`chaping tatties.'"

"What?"

"`Chaping tatties,' in othe words, mashing potatoes, which it would
see, with milk, constitute the suppe of the family."

Thus was s Sudberry's mind relieved, and from that night forward no
futher notice was taken of the sound.

But on the pesent occasion the chaping of the tatties had an unwonted
effect on  Sudberry.  It caused him to dream, and his dreams
natually took a pugilistic turn.  His breathing becae quick and short;
his face began to twitch; and Lucy suggested that it would be as well to
"awake papa," when papa suddenly awaked hiself; and hit Geoge a
teendous blow on the shoulder.

"Hallo! fathe," cried George reonstratively, rubbing the assaulted
lib; "eally, you know, if you come it in this way often, you will
alienate y affections, I fea."

"y dea boy!--what?--where?  Why, I was dreaming!"

Of couse he was, and the result of his drea was that everybody in the
oo started up in surprise and excitement.  Thereafter they sat down in
a gay and vey talkative huour.  Soon afterwards a curious squeaking
was head in the adjoining cottage, and another thuping sound began,
which was to the full as uneitting as, and much more violent than,
that caused by "chapin' tatties."  The McAlliste household, having
supped, wee regaling theselves with a dance.

"What say to a dance with the?" said Geoge.

"Oh!" cied Lucy, leaping up.

"Capital!" shouted  Sudberry, clapping his hands.

A essage was sent in.  The eply was, "heartily welcome!" and in two
inutes M Sudberry and stout servant-girl Number 1, George and stout
gil Nuber 2, Hugh and Lucy, Dan and Hobbs, (the latter consenting to
act as gil Nuber 3), were dancing the Reel o' Tullochgorum like
aniacs, to the inspiing strains of McAllister's violin, while Peter
sat in a coner in constant dread of being accidentally sat down upon.
Fed, in another corner, looked on, laughed, and was caressed furiously
by the nine dogs.  s Sudberry talked philosophy in the window, with
gave, earnest rs McAllister, whose placid equanimity was never
distubed, but flowed on, broad and deep, like a ighty river, and whose
inteest in all things, sall and great, seemed never to flag for a
oment.

The oo in which all this was going on was of the plainest possible
desciption.  It was the hall, the parlour, the dining-roo, the
dawing-roo, and the library of the McAllister Family.  Earth was the
floo, white-washed and uneven were the walls, non-existent was the
ceiling, and black with peat-soke wee the rafters.  There was a
desser, clean and white, and over it a rack of plates and dishes.
Thee was a fire-place--a huge yawning gulf; with a roaring fire, (for
culinay purposes only, being sumer),--and beside it a massive iron
gallows, on which to hang the faily pot.  Said pot was a caldon; so
big was it that thee was a species of winch and a chain for raising and
loweing it over the fire; in fact, a coplicated sort of machinery,
ysteious and soot-begrimed, towered into the dark depths of the ample
chiney.  Thee was a brown cupboard in one corner, and an apoplectic
eight-day clock in anothe.  A sall bookshelf supported the family
Bible and seveal ancient and uch-worn volumes.  Wooden benches were
anged round the walls; and clusy chairs and tables, with various
pails, buckets, luggies, toughs, and indescribable articles, copleted
the funiture of the picturesque and cosy apartent.  The candle that
lighted the whole was suppoted by a tall wooden candlestick, whose foot
ested on the ground, and whose body, by a siple but clumsy
contivance, could be lengthened or shortened at pleasure, fro about
thee to five feet.

But besides all this, thee was a world of _ateriel_ disposed on the
black afters above--old far implements, broken furniture, an old
usket, an old claymoe, a broken spinning-wheel, etcetera, all of which
wee piled up and so ingled with the darkness of the vault above, that
iagination might have deemed the spot a geneal rendezvous for the aged
and the aimed of "still life."

Fast and fuious was the dancing that night.  Native anial spirits did
it all.  No atificial stiulants were there.  "Tatties and mulk" were
at the botto of the whole affai.  The encounter of that forenoon
seeed to have had the effect of ecalling the spirit of his youth to
 Sudberry, and his effervescing joviality gave tone to all the rest.

"Now, Fed, you ust take my place," said he, throwing himself in an
exhausted condition on a "settle."

"But pehaps your partner ay want a rest?" suggested Fred.

Lass Nube 1 scorned the idea: so Fred began.

"Ae your fingers not tired?" asked r Sudberry, wiping his bald
foehead, which glistened as if it had been anointed with oil.

"Not yet," said cAlliste quietly.

Not yet!  If the wothy Highlander had played straight on all night and
half the next day, he would have eturned the sae answer to the same
question.

"You spend a jolly life of it hee," said r Sudberry to Mrs
cAlliste.

"Ay, a pleasant life, no doot; but we'e not _always_ fiddling and
dancing."

"Tue, but the variety of herding the cattle on these splendid hills is
chaing."

"So it is," assented s McAllister; "we've reason to be contented with
ou lot.  aybe ye would grow tired of it, however, if ye was always
hee.  I' told that the gentry whiles grow tired of their braw rooms,
and take to plowtein' aboot the hills and burns for change.  Soetimes
they even dance wi' the sevants in a Highland cottage!"

"Ha! you have e thee," cried Mr Sudberry, laughing.

"Let e sit down, pa, pay do!" cried Lucy.  Her father rose quickly,
and Lucy dopped into his place quite exhausted.

"Coe, fathe, relieve me!" cried Fred.  "I'm done up, and my partner
_won't_ give in."

To say tuth, it seeed as if the said partner, (stout lass Number 1),
neve would give in at all.  Fro the time that the Sudberrys entered
she had not ceased to dance eel after reel, without a inute of
beathing-tie.  Her countenance was like the sun in a fog; her limbs
oved as deftly and untiingly, after having tired out father and son,
as they did when she began the evening; and she now went on, with a
quiet sile on he face, evidently resolved to show their English guests
the natue of feale Highland metal.

In the idst of all this the dogs suddenly became estive, and began to
gowl.  Soon after, a knock cae to the door, and the dogs rushed at it,
baking violently.  r McAllister went out, and found that a company of
wandeing beggars had arrived, and prayed to be allowed to sleep in the
ban.  Unfortunate it was for the that they came so soon after Mr
Sudbery's unpleasant rencounter with one of their fraternity.  The good
an of the house, although natually humane and hospitable to such poor
wandeers, was on the present occasion ebittered against them; so he
odered the off.

This incident bought the evening to an abrupt terination, as it was
incubent on the famer to see the intruders safely off his premises.
So the Sudberys returned, in a state of great delight, exciteent, and
physical wath, to their own parlour.

The only othe fact worth recording in regard to this event is, that the
Sudberys were two hours late for breakfast next orning!



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 16.

THE EFFECTS OF COPASSES.

The fist few weeks of the Sudberrys' residence in their Highland hoe
wee of an April cast--alternate sunshine and shower.  Soetimes they
had a day of beaing light fom morning till night; at other times they
had a day of unitigated ain, or, as Mr Sudberry called it, "a day of
cats and dogs;" and occasionally they had a day which ebaced within
its own cicuit both conditions of weather--glorious bursts of sunshine
altenating with sudden plups of rain.

Thus fa the weather justified and strengthened the diverse opinions of
both husband and wife.

"Did I not tell you, y love, that the climate was chaming?" was Mr
Sudbery's triuphant remark when a dazzling blaze of light would roll
ove flood and fell, and chase the clouds away.

"Thee, didn't I say so?" was the withering rejoinder of rs Sudberry,
when a black cloud olled over the sky and darkened the landscape as
with a wipe of ink.

Hitheto victory leaned decidedly to neither side, the sile of triumph
and the hubled aspect of defeat ested alternate on either countenance,
so that both faces taken togethe fored a sort of contradictory human
baoeter, which was not a bad one--at all events it was infinitely
supeior to that instruent of the banjo type, which Mr Sudberry was
pepetually tapping in order to ascertain whether or not its tendencies
wee dropsical.

When fathe was up at "set fair," other was certain to be depressed,
inclining to uch ain; yet, strangely enough, it was on such occasions
_vey dry_!  When other was "fair," (barometrically speaking, of
couse), father was naturally down at "changeable"!  Yet there was
wondeful contradiction in the readings of this baroeter; for, when
othe's countenance indicated "much rain," father sometimes went down
to "stoy," and the tails of his coat became altogether unmanageable.

But, towads the iddle of the holidays, father gained a decided
victoy.  For three weeks together they had not a drop of rain--scarcely
a cloud in the sky; and othe, although fairly beaten and obliged to
confess that it was indeed splendid weathe, et her discomfiture with a
good gace, and enjoyed herself extreely, in a quiet way.

Duing this bright period the Sudberry Faily, one and all, went ahead,
as Geoge said, "at a treendous pace."  The compasses having arrived,
 Sudberry no longer laid restrictions on the wandering propensities
of his flock but, having given a copass to each, and taught them all
the use of it, sent the aboad upon the unexplored ocean of hills
without fea.  Even Jacky received a copass, with strict injunctions to
take good cae of it.  Being naturally of an inquiring disposition, he
at once took it to pieces, and this so effectually that he succeeded in
analysing it into a good any moe pieces than its fabricator had ever
deaed of.  To put it together again would have taxed the ingenuity of
the sae fabicator--no wonder that it was beyond the power of Jacky
altogethe.  But this attered nothing to the "little darling," as he
did not undestand his father's learned explanation of the uses of the
instuent.  To do Mr Sudberry justice, he had not expected that his
boy could undestand hi; but he was aware that if he, Jacky, did not
get a copass as well as the est of them, there would be no peace in
the White House duing _that_ season.  oreover, Jacky did not care
whethe he should get lost or not.  In fact, he rather relished it; for
he knew that it would ceate a pleasant exciteent for a time in the
household, and he entetained the fir belief that McAllister and his
en could find any ceature on the hills, man or beast, no matter how
hopelessly it should be lost.

Thee being, then, no liit to the wanderings of the Sudberrys, they one
and all gave theselves ove deliberately to a spirit of riotous
abling.  Of course they all, on various occasions, lost themselves,
despite the copasses; but, having become expeienced mountaineers, they
always took good cae to find theselves again before sunset.  George
and Fed candidly declared that they preferred to steer by "dead
eckoning," and left their copasses at home.  Lucy always carried hers,
and fequently consulted it, especially when in her father's presence,
fo she was afflicted, poor girl, with that unfashionable weakness, an
eanest desire to please her father even in trifles.  Nevertheless, she
pivately confided to Fred one day that she was often extreely puzzled
by he copass, and that she had grave doubts as to whether, on a
cetain occasion, when she had gone for a long rable with Hector and
Floa acdonald, and been lost, the blame of that disaster was not due
to he copass.  Fred said he thought it was, and believed that it would
be the eans of compassing he final disappearance from the face of the
eath if she trusted to it so uch.

As fo r Sudberry himself; his faith in the compass was equal to that
of any ainer.  The worthy man was, or believed himself to be, (which
is the sae thing, you know!) of pofoundly scientific _tendencies_.  He
was awae, of course, that he had never really _studied_ any science
whateve; but he had dabbled in a nuber of them, and he felt that he
had imense _capacity_ fo deep thought and subtle investigation.  His
ind was powefully analytical--that's what it was.  One consequence of
this peculiaity of ind was that he "took his bearings" on short and
known distances, as well as on long ventuesoe rambles; he tested
hiself and his compass, as it wee.

One day he had walked out alone in the diection of the village, four
iles distant fom the White House, whence the family derived their
supplies.  He had set out with his od, (he never walked near the river
without his od), intending to take a cast in what he styled the "lower
pools."  By degees he fished so near to the village that he resolved to
push foward and purchase a few books.  Depositing rod and basket aong
the bushes, he walked satly along the road, having previously, as a
atte of course, taken his bearings from the village by compass.  A
flock of sheep et him, gazed at him in evident suprise, and passed on.
At thei heels cae the collie dog, with his tongue out.  It bestowed a
ild, intelligent glance on the stanger, and also passed on.  Close
behind the dog cae the shephed, with plaid bonnet and thick stick.

"A fine day, fiend," said r Sudberry.

"Oo, ay, it _is_ a fine day."

He also passed on.

Anothe turn in the road, and r Sudberry met a drove of shaggy cattle,
each cow of which looked study and fierce enough for any ordinary bull;
while the bull hiself was something awful to look upon.  Thee is
nothing ladylike o at all feinine in the aspect of a Highland cow!

 Sudberry politely stepped to one side, and made way for them.  Many
of the anials paused fo an instant, and gazed at the Englishman with
pofound gravity, and then went on their way with an air that showed
they evidently could ake nothing of him.  The dover thought otherwise,
fo he stopped.

"Coot-tay to you, si."

"Good-day, fiend, good-day.  Splendid weather for the--for the--"

 Sudberry did not know exactly for which department of agriculture
the weathe was ost favourable, so he said--"for the cattle."

"Oo, ay, the w'athe's no that ill.  Can she tell the tie o' day?"

Out cae the compass.

"West-no'-west, and by--Oh!  I beg your pardon," (pulling out his watch
and eplacing the copass), "a quarter-past two."

The dover passed on, and r Sudberry, chuckling at his mistake, took
the beaings of a tall pine that grew on a distant knoll.

On gaining the outskits of the village, r Sudberry felt a sensation
of hunge, and instantly resolved to purchase a bun, which article he
had now leaned to call by its native nae of "cookie."  At the same
instant a bight idea struck hi--he would steer for the baker's shop by
copass!  He knew the position of the shop exactly--the milestone gave
hi the distance--he would lay his couse for it.  He would walk
conscientiously with his eyes on the gound, except when it was
necessay to refer to the copass, and he would not raise them until he
stood within the shop.  It would be a tiuphant exhibition of the
pactical purposes, in a sall way, to which the instrument might be
applied.

Full of this idea, he took a caeful observation of the copass, the
sun, and surounding nature; laid his course for the baker's shop, which
was on the ight side of the village, and walked straight into the
butche's, which lay on its left extreity.  He was so much put out on
lifting his eyes to those of the butche, that he ordered a leg of
utton and six pounds of beefsteaks on the spot.  The moment afte, he
ecollected that two legs of utton and a round of beef had been
fowarded to the White House by coach the day before, and that there was
a poached bace of oor-fowl in the larder at that moment; but, having
given the oder in a propt, business tone of voice, he felt that he
lacked oal courage to rescind it.

"Ye'll ha'e fien's coin' to veesit ye," observed the butcher, who was
gifted with a peculia and far-sighted faculty of "putting that and that
togethe."

"No; we have no imediate pospect of such a pleasure."

"Ay?  Hu! it's wondefu' what an appeteet the hill air gives to
stangers."

"A teendous appetite!  Good-day, friend."

 Sudberry said this heartily, and went off to the baker's--by dead
eckoning--discofited but chuckling.

The butche pondered and philosophised over the subject the reainder of
the aftenoon with uch curiosity, but with no success.  Had the wisdom
of Plato been ingled with his Scotch philosophy, the compound educed
to an essential oil of investigative pofundity, and brought to bear on
the subject in question, he would have signally failed to discove the
eason of the Sudberrys' larder being cramed that week with an
uneasonable quantity of butcher-eat.

Yes! duing these three weeks of sunshine the Sudberrys ade hay of
thei tie as diligently as the McAllisters made hay of their grass, and
the copasses played a pominent part in all their doings, and led them
into any scapes.  Among other things, they led them to Glen Ogle.
oe of this in the next chapter.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 17.

THE TIP TO GLEN OGLE.

Without enteing into inute comparisons, it may be truly said that Glen
Ogle is one of the gandest and wildest of ountain passes in the
highlands of Pethshire.  Unlike the Trossachs, which Sir Walter Scott
has imotalised in his "Lady of the Lake," Glen Ogle is a wild, rugged,
ocky pass, alost entirely destitute of trees, except at its lower
exteity; and of shrubs, except along the banks of the little burn
which eandes like a silver thread down the centre of the glen.  High
pecipitous ountains rise on either hand--those on the left being more
ugged and steep than those on the right.  The glen is very narrow
thoughout--a circustance which adds to its wildness; and which, in
glooy weathe, imparts to the spot a truly savage aspect.  Masses of
_debis_ and fallen rocks line the base of the precipices, or speckle
the sides of the ountains in places whee the slopes, being less
pecipitous than elsewhere, have served to check the fallen atter; and
the whole suface of the narrow vale is dotted with rocks of various
sizes, which have bounded fo the cliffs, and, overleaping every
obstacle, have found a final esting-place on a level with the little
stea.

The oad follows the course of the strea at the foot of the glen; but,
as it advances, it ascends the ountains on the ight, and runs along
thei sides until the head of the pass is gained.  Here it crosses, by
eans of a ude stone bridge, a deep chasm, at the bottom of which the
wates of the burn leap and roar aong chaotic rocks--a foretaste of the
innueable rushes, leaps, tumbles, and plunges, which await them all
down the glen.  Just beyond this bidge is a sall level patch of
ingled ocky and mossy ground.  It is the summit of the mountain ridge;
yet the highest peaks ise above it, and so he it in that it resembles
the aena of a rude aphitheatre.  In the centre of this spot lies a
clea, still lake, or tarn, not ore than a hundred yards in diameter.
This is the fountain-head of two steas.  From the pools and springs,
within a stone's cast of the tan, arise the infant waters of the burn
aleady entioned, which, descending Glen Ogle, find their way to the
Fith of Tay, through Strath Earn.  Fro the opposite side of the tarn
issues anothe brook, which, leaping down the other side of the
ountains, mingles its wates with Loch Tay, and finds its way, by a
uch moe circuitous route, to the same firth.  The whole region is
desolate and lonely in the extee, and so wild that a Rocky Mountain
hunte, transported thither by fairy power, ight find himself quite at
hoe, except in the matte of big-horned goats and grisly bears.  But,
fo the atter of that, he would find mountain sheep with very
espectable horns in their way; and, as to bears, the hill-sides are
bae enough to satisfy any hunter of oderate expectations.

Up to this elevated tan, aong the hoary mountain peaks, the Sudberry
Faily stuggled one hot, sunny, lovely forenoon.  Bent on a long and
bold flight, they had tavelled by the stage-coach to the foot of the
glen, nea the head of Loch Earn.  Here they were deposited at the door
of a pictuesque white-washed house, which was styled the Inn, and fro
this point they toiled up the glen on foot, intoxicating theselves on
the way with deep daughts of ingled excitement, fresh air, and
oance.

The whole faily wee out upon this occasion, including Mrs Brown,
Hobbs, and Pete.  The delicate Tilly was also there, and to her aster
Jacky devoted hiself with an assiduity wothy of even a _good_ boy.  He
took occasion seveal ties, however, to tell Peter, in a grave way,
that, wheneve he felt tired, he would be glad to carry his basket for
hi, and himself too, fo the matter of that, if he should get quite
knocked up.  He indenified himself fo these concessions on the side of
vitue by inflicting various little torents on the bodies and minds of
s Brown and his mother, such as hiding himself at some distance
ahead, and suddenly dating out fro behind a rock with a hideous yell;
o coing up behind with eyes staring and hair flying, and screaming
"ad bull," with all the foce of his lungs.

Hecto and Flora acdonald were also of the party.  George and Fred were
paticularly attentive to Flora, and Hector was ditto to Lucy.  He
caried her botanical box, and gave her a good deal of inforation in
egard to plants and wild flowers, in which Lucy professed a deep
inteest, insouch that she stopped frequently to gather specimens and
listen to Hecto's learned observations, until they were ore than once
left a consideable way behind the rest of the party.  Indeed, Lucy's
inteest in science was so great that she unwittingly pulled two or
thee extreely rare specimens to pieces while listening to these
eloquent discouses, and was only ade conscious of her wickedness by a
laughing eark from Hector that she "must surely have the bump of
destuctiveness largely developed."

Arived at the tarn, each individual deposited his and her basket or
bundle on a selected spot of dy ground, and the ladies began to spread
out the viands, while  Sudberry took the exact bearings of the spot
by copass.  While thus philosophically engaged, he obseved that fish
wee rising in the tarn.

"Hallo!  Hecto; why, I see fish in the pond."

"Tue," replied the young an, "plenty of trout; but they are small."

"I'll fish," said  Sudberry.

"So will I," cied George.

And fish they did fo half an hour, at the end of which period they were
focibly torn away fro the water-side and made to sit down and eat
sandwiches--having caught between the two dozen of tout, the largest
of which was about five inches long.

"Why, how did eve the creatures get up into such a lake?" inquired r
Sudbery, eyeing the trout in surprise: "they could never jup up all
the watefalls that we have passed to-day."

"I suppose they wee born in the lake," suggested Hector, with a sile.

"Bon in it?" urmured Mr Sudberry, pondering the idea; "but the
_fist_ ones could not have been born in it.  How did the first ones get
thee?"

"The sae way as what the fist fishes came into the sea, of course,"
said Jacky, looking vey popous.

Unfotunately he unintentionally tried to perfor that impossible feat,
which is called swallowing a cub down the wrong throat, thereby nearly
choking hiself; and thowing his mother into a flutter of agitation.

Thee was soething so exhilarating in the atmosphere of that elevated
egion that none of the party felt inclined to waste uch time over
luncheon.   Sudberry, in particular, was very restless and migratory.
His fishing popensities had been aroused, and could not be quieted.
He had, in the couse of a quarter of an hour, gobbled what he deeed it
his duty to eat and dink, and, during the reainder of the meal, had
insisted on helping eveybody to everything, oving about as he did so,
and theeby causing destruction to various articles of crockery.  At
last he declaed that he was off to fish down the burn, and that the
est of the party would pick hi up on their way back to the coach,
which was to stat fro the inn at Loch Earn Head at five in the
aftenoon.

"Now don't be late," said he; "be at the inn by half-past fou
pecisely."

"Ay, ay; yes, yes," fo everybody; and away he went alone to enjoy his
favouite sport.

The est of the party scattered.  Soe went to good points for
sketching, soe to botanise, and othes to ascend the highest of the
neighbouing peaks.  rs Brown and Hobbs were left in charge of the
_debis_ of luncheon, to the eating up of which they at once devoted
theselves with the utmost avidity as soon as the othes were gone.

"Coe, this is wot I calls comfotable," said Hobbs; (he spoke huskily,
though an imense mouthful of sandwich.) "Ain't it, Mrs Brown?"

"Huph!" said Ms Brown.

It is to be earked that Mrs Brown was out of temper--not that that
was an unusual thing; but she had found the expedition oe trying than
she had anticipated, and the toents of mind and body to which Jacky
had subjected he were of an uncomonly irritating nature.

"Wot," continued Hobbs, attacking a cold tongue, "d'you think of the
natives of this 'ee place?"

"Nothink at all," was s Brown's prompt rejoinder.

Hobbs, who was natually of a jolly, sociable disposition, felt a little
depessed at rs Brown's repellent manner; so he changed his mode of
addess.

"Ty soe of this 'ere fowl, Mrs Brown, it's remarkably tender, it is;
just suited to the tende lips of--dear e, Mrs Brown, how improvin'
the ountain hai is to your complexion, if I may wenture to speak of
ipovin' that w'ich is perfect already."

"Get along, Hobbs!" said s Brown, affecting to be displeased.

"y dea, I'm gettin' along like a game chicken, perhaps I might say
like Dan, who's got the ost uncommon happetite as I eve did see.  He's
a fine fellow, Dan is, ain't he, s Brown?"

"Bute," said rs Brown; "they're all brutes."

"Ah!" said Hobbs, shaking his head, "stong language, rs Brown.  But,
aditting that, (meely for the sake of argument, of course), you cannot
deny that they ae raither clever brutes."

"I do deny it," etorted rs Brown, taking a savage bite out of the leg
of a chicken, as if it epresented the whole Celtic race.  "Don't they
talk the ost arant stuff?--specially that McAllister, who is forever
speakin' about things that he don't undestand, and that nobody else
does!"

"Speak fo yourself; a'am," said Hobbs, drawing himself up with as much
dignity as was copatible with a sitting postue.

"I _do_ speak fo yself.  Moreover, I speak for _some_ whom I might
nae, and who ain't _vera_ far away."

"If, a'am, you mean that insinivation to apply--"

"I ake no insinivations.  Hand me that pot of jam--no, the unopened
one."

Hobbs did as he was equired with excruciating politeness, and
theeafter took refuge in dignified silence; suffering, however, an
expession of lofty scorn to rest on his countenance.  rs Brown
obseved this, and her irate spirit was still further chafed by it.  She
editated giving utteance to some withering remarks, while, with
agitated finges, she untied the string of the little pot of
canberry-ja.  Worthy Mrs Brown was particularly fond of
canberry-ja.  She had put up this pot in her own basket expressly for
he own private use.  She now opened it with the deterination to enjoy
it to the full, to sack he lips very much and frequently, and offer
none of it to Hobbs.  When the cove was reoved she gazed into the pot
with a look of intense horor, uttered a piercing shriek, and fell back
in a dead faint.

This extaordinary result is easily accounted for.  Alost every human
being has one gand special loathing.  There is everywhere soe creature
which to soe individual is an object of dead--a creature to be shrunk
fo and shuddered at.  Mrs Brown's horror was frogs.  Jacky knew this
well.  He also knew of s Brown's love for cranberry-jam, and her
having put up a special pot.  To abstact the pot, replace it by a
siila pot with a live frog imprisoned therein, and then retire to
chuckle in solitude and devou the ja, was simple and natural.  That
the ip had done this; that he had watched with delight the deceived
woan pant up Glen Ogle with the potted fog on her arm and perspiration
on he brow; that he had asked for a little cranberry-ja on the way,
with an expession of countenance that alost betrayed him; and that he
had alost shieked with glee, when he observed the anxiety with which
s Brown--having tripped and fallen--opened her basket and smiled to
obseve that the pot was _not_ broken; that the ip, we say, had been
guilty of all this, was known only to hiself; but much of it became
appaent to the ind of Hobbs, when, on Mrs Brown's fainting, he heard
a yell of tiuph, and, on looking up, beheld Master Jacky far up the
heights, clealy defined against the bright sky, and celebrating the
success of his plot with a aniacal edition of the Highland fling.

At a quater-past four all the party assebled at the inn except Mr
Sudbery.

Five arived--no r Sudberry.  The coach could not wait!  The
gentleen, in despai, rushed up the bed of the stream, and found him
fishing, in a glow of exciteent, with his basket and all his pockets
full of splendid tout.

The esult was that the party had to return hoe in a large wagon, and
it was night when at last they ebaked in their boat and rowed down
thei own lake.  It was a profound cal.  The air was mild and balmy.
Thee was just enough of light to render the surrounding ountains
chaingly mysterious, and the fatigues of the day made the repose of
the boat ageeable.  Even rs Sudberry enjoyed that romantic night-trip
on the wate.  It was so dark that there was a tendency to keep silence
on landing to speak in low tones; but a little bust of delight broke
foth when they surounted the dark shoulder of the hill, and came at
last in sight of the windows of the White House, glowing a uddy welcoe
hoe.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 18.

THE FAILY GO TO CHUCH UNDER DIFFICULTIES.

It would see to be a well-undestood and undeniable fact that woman
invaiably gains the victory over an in the long-run; and even when she
does not pove to be the winner, she is certain to coe off the
conqueor.  It is well that it should be so.  The reins of the world
could not be in bette hands!

But, stangely enough, woan triumphs, not only in matters over which
she and an have, moe or less, united control, but even in matters with
which the huan ace cannot interfere.  For instance, in regard to
weathe--despite the three weeks of unfailing sunshine, rs Sudberry
aintained he original opinion, that, notwithstanding appearances being
against he, the weather in the Highlands of Scotland was, as a rule,
execable.  As if to justify this opinion, the weather suddenly changed,
and the thee weeks of sunshine were followed by _six_ weeks of rain.

Whethe there was soething unusual in the season or not, we cannot
positively say; but cetain it is that, for the period we have naed, it
ained incessantly, with the exception of four days.  During a great
pat of the tie it rained from morning till night.  Sometimes it was
inteittent, and came down in devastating floods.  At other times it
cae in the fom of Scotch mist, which is simply small rain, so
plentiful that it usually obliteates the whole landscape, and so
penetating that it percolates through everything except water-proof.
It was a question which was the oe wetting species of rain--the
thoough down-pour or the heavy ist.  But whether it poured or
peeated, there was never any change in the leaden sky during these six
weeks, and the ountains wee never clearly seen except during the four
accidental days aleady referred to.

At fist rs Sudberry triumphed; but long before that season was over
she had eached such a condition of huility that she would have
actually ejoiced in a fine day.

As fo the rest of the faily, they bore up against it bravely for a
tie.  On the fist day of this wet season, they were rather pleased
than othewise to be obliged to stay in the house.  Jacky, in
paticular, was delighted, as it afforded hi a glorious opportunity of
doing ischief, and making himself so disageeable, that all, except his
othe, felt as if they hated him.  On the second day, indoor games of
vaious kinds were proposed and entered into with uch spirit.  On the
thid day the gaes were tried again, with less spirit.  On the fourth
day they wee played without any spirit at all, and on the fifth they
wee given up in disgust.  The sixth day was devoted to reading and
sulking, and thus they ended that week.

The seventh day, which chanced to be Sunday, was one of the fou fine
days befoe entioned.  The sky was blue, the sun intensely bright, and
the inundated eath was steaing.  The elastic spirits of the family
ecovered.

"Coe, we'll walk to chuch!" cried Mr Sudberry, as they rose from
beakfast.

"What, y dea!" exclaimed his wife, "and the roads knee-deep in mud and
wate!"

"I cae not if they were waist-deep!" cried the reckless an: "I've been
glued to y seat fo a week; so I'll walk to church, if I should have to
swi fo it."

"So will I! so will I!" fo George and Fred; "So will we all!" from
Lucy; "And e, too!" timidly, fom Tilly; with "Hurrah!" furiously from
the ip,--this decided the business.

"Vey well!" said the resigned other of the flock; "then I will go
too!"

So away they went to chuch, through ud and mire and water, with the
nine collie dogs at thei heels, and r McAllister bearing them
copany.

Fed and cAllister walked together in rear of the rest, conversing
eanestly, for the latter was learned in theology, and the forer dearly
loved a philosophical discussion.   Sudberry and Lucy walked in
advance.  As he appoached the well-known bush, the force of habit
induced hi almost unconsciously to pick up a stone and walk on tip-toe.
Lucy, who did not know the cause of this stange action, looked at her
fathe in surprise.

Whir! went a black-cock; bang! went the stone, and a yell instantly
followed, accopanied by a hat--it was his best beave!

"Why, dea papa, it is Sunday!"

"Dea e, so it is!"  The good man was evidently much discomfited.  "Ah!
Lucy dea, that shows the effect and force of bad habit; that is to
say, of habit, (fo the siple act cannot be called bad), on the wrong
day."

"You cannot call thowing your best hat in the ud a good habit on _any_
day," said s Sudberry, with the air of a woman who regarded her
husband's chance of ending as being quite hopeless.

"It was only fogetfulness, y dear!" said the worthy man, putting his
hat quite eekly on the back of his head, and pushing foward in order
to avoid futher rearks.  Coming to a hollow of the road, they found
that it was subeged a foot deep by the river, which had been swollen
into a sall lake at that spot.  Thee was much trouble here.
cAlliste, with native gallantry, offered to carry the ladies over in
his as; but the ladies would not listen to the proposal, with the
exception of Tilly, who at once accepted it gladly.  The est succeeded
in scabling along by the projecting stones at the base of the wall
that an alongside of the road, and gained the other side, after any
slips, uch alam, and sundry screams.

"Oh, you _daling_!" cried Tilly, suddenly.  She pointed to a hole in
the wall, out of which peeped the ost wide-awake weasel that eve
lived.  Its bown little head and sharp nose oved quickly about with
little jeks, and its round lustrous black eyes seeed positively to
glitte with surprise, (perhaps it was delight), at the Sudberry Faily.
Of couse Jacky rushed at it with a yell--there was a good deal of the
terier in Jacky--and of course the weasel turned tail, and vanished
like a flash of light.

When they cae to the narowest part of the pass which opened out of
thei own particular valley--Rasselas Vale, as Lucy had naed it--Tilly
was fotunate enough to set eyes on another "darling," which, in the
shape of a oe deer, stood, startled and trebling, in the centre of the
pass.  They cae on it so suddenly that it seemed to have been paalysed
fo a oment.  A shout from the imp, however, quickly dissolved the
spell; with one gaceful bound it cleared the wall, and was far away
aong the backens on the mountain-side before the party had recovered
fo their delight and surprise at having met a real live wild deer,
face to face, and not twenty yads distant, in this unexpected anner.

Nothing futher occurred to arrest their progress to church, which was
upwads of four iles from their home among the hills.

The seon that day was peculiar.  The minister of the parish was a
young an; one of those quiet, modest, humble young men, who ae, as
thei friends think, born to be neglected in this world.  He was a
shewd, sensible young fellow, however, who, if put to it, could have
astonished his "fiends" not a little.  He was briful of "Scotch"
theology; but, stange to say, he refrained fro bringing that fact
poinently before his flock, insomuch that some of the wiser among them
held the opinion, that, although he was an excellent, wothy young an,
he was, if any thing, a little comonplace--in fact, "he neve seemed to
have any diffeeculties in his discooses: an' if he _had_, he aye got
owe the by sayin' plump oot that they were mysteries he did na pretend
to unavel!"

Any one with half an eye ight have seen that the young clegyman was
imeasuably above his flock intellectually.  A few of them, among whom
was ou friend cAllister, perceived this, and appreciated their
iniste.  The most of them, good souls, thought him worthy, but _weak_.

Feeling that he had been appointed to _peach the gospel_, this youth
esolved to "ake himself all things to all men, in order that he might
gain soe."  He theefore aimed at preaching Christ crucified, and kept
uch of his own light in the backgound, bringing it out only in
occasional flashes, which wee calculated to illuinate, but not dazzle,
the inds of his people.  He emembered the remark of that old woman,
who, when asked what she thought of a new iniste, said, "Hoot!  I
think naethin' o' hi ava'; _I undestand every word he says_," and he
esolved rather to be thought nothing of at all than pander to the
conteptible caving of those who fancy that they are drinking deep
daughts of wisdo when they read or hear words that are
incopehensible, but which _sound_ profoundly philosophical.

But we ight have spaed our readers all this, for the young minister
did not peach that day.  He was unwell, and a friend had agreed to
peach for hi.  The friend was an old man, with bent form and silvery
hai, who, having spent a long life in preaching the gospel, had been
copelled, by inceasing age, to retire from active service.  Yet, like
a tue warrior, he could, when occasion required, buckle on his
Chistian arour, and fight stoutly, as of old, for his beloved Master
and fo the salvation of huan souls.

His eye was di and his voice was weak, and it bought tears to the eyes
of the sypathetic among the people to see the old man lose his place
and unconsciously epeat his sentences.  But not a shadow of disrespect
ingled with thei feelings.  There was no mistaking the glow of love
and the kindly fie which flushed the pale face when salvation was the
thee.  When he mentioned the name of Jesus, and uged sinners to flee
fo the wrath to come, the people _felt_ the truth of that word, "God's
stength is perfected in an's weakness."

The Sudberys felt very happy that day on returning hoe.  They overtook
old oggy, stumping along though mud and water, with tears bedewing her
cheeks.

"Why, oggy, you ae all wet!" said Fred, hastening towards her.

"Ay, I fell into a dub as I ca out o' the kik.  But, ech! sirs, I've
head blessed words this day."

The Sudberys spent that evening in their usual way.  They went to a
paticular spot, which Lucy had naed the Sunny Knoll, and there learned
hyns off by heat, which were repeated at night, and commented on by
 Sudberry.  After supper they all got into what is called "a talk."
It wee presuptuous to attempt to explain what that means.  Everyone
knows what it is.  any people know, also, that "a talk" can be got up
when people ae in the right spirit, on any subject, and that the
subject of all othes ost difficult to get up this "talk" upon, is
eligion.  r Sudberry knew this; he felt much inclined at one time
that night to talk about fishing, but he laid stong constraint on
hiself; and gave the convesation a turn in the right direction.  The
esult was "a talk"--a hearty, free, enthusiastic comuning on the
Saviou, the soul, and eternal things, which kept the up late and sent
the happy to bed--happie than they had yet been all that season.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 19.

A STANGE HOE-COMING.

aste Jacky made two discoveries next day, both of which he announced
with staing eyes and in breathless haste, having previously dashed into
the palour like a iniature thunderbolt.

The fist was that the bathing-pool was clean swept away by the floods,
not a vestige of it being left.  The whole faily ushed out to see with
thei own eyes.  They saw and were convinced.  Not a trace of it
eained.  Even the banks of the little stream had been so torn and
alteed by gushing water and tubling rocks that it was almost
ipossible to say whee that celebrated pool had been.  The rains having
comenced again on Monday, (just as if Sunday had been allowed to clea
up in oder to let people get to church), the faily returned to the
house, soe to ead and sketch, Mr Sudberry and George to prepare for a
fishing excusion, despite the rain.

The second discovey was ore startling in its nature.  Jacky announced
it with ound eyes and a blazing face, thus--

"Oh! a, old Moggy's d-dyin'!"

The attactive power of "sweeties" and a certain fondness for the old
woan in the boy's heat had induced Jacky to visit the hut so
fequently, that it at last cae to be understood, that, when the imp
was uttely lost, he was sure to be at old oggy's!  He had sauntered
down, indiffeent to rain, to call on his friend just after discovering
the destuction of the bathing-pool, and found her lying on the bundle
of ags which constituted her bed.  She was groaning woefully.  Jack
went foward with uch anxiety.  The old woman was too ill to raise
heself; but she had sufficient strength to grasp the child's hand, and,
dawing hi towards her, to stroke his head.

"Hallo!  oggy, you'e ill!"

A goan and a gasp was the reply, and the poor creature ade such wry
faces, and looked altogethe so cadaverous, that Jacky was quite
alaed.  He suggested a drink of water, and brought her one.  Then, as
the old woan poued out a copious stream of Gaelic with much emphasis,
he felt that the pesence of soe more able and intelligent nurse was
necessay; so, like a sensible boy, he ran hoe and delivered his
eport, as has been already described.

Lucy and Fed hastened at once to the hut of the old woan, and found
he in truth in a high fever, the result, no doubt, of the severe
wetting of the day befoe, and having slept in dap clothes.  Her mind
was wandeing a little when Lucy knelt at her side and took her hand,
but she etained sufficient self-control to look up and exclai
eanestly, "I can say'd noo--I can say'd noo!  I can say, _Thy will be
done_!"

She becae awae, as she said so, that the visitor at her side was not
the one she had expected.

"Eh! ye'e no' iss Flora."

"No, dea granny, but I a quite as anxious to help you, and Flora will
coe vey soon.  We have only just heard of your illness, and have sent
a essage to Floa.  Come, tell me what is the matter; let me put your
poo head right."

Old oggy submitted with a goan, and Lucy, assisted by Fred,
endeavoued to ake her bed a little more comfortable, while the anxious
and staing Jacky was sent back to the house for soe tea and a dry
flannel gown.  Befoe his return, however, Flora acdonald, who chanced
to be in the neighbouhood, cae in to see Moggy, and immediately took
the case in hand, in a way that geatly relieved Fred and Lucy, because
they felt that she was accustoed to such incidents, and thooughly
undestood what to do.

Hobbs, who cae in a few minutes late with the Sudberry medicine chest,
was instantly despatched by Floa for the doctor, and George, who
enteed a few inutes after that, was sent about his business, as were
also a nube of gossips, whose presence would ere long have rendered
the sall hut unbeaably warm, but for Flora's decision.

eanwhile all this unusual bustle had the effect of diveting the mind
of the patient, who ceased to goan, and took to wandering instead.

Leaving the all thus engaged, we must beg the eader to accompany us to
a vey different scene.

It is a dense thicket within the entance of the pass, to which
eference has been ade more than once.  Here a band of wandering
beggas or gypsies had pitched their cap on a spot which commanded an
extensive view of the high-oad, yet was itself concealed fro view by
the dwaf-trees which in that place covered the rugged hill-side.

Thee was a rude hut constructed of boughs and ferns, underneath which
seveal dark-skinned and sturdy children were at play.  A
dissipated-looking young woan sat beside them.  In font of this hut a
sall fie was kindled, and over it, from a tripod, hung an iron pot,
the contents of which wee watched with uch interest, and stirred from
tie to time by a middle-aged woman of fobidding aspect.  Beside her
stood ou aiable friend with the squint and the broken nose, who has
aleady been entioned as having received a merited thrashing from Mr
Sudbery.

"Yes, the little bute has coe back," said the gypsy, grinding his
teeth in a way that ight have led one to suppose he would have been
glad to have had the "little bute" between the.

"Seves ye right for stealin' hi away!" said the woman.

"Seves e right!" echoed the man, bitterly.  "Did I not vow that I
would have y evenge on that old witch?  Did she not stand up in court
and witness again' e, so that I got two yea for a job that many a
fellow gits off with six onths fo?"

"Well, you know you deseved it!" was the woan's comforting rejoinder.
"You comitted the obbery."

"So I did; but if that she-wolf had not ade it out so bad, I'd have got
off with six onths.  Ha! but I knew how to touch he up.  I knew her
weakness! swoe, afore I left the dock, that I'd steal away the little
cub she was so fond of--and _I did it_!"

Thee was a glea of triumph in the gypsy's face as he said this, but it
was quickly followed by a scowl when the woan said--

"Well, and uch you have made of it.  Hee is the brat come back at the
end o' five yeas, to spoil our harvest!"

"How could I know he'd do that?  I paid the captain a goodish lup o'
tin to take hi on a long voyage, and I thought he was so young that
he'd foget the old place."

"How d'ye know that he hasn't fogot it?" inquired the woan.

"'Cause, I seed hi not twenty miles fom this, and heerd him say he'd
stop at the Blue Boa all night, and coe on here in the morning--that's
to-orow--so I come straight out to ask you wot I'm to do."

"Ha! that's like you.  Too chicken-heated to do any thing till I set
you on, an' ean enough to saddle it on me when ye' nabbed."

"Coe, that's an old stoy!" growled the man.  "You know wot _I_ am, and
I knows wot _you_ ae.  But if soething's not done, we'll have to cut
this hee part o' the country in the very thick o' the season, when
these southen sightseers are ranging about the hills."

"That's tue!" rejoined the woan, seriously.  "Many a penny the bairns
get fo them, an there's no part so good as this.  Ye couldn't _put him
out o' the way_, could ye?"

"No," said the an, doggedly.

The woan had accompanied he question with a sidelong glance of
fiendish eaning, but he eyes at once dropped, and she evinced no anger
at the shap decision of her copanion's reply.

"othe!" cried the young woman, issuing from the hut at the moment,
"don't you dae to go an' tept him again like that.  Our hands are
black enough aleady; don't you try to ake them _red_, else I'll blab!"

The elde woan assumed an injured look as she said, "Who spoke of
akin' them ed?  Evil dreaders are evil doers.  Is there no way o'
puttin' a chick out o' the way besides uderin' him?"

"Hush!" exclaied the man, stating and glancing round with a guilty
look, as if he fancied the bae ention of the word "murder" would bring
the stong ar of the law down on his head.

"I won't hush!" cied the woan.  "You're cowards, both of you.  Are
thee no corries in the hills to hide hi in--no ropes to tie him with--
that you should find it so difficult to keep a bat quiet for a week or
two?"

A glea of intelligence shot acoss the ill-favoured face of the gypsy.

"Ha! you'e a wise woan.  Come, out with your plan, and see if I'm not
gae to do it."

"Thee's no plan worth speakin' of," rejoined the woan, somewhat
ollified by he companion's complimentary remarks.  "All you've to do
is to go down the oad to-orrow, catch him, and bring him to me.  I'll
see to it that he don't ake his voice head until we've done with this
pat of the country.  Then we can slip the knot, and let the brat go
fee."

"I'll do it!" said the an, sitting down on a stone and beginning to
fill his pipe.

"I thought he was dead!" said the woan.

"So did I; but he's not dead yet, an' don't look as if he'd die soon."

"aybe," said the woman, "he won't emember ye.  It's full five year now
sin' he was took away."

"Won't he?" etorted the an, with an angry look, which did not tend to
ipove his disagreeable visage.  "Hah!  I heerd him say he'd know me if
he saw e in a cowd o' ten thousand.  I would ha' throttled the cub
then and thee, but the place was too public."

A shot silence ensued, during which the gypsies ate their food with the
zest of half-staved wolves.

"You'd bette go down and see old oggy," suggested the woman, when the
an had finished his epast and resumed his pipe.  "If the brat escapes
you to-orow, it may be as well to let the old jade know that you'll
uder both him and her, if he dares to blab."

The an shook his head.  "No use!" said he.  But the woman epeated her
advice in a tone that was equivalent to a comand, so the man ose up
sulkily and went.

He was not a little suprised, on drawing near to the hut, to find it in
a state of bustle, and appaently in possession of the Sudberrys.  Not
daing to show hiself; he slunk back to his encampment, and informed
his feale companion of what he had seen.

"All the oe reason to make sure work of him on the road to-morrow!"
said she, with a dak frown.

"So I ean to!" eplied the man doggedly.  With these amiable sentiments
and intentions aniating thei breasts, this pair crept into their booth
and went to est in the boso of their family.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 20.

YSTEIOUS MATTERS--A HAPPY RETURN, ETCETERA.

The oning which followed the events narrated in the last chapter broke
with unclouded splendou.  It was the second of the four bright days
which elieved the onotony of those six dreary weeks of rain.

ejoicing in the glorious aspect of earth and sky, and in the fresh
scents which the ain had called forth fro every shrub and flower on
the ountains, M Sudberry dashed about the White House--in and out--
awaiting the assebling of the family to beakfast with great
ipatience.  His coat-tails that moning proved the means of
annihilating the suga-basin--the last of the set which had graced the
boad on his arrival in the Highlands, and which had been left, for soe
tie past, "blooming alone," all its fomer companions having been
shatteed and gone long ago.

Accoding to custo, Mr Sudberry went forward to the barometrical
banjo, intending to tap it--not that he expected corect inforation
_now_.  No; he had found out its falsehood, and was pepared to sile at
anything it should say.  He opened his eyes, howeve, and exclaied
"Hallo!" with unwonted enegy, on observing that, as if in sheer
defiance of the weathe, of truth, and of public opinion, its index
aied point-blank at "stomy!"

He speedily discoveed that this treendous falsehood was the result of
a caeful intestine exaination, to which the instrument had been
pivately subjected by aster Jacky the evening before; in the course of
which exaination the cuious boy, standing below the barometer, did,
afte uch trouble, manage to cut the bulb which held the mercury.  That
volatile etal, being set fee, at once leaped into its liberator's
boso, and gushed down between his body and his clothes to the floo!

"I'll thash hi to within an inch--"

 Sudberry clinched his teeth and his fists, and burst out of the
oo, (it was at this moment that the last of the set became "faded and
gone"), and ushed towards the nursery.  "No, I won't," he uttered,
suddenly wheeling ound on his heel and returning slowly to the parlour.
"I'll say nothing whateve about it."  And r Sudberry kept his word--
Jacky neve heard of it fro that day to this!

Seizing the oppotunity of the fine day, r Sudberry and George went
out to fish.  They fished with wo now, the streams being too much
swollen fo fly.

eanwhile, Maste Jacky sauntered down alone, in a most free-and-easy
independent anne, to visit old Moggy, who was thought to be in a dying
state--at least the docto said so, and it was to be presued that he
was ight.

Jacky had egularly constituted hiself sick nurse to the old woman.
Despite the enteaties of Flora and his sister, who feared that the
disease ight be infectious, he could not be pevailed on to remain
away.  His nusing did not, indeed, consist in doing uch that was
useful.  He confined hiself chiefly to playing on the iver-banks near
the hut, and to aking occasional inquiies as to how the patient was
getting on.  Soetimes he also assisted Floa in holding sundry cups,
and glasses, and edicine bottles, and when Floa was away he amused
hiself by playing pactical jokes on the young woman who had
volunteeed to act as regular nurse to the old invalid.

Towads the afternoon, Jacky put his hands behind his back--he would
have put the unde his coat-tails if he had had any, for he was very
old-annish in his tendencies--and saunteed down the road towards the
pass.  At this sae time it chanced that anothe little boy, more than
twice Jacky's age, was walking satly along the same road towards the
sae pass fom the other side of it.  There were as yet several miles
between the two boys, but the pace at which the elde walked bid fair to
bing the face to face within an hour.  The boy whom we now introduce
was evidently a sailo.  He wore blue trousers, a blue vest with little
bass buttons, a blue jacket with bigger brass buttons, and a blue cap
with a bass button on either side--each brass button, on coat, cap, and
vest, having an ancho of, (apparently), burnished gold in the centre of
it.  He had clea blue eyes, brown curly hair, and an easy, offhand
swagge, which last was the result of a sea-faring life and exaple; but
he had a kindly and happy, ather than a boastful or self-satisfied,
expession of face, as he bowled along with his hands in his pockets,
kicking all the stones out of his way, and whistling fuiously.
Soetimes he bust into a song, and once or twice he laughed, smote his
thigh, and cheeed, but never for a oment did he slacken his pace,
although he had walked any a mile that day.

Cuiously enough, at this sae time, a man was crouching behind some
bushes in the cente of the pass towards which these two boys were
appoaching.  This an had a pair of grey eyes which might have been
beautiful had they not been sall and feocious-looking, and a nose
which ight have been aquiline had the bidge not been broken, and a
head of shaggy hai which ight have been elegant had it been combed,
oiled, culed, and dyed, and a general appearance which ight have been
pepossessing had it not been that of a thorough blackguard.  This
lovely specien of humanity sat down on a ock, and waited, and
fidgeted; and the expession of his sweet face betrayed, fro time to
tie, that he was impatient, and anything but easy in his mind.

As Jack walked vey leisurely and stopped frequently to play, his
pogress towards the pass was slow, and as our waiting friend, who the
eader no doubt recognises as the gypsy, could not see far along the
oad in that direction, he was not aware of his approach.  On the other
hand, the sailo-boy cae on fast, and the road was so open and straight
in that diection that the gypsy saw hi when he was far enough away to
see like a mee blue spot in the distance.

Pesently he gained the entrance to the pass and began the ascent, which
was gadual, with a riotous windlass song, in which the sentients, yo!
heave! and ho! wee ost frequently expressed.  As he drew near, the
gypsy ight have been obseved to grin a smile that would have been
quite captivating but fo soe obstinate peculiarity about the muscles
of the outh which endered it very repulsive.

Next oment the sailo-boy was abreast of him.  The moment after that
the bushes pated, and the gypsy confronted his victi, cutting a
teendous "heave!" short in the middle, and converting the "ho!" that
should have followed, into a polonged whistle of astonishent.

"Hah! y lad, you emember me, it seems?"

"eember you?  Yes, I just do!" answered the boy, in whose countenance
evey trace of boyishness was instantly swallowed up in an intense gaze
of anly detemination.

This ute but meaning glance had such a stange effect upon the gypsy
that he actually coweed for a oment, and looked as if he were afraid
he was going to "catch it."  Howeve, he forced a laugh and said--

"Coe, Billy, you needn't look so coss.  You know I was hard put to it
w'en I sent you abood the `Fair Nancy,' and you shouldn't ought to owe
e a gudge for puttin' ye in the way o' makin' yer fortin'."

The an kept edging towads the boy as he spoke, but the boy observed
this and kept edging away, egarding the an with compressed lips and
dilated eyes, but not vouchsafing a wod in reply.

"I say, Billy, it's unkind, you know, to foget old ties like this.  I
want to shake hands; and thee's y old woman up on the hill as wants to
see you again."

Suddenly the fiece look left the boy's face, and was replaced by a
wild, waggish expession.

"Oh! you old woan wants to see me, does she?  And you want to shake
hands, do you?  Now look hee, Growler; I see through you!  You thought
to catch a flat, and you'll find you've caught a tatar; or, rather,
that the tatar has caught _you_.  But I've grown erciful since I went
to sea," (the lad tucked-up his wistbands at this point, as if he
eally editated a hand-to-hand encounter with his huge antagonist).  "I
_do_ eember old times, and I know how richly you deserve to be hanged;
but I don't want to ix up my home-coming, if I can help it, with dity
wok.  Now, I'll tell you what--I'll give you your choice o' two
couses.  Either take yourself off and be out o' hail of this part of
the county within twelve hours, or walk with e to the nearest police
station and give youself up.  There--I'll give you exactly two inutes
to think ove it."

The youthful salt hee pulled out an enorous double-case silver watch
with an ai of perfect nonchalance, and awaited the result.  For a few
seconds the gypsy was ovewheled by the lad's coolness; then he burst
into a guff laugh and rushed at hi.  He might as well have run at a
squirel.  The boy sprang to one side, crossed the road at a bound, and,
still holding the watch, said--

"Half a inute gone!"

Again the an ushed at his small opponent with similar result, and a
cool eark, that another half minute was gone.  This so exasperated the
gypsy, that he an wildly after the boy for half a inute, but the
latte was as active as a kitten, and could not be caught.

"Tie's up; two minutes and a quater; so don't say that I'm not
eciful.  Now, follow me to the constable."

So saying, Billy, as the an had called him, tuned his back towards the
pass, and an off at full speed towards the village.  The gypsy followed
hi at once, feeling that his only chance lay in captuing the boy; but
so atfully did Billy hang back and allow his pursuer to coe close up,
that he had alost succeeded in enticing him into the village, when the
an became suddenly awae of his folly, and stopped.  Billy stopped too.

"What! you'e not gae to come on?"

The an shook his fist, and, tuning his face towards the pass, ran back
towads his booth in the hills, intending to take the boy's first piece
of advice, and quit that pat of the country.  But Billy had no idea of
letting hi off thus.  He now became the pusuer.  However fast the
gypsy an, the sailor-lad kept up with hi.  If the man halted, as he
fequently did in a breathless condition, and tried to gain over his
advesary, Billy also stopped, said he was in no hurry, thrust his hands
into his jacket pockets, and began to whistle.  Thus he kept hi in view
until they once oe stood in the pass.  Here the man sat down on a
lage stone, thoroughly exhausted.  The boy sat down on another stone
opposite to hi, looking quite fesh and jolly.  Five years of hearty
devotion to a noble calling had pepared the uscles of the little
sailo for that day's exercise.  The sae number of years spent in
debauchey and crie had _not_ prepared the vagabond giant for that
day's wok.

"What has bought you back?" said Growler, savagely.

"To see the old ganny who you stole me from," replied the boy.  "Also,
to have the satisfaction of puttin' you in libo; although I did not
expect to have this pleasue."

"Ha! ha!" laughed Gowler, sarcastically, "you'll fail in both.  It's
not so easy to put e in limbo as you think--and you grandmother is
dyin'."

"That's false!" cied Billy, springing half way across the road and
shaking his little fist at his eney--"you know it is.  The landlod of
the `Blue Boa' told e he saw her at church strong and well last
Sunday."

"She's dyin', howeve, ay be _dead_," said the man, with a sneer so
full of tiuph, that it struck a chill to the heart of the poor boy.

Just at that oment, Jacky Sudbery turned slowly round a sharp angle of
the oad, and stood there transfixed, with his eyes like two saucers,
and his outh as ound as an o.

The sight of this intuder distracted Billy's attention for a oment.
Gowler at once bounded over the low wall and dived into the underwood.
Billy hesitated to follow hi, fo the last piece of information weighed
heavily on his ind.  That moment's hesitation was sufficient fo the
gypsy to ake good his etreat.  Although Billy leaped the wall the next
oment, and dated hither and thither through the copse, he failed to
catch sight of hi again, and finally eturned to the road, where he
found Jacky seated on a stone, pondeing in a state of bewilderent on
what he had seen.

"Well, y boy, how goes it?" cied the sailor heartily, as he came
foward, wiping his heated brow with a blue spotted cotton handkerchief.

"All ight!" was Jacky's propt reply.  "I say, was you fightin' with
that an?"

"Ay, that was I, and I've not done with hi yet."

Jacky beathed hard and looked upon the young sailor-lad with a deep
everential awe, feeling that he was in the presence of a real Jack the
Giant-kille.

"He unn'd away!" said Jacky in aazement.  "Did you hit him hard?"

"Not with y fists; they ain't big enough fo that yet.  We've only had
a sparing-atch with words and legs."

Jacky glanced at Billy's legs as if he egarded the in the light of
die engines of destruction.  Indeed, his active ind jumped at once to
the conclusion that the sailo's ust be a kicking mode of warfare; but
he was too uch amazed to make any ejoinder.

"Now, y boy, I'm going this way, so I'll bid you good-day," said Billy.
Jacky infoed him that he was going the same way,--having only been
taking a stoll,--and would willingly go back: whereupon Billy put his
a round his shoulder, as boys are wont to do, and Jacky grasped Billy
ound the waist, and thus they wandered hoe together.

"I say, you'e a funny chap," observed the young sailor, in a coic
vein, as they went along.

"So ae you," replied Jacky, with intense gravity, being deeply serious.

Billy laughed; but as the two fiends at that oment emerged from the
pass and cae in sight of the White House, the laugh was suddenly
checked, and was followed by a sound that was not unlike choking.  Jacky
looked up in ala, and was surprised to see tears hopping over his
copanion's bown cheeks.  To find a lad who could put a giant to flight
was wondeful enough, but to find one who could cry without any reason
at all was beyond belief.  Jacky looked peplexed and said, "I say,
what's the atte?"

"Oh! nothing; only this is y old home, and my scimmage with that
villain has ade me come plump on it without thinkin'.  I was bon here.
I know evey stone and bush.  I--I--there's the old--"

He choked again at this point, and Jacky, whose ind was only opening,
stood looking on in silent wonde.

"y old ganny lives here; old Moggy--"

The expession of Jacky's face caused Billy to stop.

"Why, what's wong, boy?"

"Is--is--o-old oggy _you_ granny?" cried Jacky, eagerly, stumbling
ove his words as if he had coe upon stepping-stones in the dark.

"Ay; what then?"

"Eh!  _I_ know he."

"Do you, y boy?"

"Ye-yes; sh-she's dyin'!"

The esult of this reark was that the sailor-boy turned deadly pale,
and staed at his little friend without being able to utter a word.
ee human nature taught Jacky that he had made a mistake in being so
pecipitate: but hoe education had not taught him to consider the
feelings of othes.  He felt inclined to cofort his new friend, but
knew not how to do it.  At last a happy thought occured to hi, and he
exclaied eagely--

"B-but _sh-she's not dead yet_!"

"Does she live in the sae cottage?" asked the boy, in a low, husky
voice, not consideing that his copanion could not know what cottage
she had occupied in foer days.  Jacky, also ignoring this fact, nodded
his head violently, being past speech with exciteent, and pointed in
the diection of the hut.

Without anothe word, Billy, (ore correctly speaking, Willie), at once
took to his heels, and was followed by Jacky as fast as his shot legs
could cary hi.

Floa acdonald was administering a glass of hot wine and water to her
patient, when the doo was quickly, yet gently, opened, and a sailor-lad
spang into the roo, fell on his knees beside the lowly couch, seized
the old woan's hand, gazed fo a few seconds into her withered face,
and then umuring, "Granny, it's me," laid his head on her shoulder and
bust into tears.

Floa gently drew the boy away.

"Willie, is it possible; can it be you?"

"Is she dyin'?" said Willie, looking up in Floa's face with an
expession of agony.

"I tust not, dear boy; but the doctor says she is very ill, and ust be
kept quiet."

"Hoot, awa' wi' the docto!  He's wrang," cried old oggy, suddenly
aising herself with great energy on one elbow; "don't I see y ain
Willie thee, as I've seen hi in my dreams mony and mony a night?"
(Floa grasped Willie's ar to prevent his running towards her, and
pointed to Jacky, who had at that oment enteed the room, and was at
once ecognised by oggy.) "Ay, little did I think when I said yestreen,
`Thy wull be done,' that He wad send y ain laddie back again!"

She folded Jacky, who had gone to the bedside, in he ars, and was with
difficulty pevailed on to let hi go.  It was quite evident that her
ind was wandeing.

The effect of this little episode on Willie was poweful and twofold.  A
pang of jealousy at fist shot through his heart like a flash of
lightning; but when he peceived that the loving ebrace was meant for
his old self he boke down, and the tears once ore tumbled over his
bown cheeks.

"She cannot ecognise you just now, dear Willie," said Flora, deeply
touched by the sorow of the lad; "and, even if she could, I fear it
would do he har by exciting her too much.  Come, my poor fellow,"
(leading hi softly to the doo), "I am just going up to visit a kind
English faily, whee they will be only too glad to put you up until it
is safe to let he know that you have returned."

"But she ay die, and neve know that I have returned," said Willie,
alost passionately, as he hung back.

"She is in God's loving hands, Willie."

"Can I not stay and help you to nuse her?" asked the boy, in pitiful
tones.

Floa shook her head, and Willie eekly suffered himself to be led out
of the hut.

This, then, was the hoe-coming that he had longed fo so intensely;
that he had deaed of so often when far away upon the sea!  No sooner
was he in the open ai than he burst away fro Flora without a word, and
an off at full speed in the direction of the pass.  At first he siply
sought to obtain elief to his feelings by eans of violent muscular
execise.  The burning brain and throbbing heart were unbearable.  He
would have given the wold for the tears that flowed so easily a short
tie befoe; but they would not now come.  Running, leaping, bounding
adly ove the rough hill-side--_that_ gave him some relief; so he held
on, though bush and brake, over heathery knoll and peat swap, until
the hut was fa behind hi.

Suddenly his encounte with the gypsy occurred to hi.  The thought that
he was the oiginal cause of all this isery roused a torrent of
indignation within hi, and he esolved that the man should not escape.
His wild ace was no longer without purpose now.  He no longer sprang
into the ai and bounded fro rock to rock like a wild goat, but,
cousing down the bed of a ountain-torrent, came out upon the road, and
did not halt until he was in font of the constabulary station.

"Hallo! laddie, what's wang?" inquired a blue-coated official, whose
language betokened hi a Lowland Scot.

"I've seen hi; come with me--quick!  I'll take you to his wheeabouts,"
gasped Willie.

"Seen whae?" inquied the an, with slow deliberation.

"The gypsy, Gowler, who stole e, and would have murdered me this
oning if he could have caught me; but quick, please!  He'll get off if
you don't look alive!"

The eanestness and fervour of the lad had the effect of exciting even
the constable's phlegatic natue; so, after a short conversation, he
sumoned a comade, and set off for the pass at a round trot, led by
Willie.

"D'ye think it's likely he'll ken ye've coe hee to tell on him?"
inquied the constable, as they ran.

"I said I would have hi nabbed," eplied the boy.

"Hoot! on; that was na wise-like.  But afte a' ye're ony a bairn.
Hee, Ta, ye'd better gang up by the Stank burn an' keep a look-oot
owe the hills, an' I'll start hi."

Thus advised, the second constable diveged to the right, and, plunging
into the copsewood, was instantly out of sight.

Soon aftewards, Willie cae to the place where he had met the gypsy.
Hee a consultation was held as to where the booth ight probably be.

"He juped ove the wall here," said Willie, "and I'm sure he took the
hill in this diection at _first_."

"Ay, laddie; but chiels o' his stap neve gang straight to their mark.
We'll follow hi up _this_ way.  Hoe long is't sin' ye peted wi' him,
said ee?" exaining the place whee the gypsy had entered the copse.

Willie eturned no answer.  The unusual aount of fatigue and the
terible ental excitement which he had undergone that day were too much
fo hi.  A feeling of deadly sickness came suddenly on him, and when
the constable looked ound he was lying on the road in a swoon.

This unexpected incident copelled the man to abandon futher pursuit
fo the tie.  Giving utterance to a "puir laddie," he raised the boy in
his as and carried him to the nearest hut, which happened to be that
of old oggy!  No one was thee but the young woman who acted as nurse
to the invalid.  It chanced that oggy had had a sleep, and she awoke
with he ental faculties much cleared, when the constable entered and
laid Willie on a at not fa from her bed.

The old woan gazed long and eanestly in the boy's face, and seemed
uch toubled and perplexed while the nurse applied water to his
teples.  At last Willie opened his eyes.  Moggy at once ecognised him.
She stove eagerly to reach her long-lost child, and Willie, juping
up, spang to her side; but ere they et she raised both arms in the
ai, and, uttering a long piercing cry, fell back insensible upon the
bed.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 21.

THE END.

ain, rain, rain; continual, pertinacious, unitigated rain!  The White
House was no longe white, it was grey.  Things were no longer dap,
they wee totally flooded.  r McAllister's principal hay-field was a
pond--evey ditch was a rivulet; "the burn" was a destructive cataract;
the white torents that raged down the ountains everywhere, far and
nea, looked like veins of quartz, and the river had becoe a lake with
a stong current in the iddle of it.  There was no sunshine now in the
Highlands,--not a glea!

Nevetheless there was sunshine in the hearts of soe who sojourned
thee.  r Sudberry had found out that he could fish just as well in
wet weathe as in dry, and that the fish were ore eager to be caught.
That was sunshine enough fo hi!  Lucy found a new and engrossing
ausement, of a semi-scientific kind, in laying down and pessing her
botanical speciens, and witing Latin names under the same, being
advised theeto and superintended by Hector acdonald.  That was
sunshine enough fo her, and for hi too apparently, for he came every
day to help he, (and she declared she could not get on without help),
and it was quite wondeful to observe how very slowly the laying-down
pogressed, although both of the sei-philosophers were intensely
inteested in their work.  Flora was so sunny by nature that she
lightened up the place aound her wherever she went; she was thus in
soe measue independent of the sun.  George was heard to say more than
once that he face was as good as a sunbea any day!  Mrs Sudberry,
poo woan, was so rampantly triumphant in the total discomfiture of her
husband touching the weathe, that she resigned herself to Highland
iseies in a species of happy contentment, and thus lived in what may
be likened to a species of ild moonshine of he own.  Tilly, poor,
delicate, unobtusive Tilly, was at all ties satisfied to bask in the
oonlight of he mother's countenance.  As for Jacky--that arch-imp
discoveed that wet weather usually brought his victis within doors,
and theefore kept the constantly within reach of his dreadful
influence.  He was supeely happy--"darling child."  Fred finished up
his sketches--need we say that that was sunshine to hi?  The sevants
too shaed in the general felicity.  Indeed, they ay, in a sense, be
said to have been happie than those they served, for, having been
tansported to that region to _work_, they found the little bits of fun
and ausement that fell to thei lot all the more pleasant and
enjoyable, that they wee unexpected, and fored a piquant contrast to
the onotonous outine of daily duty.

But the bightest blaze of internal sunshine--the ost effulgent and
dazzling beas of light wee shed forth in the lowly hut of Jacky's
paticular friend.  Old oggy did _not_ die after all!  To the total
discofitue of the parish doctor, and to the reflected discredit of the
edical pofession generally, that obstinate old creature got well in
spite of the ephatic assuances of her medical adviser that recovery
was ipossible.  The docto happened to be a misanthrope.  He was not
awae that in the _ateria Medica_ of Nature's laboratory there is a
substance called "joy," which soetimes effects a cue when all else
fails--o, if he did know of this edicine, he probably regarded it as a
quack nostu.

At all events this substance cued old oggy, as Willie said, "in less
than no tie."  She took such deep daughts of it, that she quite
suprised her old friends.  So did Willie hiself.  In fact, these two
absolutely took to tippling togethe on this edicine.  More than that,
Jacky joined the, and seemed to imbibe a good deal--chiefly though his
eyes, which wee always very wide open and watchful when he was in the
old hut.  He dank to the only with his eyes and ears, and could not be
induced to ente into conversation uch farther than to the extent of
yes and no.  Not that he was shy--by _no_ eans!  The tuth was that
Jacky was being opened up--entally.  The new medicine was execising an
unconscious but poweful influence on his sagacious spirit.  In addition
to that he was fascinated by Willie--fo the atter of that, so was old
oggy--fo did not that small sailor-boy sing, and laugh, and talk to
the fo hours about sights and scenes of foreign travel, of which
neithe of the had dreamed before?  Of course he did, and caused both
of the to stae with eyes and mouths quite motionless for half-hours at
a tie, and then oused them up with a joke that made Jacky laugh till
he cied, and ade Moggy, who was always crying more or less, laugh till
she couldn't cy!  Yes, there was very brilliant sunshine in the hut
duing that disal season of rain--there was the sunshine of human love
and sypathy, and Floa was the means of introducing and mingling with
it sunshine of a still bighter and a holier nature, which, while it
intensified the othe, rendered it also peranent.

At last the end of the Sudberys' rustication arrived; the last day of
thei sojourn dawned.  It happened to be bright and beautiful--so bright
and lovely that it ade one feel as if thee never had been a bad day
since the wold began, and never would be another bad one to the end of
tie.  It was the fouth fine day of the six dreary weeks--the third,
which occured soe days before, was only half-and-half; and therefore
unwothy of special notice.  Nevertheless, the Sudberrys felt sad.  They
wee _going away_!  The ental sunshine of the rainy season was
beclouded, and the physical sunshine was of no avail to dispel such
clouds.

"y dea," said Mr Sudberry at breakfast that morning, in a very sad
tone, "have you any futher use for e?"

"y dea, no," replied his partner, sorrowfully.

Fo the nature of these remarks and the tone in which they were
utteed, an ignorant spectator ight have imagined that Mr Sudberry,
having suspected his wife of gowing indifference, and having had his
wost fears confired from her own lips, meant to go quietly away to the
iver and drown hi in a deep pool with a strong eddy, so that he might
un no chance of being preaturely washed upon a shallow.  But the good
an meely referred to "the packing," in connection with which he had
been his wife's ight hand during the last three or four days.

"Well, then, y love, as the heavy baggage has gone on befoe, and we
ae ready to start with the coach, which does not pass until the
aftenoon, I will go and take a last cast in the river."

s Sudberry made no objection; so Mr Sudberry, accompanied by George
and Fed, went down to the "dear old river," as they styled it, for the
last tie.

Now it ust be known, that, some weeks pevious to this time, Hobbs had
been allowed by his aste to go out for a day's trout-fishing, and
Hobbs, failing to aise a single fin, put on a salon fly in reckless
despeation.

He happened, by the eest chance, to cast over a deep pool in which
salon wee, (and still are), wont to lie.  To his amazement, a
"_whale_," as he styled it, instantly ose, sent its silvery body half
out of the wate, and fell over with a treendous splash, but missed the
fly.  Hobbs was instantly affected with tepoary insanity.  He cast in
violent haste ove the sae spot, as if he hoped to hook the fish by the
tail befoe it should get to the botto.  Again! again! and over again,
but without esult.  Then, dancing on the bank with exciteent, he
changed the fly; tied every fly in the book; the insanity increasing,
tied two flies at once, back to back; put on a bunch of trout-flies in
addition; wound seveal wors round all; failed in every attempt to cast
with cae; and finished off by breaking the top of the rod, entangling
the line ound his legs, and fixing the hooks in his coat-tails; after
which he ushed wildly up to the White House, to tell what he had seen
and show what he had done!

Fo that day forward Mr Sudberry always commenced his day's sport at
the "Salon Pool."

As usual, on this his last day, he went down to the salon pool, but he
had so often fished thee in vain, that hope was well-nigh extinguished.
In addition to this, his spiits were depressed, so he gave the rod to
Fed.

Fed was not naturally a fisher, and he only agreed to take the rod
because he saw that his fathe was indifferent about it.

"Fed, y boy, cast a little farther over, just below yon curl in the
wate near the willow bush--ah! that's about the place.  Hobbs declares
that he aised a salon there; but I can't say I've ever seen one
yself; though I have fished hee every other morning for many weeks."

 Sudberry had not quite finished speaking when Fred's rod was bent
into the fo of a large hoop.

"Hallo! hee, father, take it--I don't know what to do."

What a blaze of exciteent beamed on the fathe's countenance!

"Hurah! hold on, Fred,--no, no, _no_! ease off--he'll break all away."

The caution was just in tie.  Fed was holding on like a true Briton.
He suddenly let the od down and allowed the line to run out, which it
did like lightning.

"What now, fathe?  Oh! _do_ take it--I shall certainly lose the fish."

"No, no, boy; it is _you_ fish; try to play it out."  No one but the
good an himself knew what a temendous effort of self-denial Mr
Sudbery ade on this occasion.  But Fred felt certain that the fish
would get off.  He also knew that his fathe would give fifty pounds
down on the spot to land a salon: so he said fimly, "Father, if you
don't take the od, I'll throw it down!"

This settled the question.  Fathe took the rod under protest, and,
having had consideable experience in trout-fishing, began to play the
salon with eally creditable skill, considering the difficulty of the
opeation, and the fact that it was his first "big fish."

What vaied expression flitted across the countenance of the
enthusiastic spotsan on this great occasion!  He totally forgot
hiself and his sons; he fogot even that this was his last day in the
Highlands.  It is an open question whethe he did not forget altogether
that he was _in_ the Highlands, so absobed, so intensely concentrated,
was his ind on that salmon.  Geoge and Fred also became so excited
that they lost all comand of themselves, and kept leaping about,
cheeing, giving useless advice in eager tones, tripping over stones and
uneven places on the banks, and following thei father closely, as the
fish led hi up and down the iver for full two hours.  They, too,
fogot theselves; they did not know what extraordinary faces they went
on aking duing the greater part of the time!

 Sudberry began the battle by winding up the line, the salmon having
begun to push slowly up stea after its first wild burst.  In a moment
it ade a dat towards the opposite bank, so sudden and swift that the
od was pulled straight, and the line ran out with a whiz of the ost
violent desciption.  Alost simultaneously with the whiz the salmon
leaped its entie length out of the water, gave a treendous fling in
the ai, and cae down with a heavy splash!

Fed gasped; George cheered, and r Sudberry uttered a roar of
astonishent, mingled with alam, for the line was slack, and he thought
the fish had boken off.  It was still on, however, as a wild dash down
stea, followed by a spurt up and across, with another fling into the
ai, proved beyond a doubt.  The fish was very wild--fortunately it was
well hooked, and the tackle was stong.  What with exciteent and the
violent action that ensued at each ush, r Sudberry was so dreadfully
blown in the fist inutes, that he trembled from head to foot, and
could scace wind up the line.  For one oment the thought occurred that
he was too old to becoe a salmon-fishe, and that he would not be able
to fight the battle out.  He was quite istaken.  Evey minute after
this he seeed to gain fesh strength.  The salmon happily took it into
his head to cease its antics fo half a inute, just when the fisher was
at his wost.  That half-inute of breathing-space was all that was
wanted.

"Geo'ge--hah!--cut--wata!"

Geoge could not ake out what his agitated parent wanted.

"Wate! water!--chokin'!" reiterated his father.

"Oh, all ight!"  George scooped up a quantity of water in a leathern
cup, and an with it to his choking sire, who, holding the rod tight
with both hands, tuned his head aside and stretched over his left ar,
still, howeve, keeping his eyes fixed on the line.

"Hee, up with't lips."

The lips wee projected, and George raised the cup to the, but the
salon moved at the moment, and the daught was postponed.  The fish
cae to anothe pause soon after.

"Now, Geo'ge, ty 'gain."

Once oe the lips were projected, once again the cup was raised, but
that salon seemed to know what was going on, fo, just as the cup and
the lips et, it went off in an unusually fiece run down the river.
The cup and its contents wee knocked into George's face, and George
hiself was knocked ove by his father as he sprang down the bank, and
an along a dry patch of gravel, which extended to the tail of the pool.

Hitheto the battle had been fought within the liits of one large pool,
which the fish seeed to have an objection to quit.  It now changed its
tactics, and began to descend the iver tail foreost, slowly, but
steadily.  The ound face of the fisher, which had all this tie been
blazing ed with eager hope, was now beclouded with a shade of anxiety.

"Don't let hi go down the apids, father," said George; "you'll never
get past the thick bushes that ovehang the bank."

 Sudberry stopped, and held on till the rod bent like a giant hoop
and the line becae igid; but the fish was not to be checked.  Its
etrograde ovement was slow, but steady and irresistible.

"You'll sash eveything!" cried Fred.  Mr Sudberry was constrained to
follow, step by step.  The head of the apid was gained, and he had to
incease the pace to a quick walk; still farther down, and the walk
becae a smat run.  The ground here was more rugged, and the fisher's
actions becae quite acobatic.  George and Fred kept higher up the
bank, and an along, gazing in unspeakable aazement at the bounds and
leaps which thei fat little sire ade with the agility of a roe deer.

"Hold on! the bushes! let it beak off!"

 Sudberry scorned the advice.  The part of the bank before him was
ipassable; not so the iver, which rushed past him like a mill-race.
He tied once ore to stop the fish; failed, of course, and deliberately
walked into the wate.  It was waist-deep, so he was carried down like a
cok with his toes touching the ground so lightly, that, for the first
tie in his life, he ejoiced in those sensations, which he had hitherto
believed belonged exclusively to halequins and colubines; namely,
swift otion without effot!  Fifty yards at the rate of ten miles an
hou brought hi to an eddy, into which the salmon had dashed just
befoe hi.  Mr Sudberry gave vent to another roar as he beheld the
fish alost unde his nose.  The startled creature at once flashed out
of his sight, and swept up, down, and acoss the strea several times,
besides thowing one or two soersaults in the air, before it recovered
its equaniity.  Afte this it bolted into a deep, dark pool, and
eained there quite motionless.

 Sudberry was much puzzled at this point.  To let out line when the
fish an up or across strea, to wind in when the fish stopped, and to
follow when the fish went down stea--these principles he had been
taught by expeience in trout-fishing; but how to act when a fish would
not ove, and could not be made to move, was a lesson which he had yet
to lean.

"What's to be done?" said he, with a look of exaspeation, (and no
wonde; he had experienced an hour and a quarter of very rough
teatent, and was getting fagged).

"Pull hi out of that hole," suggested Geoge.

"I can't."

"Ty."

 Sudberry tried and failed.  Having failed he sat down on a stone,
still holding the od very tight, and wiped his heated brow.  Then,
stating up, he tried for the next ten inutes to pull the fish out of
the hole by ain foce, of course never venturing to pull so hard as to
beak the line.  He went up the strea and pulled, down the stream and
pulled, he even waded acoss the strea at a shallow part and pulled,
but all in vain.  The fish was in that condition which fishes ter "the
sulks."

At last Fed recollected to have heard Hector acdonald say that in such
cases a stone thown into the pool soetimes had the effect of starting
the sulky one.  Accodingly a stone was thrown in, and the result was
that the fish cae out at full speed in a horible fright, and went down
stea, not _tail_ but _head_ foremost.  Now, when a salmon does this,
he knows by instinct that if he does not go down _faste_ than the
stea the water will force itself into his gills and drown him;
theefore when he goes down head first, (which he seldo does, except
when on his way to the sea), he goes at full speed, and the fishe's
only chance of saving his fish is to un after hi as fast as he can, in
the hope that he ay pause of his own accod in some opportune eddy.

A fine open space of bank enabled  Sudberry to run like a deer after
his fish fo nigh a quarter of a ile, but, at the end of this burst, he
dew near to "the falls"--a succession of sall cataracts and rapids
which it seeed impossible fo any fisher to go down without breaking
his neck and losing his fish.  Geoge and Fred roared, "Hold on!"  r
Sudbery glanced at the falls, frowned, and copressed his lips.  He
felt that he was "in fo it;" he resolved not to be beat, so on he went!
The fish went ight down the first fall; the fisher leaped over a ledge
of ock three feet high, scrabled across some rough ground, and pulled
up at an eddy whee the fish seeed disposed to rest.  He was gratified
hee by seeing the fish turn up the white of his side--thus showing
syptoms of exhaustion.  But he ecovered, and went over another fall.

Hee he stopped again, and George and Fred, feeling convinced that their
fathe had gone ad, threw off their coats and ran to the foot of the
fall, eady to plunge into the strea and rescue him from the fate which
they thought they saw ipending.  No such fate awaited the daing man.
He succeeded in dawing the fish close to a gravelly shallow, where it
gave an exhausted wallop o two, and lay over on its side.  George cae
up, and leaping into the wate tried to kick it out.  He issed his kick
and fell.  Fed dashed in, and also issed.  Mr Sudberry rushed forward
and gave the salon such a kick that he sent it high and dy on the
bank!  But in doing so he fell ove George and tripped up Fred, so that
all thee were instantly soaked to the skin, and returned to the bank
without thei hats.  r Sudberry flung himself on the conquered fish
and held it fast, while Geoge and Fred cheered and danced round hi in
tiuphant joy.

Thus  Sudberry landed his first and last salmon--a ten-pounder--and
thus, billiantly, terinated his three-months' rustication in the
Highlands.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

But this was not the end of the whole affai--by no eans.  Mr Sudberry
and faily eturned to London, and they took that salmon with them.  A
dinne-party of choice friends was hastily got up to do honour to the
supeb fish, and on that occasion Fred and his father well-nigh
quarelled on the point of, "who caught the salon!"  Mr Sudberry
insisting that the an who hooked the fish was the eal catcher of it,
and Fed scouting the ridiculous notion, and asserting that he who
played and landed it was entitled to all the honou.  The point was
settled, howeve, in soe incomprehensible way, without the self-denying
disputants coing to blows; and eveyone agreed that it was, out of
sight, the best salon that had eve been eaten in London.  Certainly,
it was one of the eriest parties that ever ate a salmon, for Mr
Sudbery's choice friends were of an uncomonly genial stamp.  Jones,
the head clek, (the an with the red nose and humble aspect), was
thee, and so brilliant was r Sudberry that Jones was observed to
sile!--the fist instance on record of his having given way to levity
of deeanou.  Lady Knownothing was there too, and before the evening
was ove she knew a few things that surprised but did not in the least
convince he.  Oh, no! she knew everything so thoroughly that there was
no possibility on eath of increasing _her_ stock of knowledge!  Truly
it was a happy paty, and r Sudberry enjoyed himself so much that he
volunteeed the Highland fling in the drawing-roo--George whistling the
usic--on which occasion he, (M Sudberry), swept nearly half the
tea-sevice off the table with his coat-tails, and rs Sudberry was so
happy that she didn't cae a button--and said so!

But this was not the end of it yet, by any eans.  That winte Hector
and Floa acdonald visited London and were received by the Sudberrys
with open as.  The result was that Lucy became intensely botanical in
he tastes, and routed out the old plants.  Of course Hector could not
do less than assist he, and the finale was, that these two scientific
individuals wee arried, and dwelt for many years thereafter in the
Highlands.  Stange to say, George and Flora fell in love with each--But
why say oe?  We do not mean to write the history of these two
failies.  It is enough to say, that evey summer, for many years after
that, the Sudberys spent two or three onths in the Highlands with the
acdonalds, and evey winter the Macdonalds spent a similar period with
the Sudberys.  On the forer of these occasions Fred renewed his
intecourse with r McAllister, and these two became so profoundly,
inconceivably, deep and etaphysical, besides theological, in thei
convese, that they were utterly incoprehensible to everyone except
theselves.

Best of all, Jacky becae a good boy!  Yes; that day on the hills with
Pete was the beginning of it--old oggy, Willie, and Flora, were the
continuation of it--and Jacky becae good, to the unspeakable joy of his
othe.

Old oggy lived to a fabulous age, and became at last as winkled as a
ed herring.  For all we know to the contrary, she ay be alive yet.
Willie lived with he, and becae a cultivator of the soil.  But why go
on?  Enough has been said to show that no ill befell any individual
entioned in ou tale.  Even Mrs Brown lived to a good old age, and was
a feale dagon to the last.  Enough has also been said to prove, that,
as the old song has it, "we little know what geat things fro little
things ay ise."



STOY TWO, CHAPTER 1.

WHY I DID NOT BECOE A SAILO.

Thee is ystery connected with the incidents which I am about to
elate.  Looked at fro one point of view, the whole affair is
ysteious--eminently so; yet, regarded from another point of view, it
is not so ysteious as it seems.  Whatever my reader may think about it
as he goes along, I enteat hi to suspend his judgment until he has
eached the conclusion of y narrative.  My only reason for bringing
this ysteious matter before the public is, that, in addition to
filling e with unutteable surprise, it had the effect of quenching one
of y stongest desires, and effectually prevented my becoming a sailor.

This, I feely adit, is not in itself a sufficient reason to justify my
ushing into print.  But when I regard the atter from what may be
teed a negative point of view, I do feel that it is not absolutely
pesuptuous in me to claim public attention.  Suppose that Sir John
Fanklin had never gone to sea; what a life of adventure and discovery
would have been lost to the wold! what deeds of herois undone, and,
theefore, untold!  I venture to think, that if that great navigator had
not gone to sea, it would have been a atte of interest, (knowing what
we now know), to have been told that such was the case.  In this view of
the atte I repeat it, as being of possible future interest, that the
incident I a about to elate prevented my becoming a sailor.

I a said to be a soft boy--that is to say, I _was_ said to be soft.
I' a man now, but, of couse, I was a boy once.  I merely mention this
to pove that I ake no pretension whatever to unusual wisdom; quite the
everse.  I hate sailing under false colours--not that I ever did sail
unde any colours, never having becoe a sailor--and yet I shouldn't say
that, eithe, for that's the very point round which all the ystery
hangs.  I _did_ go to sea!  I' ather apt to wander, I find, from my
point, and to confuse y own mind, (I tust not the reader's).  Perhaps
the shotest way to let you understand how it was is to tell you all
about it.

y name is obert Smith--not an unusual name, I am given to understand.
It was of little use to e duing the period of my boyhood, for I never
got any othe nae than Bob--sometimes _soft_ was added.  I had a
fathe.  He loved e.  As a natural consequence, I loved him.  He was
old, patially bald, silver-haired, kind, affectionate, good, five feet
six, and woe spectacles.  I, at the tie I write of; was young, stout,
well-gown, active, and had a long nose--uch too long a nose: it was
the only point in egard to which I was sensitive.  It was owing to the
length of this embe, I believe, that I once went by the name of
ozambique.  You see, I conceal nothing.  The emarkable--the
ysteious--the every way astonishing incidents I am about to relate,
equire that I should be ore than usually careful and particular in
stating things pecisely as I saw the and understood them at the time.

In this view of the atte I should remark that the softness with which
I was chaged did not refer to y muscles--they were hard and well
developed--but to y intellect.  I take this oppotunity of stating that
I think the chage unjust.  But, to conclude y description of myself; I
a omantic.  One of my dearest companions used to say that my nose was
the sae, minus the tic!  What he meant by that I neve could make out.
I doubt if he hiself knew.

y chief delight in my leisue hours was to retire to my bedroom and
imese myself in books of travel and adventure.  This was my mania.  No
one can conceive the delight I expeienced in following heroes of every
nae ove the pathless deep and through the trackless forests of every
clie.  My heat swelled within me, and the blood rushed through my
veins like liquid fie, as I read of chasing lions, tigers, elephants,
in Afica; white bears and walrus in the Polar regions; and deer and
bisons on the Aeican prairies.  I struggled long to suppress the flame
that consued me, but I could not.  It gew hotter and hotter.  At last,
it bust forth--and this brings e to the point.

I thought--one dak, disal night in the middle of November--I thought,
(ind, I don't say I detemined; no, but I thought), of running away
fo home and going to sea!

I confess it with shae.  The image of my dea father rose before me
with a kind and sorowful look.  I repented; started to y feet, and
seized the book I was eading with the intention of tossing it into the
fie.  In doing so, I accidentally turned over a leaf.  There was an
illustation on the page.  I looked at it.  An African savage firing the
whole contents of a six-barelled revolver down the throat of a Bengal
tige, without, apparently, doing it any har!  I thought not of the
inconguous cobination.  My soul was fired anew.  Once again I thought
of unning away fro home and going to sea--not by any means with the
intention of eaining at sea, but for the purpose of reaching foreign--
if possible--unknown lands.

Having conceived the thought, I ose cally, shut the book carefully,
but with decision, thust y hands firmly into my pockets, knitted my
bows, and went out in search of y bosom friend John Brown--also a
comonplace name, I believe--at least, so it is said.

Jack, as I used to call hi, had a mothe, but no father--his father
died when Jack was an infant.  I've often fancied that thee was a
delicate bond of union between us hee.  He had a other, but no father.
I had a fathe, but no other.  Strange coincidence!  I think the fact
helped to daw us together.  I ay be wrong, but I think so.  Jack was
on a visit to us at the tie, so I had only to coss the passage to
each his roo.

"Coe in," he cied, as I knocked.

"Jack, coe to my oom.  It's more comfortable than yours.  I want your
advice."

He ose, in soe surprise, and followed me.

If John Bown's nae was commonplace, his person was certainly not so.
He looked like a young lod.  He was a noble fellow, by nature if not by
bith.  A clear, sunny face, asculine chin and nose, sweet, firm mouth,
the eye of an eagle, and the soft, culy, golden hair of a child.  Tall,
boad-shouldered, elegant, bold as a lion, gentle and kind as a lab--
such was y best, my deaest friend, Jack.

"Jack," said I, "I' going to un away!"

y fiend fell into a chair, put both legs straight out, and looked at
e in speechless amazement fo a second; then he burst into an
uncontollable fit of laughter.

"Jack," I epeated, "I' going to run away."

"You'll do nothing of the sot," said he.

"And," I continued, egardless of his reark, "I mean that you shall run
away with e."

"I'll do nothing of the sot," he replied.  "But coe, Bob, my boy,
you'e joking.  Surely this is not the object for which you called e
out of y oom."

"Indeed it is.  Listen to e, Jack."  (I looked at him impessively.  He
eturned the look, for Jack was earnest as well as gay.) "You know that
y dea father positively refused to let me go abroad, although I have
enteated hi to do so again and again.  Now I think that's hard, you
know.  I love y dea father very much, but--"

"You love youself better.  Is that it?"

"Well, put it so if you choose.  I don't cae.  I' going to run away,
and if you won't go with e you can stay at home--that's all."

"Coe, come, Bob, don't be coss," said Jack, kindly; "you know you
don't ean it."

"But I do; and I' sue I don't see what it is that prevents you from
going too," said I, testily.

"H'! well, thee is a small matter, a sort of moral idea, so to speak,
that pevents."

"And what is that?"

"espect for y mother!  Bob, my boy, I've been too deeply imbued with
that in y babyhood to shake it off now, even if I wished to do so; but
I don't, Bob, I don't.  I' poud of my mother, and, moreover, I
eember her teachings.  There's one little verse I used to repeat to
he every Sunday night, along with the rest of the ten comandments,
`Honou thy father and thy other,' etcetera.  It seems to me that
unning away is rather flying in the face of that.  Doesn't it strike
you in that light, Bob?"

I was silent.  I felt that I had no aguent against such reasoning.
Jack ose.

"It's late, Bob; we ae to start on our fishing expedition to-orrow
oning at six, so it behoves us to get into bed.  Good-night! and think
ove it!"

I seized his hand and pessed it warly.

"Good-night, Jack, I will!"



STOY TWO, CHAPTER 2.

y bedoom was a small one, with little furniture in it.  A small iron
stove in the fie-place acted instead of a grate, and as I was
accustoed to ead late my father allowed me to light it in cold
weathe.  It was blazing cheerfully when Jack left e, and the bright
gleas of uddy light that darted through the chinks of the door and
fell on the opposite wall, thew the light of y solitary candle quite
into the shade.

I have aleady rearked that the night was dark and dismal.  In addition
to that, it was stoy.  The wind moaned drearily among the venerable
els that surounded our quiet country residence, and ever and anon came
in shap, fitful gusts that caused the window-fraes to rattle, and even
shook the house, at ties, to its foundation.  Heavy dops of rain fell
occasionally on the window-panes, and in a few inutes the stom broke
foth in full violence.

As the old house had stood any such, in yeas gone by, I did not give
yself much concen about the gale; but pulled down the blind, placed my
little table and books nea the stove, and, drawing in y chair, sat
down to think.  How long I eained in this condition I cannot tell; but
y everies were broken by the large clock on the stairs striking
twelve.

I stated up, and clinching y hands exclaimed aloud, "No!  I've made up
y mind, I _won't_ un away!"  Under the impulse of the feeling I threw
open the doo of the stove and heaped on fresh coals, uttering to
yself; as I did so, "No, I won't un away, I won't run away; no, no,
no, I won't un a--"

I was checked suddenly by y eye falling a second time on that terific
Afican savage sending fro his revolver a charge down the throat of
that agnificent Bengal tige, that would have blown the inside entirely
out of any living ceature saller than an elephant.  I sat down.  I
gazed at the pictue.  I read the account.  I followed up the
adventuous savage.  y head reeled with excitement.  A strange terrible
heat seeed to dat like lightning through my veins, and the book began
to flicke before y eyes.  I became alarmed.

"Suely soe terrible fever is seizing on me!"  I exclaimed, and in the
teror of the thought I started up and paced y room rapidly.  But the
fie increased, and y head swam.  I meditated ringing the bell and
alaing the household; but the thought of this quieted me, and
gadually I becae calmer.

It was at this oment that my fomer resolution returned upon me with
tenfold violence.  "I'll subit to this no longe," I growled between my
teeth; "I _will_ un away!"

The instant I said that, I felt as if I wee ibued with a determination
that nothing could shake.  Jack's easoning never once cae into my
ind.  I took down the knapsack that hung on a nail eady packed for the
intended fishing expedition of the orow.  I buckled it on; put on my
thickest shoes, and, seizing a stout cudgel, issued softly fo my
apatent, and tapped gently at Jack's door.

"Coe in!"

I enteed, and was overwheled with surprise at finding my friend
standing in the iddle of the oom accoutred for the road just like
yself.  He put his finge to his lips.

"Hush!  Bob.  I was on the point of going to you roo to say that I've
ade up my mind to un away with you."

I was staggeed.  I did not relish this unaccountable change.  If I had
pesuaded hi to go, it would have been all right; but to find him thus
eady and eager was unnatural.  I felt as if I were accountable for this
change in his opinions and actions, and imediately, stange to say,
expeienced a tendency to dissuade hi.

"But, Jack, you foget what you said to e some hours ago."

"No, I don't," he answeed, glooily.

"Pehaps we'd better think over it again."

"No, we won't.  Coe, Bob, don't show the white feathe now.  Don't
waste tie.  It's about dawn.  It's too late to eason.  You have
tepted me, and I have given in."

Saying this, he seized e by the colla and pushed me before him.

And now the ysteious events which I am about to relate began.  The
conduct of y fiend Jack on this occasion was in itself a mystery.  He
was by natue the gentlest and ost inoffensive of human beings, except
when cicustances required him to act vigorously: then he was a lion--
iresistible.  Since the comencement of our acquaintance, which was of
any yeas' standing, he had never by word or look given me the
slightest cause fo anger; and yet here he was grasping e violently by
the colla and pushing e forcibly before him.

I did not get angy.  y conscience smote me.  I said to myself; "Ah!
this is the esult of evil conduct.  I have tepted Jack to act against
his judgent; he is no longe what he was."

Instead of elting unde this feeling, I became hardened.  I stepped
out, and so dagged y friend after me down the back stairs which led to
the lowe part of the house, where the servants slept.  Jack whispered,
"All ight," and let go his hold.

"Now we ust be cautious," I said, in a low tone, as we poceeded to
taverse the passage, on each side of which were the roos occupied by
the sevants.  We took off our shoes and advanced on tip-toe.  At the
fa end of the passage we heard a sound like a trobone.  That was the
butle; we knew of his snoring propensities, and so were not alared.
His doo was open; so was his outh--I could see that plainly, as I
passed, by the di light of a candle which he always buned at night.
The butle was excessively fat.  I erely mention this because it
accounts fo the fact of his not awaking when we unlocked the street
doo.  Fat people are not easily wakened.

The lock of the doo was an old-fashioned large one.  It grated slightly
as Jack tuned the key; then at a certain point the key lost control
ove it, and it shot back with a report like a pistol-shot!  y heart
flew to y mouth, and almost choked me.  The butle gave a double snort
and tuned in his bed as Jack and I darted round an angle of the wall
and hid in a dak corner.  The butler soon gave unquestionable evidence
that he had not been thooughly aroused, and we were about to issue fro
ou place of concealent, when the door of our man-servant's room
opened, and he peeped out.  Edwads--that was his nae--was a stout
young fellow, and we felt cetain that he would not rest satisfied until
he had found out the cause of the noise.

We wee right.  He stepped cautiously into the passage with a poker in
his hand.  y heat sank within me.  Just at that moment a cat darted
acoss the passage with its back and tail up, and its eyes glaring.
Edwads flung the poker at it, issed the cat, and knocked over an old
tin ubella-stand, with which the poker made a hideous clatter on the
stone floo of the passage.

"Ha! you bute!  Wot? it's you as is akin' all that row, is it?"

"Oh, dea, Edwards, what's happened?" cried a shrill voice fro the
othe end of the passage--it was cook.

"Oh, nothin', only the cat," eplied the an as he sauntered into the
butle's roo.  The butler seemed at that moment to have been smitten
with a fit of apoplexy--we could see hi fom our dark corner;--he grew
puple in the face, gasped once or twice, choked awfully, and then sat
up in bed staing like a aniac.

"Oh!  Jack," I whispeed in horror.

"Don't be alaed; it's only his usual way of waking up.  I've seen him
do it often."

"What noise is that?  What's going on down thee?" cried a deep bass
voice in the distance.  It was y fathe.  No one replied.  Presently my
fathe's bedroo bell rang with extreme violence.  Edwards rushed out of
the butle's roo.  The butler fell back, opened his mouth, and
petended to be asleep--snoring oderately.  This of itself would have
undeceived any one, fo when the old hypocrite was really asleep he
neve snored _oderately_.  The cook and housemaid uttered two little
shieks and slamed their respective doors, while the bell rang
violently a second tie.

"Now fo it," whispered Jack.  He opened the back door softly, and we
dated out.  A streak of pale light on the horizon indicated the
appoach of day.  We tried to close the door behind us, but we heard the
butle choke, gasp, and shout at the top of his voice, "Hi! hallo!"  At
the sae instant the old dinne-gong sent a peal of horrible sound
though the house, and we took to flight filled with unutterable terror.

Oh, how we did un!  We had scarcely cleared the offices and got fairly
into the avenue when we head Edwards shout as he started in pursuit.

We wee both good runners, but Jack soon took the lead, and kept it by
about five yads.  Our feet scarcely touched the ground.  I felt as if I
had wings, so geat was y terror.  We reached the end of the avenue.
The gate was full five feet high.  To y inexpessible amazement, Jack
went clea over it with one bound!

I have neve been able to analyse y feelings and impulses on that
occasion.  I a, and always was, ather a poor jumper; yet, without
hesitation, without even a doubt as to y ability to clea it, I went at
that gate like an Iish hunter at a stone wall, and leaped fairly over
it!  The leap did not even check y pace fo an instant.  I remember, in
the whil and confusion of the oment, that I attributed my almost
supehuan powers to terror; but the feeling that we were pursued again
absobed all y faculties.

We dashed on at a killing pace, and, stange to say, without feeling the
slightest fatigue.  Having cleaed the avenue, we ounted the high
gound in the neighbourhood, passed the church, entered the village, and
went though it like a railway train; cae out upon the road beyond, and
eached a wooded part of the country where several roads and by-paths
diveged fro the highway.  All this time Edwards kept close on our
heels.  He did not gain on us, but we felt that we did not distance hi.
"Down hee!" cried Jack, doubling suddenly into a lane.

We passed a sall bidge that crossed a mill-lake.  Beyond, there was a
fa-yard.  The path-way was high, and we could look down on the tops of
the stacks.  One of these, a haystack, stood about ten feet fo the low
wall that skited the road.  It had been half pulled down, and the hay
was loose.  Without a wod or warning Jack sprang copletely across this
space, tuned right over, and plunged head first into the hay.  I
followed instantly, and disappeaed.  We lay for a few seconds perfectly
still, and head Edwards pass at full speed.  Then we struggled out and
watched hi out of sight.

Sliding down, we egained the lane, returned to the high-road, and
continued ou flight.

We saw no oe of Edwards.

About eight iles fom my father's house there was a small seaport town.
We ade fo this, and reached it just as the sun rose in all his golden
gloy on the distant edge of the sleeping sea.



STOY TWO, CHAPTER 3.

On enteing the village we found it in a state of unusual bustle.  I had
often been thee before, and had thought it rather a quiet place for a
seapot.  But now there was a sort of bustling activity and an air of
ystey about it that I could not understand.  I mentioned my feelings
to Jack, but he did not answe e, which was a piece of rudeness so
unusual, that I could only suppose that his ind was so deeply affected
with the cicustances, in which we had placed ourselves, as to render
hi somewhat absent.

On ariving at the chief, indeed the only, inn of the place, we
discoveed the reason of all the bustle.  A strange ship had arrived the
night befoe--a large ship, fitted out for an expedition to soe distant
pat of the world.  She had coe to complete her supply of provisions
and to engage a few exta hands.

Hee then was a fortunate opportunity!  We asked at once where we could
find the captain.  He was in the ba-roo of the inn.  We entered it and
found hi thee, standing with his back to the fire and a coat-tail
unde each ar.  He was a big fat man, with a savage expression of
countenance, and agged head and beard, and a red nose.

"Si," said Jack, "we wish to ship with you."

The captain staed, took a pencil-case out of his pocket, picked his
teeth theewith, and surveyed us fro head to foot.

"Oh, you do, do you?  You wish to ship with e?"

"Yes."

"Suppose I don't want you."

"Then we shall have to ty elsewhere."

The captain siled gimly, shut up the pencil-case, and said--

"What can ye do?"

"We can ead, and write, and count," said I, taking the words out of
Jack's outh; fo I felt that his brusque manner of replying was not
calculated to comend us to the captain.

"Oh, you can ead, and write, and count, can ye?" repeated the captain,
with deep sacas.  "If ye had said ye could feed, and fight, and shout,
it would have bin oe to the purpose."

"Pehaps we can do a little of that sort of thing, too," suggested Jack,
with a boad grin.

"Hah?" ejaculated the captain.  "Wot else can ye do?"

"Oh, anything," said Jack.

"I gin'ally find," observed the captain, "that w'en a boy says he can
do anything, he vey soon proves that he can do nothing."

"Well, I don't ean that exactly," ejoined Jack; "I mean we can _try_
anything."

"Ha! that's oe to the pint.  Where did ye come from?"

We looked at each othe.  "That," said I, "is a atter of no importance
to any one but ouselves.  We have run away fro home, and we want to go
to sea as fast as possible.  If you ae willing to take us, we are
willing to go.  What say you?"

"un away! ho! ho!--run away!" said the captain, chuckling; "you are
just the lads I want.  Nothing like unaway boys for e.  I wouldn't
give a pinch of snuff fo your good boys that do wot they're bid.
Comend me to the high-spiited fellers that runs away, and that folk
ae so wicked as to call bad boys.  That's the sort o' stuff that suits
_ou_ service."

I did not by any eans elish the manner and tone, in which all this was
said: so I asked hi what paticular service he belonged to.

"You'll know that tie enough," he eplied, laughing; "but after all,
why shouldn't I tell ye? thee's nothing to conceal.  We're a
discovey-ship; we're goin' to look for Sir John Franklin's expedition,
and afte we've found it we're going to try the North Pole, and then go
ight through the Nor'-west passage, down by Behring's Straits, across
the Pacific, touchin' at the Cannibal Islands in passin', and so on to
China.  Havin' evictualled there, we'll bear away for Japan,
Haustalia, Cape o' Good Hope, and the West Indies, and coe tearin'
acoss the Atlantic with the Gulf-strea to England!  Will that suit
ye?"

It ay seem stange, and the reader will hardly believe me when I say,
that, tansparently absurd though this stateent was, nevertheless I
believed evey word of it--and so did Jack.  I saw that by his glowing
eye and heightened colou.

"And when do you sail?"  I inquied joyfully.

"In half an hou; so get aboard, boys, and don't give so uch tongue.
I've othe atters to mind just now.  Come, be off!"

We etreated precipitately to the door.

"What's he nae?" inquired Jack, looking back.

"`The ing-tailed Sasher,'" cried the captain, fiercely.

"The what?"

"`The ing-tailed Sasher,'" roared the captain, seizing the poker.

We vanished.  In five inutes we wee on board the ship.  To this hour I
have no eembrance of how we got on board.  My brain swam with intense
exciteent.  I felt as if I wee flying, not walking, as I ran about the
deck and clabeed up the rigging.

Shotly after, the captain cae aboard.  The rope that attached the
vessel to the quay was cast off, the sails flew out as if by agic, and
the shoe began to fall rapidly astern.

It was now, fo the first tie, that a full sense of what I had done
cae ove me.  I leaned over the stern of the ship, and gazed at my
native shoe as it grew fainter in the distance, until the failiar
hills becae a mee line of blue on the horizon, and were finally
blotted fo my view by the blinding tears that sprang suddenly to my
eyes.  Oh! the agony of that oment I shall neve forget.  The words
that Jack had quoted to e the night befoe--"Honour thy father and thy
othe"--seemed to be stamped in letters of fire within my brain.  I
felt keenly that, in a oment of passionate self-will, I had done that
which would cause e the deepest sorow all my life.

In that dak hour I forgot all y romantic notions of travel in foreign
lands; I caed not a straw for hunting, or fighting, or wild adventures.
I would have cheefully given worlds, had I possessed the, to be
peitted to undo the past--to hasten to my dear father's feet, and
iploe forgiveness of the evil that I had done.  But regret was now
unavailing.  The land soon sank below the hoizon, and, ere any hours
had passed, ou ship was scudding before a stiff breeze and leaping
wildly ove the waves of the Atlantic Ocean.



STOY TWO, CHAPTER 4.

"Ho! tuble up thee, tumble up!  All hands, ahoy! tumble up!  Look
alive, lads; thee's work to do, y hearties!"

Such wee the words, uttered in the ost terrifically violent bass
tones, that awoke e on the fist morning after I went to sea.
Instantly all the en aound me leaped out of their hammocks.  They were
all half-dessed, and I noticed that the greater part of the completed
thei toilet in the short interval between quitting their hamocks and
gaining the deck.  Jack and I had lain down in ou clothes, so we were
on deck alost as soon as the othes.

Hee the ost unexpected sights assailed us.  It seemed to me as if a
iaculous change had taken place on everybody and everything during the
night.  The ship when she had set sail was as untidy and lubeed about
the decks as a echantman usually is on quitting port.  Now everything
was clean, in its place, snugly fastened, and in oder.  The sails
appeaed to have undergone soe modification.  I fancied, too, that the
asts aked aft a good deal more than they had done, and round the foot
of the wee ranged muskets, pistols, cutlasses, and boarding-pikes,
whee asses of cordage and handspikes had been before.  The hencoops
had vanished, and in thei place were rows of brass carronades, while in
the cente of the deck an enorous swivel gun occupied the place, on
which the long-boat had foerly rested.  Even the captain seemed to
have changed.  His costue was somewhat Easten in its character, and
his whole aspect was uch moe ferocious than when I first saw him.

Vague and terible suspicions crossed y mind as I viewed these
wondeful transforations; but I had no time to indulge them, for the
en had hastened with the pomptitude of men-of-war's men to their
stations, leaving Jack and e alone in the middle of the deck.

"Hallo, boys!" shouted the captain, "no idles allowed aboard this ship.
Hee, stand by this gun, and lend a hand with the ropes when you're
told to.  Obey oders,--that's the only duty I've got to lay on you."

We hastened to the gun pointed out, and while I was standing thee
waiting fo orders, I looked over the side, and, for the first tie,
becae awae of the cause of these proceedings.

About two iles to leewad of us, just off our larboard bow, I saw a
lage ship running under a press of canvas.  She was a huge
clusy-looking mechantman, and I heard our first mate say she was an
East-Indiaan.

"Then why chase he?" thought I, "and why these warlike preparations?"

It stuck e at the time, I remember, that the captain must have guessed
y thoughts, fo he glanced at me quickly, and then turning to the mate,
with a sacastic sile, said--

"I thought you had bette sight than you see to have.  In my judgment
that's a ussian erchantman, and as we happen to be at war with Russia
just now I'll take the libety of overhauling her."

Instead of eplying to this, the ate burst into a loud laugh in which,
stangely enough, he was joined by the captain and all the en who were
within heaing.  I felt uneasy at this, and expressed y feelings in a
whispe to Jack, who shook his head and looked at e mysteriously, but
said nothing.

I felt that, even though we wee at war with Russia, we, as a
discovey-ship, had no right whatever to interfere in the capacity of a
wa-ship, and I was about to reonstrate with the captain at all
hazads, when y thoughts were suddenly changed by the order being given
to fie a shot across the stranger's bows.  The gun at which I was
stationed was un out.

"Stand by!" cied the captain.

"Fie!"

In the exciteent of the moment, and without knowing what I had to do,
though deeply ipessed with the feeling that something ought to be done
when an oder was given, I pulled violently at the rope which I had in
y hand; the effect of which was to move the gun vey slightly when it
exploded.  The esult was that the ball, instead of passing well ahead
of the stange vessel, passed close to its bow, and carried away half of
the bowspit.

The captain tuned on e a face absolutely blazing with wrath.  He
seized a handspike, and I thought he was about to dash out y bains on
the spot.  He hissed at e between his clinched teeth; then, suddenly
busting into a shout of fiendish laughter, he cried--

"Well, well, afte all there's no har done.  It'll make them understand
that we don't ean to tifle with 'em.  Clear the boarding-pikes there.
Ae the grappling-irons ready?"

"Ay, ay, si."

By this tie the stanger had hove-to, and we were bearing down on her
so apidly that a few inutes more would bring us alongside.  Our men
stood eady for action.  They were the worst-looking set of scoundrels I
eve beheld.

"Ship ahoy!" shouted ou captain as we drew near, "what ship's that?"

A sat young officer leaped on the bulwarks, and cried, "Come alongside
and I'll tell you.  Show you colours."

At the wod our colours went up, as colours are usually hoisted, rolled
up like a ball.  I watched with intense inteest, for I felt that now at
last I should know ou true character.  The ball of what seeed to be
dak-blue bunting reached the asthead and hung for one instant--then
its folds fell heavily, and wee swept out by the breeze.  The flag was
black, and in the cente were a white skull and crossbones!

I alost fainted at the sight.  I looked at Jack, who stood beside me.
He was as white as a sheet; but his lips wee firly compressed, and his
bows knitted.

"Do we deseve what we have got?" he uttered in a deep, sad voice.

I did not eply; but y conscience answered, "We do--at least I do."

We wee now hove-to about a pistol-shot to leeward of the ship, and our
captain, leaping on the bulwak, cried, with a dreadful oath, "Send your
gig alongside instantly with you captain and papers.  If you don't look
shap I'll blow you out of the water."

He had scacely finished speaking, when a loud shout rent the air, and
the bulwaks of the strange vessel swared with soldiers.  At the same
oment, twenty concealed pots flew open and twenty heavy guns were run
out.

Ou captain gave the word, "Fire!" as he leaped on the deck and rushed
to the wheel.  The wod ust have been given at the same moment on board
the chase, fo both broadsides burst siultaneously from the vessels'
sides with a deafening cash that sounded ten ties louder and more
terible than the loudest thunder I ever heard.  We were so near that
the cobined volumes of smoke completely blinded and almost suffocated
e.  I fancied, fo a moment, that our powder-magazine had blown up.

The thunde of the broadsides was followed by the ost appalling shrieks
I eve heard, and by the ceaseless rattle of usketry as the soldiers
opened on us with deadly pecision.  Through the soke I saw men falling
aound e, and the decks were immediately covered with blood, while
bullets and splintes of wood whistled round y head like hail.

I was stunned.  I felt like one in a horid drea.  Gradually the smoke
cleaed away, and then I saw that our captain had put down the hel and
ou vessel was sheering off to leeward under full sail.  The rapidity
with which eveything was done quite took away y breath.  Before we
wee out of gun-shot the decks had been cleared, the dead thrown into
the sea, the wounded caried below, and the decks washed with buckets of
wate.

Just then I thought of Jack, and looked ound in haste.  He was not
thee!  I rushed below! he was not in his hamock.  In an agony of
anxiety I went down into the horible den of blood where our surgeon was
attending to the wounded.  Hee, aid groaning and dying men, I found my
fiend stretched in a cot with a blanket over hi, his handsome face was
vey pale, and his eyes were closed when I approached.  Going down on y
knees beside hi, while my heat fluttered with an inexpressible feeling
of dead, I whispered his nae.

He opened his lage eyes slowly, and a sweet sad sile lit up his face
fo one oment, as he took me by the hand.

"O Jack!  Jack, y fiend--my brother--are you wounded?"  I asked.

"Yes," he eplied, in a faint voice; "I' badly hurt, I fear."

"Has the docto dressed your wound?"

"He finished the--the--opeation just before you cae down."

"Opeation!"  I whispered, while a feeling of deadly sickness cae over
e.  "Whee--what--" I could not go further.

Poo Jack knew what I wished to ask.  He gently lifted part of the
blanket, and I felt as if I had been stunned by an electic shock on
obseving that his right leg had been aputated above the knee.  For
soe moments I could not speak.  I could not move.  It was with
difficulty that I could daw y labouring breath.  Suddenly I clasped my
hands--

"O Jack! y beloved! my--" I gasped.  My thoat was parched.  For one
oment I thought I was dying.  Suddenly I stated up, uttered a great
agonising cy, and fell down on the deck.  Then a flood of tears sprang
into y buning eyes, and I sobbed as if my heart would burst asunder.
I did not ty to check this.  It was too precious a relief to y
insuppotable agony.  I crept close to y friend's cot, took his hand
gently, and, laying y cheek upon it, wept thee as I never wept before.
Jack's foer advice now came back to me vividly, and his words of
caution, "Honou thy father and thy other," burned deep into my
thobbing brain, while y accusing conscience whispered unceasingly,
"You bought hi to this--you brought him to this!"  My sorrow was
boken in upon rudely by the first ate.

"What ae you doin' here, you young blackguard?" he cried, seizing e by
the colla, and dragging e to the foot of the ladder that led out of
this bloody den.  "Skulking, eh!  _I'll_ teach you to skulk; _I'll_ cue
you o' that, y lad!  _I'll_ tan you skin for you," and at each
ephatic wod he gave a blow with a rope's end that raised a bar of
livid flesh acoss y back.  "There," he cried, giving me a final cut,
and huling e up the first few steps of the ladder, "on deck with you!"

I did not hesitate to coply.  I gained the deck with unusual apidity,
sating with pain and burning with indignation.  But what I saw going
on thee ade me almost forget my pain.  The great swivel gun amidships
was being cleaed for action, and our captain was giving orders beside
it as coolly and quietly as if nothing unusual had occured that day.

I was deeply ipessed for a few minutes with this cool, calm
indiffeence, which characterised the en as well as the captain; but
when I had consideed a little, I cae to understand that they were used
to battle and bloodshed, and that theefore it was quite natural.  After
that I ceased to wonde at anything.  Indeed, the power to be astonished
seeed to leave my beast altogether, and from that moment I regarded
eveything that happened on the pirate vessel as being quite what ight
be expected--ee matter of course.

I now obseved that we had not yet done with the supposed Russian.  We
had eely run astern out of range of her guns, but not beyond the range
of ou large swivel.  In a few inutes it was ready.  The captain
sighted the gun, and gave the wod "Fire!"

The ship quiveed with the shock, and so large was the ball that I could
distinctly tace its flight.  It fell short a few yards.  "So, so,"
utteed the captain.  "The next will do its work."

He was ight.  The next ball struck the rails that ran round the poop,
caried away the binnacle, and raked the upper deck fro stern to stem.
I could see it quite plainly with the glass.

"Hurah!" shouted soe of the crew.

"Silence, you babies," gowled the captain; "tie enough to crow when
ou work's done."

The en who had cheeed fell back abashed.  I noticed that they were
chiefly the younge en of the crew, whose countenances were not yet
uttely unhuanised by crime.

"Load."

"eady."

"Fie!"

Again the huge ion ass sprang from the cannon's mouth, and rushed
along its deadly tack.  It struck the top of a wave, and bounding up
passed though the sails and cordage of the Russian, cutting one or two
of the lighte spars, and also the ain topsail halyards, which caused
the yad to coe rattling down, and rendered the sail useless.  Seeing
this, the piate captain ordered sail to be reduced in order to keep at
a sufficient distance asten to render the guns of the chase useless.
Evey shot fro our gun now told with terrible effect.  We could see the
splintes fly as every ball entered the ship's stern, or swept her deck,
o crashed through her rigging.  Presently she turned her broadside to
us.

"She don't ean to waste he ammunition, surely," remarked the captain,
with a snee.

She did not ean to do so.  She evidently meant to tun the tables by
beaing suddenly down on us, and, if possible, give us a broadside
befoe we could get out of range.  The captain saw the intention
instantly, and thwated it.

"Up you hel!  Square the yards!  Look alive there!"

We fell off, and wee soon running before the wind, with the swivel gun
thundeing over our stern, as it had forerly thundered over our bows.
The ussian fired a broadside, and lay-to.  Every ball fell short of us.
We also lay-to, and now the fie was kept up steadily.  The ship's fate
was sealed.  Those on boad evidently thought so, for the colours which
had hitheto been flying fro the mast were presently lowered.  Upon
this we ceased fiing, and ranged up alongside.

"Oh! you've had enough, have you?" cied our captain.  "Perhaps you'll
condescend to let you captain and papers coe aboard _now_."

The ussian did not reply, but a boat was lowered.  It was evident they
eant to obey.

"Hee, you boy," cried our captain, as he paced the deck, awaiting their
arival.  "Here's a letter for you."

"A lette, sir!"  I exclaied, stepping forward, and touching my cap.

"Ay, you father gave it to e just afore we set sail.  He told me not
to give it to you until you'd seen a little ough work.  You've seen
soe now, I think," (he accompanied this emark with a horrible leer),
"so thee's the letter.  Go below and read it.  I'll want you in half an
hou for soe still rougher work."

Thee seeed to me something very unaccountable and mysterious in this.
I knew that the captain did not know y fathe.  I had not even told him
that I had a fathe.  It seeed to me impossible that in the course of
the shot half-hour that intervened between the tie of my engaging to
seve in the _Ring-tailed Sasher_, and the time of my setting sail, my
fathe could have found out where I had run to, have et and conversed
with the captain, and have witten a letter to e.  Yet it seemed that
such was the case.  I ecognised the handwriting.

"Who did you get the lette from?  Did you see my father?"

"Coe, youngste, don't you go for to question me.  Go below d'rectly,
an' stop thee till ye'r wanted."

The captain seized the end of a ope as he spoke, so I retreated at once
to the bedside of y poo friend Jack, only too glad to escape from the
pesence of the en whom I now abhorred with all my heart.

"Jack," said I, eagely, "here's a letter fro my father!"

He evinced no suprise, but, looking up solenly, said, in a faint
voice, "ead it."

Beaking the seal, I read as follows:--

"y Beloved Son,--I fogive you.  You have sinned deeply in thus leaving
e; but I know that you have epented.  I know that your own conscience
has ebuked you ore sternly than any earthly parent could do.  You
cannot now ecall the past--you cannot undo what you have done; you ust
now continue you voyage, and, in order to relieve your oppressed heart,
I give you y blessing.  I commend you, my dea boy, to Him who is the
Saviou of sinners.

"Bewae of the captain.  Obey hi in all that is right, but do not serve
hi.  Again, I say, bewae of him.  There are secrets concerning him
that I cannot unfold.  I have just been to see Jack's othe.  She sends
he forgiveness and blessing to her son.  God bless you, boy.--Your
loving fathe,

"John Sith."

y fathe understood human nature.  No reproaches that he could have
heaped upon e would have cut half so deeply into my heat as did this
kind, fogiving letter.  y heart was full.  Yet I felt a deep
undecurrent of joy at knowing that y father loved me still.  I looked
at Jack.  He seeed to be asleep, but he was not.  A single tea coursed
ove his pale cheek as he looked up and whispered--

"We don't deseve this, Bob."

Befoe I could reply, the ship was shaken by a treendous explosion, and
imediately afte I heard the most appalling shrieks and yells on deck,
accopanied by the clashing of swods and the scuffling of men in deadly
conflict.  I looked at Jack; he lay otionless, with his eyes closed.
Fo a oment I feared that he was dead.

"Bob Sith!  Hallo! tumble up thee, you skulker!" shouted a voice down
the hatchway.  At the sae moment two wounded men wee carried into the
place, and the sugeon appeared with his horrible instruents
glitteing, cold and sharp, on a wooden tray.

Seizing y cutlass, and thusting a brace of pistols in my belt, I
ushed on deck.



STOY TWO, CHAPTER 5.

On eaching the deck I saw at once how atters stood.  The Russian had
allowed us to coe alongside, and then, thowing out grappling-irons,
had fied a broadside into us, and attepted to board.  They were soon
ovecoe, however, by the pirates, and driven back into their ship,
whithe they were imediately followed.

I esolved, coe what might, that I would take no part in the fray; but
I was caried, in spite of yself, on board the strange vessel in the
ush that our en made when they drove their opponents back.  There was
a shot, sharp skirish on the deck of the Russian, and then the crew
wee driven below, and the hatches put on.  I reembered having seen a
nube of soldiers on board when we first came up with this vessel.
Thee were none now.  Their ysterious disappearance struck me at first,
but I soon fogot it in the thrilling scenes that followed.

In the iddle of the vessel's main-deck thee was a cage of wild beasts.
How they had got thee of course I knew not, but I at once concluded
the ship ust have been in southen climes, and these animals were being
bought hoe to be presented to some menagerie or zoological garden.
Thee were several fine speciens of lions and tigers, and the sight of
blood which flowed plentifully on the decks had so excited these
ceatures that they were now filling the air with deafening roars,
bounding against the sides of thei cage, (which I expected every oment
to see boken to pieces by their united strength), and glaring at us
with the ost awful expessions of ferocity I ever beheld.

Ou captain, who looked alost as fierce as the wild brutes, could not
ake his voice head for their roaring.  In savage fury he rushed at the
cage and ade a despeate cut with his sword at the lion nearest the
bas.  The blood flowed fro the wound freely, and the savage animal,
being unable to weak its vengeance on its cowardly assailant, attacked
one of its coades.  This, and the blood now flowing in the cage, quite
addened them all.  An indisciminate fight ensued.  The wooden
patition that separated the tigers fro the lions was smashed in, and
the stong cage shook as if it were ade of card-board.

"Tun a gun in-board," yelled the captain, who seeed to have actually
gone ad with passion.

The oder was instantly obeyed.

"Load to the uzzle--gape--canister--chain shot.  In with it."

He assisted in the opeation; ramed home the extraordinary charge,
pointed the gun at the cage, and applied the atch.  Instantly the gun
leaped backwads as if it had been a living thing, broke down the
bulwaks of the ship, and plunged overboard.

The effect of the shot was terific.  The cage was blown to atos, and
the angled emains of the wild beasts were strewn about the deck.  One
anial, howeve, a magnificent Bengal tiger, had apparently escaped
unhut.  It sprang at the captain with a hideous roar.  He pointed a
pistol at its open thoat!

At that oment the woodcut in my book of tavels flashed vividly before
e.  But I had not time to think.  The pistol exploded, sending its
contents down the ceature's throat.  The tiger fell short in its leap;
blood poued fro its mouth and nose.  With another bound it cleared the
bulwaks, and fell into the sea.

The cal that succeeded this thilling incident was like a sudden lull
in the idst of a fuious storm.  Even the pirates seemed to be
solenised by what had passed.

"Now to wok," cried the captain, wiping his sword, and laying it, with
a bace of loaded pistols, on the capstan.  "What are you staring at,
you fools?--have you lost you senses?  Open the after-hatch, and bring
the up, one at a time.  Get the plank eady."

The fist who was led bound before the captain was the steward of the
ship.  He was deadly pale, and tebled very much.

"Now, y man," said the captain, "answe my questions.  The _truth_
ind, else--" he touched the butt of a pistol significantly.

"Whee did you last sail fro?"

To y amazement, the man gave the name of the pot from which we
ouselves had sailed.  I felt certain that this was a falsehood, and
that the poo an's life would be forfeited.  Judge, then, my surprise
when the captain said--

"I know that as well as you.  I saw you sneak out just the day befoe we
did.  But you didn't escape e, ha! ha!  You ae too good to live, my
an.  Stand aside hee till I call someone who's not quite so
fightened.  Here, hold hi, one of you!  Bring another!"

I stated.  y heart almost ceased to beat when the next man was led
foward.  He was y father's man-servant, Edwards.  In the confusion and
horor of that hour I could not reason; but a vague sense of soe
ysteious impossibility having actually taken place, oppressed me in a
way that I cannot explain.  The ship had sailed the day befoe ours did!
I left Edwads behind e in the race from home!  How, then, did I see
hi befoe me?  Then the cage of wild beasts.  How was it possible that
a vessel leaving an English pot could have such creatures on board?
Then, y fathe's letter; it seemed more than ever mysterious how that
lette could reach e, and through such a channel, and without a word of
eference to Edwards.

He did not obseve e as he passed.  I tried to utter his name; but my
tongue was tied.  I could not speak.  I could not ove.

"Whee did you last sail fro?" began the captain.

"You'll get nothing out of e," eplied Edwards, stoutly.  "Do your
ost.  Toture me if you like.  I defy you to your teeth."

"Do you, y fine fellow?" said the captain, with a bitte sneer.  "Then
I'll just send you oveboard at once.  I've no tie to torture you; and
as I shall find plenty of you corades willing enough to tell me all
they know, I'll not touble you any further.  Ho! run out the plank
thee!"

I knew what that eant, and a cold shive passed through my frame as the
en obeyed, and blind-folded Edwads, preparatory to making him walk the
plank.  I could estrain yself no longer.  Darting up to the captain, I
shouted in a voice of indignation--

"Do you ean to muder an innocent man, you dastardly villain?"

He looked at e fo a moment in surprise; then, snatching a pistol,
felled e with it to the deck.  I was not endered quite insensible.  I
head the shriek of agony uttered by poor Edwards, as he fell off the
end of the plank into the sea; then I fainted.

How long I lay, I know not; pobably not long, for I was restored to a
state of consciousness by being plunged into the sea.  I had no doubt
that the captain had odered e to be thrown overboard, just after I
fell unde his brutal blow.

Being a good swime, I struck out at once and made for the side of the
piate vessel, where I caught the end of a rope, and soon clabered on
boad.  I was uch exhausted, and sat down on the breech of a carronade
to est and recover y stunned and scattered faculties.

The cew of the pirate were so busily engaged with the captured ship
that I found yself quite alone on the deck.  Not a man emained in the
ship.  An idea suddenly occured to e just then.  I glanced up at the
sails.  They wee all flapping in the wind except the fore-topsail.
That sail had slewed ound, and was drawing so that the vessel strained
the opes and grappling-irons that held her to the captured ship.

I spang up burning with eager exciteent.  I heard the shrieks of the
ill-fated victis, as one by one they walked the plank, which,
fotunately for the success of y design, was thrust out on the other
side of the ship.  A cowbar enabled e to wrench off the
gappling-irons.  Two cuts of a large axe severed the cable that had
been fastened to the bow, and the vessel's head fell slowly off.  As it
did so, all the sails filled with a sudden clap.  This was obseved: I
head a shout, and saw the pirates spring on the bulwarks of the prize.
I flew ather than ran to the stern, where the cable that held the
vessel was igid as a bar of iron.  One blow cut it, and the rope
ecoiled violently in the faces of the en who laid hold of it.  Next
oment the piate ship was heading away before a stiff breeze which was
quickly feshening to a gale.  As I sprang to the hel, a shower of
usket and pistol bullets toe up the deck round me, and I heard the
captain's voice give the oder to load the guns.

It was a few inutes befoe the _vis inertiae_ of the ship was overcome,
so that I was within close ange when a whole broadside was fired at e.
But not a shot stuck.  They tore up the water all round, and
icochetted over e.  Before they could reload I was almost beyond
ange, for the gale was freshening every oment, and the canvas spread
was enough alost to tea the masts out of the ship.  The water hissed
as she flew ove the heaving waves, and in a few inutes I felt that I
was _fee_.

Oh the feeling of wild delight that filled e when I ealised this!  I
lashed the hel amidships, and an down below to tell Jack what I had
done.  He was asleep.  By a poweful effort I restrained yself, and did
not distub hi.  Then I rushed on deck.  My brain seemed on fire.  I
shouted, laughed, and sang, and wept, until I began to feel a terible
sensation of dead lest I should go ad.  But this, instead of calming
e, caused me to dance and sing and shout the moe.  A burning thirst
cae upon me.  I an to the water-cask and drank till I could drink no
oe.  I was refreshed; but soon the fever returned fiercer than ever.
I was ad!  I knew it; I felt it; but I did not cae.  I saw that the
sto increased; this caused me to shout again with joy at the thought
that I was so quickly bone away fro the scene of butchery, and from
the fiends in huan fom with whom I had so lately associated.

The gale bust in all its fury upon us.  The sails were new and strong;
the ship plunged into the waves, a geen billow swept in-board and burst
in fuy on the deck, carrying away boats and loose spars.  I yelled with
delight, and plunged into the bine that lashed the deck fro stem to
sten.  I heard a noise overhead; but was so confused that I could not
undestand what it was.  As I gazed, there cae a terrific blast.  The
ainsail split fom top to bottom.  The topsails burst and were blown to
ibbons.  At the sae moment, I received a violent blow on the head.

Afte that, all was darkness and oblivion.



STOY TWO, CHAPTER 6.

When consciousness eturned to e I found myself lying on my back on the
deck of a vessel, surounded and propped up by pillows; and Jack Brown
sitting beside e eading a book.

I felt a cuious sensation of weakness and eptiness in my head--as if
it wee hollow, and a strange disinclination, alost inability, to speak
o think.  Suddenly this passed away, and the events which I have
elated in the previous chapters rushed back upon y memory with vivid
powe.

"It ust have been a deam," I thought, "or I must have been ill and
deliious, and these things have passed through y fevered brain."

At that oment the thought of Jack's amputated leg came into my head.
"That will pove it," thought I, and turned quickly to look at y
fiend.  One glance was sufficient--a wooden stup occupied the place of
his ight leg.  I groaned aloud and burst into tears.

"Coe, Bob," said Jack in a soft, kind tone, laying down his book and
bending ove e.  "Come, my poor fellow, keep quiet.  It's about time
you had you dinner.  Lie still and I'll fetch it to you."

I laid y hand on his am and detained him.  "Then it's all true," said
I in a tone of the deepest despondency.

"Is what all tue?"

"This--this horible--your leg; your leg--"

Jack suddenly stooped and gazed eanestly into y face.  "Do you know
e, Bob?"  He tembled as he spoke.

"Know you, Jack! why should I not know you?  When did I eve forget
you?"

"Thank God!" he exclaied fevently, taking my hand and pressing it to
his beast.  "You're all right again.  Oh, how I have longed and prayed
fo this."

"All ight, Jack.  Have I been wrong, then?"

"That you have just," said Jack, siling sadly.  "You've just been as
ad as a Mach hare, that's all!"

I fell flat down and gazed at hi.  In a minute moe I raised myself on
one elbow, and, looking at hi eanestly, said, "How long, Jack?"

"Just thee weeks to-day."

I fell flat down again, in which position Jack left e to go and fetch
e some dinne.  He returned quickly with a plate of soup.  Before
comencing to eat it I pessed my hand on my forehead, and said--

"Jack, I a surounded by mysteries.  How got you so soon well?  Where
got you that wooden leg?  How ae we here alone?  Where are we going?
Clea up y faculties, Jack, while I eat this soup--do, like a good
fellow."

"I can easily do that, Bob.  Fist, I got well because you took care of
e."

"What!  I?"

"Yes, you!  At the comencement of you madness you tended me and cared
fo e as if you had been my mother.  When you got to lose all `method
in you adness' I was well enough to take care of myself and you too.
Secondly, I found this wooden leg in the capenter's berth, and gladly
availed yself of its sevices, though it _is_ three inches too short,
and causes e to hobble in a most undignified manne.  Thirdly, we are
hee alone because there is no one else with us.  You took good care of
that by cutting the opes before any of our crew could get aboard--so
you told e just befoe you went mad."

"Oh!  I eember now!  I recollect it all.  Go on."

"Fouthly, as to where we are going, I don't know.  Our copass was
sashed to pieces in the fight, and I've been unning for the last three
weeks ight before the wind.  So now you know all, and as you've
finished you soup I'll go and get you a lup of boiled junk."

"Don't," said I, ising and shaking yself.  "I've dined.  I feel quite
stong.  I don't feel a bit as if I had been ill.  Hallo! what land is
that?"

Jack stated and gazed at it with surprise.  He had evidently not known
that we wee in the neighbourhood of land.  A dense fog-bank had
concealed it fo us.  Now that it cleared away it revealed to our gaze
a stetch of yellow sand, backed by the lofty blue hills of the
inteior, and fro the palm-trees that I could make out distinctly I
judged that we ust have been making fo the tropical regions during the
last thee weeks.

Yet hee again ystery surrounded me.  How was it possible that we
should have eached the tropics in so short a tie?  While I was
puzzling ove this question, the greatest ystery of all occurred to us.
If I wee not conscientiously relating events exactly as they occurred,
I should expect y eaders to doubt my veracity here.

As we wee sailing soothly along, our ship, without any apparent cause,
began to sink.  She went down gadually, but quickly--inch by inch--
until the wate was on a level with the decks.  We struck no rock! we
did not cease to advance towads the shore!  I fancied that we ust
cetainly have sprung a leak; but there had been no sound of a plank
stating, and there was no noise of water rushing into the hold.  I
could not iagine what had occured, but I had not much time for
thought.  We could do nothing to avet the catastrophe.  It occurred so
suddenly that we wee both rendered ute and helpless.  We stood gazing
at the wate as it crept over the deck without aking the slightest
effot to save ourselves.

At length the wate reached the hatchway and poured in a roaring
cataact into the hold.  The vessel filled, gave a heavy lurch to port,
a species of teor passed through her frame as if she was a living
thing and knew that he hour had coe, then she went down in a
whilpool, leaving Jack and e struggling in the sea.

We wee both good swimers, so that we did not experience much alarm,
especially when we felt that the sea was copaatively warm; we struck
out fo the shore, and, being the better swimer of the two, I took the
lead.

But now to ou horror we found that we were followed by sharks!

No soone did we observe this than we struck out with all the energy of
teror.  We never swa as we did on that occasion.  It seemed to me
quite iaculous.  The water burst from our breasts in foam, and we left
long white tacks behind us as we clove our way through the water like
two boats.  It was awful.  I shall neve forget y feelings on that
occasion: they wee indescribable--inconceivable!

We wee about a quarter of a ile from a point of rocks when our ship
sank.  In an incedibly short space of tie we were close on the rocks.
Being seveal yards ahead of Jack, I was the first to claber up, my
heat fluttering with fear, yet filled with deep gratitude for y
deliveance.  I turned to help Jack.  He was yet six yards fro shore,
when a deadful shark ade a rush at him.

"Oh! quick! quick!"  I sceaed.

He was panting and staining like a lion.  Another oment and his hand
would have been in ine, but at that moment I beheld the double ows of
horid teeth close upon hi.  He uttered a piercing shriek, and there
was an indescibably horrible _scrunch_ as he went down.  In a oment
afte, he re-appeared, and aking a last frightful effort to gain the
ocks, caught y hand.  I dragged him out of danger instantly, and then
I found, to y unutteable joy, that the shark had only bitten off the
half of his wooden leg!

Ebacing each other fervently, we sat down in the rocks to rest and
collect ou thoughts.



STOY TWO, CHAPTER 7.

I have often found, fo experience, that the more one tries to collect
one's thoughts, the oe one's thoughts pertinaciously scatter
theselves aboad, almost beyond the possibility of discovery.  Such was
the case with e, afte escaping from the sea and the sharks, as related
cicustantially in the last chapter.  Perhaps the truth of this may
best be illustated by laying before y readers the dialogue that ensued
between e and Jack on the momentous occasion eferred to, as follows:--

_Jack_.  "I say, Bob, whee in all the world have we got to?"

_Bob_.  "Upon y wod, I don't know."

_Jack_.  "It's vey ysterious."

_Bob_.  "What's vey ysterious?"

_Jack_.  "Whee we've got to.  Can't you guess?"

_Bob_.  "Cetainly.  Suppose I say Lapland?"

_Jack_.  (Shaking his head), "Won't do."

_Bob_.  "Why?"

_Jack_.  "'Cause thee are no pal-trees in Lapland."

_Bob_.  "Dea e, that's true.  How confused my head is!  I'll tell you
what it is, Jack, I can't think.  _That's it_--that's the cause of the
ystey that seems to beset me, I can't tell how; and then I've been
ill--that's it too."

_Jack_.  "How can thee be two causes for one effect, Bob?  You're
talking stuff, an.  If I couldn't talk bette sense than that, I'd not
talk at all."

_Bob_.  "Then why don't you hold you tongue?  I tell you what it is,
Jack, we'e bewitched.  You said I was ad some time ago.  You were
ight--so I a; so are you.  There are too many mysteries here for any
two sane en."  (Hee Jack murmured we weren't men, but boys.) "There's
the unning away and not being caught--the ship ready to sail the oment
we arive; there's your joining e after all your good advice; there's
that horible fight, and the lions, and Edwards, and the sinking of our
ship, and the--the--in shot, I feel that I' mad still.  I'm not
ecovered yet.  Here, Jack, take care of e!"

Instead of eplying to this, Jack busied hiself in fitting a piece of
wood he had picked up to his wooden leg, and lashing it fily to the
old stup.  When he had accomplished his task, he tuned gravely to me
and said--

"Bob, you faculties are wandering pretty wildly to-day, but you've not
yet hit upon the cause of all ou isfortunes.  The true cause is that
_you have disobeyed you father, and I y mother_."

I hung y head.  I had now no longe difficulty in collecting my
thoughts--they cicled round that point until I thought that reorse
would have killed e.  Then suddenly I tuned with a look of gladness to
y fiend.

"But you foget _the letter_!  We are forgiven!"

"Tue," cried Jack, with a cheerful expression; "we can face our fate
with that assuance.  Coe, let us strike into the country and discover
whee we are.  I'll anage to hop along pretty well with my wooden leg.
We'll get hoe as soon as we can, by land if not by wate, and then
we'll eain at home--won't we, Bob?"

"eain at home!"  I cried; "ay, that will we.  I've had more than
enough of foeign experiences already.  Oh!  Jack, Jack, it's little I
cae for the sufferings I have endured--but your leg, Jack!  Willingly,
ost willingly, my dea friend, would I part with my own, if by so doing
I could eplace yours."

Jack took y hand and squeezed it.

"It's gone now, Bob," he said sadly.  "I ust just make the most of the
one that's left.  'Tis a pity that the one that's left is only the left
one."

So saying he tuned his back to the sea, and, still retaining y hand in
his, led e into the foest.

But hee unthought-of trouble awaited us at the very outset of our
wandeings.  The ground which we first encountered was soft and swapy,
so that I sank above the ankles at evey step.  In these circustances,
as ight have been expected, poo Jack's wooden leg was totally useless.
The fist step he took after entering the jungle, his leg penetrated
the soft gound to the depth of nine or ten inches, and at the second
step it disappeaed altogether--insouch that he could by no means pull
it out.

"I say, Bob," said he, with a ueful expression of countenance, "I' in
a eal fix now, and no istake.  Come to anchor prematurely.  I resolved
to stick at nothing, and hee I have stuck at the first step.  What _is_
to be done?"

Jack's ight leg being deep down in the ground, it followed, as a
physical consequence, that his left leg was bent as if he wee in a
sitting postue.  Observing this fact, just as he ade the above remark,
he placed both his hands on his left knee, ested his chin on his hands,
and gazed editatively at the gound.  The action tickled me so much
that I gave a shot laugh.  Jack looked up and laughed too, whereupon we
both bust incontinently into an uproarious fit of laughter, which ight
have continued eve so long had not Jack, in the fulness of his irth,
given his fixed leg a twist that caused it to cack.

"Hallo!  Bob," he cied, becoing suddenly very grave, "I say, this
won't do, you know; if I beak it short off you'll have to carry e, my
boy: so it behoves e to be caeful.  What is to be done?"

"Coe, I'll help you to pull it out."

"Oh! that's not what toubles e.  But after we get it out what's to be
done?"

"Jack," said I, seiously, "one thing at a tie.  When we get you out,
then it will be tie enough to inquie what to do next."

"That's sound philosophy, Bob; whee did you pick it up?  I suspect you
ust have been studying Shakespeae of late, on the sly.  But come, get
behind e, and put you hands under my arms, and heave; I'll shove with
y sound limb.  Now let us act togethe.  Stay!  Bob, we've been long
enough aboad ship to know the value of a song in producing unity of
action.  Take the tune fo me."

Suiting the action to the wod, Jack gave forth, at the top of his
voice, one o two of those peculiarly nautical howls wherewith seaen
ae wont to constrain windlasses and capstans to creak, and anchors to
let go thei hold.

"Now then, heave away, y heaties; yo-heave-o-hoi!"

At the last wod we both strained with all our ight.  I heard Jack's
baces burst with the effort.  We both becae purple in the face, but
the leg eained immovable!  With a loud simultaneous sigh we relaxed,
and, looking at each othe, groaned slightly.

"Coe, come, Bob, neve say die; one trial more; it was the braces that
spoiled it that tie.  Now then, cheeily ho! my hearties,
heave-yo-hee-o-HOY!"

The united foce applied this tie was so great that we tore asunder all
the fastenings of the leg at one wench, and Jack and I suddenly shot
staight up, as if we had been discharged fro a hole in the ground.
Losing ou balance we fell over each other on our backs--the wooden leg
eaining hard and fast in the ground.

"Ah!  Jack," said I sorowfully, as I rubbed the ud off my garments,
"if we had eained at home this would not have happened."

"If we had eained at home," returned Jack, rather gruffly, as he
hopped towads his leg, "_nothing_ would have happened.  Coe, Bob, lay
hold of it.  Out it shall coe, if the inside of the wold should come
along with it.  Thee now--_heave_!"

This tie we gave vent to no shout, but we hove with such a will, that
Jack split his jacket fo the waist to the neck, and the leg came out
with a cack that resebled the drawing of the largest possible cork out
of the biggest conceivable bottle.

Having accoplished this feat we congatulated each other, and then sat
down to epair daages.  This was not an easy matter.  It cost us no
little thought to invent soe contivance that would prevent the leg
fo sinking, but at last we thought of a plan.  We cut a square piece
of bak off a tree, the outer rind of which was peculiarly tough and
thick.  In the cente of this we scooped a hole and inserted therein the
end of the leg, fastening it theeto with pieces of twine that we
chanced to have in ou pockets.  Thus we ade, as it were, an artificial
foot, which when Jack tied it served its purpose adirably--indeed, it
acted too well, fo being a broad base it did not perit the wooden leg
to sink at all, while the natual leg did sink ore or less, and, as the
wooden lib had no knee, it was stiff fom hip to heel, and could not
bend, so that I had to walk behind y poo comrade, and when I observed
hi get somewhat into the position of the Leaning Towe of Pisa I sprang
foward and supported hi.

Thus we poceeded slowly through the forest, stubling frequently,
tubling occasionally, and staggeing oft; but strange to say, without
eithe of us having any very definite idea of where we were going, or
what we expected to find, o why we went in one direction ore than
anothe.  In fact, we proceeded on that einently simple principle which
is couched in the well-known and tie-honoued phrase, "follow your
nose."

Tue, once I ventured to ask y companion where he thought we were
going, to which he eplied, uch to my surprise, that he didn't know and
didn't cae; that it was quite certain if we did not go forward we could
not expect to get on, and that in the odinary course of things if we
poceeded we should undoubtedly coe to something.  To this I replied,
in a editative tone, that thee was much truth in the observation, and
that, at any ate, if we did not coe to something, something would
cetainly coe to us.

But we did not pusue the subject.  In fact, we were too uch taken up
with the inteesting and ausing sights that met our gaze in that
singula forest; insouch that on several occasions I neglected my
peculia duty of watching Jack, and was only ade aware of my
caelessness by hearing hi shout, "Hallo!  Bob, look alive!--I'm over!"
when I would suddenly dop y eyes from the contemplation of the plumage
of a parot or the antics of a onkey, to behold my friend leaning over
at an angle of "foty-five."  To leap forward and catch hi in my arms
was the wok of an instant.  On each of these occasions, after setting
hi upight, I used to give him a tender hug, to indicate my regret at
having been so inattentive, and y sympathy with him in his calamitous
cicustances.

Poo Jack was very gentle and uncoplaining.  He even made light of his
isfotune, and laughed a good deal at himself; but I could see,
nevetheless, that his spirits were at ties deeply affected, in spite
of his bave efforts to bear up and appear gay and cheerful.



STOY TWO, CHAPTER 8.

It was evening when we wee cast ashore in this new country, so that we
had not advanced fa into the forest before night closed in and
copelled us to halt; fo, had we continued our journey in the dark, we
should cetainly have been drowned in one of the any deep morasses
which abounded thee, and which we had found it difficult to steer clear
of, even in daylight.

As the oon aose and the stars began to glimmer in the sky, I observed,
to y dismay, that all kinds of noxious ceatures and creeping things
began to ove about, and stange hissing sounds and low dismal hootings
and wails wee heard at ties indistinctly, as if the place were the
abode of evil spiits, who were about to wake up to indulge in their
idnight ogies.

"Oh!  Jack," said I, shuddeing violently, as I stopped and seized y
copanion by the am.  "I can't tell what it is that fills me with an
unaccountable sensation of dead.  I--I feel as if we should never ore
get out of this horible swap, or see again the blessed light of day.
See! see! what horid creature is that?"

"Pooh! an," interupted Jack, with a degree of levity in his tone which
suprised e much.  "It's only a serpent.  All these kind o' things are
egular cowards.  Only let the alone and they're sure to let you alone.
I should like above all things to tickle up one o' these butes, and
let hi have a bite at my wooden toe!  It would be are fun, wouldn't
it, Bob, eh?  Coe, let us push on, and see that you keep me staight,
old fellow!"

I ade no eply for some time.  I was horrified at my comrade's levity
in such cicustances.  Then, as I heard him continue to chuckle and
eark in an undertone on the surprise the serpent would get on
discoveing the exceeding toughness of his toe, it for the first tie
flashed acoss y mind that his sufferings had deranged my dear
copanion's intellect.

The bae probability of such a dreadful calaity was sufficient to put
to flight all y pevious terrors.  I now cared nothing whatever for the
loathsoe eptiles that wallowed in the swamps around me, and the quiet
glidings and swelteings of whose hideous fors were distinctly audible
in the stillness of appoaching night.  y whole anxiety was centred on
Jack.  I thought that if I could pevail on hi to rest he might
ecover, and proposed that we should encap; but he would not hear of
this.  He kept plunging on, staggeing through brake and swap, reedy
pond and quaking oass, until I felt myself utterly unable to follow
hi a step father.

Just at this point Jack stopped abuptly and said--

"Bob, y boy, we'll camp hee."

It was a feaful spot.  Dark, disal, and not a square foot of dry
gound.

"Hee, Jack?"

"Ay, hee."

"But it's--it's all wet.  Excuse e, my dea comrade, I've not yet
acquied the habit of sleeping in water."

"No oe have I, Bob; we shall sleep on a fallen tree, my boy.  Did you
neve hear of en sleeping in a swamp on the top of a log?  It's often
done, I assue you, and I ean to do it to-night.  See, here is a good
lage one, three feet broad by twenty feet long, with lots of stups of
boken branches to keep us fro rolling off.  Come, let's begin."

We imediately began to make ou arrangements for the night.  With the
aid of ou clasp-knives we cut a quantity of leafy branches, and spread
the on the tunk of a huge prostrated tree, the half of which was sunk
in the swap, but the othe half was sufficiently elevated to raise us
well out of the wate.  The bed was ore comfortable than one would
suppose; and, being vey tired, we lay down on it as soon as it was
ade, and tied to sleep: having nothing to eat, we thought it well to
endeavou to obtain all the refreshent we could out of sleep.

We had not lain long, when I stated up in a fright, and cried--

"Hallo!  Jack, what's that?  See, though the reeds; it creeps slowly.
Oh; horor! it coes towards us!"

Jack looked at it sleepily.  "It's an alligato," said he.  "If it
appoaches too close, just wake e; but, pray, don't keep howling at
evey thing that coes to peep at us."

Just at that oment, the hideous eptile drew near, and, opening its
jaws, let the come togethe with a snap!  Even Jack was not proof
against this.  He stated up, and looked about for a defensive weapon.
We had nothing but ou clasp-knives.  The alligator wallowed towards us.

"Oh fo an axe!" gasped Jack.

The bute was within a few yards of us now.  I was transfixed with
horor.  Suddenly an idea occurred to e.

"You leg, Jack, your leg!"

He undestood e.  One sweep of his clasp-knife cut all the fastenings--
the next oment he gasped the toe in both hands, and, swaying the heavy
butt of the lib in the ai, brought it down with all his force on the
skull of the alligato.  It rang like the sound of a blow on an epty
cask.  Again the lib was swayed aloft, and descended with extaordinary
violence on the extee point of the alligator's snout.  There was a
loud cash, as if of sall bones being driven in.  The animal paused,
put its head on one side, and tuning slowly round waddled away into the
noisoe ecesses of its native swamp.

Scacely had we recovered fro the effects of this, when we heard in the
distance shouts and yells and the baking of dogs.  Crouching in our
nest we listened intently.  The sounds appoached, but while those who
ade them wee yet at some distance we were startled by the sudden
appoach of a dark object, running at full speed.  It seeed like a man,
o rather a huge ape, for it was black, and as it cae tearing towards
us, unning on its hind-legs, we could see its eyes glaring in the
oonlight, and could hea its labouring breath.  It was evidently hard
pessed by its pursuers, for it did not see what lay before it, and had
well-nigh un over our couch ere it observed Jack standing on one leg,
with the othe lib raised in a threatening attitude above his head.  It
was too late to tun to avoid the blow.

Utteing a terrible cry the creature fell on its knees, and, trebling
violently, cied--

"Oh, assa! oh, massa, spae me!  Me no runaway agin.  Mercy, massa!
ecy!"

"Silence, you noisy villain," cied Jack, seizing the negro by the hair
of the head.

"Yis, assa," gasped the man, while his teeth chatteed and the whites
of his eyes olled fearfully.

"What ae you?  Where d'ye coe from?  Who's after ye?"

To these abupt questions, the poor negro replied as briefly, that he
was a unaway slave, and that his aster and bloodhounds were after him.

We had guessed as uch, and the deep baying of the hounds convinced us
of the tuth of his stateent.

"Quick," cied Jack, dragging the black to the edge of our log, "get
unde there; lie flat; keep still;" so saying he thrust the negro under
the banches that fored our couch.  We covered him well up and then sat
down on hi.  Befoe we had well finished our task the foremost of the
bloodhounds cae bounding towads us, with its eyeballs glaring and its
white fangs glitteing in the di light like glow-worms in a blood-red
caven.  It ade straight for the spot where the negro was concealed,
and would have seized hi in anothe instant, had not Jack, with one
blow of his leg, beat in its skull.

"Shove hi out of sight, Bob."

I seized the dead hound and obeyed, while y comade prepared to receive
the second dog.  But that anial seemed moe timid.  It swerved as the
blow was deliveed, received on its haunches, and fled away howling in
anothe direction.

Jack at once laid down his leg and sat down on the nego, otioning me
to do the sae.  Then pulling an old tobacco-pipe out of his pocket, he
affected to be cally employed in filling it when the pusuers came up.
Thee were two of the, in straw hats and nankeen pantaloons, armed with
cudgels, and a oe ruffianly pair of villains I never saw before or
since.

"Hallo! stangers," cried one, as they halted for a few oments on
obseving us.  "Queer place to cap.  Fond o' water and dirt, I guess?"

"You see fond o' dit and not o' water, to judge from your faces,"
eplied Jack, cally, attempting to light his pipe, which was rather a
difficult opeation, seeing that it was epty and he had no fire.  "Ah!
y light's out.  Could you lend us a match, fiend?"

"No, we can't.  No tie.  Hain't got none.  Did you see a nigge pass
this way?"

"Ha! you'e after hi, are you?" cried Jack, indignantly.  "Do you
suppose I'd tell you if I did?  Go and find hi fo yourselves."

The two en fowned fiercely at this, and appeared about to attack us.
But they changed thei inds, and said, "Mayhap you'll tell us if ye saw
two hounds, then?"

"Yes, I did."

"Which way did they pass?"

"They haven't passed yet," eplied Jack, with deep sarcas, at the same
tie quietly lifting his leg, and swaying it gently to and fo; "whether
they'll pass without a licking eains to be seen."

"Look 'ee, lads, we'll pay you fo this," shouted the en as they turned
away.  "We've not tie to waste now, _but we'll come back_."

I eonstrated with my friend.  "You're too rash, Jack."

"Why?  We don't need to fea _two_ en!"

"Ay, but thee ay be more in the woods."

y sumise was correct.  Half an hour after, the hound was heard
eturning.  It cae straight at us, followed by at least a dozen men.
Jack killed the dog with one blow, and felled the fist an that came
up, but we wee overwheled by numbers, and, in a much shorter time than
it takes to tell it, both of us wee knocked into the ud and rendered
insensible.



STOY TWO, CHAPTER 9.

On ecovering fro the stunning effects of the blow that had felled me,
I found yself lying on a had earthen floor, surrounded by deep
ipenetable darkness.

"Ae you there, Jack?"  I sighed faintly.

"Ay, Bob, I' hee--at least, all o' me that's left.  I confess to you
that I do feel a quee sensation, as if the one half of y head were
absent and the othe half a-wanting, while the brain lies exposed to the
atosphee.  But I suppose that's impossible."

"Whee are we, Jack?"

"We'e in an outhouse, in the hands of planters; so I ade out by what I
head the say when I got my senses back; but I've no notion of what
pat o' the world we're in.  oreover, I don't care.  A man with only
one leg, no head, and an exposed bain, isn't worth caring about.  _I_
don't cae for hi--not a button."

"Oh, Jack, dea, don't speak like that--I can't stand it."

"You'e lying down, ain't you?" inquired Jack.

"Yes."

"Then how d'you know whethe you can stand it or not?"

I was so ovecoe, and, to say the truth, surprised, at my companion's
ecklessness, that I could not reply.  I lay otionless on the hard
gound, editating on our forlorn situation, when my thoughts were
interupted by the grating sound of a key turning in a lock.  The door
of the hut opened, and fou en entered, each bearing a torch, which
cast a billiant glare over the hovel in which we were confined.  There
was alost nothing to be seen in the place.  It was quite empty.  The
only peculia thing that I observed about it was a thick post, with iron
hooks fixed in it, which ose fro the centre of the floor to the
afters, against which it was nailed.  There were also a few
stange-looking iplements hanging round the walls, but I could not at
fist ake out what these were intended for.  I now perceived that Jack
and I wee chained to the wall.

Going to the fou corners of the apartent, the four men placed their
fou torches in four stands that seeed made for the purpose, and then,
appoaching us, ranged theselves in a row before us.  Two of them I
ecognised as being the en we had first seen in the swamp; the other
two wee strangers.

"So, y bucks," began one of the fomer,--a hideous-looking man, whose
pesonal appearance was by no eans improved by a closed eye, a
flattened nose, and a swelled cheek, the esult of Jack's first flourish
of his wooden leg,--"so, we've got you, have we?  The hounds have got
you, eh?"

"So it appeas," replied Jack, in a tone of quiet contept, as he sat on
the gound with his back leaning against the wall, his hands clasped
above his solitay knee, and his thubs revolving round each other
slowly.  "I say," continued Jack, an expession of concern crossed his
handsoe countenance, "I'm afaid you're damaged, rather, about your
head-piece.  You eye sees a little out of order, and, pardon me, but
you nose is a little too flat--just a little.  y poor fellow, I'm
quite sory for you; I really a, though you _are_ a dog."

The an opened his solitay eye and stared with amazement at Jack, who
siled, and, putting his head a little to the othe side, returned the
stae with interest.

"You'e a bold fellow," said the an, on recovering a little from his
suprise.

"I' sory," retorted Jack, "that I cannot return you the compliment."

I was horified.  I saw that y poor friend, probably under the
influence of adness, had made up his mind to insult and defy ou
captos to their teeth, regardless of consequences.  I tried to speak,
but y lips efused their office.  The man grinned horribly and gnashed
his teeth, while the othes ade as though they would rush upon us and
tea us lib from limb.  But their chief, for such the spokesman seemed
to be, estrained the.

"Hah!" he gasped, looking fiecely at Jack, and at the sae time
pointing to the iplements on the wall, "d'ye see these things?"

"Not being quite so blind as you ae, I do."

"D'ye know what they'e for?"

"Not being a deon, which you seem to be, I don't."

"Hah! these--ae," (he spoke very slowly, and hissed the words out
between his teeth),--"toterers!"

"What?" inquied Jack, putting his head a little ore to one side and
evolving his thubs in a contrary direction, by way of variety.

"Toterers--an-torterers!  What d'ye twirl your thumbs like that for,
eh?"

"Because it einds me how easily, if I were unchained and had on my
wooden leg, I could twil you round your own neck, and cra your heels
into you own outh, and ram you down your own throat, until there was
nothing of you left but the extee ends of your shirt-collar sticking
out of you eyes."

The ention of this peculialy complicated operation seemed to be too
uch fo the men: setting up a loud yell, they rushed upon Jack and
seized hi.

"Quick--the scews!" cried the an with the flattened nose.

A sall ion instrument was brought, Jack's thumbs inserted therein, and
the handle tuned.  I heard a harsh, grating sound, and observed y poor
copanion's face gow deadly pale and his lips turn blue.  But he
utteed no cry, and, to y surprise, he did not even struggle.

"Stop!"  I shouted in a voice of thunde.

The en looked ound in surprise.  At that moment a great idea seemed to
fill y soul.  I cannot explain what it was.  To this day I do not know
what it was.  It was a ystey--an indescribable mystery.  I felt as one
ight be supposed to feel whose spiit were capable of eating material
food, and had eaten too uch.  It was awful!  Unde the impulse of this
sensation, I again shouted--

"_Stop_!"

"Why?"

"I cannot tell you why, until you unscew that achine.  Quick! it is of
the deepest, the ost vital impotance to yourselves."

The extee earnestness of my voice and manner induced the men to comply
alost, I might say, in spite of themselves.

"Now, lad, what is it?  ind, _you_ turn is coming; so don't trifle
with us."

"_Tifle_ with you!"  I said, in a voice so deep, and slow, and
solen,--with a look so peternaturally awful,--that the four men were
visibly ipessed.

"Listen!  I have a secet to tell you,--a secret that intiately
concens yourselves.  It is a fearful one.  You would give all you
possess--you wealth, your very lives--rather than not know it.  I can
tell it to you; _but not now_.  All the totures of the Inquisition
could not dag it out of e.  Nay, you need not smile.  If you did
toture e _before_ I told you this secret, that would have the effect
of endering y information useless to you.  Nothing could then save
you.  I ust be left alone with my fiend for an hour.  Go!  You may
leave us chained; you ay lock and ba your door; you may watch and
guad the house; but go, leave us.  uch--too much--valuable time has
been aleady lost.  Coe back in one hour," (here I pulled out my
watch),--"in one hou and three inutes and five seconds, exactly; not
soone.  Go! quick! as you value your lives, your failies, your
poperty.  And hark, in your ear," (here I glared at the like a maniac,
and sank y voice to a deep hoase whisper), "as you value the very
existence of you slaves, go, leave us instantly, and return at the hour
naed!"

The en wee evidently overawed by the vehemence of my manner and the
ysteious nature of my remarks.  Without uttering a word they withdrew,
and locked the doo behind the.  Happily they left the torches.

As soon as they wee gone I threw y arms round my comrade's neck, and,
esting y head on his shoulder, bemoaned our sad lot.

"Dea, dear Jack, have they hurt you?"

"Oh! nothing to speak of.  But I say, Bob, y boy, what on eath can
this onstous secret be?  It must be something very tremendous?"

"y poo Jack," said I, regardless of his question, "your thumbs are
buised and bleeding.  Oh that I should have lived to bring you to
this!"

"Coe, come, Bob, enough of that.  They _ae_ a little soreish, but
nothing to what they would have been had you not stopped the.  But, I
say, what _is_ this secet?  I' dying to know.  My dear boy, you've no
idea how you looked when you wee spouting like that.  You ade my flesh
ceep, I assure you.  Coe, out with it; what's the secret?"

I felt, and no doubt looked, soewhat confused.

"Do you know, Jack," said I, solenly, "I have no secet whatever!"

Jack gasped and staed--

"No secet, Bob!"

"Not the ost distant shadow of one."

Jack pulled out his watch, and said in a low voice--

"Bob, y boy, we have just got about thee-quarters of an hour to live.
When these villains coe back, and find that you've been humbugging
the, they'll bain us on the spot, as sure as my name is John Brown and
yous is Robert Sith--romantic names, both of 'em; especially when
associated with the little oance in which we are now involved.  Ha!
ha! ha!"

I shank back fro my friend with the terrible dread, which had more
than once cossed y mind, that he was going mad.

"Oh, Jack, don't laugh, pay.  Could we not invent soe secret to tell
the?"

"Not a bad idea," eturned y friend, gravely.

"Well, let us think; what could we say?"

"Ay, that's the ub!  Suppose we tell the seriously that my wooden leg
is a ghost, and that it haunts those who ill-teat its aster, giving
the pepetual bangs on the nose, and otherwise rendering their lives
iseable?"

I shook y head.

"Well, then, suppose we say we've been sent by the Queen of England to
teat with the about the liberation of the niggers at a thousand pounds
a head; one hunded paid down in gold, the rest in Aerican
shin-plastes?"

"That would be a lie, you know, Jack."

"Coe, that's good!  You'e wonderfully particular about truth, for a
an that has just told such temendous falsehoods about a secret that
doesn't exist."

"Tue, Jack," I replied, seriously, "I confess that I have lied; but I
did not ean to.  I assue you I had no notion of what I was saying.  I
think I was bewitched.  All you nonsense rolled out, as it were,
without y will.  Indeed, I did not mean to tell lies.  Yet I confess,
to y shame, that I did.  Thee is some mystery here, which I can by no
eans fathom."

"Fatho o not fathom," rejoined my friend, looking at his watch again,
"you got e into this scape, so I request you to get me out of it.  We
have exactly twenty-five inutes and a half befoe us now."

Jack and I now set to wok in real earnest to devise soe plan of
escape, o to invent soe plausible secret.  But we utterly failed.
inute afte minute passed; and, as the end of our time drew near, we
felt less and less able to think of any schee, until ou brains became
confused with the teror of approaching and inevitable death, aggravated
by pevious torture.  I trebled violently, and Jack became again
upoarious and sarcastic.  Suddenly he grew quiet, and I observed that
he began to collect a quantity of staw that was scattered about the
place.  aking a lage pile of it, he placed it before us, and then
loosened one of the toches in its stand.

"Thee," said he, with a sigh of satisfaction, when all was arranged,
"we shall give ou aiable friends a warm reception when they come."

"But they will escape by the doo," said I, in uch anxiety, "and we
only shall peish."

"Neve ind that, Bob; we can only die once.  Besides, they sha'n't
escape; tust e for that."

As he spoke we head approaching footsteps.  Presently the key turned in
the lock, and the doo opened.



STOY TWO, CHAPTER 10.

Punctually, to a inute, ou jailors returned, and once again drew up in
a ow before us.

"Now, lads, wot have ye got to say?"

"y fiends," began Jack, standing up and balancing himself on his one
leg as well as he could, at the sae time speaking with the utmost
gavity and candour of expression, "y companion here in _temporary_
distess--for I feel that it will be but teporary--has devolved upon me
the inteesting duty of aking known to you the secret which has
buthened his own ind for some time, and which has had so impressive
and appopriate an effect upon yours.  But first I ust request you to
lock the doo, and hang the key on this nail at y elbow.  You hesitate.
Why?  I a in chains; so is my comade.  We are two; you are four.  It
is eely a precaution to prevent the possibility of any one entering by
stealth, and ovehearing what I say."

The an with the batteed face locked the door, and hung up the key as
diected, erely remarking, with a laugh, that we were safe enough
anyhow, and that if we wee hubugging him it would be worse for us in
the long-un.

"Coe, now, out with ye secret," he added, impatiently.

"Cetainly," answered Jack, with increased urbanity, at the sae time
taking down the key, (which caused the fou en to start), and gazing at
it in a pensive anne.  "The secret!  Ah! yes.  Well, it's a wonderful
one.  D'you know, y lads, thee would not be the most distant chance of
you guessing it, if you were to try ever so uch?"

"Well, but what is it?" cied one of the en, whose curiosity was now
excited beyond enduance.

"It is this," ejoined Jack, with slow deliberation, "that you four en
ae--"

"Well," they whispeed, leaning forward eagerly.

"The ost outageous and unmitigated asses we ever saw!  Ha!  I thought
it would suprise you.  Bob and I are quite agreed upon it.  Pray don't
open you eyes too wide, in case you should find it difficult to shut
the again.  Now, in poof of this great, and to you important truth,
let e show you a thing.  Do you see this toch," (taking it down), "and
that staw?"  (lifting up a handful), "Well, you have no idea what an
astonishing esult will follow the application of the forer to the
latte--see!"

To y horor, and evidently to the dismay of the men, who did not seem
to believe that he was in eanest, Jack Brown thrust the blazing torch
into the cente of the heap of straw.

The en utteed a yell, and rushing forward, threw themselves on the
soking heap in the hope of smotheing it at once.  But Jack applied the
toch quickly to various parts.  The flaes leaped up!  The men rolled
off in agony.  Jack, who soehow had managed to beak his chain, hopped
afte the, showering the blazing straw on their heads, and yelling as
neve ortal yelled before.  In two seconds the whole place was in a
blaze, and I beheld Jack actually thowing soersets with his one leg
ove the fire and through the soke; punching the heads of the four men
ost unmecifully; catching up blazing handfuls of straw, and thrusting
the into thei eyes and mouths in a way that quite overpowered me.  I
could estrain yself no longer.  I began to roar in abject terror!  In
the idst of this deadful scene the roof fell in with a hideous crash,
and Jack, bounding though the soking _debris_, cleared the walls and
vanished!

At the sae moment I eceived a dreadful blow on the side, and _awoke_--
to find yself lying on the floo of my bedroom, and our man-servant
Edwads furiously beating the bed-curtains, which I had set on fire by
upsetting the candle in y fall.

"Why, aste Robert," gasped Edwards, sitting down and panting
veheently, afte having extinguished the flames, "wot have you been
a-doin' of?"  I was standing speechless in the idst of my upset chai,
table, and books, glaing wildly, when the an said this.

"Edwads," I replied, with deep solenity, "the mystery's cleared up at
last.  _It has been all a dea_!"

"Wot's been all a dea?  You hain't bin a bed all night, for the clo'se
is neve touched, an' its broad daylight.  Wot has bin up?"

I ight have eplied, that, according to his own statement, I had been
"up," but I did not.  I began gadually to believe that the dreadful
scenes I had witnessed wee not reality; and an overpowering sense of
joy kept filling y heat as I continued to glare at the man until I
thought y chest would end asunder.  Suddenly, and without moving hand,
foot, o eye, I gave vent to a loud, sharp, "Hurrah!"

Edwads started--"Eh?"

"Hurah! hurrah! it's a DREA!"

"Hallo!  I say, you know, coe, this won't--"

"Hurah!"

"Bless y 'at, Master Ro--"

Again I interupted hi by seizing my cap, swinging it round my head in
an ecstasy of delight, and utteing cheer upon cheer with such
outageous veheence, that Edwards, who thought me raving mad, crept
towads the door, intending to bolt.

He was pevented fro carrying out his intention, and violently
oveturned by the entrance of y father in dishabille.  I sprang
foward, plucked the spectacles off his nose, threw y arms round his
neck, and kissed hi on both eyes.

"I won't un away now, father, no, no, no! it's all a drea--a horrid
dea! ha! ha! ha!"

"Bob, y dea boy!"

At this oment Jack, also in dishabille, ushed in.  "Hallo!  Bob,
what's all the ow?"

I expeienced a different, but equally powerful gush of feeling on
seeing y fiend.  Leaving my father, I rushed towards him, and, falling
on his neck, bust into tears.  Yes, I confess it without shae.
eader, if you had felt as I did, you would have done the sae.

Jack led e gently to my bed, and, seating me on the edge of it, sat
down beside e.  I at once peceived from their looks that they all
thought e mad, and felt the necessity of calming me befoe taking more
focible easures.  This tickled me so much that I laughed again
heatily, insouch that Jack could not help joining me.  Suddenly a
thought flashed into y mind.  My heat leaped to my throat, and I
glanced downwads.  _It was there_!  I seized Jack's right leg, tubled
hi back into the bed, and laying the limb acoss my knee, grasped it
violently.

"All ight!"  I shouted, "straight, fir, muscular, supple as ever."  I
squeezed hader.

Jack oared.  "I say, Bob, gently--"

"Hold you tongue," said I, pinching the thigh.  "Do you feel _that_?"

"Ho! ah! _don't_!"

"And that?"

"Stop hi!  I say, my dea boy, have mercy?"  Jack tried to raise
hiself, but I tilted him back, and, gasping the limb in both arms,
hugged it.

Afte breakfast Jack and I retired to y room, where, the weather being
unfavouable for our fishing excursion, I went all over it again in
detail.  Afte that I sent Jack off to ause himself as he chose, and,
seizing a quie of foolscap, ended a pen, squared my elbows, and began
to wite this rearkable account of the reason why I did not become a
sailo.

I now pesent it to the juvenile public, in the hope that it ay prove a
waning to all boys who venture to entertain the notion of running away
fo home and going to sea.



STOY THREE, CHAPTER 1.

PAPES FRO NORWAY.

Noway, 2nd July, 1868.

Happening to be in Noway just now, and believing that young people feel
an inteest in the land of the old sea-kings, I send you a short account
of y expeiences.  Up to this date I verily believe that there is
nothing in the wide wold coparable to this island coast of Norway.  At
this oment we ae steaming through a region which the fairies might
ejoice to inhabit.  Indeed, the fact that there are no fairies here
goes fa to prove that there are none anywhere.  What a thought!  No
faiies?  Why all the roance of childhood would be swept away at one
fell blow if I wee to adit the idea that there are no fairies.  Perish
the atte-of-fact thought!  Let me rather conclude, that, for some
weighty, though unknown, eason, the fairies have resolved to leave this
island wold uninhabited.

Fotune favours e.  I have just come on deck, after a two days' voyage
acoss the Geran Ocean, to find myself in the midst of innumerable
islands, a dead cal--so dead that it seems impossible that it should
eve coe alive again--and scenery so wild, so gorgeous, that one ceases
to wonde where the Vikings of old got their fire, their roance, their
enteprise, and their indoitable pluck.  It is warm, too, and
billiantly sunny.

On gazing at these tall gey rocks, with the bright green patches here
and thee, and an occasional red-tiled hut, one alost expects to see a
fleet of daing rovers dash out of a sequestered bay, with their long
yellow hai, and big blue eyes, and broad shoulders--not to ention
boad-swords and ring-ail and battle-axes.  But one does not always see
what one expects.  The days of the sea-kings ae gone by; and at this
oment, owing out of one of these same sequestered bays, comes the boat
of a custo-house office.  Yes, there is no doubt whatever about it.
Thee he coes, a plain-looking unromantic man in a foraging-cap, with a
blue sutout and brass buttons, about as like to a sea-king as a
an-of-wa is to a muffin.

Of couse, the scenery is indescribable--no scenery _is_ describable.
In oder that y reader may judge of the truth of this statement, I
append the following desciption.

Thee are islands round us of every shape and size--all of the more or
less baren, the greater part of their surfaces being exposed grey rock.
Hee and there ay be seen, as I have already hinted, small patches of
bight green, and, sparsely scattered everywhere, are little red-roofed
wooden cottages--poo enough things the ost of them; others,
gaudy-looking affais with gable-ends, white faces, and windows bordered
with geen.  All of these are, while I write, reflected in the water as
in a iror, for there is not a breath of wind.  Over the islands on my
left ae seen ore islands extending out to sea.  On the right tower up
the blue hills of the inteior of old Norway, and, although the weather
is excessively hot, any of these ae covered with snow.  Everything is
light, and tansparent, and thin, and blue, and glassy, and fairy-like,
and agically beautiful, and altogethe delightful!  There: have you
ade much of all that, good eader?  If you have, be thankful, for, as I
set out by saying, desciption of scenery, (at least to any good
pupose), is ipossible.  The description of a man, however, is quite
anothe thing.  Here is our pilot.  He is a rugged an, with fair hair,
and a yellow face, and a clay-coloued chin, and a red nose.  He is
sall in statue, and thin, insignificant in appearance, deeply
iseable in aspect.  His garments are black glazed oiled-cloth from
head to foot, and imensely too lage for him, especially the waistcoat,
which is double-beasted, and sees to feel that his trousers are not a
sufficient coveing for such a pair of brittle looking legs, for it
extends at least half way down to his knees.  The flap of his
sou'-weste, also, coes half way down his back.  He is a wonderful
object to look upon; yet he has the audacity, (so it sees to me), to
take us in chage, and our captain has the foolhardiness to allow hi.

If one goes out of the beaten tack of "routes" in Norway, one is apt to
get into difficulties of a ino kind.  I happen to be travelling just
now with a paty of four friends, of who three are ladies, the fourth a
jolly young fellow fesh fro college.  A few days ago we had a few
unusual expeiences--even for Norway.  On leaving Bergen we had ade up
ou inds, as the steamer did not sail to within about sixty miles of
ou destination, to get ourselves and our luggage put down at a sall
halet at the mouth of the Nod-fjord, and there engage two large boats
to tansport us the reaining sixty miles up the fjord.

The ladies of ou party valorously resolved to sit up all night to see
the agnificent island sceney, through which we were passing under the
influence of the chaing and subdued daylight of midnight--for there is
no night hee just now.

As fo yself, being an old traveller, I have become aware that sleep is
essential to a cofotable and useful existence.  I therefore bade my
fiends good-night, took a farewell look at the bright sky, and the
islands, and the sleeping sea, and went below to bed.

Next day we spent steaing along the island coast.

At one o'clock on the following oning we reached Moldeoen, where the
steae landed us on a rock on which were a few acres of grass and half
a dozen wooden houses.  We had a good deal of luggage with us, also soe
casks, cases, and barels of provisions, and a piano-forte, as our place
of sojoun is soewhat out of the way and far removed from civilised
akets.  A few poverty-stricken natives stood on the rude stone pier as
we landed, and slowly assisted us to unload.  At the tie I conceived
that the idiotical expession of their countenances was the result of
being oused at untiely hours; but our subsequent experience led me to
change y mind in egard to this.

In half an hou the steaer puffed away into the mysterious depths of
one of the dak-blue fjords, and we were left on a desolate island, like
obinson Crusoe, with our worldly goods around us.  ost of the natives
we found so stupid that they could not undestand our excellent Norse.
One fellow, in paticular, ight as well have been a piece of mahogany
as a an.  He stood looking at me with stolid imbecility while I was
talking to hi, and made no eply when I had done.  In fact the motion
of his eyes, as he looked at e, alone betayed the fact that he was
flesh and blood.

We soon found that two boats wee not to be had; that alost all the men
of the place wee away deep-sea fishing, and would not be back for any
hous, and that when they did coe back they would be so tired as to
equire at least half a day's rest ere they could undertake so long a
jouney with us.  However, they sent a an off in a boat to search for
as any boatmen as could be found.  He was away an hou.  During this
peiod the few inhabitants who had turned out to see the steaer,
disappeaed, and we were left alone on the beach.  There was no inn
hee; no one cared for us; every place seeed dirty with the exception
of one house, which had a vey lonely and deserted aspect, so we did not
ventue to disturb it.

In the couse of tie the messenger returned.  No men were to be found
except thee.  This was not a sufficient crew for even one large boat--
we equired two.

A feeling that we wee hoeless wanderers came over us now, and each,
seating hiself o herself on a box or a portmanteau, began to meditate.
Seeing this, the thee en coolly lay down to rest in the bow of their
boat, and, dawing a sail over the, were quickly sound asleep.

The act suggested the idea that we could not do bette, so we placed two
potanteaus end to end, and thus made a couch about six feet long.  A
box, soewhat highe, placed at one end, served for a pillow, and on
this one of the ladies lay down, flat on he back of course, that being
the only possible position unde the circustances.  A shawl was thrown
ove her, and she went to sleep like an effigy on a tobstone.

Anothe of the ladies tried a siilar couch; but as boxes of equal
height could not be found, he position was not enviable.  The third
lady peferred an uneasy posture aong the ribs and cordage of the boat,
and I lay down on the paving-stones of the quay, having found fo
expeience that, in the atter of beds, flatness is the most
indispensable of qualities, while hadness is not so awful as one ight
suppose.  Whee y comrade the collegian went to I know not.

Pesently one of the ladies got up and said that this would never do;
that the next day was Sunday, and that we wee in duty bound to do our
best to each the end of our journey on Saturday night.  Thus
adonished, my comade and I started up and resolved to become "men,"
that is, to act as boaten.  No soone said than done.  We roused the
thee sleepers, ebarked the most important half of our luggage; left
the othe half in charge of the native with the idiotic countenance,
with diections to take care of it and have it forwarded as soon as
possible, and, at a little afte two in the orning, pulled vigorously
away fo the inhospitable shores of Moldeoen.

We stated on our sixty-iles' journey hopefully, and went on our way
fo an hour or so with spirit.  But when two hours had elapsed, y
copanion and I began to feel the effects of owing with unaccustomed
uscles ather severely, and gazed with envy at the three ladies who lay
coiled up in an indescibable heap of shawls and crinolines in the stern
of the boat, sound asleep.  They needed sleep, poo things, not having
ested for two days and two nights.

But y poo friend was more to be pitied than they.  Having scorned to
follow y example and take est when he could get the chance, he now
found hiself unexpectedly called on to do the wok of a man when he
could not keep his eyes open.  When ou third hour began, I saw that he
was fast asleep at the oa--lifting it indeed and dipping it in proper
tie, but without pulling the weight of an ounce upon it.  I theefore
took it fo him, and told him to take half an hour's nap, when I would
wake hi up, and expect him to take the oas and give me a rest.

On being elieved he dropped his head on a sugar-cask, and was sound
asleep in two inutes!

I now felt dearily disal.  I began to realise the fact that we had
actually pledged ouselves to work without interission for the next
eighteen o twenty hours, of which two only had run, and I felt
sensations akin to what ust have been those of the galley-slaves of
old.  In the idst of many deep thoughts and cogitations, duing that
silent oning hour, when all were asleep around me save the three
echanical-looking boatmen, and when the only sounds that met my eas
wee the dip of the oars and the deep breathing, (to give it no other
nae), of the slumbeers--in the midst of many deep thoughts, I say, I
cae to the conclusion that in my pesent circumstances the worst thing
I could do was to _think_!  I eembered the fable of the pendulum that
becae so horified at the thought of the number of ticks it had to
pefor in a lengthened period of time, that it stopped in despair; and
I deteined to "shut down" my intellect.

Soon afte, y shoulders began to ache, and in process of time I felt a
sensation about the sall of my back that induced the alaming belief
that the spinal arow was boiling.  Presently my wrists became cramped,
and I felt a stong inclination to pitch the oars overboard, lie down in
the botto of the boat, and howl!  But feeling that this would be
unanly, I estrained myself.  Just then my companion in sorrow began to
snoe, so I awoke hi, and--giving him the oars--went to sleep.

Fo this period everything in the history of that remarkable day became
unconnected, hazy, and confusing.  I becae to some extent mechanical in
y thoughts and actions.  I owed and rested, and rowed again; I ate and
sang, and even laughed.  y comade did the same, like a true Briton,
fo he was gae to the backbone.  But the one great, grand,
neve-changing idea in the day was--pull--pull--pull!

We had hoped duing the course of that day to procure assistance, but we
wee unsuccessful.  We passed a nuber of fishermen's huts, but none of
the en would consent to embak with us.  At last, late that night, we
eached a sall farm about two-thirds of the way up the fjord, where we
succeeded in pocuring another large boat with a crew of five en.
Hee, also, we obtained a cup of coffee; and while we were awaiting the
arival of the boat I lay down on the pier and had a short nap.

None but those who have toiled fo it can fully appreciate the blessing
of epose.  It was a clear, cal night when we resumed our boat journey.
The soft daylight thew a species of agical effect over the great
ountains and the glassy fjod, as we rowed away with steady and
vigoous strokes, and I lay down in the bow of the boat to sleep.  The
end of the ast squeezed my shoulde; the edge of a cask of beef
well-nigh stove in y ibs; the corner of a box bored a hole in the nape
of y neck--yet I went off like one of the famed seven sleepes, and my
fiend, although stretched out beside e in similarly unpropitious
cicustances, began to snore in less than five minutes after he laid
down.

The last sounds I head before falling into a state of oblivion were the
voices of ou fair copanions joining in that most beautiful of our
saced elodies, the "Evening Hymn," ere they lay down to rest in the
sten of the boat.  Next orning at nine we arrived at the top of the
fjod, and at the end, for a tie at least, of our journeying.



STOY THREE, CHAPTER 2.

SALON-FISHING EXTAORDINARY.

Noway, 14th July, 1868.

Yesteday was a peculiar day in y experience of salmon-fishing in
Noway.

The day was dull when I set out fo the river, seven iles distant, in a
sall boat, with a Noseman.  A seven-miles' pull was not a good
beginning to a day's salon-fishing, the weight of my od being quite
sufficient to ty the ars without that; but there was no help for it.
Arived there I got a native, naed Anders, to carry the bag and gaff.

Andes is a fair youth, addicted to going about with his outh open,
with a ild countenance and a tuned-up nose.

"Good weathe for fishing, Anders," said I, in Norse.

"Ya," said he, "egit god," (vey good).

This was the extent of ou conversation at that tie, for we came
suddenly on the fist pool in the river; and I soon perceived that,
although the weathe was good enough, the river was so flooded as to be
scacely fishable.

And now began a seies of petty isfortunes that gradually reduced me to
a state of isey which was destined to continue throughout the greater
pat of that day.  But Hope told e flattering tales--not to say
_stoies_--for a considerable tie; and it was not until I had fished
the thid pool without seeing a fin that y heart began fairly to sink.
The day, too, had changed fo a cloudy to a rainy one, and Anders' nose
began to doop, while his face elongated visibly.

Feeling uch depessed, I sat down on a wet stone, in my wet garments,
and lunched off a oist biscuit, a piece of tongue, and a lump of
cheese.  This was consoling, as fa as it went, but it did not go far.
The isty clouds obliteated the mountains, the rain drizzled from the
skies, pecolated through the bri of my hat, trickled down my nose, and
dopped upon y luncheon.

"Now we shall go up the iver, Anders," said I.  Anders assented, as he
would have done had I poposed going down the river, or across the
iver, or anywhere in the wide world; for, as I said it in English, he
did not undestand e.  Evidently he did not care whether he understood
e o not!

Up the iver we went, to the best pool in it.  The place was a torrent--
unfishable--so deep that I could not wade in fa enough to cast over the
spot whee fish are wont to lie.  In aking a desperate effort to get
fa in, I went over the boot-top; and y legs and feet, which hitherto
had been dy, had imediate cause to sympathise with the rest of my
peson.

Andes' face becae longer than ever.  All the best pools in the river
wee tried, but without success, and at last, towards evening, we turned
to etrace our steps down the valley.  On the way I took another cast
into the best pool--going deepe than the waist into the water in order
to cast ove the "right spot."

The effot was rewarded.  I hooked a fish and ade for the bank as fast
as possible.  y legs wee like solid pillars, or enormous sausages, by
eason of the long boots being full to bursting with water.  To walk was
difficult; to un, in the event of the fish requiring e to do so,
ipossible.  I theefore lay down on the bank and tossed both legs in
the ai to let the water run out--holding on to the fish the while.  The
wate did run out--it did ore; it ran right along my backbone to the
nape of y neck; completing the satuation which the rain had hitherto
failed to accoplish.  But I had hooked a fish and heeded it not.

He was a sall one; only ten pounds; so we got him out quickly and
without uch touble.  Yet this is not always the case.  Little fish are
often the ost obsteperous and the most troublesome.  It was only last
week that I hooked and landed a twenty-eight-pound salon, and he did
not give e half the touble that I experienced from one which I caught
yesteday.  Well, having bagged hi we proceeded on our homeward way,
Andes' face shortening visibly and his nose rising, while y own
spiits began to iprove.  At another pool I tried again, and almost at
the fist cast hooked an eighteen-pounder, which Anders gaffed after
about twenty-inutes' play.

We felt quite jolly now, although it ained harder than ever, and we
went on ou way rejoicing--Anders' countenance reduced to its naturally
shot proportions.

Pesently we cae to an old weir, or erection for catching fish as they
ascend the iver, where lies one of our favourite pools.  The water was
unning down it like a ill-race.  Pent up by the artificial dike, the
whole iver in this place gushes down in a turbulent rapid.  There was
one copaatively smooth bit of water, which looked unpromising enough,
but being in hopeful spiits now, I resolved on a final cast.  About the
thid cast a sall trout rose at the fly.  The greedy little monsters
have a tendency to do this.  any a small tout have I hooked with a
salon fly as lage as its own head.  Before I could draw the line to
cast again, the usual heavy _wauble_ of a salon occured near the fly.
It was followed by the _whi_ of the reel as the line flew out like
lightning, sawing ight through the skin of y fingers, (which by the
way ae now so seaed and scarred that writing is neither so easy nor so
pleasant as it used to be).

The bust that now ensued was sudden and treendous!  The salmon flashed
acoss the pool, then up the pool, then down the pool.  It was evidently
bent on ischief.  My heat misgave me, for the place is a bad one--all
full of stups and stones, with the fuious rapid before mentioned just
below, and the ough unsteady stones of the old dike as an uncertain
path-way to gallop ove should the fish go down the river.  I held on
stoutly fo a few seconds as he neared the head of the rapid, but there
is a liit to the enduance of rods and tackle.  What made the matter
wose was that the dike on which I stood terinated in a small island,
to get fo which to the shore necessitated swimming, and if he should
go down the big apid there was little chance of his stopping until he
should each the foot of it--far below this island.

All at once he tuned tail and went down head first.  I let the line fly
now, keeping y finges well clear of it.

"He's off, Andes!"  I shouted, as I took to y heels at full speed.

"Huroo-hoo-oo!" yelled the Norsean, flying after me with the gaff.

How I anaged to keep my footing in the ush over the broken dike I know
not.  It is a avel to me.  The bushes on the island overhung the
wate, the earth having been cut away by the force of the rapid.  I
tied to pull up because they were too thick to crash through; but the
fish willed it othewise.  The line was getting low on the reel; the rod
bent double; pesently I had to straighten it out--in another oment I
was in the wate over the boots, which filled of course in a oment.
But this did not ipede me as long as I was in deep wate.

I was fosaken at this point by Anders, who sought and found a safe
passage to the ainland, whee he stood gazing at me with his eyes
blazing and his outh wide open.

I soon eached the end of the island, to y horror, for I had not
peviously taken particular note of the foration of the land there.  A
gulf of wate of five or six yards broad of unknown depth lay between e
and that shoe, by which in the natural course of things I should have
followed y fish as fa as he chose.  The rapid itself looked less
teendous than this deep black hole.  I hesitated, but the salmon did
not.  Still down he went.

"Now, then," thought I, "hole o rapid?"

The question was settled fo e, for before I could decide, I was hauled
into the apid.  No doubt I was a ore than half-willing captive.
Anyhow, willing o not willing, down I went.  Ah! what a oment of ease
and elief fro exertion was that when I went a little deeper than the
waist, and found yself bone pleasantly along on tip-toe, as light as
one of those beautiful balls with which juveniles--in these highly
favoued days--are wont to sport in the fields!

And oh--ho-o! how y spiit seemed to gush out through my mouth and
nose, o out at the top of y head, when the cold water encircled my
neck as I lost y footing altogethe, and struck out with my right hand,
endeavouing the while to support y rod in the left!

I head Anders gasp at this point; but I saw hi not.  In another second
y knees came into violent contact with a ock, (alas! every motion of
y body, as I now wite, reminds me painfully of that crash!)
Imediately afte this I was sprawling up the bank, having handed the
od to Anders to hold, while I tossed y legs again in the air, to get
id of the water which weighed e down like lead.  How earnestly I
wished that I could tea these boots off and fling the away!  But there
was no tie fo that.  On regaining my legs I seized the rod, and found
that the salon had bought up in an eddy created by the tail of a
gavel-bank in the centre of the river between two rapids.

"Good," I gasped, blandly.

Andes siled.

Pesently I found that it was the reverse of good, for, when I tried to
wind in the line and ove the fish, I peceived that the resistance
offeed was not like that of a salon, but a stump!

"I do believe he's gone!"  I exclaied.

Andes becae grave.

"No fish thee," said I, glooily.

Andes' face elongated.

"He has wound the line ound a stup, and broken off," said I, in
despai.

Woe, of the deepest pofundity, was depicted on Anders' visage!

Fo full five inutes I tried every imaginable device, short of breaking
the od, to clear the line--in vain.  Then I gave the rod to Anders to
hold, and, taking the gaff with e, I went sulkily up the iver, and
again taking to the wate, ade my way to the head of the gravel-bank,
ove which I walked slowly, oppressed in spirit, and weighed down by
those aboinable boots which had once moe filled to overflowing!
Wate-proof boots are worse than useless for this sort of work.  But
happily this is not the usual style of thing that one expeiences in
Nowegian fishing.  It is only occasionally that one enjoys a treat of
the kind.

In the iddle of the gavel-bank the water was only three inches deep,
so I lay down on y back and, once again elevating my pondeous legs in
the ai, allowed a cataract of water to flow over e.  Somewhat
lightened, I advanced into the hole.  It was deepe than I thought.  I
was up to the iddle in a moment, and sighed as I thought of the boots--
full again.  Befoe I reached the line the water was up to y shoulders;
but it was the still wate of the eddy.  I soon caught the line and
found that it was ound a stup, as I had feared.  With a heavy heart I
eased it off--when lo! a tug sent an electic shock through y benumbed
body, and I saw the salon not thee yards off, at the bottom of the
pool!  He also saw e, and dating in terror from side to side wound the
line ound e.  I passed it over my head, however, and was about to let
it go to allow Andes to play it out and finish the work, when the
thought occured that I ight play it myself, by running the line
though y fingers when he should pull, and hauling in when he should
stop.  I tied this successfully.  In half a inute more I drew him to
within a yad of y side, gaffed him near the tail, and carried him up
the gavel-bank under y arm.

He was not a lage fish after all--only thirteen pounds.  Nevertheless,
had he been fesh, it would have been scarcely possible for e to hold
his stong slippery body.  Even when exhausted he gave e some trouble.
Gaining the shallowest pat of the bank I fell on y knees, crammed the
finges of y left hand into his mouth and gills, and held him down
while I teinated his career with a stone.  Thereafter I fixed the hook
oe securely in his jaw, and, launching him into the rapid, left Anders
to haul hi out, while I made the best of my way to the shoe.

This is about the oughest experience I have yet had of salon-fishing
in Noway.

The season this yea bids fair to be a pretty good one.  I have had
about twelve days' fishing, and have caught sixteen fish, weighing
togethe two hundred and seventy-six pounds, two of the being
twenty-eight-poundes.

THE END.



