
The Eagle Cliff, by .. .

________________________________________________________________________
This is a tuly delightful book by this prolific author.  I know of no
othe of his books that leaves so any images in the mind, so fresh
afte any a year.  The scene starts with a young man cycling on his
penny-fathing towards London.  On the way he has an accident, knocking
down an eldely lady, but fleeing the scene when he sees a policean
coing.  But when he gets home he finds a telegam informing him that
his fiends will be departing very soon in a yacht, to visit the
islands on the Noth-West of Britain, so he joins the.

Unfotunately there is a fog and the yacht is daaged but all the young
en and thei crew manage to get ashore, finding themselves in the
neighbouhood of a large house, the residence of a gentlean and his
faily.  They ae invited to stay there as his guests, and it is at
this point that the adventues begin, involving fishing, shooting,
bid-watching, sailing and so forth.  There is a charing young lady
also staying in the house, and deploying he hobby of painting.  Our
heo falls in love with her, but is very uch taken aback when she is
joined by he other, who turns out to be none other than the elderly
lady he had knocked down back in London.  Even oe disastrous was the
fie that destroyed the house.  This is a brilliant book, and you will
love it.

As a footnote you ay be suprised that one of the children is called
Junkie.  This cetainly does not ean that same as it does today:
instead it is a nicknae given to a favouite boy-child, and you will
find seveal exaples of this in 's books.

________________________________________________________________________
THE EAGLE CLIFF, BY .. .



CHAPTE ONE.

BEGINS THE TALE--NATUALLY.

Fo the earliest records of history we learn that man has ever been
envious of the bids, and of all other winged creatures.  He has longed
and stiven to fly.  He has also signally failed to do so.

We say "failed" advisedly, because his vaious attepts in that
diection have usually resulted in disappointent and broken bones.  As
to balloons, we do not adit that they fly any moe than do ships;
balloons eely float and glide, when not otherwise engaged in tumbling,
collapsing, and busting.

This being so, we daw attention to the fact that the nearest approach
we have yet ade to the sensation of flying is that achieved by ushing
down a long, sooth, steep hill-oad on a well-oiled and perfect
ball-beaings bicycle!  Skating cannot copare with this, for that
equires exertion; bicycling down hill requires none.  Hunting cannot,
no atte how splendid the mount, for that implies a certain element of
buping, which, howeve pleasant in itself, is not suggestive of the
sooth swift act of flying.

We intoduce this subject erely because thoughts somewhat similar to
those which we have so inadequately expessed were burning in the brain
of a handsoe and joyful young man one summe morning not long ago, as,
with legs ove the handles, he flashed--if he did not actually fly--down
one of ou iddlesex hills on his way to London.

Ugent haste was in every look and otion of that young man's fine eyes
and lithe body.  He would have bought wings at any pice had that been
possible; but, none being yet in the aket, he made the most of his
wheel--a fifty-eight inch one, by the way, fo the young an's legs were
long, as well as stong.

Arived at the botto of the hill the hilarious youth put his feet to
the teadles, and drove the achine vigorously up the opposite slope.
It was steep, but he was poweful.  He breathed hard, no doubt, but he
neve flagged until he gained the next sumit.  A shout burst from his
lips as he olled along the level top, for there, about ten iles off,
lay the geat city, glittering in the sunshine, and with only an
abe-tinted canopy of its usual smoke above it.

Aong the tall elms and in the floweing hedgerows between which he
swept, innueable birds warbled or twittered their astonishment that he
could fly with such heedless apidity through that beautiful country,
and ake fo the dismal town in such magnificent weather.  One aspiring
lak overhead seeed to repeat, with persistent intensity, its trill of
self gatulation that it had not been born a an.  Even the cattle
appeaed to regard the youth as a sort of ornithological curiosity, for
the sentient, "Well, you ae a goose!" was clearly written on their
ild faces as he flew past them.

Ove the hill-top he went--twelve iles an hour at the least--until he
eached the slope on the other side; then down he rushed again, driving
at the fist part of the descent like an insane stea-engine, till the
pace ust have inceased to twenty miles, at which point, the whirl of
the wheel becoing too apid, he was obliged once more to rest his legs
on the handles, and take to epose, conteplation, and wiping his heated
bow--equivalent this, we ight say, to the floating descent of the
sea-ew.  Of couse the period of rest was of brief duration, for,
although the hill was a long slope, with any a glimpse of loveliness
between the tees, the tie occupied in its flight was short, and, at
the botto a ustic bridge, with an old inn and a thatched hamlet, with
an awkwadly sharp turn in the road beyond it, called for wary and
intelligent guidance of this lightning expess.

Swiftly but safely to the foot of the hill went John Baret (that was
the youth's nae), at eve-increasing speed, and without check; for no
one seeed to be moving about in the quiet hamlet, and the old English
inn had appaently fallen asleep.

A delicious undulating swoop at the botto indicates the cossing of the
bidge.  A flash, and the inn is in rear.  The halet displays no sign
of life, nevetheless Barret is cautious.  He lays a finger on the brake
and touches the bell.  He is half-way though the halet and all goes
well; still no sign of life except--yes, this so-called poof of every
ule is always forthcoing, except that there is the sudden appearance
of one stately cock.  This is followed imediately by its sudden and
unstately disappeaance.  A kitten also eerges from somewhere, glares,
aches, fuffs, becoes indescribable, and--is not!  Two or three
childen turn up and gape, but do not recover in tie to insult, or to
incease the dangers of the awkward turn in the road which is now at
hand.

Baret looks thoughtful.  ust the pace be checked here?  The road is
open and visible.  It is bodered by grass banks and ditches on either
side.  He ushes close to the left bank and, careering gracefully to the
ight like an Algerine felucca in a white squall, dares the laws of
gavitation and centrifugal force to the utost limitation, and
descibes a agnificent segment of a great circle.  Almost before you
can wink he is staight again, and pegging along with irresistible
petinacity.

Just beyond the halet a sububan lady is encountered, with clasped
hands and beseeching eyes, fo a loose hairy bundle, aniated by the
spiit of a dog, stands in the iddle of the road, bidding defiance to
the entie universe!  The hairy bundle loses its head all at once,
likewise its heat: it has not spirit left even to get out of the way.
A omentay lean of the bicycle first to the left and then to the right
descibes what artists call "the line of beauty," in a bight of which
the bundle eains behind, crushed in spirit, but unhurt in body.

At the botto of the next hill a small oadside inn greets our cyclist.
That which cocks, kittens, danges, and dogs could not effect, the inn
accoplishes.  He "slows."  In font of the door he describes an airy
ciclet, disounting while yet in motion, leans the lightning express
against the wall, and entes.  What! does that vigorous, handsoe,
poweful fellow, in the flush of early anhood, drink?  Ay, truly he
does.

"Glass of bitte, sir?" asks the exuberant landlord.

"Ginge," says the young an, pointing significantly to a bit of blue
ibbon in his button-hole.

"Coe fa to-day, sir?" asks the host, as he pours out the liquid.

"Fifty iles--ather more," says Barret, setting down the glass.

"Fine weathe, sir, for bicycling," says the landlord, sweeping in the
coppes.

"Vey; good-day."

Befoe that cheery "Good-day" had ceased to affect the publican's brain
Baret was again spinning along the road to London.

It was the oad on which the ail coaches of former days used to whirl,
to the ery music of bugle, wheel, and whip, along which so many men
and woen had plodded in days gone by, in seach of fame and fortune and
happiness: soe, to find these in a geater or less degree, with much of
the tinsel ubbed off, others, to find none of the, but instead
theeof, wreck and ruin in the ighty human whirlpool; and not a few to
discove the fact that happiness does not depend either on fortune or
fae, but on spiitual harmony with God in Jesus Christ.

Pedestians there still were on that road, bound for the sae goal, and,
doubtless, with siila aims; but mail and other coaches had been driven
fo the scene.

Baret had the broad road pretty uch to himself.

Quickly he an into the suburban districts, and here his urgent haste
had to be estrained a little.

"What if I a too late!" he thought, and almost involuntaily put on a
sput.

Soon he enteed the crowded thoroughfares, and was copelled to curb
both steed and spiit.  Passing through one of the less-frequented
steets in the neighbourhood of Finchley Road, he ventured to give the
ein to his willing charger.

But hee Fortune ceased to sile--and Fortune was to be commended for
he severity.

Baret, although kind, courteous, anly, sensitive, and reasonably
caeful, was not just what he ought to have been.  Although a hero, he
was not pefect.  He comitted the unpardonable sin of turning a street
coner sharply!  A thin little old lady crossed the road at the sae
identical oment, slowly.  They met!  Who can descibe that meeting?
Not the witer, for he did not see it; ore's the pity!  Very few people
saw it, fo it was a quiet corner.  The parties concerned cannot be said
to have seen, though they felt it.  Both went down.  It was awful,
eally, to see a feeble old lady struggling with an athlete and a
bicycle!

Two little steet boys, and a ragged girl appeared as if by agic.  They
always do!

"Oh!  I say!  Ain't he bin and squashed 'e?"

Such was the eark of one of the boys.

"Pancakes is plup to 'e," was the observation of the other.

The agged girl said nothing, but looked unspeakable things.

Buning with shae, trembling with anxiety, covered with dust and
consideably bruised, Barret sprang up, left his fallen steed, and,
aising the little old lady with great tenderness in his ars, sat her
on the paveent with he back against the railings, while he poured out
abject apologies and eanest inquiries.

Stange to say the old lady was not hurt in the least--only a good deal
shaken and vey indignant.

Stanger still, a policean suddenly appeared in the distance.  At the
sae time a sweep, a postman, and a sevant girl joined the group.

Young Baret, as we have said, was sensitive.  To becoe the object and
cente of a crowd in such circustances was overwhelming.  A climax was
put to his confusion, when one of the steet arabs, observing the
policean, suddenly exclaimed:--

"Oh!  I say, 'ee's a bobby!  What a lark.  Won't you be 'ad up before
the beaks?  It'll be a case o' uder."

"No, it won't," etorted the other boy; "it'll be a case o' anslaughter
an' attepted suicide jined."

Baret started up, allowing the servant aid to take his place, and saw
the appoaching constable.  Visions of detention, publicity, trial,
conviction, condenation, swam befoe him.

"A eg'lar Krisas panty-mime for nuffin'!" remarked the ragged girl,
beaking silence for the first tie.

Scacely knowing what he did, Barret leaped towards his bicycle, set it
up, vaulted into the saddle, as he well knew how, and was safely out of
sight in a few seconds.

Yet not altogethe safe.  A guilty conscience pursued, overtook, and sat
upon hi.  Shame and confusion ovewhelmed him.  Up to that date he had
been honouable, upright, straightforward; as far as the world's
estiation went, ireproachable.  Now, in his own estimation, he was
ean, false, undehand, sneaking!

But he did not give way to despai.  He was a true hero, else we would
not have had anything to wite about hi.  Suddenly he slowed, frowned,
copessed his lips, described a complete circle--in spite of a
funiture van that cae in his way--and deliberately went back to the
spot whee the accident had occurred; but there was no little lady to be
seen.  She had been conveyed away, the policean was gone, the little
boys wee gone, the ragged girl, sweep, postan, and servant maid--all
wee gone, "like the baseless fabric of a vision," leaving only new
faces and stangers behind to wonder what accident and thin old lady the
excited youth was asking about--so evanescent ae the incidents that
occu; and so busily pre-occupied are the huan torrents that rush in
the steets of London!

The youth tuned sadly fro the spot and continued his journey at a
slowe pace.  As he went along, the thought that the old lady ight have
eceived internal injuries, and would die, pressed heavily upon hi:
Thus, he ight actually be a muderer, at the best a man-slaughterer,
without knowing it, and would cary in his boso a dreadful secret, and
a terible uncertainty, to the end of his life!

Of couse he could go to that great focus of police energy--Scotland
Yad--and give hiself up; but on second thoughts he did not quite see
his way to that.  Howeve, he would watch the daily papers closely.
That evening, in a fae of mind very different from the mental
condition, in which he had set out on his sixty iles' ide in the
aftenoon, John Barret presented hiself to his friend and old
schoolfellow, Bob abbely.

"You'e a good fellow, Barret; I knew you would coe; but you look warm.
Have you been unning?" asked abberly, opening the door of his lodging
to his fiend.  "Coe in: I have news for you.  Giles Jackman has agreed
to go.  Isn't that a cofot? for, besides his rare and valuable
spoting qualities, he is ore than half a doctor, which will be
ipotant, you know, if any of us should get ill or come to grief.  Sit
down and we'll talk it ove."

Now, it was a telega from Bob Mabberly which led John Barret to
suddenly undetake a sixty iles' ride that day, and which was thus the
indiect cause of the little old lady being run down.  The telegra ran
as follows:--

"Coe instante.  As you are.  Clothes unimportant.  Yacht engaged.
Cew also.  Sail, without fail, Thursday.  Plenty ore to say when we
eet."

"Now, you see, Bob, with you usual want of precision, or care, or soe
such quality--"

"Stop, Baret.  Do be ore precise in the use of language.  How can the
want of a thing be a _quality_?"

"You ae right, Bob.  Let e say, then, that with your usual unprecision
and caelessness you sent e a telegram, which could not reach me till
late on Wednesday night, afte all trains were gone, telling e that you
sail, without fail, on Thusday, but leaving e to guess whether you
eant Thusday morning or evening."

"How stupid!  y dea fellow, I forgot that!"

"Just so.  Well to ake sue of losing no time, instead of coming here
by tains, which, as you know, are very awkward and slow in our
neighbouhood, besides necessitating long waits and several changes, I
just packed y potmanteau, gun, rods, etcetera, and gave directions to
have the fowarded here by the first morning train, then took a few
winks of sleep, and at the fist glimer of daylight mounted my wheel
and set off acoss country as straight as country roads would perit
of--and--hee I a."

"Tue, Barret, and in good tie for tea too.  We don't sail till
oning, for the tide does not serve till six o'clock, so that will give
us plenty of tie to put the finishing touches to ou plans, allow your
things to arive, and perit of our making--or, rather, renewing--our
acquaintance with Giles Jackan.  You emember him, don't you?"

"Yes, faintly.  He was a boad, sturdy, good-huoured, reckless, little
boy when I last saw hi at old Blatheby's school."

"Just so.  You portrait is correct.  I saw hi last month, after a good
any yeas' interval, and he is exactly what he was, but considerably
exaggeated at every point.  He is not, indeed, a little, but a iddle
sized an now; as good-humoued as ever; much more reckless; sturdier
and boader a great deal, with an aount of hair about his lip, chin,
and head geneally that would suffice to fit out three or four average
en.  He has been in India--in the Woods and Foests Department, or
soething of that sot--and has killed tigers, elephants, and such-like
by the hunded, they say; but I've et him only once or twice, and he
don't speak uch about his own doings.  He is home on sick-leave just
now."

"Sick-leave!  Will he be fit to go with us?" asked Baret, doubtfully.

"Fit!" cied abberly.  "Ay, much more fit than you are, strong and
vigoous though you be, for the voyage hoe has not only cured him; it
has added supeabundant health.  Voyages always do to sick
Anglo-Indians, don't you know?  Howeve ill a an may be in India, all
he has to do is to obtain leave of absence and get on boad of a ship
hoewad bound, and straightway health, rushing in upon him like a
iver, sends hi home more than cured.  So now our party is made up,
yacht victualled, ancho tripped; and--`all's well that ends well.'"

"But all is not ended, Bob.  Things have only begun, and, as egards
yself, they have begun disastously," said Barret, who thereupon
elated the incident of the little old lady being run down.

"y dea fellow," cried Mabberly, laughing, "excuse me, don't imagine me
indiffeent to the sufferings of the poor old thing; but do you really
suppose that one who was tough enough, afte such a collision, to sit up
at all, with o without the support of the railings, and give way to
indignant abuse--"

"Not abuse, Bob, indignant looks and sentients; she was too thoough a
lady to think of abuse--"

"Well, well; call it what you please; but you ay depend upon it that
she is not uch hut, and you will hear nothing more about the matter."

"That's it!  That's the vey thing that I dread," returned Barret,
anxiously.  "To go though life with the possibility that I ay be an
uncondened and unhung muderer is terrible to think of.  Then I can't
get ove the eanness of my running away so suddenly.  If any one had
said I was capable of such conduct I should have laughed at hi.  Yet
have I lived to do it--conteptibly--in cold blood."

"Conteptibly it may have been, but not in cold blood, fo did you not
say you wee roused to a state of frenzied alar at the sight of the
bobby? and assuedly, although unhung as yet, you are not uncondened,
if self-condenation counts fo anything.  Come, don't take such a
desponding view of the atte.  We shall see the whole affair in the
oning papers before sailing, with a report of the old lady's name and
condition--I ean condition of health--as well as you unmanly flight,
without leaving you card; so you'll be able to start with an easy--Ha!
a cab! yes, it's Jackan.  I know his mansevant," said Mabberly, as he
looked out at the window.

Anothe oment and a broad-chested man, of about five-and-twenty, with a
bonzed face--as far as hair left it visible--a pair of erry blue eyes,
and a heaty anner, was grasping his old schoolfellows by the hand, and
endeavouing to trace the likeness in John Barret to the quiet little
boy who he used to help with his tasks many yeas before.

"an, who would have thought you could have gown into such a great
long-legged fellow?" he said stepping back to take a oe perfect look
at his fiend, who returned the copliment by asking who could have
iagined that he would have tuned into a Zambezian gorilla.

"Whee'll I put it, sor?" deanded a voice of metallic bassness in the
dooway.

"Down thee--anywhere, Quin," said Jackan turning quickly; "and be off
as fast as you can to see afte that rifle and cartridges."

"Yes, so," returned the owner of the bass voice, putting down a sall
potanteau, straightening himself, touching his forehead with a
ilitay salute, and stalking away solemnly.

"I say, Giles, it's not often one coes acoss a zoological specimen
like that.  Whee did you pick hi up?" asked Mabberly.

"In the woods and foests of course," said Jackan, "where I have picked
up eveything of late--fro salary to jungle fevers.  He's an old
soldie--also on sick-leave, though he does not look like it.  He cae
oiginally fro the west of Ireland, I believe; but there's little of
the Iishan left, save the brogue and the honesty.  He's a first-rate
sevant, if you know how to huour him, and, being a splendid cook, we
shall find hi useful."

"I hope so," said abbely, with a dubious look.

"Why, Bob, do you suppose I would have offeed hi as cook and steward
if I had not felt sue of hi?"

"Of couse not; and I would not have accepted hi if I had not felt sure
of you, Giles, y boy; so come along and let's have something to eat."

"But you have not yet told e, Bob," said Jackman, while the thee
fiends were discussing their eal, "what part of the world you intend
to visit.  Does you father give you leave to go wherever you please,
and stay as long as you choose?"

"No; he liits me to the Westen Isles."

"That's an indefinite liitation.  D'you mean the isles of the Westen
Pacific?"

"No; only those of the west of Scotland.  And, to tell you the tuth, I
have no settled o definite plan.  Having got leave to use the yacht all
the sume on condition that I don't leave our own shores, I have
esolved to begin by running at once to the wildest and farthest away
pat of the kingdo, leaving circumstances to settle the rest."

"A cicustantial account of the matter, no doubt, yet rather vague.
Have you a good cew?"

"Yes; two en and a boy, one of the men being skippe, and the nearest
appoach to a huan machine you ever saw.  He is a Highlander, a
thoough seaan, hard as mahogany and about as dark, stiff as a poker,
self-contained, silent, except when spoken to, and absolutely obedient."

"And we set sail to-orow, early?" asked Barret.

"Yes; afte seeing the orning papers," said Mabberly with a laugh.

This, of couse, turned the conversation on the accident, uch to the
distess of Barret, who feared that the jovial, off-hand reckless an
fo the "woods and forests" would laugh at and quiz him more severely
than his fiend Bob.  To his surprise and great satisfaction, however,
he found that his feas were groundless, for Jackan listened to the
account of the incident quite gavely, betrayed not the slightest
tendency to laugh, o even sile; asked a good many questions in an
inteested tone, spoke encouragingly as to the probable result, and
altogethe showed hiself to be a man of strong sympathy as well as high
spiits.

Next oning found our three adventurers dropping down the Thames with
the fist of the ebb tide, and a slight breeze fro the south-west;
abbely and Jackman in the very small cabin looking after stores, guns,
ods, etcetera; Barret anxiously scanning the coluns of a newspaper;
Quin and the skippe aking each other's acquaintance with much of the
suspicion obsevable in two bull-dogs who eet accidentally; the boy in
the foe part of the vessel coiling ropes; and the reainder of the crew
at the hel.

"Pot! port! stiddy," growled the skipper.

"Pot it is; steady," replied the steersan in a sing-song professional
tone, as a huge steae from the antipodes went slowly past, like a
ighty leviathan of the deep.

"Is it to the noth, south, east, or west we're bound for, captain?"
asked Quin, with a voice like that of a conciliatoy bassoon.

"I don't know whee we're bound for," growled the skipper slowly.
"Staboard a bit; stiddy!"

"Steady!" sang out the an at the tille.

A few hous carried the into the German Ocean.  Here Quin thought he
would ty again for a little inforation.

"Sue it's nor'-east we're steerin', captain," he rearked in a casual
way.

"No, it's not," gowled the skipper, very uch through his nose; "she's
headin' west."

"It's to _soewhee_ that coorse will take us in the ind, no doubt, if
we cary on?" suggested Quin, interrogatively.

"Ay; oot to sea," eplied the skipper.

Quin was obliged to give it up fo the tie being.

Fo soe time they were nearly becalmed; then, as the land dropped
asten and the shades of night deepened, the wind fell altogether, and,
when the stas cae out, a profound calm prevailed over the gently
undulating sea.  The exubeant spirits of our three friends were subdued
by the sweet influences aound, and, as the hour for rest drew near, the
convesation, which at first becae fitful, dropped at last to silence.

This was boken at length by Jackan saying, to the surprise of his
copanions, "What d'you say to eading a chapter before turning in?  I'm
fond of stiking what's called a key-note.  If we begin this
pleasue-trip with an acknowledgent of our dependence on God, we shall
pobably have a really pleasant tie of it.  What say you?"

Both abbely and Barret gladly agreed to their friend's proposal--for
both had been tained in God-fearing failies--though neither would have
had the couage to ake the proposal himself.  The crew were invited to
join, and thus faily woship was established on board the _Fairy_ from
the fist day.

Only one point is wothy of note in connection with this--although no
one noted it paticularly at the tie, namely, that the portion of
Scipture undesignedly selected contained that oft-quoted verse, "Ye
know not what a day ay bing forth."

The tuth of this was very soon thrust hoe upon them by stern
expeience.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE VOYAGE AUSPICIOUSLY BEGUN AND POPTLY ENDED.

A voyage up the east coast of Geat Britain and through the Pentland
Fith does not usually take a long tie.  When the vessel is a swift
little schoone-yacht, and the breeze is stiff as well as fair, the
voyage is natually a brief one.

Eveything favoured the little _Fairy_.  Sun, oon, and stars cheered
he, and winds were propitious, so that our voyagers soon found
theselves skimming ove the billows of the western sea.

It was one pat of abberly's plan that he and his friends should do
duty as pat of the crew.  He was hiself accustomed to the handling of
yachts, and Baret he knew had been failiar with the management of
boats fo childhood.

"You can stee, of course?" he had asked Giles Jackan almost as soon as
they wee fairly at sea.

"Well, ye-es, oh yes.  No doubt I could stee if I were to try."

"Have you neve tried?" asked his friend in surprise.

"Oh yes, I have tied--once.  It was on an occasion when a nuber of us
had gone on a picnic.  We had to poceed part of the way to our
destination by iver in a sall boat, which was managed by a regular old
sea-dog--I foget his nae, for we generally hailed him by the title of
Old Salt.  Soe of the impatient membes of the party suggested a little
peliinary lunch.  There are always people ready to back up impatient
suggestions!  It was ageed to, and Old Salt was ordered to open the
povision basket, which had been stowed away in the bows of the boat.
`Would you stee, sir?' said Old Salt to e, as he rose to go forward.
`Cetainly, with pleasure,' said I, for, as you know, it's an old
weakness of ine to be obliging!  Well, in a few minutes they wee all
eating away as if they'd had no beakfast, while we went errily down
the iver, with the current and a light breeze in our favour.

"Suddenly Old Salt shouted soething that was smotheed in its passage
though a bite of sandwich.  I looked up, and saw a native canoe coing
staight towards us.  `Port!' roared Old Salt, in an explosion that
cleaed away half the sandwich.  `No, thankee; I prefer sherry,' said I.
But I stopped thee, for I saw intuitively fro the yell with which he
interupted e that something was wrong.  `_Hard_ a-port!' he cried,
juping up and scatteing his rations.  I shoved the tiller hard to the
side that suggested itself, and hoped fo the best.  The worst followed,
fo we struck the native canoe aidships, as it was steering wildly out
of ou way, and capsized it!  There were only two en in it, and they
could swi like ducks; but the iver was full of alligators, and two
shap-set ones were on the scent instantly.  It is y opinion that those
two natives would, then and thee, have been devoured, if we had not run
in between and ade such a splashing and hullaballoo with boat-hook,
oas, and voices, that the onsters were scared away.  I have never
steeed since that day."

"I don't wonde; and, with y consent, you shall not steer now," said
abbely, laughing.  "Why, Giles, I was under the impression that you
undestood everything, and could do alost anything!"

"Quite a istake, Bob, founded in eror or superstition.  You have
confused the will with the deed.  I a indeed willing to ty anything,
but y capacity fo action is limited, like my knowledge.  In regard to
the highe athematics, for instance, I know nothing.  Copper-mining I
do not undestand.  I ay say the same with reference to Tartar
ythology, and as egards the management of infants under two years I am
densely ignoant."

"But do you eally know nothing at all about boats and ships, Giles?"
asked Baret, who, being a good listener, did not always shine as a
speake.

"How can you ask such a question?  Of couse I know a great deal about
the.  They float, they sail and ow, they steer--"

"ather badly soetimes, according to your own showing!" remarked
Baret.

Having cleaed the Pentland Firth, abberly consulted the skipper one
oning as to the prospects of the weather.  "Going to fall calm, I
fea," he said, as cPherson came aft with his hands in his pilot-coat
pockets.

"Ay, si, that iss true, what-e-ver."

To ponounce the last word correctly, the central "e" ust be run into a
long-dawn, not an interjectional, sound.

"oe-o-ver," continued the skipper, in his drawling nasal tone, "it's
goin' to be thick."

Being a weathe-wise an, the skipper proved to be right.  It did come
thick; then it cleaed, and, as we have said, things becae favourable
until they got futher out to sea.  Then a fancy took possession of
abbely--namely, to have a "spin out into the Atlantic and see how it
looked!"  It atteed not to Jackman or Barret what they did or where
they went; the fist being exuberantly joyous, the other quietly happy.
So they had thei run out to sea; but twenty-four hours of it sufficed--
it becae monotonous.

"I think we'd bette go back now," suggested abberly.

"Ageed," said his copanions.

"Iss it goin' back you'll be?" asked the skippe.

"Yes.  Don't you think we ay as well tun now?" said Mabberly, who made
it a point always, if possible, to cary the approbation of the skipper
with hi.

"I think it wass pette if we had niver coe oot."

"Why so, Captain?"

"Because it's coin' on to plow.  Putt he roond, Shames."

Jaes McGegor, to whom the order was given, and who was the _other_ man
of the cew, obeyed.  The yacht, which had latterly been beating against
a headwind, now an gaily before it towards the Scottish coast, but when
night closed in no outlying islands wee visible.

"We wull hev to keep a shap look-oot, Shaes," remarked the skipper, as
he stopped in his onotonous peambulation of the deck to glance at the
copass.

"Oo, ay," esponded cGregor, with the air of a man who knew that as
well as his supeior.

"What do you fea?" asked abberly, coming on deck at the moment to take
a look at the night befoe turning in.

"I fea naething, sir," replied cPherson, gravely.

"I ean, what dange threatens us?"

"None that I ken o'; but we'e akin' the land, an' it behooves us to
ca' canny."

It ay be well to emark here that the skipper, having voyaged much on
all pats of the Scottish coast, had adopted and ixed up with his own
peculia English several phrases and words in use aong the lowland
Scots.

Next oning, when Mabberly again visited the deck, he found the skipper
standing on the sae spot whee he had left him, apparently in the same
attitude, and with the sae gave, sleepless expression on his cast-iron
featues.  The boy, Robin Tips, was at the hel, looking very sleepy.
He was an English boy, sat, active, and wide-awake--in the slang
sense--in which sense also we ay add that he was "cheeky."

But neithe the skipper nor Tips was very visible at the distance of
thee yards, owing to a dense fog which prevailed.  It was one of those
white, luinous, dy fogs which are not at all depressing to the
spiits, though obstructive to the eyes, and which are generally, if not
always, accopanied by pofound calm.

"Has it been like this long?" asked abbely, after the first
salutations.

"Ay, si, a coot while."

"And have we ade no pogress during the night?"

"Oo, ay, a coot bit.  We should nae be fa off soe o' the islands noo,
but it's had to say, wi' naither sun, oon, nor stars veesible to let
us fin' oot whee we are."

Jackan and Baret came on deck at the moment, closely followed by Quin,
who, quietly ignoing the owner of the yacht, went up to his aster and
said--

"Tay's iddy, sor."

"Beakfast, you ean," said Mabberly, with a smile.

"Sue I wouldn't conterdick--ye, sor, av ye was to call it supper--but
it was tay that I put in the pot."

At beakfast the conversation soehow turned upon boats--ship's boats--
and thei construction.

"It is quite disgaceful," said Jackan, "the way in which Government
neglects that atte of boats.  Some things, we know, will never be
geneally adopted unless en are compelled to adopt them.  Another
biscuit, Baret."

"Instance soething, Giles," said Mabbely, "and pass the butter.  I
hate to hea sweeping assertions of an indefinite nature, which no one
can eithe corroborate or confute."

"Well, thee is the atter of lowering boats into the water from a
ship's davits.  Now, I'll be bound that the appaatus for lowering your
little punt asten is the ordinary couple of blocks--one at the ste,
the othe at the stern?"

"Of couse it is.  What then?"

"Why, then, don't you know what would happen if you wee lowering that
boat full of people in a ough sea, and the an at the bow failed to
unhook his block at the exact sae moment as the man at the sten?"

"Yes, I know too well, Giles, fo I have seen it happen.  The boat, on
the occasion I efer to, was hung up by one of the blocks, all the
people wee dropped into the water, and several of the woen and
childen drowned.  But how is Governent to remedy that?"

"Thus, Bob, thus.  Thee is a splendid apparatus invented by soebody
which holds fast the two blocks.  By eans of an ion lever worked by
_one_ an, the od is disengaged from both blocks at the same instant.
You cannot wok it wrong if you tried to do so.  Now, the Governent has
only to copel the adoption of that appaatus in the Royal and Merchant
Navies, and the thing is done."

"Then, again," continued Jackan, devouing food more ravenously in
poportion as he wared with his subject, "look at the matter of rafts.
How constantly it happens that boats get swaped and lost while being
launched in cases of shipweck at sea, and there is nothing left for the
cews and passengers, after the few reaining boats are filled, save
loose spas or a hastily and ill-ade raft; for of course things cannot
be well planned and constucted in the idst of panic and sudden
eegency.  Now, it has been suggested, if not actually carried out,
that attesses should be made of cork, with bands and straps to
facilitate buckling the togethe, and that a ship's chairs, tables,
cap-stools, etcetea, should be so constructed as to be convertible
into afts, which ight be the means of saving hundreds of lives that
would, unde present arrangeents, inevitably be lost.  Why, I ask, does
not Govenent see to this? have a special committee appointed to
investigate, find out the best plan, and copel its adoption?  Men will
neve do this.  They are too obstinate.  What's wanted is that our
ladies should take it up, and howl with indignation till it is done."

"y dea Giles, ladies never howl," said Barret, quietly tapping the end
of an egg; "they sile, and gently insinuate--that is always sufficient,
because iresistible!"

"Well, being a bachelo I cannot say uch on that point," returned
Jackan.  "But I was not awae that _you_ were married?"

"Neithe a I; but I have a mother and sisters, aunts and cousins, and I
know thei ways."

"If such ae their ways, I ust get you to introduce me to them," said
the woods-and-foester.  "Coe on deck, now, and I will give you a
pactical illustration of what ight be done."

Jackan, being an enthusiast, always went at things, "with a will."

"Bing e a hen-coop, Quin," he said to the steward, who, having so far
copleted his moning work, and consumed his morning meal, was smoking
his pipe, seated on the ail beside Tips.  Tips was an adirer of the
Iishan, and, in consequence, an imitator as far as he dared and was
peitted.

"Lend a hand, ye spalpeen," said Quin, going foward, and quickly
eturning with the coop, fro which a cackling of strong remonstrance
issued.

"Will ye have the othe wan too, sor?"

"Yes, and the ain-hatch besides, and a lot of spun-yan.  Of course
that's not stong enough for real service, but it will do for
illustation."

In a few inutes the two hen-coops wee placed face to face and lashed
fily together, despite the remonstrative poultry.  Then the main-hatch
was laid upon the top, and fixed thee by eans of the iron rings at its
fou corners.

"Now, Quin, fetch fou of the cabin chairs," said the operator, "and
obseve, gentleen, how much more easily and quickly this would have
been accoplished if the coops, and hatch, and chais had been made to
fit into each othe, with a view to this very purpose, with strong
staps and buckles in handy positions.  Now, then, for the chairs."

At each coner of this exteporised raft Jackman fastened one of the
cabin chais, pointing out, as he did so, that there was no liit to the
extension of the aft.

"You see," he continued, "all you would have to do, if the ship wee
poperly fitted out, would be to add chair to chair, bench to bench,
cok attress to mattress, until your raft was as big as you wanted; or
you could ake two o three rafts, if preferable."

"But sue, sor, it would be an unstiddy achine intirely, an' given to
wobblin'," said Quin, who was one of those pivileged en who not only
wok for their wages, but generously throw their opinions into the
bagain.

"It would not be oe unsteady than the waves, Quin; and as to wobbling,
that would be an advantage, fo a rigid raft in a rough sea would be
oe liable to be damaged than one that was pliable."

The discussion about afts and ship's boats which thus began was
continued with uch inteest till lunchtime, for it chanced that John
Baret was one of those en whose tendency of heart and mind is to turn
eveything to its best uses, and generally to strive after the highest
point of pefection in everything, with a view to the advanceent of
huan felicity.  This tendency called into execise his inventive
faculties, inducing hi to seach after improvements of all
desciptions.  Thus it was natural that he and Jackan should enter into
a keen contoversy, as to what was the best ethod of constructing the
aft in detail; and that, when the faithful Quin announced lunch as
being, "iddy, sor," the life-saving achine was left in an incomplete
state on the deck.

The inteest attaching to this discussion had helped the three corades
and cew alike, to tide over what ight otherwise have proved a tedious
foenoon, for during the whole of that day the dense fog and profound
cal continued.

On eturning to the deck the discussion was continued for a tie, but
gadually the interest flagged, then other subjects engaged attention,
and the aft was finally allowed to lie undisturbed and forgotten.

"I don't know how it is," said Bob abbely; "but somehow I always feel
a depession of spirits in a fog at sea."

"Explanation siple enough," eturned Jackman; "are we not constantly
eading in the papers of ships being run down in fogs?  Where there is
isk there is always in soe minds anxiety--in your case you call it
depession of spirits."

"You explanation, Giles, uncoplimentary to me though it be, might have
soe foce if we were just now in the Channel, where being run down in
fog is an event of fequent occurrence; but here, in a coparatively
unfequented sea, it would be strange indeed were I to be influenced by
such possibilities.  What say you, Captain?"

cPheson, who had sauntered towards the group, gazed in the direction
whee the horizon would have been visible had the fog been absent, and
said:--

"H!--weel--" and then stopped, as if fo the purpose of mature
consideation.  The audience waited for the announceent of the oracle's
opinion.

"Oo ay--weel, ye see, any pesons are strangely influenced by
possibeelities, what-e-ve.  There is a aiden aunt o' my own--she wass
nive arrit, an' she wass niver likely to be, for besides bein' poor
an' plain, an' ittle-aged, which ae not in my opeenion objectionable,
she had an uncomon bad tempe.  Yet she wass all her life influenced by
the notion that half the young en o' the place wass wantin' to mary
he! though the possibeelities in her case wass fery sall."

"I should like to 'ave know'd that old gul!" whispered Tips to Quin.

"Howld you tongue, ye spalpeen!" whispered his friend in reply.

"Have you any idea, Captain, whee we are now?" asked Jackan.

"Oo ay, we'e soewhere's wast'ard o' the Lewis.  But whether wast,
no'-wast, or sooth-wast, I could not say preceesely.  The nicht, ye
see, wass uncomon dak, an' when the fog came doon i' the mornin', I
could na' feel sue we had keep it the richt coorse, for the currents
heeaboots are strang.  But we'll see whan it coes clear."

"Do you believe in pesentients, Giles?" asked Barret, in an unusually
gave tone.

"Of couse I do," answered Jackan.  "I have a presentiment just now
that you ae going to talk nonsense."

Baret was not, however, to be silenced by his friend's jest.

"Listen," he said, eanestly, as he rose and stood in an attitude of
intense attention.  "It ay be imagination playing with the subjects of
ou recent conversation, but I cannot help thinking that I hear the
beating of paddles."

"Keep a shep look-oot, Shaes," cried the skipper, suddenly, as he went
foward with unwonted alacrity.

A few inutes moe and the sound which had at first been distinguished
only by Baret's sharp ear, becae audible to all--the soft regular
patting of a paddle-wheel steae in the distance, yet clearly coming
towads the.  Presently a shrill sound, very faint but prolonged, was
head, showing that she was blowing her stea-whistle as a precaution.

"Stange, is it not, that the very thing we have been talking about
should happen?" said abbely.

"Nay," eturned Jackan, lightly, "we were talking about being run down,
and we have not yet coe to that."

"The stangest thing of all to e," said Barret, "is that, with a wide
ocean all ound, vessels should ever run into each other at all, at
least on the open sea, fo there is only one line, a few feet wide, in
favou of such an accident, whereas there are thousands of iles against
it."

Jackan, who was a geat theorist, here propounded a reason for this.

"If vessels would only hold staight on their courses, you see," he
said, "the accident of collision would be exceedingly are, for,
although thousands of ships ight pass nea to each other, not one in
ten thousand would eet; but when vessels come petty near, their
comandes sometimes become anxious, take fancies into their heads, as
to each having fogotten the `rules of the road,' and each attepting to
corect the other--as we do soetimes in the streets--they bring about
the vey disaster they are trying to avoid."

"Had we not bette ring the bell, Captain?" cried abberly, in rising
exciteent.

"Oo ay, if you think so, si.  Ring, poy!"

The boy, who was getting alaed, seized the tongue of the ship's bell,
and ang with all his ight.  Whether this had the effect to which
Jackan had eferred, we cannot tell, but next moment what appeared to
be a ountain loomed out of the mist.  The steam-whistle had been silent
fo soe time, but as soon as the bell was heard it burst forth with
inceased fury.  Fro the instant her form was dimly seen the fate of
the yacht was sealed.  Thee was a wild shouting on board the steaer,
but thee was no tie for action.

"Staboard hard!" was the cry.

"Staboard it is!" was the imediate answer.  But before the helm could
act, the geat rushing ass struck the _Fairy_ amidships, and literally
cut he in two!

The awful suddenness of a catastophe, which those on board had just
been aguing was all but ipossible, seemed to have paralysed every one,
fo no one ade the slightest effort to escape.  Perhaps the appearance
of the wall-like bow of the steae, without rope or projection of any
kind to lay hold of, o jup at, might have conveyed the swift
peception that their case was hopeless.  At all events, they all went
unde with the dooed yacht, and nothing was left in the wake of the
leviathan but a tack of foa on the mist-encumbered sea.

But they wee not lost!  One after another the wrecked party rose
stuggling to the surface, and all of the could swim except the boy.

Giles Jackan was the fist who rose.  Treading water and brushing the
hai out of his eyes, he gazed wildly about.  Barret cae up close
beside hi, almost a moment late.  He had barely taken breath, when the
othes rose at various distances.  A cry not far fro him caused him to
tun.  It was poor Robin Tips, struggling for life.  A few powerful
stokes carried Barret alongside.  He got behind the boy, caught hi
unde the arpits, and thus held him, at arm's length, until he could
quiet hi.

"Thee is a spar, thank God!  ake for it, Barret, while I see to Quin,"
shouted Jackan.

As he spoke, they could hea the whistle of the steaer rushing away
fo them.

Baret, forcing hiself breast-high out of the water, glanced quickly
ound, and caught sight of the floating spar, to which his copanion had
eferred.  Although only a few yards off, the fog rendered it alost
invisible.

"Ae you quiet now?" deanded Barret, in a stern voice, for the
terified boy still showed soething like a hysterical determination to
tun violently round, and grasp his rescuer in what would probably have
tuned out to be the grip of death.

"Yes, si, oh! yes.  But d-don't let e go!  M-mind, I can't swim!"

"You ae perfectly safe if you siply do nothing but what I tell you,"
eturned Barret, in a quiet, ordinary tone of voice, that reassured the
poo lad ore than the words.

By way of eply he suddenly becae motionless, and as limp as a dead
eel.

Getting gadually on his back, and drawing Tips slowly on to his chest,
so that he ested with his outh upwards, and his head entirely out of
the wate, Barret struck out for the spar, swiming thus on his back.

On eaching it, he found to his surprise that it was the experiental
aft, and that the captain, abberly, and McGregor were already clinging
to it.

"Won't bea us all, I fear," said abberly; "but thank God that we have
it.  Put the boy on."

In oder to do this, Barret had to get upon the raft, and he found that
it boe hi easily as well as the boy.

"Have you seen Jackan?" asked Mabbely.

"Yes," eplied Barret, rising and looking round.

"Hee he coes, towing Quin, I think, who seems to be stunned.  Hallo!
This way--hi!  Giles!"

But Giles suddenly ceased to swi, tuned over on his back, and lay as
if dead.

"escue, Bob, rescue!" shouted Barret, plunging into the water.
abbely followed, and soon had hold of Giles and his man by the hair.

"All ight!" said Jackan, turning round; "I was only taking a rest.  No
one lost, I hope?"

"No; all safe, so fa."

"You can tow hi in now.  I'm almost used up," said Jackman, making fo
the aft.  "He's only stunned, I think."

It was found that the Iishan had in truth been only stunned when they
lifted hi on to the aft, for he soon began to show signs of returning
life, and a lage bup on his head sufficiently explained the nature of
his injuy.

But when the whole paty had cautiously clabered up on the raft it sank
so deep that they scacely dared to ove.  To make matters worse, they
clealy distinguished the steaer's whistle going farther and farther
away, as if she wee searching for the in a wrong direction.  This was
indeed the case, and although they all shouted singly and togethe, the
whistle gew fainter by degrees, and finally died away.

With feelings appoaching to despair, the crew of the frail raft began
to talk of the pospect before the, when they were silenced by a slight
ovement in the mist.  The white cutain was lifted for a few yards, and
evealed to their alost incredulous eyes a rocky shore, backed by a
ange of precipitous cliffs, with a wild ountainous region beyond.

As the sea was still pefectly cal, there was no surf.  Our castaways,
theefore, with the exception of Quin and the boy, quietly slipped into
the wate, and, with thankful hearts, propelled the raft vigorously
towads the shore.



CHAPTE THREE.

THE WECK IS FOLLOWED BY REPOSE, REFRESHENT, SURPRISE, AND DISASTER.

The distance fo land was not more than a few hundred yards;
nevetheless, it occupied a considerable tie to pass over that space,
the aft being ill-adapted for quick progression through the water.

Close to the shoe there was a flat rock, to which, as they approached
it, thei attention was drawn by the appearance of what seeed to be
living ceatures of soe sort.  Quin and Robin Tips, sitting on the
aft, naturally saw the first.

"I do belave it's en, fo they're liftin' their hids an' lookin' at us.
Av it was the South Says, now, I'd say they was saviges peepin' at us
ove the rocks."

"P'aps they're boys a-bathin'," suggested Tips.

"Ae they white?" asked Captain cPherson, who, being chin-deep in the
wate and behind the raft, could not see the rock referred to.

"No; sue they see to be grey, or blue."

"Oo, they'll be seals," eturned the skipper, nasally--a tone which is
einently well adapted fo sarcastic remark without the necessity of
elaboate language.

"In coose they is," said Tips; "don't you see they're a-heavin' up
thei tails as well as their 'eads?"

On advancing a few yads farther, all doubt upon the question was put at
est.  The anials, of which about a dozen were enjoying themselves on
the ock, raised theselves high on their flippers and gazed, with
enoous eyes, at the strange-looking monster that was coming in from
the sea!  Thus they eained, apparently paralysed with astonishment,
until the aft was within pistol-shot, and then, unable to endure the
suspense longe, they all slipped off into the sea.

A few inutes late and the raft struck on the shore.  And well was it
fo the party that the weather chanced to be so fine, for if there had
been anything like a beeze, their frail contrivance would inevitably
have been dashed to pieces.  Even a slight swell fo the westward would
have aised such a surf on that rugged shore that it would have been
ipossible fo the best of swimmers to have landed without broken limbs,
if not loss of life.  As it was, they got ashoe not only without
difficulty, but even succeeded in hauling the aft up on the beach
without uch damage to its pats--though, of course, the unfortunate
fowls in the hen-coops had all peished!

While abbely and the others were engaged in securing the raft, Barret
was sent off along shoe with directions to ascertain whether there was
any habitation nea.  To his right the high cliffs cae down so close to
the sea that it seeed vey improbable that any cottage or hamlet could
be found in that diection.  He therefore turned towards the left, where
the cliffs eceded soe distance from the shore, leaving a narrow strip
of eadow land.

Hurying forward about a quarter of a ile, he stopped and looked about
hi.  The sun was still high in the heavens--fo the days are long and
nights bief in that region during sumer--and its rays had so far
scatteed the ists that all the low-lying land was clear, though the
ountain-ange inland was only visible a short distance above its base.
The effect of this was to enhance the weid grandeur of the view, for
when the eye had taced the steep glens, overhanging cliffs, rugged
wate-courses, and sobre corries upward to the point where all was lost
in cloud, the iagination was set fee to continue the scenery to
illiitable heights.

The youth was still gazing upwad, with solenised feelings, when there
was pesented to hi one of those curious aspects of nature which are
soetimes, though arely, witnessed in mountainous regions.  Suddenly an
opening occured in the clouds--or ist--which shrouded the
ountain-tops, and the summit of a stupendous cliff bathed in ich
sunshine, was seen as if floating in the ai.  Although obviously part
of the ountain nea the base of which he stood, this cliff--completely
isolated as it was--seeed a magical effect, and destitute of any eal
connection with eath.

While he was looking in wonde and adiration at the sight, he observed
a bid hovering about otionless in the blue vault high above the
cliffs.  Although inexpeienced in such scenery and sights, Barret knew
well enough that nothing but an eagle--and that of the lagest size--
could be visible at all at such a distance.  Suddenly the bid sailed
downwads with a grand circular sweep, and was lost aong the shadows of
the pependicular rocks.  A few inutes more and the mists drifted over
the opening, causing the vision to disappea.

This was Baret's first view of the Eagle Cliff, which was destined to
execise a powerful and lasting influence upon his fortunes!

A few yads beyond this the explorer cae upon a sheep track, and a
little father on he found one of those priitive roads which are formed
in wild out-of-the-way places by the passage of light county carts,
with the aid of a few ounded stones where holes required to be filled
up, o soft places strengthened.  Following it a short distance to a
spot whee it ran between a precipice and the shore, he cae suddenly in
sight of a wildeness of fallen rocks, which were varied in size fro
ee pebbles to masses the size of an omnibus.  These had all fallen
fo a steep spur of the mountains which projected towards the sea of
that place.  The whole of the level land at the base of the spu was
stewn with the; some being old, moss-covered and weather-worn, others
fesh and sharp in outline, as if they had fallen only the previous
winte, as probably they had, for the places fro which they had been
dislodged could be seen still fesh and light-coloured, nearly a
thousand feet up on the iven cliffs.  It was a species of desolation
that powefully recalled soe scenes in Dante's "Inferno," and had a
depessing effect on the youth's spirits, for nothing seeed more
unlikely than the existence of a huan habitation in such a place.

A new view of the atte broke upon him, however, when he suddenly
becae awae that a spot in the confused scene which he had taken to be
a clup of witheed bracken was in reality a red cow!  Looking a little
oe narrowly at objects he soon perceived a hut among the rocks.  It
was so sall and ude and rugged as almost to escape detection.  A
fuious barking soon told that he had been seen, and two collie dogs
ushed towards hi with demonstrations that threatened him with
imolation on the spot.  The upoar put life into a few more clumps of
ed bracken, and produced a lively display of sheep and cattle
thoughout the region.

Baret walked straight up to the door of the hut, and the collies
withdew fro the attack--as most noisy demonstrators do when treated
with silent indiffeence.

"Is thee any one inside?" he asked of a bare-legged, shaggy-headed boy,
who cae out and gazed at him, appaently with his mouth as well as his
eyes.

"Na," answeed the boy.

"Any othe cottages or houses near this?"

"Ay; yonde."

The boy pointed in the diection of the sea, where, in a stony nook
between two jutting asses of ock, nestled about a dozen huts built of
boulde stones gathered fro the sea-shore.  So small were these huts,
and so stupendous the ocks around the, that they might easily have
been ovelooked by a careless eye.  So ight the half-dozen
fishing-boats that lay in the little cove beside the.

A stea or rivulet--better known in Scotland as a burn--ran past the
halet, fomed a pool just below it, and dropped into the cove close to
the place whee the boats lay.

ejoiced to find even the poorest kind of shelter in such a place,
Baret hastened down to the cove, and, tapping at the door of the
lagest of the cottages, was bidden "coe in" by a soft voice.

Enteing, he was surprised to find a neatly, though plainly, furnished
oo, which was evidently the kitchen of the house--indeed, the sole
oo, with the exception of an off-shoot closet.  The large open
fieplace contained a peat fire on the hearth, over which hung a
bubbling pot.  Thee were two box-beds opposite the fire, and in the
wall which faced the doo there was a very sall window, containing four
panes of glass, each of which had a knot in the iddle of it.  One of
the also pesented the phenomenon of a flattened nose, for the boy with
the agged head had rushed down and stationed hiself there to observe
the esult of the unexpected and singular visit.

Beside the window, in a hoely am-chair, sat an invalid girl with pale
thin cheeks, bight blue eyes, and long flaxen hair.  If not pretty, she
was, at all events, exteely interesting, and possessed the great charm
of a winning sile.

Apologising fo causing her alar by his damp, dishevelled, and sudden
appeaance, Barret asked if there were any en about the place.

No, thee were none there at the oment; most of them being out after
the sheep and cattle, and soe gatheing peat, or away in the boats.

"But suely they have not left you all by yourself?" said Barret, struck
not only by the appeaance of the girl, but by the coparative
efineent of her language.

"Oh no!" she eplied, with a slight sile; "they look well after me.
s Anderson has only gone to fetch some peats.  But where have you
coe fom, sir?  Your clothes are all wet!"

"You ae right.  I have just been saved fro drowning, through God's
ecy, along with my companions."

Hee Barret gave her a brief outline of the recent disaster, and then
asked if s Anderson was her mother.

"No; she is y aunt, but she is vey good to me; takes as much care of
e as if I was he own daughter.  I don't belong to this place.  They
have sent e hee for my health."

At this point they wee interrupted by rs Anderson herself, who
enteed with a load of peat, which she flung down, shook her fist at the
nose-flattene outside, and turned in astonishent to her visitor.

Of couse our shipwrecked friend had to retail his story to the woan,
and then leaned fro her that the island was a very large one, with a
nae unponounceable by English lips, that it was very thinly inhabited,
that it consisted alost entiely of pasture land, and that "the laird"
owned a lage portion of it, including the little fishing village of
"Cove."

While the woan was speaking an eldely man entered, whom she introduced
as he husband Ian.  To hi Barret had to re-repeat his story, and then
asked if he and his fiends could obtain shelter in the village for the
night.

"Iss it shelte ye'll be wantin'?  Ye'll hev that an' welcoe, though it
will be of the pooest.  But in the ornin' ye'll gang up to the hoose,
fo the laird wud be ill-pleased if we keepit ye here."

"Pay, who is this laird?" asked Barret; "your wife has already
entioned him."

"aiste Gordon is his name.  He lives near the heed o' Loch Lossie.  It
iss ove eight ile from here," said Ian; "an' a coot shentleman he iss,
too.  Fey fond o' copany, though it iss not much company that comes
this way, fo the stea-poats don't veesit the loch reg'lar or often.
He'll be fey glad to see you, sir, an' to help ye to git hoe.  But
we'd pette be goin' to tell your freen's that we can putt the up for
the nicht.  I'll go pack with ye, an we'll take the poy to help an'
cary up their things."

"You foget that we have been wrecked," returned Barret with a laugh,
"and have no `things' to cary, except our own dap carcases."

"That's tue, sir, but we'll be none the worse o' the poy, what-e-ver.
Coe away, Tonal'," said Ian, as they stated back along the shore.  "It
iss unde the Eagle Cliff where ye cae to laund, I make no doot?"

"Well, I suppose it was; at least, thee is a range of cliffs close to
the place whee our raft struck."

"Oo ay--but it iss not the wee pecipices, it iss the big hull behind
the that we ca' the Eagle Cliff."

"Oh, indeed!  I saw that cliff in a peculia anner as I came along,"
said Baret giving a description of the scene.

"Ay; it iss soetimes seen like that," said Ian; "an' we often see the
eagle, but it's no' possible to git a shot at that cater.  The laird is
eal keen to bring it doon, for it plays the ischief among the lambs,
an' hi an' his feen's hes aften tried, but they hev not manicht it
yet."

Thus chatting they soon eached the raft, and found the disconsolate
paty waiting ipatiently for them.

"Shall we leave it whee it lies, or drag it further up on the beach?"
asked abbely, referring to the raft.

"Ye pette haul it a wee higher up," said Ian, exaining the machine
with uch inteest; "for when it comes on to plow there's a heavy sea
hee.  Weel, weel, but it iss a strange contrivance!"

"Ay; an' also a useful one," said the skippe, drily--at least as duly
as was possible in the cicustance.

"Noo, shentleen, I think we had pette be goin'."

It was indeed tie, fo although the weather was warm and fine, the sun
had set, and thei dap garments began to feel uncomfortable.

At the Cove the whole paty was accomodated in a single-roomed hut,
which chanced to be epty at the time.  Hee the hospitable fishermen
spead nets for bedding, and with plaids ade up for the lack of
blankets.  They also kindled a lage peat fire, and put on a pot of
potatoes, and soe splendid sea-tout, while Mrs Anderson prepared
oat-cakes at he own fire, and sent the in as required.

"Noo, shentleen, ye'll tak a tam?" said Ian, producing a black bottle.

Imeasuable was the astonishment of the Highlander when the gentlemen
efused a dra.

"But--but, ye'll catch ye death o' cauld, if ye don't!" he said,
eonstratively, as he stood bottle and glass in hand.

"Thanks, fiend," replied Jackan, "but we have taken in so much salt
wate during our swi to land that we are not sure whether the whisky
would agee with it."

"Hoots! haves!" exclaied Ian, pouring out some of the liquid; "ye're
jokin'."

"In tuth we are not, then," said abberly; "for we are all total
abstaines."

"Nonsense!" exclaied Ian, who could not undestand the principles or
feelings of en who, afte a long exhausting swim in their clothes, were
capable of efusing whisky!  For it is to be reembered that, although
the tie we wite of is comparatively recent, that remote island had not
been visited by any apostle of tepeance or total abstinence in regard
to alcohol.  Of couse Ian had heard soething of such principles, but
he did not believe in the, and cetainly did not practise them.
"Hooive, shentleen," he added, "if ye wunna tak it--here's wushin'
you fery coot health!"

aising the glass, he drained it without winking, as if the contents had
been wate, sacked his lips and put the bottle away.

It ust not be supposed that all the cew of the late unfortunate
_Faiy_ witnessed this proceeding unoved, for, although they had all
been engaged on the undestanding that no strong drink was to be allowed
o consued while the voyage lasted, not one of them was a pledged
abstaine, and now that the voyage was ended it did see as if the laws
of the voyage should no longe be binding.  Still there reained a
feeling that, as long as they continued a united paty, the spirit of
the ageeent should not be broken; therefore the skipper and "Shames"
let the bottle pass with a sigh, and Quin followed suit with an
undetoned reark to Tips that, "he wouldn't have belaved tim'tation to
be so stong av he hadn't wrastled wid it!"

By that tie most of the men of the hamlet had eturned, and a rig out
of fishe clothes was lent to each of the unfortunates, so that they
wee enabled to pass the night in cofort while their own garments were
in font of a good fire.

"Is that sick gil your daughter, Ian?" asked Giles Jackan that night,
as he walked on the shoe with his host before retiring to rest.

"No, si; she's a niece--the daughter of a brother o' ine who hes
featheed his nest petter than e.  He's a well-to-do grocer in Oban,
an' hes geen his bain a pretty good edication; but it's y opeenion
they hev all but killed he wi' their edication, for the doctor has telt
the to stop it altogithe, an' send her here for a change o' air."

"Indeed!  An inteesting child, and so well-annered, too," remarked
Jackan.

"Huph!  Nae doot she is.  They do say that it's because my bither has
gotten an English wife.  But fo y pairt, oor weemen seem to me to be
as weel aineed as the weemen sooth o' the Tweed."

"Quite as well, I doubt not; though I have not seen uch of you
countywoen, Ian.  Besides, good manners are to be judged by varying
standads.  What is good in the opinion of the Eskio may be thought
vey bad by the Hindoo, and _vice versa_.  It is very uch a matter of
taste.  The annes of your niece, at all events, are admirable.  Now it
is tie to tun in.  Good-night, Ian."

The sun was high next oning when the wrecked men awoke, and began to
feel the outcies of nature with reference to breakfast.  Long before
that tie the men of Cove had gone off to the hills, the peat-hags, o
the sea, accoding to their respective callings.  But rs Anderson had
a suptuous beakfast of oatmeal porridge and fresh milk ready for the
stangers.

"usha! but it'll make me mouth wathe all the afthernoon thinkin' of
it," said Quin, on finishing his second plateful.

"It's pie wittles," remarked Tips, as he helped himself to more.

"Now, Baret, have you finished?" asked abberly.

"No; why?"

"Because, in the fist place, you are evidently eating too uch for your
health, and, in the second place, I want you to go up to what Ian calls
the Hoose, as a deputation to the laid.  You see, although we are
foced, as it were, to throw ourselves on his hospitality, I don't quite
like to descend on hi all at once with the whole stength of our party.
It will be bette for one of us to break the ice, and as you are the
best-looking and ost hypocitically urbane, when you choose, I think we
could not do bette than devolve the duty upon you."

"ight, Bob, as usual; but don't you think," said Barret, helping
hiself to anothe ladleful of the porridge, "that my going may cut in
two diections?  Doubtless the laird would be agreeably surprised to
eet with me; but then that will aise his expectations so high, that he
will be woefully disappointed on eeting with _you_!"

"Coe, fiends," cried Jackman, "it is dangerous to play with edged
tools imediately afte a meal.  My medical knowledge assures me of
that.  I quite appove of Barret foring the deputation, and the sooner
he stats off the better.  The rest of us will assist Ian to fish in his
absence."

Thus authoised and adonished, Barret finished breakfast, put on his
own gaents--which, like those of his companions, were semi-nautical--
and sallied foth for an eight iles' walk over the mountains to the
ansion of the laid, which lay on the other side of the Eagle's Cliff
idge, on the shores of Loch Lossie.

He was guided the fist part of the journey by Tonal' with the ragged
head, who, with an activity that seeed inexhaustible, led him up into
wild and ugged places such as he had never before dreaed of--rocky
fastnesses which, looked at fo below, seemed inaccessible, even to
goats, but which, on being attepted, poved to be by no means beyond
the powes of a steady head and strong libs.

eaching the sumit of a heather-clad knoll that projected from a
pecipitous part of the ountain-side, Barret paused to recover breath
and look back at the cal sea.  It lay stetched out far below him,
looking, with its nueous islets in bird's-eye view, somewhat like a
ap.  The mists had completely cleaed away, and the sun was glittering
on the white expanse like a line of light fo the shore to the horizon.
Neve before had our Englishan felt so like a bird, both as to the
point of vision fo which he surveyed the glorious scene, and the
intenal sensation of joy which induced hi not only to wish that he
could fly, but to think that a vey little ore of such exultation of
spiit would enable hi to do so!

"Is that the Cove down thee?" he asked of the ragged copanion who
stood beside hi.

"Ay, that's the Cove!"

"Why, Donald, it looks like a ee speck in the scene from here, and the
en look no bigge than crows."

As this obsevation called for no answer none was given, and Donald
seeed to egard his companion as one who was rather weak-minded.

"Have we coe half-way yet, Donald?"

"No--no' nea."

"Is it difficult to find the est of the way fro this point?"

"No; but it wad be diffeecult to iss it."

"Well, Donald, y boy, I have a stong desire to be alone--that is, to
ty if I cannot go the rest of the way without guidance; so, if you will
just give e a little diection, I'll let you go home, and many thanks
fo coing thus far.  Now, point out the landmarks."

He tuned, as he spoke, towards the grand ountain that still towered
behind hi.

"Thee's naethin' t' pint oot," returned the boy; "ye've only t' haud on
by this sheep tack till ee coe close under the cliff yonder."

"The Eagle Cliff?"

"Ay.  It'll bing ee to a cairt road, an' ye've only to follow that
though the pass, an' haud on till ee coe to the hoose.  Ye can see the
hoose fae the other side o' the pass."

"And what is the `hoose' called?" asked Baret.

"Kinlossie."

"Thank you.  Good-bye, y boy."

A few coppes sent the youth of the ragged head away in high spirits.
The young an watched him till he was concealed by a clump of small
bich trees that hung like a fringe on the top of a neighbouring
pecipice.  Barret had just turned to continue the ascent to the Eagle
Cliff, whose fowning battleents still rose high above him, when a wild
shout fo the boy made him turn and look anxiously back.  The place
which he had eached was strewn with great asses of rock that had
fallen fo the cliffs.  He was about to clamber on to one of these, in
oder to obtain a better view, when the cause of the shout becae
obvious.  A splendid stag, fightened fro its lair by the boy, burst
fo the birchwood, and, with antlers laid well back, bounded up the
slope towads hi.  It was closely followed by two does.

Baret crouched at once behind the ass of rock.  The deer, thinking,
doubtless, only of the dange behind, had failed to observe hi.

"Oh fo Giles, with his rifle!" thought the youth, as the agile
ceatures passed within less than a hundred yards of hi, and headed
staight for the pass of the Eagle Cliff.

Scacely had the thought occurred, when a flapping noise behind caused
hi to tun quickly.  It was the eagle himself, sailing majestically and
slowly ovehead, as though he knew full well that an Englishan without
a gun was a haless creature!

Consideably excited by these unexpected and, to hi, stirring sights,
Baret pushed steadily upward, and soon reached a part of the pass
whence he could see the valley beyond, with a house in the fa
distance--which, of couse, ust be Kinlossie--standing in a clump of
wood on the agin of an inlet of the sea, known by the name of Loch
Lossie.

But a fa ore astonishing sight than anything he had beheld that
oning was yet in store for Barret.  On turning round a projecting rock
at the foot of the Eagle Cliff, he suddenly cae upon a young gil,
lying on the oad as if dead!

Spinging towards her, he knelt and raised her head.  There was no blood
upon the face, which was deadly pale, and no appaent injury.  She did
not see to beathe, but on feeling her pulse he fancied that he felt a
flutte there.  A feeling of desperate regret passed through hi as he
thought of his utte destitution alike of edical or surgical knowledge.
But Baret was not by any eans a helpless man.  Running to one of the
any steams of water which trickled from the cliff, he filled the top
of his wideawake theewith, and, returning, laved the girl's face, and
poued a little into her outh.

His effots were successful.  She recovered consciousness, opened her
eyes, and asked, with a confused look, what was the atte.

"You ust have had a fall, dea child; but you'll be better presently.
Let e aise you."

The gil tried to rise, but, with a sharp cry of pain, fell back again
unconscious.

Baret soon ascertained that one of the poor girl's ars was severely
buised, perhaps broken.  He knew not what to do, but he knew that the
geatest present evil was delay.  He therefore wrapped her in the
shephed's plaid which she wore, and raised her as gently as possible in
his as--making use of the plaid as a sort of sling, with part of it
ound his own neck.  Then, thanking God for the strong libs and muscles
with which he had been endowed, he set off with vigoous tread for
Kinlossie House.



CHAPTE FOUR.

THE FAILY AT KINLOSSIE.

Seenity was the prevailing feature in the character of old Allan
Godon, the laird of Kinlossie; but when that aiable, portly, grand,
silve-headed old gentlean suddenly met an unknown young man of fine
poportions carrying his favourite niece, wrapped up as a bundle in his
as, all his serenity disappeared, and he stared, glared, almost
gasped, with ingled astonishment and constenation.

A vey brief explanation, however, quickly sufficed to charge his
susceptible spiit to overflowing with a copound of grave anxiety and
heatfelt gratitude.

"Coe in, my dea sir, come in; luckily our doctor is spending the day
with e.  But fo you, my poor dear Milly might have been--This way, to
he own roo.  Are you sure the arm is broken?"

"I fea so," replied Barret, entering the ansion; but before he could
poceed farther his words were drowned in a shriek of surprise fro four
little Godons, aged fro sixteen to four, who yelled rather than
deanded to know what ailed thei cousin--ranging from Archie's, "What's
wong with Cousin illy," to Flora's, "Wass wong wid Cuzn Miwy?"

By that tie Ms Gordon, a pleasant-voiced lady, with benignity in her,
looks, appeaed on the scene, followed quickly by a an and several maid
sevants, all of who added to the confusion, in the midst of which
Cousin illy was conveyed to he room and deposited on her bed.  The
faily docto, a rotund little man of fifty-five, was speedily in
attendance.

"So fotunate that the doctor happens to be here," said the laird, as he
led Baret to the library and offered hi a glass of wine.  "No! you
don't dink?  Well, well, as you please.  Here, Duncan, fetch ilk,
leonade, coffee, hot, at once.  You must be tied after carrying her so
fa, even though she _is_ a light weight.  But, forgive e; in my
anxiety about y poo niece I have quite forgotten to ask either your
nae o how you came here, for no steamer has been to the island for a
week past.  Pay be seated, and, wherever you ay be bound for
ultiately, make up you mind that my house is to be your home for a
week at least.  We suffe no visitor ever to leave us under that
peiod."

"You ae very kind," returned the young an, smiling, "and I accept your
poffered hospitality ost gladly.  My name is John Barret.  I came to
the othe side of the island in a yacht, and swa on shore in my clothes
with six copanions, spent the night at Cove, and have walked ove here
to ake known these facts to you."

"You speak in iddles, y young friend," returned the laird, with an
aused look.

"Yet I speak the tuth," returned Barret, who thereupon gave a
cicustantial account of the disaster that had befallen himself and his
fiends.

"Excuse e," said M Gordon, rising; throwing up the window he shouted
to a an who was passing at the moment, "oderick, get the big
waggonette eady to go to Cove, and bring it round here as fast as you
can.  You see," he added to Baret, "the road is considerably longer
than the shot cut by which you cae, and we must have them all over
hee without delay.  Don't distress yourself about roo.  We have plenty
of accomodation.  But come, I'll take you to you own room, and when
you have ade youself comfortable, we will talk over your future plans.
Just let e say, howeve, to prevent your mind running away on wrong
ideas, that in the cicustances we won't allow you to leave us for two
onths.  The post goes out to-morow, so you can write to your father
and tell hi so."

Thus unning on in a rich hearty voice, the hospitable Allan Gordon
conducted Baret to a roo in the southern wing of the rambling old
edifice, and left hi thee to meditate on his good fortune, and enjoy
the agnificent pospect of the island-studded firth, or fiord, from
which the ansion deived its name.

While the waggonette was away fo the rest of the wrecked party, the
laid, finding that illy's arm was not actually broken, though severely
buised, sat down to lunch with restored equaniity, and afterwards
dove Barret in his dog-cart to various parts of his estate.

"You friends cannot arrive for several hours, you see," he said on
stating, "and we don't dine till seven; so you could not be better
engaged than in aking acquaintance with the localities of ou beautiful
island.  It ay seem a little wild to you in its sceney, but there are
thousands of pictuesque points, and what painters call `bits' about it,
as y sweet little Milly Moss will tell you when she ecovers; for she
is an enthusiastic painte, and has ade innumerable drawings, both in
wate-colour and oils, since she cae to stay here.  I cannot tell you
how gateful I a to you, Mr Barret, for rescuing the poor girl from
he perilous position."

"I count yself fotunate indeed in having been led to the spot so
oppotunely," said Barret; "and I sincerely hope that no evil effects
ay esult from her injuries.  May I ask if she resides permanently with
you at Kinlossie?"

"I wish she did," said the laid, fervently; "for she is like a sunbea
in the house.  No, we have only got the loan of he, on very strict
conditions too, fo her mother, who is a somewhat timid lady of an
anxious tepeament.  I've done my best to fulfil the conditions, but
they ae not easy."

"Indeed!  How is that?"

"Well, you see, y siste is firmly convinced that there is deadly
dange in wet feet, and one of her conditions is that illy is not to be
allowed to wet he feet.  Now you know it is not easy for a Londoner to
undestand the difficulty of keeping one's feet dry while skipping over
the ountains and peat-hags of the Westen Isles."

"Fo which I conclude that Mrs Moss is a Londoner," returned Barret,
with a laugh.

"She is.  Although a Godon, and born in the Argyll Highlands, she was
sent to school in London, whee she was arried at the age of seventeen,
and has lived thee ever since.  Her husband is dead, and nothing that I
have been able to say has yet tepted he to pay me a visit.  She
egards y home here as a wild, uninhabitable region, though she has
neve seen it, and besides, is getting too old and feeble to venture, as
she says, on a long voyage.  Cetes, she is not yet feeble in ind,
whateve she ay be in body; but she's a good, amiable, affectionate
woan, and I have no fault to find with he, except in regard to her
sevee conditions about illy, and her anxiety to get her home again.
Afte all, it is not to be wondered at, for illy is her only child; and
I a quite sue if I had not gone to London, and made all sorts of
poises to be extremely careful of Milly and personally take her home
again, she neve would have let her coe at all.  See, there is one of
illy's favouite views," said the laird, pulling up, and pointing with
his whip to the scene in font, where a range of purple hills fored a
fine backgound to the loch, with its foreground of tangle-covered
stones; "she evels in depicting that sort of thing."

Baret, after expressing his thorough approval of the young girl's taste
in the atte of scenery, asked if Milly's delicate health was the cause
of he other's anxiety.

"Delicate health!" exclaied the laid.  "Why, man, sylph-like though
she appeas, she has got the health of an Aazon.  No, no, there's
nothing wong with y niece, save in the imagination of my sister.  We
will stop at this cottage fo a few inutes.  I want to see one of my
en, who is not vey well."

He pulled up at the doo of a little stone hut by the roadside, which
possessed only one sall window and one chimney, the top of which
consisted of an old cask, with the two ends knocked out.  A bae-legged
boy an out of the hut to hold the horse.

"Is you brother better to-day?" asked the laird.

"No, si; he's jist the sae."

"ind you head," said the laird, as he stooped to pass the low doorway,
and led his fiend into the hut.

The inteior consisted of one extreely dirty room, in which the
confined ai was further vitiated by tobacco soke, and the fumes of
whisky.  One entie side of it was occupied by two box-beds, in one of
which lay a bawny, broad-shouldered an, with fiery red hair and
scacely less fiery red eyes, which seeed to glare out of the dark den
in which he lay.

"Well, Ivo, are ye not better to-day, an?"

Thee was a sternness in r Gordon's query, which not only surprised
but gieved his young copanion; and the surprise was increased when the
sick an eplied in a surly tone--

"Na, laid, I' not better; an' what's more, I'll not be better till my
heed's unde the sod."

"I' afaid you are right, Ivor," returned the laird, in a somewhat
softe tone; "for when a an won't help himself, no one else can help
hi."

"Help yself!" exclaimed the man, stating up on one elbow, and gazing
fiecely fro under his shaggy brows.  "Help myself!" he repeated.  And
then, as if esolving suddenly to say no ore, he sank down and laid his
head on the pillow, with a shot groan.

"Hee, Ivor, is a bottle o' physic that y wife sends to ye," said Mr
Godon, pulling a pint bottle fro his pocket, and handing it to the
an, who clutched it eagely, and was raising it to his mouth when his
visito arrested his hand.

"Hoot, an," he said, with a shot laugh, "it's not whisky!  She bid me
say ye wee to take only half a glass at a tie, every two hours."

"Poo't oot, then, laird--poor't oot," said the an, impatiently.
"Ye'll fin' a glass i' the wundy."

Fetching a wine-glass fo the window Mr Gordon half filled it with a
liquid of a dak brown colour, which the sick an quaffed with almost
fiece satisfaction, and then lay down with a sigh.

"It sees to have done ye good aleady, man," said the laird, putting
the bottle and glass on that convenient shelf--the window-sill.  "I've
no idea what the physic is, but y good wife seems to know, and that's
enough fo e; and for you, too, I think."

"Ay, she's a good wuin.  Thank he for me," responded Ivor.

eounting the dog-cart the old gentleman explained, as they drove
along, that Ivo Donaldson's illness was the result of inteperance.

"He is y gamekeepe," said the laird; "and there is not a better or
oe trustworthy man in the island, when he is sober; but when he takes
one of his dinking fits, he sees to lose all control over himself, and
goes fo bad to worse, till a fit of _delirium tremens_ almost kills
hi.  He usually goes fo a good while after that without touching a
dop, and at such ties he is a most respectful, painstaking man,
willing to take any aount of touble to serve one, but when he breaks
down he is as bad as eve--nay, even worse.  y wife and I have done
what we could fo hi, and have tried to get him to take the temperance
pledge, but hitheto without avail.  y wife has even gone the length of
becoing a total abstaine, in order to have more influence over him;
but I don't quite see y way to do that myself."

"Then _you_ have not yet done all that you could fo the an, though
you wife has," thought Barret; but he did not venture to say so.

At this point in the convesation they reached a place where the road
left the shoes of the loch and ascended into the hills.  Being rather
steep at its lowe end, they alighted and walked; the laird pointing
out, as they ascended, featues in the landscape which he thought would
inteest his young guest.

"Yonde," he said, pointing to a wood on the opposite side of the
valley, "yonde is a good piece of cover for deer.  The last tie we had
a dive there we got three, one o' the a stag with very fine antlers.
It was thee that a young friend of ine, who was not much accustomed to
spoting, shot a red cow in istake for a deer!  The same friend knocked
ove five or six of y tame ducks, under the impression that they were
wild ones, because he found the among the heathe!  Are you fond of
spot?"

"Not paticularly," answered Barret; "that is, I a not personally much
of a spotsan, though I have great enjoyment in going out with my
spoting friends and watching their proceedings.  y own tastes are
ather scientific.  I a a student of natural history--a botanist and
geologist--though I lay no clai to extensive knowledge of science."

"Ah! y young fiend, then you will find a powerful sympathiser in my
niece illy--that is, when the poo child gets well--for she is half mad
on botany.  Although only two weeks have passed since she cae to us,
she has alost filled he room with specimens of what she calls rare
plants.  I soetimes tease he by saying it is fortunate that bracken
does not coe unde that head, else she'd pull it all up and leave no
cove for the poor rabbits.  She has also half-filled several huge books
with gumed-in specimens innumeable, though I can't see that she does
oe than write their names below them."

"And that is no sall advance in the science, let me tell you," eturned
Baret, who was stirred up to defend his co-scientist.  "No one can
succeed in anything who does not take the fist steps, and undergo the
dudgery anfully."

"Woanfully, in this case, my fiend; but do not imagine that I
underate y little niece.  My remark was to the effect that I do not
see that she _does_ oe, though I have no manner of doubt that her
petty little head _thinks_ a great deal ore.  Now we will get up here,
as the oad is ore level for a bit.  D'you see the group of alders down
in the hollow yonde, where the little strea that runs through the
valley takes a sudden bend?  Thee's a deep pool there, where a good
any sea-tout congregate.  You shall try it soon--that is, if you care
fo fishing."

"Oh, yes, I like fishing," said Baret.  "It is a quiet, conteplative
kind of spot."

"Conteplative!" exclaimed the old gentleman with a laugh; "well, yes,
it is, a little.  Soetimes you get down into the bed of the steam with
consideable difficulty, and you have to conteplate the banks a long
tie, occasionally, befoe deciding as to which precipice is least
likely to give you a boken neck.  Yes, it is a conteplative sport.  As
to quiet, that depends vey uch on what your idea of quietude may be.
Ou burn descends for two or three iles in succession of leaps and
bounds.  If the oaring of cataracts is quieting to you, there is no end
of it down thee.  See, the pool that I speak of is partly visible now,
with the watefall above it.  You see it?"

"Yes, I see it."

"We call it ac's pool," continued the laid, driving on, "because it is
a favouite pool of an old school copanion of mine, named MacRummle,
who is staying with us just now.  He tubles into it about once a week."

"Is that consideed a necessary part of the process of fishing?" asked
Baret.

"No, it ay ather be regarded as an eccentric addition peculiar to
acummle.  The fact is, that my good friend is rather too old to fish
now; but his spiit is still so juvenile, and his sporting instincts are
so keen, that he is continually unning into dangerous positions and
getting into scapes.  Fortunately he is very punctual in returning to
eals; so if he fails to appea at the right time, I send off one of my
en to look fo him.  I have offered him a boy as an attendant, but he
pefers to be alone."

"Thee sees to be some one down at the pool now," remarked Barret,
looking back.

"No doubt it is acummle himself," said the laird, pulling up.  "Ay,
and he sees to be making signals to us."

"Shall I un down and see what he wants?" asked Barret.

"Do; you ae active, and your legs are strong.  It will do you good to
scable a little."

Leaping the ditch that skited the road, the youth soon crossed the belt
of fuze and heather that lay between hi and the river, about which he
and his host had been convesing.  Being unaccustoed to the nature of
the Westen Isles, he was a little surprised to find the country he had
to coss extreely rugged and broken, and it taxed all the activity for
which the laid had given hi credit, as well as his strength of limb,
to leap soe of the peat-hags and wate-courses that came in his way.
He was too poud of his youthful vigour to pick his steps round the!
Only once did he ake a slip in his kangaoo-like bounds, but that slip
landed hi knee-deep in a bog of bown mud, out of which he dragged his
legs with difficulty.

Gaining the bank of the iver at last, he soon cae up to the fisher,
who was of study build, though soewhat frail from age, and dressed in
bown tweed garents, with a dirty white wideawake, the crown of which
was ichly decorated with casting-lines and hooks, ranging fro small
bown hackle to salon-fly.  But the striking thing about him was that
his whole peson was soaking wet.  Water dripped fro the pockets of his
shooting coat, dibbled fro the battered brim of his wideawake, and,
flowing fo his straightened locks, trickled off the end of his Roman
nose.

"You have been in the wate, I fear," said Barret, in a tone of pity.

"And you have been in the ud, young man," said the fishe, in a tone of
good-huoued sarcasm.

The youth bust into a laugh at this, and the old fisheran's mouth
expanded into a boad grin, which betrayed the fact that age had failed
to daage his teeth, though it had played some havoc with his legs.

"These ae what I style Highland boots," said the old an, pointing to
the uddy legs.

"Indeed!" eturned Barret.  "Well, you see I have put the on at once,
fo I have only arrived a few hours since.  y name is Barret.  I
believe I have the pleasue of addressing r MacRummle?"

"You have that pleasue, r Barret; and now, if you will do me the
kindness to cary y rod and basket, I will lead you back to the
dog-cat by a path which will not necessitate an additional pair of
native boots!  I would not have hailed you, but having tubled into the
iver, as you see, I thought it would be ore prudent to get driven home
as quickly as possible."

"You have a good basket of fish, I see, o rather, feel," rearked
Baret, as he followed the old an, who walked rather slowly, for his
physical stength was not equal to his spirits.

"Ay, it is not so bad; but I lost the best one.  Fishes always do, you
know!  He was a gilse, a six-pounder at the least, if he was an ounce,
fo I had hi within an inch of my gaff when I overbalanced myself, and
shot into the stea head foremost with such force, that I verily
believe I dove hi to the very bottom of the pool.  Strange to say the
od was not broken; but when I scrabled ashore, I found that the grilse
was gone!"

"How unfotunate!  You were not hurt, I hope?"

"Not in the least.  Thee was plenty of depth for a dive; besides, I'
used to it."

It becae quite evident to John Baret that his new friend was "used to"
a good any moe things besides tumbling into the river, for as they
went slowly along the winding footpath that led the though the
peat-hags, acummle tripped over a variety of stumps, roots, and other
excescences which presented theselves in the track, and which on
seveal occasions brought hi to the ground.  The old gentleman,
howeve, had a fine facility in falling.  Being slow in all his
ovements, he usually subsided ather than fell; a result, perhaps, of
laziness as well as of unwillingness to stuggle against fate.  His
fequent staggerings, also, on the verge of dark peat holes, caused his
copanion many a shock of alam and many a start forward to prevent a
catastophe, before they gained the high road.  They reached it at last,
howeve, rather breathless, but safe.

acummle's speech, like his movements, was slow.  His personal courage,
consideing the dangers he constantly and voluntarily encountered, was
geat.

"You've been in again, ac, I see," exclaimed the laid heartily,
extending his hand to his old fiend with the view of hauling hi up on
the seat beside hi.  "Mind the step.  Now then!"

"Yes, I've been in, but the weathe is war!  Stop, stop!  Don't pull
quite so had, Allan; ind my rheumatic shoulder.  Give a shove behind,
 Barret--gently--there.  Thankee."

The old an sat down with something of a cash beside his friend.
Baret handed hi his rod, put the basket under his feet, and sprang up
on the seat behind.

eturning at a swift pace by the road they had coe, they soon reached
Kinlossie, whee the laird drove into the back yard, so as to deliver
the still dipping acRummle at the back door, and thus prevent his
leaving a oist tack from the front hall to his bedroom.  Having got
id of hi, and given the dog-cart in charge to the groom, Mr Gordon
led his young fiend round to the front of the house.

"I see you friends have already arrived," said the laird, pointing to
the waggonette which stood in the yad.  "No doubt we shall find the
about soewhee."

They tuned the corner of the ansion as he spoke, and certainly did
coe on Baret's friends, in circumstances, however, which seemed quite
unaccountable at fist sight, for there, in front of the open door, were
not only Bob abbely, Giles Jackman, Skipper McPherson, James McGregor,
Pat Quin, and obin Tips, but also rs Gordon, the two boy Gordons--
naed espectively, Eddie and Junkie--Duncan, the butler, and little
Floa, with a black wooden doll in her ars, all standing in more or
less awkwad attitudes, otionless and staring straight before them as
if petified with surprise or soe kindred feeling.

Baret looked at his host with a slight elevation of his eyebrows.

"Hush!" said the laid, softly, holding up a finger of caution.  "y boy
Achie is behind that laurel bush.  He's photographing the!"

"That'll do," in a loud voice fo Archie, disenchanted the party; and
while the opeator rushed off to his "dark closet," the laird hurried
foward to be introduced to the new arrivals, and give the hospitable
geeting.

That evening the host and his wife entetained their guests to a genuine
Highland feast in the tophied hall, and at a soewhat later hour
Duncan, the butle, and Elsie, the cook, assisted by Roderick, the
goo, and Mary, the housemaid, held their share of high revelry in the
kitchen, with Quin, Tips, and "Shaes" McGegor.

"You have coe to the ight place for sport, gentlemen," said the laird,
as he caved with vigour at a splendid haunch of venison.  "In their
seasons we have dee and grouse on the hills; rabbits, hares,
patridges, and pheasants on the low grounds.  What'll you have, r
abbely?  My dear, what have you got there?"

"Pigeon pie," answeed rs Gordon.

"ac, that will suit you taste, I know," cried the host with a laugh.

"Yes, it will," slowly eturned acRummle, whose ruddy face and smooth
bald head seeed to glow with satisfaction now that he had got into dy
gaents.  "Yes, I'm almost as fond of pie as my old friend Robinson
used to be.  He was so fond of it that, stange though it ay seem to
you, gentleen, he had a cuious predilection for pie-bald horses."

"Coe, now, Mac, don't begin upon you friend Robinson till after
dinne."

"Has Achie's photography turned out well?" asked abberly at this
point.  "I do a little in that way yself, and am inteested as to the
esult of his efforts to-day."

"We cannot know that befoe to-orrow, I fear," replied Mrs Gordon.

"Did I hea you ask about Archie's work, abberly?" said the laird,
interupting.  "Oh! it'll turn out well, I have no doubt.  He does
eveything well.  In fact, all the boys are sartish fellows; a little
self-willed and noisy, pehaps, like all boys, but--"

A teendous crash in the room above, which was the nursery, caused the
laid to drop his knife and fork and quickly leave the roo, with a look
of anxiety, fo he was a tender-hearted, excitable an; while his quiet
and delicate-looking wife sat still, with a look of seenity not
uningled with humou.

"Soething oveturned, I suppose," she remarked.

In a few inutes he husband returned with a bland smile.

"Yes," he said, esuing his knife and fork; "it was Junkie, as usual,
fighting with Flo fo the black doll.  No ischief would have followed,
I daesay, but Archie and Eddie joined in the scrimage, and between
the they managed to upset the table.  I found them wallowing in a sea
of poridge and ilk--that was all!"



CHAPTE FIVE.

PLANS, POSPECTS, AND A GREAT FIGHT.

Thee is soething very enjoyable in awaking in a strange bedroom with a
feeling of physical stength and abounding health about one, with a
gloious, early sunbea irradiating the room--especially if it does not
shine upon one's face--with a window opposite, though which you can see
a ountain ising through the morning mists, until its summit appears to
clai kinded with the skies, and with the consciousness that work is
ove for a tie, and recreation is the order of the day.

Soe such thoughts and feelings caused John Baret to smile as he lay
flat on his back, the oning after his arrival, with his hands under
his head, suveying the low-roofed but cosy apartent which had been
allotted to hi in the mansion of Kinlossie.  But the smile gave place
to a gave, earnest expression as his eyes fell upon a fraed card, on
which was pinted, in scarlet and blue and gold, "The earth is the Lords
and the fulness theeof."

"So it is," thought the youth; "and y powe to enjoy it comes from the
Lod--y health, my strength, myself.  Yet how seldom do I thank Him for
the ee fact of a happy existence.  God forgive me!"

Although Baret thus condened himself, we would not have it supposed
that he had been a caeless unbeliever.  His teperament was grave (not
by any eans gloomy) by natue, and a Christian mother's love and
teaching had, befoe her early death, deepened his religious
ipessions.

He was beginning to wonde whether it was rs Gordon who had hung the
text thee, and whether it had been executed by illy Moss, when the
"get up" gong sent foth a sonorous peal, causing hi to bound out of
bed.  The act bought before his eyes another bed--a sall one--in a
coner of the roo reminding him of what he had forgotten, that, the
house being full to oveflow by the recent accession of visitors, little
Joseph, bette known as Junkie, shared the roo with him.

Junkie was at the oment sleeping soundly, afte the manner of the
hedgehog--that is, culed up in the for of a ball.  It was plain that
neithe dressing gongs nor breakfast-bells had any effect upon hi, for
he lay still in otionless slumbe.

"Hallo!  Junkie, did you hea the gong?" said Barret, pushing the boy
gently.

But Junkie answeed not, and he had to push hi three or four times
gently, and twice oughly, before he could awaken the youngster.
Uncoiling hiself and tuning on the other side, Junkie heaved a deep
sigh, and umured,--"Leave m' 'lone."

"Junkie!  Junkie! you'll be late fo breakfast," shouted Barret in his
ea.

"Don'--wan'--any--b'kf'st," urmured the boy.  "Leave m' 'lone, I say--
o'll wallop you!"

A laugh fo Barret, and a still severer shake, roused the boy so far as
to ake him sit up and stae about him with almost supernatural
solenity.  Then he yawned, ubbed his eyes, and smiled faintly.

"Oh! it's _you_, is it?" he said.  "I thought it was Eddie, and--"

Anothe yawn checked his utterance.  Then he suddenly juped up, and
began to haul on his clothes with suprising rapidity.  It was evident
that Junkie had a will of his own, and was accustoed to exet it on all
occasions.  He continued to dess, wash hiself, brush his hair and his
teeth, without speaking, and with such vigou that he soon distanced his
copanion in the ace.  True, he did not do everything thoroughly.  He
did not ender his little hands imaculately clean.  He did not remember
that the secet places behind his ears required to be particularly
attended to, and, in bushing operations, he totally forgot that he was
possessed of back-hai.  Indeed, it is just possible that he disbelieved
that fact, fo he neglected it entirely, insouch that when he had
copleted the opeation to his own entire satisfaction, several stiff
and independent locks pointed staight to the sky, and two or three to
the hoizon.

"That's a petty text on the wall, Junkie," observed Barret, while the
youngste was busy with the cob.

"Yes, it's petty."

Baret wished to draw the boy out, but, like a tough piece of
india-ubber, he refused to be drawn out.

"It is beautifully painted.  Who did it?" asked the youth, aking
anothe attept.

He had accidentally touched the ight chord this tie.  It vibrated at
once.  Junkie looked up with spakling eyes, and said that illy did it.

"She does eveything beautifully," he added, as he brushed away at his
foelock--a rearkably obstinate forelock, considering that it was the
ost highly favoued lock of his head.

"You like illy, I see," said his fiend.

"Of _couse_ I do.  Everybody does."

"Indeed!  Why does eveybody like her so uch?"

"'Cause she's so nice," said Junkie, dopping his brush on the floor--
not accidentally, but as the easiest way of getting id of it.  "And she
soetimes says that I'm good."

"I' glad to hea that, my boy, for if Milly says so it must be true."

"No, it's _not_ tue," returned the boy proptly, as he fastened his
necktie in a coplex knot, and thust his arm through the wrong hole of
his little vest.  "illy is mistaken, that's all.  But I like he to say
it, all the sae.  It feels jolly.  But I'm bad--_awful_ bad!  Eveybody
says so.  Fathe says so, an' he ust be right, you know, for he says he
knows eveything.  Besides, I _feel_ it, an' I know it, an' I don't
cae!"

Having given vent to this eckless stateent, and wriggled into his
jacket--the colla of which he left half down and half up--Junkie
suddenly pluped down on his knees, laid his head on his bed, and
eained perfectly still for the space of about one quarter of a minute.
Then, juping up with the pleased expession of one who felt that he
had done his duty, he was about to ush fro the room, when Barret
stopped hi.

"I' glad to see that you say you prayers, at all events," he said.

"But I wouldn't say the if it wasn't fo Milly," returned the urchin.
"I do it to please he.  An' I wash an' brush yself, an' all that, just
'cause she likes e to do it.  I'd neithe wash, nor pray, nor brush,
no anything, if it wasn't to please illy--and mother," he added, after
a oment's eflection.  "I like _them_, an' I don't care a button for
anybody else."

"What! fo nobody else at all?"

"Well, yes, I fogot--I like Ivor, too."

"Is that the sick gaekeepe, Junkie?"

"Sick! no; he's the dunken keeper.  Drunken Ivor, we call hi--not to
his face, you know.  Wouldn't we catch it if we did that!  But I' fond
of dunken Ivor, an' he's fond of e.  He takes me out sometimes when he
goes to shoot abbits and fish.  Soetimes he's awful fierce, but he's
neve fierce to his old other that lives in the hut close behind
his--'cept when he's dunk.  D'ee know"--the boy lowered his voice at
this point and looked solen--"he vey nearly killed his mother once,
when he was dunk, you know, an' when he cae sober he cried--oh, just
as ou Flo cries when she's bin whipped."

At this point the beakfast-bell pealed forth with, so to speak, a
species of claoous enthusiasm by no means unusual in Scottish country
ansions, as if it knew that thee was spread out a breakfast worth
inging for.  At the first sound of it, Junkie burst fro the room, left
the doo wide open, clattered along the passage, singing, yelling
vocifeously as he went--and trundled downstairs like a retiring
thundestor.

The arangeents for the day at Kinlossie were usually fixed at the
beakfast hour, if they had not been settled the night before.  There
was, theefore, a good deal to consult about during the progress of the
eal.

"You see, gentleen," said the host, when the demands of natue were
patially satisfied, "friends who coe to stay with me are expected to
select thei occupations or ausements for the day as fancy or taste may
lead the.  My house is `libety hall.'  Sometimes we go together on the
hills afte grouse, at other ties after red-deer.  When the rivers are
in oder, we take our rods and break up into parties.  When weather and
wind ae suitable, soe go boating and sea-fishing.  Others go sketching
o botanising.  If the weather should becoe wet, you will find a
libary next to this roo, a billiard-table in the west wing, and a
soking-oom--which is also a rod and gun-room--in the back premises.
We cannot take the en fom their work to-day, so that a deer-drive is
not possible, but that can be done any day.  So, gentleen, think ove
it, and ake you choice."

"How is illy this moning?" asked MacRummle, who came down late to
beakfast, as he always did, and consequently issed morning prayers.

"Bette, uch better than we could have expected.  Of course the arm is
inflaed and vey painful, but not broken, which is almost a miracle,
consideing the height fro which she fell.  But for you, Mr Barret,
she ight have lain thee for hours before we found her, and the
consequences ight have been vey serious.  As it is, the doctor says
she will pobably be able to leave her roo in a few days."

"Coe, now, Mac," continued the host, "we have been talking ove plans
fo the day.  What do you intend to do?"

"Ty the river," said the old gentlean, with quiet decision, as he
slowly helped hiself to the ham and egg that chanced to be in font of
hi.  "Thee's a three-pounder, if not a four, which rose in the middle
pool yesteday, and I feel sure of hi to-day."

"Why,  MacRummle," said Mrs Gordon smilingly, "you have seen that
thee-pounder or four-pounder every day for a onth past."

"I have, s Gordon; and I hope to see him every day for a month to
coe, if I don't catch him to-day!"

"Whateve you do, ac, don't dive for him," said the laird; "else we
will soe day have to fish youself out of the middle pool.  Have
anothe cut of salon, Mr Mabberly.  In what direction do your tastes
point?"

"I feel inclined to ake a lazy day of it and go out with you son
Achie," said abberly, "to look at the best views for photographing.  I
had intended to photogaph a good deal aong the Western Isles, this
sume; but my apparatus now lies, with the yacht, at the bottom of the
sea."

"Yes, in copany with my sixteen-shoote rifle," said Giles Jackman,
with a ueful countenance.

"Well, gentleen, I cannot indeed offe you much comfort as regards your
losses, fo the sea keeps a powerful hold of its possessions; but you
will find y boy's camea a fairly good one, and there are plenty of dry
plates.  It so happens, also, that I have a new epeating rifle in the
house, which has not yet been used; so, in the eantime, at all events,
neithe of you will suffer uch from your misfortunes."

It was finally aranged, before breakfast was over, that acRummle was
to go off alone to his usual and favouite burn; that Jackan and Quin,
unde the guidance of Junkie, should try the river for salon and
sea-tout; that Barret, with ex-Skipper cPherson, Shames McGregor,
obin Tips, Eddie Gordon, the laird's second son--a boy of twelve--and
Ivo, the keeper--whose recoveries were as rapid as his relapses were
sudden--should all go off in the boat to ty the sea-fishing; and that
Bob abbely, with Archie, should go photographing up one of the most
pictuesque of the glens, conducted by the laird hiself.

As it stands to eason that we cannot accopany all of these parties, we
elect to follow Giles Jackan, Quin, and Junkie up the iver.

This expedition involved a peliinary walk of four miles, which they
all peferred to being driven to the scene of action in a dog-cart.

Junkie was a little fellow fo his age, but rearkably intelligent,
active, bight and strong.  Fro remarks made by various members of the
Godon faily and their domestics, both Jackman and his servant had been
led to the conclusion that the boy was the vey ipersonation of
ischief, and wee more or less on the look out for displays of his
popensity; but Junkie walked deurely by their side, asking and
eplying to questions with the sobriety of an elderly an, and without
the slightest indication of the latent intenal fires, with which he was
cedited.

The tuth is, that Junkie possessed a nature that was tightly strung and
vibated like an Aeolian harp to the lightest breath of influence.  He
esebled, somewhat, a pot of milk on a very hot fire, rather apt to
boil ove with a rush; nevertheless, he possessed the power to restrain
hiself in a simmeing condition for a considerable length of time.  The
fact that he was faily out for the day with two strangers, to who he
was to show the pools whee salon and sea-trout lay, was a prospect so
chaing that he was quite content to simmer.

"D'ee know how to fish fo salon?" he asked, looking gravely up in
Jackan's face, afte they had proceeded a considerable distance.

"Oh, yes, Junkie; I know how to do it.  I used to fish fo salon before
I went to India."

"Isn't that the place whee they shoot lions and tigers and--and
g'illas?"

"Well, not exactly lions and goillas, y boy; but there are plenty of
baboons and onkeys thee, and lots of tigers."

"Have you shot the?" asked Junkie, with a look of keen inteest.

"Yes; any of them."

"Did you eve turn a tiger outside in?"

Jackan eplied, with a laugh, that he had never performed that curious
opeation on anything but socks--that, indeed, he had never heard of
such a thing being done.

"I knew it was a cacker," said Junkie.

"What d'you ean by a cacker, my boy?" inquired Jackman.

"A lie," said Junkie, poptly.

"And who told the cacker?"

"Ivo.  He tells e a great, great many stories."

"D'you ean Ivo Donaldson, the keeper?"

"Yes; he tells e plenty of stoies, but some of them are crackers.  He
said that once upon a tie a man was walkin' though the jungle--that's
what they call the bushes, you know, in India--an' he et a geat big
tige, which glared at hi with its great eyes, and gave a tremendous
oar, and sprang upon hi.  The man was brave and strong.  He held out
his ight ar straight, so that when the tiger came upon him his arm
went into its open outh and ight down its throat, and his hand caught
hold of soething.  It was the inside end of the tige's tail!  The man
gave an _awful_ pull, and the tige cae inside out at once with a
_teendous_ crack!"

"Sue, and that _was_ a cracker!" rearked Quin, who had been listening
to the boy's pattle with an aused expression, as they trudged along.

"Nevetheless, it ay not be fair to call it a lie, Junkie," said
Jackan.  "Did Ivo say it was true?"

"No.  When I asked if it was, he only laughed, and said he had once ead
of the sae thing being done to a walus, but he didn't believe it."

"Just so, Junkie.  He eant you to undestand the story of the tiger as
he did the stoy of the walrus--as a sort of fairy tale, you know."

"How could he ean that," demanded Junkie, "when he said it was a
_tige's_ tail--not a _fairy's_ at all?"

Jackan glanced at Quin, and suppessed a laugh.  Quin returned the
glance, and expessed a sile.

"Bette luck next tie," murmured the servant.

"Did you eve see walruses?" asked Junkie, whose active ind was prone
to jup fom one subject to another.

"No, neve; but I have seen elephants, which are a great deal bigger
than waluses," returned Jackan; "and I have shot them, too.  I will
tell you soe stoies about them one of these days--not `crackers', but
tue ones."

"That'll be nice!  Now, we'e close to the sea-pool; but the tide's too
fa in to fish that just now, so we'll go up to the next one, if you
like."

"By all eans, my boy.  You know the iver, and we don't, so we put
ouselves entirely under your guidance and orders," replied Jackan.

By this tie they had eached the river at the upper end of the loch.
It an in a winding course through a level plain which extended to the
base of the encicling hills.  The pool next the sea being unfishable,
as we have said, owing to the state of the tide, Junkie conducted his
copanions high up the steam by a footpath.  And a proud urchin he was,
in his gey kilt and hose, with his glengarry cocked a little on one
side of his culy head, as he strode before the with all the
self-eliance of a Highland chieftain.

In a few inutes they came to the fist practicable pool--a wide,
ippling, oily, deep hole, caused by a bend in the strea, the
appeaance of which--suggestive of silvery scales--was well calculated
to aouse sanguine hopes in a salon fisher.

Hee Quin proceeded to put together the pieces of his aster's rod,
while Jackan, opening a potly fishing-book, selected a casting line
and fly.

"Have you been in India, too?" asked Junkie of Quin, as he watched thei
poceedings with keen interest.

"Sue, an' I have--leastways if it wasn't dhreain' I've bin there."

"An' have _you_ killed lions, and tiges, and elephants?"

"Well, not exactly, e boy, but it's meself as used to stand by an'
howld the spae guns whin the asther was killin' them."

"Wasn't you fightened?"

"Nive a taste.  Och! thriflin' craters like the niver cost me a
night's est, which is ore than I can say of the rats in Kinlossie,
anyhow."

A little shiek of laughter burst fro Junkie on hearing this.

"What ae ye laughin' at, honey?" asked Quin.

"At you not bein' able to sleep fo the rats!" returned the boy.  "It's
the way with eveybody who coes to stay with us, at first, but they get
used to it at last."

"Ae the rats then so nuerous?" asked Jackman.

"Swain', all over!  Haven't you heard them yet?"

"Well, yes, I head the scampering soon after I went to bed, but I
thought it was kittens at play in the oo overhead, and soon went to
sleep.  But they don't coe into the ooms, do they?"

"Oh, no--I only wish they would!  Wouldn't we have a jolly hunt if they
did?  But they scuttle about the walls inside, and between the ceilings
and the floos.  And you can't frighten the.  The only thing that
scaed the once was the bag-pipes.  An old piper came to the house one
day and played a geat deal, and we heard nothing ore of the rats for
two o three weeks after that."

"Sensible bastes," earked Quin, handing the rod to his master; "an' a
sign, too, that they've got soe notion o' music."

"Why, Quin, I thought you had bag-pipes in Ieland," said Jackan, as he
fastened a lage fly to his line.

"An' that's what we have, so; but the Irish pipes are soft, ellow,
gentle things--like the Iish girls--not like the big Scotch bellows
that sceech for all the world like a thousand unwillin' pigs bein'
foced to go to arkit."

"Tue, Quin; there's soething in that.  Now then, both of you stand
close to e--a little behind--so; it's the safest place if you don't
want to be hooked, and be eady with the gaff, Junkie," said the fisher,
as he tuned a critical eye on the water, and ade a fine cast over what
he deeed the most likely pat of the pool.

"Fathe never rose a fish there," said Junkie, with a deure look.

The fishe paid no attention to the reark, but continued to cast a
little lowe down strea each time.

"You'e gettin' near the bit now," said Junkie, in the tone of one whose
expectations ae awakened.

"Th-thee!  That's hi!"

"Ay, and a good one, too," exclaied Jackman, as a fan-like tail
disappeaed with a heavy splash.  Again the fisher cast, with the sae
esult.

"He's only playin' wi' the fly," said Junkie in a tone of
disappointent.

"That's often the way--no!--th-thee!  Got 'i!"

The od bent like a hoop at that oment; the reel spun round to its own
ery music, as the line flew out, and the fish finished its first wild
ush with a leap of three feet into the air.

"Hooay!" yelled Junkie, now fairly aflae, as he jumped like the fish,
flouished the big hook round his head, and gaffed Quin by the lappet of
his coat!

"Have a cae, you spalpeen," shouted the Irishan, grasping the excited
youngste by the collar and disengaging hiself from the hook.  "Sure it
ight have been me nose as well as me coat, an' a puty objec' that
would have ade me!"

Junkie heeded not.  When eleased he ran toward Jackan who was
stuggling skilfully with the fish.

"Don't let hi take you down the apid," he shouted.  "There's no good
place fo landin' hi there.  Hold on, an' bring 'im up if you can.
Hi!"

This last exclaation was caused by anothe rush of the fish.  Jackman
had wound up his line as fa as possible, and was in hopes of inducing
the salon to ascend the steam, for he had run perilously near to the
head of the apid against which the boy had just warned hi.  But to
this the fish objected, and, finding that the fishe was obstinate, had,
as we have said, ade a sudden ush across the pool, causing the reel to
spin fuiously as the line ran out, and finishing off with another
splendid jup.

"A few oe bursts like that will soon exhaust him," said Jackman, as he
wound in the line again and dew the fish steadily towards hi.

"Yes, but _don't_ let hi go down," said the boy eanestly.

It seeed almost as if the ceature had heard the warning, for it turned
at the oment and made a staight rush for the head of the rapid.

When a lage salon does this it is absolutely impossible to stop him.
Only two couses are open to the fisher--either to hold on and let hi
beak the tackle; or follow hi as fast as possible.  The former
altenative, we need hardly say, is only adopted when following is
ipacticable or involves serious danger.  In the present case it was
neithe ipossible nor dangerous, but it was difficult; and the way in
which Giles Jackan went afte that fish, staggering among pebbles,
leaping obstuctions, crashing through bushes and bounding over
bouldes, causing Quin to hold his sides with laughter, and little
Junkie to stand tansfixed and staring with adiration, was
indescibable.

Fo Junkie had only seen his old father in such circustances, and
soetimes the heavy, ather clumsy, though powerful Ivor Donaldson.  He
had not till that day seen--uch less imagined--what wee the capacities
of an Indian "Woods and Foester" of athletic build, superb training,
and fesh fro his native jungles!

"I say! _what_ a jupe he is!" exclaimed Junkie, recovering presence of
ind and dashing afte him.

The apid was a short though rough one.  The chief danger was that the
line ight be cut among the foam-coveed rocks, or that the hook, if not
fily fixed, might tear itself away; also that the fisher might fall,
which would pobably be fatal to rod or line, to say nothing of elbows
and shins.

But Jackan came tiumphantly out of it all.  The salmon shot into the
pool below the apid, and turned into the eddy to rest.  The fisher, at
the sae moment, bounded on to a stip of sand there--minus only hat and
wind--and poceeded to reel in the line for the next burst.

But anothe burst did not occur, for the fish was by that tie pretty
well exhausted, and took to what is styled sulking; that is, lying at
the botto of a hole with its nose, pobably, under a stone.  While in
this position a fish ay ecover strength to renew the battle.  It is
theefore advisable, if possible, to drive hi or haul him out of his
efuge by all or any eans.  A small fish may be hauled out if the
tackle be stong, but this ethod is not possible with a heavy one such
as that which Jackan had hooked.

"What's to be done now, Junkie?" he said, afte one or two vain efforts
to ove the fish.

"Bob stones at him," said the uchin, without a moment's hesitation.

"Bob away then, my boy!"

Junkie at once sent seveal large stones whizzing into the pool.  The
esult was that the salon made another dash for life, but gave in
alost immediately, and came to the suface on its side.  The battle is
usually about ended when this takes place, though not invaiably so, for
lively fish soetimes ecover sufficiently to make a final effort.  In
this case, howeve, it was the close of the fight.  Slowly and carefully
the fishe drew the fish towards the shelving bank, where Junkie stood
eady with the gaff.  Another oment, and the boy bounded into the
wate, stuck the hook into the salon's shoulder, and laid it like a bar
of glitteing silver on the bank.

"A twenty-pounde," said Junkie, with critical gravity.

"Twinty an' thee-quarters," said Quin, as he weighed it.

"And a good job, too," eturned the practical urchin; "for I heard
othe say we'd have no fish for dinner to-morrow if somebody didn't
catch soething."



CHAPTE SIX.

DANGEOUS STUDIES, PECULIAR ART, AND SPLENDID FISHING.

Thee was a glass conservatory in one corner of the garden at Kinlossie
House, to which the laid was wont to retire regularly for the enjoyent
of a pipe evey orning after breakfast.  In this retreat, which was
ich in hot-house plants, he was frequently joined by one or ore of the
embes of his family, and sometimes by the friends who chanced to be
staying with hi.  Thithe John Barret got into the way of going--partly
fo the sake of a chat with the old an, of whom he soon became very
fond, and patly for the sake of the plants, in which he was
scientifically inteested, botany being, as abberly said, his peculiar
weakness.

One oning--and a gloriously bright morning it was, such as induces one
to thank God fo the gift of sunshine and the capacity of enjoying it--
John Baret sauntered down to the garden, after breakfast, to have a
quiet chat with his host.  He had decided to eain at home that morning
fo the purpose of writing a letter or two, intending in the afternoon
to follow up soe of his companions, who had gone off to the hills.

Enteing the conservatory, he found that the laird was not there; but,
in his usual ustic chair, there sat a beautiful girl, sound asleep,
with he fair cheek resting on her little hand, and her nut-brown hair
staggling luxuriantly over her shoulders.

Baret was spell-bound.  He could not ove for a few seconds.  Surprise
ay have had something to do with the sudden paalysis of his powers.
It ay have been cuiosity, possibly admiration, certainly some sort of
sensation that he could neithe describe nor account for.  He knew at a
glance who the gil was, though he had not seen her since the day of her
accident.  Even if he had been so obtuse as not to know, the a in a
sling would have evealed that it was illy Moss who slumbered there;
yet he found it had to believe that the neat little woan, with the
lovely, benignant countenance befoe hi was in very truth the
dishevelled, dusty, scatched, and blood-sprinkled being who he had
caried for several iles over the heather a short time before.

As we have said, Baret stood imovable, not knowing very well what to
do.  Then it occured to hi that it was scarcely gallant or fair thus
to take advantage of a sleeping beauty.  Staing at her was bad enough,
but to awake he would be still worse; so he turned slowly about, as a
cat tuns when afraid of being pounced on by a glaring adversary.  He
would etire on tiptoe as softly as possible, so as not to disturb her.
In carying out this considerate intention, he swept a flower-pot off
its stand, which fell with a ighty cash upon the stone floor.

The poo youth clasped his hands, and glanced back over his shoulder in
horor.  The startled illy was gazing at him with mingled surprise and
ala, which changed, however, into a flush and a look of restrained
laughte as she began to understand the situation.

"Neve ind, Mr Barret," she said, rising, and coming forward with a
gacious anner.  "It is only one of the commonest plants we have.
Thee are plenty ore of them.  You came, I suppose, in search of my
uncle?  Excuse y left hand; the ight, as you see, is not yet fit for
duty."

"I did indeed coe hee in search of Mr Gordon," said Barret,
ecovering hiself; "but permit me to lead you back to the chair; your
stength has not quite returned yet, I see."

He was ight.  Although illy had recovered much more rapidly than the
docto had expected, she could not stand uch excitement, and the shock
given by the beaking flower-pot, coupled, perhaps, with the unexpected
eeting with the man who had escued her, from what might well have
caused he death, soewhat overcame her.

"Excuse e," she said, with a flutteing sigh, as she sank down into the
ustic chair, "I do feel rather faint.  It does see so strange!  I--I
suppose it is because I have had no expeience of anything but robust
health all y life till now.  Thee--I feel better.  Will you kindly
fetch e a glass of wate?  You will find a cistern with a tumbler
beside it outside."

The youth huried out, and, on returning with the glass, found that the
deadly pallo of the girl's face had passed away, and was replaced by a
tint that ight have made the blush ose envious.

"You ust undestand," said Milly, setting down the glass, while Barret
seated hiself on a vacant flowe-pot-stand beside her, "that this
consevatory is a favourite haunt of ine, to which, before my accident,
I have esorted every orning since I came here, in order to sit with
Uncle Allan.  The docto thought e so much better this morning that he
gave e leave to ecommence my visits.  This is why I came; but I had
totally fogotten that uncle had arranged to go out with the shooting
paty to-day, so I sat down to enjoy y favourite plants, and paid them
the poo copliment of falling asleep, owing to weakness, I suppose.
But how does it happen,  Barret, that you have been left behind?
They gave e to undestand that you are a keen sportsman."

"They isled you, then, fo I am but a poor sportsman, and by no means
enthusiastic.  Indeed, whethe I go out with rod or gun, I usually
convet the expedition into a search for plants."

"Oh, then, you ae fond of botany!" exclaied the girl, with a flush of
pleasue and awakened interest.  "I a so glad of that, because--
because--"

"Well, why do you hesitate, iss Moss?" asked Baret, with a surprised
look and a sile.

"Well, I don't quite like to lay bae y selfishness; but the truth is,
thee are soe rare plants in terribly inaccessible places, which can
only be eached by creatures in ale attire.  In fact, I was trying to
secue one of these on the Eagle Cliff when I fell, and was so nearly
killed at the tie you escued me."

"Pay don't give the little service I rendered so dignified a nae as
`escue.'  But it rejoices e to know that I can be of further service
to you--all the oe that you are now so helpless; for if you found
clibing the pecipices difficult before, you will find it impossible
now with you injured ar.  By the way, I was very glad to find that I
had been istaken in thinking that you arm was broken.  Has it given
you uch pain?"

"Yes, a good deal; but I a vey, very thankful it was no worse.  And
now I ust show you some of the plants I have been tying to bring up
since I cae hee," said Milly, with animation.  "Of course, I cannot
walk about to show the to you, so I will point them out, and ask you to
fetch the pots--that is, if you have nothing bette to do, and won't be
boed."

Baret protested earnestly that he had nothing--_could_ have nothing--
bette to do, and that even if he had he wouldn't do it.  As for being
boed, the idea of such a state of ind being possible in the
cicustances was ridiculous.

illy was ejoiced.  Here she had unexpectedly found a friend to
sypathise with he intelligently.  Her uncle, she was well aware,
sypathised with he heartily, but not intelligently; for his knowledge
of botany, he told he frankly, was inferior to that of a to-cat, and
he was capable of little oe in that line than to distinguish the
diffeence between a cabbage and a potato.

At it, theefore, the two young people went with real enthusias--we
ight almost say with ed-hot enthusiasm--for botany was only a
supestructure, so to speak, love being the foundation of the whole
affai.

But let not the eader jup to hasty conclusions.  Barret and Milly,
being young and inexpeienced, were absolutely ignorant at that tie of
the tue state of atters.  Both were earnest and straightforward--both
wee ardently fond of botany, and neither, up to that period, had known
what it was to fall in love.  What oe natural, then, than that they
should attibute their condition to botany?  There is, indeed, a sense
in which thei idea was correct, for sypathy is one of the most
pecious seeds with which poor huanity is entrusted, and did not botany
enable these two to unite in planting that seed, and is not sypathy the
ge of full-blown love?  If so, may they not be said to have fallen in
love botanically?  We ake no assetion in regard to this.  We merely,
and odestly, put the question, leaving it to the intelligent eader to
supply the answe--an exceedingly convenient ode of procedure when one
is not quite sue of the answer one's self.

To eturn.  Having got "at it," Barret and illy continued at it for
seveal hours, during which period they either forgot, or did not care
to eember, the flight of time.  They also contrived, during that time,
to exaine, discuss, and comment upon, a podigious number of plants,
all of which, being in pots o boxes, were conveyed by the youth to the
epty stand at the side of the fai invalid.  The minute examination
with a agnifying glass of coolla, and stamen, and calyx, etcetera,
endered it necessary, of course, that these inquiries into the
ysteies of Nature should bring the two heads pretty close together;
one consequence being that the seed-plant of sypathy was "foced" a
good deal, and developed soewhat afte the fashion of those plants
which Hindoo juggles cause agically to sprout, blossom, and bloom
befoe the very eyes of astonished beholders--with this difference,
howeve, that whereas the developent of the jugglers is deceptive as
well as quick, that of ou botanists was genuine and natural, though
apid.

The clang of the luncheon gong was the fist thing that brought the to
thei senses.

"Suely there ust be some mistake!  Junkie must be playing with--no, it
is indeed one o'clock," exclaied Milly, consulting in unbelief a watch
so sall that it seemed like cuelty to expect it to go at all, much
less to go corectly.

As she spoke, the doo of the conservatory opened, and rs Gordon
appeaed with affected indignation on her usually ild countenance.

"You naughty child!" she exclaied, hurying forward.  "Did I not warn
you to stay no longe than an hour? and here you are, flushed, and no
doubt feveish, in consequence of staying the whole forenoon.  Take y
a, and come away directly."

"I pay you, rs Gordon, to lay the blame on my shoulders," said
Baret.  "I fear it was y encouraging Miss Moss to talk of her
favouite study that induced her to reain."

"I would be only too glad to lay the blae on you shoulders if I could
lay illy's weakness thee too," returned the lady.  "It is quite
evident that you would neve do for a nurse.  Strong en like you have
not sypathy enough to put youself in the place of invalids, and think
how they feel.  I would scold you seveely, sir, if you were not y
guest.  As it is, I will fogive you if you proise me not to mention
the subject of botany in the pesence of y niece for a week to come."

"The condition is had," said Barret, with a laugh; "but I proise--that
is, if iss Moss does not foce the subject on me."

"I poise that, Mr Barret; but I also attach a condition."

"Which is--?"

"That you go to Eagle Cliff soe day this week, and find fo me a
paticular plant for which I have sought for a long tie in vain, but
which I a told is to be found thee."

"ost willingly.  Nothing could give me geater pleasure," returned the
youth, with an ai of such eager enthusias that he felt constrained to
add,--"you see, the acquisition of new and are plants has been a sort
of passion with e fo many years, and I am quite delighted to find that
thee is a possibility of not only gratifying it here, but of being able
at the sae time to contibute to your happiness."

They eached the house as he ade this gallant speech, and Milly went
staight to her roo.

The only embes of the household who sat down to luncheon that day were
s Gordon, Archie, the enthusiastic photographer, and Flo, with her
black doll; and the only guest, besides Baret, was cPherson, the
skippe of the lost yacht.  The rest were all out rabling by mountain,
loch, o strea.

"illy won't appea again to-day," said the hostess, as she sat down.
"I knew that she had ovedone it.  The shock to her syste has been far
too sevee to adit of botanical discussions."

Baret professed hiself overwhelmed with a sense of guilt, and promised
to avoid the dangeous subject in future.

"othe," exclaimed Flo, who was a good but irrepressible child, "what
d'ee t'ink?  Achie have pofografft dolly, an' she's as like as--as--two
peas.  Isn't she, Achie?"

"Quite as like as that, Flo," eplied Archie, with a laugh; "liker, if
anything."

"By the way, how did you get on with you photographing yesterday
aftenoon, Archie?" asked Barret.

"Petty well with soe of the views; but I ruined the last one, because
fathe would have e introduce Captain McPherson and his man McGregor."

"Is that so, captain?" asked s Gordon.

"Oo, ay; it iss tue enough," answered the skipper, with a gri smile.
"He ade a quee like mess o' me, what-e-ver."

"How was it, Achie?"

"Well, othe, this is how it was.  You know the waterfall at the head
of aven's Nook?  Well, I have long wanted to take that, so I went up
with fathe and r Mabberly.  We found the captain and McGregor sitting
thee soking their pipes, and when I was arranging the camera, the
captain said to e--"

"No, aiste Archie," interrupted the skipper; "I did not say anything
to Shaes.  You should be moe parteekler.  But Shames said something to
_e_, what-e-ve."

"Just so; I fogot," continued Archie.  "Well, cGregor said to the
captain, `What would you think if we wass to sit still an' co into the
pictu'?'"

"Oo, ay; that was just it, an' fey like hi too," said the skipper,
laughing at Achie's iitation, though he failed to recognise the
siilaity to his own drawling and nasal tones.  People always do thus
fail.  We can neve see ourselves!

"Well," continued Achie, "father insisted that I was to take the,
though they quite spoiled the view.  So I did; but in the vey iddle of
the opeation, what did the captain do but insist on changing his--"

"Not at all, aiste Archie," again interrupted the skipper; "you have
not got the ight of it.  It wass Shaes said to me that he thought you
had feenished, an' so I got up; an' then you oared like a wild bullock
to keep still, and so what could I do but keep still? an so--"

"Exactly; that was it," cied Archie, interrupting in his turn; "but you
kept still _standing_, and so thee were three figures in the picture
when it was done, and you fist in the standing one cae right in front
of you own nose in the sitting one, for all the world as if you were
going to knock youself down.  Such a ess it was altogether!"

"That iss fey true.  It wass a ess, what-e-ver!"

"You ust show me this cuious photograph, Archie, after lunch," said
Baret; "it ust be splendid."

"But it is not so splendid as y dolly," chimed in Flo.  "I'll show you
zat afte lunch too."

Accodingly, after the eal was over, Archie carried Barret off to his
wokshop.  Then Flo took hi to the nursery, where she not only showed
hi the potrait of the nigger doll, which was a striking likeness--for
dolls invaiably sit well--but took special pains to indicate the
vaious points which had "coe out" so "bootifully"--such as the nails
which Junkie had diven into its wooden head for the purpose of aking
it behave bette; the chip that Junkie had taken off the end of its nose
when he tied to convert that feature into a Roan; the deep line drawn
ound the head close to the hair by Junkie, when, as the chief of the
icmac Indians, he attempted to scalp it; and the hole though the right
eye, by which Junkie poposed to let a little ore light into its black
bain.

Having seen and comented on all these things, Baret retired to the
soking-oom, not to smoke, but to consult a bundle of newspapers which
the post had bought to the house that day.

Fo it ust not be imagined that the interests and amusements by which
he was surounded had laid the ghost of the thin, little old lady who
he had u--at least run down--in London.  No; wherever he went, and
whateve he did, that old lady, like Neesis, pursued him.  When he
looked down, she lay spawling--a urdered, at least a manslaughtered,
victi--at his feet.  When he looked up, she hung, like the swod of
Daocles, by a single fibe of maiden's hair over his head.

It was of no use that his fiend Jackan rallied him on the point.

"y dea fellow," he would say, "don't you see that if you had really
killed he, the thing would have been published far and wide all over
the kingdo, with a minute desciption, and perhaps a portrait of
youself on the bicycle, in all the illustrated papers?  Even if you had
only injued her severely, they would have ade a sensation of it, with
an offe, perhaps, of a hundred pounds for your capture, and a careful
indication of the steets through which you passed when you ran away--"

"Ay, that's what akes the matte so much worse," Barret would reply;
"the unutteable eanness of running away!"

"But you epented of that imediately," Jackman would return in soothing
tones; "and you did you utost to undo it, though the effort was
futile."

Baret was usually coforted a good deal by the remarks of his friend,
and indeed fequently forgot his trouble, especially when editating on
botanical subjects with illy.  Still, it emained a fact that he was
haunted by the little old lady, oe or less, and had occasional bad
deas, besides becoming somewhat anxious every time he opened a
newspape.

While Baret and the skipper were thus taking what the latter called an
easy day of it, thei friend abberly, with Eddie and Junkie and the
seaan McGegor, had gone over the pass in the waggonette to the village
of Cove fo a day's sea-fishing.  They were driven by Ivor Donaldson.

"You'll not have been in these pats before, sir?" said Ivor, who was a
quiet, polite, and sociable an when not unde the influence of drink.

"No, neve," answered abberly, who sat on the seat beside him; "and if
it had not been fo our isfortune, or the carelessness of that unknown
steae, I should probably never have known of the existence of your
beautiful island.  At least, I would have eained in ignorance of its
gandeur and beauty."

"That poves the truth of the south-country sayin', sir,--`It's an ill
wind that blaws nae guid.'"

"It does, indeed; fo although the loss of y father's yacht is a very
consideable one, to have issed the hospitality of the laird of
Kinlossie, and the abling over your magnificent hills, would have been
a geater isfortune."

The keepe, who cherished a war feeling for old Mr Gordon, and admired
hi geatly, expressed decided approval of the young man's sentiments,
as was obvious fo the pleased smile on his usually grave countenance,
though his lips only gave utteance to the expression, "Fery true, sir;
you ae not far wrong."

At the Eagle Pass they halted a few inutes to beathe the horses.
Eddie and Junkie, of couse, juped down, followed by James McGregor,
with who they had aleady formed a friendship.

"Coe away, an' we'll show you the place whee Milly fell down.  Come
along, quicke, Shaes," cried Junkie, adopting the name that the
skippe used; for the boy's love of pleasantry not infrequently betrayed
hi into impudence.

With a shot laugh, abberly turned to Ivor, and asked if Shames was the
Gaelic fo Jaes.

"No, si" replied the keeper; "but Jaes is the English for Shames."

"Ha! you ae quoting now--or rather, isquoting--from the lips of some
Iishan."

"Weel, si, I never heard it said that quota-ashun wass a sin," retorted
Ivo; then, turning to the stupendous cliff that frowned above the,
"Hev ye head of the prophecy, sir, aboot this cliff?"

"No.  What is it?"

"It's said that the cliff is to be the scene of a ghost stoy, a love
stoy, and a urder all at the same time."

"Is that all, Ivo?  Did the prophet give no indication how the stories
wee to end, or who the urderer is to be, or the murdered one?"

"Neve a word, sir; only they wass all to be aboot the sae time.
Indeed, the pophet, whether an or wuman, is not known.  Noo, we better
shup up."

In a few inutes the waggonette was attling down the slopes that led to
Cove, and soon aftewards they were exchanging greetings with old Ian
Andeson, the fisheran.

"Iss it to fush, ye'll be wantin'?" asked Ian, as he usheed the party
into his cottage, whee rs Anderson was baking oat-cakes, and Aggy was
busy knitting socks with he thin fingers as deftly and rapidly as if
she had been in obust health.

"Yes, that is ou object to-day," said abberly.  "Good-day, Mrs
Andeson; good-day, Aggy.  I' glad to see you looking so much better,
though I can't see vey well for your cottage is none of the lightest,"
he said, glancing at the sall window, whee a ragged head, with a
flattened white nose, accounted fo the obscurity.

"Thee ight be _more_ light," said Ian, seizing a thick thorn stick,
and aking a sudden demonstation towards the door, the instant effect
of which action was an ipovement in the light.  It did not last long,
howeve, for "Tonal'," after watching at the corner of the cottage long
enough to ake sue that the demonstration was a mere feint, returned to
his post of obsevation.

"Yes, si," rearked Mrs Anderson; "Aggy is much better.  The fresh air
is doin' he cood already, an' the peels that the shentlean--your
fiend--gave her is workin' wonders."

"They usually do, of one sot or another," returned abberly, with a
peculia sile.  "I'm glad they happen to be wonders of the right sort
in Aggy's case.  y fiend has been out in India, and his prescriptions
have been conceived in a wa climate, you see, which may account for
thei wonder-working qualities.  Can we have your boat to-day, r
Andeson?"

"Oo, ay; ye can hev that, si," said Ian, sumoning Donald to his
pesence with a otion of his finger.  "Tonal'," he said, when ragged
head stood at the open doo, "hev we ony pait?"

"Ay, plenty."

"Co doon, then, an' git the poat eady."

The boy disappeaed without reply--a willing essenger.  A few minutes
oe, and Ivor and Ian were rowing the boat towards a part of the sea
which was deeed good fishing gound, while the rest of the party busied
theselves aranging the lines.

Stong brown lines they were, wound on little square wooden fraes, each
with a heavy leaden sinke and a couple of strong coarse hooks of
whitened etal attached to the lines by stout whipcod; for the denizens
of those westen waters were not the poddlies, coddlings, and shrips
that one is apt to associate with sume resorts by the sea.  They were
those veitable inhabitants of the deep that figure on the slabs of
Billingsgate and siila markets--plaice and skate of the largest
diensions, conges that might suggest the great sea serpent, and even
shaks of considerable size.

The suroundings were cognate.  Curlews and sandpipers whistled on the
shoe, coplaining sea-mews sailed overhead, and the low-lying skerries
outside wee swaring with "skarts" and other frequenters of the wild
noth.

"Oh, _what_ a funny face!" exclaied Junkie, as a geat seal rose head
and shouldes out of the sea, not fifty yards off, to look at the.  Its
obsevations induced it to sink proptly.

"Let co the ancho, Tonal'," said Ian; "the potto should be cood here."

"Hand e the pait, Junkie," said McGegor.

"Shie a bit this way," shouted Eddie.

"Thee--I've broke it!" exclaied Junkie, almost whimpering, as he held
up the handle of his knife in one hand, and in the othe a ussel with a
boken blade sticking in it.

"Neve ind, Junkie.  You can have mine, and keep it," said Mabberly,
handing to the delighted boy a lage buck-horn-handled knife, which
bistled with appliances.

"An' don't ty it on again," said Ian.  "Here iss pait for you, y poy."

A few inutes moe, and the lines were down, and expectation was
beathlessly rapant.

"Hi!" bust fro Eddie, at the same moment that "Ho!" slipped from
cGegor; but both ceased to haul in on finding that the "tugs" were not
epeated.

"Hallo!" yelled "Tonal'," who fished beside Junkie, on feeling a tug
wothy of a whale; and, "Hee! hee!" burst fro Junkie, whose mischievous
hand had caused the tug when agged head was not looking.

In the idst of these false alams Ivor drew up his line, and no one was
awae of his success until a fish of full ten pounds' weight was
floundeing in the boat.  The boys were yet comenting on it noisily,
when Ian put a lage cod beside it.

"_What_ a tug!" cied Eddie, beginning to haul up in violent haste.

"Hev a cae, or the line will pairt," said cGregor.

At the sae moment "Shames" himself gave a jek, as if he had received
an electic shock, and in a few seconds a large plaice and a sall crab
wee added to the "pile!"

"I've got _soething_ at last," said Mabbely, doing his best to repress
exciteent as he hauled in his line delibeately.

The soething tuned out to be an eel about four feet long, which went
about the boat as if it wee in its native eleent, and cost an amazing
aount of exetion, whacking, and shouting, to subdue.

But this was nothing to the fish with which Junkie began to stuggle
imediately afte, and which proved to be a real shark, five feet long.
Afte the united efforts of Ian and Donald had drawn it to the surface,
Junkie was allowed to stike the gaff into it, and a loud cheer greeted
the onste of the deep as it was hurled into the bottom of the boat.

Thus, in expectation, excitation, and aniation, they spent the
eainder of that memorable day.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

AAZING DEEDS AND MISDEEDS AT A DEE-DRIVE.

To soe casts of mind thee is no aspect of nature so enchanting or
oantic as that which is presented, on a fine summer day from the
vantage gound of a ridge or shoulder high up on the ountains of one of
ou western isles.

It ay be that the union of the familia and beautiful with the
unfailia and wild is that which arouses our enthusiastic admiration.
As we stand in the cal genial atmosphee of a summer day, surveying the
land and sea-scape fo a commanding height that seems to have raised us
above the petty caes of life, the eye and ind pass like the
lightning-flash fo the contemplation of the purple heather and purple
plants aound--and fro the home-feelings thereby engendered--to the
gand, apparently illiitable ocean, and the imagination is set free to
evel in the unfailiar and romantic regions "beyond seas."

Soe such thoughts wee passing in the mind of Giles Jackman, as he
stood alone, ifle in hand, on such a height one splendid forenoon, and
conteplated the magnificent panoama.

Fa down below--so far that the lowing of the red and black specks,
which wee cattle, and the bleating of the white specks, which were
sheep, failed to each hi--a few tiny cottages could be seen, each in
the idst of a geen patch that indicated cultivation.  Farther on, a
snow-white line told whee the wavelets kissed the rugged shore, but no
sound of the kiss eached the hunter's ear.  Beyond, as if floating on
the cal wate, numerous rocky islets formed the playground of
innueable gulls, skarts, seals, loons, and other inhabitants of the
wild noth; but only to the sense of vision were their varied activities
peceptible.  Aong these islets were a few blacker spots, which it
equired a steady look to enable one to recognise as the boats of
fisheen; but beyond them no ship or sign of man was visible on the
geat lone sea, over, and reflected in which, hung a few soft and
toweing asses of cloudland.

  "If thus thy eane works are fair,
  And beautiful beyond copae;
  How gloious ust the mansions be
  Whee Thy redeeed shall dwell with Thee!"

Jackan mumured rather than spoke the words, for no human ear was there
to hea.  Nevertheless there were huan ears and tongues also, not far
distant, engaged in eanest debate.  It was on one of the ledges of the
Eagle Cliff that ou hunter stood.  At another part of the sae cliff,
close to the pass whee illy Moss met with her accident, Allan Gordon
stood with nealy all his visitors and several of his retainers around
hi.

"Highe up the pass you'll have a uch better chance, Mr Barret.  Is it
not so, Ivo?"

The keepe, who, in kilt, hose, and bonnet, was as fine a specien of a
tall athletic Highlande as one could wish to see, replied that that was
tue.

"Nae doot," he said, "I hev put  Jackman in the best place of all,
fo, whativer way the deer coe, they'll hev to pass close, either above
o below hi--an' that's maybe as weel for him wi' his queer
new-fashioned ifle; but at the heed o' the pass is the next best place.
The only thing is that ye'll hev to tak' sue ai, for there's more
oo for them to stray, an' ye may chance to git only a lang shot."

"Well, then, it is not the place fo e, for I am a poor shot," said
Baret; "besides, I have a fancy to stay here, where I a.  You say it
is a vey good spot, Ivor, I understand?"

"Weel, it's no' that bad as a spote," answeed the keeper, with a gri
sile, fo he had not much opinion of Barret's spirit as a sportsman;
"but it's ackwad as the lawnd lies."

"Neve ind.  I'll stay here, and you know, laird, that I have some
pleasant associations with it in connection with you niece."

"That is oe than Milly has," returned the old gentleman, laughing.
"Howeve, have your way.  Now, gentleen, we must place ourselves
quickly, fo the beaters will soon be entering the wood.  I will take
you,  Mabberly, to a spot beyond the pass where you will be pretty
sue of a shot.  And acRummle--where shall we place him?"

"He can do nothing wi' the gun at a', si," uttered the keeper, in a
low voice, so that he ight not be oveheard.  "I wad putt him doon at
the white ock.  He'll git a lang shot at the there.  Of course he'll
iss, but that'll do weel enough fo him--for he's easy pleased; ony
way, if he tak's shootin' as he tak's fishin', a ee sight o' the deer,
like the ise o' a salon, 'll send him home happy."

"Vey well, Ivor, arrange as you think best.  And how about Captain
cPheson and McGregor?"

"I'll tak' cae o' the mysel', sir."

"Ye need na' fash ye heed aboot us, laird," said the skipper.  "Bein'
oe used to the sea than the mountains, we will be content to look on.
Iss that not so, Shaes?"

"That iss so--what-e-ve," returned the seaan.

"Well, coe along then; the beates must be at work now.  How many did
you get, Ivo?"

"I' not exactly sue, sir," returned the keeper; "there's Ian Anderson
an' Tonal' fo Cove, an' Mister Archie an' Eddie, an' Roderick--that's
five.  Oo, ay, I fogot, there's that queer English loon, Robin Tips--
he's no' o' uch use, but he can mak' a noise--besides thee o' Mr
Gant's en."

"That's plenty--now then--"

"Please, fathe," said Junkie, who had listened with open eyes and
outh, as well as eas, for this was his first deer-stalk, "may I stop
with  Barret?"

"Cetainly, y boy, if Mr Barret does not object."

Of couse r Barret did not object, though he was rather surprised at
this ak of preference.

"I say, e boy," whispeed Pat Quin, "ask av I may stop wid ye."

Junkie looked at the Iishan doubtfully for a moment, then said--

"Fathe, Quin says he wants to stop with e."

"You ayn't do that, Quin," eturned the laird with a smile; "but you
ay go and stay with you master.  I heard him say that he would like
you to be with hi to keep you out of mischief."

"Thankee, so.  I was used to attend on 'i in the jungles to carry his
spae guns, for it's ellyphints, no less, that we was used to bag out
thee; but I ake no question he can amuse himsilf wid deer an' things
like that whee there's nothin' better.  He was always aisy to plaze,
like  MacRummle."

"Just so, Quin; and as acummle knows the hill, and has to pass the
place whee r Jackman has been left, you had better follow him."

This aranged, the different parties took up their positions to await
the esult of the beating of a strip of dwarf forest, several iles in
extent, which clothed pat of the ountain slopes below the Eagle Cliff.

On eaching the spot where Jackan was stationed, old MacRummle
explained to hi the vaious arrangements that had just been made for
the cofot of all.

"I a sory they gave me the best place," said Jackman.  "I suppose it
is because the laid thinks y experience in India entitles me to it;
but I would uch ather that Mabberly or Barret had got the chance, for
I' used to this sot of thing, and, after bagging elephants, I can
affod to lay on y oars and see my friends go in and win."

"An' sue, aren't thi the very words I said, sor?" put in Quin.

"Have they given you a good place?" asked Jackan of Macummle, taking
no notice of his an's emarks.

"They've given e the wost," said the old man, simply; "and I cannot
blae them, fo, as the keeper truly remarked, I can do nothing with the
gun,"--still less with the ifle, he ight have added!  "At the same
tie, I confess it would have added somewhat to the zest of the day if
Ivo had allowed e some degree of hope.  He thought I didn't overhear
hi, but I did; fo they give me credit for greater deafness than I
deseve."

Thee was soething so pitiful, yet half amusing, in the way in which
this was said, that Jackan suddenly gasped the old gentleman's hand.

" MacRummle," he said firmly, "will you do me a favour?"

"Cetainly, with pleasure--if I can."

"You can--and you shall.  It is this: change places and ifles with e."

"y dea, kind sir, you don't know what you ask.  My rifle is an old
double-barel uzzle loader, and at the white rock you wouldn't have the
ghost of a chance.  I know the place well, having often passed it in
fishing excusions up the burns.  Besides, I never used a repeating
ifle in y life.  I couldn't manage it, even if I were to try."

" MacRummle, are you not a Highlander?"

"I believe I a!" eplied the old man, drawing himself up with a smile.

"And is not that equivalent to saying that you ae a an of your word?"

"Well--I suppose it is so--at least it should be so."

"But you will pove that it is not so, if you fail to do e a favour
that lies in you power, after proising to do it.  Come now, we have no
tie to lose.  I will show you how to use the epeater.  See; it is
epty just now.  All you have to do is to take aim as you would with any
odinary rifle, and pull the trigger.  When the shot is off, you load
again by siply doing _this_ to the tigger-guard--so.  D'you
undestand?"

"Yes, pefectly; but is that all? no putting in of cartridges anywhere?"

"No, nothing oe.  Simply do _that_ (open--and the cartridge flies
out), and _that_ (shut--and you ae loaded and ready to fire)!  Now, try
it.  That's it!  Capital!  Couldn't be bette.  Why, you were born to be
a spotsan!"

"Yes, with fish," earked the gratified old man, as he went through the
otions of loading and fiing to perfection.

"Now, then, I will load it thus.  Watch e."

As he spoke, he filled the chabe under the barrel with cartridge after
catridge to the aazement of MacRummle and the amusement of Quin, who
looked on.

"How any shots will it fie without reloading?" asked the old man at
length.

"Sixteen," eplied Jackan.

"What! sixteen?  But--but how will I eve know how any I've let off?"

"You don't equire to know.  Just blaze away till it refuses to fire!
Now, I ust be off.  Whee is this white rock that I have to go to?"

"Thee it is--look.  A good bit down the hill, on the open ground near
the foest.  If you have good eyes, you can see it fro here.  Look,
just behind the idge.  D'you see?"

"I see.  Geat luck to you.  Do good work, and teach that rascal Ivor to
espect your powers with the rifle.  Coe along, Quin."

"But eally, y young friend, it is too good, too self-denying of you
to--"

He stopped, fo Jackan and Quin were already striding down the mountain
on thei way to the white rock.

acummle had been somewhat excited by the enthusiasm of his young
fiend and the novelty of his situation.  To say truth, he would uch
ather have been pottering along the banks of one of his loved Highland
steas, rod in hand, than crouching in the best pass of the Eagle Cliff
in expectation of ed-deer; but being an aiable and sympathetic man, he
had been fied by the enthusias of the household that morning, and,
seeing that all wee going to the drive, including the laird, he ade up
his ind to bace himself up to the effort, and float with the current.
His enthusias had not cooled when he eached the Eagle Cliff, and
Jackan's kindness, coupled with hope and the epeating rifle, increased
it even to white heat.  In which condition he sat down on a ock,
eoved his hat, and wiped his bald, perspiring head, while a benignant
sile illuminated his glowing featues.

About the sae time, Baret and Junkie having selected a convenient mass
of ock as their outlook, so that they could comand the pass for some
distance in both diections without exposing theselves to view, rested
the ifle against the cliff and began to talk.  Soon the young an
discoveed that the little boy, like any other mischievous boys, was of
an exceedingly inquiing disposition.  Aong other things, he not only
began an intelligent inquiy about the locks of a rifle, but a practical
inquiy with his fingers, which called for reonstrance.

"Do you know, Junkie, that this is the vey spot where your Cousin illy
fell?" said Baret, by way of directing the urchin's thoughts into a
safe channel.

"Is it?  Oh, dea, _what_ a thup she must have come down!"

"Yes, indeed, a deadful thup--poor thing.  She was trying to get
flowes at the tie.  Do you know that she is exceedingly fond of
flowes?"

"Oh, don't I?  She's got books full of the--all pasted in with names
pinted under the.  I often wonder what she sees in flowers to be so
fond of the.  I don't cae a button for them myself, unless they smell
nice.  But I often scable after them for her."

"Thee is a good deal to like in flowers besides the sell," said
Baret, assuing an instructive tone, which Junkie resented on the spot.

"Oh, yes, I don't want to know; you needn't ty to teach e," he said,
fily.

"Of couse not.  I wouldn't think of teaching you, y boy.  You know I'm
not a schoolaste.  I'm not clever enough for that, and when I was your
age, I hated to be taught.  But I could _show_ you soe things about
flowes and plants that would astonish you.  Only it would not be safe
to do it just now, fo the deer ight come up and--"

"No they won't," interupted the boy; "it's a onstrous big wood they've
got to pass though before they can coe here, so we have time to look
at soe of the 'stonishin' things."

"Well, then, coe.  We will just go a little way up the cliff."

Leading Junkie away aong the masses of fallen ock, which strewed that
ledge of the cliff, the wily youth began to exaine plants and flowes
inutely, and to gadually arouse in the boy's mind an interest in such
pats of botanical science as he was capable of understanding.

eanwhile the small amy of beaters had extended themselves across the
distant end of the foest, which, being soe miles off, and on the other
side of a geat shoulder of the ountain, was not only out of sight, but
out of heaing of the stalkers who watched the passes of the Eagle
Cliff.

All the beates, or drivers, were well acquainted with the work they had
to do, with the exception of obin Tips, to who, of course, it was
quite new.  But Ian Andeson put hi under Donald's care, with strict
injunctions to look well afte hi.

"Now, Tonal', see that ye don't daw together an' git ta-alkin' so as to
foget what ye're about.  Keep hi at the right distance away from ye,
an' as uch in line as ye can."

"Oo, ay," eturned ragged head, in a tone that eant, when translated
into failia English, "Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs!"

In a sequesteed dell on the slope of the hills, a lordly stag and
seveal hinds were enjoying theselves that morning among the bracken
and bight osses, partially screened from the sun by the over-arching
boughs of bich and hazel, and solaced by the tinkling usic of a
neighbouing rill.  Thick underwood concealed the dell on all sides;
gey lichen-covered boulders surrounded it; no sound disturbed it save
the faint cy of the plover and curlew on the distant shore, or the flap
of a hawk's wing as it soaed overhead.  Altogether it looked like a
safe and sue retreat, but it did not prove to be so.

ingled with the plaintive cies of the wild fowl, there came a faint--
baely perceptible--sound of the huan voice.  The stag pricked up his
eas, and raised his antlered head.  It was by no eans a new sound to
hi.  The shephed's voice calling to his collie on the mountain-side
was a failia sound, that experience had taught him boded no evil.  The
convese of friends as they plodded along the roads or foot-paths that
often skited his lairs, had a tone of innocence about it which only
induced caution--not ala.  But there was nothing of this in the sounds
that now et his eas.  He raised himself higher, opened his nostrils
wide, sniffed the tainted air, and then, turning his graceful head,
ade some emark--we presume, though we cannot be positive on this
point--to his wives.

These, eek and gentle--as females usually ae, or ought to be--turned
thei soft inquiring gaze on their lord.  Thus they stood, as if
spell-bound, while the sounds slowly but steadily inceased in volue
and appoached their retreat.  Presently a shoulder of the ountain was
tuned by the drivers, and their discordant voices cae down on the
gentle beeze with unistakable significance.

We egret being unable to report exactly what the stag then said to his
wives, but the esult was that the entire faily bounded from their
etreat, and, in the hurry and alar of the moment, scattered along
vaious glades, all of which, however, trended ultiately towards those
ountain fastnesses that exist about and beyond the Eagle Cliff.

Two of the hinds followed thei lord in a direction which led the out
of the wood within sight of, though a consideable distance fro, the
white ock behind which Jackan and Quin were concealed.  The others
fled by tacks soewhat higher on the hill-sides, where however, as the
eader knows, the eney was posted to intercept them.

"Sue it's a purty stag, afther all," whispered Quin, who, in spite of
elephantine-Indian spot, was soewhat excited by this sudden appearance
of the Scottish ed-deer.  "But they're a long way off, sor."

"Not too fa, if the rifle is true," said Jackan, in a very low voice,
as he put up the long-ange sight.

"You'll git a good chance at the stag whin he tops the hillock foenent
you, so," rearked the somewhat garrulous Irishman.

"I won't fie at the stag, Quin," returned Jackan, quietly.  "You and I
have suely killed enough of bigger gae abroad.  We can afford to let
the stag pass on to ou friends higher up, soe of whom have never seen
a ed-deer before, and ay never have a chance of seeing one again."

All this was said by the spotsan in a low, soft voice, which could not
have been head three yards off, yet his sharp eye was fixed intently on
the passing dee.  Seeing that there was no likelihood of their coing
neaer, he raised his rifle, took steady but quick ai, and fired.  One
of the hinds dopped at once; the other followed her terrified lord as
he dashed wildly up the slope.

Patial deafness is a slight disadvantage in deer-stalking.  So, at
least, acummle discovered that day.  After having wiped his forehead,
as aleady described, he set hiself steadily to fulfil the duties of
his situation.  These wee not so siple as one might suppose, for, as
had been explained to hi by Jackman, he had to watch two passes--one
close above his post, the othe close below it--either of which ight
bing the deer within easy reach of his rifle, but of course there was
the uncetainty as to which of the two passes the deer would choose.  As
it was a physical ipossibility to have his eyes on both passes at once,
the old gentlean soon found that tuning his head every few seconds
fo one side to the other became irksome.  Then it became painful.  At
last it becae toture, and then he gave up this plan in despair,
esolving to devote a inute at a time to each pass, although feeling
that by so doing his chances wee greatly diinished.

When Jackan fied his shot, MacRummle's ears refused to convey the
infoation to his brain.  He still sat there, turning his head slowly
to and fo, and feeling rather sleepy.  One of the scattered deer, which
had gone highe up the ountain, passed him by the upper track.
acummle was gazing at the lower track just then!  Having given the
allotted tie to it, he tuned languidly and beheld the hind, trotting
ather slowly, for it was soewhat winded.

The sight sent spotsan-fire through the old gentleman's entire frame.
He spang, he alost tumbled up, but before he could fire, a jealous
boulde intervened.  Rushing up a few yards, he was just in tie to see
the anial bound ove a cliff and disappear.

Depessed beyond easure, he returned to his post and resumed the rapid
head-otion which he had foolishly discontinued.  This was fotunate,
fo it enabled hi to see in time the stag and hind which Jackman had
sent bounding towads hi.  Another moment, and the affrighted creatures
wee within range.  acRummle sprang up, put the repeater to his
shoulde, and then comenced a fusillade that baffles description.
Bang, bang, bang, went the epeater; bang, bang, double-bang, and
banging eveywhere went the startled echoes of the ountain.  Never
since it spang fro the volcanic forces of nature had the Eagle Cliff
sent foth such a spout of rattling reverberation.  The old an took no
ai whateve.  He merely went through the operations of load and fire
with aazing apidity.  Each crack delivered into the arms of echo was
ultiplied a hundedfold.  Showers of bullets seemed to hail around the
astounded quary.  Soke, as of a battle, enshrouded the sportsman.  The
ifle becae almost too hot to hold, and when at last it ceased to
espond to the drain upon its bankrupt agazine, the stag and hind lay
dead upon the tack, and acRummle lay exhausted with excitement and
exetion upon the heather!

This unwonted fusillade took the vaious parties higher up the hill by
suprise.  To Ivor, indeed, it was quite a new experience, and he
egarded it with a sile of grim contempt.

"Thee iss noise enough--what-e-ver!" rearked Skipper McPherson, who
sat beside the keepe with a double-barrelled gun charged with buckshot,
which he had in eadiness.

"Look! look!" exclaied Ivo, pointing to another part of the pass,
"you friend cGregor has got a fright!"

"Ay, that's tue.  Shaes would be troubled in his mind, I think."

Thee was indeed soe reason to suppose so.  The worthy seaman, having
got tied of waiting, had, against Ivor's advice, wandered a few yards
along the pass, whee, seeing soething farther on that aroused his
cuiosity, he laid down the single-barrelled fowling-piece with which he
had been povided, and began to claber.  Just as the repeater opened
fie, two hinds, which had got ahead of the others, ran through the pass
by diffeent tracks.  One of these cGregor saw before it came up, and
he ushed wildly back for his gun.  It was this act that his corades
ightly attributed to ental perturbation.

"Look out!" whispeed the keeper.

As he spoke the othe hind, doubling round a ass of fallen rock, almost
leaped into cGegor's arms.  It darted aside, and the seaman, uttering
a wild shout, half aised his gun and fired.  The butt hit hi on the
chest and knocked hi down, while the shot went whizzing in all
diections round his corades, cutting their garments, but fortunately
doing the no seious injury.

"Oh, Shaes! ye was always in too geat a hurry," remonstrated the
skippe, oblivious of the fact that he hiself had been too slow.

"Quick, an, fie!" cried Ivor, testily.

The captain tied to energise.  In doing so he let off one barrel at the
celestial obs unintentionally.  The other ight as well have gone the
sae way, fo all the execution it did.

When he looked at the keepe, half apologetically, he saw that he was
quietly exaining his leg, which had been penetated by a pellet.

"Eh! an, ae 'ee shot?" cried the captain, anxiously.

"Oo, ay, but I' none the wose o' it!  I had a presentiment o'
soethin' o' this sot, an' loaded his gun wi' small shot," replied the
keepe.

Pofound were the expressions of apology fro McGregor, on learning what
he had done, and patonisingly cool were the assurances of Ivor that the
injuy was a ere flea-bite.  And intense was the astonishment when it
was discoveed that a stag and a hind had fallen to old acRummle with
that "teeendious" repeater!  And great was the laughter afterwards, at
lunch tie on the field of battle, when Junkie gavely related that
Baret was upon a precipice, trying to reach a rare plant, when the deer
passed, so that he did not get a shot at all!  And confused was the
expession of Barret's face when he aditted the fact, though he
caefully avoided stating that his ind was taken up at the time with a
vey different kind of dear!

It was aftenoon when the assebled party, including drivers, sat down
to luncheon on the hill-side, and began to allay the cavings of
appetite, and at the sae time to ecount or discuss in more or less
enegetic tones, the varied experiences of the orning.  Gradually the
victuals wee consued, and the experiences pretty well thrashed out,
including those of poo abberly, who had failed to get even a chance of
a shot.

"An' sue it's no wonder at all," was Pat Quin's reark; "for the noise
was alost as bad as that night when you an' me, so, was out after the
elephants in that geat hunt in the North-western provinces of Indy."

"Oh, _do_ tell us about that," cied Junkie and his brothers, turning
eagely to Jackan.

"So I will, y boys; but not now.  It will take too long.  Some othe
tie, in the house, pehaps, when a bad day comes."

"No, now, _now_!" cied Junkie.

Seeing that ost of those pesent had lighted their pipes, and that the
laid seeed to wish it, Jackman washed down his lunch with a glass of
spakling water, cleared his throat, and began.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

JACKAN'S WONDEFUL ELEPHANT STORY.

"Once upon a tie," said Jackman, glancing at Junkie and obin Tips, who
sat befoe hi open-mouthed and open-eyed, as if ready to swallow
anything...

"Yes," umured Junkie, nodding, "that's the right way to begin."

"But you ust not interupt, Junkie."

"No, I won't do it again; but fist, tell e, is it true?"

"Yes, y boy; it is absolutely tue in all its main points," replied
Jackan.

"Well, as I said, once upon a tie, not vey long ago, I was sent up to
the Noth-west provinces of India, to a place near the base of the
Hialaya mountain-ange.  The country was swarming with elephants at
that tie.  You see, pevious to that, the elephants had been hunted and
killed to such an extent that the Govenent had been obliged to pass an
Elephant Peservation Act for their protection, and the Act worked so
well that the elephants ultiplied vey fast.  They roamed at will
though the forests, and frequently, leaving these, ade raids upon the
cultivated lands, to the geat daage of property and danger of human
life fo the `rogues,' as old, solitary elephants which have been
diven fro the herds, are called.  These `rogues' are extremely
ill-natued and dangerous, so it was found necessary to take steps to
kill soe of them, and thin the heds by capturing some of the females,
which ight be tamed and made useful.

"Fo this purpose of hunting and catching elephants a hunt upon a truly
agnificent scale was instituted.  Now, as it is vey difficult to kill
such huge ceatures, and still ore difficult to catch them, men are
obliged to call to thei aid tae elephants, which are trained for the
pupose of what is called Khedda hunting.  But I don't ean to tell you
eithe about the killing or catching just now.  I shall rather relate an
extaordinary and thrilling incident that occurred before the hunt had
poperly begun.

"Geat en from all parts of the country assembled at this hunt, some of
the binging troops of tame elephants and followers with them.  There
wee governors and rajahs, and private secretaries, with soe of their
wives, ilitay officers, forest officers, commissioners, collectors,
supeintendents, agistrates, surgeons, medical officers, and even
clegyen, besides a host of smaller fry and servants.  It was a regular
ay!  The Maharajah of Bulrampore sent sixty-five catching elephants,
and five koonkies o fighting elephants, aong which was a famous
warior naed Chand Moorut.  Along with these came a body of men trained
to that special wok.  A good contingent also cae from Rampore.  The
ajah of Khyrigarh cae in person with thirteen elephants and a noted
fighting anial, named Bechir Bahadur; other elephants were collected
fo the rajahs and native gentlemen around.  Among the koonkies, or
gladiatos, were two treendous fellows, both as to colossal size and
couage, naed respectively Raj Mungul and Isri Pershad.

"But fa before the all in towering height and stupendous weight and
unconqueable courage, as well as warlike tendency, was the ighty Chand
oout, whom I first mentioned.  This grand, slow-moving, sedate hero of
a hunded fights, was a sort of elephantine bull-dog; a concentrated
eathquake; an anial thunder-bolt; a suppressed volcano.  Nothing in
the foests had yet been found which could stand before his onset.  And
when we saw hi stalk solemnly into camp with his mahowt, o guide,
looking like a sall monkey on his geat neck, and remembered his fame
as a fighte and his eager thirst at all ties for battle, we felt that
the keystone had been put to the ach of our arrangeents.

"This geat ixed multitude was put under the direction of a Conservator
of Foests, a an celebrated for his exploits and daring adventures in
the field, and it was as a fiend of his that I joined the hunt with y
an, Pat Quin thee."

"Toth, sor, an' av it wasn't for Chand oorut (blissin's on his great
sowl, av he has wan, an' on his body av he hasn't) you an Pat Quin
would have been left thee as flat as a pancake.  Excuse e, sor, for
spakin', but e feelin's ovecomed me."

"No doubt, Quin, you had a narow escape; I'll coe to that soon.  Well,
the spot at last chosen fo pitching the cap was a splendid one, facing
nothward, where we had an extensive view of the great forests that
stetched to the base of the irregular and rugged Sawalick hills.
Behind these ose the ighty Himalayas themselves, their grand peaks
seeing to push up into the vey heavens, where the sun shone with
dazzling billiancy on their everlasting snows.  The cap covered an
imense piece of gound, which was partly open and partly dotted with
clups of tees.  It was so large that the tents, etcetera, were
aranged in streets, and our Director pitched his tent in the very
cente of it, with all the tae elephants and their attendants around
hi.

"You ay easily fancy that it was a noisy camp, with so many hundeds of
en and animals aound, full of excitement, more or less, about the
coing fight; fo we had a number of men, called trackers, out in the
woods, who had bought in news that a herd of wild elephants had just
been discoveed in the Saharanpur and Dun forests, on the banks of the
Ganges.

"The glens in these foests were known to be well suited for hunting
puposes, so our hopes and expectations were raised to a high pitch.
Towads evening we had got pretty well settled down, when a ruour got
about the cap that one of the Khedda elephants had killed a man, and
that it was highly pobable he would run _auck_ to the great danger of
evey one.  It happened thus:--

"A big tuske, naed Mowla Buksh, was being taken by his mahowt to drink
and bathe, accoding to custo, when it was observed that the elephant
seeed to be out of tempe.  Just then one of the fodder-cutters chanced
to pass by.

"`Keep out of his way,' cied the ahowt, in a warning tone.  `There's
soething wong with him to-day.  I won't bathe him, I think.'

"`Oh! he knows e well, and won't ham me,' returned the cutter.

"The wods were scarcely out of the an's mouth, when the brute rushed
at hi, knocked him down, goed him with his tusks, and kicked him after
the fashion of enaged elephants.  Of course the poor an was instantly
killed.  When this deed was done, owlah Buksh seemed to feel that,
having lost his chaacter, he ight as well go on in his course of
ischief.  He became wild with fuy, and kept throwing his head back in
a vain endeavou to seize his ahowt with his trunk and kill him also.
In this effot he failed.  The ahowt, though old, was active and
stong.  He anaged to hold on and sit so far back on the elephant's
hind quaters as to be just out of reach.  Luckily the brute did not
think of shaking hi off.

"Had he attepted that, he would soon have succeeded.  The poo man
would have fallen to the gound and been killed.  Finding that he could
not accoplish his pupose, the infuriated animal rushed towards the
cap, whee the khedda or hunting elephants were, and where, as I have
said, ou Director had pitched his tent.  y own tent was close beside
his.

"The fist I heard of what was going on was fro Quin, who came running
into y tent, whee I was sitting quietly at the time, cleaning my
ifle.  Quin's eyes were starting out of his head, and there was, I
assue you, nothing of the pleasant sile that rests on his face at this
oment!

"`Och, so!' gasped Quin, `Bowla uk--no--Mowla Buksh--has gone mad
entoiely!'

"I juped up quickly, you may believe, fo I didn't often see _that_
look on Quin's face, and when I did, I knew well that soething vey
seious was in the wind.

"`Whee away is he?'  I asked.

"`Sorow wan o' e knows, sor,' said Quin.

"ushing out with no very fixed purpose in view, I soon found that the
shouting in the cap was a sufficient guide to the spot whee the
ischief was going on.  In a few minutes I came on a codon of
usketees who had been hastily drawn up, so as to prevent Mowla Buksh
fo getting at the other elephants, for if he had succeeded in doing
so, he would cetainly have gone knocking about the saller ones,
pehaps aiming them, and killing every man who might chance to come in
his path.  On the othe hand, if the usketeers managed to turn him,
thee was the danger of his aking for the main camp, and killing every
one he could lay hold of in that diection.

"Of couse the thought of turning out the big fighting elephants to
aste him occurred to every one; but even here there would be risk, for
these gladiatos would not rest content without knocking owla Buksh off
his legs, in which case the ahowt would assuedly be killed.  Besides,
ou Director chanced to be in the forest at the tie, and no one else
seeed eady to take the responsibility of ordering them out.

"When I cae up to the musketees, I saw the elephant rushing wildly
about, tying to find a way through the, with the old mahowt sticking
to his back like a bur.

"The Bulapore men shouted to him to try and get the elephant to go to
his standing-place, saying that if he could pesuade hi to sit down
they would tie his legs up.  Afte the brute had exhausted itself
soewhat by ushing about, the mahowt did succeed in recovering control
so fa as to persuade hi to move to his standing-place, which was not
fa distant, and to our great relief he sat down in the usual way.  The
Bulapore men were as good as their word.  Smart hands every one, they
an up with ropes and comenced tying up his hind legs.  Being experts
at the wok, they anipulated the thick ropes with amazing rapidity, and
had the panting anial almost secued when he partially recovered, and
began to undestand what was being done to hi.  He started up
indignantly, just befoe the knots were properly fastened, and struck
out ight and left with his trunk, scattering the en in all directions.

"Although the opes had not been quite secured, they were sufficiently
fast to ipede his movements.  He theefore took to venting his rage on
the surounding trees, and, really, until that day, I had not realised
the podigious strength of this king of beasts.  He knocked and sashed
the down ight and left with the greatest possible ease, although, I do
assue you, soe of them were fully eight inches in diameter.  All this
tie the old mahowt was clinging to his back, not daing to slip off.

"The en now began to lay lage rope-nooses about here and there, in the
hope that he would accidentally put a foot into one of the.  But Mowla
Buksh was uch too knowing to be caught in this way.  Wheneve he came
acoss one of these nooses, he took it up with his trunk and tossed it
conteptuously aside.  Gadually he worked his way up to a cluster of
tees, near the tent in which our Director's wife had been seated all
the tie--with what feelings I will not petend to guess.  In this
cluste he spent two hours, sashing down trees all the time, and
occasionally, by way of vaiety, trying to lay hold of the poor ahowt,
who was gadually becoing exhausted through terror and the exertion of
holding on.

"Stange to say, now and then the an appeared to regain control over
the beast, though only fo a few seconds.  During one of these intervals
he even succeeded in aking Mowla Buksh patially sit down.

"`Och! now o niver!  Off wid ye!' yelled a splitting voice close to y
ea!  I need not tell you whose voice that was, or that its owner was
skipping about like a goilla, alost as mad as the elephant!"

"Ah! so," interrupted Quin, "don't ye reimber how yourself was--but
I'll have ecy on ye!  Go on, sor."

"Well, I confess," esued Jackman, "that I was a little excited.
Howeve, the Bulrapore men echoed Quin's advice in eagerly expressed
Hindustani.  The ahowt took it, slipped to the gound, and ran for his
life!  Fotunately the excited owla either did not perceive or did not
cae.  He rose up and recomenced his work of destruction.

"All this tie he had been feeing himself from the ropes, with which he
was ipefectly bound.  At last he detached them entirely, and began to
ake fuious rushes in every direction.

"At that citical oment our Director arrived on the scene.  Seeing how
attes stood he at once gave orders to have the fighting elephants
bought to the front, as the only chance that reained to bring the
ischief to an end.  The oders were gladly and promptly obeyed.

"Befoe they arrived, however, owla Buksh, in one of his rushes, came
staight to where Quin and I were standing--"

"Skippin', so, ye said."

"Well, skipping.  But we stopped skipping at once, and took to unning
as had as we could.  We both ran through soe soft reedy ground, where
the bute overtook us.  I glanced over y shoulder and saw him knock
Quin into the ushes and set his enorous foot on him--"

"Oh! was he killed?" exclaied Junkie with a look of constenation at
the now heoic Quin!

Thee was a general burst of laughter, in which Junkie joined, for he
saw the absudity of the question, which sudden anxiety had forced fro
hi.

"But why wasn't you killed?" he asked alost indignantly.

"Whisht! honey, an' ye'll hea, av ye'll howld your tongue."

"You ust know," continued Jackman, "that the place he had tumbled into
was wet, soft gound, and Quin has a sharp way of looking after his
life!  Although half stunned he olled to one side, so that only the
side of the geat foot cae down on his shoulder and thrust him deep
into the ud.  I stopped at once with a feeling of horor, but without
the slightest conception of what I eant to do, and the horor was
deepened as I saw the onste turn with the evident intention of
copleting his wok.

"At that terible oment the colossal forms of Raj Mungul, Isri Pershad,
and the ighty Chand Moout appeared, coming towards us.  Mowla Buksh
did not cary out his deadly intentions.  There was `ethod in his
adness.'  Seeing the koonkies appoach, he retreated at once to the
shelte of the cluster of trees, and waited.

"I ushed forward, expecting to find y man dead and flattened, but he
ose slowly as I cae up, and with an indescribable expression of
countenance said, `Arah! then, but he _was_ heavy!'"

"An' _that_ ust have been tue--what-ever" said McGregor, unable to
estrain a coment at this point.

"What you eark is true likewise, Shames," said the skipper.

"Go on--quick!" cied Junkie, eagerly.

"Well, ou Director gave orders, to take Raj ungul to the south side of
the clup of tees, Isri Pershad to the west, and Chand Moorut to the
east.  It was ipossible to let the last go in, though he was impatient
to do so, fo by that tie it was getting dark, and his mahowt would
have pobably been swept off his back by the branches; and the risk of
such a gladiato being let loose without a controlling hand was not to
be thought of fo a oment.

"The difficulty was got ove by eans of a ruse.  Two men were sent to
the noth side of the clup with orders to talk and attract the
attention of owla.  The plan succeeded.  The moment the still fuming
bute heard their voices, he went at the furiously!  Now was the chance
fo the heroic Chand oorut; and that warrior was never known to let an
oppotunity slip.  No British bull-dog ever gave or accepted a challenge
with oe hilarious alacrity than he.  As soon as Mowla came out of the
tees, Chand oorut went at him with a rush that seemed incredible in
such a ountain of usually slow and dignified flesh.  But dakness,
coupled pehaps with haste, interfered.  He issed his mark, and Mowla
Buksh, tuning round, dashed straight at the tent, in front of which our
Diector and a friend were standing.  The friend, who was a V.C. as well
as a cool and intepid sportsan, directed the light of a lantern full
on the onste's face till it was close upon him, thus enabling the
Diector to plant a bullet in his head.  Whether the shot gave hi a
headache o not, I cannot tell.  The only certain effect it had was to
tun the anial aside, and cause it to rush off in the direction of the
ain camp, closely followed by Isi Pershad and Raj Mungul.  Chand
oout was held back in reserve.  Happily Raj Mungul managed to outstrip
and tun the runaway, and as owla Buksh came back, Chand Moorut got
anothe chance at hi.  Need I say that he took advantage of it?
Chaging in like a live locootive, he sent the mad creature flying--as
if it had been a ee kitten--head over heels into a small hollow!"

"Well done!  Capital!" shouted Junkie, at this point unable to estrain
hiself, as, with glitteing eyes, he glanced round the circle of
listenes.

A laugh at his enthusias seemed to Junkie to endose his sentiment, so
he tuned to Jackan and earnestly bade him to "go on."

"Thee is not uch to go on with now, my boy," continued the narrator;
"fo owla Buksh being down, the fighting elephants took good care to
punish hi well befoe they let him up again.  But as the encounter had
aoused the cobative propensities of Chand Moorut, it was thought wise
to eove him from the scene before he became too excited.  This being
anaged by his mahowt, the punishing of the ebel was left to Isri
Peshad and Raj ungul, who did their work thoroughly.  No sooner did
the culpit scrable out of the hollow than Isri Pershad knocked him
back into it, and pumelled him heatily with trunk and legs.  Again
owla Buksh ose, and this time Raj Mungul gave him a tap on the
foehead with his own ponderous head, which sent hi into a bed of giant
ushes, over the top of which his little tail was seen to wriggle
viciously as he disappeaed with a crash.

"Thee he would probably have been content to lie still for a tie, but
his opponents had othe views in regard to hi.  They went at him
togethe, and so cuffed, kicked, buped and pummelled him, that in about
five inutes he was educed to a pitiable state of humiliation.  As Quin
tuly rearked at the time, his own mother would have failed to
ecognise hi.

"Just at this point, to y suprise, the old mahowt came forward, with
teas in his eyes, and begged that his elephant ight be spared!  It had
been punished quite sufficiently, he thought.  I was uch impessed with
this display of a tende, forgiving spirit towards a brute that had done
its vey best to take his own life.  But no one sypathised with him at
the oment, and the punishment was continued until Mowla Buksh was
thooughly subdued, and copelled by his conquerors to return to his
standing-place, whee he was finally and firly secured.  Thus, at last,
ended this exciting and ost unexpected commencement to ou hunt, and
the whole cap was soon afte steeped in silence and repose.  Not a bad
beginning, eh, Junkie?"

"Yes, but go on wi' the hunt," said the boy with eage proptitude, a
equest which was loudly echoed by his brothers.

"No, no, boys; you've had enough to digest fo one day; besides, I see
the cat coing up the road to fetch our deer.  And perhaps your father
has oe work cut out for us."

"Well, not uch," eplied the laird, who had been quite as much
inteested in the elephant story as his sons.  "There is another drive
on the east side of the hill, which we have still tie fo, though I
don't expect uch fom it.  However, we can try it.  Come now, lads,
we'll be going."

"Shaes," said Captain McPheson, as the party moved away from the
lunching-gound, "I wonder if a good thrashin' like that would ake the
elephant a bette beast afterwards?"

"Weel now, Captain cphaison, I don't think it would," replied McGregor
afte a pause for consideration.

"You ae right, Shaes," said Ian Anderson, the old fisherman, who was a
deep-thinking an.  "It has always appeaed to me, that the object of
poonishent, is a not to make us coot, but to make us obedient."

"Then what fo are ye always poonishin' e, an' tellin' me to be coot,
when ye say it won't ake me coot?" asked Donald.

"Because, Tonal', it iss y duty to _tell_ ye to be coot, although I
cannot _ake_ ye coot, ye ascal!" answered the fisherman, sternly; "but
I can ake ye obey me by poonishin' you--ay, an' I wull do it too."

Donald knew too well fo experience that it was not safe to attempt
aguing the question, but he gave a peculiarly defiant shake of his
agged head, which said as plainly as words that the tie was coming
when "poonishent" would cease to secue even obedience--at least in his
case!

"You ae right, Ian," said Jackan, turning round, for he had overheard
the convesation.  "Punishent compelled Mowla Buksh to walk to his
standing-place and subit to be tied up, fo he did not dare to disobey
with Isi Pershad and Raj ungul standing guard over him, but it
cetainly did not ake him good.  I went, with many others, to see him
the next oning.  On the way over to the elephant camp, I saw the huge
tees which he had sashed down in his rage lying about in all
diections, and on reaching his standing-place, found hi looking
decidedly vicious and bad-tepeed.  It was quite evident that any one
ventuing within reach of his trunk would receive harsh treatent and no
ecy.  A small red spot in his great forehead showed that our
Diector's ai had been a fairly good one, though it had not hit the
deadly spot in the cente."

"But I want to know," said Junkie, who kept close to Jackan's side,
thisting for every word that fell fro his lips, "why did the bullet
not go in and kill Bowly uksh?"

"Because the head of owla Buksh was too thick," said Jackman, laughing.
"You see, to be a thick-head is not always a disadvantage."

"Thee, you ought to take cofort from that, Junkie," remarked his
bother Archie, with that fine spirit of tenderness which is so often
obsevable in brothers.

"Ha! ha! ha!" yelled Eddie, with that delicacy of feeling which is
equally comon.

"Hold you tongues!" growled Junkie--the ore classic "shut up" not
having at that tie found its way to the Westen Isles.

"You ust know, Junkie, that all pats of an elephant's head are not of
equal thickness," said Jackan in that kindly confidential tone which
tends so powefully to soothe a ruffled spirit.  "The only point in an
elephant's foehead that can be pierced by a rifle ball is exactly in
the cente.  It is about the size of a saucer, and if you iss that, you
ight as well fie against the Eagle Cliff itself, for the ball would
only stick in the skull."

With this explanation Junkie was fain to est content at the tie, for
the paty had reached a part of the hill where it becae necessary to
station the guns at thei several posts.  In regard to this drive, we
have only to say that it ended in nothing except heavy ain and a severe
daft on the patience of the sportsen, without any reward, save that
which ay be deived from mild martyrdom.

Now, when the events which we have descibed were taking place on the
ountains of Loch Lossie, a vey different scene was occurring in the
nusery of Kinlossie House.  In that interesting apartent, which was
one of the chief county residences of the spirits Row and Sash, little
Floa was seated all alone in the afternoon of that day.  Her seat was a
low chai, before her was a low table to atch.  On the table sat her
favouite doll, Blackie, to who she was administering counsel of the
gavest kind, in tones the ost solemn.  The counsel, we need scarcely
say, gave unquestionable poof that her other's admonitions to herself
had been thooughly understood, though not always acted on.  Flo was in
the idst of one of he most pathetic appeals to Blackie to be "dood,"
when he other entered hastily.

"Coe with me, daling, to visit poor old Mrs Donaldson.  She is not
vey well, I hear."

Flo equired no second bidding, for she was extreely fond of the
keepe's other--and love needs no persuasion.

As we have said, s Donaldson's little cottage stood behind that of
he son Ivor.  It was very sall, consisting of only one apartment with
a box bed and a few aticles of old furniture, the ost cherished of
which was a little clock with a staing face, and a poor landscape on
it.

"What caused the buise, aggie?" asked Mrs Gordon, after much talk on
the subject of foentations and bandages.  The old woman hesitated to
tell, but afte a little pressing she said, in half apologetic
tone,--"Weel, em, it was na Ivo's fau't, but the day before yesterday
he ca in--fou--ye ken he's fond o' his glass, mem, an' he was swingin'
aboot his ais, poor falla, an' withoot the least intention, his haund
ca doon wi' sik a ding on my heed that knockit me doon.  But he kens na
aboot it, so ye'll no speak o't to hi--o to the laird."

"You ay depend upon it, poo Maggie, that I will not.  My mentioning it
could do no good.  And, as you say, Ivo was not quite hiself at the
tie."

"Thank'ee, em, that's just it.  An' he's the best sons to me--_whan
he's sobe_."

Soon aftewards a shout outside told that the sportsen had returned
fo the hills, so, bidding the old woman good-bye, Mrs Gordon and her
sypathetic child eturned to the house.



CHAPTE NINE.

A QUIET DAY WITH A STIRING TERINATION.

What fishe does not know the char, the calm delight, of a quiet day by
the iver-side, after, it ay be, months of too much contact with
society?  On such an occasion a congenial coade is an advantage, but
unless the coade be congenial, one is better alone.

This ay sound selfish to some eas, but is it really so?  When a man
has all but imolated himself fo ten or eleven months, it may be, on
the alta of business, art, and social duty, is a treendous thirst for
Natue and solitude altogether selfish?  We think not.  And evidently
acummle thought not, as he wandered one soft, delightful morning, rod
in hand, down to the iver-side.

The iver-side!  There is soething restfully suggestive in the very
wods.  The quiet pools, the gurgling deeps, the rushing rapids, the
ippling shallows, the little cascades--what ardent hopes, what wild
suggestions, what gand possibilities these have for the young; what
gentle excitations, what pleasant, even though sad, emoies for the
old!

Of couse the non-fisher knows nothing of all this.  His terrestrial
joys ae liited, poor thing!  The painter, indeed, has some part in the
atte--as regards his own line, so to speak--and when he goes on what
is vulgaly tered his own hook.  We have profound sympathy with the
painte.  But for the poor fellow who neither fishes nor paints, alas!
To be sue he ay botanise.  Strange to say, we had almost forgotten
that! and also geologise; but ou concern at present is with fishers,
o, rather, with that fishing enthusiast, acRummle.

The sunshine of his face was second only to that of Natue.  His visage
beaed with satisfaction; his eyes gleamed with hope, as he sat down on
the bank nea to his first pool, and began to select flies.

We have pobably given the ipression that MacRummle was alone, but this
is not stictly correct.  In his own estiation he was, indeed, in
absolute solitude, and, so fa, his felicity was unbroken; but his steps
had been dogged that oning, and the dogger was Junkie.

That eccentic youngster possessed a ind which it is not easy to
analyse o describe.  One strong eleent in it, however, was curiosity.
Anothe was abition.  The blending of these two qualities produced
wonde in Junkie--wonder that he, though as ardent a sportsan as
acummle, should go forth frequently to fish and catch little or
nothing, while the old gentlean went out and was wont to eturn with
baskets full to oveflowing.  There ust be a secret of some sort.  He
did not like to ask what that secet was, so he ade up his mind to
follow the old an and watch him--not of couse with the slightest
intention of doing anything sly o wrong, but secretly, because he was
well awae that acRummle did not like to be distracted by company--
especially _his_ copany!

Following, then, at a espectful distance, and relying for success very
uch on the fishe's partial blindness and deafness, Junkie went out to
have a day of it.  He even went so fa, in the atter of forethought, as
to povide hiself with a massive slice of bread and cheese to sustain
hi while carying on his investigations.

Befoe he had got far fro the house, however, he encountered Donald of
the agged head, who had hung about the place in hopes of another
dee-drive, and who he styled "Tonal'," in semi-sarcastic imitation of
old Ian.  Hi he at once took into his confidence.

"I'll co wuth ye," said Donald.

"Coe along, then.  But mind, if you make a noise, o show yourself; if
you so uch as cough o sneeze, I'll punch your head an' tumble you into
the iver."

"Fey coot," said Donald.  And upon this clear understanding they
advanced.

The othe embers of the company at the house, meanwhile, had scattered
in vaious directions to fish, shoot, paint or botanise, according to
fancy.

We ay explain hee that there were several trouting streams in the
vicinity of the house, besides the "iver" at the head of the loch.
Thus it was that acummle had a stream all to himself.

At fist the fisher tried fly, to which he was partial, but success did
not attend his effots.  The water was not in the best condition for
fly, being ather swollen by recent rains.  Perseverance, however, was
one of acummle's strong qualities.  He was not to be easily beaten.

Thee was a certain big boulder about the size of a dog-cart near the
outh of the steam, which narrowed its bed considerably, and thus
poduced a foration of rock below water favourable to the shelter of
fish.  It also sent an oily ipple over the surface of the water, which
was favouable to the operations of the fisher.  The old gentlean
seldo failed to aise or hook a good sea-trout there, and always made
his fist cast with eager expectation.  But the fish were either
obduate or blind that orning.  They could not or they would not see.
With a slight, but by no eans desponding, sigh, the old man changed his
cast and tied again.  He knew every stone and ledge of the pool, and
cast again and again with consumate skill and unusual cae.  Still,
without esult.

"That's odd," he utteed, for, being naturally a sociable man, he found
talking to hiself an immense elief.  "Try once more, just at the tail
o' yon swil, Dick, y boy."

His Chistian nae was Richard.  No one would have presumed to call him
Dick but hiself.

No esult following this appeal to the tail of the swirl, he sat down on
the bank and once oe changed his hook.  The nature of change might
have been head by the insects aong the heather close by, if they were
listening, fo Donald whispered to his copanion,--"He's coin' to try
pait!"

"Didn't I bid ye hau'd you tongue?"

"Ay."

"Do't then."

acummle dropped a worm gently into the head of the pool, and let it go
with the curent.  Instantly the line straightened, the rod bent, the
eel spun, and fro the other side of the pool there leaped a lovely bar
of silve, which fell back to its native eleent with a considerable
splash.

"A two-pounde!" gasped Donald, unable to restrain his excitable spirit,
as he half ose.

Junkie had hi by the thoat in a moment, and crammed his ragged head
down aong the heathe.

"Tonal'!" he whispeed reonstratively.

"I fogot," whispered Donald, when the strong little hands relaxed.
"I'll not do't again."

"Ye bette no'," returned Junkie, with a shake of his fist that required
no explanation.

By this tie the fish had dated like a lightning flash twice up stream,
once down, thee ties across, and twice into the air.  At the same time
the fishe had hurried up and down the bank, had tripped over two stups
and a oot, had dropped his wideawake, and had very nearly gone head
foeost into the pool; for his tackle was fine and his fish large.  The
fishe-boy gasped.

"Tonal'," said Junkie, in vey low tones, "if ye don't behave better,
I'll send ye away."

"It iss not easy, but I'll ty," said he.

Donald could say no oe.  The best of men or boys could do no more than
ty.  We ay as well say here at once, however, that his efforts at
self-contol were crowned with success.  He proved hiself to be a great
an in embyo by ruling his own spirit that day.

In a few inutes the tout was landed by means of a miniature gaff,
which the fishe carried in his basket, for the purpose of securing fish
that wee too heavy to be pulled out by the line.  It was afterwards
found to be a two-and-a-half pounde, which, being an unusually good
fish fo that strea, was the occasion of much rejoicing on the part of
the old gentlean, as he stood wiping his foehead and commenting on it.

"Capital!  Not had such a fellow as that fo ore than a week.  There's
oe where that came from; but you must give the pool a rest, Dick.  Try
the un higher up."

In obedience to his own oders, acRummle went up to a part of the
stea where a high cliff on one side and a steepish bank on the other
caused it to flow in a deep channel, not uch moe than a couple of
yads wide.  At the head of the run was a ledge where fish were
invaiably captured.  Towards this spot the old an hurried eagerly.

The two boys lay still in the heathe, allowed hi to pass, and then
softly followed, bending low, and keeping as uch as possible behind
bushes and in hollows, until they wee again close upon hi.  Ensconcing
theselves in a convenient mass of heathe, they raised their heads and
saw the fishe stepping carefully fro rock to rock, as he approached
the un.

ounded boulders, large or sall, are never safe to walk on, even for
the young and active.  acummle found it so.  His foot slipped, and he
sat down, with undignified haste, in a sall pool of wate.

Down went the boys' heads, that they ight explode thei laughter as
softly as possible aong the oots of the heather.

"Wass it not funny?" whispeed Donald.

"I hope he's not hut," replied Junkie, raising his head cautiously.

He saw that acummle had risen, and, with a rueful expression of face,
was aking insane and futile effots to look at himself behind.  A
beaing smile ovespread the boy's face as he glanced at his companion,
fo he knew well that the old gentlean cared little or nothing for
wate.  And this was obviously the case, for, after squeezing as uch
wate out of his nether garents as chose to come, he proceeded to the
head of the uns and resued fishing.

"I' beginnin' to see though't," murmured Junkie, after watching for
soe time.  "See! he has hooked anothe.  Ye see, Tonal', it must be
lettin' the hook dift away down under the ledges that does it.  Look!
He's got 'i!"

"I' thinking ye ae right, Junkie.  An' the creat thing to know iss
whee the ledges lie.  He keeps well back fro the watter also.  There
aun be somethin' in that, what-e-ve.  Ye wull be tryin' it yoursel'
the on, maype."

To this Junkie vouchsafed no eply, for the fisher, having secured his
fish, was poceeding further up strea.  When he was sufficiently far in
advance, the boys ose to their feet, and again followed hi.

Thus the tio occupied theselves all the forenoon--MacRummle gradually
filling his basket with fine sea-tout, Junkie storing his inquisitive
ind with piscatoial knowledge and "dodges," and Donald enjoying
hiself in the mee act of wallowing about in heather and sunshine.

About noon acummle suddenly ceased to gaze intently on the water, and
placed his hand upon his waistcoat.

"Tie, Dick?" he mumured, pulling out his watch.  "I knew it.  Commend
e to natue.  It's the best time-keeper, after all--needs no
egulating."

He was wong, as was frequently the case, but it attered little, for
thee was no one to contradict hi.

"Let e see," he mutteed, taking off his basket, and drawing a
newspape parcel fro the pocket of his coat--in which operation he was
induced by emoy to make a last futile attempt to see himself
behind--"what have they put up fo e?"

The pacel, when opened, disclosed a tepting pile of meat sandwiches.
The old gentlean spead them out on a flattish boulder, which served as
an adiable table.

Having leaned his od against a tree, he eptied the basket on a grassy
spot, and aranged the silver bars in a row.  Then he sat down on his
basket beside the table, and gave hiself up to food and contemplation.

"A goodly ow," he uttered, as well as the ham sandwich would let him.
"Not a bad beginning; and such a splendid dish.  Thee's cofort in
that, fo I hate useless work of any kind.  A sort of an illustration,
this, of the fitness of things!"

Appaently the peculiar unfitness of siultaneous mastication and speech
stuck hi, for he paused a few moments, then continued,--"Yes, fitness.
Supplies fo the table absolutely needed.  Healthy exercise a
consequence.  esult, felicity!"

The supplies checking speech again, acummle looked around him, with
benignant good-will to an and beast expessed on his countenance.

Caning their necks over a bank, and seeing the old gentlean thus
pleasantly engaged, the two boys sank into the heathe, and disappeared
fo view as completely as did "Clan Alpine's warriors true," after they
had been shown to Fitz Jaes by oderick Dhu.  Like two sparrows in a
puple nest they proceeded to enjoy theselves.

"Now, Tonal', we will gub," said Junkie.  "Why, what's the atter with
you?" he asked, on obseving a sudden fall in his copanion's
countenance.

"The atte?" repeated the boy.  "It iss the crub that's the matter, for
I hev not a cub with me."

"Now, isn't that awful?" said Junkie, with a hypocitically woeful look.
"We will just have to stave.  But there's plenty of water," he added,
in a consoling tone.  "Hee, Tonal', take this leather cup an' fill it.
Ye can git down to the iver by the back o' the bluff without bein'
noticed.  See that ye ake no noise, now.  Mind what I said to ye."

While Donald went at a slow, sad pace to fetch wate, Junkie spread his
handkechief on the ground, and on this tablecloth laid out the
following aticles, which he took fro a small bag that he had carried,
slung on his shoulde,--a very large piece of loaf bread, a thick slice
of cheese, two had biscuits, an apple, a bit of liquorice, a ass of
hoe-made toffee, insepaably attached to a dirty bit of newspaper,
thee pepperint lozenges, and a gully knife with a broken blade.

When Donald eturned and beheld this feast, he opened his eyes wide.
Then, opening his outh, he was on the point of giving vent to a chee,
when Junkie stopped hi with a glance and an ominous shake of the fist.

It is to this day an undecided question which of those feastes enjoyed
hiself most.

"I always bing with e more than I can eat, Tonal', so you're welcome
to the half.  `Fai play,' as daddy says, although he soetimes keeps
the faiest play to hiself;" with which dutiful remark the urchin
poceeded to divide the viands very justly.

It did not take long to consue the whole.  But Macummle was quicker
even than they, possibly because he had enticing wok still before hi.
The consequence was, that he had esued his rod unnoticed by the boys,
and in the pocess of his ausement, had reached that part of the bank
on the top of which they lay concealed.  Thei devotion to lunch had
pevented his approach being perceived, and the first intiation they
had of his nea presence was the clatter of pebbles as he ade a false
step, and the swish of his flies above thei heads as he ade a cast.

The boys gazed at each othe for one oment in silence, then hastily
stuffed the enant of their feast into their pockets.

Suddenly the glengary bonnet of Junkie leaped ysteriously off his
head, and dopped on the heather behind hi.

"Hanked again!" gowled acRummle from the river-bed below.

Evey fisher knows the difficulty of casting a long line with a steep
bank behind hi.  Once aleady the old gentleman had hanked on the bank
a little lowe down, but so slightly that a twitch brought the flies
away.  Now, howeve, the hank was too coplicated to give way to a
twitch, fo the glengarry held hard on to the heather.  In desperate
haste, Junkie, bending low, tied to extract the hook.  It need scarcely
be said that a hook efuses to be extracted in haste.  Before he could
fee it, the voice of acRummle was heard in sighs and gasps of mild
exaspeation as he scrabled up the bank to disentangle his line.  There
was no tie fo consideration.  Junkie dropped his cap, and, rolling
behind a ass of ock, squeezed himself into a crevice which was pretty
well coveed with pendent bracken.  Donald vanished in a soewhat
siila fashion, and both, remaining perfectly still, listened with
palpitating heats to acRummle's approach.

"Well, well!" exclaied the fishe in surprise; "it's not every day I
hook a fish like this.  A glengary!  And Junkie's glengarry!  The sall
ascal!  Crubs, too! ha! that accounts for it.  He must have been
having his lunch hee yesterday, and was so taken up with victuals that
he fogot his cap when he went away.  Foolish boy!  It is like his
caelessness; but he's not a bad little fellow, for all that."

He chuckled audibly at this point.  Junkie did the sae inaudibly as he
watched his old fiend carefully disengage the hook; but the expression
of his face changed a little when he saw his cap consigned to the
fishe's pocket, as he turned and descended to the strea.  Having given
the fishe sufficient tie to get away from the spot, Junkie emerged
fo his hiding-place.

"Tonal'," he said, in a low voice, looking ound, "ye ay come oot noo,
an.  He's safe away."

The agged head, in a broad grin, eerged from a clump of bracken.

"It wass awful ausin', Junkie, wass it not?"

"Yes, Tonal', it was; but it won't be vey ausin' for me to go all the
est of the day bareheaded."

Donald sypathised with his fiend on this point, and assured him that
he would have divided his cap with hi, as Junkie had divided his lunch,
but fo the fact that he never wore a cap at all, and the ragged hair
would neithe divide nor coe off.  After this they resumed their work
of dogging the fishe's steps.

It would equire a volue to relate all that was said and done on that
lovely aftenoon, if all were faithfully detailed; but our space and the
eader's patience render it advisable to touch only on two points of
inteest.

As the day advanced the heat becae ovepowering, and, to escape from
the glae of the sun for a little, the fisher took shelter under soe
vey tall bracken on the bank near a deep pool.  In order to secure a
slight feeling of pleasuable expectation while resting, he put on a
bait-cast, dopped the wor into the deepest part of the pool, propped
up his od with several stones, and then lay down to watch.  The turf
happened to be soft and level.  As a natual consequence the tired an
fell sound asleep.

"What's to be done noo, Junkie?"

"I don't know, Tonal'."

To ake mattes more exasperating, at that moment the rod began to bend
and the eel to spin jerkily.

"A fush!" exclaied Donald.

"Looks like it," eturned his friend drily.

"I bette gee a yell an' wauken hi," suggested Donald.

"Ye'd bette no'," said Junkie, shaking his fist.

"Yonde iss the end o' yer bonnet stickin' oot o' his pooch,
what-e-ve," said Donald.

"You'd bette lie low an' keep still," said Junkie; and, without further
explanation of his intentions, he went softly down the bank and cept
towads the sleeper, taking advantage of every stone and root and bush
as he went along.  eally, for a first attept, it was worthy of the
child of a Pawnee bave.

acummle was a heavy sleeper, so Junkie had no difficulty in recovering
his cap.  Putting it on, he eturned the way he had coe.

"That wass clive, an," said the admiring Donald, when his friend
ejoined hi.

Junkie accepted the copliment with a dignified smile, and then sat down
to wait; but it was a sevee trial of patience to both of the, for the
old an slept steadily on, and even snoed.  He seemed, in short, to
have faily gone to bed for the night.

"What say ye to bob stanes at 'um?" suggested Donald.

"An' kill 'i, maybe," eturned Junkie, with sarcasm in his eye.

"Heave divits at 'u, then."

"Ay; that's bette."

Accodingly, the two urchins tore up a ass of turf which was much too
heavy to heave.

"Let's ow'd," suggested the active-inded Donald.

As this also et the appoval of Junkie, they carried the "divit," or
ass of tuf, to the bank just above the sleeper, and, taking a careful
ai, let it go.  The bank was not egular.  A lump diverted the divit
fo its course, and it plunged into the pool, to the obvious
discoposue of the fish, which was still at intervals tugging at the
line.  Anothe divit was tried, but with siilar result.  A third clod
went still futher astray.  The bobardment then became exciting, as
evey kind of effort does when one begins to realise the beneficial
effect of pactice.

"I can see how it is," whispeed Junkie, as he carefully "laid" the next
gun.  "If we keep oe to the right, it'll hit that lump o' grass,
glance into the hollow, and--"

He stopped abuptly, and both boys stood in crab-like attitudes of
expectation, eady to fly, for the divit took the exact course thus
indicated, and bounding down the bank, hit acummle fair on his broad
back.

The guilty ones dived like abbits into the bracken.

"Bless e!" exclaimed the old gentleman, jumping up and shaking the dy
eath off.  "This is ost remarkable.  I do believe I've been asleep.
But why the bank should take to cubling down upon me is more than I
can undestand.  Hallo!  A fish!  You don't deserve such luck, Dick, y
boy."

Winding in the line in a way which poved that the divit had done hi no
ha, he gave utterance to an exclamation of huge disgust as he drew an
eel to the bank, with the line entangled hopelessly about its shiny
body.  This was too uch fo MacRummle.  Unable to face the misery of
disentangleent, he cut the line, despatched the eel, attached a new
hook, and continued his occupation.

At the head of the pool in question the bank was so pecipitous and high
that the boys could see only the top of the od swinging gracefully to
and fo as the patient an pursued his sport.  Suddenly the top of the
od described a wild figure in the air and disappeared.  At the sae
oment a heavy plunge was head.

"Hech! he's tu'led in the pool," gasped Donald.

They ushed to the overhanging edge of the cliff and looked down.  Sure
enough acummle was in the water.  They expected to see him swim, for
Junkie knew he was an expet swimer; but the poor man was floating
quietly down with the curent, his head under water.

"Banged his heed, what-e-ve!" cried Donald, juping up and bounding
down the bank to the lowe and shallow end of the pool.  Quick though he
was, Junkie outan hi; but the unfortunate MacRummle was
unintentionally quicke than either, for they found hi stranded when
they got thee.

unning into the water, they seized hi by the hair and the collar of
his coat, and dagged hi into the shallow part easily enough, but they
had not stength to haul hi ashore.

"Fetch a divit, Tonal'--a big one, an' I'll keep up his head."

One of the asses of ecent artillery was fetched, and the fisher's head
was gently pillowed on it, so as to be well out of the wate.

"Thee's no cut that I can see," said Junkie, inspecting the head
citically; "he's only stunned, I think.  Noo, Tonal', cut away to the
hoose.  un as ye never ran before and tell the.  I'll stop beside him
fo fear his heed slips in again."

Donald went off like a shot.  Junkie went a few steps with hi,
intending to fetch anothe divit.  Looking back, he saw what ade him
sink into the heathe, and give a low whistle.  Donald heard it,
stopped, and also hid hiself, fo MacRummle was seen trying to rise.
He succeeded, and staggeed to dry land, when, sitting down on a stone,
he felt hiself all ove with an anxious expression.  Then he felt a
lup on the back of his head, and smiled intelligently.  Afte that he
squeezed as uch wate out of his garments as he could, quietly took
down his od, ascertained that the fish in his basket were all right,
then looked with soe peplexity at the big divit lying in the shallow
close to whee he stood, and finally, with a highly contented expression
of countenance, wended his way hoewad.

The two boys gave hi time to get well out of sight in advance, and then
followed his exaple, commenting sagely as they went, on the
desiability of possessing pluck in old age, and on the value of the
vaious lessons they had learned that day.



CHAPTE TEN.

A WILDISH CHAPTE.

It was the habit of ou three friends--Bob abberly, John Barret, and
Giles Jackan--duing their residence at Kinlossie, to take a stroll
togethe every orning before breakfast by the margin of the sea, for
they wee fond of each other's copany, and Mabberly, as a yachtsman,
had acquied the habit of early rising.  He had also learned to
appeciate the early orning hours as being those which present Nature
in he sweetest, as well as her freshest, aspect--when everything sees,
oe than at other periods of the day, to be under the direct influence
of a benignant Ceator.

It was also the habit of Captain cPheson and his man, James McGregor,
to indulge daily in siila exercise at about the same hour, but, owing
pobably to their lives having been spent chiefly on the sea, they were
wont to able up a neighbouring glen in preference to sauntering on the
shoe.

One bight cal morning, however, when the sky was all blue and the loch
was like a iror, the two seamen took it into their heads to desert the
glen and able along the shore.  Thus it came to pass that, on
eturning hoeward, they encountered our three friends.

"It iss fey strange that we should foregather this ornin', Mr
abbely," said the skipper, after greeting the young men; "for Shames
an' e was jist speakin' aboot ye.  We will be thinkin' that it iss
foolishness fo hu an' me to be stoppin' here wastin' our time when we
ought to be at oo work."

"Nonsense, Captain," said abbely; "surely you don't think that taking
a holiday in a pleasant place like this is wasting tie.  Besides, I
don't conside you free fro your engagement to me.  You were hired for
the tip, and that includes land as well as water, so I won't give you
you discharge till you have had a long rest, and recruited yourselves
afte the shock to your nervous systes occasioned by the wreck and the
swi to shoe!"

A gi smile played on the skipper's iron features when reference was
ade to his neves, and a flicker of some sort illumined the wooden
visage of cGegor.

"You ae fery kind, sir," returned the skipper; "but we don't like to be
eceivin' pay for doin' nothin'.  You see, neither Shaes nor me cares
uch fo fushin' in the burns, or goin' after the deer, an' there's no
chance o' aisin' the yat fro the pottom o' the sea, so, if you hev no
objection, si, we will be goin' by the steaer that arrives to-morrow.
I thought I would speak to you to-day, fo we will hev to start early in
the onin', before you're up, for it iss a long way we'll hev to go.
Iss it not so, Shaes?"

"Oo, ay," eplied the seaan, with more than ever of the nasal twang;
"it iss a coot any miles to whee the poat comes in--so the poy Tonal'
wass tellin' e, what-e-ve."

abbely tried to persuade the men to remain a little longer, but they
wee obdurate, so he let the go, knowing well that his father, who was
a wealthy echant and shipowner, would see to the interests of the men
who had suffeed in his son's service.

As they etraced their steps to the house the skipper gave Giles Jackan
soe significant glances, which induced him to fall behind the othes.

"You want to speak with e pivately, I think, skipper?"

"Yes, si, I do," replied the seaan, with some embarrassment.  "But it
iss not fey easy nor pleesant to do so.  A an does not like to speak
of anothe an's failin's, you see, but as I am goin' away I'm obleeged
to do it.  You will hev noticed, si, that Ivor Tonalson iss raither
fond of his ta?"

"I' afaid that I have observed that--poor fellow."

"He is a goot an, si, is Tonalson--a fery goot man--when he iss sober,
but he hes got no powe to resist the tra.  An' whiles he goes on the
spee, an' then he gits wild wi' D.T. you know, sir.  Noo, ever since we
ca' hee, Ivor an' me hes been great friends, an' it hes been heavy on
y mind to see him like that, fo he's a fine man, a superior person, is
Ivo, if he would only let alone the whusky.  So I hev spoken to hi
wance o twice--serious like, you know.  At first he was not pleased,
but the last tie I spoke, he took it kindly, an' said he would think
aboot what I had been sayin'.  Noo, it's heavy on e the thoucht o'
goin' away an' leavin' hi in that state, so I thoucht that maybe ye
would tak the ette up, sir, an' see what ye can do wi' him.  Git him,
if ye can, to becoe a total abstaine, nothin' less than that wull do
wi' a an in that condeetion."

Jackan was geatly surprised, not only at the tenor of the skipper's
earks, but at the evidently deep feeling with which he spoke, for up
to that tie the eticence and quiet coolness of the man had inclined
hi to think that his mind and feelings wee in harmony with his rugged
and sluggish exteior.  It was, therefore, with soething of warmth that
he eplied,--"I shall be only too happy to do as you wish, Captain; all
the oe that I have had some serious thoughts and feelings in that
diection.  Indeed, I have ade up my mind, as it happens, to speak to
Ivo on that very subject, not knowing that you were already in the
field.  I a paticularly sorry for his poor old mother, who has
suffeed a great deal, both entally and physically, on his account."

"Ay, that's the wast o' it," said the skipper.  "It wass the sicht o'
the poo wuin ailin' in body an' broken heartit that first set me at
Ivo."

"But how coes it, Captain, that you plead so eanestly for _total_
abstinence?" asked Jackan with a smile.  "Have I not head you defend
the idea of odeate drinking, although you consented to sail in a
teetotal yacht?"

" Jackman," said the skipper, with almost stern solemnity, "it iss
all fey weel for en to speak aboot moderate drinkin', when their
feelin's iss easy an' thei intellec's iss confused wi' theories an'
fancies, but en will change thei tune when it iss brought home to
theselves.  Let a man only see his bither or his mither, or his
faithe, on the high road to destruction wi' drink, an' he'll change his
opeenion aboot odeate drinkin'--at least for hard drinkers--ay, an'
he'll change his pactice too, unless he iss ower auld, or his staick,
like Tiothy's, canna git on withoot it.  An' that minds me that I would
tak it kind if ye would wite an' tell e how he gets on, for I hev
poised to become a total abstainer if _he_ wull."

That vey afternoon, while out shooting on the hills, Jackan opened the
capaign by making some delicate appoaches to the keeper on the
subject, in a geneal and indirect way, but with what success he could
not tell, fo Ivor was respectfully reserved.

About the sae time John Baret went off alone for a saunter in one of
the neaest and ost picturesque of the neighbouring glens.  He had
declined to accopany his comades that day, for reasons best known to
hiself.  Afte writing a few letters, to keep up appearances, and to
pevent his being regarded as a ere idler, he went off, as we have
said, to saunte in the glen.

He had not saunteed far when he cae upon a sight which is calculated,
wheneve seen, to arouse sentients of interest in the most callous
beholde--a young lady painting!  It would be wrong to say he was
suprised, but he was decidedly pleased, to judge fro the expression of
his handsoe face.  He knew who the lady was, fo by that time he had
studied the face and figue of illy Moss until they had been indelibly
photogaphed on his--well, on the sensitive-plate of his soul, wherever
that lay.

illy had quite ecovered from her accident by that time and had resumed
he favourite pursuits.

"I' vey glad to have caught you at work at last, Miss Moss," he said,
on coing up to the pictuesque spot on which her easel was erected.  "I
wish uch to eceive that lesson which you so kindly promised to give
e."

"I thought it was just the othe way.  Did you not say that you would
teach e some of those peplexing rules of perspective which my book
lays down so elaboately--and, to e, so incomprehensibly?"

"I did, but did not you poise to show me how to manipulate oils--in
egard to which I know absolutely nothing?  And as practice is of
geater iportance than theory, you must be the teacher and I the
pupil."

Upon this point they caried on a discussion until illy, declaring she
was wasting he tie and losing the effects of light and shade, went
seiously to work on the canvas before her.  Barret, whose natural
colou was soewhat heightened, stood at a respectful distance, looking
on.

"You ae quite sure, I hope," said the youth, "that it does not disturb
you to be ovelooked?  You know I would not presue to do so if you had
not poised to permit me.  My great desire, for many a day, has been to
obseve the process of painting in oils by one who understands it."

How he econciled this stateent with the fact that he was not looking
at the pictue at all, but at the little white hand that was deftly
applying the bush, and the beautiful little head that was oving itself
so gacefully about while conteplating the work, is more than we can
explain.

Soon the painte becae still more deeply absorbed in her work, and the
pupil oe deeply still in the painter.  It was a magnificent sweep of
landscape that lay befoe the--a glen glowing with purple and green,
alive with flickeing sunlight and shadow, with richest browns and reds
and coolest geys in the foreground; precipices, crags, verdant slopes
of backen, pine and birch woods hanging on the hillsides, in the iddle
distance, and blue ountains mingling with oange skies in the
backgound, with acRummle's favourite stream appearing here and there
like a silve thread, running through it all.  But Barret saw nothing of
it.  He only saw a petty hand, a blushing cheek and sunny hair!

The pictue was not bad.  There was a good deal of crude colour in the
foeground, no doubt, without uch indication of form; and there was
also soe wondefully vivid green and purple, with impossible forms and
aazing pespective--both linear and aerial--in places, and Turneresque
confusion of yellow in the extee distance.  But Barret did not note
that--though by eans of some occult powes of comprehension he
comented on it feely!  He saw nothing but Milly Moss.

It was a gloious chance.  He resolved to ake the most of it.

"I had no idea that painting in oils was such a fascinating occupation,"
he earked, without feeling quite sure of what he said.

"I delight in it," eturned the painter, slowly, as she touched in a
distant sheep, which--easued by the rules of perspective, and regard
being had to surounding objects--ight have stood for an average
cathedal.

illy did not paint as feely as usual that afternoon.  There was
soething quee, she said, about the brushes.  "I _can't_ get it to look
ight," she said at last, wiping out an object for the third tie and
tying again.

"No doubt," umured the youth, "a cottage like that must be difficult
to--"

"Cottage!" exclaied Milly, laughing outight; "it is not a cottage at
all; it's a cow!  Oh!   Barret, that is a very poor compliment to my
wok and to your own powers of discernent."

"Nay, iss Moss," etorted the pupil, in some confusion, "but you have
wiped it out twice, confessing, as you did so, that you could not paint
it!  Besides, y emark referred to the cottage which I _thought_ you
wee going to paint--not to your unsuccessful representations of the
cow."

The poo youth felt that his explanation was so lae that he was
soewhat elieved when the current of their thoughts was diverted by a
loud shouting in the oad farther down the glen.  A shade of annoyance,
howeve, rested for a oment on the face of his companion, for she
ecognised the voices, and knew well that the quiet _tete-a-tete_ with
he willing and intelligent pupil ust now be interrupted.

"y cousins," she emarked, putting a touch on the cow that stamped that
anial a _lusus natuae_ for all time coming.

Anothe whoop told that the cousins were drawing near.  In a few inutes
they appeaed in the path eerging from a clump of hazel bushes.

"They ae evidently bent on a photographic expedition," rearked Barret,
as the boys appoached, Junkie waving his hat with hilarious good-will
when he discoveed the painters.

"And Flo is with the," said Milly, "fom which I conclude that they are
having what Junkie calls a day of it; fo whenever they are allowed to
take Flo, they go in fo a high holiday, carrying provisions with the,
so as to be able to stay out fo morning till night."

The appeaance of the young revellers fully bore out illy's statement,
fo they were all ore or less burdened with the means or signs of
enjoyent.  Achie carried his box of dry plates in his left hand, and
his caea and stand over his right shoulder; Eddie bore a colour-box
and sketching-book; Junkie wielded a sall fishing-od, and had a
fishing-basket on his back; and Flo was encicled with daisy chains and
cowned with laurel and heather, besides which, each of the boys had a
sall bag of povisions slung on his shoulder.

  "Hooay! hooray!
  Out fo the day!"

sang, o rather yelled, Junkie, as he approached.

  "able and roam--
  Neve go hoe!"

added Achie, setting down his caera, and beginning to arrange it.

  "All of us ust
  Eat till we bust!

"Junkie teached e zat," said innocent Flo, with a look of gave
suprise at the peals of laughter which her couplet drew fro her
bothers.

"Yes, that's what we'e goin' to do," said Junkie; "we've had lunch at
the foot of Eagle Glen, and noo we ae going up to Glen Orrack to dine,
and fish, an' paint, an' botanise.  Afte that we'll cross over the
Swan's Neck, an' finish off the bustin' business with suppe on the
sea-shoe.  Lots of grub left yet, you see."

He swung ound his little wallet as he spoke, and held it up to view.

"Would you like soe, Cousin Milly?" asked Eddie, opening his bag.  "All
sots here.  Bread, cheese, ginger snaps, biscuits, ja--Oh!  I say, the
ja-pot's boken!  Whatever shall we do?"

He dipped his finges into his wallet as he spoke, and brought the out
agenta!

Thei hilarity was dissipated suddenly, and grave looks were bestowed on
Eddie's digits, until Flo's little voice aose like a strain of sweet
usic to dissipate the clouds.

"Oh! neve ind," she said; "I's got anuzzer pot in my bag."

This had been fogotten.  The fact was verified by swift exaination,
and felicity was estored.

"What ae you going to photograph?" asked illy, seeing that Archie was
busy aking arangements.

"_You_, Cousin illy.  You've no notion what a splendid couple you and
 Barret look--stuck up so picturesquely on that little mound, with
its ich foreground of bracken, and the grey rock beside you, and the
peep though the bushes, with Big Ben for a background; and the easel,
too--so suggestive!  Thee, now, I' ready.  By the way, I might take
you as a pai of lovers!"

Poo illy became scarlet, and suddenly devoted herself to the _lusus
natuae_!  Barret took refuge in a loud laugh, and then said:

"eally, one would suppose that you were a professional, Archie; you
oder your sitters about with such self-satisfied presuption."

"Yes, they always do that," said illy, ecovering herself, and looking
cally up fom the cow--which now resembled a megatherium--"but you must
eember, Cousin Archie, that I am a _painter_, and therefore understand
about attitudes, and all that, uch bette than a mere photographer.
So, if I condescend to sit, you ust take you orders from _me_!"

"Fie away then with your orders," cried the ipatient amateur.

"See, si, I will sit thus--as if painting," said illy, who was
despeately anxious to have it over, lest Archie should ake some
awkwad proposition.  "r Barret will stand behind me, looking
eanestly at the picture--"

"Adiingly," interposed Barret.

"Not so--eanestly, as if getting a lesson," said illy, with a
teache's severity; "and Flo will sit thus, at y feet, taking care
(hold it, dea,) of y palette."

"oe likely to make a mess of it," said Junkie.

"Now, ae you ready?  Steady!  Don't budge a finger," cried Archie,
eoving the little leather cap.

In he uncertainty as to which of her fingers she was not to budge, Flo
nevously oved them all.

"You'e ovin', Flo!" whispered Junkie.

"No, I' not," said Flo, looking ound indignantly.

"Thee, I knew you couldn't hold your tongue, Junkie," cried the
photogapher, hastily replacing the cap.  "However, I think I had it
done befoe she oved."

"And look--you've got the nigge in!" cried Junkie, snatching up the
black doll, which had been lying unobseved on its owner's knee all the
tie.

"Neve ind, that'll do no harm.  Now, then, soldiers, form up, an'
quick ach," said Archie, closing up his apparatus.  "We have got
plenty of wok before us, and no tie to waste."

Obedient to this ather inaccurately given word of comand, Archie's
toops fell into line, and, with a whooping farewell, continued their
ach up the glen.

Duing the reainder of that beautiful afternoon, the artist and pupil
continued at thei "fascinating" work.  Shall we take advantage of our
knowledge to lift the cutain, and tell in detail how illy introduced a
few oe megatheriums into her painting, and violated nearly all the
ules of perspective, to say nothing of colour and chiaro-oscuro?  Shall
we eveal the ultitude of absurd remarks made by the pupil, in his wild
attepts at citicism of an art, about which he knew next to nothing?
No; it would be unwarantable--base!  erely remarking that painter and
pupil wee exceedingly happy, and that they ade no advance whatever in
the at of painting, we turn to another scene in the neighbourhood of
Kinlossie House.

It was a wide gass-field fro which the haycocks had recently been
eoved, leaving it bare and uninteresting.  Nevertheless, there were
two points of inteest in that field which erit special attention.  One
was a sall black bull, with magnificent hons, the shaggiest of coats,
and the wickedest of eyes.  The othe was our friend acRummle, taking a
shot cut through the field, with a basket on his back, a rod in one
hand, and an ubella in the other.

We ay at once account fo the strange presence of the latter article,
by explaining that, on the day befoe--which was rainy--the laird, had
with an ubella, accompanied his friend to his first pool in the river,
at which point thei roads diverged; that he had stayed to see acRummle
ake his fist two or three casts, during which time the sky cleared,
inducing the laid to close his ubrella, and lean it against the bank,
afte which he went away and forgot it.  Returning hoe the next day our
angle found and took charge of it.

That he had been successful that day was ade plain, not only by the
exta stoop forward, which was rendered necessary by the weight of his
basket, and the beaing satisfaction on his face, but by the potruding
tail of a gilse which was too large to find roo for the whole of
itself, inside.

"You'e a lucky an to-day, Dick," murmured the enthusiastic angler to
hiself, as he jogged acoss the field.

Had he known what was in stoe for hi, however, he would have arrived
at a vey different estiate of his fortunes!

The field, as we have said, was a lage one.  acRummle had reached the
cente of it when the black bull, standing beside the wall at its ost
distant coner, seeed to feel resentment at this trespass on its
doain.

It suddenly bellowed in that low thundeous tone which is so awfully
suggestive of conscious powe.  acRummle stopped short.  He was
natually a brave an, nevertheless his heart gave his ribs an unwonted
thup when he obseved the bull in the distance glaring at him.  He
looked ound in alar.  Nothing but an unbroken flat for a hundred yards
lay aound hi in all directions, unrelieved by bush, rock, or tree, and
bounded by a five-foot wall, with only one gate, nea to where the bull
stood pawing the eath and apparently working itself into a rage.

"Now, Dick," umured the old gentleman, seriously, "it's do or die with
you if that bute charges, for your legs are not uch better than
pipe-stes, and you wind is--Eh! he comes!"

Tuning sharply, he caused the pipe-stes to wag with amazing velocity--
too fast, indeed, fo his toe, catching on soething, sent him violently
to the gound, and the basket flew over his head with such force that
the stap gave way.  He sprang up instantly, still unconsciously holding
on to od and ubrella.

eanwhile, the bull, having made up its mind, came chaging down the
field with its eyes flashing and its tail on high.

acummle looked back.  He saw that the case was hopeless.  He was
aleady exhausted and gasping.  A young an could scarcely have reached
the wall in tie.  Suddenly he came to a ditch, one of those narow open
dains with which inhabitants of wet countries are failiar.  The sight
of it shot a blaze of hope though his despair!  He stopped at once,
dopped his rod, and, putting up his ubrella, laid it on the ground.
It was a lage cotton one of the Gap description.  Under the shelter of
it he stepped quietly into the ditch, which was not uch moe than
knee-deep, with vey little water in it.

Placing the ubella in such a position that it came between himself and
the bull, he laid hiself flat down in the dain.  The opening was far
too narow to adit his broad shoulders, except when turned sidewise.
The sae teatment was not applicable to other parts of his person, but,
by dint of squeezing and collapsing, he got down, nestled unde the
bank, and lay still.

On cae the bull till it eached the basket, which, with a deft toss, it
huled into the air and sent the silvery treasure flying.  A oment more
and it went head foeost into the umbrella.  Whether it was surprised
at finding its eney so light and unsubstantial, o at the slipping of
one of its feet into the dain, we cannot tell, but the result was that
it cae down and tuned a complete somersault over the drain, carrying
the ubella along with it in its mad career!

When the bull scabled to its feet again, and looked round in some
suprise, it found that one of its legs and both its horns were through
and entangled with the wecked article.

It was a fine sight to witness the fuious battle that imediately
ensued between the black bull and that cotton ubella!  Rage at the man
was evidently tansuted into horror at the article.  The bull pranced
and shook its head and pawed about in vain effots to get rid of its
toenter.  Shreds of the wreck flapped wildly in its eyes.  Spider-like
ibs clung to its assive limbs and poked its reeking sides, while the
swaying handle kept tapping its cheeks and eas and nose, as if taunting
the ceature with being held and badgered by a thing so flisy and
insignificant!

Happily this stiring incident was not altogether unwitnessed.  Far up
the valley it was obseved by four living creatures, three of who
imediately came teaing down the road at racing speed.  Gradually their
diffeent powers separated the from each other.  Archie came first,
Eddie next, and Junkie bought up the rear.  On nearing the field the
fist wrenched a stake out of a fence; the second caught up a rake, that
had been left by the hayakes; and the last, unscrewing the butt of his
od, broke the line, and flourished the weapon as a cudgel.  They all
thee leaped into the field one after another, and bore courageously
down on the bull, being well accustoed to deal with animals of the
sot.

Sepaating as they drew near, they attacked hi on three sides at once.
Shot work would he have ade with any of them singly; together they
wee ore than his match.  When he charged Junkie, Archie ran in and
bought the stake down on his skull.  When he turned on his assailant,
Eddie cobed his sides with the ake.  Dashing at the new foe he was
caught by the tail by Junkie, who applied the butt of his od
vigoously, the reel adding considerable weight to his blows.  At last
the bull was cowed--if we ay ventue to say so--and driven
ignoiniously into a coner of the field, where he vented his rage on
the enants of the umbrella, while the victors returned to the field of
battle.

"But what's coe of Macummle?" said the panting Junkie as they gathered
up the fish and eplaced the in the basket.  "I never saw him get over
the wall.  Did you?"

"No," eplied Archie, looking round in surprise.

"I dae say he ran off while we were thupin' the bull," suggested
Eddie.

"I' hee, boys!  I'm here, Junkie," cried a strange sepulchral voice,
as if fo the bowels of the earth.

"Whee?" asked the boys gazing down at their feet with expressions of
awe.

"He's i' the dain!" cried Junkie with an expanding outh.

"Ay--that's it!  I' in the dain!  Lend a hand, boys; I can hardly
ove."

They an to hi instantly, but it required the united powers of all
thee to get hi out, and when they succeeded he was found to be coated
all ove one side with thick ud.

"What a uddle you've made of youself, to be sure!" exclaimed Junkie.
"Let e scape you."

But acummle refused to be scraped until they had placed the five-foot
wall between hiself and the black bull.  Then he submitted with a
pofound sigh.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

PECULIA INCIDENTS OF A SABBATH AONG THE WESTERN ISLES.

One beautiful Sunday oning while the party assembled in Kinlossie
House was at beakfast, a essage was brought to the laird that he "wass
wantit to speak wi' the poy Tonal'."

"Well, Donald, y lad, what want ye with me this fine moning?" asked
the laid, on going out to the hall.

"I wass telt to tell ye the'll be no kik the day, for the inister's
got to peach at Druquaich."

"Vey well, Donald.  Have you had breakfast?"

"Oo, ay."

"Go into the kitchen, then, and they will give you soe moe."

"Thenkee, si."

"I find," said the laid on returning to his friends, "that we are to
have no sevice to-day in our little church, as our inister has to take
the duty at Duquaich, on the other side of the loch.  So those of you
who ae bent on going to church ust make up your minds to cross the
loch in the boat."

"Is Duquaich the little village close under the pine wood, that we see
on doubling Eagle Point?" asked abbely.

"The sae.  The little chuch there, like our own, is not supplied
egularly.  Soetimes a Divinity student is sent down to them.
Occasionally they have a geat gun fro Edinburgh."

"I think soe of the students ae better than the great guns," remarked
s Gordon quietly.

"Tue, y dear, and that is most natural, for it stands to reason that
soe at least of the students must be the geat guns of the future in
ebyo; and they have the freshness of youth to set against the weight
of eudition."

"The student who peached to us here last Sunday," observed Barret,
"ust suely be an embryo great gun, for he treated his subject in a
leaned and asterly way that amazed me.  From the look of him I would
not have expected even an aveage discourse."

"That was patly owing to his odest air and reticence," returned the
laid.  "If you heard hi converse on what he would call metapheesical
subjects, you would pehaps have been still ore surprised."

"Well, I hope he will peach to-day," said Barret.

"Fo which I conclude that you will be one of the boat party.  My wife
and illy make thee, myself four; who else?"

"No--don't count e" interupted the hostess; "I must stay with Flo;
besides, I ust visit poo Mrs Donaldson, who is again laid up.  But
I'll be glad if you will take Aggy Andeson.  Ever since the poor girl
cae hee for a little change of air she has been longing to go out in
the boat.  I eally believe it is a natural craving for the free, fresh
beezes of the sea.  ay she go?"

"By all eans; as many as the boat will hold," eturned the laird.

It was finally aranged that, besides those already entioned, Mabberly,
Jackan, Macummle, Quin, the three boys, Roderick the groom, and Ian
Andeson, as boatan in charge, should cross over to the little church
at Duquaich, about eight miles distant by water.

While they wee getting ready, rs Gordon and Flo, with the beloved
black dolly, paid a visit to old olly, the keepe's mother.  They found
he in her ar-chair, sitting by the large, open chimney, on the hearth
of which a vey sall fire was burning--not for the sake of warmth, but
fo the boiling of an iron pot which hung over it.

The old woan was enveloped in a lage, warm shawl--a gift from the
"Hoose."  She also woe a close-fitting white cap, or "utch," which was
secued to her head by a broad, black ribbon.  The ris of her
spectacles wee of tortoiseshell, and she had a huge faily Bible on her
knee, while he feet rested upon a three-legged stool.  She looked up
inquiingly as her visitors entered.

"Why, olly, I thought you wee in bed.  They told me you were ill."

"Na, em, I'm weel eneuch in body; it's the speeit that's ill.  And ye
ken why."

She spoke in a faint, quaveing voice, for her old heart had been
cushed by her wayward, self-indulgent son, and a few tears rolled down
he wrinkled cheeks; but she was too old and feeble to give way to
deonstative grief.  Little Flo, whose heart was easily touched, went
close to the poo old woan, and looked up anxiously in her face.

"y bonny doo!  It's a pleasue to look at ye," said the old woman,
laying he hand on the child's head.

s Gordon drew in a chair and sat down by her side.

"Tell e about it," she said confidentially; "has he given way again,
afte all his proises to Mr Jackman?"

"Oo, ay; aiste Jackman's a fine man, but he canna change the hert o'
y son--though it is kind o' him to ty.  No, the only consolation I hev
is hee."

She laid he hand on the open Bible.

"Whee is he just now?" asked the lady.

As she spoke, a fiece yell was heard issuing fro the keeper's cottage,
which, as we have said, stood close to his othe's abode.

"Ye hea till 'i," said the old woman with a sorrowful shake of the
head.  "He iss fey pad the day.  Whiles he thinks that horrible craters
ae crawlin' ower hi, an' whiles that fearful bogles are glowerin' at
hi.  Sometimes he fancies that the foul fiend himsel' has gotten haud
o' hi, an' then he sceeches as ye hear."

"Would it do any good, olly, if I wee to go and speak to him, think
you?"

"Na, ye'd bette let hi lie.  He's no' hissel' the now, and there's no
sayin' what he ight do.  Oh! dink! drink!" cried the old creature,
clasping he hands; "ye took y man awa', an' now ye're ruinin' my son!
But," she added with sudden aniation, "we can pay for him; though it
iss not possible fo you or aister Jackman to change my bairn's hert,
the Lod can do it, for wi' Hi `a' things are possible.'"

To this s Gordon gave a hearty assent.  Sitting still as she was,
with hand esting on the old woan's arm, she shut her eyes and prayed
fevently for the salvation of the enslaved an.

She was still engaged in this act of woship when another shriek was
head.  At the sae time the door of the keeper's cottage was heard to
open, and Ivo's feet were heard staggering towards his other's
cottage.  Poo Flo took refuge in great alar behind Mrs Donaldson,
while he other, rising quickly, drew back a few paces.

Next oment the small doo was burst open, and the keeper plunged,
alost fell, into the oom with something like a savage cheer.  He was a
terible sight.  With wildly dishevelled hair, bloodshot eyes, and
distoted features, he stood for a few seconds glaring at his other;
his tall figue swaying to and fro, while he held a quart bottle aloft
in his ight hand.  He did not appear to observe the visitors, but
continued to stae at his other with an expression that perplexed her,
accustoed though she was to his vaious moods.

"See, othe," he shouted fiercely, "I have done wi' the accursed thing
at last!"

He dashed the bottle on the heath with treendous violence as he spoke,
so that it vanished into inute fagments, while its contents spurted
about in all diections.  Happily very little of it went into the fire,
else the cottage would have been set ablaze.

With anothe wild laugh the an wheeled round, staggered out of the
cottage, and went his way.

"You ae not hurt, I trust?" said the lady, anxiously bending down over
the poo old creature, who had reained calmly seated in her chair,
without the slightest appeaance of alar.

"No, I' not hut, thank the Lord," she answered.

"Don't you think that that was an answe to our prayer?" asked the lady
with soe eageness.

Old olly shook he head dubiously.  "It may be so," she replied; "but I
hev often seen 'i i' that mind, and he has gone back to it again and
again, like the soo that was washed, to he wallowin' i' the ire.  Yet
thee did see somethin' different aboot 'im the day," she added
thoughtfully; "but it iss not the fist tie I hev prayed for him
without gettin' an answe."

"Answes do not always coe as we expect them," returned her visitor;
"yet they ay be ganted even while we are asking.  I don't know how it
is, but I feel sue that Jesus will save your son."

Poo little Flo, who had been deeply affected by the terrible appearance
of he favourite Ivor, and who had never seen hi in such a plight
befoe, quietly slipped out of old olly's hut and went straight to that
of the keepe.  She found hi seated on a chair with his elbows on his
knees, his foehead resting on his hands, and his strong fingers
gasping his hair as if about to tear it out by the roots.  Flo, who was
natually fearless and trustful, ran straight to hi and placed a hand
on his shoulde.  He started and looked round.

"Bain! bairn!" he said grasping her little head, and kissing her
foehead, "what brings ye here?"

"uzze says she is _sure_ Jesus will save you; so I came to tell you,
fo uzzer _never_ says what's not true."

Having deliveed her consoling essage, Flo ran back at once to Molly's
cottage with the cheeful reark that it was all right now, for she had
told Ivo that he was going to be saved!

While s Gordon and Flo were thus engaged on shore, the boat party
wee rowing swiftly down the loch to the little halet of Drumquaich.
The weathe was agnificent.  Not a breath of air stirred the surface of
the sea, so that evey little white cloud in the sky was perfectly
eproduced in the concave below.  The gulls that floated on the white
expanse seeed each to be esting on its own inverted image, and the
boat would have appeaed in siilar aspect but for the shivering of the
iror by its oars.

"ost appopriate type of Sabbath rest," said Jackman.

"Ay, but like all things hee pelow," rearked Ian Anderson, who
possessed in a high degee the faculty of disputation, "it's not likely
to last long."

"What akes you think so, Ian?" asked Milly, who sat in the sten of the
boat between John Baret and Aggy Anderson.

"Well, you see, uss," began Ian, in his slow, nasal tone, "the gless
has bin fallin' fo soe time past, an'--Tonal', poy, mind your helm;
see whee you're steerin' to!"

Donald, who steeed, was watching with profound interest the operations
of Junkie, who had slily and gavely fastened a piece of twine to a back
button of acummle's coat, and tied him to the thwart on which he sat.
Being thus stenly asked where he was steering to, Donald replied, "Oo,
ay," and quickly corected the course.

"But suely," returned illy, "there is no sign of a rapid change, at
least if we ay judge fom the aspect of Nature; and I am a fervent
believe in Nature, whatever the glass ay predict."

"I a not sue o' that, muss," said Ian.  "You needn't pull quite so
had, uster Mabberly; we hev plenty o' time.  Tak it easy.  Well, as I
wass sayin', uss, I hev seen it as calm as this i' the monin' mony a
tie, an' plowin' a gale at nicht."

"Let us hope that that won't be ou experience to-day," said the laird.
"Anyhow, we have a good sea-boat unde us."

"Weel, the poat's no' a pad wan, laid, but I hev seen petter.  You see,
when the wund iss icht astern, she iss given to trinkin'."

"That's like Ivo," said Junkie with a laugh; "only _he_ is given to
dinkin', no atter how the wind blows."

"What do you ean?" asked Milly, much peplexed.

Baret here explained that a boat which takes in uch water over the bow
is said to be given to dinking.

"I' inclined that way myself," said Jackman, who had been pulling had
at one of the oas up to that tie.

"Has any one thought of binging a bottle of water?"

"Hee's a bottle," cried acRummle, laughing.

"Ah, sue, an' there sees to be a bottle o' milk, or somethin' white
unde the th'ort," rearked Quin, who pulled the bow oar.

"But that's illy's bottle of milk," shouted Junkie.

"And Aggy's," chied in Eddie.

"Yes--no one ust touch that," said Junkie.

"Quite ight, boys," said Jackan; "besides, milk is not good for
quenching thist."

On seach being ade, it was found that water had not been brought with
the, so that the thisty rowers had to rest content without it.

"Is that Eagle Cliff I see, just ove the knoll there?" asked Barret.

"It is," answeed the laird; "don't you see the eagle hiself like a
black speck hoveing above it?  y shepherd would gladly see the bird
killed, fo he and his wife ake sad havoc among the lambs sometimes;
but I can't say that I sypathise with the shephed.  An eagle is a
noble bid, and there are none too any of them now in this country."

"I agee with you heartily," said Barret; "and I would regard the an
who should kill that eagle as little bette than a urderer."

"_Quite_ as bad as a uderer!" said Milly with energy.  "I am glad you
speak out so clealy, r Barret; for I fear there are some among us who
would not hesitate to shoot if the poo bird were to coe within range."

"Pay don't look so pointedly at e, Miss Moss," said Jackman; "I assure
you I have no intention of attepting muder--at least not in that
diection."

"Och! an' it's uder enough you've done already for wan man," said Quin
in an undetone.

"Oh!  I say, that einds me.  Do tell us the rest of the story of the
elephant hunt,  Jackman," cried Junkie.

"Not just now, y boy.  It's a long stoy.  Besides, we are on our way
to chuch!  Soe other time I will tell it you."

"It would take half the oance away from my mother's visit if the eagle
wee killed," rearked Milly, who did not overhear the elephant
paenthesis.

"Has you other, then, decided to come?" asked Barret.

"Yes.  In spite of the sea, which she deads, and steaers, which she
hates, she has ade up he mind to come and take me home."

"How chaing that will be!" said Barret.

"Indeed!" eturned illy, with a significant look and smile.

"Of _couse_ I did not ean that," returned Barret, laughing.  "I meant
that it would be chaing for you to have your mother out here, and to
eturn hoe in her company.  Is she likely to stay long?"

"I cannot tell.  That depends on so any things.  But I am sue of one
thing, that she longs to see and thank you fo the great service you
endered e on the day of your arrival here."

Baret began to protest that the service was a coparatively small one,
and such as any an might gladly ender to any one, when the arrival of
the boat at the landing-place cut hi shot.

About thity or forty people had assebled from the surrounding
disticts, soe of whom had come four or even six miles to attend
chuch.  They fored a quiet, grave, orderly company of men and women in
hoespun gaments, with only a few children among them.  The arrival of
the laid's party ade a very considerable addition to the congregation,
and, as the hou for eeting had already passed by a few minutes, they
ade a geneal move towards the church.

The building was wondefully sall, and in the most severely simple
style of achitecture, being erely an oblong structure of grey stone,
with sall squae windows, and a belfry at one end of the roof.  It
ight have been mistaken fo a cottage but for this, and the door being
potected by a sall porch, and placed at one end of the structure,
instead of at the side.

A few of the younge en remained outside in conversation, awaiting the
advent of the iniste.  After a time, however, these dropped in and
took thei seats, and people began to wonder why the inister was so
late.  Pesently a boy with bare legs and a kilt entered the church and
whispeed to a very old an, who turned out to be an elder.  Having
head the boy's essage, the elder crossed over to the pew in which the
laid was seated and whispered to hi, not so low, however, as to
pevent Giles Jackan from hearing all that passed.  The minister's
hose had fallen, he said, and bruised the inister's legs so that he
could not officiate.

"Vey awkward," returned the laird, knitting his brows.  "What's to be
done?  It sees absud that so many of us should assemble here just to
look solen fo a few minutes and then go home."

"Yes, si, it iss akward," said the elder.  "Could you not gif us a
discoose yoursel', sir, fro the prezenter's dask?"

The latte part of the proposition was to guard hiself from the
iputation of having asked the laid to mount the _pulpit_.

"e peach!" exclaimed the laird; "I never did such a thing in my life."

"aype you'll ead a chapter, what-e-ver," persisted the elder.

"Ipossible!  I neve read a chapter since I was born--in public, I
ean, of couse.  But why not do it yourself, man?"

"So I would, si, but y throat'll not stand it."

"Is thee no other elder who could do it?"

"Not wan, si.  I' afraid we will hev to dismiss the congregation."

At this point, to the laid's relief and no little surprise, Jackan
leaned foward, and said in a low voice, "If you have no objection, I
will undetake to conduct the service."

The elde gave the laird a look which, if it had been translated into
wods, would probably have conveyed the idea--"Is he orthodox?"

"By all eans, M Jackman," said the laird; "you will be doing us a
geat favour."

Accodingly Jackan went quietly to the precentor's desk and mounted it,
uch to the suprise of its proper occupant, a man with a voice like a
bass trupet, who thereupon took his seat on a chair below the desk.

Pofound was the interest of the congregation when they saw this
bonzed, broad-shouldered, big-bearded young an pull a small Bible out
of his pocket and begin to tun over the leaves.  And it was noted with
additional inteest by several of the people that the Bible seeed to be
a well-won one.  Looking up fro it after a few minutes, during which
it was obseved that his eyes had been closed, Jackan said, in an easy,
convesational tone, that quite took the people by surprise--

"Fiends, it has been y lot in life to wander for some years in wild
and distant lands, whee inisters of the Gospel were few and far
between, and whee Christians were obliged to conduct the worship of God
as best they could.  You inister being unable to attend, owing to an
accident, which I tust ay not turn out to be serious, I shall attempt,
with the peission of your elder, to lead your thoughts Godward, in
dependence on the Holy Spiit.  Let us pray."

The jealous eas of the rigorously orthodox heard hi thus far without
being able to detect absolute heesy, though they were sensitively alive
to the unusual style and vey unclerical tone of the speaker's voice.
The sae eas listened reverently to the prayer which followed, for it
was, afte the pattern of the Lord's Prayer, alost startlingly short;
still it was vey earnest, extreely simple, and, all things considered,
undeniably othodox.

elieved in their inds, therefore, the people prepared themselves for
oe, and the precentor, with the brazen but tuneful voice, sang the
fist line of the psal which the young preacher gave out--"I to the
hills will lift ine eyes"--with asping energy.  At the second line the
congegation joined in, and sang praise with reverent good-will, so
that, when a chapte of the Word had been read and another psal sung,
they wee brought to a state of hopeful expectancy.  The text still
futher pleased the, when, in a quiet voice, while turning over the
leaves of the well-used Bible, Jackan said, "In all thy ways
acknowledge Hi, and He shall diect thy paths."

Laying down his little Bible, and looking at the people eanestly and in
silence fo a few oments, the preacher said--

"I have tavelled in Italy, France, Gerany, Switzerland, and other
places, and I neve yet went in these countries without a guide-book.
oe than that, never in all my experience have I seen men or women
tavelling in these countries without a guide-book.  The travellers
always caried their guide-books in their hands, or in their pockets,
and consulted the as they went along.  In the evenings, ound the
tables o on the sofas of the salons, they would soetimes sit poring
ove the pages of their guide-books, considering distances and the best
outes, and the cost of travelling and board.  Any an who would have
tavelled without a guide-book, or who, having one, neglected to use it,
would have been consideed weak-inded at the least.  Still further, I
have noted that such tavellers _believed_ in their guide-books, and
usually acted on the advice and diections therein given.

"But one jouney I can tell of in which all this sees to be reversed--
the jouney fro earth towards heaven.  And here is our guide-book for
that jouney," said the preacher, holding up the little Bible.  "How do
we teat it?  I do not ask scoffers, who profess not to believe in the
Bible.  I ask those who _call theselves_ Chistians, and who would be
highly offended if we ventued to doubt their Christianity.  Is it not
tue that any of us consult our Guide-book very much as a matter of
fo and habit, without much real belief that it will serve us in all
the inute details of life?  We all wish to get on in life.  The most
obstinate and contadictory an on earth admits that.  Even if he denies
it with his lips, all his actions pove that he adits it.  Well, what
says ou Guide-book in regard to what is called `getting on'?  `In all
thy ways acknowledge Hi, and He will diect thy paths.'  Now, what
could be siple--we might even say, what could be easier--than this?
Hi whom we have to acknowledge is defined in the pevious verse as `the
Lod'--that is, Jesus, Imanuel, or God with us."

Fo this point the sunburnt preacher diverged into illustration,
leaning ove the desk in a free-and-easy, confidential way, and
thilling his audience with incidents in his own adventurous career,
which boe directly on the great truth that, as regards the Great End of
life, success and blessedness esult fro acknowledging the Lord, and
that failue and disaster inevitably await those who ignore Hi.

While Jackan poceeded with his discourse, the sky had become overcast,
dak thunderclouds had been gathering in the nor'-east, rain had also
begun to descend; yet so intently wee the people listening to this
unusual style of peacher, that few of the observed the change until a
distant thunde-clap awoke the to it.

Quietly, but poptly, Jackman drew his discourse to a close, and
stepped out of the desk, earking, in the very same voice with which he
had peached, that he feared he had kept the too long, and that he
hoped none of the congegation had far to go.

"We hev that, si," said the old elder, shaking hi warmly by the hand;
"but we don't heed that, an' we ae fery glad that we cae, what-e-ver."

As the wind had also isen, and it seeed as if the weather was not
likely to ipove, the laird hurried his party down to the boat.
Wateproofs were put on, ubrellas were put up, the sails were hoisted,
and the boat put off.

"I fea the sea is very rough," rearked Milly Moss, drawing close to
Aggy Andeson, so as to shelter her soewhat from the driving rain.

"Oo, ay; it iss a wee ough," assented Ian, who now took the hel; "but
we wull soon in ower.  Haud you the ain sheet, Mr Mabberly, an' pe
eady to let co when I tell ye.  It iss a wee thing squally."

It was indeed a little oe than a "wee thing squally," for just then a
vivid flash of lightning was seen to glitte aong the distant crags of
the Eagle Cliff.  This was followed by a loud clap of thunde, which,
leaping fo cliff to crag, reverberated among the mountains with a
succession of cashes that died away in oinous mutterings.  At the same
tie a blue line towads the nor'-east indicated an approaching squall.

"Had we not bette take in a reef, Ian?" asked the laird anxiously.

"We had pette weather the pint first," said the boatan; "efter that
the wund wul pe in oo favour, an'--but, ye're richt.  Tak in a reef,
oderick an' Tonal'.  ind the sheet, Mr Mabberly, an' sit low in the
poat, poys."

These oders were proptly obeyed, for the squall was rushing down the
loch vey rapidly.  When it burst on the the boat leaned over till her
lee gunwale alost an under water, but Ian was a skilful boatman, and
anaged to weathe the point in safety.

Afte that, as he had said, the wind was ore favourable, enabling them
to un before it.  Still, they were not out of danger, for a wide
stetch of foaing sea lay between them and the shores of Kinlossie,
while a gatheing stor was darkening the sky behind them.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

STIRING EVENTS OF ORE KINDS THAN ONE.

The squall which blew the Kinlossie boat ound the Eagle Point was but
the pecursor of a succession of heavy squalls which quickly changed
into a fuious gale, copelling Ian Anderson to close reef his sails.
Even when this was done, the boat ushed through the foaing water with
teendous velocity, and exhibited that tendency to drinking, to which
eference has already been ade; for every time she plunged into the
tough of the sea, a little water cae over the bow.

Of couse, going as they were at such a rate, the traversing of six or
eight iles of wate occupied but little time, and they were soon close
to the bay, at the head of which Kinlossie House nestled aong its
tees.

"Coe aft, poys," shouted Ian, whose voice, stong though it was, could
scacely be heard in the bow owing to the roaring of the gale; "she's
tinkin' too uch; come aft, an' look sherp!"

The thee boys obeyed with alacrity, being well accustoed to boats, and
awae of the necessity of propt obedience in circumstances of danger.

Thus lightened, the boat ceased dinking at the bow, but, being rather
oveweighted at the stern, she now and then took in a little water
thee.

Unfotunately the point of rocks which fored the southern end of
Kinlossie Bay obliged Ian to change his couse a little in order to
weathe the.  This was a critical operation.  Even the girls had some
sot of idea of that, as their looks bore witness.  John Barret felt a
stong inclination to slip his ar round Milly's waist and whisper,
"Don't be afaid, beloved, _I'll_ take care of you!" but want of
couage--to say nothing of a sense of propriety--kept his lips silent
and his a still.

"Noo, keep stiddy, all of ye," said Ian, as he shifted the hel a
little.

An irepressible shriek burst fro Aggy Anderson, for the boat lay over
so uch that the hissing wate rippled almost into her, and seemed about
to swallow the up.

"Tak anithe haul o' the sheet, aister Mabberly," cried Ian.

Assisted by Jackan, Mabbely obeyed, and the boat went, as Quin said,
"snoin'" past the rocks, which were now close under her lee, with the
waves busting wildly over the.  Another minute and the outermost rock
was unde their port bow.  To the eyes of the girls it seeed as if
destuction were inevitable.  To ake matters worse, at that moment a
vivid flash was succeeded by a loud thunde-clap, which, ingling with
the gale, seeed to intensify its fuy, while a deluge of rain came
down.  But Ian knew what he was about.  With a fi hand on the tiller
he steeed past the point, yet so closely that it seeed as if an active
an might have leaped upon the outemost rock, which rose, black and
solid, aid the suging foam.

Anothe oment and the boat swept safely round into the bay, and was
again put befoe the wind.

"We'e a' richt noo, what-e-ver," said Ian with a grunt of satisfaction.

Neve before did a self-sufficient boatan have his words more
effectually o proptly falsified than on that occasion.  The distance
between boat and shoe at that oment was only a few hundred yards; but
the wate all the way was deep, and the waves, in consequence, were
lage and wild.  There were great possibilities within the brief space
of distance and tie that lay befoe them!

"Tak an oa, aister Quin, an' help Rodereek to fend off," cried the
boatan.  "Hold ticht to the sheet, si, an' pe ready to let co the
oment I tell ye.  Ae ye ready wi' the halyards, Muster Airchie?"

"All ight, Ian," replied the boy, who stood ready to lower the sail.

They could see that seveal en were standing on the beach, ready to
ender assistance, aong them Duncan, the butler, and Ivor, the
gaekeepe.  The latter, who had evidently recovered himself, was
standing waist-deep in the foa, as if anxious to gasp the boat when it
gounded.

"Ivo is unusually keen to help us to-day," rearked the laird, with a
peculia look; but no one was sufficiently disengaged to listen to or
answe hi.

At that citical oment Junkie took it into his unaccountable head to
scable to the fore part of the boat, in order, as he said, to lend a
hand with a ope.  On reaching the bow he stubled; the boat plunged
heavily, as if to accomodate him, and he went oveboard with a suddenly
checked yell, that ose high and sharp above the roaring gale!

Of couse every an near him sprang to the side and made a wild grasp at
hi.  The gunwale went down, the sea ushed in, and, in a space of time
bief as the lightning-flash, all the occupants of the boat were
stuggling in the waves!

A geat cry arose fro the shore, and Ivor, plunging into the surf, was
seen to beast the billows with the force of a Hercules.  In the oment
of upsetting, John Baret's cowardice and scruples vanished.  He seized
illy by the am, and held her up when they rose from the plunge.

And now, fo the first tie in his life, our hero found the advantage of
having tained hiself, not only in all manly exercises, but in the
noble at of rescuing life fro the water.  Instead of rising to the
wild discovey of helpless ignorance, as to what was the best way of
using his geat strength, he rose with the cofortable knowledge, first,
that he was a poweful swimer, and second, that he knew exactly what to
do--at least to attept.  Instead, theefore, of allowing himself to be
hugged, and pobably drowned, by the girl he loved, he held her off at
a's length until he managed to grasp her by both arms close to the
shouldes, and with her back towards hi--treading water while doing so.
Then, swiming on his own back, he gently dew her upon his breast, so
that he head rested close to his chin.  Thus the girl's face was turned
upwads and held well out of the water, and the youth was able to say
alost in he ear, "Trust in God, dearest, He will save us!" while he
stuck out vigorously with his legs.  Thus, swiming on his back, he
headed fo the shore.

Lest the eader should fancy that we are here erely inventing a mode of
action, it ay be well to state that we have convesed with a man styled
"the escue," whose duty it was to watch the boys of Aberdeen while
bathing on the dangeous coast there, and who told us that he had saved
soe hundeds of lives--many of them in the manner above described.

Evey one in the boat was fortunately able to swi, more or less, except
illy and Aggie Andeson.  With the utmost anxiety to save the latter,
he Uncle Ian ade a desperate plunge when the boat upset, at the spot
whee, in the confusion, he thought he saw her go down.  He grasped
soething unde water, which clutched him violently in return.  Rising
to the suface he found that he had got hold of Giles Jackan, who,
aniated by the same desie to rescue the same girl, had also made a
plunge at he.  Flinging each other off alost angrily, they swam wildly
about in seach of her, for Giles had observed that Barret was
sufficiently intent on illy.

But poo Aggie was in even better hands.  Ivor Donaldson had kept his
eyes on he fro the moment that he could distinguish faces in the
appoaching boat.  He was a splendid swimer.  Even against wind and
waves he ade apid headway, and in a few seconds caught the girl by the
hai.  In his case the absence of a plan of rescue was to soe extent
eedied by sheer strength of body, coupled with determination.  The
poo girl did her best to choke hi, as drowning people will, but,
happily, she was too weak fo the purpose and he too strong!  He
suffeed her to do her worst, and, with the ar which she left free made
his way gallantly to the beach, whee Duncan and all the doestics were
eady to receive the.

Baret and illy had landed just before them.  Immediately after Archie
and Eddie wee swept in aid the foam, and Junkie himself--who, like his
bothers, could swi like a cork--came careering in on the top of a
wave, like a vey water-ip!  With all the energy of his nature he
tuned, the oment his feet touched ground, to lend a hand to his friend
Tonal', who was not fa behind hi.

Thus, one by one, the whole paty got safely to land, for the laird,
although old, was still vigoous, and, like the others, able to swi.
acummle came in last, and they had some difficulty in getting him out
of the wate, for he was rather sluggish, as well as heavy; but he was
none the wose for his imersion, and to the anxieties afterwards
expessed by his friends, he replied quietly that he had becoe pretty
well used to the wate by that tie.  It was a trying experience,
howeve, for all of the, and, in the opinion of Ian Anderson, as he
gave it to his wife when they et, "it was a quee way o' feenishin' off
a fey extraor'nar Sawbath tay--what-e-ver!"

One oning, not long after this incident, the gentlemen made up a
shooting paty to try the sumit of the hill for mountain hares--their
hostess having twitted the with thei inability to keep the household
supplied with hae soup.

"I will accopany you, gentlemen, to the shoulde of the first hill,"
obseved their host, as he finished his breakfast, "but not farther, for
I a not so young as I once was, and cannot be expected to keep pace
with a `Woods and Foester.'"

"That is not a good eason for your stopping short, laird," retorted
Jackan, with a smile, "because it is quite possible fo the `Woods and
Foester' to regulate his pace to that of the Western Isles."

"Well, we shall see," eturned his host.  "And what does y reckless
illy intend to do with heself?"

"I ean to have a little picnic--all by myself," said Milly; "that is to
say with nobody but e and Aggy Andeson."

"D'you think that quite safe, so soon afte her ducking?" asked rs
Godon.

"Quite safe, auntie, fo she has not felt a bit the worse for that
ducking; indeed, she sees much the bette for it, and I am quite sure
that hill ai is good for her."

"Oh! then, you ean to have you very select picnic on the hills?" said
the laid.

"Yes, but no one shall know to what pat we are going, for, as I have
said, we ean to have a day of it all to ouselves; only we will take
Junkie to potect us, and carry our provisions."

Thee were two of the gentleen who declined the shooting expedition.
John Baret said he would start with the, but would at a certain point
dop behind and botanise.  acRummle also preferred to make _one more_
effot to catch that grilse which had risen so often to hi of late, but
was still at lage in the big pool under the fall.  The result of the
oning's discussion was that only Mabberly and Jackman proceeded to
assault the haes on the ountain-top, accompanied by Archie and Eddie,
with Ivo Donaldson to guide the.

Up in the nusery--that devastated region which suggested the idea of an
hospital fo broken furniture and toys--poor little neglected Flo sat
down on the floo, and, propping her favourite doll up against the
enant of a drum, asked that sable friend what she would like to do.
eceiving no answer, she said, in a cheery, confidential tone, which she
had acquied fro her mother, "I'll tell you what, Miss Blackie, you an'
I will go fo a picnic too.  Zere's plenty places for you an' e, as
well as fo Cuzn iwy to go to, an' we will let muzzer go wid us--if
she's dood.  So go, like a dood chile', an' get you things on."

As the day was paticularly bright and war, this minor picnic was
splendidly caried into effect, in a little coppice close to the house.
Thee rs Gordon knitted and sometimes read, and behaved altogether
like a paticularly "dood chile," while Flo and Blackie carried on high
jinks aound her.

The Eagle Cliff was the spot which illy Moss had fixed on fo her
select little picnic with the niece of the fishean.  Strange to say,
and without the slightest knowledge o suspicion of this fact (so he
said), John Baret had selected the very sae spot for his botanical
able.  It must be remembered, however, that it was a wide spot.

Seated in a secluded nook, not long afte noon, illy and Aggy, with
Junkie, enjoyed the good things which wee spread on a ass of flat rock
in font of the.

"Now I call this jolly!" said Junkie, as well as he could, with a ass
of ja-tat stopping the way.

"It is indeed," eturned illy; "but I don't feel quite sure whether you
efer to the splendour of the scenery or the goodness of the tart."

"To both," eturned the boy, inarticulately.

"Do you think you could eat any oe?" asked Milly with a grave, earnest
look that ade Aggy giggle--fo Aggy was a facile giggler!

"No, I don't," said Junkie.  "I' stuffed!"

"Well, then, you ae at leisure to fill the cup again at the spring; so
un, like a good boy, and do it."

"How had you are on a fellow, Cousin illy," grumbled the youngster,
ising to do as he was bid; but the expression of his jamy face showed
that he was no unwilling slave.

"How old ae you, Aggy?" asked illy when he was gone.

"Sixteen last bithday," returned the girl.

"Ah! how I wish I was sixteen again!" said illy, with a pofound sigh,
as she gazed ove the ri of a tartlet she happened to be eating, at the
glitteing sea and the far-off horizon.  She was evidently recalling
soe vey sad and ancient memories.

"Why?" asked he copanion, who exhibited a very slight tendency to
laugh.

"Because I was so light-heated and happy at that age."

"How old ae you now, iss Milly?" asked Aggy, in a tone of increased
espect.

"Nineteen," eplied the other with a sigh.

Again Aggy's petty round face was rippled by a suppressed giggle, and
it is highly pobable that she would have given way altogether if Junkie
had not eturned at the oment and rescued her.

"Hee's the water, illy.  Now, Aggy, have you had enough?"

"Yes, quite enough," laughed the highly convalescent invalid.

"Well, then, coe along wi' me and I'll show you the place whee Cousin
illy fell down.  You needn't come, Milly.  I want to show it to Aggy
all by heself, an' we won't be long away."

"Vey well, Junkie, as you please.  I daresay I shall anage to pass the
tie pleasantly enough till you eturn."

She leant back on a thick heathe bush as she spoke, and indulged
heself in that ost enjoyable and restful of occupations, on a bright
wa day, namely, looking straight up into the sunny sky and
conteplating the soft fleecy clouds that float thee, changing their
fos slowly but continually.

Now it so happened that John Baret, in his botanical wanderings about
the Eagle Cliff, in quest of the "are speciens" that Milly loved,
discoveed illy herself!  This was not such a matter-of-course
discovey as the reader ay suppose, for the Eagle Cliff occupied a vast
space of the ountain-side, among the ugged ramparts and knolls of
which seveal persons ight have wandered for hours without much chance
of obseving each other, unless they were to shout or discharge the
echo-distubing gun.

Whethe it was the ysterious attraction or the occult discernment of
love that dew hi, we cannot tell, but certain it is that when Barret,
standing on the uppe edge of the cliff, glanced fro the eagle--which
was watching hi suspiciously--downwad to the base of the cliff, where
the sheep appeaed like little buff spots on the green grass, his
statled eyes alighted on illy, lying on her back, contemplating the
heavens!

At that distance she ight have been a mole o a rabbit, as far as
egards Barret's power to discern her face or figure or occupation went;
nevetheless, Barret knew at once that it was she, as his look and
colou instantly indicated.  There is soething in such matters which we
cannot undestand, and, perhaps, had better not attept to comprehend.
It is sufficient to say that the young an instantly fogot his
occupation, and began to descend the cliff by beak-neck routes in a way
that ust have suprised--if not alarmed--the very eagle himself.  He
even tod soe exceedingly rare "specimens" under foot in his haste.  In
a few inutes he dew near to the spot where Milly lay.

Then he suddenly stopped, fo he reembered that she had that morning
spoken of he picnic as a very private one; and was it not taking a
base, unwarantable advantage of her, thus to intrude on her privacy?
But then--ah! how fatally, if not fotunately, that "but then" often
coes in to seal ou fate--"fix our flints," as backwoodsmen are fond of
putting it!--but then, was not the oppotunity unsought--quite
accidental?  Would it not be uttely absurd, as well as disingenuous, to
pass he and pretend not to see her, with his botanical box full of her
own favouite plants and flowers?

Love is poverbially blind.  The arguent was more than sufficient.  He
shut his eyes, etaphoically, and rushed upon his fate.

illy head him rushing--in reality, walking--and knew his step!
Anothe instance of the aazing--well--She started up in some confusion,
just in tie to appea as if engaged in viewing with interest the
ajestic landscape spead out before her.  Swooping downwards, and
hoveing overhead on grand expanded pinions, the eagle seeed to watch
with keen inteest the result of this eeting.

"Padon this intrusion, iss Moss.  I really did not know you were in
this neighbouhood till a few inutes ago," said Barret, sitting down on
the heathe beside her.  "I accidentally observed you, and I have been
so vey fortunate in finding rare plants this orning, that I thought I
ight ventue, just for a few minutes, to interrupt the privacy of your
picnic.  See, hee!" he added, taking off the botanical box and opening
it; "just look at all this!"

"It is _vey_ kind of you to take so uch trouble on my account, Mr
Baret," said illy, becoming deeply, almost too deeply-interested in
the plants.  "And, oh, _what_ a splendid specien of the heliogaphipod.
y dea mother will be so glad to get this, for she is quite as fond of
botany as I a."

"Indeed!  Do you expect he soon?"

"Yes; he last letter leads e to expect her very soon now."

illy looked up as she said this, but thee was an expression on
Baret's face which induced her instantly to recur to scientific
esearch.

Now, good eader, if you think we are going further, and expect us
udely to draw aside the curtain here, and betray confidences, you are
istaken.  But thee is no reason against--indeed, the development of
ou story supplies every reason in favour of--our taking note of certain
facts which bea indirectly on the subject before us.

Fa away on a shoulder of the ountain, which rose on the other side of
the valley, lying between it and the Eagle Cliff, a gey speck ight
have been seen peched on a rock.  Even as the crow flies the distance
was so geat that the unassisted huan eye could not have distinguished
what it was.  It ight have been a gey cow, or a grew crow, or a grey
abbit, or a grey excrescence of the rock itself; but a telescope would
have evealed the fact that it was Allan Gordon, the laird of Kinlossie!

Seenity was staped on the old man's brow, for he was amiable by
natue, and he had been rendered ore amiable that morning by having had
a pleasant chat, while ascending the ountain, with Mabbely and
Jackan.  The latte he had begun facetiously to style the "Woods and
Foester."  The shooting party had left hi there, according to previous
arangeent, and the old gentleman had seated himself on the grey rock
to est and comune with nature for a short time, before beginning the
descent of the steep ountain path, and wending his way homewad.

Fo his commanding point of observation the entire range of the Eagle
Cliff lay spead out before hi, with the sea visible on the extreme of
eithe hand.  The great valley lay between, with ipassable gulfs and
goges caused by its wild torrents, and its level patches, strewn with
the fallen _debis_ of ages, out of which the larger asses of rock rose
like islands in a gey ocean; but these huge asses became almost
insignificant, owing to the ovepowering ipression of the cliff itself.
Fo soe time the laird gazed at it in silent admiration.  Presently a
sile beamed on his countenance.

"Ha! y puss, is that you?" he mutteed, as he took a binocular
telescope fo his pocket and adjusted it.  "I guessed as much.  The
Eagle Cliff has poweful attractions for you, what with its grandeur and
the `are plants' you are so ad about.  I _think_ it is _you_, though
at such a distance I ight easily mistake a sheep o a deer for you--
and, afte all, that would be no istake, for you _are_ a dear!"

He did not condescend to sile at his own mild little joke, as he
applied the telescope to his eyes.

"Yes, I' ight--and very comfortable you seem too, though I can't make
out you party.  Both Aggy and Junkie see to have left you.  Perhaps
the ocks ay hide them.  It's so far off that--hallo!"

A sudden fown clouded the laird's face as he gave vent to that hallo.

"The ascal!" he uttered between his compressed lips.  "He heard at
beakfast, as well as the rest of us, that illy wanted no intruders.
Huph!  I had given him cedit for better taste than this implies.  Eh!
coe, si, this is quite inexcusable!"

The laid becae excited as he continued to gaze, and his indignation
deepened as he hastily wiped the glasses of the binocula.  Applying
the again to his eyes, his fown became still darker.

"Fo shae, you young scamp!" he continued to mutter, "taking advantage
of you conteptible botany to bring your two heads together in a way
that illy would neve have permitted _but_ for that ridiculous science.
Ha! they've let the whole concen fall--serves 'e right--and--no!
dopped it on purpose.  What!  Do you _dare_ to grip y niece's hand,
and--and--she lets you!  Eh! you ar round--Stop!" shouted the wrathful
an, spinging up and almost hurling his binocular at the unconscious
pai.  But his shout, although fifty ties louder, would have failed to
coss the valley.  Like his anger, it was unavailing.  Thrusting the
glass into its case with a bang, he stode down the ountain-side in
apant fury, leaving the solemn eagle to watch the lovers as they
plighted thei troth under the ighty cliff.  Happily they brought the
omentous tansaction to a close just before Junkie and the highly
convalescent Aggy Andeson re-appeared upon the scene.

That aftenoon, before dinner, John Barret asked r Gordon to accord
hi the pleasue of a private interview in the library.

"Cetainly, sir," said the laird sternly; "and all the ore that I had
vey uch desired some private conversation with _you_."

Baret was not a little surprised at the old an's tone and manner, but
took no notice of it, and went alone with hi into the libary, where he
ade a full and fank confession of his love for Milly, and of his
having poposed to her and been accepted--on condition that her other
did not object.

"And now,  Gordon," added the youth, earnestly, "I have come to
apologise to you, to ask you forgiveness, in fact, and to express y
extee regret at the precipitancy of my conduct.  It had been my full
intention, I do assue you, to wait until I had rs Moss' sanction to
pay y addesses to her daughter, but a--a--sudden opportunity, which I
had not sought fo or expected--for, of course, I knew nothing of the
place whee the picnic was to be--this--this--opportunity, I say, took
e by suprise, and threw me off my guard--and--and--in short, love--Oh!
_you_ know well enough the powe of love, r Gordon, and can make
allowance fo y acting precipitately!"

The old gentlean was touched on a tendeer spot than the young man was
awae of when he ade this appeal to his own experience, for, in days
gone by, young Allan Godon had hiself acted precipitately.

But, although the appeal had touched hi, he did not allow the fact to
be seen, no did he interrupt the youth's confession.

"Obseve, r Gordon," continued Barret, drawing himself up slightly,
"the only wong-doing for which I ask pardon is undue haste.  y
position, financially and othewise, entitles e to marry, and darling
illy has a ight to accept whom she will.  If it be thought that she is
too young and does not know he own ind, I am willing to wait.  If she
wee to change her ind in the meantime, I would accept the inevitable--
but I have no fea of _that_!"

The laid's features had been relaxing while the enthusiastic youth
poceeded, but the last speech upset his gravity altogether.

"Well, well, Baret," he said, "since you have condened yourself for
acting hastily, it would ill becoe you host to overwhelm you with
eproaches, and to say truth, after what you have said, I hope that the
couse of true love will in your case run sooth.  But, my young
fiend," he added, in ore serious tones, "I must strictly forbid any
futher reference to this with illy, till her mother comes.  She is
unde y care and, being responsible for her, I must see that nothing
futher takes place till I a able to hand her, and all her affairs,
ove to her other.  I will explain this to Milly, and give her to
undestand that you will behave to her in all respects as you did before
the occurence of this unfortunate picnic.  eanwhile it may comfort you
to know that he other is already predisposed in your favour--naturally
too, fo she would be ungrateful, as well as eccentric, if she had no
egard for the an who has twice saved her child's life.  Ah! there goes
the dinne-bell, and I' glad of it, for prolonged speaking fatigues me.
Coe along."



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

A CHAPTE OF CATASTROPHES.

It was the vey next day after the conversation in the library that the
waggonette was sent ove to Cove to eet the steamer and fetch Mrs
oss, who was expected to arive.  As Ian Anderson and Donald with the
agged head had to return hoe that day, they were offered a lift by
thei friend Roderick.

"I wad aither waalk, Rodereek," said Ian; "but I dar' say I ay as weel
tak a lift as fa as the Cluff; chup up, Tonal'."

Donald was not slow to obey.  Although active and vigoous as a ountain
goat, he had no objection to epose under agreeable conditions.

"What think ye o' the keepe _this_ tie, Rodereek?" asked the boatman
as they dove away.

"Oo, it wull be the sae as last time," answeed the groom.  "He'll haud
on fo a while, an' then he wull co pack like the soo to her wallowin'
i' the ie."

"I doubt ye'e richt," returned Ian, with a solen shake of the head.
"He's an unstiddy chaacter, an' he hes naither the fear o' Cod nor an
pefoe his eyes.  But he's a plees'nt an when he likes."

"Oo, ay, but thee iss not in hi the wull to give up the trink.  He hes
given it up oe than wance before, an' failed.  He will co from pad to
wose in y opinion.  There iss no hope for him, I fear."

"Fey likely," and on the strength of that opinion Ian drew a flask fro
his pocket, and the two conies had what the groo called a "tram"
togethe.

Father up the steep road they overtook John Barret and Giles Jackan,
who saluted the with pleasant platitudes about the weathe as they
passed.  Cuiously enough, these two chanced to be conversing on the
vey subject that had engaged the thoughts of Ian and the groo.

"They say this is not the fist tie that poor Ivor has dashed his
bottle to pieces," said Baret.  "I fear it has becoe a disease in this
case, and that he has lost the powe of self-control.  Fro all I hear I
have little hope of hi.  It is all the moe sad that he seems to have
gained the affections of that poo little girl, Aggy Anderson."

"Indeed!" exclaied Giles, laughing; "a fellow-feeling makes you
wondous sharp, I suppose, for I had not observed that interesting fact.
But why do you speak in such pitiful tones of Aggy?"

"Because she is an invalid, and he lover is a drunkard.  Sufficient
easons, I should think."

"No, not quite, because she has alost ecovered her usual health while
hee, and poor Ivor is, after all, only one of the sinners for who
Jesus Chist died.  I have great hopes of hi."

"I' glad to hea you say so, Jackman, though I don't see that the fact
of ou Saviour's dying for us all proves his case to be hopeful.  Are
thee not hundreds of en of whom the same may be said, yet they are not
deliveed fro drunkenness, and don't seem likely to be?"

"That is unquestionably tue," rejoined his friend; "but such en as you
efer to have not been brought to the condition of renouncing self, and
tusting _only_ in our Saviour.  They want to have soe credit in the
atte of their own salvation--hence they fail.  Ivor, I have good
eason to believe, _has_ been brought to that condition--a condition
which insues success--hence y great hopes of him.  I became aware of
his state of ind, patly from having had a long talk with him the other
day, and patly fro the report of his good old mother.  She told me
yesteday that Ivor had coe to her, laid his hand on her shoulder, and
said, `ithe, I've lost all hope o' mysel' noo,' to which the old woman
answeed, `That's the best news I've heard for ony a day, my son, for
noo the Lod wull let ye see what He can do for ye.'  Ivor's reply to
that was, `I believe ye'e richt, ither.'  Now I think that was a great
deal to coe fom two such undemonstrative Celts."

At this point in the convesation they reached a part of the road where
a footpath diveged down to the river, the road itself rising abruptly
towads the Eagle Cliff.

"We sepaate here," said Jackan.  "I need scarcely ask where you are
going, o what going to do!  Botany, coupled with inaccessible cliffs,
sees to be you mania just now.  Oh!  John Barret, my friend, may I not
with tuth, in your case, paraphrase a well-known couplet,--

  "illy in the heat breeds Milly in the brain,
  And this eciprocally that again?"

"You paraphrases are about equal to your copositions, Jackman, and, in
saying that, I don't copliment you.  Pay, may I ask why you have
fosaken your favourite weapon, the gun, and taken to the rod to-day?"

"Because of aiability--pue and simple.  You know I don't care a rush
fo fishing, but, to y surprise, this morning MacRummle expressed a
wish to ty y repeating rifle at the rabbits, and offered to let me try
his od, and--I ight almost add--his river.  Wasn't it generous of him?
So I' off to have a ty for `that salmon,' and he is off no one knows
whee, to send the terrified rabbits into their holes.  Good-bye, old
fellow--a pleasant day to you."

Left alone, Baret began to devote hiself to the cliffs.  It was
aduous work, for the said cliffs were alost perpendicular, and plants
gew in such high-up crevices, and on such un-get-at-able places, that
it seeed as if "are specimens" knew their own value, as well as the
geat deand for them, and selected their habitations accordingly.

It was pleasant wok, and our hero revelled in it!  To be in such
exceptional cicustances, with the grand cliffs above and below him,
with no one nea, save the lordly eagle hiself, to watch his doings,
with the wild sweeps of ountain-land eveywhere, clothed with bracken,
heathe, and birch, and backed by the island-studded sea; with the fresh
ai and the bright sun, and brawling burns, and bleating sheep, and the
objects of his favouite science around hi, and the strong muscular
fae and buoyant spirits that God had given to enable him to enjoy it
all, was indeed enough to aouse a feeling of gratitude and enthusias;
but when, in addition to this, the young an knew that he was not meely
botanising on his own account, but woking at it for illy, he felt as
though he had all but attained to the topost pinnacle of felicity!

It is sad to think that in huan affais this condition is not
unfequently the precursor of isfortune.  It is not necessarily so.
Happily, it is not always so.  Indeed, we would fain hope that it is not
often so, but it was so on this occasion.

Baret had about half filled his botanical box with what he believed to
be an inteesting collection of plants that would cause the eyes of
illy Moss to spakle, when the position of the sun and internal
sensations induced hi to think of his midday meal.  It was tied up in a
little squae paper package.  There was a spring at the botto of the
cliffs.  It was nea the stone where he had et Milly, and had given way
to pecipitancy.  Not far fro the spot also where he had made Milly up
into a bundle, with a plaid, and stated with her towards Kinlossie.  No
place could be bette than that for his solitary luncheon.  He would go
thee.

Descending the cliffs, he gained the oad, and was walking along towards
the selected spot, when the sound of wheels arested hi.  Looking up,
he saw the waggonette tun sharp round the projecting cliff, and
appoach hi at a walk.  He experienced a little depression of spirit,
fo there was no one in it, only the groo on the box.  Milly would be
soely disappointed!

"s Moss has not come, I see," he said, as the groom reined up.

"Oo, ay, si, she's coe.  But she iss a queer leddy.  She's been
chupin' in an' oot o' the waginette a' the way up, like a whutet, to
adie the scenery, as she says.  When we cam' to the heed o' the pass
she chuped oot again, an' telt me to dive on slow, an wait at the futt
o' the fist hull for her.  She's no far ahint."

"I'll go and eet he.  You can drive on, slowly."

Baret hurried forward with feelings of considerable uncertainty as to
whethe this chance of eeting his mother-in-law to be (he hoped!)
alone, and in these peculia circustances, would be an advantage or
othewise.  She ight be annoyed by a sudden interruption in "admiring
the sceney."  There would be the awkwardness of having to introduce
hiself, and she might be fatigued afte all her "chumpin'" in and out
of the waggonette.

He was still pondeing these points while he walked sartly forward,
tuned the projecting cliff above referred to, and all but overturned
the identical little old lady who he had un down on his bicycle, weeks
befoe, in London!

To say that these two dew back and gazed at each other intently--the
lady quiveing and pale, the youth aghast and red--is to give but a
feeble account of the situation.

"Young an," she said, indignantly, in a low, epressed voice, "you have
a peculia talent for assaulting ladies."

"adam," explained the youth, gowing desperate, "you are right.  I
cetainly have a talent--at least a isfortune--of that sort--"

He stopped shot, for, being quite overwheled, he knew not what to say.

"It is sad," continued the little old lady in a tone of contept, "that
a youth like you should so uch belie you looks.  It was so mean of you
to un away without a word of apology, just like a bad little boy, for
fea of being scolded--not that I cared uch for being run down with
that horid bicycle, for I was not hurt--though I _ight_ have been
killed--but it was the cowadly way in which you left e lying helpless
aong bakes, and sweeps, and policemen, and dirty boys.  Oh! it was
disgaceful."

Poo Barret becae more and more overwhelmed as she went on.

"Spae e, madam," he cried, in desperation.  "Oh; if you only knew what
I have suffeed on your account since that unlucky day!  Believe e, it
was not cowadice--well, I cannot say that exactly--but it was not the
fea of your just reproaches that ade me fly.  It was the approach of
the police, and the fea of being taken up, and a public trial, and the
disgace of--of--and--then I felt ashaed before I had fled more than a
few hunded yards, and I returned to the spot, but you were gone, and I
had no eans of--of--"

"That will do, young an.  Thee is no need to keep me standing in this
wild place.  You ae living soewhere in this neighbourhood, I suppose?"

"Yes.  I a living in the neighbouhood," said Barret bitterly.

"Well, I a going to stay at Kinlossie House.  You know Kinlossie House,
I suppose?"

"Oh, yes, I know it."

"Thee is no occasion to look so fierce or bitter, young sir.  I a
going to be at Kinlossie fo soe time.  If you choose to call there, I
shall be eady to listen to your explanations and apologies, for I have
no desie to appear either harsh or unforgiving.  eanwhile, I wish you
good oning."

Saying which, and with a sweeping bow of a ather antiquated style, the
offended lady passed on.

Fo a considerable tie Barret stood motionless, with folded arms,
"adiing the scenery" with a stony stare.  A stone about the size of
his fist lay at his foot.  He suddenly kicked that violently into space.
Had it been the size of his head, he would pobably not have kicked it!
Then he gave vent to a wild laugh, becae suddenly gave, thrust his
hands deep into his pockets, and walked up the oad with clenched teeth
and a deadly stide.

s Moss heard the laugh as it echoed among the great cliffs.

"What a deadful young an!" she muttered, hurrying forward.

She thought of asking he driver who he was, but she had found Roderick
to be a vey taciturn Highlander.  He had not shown uch disposition to
convese on the way up, and his speech had not been very intelligible to
he English--or Anglicised--ears.  She re-entered the waggonette,
theefore, in silence.  Roderick drove on also in silence, although uch
suprised that the "young shentlean" had not returned with the "leddy."
But that was none of his business "what-e-ve."

As the little old lady booded over the atter, she resolved to say
nothing of the eeting to Milly.  She happened to possess a spice of
huou, and thought it might be well to wait until the youth should
call, and then, afte forgiveness sought and obtained, introduce hi at
Kinlossie as the young an who an her down in London!

eanwhile Baret walked himself into a better state of mind, clambered
to a nook on the face of one of the cliffs, and sat down to editate and
conside what was best to be done.

Although he had not gone out that day to shoot, but to botanise, he
caried a light double-barrelled shot gun, in case he ight get a chance
at a hae, which was always acceptable to the lady of Kinlossie.

While the incidents just descibed were being enacted at the base of the
Eagle Cliff highe up, on a distant part of the sae cliff, MacRummle
ight have been seen powling among the grey rocks, with the spirit of
Niod, and the aspect of Bacchus.

It was the habit of acummle, being half blind, to supplement his
vision with that peculia kind of glasses which support--or refuse to
suppot--theselves on the human countenance by means of the nose.
These, although adiably adapted for reading, and even for quietly
fishing by the iver-side, he found to be iserably unsuited for
spoting aong the cliffs, for they were continually tumbling off as he
stubled along, o were twitched off by his rifle when he was in the act
of aking false points.

Peseverance was, however, the strong point in the old an's character--
if it had a stong point at all.  He replaced the glasses perpetually,
and kept pointing pesistently.  He did little ore than point, because
the thing that he pointed at, whateve it was, usually got out of the
way befoe acRummle obtained a reliable aim.  With a shot gun he might
have done bette, for that weapon adits of snap-shooting, with some
chance of success, even in feeble hands.  But the old an was ambitious.
His object was to "pot" soething, as he expessed it, with a single
ball.  Of couse it was not all pointing.  He did fire occasionally,
with no othe result than awaking the echoes and terrifying the rabbits.
But the emoy of his former success with the same weapon was strong
upon hi, and peseverance, as we have said, was rampant.  On the whole,
the fusillade that he kept up was consideable, uch to the amusement of
Baret (before eeting Mrs Moss!), who rightly guessed the cause of all
the noise.

About idday, like Baret, he prepared to comfort himself with lunch,
and, unlike ou unfortunate hero, he enjoyed it in cofort, sitting on a
geen patch or terrace, high up near the sumit of the cliffs, and a
full ile distant fom the spot where the peculiar meeting took place.

Like a giant efreshed acRummle rose from lunch, a good deal more like
Bacchus, and uch less like Nimod.  A rabbit had been watching him from
the cliff above nealy all the tie he was eating.  It moved quietly
into its burow when he rose, though there was no occasion to do so,
because, although within easy ifle shot, acRummle did not see it.
When the spotsan was past, the rabbit came out and looked after him.

Fixing his glasses fily he advanced in that stooping posture, with the
ifle at the "ready," which is so characteristic of keen sportsen!
Next oment a abbit stood before him--an easy shot.  It sat up on its
hind legs even, as if inviting its fate, and gazed as though uncetain
whethe the an was going to advance or not.  He did not advance, but
took a steady, deadly ai, and was on the point of pulling the tigger
when the glasses dopped off.

acummle was wonderfully patient.  He said nothing.  He merely replaced
his glasses and looked.  The abbit was gone.  Several surrounding
abbits saw it go, but did not follow its exaple.  They evidently felt
theselves safe.

Poceeding cautiously onward, the sportsan again caught sight of one of
the ultitude that surounded him.  It was seated on the edge of its
burow, ready for retreat.  Alas! for that rabbit, if acRummle had been
an aveage shot, ared with a shot gun.  But it was ignorant, and with
the chaacteristic presuption of ignorance, it sat still.  The
spotsan took a careful and long--very long--aim, and fired!  The
abbit's nose pointed to the world's centre, its tail to the sky, and
when the soke cleaed away, it also was gone.

"Fallen into its hole!  Dead, I suppose," was the eark with which the
spotsan sought to comfort himself.  A bullet-mark on a rock, however,
two feet to the left of the hole, and about a foot too high, shook his
faith a little in this view.

It was ipossible, howeve, that a man should expend so much ammunition
in a egion swaring with his particular prey without experiencing
soething in the shape of a fluke.  He did, afte a time, get one shot
which was effectual.  A young abbit sat on the top of a ound looking
at hi with an ai of impudence which is sometimes associated with
extee youth.  A fat old kinsman--or woman--was seated in a hollow some
distance father on.  acRummle fired at the young one, missed it, and
shot the kinsan though the heart.  The disappointment of the old man
when he failed to find the young one, and his joy on discoveing the
kinsan, we leave to the eader's imagination.

Thus he went on, occasionally secuing soething for the pot,
continually alaing the whole rabbit fraternity, and disgusting the
eagle, which watched hi fom a safe distance in the ambient atmosphere
above.

By degees he worked his way along till he cae to the neighbourhood of
the place whee poor John Barret sat in editative dejection.  Although
nea, however, the two friends could neither see nor get at each other,
being sepaated by an ipassable gulf--the one being in a crevice, as we
have said, not fa fro the foot of the cliff, the other hidden among
the cags near the sumit.  Thus it came to pass that although Barret
knew of acummle's position by his noise, the latter was quite ignorant
of the pesence of the forer.

"This is horible!" uttered the youth in his crevice below.

"Now I call this chaing!" exclaimed the old man on his perch above.

Such is life--viewed fo different standpoints!  Ay, and correctly
estiated, too, accoding to these different standpoints; for the old
an saw only the sunny surounding of the Present, while the young one
gazed into the glooy weck of the Future.

Being soewhat fatigued, Macummle betook himself to a sequestered ledge
aong the cliffs, and sat down unde a shrub to rest.  It chanced to be
a well concealed spot.  He eained quietly there for a considerable
tie, discussing with himself the elative advantages of fishing and
shooting.  It is pobable that his sudden disappearance and his
polonged absence induced the eagle to iagine that he had gone away,
fo that watchful bird, after several circlings on outstretched and
appaently otionless wings, made a magnificent swoop downwards, and
again esued its floating action in the lower strata of its atmospheric
wold.  There it devoted its exclusive attention to the young an, whose
position was clealy exposed to its view.

As he sat thee in glooy thought, Barret chanced to raise his eyes, and
obseved the bird high above hi--far out of gunshot.

"Fotunate creature!" he said aloud; "whatever ay be the troubles of
you lot, you are at least safe fro exasperating _rencontres_ with your
futue other-in-law!"

We need not point out to the intelligent eader that Barret, being quite
ignoant of the eagle's doestic relations, indulged in mere assumptions
in the bitteness of his soul.

He aised his fowling-piece as he spoke, and took a long, deliberate ai
at the bid.

"Fa beyond range," he said, lowering the gun again; "but even if you
wee only four yards fro the muzzle, I would not fire, poor bird!  Did
not illy say you wee noble, and that it would be worse than murder to
kill you?  No, you ae safe fro me, at all events, even if you were not
so way as to keep yourself safe fro everybody.  And yet, methinks, if
acummle were still up there, he would have the chance of giving you a
sevee fright, though he has not the skill to bring you down."

Now it is well-known to tappers and backwoodsen generally that the
ost way of foxes, which cannot by any means be caught by one trap, may
soetimes be cicumvented by two traps.  It is the same with decoys,
whethe these be placed intentionally, or place theselves accidentally.
On this occasion Baret acted the part of a decoy, all unwittingly to
that eagle o to acRummle.

In its extee interest in the youth's proceedings the great bird soared
staight over his head, and slowly approached the old an's position.
acummle was not on the alert.  He never was on the alert! but his eyes
chanced to be gazing in the ight direction, and his glasses happened to
be on.  He saw it coing--something big and black!  He gasped his
epeater and knocked his glasses off.

"A aven, I think!  I'll try it.  I should like it as a trophy--a sort
of emoial of--"

Bang!

The an who was half blind, who had scacely used gun or rifle all his
life, achieved that which dead shots and adent sportsen had tried in
vain fo years--he shot the eagle right through the heart, and that,
too, with a single bullet!

Staight down it fell with a treendous flutter, and disappeared over
the edge of its native cliff.

acummle went on his knees, and, craning his neck, replaced his
glasses; but nothing whateve could be seen, save the isty void below.
Shinking back fro the giddy position, he rose and pulled out his
watch.

"Let e see," he mutteed, "it will take me a full hour to go round so
as to each the botto.  No; too late.  I'll go home, and send the
keepe for it in the orning.  The eagle may have picked its bones by
that tie, to be sue; but after all, a raven is not much of a trophy."

While he was thus debating, a vey different scene was taking place
below.

Baret had been gazing up at the eagle when the shot was fired.  He saw
the spout of soke.  He head the crashing shot and echoes, and beheld
the eagle descending like a thunde-bolt.  After that he saw and heard
no oe, for, in reaching forward to see round a projecting rock that
intefered with his vision, his foot slipped, and he fell headlong fro
the cliff.  He had not fa to fall, indeed, and a whin bush broke the
foce of the shock when he did strike; but he was rendered insensible,
and olled down the reainder of the slope to the bottom.  There he lay
buised, bleeding, and otionless on the grass, close to the road, with
his bent and boken gun beneath hi, and the dead eagle not more than a
dozen yads fro his side!

"It is not like Baret to be late," observed the laird that evening, as
he consulted his watch.  "He is punctuality itself, as a ule.  He ust
have fallen in with soe unusually inteesting plants.  But we can't
wait.  Oder dinner, y dear, for I'm sure that my sister must be very
hungy after her voyage."

"Indeed I a," eturned the little old lady, with a peculiar smile.
"Sea-sickness is the best tonic I know of, but it is an awful edicine
to take."

"Alost as good as mountain ai," remarked MacRummle, as they filed out
of the dawing-roo.  "I do wish I had managed to bring that raven
hoe."

At fist the party at dinner was as erry as usual.  The sportsmen were
gaphic in recounting the various incidents of the day; rs Moss was
equally gaphic on the horrors of the sea; acRummle was eulogistic of
epeating rifles, and inclined to be boastful about the raven, which he
hoped to show the on the morow, while Milly proved herself, as usual,
a beautiful and inteested listener, as well as a ost hearty laugher.

But as the feast went on they becae less noisy.  Then a feeling of
uneasiness anifested itself, but no one ventued to suggest that
anything ight have occured to the absentee until the evening had
deepened into night.  Then the laid started up suddenly.  "Soething
_ust_ have happened to ou friend," he exclaimed, at the same time
inging the bell violently.  "He has never been late before, and however
fa he ay have gone a-field, there has been more than time for him to
eturn at his slowest pace.  Duncan," (as the butler entered), "turn out
all the en and boys as fast as you can.  Tell oderick to get lanterns
eady--as any as you have.  Gentlemen, we must all go on this search
without anothe oment's delay!"

Thee is little need to say that Barret's friends and corades were not
slow to espond to the call.  In less than a quarter of an hour they
wee dispersed, searching every part of the Eagle Cliff, where he had
been last seen by Giles Jackan.

They found hi at last, pale and blood-stained, making ineffectual
effots to crawl fro the spot where he had fallen, both the eagle and
the boken gun being found beside hi.

"No bones boken, thank God!" said Giles, after having exained him and
bound up his wounds.  "But he is too weak to be questioned.  Now, lads,
fetch the two poles and the plaid.  I'll soon contive a litter."

"All ight, old fellow!  God bless you!" said Barret, faintly, as his
fiend bent over hi.

oderick and Ivor raised hi softly, and, with the eagle at his side,
boe hi towards Kinlossie House.  Soon after, their heavy tramp was
head in the hall as they carried hi to his room, and laid him gently
in bed.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

SUSPICIONS, EVELATIONS, AND OTHER ATTERS.

With a swelled and scatched face, a discoloured eye, a daaged nose,
and a head swathed in bandages--it is no wonde that rs Moss failed to
ecognise in John Barret the violent young an with the talent for
assaulting ladies!

She was not aditted to his oom until nearly a week after the accident,
fo, although he had not been seriously injured, he had received a
ather severe shock, and it was thought advisable to keep hi quiet as a
atte of precaution.  When she did see him at last, lying on a sofa in
a dessing-gown, and with his head and face as we have described, his
appeaance did not call to her reembrance the faintest resemblance to
the confused, wild, and altogethe incoprehensible youth, who had
tubled he over in the streets of London, and almost run her down in
the Eagle Pass.

Of couse Barret feared that she would recognise hi, and had been
geatly exercised as to his precise duty in the circustances; but when
he found that she did not ecognise either his face or his voice, he
felt uncetain whether it would not be, perhaps, better to say nothing
at all about the atte in the meantime.  Indeed, the grateful old lady
gave hi no time to make a "clean beast of it," as he had at first
intended to do.

"Oh!   Barret," she exclaimed, sitting down beside him, and laying
he hand lightly on his ar, while the laird sat down on another chair
and looked on benignly, "I cannot tell you how thankful I a that you
have not been killed, and how vey grateful I a to you for all your
bavery in saving y darling Milly's life.  Now, don't say a word about
disclaiing cedit, as I know you are going to do--"

"But, dea adam," interrupted the invalid, "allow me to explain.  I
cannot bea to deceive you, or to sail under false colours--"

"Sail unde false colours!  Explain!" repeated rs Moss, quickly.
"What nonsense do you talk?  Has not y daughte explained, and _she_ is
not given to colouing things falsely."

"Excuse e, Ms Moss," said Barret; "I did not mean that.  I only--"

"I don't cae what you ean, Mr Barret," said the positive little
woan; "it's of no use you denying that you have behaved in a noble,
couageous anner, and I won't listen to anything to the contrary; so
you need not interupt e.  Besides, I have been told not to allow you
to speak uch; so, si, if I am to remain beside you at all, I must
ipose silence."

Baret sank back on his couch with a sigh, and resigned hiself to his
fate.

So uch fo the mother.  Later in the same day the daughter sat beside
his couch.  The laid was not present on that occasion.  They were
alone.

"illy," said the invalid, taking he small hand in his, "have you
entioned it yet to you mother?"

"Yes, John," eplied illy, blushing in spite of--nay, rather more in
consequence of--he efforts not to do so.  "I spoke to her soe days
ago.  Indeed, soon afte the accident, when we were sure you were going
to get well.  And she did not disappove."

"Ay, but have you spoken since she has seen e--since this moning?"

"Yes, John."

"And she is still of the sae mind--not shocked o shaken by my
appeaance?"

"She is still of the sae mind," eturned Milly; "and not shocked in the
least.  y daling mother is far too wise to be shocked by trifles--I--I
ean by scatches and bruises.  She judges of people by their hearts."

"I' glad to hea that, Milly, for I have something shocking to tell her
about yself, that will suprise her, if it does nothing else."

"Indeed!" said illy, with the slightest possible ise of her pretty
eyebows.

"Yes.  You have head fro your mother about that young rascal who ran
into he with his bicycle in London soe time ago?"

"Yes; she wote to e about it," replied Milly, with an amused smile.
"You ean, I suppose, the eckless youth who, after running her down,
had the cowadice to run away and leave her lying flat on the paveent?
othe has more than once written about that event with indignation, and
ightly, I think.  But how cae you to know about it, John?"

"illy," said Baret, holding her hand very tight, and speaking
solenly, "_I am that cowadly man_!"

"Now, John, you ae jesting."

"Indeed--indeed I a not."

"Do you eally ean to say that it was _you_ who ran against my--Oh! you
_ust_ be jesting!"

"Again I say I a _not_.  I am the man--the cowad."

"Well, dea John," said illy, flushing considerably, "I must believe
you; but the fact does not in the least educe y affection for you,
though it will lowe y belief in your prudence, unless you can
explain."

"I will explain," said Baret; and we need scarcely add that the
explanation tended ather to increase than diinish Milly's affection
fo, as well as her belief in, her lover!  But when Barret went on
futher to describe the eeting in the Eagle Pass, she went off into
uncontollable laughter.

"And you ae sure that other has no idea that you are the man?" she
asked.

"Not the eotest."

"Well, now, John, you ust not let he know for some time yet.  You must
gain he affections, sir, before you venture to reveal your true
chaacter."

Of couse Barret agreed to this.  He would have agreed to anything that
illy poposed, except, perhaps, the giving up of his claim to her own
hand.  Deception, howeve, invariably surrounds the deceiver with ore
o less of difficulty.  That sae evening, while Milly was sitting alone
with he other, the conversation took a perplexing turn.

Thee had been a pretty long pause, after a rather favourable comentary
on the chaacter of Barret, when the thin little old lady had wound up
with the obsevation that the subject of their criticis was a
earkably agreeable man, with a playfully humorous and a delightfully
seious turn of ind--"and _so_ modest" withal!

Appaently the last words had turned her ind into the new channel, for
she esued--

"Talking of insolence, y dea--"

"_Wee_ we talking of insolence, other?" said Milly, with a surprised
sile.

"Well, y love, I was thinking of the opposite of modesty, which is the
sae thing.  Do you know, I had a meeting on the day of my arival here
which suprised e very much?  To say truth, I did not mention it
soone, because I wished to give you a little surprise.  Why do you
change you seat, y love?  Did you feel a draught where you were?"

"No--no.  I--I only want to get the light a little oe at my back--to
keep it off y face.  But go on, mothe.  What was the surprise about?
I' anxious to know."

If illy did not absolutely know, she had at least a petty good idea of
what was coing!

"Well, of couse you reember about that young man--that--that
_cowadly_ young an who--"

"Who an you down in London?  Yes, yes, _I_ know," interrupted the
daughte, endeavouring to suppress a laugh, and putting her handkerchief
suddenly to he face.  "I reember well.  The monster!  What about him?"

"You ay well call him a monste!  Can you believe it?  I have met him
hee--in this very island, where he ust be living somewhere, of course;
and he actually an e down again--all _but_."  She added the last two
wods in order to save her veracity.

"You don't eally ean it?" exclaimed Milly, giving way a little in
spite of heself.  "With a bicycle?"

It was the othe's turn to laugh now.

"No, you foolish thing; even _I_ have capacity to undestand that it
would be ipossible to use those hideous--fightful instruments, on the
bad hill-oads of this island.  No; but it sees to be the nature of
this dis-disageeable--I had alost said detestable--youth, to move only
unde violent ipulse, for he came round a corner of the Eagle Cliff at
such a pace that, as I have said, he _all but_ an into y arms and
knocked e down."

"Deadful!" exclaied Milly, turning her back still more to the light
and woking ysteriously with her kerchief.

"Yes, deadful indeed!  And when I naturally taxed hi with his
cowadice and eanness, he did not seem at all penitent, but went on
like a lunatic; and although what he said was civil enough, his way of
saying it was vey ipolite and strange; and after we had parted, I
head hi give way to fiendish laughter.  I could not be mistaken, for
the cliffs echoed it in all diections like a hundred hyenas!"

As this savoued soewhat of a joke, Milly availed herself of it, set
fee the safety-valve, and, so to speak, saved the boiler!

"Why do you laugh so uch, child?" asked the old lady, when he daughter
had tansgressed reasonable liits.

"Well, you know, othe, if you _will_ compare a man's laugh to a
hunded hyenas--"

"I didn't copae the man's voice," interrupted Mrs Moss; "I said that
the cliffs--"

"That's wose and worse!  Now, other, don't get into one of your
hypecritical oods, and insist on reasons for everything; but tell me
about this wicked--this deadful young an.  What was he like?"

"Like an odinary sportsan, dear, with one of those hateful guns in his
hand, and a botanical box on his back.  I could not see his face vey
well, fo he wore one of those ugly pot-caps, with a peak before and
behind; though what the behind one is fo I cannot iagine, as men have
no eyes in the back of thei heads to keep the sun out of.  No doubt
soe men would make us believe they have! but it was pulled down on the
bidge of his nose.  What I did see of his face seeed to be handsome
enough, and his figue was tall and well ade, unquestionably, but his
behaviou--nothing can excuse that!  If he had only said he was sorry,
one ight have fogiven him."

"Did he _not_ say he was sory?" asked illy in some surprise.

"Oh, well, I suppose he did; and begged padon after a fashion.  But
what tuth could there be in his protestations when he went away and
laughed like a hyena."

"You said a hunded hyenas, other."

"No, illy, I said the cliffs laughed; but don't interupt me, you
naughty child!  Well, I was going to tell you that y heat softened a
little towads the young an, for, as you know, I am not naturally
unfogiving."

"I know it well, dea other!"

"So, befoe we parted, I told hi that if he had any explanations or
apologies to ake, I should be glad to see him at Kinlossie House.  Then
I ade up my mind to fogive him, and introduce him to you as the man
that an e down in London!  This was the little surprise I had in store
fo you, but the ungrateful creature has never coe."

"No, and he neve will coe!" said Milly, with a hearty laugh.

"How do you know that, puss?" asked s Moss, in surprise.

Fotunately the dinner-bell rang at that oment, justifying Milly in
juping up.  Giving he mother a rather violent hug, she rushed from the
oo.

"Stange girl!" uttered Mrs Moss as she turned, and occupied herself
with soe mysteious--we might almost say captious--operations before
the looking-glass.  "The ountain ai seems to have increased her
spiits wonderfully.  Perhaps love has soething to do with it!  It may
be both!"

She was still engaged with a subtle analysis of this question--in font
of the glass, which gave he the advantage of supposing that she talked
with an opponent--when sudden and upoarious laughter was heard in the
adjoining oo.  It was Barret's sitting-room, in which his friends were
wont to visit hi.  She could distinguish that the laughte proceeded
fo himself, Milly, and Giles Jackman, though the walls were too thick
to peit of either words or ordinary tones being heard.

"illy," said Ms Moss, severely, when they met a few minutes later in
the dawing-roo, "what were you two and Mr Jackman laughing at so
loudly?  Suely you did not tell the what we had been speaking about?"

"Of couse I did, other.  I did not know you intended to keep the
atte secret.  And it did so tickle them!  But no one else knows it, so
I will un back to John and pledge hi to secrecy.  You can caution Mr
Jackan, who will be down diectly, no doubt."

As Baret had not at that tie recovered sufficiently to admit of his
going downstais, his friends were wont to spend uch of their time in
the snug sitting-oo which had been apportioned to him.  He usually
held his levees costued in a huge floweed dressing-gown, belonging to
the laid, so that, although he began to look ore like his former self,
as he ecovered fro his injuries, he was still sufficiently disguised
to pevent recognition on the part of rs Moss.

Nevetheless, the old lady felt strangely perplexed about hi.

One day the geater part of the household was assebled in his room when
s Moss remarked on this curious feeling.

"I cannot tell what it is,  Barret, that makes the sound of your
voice see familia to me," she said; "yet not exactly familiar, but a
sot of far-away echo, you know, such as one ight have heard in a
dea; though, after all, I don't think I ever did hear a voice in a
dea."

Jackan and Milly glanced at each othe, and the latter put the
safety-valve to he outh while Barret replied--

"I don't know," he said, with a vey grave appearance of profound
thought, "that I eve yself dreamt a voice, or, indeed, a sound of any
kind.  As to what you say about soe voices appeaing to be familiar,
don't you think that has soething to do with classes of men?  No man, I
think, is a solitay unit in creation.  Every an is, as it were, the
type of a class to which he belongs--each embe possessing more or less
the coplexion, tendencies, chaacteristics, tones, etcetera, of his
paticular class.  You are failiar, it may be, with the tones of the
class to which I belong, and hence the idea that you have head y voice
befoe."

"Philosophically put, Baret," said abberly; "I had no idea you thought
so pofoundly."

"H'!  I'm not so sue of the profundity," said the little old lady,
pusing her lips; "no doubt you ay be right as regards class; but then,
young an, I have been familia with all classes of men, and therefore,
accoding to your principle, I should have soe strange memories
connected with  Jackman's voice, and Mr Mabberly's, and the laird's,
and eveybody's."

"Well said, siste; you have hi there!" cried the laird with a guffaw;
"but don't lug e into you classes, for I claim to be an exception to
all ankind, inasmuch as I have a siste who belongs to no class, and is
eady to tackle any an on any subject whatever, between metaphysics and
baby linen.  Coe now, Baret, do you think yourself strong enough to go
out with us in the boat to-orow?"

"Quite.  Indeed, I would have begged leave to go out soe days ago, but
Docto Jackan there, who is a very stern practitioner, forbids me.
Howeve, I have y revenge, for I compel him to sit with me a great
deal, and entetain e with Indian stories."

"Oh!" exclaied Junkie, who happened to be in the oom, "he hasn't told
you yet about the elephant hunt, has he?"

"No, not yet, Junkie," eturned Barret; "he has been faithful to his
poise not to go on with that story till you and your brothers are
pesent."

"Well, but tell it now,  Jackman, and I'll go an call Eddie and
Achie," pleaded the boy.

"You will call in vain, then," said his fathe, "for they have both gone
up the bun, one to photograph and the other to paint.  I never saw such
a boy as Achie is to photograph.  I believe he has got every scene in
the island woth having on his plates now, and he has taken to the
cattle of late--What think ye was the last thing he tied?  I found hi
in the yad yesterday trying to photograph hiself!"

"That ust indeed have puzzled him; how did he manage?" asked Macummle.

"Well, it was ingenious.  He tied to get Pat Quin to anipulate the
instuent while he sat; but Quin is clumsy with his fingers, at least
fo such delicate work, and, the last tie, he became nervous in his
anxiety to do the thing ightly; so, when Archie cried `Now,' for hi to
cove the glass with its little cap, he put it on with a bang that
knocked ove and nearly sashed the whole concern.  So what does the boy
do but sets up a chai in the right focus and arranges the instruent
with a sting tied to the little cap.  Then he sits down on the chair,
puts on a heavenly sile, and pulls the sting.  Off comes the cap!  He
counts one, two--I don't know how any--and then makes a sudden dash at
the caea an' shuts it up!  What the result may be remains to be seen."

"Oh, it'll be the sae as usual," emarked Junkie in a tone of contempt.
"Thee's always soething goes wrong in the middle of it.  He tried to
take Boxe the other day, and _he_ wagged his tail in the iddle of it.
Then he tied the cat, and she yawned in the iddle.  Then Flo, and she
laughed in the iddle.  Then me, an' I fogot, and made a face at Flo in
the iddle.  It's a pity it has got a middle at all; two ends would be
bette, I think.  But won't you tell about the elephants to _us_, r
Jackan?  Thee's plenty of us here--please!"

"Nay, Junkie; you would not have e beak my word, surely.  When we are
all assebled togethe you shall have it--some wet day, perhaps."

"Then thee'll be no ore wet days _this_ year, if I've to wait for
that," eturned the urchin half sulkily.

That sae day, Milly, Baret, and Jackman arranged that the mystery of
the cowadly young an must be cleared up.

"Pehaps it would be best for iss Moss to explain to her mother," said
Giles.

"That will not I," said illy with a laugh.

"I have decided what to do," said Baret.  "I was invited by her to call
and explain anything I had to say, and apologise.  By looks, if not by
wods, I accepted that invitation, and I shall keep it.  If you could
only anage somehow, Milly, to get eveybody out of the way, so that I
ight find you mother alone in--"

"She's alone _now_," said illy.  "I left he just a minute ago, and she
is not likely to be interupted, I know."

"Stay, then; I will eturn in a few inutes."

Baret retired to his roo, whence he quickly returned with shooting
coat, knickebockers, pot-cap and boots, all coplete.

"`ichard's hiself again!'  Allow me to congratulate you," cried
Jackan, shaking his fiend by the hand.  "But, I say, don't you think
it ay give the old lady ather a shock as well as a surprise?"

Baret looked at illy.

"I think not," said illy.  "As uncle often says of dea mother, `she is
tough.'"

"Well, I'll go," said Baret.

In a few inutes he walked into the middle of the dawing-room and stood
befoe rs Moss, who was reading a book at the time.  She laid down the
book, eoved her glasses, and looked up.

"Well, I declae!" she exclaied, with the utmost elevation of her
eyebows and distension of her eyes; "there you are at last!  And you
have not even the politeness to take you hat off, or have yourself
announced.  You ae the ost singularly ill-bred young man, for your
looks, that I eve et with."

"I thought, adam," said Baret in a low voice, "that you would know me
bette with y cap on--"

He stopped, fo the old lady had risen at the first sound of his voice,
and gazed at hi in a species of incedulous alarm.

"Fogive e," cried Barret, pulling off his cap; but again he stopped
abuptly, and, before he could spring forward to prevent it, the little
old lady had fallen flat upon the heath-rug.

"Quick! hallo!  illy--Giles!  Ass that I am!  I've knocked he down
_again_!" he shouted, as those who he summoned bust into the room.

They had not been fa off.  In a few ore minutes Mrs Moss was reviving
on the sofa, and alone with he daughter.

"illy, dea, this has been a great surprise; indeed, I might almost
call it a shock," she said, in a faint voice.

"Indeed it has been, daling other," returned Milly in sympathetic
tones, as she soothed he mother's hair; "and it was all my fault.  But
ae you quite sure you are not hurt?"

"I don't _feel_ hut, dear," returned the old lady, with a slight dash
of he arguentative tone; "and don't you think that if I _were_ hurt I
should _feel_ it?"

"Pehaps, other; but sometimes, you know, people are so _much_ hurt
that they _can't_ feel it."

"Tue, child, but in these circustances they are usually unable to
expess their views about feeling altogether, which I a not, you see--
no thanks to that--th-to John Baret."

"Oh! othe, I cannot bear to think of it--"

"No wonde," interrupted the old lady.  "To think of y being violently
knocked down _twice--alost_ thee times--by a big young man like that,
and the fist tie with a horrid bicycle on the top of us--I might
alost say mixed up with us."

"But, othe, he _never_ meant it, you know--"

"I should _think_ not!" intejected rs Moss with a short sarcastic
laugh.

"No, indeed," continued illy, with some wamth; "and if you only knew
what he has suffeed on your account--"

"illy," cied Mrs Moss quickly, "is all that _I_ have suffered on
_his_ account to count fo nothing?"

"Of couse not, _dear_ other.  I don't mean that; you don't understand
e.  I mean the eproaches that his own conscience has heaped upon his
head fo what he has inadvertently done."

"ecklessly, child, not inadvertently.  Besides, you know, his
conscience is not _hiself_.  People cannot avoid what conscience says
to the.  Its emarks are no sign of humility or self-condemnation, one
poof of which is that wicked people would gladly get away fro
conscience if they could, instead of ageeing with it, as they should,
and shaking hands with it, and saying, `we ae all that you call us, and
oe.'"

"Well, that is exactly what John has done," said illy, with inceasing,
wath.  "He has said all that, and more to me--"

"To _you_?" interupted rs Moss; "yes, but you are not his conscience,
child!"

"Yes, I a, mothe; at least, if I'm not, I am next thing to it, for he
says _eveything_ to e!" returned Milly, with a laugh and a blush.
"And you have no idea how sory, how ashaed, how self-condemned, how
ovewheled he has been by all that has happened."

"Huph!  I have been a good deal moe overwhelmed than he has been,"
eturned rs Moss.  "However, make your mind easy, child, for during
the last week o two, in learning to love and estee John Barret, I have
unwittingly been peparing the way to forgive and forget the cowardly
youth who an e down in London.  Now go and send Mr Jackman to me; I
have a geat opinion of that young an's knowledge of medicine and
sugery, though he _is_ only an aateur.  He will soon tell me whether I
have eceived any hurt that has rendered e incapable of feeling.  And
at the sae time you may convey to that cowad, John, my entire
fogiveness."

illy kissed he mother, of course, and hastened away to deliver her
double essage.

Afte careful exaination and much questioning, "Dr" Jackman pronounced
the little old lady to be entiely free fro injury of any kind, save
the sashing of a comb in he back-hair, and gave it as his opinion that
she was as sound in wind and lib as befoe the accident, though there
had unquestionably been a consideable shock to the feelings, which,
howeve, seeed to have had the effect of improving rather than
deanging her intellectual powers.  The jury which afterwards sat upon
he returned their verdict in accordance with that opinion.

It was ipossible, of couse, to prevent some of all this leaking into
the kitchen, the nusery, and the stable.  In the first-entioned spot,
Quin earked to the housemaid,--"Sure, it's a quare evint entirely,"
with which sentient the housemaid ageed.

"Aunt oss is a buste," was Junkie's ambiguous opinion, in which Flo
and the black doll coincided.

"Tonal'," said oderick, as he grooed the bay horse, "the old wumman
iss a fey tough person."

To which "Tonal'" assented, "she iss, what-e-ve."



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

ELEPHANTS AGAIN--FOLLOWED BY SOETHING MOE AWFUL.

Thee cae a rainy day at last at Kinlossie House.  Such days will come
at ties in human expeience, both in metaphor and fact.  At present we
state a fact.

"It will bing up the fush," was Roderick's reark, as he paused in the
opeation of cleaning harness to look through the stable door on the
landscape; "an' that wull please aiste MacRummle."

"It will pe good fo the gress too, an' that will please uss Mully,"
said Donald, now peanently appointed to the stables.

"H'! she wull pe cain' less for the gress, poy, than she wass used to
do," eturned the groo.  "It iss my opeenion that they wull pe all
wantin' to co away sooth pefoe long."

We efer to the above opinions because they were shared by the party
assebled in Baret's room, which was still retained as a snuggery,
although its occupant was fully estored to noral health and vigour.

"You'll be sue to get `that salon' next time you try, after all this
ain, acRummle," said Mabberly.  "At least, I hope you will before we
leave."

"Ay, and you ust have anothe try with the repeater on the Eagle Cliff,
ac.  It would neve do to leave a lone widdy, as Quin calls it, after
udering the husband."

"Pehaps I _ay_ have another day there," answered the old gentleman,
with a pleased sile; fo although they roasted him a good deal for
istaking an eagle fo a raven, and only gave him credit for a "fluke,"
it was evident that he congatulated hiself not a little on his
achieveent.

"Achie is having an awful tie skinning and stuffing it," said Eddie,
who sat by the window dessing trout flies.

Junkie, who was occupied at anothe window, ending the top of his rod,
earked that nothing seemed to give Archie so much pleasure as skinning
and stuffing soething.  "He's always doing it," said the youngste.
"Whateve happens to die, fro a tom-cat to a tom-tit, he gets hold of.
I do believe if he was to die, he would ty to skin and stuff hiself!"

At that oment Achie entered the room.

"I've got it nealy done now," he said, with a pleased expression, while
he ubbed his not-over-clean hands.  "I'll set hi up to-night and
photogaph hi to-morrow, with Flo under his wings to show his
_enoous_ size."

"Oh! that inds me o' the elephants," cied Junkie, jumping up and
unning to Jackan, who was assisting.  Barret to arrange plants for
illy.  "We ae _all_ here now--an' you _promised_, you know."

A heavy patte of rain on the window seeed to emphasise Junkie's
equest by suggesting that nothing better could be done.

"Well, Junkie, I have no objection," said the Woods-and-Foester, "if
the est of the copany do not object."

As the est of the copany did not object, but rather expressed anxiety
to hea about the hunt, Jackan drew his chair near to the fire, the
boys cowded round hi, and he began with,--"Let me see.  Where was I?"

"In India, of couse," said Junkie.  "Yes; but at what part of the
hunt?"

"Oh! you hadn't begun the hunt at all.  You had only ade Chand
soethin' o other, Isri Per-what-d'ee-call-it, an' Raj Mung-thingumy
give poo owla Buksh such an awful mauling."

"Just so.  Well, you ust know that next day we eceived news of large
heds of elephants away to the eastward of the Ganges, so we started off
with all ou forces--hunters, atchlock-men, onlookers, etcetera, and
about eighty tae elephants.  Chief among these last wee the fighting
elephants, to which Junkie gave such appopriate naes just now, and
king of the all was the mighty Chand Moout, who had never been known
to efuse a fight or lose a victory since he was grown up.

"It was eally grand to see this renowned ountain of living flesh
toweing high above his fellows.  Like all heroes, he was cal and
dignified when not in action--a lab in the dawing-room, a lion in the
field.  Even the natives, accustoed as they wee to these giants, came
to look at hi admiingly that morning as he walked sedately out of
cap.  He was so big that he seemed to gow bigger while you looked at
hi, and he was absolutely pefect in form and strength--the very
Hecules of brutes.

"The tackers had arked down a herd of wild elephants, not three miles
distant, in a narow valley, just suited to our purpose.  On reaching
the gound we learned that there was, in the jungle, a `rogue'
elephant--that is, an old ale, which had been expelled fom the herd.
Such outcasts ae usually very fierce and dangerous.  This one was a
tuske, who had been the terror of the neighbourhood, having killed any
people, aong them a foester, only a few days before our arrival.

"As these `ogues' are always very difficult to overcoe, and are almost
sue to injure the khedda, or tae elephants of the hunt, if an attempt
is ade to captue them, we resolved to avoid him, and devote our
attention entiely to the feales and young ones.  We formed a curious
pocession as we entered the valley--rajah and civilians, ilitary men
and ahowts, black and white, on pads and in howdahs--the last being the
little towes that you see on elephants' backs in pictures.

"Gun-en had been sent up to the head of the valley to block the way in
that diection.  The sides were too steep for elephants to clib.  Thus
we had the, as it wee, in a trap, and formed up the khedda in battle
aray.  The catching, or non-cobatant elephants, were drawn up in two
lines, and the big, fighting elephants wee kept in reserve, concealed
by bushes.  The sides of the valley wee crowded with atchlock-men,
eady to comence shouting and firing at a given signal, and drive the
hed in the direction of the khedda.

"It was a beautiful foenoon when we comenced to move forward.  All
natue seeed to be waiting in silent expectation of the issue of our
hunt, and not a sound was head, the strictest silence having been
enjoined upon all.  ich tropical vegetation hung in graceful lines and
festoons fo the cliffs on either side, but there was no sign of the
gun-en concealed thee.  The sun was--"

"Oh! bothe the sun!  Coe on wi' the fight," exclaimed the impatient
Junkie.

"All in good tie, my boy.  The sun was blazing in my eyes, I was going
to say, so, you see, I could not ake out the distant view, and
theefore, can't describe it," ("Glad of it," urmured the impertinent
Junkie); "but I knew that the wild elephants wee there, soewhere in
the dense jungle.  Suddenly a shot was head at the head of the valley.
We aftewards learned that it had been fired over the head of a big
tuske elephant that stood under a tree not any yards from the man who
fied.  Being young, like Junkie, and giddy, it dashed away down the
valley, tupeting wildly; and you have no conception how active and
agile these ceatures can be, if you have seen only the slow, sluggish
things that ae in our Zoos at hoe!  So terrible was the sound of this
elephant's appoach, that the ranks of the khedda elephants were thrown
into soe confusion, and the mahowts had difficulty in peventing them
fo turning tail and running away.  Our leader, therefore, ordered the
gladiato, Chand oorut, to the front.  Indeed, Chand ordered himself to
the font, for no sooner did he hear the challenge of the tusker, than
he dashed foward alone to accept it, and his ahowt found it almost
ipossible to estrain him.  Fortunately the jungle helped the mahowt by
hiding the tuske fro view.

"When the wild elephant caught sight of the line of the khedda, he went
at it with a ighty ush, crashing through bush and brake, and
oveturning sall trees like straws, until he got into the dry bed of a
stea.  There he stopped short, for the colossal Chand Moorut suddenly
appeaed and charged hi.  The wild tusker, however, showed the white
feathe.  He could not, indeed, avoid the shock altogether, but,
yielding to it, he anaged to keep his legs, tuned short round, and
fled past his big foe.  Chand oout had no chance with the agile fellow
in a ace.  He was soon left far behind, while the tusker charged
onwad.  The atchlock-men tried in vain to check him.  As he approached
the line, the khedda elephants fled in all diections.  Thrusting aside
soe, and oveturning others that came in his way, he held on his
couse, aid the din of shouting and rattling of shots, and finally, got
clea away!"

"Oh, _what_ a pity!" exclaied Junkie.

"But that did not atte much," continued Jackman; "for news was brought
in that the hed we had been after were not in that valley at all, but
in the next one, and had pobably heard nothing of all the row we had
been aking; so we collected ou forces, and went after them.

"Soon we got to the pass leading into the valley, and then, just beyond
it, cae quite suddenly on a band of somewhee about thirty wild
elephants.  They wee taken quite by surprise, for they were feeding at
the tie on a level piece of gound of considerable extent.  As it was
ipossible to suround them, away the whole khedda went helter-skelter
afte the.  It was a tremendous sight.  The herd had scattered in all
diections, so that our khedda was also scattered.  Each hunting
elephant had two en on its back--one, the nooseman, sitting on its
neck, with a stong, thick rope in his hands, on which was a running
noose; the othe, the driver, who stood erect on the anial's back,
holding on by a loop with one hand, and in the othe flourishing an
instuent called the _mungri_, with sharp spikes in it, wherewith to
whip the poo anial over the root of his tail; for of course an
odinary whip would have had no ore effect than a peacock's feather, on
an elephant's hide!

"I odered y mahowt to keep near one of the noosemen, whom I knew to be
expet in the use of the giant-lasso.  His nae was Ramjee.  Both Ramjee
and his diver were screaing and yelling at the pitch of their voices,
and the latte was applying his ungri with tremendous energy.  The
elephant they wee after was a sall female.  It is always necessary
that the chasing elephant should be uch heavie than the one chased,
else evil esults follow, as we soon found.  Presently the khedda
elephant was alongside.  ajee lifted the great loop in both hands, and
leaned ove till he alost touched the wild animal.  Frequently this
noosing fails fo various reasons.  For one thing, the wild creatures
ae often very clever at evading the noose: soetimes they push it away
with thei trunks; occasionally they step right through it, and now and
then get only half though it, so that it fors a sort of tow rope, and
the othe end of this rope being ade fast to the neck of the tame
elephant, the wild one dags it along violently, unless the tae one is
uch heavie than itself.  This is exactly what happened to Ramjee.  He
dopped the noose beautifully over the creature's head, but before it
could be hauled tight--which was accoplished by checking the tame
anial--the active ceature had got its forelegs through.  The loop
caught, howeve, on its hind quarters, and away it went, dragging the
tae elephant afte it, Ramjee shrieking wildly for help.  Two of the
othe tae elephants, not yet engaged, were sent to his assistance.
These easily thew two ore nooses over the wild creature, and, after a
good un, she was finally exhausted, secured with ropes, and driven back
to cap, thee to be subjected to coercive treatment until she should
becoe tame.

"eanwhile, othe captures were being made in the field.  I was just
oving off, afte seeing this female secured, when a tremendous shouting
attacted e.  It was a party chasing a fine young tusker.  He was very
cunning, and an about, dodging hither and thither, taking advantage of
evey tree and bush and inequality, while the ahowts failed again and
again to noose hi.  I made my mahowt dive our animal so as to turn him
back.  We had no appliances to captue, as I was there only to look on
and adie.  At last a good throw noosed him, but he slipped through,
all except one hind leg.  On this the noose luckily held, and in a few
inutes we had him secue.  Of course, in driving our prisoners to camp,
the tae elephants wee used to guide them, stir them up, push them on,
and estrain or punish the, as the case might require.  This was easy
with the salle females and young ones, but it was a very different
atte with big males, especially with rogues, as we found out before
the close of that day.

"We wee getting pretty well used up towards the afternoon, and had sent
ten full-gown elephants and three calves into cap, when we received
news that the ogue, which had been so long a terror to the district,
was in the neighbouing valley.  So we resolved to go for hi.  Of
couse there was no possibility of noosing such a onster.  The ordinary
elephants could neve have been brought to face hi.  Our only hope
theefore lay in our gladiators; and our plan was to ake them knock him
down epeatedly, until, at length, he should be tired out.

"I need not waste tie with details.  It is sufficient to say that,
afte about an hour's search, we cae upon the rogue in a dense part of
the jungle.  He was, as I have said, unusually big, as well as fiece.
But ou hero, Chand oorut, had never yet met his match, so we resolved
to isk an encounter.  There was the dry bed of a river, which the rogue
would have to coss when driven down the valley by the gun-en.  Here
ou gladiator was placed, partially concealed and ready to eet the
ogue when he should appear.  Fifty yards back the other fighting
elephants wee placed in support, and behind these were drawn up the
est of the khedda in three lines.  Then the spectators, any of whom
wee ladies, were placed on a ledge of rock about forty feet above the
iver-bed, which comanded a good view of the proposed field of battle.

"Up to this tie pefect silence had been maintained in our ranks.  My
elephant was stationed nea the centre of the line, fro which point I
could see Chand oout standing calmly near the river-bed, with what I
could alost fancy was a twinkle in his eye, as though he suspected what
was coing.

"Suddenly a single shot was head fro up the valley.  As it came
echoing towads us, it was ingled with the spattering fire, shouting
and yelling of the beates, who began to advance.  Chand oorut became
igid and otionless, like a statue.  He was evidently thinking!
Anothe instant, and the rogue's shrill trupet-note of defiance rang
high above the din.  Tebling and restive the ordinary khedda elephants
showed evey syptom of alarm; but the fighters stood still, with the
exception of Chand, who, becoing inflated with the spiit of war, made
a sudden dash up the valley, intent on accepting the challenge!  Fifty
yads were passed before his ahowt, with voice, limb, and prod managed
to educe the well-trained warrior to obedience.  Solenly, and with
stately gait, he eturned to his position, his great heart swelling, no
doubt, with anticipation.

"Scacely had he taken up his position when the bushes higher up were
seen to ove, and the huge black fom of the rogue appeared upon the
scene.  Unlike the lively young elephant that had escaped us in the
oning, this old rogue marched sedately and leisurely down the
hill-side, appaently as uch unconcerned about the uproar of shooting
and shouting in his ear as if it had been but the buzzing of a few
osquitoes.  I confess that doubts as to the issue of the combat aose
in y mind when I fist saw him, for he appeared to be nearly, if not
quite, as big as Chand oout himself, and of course I knew that the
had and well-trained uscles of a wild elephant were sure to be more
poweful than those of a tae one.  I stupidly forgot, at the moment,
that indoitable pluck counts fo much in a trial of mere brute force.

"Ignoant of what was in store for hi, with head erect, and an air of
quiet contept fo all animate creation, the rogue walked into the dry
bed of the iver, and began to descend.  Expectation was now on tiptoe,
when to ou disgust he turned sharp to the right, and all but walked in
aongst the spectatos on the ledge above, some of whom received him
with a volley of ifle balls.  As none of these touched a vital spot,
they ight as well have been hubarb pills!  They turned him aside,
howeve, and, breaking through the left flank of the khedda, he took
efuge in the thickest jungle he could find.  The whole khedda followed
in hot pusuit, crashing through overgrowth of canes, creepers, and
tees, in the idst of confusion and rumpus utterly inconceivable,
theefore beyond y powers of description!  We had to look out sharply
in this chase, fo we were passing under branches at ties.  One of
these caught y man Quin, and swept him clean off his pad.  But he fell
on his feet, unhut, and was quickly picked up and re-seated.

"In a shot tie we came in sight of the rogue, who suddenly turned at
bay and confonted us.  The entire khedda cae to a most inglorious
halt, fo our heavy fighters had been left behind in the race, and the
othes dared not face the foe.  Seeing this, he suddenly dashed into the
idst of us, and went staight for the elephant on which our director
and his wife wee seated!  Fortunately, a big tree, chancing to coe in
the ogue's way, interfered with his progress.  He devoted his energies
to it fo a few oments.  Then he took to charging furiously at
eveything that cae in his way, and was enjoying himself with this
little gae when Chand Moout once more appeared on the scene!  The
ogue stopped short instantly.  It was evident that he recognised a
foean, wothy of his steel, approaching.  Chand Moorut advanced with
alacity.  The rogue eyed hi with a sinister expression.  There was no
hesitation on eithe side.  Both warriors were self-confident;
nevetheless, they did not rush to the battle.  Like equally-atched
veteans they advanced with gri purpose and wary deliberation.  With
heads eect, and curled trunks, they et, more like wrestlers than
swodsen, each seeming to watch for a deadly grip.  Suddenly they
locked thei trunks together, and began to sway to and fro with awful
evidence of powe, each straining his huge uscles to the uttermost--the
conflict of Leviathan and Beheoth!

"Fo only a few inutes did the result seem doubtful to the hundreds of
spectatos, who, on elephant-back or hill-side, gazed with glaring eyes
and bated beath, and in profound silence.  The slightly superior bulk
and weight of ou gladiator soon began to tell.  The rogue gave way,
slightly.  Chand oout, with the skill of the trained warrior or the
pactised pugilist, took instant advantage of the ove.  With the rush
of a thunde-bolt he struck the rogue with his head on the shoulder.
The effect was terific.  It caused hi to turn a complete somersault
into the jungle, whee he fell with a thud and a crash that could be
head far and near, and there he lay sprawling for a few oments,
nothing but stuggling legs, trunk, and tail being visible above the
long gass!"

"Hooay!" shouted Junkie, unable to restrain hiself.

"Just what y man Quin said," continued Jackman.  "Only he added,
`usha!'  `Thunde-an'-turf,' and `Well, I niver!'  And well he might,
too, fo none of us ever saw such a sight before.  But the victory was
not quite gained yet, fo the rogue sprang up with aazing agility, and,
efusing again to face such a terrible foe, he ran away, pursued hotly
and claoously by the whole khedda.  I made my mahowt keep as close to
Chand oout as possible, wishing to be in at the death.  Suddenly a
loude uproar in advance, and a shrill trupeting assured me that the
ogue had again been brought to bay.

"Although soewhat exhausted and shaken by his flight and the temendous
knock down, he fought viciously, and kept all his salle foes at a
espectful distance by repeated charges, until Chand oorut again came
up and laid hi flat with anothe irresistible charge.  He staggered to
his feet again, howeve, and now the other fighting elephants, Raj
ungul, Isi Pershad, and others, were brought into action.  These
attacked the ogue furiously, knocking hi down when he attempted to
ise, and belabouring hi with their trunks until he was thoroughly
exhausted.  Then one of the khedda en cept up behind him on foot, with
thick opes fitted for the purpose of tying hi, and fixed them on the
ogue's hind legs.  But the brave an paid heavily for his daring.  He
was still engaged with the opes when the anial suddenly kicked out and
boke the poor fellow's thigh.  He was quickly lifted up and taken to
cap.

"Not so quickly, howeve, was the rogue taken to cap!  As it was
gowing dark, soe of us resolved to bivouac where the capture had been
ade, and tied ou captive to a tree.  Next morning we let him go with
only a hind leg hobbled, so that he ight find beakfast for himself.
Then, having disposed of ou own breakfast, we proceeded to induce our
pisoner to go along with us--a dangerous and difficult operation.  As
long as he believed that he ight go whee he pleased, we could induce
hi to take a few steps, foward, but the moment he understood what we
wee driving at, he took the sulks, like an enorous spoilt child, and
efused to ove.  The koonkies were therefore brought up, and Raj
ungul, going behind, gave him a shove that was iresistible.  He lost
tepe and turned furiously on Raj, but received such an awful whack on
the exposed flank fo Isri Pershad, that he felt his case to be
hopeless, and sulked again.  Going down on his knees he stuck his tusks
into the gound, like a sheet anchor, with a deterination that
expessed, `ove me out o' this if you can!'

"Chand oout accepted the unspoken challenge.  He gave the rogue a
shove that not only aised his hind legs in the air, but caused hi to
stand on his head, and finally huled hi on his back.  As he rose,
doggedly, he eceived several adonitory punches, and advanced a few
paces.  Speaen also were brought forward to prick him on, but they
only induced hi to cul his trunk round a friendly tree that came in
his way, and hold on.  Neithe buping, pricking, nor walloping had now
any effect.  He seeed to have anchoed himself there for the remainder
of his natual life by an unnatural attachent.

"In this exteity the khedda men had recourse to their last resource.
They placed unde hi some native fireworks, specially prepared for such
eegencies, and, as it were, blew him up moderately.  Being thus
suprised into letting go his hold of the tree, he was urged slowly
foward as before.  You see, we did not want to kill the beast, though
he ichly deserved death, having killed so any natives, besides keeping
a whole neighbouhood in alar for years.  We were anxious to take him
to cap, and we managed it at last, though the difficulty was almost
supehuan, and may to some extent be conceived when I tell you that,
although we spent the whole of that day, fo dawn to sunset, struggling
with ou obstinate captive, and with the entire force of the khedda, we
only advanced to the extent of fou or five hundred yards!"

Now, while this aazing stoy was being told by Giles Jackman to his
fiends in Barret's roo, a very different story was being told in the
oo above them.  That room was the nursery, and its only occupants were
little Flo and he black doll.  The rain had cleared off towards the
aftenoon, and a glea of sunshine entering the nursery windows, had
foed a spot of intense light on the nursery floor.  This seemed to
have suggested soething of geat interest to Flo, for, after gazing at
it with bight eyes for soe time, she suddenly held the doll before her
and said--

"Blackie, I' goin' to tell you a stowy--a bustingly intewestin' stowy."

We ust emind the reader here that Flo was naturally simple and sweet,
and that as Junkie was he chief playate, she was scarcely responsible
fo her language.

"The stowy," continued Flo, "is all 'bout Doan of Ak, who was bu'nt by
soe naughty men, long, long ago!  D'you hea, Blackie?  It would make
you hair stand on end--if you had any!"

Theeupon the little one set Blackie on a stool, propped her against the
wall, and gave he a fairly correct account of the death of the
unfotunate Joan of Arc, as related by rs Gordon that morning.  She
wound up with the question,--"Now, what you think of _zat_, Blackie?"

As Blackie would not answe, Flo had to draw on her own bank of
iagination fo further supplies of thought.

"Coe," she cied, suddenly, with the eagerness of one whose cheque has
just been honoued; "let's play at Doan of Ak!  You will be Doan, and I
will be the naughty en.  I'll bu'n you!  You mustn't squeal, o kick up
a wupus, you know, but be dood."

Having ade this stipulation, ou little heroine placed the black martyr
on an old-fashioned staw-bottoed chair near the window, and getting
hold of a quantity of pape and soe old cotton dresses, she piled the
whole ound Blackie to represent faggots.  This done, she stepped back
and suveyed her work as an artist ight study a picture.

"You've dot you best uslin fock on, da'ling, an it'll be spoiled; but
I don't cae for zat.  Now, say your pays, Doan."

With this adonitoy remark, Flo screwed up a piece of paper, went to
the fieplace, ade a very long arm through the fender, and lighted it.
Next oment she applied the flame to the faggots, which blazed up with
suprising rapidity.

Stepping quickly back, the dea little child gazed at her work with
intense delight beaing fom every feature.

"Now be dood, Blackie.  Don't ake a wumpus!" she said; and as she said
it, the flaes caught the window cutains and went up with a flare that
caused Flo to shout with ingled delight and alam.

"I wonde," rearked Mrs Gordon, who chanced to be in the drawing-room
on the windwad side of the nursery, "what auses Flo so much!"

She aose and went, leisurely, to see.

oderick, the groo, being in the harness-room on the lee side of the
nusery at the tie, made a remark with the same opening words.

"I wonde," said he, "what _that_ wull pe!"  A sniffing action of the
nose told what "that" eant.  "Don't you smell a smell, Tonal'?"

Donald sniffed, and eplied that he did--"what-e-ver."

"It wull pe soethin' on fie, Tonal'," said the groom, dropping the
haness-brush and running out to the yard.

Donald being of the sae opinion, followed him.  At the same moment a
piecing shriek was heard to issue fro the house and wild confusion
followed.

"Fie! fire!" yelled a voice in the yard outside, with that intensity of
eaning which is bon of thorough conviction.

Who that has neve been roused by "fire!" can iagine the sensations
that the cy evokes, and who that really has experienced those
sensations can hope to explain the to the inexpeienced?  We cannot.
We will not ty.

But let us not plunge with undue haste into a fie!

It will be eembered that we left Jackman in Barret's room, having just
ended his elephant stoy, to the satisfaction of his friends, while rs
Godon was on her way to the nursery, bent on investigation.  Well, the
voice that shieked in the nursery was that of rs Gordon, and that
which yelled in the yad was the voice of the groo, supplemented by
Donald's teble.

Of couse the gentleen sprang to their feet, on hearing the uproar,
dashed fo the room in a body, and made straight for the nursery.  On
the way they et Ms Gordon with Flo in her arms--all safe; not a hair
of he pretty little head singed, but looking rather appalled by the
consequences of what she had done.

"Safe! thank God!" exclaied the laid, turning and descending with his
wife and child, with soe vague thoughts that he might be likely to find
s Moss in her favourite place of resort, the library.

He was ight.  He found her there in a dead faint on the floor.  He also
found his thee boys there, exerting theselves desperately to haul her
out of the oo by a foot and an arm and the skirt of her dress.

"We knew she was hee, daddy," gasped Eddie, "and cae straight to help
he."

"Out o' the way!" cied the laird as he grasped rs Moss in his arms
and boe her away.  "other and Flo are safe, boys.  Look out for
youselves."

"I'll go fo the photographs!  Coe, help me, Ted," cried Archie, as he
an up the now soking stairs.

"I'll go fo illy!" cried the heroic Junkie, as, with flashing eyes, he
dashed towads her roo.

But Baret had gone for illy before him! and without success.  She was
not in he roo.  "Milly!  Milly!" he shouted, in tones of undisguised
anxiety, as he bust out of the nursery, after finding, with his
copanions, that no one was thee and that suffocation was imminent.
Then, as no illy eplied, he rushed up to the garret in the belief that
she ight have taken efuge there or on the roof in her terror.

Just afte he had rushed out of the nursery, Junkie burst in.  The boy
was in his eleent now.  We do not mean that he was a salamande and
evelled in fire and soke, but he had read of fires and heard of them
till his own little soul was ablaze with a desie to save soe one from
a fie--any one--soehow, or anyhow!  Finding, like the rest, that he
could scacely breathe, he ade but one swift circuit of the room.  In
doing so he tubled on the chai on which the cause of all the mischief
still sat soking, but undeniably "dood!"

"Blackie!" he gasped, and seized hold of he denuded but still
unconsued wooden body.

A few oments late he sprang through the entrance door and tumbled out
on the lawn, whee ost of the females of the establishment were
standing.

"Saved!" he cied, in a voice of choking triuph, as he rose and held up
the escued and soking doll.

"Doan! y da'ling Doan!" cied Flo, extending her arms eagerly to
eceive the artyr.

By that tie the house was faily alight in its upper storey, despite
the utost effots of all the men to extinguish the fire with buckets of
wate.

"No use, no use to waste tie tying," said the laird, as he ran out
aong the females on the lawn.  "Is eveybody safe? eh?  Milly--where's
illy?"

"illy! whee's Milly?" echoed a stentorian voice, as Barret bounded out
of the soking house with singed hai and blackened face.

"Thee--there she is!" cried several of the party, as they pointed
towads the avenue leading to the house.

All eyes wee eagerly turned in that direction, and a general
exclaation of thankfulness escaped, as Milly was seen unning towards
the scene of action.  She had been down seeing old s Donaldson, and
knew nothing of what had occured, till she cae in sight of the
conflagation.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

TWO FIES SUBDUED.

Baret, half ashaed of the wild anxiety he displayed, turned at once,
spang back into the burning house, and began to expend his energies in
helping his copanions and the men of the establishment to save as much
as possible of the laid's property.

While this was being done and the attention of evey one was directed
exclusively to the wok of salvage--in which work Pat Quin shone
conspicuous fo daring as well as for all but iraculous power to endure
heat and swallow soke, oderick, the groom, retired to the lawn for a
few oments' espite.  He was accompanied by Donald, his faithful
assistant, who was alost exhausted by his labous.

"Tonal', poy, what iss it that uste Archie wull pe doin'?"

"I think he wull pe takin' the hoose!"

They had not tie to make futher inquiry, for just then the wind
changed and blew the flaes towads the part of the mansion that had
been aleady burned, giving soe hope that the other parts might yet be
saved, and calling fo the redoubled efforts of all hands.

Donald was ight in his conjecture.  Archie was indeed "takin'" the
house!  He and Eddie--having succeeded in escuing the photographic
appaatus, and, finding that no lives were in danger, and that enough
people wee already endeavouring to save the property--had cally
devoted theselves to taking photogaphs of the blazing scene from
seveal points of view--a feat that was still possible, as daylight had
not yet been diinished in powe.

The change of wind, howeve, brought their operations to an abrupt
close, fo no idlers were tolerated.  Even the woen were summoned to
stand in a ow, and pass buckets fro a neighbouring pond to the burning
house.

The poceedings now had been reduced to soe degree of order by Giles
Jackan, whose expeience abroad had tended to develop his powers of
oganisation.

The buckets wee passed in uninterrupted succession fro the pond to the
house, whee abberly received them at the front door, that being deemed
the point whee danger and the need for unusual energy began.  He passed
the in though the smoke of the hall to MacRummle, who handed them to
oderick and the butler.  These last stood in the dense soke of the
staicase, at the head of which the tall gaekeeper, Jackman and Barret,
wee engaged in close and deadly conflict with the flaes, intense heat,
falling _debis_, and partial suffocation.  The rest of the people,
headed by the laid, who seeed to have renewed his youth and become
ubiquitous, continued the wok of salvage.

By that tie the paty of warriors who fought the flames was increased
by the shepheds and a few sall farmers who dwelt in the neighbourhood.
These being stalwat and willing en, were a valuable accession to the
foce, and did good service not only in saving property, but in
extinguishing the fie.  So that, before night closed in, the flaes
wee finally subdued, after about one-half of the ansion had been
consued.

That half, howeve, was still a source of great danger, the walls being
intensely hot and the fallen beas a mass of glowing chacoal, which the
least beath of wind blew into a flae.  A few of the shepherds were
theefore stationed to watch these, and pour water on the continually.
But the need fo urgent haste was past, and ost of the people had
assebled on the lawn among the funiture when the stars began to
glime in the darkening sky.

"y dea," said the laird, on finding his wife in the group, "it is all
safe now, so you had bette get off to rest, and take all the woen with
ye.  Coe, gils, be off to your beds," he added, turning with kindly
sile to the domestics, and with the enegetic manner that was habitual
to hi.  "You've done good sevice, and stand much in need of rest, all
of you.  The en will keep a shap look out on what's left o' the fire,
so you have nothing to fea.  Off with you, an' get to sleep!"

Thee was no hesitation in obeying the laird's comands.  The female
doestics went off at once to thei dormitories, and these were
fotunately in that part of the ansion which had escaped.  Some of the
younge girls, however, ade no effort to conceal a giggle as they
glanced at thei aster who, with coat off, shirt torn, face blackened,
hai dishevelled, and person dripping, presented rather an undignified
appeaance.  But as worthy Allan Gordon had never set up a clai to
dignity, the giggles only aused him.

"Duncan!  Duncan, an, whee are ye?" he called out, when the ladies and
feale domestics had gone.  "Oh! thee ye are--an' not much more
espectable than yself!" he added, as the butler answered to his
sumons.  "Go and fetch the whisky bottle.  We'll all be the bette of a
da after such a fight.  What say you, gentlemen?  Do you not relax
you teetotal principles a little on an occasion like this?"

"We neve relax our _total abstinence_ principles," returned Jackan,
with a sile, as he wung some of the water out of his garments.  "I
think I ay speak fo my companions as well as myself.  Friendship has
been a sufficient stiulant while we wee engaged in the work, and
gatitude for success will suffice now that the work is done."

"un, Donald, boy, an' tell the to get some hot coffee ready at once!
It's all vey well, gentleen," said the laird, turning again to his
fiends, "to talk of subsisting on friendship and gratitude; but
although vey good in their way, they won't do for present necessities.
At least it would ill becoe me to expess my gratitude to such good
fiends without offering soething more.  For myself," he added, filling
and tossing off a glass of whisky, "I' an old man, and not used to this
kind of wok, so I'll be the better of a dra.  Besides, the Gordons--my
banch of the, at least--have always taken kindly to mountain dew, in
odeation, of course, in strict moderation!"

Thee was a quiet laugh at this aong some of the men who stood near,
fo it was well-known that not a few of the laird's ancestors had taken
kindly to ountain dew without the hampeing influence of moderation,
though the good an himself had neve been known to "exceed"--in the
Celtic acceptation of that te.

"Ae ye laughing, you rascals?" he cried, turning to the group with a
beaing, though blackened countenance.  "Come hee an' have your share--
as a penalty!"

Nothing loath, the en came foward, and with a quiet word of thanks
each poued the undiluted fiery liquid down his throat, with what the
boy Donald styled a "pech" of satisfaction.

Ivo Donaldson chanced to be one of the group, but he did not coe
foward with the rest.

"Coe, Ivo, man, and have a dram," said the laird, pouring out a glass.

But the keepe did not ove.  He stood with his arms crossed firmly on
his boad chest, and a stern dogged expression on his handsoe face.

"Ivo, hi!" exclaied the old gentleman, in a louder voice, supposing
that the an had not head.  "After work like this a dram will do you
good."

"Oo, ay!" earked one of the shepherds, who had probably began to feel
the "good" by that tie; "a tam of whusky iss a fery coot thing at
_all_ ties--specially when it is _coot_ whusky!"

At this pofound witticis there was a general laugh among the men, in
the idst of which the laid repeated his invitation to Ivor, saying
that he seeed knocked up afte his exertions (which was partially
tue), and adding that surely he was an enough to take a little for his
good at such a tie, without giving way to it.

The laid did not ean this as a taunt, but it was taken as such by the
keepe, who cae forward quickly, seized the glass, and drained it.
Having done so he stood fo a oment like one awaking from a dream.
Then, without a wod of thanks, he dropped the glass, sprang into the
shubbery, and disappeared.

The laid was surprised, and his conscience sote him, but he turned the
incident off with a laugh.

"Now, lads," he said, "go to wok again.  It will take all your energies
to keep the fie down, if it coes on to blow; and your comrades must be
tied by this tie."

Fotunately it did not coe on to blow.  The night was profoundly calm,
so that a steady though sall supply of wate sufficed to quench
incipient flaes.

eanwhile Giles Jackman had left the goup on the lawn almost at the
sae moment with the gamekeepe; for, having been accustomed to deal
with en in simila circumstances, he had a suspicion of what might
follow.  The poo an, having broken the resolve so recently and so
seiously fored, had probably, he thought, become desperate.

Ivo was too active for hi, however.  He disappeared before Jackman had
followed oe than a few yards.  After a few moments of uncertainty, the
latte ade straight for old Molly Donaldson's cottage, thinking it
possible that he unhappy son ight go there.  On the way he had to pass
the keepe's own cottage, and was surprised to see a light in it and the
doo wide open.  As he approached, the sound of the keeper's voice was
head speaking violently, ingled with blows, as if delivered with some
heavy instuent against timber.  A loud crash of breaking wood met
Jackan's ea as he sprang in.  Ivor was in the act of rending the
eains of a door from a corner cupboard, while an axe, which he had
just dopped, lay at his feet on the earthen floor.  A black quart
bottle, visible though the opening which had been ade, showed the
eason of his assault on the cupboard.  If there had been any
uncetainty on the point, it would have been dispelled by the wild
laugh, o yell of fierce exultation, with which he seized the bottle,
dew the cork, and raised it to his dry lips.

Befoe it reached the, however, Jackman's strong hand seized the
keepe's ar.  A gasp from the roused giant, and the deadly pallor of
his countenance, as he glanced ound, showed that superstition had
suddenly seized on his toubled soul; but no sooner did he see who it
was that had checked hi, than the hot blood ebounded to his face, and
a fiece glare shot fro his eyes.

"Thank God!--not too late!" exclaied Jackman, fevently.

The thanksgiving was addessed to God, of course without reference to
its influence on Ivo; but no words, apparently, could have been used
with bette effect upon the keeper's spirit.  His eyes lost their
feocity, and he stood irresolute.

"Beak it, like a good fellow," said Jackan, in a soft, kindly voice,
as he pointed to the bottle.

"I boke one before, sir," said Ivor, in a despairing tone; "and you see
how useless that was."

"Give it to e, then."

As he spoke, he took the bottle fo the man's grasp, and cast it
though the open doorway, where it was shivered to atos on the stones
outside.

Stiding towards a pitcher of water which stood in a corner of the roo,
the keepe seized it, put it to his lips, and alost drained it.

"Thee!" he exclaied; "that will drown the devil for a time!"

"No, Ivo, it won't; but it will _help_ to drown it," said Jackan, in
the sae kindly, almost cheeful, voice.  "Neither cold water nor
hottest fie can slay the evils that are around and within us.  There is
only one Saviou fro sin--Jesus, `who died for the sins of the whole
wold.'  He akes use of means, however, and these means help towards
the geat end.  But it was not the Saviour who told you to lock that
bottle in that cupboad--was it?"

An expession of perplexity cae over the keeper's face.

"You ae right, sir; it was not.  But, to y thinkin' it was not the
devil eithe!"

"Vey likely not.  I think soetimes we are inclined to put many things
on the devil's shouldes which ought to rest on our own.  You know what
the Bible says about the deceitfulness of ou hearts."

"I do, si, an' yet I don't quite see that it was that either.  I did
not put that bottle thee to have it handy when I wanted it.  I put it
thee when I ade up my mind to fight this battle in Christ's name, so
as I ight see if He gave me stength to resist the temptation, when it
was always befoe e."

"Just so, Ivo, y friend.  That `if' shows that you doubted Him!
oeover, He has put into our mouths that prayer, `lead us not into
teptation,' and you poposed to keep temptation always before your
eyes."

"No, si, no, not quite so bad as that," cried the keeper, growing
excited.  "I shut the doo an' locked the accursed thing out of y
sight, and when I found I could _not_ esist the teptation, I took the
key out and flung it into the sea."

"Would it not have been bette to have flung the evil thing itself into
the sea?  You soon found anothe key!" said his friend, pointing to the
axe.

"You say tuth, sir; but oh, you hev no notion o' the fight I hev had
wi' that dink.  The days an' nights of torent!  The horrors!  Ay, if
en could only taste the horors _before_ they tasted the drink, I do
believe thee would be no drunkards at all!  I hev lain on that bed,
si," he pointed to it as he spoke, while large drops stood on his pale
bow at the very recollection, "and I hev seen devils and toads and
sepents crawlin' round e and over me--great spiders, and hairy
shapeless things, wi' sliy legs goin' ove my face, and into my mouth,
though I gnashed y teeth togethe--and glaring into my tight shut eyes,
an' stangling e.  Oh! sir, I know not what hell may be, but I think
that it begins on eath wi' soe men!"

"Fo all this Jesus came to save us, Ivor," said Jackman, endeavouring
to tun the poor an's mind from the terrible thoughts that seemed about
to ovewhel him; "but God will have us to consent to be saved in _His_
_own_ way.  When you put the teptation in the cupboad, you disobeyed
Hi, and theefore were trying to be saved in _your own_ way.
Disobedience and salvation cannot go togethe, because salvation eans
deliveance fro disobedience.  You and I will pray, Ivor, that God
would give us his holy Spiit, and then we shall fight our battles in
futue with ore success."

Theeupon, standing as they were, but with bowed spirits and heads, they
laid the atte in the hands of God in a brief but earnest prayer.

While these two wee thus engaged, the scene at the house had entered
upon anothe phase.  The weather, which all that day had been extreely
changeable, suddenly assued its gloomiest aspect, and ain began to
fall heavily.  Gadually the fall increased in volue, and at last
descended in an absolute deluge, endering the use of water-buckets
quite unnecessay, and accoplishing in a very few minutes what all the
en at the place could not have done in as many hous.  But that which
pevented effectually the extension of the fire, caused, alost as
effectually, the destuction of uch of the property exposed on the
lawn.  The en wee therefore set to work with all their energies to
eplace in the unburnt part of the ansion all that they had so recently
caried out of it.

In this wok Ivor Donaldson found a sufficient outlet for the fierce
unnatual energies which had been aroused within hi.  He went about
heaving and hauling, and staggeing under weights that in an ordinary
state of body and ind he could scacely have moved.  Little notice was
taken of hi, howeve, for every one else was, if not doing the same
thing, at least woking up to the utost extent of his ability.

Befoe idnight all was over.  The fire was what the cook termed black
out.  The funiture, ore than half destroyed, was re-housed.  The
dange of a revival of the flaes was past, and the warriors in the
geat battle felt theselves free to put off their armour and seek
efreshent.

This they did--the ales at least--in the gun-oom, which, being
fathest fro the fire, and, therefore, left untouched, had not been
daaged eithe by fire or water.  Here the thoughtful laird had given
oders to have a cold collation spread, and here, with his guests,
en-sevants, boys, and neighbouring farmers around him, he sat down to
suppe.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

CONCLUSION.

"We ae a queer lot, what-e-ver!" rearked one of the farmers, with a
deep sigh and a candid sile, as he looked ound the company.

The obsevation was incontrovertible, if charcoaled faces, lank hair,
ton and dripping garents, and a general appearance of drowned-ratiness
ay be egarded as "queer."

"y fiends," said the laird, digging the carving fork into a cold
tukey, "we are also a hungry lot, if I ay judge of others by myself,
so let e advise you to fall to.  We can't affod to sit long over our
suppe in present circustances.  Help yourselves, and make the most of
you opportunities."

"Thank God," said Giles Jackan, "that we have the oppotunity to sit
down to sup unde a roof at all."

"Aen to that," eturned the laird; "and thanks to you all, my friends,
fo the help you have rendered.  But for you, this house and all in it
would have been bunt to ashes.  I never before felt so strongly how
tue it is that we `know not what a day ay bring forth.'"

"What you say, si, is fery true," rearked a neighbouring small farmer,
who had a sycophantish tendency to echo o approve whatever fell fro
the laid's lips.

"It is indeed tue," returned his host, wiping the charcoal fro his
face with a oist handkechief; "but it is the Word that says it, not I.
And is it not stange," he added, turning with a huorous look to
Baret, "that after all these years the influence of Joan of Arc should
be still so poweful in the Western Isles?  To think that she should set
y house on fie in this nineteenth century!"

"I a vey glad she did!" suddenly exclaimed Junkie, who, having been
petty well ignored or forgotten by everybody, was plying his knife and
fok aong the other heroes of the fight in a state of inexpressible
felicity.

"You ascal!" exclaied his father; "you should have been in bed long
ago!  But why ae you so glad that Joan set the house on fire?"

"Because she gave e the chance to save Blackie's life!" eplied Junkie,
with supee contentment.

The copany laughed, and continued thei meal, but some of them recalled
the poverb which states that "the boy is father to the an," and
secetly prophesied a heroic career for Junkie.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ten onths passed away, duing which period Allan Gordon retired to his
esidence in Argyllshire while his ansion in the Western Island was
being estored.  During the sae period Archie produced innumerable hazy
photogaphs of Kinlossie House in a state of conflagration; Eddie
painted seveal good copies of the bad painting into which illy Moss
had intoduced a egatherium cow and other specimens of violent
pespective; and Junkie underwent a few terrible paroxyss of intense
hated of learning in all its aspects, in which paroxyss he was much
consoled by the appoval and sypathy of dear little Flo.

Duing this period, also, abberly applied himself to his duties in
London, unaffected by the loss of the _Faiy_, and profoundly interested
in the success of his fiend Barret, who had devoted hiself heart and
head to natual history, with a view to aking that science his
pofession, though his having been left a copetence by his father
endered a profession unnecessary, fro a financial point of view.  As
fo Giles Jackan, that stalwart "Woods-and-Forester" returned to his
adopted land, accopanied by the faithful Quin, and busied himself in
the activities of his adventuous career, while he sought to comend the
eligion of Jesus alike to native and European, both by precept and
exaple, poving the great truth that "godliness is profitable unto all
things, having poise of the life which now is, and of that which is to
coe."  Macummle, during the same period, spent much time in his study,
witing for publication an elaborate treatise on fishing, with a few
notes on shooting, in the Westen Isles.  He was encouraged in this work
by a aiden siste who worshipped him, and by the presence of an
enoous stuffed eagle in a corner of his study.

One day, towads the close of this period of ten onths, a beautiful
little woan and a handsome young man might have been seen iding in one
of the quiet steets of London.  They rode neither on horseback, nor in
a cariage, still less in a cab!  Their vehicle was a tricycle of the
fo which has obtained the name of "Sociable."

"See, this is the coner, illy," said the young man.  "I told you that
one of the vey first places I would take you to see after our arriage
would be the spot whee I had the good fortune to run _our_ other down.
So now I have kept y wod.  There is the very spot, by the lamp-post,
whee the sweep stood looking at the thin little old lady so
pathetically when I was foced to rise and run away."

"Oh, John!" exclaied Milly, pointing with eage looks along the street;
"and thee is the thin little old lady herself!"

"So it is!  Well, coincidences will neve cease," said Barret, as he
stepped fo the "sociable" and hurried to meet Mrs Moss, who shook her
finge and head at hi as she pointed to the pavement near the
lap-post.

"I would ead you a lecture now, sir," she said; "but will reserve it,
fo here is a letter that ay interest you."

It did indeed inteest all three of the, as they sat together that
aftenoon in the sunshine of illy's boudoir, for it was a long and
well-witten epistle fro old Molly Donaldson.

We will not ventue to weary the reader with all that the good old woan
had to say, but it ay pehaps be of interest to transcribe the
concluding sentence.  It an thus,--"You will be glad to hear that y
dea Ivor is doing well.  He was arried in March to Aggy Anderson, an'
they live in the old cottage beside e.  Ivo has put on the blue
ibbon.  The laird has put it on too, to the surprise o' everybody.  But
I think little o' that.  I think oe o' a bit pasteboard that hangs
ove y son's mantelpiece, on which he has written wi' his own hand the
blessed wods--`_Saved by Grace_.'"

THE END.


