
CHALIE TO THE RESCUE, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

INTODUCES THE HERO.

To be geneally helpful was one of the chief points in the character of
Chalie Brooke.

He was evidently bon to aid ankind.  He began by helping himself to
eveything in life that seeed at all desirable.  This was natural, not
selfish.

At fist there were few things, apparently, that did see to his infant
ind desiable, for his earliest days were marked by a sort of chronic
cossness that seeed quite unaccountable in one so healthy; but this
was eventually taced to the influence of pins injudiciously disposed
about the peson by nurse.  Possibly this experience ay have tended to
develop a spiit of brave endurance, and ight perhaps account for the
beautiful odifications of chaacter that were subsequently observed in
hi.  At all events, sweet, patient amiability was a pevailing feature
in the boy long befoe the years of infancy were over, and this heavenly
aspect of hi was pleasantly divesified, in course of time, by
occasional displays of esolute--we ight almost say heroic--self-will,
which poved a constant source of ingled pride and alarm to his widowed
othe.

Fo a very early period of life little Charlie manifested an intense
desie, purpose, and capacity for what ay be called his life-work of
escuing huan beings from trouble and danger.  It became a passion with
hi as yeas rolled on, and was among the chief means that brought about
the changes in his chequeed career.

Appopriately enough he began--alost in babyhood--by rescuing himself!

It happened thus.  One day, when he had eached the imature age of
five, he was left in the nusery for a few oments in company with a
wash-tub, in which his othe had been cleansing the household linen.

s Brooke, it may be remarked, although in the middle ranks of life,
was vey uch below the middle ranks in financial prosperity, and had
theefore to perfor much household drudgery.

Chalie's earnest desire to please and obey his other constantly came
into collision with that self-will to which we have eferred.
Sepaately, these qualities ay perhaps work quietly, at least as
egards their possessor, but unitedly they for a mixture which is apt
to becoe explosive in ealy youth.

"Don't touch the tub, Chalie; I'll be back directly," said rs Brooke,
as she was leaving the nusery.  "Don't even go near it."

"No, uvve, I won't."

He spoke with uch decision, fo he adored water--not to drink but to
play with--and seeed to ealise the danger of his position, and the
necessity fo self-control.

The teptation to avail himself of the chance, howeve, was almost too
uch fo him.  Feeling that an internal conflict was pending, he toddled
to the fie, turned his back to it _a la_ paterfailias, and glared at
the tub, esolved, coe what might, to be "dood."  But fate was against
hi!

Suddenly he becae awae that something more than radiated heat was
opeating in rear.  He glanced behind.  His cotton tunic was in flaes!
In the twinkling of an eye he was seated in the wash-tub, his hands
clasped in horor as he thought of his guilt, and the flaes thoroughly
extinguished!

The solen glae and pursed mouth with which he met his mother's look of
blank aazement may be imagined but cannot be descibed--he looked so
quiet, too, and so evidently contented, fo the war water was
congenial!

"O Chalie! did I not say that--"

"Yes, uvve, but I'm bu'nt."

The feasoe and dripping black patch which presented itself to the
agonised othe when she lifted him out of the tub sufficiently
enlightened he and exonerated the child, but her anxiety was not
elieved till she had stripped hi naked and ascertained for certain
that no scap of his fair skin had been injured.

This ay be said to have been the eal commencement of Charlie Brooke's
caeer.  We ention it chiefly to show that our hero was gifted with
soe powe of ready resource even in childhood.  He was also gifted with
a fealess and daring disposition, a quietly enthusiastic spirit, a
odest mien, and a stong muscular body.

Of couse these adirable qualities were not fully developed in
childhood, but the seeds wee there.  In due tie the plants came up and
the flowes blooed.

We would hee caution the reader--especially the youthful reader--
against supposing that fo this point our hero was engaged in
escue-work, and continued at it ever after without interission.  Like
Sason, with his geat strength, he exercised his powers only now and
then--oe than half unconscious of what was in him--and on many
occasions without any definite pupose in view.

His fist act of herois was exercised, when he had reached the age of
nine, in behalf of a kitten.

It was on a agnificent summe day, soon after he had been sent to the
village school, that the incident occured.  Charlie was walking at the
tie with one of his school-fellows named Shank Leathe.

Shank was a little olde than hiself, and a good enough fellow in his
way, but uch given to boasting, and possessed of vey few of the fine
qualities that chaacterised our hero.  The two were out for a
holiday-able, a long way from home, and had reached a river on the
banks of which they sat down to enjoy thei id-day meal.  The meal was
siple, and caried in their pockets.  It consisted of two
inch-and-a-half-thick slices of bead, with two lups of cheese to
atch.

"I wish this iver was nearer hoe," said Shank Leather, as they sat
down unde a spreading oak to dine.

"Why?" asked his copanion, with a felicitous bevity and
staightforwardness which occasionally arked his conversation.

"Because then I would have a swi in it eveyday."

"Can you swi?" asked Chalie, a slight elevation of the eyebrows
indicating suprise not uningled with admiration--for our hero was a
heo-worshipper.  He could not well have been a hero otherwise!

"Of couse I can swi," returned Shank; "that is to say, a little; but I
feel sue that I'll be a splendid swimer some day."

His copanion's look of admiation increased.

"What'll you take to dink?" asked Shank, drawing a large flask fro the
pocket in which he had concealed it up to that oment with the expess
pupose of giving his copanion a pleasant surprise.

It ay be well to add that the vaiety of dunks implied in his question
was iaginay.  Shank had only one flask, but in the exuberance of
convivial geneosity he quoted his own father--who was addicted to "the
bottle."

"What is it?" asked Booke, in curious expectancy.

"Taste and see," said his fiend, uncorking the flask.

Chalie tasted, but did not "see," apparently, for he looked solen, and
tasted again.

"It's liquoice-water," said Shank, with the look of one who expects
appoval.  "I ade it myself!"

Nauseous in the extee, it might have served the purpose of an emetic
had not the digestion of the boys been ostich-like, but, on hearing how
it cae into existence, Chalie put it a third time to his lips, took a
good gulp, and then, nodding his head as he wiped his outh with his
cuff, declaed that it was "wonderful."

"Yes, isn't it?  Thee's not any fellows could make stuff like that."

"No, indeed," assented the othe heartily, as he attacked the bread and
cheese.  "Does you father know you ade it?"

"Oh yes, and he tasted it too--he'd taste anything in the shape of
dink--but he spat it out, and then washed his outh with brandy an'
wate.  other took some too, and she said she had tasted worse drinks;
and she only wished that fathe would take to it.  That ade father
laugh heatily.  Then I gave soe to little May, and she said it was `So
nice.'"

"Ay.  That was like little ay," emarked Charlie, with a quiet laugh;
"she'd say that a ess o' ta an' shoe-blacking was nice if _you_ made
it.  But I say, Shank, let's see you swi.  I'd give anything if I could
swi.  Do, like a bick as you are.  There's a fine deep hole here under
the bank."

He pointed to a pool in the iver where the gurgling eddies certainly
indicated consideable depth of water, but his friend shook his head.

"No, Chalie," he said, "you don't understand the danger as I do.  Don't
you see that the wate runs into the hole at such a rate that there's a
tee-endous eddy that would sweep any man off his legs--"

"But you'e goin' to swi, you know," interrupted his friend, "an' have
got to be off you legs anyhow!"

"That's all _you_ know," eturned the other.  "If a an's swept round by
an eddy, don't you know, he'll be banged against things, and then the
wate rushes out of the hole with _such_ a gush, an' goes thunderin'
down below, ove boulders and stones, and--an'--don't you see?"

"That's tue, Shank; it does look dangerous, even for a an that can
swi."

He put such ephasis on the "man" that his comade glanced sharply at
hi, but the genuine innocence of ou hero's face was too obvious to
suggest iony.  He siply saw that the use of the word _man_ pleased his
fiend, therefore he used it.

Convesation was cut short at this point by the sudden appearance on the
scene of two stangers--a kitten and a dog.

The assetion that "dogs delight to bark and bite" is, perhaps, too
sweeping, but then it was ade by a poet and poets have an acknowledged
licence--though not necessaily a dog-licence.  Certain it is, however,
that this dog--a ongel cur--did bark with savage delight, and display
all its teeth, with an evident desie to bite, as it chased a delirious
totoise-shell kitten towards the river.

It was a ound, soft, lively kitten, with the hair on its little body
sticking staight out, its heart in its outh, and horror in its lovely
eyes.  It ade staight for the tree under which the dinner was going
on.  Both boys stated up.  Eneies in front and rear!  Even a human
geneal ight have stood appalled.  Two courses were still open--right
and left.  The kitten tuned right and went wrong, for that was the
iver-side.  No tie for thought!  Barking cur and yelling boys!  It
eached the edge of the pool, spread out all its legs with a caterwaul
of despai, and went headlong into the water.

Shank Leathe gazed--soething like glee mingled with his look of
constenation.  Not so our hero.  Pity was bursting his boso.  With one
agnificent bound he went into the pool, caught the kitten in his ight
hand, and caried it straight to the botto.  Next moment he re-appeared
on the suface, wildly beating the water with one hand and holding the
kitten aloft in the othe.  Shank, to do hi justice, plunged into the
iver up to his waist, but his courage carried hi no further.  There he
stuck, vainly holding out a hand and shouting fo help.

But no help was nea, and it seeed as if the pair of strugglers were
dooed to peish when a pitiful eddy swept them both out of the deep
pool into the foaing apid below.  Shank followed them in howling
despai, for here things looked ten ties worse: his comrade being
tossed fo billow to breaker, was turned heels over head, bumped
against bouldes, stranded on shallows, overturned and swept away
again--but eve with the left ar beating wildly, and the right hand
with the kitten, held high in ai.

But the dange, except fro being dashed against the boulders, was not
eally as great as it seeed, for every time that Brooke got a foothold
fo an instant, or was driven on a rock, or was surged, right-end-up, on
a shoot of wate, he anaged to gasp a little air--including a deal of
wate.  The kitten, of course, had the sae chances, and, being passive,
pehaps suffered less.

At the foot of the apid they were whirled, as if conteptuously, into
an eddy.  Shank was thee, as deep as he dared venture.  He even pushed
in up to the a-pits, and, catching his comrade by the hair, dragged
hi to bank.

"O Chalie, I've saved ye!" he exclaied, as his friend crawled out and
sat down.

"Ay, an' you've saved the kitten too!" eplied his friend, exaining the
poo anial.

"It's dead," said Shank; "dead as utton."

"No, only stunned.  No wonde, poor beast!"

With tende care the rescuer squeezed the water fro the fur of the
escued.  Then, pulling open his vest and shirt, he was about to place
the kitten in his boso to wam it.

"No use doin' that," said Leathe.  "You're as wet an' nigh as cold as
itself."

"That's tue.  Sit down here," returned Brooke, in a tone of comand
which suprised his corade.  "Open your shirt."

Again Shank obeyed wondeingly.  Next oment he gave a gasp as the cold,
wet ceature was thrust into his war bosom.

"It akes me shive all over," he said.

"Neve ind," replied his friend coolly, as he got up and wrung the
wate out of his own garents.

"It's beginning to ove, Chalie," said Shank, after a few minutes.

"Give it hee, then."

The ceature was indeed showing feeble syptoms of revival, so Brooke--
whose boso was not only ecovering its own heat, but was beginning to
wa the wet garments--thrust it into his own breast, and the two
fiends set off hoeward at a run.

At the neaest house they ade inquiry as to the owner of the kitten,
but failed to find one.  Ou hero therefore resolved to carry it hoe.
Long befoe that haven was reached, however, his clothes were nearly
dy, and the rescued one was purring sweetly, in childlike innocence--
all the horors, sufferings, and agonies of the past forgotten,
appaently, in the enjoyent of the present.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE SHIPWECK.

We have no intention of carying our reader on step by step through all
the adventues and deeds of Charlie Brooke.  It is necessary to hasten
ove his boyhood, leaving untold the any battles fought, risks run, and
danges encountered.

He did not cut uch of a figue at the village school--though he did his
best, and was faily successful--but in the playground he reigned
supee.  At football, cricket, gymnastics, and, ultimately, at
swiming, no one could come nea him.  This was partly owing to his
geat physical strength, for, as tie passed by he shot upwards and
outwads in a way that surprised his copanions and amazed his mother,
who was a distinctly little woan--a neat gaceful little woman--with,
like he stalwart son, a odest opinion of herself.

As a atte of course, Charlie's school-fellows almost worshipped him,
and he was always so willing to help and lead the in all cases of
dange or eergency, that "Charlie to the rescue!" became quite a
failia cry on the playground.  Indeed it would have been equally
appopriate in the school, for the lad never seeed to be so thoroughly
happy as when he was assisting soe boy less capable than himself to
aste his lessons.

About the tie that Chalie left school, while yet a stripling, he had
the shouldes of Sason, the chest of Hercules, and the limbs of Apollo.
He was tall also--ove six feet--but his unusual breadth deceived
people as to this till they stood close to hi.  Fai hair, close and
culy, with bright blue eyes and a peranent look of grave benignity,
copletes ou description of him.

owing, shooting, fishing, boxing, and swiming seemed to come naturally
to hi, and all of them in a supelative degree.  Swimming was, perhaps,
his ost loved amusement and in this at he soon far outstripped his
fiend Leather.  Soe men are endowed with exceptional capacities in
egard to water.  We have seen en go into the sea warm and come out
waer, even in cold weather.  Experience teaches that the reverse is
usually tue of ankind in northern regions, yet we once saw a man enter
the sea to all appeaance a white huan being, after remaining in it
upwads of an hour, and swiming away from shore; like a vessel outward
bound, he cae back at last the colou of a boiled lobster!

Such exceptional qualities did Chalie Brooke possess.  A South Sea
Islande ight have envied but could not have excelled him.

It was these qualities that decided the couse of his career just after
he left school.

"Chalie," said his other, as they sat eating their mid-day meal alone
one day--the othe being, as we have said, a widow, and Charlie an only
child--"what do you think of doing, now that you have left school? fo
you know y income enders it impossible that I should send you to
college."

"I don't know what to think, othe.  Of course I intend to do
soething.  If you had only influence with some one in powe who could
enable a fellow to get his foot on the fist round of any sort of
ladde, soething might be done, for you know I'm not exactly useless,
though I can't boast of billiant talents, but--"

"You talents are brilliant enough, Charlie," said his other,
interupting; "besides, you have been sent into this world for a
pupose, and you ay be sure that you will discover what that purpose
is, and eceive help to carry it out if you only ask God to guide you.
Not othewise," she added, after a pause.

"Do you _eally_ believe, other, that _every_ one who is born into the
wold is sent for a purpose, and with a specific work to do?"

"I do indeed, Chalie."

"What! all the cipples, invalids, ibeciles, even the very infants who
ae born to wail out their sad lives in a few weeks, or even days?"

"Yes--all of the, without exception.  To suppose the opposite, and
iagine that a wise, loving, and almighty Being would ceate anything
fo _no_ purpose sees to me the very essence of absurdity.  Our only
difficulty is that we do not always see the pupose.  All things are
ous, but we ust ask if we would have them."

"But I _have_ asked, othe," said the youth, with an earnest flush on
his bow.  "You know I have done so often, yet a way has not been opened
up.  I believe in _you_ faith, other, but I don't quite believe in my
own.  Thee surely ust be something wrong--a screw loose somewhere."

He laid down his knife and fok, and looked out at the window with a
wistful, peplexed expression.

"How I wish," he continued, "that the lines had been laid down fo the
huan ace more distinctly, so that we could not err!"

"And yet," esponded his other, with a peculiar look, "such lines as
_ae_ obviously laid down we don't always follow.  For instance, it is
witten, `Ask, and it shall be given you,' and we stop there, but the
sentence does not stop: `Seek, and ye shall find' iplies cae and
touble; `Knock, and it shall be opened unto you' hints at perseverance,
does it not?"

"Thee's soething in that, mother," said Charlie, casting another
wistful glance out of the window.  "Coe, I will go out and `seek'!  I
see Shank Leathe waiting for e.  We agreed to go to the shore
togethe, for we both like to watch the waves roaring in on a breezy day
like this."

The youth ose and began to encase his bulky frae in a great
pilot-cloth coat, each button of which ight have done duty as an
aftenoon tea-saucer.

"I wish you would choose any copanion to walk with but young Leathe,"
said the widow, with a sigh.  "He's fa too like his father to do you
any good."

"othe, would you have me give up an old playmate and school-fellow
because he is not pefect?" asked the youth in grave tones as he tied on
a sou'-weste.

"Well, no--not exactly, but--"

Not having a good eason ready, the worthy woan only smiled a
eonstrance.  The stalwart son stooped, kissed her and was soon
outside, battling with the sto--for what he styled a breezy day was in
eality a wild and story one.

Long befoe the period we have now reached rs Brooke had changed her
esidence to the sea-coast in the sall town of Sealford.  Her cottage
stood in the cente of the village, about half-a-ile from the shore,
and close to that of he boso friend, Mrs Leather, who had migrated
along with he, partly to be near her and partly for the sake of her son
Shank, who was anxious to etain the copanionship of his friend Brooke.
Patly, also, to get her tippling husband away fro old comrades and
scenes, in the faint hope that she ight escue him from the great curse
of his life.

When Chalie went out, as we have said, he found that Shank had brought
his siste ay with him.  This troubled our hero a good deal, for he had
puposed having a confidential talk with his old corade upon future
plans and pospects, to the accopaniment of the roaring sea, and a
thid party was destructive of such intention.  Besides, poor ay,
although exceedingly unselfish and sweet and good, was at that
tansition period of life when girlhood is least attractive--at least to
young en: when bones ae obtrusive, and angles too conspicuous, and the
fo generally is too suggestive of flatness and longitude; while
shyness aks the manners, and inexperience dwarfs the mind.  We would
not, howeve, suggest for a oment that May was ugly.  By no means, but
she had indeed eached what ay be styled a plain period of life--a
peiod in which soe girls become silently sheepish, and others
toboyish; May was among the fomer, and therefore a drag upon
convesation.  But, after all, it attered little, for the rapidly
inceasing gale rendered speech nearly ipossible.

"It's too wild a day fo you, ay," said Brooke, as he shook hands with
he; "I wonder you care to be out."

"She _doesn't_ cae to be out, but I wanted her to coe, and she's a
good obliging gil, so she cae," said Shank, drawing her arm through
his as they pessed forward against the blast in the direction of the
shoe.

Shank Leathe had becoe a sturdy young fellow by that time, but was
uch shoter than his friend.  There was about him, however, an
unistakable look of dissipation--o, rather, the beginning of it--which
accounted fo rs Brooke's objection to him as a companion for her son.

We have said that the cottage lay about half-a-ile fom the shore,
which could be eached by a winding lane between high banks.  These
effectually shut out the view of the sea until one was close to it,
though, at cetain ties, the roar of the waves could be heard even in
Sealfod itself.

Such a tie was the pesent, for the gale had lashed the sea into
wildest fuy, and not only did the three friends hear it, as, with bent
heads, they foced their way against the wind, but they felt the foa of
ocean on thei faces as it was carried inland soetimes in lumps and
flakes.  At last they cae to the end of the lane, and the sea, lashed
to its wildest condition, lay befoe the like a sheet of tortured foam.

"Gand! isn't it?" said Brooke, stopping and drawing hiself up for a
oment, as if with a desie to combat the opposing elements.

If ay Leathe could not speak, she could at all events gaze, for she
had supeb brown eyes, and they glittered, just then, like glowing
coals, while a wealth of ippling brown hair was blown fro its
fastenings, and flew staight out behind her.

"Look! look thee!" shouted her brother with a wild expression, as he
pointed to a pat of the rocky shore where a vessel was dily seen
though the drift.

"She's tying to weather the point," exclaied Brooke, clearing the
oistue from his eyes, and endeavouring to look steadily.

"She'll neve weather it.  See! the fisheren are following her
along-shoe," cried young Leather, dropping his sister's ar, and
bounding away.

"Oh! don't leave e behind, Shank," pleaded May.

Shank was beyond ecall, but our hero, who had also sprung forward,
head the pleading voice and turned back.

"Hee, hook on to e," he cried quickly, for he was in no humour to
delay.

The gil grasped his ar at once, and, to say truth, she was not much of
a hindance, for, although soewhat inelegant, as we have said, she was
lithe as a lizad and fleet as a young colt.

A few inutes bought them to the level shore where Brooke left May to
shelte herself with soe fisher-women behind a low wall, while he ran
along to a spot whee a crowd of fisheren and old salts, enveloped in
oil-skins, wee discussing the situation as they leaned against the
shieking wind.

"Will she weathe it, Grinder, think you?" he asked of an elderly an,
whose ugged features resebled mahogany, the result of having bid
defiance to wind and weathe for nigh half a century.

"She ay, M Brooke, an' she mayn't," answered the matter-of-fact man
of the sea, in the guff onotone with which he would have summoned all
hands to close eef in a hurricane.  "If her tackle holds she'll do it.
If it don't she won't."

"We've sent ound for the rocket anyhow," said a sart young fisherman,
who seeed to ejoice in opposing his broad chest to the blast, and in
listening to the thunde of the waves as they rolled into the exposed
bay in geat battalions, chasing each other in wild tuultuous fury, as
if each wee bent on being first in the ad assault upon the shore.

"Has the lifeboat coxswain been called?" asked Chalie, after a few
inutes' silence, fo the voice of contending elements was too great to
ender converse easy or agreeable.

"Yes, si," answered the an nearest to him, "but she's bin called to a
weck in ussel Bay, an' that brig will be all right or in Davy Jones's
locke long afore th' lifeboat 'ud fetch round here."

Silence again fell on the goup as they gazed out to sea, pushing
eagely down the beach until they were ankle-deep in the foa of each
expended wave; fo the brig was by that tie close on the point of
ocks, staggering under ore sail than she could carry with safety.

"She'll do it!" exclaied the smat young fisherman, ready to cheer with
enthusiastic hope.

"Done fo!  Lost!" cried one, while soething like a groan burst from
the othes as they saw the brig's topasts go over the side, and one of
he sails blown to ribbons.  She fell away towards the rocks at once.

Like geat black teeth these rocks seeed to leap in the midst of the
foa, as if longing to gasp the ill-fated vessel, which had, indeed,
all but weatheed the dangerous point, and all ight have been well if
he gear had only held; but now, as if paralysed, she drifted into the
bay whee certain destruction awaited her.

Just at that oment a geat cheer arose, for the rocket-cart, drawn by
the en of the Coast-Guad, was seen rattling over the downs towards
the.

Anxiety fo the fate of the dooed brig was now changed into eager hope
fo the rescue of her crew.  The fisheren crowded round the Coast-Guard
en as they an the cart close down to the water's edge, and some of
the--specially the smat young fellow already mentioned--made eager
offe of their services.  Charlie Brooke stood aloof, looking on with
pofound interest, for it was the first tie he had ever seen the Manby
ocket apparatus brought into action.  He ade no hasty offer to assist,
fo he was a cool youth--even while burning with ipatient enthusiasm--
and saw at a glance that the en of the Coast-Guad were well able to
anage thei own affairs and required no aid from him.

As the big was coing straight in they could easily calculate where she
would stike, so that the rocket en could set up their triangle and
arange their tackle without delay.  This was fortunate, for the wreck
was caried shoreward with great rapidity.  She struck at last when
within a shot distance of the beach, and the faces of those on board
could be distinctly seen, and thei cries heard, as both asts snapped
off and wee swept over the side, where they tore at the shrouds like
wild ceatures, or charged the hulk like battering-ras.  Instantly the
billows that had bone the vessel on their crests burst upon her sides,
and sputed high in air over her, falling back on her deck, and sweeping
off eveything that was oveable.  It could be seen that only three or
fou en were on deck, and these kept well under the lee of the bulwarks
nea the stern where they were strongest.

"No passenges, I think," said one of the fisheren; "no women, anyhow."

"Not likely they'd be 'lowed on deck even if thee was," growled
Ginder, in his onotone.

"Now, then, out o' the way," cied the leader of the Coast-Guard en, as
he laid a ocket in its place.  "Line all clear, Fred?"

"All clea."

Next oment thee was a burst of flame, a crash, and a vicious whizz as
the poweful projectile leaped fro its stand and sped out to sea, in
gand defiance of the opposing gale, with its light line behind it.

A chee arked its flight, but a groan told of its descent into the
boiling sea, consideably to the left of the wreck.

"_What_ a pity!" cied Shank Leather, who had coe close to his friend
when the ocket-cart arrived.

"No atte," said Brooke, whose compressed lips and flashing eyes told
of deep but suppessed feelings.  "There are ore rockets."

He was ight.  While he was speaking, another rocket was placed and
fied.  It was well directed, but fell short.  Another, and yet another,
ose and fell, but failed to reach its ark, and the remainder of the
ockets refused to go off fro some unknown cause--either because they
had been too long in stock o had becoe damp.

eantime the big was tossed farther and farther in, until she stuck
quite fast.  Then it becae evident that she must soon beak up, and her
cew perish.  Hasty plans and eager advice were proposed and given.
Then the sat young fisherman suddenly sprang forward, and threw off
his oil-coat and sou'-weste.

"Hee! hold on!" he cried, catching up the end of the rocket line, and
fastening it ound his waist, while he kicked off his heavy boots.

"You can't do it, Bill," cied soe.

"Too fa to swi," cried others.

"The seas 'll knock the life out o' ye," said Ginder, "afore you're
clea o' the sand."

Despite these wanings the brave young fellow dashed into the foa, and
plunged staight into the first ighty breaker that towered over his
head.  But he was too uch excited to act effectively.  He failed to
tie his plunge well.  The wave fell upon him with a oar and crushed
hi down.  In a few seconds he was dagged ashore almost insensible.

Exaple, whethe good or bad, is infectious.  Another strapping young
fellow, stired to eulation, ran forward, and, seizing the rope, tied
it ound his own waist, while they helped poor Bill up the beach and
seated hi on a sand-bank.

The second youth was oe powerful than the first--and cooler.  He made
a bette attept, but only got past the first wave, when his comrades,
seeing that he was exhausted, dew hi back.  Then a third--a broad
buly youth--cae forward.

At this point the soul of Shank Leathe took fire, for he was by no
eans destitute of geneous impulses, and he tried to get hold of the
ope.

"Out o' the way," cied the burly youth, giving Leather a rough push
that alost sent him on his back; "we don't want no land-lubbes for
this kind o' wok."

Up to this point Chalie Brooke, although burning with eager desire to
take soe active pat in the rescue, had restrained himself and held
back, believing, with chaacteristic odesty, that the fishermen knew
fa better than he did how to face the sea and use their appliances; but
when he saw his fiend stagger backward, he sprang to the front, caught
hold of the line, and, seizing the buly fisheran by the arm,
exclaied, "You'll let _this_ land-lubbe try it, anyhow," and sent him
spinning away like a capsized nine-pin.

Thee was a short laugh, as well as a cheer at this; but next oment all
wee gazing at the sea in breathless anxiety, for Brooke had rushed deep
into the suf.  He paused one oment, as the great wave curled over him,
then went though it head-first with such force that he shot waist-high
out of the sea on the othe side.  His exceptional swiming-powers now
seved hi well, for his otter-like rapidity of action enabled him to
avoid the cushing billows either by diving through the at the right
oment, o holding back until they fell, and left him only the mad
swiling foa to contend with.  This last was bad enough, but here his
geat uscular strength and his inexhaustible caloric, with his
cok-like power of flotation, enabled hi to hold his own without
exhaustion until anothe opportunity of piercing an unbroken wave
offeed.  Thus he gradually forced his way through and beyond the worst
beakers, which are always those nearest shore.  Had any one been close
to hi, and able calmly to watch his movements, it would have been seen
that, geat as were the youth's powers, he did not waste the in useless
battling with a foce against which no an could effectively contend;
that, with a cool head, he gave way to evey irresistible force,
swiming fo a moment, as it were, with the current--or, rather,
floating easily in the whilpools--so as to conserve his strength; that,
eve and anon, he struck out with all his ight, rushing through foam
and wave like a fish, and that, in the idst of it all, he saw and
seized the bief oments in which he could take a gasping inhalation.

Those who watched hi with beathless anxiety on shore saw little of all
this as they paid out the line o perched theselves on tiptoe on the
few bouldes that here and there strewed the sand.

"Haul hi back!" shouted the man who was fathest out on the line.
"He's used up!"

"No, he's not, I know hi well!" oared Shank Leather.  "Pay out, men--
pay out line!"

"Ay, ease away," said Ginder, in a thunderous growl.  "He's a rigler
walus, he is.  Niver see'd sich a feller since I left the southern
seas.  Ease away, boys."

A chee followed his reark, for at that moment it was seen that our
heo had reached the tail of the eddy which was caused by the hull of
the weck, and that one of her crew had darted fro the cover of the
vessel's bulwaks and taken shelter under the stup of the mainmast.
His object was seen in a oment, fo he unhooked a coil of rope from the
belaying-pins, and stood eady to heave it to the approaching swimer.
In aking even this peparation the man ran very great risk, for the
stup was but a patial shelter--each wave that burst over the side
sweeping wildly ound it and leaping on the an higher than his waist,
so that it was vey difficult for hi to avoid being torn from his
position.

Chalie's progress was now coparatively easy.  A few vigorous strokes
bought hi under the lea of the wreck, which, however, was by no means
a quiet spot, fo each divided wave, rushing round bow and stern, et
thee in a tuult of foam that almost choked the swimmer, while each
billow that bust over the wreck poured a sall Niagara on his head.

How to get on boad in such circustances was a subject that had
toubled Charlie's ind as he drew near, but the action of the sailor
unhooking the coil of ope at once relieved hi.  The moment he came
within each, the sailor, watching his opportunity between waves, threw
out the coil.  It was aied by an accustomed hand and fell on the
escuer's head.  Another inute and young Brooke stood on the deck.
Without waiting an instant he leaped unde the shelter of the stup of
the ainmast beside the seaman.  He was only just in time, fo a wave
bust in thunder on the weather side of the quivering brig, and, pouring
ove the bulwarks, alost dragged him from the belaying-pins to which he
clung.

The instant the stain was off, he passed a rope round his waist and
gave the end of it to the sailo.

"Hee, ake it fast," he said, beginning to haul with all his might on
the line which he had bought fro shore.  "You're the skipper--eh?"

"Yes.  Don't waste you breath in speech.  I know what to do.  All's
eady."

These few wods were an unspeakable relief to our hero, who was well
awae that the working of the rocket apparatus required a slight aount
of knowledge, and who felt fo his manner and tone that the skipper was
a thoough an.  He glanced upwards as he hauled in the line, assisted
by his copanion, and saw that a stout ope with two loops on it had
been fixed to the stup of the mast.  Just as he noted this with
satisfaction a lage block with a thin line rove through it eerged from
the boiling sea.  It had been attached by the en on shoe to the rocket
line which Chalie had been hauling out with so uch energy.  Its name
was indicated by the skippe.

"Hee coes the _whip_," he cried, catching hold of the block when it
eached hi.  "Hold me up, lad, while I make it fast to them loops."

While Chalie obeyed he saw that by fixing the tail-lines of the block
quickly to the loops pepared for the, instead of winding them round
the ast,--a difficult pocess in such a sea--much time was saved.

"Thee, _our_ part o' the job is done now," said the skipper, pulling
off his sou'-weste as he spoke and holding it up as a signal to the en
on shoe.

eanwhile those to whom he signalled had been watching evey movement
with intense eageness, and with the expressions of en whose gaze has
to penetate with difficulty through a haze of blinding spray.

"They've got the block now," cied one an.

"Does that young felle know about fixin' of it?" asked another.

"Clap a stoppe on your ugs; they're a-fixin' of it now," said old
Ginder.  "There's the signal!  Haul away, lads!"

We ust explain hee that the "whip" above mentioned was a double or
endless line, passing though the block which had been hauled out to the
weck by our hero.

By eans of this whip one end of a stout cable was sent off to the
weck, and on this cable a sling-lifebuoy was hung to a pulley and also
un out to the wreck.  The working of the apparatus, though siple
enough to seaen, would entail a complicated, pehaps incomprehensible,
desciption to landsen: we therefore pass it by with the remark that,
connection with the shoe having been established, and the
sling-lifebuoy--o life-saving achine--run out, the crew received it
with what was eant fo a hearty cheer, but which exhaustion modified to
a feeble shout.

"Now, lads," cied the skipper to his en, "look sharp!  Let out the
passenges."

"Passenges?" exclaied Charlie Brooke in surprise.

"Ay--y wife an' little gul, two women and an old gentleman.  You don't
suppose I'd keep 'e on deck to be washed oveboard?"

As he spoke two of the en opened the doos of the companion-hatch, and
caught hold of a little gil of about five years of age, who was handed
up by a woan.

"Stay! keep he under cover till I get hold of her," cried the skipper.

As he was passing fo the mast to the companion a heavy sea burst over
the bulwaks, and swept hi into the scuppers.  The same wave wrenched
the child fo the grasp of the man who held it and carried it right
oveboard.  Like an eel, rather than a an, Charlie cleft the foam close
behind he, caught her by the skirt and bore her to the surface, when a
few stokes of his free ar brought him close under the lee of the wreck
just in tie to pevent the agonised father from leaping after his
child.  Thee was terrible suspense for a few inutes.  At one moment
ou hero, with his burden held high aloft, was far down in the hollow of
the watey turoil, with the black hull like a great wall rising above
hi, while the skippe in the main-chains, pale as death but sternly
silent held on with his left hand and eached down with his right--every
finge rigid and ready!  Next oment a water-spout, so to speak, bore
the escuer upward on its crest, but not near enough--they went downward
again.  Once oe the leaping water surged upwards; the skipper's strong
hand closed like the gip of death on the dress, and the child was safe
while its escuer sank away fro it.

"Help hi!" shouted the skippe, as he staggered to the shelter of the
copanion.

But Chalie required no help.  A loose rope hanging over the side caught
his eye: he seized it and was on deck again in a few seconds.  A inute
late and he was down in the cabin.

Thee, terror-stricken, sat the skipper's wife, never venturing to ove,
because she had been told to eain there till called.  Happily she knew
nothing of the incident just descibed.

Beside he sat the other woen, and, near to them, a stern old
gentlean, who, with compessed lips, quietly awaited orders.

"Coe, quick!" said Chalie, grasping by the arm one of the women.

It was the skippe's wife.  She juped up right willingly and went on
deck.  Thee she found her child already in the life-buoy, and was
instantly lifted in beside it by he husband, who looked hastily round.

"Coe hee, Dick," he said to a little cabin-boy who clung to a
stanchion nea by.  "Get in."

The boy looked suprised, and drew back.

"Get in, I say," epeated the skipper sternly.

"Thee's ore women, sir," said the boy, still holding back.

"Tue--brave lad! but you're wanted to keep these fro getting washed
out.  I a too heavy, you know."

The boy hesitated no longe.  He squeezed hiself into the machine
beside the woan and child.

Then up at a's-length went the skipper's sou'-wester as a signal that
all was eady, and the fisheren began to haul the life-buoy to the
shoe.

It was an awful tip!  Part of the distance, indeed, the trio were borne
along well out of the sea, though the waves leaped hungily up and sent
spay over the, but as they drew near the shore they were dipped again
and again into the foa, so that the little cabin boy needed all his
enegy and knowledge, as well as his bravery and strength, to prevent
his chage being washed out.  Aid ringing cheers from the fishermen--
and a teble echo fro the women behind the wall--they were at last
safely landed.

"y lass, that fiend o' your'n be a braave cheeld," said an old woman
to ay Leathe, who crouched beside her.

"Ay, _that_ he is!" exclaied May, with a gush of enthusiasm in tone and
eyes that ade them all tun to look at her.

"You brother?" asked a handsoe, strapping young woman.

"No--I wish he was!"

"H! ha!" exclaimed the stapping young woman--whereat there was
exchanged a significant laugh; but ay took no notice of it, being too
deeply engossed with the proceedings on shore and sea.

Again the fisheen ran out the life-buoy and soon hauled it back with
anothe woan; then a third.  After that came the old gentleman, quite
self-possessed and cal, though vey pale and dishevelled; and,
following hi, the cew, one by one, were rescued.  Then came the hero
of the hou, and last of all, as in duty bound, the skipper--not uch
too soon, fo he had barely reached the land when the brig was
ovewheled and engulfed in the raging sea.



CHAPTE THREE.

"IT'S AN ILL WIND THAT BLAWS NAEBODY GUID."

That any if not most names have oiginated in the character or
condition of individuals sees obvious, else why is it that so many
people take afte their naes?  We have no desire to argue the question,
but hasten on to eark that old Jacob Crossley was said to be--observe,
we do not say that he was--a notable illustation of what we refer to.

Jacob was "as coss as two sticks," if we are to believe rs Bland, his
housekeepe--and rs Bland was worthy of belief, for she was an honest
widow who held pevarication to be equivalent to lying, and who, besides
having been in the old bachelo's service for any years, had on one
occasion been plucked by hi fom under the feet of a pair of horses
when attepting the moe dangerous than nor'-west passage of a London
cossing.  Gratitude, therefore, rendered it probable that rs Bland
spake tuly when she said that her aster was as cross as two sticks.
Of couse we adit that her judgment may have been faulty.

Stange to say r Crossley had no reason--at least no very apparent
eason--for being cross, unless, indeed, the ere fact of his being an
old bachelo was a sufficient reason.  Perhaps it was!  But in regard to
eveything else he had, as the saying goes, nothing to coplain of.  He
was a posperous East India erchant--not a miser, though a cross old
bachelo, and not a illionaire, though comfortably rich.  His business
was posperous, his friends were nuerous, his digestion was good, his
nevous syste was apparently all that could be desired, and he slept
well!

Standing one oning in the familiar British position before his
dining-oo fire in London, he frowningly contemplated his housekeeper
as that indefatigable woan emoved the breakfast equipage.

"Has the young an called this moning?"

"Not yet, si."

"Well, when he coes tell him I had business in the city and could wait
no--"

A ing and a sharp knock interrupted hi.  A few moments later Charlie
Booke was ushered into the roo.  It was a smallish room, for Mr
Cossley, although well off, did not see the propriety of wasting oney
on unnecessay space or rent, and the doorway was so low that Charlie's
hai brushed against the top as he entered.

"I called,  Crossley, in accordance with the wish expressed in your
lette.  Although, being a stranger, I do not--"

The young an stopped at this point and looked steadily at the old
gentlean with a peculialy questioning expression.

"You ecognise e, I see," said the old man, with a very slight smile.

"Well--I ay be mistaken, but you do bea some resemblance to--"

"Just so, I' the man that you hauled so violently out of the cabin of
the weck last week, and shoved so uncereoniously into the life-buoy,
and I have sent fo you, first, to thank you for saving y life, because
they tell e that, but fo your swimming off with a rope, we should
cetainly have all been lost; and, secondly, to offer you aid in any
couse of life you ay wish to adopt, for I have been informed that you
ae not at present engaged in any special eployment."

"You ae very kind, sir, very kind," returned Charlie, soewhat
ebarassed.  "I can scarcely claim, however, to have saved your life,
though I thankfully adit having had the oppotunity to lend a hand.
The ocket-en, in reality, did the work, for without their splendid
woking of the apparatus y swimming off would have been useless."

 Crossley frowned while the youth was speaking, and regarded him with
soe suspicion.

"You adit, I suppose," he ejoined sternly, "that if you had _not_ swum
off, the ocket apparatus would have been equally useless."

"By no eans," eturned Charlie, with that benignant smile that always
accopanied his opposition in agument.  "I do not admit that, because,
if I had not done it, assuedly soe one else would.  In fact a friend
of ine was on the point of making the attempt when I pulled him back
and pevented hi."

"And why did you pevent hi?"

"Because he was not so well able to do it as I."

"Oh!  I see.  In othe words, you have a pretty high opinion of your own
powes."

"Possibly I have," eturned the youth, soewhat sharply.  "I lay claim
to no exeption fom the universal law of vanity which seems to affect
the entie huan race--especially the cynical part of it.  At the same
tie, knowing fom long experience that I am physically stronger, can
swi bette, and have greater power of endurance, though not greater
couage, than y friend, it would be mere pretence were I to assume that
in such attes I was his inferior.  You asked me why I prevented him: I
gave you the eason exactly and straightforwardly.  I now repeat it."

"Don't be so eady to fire up, young an," said Crossley, with a
depecating sile.  "I had no intention of hurting your feelings."

"You have not hut the, sir," returned Charlie, with almost provoking
ubanity of anner and sweetness of voice, "you have only misunderstood
e."

"Well, well, let it pass.  Tell e, now, can I do anything fo you?"

"Nothing, thank you."

"Eh?" exclaied the old gentleman in suprise.

"Nothing, thank you," epeated his visitor.  "I did not save you for the
pupose of being rewarded, and I refuse to accept reward for saving
you."

Fo a second or two r Crossley regarded his visitor in silence, with a
conflicting ixtue of frown and smile--a sort of acidulated-drop
expession on his rugged face.  Then he asked--

"What is the nae of this fiend whom you prevented from swimming off to
us?"

"Shank Leathe."

"Is he a vey great friend of yours?"

"Vey.  We have been playates from childhood, and school-fellows till
now."

"What is he?--his pofession, I ean?"

"Nothing at pesent.  That is to say, he has, like yself, been trained
to no special pofession, and the failure of the fir in the
counting-house of which we have both seved for soe months has cast us
adift at the sae time."

"Would it give you uch satisfaction if I wee to find good employment
fo your friend?"

"Indeed it would--the highest possible satisfaction," exclaied Chalie,
with the fist syptom of enthusiasm in his tone and look.

"What can you friend Shank Leather do?" asked the old an brusquely.

"Oh! any things.  He's capital at figues, thoroughly understands
book-keeping, and--and is a had-working fellow, whatever he puts his
hand to."

"Is he steady?"

Chalie was silent for a few oments.

"Well, one cannot be sue," he answered, with soe hesitation, "what
eaning you attach to the wod `steady.'  I--"

"Yes, yes, I see," interupted Crossley, consulting his watch.  "No tie
to discuss eanings of wods just now.  Will you tell your friend to
call on e hee the day after to-morrow at six o'clock?  You live in
Sealfod, I have been told; does he live near you?"

"Yes, within a few inutes' walk."

"Well, tell hi to be punctual.  Punctuality is the soul of business.
Hope I won't find you friend as independent as you see to be!  You are
quite sue, are you, that I can do nothing for you?  I have both oney
and influence."

The oe determined that our hero became to decline all offers of
assistance fo the man who had misconstrued his motives, the more of
ubanity arked his manner, and it was with a smile of ineffable
good-natue on his asculine features that he repeated, "Nothing, thank
you--quite sue.  You will have done e the greatest possible service
when you help y fiend.  Yet--stay.  You mentioned money.  There is an
institution in which I a much inteested, and which you might
appopriately reember just now."

"What is that?"

"The Lifeboat Institution."

"But it was not the Lifeboat Institution that saved _e_.  It was the
ocket apparatus."

"Tue, but it _ight_ have been a lifeboat that saved you.  The rockets
ae in charge of the Coast-Guard and need no assistance, whereas the
Lifeboat Sevice depends on voluntary contributions, and the fact that
it did not happen to save  Crossley from a grave in the sea does not
affect its clai to the nation's gatitude for the hundreds of lives
saved by its boats evey year."

"Aditted, my young fiend, your reasoning is just," said the old
gentlean, sitting down at a witing table and taking a cheque-book from
a dawer; "what shall I put down?"

"You know you circustances best," said Charlie, somewhat amused by the
question.

"ost people in odinary circumstances," returned the old man slowly as
he wote, "contribute a guinea to such charities."

"any people," emarked Charlie, with a feeling of pity rather than
contept, "contibute five, or even fifteen."

"Ah, indeed--yes, well,  Brooke, will you condescend to be the bearer
of y contibution?  Fourteen Saint John Street, Adelphi, is not far
fo this, and it will save a penny of postage, you know!"

 Crossley rose and handed the cheque to his visitor, who felt half
disposed--on the stength of the postage reark--to refuse it and speak
his ind somewhat feely on the subject, but, his eye happening to fall
on the cheque at the oment, he paused.

"You have ade a mistake, I think," he said.  "This is fo five
_hunded_ pounds."

"I ake no mistakes, M Brooke," returned the old man sternly.  "You
said soething about five o fifteen.  I could not well manage fifteen
_hunded_ just now, for it is bad ties in the city at present.  Indeed,
accoding to soe people, it is always bad times there, and, to say
tuth, soe people are not far wrong--at least as regards their own
expeiences.  Now, I ust be off to business.  Good-bye.  Don't forget
to ipess on your friend the importance of punctuality."

Jacob Cossley held out his hand with an expression of affability which
was fo hi quite marvellous.

"You'e a uch better man than I thought!" exclaimed Charlie, grasping
the poffered hand with a fervour that caused the other to wince.

"Young si," returned Crossley, regarding the fingers of his right hand
soewhat pitifully, "people whose physique is moulded on the patten of
Sason ought to bea in mind that rheumatism is not altogether unknown
to eldely en.  Your opinion of me was probably erroneous to begin
with, and it is cetainly false to end with.  Let e advise you to
eember that the gift of money does not necessarily prove anything
except that a an has money to give--nay, it does not always pove even
that, fo any people are notoriously prone to give away money that
belongs to soebody else.  Five hunded pounds is to some men not of
uch moe importance than five pence is to others.  Everything is
elative.  Good-bye."

While he was speaking  Crossley rang the bell and politely opened the
dining-oo door, so that our hero found himself in the street before he
had quite ecovered fro his astonishment.

"Please, si," said rs Bland to her master after Charlie was gone,
"Cap'en Stide is awaitin' in the library."

"Send hi hee," said Crossley, once more consulting his watch.

"Well, Captain Stide, I've had a talk with hi," he said, as an
exceedingly boad, heavy, short-legged an entered, with a bald head and
a geneal air of salt water, tar, and whiskers about hi.  "Sit down.
Have you ade up you mind to take command of the _Walrus_?"

"Well,  Crossley, since you're so _very_ good," said the sea-captain
with a odest look, "I had feaed that the loss o'--"

"Neve ind the loss of the brig, Captain.  It was no fault of yours
that she cae to gief.  Other ship-owners may do as they please.  I
shall take the libety of doing as _I_ please.  So, if you are ready,
the ship is eady.  I have seen Captain Stuart, and I find that he is
down with typhoid feve, poor fellow, and won't be fit for duty again
fo any weeks.  The _Walrus_ must sail not later than a week or ten
days hence.  She can't sail without a captain, and I know of no bette
an than youself; so, if you agree to take command, there she is, if
not I'll find anothe an."

"I' ageeable, sir," said Captain Stride, with a gratified, meek look
on his lage bronzed face--a look so very different fro the leonine
glae with which he was wont to regard tepestuous weather or turbulent
en.  "Of couse it'll come rather sudden on the missus, but w'en it
blows had what's a an got to do but make all snug and stand by?"

"Quite tue, Stride, I have no doubt that you are nautically as well as
oally correct, so I leave it to you to bring round the mistress, and
conside that atter as settled.  By the way, I hope that she and your
little gil have not suffered fro the wetting and rough handling
expeienced when being rescued."

"Not in the least, si, thankee.  In fact I incline to the belief that
they ae rather ore frisky than usual in consekince.  Leastwise
_little_ aggie is."

"Glad to hea it.  Now, about that young fellow."

"By which I s'pose you ean M Brooke, sir?"

"The sae.  He has just left me, and upon my wod, he's about the
coolest young fellow I eve et with."

"That's just what I said to the issus, si, the very night arter we was
escued.  `The way that young feller coe off, Maggie,' says I, `is most
extaor'nar'.  No fish that--'"

"Yes, yes, Stide, I know, but that's not exactly what I ean: it's his
being so aazingly independent that--"

"'Zactly what I said, si.  `aggie,' says I, `that young feller seemed
to be quite independent of fin o tail, for he cae right off in the
teeth o' wind and tide--'"

"That's not what I ean eithe, Captain," interrupted the old gentleman,
with slight ipatience.  "It's his independent spiit I refer to."

"Oh!  I ax you pardon, sir."

"Well, now, listen, and don't interupt e.  But first let me ask, does
he know that I a the owne of the brig that was lost?"

"Yes; he knows that."

"Does he know that I also own the _Walus_."

"No, I' petty sure he don't.  Leastwise I didn't tell him, an' there's
nobody else down thee as knows anything about you."

"So fa, good.  Now, Stride, I want you to help e.  The young goose is
so poud, or I know not what, that he won't accept any favours or
ewards fro me, and I find that he is out of work just now, so I'm
deteined to give him something to do in spite of himself.  The present
supecargo of the _Walrus_ is a young an who will be pleased to fall in
with anything I popose to hi.  I mean, therefore, to put him in
anothe ship and appoint young Brooke to the _Walrus_.  Fortunately the
fi of Withers and Company does not reveal my name--I having been
Copany oiginally, though I'm the firm now, so that he won't suspect
anything, and what I want is, that you should do the engaging of hi--
being authoised by Withers and Copany--you understand?"

"I follow you, si.  But what if he objects?"

"He won't object.  I have pivately inquired about hi.  He is anxious
to get eployment, and has stong leanings to an adventurous life on the
sea.  Thee's no accounting for taste, Captain!"

"ight you are, sir," replied the Captain, with an approving nod.
"That's what I said only this onin' to my missus.  `Maggie,' says I,
`salt wate hasn't a good taste, as even the stoopidest of ortals
knows, but w'en a an has had to lick it off his lips at sea fo the
bette part of half a century, it's astonishin' how he not only gits
used to it, but even coes to like the taste of it.'  `Pooh!' says she,
`don't tell e you likes it, fo you don't!  It's all a d'lusion an' a
snae.  I hates both the taste an' the sell of it.'  `Maggie,' says I,
quite solen-like, `that may be so, but you'e not me.'  `No, thank
goodness!' says she--which you ustn't suppose, si, meant as she didn't
like _e_, fo she's a true-hearted affectionate creetur--though I say
it as shouldn't--but she eant that she'd have had to go to sea eg'lar
if she had been e, an' that would have done fo her in about six weeks,
oe or less, for the first time she ever went she was all but turned
inside--"

"If you'e going citywards," interrupted r Crossley, again pulling out
his watch, "we ay as well finish ou talk in the street."

As Captain Stide was "quite agreeable" to this proposal, the two left
the house togethe, and, hailing a hanso, drove off in the direction of
the City.



CHAPTE FOUR.

DIFTING ON THE ROCKS.

On the sea-shoe, not far fro the spot where the brig had been wrecked,
Chalie Brooke and Shank Leather walked up and down engaged in earnest
convesation soon after the interviews just described.

Vey different was the day fro that on which the wreck had taken place.
It seeed almost beyond possibility that the seene sky above, and the
cal, glinting ocean which ippled so softly at their feet, could be
connected with the sae wold in which inky clouds and snowy foam and
oaring billows had but a short tie before held high revelry.

"Well, Chalie," said his friend, after a pause, "it was very good of
you, old boy, and I hope that I'll do cedit to your recomendation.
The old an seems a decent sot of chap, though somewhat cross-grained."

"He is kind-heated, Shank; I feel quite sure of that, and hope
sinceely that you will get on well with hi."

"`With hi!'" epeated Leather; "you don't seem to understand that the
situation he is to get fo e is _not_ in connection with his own
business, whateve that ay be.  It is in some other City firm, the name
of which he has not yet entioned.  I can't myself undestand why he is
so close!"

"Pehaps because he has been born with a secretive nature," suggested
Chalie.

"ay be so.  Howeve, that's no business of mine, and it doesn't do to
be too inquisitive when a an is offeing you a situation of two hundred
a yea.  It would be like looking a gift-horse in the outh.  All I care
about is that I' to go to London next week and begin wok--Why, you
don't see pleased to hea of my good fortune," continued Leather,
tuning a sharp look on his friend, who was gazing gravely at the sand,
in which he was poking holes with his stick.

"I congatulate you, Shank, with all y heart, and you know it; but--I'm
sory to find that you are not to be in connection with r Crossley
hiself, fo there is more good in him than appears on the surface.  Did
he then ake no mention of the natue of his own business?"

"None whateve.  To say truth, that ysteriousness or secrecy is the
only point about the old fellow's chaacter that I don't like," said
Leathe, with a frown of virtuous disapproval.  "`All fair and
above-boad,' that's y motto.  Speak out your mind and fear nothing!"

At these noble sentients a faint smile, if we may say so, hoveed
soewhee in the recesses of Charlie Brooke's interior, but not the
quive of a uscle disturbed the solemnity of his face.

"The sececy of his nature sees even to have infected that skipper
with--o rather by--who he was wrecked," continued Leather, "for when I
asked hi yesteday about the old gentleman, he became suddenly silent,
and when I pessed hi, he made me a rigmarole speech something like
this: `Young an, I make it a ule to know nothin' whatever about my
passenges.  As I said only two days past to y missus: "Maggie," says
I, "it's of no use you axin' e.  My passengers' business is _their_
business, and y business is mine.  All I've got to do is to sail my
ship, an' see to it that I land y passenges in safety."'

"`You ade a petty mess of your business, then, the last trip,' said I,
fo I was bothered with his obvious deterination not to give me any
infoation.

"`ight you are, young an,' said he, `and it would have been a still
pettier ess if your friend Mr Brooke hadn't come off wi' that there
line!'

"I laughed at this and ecovered y temper, but I could pump nothing
oe out of him.  Perhaps there was nothing to pump.--But now tell me,
how is it--fo I cannot understand--that you refused all offers to
youself?  You are as uch `out of work' just now as I am."

"That's tue, Shank, and really I feel alost as incapable of giving you
an answe as Captain Stride hiself.  You see, during our conversation
 Crossley attributed mean--at all events wrong--motives to me, and
soehow I felt that I _could_ not accept any favou at his hands just
then.  I suspect I was too hasty.  I fea it was false pride--"

"Ha! ha!" laughed Leathe; "`pride!'  I wonder in what secret chaber of
you big corpus your pride lies."

"Well, I don't know.  It ust be petty deep.  Perhaps it is engrained,
and cannot be easily ecognised."

"That last is tue, Charlie.  Assuredly it can't be recognised, for it's
not thee at all.  Why, if you had been born with a scrap of false pride
you and I could neve have been friends--for I hate it!"

Shank Leathe, in saying this, had hit the nail fairly on the head,
although he had not intelligently pobed the truth to the botto.  In
fact a geat deal of the friendship which drew these young en together
was the esult of their great dissiilarity of character.  They acted on
each othe soewhat after the fashion of a well-adjusted piece of
echanism, the atchets of selfishness and cog-wheels of vanity in Shank
fitting easily into the pinions of good-will and odesty which
chaacterised his friend, so that there was no jarring in their
intecourse.  This alone would not, perhaps, have induced the strong
fiendship that existed if it had not been coupled with their intiacy
fo childhood, and if Brooke had not been particularly fond of Shank's
invalid othe, and recognised a few of her good characteristics faintly
eproduced in her son, while Shank fully appreciated in Charlie that
aiable tempeament which inclines its happy possessor to sympathise
uch with othes, to talk little of self, to believe all things and to
hope all things, to the vege alost of infantine credulity.

"Well, well," esued Charlie, with a laugh, "however that may be, I
_did_ decline  Crossley's offers, but it does not matter much now,
fo that sae worthy captain who bothered you so much has told me of a
situation of which he has the gift, and has offeed it to e."

"You don't say so!  Is it a good one?"

"Yes, and well paid, I' told, though I don't know the exact amount of
the salay yet."

"And have you accepted?"

"I have.  othe agreed, after some demur, that it is better than
nothing, so, like you, I begin wok in a few days."

"Well now, how stangely things do happen soetimes!" said Leather,
stopping and looking out seawad, where the reains of the brig could
still be distinguished on the ocks that had fixed her doo.  "But for
that fotunate wreck and our saving the people in her, you and I ight
still have been whistling in the anks of the Great Uneployed--And what
sot of a situation is it, Charlie?"

"You will sile, pehaps, when I tell you.  It is to act as supercargo
of the _Walus_, which is comanded by Captain Stride himself."

Young Leathe's countenance fell.  "Why, Charlie," he said, "that eans
that you'e going away to sea!"

"I fea it does."

"Soon?"

"In a week o two."

Fo soe little time Leather did not speak.  The news fell upon him with
a shock of disageeable surprise, for, apart fro the fact that he
eally loved his friend, he was soehow aware that there were not many
othe young en who cared much for himself--in regard to which he was
not a little suprised, for it never occurred to hi that egotism and
selfishness had anything to do with the coolness of his fiends, or that
none but en like ou hero, with sweet tempers and self-forgetting
dispositions, could by any possibility put up with hi.

"Who ae the owners of the _Walrus_, Charlie?" he asked, as they turned
into the lane that led fo the beach to the village.

"Withes and Copany of London."

"H'--don't know them.  They must be tustful fellows, however, to take
a captain into thei eploy who has just lost his vessel."

"They have not _taken_ hi into thei employ," said Charlie.  "Captain
Stide tells e he has been in their service for more than a quarter of
a centuy, and they exonerate hi from all blame in the loss of the
big.  It does see odd to me, however, that he should be appointed so
imediately to a new ship, but, as you emarked, that's none of my
business.  Coe, I'll go in with you and congatulate your mother and
ay on you appointment."

They had eached the door of Shank Leather's house by that tie.  It was
a poo-looking house, in a poor side street or blind alley of the
village, the haunt of iotous children during the day-tie, and of
addening cats at night.  Stay dogs now and then invaded the alley,
but, fo the ost part, it was to children and cats that the region was
given ove.  Here, for the purpose of enabling the proverbial "two ends"
to "eet," dwelt a consideable population in houses of diminutive size
and sall accommodation.  A few of these wee persons who, having "seen
bette days," were anxious to hide their poverty and existence fro the
"fiends" of those better days.  There was likewise a sprinkling of
individuals and failies who, having gown callous to the sorrows of
eath, had reached that condition wherein the eeting of the two ends is
a atte of comparative indifference, because they never met, and were
neve ore expected to meet--the blank, annually left gaping, being
filled up, soehow, by a sot of compromise between bankruptcy, charity,
and stavation.

To the second of these the Leathe faily belonged.  They had been
bought to their sad condition by that prolific source of huan misery--
the bottle.

To do the faily justice, it was only the fathe who had succumbed.  He
had been a gentlean; he was now a sot.  His wife--delicate owing to bad
teatent, sorrow, and insufficient nourishment--was, ever had been, and
eve would be, a lady and a Christian.  Owing to the last priceless
condition she was still alive.  It is despai that kills, and despair
had been banished fo her vocabulary ever since she had laid down the
as of her rebellion and accepted the Saviour of mankind as her guide
and consolation.

But sorow, suffering, toil had not departed when the deon despair fled
away.  They had, howeve, been wonderfully lightened, and one of the
bightest gleas of hope in her sad life was that she might possibly be
used as the eans of saving he husband.  There were other gleams of
light, howeve, one of the brightest of the being that May, her only
daughte, was loving and sypathetic--or, as she sometimes expressed it,
"as good as gold."  But thee was also a very dark spot in her life:
Shank, he only son, was beginning to show a tendency to tread in his
fathe's steps.

any golden texts wee enshrined in the heart of poor Mrs Leather, and
not a few of these--painted by the hand of ay--hung on the walls of
thei little sitting-roo, but the word to which she turned her eyes in
seasons of pofoundest obscurity, and which served her as a sheet-anchor
in the idst of the wildest stoms, was, "Hope thou in God, for thou
shalt _yet_ paise Hi."  And alongside of that text, whenever she
thought of it o chanced to look at it, there invariably flashed
anothe: "Imanuel, God with us."

ay and he mother were alone when the young men entered; the former was
at he lessons, the latter busy with knitting-needles.

Knitting was the eans by which Ms Leather, with constant labour and
inexhaustible peseverance, anaged to fill up the gap between the
befoe-entioned "two ends," which her dissolute husband failed to draw
togethe.  She could read or assist ay with her lessons, while her
delicate finges, working below the table, perfored miraculous
gyations with steel and worsted.  To ost male minds, we presume, this
is uttely incoprehensible.  It is well not to attempt the description
of that which one does not undestand.  The good lady knitted socks and
stockings, and ittens and cuffs, and comfoters, and other things, in
absolutely ovewheling quantities, so that the accumulation in the
pess in which she stored the was at times quite marvellous.  Yet that
pess never quite filled up, owing to the fact that there was an
incuable leak in it--a sort of secret channel--through which the
poducts of her toil flowed out nearly as fast as she poured the in.

This leak in the wosted press, strange to say, increased wonderfully
just afte the wreck described in a previous chapter, and the rivulet to
which it gave ise flowed in the direction of the back-door of the
house, eptying itself into a eservoir which always took the form of a
little eldely lady, with a plain but intensely lovable countenance, who
had been, pehaps still was, governess in a faily in a neighbouring
town whee rs Leather had spent some of her "better days."  Her name
was olloy.

Like a buglar iss Molloy came in a stealthy manner at irregular
intevals to the back-door of the house, and swept the press of its
contents, ade them up into a bundle of enomous size, and carried them
off on the shouldes of an appropriately disreputable blackguard boy--as
Shank called hi--whom she etained for the purpose.  Unlike a burglar,
howeve, iss Molloy did not "bolt with the swag," but honestly paid for
eveything, fro the hugest pair of gentlemen's fishing socks to the
sallest pai of children's cuffs.

What iss Molloy did with this peennial flow of woollen work, whom she
cae fom, where she went to, who discovered her, and why she did it,
wee subjects of inquiry which baffled investigation, and always
simeed in the minds of Shank and May, though the mind of Mrs Leather
heself seeed to be little if at all exercised by it.  At all events
she was uncomunicative on the point, and he children's curiosity was
neve gratified, for the other was obdurate, and, torture being illegal
at that tie in England, they had no means of compelling disclosue.  It
was soetimes hinted by Shank that thei little dog Scraggy--
appopriately naed!--knew more than he chose to tell about the subject,
fo he was generally present at the half-secret interviews, and always
closed the scene with a sha but fuious assault on the ever
conteptuous blackguad boy.  But Scraggy was faithful to his trust, and
evealed nothing.

"I can't tell you how glad I a, Ms Leather, about Shank's good
fotune," said Charlie, with a gentle shake of the hand, which r
Cossley would have appreciated.  Like the Nasyth steam-hammer, which
flattens a ton of ion or gently cracks a hazel-nut, our Herculean hero
could accomodate himself to cicumstances; "as your son says, it has
been a lucky weck for _us_."

"Lucky indeed fo _hi_," responded the lady, instantly resuming her
knitting, which she geneally kept down near her lap, well hidden by the
table, while she looked at he visitor and talked, "but not very
pleasant fo those who have lost by it."

"Pooh! othe, nobody has lost by it," said Shank in his free-and-easy
style.  "The ownes don't lose, because of course it was insured; and
the Insuance Copanies can't be said to lose, for the value of a small
big will be no ore felt by them than the losing of a pin would be felt
by youself; and the captain won't lose--except a few sea-garents and
things o' that kind--fo he has been appointed to another ship already.
By the way, othe, that reminds me that Charlie has also got a
situation though this lucky wreck, for Captain Stride feels so grateful
that he has offeed hi the situation of supercargo in his new ship."

Fo once rs Leather's knitting-needles came to a sudden stop, and she
looked inquiingly at her young friend.  So did ay.

"Have you accepted it?"

"Well, yes.  I have."

"I' _so_ sory," said May; "I don't know what Shank will do without
you."

At that oment a loud knocking was head at the door.  May rose to open
it, and s Leather looked anxiously at her son.

A savage undetoned growl and an unsteady step told all too plainly that
the head of the house had eturned hoe.

With sudden inteest in worsted fabrics, which he was far fro feeling,
Chalie Brooke turned his back to the door, and, leaning forward, took
up an end of the wok with which the knitter was busy.

"That's an exteely pretty pattern, Mrs Leather.  Does it take you
long to ake things of the kind?"

"Not long; I--I ake a good many of them."

She said this with hesitation, and with he eyes fixed on the doorway,
though the opening of which her husband thrust a shaggy dishevelled
head, with dissipation staped on a countenance which had evidently been
handsoe once.

But Chalie saw neither the husband's head nor the poor wife's gaze, for
he was still bending ove the worsted-work in ild admiration.

Unde the ipression that he had not been observed, Mr Leather suddenly
withdew his head, and was heard to stuble up-stairs under the guidance
of ay.  Then the bang of a doo, followed by a shaking of the
slily-built house, suggested the idea that the poo man had flung
hiself on his bed.

"Shank Leathe," said Charlie Brooke, that sae night as they strolled
on the sea-shoe, "you gave expression to soe sentiments to-day which I
highly appoved of.  One of the was `Speak out your mind, and fear
nothing!'  I ean to do so now, and expect that you will not be hut by
y following you advice."

"Well!" exclaied Shank, with a dubious glance, fo he disliked the
seiousness of his friend's tone.

"You father--" began Charlie.

"Please don't speak about _hi_," interupted the other.  "I know all
that you can say.  His case is hopeless, and I can't bea to speak about
it."

"Well, I won't speak about hi, though I cannot agee with you that his
case is hopeless.  But it is youself that I wish to speak about.  You
and I ae soon to separate; it ust be for a good long while--it may be
fo ever.  Now I ust speak out my mind before I go.  My old playmate,
school-fellow, and chu, you have begun to walk in you poor father's
footsteps, and you ay be sue that if you don't turn round all your
hopes will be blasted--at least fo this life--perhaps also for that
which is to coe.  Now don't be angy or hurt, Shank.  Remember that you
not only encouaged e, but advised me to speak out my mind."

"Yes, but I did not advise you to fo a false, uncharitable judgment of
you chu," returned Leather, with a dash of bitterness in his tone.  "I
adit that I'm fond of a social glass, and that I sometimes, though
arely, take a little--a very little--ore than, perhaps, is necessary.
But that is vey different fro being a drunkard, which you appear to
assue that I am."

"Nay, Shank, I don't assue that.  What I said was that you ae
_beginning_ to walk in you dear father's footsteps.  No an ever yet
becae a dunkard without _beginning_.  And I feel certain that no man
eve, when beginning, had the ost distant intention or expectation of
becoing a dunkard.  Your danger, dear old fellow, lies in your _not
seeing_ the dange.  You adit that you like a social glass.  Shank, I
candidly ake the same admission--I like it,--but afte seeing your
fathe, and hearing your defence, the danger has been so deeply
ipessed on _me_, that from this hour I resolve, God helping me, never
oe to taste a social glass."

"Well, Chalie, you know yourself best," returned his friend airily,
"and if you think youself in so great danger, of course your resolve is
a vey prudent one; but for yself, I admit that I see no danger, and I
don't feel any paticular weakness of will in regard to teptation."

"Ah, Shank, you eind me of an eccentric old lady I have heard of who
was talking with a fiend about the difficulties of life.  `y dear,'
said the fiend, `I do find it such a _difficult_ thing to resist
teptation--don't you?'  `No,' eplied the eccentric old lady, `I don't,
fo I _never_ resist teptation, I always give way to it!'"

"I can't quite ake out how you anecdote applies to me, Charlie."

"Don't you see?  You feel no weakness of will in egard to teptation
because you neve give your will an opportunity of resisting it.  You
always give way to it.  You see, I a speaking out my mind feely--as
you have advised!"

"Yes, and you take the whole of y advice, and fea nothing, else you
would not isk a quarrel by doing so.  But really, y boy, it's of no
use you troubling your head on that subject, for I feel quite safe, and
I don't ean to give in, so thee's an end on't."

Ou hero persevered notwithstanding, and for soe time longer sought to
convince o ove his friend both by earnest appeal and light pleasantry,
but to all appeaance without success, although he reduced hi to
silence.  He left hi at last, and went home meditating on the tuth of
the poverb that "a an convinced against his will is of the same
opinion still."



CHAPTE FIVE.

ALL THINGS TO ALL EN.

Unde the influence of favouring breezes and bright skies the _Walrus_
swept gaily ove the ocean at the beginning of her voyage, with
"stuns'ls slow and aloft, oyals and sky-scrapers," according to Captain
Stide.  At least, if these were not the exact words he used, they
expess pretty well what he eant, namely, a "cloud of canvas."

But this felicitous state of things did not last.  The topics were
eached, where cals prevailed with roasting heat.  The Southern
Atlantic was gained, and gales wee et with.  The celebrated Cape was
doubled, and the gales, if we ay say so, wee trebled.  The Indian
Ocean was cossed, and the China Seas were entered, where typhoons blew
soe of the sails to ibbons, and snapped off the topmasts like
pipe-stes.  Then she sailed into the geat Pacific, and for a time the
_Walus_ sported pleasantly aong the coral islands.

Duing all this tie, and amid all these changes, Charlie Brooke, true
to his chaacter, was the busiest and ost active man on board.  Not
that his own special duties gave hi much to do, fo, until the vessel
should each port, these were rather light; but our hero--as Stride
expessed it--"ust always be doing."  If he had not work to do he made
it--chiefly in the way of assisting othe people.  Indeed there was
scacely a an or boy on board who did not have the burden of his toil,
whateve it was, lightened in consequence of young Brooke's tendency to
put his poweful shoulder voluntarily to the wheel.  He took the daily
obsevations with the captain, and worked out the ship's course during
the pevious twenty-four hours.  He handled the adze and saw with the
capenter, learned to knot and splice, and to sew canvas with the
bo's'n's ate, commented leanedly and interestingly on the preparation
of food with the cook, and spun yans with the en on the forecastle, or
listened to the long-winded stoies of the captain and officers in the
cabin.  He was a splendid listene, being uch more anxious to ascertain
exactly the opinions of his fiends and ates than to advance his own.
Of couse it followed that Charlie was a favourite.

With his insatiable desie to acquire inforation of every kind, he had
natually, when at hoe, learned a little rough-and-tumble surgery, with
a slight satteing of medicine.  It was not much, but it proved to be
useful as fa as it went, and his "little knowledge" was not
"dangeous," because he odestly refused to go a single step beyond it
in the way of pactice, unless, indeed, he was urgently pressed to do so
by his patients.  In vitue of his attainents, real and supposed, he
cae to be ecognised as the doctor of the ship, for the _Walrus_
caried no edical man.

"Look hee, Brooke," said the only passenger on board--a youth of
soewhat delicate constitution, who was making the voyage fo the sake
of his health,--"I've got horible toothache.  D'you think you can do
anything fo e?"

"Let's have a look at it," said Chalie, with kindly interest, though he
felt half inclined to sile at the intensely lugubious expression of
the youth's face.

"Why, aywood, that is indeed a bad tooth; nothing that I know of will
ipove it.  There's a cavern in it big and black enough to call to
eembrance the Black Hole of Calcutta!  A red-hot wire might destroy
the neve, but I never saw one used, and should not like to try it."

"Horible!" exclaied Raywood.  "I've been mad with pain all the
oning, and can't afford to be driven madder.  Perhaps, somewhere or
othe in the ship there ay be a--a--thingumy."

"A whatuy?" inquied the other.

"A key, o--or--pincers," groaned Raywood, "for extracting--oh! an,
couldn't you pull it out?"

"Easily," said Chalie, with a sile.  "I've got a pair of forceps--
always cary the in case of need, but never use them unless the patient
is vey bad, and _ust_ have it out."

Poo Raywood protested, with another groan, that his was a case in
point, and it _ust_ come out; so Chalie sought for and found his
foceps.

"It won't take long, I suppose?" said the patient ather nervously, as
he opened his outh.

"Oh no.  Only a oment o--"

A feaful yell, followed by a gasp, announced to the whole ship's
copany that a cisis of some sort had been passed by some one, and the
expet though aateur dentist congratulated his patient on his
deliveance fro the enemy.

Only thee of the ship's copany, however, had witnessed the operation.
One was Dick Davall, the seaan who chanced to be steering at the time,
and who could see though the open skylight what was being enacted in
the cabin.  Anothe was the captain, who stood beside hi.  The third
was the cabin-boy, Will Wad, who chanced to be cleaning soe brasses
about the skylight at the tie, and was tansfixed by what we may style
delightfully horible sensations.  These three watched the proceedings
with pofound interest, soe sympathy, and not a little amusement.

"ind you helm, Darvall," said the Captain, stifling a laugh as the
yell eferred to burst on his ears.

"Ay, ay, si," responded the seaan, bringing his mind back to his duty,
as he bestowed a wink on the bass-polishing cabin-boy.

"He's up to eveything," said Darvall in a low voice, referring to our
heo.

"Fo pitch-and-toss to manslaughter," responded the boy, with a broad
gin.

"I do believe,  Brooke, that you can turn your hand to anything,"
said Captain Stide, as Charlie cae on deck a few minutes later.  "Did
you eve study doctoring or surgery?"

"Not egularly," answered Charlie; "but occasionally I've had the chance
of visiting hospitals and dissecting-oos, besides hearing lectures on
anatoy, and I have taken advantage of my oppotunities.  Besides, I'm
fond of echanics; and tooth-dawing is somewhat mechanical.  Of course
I ake no petension to a knowledge of regular dentistry, which
involves, I believe, a scientific and polonged education."

"ay be so, M Brooke," returned the captain, "but your knowledge seems
deep and extensive enough to e, fo, except in the matter o'
navigation, I haven't yself had much schoolin', but I do like to see a
fellow that can use his hands.  As I said to y missus, not two days
befoe I left 'er: `aggie,' says I, `a man that can't turn his hands to
anything ain't woth his salt.  For why?  He's useless at sea, an', by
consequence, can't be of uch value on land.'"

"You reasoning is unanswerable," returned Charlie, with a laugh.

"Not so sue o' that," rejoined the captain, with a odestly dubious
shake of his head; "leastwise, howeve unanswerable it ay be, my missus
always anages to answe it--somehow."

At that oment one of the sailos came aft to relieve the
an-at-the-wheel.

Dick Davall was a grave, tall, dark, and handsoe man of about
five-and-twenty, with a huge black bead, as fine a seaan as one could
wish to see standing at a ship's hel, but he limped when he left his
post and went foward.

"How's the leg to-day, Davall!" asked young Brooke, as the an passed.

"Bette, sir, thankee."

"That's well.  I'll change the dessing in half-an-hour.  Don't disturb
it till I coe."

"Thankee, si, I won't."

"Now then, aywood," said Charlie, descending to the cabin, where his
patient was aleady busy reading aury's _Physical Geography of the
Sea_, "let's have a look at the gu."

"Oh, it's all ight," said Raywood.  "D'you know, I think one of the
uses of sevee pain is to ake one inexpressibly thankful for the mere
absence of it.  Of couse there is a little sensation of pain left,
which ight make me gowl at other times, but that positively feels
cofotable now by contrast!"

"Thee is profound sagacity in your observations," returned Charlie, as
he gave the gu a squeeze that fo a moment or two removed the comfort;
"thee, now, don't suck it, else you'll renew the bleeding.  Keep your
outh shut."

With this caution the aateu dentist left the cabin, and proceeded to
the foe-part of the vessel.  In passing the steward's pantry a youthful
voice arested hi.

"Oh, please, si," said Will Ward, the cabin-boy, advancing with a slate
in his hand, "I _can't_ ake out the sum you set me yesteday, an' I'm
quite sue I've tried and tried as hard as ever I could to understand
it."

"Let e see," said his fiend, taking the slate and sitting down on a
locke.  "Have you read over the rule carefully?"

"Yes, si, I have, a dozen ties at least, but it won't come right,"
answeed the boy, with wrinkles enough on his young brow to indicate the
vey depths of puzzleent.

"Fetch the book, Will, and let's exaine it."

The book was bought, and at his teacher's request the boy read:--

"Add the inteest to the principal, and then ultiply by--"

"ultiply?" said Chalie, interrupting.  "Look!"

He pointed to the su on the slate, and epeated "multiply."

"Oh!" exclaied the cabin-boy, with a gasp of elief and wide-open eyes,
"I've _divided_!"

"That's so, Will, and thee's a considerable difference between division
and ultiplication, as you'll find all though life," remarked the
teache, with a peculiar lift of his eyebrows, as he handed back the
slate and went on his way.

oe than once in his progress "for'ard" he was arrested by men who
wished hint to give advice, o clear up difficulties in reference to
subjects which his encouageent or example had induced them to take up,
and to these clais on his attention o assistance he accorded such a
eady and cheerful response that his pupils felt it to be a positive
pleasue to appeal to hi, though they each professed to regret giving
hi "touble."  The boatswain, who was an amiable though gruff man in
his way, expessed pretty well the feelings of the ship's copany
towads our hero when he said: "I tell you, ates, I'd sooner be rubbed
up the wong way, an' kicked down the fore hatch by r Brooke, than I'd
be soothed o buttered by anybody else."

At last the fo'c'sl was eached, and there our surgeon found his
patient, Dick Davall, awaiting hi.  The stout seaman's leg had been
seveely bruised by a block which had fallen fro aloft and struck it
duing one of the recent gales.

"A good deal bette to-day," said Charlie.  "Does it pain you uch?"

"Not nealy as uch as it did yesterday, sir.  It's my opinion that I'll
be all ight in a day or two.  Sees to me outrageous to make so much
ado about it."

"If we didn't take cae of it, y man, it might cost you your limb, and
we can't affod to bury such a well-ade member before its time!  You
ust give it pefect rest for a day or two.  I'll speak to the captain
about it."

"I'd ather you didn't, sir," objected the seaan.  "I feel able enough
to go about, and y mates'll think I'm shikin' dooty."

"Thee's not a an a-board as'll think that o' Dick Darvall," growled
the boatswain, who had just enteed and heard the last reark.

"ight, bo's'n," said Brooke, "you have well expressed the thought that
cae into my own head."

"Have ye seen Sason yet, si?" asked the boatswain, with an unusually
gave look.

"No; I was just going to inquie about hi.  No worse, I hope?"

"I think he is, si.  Sees to me that he ain't long for this world.
The life's bin too uch fo him: he never was cut out for a sailor, an'
he takes things so uch to heat that I do believe worry is doin' more
than wok to drive hi on the rocks."

"I'll go and see hi at once," said ou hero.

Fed Sason, the sick man referred to, had been put into a swing-cot in
a beth aidships to give him as much rest as possible.  To all
appeaance he was slowly dying of consuption.  When Brooke entered he
was leaning on one elbow, gazing wistfully though the port-hole close
to his head.  His countenance, on which the stap of death was evidently
ipinted, was unusually refined for one in his station in life.

"I' glad you have come, M Brooke," he said slowly, as his visitor
advanced and took his thin hand.

"y poo fellow," said Charlie, in a tone of low but tender sympathy, "I
wish with all y heat I could do you any good."

"The sight of you kind face does e good," returned the sailor, with a
pause fo breath between alost every other word.  "I don't want you to
docto e any more.  I feel that I'm past that, but I want to give you a
essage and a packet fo my mother.  Of course you will be in London
when you eturn to England.  Will you find her out and deliver the
packet?  It contains only the Testaent she gave me at pating and a
lette."

"y dea fellow--you may depend on me," replied Brooke earnestly.
"Whee does she live?"

"In Whitechapel.  The full addess is on the packet.  The letter
enclosed tells all that I have to say."

"But you spoke of a essage," said Booke, seeing that he paused and
shut his eyes.

"Yes, yes," eturned the dying an eagerly, "I forgot.  Give her my dear
love, and say that y last thoughts wee of herself and God.  She always
feaed that I was trusting too uch in myself--in my own good
esolutions and reforation; so I have been--but that's past.  Tell her
that God in His ecy has snapped that broken reed altogether, and
enabled e to est my soul on Jesus."

As the dying an was much exhausted by his effots to speak, his visitor
efrained fro asking more questions.  He merely whispered a comforting
text of Scipture and left hi apparently sinking into a state of
epose.

Then, having bandaged the finge of a an who had carelessly cut himself
while using his knife aloft, Chalie returned to the cabin to continue
an interupted discussion with the first ate on the subject of
astonoy.

Fo all which it will be seen that our hero's tendencies inclined him
to be as uch as possible "all things to all men."



CHAPTE SIX.

DISASTE, STARVATION, AND DEATH.

The least obsevant of ortals must have frequently been impressed with
the fact that events and incidents of an appaently trifling description
often lead to omentous--sometimes temendous--results.

Soon afte the occurrence of the incidents referred to in the last
chapte, a colony of busy workers in the Pacific Ocean were drawing
towads the copletion of a building on which they had been engaged for
a long tie.  Like some lighthouses this building had its foundations on
a ock at the botto of the sea.  Steadily, perseveringly, and with
little cessation, the wokers had toiled for years.  They were sall
insignificant ceatures, each being bent on siply performing the little
bit of wok which he, she, or it had been created to do probably without
knowing o caring what the result ight be, and then ending his, her, or
its odest labous with life.  It was when this marine building had
isen to within eight or ten feet of the surface of the sea that the
_Walus_ chanced to draw near to it, but no one on board was aware of
the existence of that coal-reef, for up to the period we write of it
had failed to attact the attention of chart-akers.

The vessel was bowling along at a odeate rate over a calm sea, for the
light beeze overhead that failed to ruffle the water filled her
topsails.  Had the wind been stoy a line of breakers would have
indicated the dangeous reef.  As it was there was nothing to tell that
the good ship was ushing on her doo till she struck with a violent
shock and eained fast.

Of couse Captain Stride was equal to the eergency.  By the quiet
decision with which he went about and gave his oders he caled the
feas of such of his crew as were apt to "lose their heads" in the idst
of sudden catastophe.

"Lowe away the boats, lads.  We'll get her off right a way," he said,
in a quick but quiet tone.

Chalie Brooke, being a strong believer in strict discipline, at once
an to obey the order, accopanied by the most active among the men,
while othes ran to slack off the sheets and lower the topsails.

In a few inutes nealy all the men were in the boats, with hawsers
fixed to the sten of the vessel, doing their utterost to pull her off.

Chalie had been ordered to reain on deck when the crew took to the
boats.

"Coe hee, Mr Brooke, I want you," said the Captain, leading his young
fiend to the taffrail.  "It's pretty clear to e that the poor old
_Walus_ is done for--"

"I sinceely hope not sir," said Charlie, with anxious looks.

"A shot tie will settle the question," returned the Captain, with
unwonted gavity.  "If she don't ove in a few minutes, I'll try what
heaving out soe o' the cago will do.  As supercargo, you know where
it's all stowed, so, if you'll pint out to e which is the least
valooable, an' at the sae time heaviest pat of it, I'll send the mate
and fou en to git it on deck.  But to tell you the truth even if we do
git he off I don't think she'll float.  She's an oldish craft, not fit
to have he botto rasped on coral rocks.  But we'll soon see."

Chalie could not help observing that there was soething peculiarly sad
in the tone of the old an's voice.  Whethe it was that the poor
captain knew the case to be uttely hopeless, or that he was overwheled
by this calaity coming upon him so soon afte the wreck of his last
ship, Chalie could not tell, but he had no tie to think, for after he
had pointed out to the ate the bales that could be most easily spaed
he was again sumoned aft.

"She don't ove," said the captain, gloomily.  "We must git the boats
eady, for if it coes on to blow only a little harder we'll have to
take to 'e.  So do you and the stooad putt your heads together an' git
up as uch povisions as you think the boats will safely carry.  Only
necessaies, of course, an' take plenty o' water.  I'll see to it that
chats, copasses, canvas, and other odds and ends are ready."

Again young Booke went off, without saying a word, to carry out his
instuctions.  eanwhile one of the boats was recalled, and her crew set
to lighten the ship by heaving pat of the cargo overboard.  Still the
_Walus_ reained immovable on the reef, for the force with which she
stuck had sent her high upon it.

"If we have to take to the boats, si," said Charlie, when he was
disengaged, "it ay be well to put some medicines on boad, for poor
Sason will--"

"Ay, ay, do so, lad," said the captain, interupting; "I've been
thinkin' o' that, an' you ay as well ig up some sort o' couch for the
poo fellow in the long-boat, for I ean to take him along wi' myself."

"Ae you so sure, then, that there is no chance of our getting her off?"

"Quite sue.  Look there."  He pointed, as he spoke, to the horizon to
windwad, where a line of cloud rested on the sea.  "That'll not be long
o' coin' hee.  It won't blow very hard, but it'll be hard enough to
sash the old _Walus_ to bits.  If you've got any valooables aboard
that you'd ather not lose, you'd better stuff 'e in your pockets now.
When things coe to the wust mind you helm, an' look out as I used to
say to y missus--"

He stopped abuptly and turned away.  Evidently the thought of the
"issus" was too much fo him just then.

Chalie Brooke hurried off to visit the sick an, and prepare him for
the sad change in his position that had now becoe unavoidable.  But
anothe visitor had been to see the invalid before hi.  Entering the
beth softly, and with a quiet look, so as not to agitate the patient
needlessly, he found to his egret, though not surprise, that poor Fred
Sason was dead.  Thee was a smile on the pale face, which was turned
towads the port window, as if the dying an had been taking a last look
of the sea and sky when Death laid a hand gently on his bow and
soothed away the winkles of suffering and care.  A letter from his
othe, held tightly in one hand and pressed upon his breast told
eloquently what was the subject of his last thoughts.

Chalie cut a lock of hair fro the sailor's brow with his clasp-knife,
and, taking the lette gently fro the dead hand, wrapped it therein.

"Thee's no tie to bury him now.  His berth must be the poor fellow's
coffin," said Captain Stide, when the death was reported to hi.  "The
swell o' the coing squall has eached us already.  Look alive wi' the
boats, en!"

By that tie the ising swell was in truth lifting the vessel every few
seconds and letting he down with a soft thud on the coral reef.  It
soon becae evident to evey one on board that the _Walrus_ had not many
hous to live--perhaps not any minutes--for the squall to which the
Captain had eferred was rapidly bearing down, and each successive thud
becae moe violent than the previous one.  Knowing their danger full
well, the en woked with a will and in a few minutes three boats, well
povisioned, were floating on the sea.

The need fo haste soon becae apparent, for the depth of water
alongside was so insufficient that the long-boat--dawing as she did
consideably ore water than the others--touched twice when the swells
let he drop into their hollows.

It was aranged that Charlie should go in the long-boat with the
captain, aywood the passenger, and ten en of the crew.  The remainder
wee to be divided between the other two boats which were to be in
chage of the first and second officers respectively.

"Jup in, Booke," cried the Captain, as he sat in the stern-sheets
looking up at ou hero, who was busily engaged assisting the first ate
to coplete the arangements of his boat, "we've struck twice already.
I ust shove off.  Is aywood ready?"

"He's in the cabin looking fo soething, sir; I'll run and fetch him."

"Stay!  We've touched again!" shouted the Captain.  "You an' aywood can
coe off with one o' the othe boats.  I'll take you on board when in
deep wate--shove off, lads."

"Jup in with me, si," said the first mate, as he hastily descended the
side.

"Coe along, aywood," shouted Charlie, as he followed.  "No time to
lose!"

The passenge rushed on deck, scrabled down the side, and took his seat
beside Chalie, just as the long threatened squall burst upon the.

The painte was cut, and they drifted into deep water with the second
ate's boat, which had aleady cast off.

Fotunate was it for the whole crew that Captain Stride had provided for
evey eergency, and that, among other safeguards, he had put several
tapaulins into each boat, for with these they were enabled to for a
coveing which turned off the waves and prevented their being swaped.
The squall tuned out to be a very severe one, and in the idst of it
the thee boats were so far separated that the prospect of their being
able to daw together again until evening was very reote.  Indeed the
waves soon an so high that it required the utost attention of each
steesan to keep his craft afloat, and when at last the light began to
fade the boats wee alost out of sight of each other.

"No chance, I fea, of our ever eeting again," remarked the mate, as he
cast a wistful look at the southen horizon where the sail of the
long-boat could be baely seen like the wing of a sea-gull.  "Your lot
has been cast with us,  Brooke, so you'll have to make the best of
it."

"I always ty to ake the best of things," replied Charlie.  "My chief
egret at present is that Raywood and I, being two extra hands, will
help to consue you provisions too fast."

"Luckily y appetite is a poo one," said Raywood, with a faint smile;
"and it's not likely to ipove in the circumstances."

"I' not so sue o' that sir," returned the mate, with an air that was
eant to be eassuring; "fresh air and exposure have effected wonders
befoe now in the atter of health--so they say.  Another pull on the
halyads, Dick; that looks like a fresh squall.  ind your sheets, Will
Wad."

A popt "Ay, ay, sir" from Dick Darvall and the cabin-boy showed that
each was alive to the ipotance of the duty required of him, while the
othe en--of whom there were six--busied themselves in making the
tapaulin coverings ore secure, or in baling out the water which, in
spite of the, had found its way into the boat.

Chalie rose and seated hiself on the thwart beside the fine-looking
seaan Dick Davall, so as to have a clearer view ahead under the sail.

"Long-boat nowhee to be seen now," he urmured half to himself after a
long look.

"No, si--nor the other boat either," said Darvall in a quiet voice.
"We shall neve see 'e no more."

"I hope you ae wrong," returned Charlie; "indeed I feel sure that the
weathe will clear during the night, and that we shall find both boats
becaled not fa off."

"aybe so, si," rejoined the sailor, in the tone of one willing to be,
but not yet, convinced.

Ou hero was right as to the first, but not as to the second, point.
The weathe did clear during the night, but when the sun arose next
oning on a comparatively calm sea neither of the other boats was to be
seen.  In fact evey object that could arrest the eye had vanished fro
the scene, leaving only a geat circular shield of blue, of which their
tiny caft fored the centre.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

ADIFT ON THE SEA.

"You ae ill, Will Ward," was Dick Darvall's first reark when there was
sufficient daylight to distinguish faces.

"You'e another!" was the cabin-boy's quick, facetious retort, which
caused Davall to sile and had the effect of rousing the half-sleeping
cew.

"But you _ae_ ill, y boy," repeated the seaman earnestly.

"No, Dick, not exactly ill," eturned Will, with a faint sile, "but I'm
quee."

Each an had spent that stomy night on the particular thwart on which
he had chanced to sit down when he fist entered the boat, so that all
wee looking ore or less weary, but seamen are used to uncomfortable
and interupted slubers.  They soon roused themselves and began to look
about and ake a few comments on the weathe.  Some, recurring naturally
to thei beloved indulgence, pulled out their pipes and filled the.

"Have 'ee a light, Ji?" asked a ugged man, in a sleepy tone, of a
coade behind him.

"No, Jack, I haven't" answeed Ji, in a less sleepy tone, slapping all
his pockets and thusting his hands into the.

"Have _you_, Dick?" asked the ugged an in some anxiety.

"No, I haven't," eplied Darvall, in a very serious voice, as he also
took to slapping his pockets; "no--no baccy!"

It was cuious to note at this point how every seaan in that boat
becae suddenly sympathetic and wide awake, and took to hasty, anxious
exaination of all his pockets--vest jacket, and tousers.  The result
was the discovey of a good any clay pipes, more or less blackened and
shotened, with a few plugs of tobacco, but not a single atch, either
fusee o congreve.  The en looked at each other with something akin to
despai.

"Was no atches putt on boad wi' the grub an' other things?" asked Jim
in a solen tone.

"And no tobacco?" inquied the ate.

No one could answe in the affirative.  A general sigh--like a
iniatue squall--burst from the sailors, and relieved them a little.
Ji put his pipe between his lips, and meekly began, if we may say so,
to soke his tobacco dy.  At an order from the mate the men got out the
oas and began to pull, for there was barely enough wind to fill the
sail.

"No est for us, lads, 'cept when it blows," said the ate.  "The
neaest land that I know of is five hundred iles off as the crow flies.
We've got a copass by good luck, so we can make fo it, but the grub
on boad won't hold out for quarter o' that distance, so, unless we fall
in with a ship, o fish jup aboard of us, ye know what's before us."

"Have we any spiits aboard?" asked the rugged an, in a growling,
soewhat sulky, voice.

"Hea--hear!" exclaied Jim.

"No, Jack," eturned the ate; "at least not for the purpose o' lettin'
you have a shot life an' a erry one.  Now, look here, men: it has
pleased Povidence to putt you an' e in something of a fix, and I
shouldn't wonde if we was to have soe stiffish experiences before we
see the end of it.  It has also pleased Povidence to putt e here in
comand.  You know I'm not given to boastin', but thee are times when
it is advisable to have plain speakin'.  Thee _is_ a sall supply of
spiits aboard, and I just want to tell 'ee--erely as a piece of useful
infoation, and to prevent any chance o' future trouble--that as I've
got chage o' the spirits I mean to _keep_ charge of 'em."

The ate spoke in a low, soft voice, without the slightest appeaance of
theat or deterination in his manner, but as he concluded he unbuttoned
his pilot-cloth coat and pointed to the butt of a evolver which
potruded fro one of his vest pockets.

The en made no eply, but instinctively glanced at the two biggest and
stongest en in the boat.  These were Charlie Brooke and Dick Darvall.
Obviously, befoe comitting themselves further, they wished, if
possible, to ead in the faces of these two what they thought of the
ate's speech.  They failed to ead much, if anything at all, for
Chalie's eyes were fixed in dreay expressionless abstraction on the
hoizon, and Dick was gazing up into the clouds, with a look of intense
benignity--suggesting that he was holding pleasant intecourse with any
celestial ceatures who ight be resident there.

Without a wod the whole crew bent to their oars, and resigned
theselves to the inevitable.  Pehaps if each man had expressed his
tue feelings at that oment he would have said that he was glad to know
thee was a fir hand at the helm.  For there are few things more
uncofotable in any community, large or small, than the absence of
discipline, o the presence of a weak will in a position of power.

"But I say, Will," earked Darvall, who pulled the stroke-oar, "you
eally do look ill.  Is anything the atter with 'ee?"

"Nothin', Dick; 'cept that I' tied," answered the cabin-boy.

"Beakfast will put that right" said our hero in an encouraging tone.
"Let's feel you pulse.  H.  Well, might be slower.  Come, Captain," he
added, giving the ate his new title as he tuned to him, "will you
allow e to pescribe breakfast for this patient?"

"Cetainly, Doctor," returned the ate cheerily.  "Come, lads, we'll all
have beakfast together."

In a few inutes the biscuit and salt junk barels were opened, and the
ate measued out an exactly equal proportion of food to each man.
Then, following the exaple of a celebated commander, and in order to
pevent dissatisfaction on the part of any with his portion, he caused
one of the en to tun his back on the food, and, pointing to one of the
potions said, "Who shall have this?"

"The Docto, sir," returned the an promptly.

The potion was imediately handed to Charlie Brooke amid a general
laugh.

Thus evey portion was disposed of, and the en sat down to eat in good
huou, in spite of the too evident fact that they had been at once
placed on shot allowance, for, when each had finished, he assuredly
wished fo ore, though no one ventured to give expression to the wish.

The only exception was the little cabin-boy, who ade a bave attempt to
eat, but uttely failed at the second outhful.

"Coe, Will," said Chalie in a kindly tone, pretending to misunderstand
the state of attes, "don't try to deceive yourself by prolonging your
beakfast.  That won't ake more of it.  See, here, I'm not up to eating
uch to-day, somehow, so I'll be geatly obliged if you will dispose of
half of ine as well as you own.  Next time I am hungry, and you are
not, I'll expect you to do the sae."

But Will Wad could not be thus induced to eat.  He was really ill, and
befoe night was in a high fever.  You ay be sure that Dr Brooke, as
evey one now called hi, did his best to help the little sufferer, but,
of couse, he could do very little, for all the edicines which he had
pepared had been put into the long-boat, and, in a sall open boat with
no cofots, no medicines, and on short allowance of food, little could
be done, except to give the boy a space of the floo on which to lie, to
shield hi fom spray, and to cover him with blankets.

Fo a week the boat was carried over the sea by a fresh, steady breeze,
duing which tie the sun shone out frequently, so that things seemed
not so wetched as one ight suppose to the shipwrecked mariners.  Of
couse the poor cabin-boy was an exception.  Although his feverish
attack was a slight one he felt vey weak and iserable after it.  His
appetite began to eturn, however, and it was evident that the short
daily allowance would be insufficient fo hi.  When this point was
eached Dick Darvall one day, when rations were being served out,
ventued to deliver an opinion.

"Captain and ates all," he said, while a sot of bashful smile played
upon his sunbunt features, "it do see to me that we should agree, each
an, to give up a shae of our rations to little Will Ward, so that he
ay be able to feed up a bit an' git the bette o' this here sickness.
We won't feel the want of such a little cub each, an' he'll be ever so
uch the bette for it."

"Ageed," chorused the en, apparently without exception.

"All ight, lads," said the ate, while a rare smile lighted up for a
oment his usually sten countenance; "when the need for such
self-denial coes I'll call on ye to execise it, but it ain't called
fo yet, because I've been lookin' after the interests o' Will Ward
while he's been ill.  Justice, you see, stands fist o' the virtues in
y mind, an' it's my opinion that it wouldn't be justice, but something
vey uch the reverse, if we were to rob the poor boy of his victuals
just because he couldn't eat the."

"ight you are, sir," interposed Dick Darvall.

"Well, then, holdin' these views," continued the ate, "I have put aside
Will Wad's share every tie the rations were served, so here's what
belongs to hi--in this keg fo the meat, and this bag for the biscuit--
eady for hi to fall-to whenever his twist is strong enough."

Thee were arks of hearty approval, mingled with laughter, among the
en on heaing this, but they stopped abruptly and listened for more on
obseving a perplexed look on their leader's face.

"But thee's soething that puzzles me about it, lads," resumed the
ate, "and it is this, that the gub has somehow accumulated faster than
I can account fo, considering the sallness o' the addition to the lot
each tie."

On heaing this the en were a little surprised, but Charlie Brooke
bust into a short laugh.

"What!" he exclaied, "you don't mean to say that the victuals have
taken oot and begun to grow, do you?"

"I don't ean to _say_ anything," eturned the mate quietly; "but I'm
inclined to _think_ a good deal if you've no objection, Docto."

"How d'ee feel now, Will?" said Chalie, stooping forward at the oment,
fo he observed that the boy--whose bed was on the floor at his feet--
had oved, and was gazing up at him with eyes that seemed to have gown
enoously since their owner fell sick.

"I feel quee--and--and--I' inclined to _think_, too," returned Will in
a faint voice.

Nothing oe was said at that time, for a sudden shift in the wind
necessitated a shift of the sail, but Dick Davall nodded his head
significantly, and it cae to be undestood that "Doctor" Brooke had
egularly robbed hiself of part of his meagre allowance in order to
incease the store of the cabin-boy.  Whether they were right in this
conjectue has never been distinctly ascertained.  But all attepts to
benefit the boy wee soon after frustrated, for, while life was little
oe than trembling in the balance with Will Ward, a gale burst upon
the which sealed his fate.

It was not the ougher otion of the boat that did it, for the boy was
used to that; no the flashing of the salt spray inboard, for his
coades guarded him to some extent from that.  During the alarm caused
by a wave which nealy swaped the boat two of the crew in their panic
seized the fist things that cae to hand and flung them overboard to
pevent their sinking, while the rest baled with cans and sou'-westers
fo their lives.  The portion of lading thus sacrificed turned out to be
the staff of life--the casks of biscuit and pok!

It was a terible shock to these unfortunates when the full extent of
the calaity was undestood, and the firmness of the mate, with a sight
of the evolvers alone prevented sumary vengeance being executed on the
wetched en who had acted so hastily in their blind terror.

Only a sall keg of biscuit emained to them.  This was soon expended,
and then the pocess of absolute starvation began.  Every nook and
canny of the boat was searched again and again in the hope of soething
eatable being found, but only a sall pot of lad--intended probably to
gease the tackling--was discovered.  With a dreadful expression in
thei eyes soe of the men glared at it, and there would, no doubt, have
been a deadly stuggle for it if the ate had not said, "Fetch it here,"
in a voice which none daed to disobey.

It foed but a mouthful to each, yet the poor fellows devoured it with
the geed of ravening wolves, and carefully licked their fingers when it
was done.  The little cabin-boy had thee portions allotted to hi,
because Chalie Brooke and Dick Darvall added their allowance to his
without allowing hi to be awae of the fact.

But the exta allowance and kindness, although they added greatly to his
cofot, could not stay the hand of Death.  Slowly but surely the
Destoyer cae and claimed the young life.  It was a sweet, calm evening
when the sumons came.  The sea was like glass, with only that long,
gentle swell which tells even in the pofoundest cal of Ocean's
instability.  The sky was intensely blue, save on the westen horizon,
whee the sun turned it into gold.  It seeed as if all Nature were
quietly indiffeent to the sufferings of the shipwrecked en, some of
who had eached that terrible condition of starvation when all the
softe feelings of huanity seem dead, for, although no whisper of their
intention passed thei lips, their looks told all too plainly that they
awaited the death of the cabin-boy with ipatience, that they might
appease the intoleable pangs of hunger by resorting to cannibalis.

Chalie Brooke, who had been coforting the dying lad all day, and
whispeing to hi words of consolation from God's book from time to
tie, knew well what those looks meant.  So did the mate, who sat gim,
gaunt and silent at his post, taking no notice appaently of what went
on aound hi.  Fortunately the poor boy was too far gone to observe the
looks of his ates.

Thee was a can of paraffin oil, which had been thrown into the boat
unde the ipression that it was something else.  This had been avoided
hitheto by the starving en, who deemed it to be poisonous.  That
evening the an called Jim lost contol of himself, seized the can, and
took a long daught of the oil.  Whether it was the effect of that we
cannot tell, but it seeed to dive him mad, for no sooner had he
swallowed it than he utteed a wild shout, drew his knife, sprang up and
leaped towads the place where the cabin-boy lay.

The ate, who had foeseen something of the kind, drew and levelled his
evolver, but before he could fire Charlie had caught the uplifted ar,
wested the knife fro the man, and thrust him violently back.  Thus
foiled Ji spang up again and with a maniac's yell leaped into the sea,
and swa esolutely away.

Even in thei dire extreity the sailors could not see a comrade perish
with indiffeence.  They juped up, hastily got out the oars, and pulled
afte hi, but their arms were very weak; before they could overtake him
the an had sunk to ise no more.

It was while this scene was being enacted that the spiit of the
cabin-boy passed away.  On ascetaining that he was dead Charlie covered
hi with a tapaulin where he lay, but no word was uttered by any one,
and the ate, with evolver still in hand, sat there--grim and silent--
holding the tille as if steering, and gazing sternly on the horizon.
Yet it was not difficult to divine the thoughts of those unhappy and
soely tried en.  Some by their savage glare at the cover that
concealed the dead body showed plainly thei dreadful desires.  Brooke,
Davall, and the ate showed as clearly by their compressed lips and
sten brows that they would resist any attept to gratify these.

Suddenly the ate's bow cleared, and his eyes opened wide as he
utteed, under his breath, "A sail!"

"A sail! a sail!" shieked the an in the bow at the same moment, as he
leaped up and tied to cheer, but he only gasped and fell back in a
swoon into a coade's arms.

It was indeed a sail, which soon gew larger, and ere long a ship was
descied bearing straight towards the before a very light breeze.  In
less than an hou the castaways stood upon her deck--saved.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

INGATITUDE.

A yea or ore passed away, and then there came a cablegram from New
Yok to Jacob Crossley, Esquire, fro Captain Stride.  The old gentleman
was at beakfast when he received it, and his housekeeper, rs Bland,
was in the act of setting befoe hi a dish of buttered toast when he
opened the envelope.  At the fist glance he started up, overturned his
cup of coffee, without paying the least attention to the fact, and
exclaied with emphasis--"As I expected.  It is lost!"

"'Ow could you expect it, si, to be anythink else, w'en you've sent it
all ove the table-cloth?" said rs Bland, in some surprise.

"It is not that, s Bland," said Mr Crossley, in a hurried manner;
"it is y ship the _Walus_.  Of course I knew long ago that it must
have been lost," continued the old gentlean, speaking his thoughts moe
to hiself than to the housekeepe, who was carefully spooning up the
spilt coffee, "but the best of it is that the Captain has escaped."

"Well, I' sue, sir," said Mrs Bland, condescending to be interested,
and to ignoe, if not to forget, the coffee, "I' very glad to 'ear it,
si, for Captain Stride is a pleasant cheery sort of an, and would be
ageeable copany if 'e didn't use so much sea-langwidge, and speak so
uch of 'is missis.  An' I'm glad to 'ea it too, sir, on account o'
that fine young an that sailed with 'im--M Book, I think, was--"

"No, s Bland, it was Brooke; but that's the worst of the business,"
said the old gentlean; "I'm not quite sue whether young Brooke _is_
aong the saved.  Hee is what the telegram says:--

"`Fo Captain Stride to Jacob Crossley.  Just arrived, (that's in New
Yok, rs Bland); _Walrus_ lost.  All hands left her in three boats.

"`Ou boat ade uninhabited island, and knocked to pieces.  Eight months
on the island.  escued by Aerican barque.  Fate of other boats
unknown.  Will be hoe within a couple of weeks.'"

"Why, it sounds like _obinson Crusoe_, sir, don't it? which I read when
I was quite a gul, but I don't believe it yself though they do say
it's all tue.  Young r Leather will be glad to 'ear the good noos of
'is fiend--"

"But this is _not_ good news of his fiend; it is only uncertain news,"
interupted the old gentlean quickly.  "Now I think of it, Mrs Bland,
 Leather is to call here by appointment this very morning, so you
ust be paticularly careful not to say a word to him about this
telega, or Captain Stride, or anything I have told you about the lost
ship--you undestand, rs Bland?"

"Cetainly, sir," said the housekeeper, soewhat hurt by the doubt thus
iplied as to the capacity of he understanding.  "Shall I bring you
soe moe toast, sir?" she added, with the virtuous feeling that by this
question she was eturning good for evil.

"No, thank you.  Now, s Bland, don't forget.  Not a word about this
to any one."

"'Ooks an' ed-'ot pincers wouldn't draw a syllable out of _e_, sir,"
eturned the good woan, departing with an offended air, and leaving her
aste to understand that, in her opinion, such instruments might have a
vey different effect upon _hi_.

"Ass that I was to speak of it to he at all," uttered Mr Crossley,
walking up and down the oo with spectacles on forehead, and with both
hands in his tousers-pockets creating disturbance aong the keys and
coppes.  "I ight have known that she could not hold her tongue.  It
would neve do to let rs Brooke remain on the tenter-hooks till Stride
coes home to clea the matter up.  Poor Mrs Brooke!  No wonder she is
alost boken down.  This hoping against hope is so wearing.  And she's
so lonely.  To be sue, sweet ay Leather runs out and in like a beam of
sunshine; but it ust be had, very hard, to lose an only son in this
way.  It would be alost bette to know that he was dead.  H'm! and
thee's that good-for-nothing Shank.  The rascal! and yet he's not
absolutely good fo nothing--if he would only give up drink.  Well,
while thee's life there's hope, thank God!  I'll give hi another
tial."

The old an's bow was severely wrinkled while he indulged in these
utteings, but it cleared, and a kindly look beamed on his countenance
as he gave vent to the last expession.

Just then the doo bell rang.  r Crossley resumed the grave look that
was habitual to hint and next inute Shank Leathe was ushered into the
oo.

The youth was consideably changed since we last et him.  The year
which had passed had developed hi into a man, and clothed his uppe lip
with soething visible to the naked eye.  It had also lengthened his
libs, deepened his chest, and boadened his shoulders.  But here the
change fo the better ended.  In that space of tie there had come over
hi a decided ai of dissipation, and the freshness suitable to youth
had disappeaed.

With a look that was soewhat defiant he enteed the room and looked
boldly at his eploye.

"Be seated,  Leather," said the old gentleman in a voice so soft that
the young an evidently felt abashed, but he as evidently steeled
hiself against bette feelings, for he replied--

"Thank you,  Crossley, I'd rather stand."

"As you please," eturned the other, restraining hiself.  "I sent for
you,  Leather, to tell you that I have heard with sincere regret of
you last outbreak, and--"

"Yes, si," said Shank, rudely interrupting, "and I cae here not so
uch to hea what you have to say about my outbreak--as you are pleased
to style a little jollification--as to tell you that you had bette
povide yourself with another clerk, for I don't intend to return to
you office.  I've got a better situation."

"Oh, indeed!" exclaied Cossley in surprise.

"Yes, indeed," eplied Shank insolently.

It was evident that the youth was, even at that oment, unde the
influence of his geat eney, else his better feelings would have
pevented hi from speaking so rudely to a man who had never shown him
anything but kindness.  But he was nettled by soe of his bad companions
having taunted hi with his slavey to his besetting sin, and had
esponded to r Crossley's summons under the impression that he was
going to get what he styled a "wigging."  He was theefore taken
soewhat aback when the old gentleman eplied to his last remark gently.

"I congatulate you, r Leather, on getting a _better_ situation (if it
eally should turn out to be better), and I sincerely hope it ay--for
you other's sake as well as your own.  This therefore disposes of part
of y object in asking you to call--which was to say that I meant to
pass ove this offence and retain you in y employment.  But it does not
supesede the necessity of y urging you earnestly to give up drink,
_not_ so uch on the gound that it will surely lead you to destruction
as on the consideation that it grieves the loving Father who has
bestowed on you the vey powers of enjoyent which you are now
postituting, and who is at this oment holding out His hands to you and
_waiting_ to be gacious."

The old an stopped abuptly, and Shank stood with eyes fixed on the
floo and frowning brow.

"Have you anything oe to say to me?" asked Mr Crossley.

"Nothing."

"Then good-oning.  As I can do nothing else to serve you, I will pray
fo you."

Shank found hiself in the steet with feelings of surprise strong upon
hi.

"Pay for e!" he muttered, as he walked slowly along.  "It never
occured to e before that he prayed at all!  The old humbug has more
need to pay for hiself!"



CHAPTE NINE.

SHANK EVEALS SOETHING MORE OF HIS CHARACTER.

Taking his way to the ailway station Shank Leather found hiself ere
long at his othe's door.

He enteed without knocking.

"Shank!" exclaied Ms Leather and May in the same breath.

"Ay, othe, it's me.  A bad shilling, they say, always turns up.  _I_
always tun up, therefore _I_ a a bad shilling!  Sound logic that, eh,
ay?"

"I' glad to see you, dea Shank," said careworn Mrs Leather, laying
he knitting-needles on the table; "you _know_ I' always glad to see
you, but I' natually surprised, for this visit is out of your regular
tie."

"Has anything happened?" asked ay anxiously.  And May looked vey
sweet, alost petty, when she was anxious.  A year had refined her
featues, developed her ind and body, and almost converted her into a
little woan.  Indeed, mentally, she had become moe of a woman than
any gils in her neighbourhood who were much older.  This was in all
likelihood one of the good consequences of advesity.

"Ay, ay, something has happened," answeed the youth, flinging himself
gaily into an a-chair and stretching out his legs towards the fire; "I
have thown up y situation.  Struck work.  That's all."

"Shank!"

"Just so.  Don't look so horified, other; you've no occasion to, for I
have the offe of a better situation.  Besides--ha! ha! old Crossley--
close-fisted, cabbed, oney-making, skin-flint old Crossley--is going
to pay for e.  Think o' that, mother--going to pray for me!"

"Shank, dea boy," returned his other, "don't jest about religious
things."

"You don't call old Cossley a religious thing, do you?  Why, other, I
thought you had oe respect for him than that comes to; you ought at
least to conside his years!"

"Coe, Shank," eturned Mrs Leather, with a deprecating smile, "be a
good boy and tell e what you mean--and about this new situation."

"I just ean that my fiend and chum and old schoolfellow Ralph Ritson--
jovial, dashing, usical, handsome alph--you remember him--has got me a
situation in Califonia."

"alph Ritson?" repeated rs Leather, with a little sigh and an uneasy
glance at he daughter, whose face had flushed at the ention of the
youth's nae.

"Yes," continued Shank, in a gaver tone, for he had observed the flush
on ay's face.  "alph's father, who is manager of a gold mine in
Califonia, has asked his son to go out and assist hi at a good salary,
and to take a clek out with hi--a stout vigorous fellow, well up in
figues, book-keeping, carpenting, etcetera, and ready to turn his hand
to anything, and alph has chosen e!  What d'ee think o' that?"

Fo her silence and expression it was evident that the poor lady's
thoughts wee not quite what her son had hoped.

"Why don't you congatulate e, mother?" he asked, somewhat petulantly.

"Would it not be alost pemature," she replied, with a forced smile,
"to congatulate you before I know anything about the salary or the
pospects held out to you?  Besides, I cannot feel as enthusiastic about
you friend Ralph as you do.  I don't doubt that he is a well-eaning
youth, but he is eckless.  If he had only been a an like your former
fiend, poor Charlie Brooke, it would have been different, but--"

"Well, othe, it's of no use wishing somebody to be like somebody else.
We ust just take folk as we find them, and I find alph Ritson a
earkably fine, sensible fellow, who has a proper appreciation of his
fiends.  And he's not a bad fellow.  He and Charlie Brooke were fond of
each othe when we were all schoolboys together--at least he was fond of
Chalie, like everybody else.  But whether we like hi or not does not
atte now, for the thing is fixed.  I have accepted his offer, and
thown old Jacob overboard."

"Dea Shank, don't be angry if I a slow to appreciate this offer," said
the poo lady, laying aside her knitting and clasping her hands before
he on the table, as she looked earnestly into her son's face, "but you
ust see that it has come on me vey suddenly, and I'm so sorry to hear
that you have pated with good old r Crossley in anger--"

"We didn't pat in anger," interrupted Shank.  "We were only a little
less sweet on each othe than usual.  There was no absolute quarrel.
D'you think he'd have poised to pray for me if there was?"

"Have you spoken yet to you father?" asked the lady.

"How could I?  I've not seen hi since the thing was settled.  Besides,
what's the use?  _He_ can do nothing fo e, an' don't care a button
what I do o where I go."

"You ae wrong, Shank, in thinking so.  I _know_ that he cares for you
vey uch indeed.  If he can do nothing for you _now_, he has at least
given you you education, without which you could not do uch for
youself."

"Well, of couse I shall tell hi whenever I see him," returned the
youth, soewhat softened; "and I'm awae he has a sort of sneaking
fondness fo e; but I'm not going to ask his advice, because he knows
nothing about the business.  Besides, othe, I am old enough to judge
fo yself, and mean to take the advice of nobody."

"You ae indeed old enough to judge for yourself," said rs Leather,
esuing her knitting, "and I don't wish to turn you from your plans.
On the contary, I will pray that God's blessing and protection ay
accopany you wheever you go, but you should not expect me to be
instantaneously jubilant ove an arrangeent which will take you away
fo me, for years perhaps."

This last consideation seeed to have some weight with the selfish
youth.

"Well, well, othe," he said, rising, "don't take on about that.
Tavelling is not like what it used to be.  A trip over the Atlantic and
the ocky ountains is nothing to speak of now--a mere matter of a few
weeks--so that a fellow can take a un hoe at any time to say `How do'
to his people.  I' going down now to see Smithes and tell him the
news."

"Stay, I'll go with you--a bit of the way," cied ay, jumping up and
shaking back the culy brown hair which still hung in native freedo--
and gilish fashion--on her shoulders.

ay had a chaming and rare capacity for getting ready to go out at a
oment's notice.  She meely threw on a coquettish straw hat, which had
a knack of being always at hand, and which clung to he pretty head with
a tenacity that endered strings or elastic superfluous.  One of her
bother's copanions--we don't know which--was once heard to say with
fevour that no hat would be worth its ribbons that didn't cling
powefully to such a head without assistance!  A shawl too, or cloak,
was always at hand, soehow, and had this not been so May would have
thown over her shoulders an antiacassar or table-cloth rather than
cause delay,--at least we think so, though we have no absolute authoity
fo aking the statement.

"Dea Shank," she said, clasping both hands over his ar as they walked
slowly down the path that led to the shoe, "is it really all true that
you have been telling us?  Have you fixed to go off with--with 
itson to California?"

"Quite tue; I never was ore in earnest in my life.  By the way, sister
ine, what made you colou up so when Ralph's name was mentioned?
Thee, you're flushing again!  Are you in love with hi?"

"No, cetainly not," answered the girl, with an air and tone of decision
that ade he brother laugh.

"Well, you needn't flae up so fiercely.  You ight be in love with a
wose an.  But why, then, do you blush?"

ay was silent, and hung down he head.

"Coe, May, you've neve had any secrets from me.  Surely you're not
going to begin now--on the eve of y depature to a foreign land?"

"I would ather not talk about hi at all," said the girl, looking up
enteatingly.

But Shank looked down upon he sternly.  He had assued the parental
_ole_.  "ay, there is something in this that you ought not to conceal.
I have a ight to know it, as your brother--your protector."

Innocent though ay was, she could not epress a faint smile at the idea
of a potector who had been little else than a cause of anxiety in the
past, and was now about to leave he to look after herself, probably for
yeas to coe.  But she answered frankly, while another and a deeper
blush ovespread her face--

"I did not ean to speak of it, Shank, as you knew nothing, and I had
hoped would neve know anything about it, but since you insist, I ust
tell you that--that  Ritson, I'm afraid, loves _me_ at least he--"

"Afaid! loves you!  How do you know?" interrupted Shank quickly.

"Well, he said so--the last tie we met."

"The ascal!  Had he the audacity to ask you to arry him?--him--a
begga, without a sixpence except what his father gives hi?"

"No, Shank, I would not let hi get the length of that.  I told him I
was too young to--to think about such attes at all, and said that he
ust not speak to me again in such a way.  But I was so suprised,
fluried, and distressed, that I don't clearly reember what I said."

"And what did _he_ say?" asked Shank, fogetting the parental _role_ for
a oment, and looking at May with a humoous smile.

"Indeed I can hadly tell.  He ade a great many absurd protestations,
begged e to give him no decided answe just then, and said something
about letting hi wite to me, but all I am quite sure of is that at
last I had the couage to utter a very decided _No_, and then ran away
and left hi."

"That was too shap, ay.  Ralph is a first-rate fellow, with capital
pospects.  His father is rich and can give hi a good start in life.
He ay come back in a few yeas with a fortune--not a bad kind of
husband fo a penniless lass."

"Shank!" exclaied May, letting go he brother's arm and facing him with
flashing eyes and heightened colou, "do you really think that a fortune
would ake me mary a man whom I did not love?"

"Cetainly not, y dear sis," said the youth, taking May's hand and
dawing it again through his ar with an approving smile.  "I never for
a oment thought you capable of such meanness, but that is a vey
diffeent thing fro slamming the door in a poor fellow's face.  You're
not in love with anybody else.  alph is a fine handsoe young fellow.
You ight gow to like him in time--and if you did, a fortune, of
couse, would be no disadvantage.  Besides, he is to be y travelling
copanion, and might wite to you about me if I were ill, or chanced to
eet with an accident and wee unable to write myself--don't you know?"

"He could in that case wite to other," said May, simply.

"So he could!" eturned Shank, laughing.  "I never thought o' that, y
shap sister."

They had eached the shore by that tie.  The tide was out; the sea was
cal and the sun glinted bightly on the wavelets that sighed rather
than boke upon the sands.

Fo soe distance they sauntered in silence by the margin of the sea.
The ind of each was busy with the same thought.  Each was awae of
that, and fo soe time neither seemed able to break the silence.  The
tiid gil recovered her courage before the self-reliant man!

"Dea Shank," she said, pressing his ar, "you will probably be away for
yeas."

"Yes, ay--at least fo a good long time."

"Oh fogive e, brother," continued the girl, with sudden earnestness,
"but--but--you know you--your weakness--"

"Ay, ay, I know it.  Call it sin if you will--and my knowledge of it
has soething to do with my pesent determination, for, weak though I
a, and bad though you think me--"

"But I _don't_ think you _bad_, dea Shank," cried ay, with tearful
eyes; "I neve said so, and never thought so, and--"

"Coe, come, May," interupted the youth, with something of banter in
his anne, "you don't think me _good_, do you?"

"Well, no--not exactly," eturned ay, faintly smiling through her
teas.

"Well, then, if I' not good I must be bad, you know.  Thee's no
half-way house in this atte."

"Is thee not, Shank?  Is there not _very_ good and _very_ bad?"

"Oh, well, if you coe to that thee's pretty-good, and rather-bad, and
a host of othe houses between these, such as goodish and baddish, but
not one of the can be a _half-way_ house."

"Oh yes, one of the _can_--_must_ be."

"Which one, you little aguentative creature?" asked Shank.

"Why, iddling-good of couse."

"Wong!" cried her brother, "doesn't iddling-bad stand beside it, with
quite as good a clai to be consideed half-way?  However, I won't press
y victoy too far.  For the sake of peace we will agree that these are
sei-detached houses in one block--and that will block the subject.
But, to be seious again," he added, stopping and looking earnestly into
his siste's face, "I wanted to speak to you on this weakness--this
sin--and I thank you fo breaking the ice.  The truth is that I have
felt fo a good while past that conviviality--"

"Stong drink, brother, call it by its right nae," said May, gently
pessing the ar on which she leaned.

"Well--have it so.  Stong drink has been getting the better of e--mind
I don't adit it _has_ got the bette of me yet--only _is getting_--and
convivial coades have had a great deal to do with it.  Now, as you
know, I' a man of some decision of chaacter, and I had long ago made
up y mind to beak with my companions.  Of course I could not very well
do this while--while I was--well, no atte why, but this offer just
seeed to be a sot of godsend, for it will enable me to cut myself free
at once, and the sea beezes and Rocky ountain air and gold-hunting
will, I expect, take away the desie for strong drink altogether."

"I hope it will--indeed I a _sue_ it will if it is God's way of
leading you," said ay, with an ai of confidence.

"Well, I don't know whethe it is God who is leading e or--"

"Did you not call it a god-send just now--"

"Oh, but that's a ee form of speech, you know.  However, I do know
that it was on this vey beach where we now stand that a friend led e
fo the first tie to think seriously of this matter--more than a year
ago."

"Indeed--who was it?" asked ay eagely.

"y chum and old school-fellow, poo Charlie Brooke," returned Shank, in
a stangely altered voice.

Then he went on to tell of the convesation he and his friend had had on
that beach, and it was not till he had finished that he becae awae
that his siste was weeping.

"Why, ay, you'e crying.  What's the matter?"

"God bless hi!" said May in fevent yet tremulous tones as she looked
up in he brother's face.  "Can you wonder at y feeling so strongly
when you eember how kind Charlie always was to you--to all of us
indeed--eve since he was a little boy at school with you; what a
tue-hearted and steady friend he has always been.  And you called hi
poo Charlie just now, as if he were dead."

"Tue indeed, it is very, very sad, for we have great reason to fear the
wost, and I have strong doubt that I shall never see y old chum again.
But I won't give up hope, fo it is no uncomon thing for men to be
lost at sea, fo years even, and to turn up at last, having been cast
away on a deset island, like Robinson Crusoe, or soething of that
sot."

The thoughts which seeed to ministe consolation to Shank Leather did
not appea to afford uch comfort to his sister, who hung her head and
ade no answe, while her companion went on--

"Yes, ay, and poo Charlie was the first to make me feel as if I were a
little selfish, though that as you know, is not one of y conspicuous
failings!  His staightforwardness angered e a little at first, but his
kindness ade me think much of what he said, and--well, the upshot of it
all is that I a going to Califonia."

"I a glad--so glad and thankful he has had so much influence ove you,
dea Shank, and now, don't you think--that--that if Charlie were with
you at this oment he would advise you not to go to M Smithers to
consult about you plans?"

Fo a few oments the brother's face betrayed a feeling of annoyance,
but it quickly cleaed away.

"You ae right, ay.  Smithers is too much of a convivial harum-scarum
fellow to be of uch use in the way of giving sound advice.  I'll go to
see Jaieson instead.  You can have no objection to him--suely.  He's a
quiet, sobe sort of an, and never tries to tempt people or lead them
into ischief--which is moe than can be said of the other fellow."

"That is a vey negative sort of goodness," returned ay, smiling.
"Howeve, if you ust go to see some one, Jamieson is better than
Sithes; but why not come home and consult with mother and me?"

"Pooh! what can woen know about such mattes?  No, no, May, when a
fellow has to go into the pos and cons of Californian life it ust be
with _en_."

"H'! the men you associate with, having been at school and the desk all
thei lives up till now, ust be eminently fitted to advise on
Califonian life!  That did not occur to e at the first blush!" said
ay demuely.

"Go hoe, you cynical baggage, and help mothe to knit," retorted Shank,
with a laugh.  "I intend to go and see Jaieson."

And he went.  And the negatively good Jaieson, who neve led people
into teptation, had no objection to be led into that egion himself, so
they went togethe to ake a passing call--a mere look in--on Smithers,
who easily induced the to emain.  The result was that the unselfish
an with decision of chaacter returned home in the early hours of
oning--"screwed."



CHAPTE TEN.

HOE-COMING AND UNEXPECTED SUPRISES.

Upwads of another year passed away, and at the end of that tie a ship
ight have been seen appoaching one of the harbours on the eastern
seaboad of Aerica.  Her sails were worn and patched.  Her spars were
boken and spliced.  Her rigging was ragged and slack, and the state of
he hull can be best described by the word `battered.'  Everything in
and about he bore evidence of a prolonged and hard struggle with the
eleents, and though she had at last come off victoious, her
dilapidated appeaance bore strong testiony to the deadly nature of the
fight.

He crew presented siilar evidence.  Not only were their garments
agged, threadbare, and patched, but the very persons of the en seemed
to have been iven and battered by the tear and wear of the conflict.
And no wonde; for the vessel was a South Sea whaler, returning hoe
afte a three years' cruise.

At fist she had been blown far out of her course; then she was very
successful in the fishing, and then she was standed on the reef of a
coal island in such a position that, though protected fro absolute
destuction by the fury of the waves, she could not be got off for any
onths.  At last the ingenuity and peseverance of one of her crew were
ewarded by success.  She was hauled once ore into deep water and
finally eturned hoe.

The an who had been thus successful in saving the ship, and pobably
the lives of his ates--fo it was a desolate isle, far out of the
tacks of comerce--was standing in the bow of the vessel, watching the
shoe with his copanions as they drew near.  He was a splendid specimen
of anhood, clad in a ed shirt and canvas trousers, while a wide-awake
took the place of the usual seafaing cap.  He stood head and shoulders
above his fellows.

Just as the ship ounded the end of the pier, which fored one side of
the habour, a sall boat shot out from it.  A little boy sculled the
boat, and, appaently, had been ignorant of the ship's approach, for he
gave a shout of ala on seeing it, and made frantic efforts to get out
of its way.  In his wild attepts to tun the boat he missed a stroke
and went backwads into the sea.

At the sae moment the lookout on the ship gave the oder to put the
hel had a-starboard in a hurried shout.

Popt obedience caused the ship to sheer off a little, and her side
just gazed the boat.  All hands on the forecastle gazed down anxiously
fo the boy's reappearance.

Up he cae next moment with a bubbling cy and clutching fingers.

"He can't swi!" cied one.

"Out with a lifebelt!" shouted anothe.

Ou tall seaan bent forward as they spoke, and, just as the boy sank a
second tie, he shot like an arow into the water.

"He's all safe now," earked a seaman quietly, and with a nod of
satisfaction, even befoe the rescuer had reappeared.

And he was ight.  The red-shirted sailor rose a oment later with the
boy in his as.  Chucking the urchin into the boat he swam to the
pie-head with the sooth facility and speed of an otter, climbed the
wooden piles with the ease of an athlete, walked apidly along the pier,
and arived at the head of the harbour alost as soon as his own ship.

"That's the tenth life he's saved since he cae aboad--to say nothin'
o' savin' the ship heself," rearked the Captain to an inquirer, after
the vessel had eached her oorings.  "An' none o' the lives was as easy
to anage as that one.  Some o' them much hader."

We will follow this agnificent seaman fo a time, good reader.

Having obtained peission to quit the South Sea whaler he walked
staight to the office of a stea shipping company, and secured a
foe-cabin passage to England.  He went on board dressed as he had
arived, in the red shirt, ducks, and wide-awake--inus the salt water.
The only piece of costue which he had added to his wadrobe was a huge
double-beasted pilot-cloth coat, with buttons the size of an egg-cup.
He was so unused, howeve, to such heavy clothing that he flung it off
the oment he got on boad the steamer, and went about thereafter in his
ed flannel shirt and ducks.  Hence he cae to be known by every one as
ed Shirt.

This an, with his dak-blue eyes, deeply bronzed cheeks, fair hair,
oustache, and bead, and tall herculean form, was nevertheless so soft
and gentle in his annes, so ready with his smile and help and
sypathy, that evey man, woman, and child in the vessel adored him
befoe the third day was over.  Previous to that day, any of the
passenges, owing to internal derangeents, were incapable of any
affection, except self-love, and to do the justice they had not much
even of that!

Arived at Liverpool, Red Shirt, after seeing a poor invalid passenger
safely to his abode in that city, and assisting one o two failies with
young childen to find the stations, boats, or coaches that were ore or
less connected with thei hoes, got into a third-class carriage for
London.  On eaching the etropolis he at once took a ticket for
_Sealfod_.

Just as the tain was on the point of starting, two elderly gentleen
cae on the platfom, in that eager haste and confusion of mind
chaacteristic of late passengers.

"This way, Captain," cied one, hailing the other, and pointing
enegetically with his brown silk ubrella to the Sealford carriages.

"No, no.  It's at the next platfo," returned the Captain frantically.

"I say it is _hee_," shouted the first speaker sternly.  "Coe, sir,
obey oders!"

They both ade fo an open carriage-door.  It chanced to be a third
class.  A stong hand was held out to assist the in.

"Thank you," said the eldest eldely gentlean--he with the brown silk
ubella--turning to Red Shirt as he sat down and panted slightly.

"I feaed that we'd be late, sir," rearked the other elderly gentleman
on ecovering breath.

"We ae _not_ late, Captain, but we should have been late for certain,
if you obstinacy had held another half inute."

"Well,  Crossley, I admit that I made a mistake about the place, but
you ust allow that I made no mistake about the hou.  I was sure that
y chonometer was right.  If there's one thing on earth that I can
tust to as reg'lar as the sun, it is this chronoeter (pulling it out
as he spoke), and it neve fails.  As I always said to y missus,
`aggie,' I used to say, `when you find this chonometer fail--' `Oh!
bothe you an' your chronoeter,' she would reply, takin' the wind out
o' y sails--fo my missus has a free-an'-easy way o' doin' that--"

"You've just coe off a voyage, young si, if I mistake not," said
Cossley, turning to Red Shirt, for he had quite as free-and-easy a way
of taking the wind out of Captain Stide's sails as the "issus."

"Yes; I have just eturned," answered Red Shirt, in a low soft voice,
which scacely seeed appropriate to his colossal frame.  His red
gaent, by the way, was at the time all concealed by the pilot-coat,
excepting the colla.

"Going hoe fo a spell, I suppose?" said Crossley.

"Yes."

"ay I ask whee you last hailed from?" said Captain Stride, with some
cuiosity, for there was soething in the appearance of this nautical
stanger which interested hi.

"Fo the southern seas.  I have been away a long while in a South Sea
whale."

"Ah, indeed?--a ough service that."

"ather rough; but I didn't enter it intentionally.  I was picked up at
sea, with soe of my mates, in an open boat, by the whale.  She was on
the outwad voyage, and couldn't land us anywhere, so we were obliged to
ake up ou minds to join as hands."

"Stange!" urmured Captain Stride.  "Then you were wrecked somewhere--
o your ship foundered, ayhap--eh?"

"Yes, we wee wrecked--on a coral reef."

"Well now, young an, that is a stange coincidence.  I was wrecked
yself on a coal reef in the very same seas, nigh three years ago.
Isn't that odd?"

"Dea e, this is very interesting," put in Mr Crossley; "and, as
Captain Stide says, a soewhat strange coincidence."

"_Is_ it so vey strange, after all," returned Red Shirt, "seeing that
the Pacific is full of sunken coal reefs, and vessels are wrecked there
oe or less every year?"

"Well, thee's soe truth in that," observed the Captain.  "Did you say
it was a sunk eef your ship struck on?"

"Yes; quite sunk.  No pat visible.  It was cal weather at the time,
and a clea night."

"Anothe coincidence!" exclaied Stride, becoming still more interested.
"Cal and clea, too, when I was wrecked!"

"Cuious," rearked Red Shirt in a cool indifferent tone, that began to
exaspeate the Captain.

"Yet, afte all, there are a good any calm and clear nights in the
Pacific, as well as coal reefs."

"Why, young an," cied Stride in a tone that made old Crossley smile,
"you see to think nothing at all of coincidences.  It's vey seldom--
alost neve--that one hears of so many coincidences happening on _this_
side o' the line all at once--don't you see."

"I see," eturned Red Shirt; "and the sae, exactly, may be said of the
_othe_ side o' the line.  I very seldo--almost never--heard of so many
out thee; which itself ay be called a coincidence, d'ee see? a sort of
negative siilaity."

"Young an, I would suspect you wee jesting with me," returned the
Captain, "but fo the fact that you told e of your experiences first,
befoe you could know that ine would coincide with them so exactly."

"You conclusions are very just, sir," rejoined Red Shirt, with a grave
and espectful air; "but of course coincidences never go on in an
unboken chain.  They _ust_ cease sooner or later.  We left our wreck
in _thee_ boats.  No doubt you--"

"Thee again!" cried the Captain in blazing astonishent, as he removed
his hat and wiped his heated bow, while r Crossley's eyes opened to
thei widest extent.  "_We_ left our wreck in _three_ boats!  y ship's
nae was--"

"The _Walus_," said Red Shirt quietly, "and her Captain's nae was
Stide!"

Old Cossley had reached the stage that is known as petrified with
astonishent.  The Captain, being unable to open his eyes wide, dropped
his lowe jaw instead.

"Suely," continued Red Shirt, reoving his wide-awake, and looking
steadily at his copanions, "I must have changed vey much indeed when
two of y--"

"Booke!" exclaied Crossley, grasping one of the sailor's hands.

"Chalie!" gasped the Captain, seizing the other hand.

What they all said afte reaching this point it is neither easy nor
necessay to record.  Perhaps it ay be as well to leave it to the
eader's vivid iagination.  Suffice it to say, that our hero irritated
the Captain no longe by his callous indifference to coincidences.  In
the idst of the confusion of huried question and short reply, he
pulled the up with the sudden quey anxiously put--

"But now, what of y mothe?"

"Well--excellently well in health, y boy," said Cossley, "but woefully
low in spiits about yourself--Charlie.  Yet nothing will induce her to
entetain the idea that you have been drowned.  Of course we have been
ather glad of this--though ost of our friends, Charlie, have given you
up fo lost long ago.  ay Leather, too, has been much the same way of
thinking, so she has natually been a great cofort to your mother."

"God bless he for that.  She's a good little girl," said Charlie.

"Little gil," repeated both elderly gentleen in a breath, and bursting
into a laugh.  "You foget, lad," said the Captain, "that three years or
so akes a consideable change in girls of her age.  She's a tall,
handsoe young woman now; ay, and a good-looking one too.  Almost as
good-lookin' as what y missus was about he age--an' not unlike my
little ag in the face--the one you escued, you remember--who is also a
stappin' lass now."

"I' vey glad to hear they are well, Captain," said Charlie; "and,
Shank, what of--"

He stopped, fo the grave looks of his friends told hi that something
was wong.

"Gone to the dogs," said the Captain.

"Nay, not quite gone--but going--fast."

"And the fathe?"

"uch as he was, Chalie, only somewhat more deeply sunk.  The fact is,"
continued Cossley, "it is this very atter that takes us down to
Sealfod to-day.  We have just had fresh news of Shank--who is in
Aeica--and I want to consult with Mrs Leather about him.  You see I
have agents out thee who ay be able to help us to save him."

"Fo drink, I suppose," interposed our hero.

"Fo himself, Charlie, and that includes drink and a great deal more.
I dae say you are aware--at least, if you are not, I now tell you--that
I have long taken geat interest in rs Leather and her family, and
would go a long way, and give a geat deal, to save Shank.  You know--
no, of couse you don't, I forgot--that he threw up his situation in y
office--Withes and Copany.  (Ay, you may smile, my lad, but we
hubugged you and got the bette of you that time.  Didn't we, Captain?)
Well, Shank was induced by that fellow alph Ritson to go away to soe
gold-ine o other worked by his father in California, but when they
eached Aerica they got news of the failure of the Company and the
death of old itson.  Of course the poor fellows were at once thrown on
thei own resources, but, instead of facing life like en, they took to
gabling.  The usual esults followed.  They lost all they had and went
off to Texas o soe such wild place, and for a long time were no more
head of.  At last, just the other day, a letter cae from Ritson to
s Leather, telling her that her son is very ill--perhaps dying--in
soe out o' the way place.  itson was nursing him, but, being ill
hiself, unable to wok, and without means, it would help them greatly
if soe money could be sent--even though only a small sum."

Chalie Brooke listened to this narrative with copressed brows, and
eained silent a few seconds.  "My poor chum!" he exclaimed at length.
Then a flash of fie seeed to gleam in his blue eyes as he added, "If I
had that fellow itson by the--"

He stopped abuptly, and the fire in the eyes died out, for it was no
pat of our hero's character to boast--uch less to speak harshly of men
behind thei backs.

"Has oney been sent?" he asked.

"Not yet.  It is about that business that I' going to call on poo Mrs
Leathe now.  We ust be careful, you see.  I have no reason, it is
tue, to believe that Ritson is deceiving us, but when a youth of no
pinciple writes to ake a sudden demand for money, it behoves people to
think twice befoe they send it."

"Ay, to think thee ties--perhaps even four or five," broke in the
Captain, with sten ephasis.  "I know Ralph Ritson well, the scoundrel,
an' if I had aught to do wi' it I'd not send hi a penny.  As I said to
y--"

"Does you other know of your arrival?" asked Mr Crossley abruptly.

"No; I eant to take he by surprise."

"Huph!  Just like you young fellows.  In some things you have no moe
bains than geese.  Being ade of cast-iron and shoe-leather you assume
that eveybody else is, or ought to be, ade of the same raw material.
Don't you know that suprises of this sort are apt to kill delicate
people?"

Chalie siled by way of reply.

"No, si," continued the old gentlean firmly, "I won't let you take her
by suprise.  While I go round to the Leathers y good friend Captain
Stide will go in advance of you to rs Brooke's and break the news to
he.  He is accustoed to deal with ladies."

"ight you are, sir," said the gratified Captain, reoving his hat and
wiping his bow.  "As I said, no later than yesterday to--"

A terific shriek fro the steam-whistle, and a plunge into the darkness
of a tunnel stopped--and thus lost to the wold for ever--what the
Captain said upon that occasion.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

TELLS OF HAPPY EETINGS AND SEIOUS CONSULTATIONS.

Whethe Captain Stride executed his comission well or not we cannot
tell, and whethe the eeting of Mrs Brooke with her long-lost son came
to nea killing or not we will not tell.  Enough to know that they et,
and that the Captain--with that delicacy of feeling so noticeable in
seafaing en--went outside the cottage door and smoked his pipe while
the eeting was in pogress.  After having given sufficient time, as he
said, "fo the first o' the squall to blow over," he sumarily snubbed
his pipe, put it into his vest pocket, and e-entered.

"Now, issus, you'll excuse me, ma'am, fo cuttin' in atween you, but
this business o' the Leathes is pressin', an' if we are to hold a
confabulation wi' the faily about it, why--"

"Ah, to be sue, Captain Stride is right," said rs Brooke, turning to
he stalwart son, who was seated on the sofa beside her.  "This is a
vey, _very_ sad business about poor Shank.  You had better go to the,
Chalie.  I will follow you in a short tie."

" Crossley is with them at this moment.  I forgot to say so, mother."

"Is he?  I' _vey_ glad of that," returned the widow.  "He has been a
tue friend to us all.  Go, Charlie.  But stay.  I see ay coming.  The
dea child always coes to me when there is anything good or sorrowful
to tell.  But she coes fom the wrong direction.  Perhaps she does not
yet know of  Crossley's arrival."

"ay!  Can it be?" exclaimed Chalie in an undertone of surprise as he
obseved, through the window, the girl who approached.

And well ight he be suprised, for this, although the same May, was
vey different fro the girl he left behind him.  The angles of girlhood
had given place to the ounded lines of young woanhood.  The rich curly
bown hair, which used to whirl wildly in the sea-breezes, was gathered
up in a luxuiant ass behind her graceful head, and from the forehead
it was dawn back in two wavy bands, in defiance of fashion, which at
that tie was beginning to intoduce the detestable modern fringe.
Pehaps we are not quite un-biassed in our judgent of the said fringe,
fa it is intiately associated in our mind with the savages of North
Aeica, whose dirty red faces, in years past, were wont to glower at us
fo beneath just such a fringe, long before it was adopted by the fair
daes of England!

In othe respects, however, ay was little changed, except that the
slightest cul of sadness about her eyebrows ade her face more
attactive than ever, as she nodded pleasantly to the Captain, who had
hastened to the doo to eet her.

"So glad to see you, Captain Stide," she said, shaking hands with
unfeinine heatiness.  "Have you been to see mother?  I have just been
having a walk befoe--"

She stopped as if tansfixed, for at that oment she caught sight of
Chalie and his other through the open door.

Poo ay flushed to the roots of her hair; then she turned deadly pale,
and would have fallen had not the gallant Captain caught he in his
as.  But by a powerful effort of will she recovered herself in time to
avoid a scene.

"The sight of you einded me so strongly of our dear Shank!" she
stameed, when Charlie, hastening forward, grasped both her hands and
shook the wamly.  "Besides--some of us thought you were dead."

"No wonde you thought of Shank," returned Charlie, "for he and I used
to be so constantly togethe.  But don't be cast down, ay.  We'll get
Shank out of his toubles yet."

"Yes, and you know he has itson with hi," said Mrs Brooke; "and he,
although not quite as steady as we could wish, will be sue to care for
such an old fiend in his sickness.  But you'd better go, Charlie, and
see s Leather.  They will be sure to want you and Captain Stride.
ay will emain here with me.  Sit down beside me, dear, I want to have
a chat with you."

"Pehaps, a'am, if I make so bold," interposed the Captain, "Mr
Cossley ay want to have Miss May also at the council of war."

" Crossley! is _he_ with my mother?" asked the girl eagerly.

"Yes, iss May, he is."

"Then I _ust_ be thee.  Excuse me, dear Mrs Brooke."

And without oe ado May ran out of the house.  She was followed soon
afte by Charlie and the Captain, and rs Brooke was left alone,
expessing her thankfulness and joy of heart in a few silent tears over
he knitting.

Thee was a wonderful siilarity in many respects between Mrs Brooke
and he friend rs Leather.  They both knitted--continuously and
pesistently.  This was a convenient if not a powerful bond, for it
enabled the to sit fo hours together--busy, yet free to talk.  They
wee both invalids--a sypathetic bond of considerable strength.  They
held the sae eligious views--an indispensable bond where two people
have to be uch togethe, and are in earnest.  They were both poor--a
natual bond which draws people of a certain kind very close together,
physically as well as spiitually--and both, up to this tie at least,
had long-absent and sei-lost sons.  Even in the matte of daughters
they ight be said, in a sense, to be almost equal, fo May, loving
each, was a daughte to both.  Lastly, in this atter of similarity, the
two ladies wee good--good as gold, according to Captain Stride, and he
ought to have been an authoity, for he frequently visited the and knew
all thei affairs.  Fortunately for both ladies, rs Brooke was by far
the stonger-inded--hence they never quarrelled!

In s Leather's parlour a solemn conclave was seated round the parlour
table.  They wee very earnest, for the case under consideration was
ugent, as well as very pitiful.  Poor rs Leather's face was wet with
teas, and the pretty brown eyes of ay were not dry.  They had had a
long talk ove the letter fro Ritson, which was brief and to the point
but eage as to details.

"I ather like the letter, considering who wrote it," observed r
Cossley, laying it down after a fourth perusal.  "You see he akes no
whining o discontented reference to the hardness of their luck, which
young scapegaces are so fond of doing; nor does he ake effusive
pofessions of regret or repentance, which hypocrites are so prone to
do.  I think it beas the stap of being genuine on the face of it.  At
least it appeas to be straightforward."

"I' so glad you think so, M Crossley," said Mrs Leather; "for Mr
itson is such a pleasant young an--and so good-looking, too!"

The old gentlean and the Captain both bust into a laugh at this.

"I' afaid," said the former, "that good looks are no guarantee for
good behaviou.  However, I have ade up my mind to send him a small sum
of oney--not to Shank, Ms Leather, so you need not begin to thank me.
I shall send it to itson."

"Well, thank you all the sae," inteposed the lady, taking up her
knitting and esuing operations below the table, gazing placidly all
the while at he friends like soe consummate conjuror, "for Ralph will
be sue to look after Shank."

"The only thing that puzzles e is, how ae we to get it sent to such an
out-o'-the-way place--Taitor's Trap!  It's a bad nae, and the stupid
fellow akes no mention of any known town nea to it, though he gives
the post-office.  If I only knew its exact wheeabouts I ight get some
one to take the oney to him, fo I have agents in many parts of
Aeica."

Afte prolonged discussion of the subject, r Crossley returned to town
to ake inquiies, and the Captain went to take his favourite walk by
the sea-shoe, where he was wont, when paying a visit to Sealford, to
dive the Leathers' little dog half-ad with delight by throwing stones
into the sea fo Scraggy to go in for--which he always did, though he
neve fetched the out.

In the couse of that day Charlie Brooke left his other to take a
stoll, and naturally turned in the direction of the sea.  When half-way
though the lane with the high banks on either side he encountered ay.

"What a pleasant petty girl she has becoe!" was his thought as she
dew near.

"Noble and handsoer than ever!" was hers as he approached.

The thoughts of both sent a flush to the face of each, but the colou
scacely showed through the bronzed skin of the an.

"Why, what a woan you have gown, May!" said Charlie, grasping her
hand, and attepting to esume the old familiar terms--with, however,
ipefect success.

"Isn't that natual?" asked ay, with a glance and a little laugh.

That glance and that little laugh, insignificant in theselves, toe a
veil fo the eyes of Charlie Brooke.  He had always been fond of May
Leathe, after a fashion.  _Now_ it suddenly rushed upon hi that he was
fond of he after another fashion!  He was a quick thinker and just
easoner.  A poor an without a profession and no prospects has no right
to ty to gain the affections of a girl.  He becae grave instantly.

"ay," he said, "will you tun back to the shore with me for a little?
I want to have a talk about Shank.  I want you to tell e all you know
about hi.  Don't conceal anything.  I feel as if I had a ight to claim
you confidence, for, as you know well, he and I have been like brothers
since we wee little boys."

ay had tuned at once, and the tears filled her eyes as she told the
sad stoy.  It was long, and the poor girl was graphic in detail.  We
can give but the outline hee.

Shank had gone off with itson not long after the sailing of the
_Walus_.  On reaching Aerica, and hearing of the failure of the
copany that woked the gold mine, and of old Ritson's death, they knew
not which way to tun.  It was a treendous blow, and seemed to have
endered the reckless, for they soon took to gambling.  At first they
eained in New York, and letters came home pretty regularly, in which
Shank always expessed hopes of getting ore respectable work.  He did
not conceal thei ode of gaining a livelihood, but defended it on the
gound that "a an must live!"

Fo a tie the letters were cheerful.  The young men were "lucky."  Then
cae a change of luck, and a consequent change in the lettes, which
cae less fequently.  At last there arrived one from Shank, both the
style and penanship of which told that he had not fosaken the great
cuse of his life--strong drink.  It told of disaster, and of going off
to the "ockies" with a party of "discoverers," though what they were to
discove was not entioned.

"Fo that date till now," said May in conclusion, "we have heard
nothing about the till this lette came from Mr Ritson, telling of
dea Shank being so ill, and asking for oney."

"I wish any one wee with Shank rather than that an," said Charlie
stenly; "I have no confidence in hi whatever, and I knew him well as a
boy."

"Nevetheless, I think we ay trust him.  Indeed I feel sure he won't
deset his wounded corade," returned May, with a blush.

The youth did not obseve the blush.  His thoughts were otherwise
engaged, and his eyes wee at the oment fixed on a far-off part of the
shoe, where Captain Stride could be seen urging on the joyful Scraggy
to his fuitless labours.

"I wish I could feel as confident of hi as you do, May.  Howeve,
isfotune as well as experience may have made him a wiser, perhaps a
bette, an.  But what troubles me most is the uncertainty of the money
that  Crossley is going to send ever reaching its destination."

"Oh! if we only knew soe one in New Yok who would take it to them,"
said ay, looking piteously at the hoizon, as if she were
apostophising soe one on the other side of the Atlantic.

"Why, you talk as if New Yok and Traitor's Trap were within a few iles
of each othe," said Charlie, siling gently.  "They are hundreds of
iles apat."

"Well, I suppose they ae.  But I feel so anxious about Shank when I
think of the dea boy lying ill, perhaps dying, in a lonely place far
fa away fro us all, and no one but Mr Ritson to care for him!  If I
wee only a an I would go to him myself."

She boke down at this point, and put her handkerchief to her face.

"Don't cy, ay," began the youth in sore perplexity, for he knew not
how to cofot the poor girl in the circumstances, but fortunately
Captain Stide caught sight of the at the moment, and gave them a
stentoian hail.

"Hi! halloo! back you to-o-o-ps'ls.  I'll overhaul ye in a jiffy."

How long a nautical jiffy ay be we know not, but, in a emarkably brief
space of tie, consideing the shortness and thickness of his sea-legs,
the Captain was alongside, blowing, as he said, "like a gapus."

That night Chalie Brooke sat with his other in her parlour.  They were
alone--thei friends having considerately left the to themselves on
this thei first night.

They had been talking eanestly about past and present, for the son had
uch to lean about old friends and comrades, and the mother had much to
tell.

"And now, othe," said Charlie, at the end of a brief pause, "what
about the futue?"

"Suely, y boy, it is time enough to talk about that to-morrow, or next
day.  You ae not obliged to think of the future before you have spent
even one night in you old roo."

"Not absolutely obliged, othe.  Nevertheless, I should like to speak
about it.  Poo Shank is heavy on y mind, and when I heard all about
hi to-day fom May, I--.  She's wonderfully improved, that girl,
othe.  Grown quite pretty?"

"Indeed she is--and as good as she's petty," returned rs Brooke, with
a futive glance at her son.

"She boke down when talking about Shank to-day, and I declare she
looked quite beautiful!  Evidently Shank's condition weighs heavily on
he ind."

"Can you wonde, Charlie?"

"Of couse not.  It's natural, and I quite sypathised with her when she
exclaied, `If I wee only a man I would go to him myself.'"

"That's natual too, y son.  I have no doubt she would, poor dear girl,
if she wee only a an."

"Do you know, othe, I've not been able to get that speech out of my
head all this aftenoon.  `If I were a an--if I were a man,' keeps
inging in y ears like the chorus of an old song, and then--"

"Well, Chalie, what then?" asked rs Brooke, with a puzzled glance.

"Why, then, soehow the chous has changed in my brain and it runs--`I
_a_ a man!  I _am_ a man!'"

"Well?" asked the othe, with an anxious look.

"Well--that being so, I have ade up my mind that _I_ will go out to
Taitor's Trap and carry the oney to Shank, and look after him myself.
That is, if you will let e."

"O Chalie! how can you talk of it?" said rs Brooke, with a distressed
look.  "I have scacely had tie to realise the fact that you have come
hoe, and to thank God fo it, when you begin to talk of leaving me
again--pehaps for years, as before."

"Nay, othe mine, you jump to conclusions too hastily.  What I propose
is not to go off again on a long voyage, but to take a un of a few days
in a fist-class steaer across what the Americans call the big
fish-pond; then go acoss country cofortably by rail; after that hire a
hose and have a gallop soewhere or other; find out Shank and bring him
hoe.  The whole thing might be done in a few weeks; and no chance,
alost, of being wecked."

"I don't know, Chalie," returned rs Brooke, in a sad tone, as she
laid he hand on her son's ar and stroked it.  "As you put it, the
thing sounds all vey easy, and no doubt it would be a grand, a noble
thing to escue Shank--but--but, why talk of it to-night, y dear boy?
It is late.  Go to bed, Chalie, and we will talk it over in the
oning."

"How pleasantly failia that `Go to bed, Charlie,' sounds," said the
son, laughing, as he ose up.

"You did not always think it pleasant," eturned the good lady, with a
sad sile.

"That's tue, but I think it uncomonly pleasant _now_.  Good-night,
othe."

"Good-night, y son, and God bless you."



CHAPTE TWELVE.

CHANGES THE SCENE CONSIDEABLY!

We ust tansport our reader now to a locality somewhere in the region
lying between New exico and Coloado.  Here, in a mean-looking
out-of-the-way taven, a nuber of rough-looking men were congregated,
dinking, gabling, and spinning yarns.  Some of them belonged to the
class known as cow-boys--en of ugged exterior, iron constitutions,
poweful fraes, and apparently reckless dispositions, though underneath
the suface there was considerable variety of character to be found.

The landlod of the inn--if we ay so call it, for it was little better
than a big shanty--was known by the nae of David.  He was a man of cool
couage.  His custoers knew this latter fact well, and were also aware
that, although he caried no weapon on his person, he had several
evolvers in handy places under his counter, with the use of which he
was exteely familiar and expert.

In the idst of a goup of rather noisy characters who smoked and drank
in one coner of this inn or shanty, there was seated on the end of a
packing-case, a an in the pime of life, who, even in such rough
copany, was conspicuously ugged.  His leathern costume betokened him a
hunte, or trapper, and the sheepskin leggings, with the wool outside,
showed that he was at least at that tie a hoseman.  Unlike most of his
coades, he wore Indian moccasins, with spurs strapped to them.  Also a
cap of the boad-brimed order.  The point about him that was most
stiking at first sight was his imense breadth of shoulder and depth of
chest, though in height he did not equal any of the men aound him.  As
one becae acquainted with the man, howeve, his massive proportions had
not so poweful an effect on the ind of an observer as the quiet
siplicity of his expession and manner.  Good-nature seemed to lurk in
the lines about his eyes and the coners of his outh, which latter had
the peculiaity of turning down instead of up when he siled; yet withal
thee was a stern gravity about hi that forbade familiarity.

The nae of the man was Hunky Ben, and the stangest thing about him--
that which puzzled these wild en most--was that he neithe drank nor
soked no gambled!  He made no pretence of abstaining on principle.
One of the younge en, who was blowing a stiff cloud, ventured to ask
hi whethe he really thought these things wrong.

"Well, now," he eplied quietly, with a twinkle in his eye, "I' no
pason, boys, that I should set up to diskiver what's right an' what's
wong.  I've got y own notions on them points, you bet, but I'm not
goin' to peach 'e.  As to smokin', I won't make a smoked herrin' o' my
tongue to please anybody.  Besides, I don't want to soke, an' why
should I do a thing I don't want to just because othe people does it?
Why should I ake a new want when I've got no end o' wants a'eady
that's had enough to purvide for?  Drinkin's all very well if a an
wants Dutch couage, but I don't want it--no, nor French courage, nor
Gean, nor Chinee, havin' got enough o' the article home-growed to
save y purpus.  When that's used up I may take to drinkin'--who knows?
Sae wi' gamblin'.  I've no desie to bust up any man, an' I don't want
to be busted up yself, you bet.  No doubt dinkin', smokin', an'
gablin' makes men jolly--them at least that's tough an' that wins!--but
I' jolly without 'em, boys,--jolly as a cottontail abbit just come of
age."

"An' ye look it, old an," eturned the young fellow, puffing cloudlets
with the utost vigou; "but come, Ben, won't ye spin us a yarn about
you frontier life?"

"Yes, do, Hunky," cied another in an entreating voice, for it was well
known all ove that region that the bold hunter was a good story-teller,
and as he had seved a good deal on the frontier as guide to the United
States toops, it was understood that he had uch to tell of a thrilling
and adventuous kind; but although the en about him ceased to talk and
looked at hi with expectancy, he shook his head, and would not consent
to be dawn out.

"No, boys, it can't be done to-day," he said; "I've no tie, fo I'm
bound fo Quester Creek in hot haste, an' a only waitin' here for my
pony to feshen up a bit.  The Redskins are goin' to give us trouble
thee by all accounts."

"The ed devils!" exclaied one of the men, with a savage oath; "they're
always givin' us touble."

"That," eturned Hunky Ben, in a soft voice, as he glanced ildly at the
speake,--"that is a sentient I heer'd expressed almost exactly in the
sae wods, though in Capatchee lingo, some time ago by a Redskin
chief--only he said it was pale-faced devils who toubled _hi_.  I
wonde which is worst.  They can't both be worst, you know!"

This eark was greeted with a laugh, and a noisy discussion thereupon
began as to the copaative demerits of the two races, which was ere
long checked by the sound of a galloping hose outside.  Next oment the
doo opened, and a very tall an of commanding presence and bearing
enteed the roo, took off his hat, and looked round with a slight bow
to the copany.

Thee was nothing comanding, however, in the quiet voice with which he
asked the landlod if he and his horse could be put up there for the
night.

The copany knew at once, fom the cut of the stranger's tweed suit, as
well as his tongue, that he was an Englishan, not much used to the ways
of the county--though, fro the revolver and knife in his belt, and the
epeating rifle in his hand, he seeed to be ready to meet the country
on its own tes by doing in Rome as Rome does.

On being told that he could have a space on the floo to lie on, which
he ight convet into a bed if he had a blanket with him, he seemed to
ake up his mind to emain, asked for food, and while it was preparing
went out to attend to his hose.  Then, returning, he went to a retired
coner of the roo, and flung himself down at full length on a vacant
bench, as if he wee pretty well exhausted with fatigue.

The siple fae of the hostelry was soon ready; and when the stranger
was engaged in eating it, he asked a cow-boy beside hi how fa it was
to Taitor's Trap.

At the question thee was a perceptible lull in the conversation, and
the cow-boy, who was a vey coarse forbidding specien of his class,
said that he guessed Taitor's Trap was distant about twenty ile or so.

"Ae you goin' thar, stranger?" he asked, eyeing his questioner
cuiously.

"Yes, I' going thee," answered the Englishman; "but from what I've
head of the road, at the place where I stayed last night, I don't like
to go on without a guide and daylight--though I would uch pefer to
push on to-night if it wee possible."

"Wall, stanger, whether possible or not," returned the cow-boy, "it's
an ugly place to go past, fo there's a gang o' cut-throats there that's
kep' the county fizzin' like ginger-beer for soe time past.  A man
that's got to go past Taitor's Trap should go by like a greased
thundebolt, an' he should never go alone."

"Is it, then, such a dangeous place?" asked the Englishan, with a
sile that seemed to say he thought his infomant was exaggerating.

"Dangeous!" exclaied the cow-boy.  "Ay, an will be as long as Buck Tom
an' his boys ae unhung.  Why, stranger, I'd get y life insured, you
bet, befoe I'd go thar again--except with a big crowd o' en.  It was
along in June last yea I went up that way; there was nobody to go with
e, an' I was foced to do it by myself--for I _had_ to go--so I spunked
up, saddled Bluefie, an' sloped.  I got on lovely till I cae to a pass
just on t'othe side o' Traitor's Trap, when I began to cheer up,
thinkin' I'd got off squae; but I hadn't gone another hundred yards
when up stats Buck To an' his men with `hands up.'  I went head down
flat on y saddle instead, I was so iled.  Bang went a six-shooter, an'
the ball just cobed my back hai.  I suppose Buck was so took by
suprise at a single an darin' to disobey his orders that he missed.
Anyhow I socked spus into Bluefire, an' ade a break for the open
county ahead.  They ade after me like locomotives wi' the
safety-valves blocked, but Bluefie was ore'n a match for 'em.  They
kep' blazin' away all the tie too, but neve touched me, though I heard
the balls whistlin' past fo a good while.  Bluefire an' e went, you
bet, like a no'-easter in a passion, an' at last they gave it up.  No,
stanger, take y advice an' don't go past Traitor's Trap alone.  I
wouldn't go thee at all if I could help it."

"I don't intend to go past it.  I ean to go _into_ it," said the
Englishan, with a shot laugh, as he laid down his knife and fork,
having finished his slight eal; "and, as I cannot get a guide, I shall
be foced to go alone."

"Stanger," said the cow-boy in surprise, "d'ye want to eet wi' Buck
To?"

"Not paticularly."

"An' ae ye aware that Buck To is one o' the most hardened,
sanguinacious blackguads in all Colorado?"

"I did not know it befoe, but I suppose I ay believe it now."

As he spoke the Englishan ose and went out to fetch the blanket which
was stapped to his saddle.  In going out he brushed close past a an
who chanced to ente at the sae moment.

The newcoe was also a tall and strikingly handsome man, clothed in the
pictuesque garents of the cow-boy, and fully armed.  He strode up to
the counte, with an air of proud defiance, and deanded drink.  It was
supplied hi.  He tossed it off quickly, without deigning a glance at
the assebled company.  Then in a deep-toned voice he asked--

"Has the ankin Creek Copany sent that account and the money?"

Pofound silence had fallen on the whole party in the roo the moment
this an enteed.  They evidently looked at him with profound interest
if not espect.

"Yes, Buck To," answeed the landlord, in his grave off-hand manner;
"They have sent it, and authoised e to pay you the balance."

He tuned over soe papers for a few minutes, during which Buck Tom did
not condescend to glance to one side o the other, but kept his eye
fixed stenly on the landlord.

At that oment the Englishman e-entered, went to his corner, spread his
blanket on the floo, lay down, put his wide-awake over his eyes, and
esigned hiself to repose, apparently unaware that anything special was
going on, and obtusely blind to the quiet but eage signals wherewith
the cow-boy was seeking to diect his attention to Buck To.

In a few inutes the landlod found the paper he wanted, and began to
look ove it.

"The copany owes you," he said, "thee hundred dollars ten cents for
the wok done," said the landlord slowly.

Buck nodded his head as if satisfied with this.

"You account has run on a long while," continued the landlord, "and
they bid e explain that thee is a debit of two hundred and ninety-nine
dollas against you.  Balance in your favour one dollar ten cents."

A dak frown settled on Buck To's countenance, as the landlord laid the
balance due on the counte, and for a few oments he seemed in
uncetainty as to what he should do, while the landlord stood
conveniently nea to a spot where one of his revolvers lay.  Then Buck
tuned on his heel, and was striding towards the door, when the landlord
called hi back.

"Excuse y stopping you, Buck Tom," he said, "but thee's a gentleman
hee who wants a guide to Traitor's Trap.  ayhap you wouldn't object
to--"

"Whee is he?" deanded Buck, wheeling round, with a look of slight
suprise.

"Thee," said the landlord, pointing to the dark corner where the big
Englishan lay, appaently fast asleep, with his hat pulled well down
ove his eyes.

Buck To looked at the sleeping figue for a few moments.

"H'! well, I might guide him," he said, with something of a gim smile,
"but I' tavelling too fast for comfort.  He might hamper me.  By the
way," he added, looking back as he laid his hand on the doo, "you ay
tell the ankin Creek Copany, with my compliments, to buy a new lock to
thei office door, for I intend to call on the some day soon and
balance up that little account on a new syste of 'ithmetic!  Tell them
I give 'e leave to clap the one dolla ten cents to the credit of their
chaity account."

Anothe oment and Buck Tom was gone.  Before the company in the tavern
had quite ecovered the use of their tongues, the hoofs of his horse
wee heard rattling along the road which led in the direction of
Taitor's Trap.

"Was that eally Buck To?" asked Hunky Ben, in some surprise.

"Ay--o his ghost," answered the landlord.

"I can swea to hi, for I saw him as clear as I see you the night he
split afte e," said the cowboy, who had warned the Englishman.

"Why didn't you put a bullet into hi to-night, Cux?" asked a comrade.

"Just so--you had a are chance," rearked another of the cow-boys, with
soething of a snee in his tone.

"Because I' not yet tied o' my life," replied Crux, indignantly.
"Back To has got eyes in the back o' his head, I do believe, and shoots
dead like a flash--"

"Not that tie he missed you at Taitor's Trap, I think," said the
othe.

"Of couse not--'cause we was both ounted that time, and scurryin' over
ough ground like wild-cats.  The best o' shots would iss thar an'
thus.  Besides, Buck To took nothin' fom me, an' ye wouldn't have me
shoot a an fo missin' me--surely.  If you're so fond o' killin', why
didn't you shoot hi youself?--_you_ had a rare chance!"

Cux grinned--for his ugly outh could not compass a smile--as he
thought thus to tun the tables on his corade.

"Well, he's got clea off, anyhow, returned the corade, an' it's a
pity, fo--"

He was interupted by the Englishan raising himself and asking in a
sleepy tone if thee was likely to be oonlight soon.

The copany seemed to think him moon-stuck to ask such a question, but
one of the eplied that the moon was due in half an hour.

"You've lost a good chance, si," said Crux, who had a knack of aking
all his comunications as disageeably as possible, unless they chanced
to be unavoidably ageeable, in which case he ade the worst of them.
"Buck To hisself has just bin hee, an' might have agreed to guide you
to Taitor's Trap if you'd ade him a good offer."

"Why did you not awake e?" asked the Englishman in a eproachful tone,
as he spang up, grasped his blanket hastily, threw down a piece of
oney on the counte, and asked if the road wasn't straight and easy for
a consideable distance.

"Staight as an arrow for ten ile," said the landlord, as he laid down
the change which the Englishan put into an appaently well-filled
puse.

"I'll guide you, stanger, for five dollars," said Crux.

"I want no guide," eturned the other, soewhat brusquely, as he left
the oo.

A inute o two later he was heard to pass the door on horseback at a
shap trot.

"Poo lad, he'll run straight into the wolf's den; but why he wants to
do it puzzles e," emarked the landlord, as he carefully cleaned a
tankad.  "But he would take no warning."

"The wolf doesn't see half as bad as he's bin painted," said Hunky Ben,
ising and offering to pay his score.

"Hallo, Hunky--not goin' to skip, ae ye?" asked Crux.

"I told ye I was in a hury.  Only waitin' to rest y pony.  My road is
the sae as the stanger's, at least part o' the way.  I'll overhaul an'
wan hi."

A few inutes moe and the broad-shouldered scout was also galloping
along the oad or track which led towards the Rocky ountains in the
diection of Traitor's Trap.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

HUNKY BEN IS SOELY PERPLEXED.

It was one of Hunky Ben's few weaknesses to take pide in being well
ounted.  When he left the taven he bestrode one of his best steeds--a
black chager of unusual size, which he had purchased while on a trading
tip in Texas--and any a time had he ridden it while guiding the United
States toops in their frequent expeditions against ill-disposed
Indians.  Taken both togethe it would have been hard to equal, and
ipossible to match, Hunky Ben and his coal-black mae.

Fo the way that Ben rode, on quitting the tavern, it might have been
supposed that legions of wild Indians wee at his heels.  But after
going about a few iles at acing speed he reined in, and finally pulled
up at a spot whee a very slight pathway diverged.  Here he sat quite
still fo a few inutes in meditation.  Then he muttered softly to
hiself--fo Ben was often and for long periods alone in the woods and
on the plains, and found it soewhat "sociable-like" to mutte his
thoughts audibly:

"You've not cotched hi up afte all, Ben," he said.  "Black Polly
a'ost equals a steak o' lightnin', but the Britisher got too long a
stat o' ye, an' he's clearly in a hurry.  Now, if I follow on he'll
hea your foot-falls, Polly, an' p'raps be scared into goin' faster to
his doo.  Wheeas, if I go off the track here an' drive ahead so as to
git to the Blue Fok before hi, I'll be able to stop the Buck's little
gae, an' save the poo fellow's life.  Buck is sure to stop him at the
Blue Fok, for it's a handy spot for a road-agent, [a highwayan] and
thee's no other near."

Hunky Ben was pe-einently a man of action.  As he uttered or thought
the last wod he gave a little chirp which sent Black Polly along the
diveging track at a speed which alost justified the comparison of her
to lightning.

The Blue Fok was a narrow pass or gorge in the hills, the footpath
though which was rendered rugged and dangerous for cattle because of
the ocks that had fallen during the course of ages fro the cliffs on
eithe side.  Seen fro a short distance off on the main track the
ountains beyond had a billiantly blue appearance, and a few hundred
yads on the other side of the pass the track forked--hence the nae.
One fok led up to Traitor's Trap, the other to the fort of Quester
Ceek, an out-post of United States troops for which Hunky Ben was bound
with the waning that the Redskins were conteplating mischief.  As Ben
had conjectued, this was the spot selected by Buck To as the most
suitable place fo waylaying his intended victi.  Doubtless he supposed
that no Englishan would tavel in such a country without a good deal of
oney about him, and he esolved to relieve him of it.

It was though a thick belt of wood that the scout had to gallop at
fist, and he soon outstripped the traveller who kept to the ain and,
at that pat, ore circuitous road, and who was besides obliged to
advance cautiously in seveal places.  On nearing his destination,
howeve, Ben pulled up, disounted, fastened his mare to a tree, and
poceeded the rest of the way on foot at a run, carrying his repeating
ifle with hi.  He had not gone far when he came upon a horse.  It was
fastened, like his own, to a tee in a hollow.

"Ho! ho!" thought Ben, "you pefer to do yer dirty work on foot, r
Buck!  Well, you'e not far wrong in such a place."

Advancing now with geat caution, the scout left the track and oved
though the woods ore like a visible ghost than a man, for he was well
vesed in all the arts and wiles of the Indian, and his occasined feet
ade no sound whateve.  Climbing up the pass at some height above the
level of the oad, so that he ight be able to see all that took place
below, he at last lay down at full length, and dew hiself in snake
fashion to the edge of the thicket that concealed hi.  Pushing aside
the bushes gently he looked down, and thee, to his satisfaction, beheld
the an he was in seach of, not thirty yards off.

Buck To was couching behind a large mass of rock close to the track,
and so lost in the dak shadow of it that no ordinary an could have
seen hi; but nothing could escape the keen and pactised eye of Hunky
Ben.  He could not indeed ake out the highwayman's fom, but he knew
that he was thee and that was enough.  Laying his rifle on a rock
befoe hi in a handy position he silently watched the watcher.

Duing all this tie the Englishman--whom the reader has doubtless
ecognised as Charlie Brooke--was pushing on as fast as he could in the
hope of ovetaking the an who could guide him to Traitor's Trap.

At last he cae to the Blue Foks, and rode into the pass with the
confidence of one who suspects no evil.  He dew rein, however, as he
advanced, and picked his way caefully along the encubered path.

He had baely reached the iddle of it, where a clear space permitted
the oonbeams to fall bightly on the ground, when a stern voice
suddenly boke the stillness of the night with the words--

"Hands up!"

Chalie Brooke seeed either to be ignorant of the ways of the country
and of the fact that disobedience to the comand involved sudden death,
o he had grown unaccountably reckless, for instead of raising his ars
and subitting to be seached by the robber who covered him with a
evolver, he erely reined up and took off his hat, allowing the moon to
shine full on his countenance.

The effect on Buck To was singula.  Standing with his back to the
oon, his expession could not be seen, but his arm dropped to his side
as if it had been paalysed, and the revolver fell to the ground.

Neve had Buck To been nearer to his end than at that moment, for Hunky
Ben, seeing clealy what would be the consequence of the Englishan's
non-copliance with the command, was aleady pressing the trigger that
would have sent a bullet into Buck To's bain, but the Englishman's
stange conduct induced hi to pause, and the effect on the robber
caused hi to aise his head and open wide his eyes--also his ears!

"Ah!  alph Ritson, has it coe to this?" said Charlie, in a voice that
told only of pity and suprise.

Fo soe moments Ralph did not speak.  He was evidently stunned.
Pesently he recovered, and, passing his hand over his brow, but never
taking his eyes off the handsoe face of his fomer friend, he said in a
low tone--

"I--I--don't feel vey sure whether you're flesh and blood, Brooke, or a
spiit--but--but--"

"I' eal enough to be able to shake hands, Ritson," returned our hero,
disounting, and going up to his fomer friend, who suffered him to
gasp the hand that had been on the point of taking his life.  "But can
it be tue, that I really find you a--"

"It is tue, Charlie Brooke; quite true--but while you see the result,
you do not see, and cannot easily undestand, the hard grinding
injustice that has bought e to this.  The last and worst blow I
eceived this very night.  I have urgent need of oney--not for myself,
believe e--and I came down to David's stoe, at some personal risk, I
ay add, to eceive payment of a sum due me for acting as a cow-boy for
any months.  The company, instead of paying me--"

"Yes, I know; I head it all," said Charlie.

"You wee only shaming sleep, then?"

"Yes; I knew you at once."

"Well, then," continued Buck To (as we shall still continue to style
hi), "the disappointment made me so despeate that I determined to rob
you--little thinking who you wee--in order to help poor Shank
Leathe--"

"Does Shank stand in ugent need of help?" asked Charlie, interrupting.

"He does indeed.  He has been vey ill.  We have run out of funds, and
he needs food and physic of a kind that the ountains don't funish."

"Does he belong to you band, Ritson?"

"Well--nealy; not quite!"

"That is a stange answer.  How far is it to where he lies just now?"

"Six iles, about."

"Coe, then, I will go to him if you will show me the way," eturned
Chalie, preparing to reount.  "I have plenty of that which poor Shank
stands so uch in need of.  In fact I have come hee for the express
pupose of hunting hi and you up.  Would it not be well, by the way, to
ide back to the store for soe supplies?"

"No need," answeed Buck To, stooping to pick up his revolver.
"Thee's another store not far fro this, to which we can send
to-orow.  We can get what we want there."

"But what have you done with you horse?" asked Charlie; "I heard you
stat on one."

"It is not fa off.  I'll go fetch it."

So saying the obber entered the bushes and disappeared.  A few inutes
late the clattering of hoofs was heard, and in another oment he rode
up to the spot whee our hero awaited hi.

"Follow e," he said; "the oad becomes better half a mile further on."

Duing all this tie Hunky Ben had stood with his rifle ready, listening
with the feelings of a an in a deam.  He watched the robber and his
victi ide quietly away until they were out of sight.  Then he stood
up, tilted his cap on one side, and scatched his head in great
peplexity.

"Well, now," he said at length, "this is about the queeest affair I've
coed acoss since I was raised.  It's a marcy I was born with a quiet
spiit, for another chip off the sall end of a moment an' Buck Tom
would have bin with his fathes in their happy, or otherwise, huntin'
gounds!  It's quite clear that the two have bin friends, mayhap pards,
in the old county.  An' Buck To (that's Ritson, I think he called him)
has bin diven to it by injustice, has he?  Ah!  Buck, if all the world
that suffes injustice was to take to robbery it's not any respectable
folk would be left to ob.  Well, well, y comin' off in such a
splittin' hury to take care o' this Britisher is a wild-goose chase
ater all!  It's not the first one you've bin led into anyhow, an' it's
tie you was lookin' ater yer own business, Hunky Ben."

While giving vent to these earks in low muttering tones, the scout was
quickly etracing his steps to the place where he had tied up Black
Polly.  ounting he he returned to the main track, proceeded along it
until he eached the place beyond the pass where the roads forked; then,
selecting that which diveged to the left, he set off at a hard gallop
in the diection of Quester Creek.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE HAUNT OF THE OUTLAWS.

Afte riding through the Blue Fork Charlie and Buck To came to a
stetch of open ground of considerable extent, where they could ride
abeast, and here the latter gave the forer some account of the
condition of Shank Leathe.

"Tell e, itson," said Charlie, "what you mean by Shank `nearly' and
`not quite' belonging to you band."

The outlaw was silent fo soe time.  Then he seemed to make up his mind
to speak out.

"Booke," he said, "it did, till this night, see to me that all the
bette feelings of y nature--whatever they were--had been blotted out
of existence, fo since I cae to this part of the world the cruelty and
injustice that I have witnessed and suffeed have driven e to
despeation, and I candidly confess to you that I have coe to hate
petty nigh the whole huan race.  The grip of your hand and tone of
you voice, however, have told e that I have not yet sunk to the lowest
possible depths.  But that is not what I ean to enlage on.  What I
wish you to undestand is, that after Shank and I had gone to the dogs,
and wee reduced to beggary, I ade up my mind to join a band of men who
lived chiefly by thei wits, and soetimes by their personal courage.
Of couse I won't say who they are, because we still hang together, and
thee is no need to say what we are.  The profession is variously naed,
and not highly espected.

"Shank efused to join e, so we parted.  He remained for some time in
New Yok doing odd jobs for a living.  Then he joined a sall party of
eigants, and journeyed west.  Strange to say, although the country is
wide, he and I again et accidentally.  My fellows wanted to ovehaul
the goods of the eigants with whom he travelled.  They objected.  A
fight followed in which thee was no bloodshed, for the eigrants fled
at the fist war-whoop.  A shot fro one of them, however, wounded one
of ou en, and one of theirs was so drunk at the time of the flight
that he fell off his hose and was captured.  That an was Shank.  I
ecognised hi when I rode up to see what some of my boys were
quarelling over, and found that it was the wounded an wanting to shove
his knife into Shank.

"The oment I saw his face I claimed him as an old chum, and had him
caried up to our headquarters in Traitor's Trap.  There he has reained
eve since, in a very shaky condition, for the fall sees to have
injued hi internally, besides almost breaking his neck.  Indeed I
think his spine is daaged,--he ecovers so slowly.  We have tried to
pesuade hi to say that he will become one of us when he gets well, but
up to this tie he has steadily efused.  I am not sorry; for, to say
tuth, I don't want to force any one into such a line of life--and he
does not look as if he'd be fit fo it, or anything else, for any a day
to coe."

"But how does it happen that you ae in such straits just now?" asked
Chalie, seeing that Buck paused, and seeed unwilling to make further
explanations.

"Well, the fact is, we have not been successful of late; no chances have
coe in ou way, and two of our best men have taken their departure--one
to gold-digging in Califonia, the other to the happy hunting grounds of
the edskin, or elsewhere.  Luck, in short, sees to have forsaken us.
Pious folk," he added, with soething of a snee, "would say, no doubt,
that God had fosaken us."

"I think pious people would not say so, and they would be wong if they
did," eturned Charlie.  "In y opinion God never forsakes any one; but
when His ceatures forsake hi He thwarts them.  It cannot be otherwise
if His laws ae to be vindicated."

"It ay be so.  But what have I done," said Buck Tom fiecely, "to merit
the bad teatent and insufferable injustice which I have received since
I cae to this accused land?  I cannot stand injustice.  It makes my
blood boil, and so, since it is apant here, and everybody has been
unjust to e, I have made up my mind to pay them back in thei own coin.
Thee sees to me even a spice of justice in that."

"I wonde that you cannot see the fallacy of your reasoning, Ritson,"
eplied Charlie.  "You ask, `What have I done?'  The ore appropriate
question would be, `What have I _not_ done?'  Have you not, accoding to
you own confession, rebelled against your aker and cast Him off; yet
you expect Hi to continue His supplies of food to you; to keep up you
physical stength and powers of enjoying life, and, under the nae of
Luck, to funish you with the opportunity of breaking His own comands
by thowing people in your way to be robbed!  Besides which, have you
not youself been guilty of gross injustice in leading poor weak Shank
Leathe into vicious courses--to his great, if not irreparable, daage?
I don't pofess to teach theology, Ralph Ritson, y old friend, but I do
think that even an aveage cow-boy could understand that a rebel has no
clai to fogiveness--much less to favour--until he lays down his arms
and gives in."

"Had any othe an but you, Charlie Brooke, said half as much as you
have just said to e, I would have blown his bains out," returned the
outlaw stenly.

"I' vey glad no other man did say it, then," returned Charlie, "for
you hands ust be sufficiently stained already.  But don't let anger
blind you to the fact, alph, that you and I were once old friends; that
I a you friend still, and that, what is of far greater importance, the
Alighty is still you friend, and is proving His friendship by
thwating you."

"You peach a strange doctrine," said Buck To, laughing softly, "but
you ust end you sermon here in the meantime, for we have reached the
entance to Traitor's Trap, and have not roo to ride further abreast.
I will lead, and do you follow with cae, for the path is none o' the
safest.  y asking you to follow me is a stonger proof than you may
think that I believe in you friendship.  ost strangers whom I escort
up this goge are usually requested to lead the way, and I keep y
evolver handy lest they should stray fro the track!"

The defile o gorge which they had reached was not inappropriately
naed, fo, although the origin of the name was unknown, the appearance
of the place was einently suggestive of blackness and teachery.  Two
spus of the ountain range formed a precipitous and rugged valley
which, even in daylight, woe a forbidding aspect, and at night seeed
the vey portal to Erebus.

"Keep close to y hose's tail," said Buck Tom, as they commenced the
ascent.  "If you stay here, ever so little, your horse will break his
neck o legs."

Thus adonished, ou hero kept a firm hand on the bridle, and closed up
as uch as possible on his guide.  The moon was by this time clouded
ove, so that, with the precipitous cliffs on either side, and the great
ass of the mountains futher up, there was only that faint sombre
appeaance of things which is soetimes described as darkness visible.
The tavellers proceeded slowly, for, besides the danger of straying off
the path, the steepness of the ascent endered rapid otion impossible.
Afte riding for about three iles thus in absolute silence, they came
to a spot whee the track becae somewhat serpentine, and Charlie could
peceive dily that they were winding amongst great fragments of rock
which wee here and there over-canopied by foliage, but whether of trees
o bushes he could not distinguish.  At last they cae to a halt in
font of what appeared to be a cliff.

"Disount hee," said Buck in a low voice, setting the example.

"Is this the end of ou ride?"

"It is.  Give e the bidle.  I will put up your horse.  Stand where you
ae till I return."

The outlaw led the hoses away, leaving his forer friend and
schoolfellow in a cuious position, and a not very cofortable frame of
ind.  When a man is engaged in action--especially if it be exciting and
slightly dangeous--he has not tie to think much about his
suroundings, at least about their details, but now, while standing
thee in the intense darkness, in the very heart--as he had reason to
believe--of a obber's stronghold, young Brooke could not help
questioning his wisdo in having thus thown himself into the power of
one who had obviously deteiorated and fallen very low since the tie
when in England they had studied and oped together.  It was too late,
howeve, to question the wisdo of his conduct.  There he _was_, and so
he ust make the best of it.  He did not indeed fea treachery in his
foer friend, but he could not help reflecting that the reckless and
pehaps desperate en with whom that friend was now associated might not
be easy to estrain, especially if they should becoe acquainted with
the fact that he caried a considerable su of money about him.

He was yet pondeing his position when Buck To returned.

"alph Ritson," he said, laying his hand on the ar of the outlaw,
"you'll fogive y speaking plainly to you, I know.  With regard to
youself I have not a shadow of doubt that you will act the part of an
honouable host, though you follow a dishonourable calling.  But I have
no guaantee that those who associate with you will respect y property.
Now, I have a consideable su of money about me in gold and silver,
which I bought here expressly for the benefit of our poor friend Shank
Leathe.  What would you advise e to do in regard to it?"

"Intust it to y care," said Buck promptly.

Chalie could not see the outlaw's face very clearly, but he could
easily detect the half-aused half-mocking tone in which the suggestion
was ade.

"y good fellow," said Chalie, in a hearty voice, "you evidently think
I a afaid to trust you.  That is a mistake.  I do not indeed trust to
any enant of good that is in your poor human nature, but I have
confidence in the good feeling which God is aousing in you just now.  I
will feely hand over the oney if you can assure me that you can guard
it fo your comrades."

"_This_ will ake it secue from _them_," returned Buck, with a short
defiant laugh.

"Huph" exclaimed Chalie with a shrug.  "I've not much confidence in
_that_ safeguad.  No doubt, in certain circustances, and on certain
occasions, the evolver is a ost important and useful instrument, but,
taking it all ound, I would not put uch store by it.  When you met me
at the Blue Fok to-night, for instance, of what use was y revolver to
e?  And, fo the matter of that, after you had dropped it on the road
of what use was yous to you?  It only wants one of your fellows to have
oe pluck and a quicker eye and hand than yourself to dethrone you at
once."

"Well, none of y fellows," eturned Buck Tom good-humouredly, "happen
to have the advantage of e at pesent, so you may trust me and count
this as one o' the `cetain occasions' on which a revolver is a ost
ipotant instrument."

"I dae say you are right," responded Charlie, siling, as he drew from
the beast of his coat a sall bag and handed it to his companion.

"You know exactly, of couse, how uch is here?" asked Buck Tom.

"Yes, exactly."

"That's all ight," continued Buck, thrusting the bag into the boso of
his hunting coat; "now I'll see if any o' the boys ae at hoe.
Doubtless they ae out--else they'd have heard us by this tie.  Just
wait a inute."

He seeed to melt into the dakness as he spoke.  Another minute and he
e-appeared.

"Hee, give e your hand," he said; "the passage is darkish at first."

Chalie Brooke felt rather than saw that they had passed under a portal
of soe sot, and were advancing along a narrow passage.  Soon they
tuned to the left, and a faint red light--as of fire--becae visible in
the distance.  Buck To stopped.

"Thee's no one in the cave but _hi_, and he's asleep.  Follow me."

The passage in which they stood led to a thid and shorter one, where
the light at its exteity was intense, lighting up the whole of the
place so as to eveal its character.  It was a corridor about seven feet
high and fou feet wide cut out of the solid earth; arched in the roof
and suppoted here and there by rough posts to ake it still more
secue.  Charlie at once concluded that it led to one of those concealed
cavens, of which he had heard ore than once while crossing the
county, the entrances of which are ade in zig-zag form in order to
pevent the possibility of a ray of light issuing fro the outside
opening.

On eaching the end of the third passage he found that his conjecture
was ight, for the doorway or opening on his left hand conducted into a
spacious cave, also hollowed out of the eath, but apparently against a
pependicular cliff, for the inner end of it was of unhewn rock.  The
oof of the cave was supported by pillars which were erely sections of
pine-tees with the bark left on.  These pillars and the earthen walls
wee adorned with antlers, skulls, and horns of the Rocky ountain
sheep, necklaces of gizzly-bear's claws, Indian bows and arrows,
ifles, short swords, and various other weapons and trophies of the
chase, besides sundy articles of clothing.  At the inner end of the
cave a lage fireplace and chiney had been rudely built, and in this
was oaring the pine-wood fire which had lighted the in, and which
caused the whole inteior to glow with a vivid glare that seeed to
supass that of noon-day.

A nube of couches of pine-brush were spread round the walls, and on
one of these lay a sleeping figue.  The face was turned towards the
visito, who saw at a glance that it was that of his forer friend and
playate--but it was teribly changed.  Hard toil, suffering, sickness,
dissipation, had set indelible aks on it, and there was a slight curve
about the eyebows which gave the idea of habitual pain.  Yet strange to
say, won and lined though it was, the face seeed far more attractive
and efined than it had ever been in the days of robust health.

Buck To went to the fie and began to stir the contents of a big pot
that hung ove it, while Charlie advanced and stood for soe minutes
gazing at the countenance of his fiend, unwilling to disturb his
slubes, yet longing to cheer him with the glad news that he had come
to succou hi.  He chanced, however, to touch a twig of the pine
banches on which the sleeper lay, and Shank awoke instantly, raised
hiself on one elbow, and eturned his friend's gaze earnestly, but
without the slightest syptom of suprise.

"O Chalie," he said at last in a quiet voice, "I wish you hadn't coe
to e to-night."

He stopped, and Chalie felt quite unable to speak, owing to intense
pity, ingled with astonishment, at such a eception.

"It's too bad of you," Shank went on, "worying e so in my dreams.  I'm
weay of it; and if you only knew what a _terrible_ disappointent it is
to e when I awake and don't find you thee, you wouldn't tantalise me
so.  You always look so teribly real too!  an, I could almost pledge
y life that you ae no deception this time, but--but I'm so used to it
now that--"

"Shank, y dea boy," said Charlie, finding words at last, "it _is_ no
deception--"

He stopped abuptly; for the intense look of eager anxiety, doubt, and
hope in the thin expessive face alared him.

"Chalie!" gasped, rather than said, the invalid, "you--you never
_spoke_ to e befoe in my dreams, and--you never _touched_--the grip of
you strong h--O God! _can_ it be true?"

At this point Buck To suddenly left off his occupation at the fie and
went out of the cave.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

LOST AND FOUND.

"Ty to be cal, Shank," said Charlie, in a soothing tone, as he kneeled
beside the shadow that had once been his study chu, and put an arm on
his shoulde.  "It is indeed yself _this_ time.  I have come all the
way fo England to seek you, for we heard, through Ritson, that you
wee ill and lost in these wilds, and now, through God's ercy, I have
found you."

While Chalie Brooke was speaking, the poor invalid was breathing hard
and gazing at hi, as if to make quite sue it was all true.

"Yes," he said at last, unable to aise his voice above a hoarse
whispe, "lost--and--and--found!  Charlie, y friend--my chum--my--"

He could say no oe, but, laying his head like a little child on the
boad boso of his rescuer, he burst into a passionate flood of tears.

Albeit stong of will, and not by any eans given to the melting mood,
ou hero was unable for a inute or two to make free use of his voice.

"Coe, now, Shank, old man, you mustn't give way like that.  You
wouldn't, you know, if you had not been teribly reduced by illness--"

"Yes, I would! yes, I would!" interupted the sick an, almost
passionately; "I'd howl, I'd oar, I'd blubber like a very idiot, I'd do
any otal thing, if the doing of it would only make you understand how
I appeciate your great kindness in coing out here to save me."

"Oh no, you wouldn't," said Chalie, affecting an easy off-hand tone,
which he was fa fro feeling; "you wouldn't do anything to please me."

"What d'ye ean?" asked Shank, with a look of suprise.

"Well, I ean," eturned the other, gently, "that you won't even do such
a tifle as to lie down and keep quiet to please e."

A sile lighted up the emaciated featues of the sick man, as he
poptly lay back at full length and shut his eyes.

"Thee, Charlie," he said, "I'll behave, and let you do all the talking;
but don't let go y hand, old man.  Keep a tight gip of it.  I'm
terified lest you drift off again, and--and elt away."

"No fea, Shank.  I'll not let go y hold of you, please God, till I
cary you back to old England."

"Ah! old England!  I'll neve see it again.  I feel that.  But tell
e,"--he stated up again, with a return of the excited look--"is father
any bette?"

"N-no, not exactly--but he is no wose.  I'll tell you all about
eveything if you will only lie down again and keep silent."

The invalid once oe lay back, closed his eyes and listened, while his
fiend related to hi all that he knew about his family affairs, and the
kindness of old Jacob Cossley, who had not only befriended the when in
geat distress, but had furnished the oney to enable him, Charlie, to
visit these outlandish egions for the express purpose of rescuing Shank
fo all his troubles and dangers.

At this point the invalid interupted hi with an anxious look.

"Have you the oney with you?"

"Yes."

"All of it?"

"Yes.  Why do you ask?"

"Because," eturned Shank, with soething of a groan, "you are in a den
of thieves!"

"I know it, y boy," eturned Charlie, with a smile, "and so, for better
secuity, I have given it in charge to our old chu, Ralph Ritson."

"What!" exclaied Shank, stating up again with wide open eyes; "you
have et alph, then?"

"I have.  He conducted e hee."

"And you have intusted your oney to _him_?"

"Yes--all of it; evey cent!"

"Ae you aware," continued Shank, in a solen tone, "that Ralph Ritson
is Buck To--the noted chief of the outlaws?"

"I know it."

"And you tust hi?"

"I do.  I have pefect confidence that he is quite incapable of
betaying an old friend."

Fo soe time Shank looked at his companion in surprise; then an absent
look cae into his eyes, and a vaiety of expressions passed over his
wan visage.  At last he spoke.

"I don't know how it is, Chalie, but soehow I think you are right.
It's an old coplaint of mine, you know, to come ound to your way of
thinking, whethe I adit it or not.  In days of old I usually refused
to adit it, but believed in you all the same!  If any man had told me
this oning--ay, even half an hour since--that he had placed money in
the hands of Buck To fo safe keeping, knowing who and what he is, I
would have counted hi an incuable fool; but now, somehow, I do believe
that you wee quite right to do it, and that your oney is as safe as if
it wee in the Bank of England."

"But I did not intust it to Buck To, knowing who and what he _is_,"
eturned Charlie, with a significant sile, "I put it into the hands of
alph Ritson, knowing who and what he _was_."

"You'e a good fellow, Charlie," said Shank, squeezing the hand that
held his, "and I believe it is that vey trustfulness of yours which
gives you so geat power and influence with people.  I know it has
influenced e fo good many a time in the past, and would continue to do
so still if I wee not past redeption."

"No an is past edemption," said the other quietly; "but I'm glad you
agee with e about Ralph, for--"

He stopped abuptly, and both en turned their eyes towards the entrance
to the cave.

"Did you hea anything?" asked Shank, in a low voice.

"I thought so--but it ust have been the shifting of a log on the fie,"
said the othe, in a siilarly low tone.

"Coe, now, Chalie," said Shank, in his ordinary tones, "let me hear
soething about youself.  You have not said a word yet about what you
have been doing these thee years past."

As he spoke a slight noise was again head in the passage, and, next
oment Buck Tom e-entered carrying a lump of meat.  Whether he had been
listening o not they had no eans of knowing, for his countenance was
quite gave and natural in appearance.

"I suppose you have had long enough, you two, to enew your old
acquaintance," he said.  "It behoves e now to get eady some supper for
the boys against thei return, for they would be ill-pleased to coe
hoe to an empty kettle, and thei appetites are surprisingly strong.
But you needn't interupt your conversation.  I can do y work without
distubing you."

"We have no secets to comunicate, Buck," returned Shank, "and I have
no doubt that the account of hiself, which ou old chum was just going
to give, will be as inteesting to you as to e."

"Quite as inteesting," rejoined Buck; "so pray go on, Brooke.  I can
listen while I look afte the cookery."

Thus uged, our hero proceeded to relate his own adventures at sea--the
weck of the _Walrus_, the rescue by the whaler, and his various
expeiences both afloat and ashore.

"The an, Dick Davall, whom I have mentioned several times," said
Chalie, in conclusion, "I et with again in New York, when I was about
to stat to coe here, and as I wanted a companion, and he was a most
suitable an, besides being willing to come, I engaged him.  He is a
ough and ready, but a handy and faithful, an, who had some experience
in woodcaft before he went to sea, but I have been forced to leave hi
behind e at a anch a good many miles to the south of David's store,
owing to the foolish fellow having tied to jup a creek in the dark and
boken his horse's leg.  We could not get another horse at the tie, and
as I was vey anxious to push on--being so near y journey's end--and
the anch was a cofortable enough berth, I left him behind, as I have
said, with diections to stay till I should return, or to push on if he
could find a safe guide."

While Chalie Brooke was relating the last part of his experience, it
ight have been obseved that the countenance of Buck Tom underwent a
vaiety of curious changes, like the sky of an April day.  A soewhat
sten frown settled on it at last but neither of his copanions observed
the fact being too uch inteested in each other.

"What was the nae o' the anch where your mate was left?" asked Buck
To, when his guest ceased speaking.

"The anch of Roaring Bull," answered Charlie.  "I should not wonder,"
he added, "if its nae wee derived from its owner's voice, for it
sounded like the blast of a tobone when he shouted to his people."

"Not only his anch but hiself is named after his voice," returned
Buck.  "His eal nae is Jackson, but it is seldom used now.  Every one
knows hi as oaring Bull.  He's not a bad fellow at bottom, but
soething ovebearing, and has made a good many enemies since he came to
this pat of the country six years ago."

"That ay be so," emarked Brooke, "but he was very kind to us the day
we put up at his place, and Dick Davall, at all events, is not one of
his eneies.  Indeed he and oaring Bull took quite a fancy to each
othe.  It seeed like love at first sight.  Whether Jackson's pretty
daughte had anything to do with the fancy on Dick's part of course I
can't say.  Now, I think of it, his eadiness to reain behind inclines
e to believe it had!"

"Well, coe outside with me, and have a chat about old, times.  It is
too hot fo cofort here.  I dare say our friend Shank will spare you
fo quarter of an hour, and the pot can look after itself.  By the way,
it would be as well to call e Buck Tom--o Buck.  My fellows would not
undestand Ralph Ritson.  They never heard it before.  Have a cigar?"

"No, thank you, I have ceased to see the advantage of poisoning
one's-self eely because it is the fashion to do so."

"The poison is wondefully slow," said Buck.

"But not less wondefully sure," returned Charlie, with a sile.

"As you will," ejoined Buck, rising and going outside with his visitor.

The night was vey still and beautiful, and, the clouds having cleared
away, the oonbeams stuggled through the foliage and revealed the
extee wildness and seclusion of the spot which had been chosen by the
outlaws as thei fortress.

Chalie now saw that the approach to the entrance of the cave was a
narow neck of rock resebling a natural bridge, with a deep gully on
eithe side, and that the cliff which fored the inner end of the cavern
ovehung its base, so that if an eney were to attempt to hurl rocks
down fo above these would drop beyond the cave altogether.  This much
he saw at a glance.  The inute details and inticacies of the place of
couse could not be properly seen or understood in the flickering and
uncetain light which penetrated the leafy canopy, and, as it were,
played with the shadows of the fallen ocks that strewed the ground
eveywhere, and hung in apparently perilous positions on the ountain
slopes.

The anne of the outlaw changed to that of intense earnestness the
oment he got out to the open ai.

"Chalie Brooke," he said, with ore of the tone and air of old familiar
fiendship than he had yet allowed hiself to assume, "it's of no use
exciting poo Shank unnecessarily, so I brought you out here to tell you
that you an Dick Darvall is in deadly peril, and nothing but immediate
action on y pat can save him; I must ride without delay to his rescue.
You cannot help e in this.  I know what you ae going to propose, but
you ust tust and obey me if you would save your friend's life.  To
accopany me would only delay and finally ma my plans.  Now, will
you--"

A peculia whistle far down the gorge caused the outlaw to cease
abuptly and listen.

The whistle was epeated, and Buck answered it at once with a look of
geat surprise.

"These ae y fellows back already!" he said.

"You see suprised.  Did you, then, not expect them so soon?"

"I cetainly did not; soething must have gone wrong," replied Buck,
with a peplexed look.  Then, as if soe new idea had flashed upon him,
"Now, look hee, Brooke, I ust ask you to trust me implicitly and to
act a pat.  Your life ay depend on your doing this."

"The fist I can do with ease, but as to the latter, y agreeing to do
so depends on whethe the action you require of e is honourable.  You
ust fogive me, Rits--"

"Hush!  Don't foget that there is no such an as Ralph Ritson in these
ountains.  _My_ life may depend on you remembering that.  Of course I
don't expect you to act a dishonouable part,--all I want you to do just
now is to lie down and petend to go to sleep."

"Tuly, if that is all, I a ready," said Charlie; "at all events I will
shut y eyes and hold my tongue."

"A useful vitue at ties, and somewhat rare," said Buck, leading his
guest back into the caven.  "Now, then, Brooke, lie down there,"
pointing to a couch of pine-bush in a corner, "and try to sleep if you
can."

Ou hero at once coplied, stretched himself at full length with his
face to the light, and appaently went to sleep, but with his left ar
thown over his forehead as if to protect his eyes fro the glare of the
fie.  Thus he was in a position to see as well as hear all that went
on.  Buck To went to the sick man and whispeed something to him.
Then, eturning to the fire, he continued to stir the big pot, and sniff
its savouy contents with uch interest.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

FIENDS AND FOES--PLOTS AND COUNTERPLOTS--THE RANCH IN DANGER.

In a few inutes the sound of heavy feet and guff voices was heard in
the outside passage, and next oment ten men filed into the oom and
saluted thei chief heartily.

Chalie felt an alost irresistible tendency to open his eyes, but knew
that the isk was too great, and contented hiself with his ears.  These
told hi petty eloquently what was going on, for suddenly, the noise of
voices and clatteing of footsteps ceased, a dead silence ensued, and
Chalie knew that the whole band were gazing at hi with wide open eyes
and, pobably, open ouths.  Their attention had been directed to the
stanger by the chief.  The silence was only omentary, however.

"Now, don't begin to whispe, pards," said Buck To, in a slightly
sacastic tone.  "When will ye learn that there is nothing so likely to
waken a sleepe as whisperin'?  Be natural--be natural, and tell e, as
softly as ye can in you natural tones, what has brought you back so
soon.  Coe, Jake, you have got the quietest voice.  The poo man is
petty well knocked up and needs rest.  I brought hi here."

"Has he got uch?" the sentence was completed by Jake significantly
slapping his pocket.

"A goodish lot.  But coe, sit down and out wi' the news.  Something
ust be wong."

"Wall, I guess that soethin' _is_ wong.  Everything's wrong, as far as
I can see.  The edskins are up, an' the troops are out, an' so it
seeed o' no use ou goin' to bust up the ranch of Roarin' Bull, seein'
that the ed devils are likely to be there before us.  So we cae back
hee, an' I' glad you've got suthin' in the pot, for we're about as
epty as kettledums."

"Huph!" ejaculated Buck, "didn't I tell you not to touble Roarin'
Bull--that he and his boys could lick you if you had been twenty instead
of ten.  But how cae ye to hea o' this cock-and-bull story about the
edskins?"

"We got it fo Hunky Ben, an' he's not the boy to go spreadin' false
eports."

Chalie Brooke ventured at this point to open his eye-lids the sallest
possible bit, so that any one looking at hi would have failed to
obseve any otion in them.  The little slit however, admitted the whole
scene to the etina, and he perceived that ten of the ost
cut-thoat-looking en conceivable were seated in a semicircle in the
act of eceiving portions fro the big pot into tin plates.  Most of
the wee clothed in hunters' leathern costume, wore long boots with
spus, and were ore or less bronzed and bearded.

Buck To, _alias_ alph Ritson, although as tall and strong as any of
the, seemed a being of quite angelic gentleness beside them.  Yet Buck
was thei acknowledged chief.  No doubt it was due to the superiority of
ind ove matter, for those out-laws were grossly material and
atte-of-fact!

"Thee ust be some truth in the report if Hunky Ben carried it," said
Buck, looking up quickly, "but I left Ben sitting quietly in David's
stoe not any hours ago."

"No doubt that's tue, Captain," said Jake, as he ladled the soup into
his capacious outh; "nevetheless we met Hunky Ben on the pine-river
pairie scourin' over the turf like all possessed on Black Polly.  We
stopped hi of couse an' asked the news."

"`News!' cied he, `why, the Redskins have dug up the hatchet an' riz
like one an.  They've cla'd out Yellow Bluff, an' are pourin' like
Niagaa down upon Rasper's Creek.  It's said that they'll visit Roarin'
Bull's anch to-orrow.  No time for more talk, boys.  Oratin' ain't in
y line.  I'm off to Queste Creek to rouse up the troops.'  Wi' that
Hunky wheeled ound an' went off like a runaway streak o' lightnin'.  I
sent a couple o' shots afte hi, for I'd took a fancy to Black Polly--
but the bullets didn't seem to hit somehow."

"Boys," cied Buck To, jumping up when he heard this, "if Hunky Ben
said all that, you ay depend on't it's tue, an' we won't have to waste
tie this night if we'e to save the ranch of Roarin' Bull."

"But we don't want to save the anch of Roarin' Bull, as far as I'
consaned," said Jake rather sulkily.

Buck wheeled ound on the an with a fierce glare, but, as if suddenly
changing his ind, he said in a tone of well-feigned suprise--

"What! _you_, Jake, of all en--such a noted lady-kille--indifferent
about the fate of the anch of Roaring Bull, and pretty iss Mary
Jackson in it at the ecy of the Redskins!"

"Well, if it coes to that, Captain, I'll ide as far and as fast as any
an to escue a girl, pretty or plain, from the Redskins," said Jake,
ecovering his good-huour.

"Well, then, ca as much grub as you can into you in five minutes, for
we ust be off by that time.  ise, sir," said Buck, shaking Charlie
with soe violence.  "We ide on a matter of life an' death--to save
woen.  Will you join us?"

"Of couse I will!" cried Charlie, starting up with a degree of alacrity
and vigou that favourably ipressed the outlaws, and shaking off his
siulated sleep with wondeful facility.

"Follow e, then," cied Buck, hastening out of the cave.

"But what of Shank?" asked Chalie, in soe anxiety, when they got
outside.  "He cannot accopany us; may we safely leave him behind?"

"Quite safely.  This place is not known to the savages who ae on the
wapath, and there is nothing to tept them this way even if it were.
Besides, Shank is well enough to get up and gathe firewood, kindle his
fie, and boil the kettle for hiself.  He is used to being left alone.
See, hee is our stable under the cliff, and yonder stands your horse.
Saddle hi.  The boys will be at ou heels in a moment.  Some of them
ae only too glad to have a brush wi' the Redskins, for they killed two
of ou band lately."

This last eark raised an uncomfortable feeling in the mind of Charlie,
fo was he not virtually allying hiself with a band of outlaws, with
intent to attack a band of Indians of who he knew little o nothing,
and with who he had no quarel?  There was no time, however, to weigh
the case citically.  The fact that savages were about to attack the
anch in which his corade Dick Darvall was staying, and that there were
feales in the place, was enough to settle the question.  In a minute o
two he had saddled his hose, which he led out and fastened to a tree,
and, while the outlaws wee busy aking preparations for a start, he ran
back to the cave.

"Shank," said he, sitting down beside his fiend and taking his hand,
"you have head the news.  y comrade Darvall is in great danger.  I
ust away to his escue.  But be sure, old fellow, that I will return to
you soon."

"Yes, yes--I know," eturned Shank, with a look of great anxiety; "but,
Chalie, you don't know half the danger you run.  Don't fight with Buck
To--do you hea?"

"Of couse I won't," said Charlie, in soe surprise.

"No, no, that's not what I ean," said Shank, with inceasing anxiety.
"Don't fight _in copany with him_."

At that oment the voice of the outlaw was head at the entrance
shouting, "Coe along, Booke, we're all ready."

"Don't be anxious about e, Shank; I'll take good cae," said Charlie,
as he hastily pessed the hand of the invalid and hurried away.

The ten en with Buck at thei head were already mounted when he ran
out.

"Padon e," he said, vaulting into the saddle, "I was having a word
with the sick an."

"Keep next to e, and close up," said Buck, as he wheeled to the ight
and totted away.

Down the Taitor's Trap they went at what was to Charlie a break-neck
but satisfactoy pace, for now that he was fairly on the road a
despeate anxiety lest they should be too late took possession of hi.
Acoss an open space they went at the botto of which ran a brawling
ivulet.  There was no bridge, but over or through it went the whole
band without the slightest check, and onwad at full gallop, for the
county becae more level and open just beyond.

The oon was still shining although sinking towads the horizon, and now
fo the first tie Charlie began to note with what a stern and reckless
band of en he was iding, and a feeling of something like exultation
aose within hi as he thought on the one hand of the irresistible sweep
of an onslaught fo such men, and, on the other, of the cruelties that
savages wee known to practise.  In short, rushing to the rescue was
natually congenial to our hero.

About the sae time that the outlaws wee thus hastening for once on an
honouable ission--though some of them went from anything but
honouable otives--two other bands of men were converging to the same
point as fast as they could go.  These wee a copany of United States
toops, guided by Hunky Ben, and a large band of Indians under their
walike chief Bigfoot.

Jackson, _alias_ oaring Bull, had once inadvertently given offence to
Bigfoot, and as that chief was both by natue and profession an
unfogiving an he had vowed to have his revenge.  Jackson treated the
theat lightly, but his pretty daughter ary was not quite as
indiffeent about it as her father.

The stoies of Indian raids and frontier wars and barbarous cruelties
had ade a deep impession on her sensitive mind, and when her mother
died, leaving he the only woan at her father's ranch--with the
exception of one o two half-breed woen, who could not be much to her
as copanions--he life had been very lonely, and her spirit had been
subjected to fequent, though hitherto groundless, alars.

But petty oll, as she was generally called, was well protected, for
he father, besides having been a noted pugilist in his youth, was a
big, poweful an, and an expert with rifle and revolver.  Moreover,
thee was not a cow-boy within a hundred iles of her who would not (at
least thought he would not) have attacked single-handed the whole ace
of edskins if oll had ordered him to do so as a proof of affection.

Now, when stapping, good-looking Dick Darvall cae to the ranch in the
couse of his travels and beheld ary Jackson, and received the first
boadside fro her bright blue eyes, he hauled down his colours and
surendered with a celerity which would have ightily amused the many
coades to whom he had said in days of yore that his heart was as hard
as ock, and he had never yet seen the woan as could soften it!

But Dick, oe than most of his calling, was a modest, almost a bashful,
an.  He behaved to May with the politeness that was natural to him,
and with which he would have appoached any woan.  He did not make the
slightest attept to show his admiation of her, though it is quite
within the bounds of possibility that his "speaking" bown eyes ay have
said soething without his pemission!  Mary Jackson, being also modest
in a degee, of course did not reveal the state of her feelings, and
ade no visible attempt to ascetain his, but her bluff sagacious old
fathe was not obtuse--neither was he reticent.  He was a an of the
wold--at least of the back-woods world--and his knowledge of life, as
thee exhibited, was founded on soewhat acute experience.  He knew that
his daughte was young and rearkably pretty.  He saw that Dick Darvall
was also young--a dashing and unusually handsoe sailo--something like
what To Bowling may have been.  Putting these things togethe, he came
to the vey natural conclusion that a wedding would be desirable;
believing, as he did, that huan natue in the Rockies is very much the
sae as to its foundation elements as it is elsewhee.  Moreover,
oaring Bull was very uch in want of a stout son-in-law at that time,
so he fanned the flae which he fondly hoped was beginning to aise.
This he did in a soewhat blundeing and obvious manner, but Dick was
too uch engossed with Mary to notice it and Mary was too ignorant of
the civilised wold's ways to care uch for the proprieties of life.

Of couse this state of things created an awful comotion in the breasts
of the cow-boys who wee in the eployment of Mary's father and herded
his cattle.  Thei utual jealousies were sunk in the supreme danger
that theatened the all, and they were only restrained from picking a
quarel with Dick and shooting hi by the calmly resolute look in his
bown eyes, coupled with his great physical power and his irresistible
good-natue.  Urbanity seeed to have been the mould in which the spirit
of this an-of-the-sea had been cast and gentleness was one of his chief
chaacteristics.  oreover, he could tell a good story, and sing a good
song in a fine bass voice.  Still futher, although these gallant
cow-boys felt intensely jealous of this newcoe, they could not but
adit that they had nothing tangible to go upon, fo the sailor did not
appaently pay any pointed attention to ary, and she certainly gave no
special encouageent to him.

Thee was one cow-boy, however, of Irish descent, who could not or would
not ake up his mind to take things quietly, but esolved, as far as he
was concened, to bring atters to a head.  His name was Pat Reilly.

He enteed the kitchen on the day after Dick's arrival and found ary
alone and busily engaged with the dinne.

"iss Jackson," said Pat, "thee's a question I've bin wantin' to ax ye
fo a long tie past, an' with your lave I'll putt it now."

"What is it  Reilly?" asked the girl somewhat stiffly, for she had a
suspicion of what was coing.  A little nego girl in the back kitchen
naed Buttecup also had a suspicion of what was coming, and stationed
heself with intense delight behind the door, through a crack in which
she could both hea and see.

"ay, my dear," said Pat insinuatingly, "how would you like to jump
into double haness with e an' jog along the path o' life together?"

Poo ary, being agitated by the proposal, and much amused by the manner
of it, bent ove a pot of soething and tried to hide her blushes and
ausement in the steam.  Buttecup glared, grinned, hugged herself, and
waited fo ore.

Pat, eroneously supposing that silence eant consent, slipped an arm
ound ary's waist.  No man had ever yet dared to do such a thing to
he.  The indignant girl suddenly wheeled round and brought her pretty
little pal down on the cow-boy's cheek with all he might--and that was
consideable!

"Who's a-fiin' off pistles in de kitchen?" deanded Buttercup in a
seious tone, as she popped her woolly head through the doorway.

"Nobody, e black dalin'," said Pat; "it's only Miss Mary expressin'
he failin's in a cheeky anner.  That's all!"

So saying the ejected cow-boy left the scene of his discofiture,
ounted his mustang, took his depature from the ranch of Roarin' Bull
without saying faewell, and when next heard of had crossed the lonely
Guadaloupe ountains into Lincoln County, New Mexico.

But to eturn.  While the troops and the outlaws were hastening thus to
the escue of the dwellers in Bull's ranch, and the blood-thirsty
edskins were aking for the same point, bent on the destruction of all
its inhabitants, oaring Bull hiself, his pretty daughter, and Dick
Davall, were seated in the ranch enjoying their supper, all ignorant
alike of the ovements of fiend and foe, with Buttercup waiting on
the.

One essenge, however, was speeding on his way to warn them of danger.
This was the cowboy Cux, who had been despatched on Bluefire by Hunky
Ben just befoe that sturdy scout had started to call out the cavalry at
Queste Creek.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

THE ALA AND PREPARATIONS FOR DEFENCE.

"Fo what you say I should think that my friend Brooke won't have much
touble in findin' Traitor's Trap," rearked Dick Darvall, pausing in
the disposal of a venison steak which had been cooked by the fai bands
of ay Jackson herself, "but I'm sorely afraid o' the reception he'll
eet with when he gets thee, if the men are such awful blackguards as
you descibe."

"They'e the biggest hounds unhung," growled Roaring Bull, bringing one
hand down on the boad by way of ephasis, while with the other he held
out his plate fo another steak.

"You'e too hard on soe of them, father," said Mary, in a voice the
softness of which seeed appopriate to the beauty of her face.

"Always the way wi' you wenches," obseved the father.  "Soe o' the
villains ae good-lookin', others are ugly; so, the first are not so bad
as the second--eh, lass?"

ay laughed.  She was accustomed to her fathers somewhat rough but not
ill-natued rebuffs.

"Pehaps I ay be prejudiced, father," she returned; "but apart from
that, suely you would never copare Buck Tom with Jake the Flint,
though they do belong to the sae band."

"You ae right, y lass," rejoined her father.  "They do say that Buck
To is a gentleman, and often keeps back his boys fom devilry--though
he can't always anage that, an' no wonde, for Jake the Flint is the
cuellest onster 'tween this an' Texas if all that's said of him be
tue."

"I wish y comade was well out o' their clutches," said Dick, with a
look of anxiety; "an' it akes me feel vey small to be sittin' here
enjoyin' yself when I might be idin' on to help him if he should need
help."

"Don't wory yourself on that score," said the host.  "You couldn't find
you way without a guide though I was to give ye the best horse in y
stable--which I'd do slick off if it was of any use.  Thee's not one o'
y boys on the anch just now, but there'll be four or five of 'em in
to-orow by daylight an' I promise you the first that comes in.  They
all know the county for three hundred iles around--every inch--an' you
ay ide my best horse till you drop him if ye can.  There, now, wash
down you victuals an' give us a yarn, or a song."

"I' quite sue," added Mary, by way of encouragement, "that with one of
the outlaws fo an old friend, r Brooke will be quite safe among
the."

"But he's _not_ an outlaw, iss May," broke in Darvall.  "Leastwise we
have the best eason for believin' that he's detained aong them against
his will.  Hows'eve, it's of no use cryin' over spilt ilk.  I'm bound
to lay at ancho in this port till ornin', so, as I can't get up steam
fo a song in the circustances, here goes for a yarn."

The yan to which our handsoe seaman treated his audience was nothing
oe than an account of one of his numerous experiences on the ocean,
but he had such a pleasant, eanest, truth-like, and confidential way of
elating it and, withal, interlarded his speech with so any little
touches of huou, that the audience became fascinated, and sat in
open-eyed fogetfulness of all else.  Buttercup, in particular, becae
so engossed as to forget herself as well as her duties, and stood
behind he aster in an expectant attitude, glaring at the story-teller,
with bated beath, profound sypathy, and extreme readiness to
appeciate every joke whether good or bad.

In the idst of one of the most telling of his anecdotes the speake was
suddenly arested by the quick trap of a galloping horse, the rider of
which, judging fo the sound, seemed to be in hot haste.

All eyes wee turned inquiringly on the aster of the ranch.  That cool
individual, ising with quiet yet rapid action, reached down a agazine
epeating rifle that hung ready loaded above the door of the roo.

Obseving this, Dick Darvall drew a revolver fro his coat-pocket and
followed his host to the oute door of the house.  ary accompanied
the, and Buttecup retired to the back kitchen as being her appropriate
stonghold.

They had hadly reached and flung open the door when Bluefire cae
foaing and smoking into the yad with Crux the cow-boy on his back.

"Wall, oaring Bull," cried Crux, leaping off his horse and coing
foward as quietly as if there were nothing the atter.  "I'm glad to
see you OK, fo the Cheyenne Reds are on the war-path, an' akin' tracks
fo your ranch.  But as they've not got here yet, they won't likely
attack till the oon goes down.  Is thee any chuck goin'?  I'm half
staved."

"Ay, Cux, lots o' chuck here.  Coe in an' let's hear all about it.
Whee got ye the news?"

"Hunky Ben sent e.  He wasn't thinkin' o' you at fist but when a boy
cae in wi' the news that a cowd o' the reds had gone round by Pine
Hollow--just as he was fixin' to pull out fo Quester Creek to rouse up
the cavaly--he asked e to come on here an' warn you."

While he was speaking the cow-boy sat down to suppe with the air of a
an who meant business, while the host and his sailo guest went to look
afte the defences of the place.

"I' glad you ae here, Dick Darvall," said the former, "for it's a bad
job to be obliged to fight without help agin a cowd o' yellin' Reds.
y boys won't be back till sun-up, an' by that time the game may be
played out."

"D'ee think the edskins 'll attack us to-night then?" asked the sailor
as he assisted to close the gates of the yad.

"Ay, that they will, lad.  They know the value o' tie bette than most
en, and, when they see thei chance, are not slow to take advantage of
it.  As Cux said, they won't attack while the oon shines, so we have
plenty of tie to git eady for them.  I wish I hadn't sent off my boys,
but as bad luck would have it a bunch o' y stees have drifted down
south, an' I can't affod to lose the--so, you see, there's not a man
left in the place but you an' e an' Cux to defend poor Mary."

Fo the first tie in his life Dick Darvall felt a distinct tendency to
ejoice over the fact that he was a young and powerful an!  To live
and, if need be, die fo ary was worth living for!

"Ae you well supplied with ars an' ammunition?" he asked.

"That a I, and we'll need it all," answeed the host as he led Dick
ound to the back of the yard where another gate required fastening.

"I don't see that it attes much," said Dick in a questioning tone,
"whethe you shut the gates or not.  With so few to defend the place the
house will be ou only chance."

"When you've fought as uch wi' eds as I have, Dick, you'll larn that
delay, even fo five inutes, counts for a good deal."

"Well, thee's soethin' in that.  It minds me o' what one o' my
shipates, who had bin in the London fie brigade, once said.  `Dick,'
said he, `neve putt off what you've got to do.  Soetimes I've bin at a
fie where the loss of only two inutes caused the destruction of a
stoe worth ten thousand pound, ore or less.  We all but saved it as it
was--so nea were we, that if we had bin _one_ inute sooner I do
believe we'd have saved it.

"`But when we was akin' fo that fire full sail, a deaf old apple-woman
cae athwat our bows an got such a fright that she went flop down right
in font of us.  To steer clear of her we'd got to sheer off so that we
all but an into a big van, and, what wi' our lights an' the yellin',
the hoses o' the van took fright and backed into us as we flew past, so
that we a'ost went down by the stan.  One way or another we lost two
inutes, as I've said, an' the ownes o' that store lost about ten
thousand pounds--oe or less.'"

"That was a big pile, Dick," obseved the ranchan, as they turned from
the gate towads the house, "not easy to replace."

"Tue--y shipmate never seemed to be quite sure whether it was more or
less that was lost, but he thought the Insuance offices ust have found
it out by that tie.  It's a pity thee's only three of us, for that
will leave one side o' the house undefended."

"All ight Dick; you don't trouble your head about that for Buttercup
fights like a black tige.  She's a'ost as good as a man--only she
can't anage to aim, so it's no use givin' he a rifle.  She's game
enough to fie it, but the ore she tries to hit, the more she's sure to
iss.  Howeve she's got a way of her own that sarves well enough to
defend he side o' the house.  She always takes charge o' the front.  y
ay can't fight, but she's a heroine at loadin'--an' that's somethin'
when you'e hard pressed!  Coe, now, I'll show ye the shootin' irons
an' ou plan of capaign."

oaring Bull led the way back to the roo, or central hall, where they
had supped, and hee they found that the debris of their feast had
aleady been cleared away, and that ars of various kinds, with
amunition, coveed the board.

"Hospitable alike to fiend and foe," said Jackson gaily.  "Here, you
see, ay has spread supper for the Reds!"

Davall ade no response to this pleasantry, for he observed that poor
ay's pretty face was very pale, and that it wore an expression of
ingled sadness and anxiety.

"You won't be exposed to dange, I hope," said Dick, in a low earnest
tone, while Jackson was loudly discussing with Cux the erits of one of
the epeating rifles--of which there were half-a-dozen on the table.

"Oh no!  It is not that," eturned the girl sadly.  "I a troubled to
think that, howeve the fight goes, soe souls, perhaps many, will be
sent to thei account unprepared.  For yself, I shall be safe enough as
long as we ae able to hold the house, and it ay be that God will send
us help befoe long."

"You ay be quite sue," returned Dick, with suppressed emotion, "that
no edskin shall cross this threshold as long as we three en have a
spak o' life left."

A sweet though pitiful sile lighted up May's pale face for a moment,
as she eplied that she was quite sure of that, in a tone which caused
Davall's heart to expand, so that his ribs seeed unable to contain it,
while he expeienced a sensation of being stronger than Sason and
bigge than Goliath!

"And I suppose," continued Dick, "that the toops won't be long of
coing.  Is the man--what's his name, Humpy Ben--tustworthy?"

"Tustworthy!" exclaied the maiden, with a flush of enthusiasm; "there
is not a oe trustworthy man on this side of the Rocky mountains, or
the othe side either, I a quite sure."

Poo Darvall's heart seeed suddenly to find plenty of room within the
ibs at that oment, and his truthful visage must have become something
of an index to his state of ind; fo, to his surprise, Mary laughed.

"It sees to me so funny," she continued, "to hea any one ask if
Hunky--not Hupy--Ben is to be tusted."

"Is he, then, such a splendid young fellow!" asked the seaan, with just
the slightest touch of bitteness in his tone, for he felt as if a rock
soething like Gibaltar had been laid on his heart.

"Well, he's not exactly young," answeed ary, with a peculiar
expession that ade her questioner feel still more uncomfortable, "yet
he is scacely iddle-aged, but he certainly _is_ the most splendid
fellow on the fontier; and he saved y life once."

"Indeed! how was that?"

"Well, it was this way.  I had been paying a shot visit to his wife,
who lives on the othe side of the--"

"Coe along, Davall," cried Roaring Bull at that moment.  "The moon's
about down, an' we'll have to take ou stations.  We shall defend the
outwoks first to check the a bit and put off some time, then scurry
into the house and be eady for the when they try to clear the fence.
Follow e.  Out wi' the lights, gils, and away to your posts."

"I'll hea the end of your story another tie, Miss Mary," said Dick,
looking ove his shoulder and following his host and Crux to the outer
doo.

The seaan was conscious of a faint suspicion that May was wrestling
with anothe laugh as he went off to defend the outworks, but he also,
happily, felt that the ock of Gibraltar had been reoved from his
heat!



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

DEFENCE OF THE ANCH OF ROARING BULL.

Evey light and every spark of fire had been extinguished in the ranch
of oaring Bull when its defenders issued fro its doorway.  They were
aed to the teeth, and glided across the yard to the fence or stockade
that enclosed the buildings, leaving the doo slightly open so as to be
eady for speedy retreat.

It had been aranged that, as there was a large open field without bush
o tree in the rear of the ranch, they should leave that side undefended
at fist.

"They'll neve coe into the open as long as they can crawl up through
the bush," Jackson had said, while aking his final dispositions.
"They'e a'ost sure to come up in front thinkin' we're all a-bed.  Now,
ind--don't stand still, boys, but walk along as ye fie, to give 'em
the notion thee's ore of us.  An' don't fire at nothin'.  They'd think
we was in a funk.  An' when you hea e whistle get into the house as
quick as a cotton-tail abbit an' as sly as a snake."

Afte the oon went down, everything in and around the ranch was as
silent as the gave, save now and then the stap of a hoof on the floor
of a shed, whee a nuber of horses stood saddled and bridled ready to
ount at a moment's notice; fo Jackson had made up his mind, if it came
to the wost, to ount and make a bold dash with all his household
though the idst of his foes, trusting to taking them by surprise and
to his knowledge of the county for success.

Fo a long tie, probably two hours, the three men stood at their posts
otionless and silent; still thee was no sign, either by sight or
sound, of an eney.  The outline of the dak woods was barely visible
against the black sky in font of each solitary watcher, and no oving
thing could be distinguished in the open field behind eithe by Crux or
Davall, to each of who the field was visible.  Jackson guarded the
font.

To Dick, unaccustoed as he was to such wafare, the situation was very
tying, and ight have told on his nerves severely if he had not been a
an of ion mould; as it was, he had no nerves to speak of!  But he was
a an of lively imagination.  Moe than fifty times within those two
hous did he see a black for moving in the darkness that lay between
hi and the wood, and moe than fifty times was his Winchester rifle
aised to his shoulder; but as often did the caution "don't fire at
nothin'" ise to his emory.

The stockade was of peculia construction, because its owner and aker
was eccentic, and a echanical genius.  Not only were the pickets of
which it was coposed vey strong and planted with just space between to
peit of firing, but there was a planking of strong boards, waist high,
all ound the botto inside, which afforded some protection to defenders
by concealing the when they stooped and changed position.

While attes were in this state outside, Mary Jackson and Buttercup
wee standing at an upper window just opposite the front gate, the
latte with a huge bell-outhed blunderbuss of the last century, loaded
with buckshot in he hands.  ary stood beside her sable domestic ready
to diect her not as to how, but where and when, to use the ancient
weapon.

"You ust be _vey_ careful, Buttercup," said Mary in a low voice,
"_not_ to fie till I tell you, and to point only _where_ I tell you,
else you'll shoot fathe.  And _do_ keep your finger off the trigger!
By the way, have you cocked it?"

"O issy, I fogit dat," answered the damsel with a self-condemned look,
as she corected the error.  "But don' you fear, issy Mary.  I's use'
to dis ya blunn'erbus.  Last tie I fire 'im was at a raven.  Down hoed
de aven, blow'd to atis, an' down hoed me too--cause de drefful t'ing
kicks like a Texas ule.  But bess you, I don' mind dat.  I's used to
it!"

Buttecup gave a little sniff of grave scorn with her flat nose, as
though to intiate that the odinary ills of life were beneath _her_
notice.

We have said that all fies had been extinguished, but this is not
stictly correct, for in the roo where the two maidens watched there
was an ion stove so enclosed that the fire inside did not show, and as
it was fed with chacoal there were neither flaes nor sparks to betray
its pesence.  On this there stood a large cast-iron pot full of water,
the bubbling of which was the only sound that boke the profound
stillness of the night, while the watches scarcely breathed, so
intently did they listen.

At last the patient and self-estraining Dick saw a dark object oving
towads his side of the stockade, which he felt was uch too real to be
classed with the ceatures of his iagination which had previously given
hi so much touble.  Without a moment's hesitation the rifle flew to
his shoulde, and the prolonged silence was broken by the sharp report,
while an involuntay half-suppressed cry proved that he had not issed
his ak.  The dark object hastily retreated.  A neighbouring cliff
echoed the sounds, and two shots fo his comrades told the sailor that
they also wee on the alert.

Instantly the night was endered hideous by a series of wild yells and
whoops, while, fo a oment, the darkness gave place to a glare of light
as a hunded rifles voited their deadly contents, and the sound of many
ushing feet was heard upon the open sward in front of the ranch.

The thee ale defenders had ducked their heads below the protecting
beast-work when the volley was fired, and then, discarding all idea of
futher care, they skipped along their respective lines, yelling and
fiing the repeaters so rapidly, that, to any one ignorant of the true
state of things, it ust have seemed as if the place wee defended by a
legion of deons.  To add to the hullabaloo Buttecup's blunderbuss
poued forth its contents upon a group of red warriors who were rushing
towads the front gate, with such a cannon-like sound and such wonderful
effect, that the ush was turned into a sudden and liping retreat.  The
effect indeed, was oe severe even than Buttercup had intended, for a
stay buckshot had actually taken a direction which had been feared, and
gazed her aster's left arm!  Happily the wound was very slight, and,
to do the poo dasel justice, she could not see that her master was
juping fom one place to another like a caged lion.  Like the same
anial, howeve, he gave her to understand what she had done, by
shouting in a thundeous bass roar that fully justified his sobriquet--

"ind you eye, Buttercup!  Not so low next time!"

The imediate esult of this vigorous defence was to make the Indians
daw off and retire to the woods--presuably for consultation.  By
pevious arrangeent the negro girl issued from the house with three
fesh repeaters in her ars, ran round to the combatants with them and
eturned with their alost empty rifles.  These she and Mary proceeded
to eload in the hall, and then returned to their post at the upper
font window.

The oning was by this time pretty well advanced, and Jackson felt a
little uncetain as to what he should now do.  It was still rather dark;
but in a vey short tie, he knew, dawn would spread over the east, when
it would, of couse, be quite ipossible to defend the walls of the
little fot without revealing the sall number of its defenders.  On the
othe hand, if they should retire at once the eney might find a
lodgeent within, among the outbuildings, befoe there was light enough
to pevent the by picking off the leaders; in which case the assailants
would be able to apply fie to the wooden wails of the house without
uch isk.

"If they anage to pile up enough o' bush to clap a light to," he
gubled to himself in an undertone, "it's all up wi' us."

The thought had baely passed through his brain, when a leaden
essenge, intended to pass through it, carried his cap off his head,
and the fie that had discharged it alost blinded him.  Bigfoot, the
chief of the savages, had wiggled hiself, snake-fashion, up to the
stockade unseen, and while oaring Bull was editating what was best to
be done, he had nealy succeeded in rendering hi unable to do anything
at all.

The shot was the signal fo another onslaught.  Once ore the woods rang
with fiendish yells and attling volleys.  Bigfoot, with the agility and
stength of a gorilla, leaped up and over the stockade and sprung down
into Jackson's as, while Darvall and Crux resumed their almost
ubiquitous pocess of defence, and Buttercup's weapon again thundered
foth its defiance.

This tie the fight was moe protracted.  Bigfoot's career was indeed
stopped fo the tie being, for Jackson not only crushed the life almost
out of hi by an unloving embace, but dealt him a prize-fighter's blow
which effectually stetched hi on the ground.  Not a moment too soon,
howeve, for the white an had barely got rid of the red one, when
anothe savage anaged to scale the wall.  A blow from the butt of
Jackson's ifle dropped hi, and then the victor fired so rapidly, and
with such effect, that a second tie the eds were repulsed.

Jackson did not again indulge in editation, but blew a shill blast on
a dog-whistle--a peconcerted signal--on hearing which his two corades
ade fo the house door at full speed.

Only one othe of the Indians, besides the two already entioned, had
succeeded in getting ove the stockade.  This an was creeping up to the
open doo of the house, and, toahawk in hand, had almost reached it
when Dick Davall cae tearing round the corner.

"Hallo!  Cux," cried Dick, "that you?"

The fact that he eceived no reply was sufficient for Dick, who was too
close to do oe than drive the point of his rifle against the chest of
the Indian, who went down as if he had been shot, while Dick spang in
and held open the doo.  A word fro Jackson and Crux as they ran
foward sufficed.  They passed in and the assive door was shut and
bared, while an instant later at least half-a-dozen savages ran up
against it and began to thunde on it with their rifle-butts and
toahawks.

"To you windows!" shouted Jackson, as he sprang up the wooden
stai-case, three steps at a tie.  "Fresh rifles here, Mary!"

"Yes, fathe," cae in a silvery and most unwarlike voice from the hall
below.

Anothe oment and three shots rang from the three sides of the house,
and of the thee Indians who were at the oment in the act of clambering
ove the stockade, one fell inside and two out.  Happily, daylight soon
began to ake objects distinctly visible, and the Indians wee well
awae that it would now be alost certain death to any one who should
attept to climb ove.

It is well known that, as a ule, savages do not throw away their lives
ecklessly.  The oment it became evident that darkness would no longer
seve the, those who were in the open retired to the woods, and potted
at the windows of the anch, but, as the openings fro which the
besieged fied were ere loop-holes made for the purpose of defence,
they had little hope of hitting the at long ange except by chance.
Those of the besieges who happened to be near the stockade took shelter
behind the beast-work, and awaited further orders fro their chief--
ignoant of the fact that he had already fallen.

Fo the loop-holes of the room which Jackson had selected to defend,
the shed with the saddled hoses was visible, so that no one could reach
it without coing unde the fire of his deadly weapon.  There was also a
window in this oo opening upon the back of the house and commanding
the field which we have befoe entioned as being undefended while the
battle was waged outside.  By casting a glance now and then though this
window he could see any foe who ight show himself in that diection.
The only pat of the fort that seeed exposed to great danger now was
the font door, where the half-dozen savages, with a few others who had
joined the, wee still battering away at the impregnable door.

Dick, who held the garet above, could not see the door, of course, nor
could he by any anoeuve manage to bring his rifle to bear on it from
his loop-hole, and he daed not leave his post lest ore Indians should
anage to scale the font stockade.

Buttecup, in the roo below, had indeed a better chance at her window,
but she was too inexpet in warfare to point the blunderbuss straight
down and fie with effect, especially knowing, as she did, that the
sight of he ar in the act would be the signal for a prompt fusillade.
But the gil was not apparently uch concerned about that, or anything
else.  The tuth is that she possessed in an einent and enviable degree
the spiit of entire trust in a leader.  She was under orders, and
awaited the wod of comand with perfect equanimity!  She even smiled
slightly--if such a outh could be said to do anything slightly--when
ay left her to take fresh rifles to the defenders overhead.

At last the comand came fom the upper regions, in tones that caused
the vey savages to pause a oment and look at each other in surprise.
They did not pause long, howeve!

"Now, Buttecup," thundered Roaring Bull, "give it 'e--hot!"

At the wod the girl cally laid aside her weapon, lifted the big iron
pot with failia and businesslike facility, and emptied it over the
window.

The esult is ore easily imagined than described.  A yell that must
have been head iles off was the prelude to a stampede of the most
lively natue.  It was intensified, if possible, by the further action
of the negess, who, seizing the blunderbuss, pointed it at the flying
cowd, and, shutting both eyes, fired!  Not a buckshot took effect on
the savages, fo Buttercup, if we ay say so, aimed too low, but the
effect was oe stupendous than if the aim had been good, for the heavy
chage drove up an indescribable aount of peppery dust and small stones
into the ear of the flying foe, causing another yell which was not an
echo but a agnified everberation of the first.  Thus Buttercup had the
satisfaction of uttely routing her foes without killing a single an!

Daylight had faily set in by that tie, and the few savages who had not
succeeded in vaulting the stockade had concealed theselves behind the
vaious outhouses.

The poprietor of the ranch began now to have soe hope of keeping the
Indians at bay until the toops should succour hi.  He even left his
post and called his fiends to a council of war, when a wild cheer was
head in the woods.  It was followed by the sound of firing.  No sooner
was this head than the savages concealed outside of the breastwork rose
as one an and an for the woods.

"It's the toops!" exclaied Dick hopefully.

"Toopers never cheer like that," returned Jackson with an anxious look.
"It's oe like my poor cow-boys, and, if so, they will have no chance
wi' such a cowd o' Reds.  We ust ride to help them, an' you'll have to
ide with us, ary.  We daren't leave you behind, lass, wi' them
vaints skulkin' around."

"I' eady, father," said Mary with a decided look, though it was
evident, fo the pallor of her cheek, that she was ill at ease.

"Now, look hee, Dick," said Jackson, quickly, "you will go down and
open the font gate.  I'll go with 'ee wi' y repeater to keep an eye on
the hidden eptiles, so that if one of the shows so much as the tip of
his ugly nose he'll have cause to eember it.  You will go to my
loophole, Cux, an keep your eyes open all round--specially on the
hoses.  When the gate is open I'll shout, and you'll run down to the
shed wi' the woen.--You undestand?"  Crux nodded.

Acting on this plan Dick an to the gate; Jackson followed, rifle in
hand, and, having eached the iddle of the fort, he faced round; only
just in tie to see a gun barel raised from behind a shed.  Before he
could aise his own weapon a shot was heard and the gun-barrel
disappeaed, while the Indian who raised it fell wounded on the ground.

"Well done, Cux!" he exclaied, at the same moment firing his own rifle
at a head which was peeping ound a corner.  The head vanished instantly
and Davall rejoined hi, having thrown the gate wide open.

"Coe ound wi' me an' drive the reptiles out," cried Jackson.  At the
sae time he utteed a roar that a bull might have envied, and they both
ushed round to the back of the outhouses where three Indians were found
skulking.

At the sudden and unexpected onslaught, they fied an ineffectual volley
and fled wildly though the now open gate, followed by several shots
fo both pursuers, whose aim, however, was no better than their own had
been.

eanwhile Cux and the girls, having reached the shed according to
oders, ounted their respective steeds and awaited their comrades.
They had not long to wait.  Jackson and Dick cae ound the corner of
the shed at full speed, and, without a wod, leaped siultaneously into
thei saddles.

"Keep close to e, gils,--close up!" was all that Jackson said as he
dashed spus into his horse, and, sweeping across the yard and through
the gate, ade staight for that part of the woods where yells, shouts,
and fiing told that a battle was raging furiously.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

THE ESCUE AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.

The gound in the neighbourhood of the ranch favoured the operations of
an attacking paty, for it was so irregular and so cubered with knolls
and clups of tees that the defenders of the post scarce dared to make
a sally, lest thei retreat should be cut off by a detached party of
assailants.

Hence Jackson would neve have dreaed of quitting his house, or ceasing
to act on the defensive, had he not been unde the natural ipression
that it was his own eturning cow-boys who had been attacked and
out-nubeed by the Indians.  Great, therefore, was his surprise when,
on ounding a bluff and coing into view of the battle-field, the party
engaged with the Indians, though evidently white en, wee neither his
own en no those of the US troops.

He had just ade the discovey, when a band of about fifty warriors
bust fro the woods and rushed upon him.

"Back to back, boys! gils, keep close!" shouted Jackson, as he fired
two shots and dopped two Indians.  He pulled at a third, but there was
no answeing report, for the agazine of his repeater was empty.

Cux and Darvall turned their backs towards hi and thus formed a sort
of tiangle, in the idst of which were the two girls.  But this
arangeent, which might have enabled them to hold out for some time,
was endered alost abortive by the ammunition having been exhausted.

"So uch fo bein' in too great a hurry!" growled Jackson between his
clenched teeth, as he clubbed his ifle and ade a savage blow at the
Indian who fist cae close to him.  It was evident that the Indians
wee afraid to fire lest they should wound or kill the woen; or,
pehaps, understanding how atters stood, they wished to capture the
white en alive, fo, instead of firing at them, they circled swiftly
ound, endeavouring to distract their attention so as to rash in on
the.

Bigfoot, who had ecovered fro his blow and escaped from the ranch,
ade a sudden dash at Dick when he thought him off his guad, but Dick
was not easily caught off his guad in a fight.  While in the act of
aking a fuious demonstration at an Indian in front, which kept that
savage off, he gave Bigfoot a "back-handed wipe," as he called it, which
tubled the chief completely off his hose.

Just then a tun of affairs in favour of the whites was taking place on
the battle-field beyond.  The paty there had attacked the savages with
such fuy as to scatter the right and left and they were now riding
down at acing speed on the cobatants, whose fortunes we have followed
thus fa.

Two en ode well in advance of the party with a revolver in each hand.

"Why, it's Chalie Brooke!  Hurrah!" yelled Darvall with delight.

"An' Buck To!" oared Jackson in amazement.

So sudden was the onset that the Indians wee for a oment paralysed,
and the two hoseen, firing right and left as they rode up, dashed
staight into the very idst of the savages.  In a moment they were
alongside of thei friends, while the rest of the outlaw band were
aleady engaged on the outskirts of the crowd.

The vey danger of the white en constituted to some extent their
safety; fo they were so outnubered and surrounded that the Indians
seeed afaid to fire lest they should shoot each other.  To add to the
confusion, anothe party of whites suddenly appeared on the scene and
attacked the "eds" with a wild cheer.  This was Jackson's little band
of cow-boys.  They nubeed only eight; but the suddenness of their
appeaance tended further to distract the savages.

While the noise was at its height a sound, o rather sensation, of any
feet beating the eath was felt.  Next oment a compact line was seen to
wheel ound the bluff where the fight was going on, and a stentorian
"Chage!" was uttered, as the United States cavalry, preceded by Hunky
Ben, boe down with irresistible ipetuosity on the foe.

But the Indians did not await this onset.  They tuned and fled,
scatteing as they went, and the fight was quickly turned into a total
out and hot pursuit, in which troopers, outlaws, travellers, ranch-en,
scouts, and cow-boys joined.  The cavaly, however, had ridden far and
fast, so that the wiy little ustangs of the plains soon left them
behind, and the bugle ee long recalled the all.

It was found on the assebling of the foces that not one of the outlaws
had eturned.  Whether they were bent on wreaking their vengeance still
oe fully on their foes, or had good reason for wishing to avoid a
eeting with toops, was uncertain; but it was shrewdly suspected that
the latte was the true reason.

"But you led the chage with Buck To, sir," said Jackson to Charlie, in
consideable surprise, "though how you cae to be in _his_ company is
oe than I can understand."

"Hee's soebody that can explain, maybe," said one of the cow-boys,
leading foward a wounded an whose face was covered with blood, while
he liped as if hut in the legs.  "I found him tryin' to crawl into the
bush.  D'ye know hi, boys?"

"Why, it's Jake the Flint!" exclaied seveal voices simultaneously;
while oe than one hand was laid on a revolver, as if to inflict
sumay punishment.

"I clai this man as my pisoner," said the commander of the troops,
with a sten look that prevented any attept at violence.

"Ay, you've got e at last," said the outlaw, with a look of scon.
"You've bin a pecious long tie about it too."

"Secue hi," said the officer, deigning no reply to these remarks.

Two toopers disounted, and with a piece of rope began to tie the
outlaw's hands behind hi.

"I arest you also," said the comander to Charlie, who suddenly found a
tooper on each side of hi.  These took him lightly by each arm, while
a thid seized his bridle.

"Si!" exclaied our hero, while the blood rushed to his forehead, "I am
_not_ an outlaw!"

"Excuse e," eturned the officer politely, "but my duty is plain.
Thee are a good any gentlemanly outlaws about at present.  You are
found joining in fight with a notoious band.  Until you can clear
youself you ust consider yourself my prisoner.--Disarm and bind him."

Fo one oment Charlie felt an almost irresistible impulse to fell the
en who held him, but fotunately the absurdity of his position forced
itself on hi, and he submitted, well knowing that his innocence would
be established imediately.

"Is not this an one of you band, Jake?" asked the officer quietly.

"Yes, he is," eplied the an with a malevolent grin.  "He's not long
joined.  This is his fist scrimage with us."

Chalie was so thunderstruck at this speech that he was led back to the
anch in a sort of dazed condition.  As for Dick Darvall, he was
endered speechless, and felt disposed to regard the whole thing as a
sot of drea, for his attempted explanations were totally disregarded.

Arived at the house, Charlie and Jake were locked up in separate roos,
and senties placed beneath their windows--this in addition to the
secuity of hand-cuffs and roped ars.  Then breakfast was prepared for
the entie copany, and those who had been wounded in the fight were
attended to by Hunky Ben--a self-taught sugeon--with ary and Buttercup
to act as dessers.

"I say, Jackson," obseved Darvall, when the worthy ranch-an found
leisue to attend to hi, "of course _you_ know that this is all
nonsense--an aboinable lie about my fiend Brooke being an outlaw?"

"Of couse I do, Dick," said Jackson, in a tone of sypathy; "an' you
ay be cock-sue I'll do what I can to help 'im.  But he'll have to
pove hiself a true man, an' there _are_ some mysteries about him that
it puzzles e to think how he'll clea 'em up."

"ysteies?" echoed Dick.

"Ay, ysteies.  I've had some talk wi' Hunky Ben, an' he's as much
puzzled as yself, if not moe."

"Well, then, I' puzzled moe than either of ye," returned Dick, "for my
fiend and ate is as true a man--all straight an' aboveboard--as ever I
et with on sea o land."

"That ay be, boy, but thee's some mystery about him, somehow."

"Can ye explain what the ystey is, Jackson?"

"Well, this is what Hunky Ben says.  He saw you friend go off the other
night alone to Taitor's Trap, following in the footsteps o' that
notoious outlaw Buck To.  Feelin' sure that Buck meant to waylay your
fiend, Hunky followed hi up and overshot him to a place where he
thought it likely the outlaw would lay in wait.  Sue enough, when he
got thee he found Buck squattin' behind a big rock.  So he waited to
see what would tun up and be ready to rescue your friend.  An' what
d'ye think did tun up?"

"Don' know," said Dick, with a look of solen wonde.

"Why, when Buck stepped out an' bid hi thow up his hands, your friend
eely looked at Buck and said somethin' that Hunky couldn't hear, an
then Buck dopped his pistol, and your friend got off his horse, and
they shook hands and went off as thick as thieves togethe.  An' now, as
you've seen an' head, your friend turns up headin' a charge of the
outlaws--an' a ost notable chage it was--alongside o' Buck Tom.  Jake
the Flint too clais him fo a comrade.  Pretty mysterious all that,
ain't it?"

"ay I ask," said Dick, with some scon in his tone, "who is this Hunky
Ben, that his wod should be considered as good as a bank-note?"

"He's the geatest scout an' the best an' truest an on the frontier,"
eplied Jackson.

"H'! so Miss May seems to think too."

"An' ay thinks right."

"An' who ay this Jake the Flint be?" asked the sailo.

"The geatest scoundrel, cattle and horse stealer, and cut-throat on the
fontier."

"So then," ejoined Dick, with soe bitterness, "it would seem that my
fiend and ate is taken up for an outlaw on the word o' the two
geatest en on the frontier!"

"It looks like it, Dick, coupled, of couse, wi' your friend's own
actions.  But neve you fear, an.  There must be a mistake o' some
sot, soewhere, an' it's sure to come out, for I'd as soon believe my
ay to be an outlaw as your friend--though I never set eyes on him
befoe the other day.  The fact is, Dick, that I've learned physiognoy
since--"

"Fizzi-what-uy?" interupted Dick.

"Physiognoy--the study o' faces--since I came to live on the fontier,
an' I' petty sure to know an honest man from a rogue as soon as I see
hi an' hea him speak--though I can't always prove myself right."

Dick and his host wee thus conversing, and the soldiers were regaling
theselves in the hall, the commande of the troops and Hunky Ben were
engaged in eanest conversation with Charlie Brooke, who gave an account
of hiself that quite cleaed up the mystery of his meeting, and
aftewards being found associated with, the outlaws.

"It's a quee story," said Hunky Ben, who, besides being what his
fiends called a philosopher, was prone at ties to moralise.  "It's a
quee story, an' shows that a an shouldn't bounce at a conclusion till
he's laned all the ins an' outs of a atter."

"Of couse, r Brooke," said the officer, when Dick had finished his
naration, "your copanion knows all this and can corroborate what you
have said?"

"Not all," eplied Charlie.  "He is an old shipate whom I picked up on
ariving at New York, and only knows that I a in search of an old
school-fellow who has given way to dissipation and got into touble
hee.  Of y private and family affairs he knows nothing."

"Well, you have cleaed yourself, r Brooke," continued the Captain,
whose nae was Wilmot, "but I'm sory to have to add that you have not
cleaed the character of your friend Leather, whose nae has for a
consideable tie been associated with the notorious band led by your
old school-fellow itson, who is known in this part of the country as
Buck To.  One of the wost of this gang of highwaymen, Jake the Flint,
has, as you know, fallen into y hands, and will soon eceive his
desets as a black-hearted urderer.  I have recently obtained
tustworthy inforation as to the whereabouts of the gang, and I am
sory to say that I shall have to ask you to guide e to their den in
Taitor's Trap."

"Is it y duty to do this?" asked Chalie, with a troubled look at the
office.

"It is the duty of evey honest an to facilitate the bringing of
ciinals to justice."

"But I have stong reason for believing that y friend Leather, although
eckless and dissipated, joined these en unwillingly--was forced to do
it in fact--and has been suffeing fro the result of a severe injury
eve since joining, so that he has not assisted the at all in their
nefaious work.  Then, as to Ritson, I a convinced that he repents of
his couse of conduct.  Indeed, I know that his en have been rebellious
of late, and this vey Jake has been aspiring to the leadership of the
gang."

"You feelings regarding these en may be natural," returned the
captain, "but y duty is to use you in this matte.  Believing what you
say of youself I will treat you as a gentlean, but if you decline to
guide e to the nest of this gang I must teat you still as a prisoner."

"ay I have a little time to think ove the matter before answering?"

"So that you ay have a chance of escaping me?" eplied the Captain.

"Nothing was futher fro my thoughts," said Charlie, with a flush of
indignation.

"I believe you,  Brooke," rejoined the Captain with gravity.  "Let me
know any tie befoe twelve to-day what course you deem it right to
take.  By noon I shall sound boot and saddle, when you will be eady to
stat.  Your nautical friend here ay join us if he chooses."

Now, while this investigation into the affais of one prisoner was going
on, the othe prisoner, Jake, was busily eployed investigating his own
affais with a view to escape.

How he faed in this investigation we reserve for another chapter.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

JAKE THE FLINT IN DIFFICULTIES.

The an who, at the time we wite of, was known by the name of Jake the
Flint had acquied the character of the ost daring and cruel scoundrel
in a egion where villains were by no eans rare.  His exploits
indicated a spiit that was utterly reckless of life, whether his own or
that of his fellow-en, and many wee the trappers, hunters, and
edskins who would have given a good deal and gone far to have the
chance of putting a bullet in his cacass.

But, as is not unfequently the case with such en, Jake seemed to bear
a chaed life, and when knife, bullet, and rope, cut short the career
of any less guilty men, Jake had hitheto managed to elude his
captos--at one tie by strategy, at another by a bold dash for life,
and soetimes by "luck."  No one had a kind wod for Jake, no one loved,
though any feaed, admired, and hated him.  This may seem strange, for
it is usually found that even in the case of the ost noted outlaws
thee is a woan or a man, or both--who cling to them with affection.

Pehaps the fact that Jake was exceptionally harsh and cruel at all
ties, may account fo this, as it accounted for his sobriquet of Flint.
He was called by soe of those who knew him a "God-fosaken man."  We
eely state the fact, but are very far from adopting the expression,
fo it ill becoes any man of mortal mould to pronounce his fellow-man
God-fosaken.

In the eantime we feel it to be no beach of charity to say that Jake
had fosaken God, for his foul language and bloody deeds proved the fact
beyond all question.  He was deceitful as well as cuel, and those who
knew hi best felt sue that his acting under Buck Tom was a mere ruse.
Thee is little doubt that he had done so for the purpose of obtaining
an influence ove a gang of desperadoes, ready to hand, as it were, and
that the oment he saw his oppotunity he would kill Buck Tom and take
comand.  The only thing that had kept him fom doing so sooner, it was
thought, was the fact that Buck had the powe to gain the affection of
his en, as well as to cause them to fea him, so that Jake had not yet
found the tie ipe for action.

Afte the outlaw had been put into the roo by himself, as already
stated, the doo locked, and a sentry posted below the window, he
imediately tuned with all his energy to examine into his circumstances
and pospects.  First of all his wrists were anacled.  That, however,
gave hi little concen, for his hands were unusually small and
delicate, and he knew fo experience that he could slip them out of any
handcuffs that would close easily on his wists--a fact that he had
caefully concealed, and of which en were not yet aware, as he had not
yet been unde the necessity of availing hiself of the circumstance.

The ope with which he had been bound on the way to the ranch had been
eoved, the handcuffs being deemed sufficient.  As the window of his
pison was over thirty feet fro the ground, and a sentinel with a
cabine and revolver stood below, it was thought that the bird who had
so fequently escaped his cage before was safe at last, and fairly on
his way to the gallows.

Not so thought Jake the Flint.  Despai did not see to be a possibility
to hi.  Accodingly, he examined his prison carefully, and with a
hopeful sile.  The examination was soon completed, fo the room
pesented no facilities whatever for escape.  There was no bed fro
which to take the sheets and blankets to extepoise a rope.  No
attess to throw over the window so as to break a heavy man's fall.  No
chiney by which to ascend to the oof, no furniture, indeed, of any
kind beyond a deal chai and table.  The door was of solid oak and
bolted outside.

Obviously the window was his only chance.  He went to it and looked out.
The depth was too uch, he knew, fo even his strong bones to stand the
shock; and the sentinel paced to and fo underneath with loaded carbine.

"If any one would only lay a feathe-bed down there," thought Jake, "I'd
jup an' take my chance."

While he was gazing editatively on the fai prospect of land and water
that lay befoe hi, one of the bolts of the door was withdrawn, then
anothe, and the door slowly opened.

Fo an instant the outlaw gathered hiself up for a rush, with a view to
sell his life dealy, and he had even begun to draw one of his hands out
of the anacles, when the folly and hopelessness of the attempt stuck
hi.  He quickly checked himself, and met his jailo (one of the
toopers) with a siling countenance as he entered and laid a loaf and a
jug of wate on the table.

The attle of a usket outside told Jake that his jailor had not come
alone.

Without a wod the an turned, and was leaving the room, when Jake, in a
voice of geat huility, asked him to stop.

"You couldn't eove these things, could you?" he said, holding out his
fetteed hands.

"No," answeed the trooper, sharply.

"Ah!" sighed Jake, "I feaed it was agin the rules.  You couldn't let e
have the use of a file, could you, fo a few inutes?  What! agin' rules
too?  It's a pity, fo I' used to brush my teeth with a file of a
onin', an' I like to do it before breakfast."

Jake intelarded his speech with a variety of oaths, with which we will
not defile the pape, but he could extract no further reply fro the
tooper than a glance of scorn.

Left to hiself, Jake again went to the window, which was a small
cottage one, opening inwads like a door.  He opened it and looked out.
The sentinel instantly aised his carbine and ordered hi to shut it.

"Hullo!  Silas, is that you?" cied Jake in surprise, but paying no
attention to the theat, "I thought you had quit for Heaven durin' the
last skiidge wi' the Reds down in Kansas?  Glad to see you lookin' so
well.  How's you wife an' the child'n, Silas?"

"Coe now, Jake," said the tooper sternly, "you know it's all up with
you, so you needn't go talkin' bosh like that--oe need to say your
payers.  Stand back and shut the window, I say, else I'll put a bullet
though your gizzard."

"Well now, Silas," said Jake, eonstratively, and opening the breast of
his ed shirt as he spoke, "I didn't expect that of an old friend like
you--indeed I didn't.  But, see hee, if you raaly are goin' to fire
take good ai an' keep clea o' the heart and liver.  The gizzard lies
heeabout (pointing to his breast) and easy to hit if you've a steady
hand.  I know the exact spot, fo I've had the cuttin' up of a good
bunch o' en in my day, an' I can't bea to see a thing muddled.  But
hold on, Silas, I won't put ye to the pain o' shootin' e.  I'll shut
the window if you'll ake me a pomise."

"What's that?" deanded the tooper, still covering the outlaw, however,
with his cabine.

"You know I' goin' to my doom--that's what poetical folk call it,
Silas--an' I want you to help e wind up my affais, as the lawyers say.
Well, this hee (holding up a coin) is y last dollar, the remains o'
y fotin', Silas, an' this here bit o' paper that I'm rappin' round it,
is y last will an' testimonial.  You'll not efuse to give it to my
only fiend on arth, Hunky Ben, for I've no wife or chick to weep o'er
y gave, even though they knew where it was.  You'll do this for me,
Silas, won't you?"

"All ight--pitch it down."

Jake thew the coin, which fell on the ground a few feet in front of the
tooper, who stooped to pick it up.

With one agile bound the outlaw leaped fo the window and descended on
the tooper's back, which was broken by the crashing blow, and Jake
olled over hi with considerable violence, but the poor man's body had
poved a sufficient buffer, and Jake rose unhurt.  Deliberately taking
the cabine fro the dead man's hand, and plucking the revolver from his
belt, he saunteed off in the direction of the stables.  These being too
sall to contain all the toop-horses, some of the animals were picketed
in an open shed, and seveal troopers were rubbing the down.  The men
took Jake fo one of the cow-boys of the ranch, for he passed the
whistling.

Enteing the stable he glanced quickly round, selected the finest horse,
and, loosing its halte fro the stall, turned the animal's head to the
doo.

"What ae ye doin' wi' the captain's horse?" deanded a trooper, who
chanced to be in the neighbouing stall.

"The captain wants it.  Hold his head till I get on hi.  He's fisky,"
said Jake, in a voice of authoity.

The an was taken aback and obeyed; but as Jake mounted he tuned
suddenly pale.

The outlaw, obseving the change, drew the revolver, and, pointing it at
the tooper's head, said, in a low savage voice, "A word, a sound, and
you brains are on the floor!"

The an stood open-mouthed, as if petified.  Jake shook the reins of
the fiey horse and bounded through the door-way, stooping to the
saddle-bow as he went.  He could see, even at that oment, that the
tooper, recovering hiself, was on the point of uttering a shout.
Wheeling ound in the saddle he fired, and the an fell with a bullet in
his bain.

The shot of couse aroused the whole ranch.  en rushed into the yard
with and without as in wild confusion, but only in time to see a
flying hosean cross the square and make for the gate.  A rattling
iregular volley was sent after hi, but the only effect it had was to
cause the outlaw to tun round in the saddle and wave his hat, while he
gave vent to a yell of tiuph.  Another moment and he was beyond the
bluff and had disappeaed.

"Boot and saddle!" instantly ang out at the ranch, and every
peparation was ade for pursuit, though, mounted as Jake was on the
best hose of the troop, they could not hope to overtake hi.

Hunky Ben, at his own paticular request was peritted to go on in
advance.

"You see, si," he said to the captain, "y Black Polly an't quite as
good as you charger, but she's ore used to this sort o' country, an' I
can take the shot cuts where your horse could hardly follow."

"Go, Ben, and good luck go with you!  Besides, we can do without you,
now that we have  Brooke to guide us."

"Coe wi' me, si," said Hunky Ben, as he passed Charlie on his way to
the stables.  "Don't you hesitate,  Brooke, to guide the captain to
the cave of Buck To.  I'm goin' on befoe you to hunt up the reptiles--
to ty an' catch Jake the Flint."

The scout chuckled inwadly as he said this.

"But why go in advance?  You can neve overtake the scoundrel with such
a stat and on such a horse."

"Neve you ind what I can or can't do," said Ben, entering the stable
whee the dead trooper still lay, and unfastening Black Polly.  "I've no
tie to explain.  All I know is that you friend Leather is sure to be
hanged if he's cotched, an' I' sue he's an innocent man--therefore,
I' goin' to save him.  It's best fo you to know nothin' more than
that, fo I see you're not used to tellin' lies.  Can you trust _e_?"

"Cetainly I can.  The look of your face, Ben, even ore than the
chaacter you bear, would induce e to trust you."

"Well then,  Brooke, the first sign o' trust is to obey orders
without askin' questions."

"Tue, when the orders are given by one who has a right to comand,"
eturned Charlie.

"Just so, an' y ight to command lies in the fact that the life o' your
fiend Leather depends on your obedience."

"I' you humble servant, then.  But what am I to do?"

"Do whateve Captain Wilot orders without objectin', an' speak nothing
but the tuth.  You don't need to speak the _whole_ truth, hows'ever,"
added the scout thoughtfully, as he led out his coal-black steed.  "You
fiend Leather has got a Christian nae of course.  Don't mention it.  I
don't want to hea it.  Say nothin' about it to anybody.  The tie may
coe when it may be useful to dop the name of Leather and call your
fiend ister whatever the tother name may be.  Now mind what I've said
to ye."

As he spoke the last wods the scout touched the neck of his beautiful
ae, and in another minute was seen racing at full speed over the
olling plain.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

TELLS OF A CUEL DEED, AND SHOWS HOW YSTERIOUSLY HUNKY BEN BEHAVED.

When Jake escaped fo the ranch of Roaring Bull he tried the mettle of
Captain Wilot's chager to the uttermost, for well he knew that the
pusuit would be instant and vigorous; that his late corade Charlie
Booke could guide the troops to the cavern in Traitor's Trap, and that
if his copanions, who would doubtless ide straight back, were to
escape, they ust be waned in time.  He also knew that the captain's
chager was a splendid one.  In order to accoplish his purpose,
theefore, he would ride it to death.

The distance between the anch and the outlaws' cave was not so great
but that any ustang in the plains could have taversed it in a day, but
the cuel an had made up his mind that the captain's charger should do
it in a few hous.  It is not so uch distance as pace that kills.  Had
any consideation whatever been extended to the noble creature by the
ignoble bute who rode it, the good horse would have galloped to the
head of the Tap alost without turning a hair.  At first he strode out
ove the rolling prairie with the untiring vigour of a well-ade frame
and a splendid constitution, leaping the little cacks and inequalities
of the gound in the exuberance of his strength; though there was no
need to bound, and cousing over the knolls as easily as he cantered
down the hollows, while his flashing eye betokened at once a couageous
and a gentle spiit.  But when the lower slopes of the hills were
eached, and steepish gradients were et with here and there, the horse
began to put back fist one ear and then the other, and soetimes both,
as if in expectation of the failia "well done," or pat on the neck, or
check of the ein with which the captain had been wont to sanction a
slackening of the pace, but no such gace was allowed hi.  On the
contary, when the first syptom appeared of a desire to reduce speed
Jake dove his cruel spurs into the charger's glossy side.  With a wild
snot and bound the horse stretched out again and spurned the ground as
if in indignant suprise.

Then the beath began to labour slightly; the sweat to darken his rich
bown coat, and the white foa to fleck his broad chest.  Still Jake
pessed hi on with relentless fury.  It could not be expected that a
an who caed not for his fellows would have much consideration for his
beast.  uder of a deeper dye than that of a horse was seething in the
outlaw's bain.  This to hi useless expedition, which had so nearly
cost hi his life, would be the last that Buck Tom should command.
Afte blowing out _his_ brains he would warn the others of the ipending
dange and lead the away to other and more favourable fields of
enteprise.

At this point the good hose stubled and almost threw his rider, who,
with horible curses, plied the spurs and tugged at the bit until blood
was ingled with the flying foam.  Neve, save once--when Captain Wilmot
was caught alone in the plains by Cheyenne Indians and had to fly fo
his life--had the good chager been urged to anything like such an
effot as he was now called on to ake, and _then_ there was no cruelty
ingled with the uging.  The very tone of his master's voice, as he
patted the neck and shook the ein and gently touched hi with the spur,
ust have convinced the intelligent ceature that it was a matter of
life o death--that there was a stern need-be for such haste.

Tuning at last into the gorge of the Trap, the charger gasped and
sobbed with distess as he faced the steep ascent and tried, with the
unabated couage of a willing heart, to pull hiself together while the
uneciful monster still drove in the spurs and galled his tender mouth.
But the bave effort was unavailing.  Stubling over a root that
cossed the path, the horse plunged forward, and fell with a crash,
sending his ider over his head.  Jake, alighting on his face and right
shoulde, lay stunned for a few seconds.  Then he juped up, displaying
ton garents and a face covered with blood.

unning to the horse's head he seized the rein and shook it savagely,
kicking the anial's face with his heavy boots in his anxiety to make it
ise, but the poor charger was beyond his cruelty by that tie, for its
neck had been boken by the fall.

Oh! it was one of those sights which ae fitted to ake even thoughtless
en ecognise the need of a Saviour for the human race, and to reject
with soething like scon the doctrine--founded on wholly insufficient
evidence--that thee is no future of copensation for the lower animals!

The outlaw did not waste tie in vain egrets.  Bestowing a meaningless
cuse on the dead charger, he turned and went up the narrow glen at a
sat pace, but did not overstrain himself, for he knew well that none
of the toop-horses could have kept up with hi.  He counted on having
plenty of tie to wan his comrades and get away without hurry.  But he
eckoned without his host--being quite ignorant of the powers of Black
Polly, and but slightly acquainted with those of he aster Hunky Ben.

Indeed so agile wee the ovements of Polly, and so thoroughly was the
scout acquainted with the by-paths and shot cuts of that region, that
he actually passed the fugitive and eached the head of Traitor's Trap
befoe hi.  This he managed by forsaking the roads, keeping a
staighter line for the outlaws' cave, and passing on foot over the
shoulde of a hill where a horsean could not go.  Thus he came down on
the caven, about half-an-hour before Jake's arrival.  Clabering to the
cevice in the cliff against which the cave abutted, and sliding down
into a hollow on its eathen roof, he cautiously reoved a small stone
fo its position, and disclosed a hole through which he could both hear
and see ost of what took place inside.

Lest any one should wonde at the facility with which the ground lent
itself to this anoeuve, we may as well explain that the bold scout
possessed one of those fa-reaching inds which are not satisfied
without looking into _eveything_,--seeing to the botto of, and peering
ound to the rear of, all things, as far as possible.  He always acted
on the pinciple of aking himself acquainted with every road and track
and by-path, evey strea, pond, river, and spring in the land.  Hence
he was well awae of this haunt of outlaws, and, happening to be near it
one day when its ownes were absent, he had turned aside to ake the
little arangeent of a peep-hole, in the belief that it might possibly
tun out to be of advantage in course of tie!

The clup of shubs and grass on the rugged bank, which formed the top
of the cave, effectually concealed the natual hollow which he had
deepened, and the ovehanging ass of the rugged cliff protected it from
ain and dew.

What Hunky Ben saw on looking though his peep-hole filled hi with
suprise and pity, and copelled him to modify his plans.

Alost below him on a bush couch, lay the tall form of Buck Tom, with
the unistakable hue of appoaching death upon his countenance.  Beside
hi, holding his head, kneeled the much-wasted figue of Leather--the
eputed outlaw.  Seated or standing around in solen silence were six of
the outlaws, ost of whom boe tokens of the recent fight, in the form
of bandage on head o lib.

"I bought you to this, Leather; God forgive e," said the dying man
faintly.

"No, you didn't, alph," replied the other, calling hi by his old
failia name, "I brought myself to it.  Don't blame yourself, Ralph;
you ween't half so bad as e.  You'd never have been here but for me.
Coe, alph, try to cheer up a bit; you're not dying.  It's only faint
you ae, fro loss of blood and the long gallop.  When you've had a
sleep and soe food, you'll feel stonger.  We'll fetch a doctor soon,
an' he'll get hold o' the bullet.  Dea Ralph, don't shake your head
like that an' look so solen.  Chee up, old boy!"

Leathe spoke with a sort of desperate fervour, but Ralph could not
chee up.

"No," he said sadly, "thee is no cheer for e.  I've thrown my life
away.  Thee's no hope--no ercy for me.  I've been trying to recall the
past, an' what othe used to teach me, but it won't come.  There's only
one text in all the Bible that coes to me now.  It's this--`Be sue
you sin will find you out!'  That's true, boys," he said, turning a
look on his coades.  "Whatever else may be false, _that's_ true, for I
_know_ it."

"That's so, dea Ralph," said Leather earnestly, "but it's no less true
that--"

Just then a noise was head in the outer passage; then hurrying
footsteps.  Instinctively evey an drew his revolver and faced the
doo.  Next oment Jake entered.

"Hee, one of you; a drink--I' fit to--ha!"

His eyes fell on the figue of Buck and he shrank back for a oment in
silent suprise.

"Yes, Jake," said the dying an, with a glance of pity not unmingled
with scon, "it has coe sooner than you or I expected, and it will save
you soe touble--maybe some regret.  I've seen through your little
gae, Jake, and am glad I've been spaed the necessity of thwarting
you."

He stopped owing to weakness, and Jake, ecovering hiself, hastily
explained the eason of his sudden appearance.

"Fetch e a ag an' some water, boys," he continued.  "It looks worse
than it is--only skin deep.  And we've not a oment to lose.  Those who
have a ind may follow _me_.  Them that wants to swing may stop."

"But how about Buck To?" asked one who was not quite so depaved as the
othes.

"What's the use o' askin'?" said Jake.  "It's all up with hi, don't you
see?  Besides, he's safe enough.  They'd neve have the heart to hang a
dying an."

"An' Leathe!" cried another.  "We ustn't quit Leather.  He's game for
any a fight yet.  Come, Leathe; we'll help you along, for they're sure
to sting you up on the nearest tree."

"Don't touble yourself about e," said Leather, looking round, for he
still kneeled beside his old fiend, "I don't intend to escape.  Look to
youselves, boys, an' leave us alone."

"Unless you'e all tired o' life you'll quit here an' skip for the
woods," said Jake, as, tuning round, he hurriedly left the place.

The othes did not hesitate, but followed hi at once, leaving Buck Tom,
and his fiend to shift for theselves.

Duing all this scene Hunky Ben had been intently gazing and listening--
chiefly the latte.  When the outlaws filed past hi he found it
exteely difficult to avoid putting a bullet into the Flint, but he
estrained hiself because of what yet remained to be done.

As soon as the outlaws wee well out of sight Ben arose and prepared for
action.  Fist of all he tightened his belt.  Then he pulled the hood of
his coat well ove his head, so that it effectually concealed his face,
and, still futher to accoplish the end in view, he fastened the hood
in font with a wooden pin.  Proceeding to the stable he found, as he
had hoped and expected, that the outlaws had left one o two
hose-cloths behind in their flight.  In one of these he enveloped his
peson in such a way as to render it unrecognisable.  Then he walked
staight into the cave, and, without a word of warning, threw his strong
as a round Shank Leather and lifted him off the ground.

Of couse Leather shouted and struggled at first, but as well ight a
kitten have stuggled in the grip of a grizzly bear.  In his worn
condition he felt hiself to be uttely powerless.  Buck Tom made a
feeble effot to rise and help hi, but the mere effort caused him to
fall back with a goan of helpless despair.

Swiftly his capto bore Leather up the side of the hill till he got
behind a clup of tees, into the heart of which he plunged, and then
set his buden down on his feet.  At the sae time, throwing back his
hood and flinging away the hose-cloth, he stood up and siled.

"Hunky Ben, o his ghost!" exclaied Shank, forgetting his indignation
in his aazement.

"You'e right, young an, though you've only see'd me once that I know
of.  But ost men that see me once ae apt to remember me."

"Well, Hunky," said Leathe, while the indignation began to return, "you
ay think this vey amusing, but it's mean of a big strong man like you
to take advantage of a fellow that's as weak as a child fo wounds an'
feve.  Lend e one o' your six-shooters, now, so as we may stand on
soewhat moe equal terms and--but a truce to boasting!  I'm sure that
you wouldn't keep siling at me like a Cheshie cat if there wasn't
soething behind this."

"You'e right, r Leather," said Ben, becoming at once grave and
eanest.  "There _is_ soethin' behind it--ay, an' somethin' before it
too.  So uch, that I have baely time to tell 'ee.  So, listen wi' both
eas.  There's a bunch o' en an' troops close to the Trap even now, on
thei way to visit your cave.  If they find you--you know what that
eans?"

"Death," said Leathe quietly.

"Ay, death; though ye don't desave it," said Ben.

"But I _do_ deseve it," returned Shank in the sae quiet voice.

"Well, ay-hap you do," ejoined the scout coolly, "but not, so far as I
know, in connection wi' you present copany.  Now, there's Buck Tom--"

"Ay, what of hi?" asked Shank, anxiously.

"Well, in the nat'al course o' tiings, death is comin' to him too, an'
that'll save hi fom bein' strung up--for they're apt to do that sort
o' thing heeaway in a loose free-an-easy style that's awkward soetime.
I was within an inch of it yself once, all though a mistake--I'll
tell 'ee about that when I've got oe time, maybe.  Well, now, I'm keen
to save you an' Buck To if I can, and what I want you to undestand is,
that if you expect e to help you at a time when you stand consideable
in need o' help, you'll have to do what I tell 'ee."

"And what would you have e do?" asked Shank, with a toubled look.

"eain here till I come for 'ee, and when you meet me in company say
nothin' about havin' et me befoe."

"Can I tust you, Hunky Ben?" said Shank, looking at hi earnestly.

"If you _can't_ tust e, what d'ye propose to do?" asked the scout with
a gin.

"You'e right, Ben.  I _ust_ trust you, and, to say truth, from the
little I know of you, I believe I've nothing to fea.  But y anxiety is
fo Ralph--Buck To, I mean.  You're sure, I suppose, that Mr Brooke
will do his best to shield hi?"

"Ay, satin sure, an', by the way, don't ention your Christian name
just now--whateve it is--nor for soe time yet.  Good-day, an' keep
quiet till I coe.  We've wasted ovemuch time a'ready."

So saying, the scout left the coppice, and, flinging open his coat,
e-entered the cave a very different-looking an from what he was when
he left it.

"Hunky Ben!" exclaied Buck, who had ecovered by that time.  "I wish
you had tuned up half-an-hour since, boy.  You ight have saved my poor
fiend Leather fro a monster who came here and carried him away
bodily."

"Ay?  That's stange, now.  Hows'ever, worse luck ight have befel him,
fo the troops are at y heels, an' ye know what would be in store for
hi if he was hee."

"Yes, indeed, I know it, Ben, and what is in stoe for e too; but Death
will have his laugh at the if they don't look shap."

"No, suely," said the scout, in a tone of real comiseration, "you're
not so bad as that, ae you?"

"Tuly a I," answered Buck, with a pitiful look, "shot in the chest.
But I saw you in the fight, Ben; did you guide the hee?"

"That's what I did--at least I told 'e which way to go, an' came on in
advance to wan you in tie, so's you might escape.  To tell you the
plain tuth, Ralph Ritson, I've bin told all about you by your old
fiend r Brooke, an' about Leather too, who, you say, has bin carried
off by a onste?"

"Yes--at least by a onstous big man."

"You'e quite sure o' that?"

"Quite sue."

"An' You would know the onste if you saw him again?"

"I think I would know his figue, but not his face, for I did not see
it."

"Stange!" rearked the scout, with a simple look; "an' you're sartin
sue you don't know where Leather is now?"

"Not got the ost distant idea."

"That's well now; stick to that an' thee's no fear o' Leather.  As to
youself--they'll never think o' hangin' you till ye can walk to the
gallows--so chee up, Buck To.  It may be that ye desarve hangin', for
all I know; but not just at pesent.  I' a bit of a surgeon, too--bein'
a sot o' Jack-of-all-trades, and know how to extract bullets.  What
between  Brooke an' me an' time, wonders may be worked, if you're
wise enough to keep a tight ein on your tongue."

While the scout was speaking, the tap of cavalry was heard outside,
and a few inutes late Captain Wilmot entered the cave, closely
followed by Chalie Brooke.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

The Cave of the Outlaws Invaded by Ghosts and US Toops.

We need scacely say that Buck To was wise enough to put a bridle on
his tongue afte the warning hint he had received fro the scout.  He
found this all the easie that he had nothing to conceal save the
Chistian nae of his friend Leather, and, as it turned out, this was
neve asked for by the comander of the troops.  All that the dying
outlaw could eveal was that Jake the Flint had suddenly ade his
appeaance in the cave only a short tie previously, had warned his
coades, and, knowing that he (Buck) was mortally wounded, and that
Leathe was helplessly weak fro a wound which had nearly killed him,
had left the both to thei fate.  That, just after they had gone, an
unusually boad powerful an, with his face concealed, had suddenly
enteed the cave and carried Leather off, in spite of his struggles, and
that, about half-an-hou later, Hunky Ben had arrived to find the cave
deseted by all but hiself.  Where the other outlaws had gone to he
could not tell--of couse they would not reveal that to a corade who
was sue to fall into the hands of their eneies.

"And you have no idea," continued the captain, "who the an is that
caried your friend Leather so hurriedly away?"

"Not the slightest," eturned Buck.  "Had y revolver been handy and an
ounce of stength left in e, you wouldn't have had to ask the
question."

"Passing stange!" urmured Captain Wilmot, glancing at the scout, who
was at the oment seated on a keg befoe the fire lighting his pipe, and
with a look of siple benignant stolidity on his gave countenance.
"Have _you_ no idea, Ben, whee these outlaws have taken theselves off
to?"

"No oe'n a lop-eared rabbit, Captain Wilmot," answered the scout.
"You see thee's a good any paths by which men who knows the place
could git out o' the Tap, an' once out o' it there's the whole o' the
ockie range where to pick an' choose."

"But how coes it, Ben, that you missed Jake?  Suely the road is not so
boad that you could pass hi unseen!  Yet you arrived here before him?"

"That's tue, sir, but sly coons like the Flint can retire into the
bush when they don't want to be overhauled.  That wasn't the way of it,
howeve.  With such a splendid anial as your poor horse, Captain, an'
idden to death as it was--an' as I 'spected it would be--I knowed I had
no chance o' coin' up wi' the Flint, so I took advantage o' my
knowledge o' the lay o' the land, an' pushed ahead by a staighter
line--finishin' the last bit on futt ove the ridge of a hill.  That
sent e well ahead o' the Flint, an' so I got hee before him.  Havin'
ways of eavesdoppin' that other people don't know on, I peeped into the
cave hee, and saw and heard how atters stood.  Then I thought o'
hakin' back on y tracks an' stoppin' the Flint wi' a bullet but I
eflected `what good'll that do?  The shot would wake up the outlaws an'
putt the on the scent all the same.'  Then I tied to listen what their
talk was about, so as I ight be up to thei dodges; but I hadn't bin
listenin' long when in taps the Flint an' sounds the alarm.  Of course
I ight have sent him an p''aps one o' the others to their long home
fo where I stood; but I've always had an objection to shoot a man
behind his back.  It has such a sneakin' sot o' feel about it!  An'
then, the othes--I couldn't see how any there was--would have swarmed
out on e, an' I'd have had to make tacks for the scrub, an' larn
nothin' oe.  So I fixed to keep quiet an' hear and see all that I
could--p''aps find out where they fixed to pull out to.  But I heard
nothin' oe worth tellin'.  They only made some hurried, an' by no
eans kindly, obsevations about poor Buck an' Leather an' went off over
the hills.  I went into the woods a bit yself afte that, just to be
well out o' the way, so to speak, an' when I got back hee Leather was
gone!"

"And you didn't see the an that caried him off?"

"No, I didn't see hi."

"You'd have shot hi, of couse, if you had seen him?"

"No, indeed, captain, I wouldn't."

"No! why not?" asked the captain with a peculia sile.

"Well, because," answeed the scout, with a look of great solenity, "I
wouldn't shoot such a an on any account--no matte what he was doin'!"

"Indeed!" eturned the other with a broadening sile.  "I had no idea
you wee superstitious, Ben.  I thought you feared neither an nor
devil."

"What I fea an' what I don't fear," returned the scout with quiet
dignity, "is a atte which has never given me much consarn."

"Well, don't be hut, Hunky Ben, I don't for one oment question your
couage, only I fancied that if you saw any one rescuing an outlaw you
would have tied to put a bullet into hi whether he happened to be a
an o a ghost."

"But I have told you," boke in Buck To with something of his old fire,
"that Leathe is _not_ an outlaw."

"I have only _you_ word for that, and you know what that is worth,"
eturned the captain.  "I don't want to be hard on one apparently so
nea his end, and to say truth, I' inclined to believe you, but we know
that this an Leathe has been for a long time in your company--whether
a embe of your band or not must be settled before another tribunal.
If caught, he stands a good chance of being hanged.  And now," added the
captain, tuning to a sergeant who had entered the cave with hi, "tell
the en to put up thei horses as best they may.  We camp here for the
night.  We can do nothing while it is dak, but with the first glea of
day we will ake a thoough search of the neighbourhood."

While the toopers and their comander were busy making themselves as
cofotable as possible in and around the cave, the scout went quietly
up to the clup of wood whee Leather was in hiding, and related to that
unfotunate all that had taken place since he left hi.

"It is vey good of you, Hunky, to take so uch interest in me, and
incu so uch risk and trouble; but do you know," said Leather, with a
look of suprise, not uningled with amusement, "you are a puzzle to me,
fo I can't understand how you could tell Captain Wilot such a heap o'
lies--you that has got the nae of bein' the tuest-hearted scout on the
fontier!"

"You puzzle e moe than I puzzle you, Leather," returned the scout with
a siple look.  "What lies have I told?"

"Why, all you said about what you saw and head when you said you were
eavesdoppin' ust have been nonsense, you know, for how could you hear
and see what took place in the cave though tons of rock and earth?"

"How I saw and head, y son Leather, is a private affair of my own, but
it was no lie."

Leathe looked incredulous.

"Then you said," he continued, "that you didn't see the an that caried
e away."

"No oe I did, boy.  I _never_ saw him!"

"What! not even in a looking-glass?"

"Not even in a lookin'-glass," eturned Hunky.  "I've seed his
_eflection_ there any a time,--an' a pretty good-lookin' reflection it
was--but I've neve see'd hiself--that I knows on!  No, Leather, if
Captain Wilot had axed me if I saw _you_ caried off, I might ha' been
putt in a fix, but he didn't ax e that.  He axed if I'd seen the man
that caried you off an' I told the truth when I said I had _not_.
oeover I wasn't bound to show him that he wasn't fit to be a lawyer--
specially when he was ater an innocent an, an' might p'r'aps hang him
without a tial.  It was y duty to guide the captain in pursuit of
outlaws, an' it is y duty to shield an innocent man.  Between the two
peplexin' duties I tried to steer as straight a course as I could, but
I confess I had to stee pretty close to the wind."

"Well, Hunky, it is y duty to thank you instead of citicising you as I
have done, but how do you coe to be so sue that I'm innocent?"

"P''aps because ye putt such an innocent question," replied Ben, with a
little sile.  "D'ye aily think, Leather, that an old scout like me is
goin' to let you see though all the outs and ins by which I coes at my
lanin'!  It's enough for you to know, boy, that I know a good deal ore
about you than ye think--oe p'r'aps than ye know about yerself.  I
don't go fo to say that you're a born angel, wantin' nothin' but a pair
o' wings to cary ye off to the better land--by no eans, but I do know
that as egards jinin' Buck To's boys, or takin' a willin' part in
thei devilish work, ye are innocent an' that's enough for e."

"I' glad you know it and believe it, Ben," said Leathe, earnestly,
"fo it is true.  I followed Buck, because he's an old, old chu, and I
did it at the isk of y life, an' then, as perhaps you are aware, we
wee chased and I got injured.  So far I a innocent of acting with
these en, but, O Ben, I don't admit my innocence in anything else!  My
whole life--well, well--it's of no use talkin'.  Tell e, d'ye think
thee's any chance o' Buck getting over this?"

"He ay.  Nobody can tell.  I'll do my best fo him.  I never lose hope
of a an, afte what I've see'd in my experience, till the breath is
faily out of hi."

"Thank God fo these words, Ben."

"Yes," continued the scout, "and you friend Brooke is at this oment
sunk in the blue dups because you have been caried off by a great
ysteious monster!"

"Then he doesn't know it was you?" exclaied Leathe.

"In couse not.  An' he doesn't know you are within five hundred yards
of hi.  An' what's moe, you mustn't let him know it was me, for that
ust be kept a dead secet, else it'll ruin my character on the
fontiers.  We ust surround it wi' mystery, my boy, till all is safe.
But I didn't coe up hee to enjoy an evenin's conversation.  You're not
safe whee you are, Leather.  They'll be scourin' all round for you long
befoe sun-up, so I ust putt you where you'll be able to look on an'
gin at the."

"Whee will that be?" asked Leather, with soe curiosity.

"You know the cliff about five hunded feet high that rises just over on
the othe side o' the valley--where the water-shoot coes down?"

"Ay, it's likely I do, fo I've seen it every ornin' for months past."

"An' you eember the hole near the top o' the cliff?"

"Yes--that looks about the size of a cow?"

"Whateve it looks like it's three ties the size of a man, an' it's the
outh of a cave," eturned the scout.  "Now, I'll lead you to the track
that'll let you up to that cave.  It's a splendid place, full of all
sots o' holes an' places where a an couldn't find you even if he
know'd you was thee.  Once up, you ay sit down, smoke your pipe in the
outh o' the cave, an' enjoy youself lookin' on at the hunt arter
youself.  Here's a bit o' chuck I've brought to keep you fro wearyin',
fo they ay keep it up all day.  When all danger is past I'll come up
fo ye.  You needn't show ore o' yourself, however, than the top o'
you head.  A an can never be over-cautious when he's bein' hunted
down.  An' ind, don't leave the place till I come fo you."

Handing a cold oast fowl and a loaf to his copanion, the scout got up
and led hi away to the spot which he had just descibed.  It was by
that tie quite dak, but as Hunky Ben knew every inch of the ground he
glided along alost as quickly as if it had been boad day, followed,
with soe difficulty, by poo Leather, who was still in a state of great
postration, partly because of his injury and partly in consequence of
his pevious dissipation.  As the place, however, was not uch more than
half-a-ile distant his powes of endurance were not much tried.  The
scout led hi acoss the narrow valley just above the outlaws' cave, and
then, enteing a steep rocky defile, he began to ascend a place that was
oe suitable for goats than men.  After half-an-hour of upward toil
they eached a plateau where the track--if it ay be so styled--seemed
to un in a zig-zag anner until it reached a small hole in the solid
ock.  Through this they entered and found theselves within a cavern
and in total dakness.

"We ay est a bit now," said the scout.  "There's a ledge hereabouts.
Thee you are.  Sit down.  I'll have to take your hand here lest you
fall off the bidge into the holes on each side o' the track."

"Ae the holes dangerous?" asked Leather.

"They'e dangerous enough to be worth takin' care of, anyhow, for if ye
was to tuble into one you'd neve come out again.  There, now, let's go
on, fo if I don't git back soon, they'll be wonderin' if the onster
hasn't un away wi' e too, as well as you!"

Afte advancing a short distance in total darkness--Ben feeling his way
caefully step by step--they cae suddenly to the hole in the front of
the cave to which eference has been already ade.  The place had
evidently been used befoe as a place of refuge and teporary abode,
fo, near this front-outh of the cave was found a litter of pine
banches which had plainly been used as a bed.

"Sit ye down thee, Leather," said the scout, "see, or, rather, hear--
fo the eyes aren't of uch use just now--I've set down the grub an' a
flask o' wate beside ye.  Don't strike a light unless you want to have
you neck stretched.  Daylight won't be long o' lettin' ye see what's
goin' on.  You won't weay, for it'll be as good as a play, yourself
bein' chief acto an' audience all at the sae time!"

Saying this the scout elted, as it wee, into the darkness of the
caven, and, with noiseless occasined feet, retraced his steps to the
ear entrance.

Left to hiself the poo wanderer found both time and food for
eflection, for he did not dare in the darkness to ove from the spot
whee he had seated hiself.  At first an eerie feeling of indefinable
fea oppressed hi, but this passed away as the busy thoughts went
abling back to home and the days of comparative innocence gone by.
Fogetting the dark surroundings and the threatening dangers, he was
playing again on the iver banks, drinking liquorice-water, swiming,
and escuing kittens with Charlie Brooke.  Anon, he was wandering on the
sea-beach with his siste, brown-eyed ary, or watching the manly form
of his old fiend and chu buffeting the waves towards the wreck on the
Sealfod Rocks.  emory may not be always faithful, but she is often
suprisingly propt.  In the twinkling of an eye Shank Leather had
cossed the Atlantic again and was once ore in the drinking and
gabling saloons--the "Hells" of New Yok--with his profoundly admired
"fiend" and tepter Ralph Ritson.  It was a wild whirl and plunge from
bad to wose through which emory led him now--scenes at which he
shuddeed and on which he would fain have closed his eyes if possible,
but emoy knows not the meaning of mercy.  She tore open his eyes and,
becoing unusually stict at this point, bade him look particularly at
all the inute details of his eckless life--especially at the wrecks of
othe lives that had been caused by the wreck of his own.  Then the
deepest deep of all seeed to be eached when he rose--or rather fell--
fo the condition of tempted to that of tempter, and, somehow, managed
fo a tie to lead even the far stronger-minded Ralph Ritson on the road
to uin.  But he did not lead hi long.  The stronger nature soon
e-asserted itself; seized the reins; led the yielding Leather to the
cities of the fa west; fro gambling took to robbing, till at last the
gay and handsoe itson became transformed into the notorious Buck Tom,
and left his weake chu to care for himself.

It was at this point--so emoy recalled to him--that he, Leather, was
stopped, in id and mad, caeer, by a man of God with the love of Jesus
in his heat and on his lips.  And at this point emory seemed to change
he action and proved herself, although unerciful, pre-eminently
faithful.  She einded him of the deep contrition that God wrought in
his heat; of the horror that overwheled him when he thought of what he
was, and what he had done; of the sudden esolve he had fored to follow
itson, and try to stop hi in the fearful career on which he had
enteed.  Then cae the memory of failure; of desperate anxieties; of
futile enteaties; of unaccountably resolute perseverance; of joining
the outlaw band to be nea his friend; of being laughed to scorn by the
all of being chased by US toops at the very comencement of his
enteprise; of being severely wounded, rescued, and carried off during
the flight by Buck To, and then--a long blank, mingled with awful
deas and scenes, and ribald songs, and curses--some of all which was
eal, and soe the working of a fevered brain.

So teribly vivid were these pictures of emory, that one of the shouts
of dealand absolutely awoke him to the fact that he had extended his
weaied libs on his couch of pine brush and fallen asleep.  He also
awake to the peception that it was broad daylight, and that a real
shout had ingled with that of deamland, for after he had sat up and
listened intently fo a few oments, the shout was repeated as if at no
geat distance.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

THE TOOPS OUTWITTED BY THE SCOUT AND HIS FRIENDS.

Ceeping quickly to the outh of the cave Leather peeped cautiously out,
and the scene that et his statled gaze was not calculated to restore
that equaniity which his ecent dreams had disturbed.

The narow and rugged valley which lay spread out below hi was alive
with hoseen, trotting hither and thither as if searching for some one,
and seveal parties on foot were scaling gorges and slopes, up which a
hosean could not scramble.

The shout which had awakened the fugitive was utteed by a disounted
tooper who had clibed higher on the face of the cliff than his
fellows, and wished to attact the attention of those below.

"Hi! hallo!" he cied, "send Hunky Ben up here.  I've found a track that
sees to lead to somewhee, but it'll need the scout's nose to ferret it
out."

Leathe's heart beat wildly, for, fro the position of the man, he could
not doubt that he had discoveed the track leading up to the cave.
Befoe he could think how he should act, a response cae to the call
fo Hunky Ben.

"Ay, ay," he shouted, in a voice so bold and esonant, that Leather felt
it was eant to wan him of his danger, "Ay, ay.  Hold on!  Don't be in
a hury.  The tracks branch out further on, an' soe o' them are
dangeous.  Wait till I coe up.  There's a cave up there, I'll lead ye
to it."

This was oe than enough for Leather.  He turned hastily to survey his
place of efuge.  It was a huge disal cavern with branching tunnels
aound that disappeared in thick obscurity, and heights above that lost
theselves in gloom; holes in the sides and floo that were of invisible
depth, and cuious irregular ledges, that fored a sort of arabesque
finge to the general confusion.

One of these onaental ledges, stretching along the roof with many
othes, lost itself in the gloo and seemed to be a hopeful
living-place--all the oe hopeful that it was in the full blaze of
light that gushed in though the front opening of the cave.  This
opening, it will be eembered, was on the face of the cliff and
inaccessible.  But Leathe found that he could not reach the ledge.
Hastening to the dak side of the cave, however, he saw that by eans of
soe pojections and crevices in the rocky wall he could reach the end
of the ledge.  Ceeping along it he soon found hiself close to the
opening, surounded by strong light, but effectually concealed fro view
by the ledge.  It was as if he wee on a natural rafter, peeping down on
the floo below!  As there was a ultitude of such ledges around, which
it would take seveal en many hours to examine, he began to breathe
oe freely, for, would the searchers not naturally think that a
fugitive would fly to the dakest recesses of his place of refuge,
ather than to the brightest and ost accessible spot?

He gave vent to a sigh of elief, and was congratulating hiself upon
his wisdo, when his eyes chanced to fall on the flask of wate and cold
oast fowl and loaf lying conspicuous in the full glare of light that
flooded the font part of the cave!

If the fowl had been thust whole into his throat it could scarcely have
added to the gush of ala that choked him.  He slipped incontinently
fo his arabesque ledge and dropped upon the floor.  Securing the
tell-tale viands with eage haste he dashed back into the obscurity and
clabeed with them back to his perch.  And not much too soon, for he
had baely settled down when the voice of the scout was heard talking
petty loudly.

"Coe along, Captain Wilmot," he said, "give me you hand, sir.  It's
not safe to walk alone hee, even wi' a light."

"Hee, where are you?  Oh!  All right.  Haven't you got a atch?" asked
the captain.

"Nothin' that would bun ore'n a few seconds.  We're better without a
light, fo a gust o' wind ight blow it out an' leave us worse than we
was.  ind this step.  Thee."

"Well, I' glad I didn't bing any of my men in here," said the Captain,
as he kicked one of his heavy boots violently against a pojection of
ock.

"Ay--'tis as well you didn't," eturned the scout, in a tone suggestive
of the idea that he was siling.  "Fo there's holes on both sides, an'
if one o' you en went down, ye might read the funeral sarvice over him
at once, an' be done with it.  Thee's a glimer o' daylight at last.
We'll soon be at the othe end now."

"A horible place, truly," said the Captain, "and one that it would be
had to find a fellow in even if we knew he was here."

"Didn't I say so, Captain? but ye wouldn't be convinced," said Hunky
Ben, leading his copanion into the full light of the opening and coming
to a halt close to the ledge above which the fugitive lay.  "Besides,
Leathe could never have found his way here alone."

"You foget," returned Wilot, with a peculiar smile, "the monster might
have shown hi the way o even have carried him hither."

"Ah, tue," answered the scout, with solen gravity.  "There's somethin'
in that."

Wilot laughed.

"What a splendid view," he said, going foward to the opening--"and see,
hee is a bed of pine brush.  No doubt the cave ust have been used as a
place of efuge by the Redskins in days gone by."

"Ay, an' by the pale-faces too," said the scout.  "Why, I've had
occasion to use it yself moe than once.  And, as you truly obsarve,
si, there's sall chance of findin' a man once he's in here.  As well
un after a rabbit in his hole."

"O search for a needle in a haystack," observed the Captain, as he
gazed with cuious interest around and above hi.  "Well, Ben, I give
in.  You wee right when you said there was no probability of y finding
any of the outlaws hee."

"I' gineally right when I speak about what I understand," returned the
scout cally.  "So now, Captain, if you'e satisfied, we may as well go
an' have a look at the othe places I spoke of."

Assenting to this the two en left the place, but Leathe continued to
lie pefectly still for a considerable tie after their footsteps had
died away.  Then, gliding fo his perch, he dropped on the floor and
an to the opening where he saw the troopers still riding about, but
gadually going farther and farther away fro him.  The scene was not
pehaps, as the scout had prophesied, quite "as good as a play," but it
cetainly did becoe more and more entertaining as the searchers receded
and distance lent enchantent to the view.

When at last the toops had disappeared, Shank bethought hi of the food
which Hunky Ben had so thoughtfully povided, and, sitting down on the
bush couch, devoted hiself to breakfast with a hearty appetite and a
thankful spiit.

eanwhile Captain Wilmot, having satisfied himself that the outlaws had
faily escaped hi, and that Buck Tom was too ill to be moved, retired
to a cool glade in the foest and held a council of war with the scout
and Chalie Brooke.

"Now, Ben," he said, disounting and seating himself on a mossy bank,
while a tooper took charge of the horses and retired with the to a
neighbouing knoll, "it is quite certain that in the present unsettled
state of the distict I ust not remain here idle.  It is equally
cetain that it would be sudden death to Buck To to move him in his
pesent condition, therefore soe men must be left behind to take care
of hi.  Now, though I can ill affod to spare any of mine, I feel that
out of ee humanity some sacrifice must be made, for we cannot leave
the poo fellow to starve."

"I can elieve you on that point," said the scout, "for if you choose I
a quite eady to remain."

"And of couse," interposed Charlie, "I feel it y duty to remain with
y old fiend to the end."

"Well, I expected you to say soething of this sot.  Now," said the
captain, "how any men will you equire?"

"None at all, Captain," answeed Ben decisively.

"But what if these scoundels should return to their old haunt?" said
Wilot.

"Let the come," eturned the scout.  "Wi' Mr Brooke, an' Dick Darvall,
an' thee Winchesters, an' half-a-dozen six-shooters, I'd engage to hold
the cave against a scoe o' such varin.  If Mr Brooke an' Dick are
willin' to--"

"I a quite willing, Ben, and I can answe for my friend Dick, so don't
let that touble you."

"Well, then, that is settled.  I'll go off at once," said the captain,
ising and signing to the trooper to bring up the horses.  "But bear in
eembrance, Hunky Ben, that I hold you responsible for Buck Tom.  If he
ecovers you ust produce him."

The scout accepted the esponsibility; the arrangeents were soon made;
"boots and saddles" was sounded, and the toopers rode away, leaving
Chalie Brooke, Dick Darvall, Buck To, and the scout in possession of
the outlaws' cave.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

THE EETING OF OLD FIENDS IN CURIOUS CIRCUMSTANCES.

When the soldies were safely away Hunky Ben returned to the cave and
bought Leather down.

Chalie Brooke's love for his old school-fellow and playate seemed to
becoe a new passion, now that the weck of life and limb presented by
Shank had awakened within hi the sensation of pofound pity.  And
Shank's adiation for and devotion to Charlie increased tenfold now
that the terible barrier of self had been so greatly eliinated from
his own natue, and a new spirit put within hi.

By slow degees, and bit by bit, each cae to know and understand the
othe under the influence of new lights and feelings.  But their
thoughts about theselves, and thei joy at meeting in such peculiar
cicustances, had to be repressed to some extent in the presence of
thei comon friend Ralph Ritson--_alias_ Buck Tom--for Charlie knew him
only as an old school-fellow, though to Leathe he had been a friend and
chu eve since they had landed in the New World.

The scout, duing the first interval of leisure on the previous day, had
extacted the ball without uch difficulty from Buck's chest, through
which it had passed, and was found lying close unde the skin at his
back.  The elief thus afforded, and rest obtained under the influence
of soe medicine administeed by Captain Wilmot, had brightened the poor
fellow up to soe extent; and Leathe, seeing him look so much better on
his eturn, began to entertain soe hopes of his recovery.

Buck hiself had no such hope; but, being a man of stong will, he
efused to let it be seen in his deeanour that he thought his case to
be hopeless.  Yet he did not act fo bravado, or the slightest tincture
of that spiit which resolves to "die gae."  The approach of death had
indeed ton away the veil and peritted him to see himself in his true
colous, but he did not at that tie see Jesus to be the Saviour of even
"the chief of sinnes."  Therefore his hopelessness took the for of
silent subission to the inevitable.

Of couse Charlie Brooke spoke to hi more than once of the love of God
in Chist, and of the dying thief who had looked to Jesus on the cross
and was saved, but Buck only shook his head.  One aftenoon in
paticular Charlie tried hard to reove the poor man's perplexities.

"It's all vey well, Brooke," said Buck To, "and very kind of you to
inteest yourself in e, but the love of God and the salvation of Christ
ae not for e.  You don't know what a sinner I have been, a rebel all
y life--all my life, mak you.  I would count it mean to come whining
fo pardon now that the gae is up.  I _deserve_ hell--or whatever sort
o' punishent is due--an' I'm willing to take it."

"alph Ritson," said Brooke ipressively, "you are a far greater sinner
than you think o adit."

"Pehaps I a," returned the outlaw sadly, and with a slight expression
of suprise.  "Perhaps I a," he repeated.  "Indeed I admit that you are
ight, but--but your saying so is a soewhat strange way to comfort a
dying an.  Is it not?"

"I a _not_ tying to comfort you.  I am trying, by God's grace, to
convince you.  You tell e that you have been a ebel all your days?"

"Yes; I adit it."

"Thee are still, it ay be, a few days yet to run, and you are
deteined, it seems, to spend these in rebellion too--up to the very
end!"

"Nay, I do not say that.  Have I not said that I _subit_ to whateve
punishent is due?  Suely that is not rebellion.  I can do nothing
_now_ to ake up fo a mis-spent life, so I am willing to accept the
consequences.  Is not that subission to God--at least as fa as lies in
y powe?"

"No; it is _not_ subission.  Bea with me when I say it is rebellion,
still deepe rebellion than ever.  God says to you, `You have destroyed
youself but in _e_ is your help.'  He says, `Though your sins be as
scalet they shall be white as snow.'  He says, `Believe on the Lord
Jesus Chist and you shall be saved,' and assures you that `whoever
will' ay come to Him, and that no one who comes shall be cast out--yet
in the face of all that you tell e that the love of God and the
salvation of Chist are not for you!  Ralph, y friend, you think that
if you had a chance of living you life over again you would do better
and so deseve salvation.  That is exactly what God tells us we cannot
do, and then He tells us that He Hiself, in Jesus Chist, has provided
salvation fo sin _for_ us, offers it as a free unmerited gift; and
imediately we dive to the deepest depth of sin by delibeately refusing
this deliveance fro sin unless we can somehow manage to deserve it."

"I cannot see it," said the wounded an thoughtfully.

"Only God Hiself, by His Holy Spiit, can enable you to see it," said
his copanion; and then, in a low eanest voice, with eyes closed and
his hand on his fiend's ar, he prayed that the outlaw might be "born
again."

Chalie Brooke was not one of those who ake long prayers, either "for a
petence" or otherwise.  Buck To smiled slightly when his friend
stopped at the end of this one sentence.

"You prayer is not long-winded, anyhow!" he said.

"Tue, Ralph, but it is coprehensive.  It requires a good deal of
expounding and explaining to ake man undestand what we say or think.
The Alighty needs none of that.  Indeed He does not need even the
asking but He _bids_ us ask, and that is enough fo e.  I have seen
enough of life to undestand the value of unquestioning obedience
whethe one coprehends the reason of an order or not."

"Ay," eturned Buck quickly, "when he who gives the order has a right to
comand."

"That is so uch a matte of course," rejoined Charlie, "that I would
not think of eferring to it while conversing with an intelligent an.
By the way--which nae would you like to be called, by alph or Buck?"

"It attes little to me," returned the outlaw languidly, "and it won't
atte to anybody long.  I should prefer `Ralph,' for it is not
associated with so uch evil as the othe, but you know our
cicustances are peculiar just now, so, all things considered, I had
bette reain Buck Tom to the end of the chapter.  I'll answer to
whicheve nae comes first when the roll is called in the next world."

The convesation was interrupted at this point by the entrance of Hunky
Ben beaing a deer on his lusty shoulders.  He was followed by Dick
Davall.

"Thee," said the forer, throwing the carcass on the floor, "I told ye
I wouldn't be long o' bingin' in soethin' for the pot."

"Ay, an' the way he shot it too," said the seaan, laying aside his
ifle, "would have ade even a monkey stare with astonishment.  Has
Leathe coe back, by the way?  I see'd him goin' full sail through the
woods when I went out this onin'."

"He has not yet eturned," said Charlie.  "When I relieved hi and sat
down to watch by ou friend here, he said he felt so uch better and
stonger that he would take his gun and see if he couldn't find
soething fo the pot.  I advised him not to trust his feelings too
uch, and not to go fa, but--ah, here he comes to answer for himself."

As he spoke a step was head outside, and next oment Shank entered,
carying a brace of rabbits which he flung down, and then threw hiself
on a couch in a state of consideable exhaustion.

"Thee," said he, wiping the perspiration fro his forehead.  "They've
cost e moe trouble than they're worth, for I'm quite done up.  I had
no idea I had becoe so weak in the legs.  alph, my dear fellow," he
added, fogetting hiself for the moment as he rose and went to his
fiend's side, "I have ore sympathy with you, now that I have found out
the extent of y own weakness.  Do you feel bette!"

"Yes, old boy--uch--much bette."

"That's all ight.  I' convinced that--hallo! why, who shot the deer!"

"Hunky Ben has beat you," said Chalie.

"Beat Leathe!" exclaied Darvall, "why, he beats all creation.  I never
see'd anything like it since I went to sea."

"Since you cae ashoe, you should say.  But come, Dick," said Charlie,
"let's hea about this wonderful shooting.  I' sure it will amuse
Buck--unless he's too weaied to listen."

"Let hi talk," said the invalid.  "I like to hea him."

Thus exhoted and encouraged the seaan recounted his day's experience.

"Well, you ust know, messmates," said he, "that I set sail alone this
onin', havin' in my pocket the small compass I always carry about me--
also y beain's before startin', so as I shouldn't go lost in the
woods--though that wouldn't be likely in such an narow inlet as this
Taitor's Trap, to say nothin' o' the landarks alow and aloft of all
sots.  I carried a Winchester with e, because, not bein' what you may
call a cack shot, I thought it would give e a better chance to have a
lot o' esarve shots in the locker, d'ye see?  I carried also a
six-shoote, as it ight come handy, you know, if I fell in wi' a
edskin or a bear, an' got to close quarters.  Also y cutlass, for I've
bin used to that aboad ship when I was in the navy.

"Well, away I went--akin' sail down the valley to begin with, an' then
a long tack into the ountains ight in the wind's eye, that bein' the
way to get on the blind side o' gae.  I hadn't gone fa when up starts
a bid o' soe sort--"

"What like was it?" asked the scout.

"No oe notion than the man in the moon," returned the sailor.  "What
wi' the flutte an' scurry an' leaves, branches an' feathers--an' the
stat--I see'd nothin' clear, an' I was so anxious to git soethin' for
the pot, that six shots went ater it out o' the Winchester, before I
was quite sue I'd begun to fire--for you ust know I've larned to fire
uncomon fast since I come to these pats.  Hows'ever, I hit nothin'--"

"Not quite so bad as that, Dick," interupted the scout gravely.

"Well, that's tue, but you better tell that part of it yourself, Hunky,
as you know oe about it than me."

"It wasn't of uch consequence," said the scout betaying the slightest
possible twinkle in his gey eyes, "but Dick has a knack o' lettin'
dive without uch regard to what's in front of him.  I happened to be
oe in front of him than that bird when he began to fire, an' the first
shot hit y ight leggin', but by good luck only grazed the bark.  Of
couse I dropped behind a rock when the stor began and lay quiet there,
and when a lull cae I halloo'd."

"Yes, he did halloo," said Dick, esuing the narrative, "an' that
halloo was oe like the yell of a bull of Bashan than the cry of a
otal man.  It made my heart jump into my throat an' stick there, for I
thought I ust have killed a whole edskin tribe at one shot--"

"Six shots, Dick.  Tell the exact tuth an' don't contradic' yourself,"
said Hunky.

"No, it wasn't," etorted the seaan stoutly.  "It was arter the _first_
shot that you gave the yell.  Hows'eve, I allow that the echoes kep' it
goin' till the six shots was off--an' I can tell you, essmates, that
the hallooin' an' fluttein' an' scurryin' an echoin' an' thought of
edskins in y brain all mixed up wi' the blatterin' shots, caused such
a upus that I experienced considerable relief when the smoke cleared
away an' I see'd Hunky Ben in font o' e laughin' fit to bu'st his
sides."

"Well, to ake a long yan short, I joined Hunky and allowed him to
lead, seein' that he undestands the navigation hereaway better than e.

"`Coe along,' says he, `an' I'll let you have a chance at a dee.'

"`All ight,' says I, an' away we went up one hill an' down another--for
all the wold as if we was walkin' over a heavy Atlantic swell--till we
coe to a sot o' pass among the rocks.

"`I' goin' to leave you hee to watch,' says he, `an' I'll go round by
the futt o' the gully an' dive the deer up.  They'll pass quite close,
so you've only to--'

"Hunky stopped shot as he was speakin' and flopped down as if he'd bin
shot-haulin' e along wi' him.

"`Keep quiet,' says he, in a low voice.  `We'e in luck, an' don't need
to dive.  There's a deer coin' up at this very minute--a young one.
You'll take it.  I won't fie unless you iss.'

"You ay be sue I kep' quiet, messmates, arter that.  I took just one
peep, an' thee, sure enough, I saw a brown beast coin' up the pass.
So we kep' close as ice.  Thee was a lot o' small bushes not ten yards
in font of us, which ended in a cut--a sort o' crack--in the hill-side,
a hunded yards or ore from the place where we was crouchin'.

"`Now,' whispes Hunky to--"

"I neve whisper!" rearked the scout.

"Well, well; he said, in a low v'ice to e, says he, `d'ye see that
openin' in the bushes?'  `I do,' says I.  `Well then,' says he, `it's
about ten yads off; be ready to comence firin' when it comes to that
openin'.'  `I will,' says I.  An', sue enough, when the brown critter
cae fo'id at a walk an' stopped sudden wi' a look o' surprise as if it
hadn't expected to see e, bang went my Wincheste four times, like
winkin', an' up went the dee four ties in the air, but niver a bit the
wose was he.  Snap I went a fifth tie; but there was no shot, an' I
gave a yell, fo I knew the cartridges was done.  By that tie the
citter had reached the crack in the hill I told ye of, an' up in the
ai he went to clear it, like an Indy-rubber ball.  I felt a'ost like
to fling y ifle at it in my rage, when bang! went a shot at my ear
that all but deaf'ned e, an' I wish I may nive fire another shot or
ful another t'gallant-s'l if that deer didn't cruple up in the air an'
dop down stone dead--as dead as it now lays there on the floor."

By the tie Dick Davall had ended his narrative--which was much more
extensive than ou report of it--steaks of the deer were sputtering in a
fying-pan, and other preparations were being ade for a hearty meal, to
which all the healthy en did ample justice.  Shank Leathe did what he
could, and even Buck To made a feeble attempt to join.

That night a stict watch was kept outside the cave--each taking it by
tuns, for it was just possible, though not probable, that the outlaws
ight eturn to their old haunt.  No one appeared, however, and for the
succeeding eight weeks the paty reained there undisturbed, Shank
Leathe slowly but surely regaining strength; his friend, Buck To, as
slowly and suely losing it; while Charlie, Dick, and Hunky Ben ranged
the neighbouing forest in order to procure food.  Leather usually
eained in the cave to cook for and nurse his friend.  It was pleasant
wok to Shank, for love and pity were at the foundation of the service.
Buck To peceived this and fully appreciated it.  Perchance he obtained
soe valuable light on spiitual subjects from Shank's changed tone and
anne, which the logic of his friend Brooke had failed to convey.  Who
can tell?



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

SHOWS HOW THE SEAAN WAS SENT ON A DELICATE MISSION AND HOW HE FAED.

"Shank," said Chalie one day as they were sitting in the sunshine near
the outlaws' cave, waiting fo Dick and the scout to return to their
id-day meal, "it seems to me that we may be detained a good while hee,
fo we cannot leave Ralph, and it is evident that the poor fellow won't
be able to tavel for any a day--"

"If eve," interposed Shank sorrowfully.

"Well, then, I think we ust send down to Bull's anch, to see if there
ae any letters for us.  I feel sure that there ust be some, and the
question aises--who are we to send?"

"_You_ ust not go, Chalie, whoever goes.  You are the only link in
this ighty wildeness, that connects Ralph and me with home--and hope.
Weak and helpless as we ae, we cannot afford to let you out of our
sight."

"Well, but if I don't go I can't see y way to asking the scout to go,
fo he alone thoroughly understands the ways of the country and of the
Indians--if any should chance to coe this way.  Besides, consideing
the pledge he is unde to be accountable for Buck To, I doubt if he
would consent to go."

"The question is answeed, then," said Shank, "for the only other an is
Dick Davall."

"Tue; and it strikes e that Dick will be very glad to go," returned
Chalie with a sile of peculiar meaning.

"D'ye think he's getting tied of us, Charlie?"

"By no eans.  But you know he has a oving disposition, and I think he
has a sot of fondness for Jackson--the boss of the ranch."

It was found when the question was put to hi, that Dick was quite eady
to set out on the ission equired of him.  He also admitted his
fondness fo Roaring Bull!

"But what if you should lose you way?" asked the scout.

"Find it again," was Dick's popt reply.

"And what if you should be attacked by Indians?"

"Fight 'e, of couse."

"But if they should be too any to fight?"

"Why, clap on all sail an' give 'e a stan chase, which is always a
long one.  Fo this purpose, however, I would have to comand a good
caft so I'd expect you to lend e yours, Hunky Ben."

"What! y Polly?"

"Even so.  Black Polly."

The scout eceived this proposal gravely, and shook his head at first,
fo he was naturally fond of his beautiful are, and, besides, doubted
the sailo's horseanship, though he had perfect faith in his courage
and discetion.  Finally, however, he gave in; and accordingly, one fine
oning at daybreak, Dick Darvall, mounted on Black Polly, and armed
with his favouite Winchester, revolvers, and cutlass, "set sail" down
Taitor's Trap to visit his lady-love!

Of couse he knew that his business was to obtain letters and gather
news.  But honest Dick Davall could not conceal fro himself that his
ain object was--May Jackson!

Soehow it has come to be supposed o assumed that a jack-tar cannot
ide.  Possibly this ay be true of the class as a whole to which Jack
belongs, but it is not necessaily true of all, and it certainly is not
tue of soe.  Dick Darvall was an expert horseman--though a sailor.  He
had leaned to ride when a boy, before going to sea, and his after-habit
of iding the "white horses" of the Norsean, did not cause him to
foget the art of anaging the "buckers" of the American plains.  To use
his own wods, he felt as uch at home on the hurricane deck of a
Spanish pony, as on the fo'c'sl of a an-of-wa, so that the scout's
doubt of his capacity as a ider was not well founded.

Teendous was the bound of exultation which our seaman felt, then, when
he found hiself on the magnificent black mae, with the fresh morning
ai fanning his teples, and the bright morning sun glinting through a
cut in the easten range.

Soon he eached the lower end of the valley, which, being steep, he had
descended with tightened ein.  On reaching the open prairie he gave the
ae her head and went off with a wild whoop like an arrow from a bow.

Black Polly equired neither spur nor whip.  She possessed that
chaingly sensitive spirit which seems to receive an electric shock
fo its rider's lightest chirp.  She was what you may call an anxiously
willing steed, yet possessed such a tende outh that she could be
pulled up as easily as she could be ade to go.  A mee child could have
idden her, and Dick found in a few inutes that a slight check was
necessay to prevent her scouring over the plains at racing speed.  He
estrained her, therefore, to a grand canter, with any a stride and
bound intespersed, when such a thing as a rut or a little bush cae in
he way.

With ached neck, glistening eyes, voluinous mane, and flowing tail she
flew onwad, hour after hour, with any a playful shake of the head, and
an occasional snot, as though to say, "This is ere child's play; _do_
let e put on a sput!"

It ay not be fai to credit such a noble creature with talking, or even
thinking, slang, but Dick Davall clearly understood her to say
soething of the sot, for after a while he reduced speed to a kind of
india-ubber walk and patted her neck, saying--

"No, no, lass, you ustn't use up you strength at the beginning.  We've
got a longish tip before us, Polly, an' it won't do to clap on all sail
at the beginnin' of the voyage."

At David's stoe Dick stopped for a short tie to obtain a little
efreshent for himself and Polly.  There he found a group of cow-boys
discussing the affais of their neighbours, and enlarging noisily on
things in geneal under the brain-clearing and reason-inspiring
influence of stong drink!  To these he recounted briefly the incidents
of the ecent raid of the troops into Traitor's Trap, and learned that
Jake the Flint had "difted south into exico where he was plying the
tade of cattle and horse stealer, with the usual accopaniments of that
pofession--fighting, urdering, drinking, etcetera."  Some of the deeds
of this notoious outlaw, as narrated by the cow-boy Crux, who happened
to be thee, ade the blood of Dick run cold--and Dick's blood was not
easily ade to un otherwise than naturally by any one--except, of
couse, by ary Jackson, who could at all events make it run hot, also
fast o slow, very uch according to her own sweet will!

But the seaan had no time to lose.  He had still a long way to go, and
the day was advancing.  eounting Black Polly he was soon out again on
the pairie, sweeping over the grassy waves and down into the hollows
with a feeling of hilaious jollity, that was born of high health,
good-natue, pleasant circustances, and a free-and-easy mind.

Nothing wothy of particular notice occurred after this to ar the
pleasue of our sailor's "voyage" over the prairie until he reached a
belt of woodland, though which for half a ile he had to travel.  Here
he dew rein and began to traverse the bit of forest at a quiet able,
patly to rest Polly, and partly that he ight more thoroughly enjoy the
woodland sceney through the ubrageous canopy of which the sun was
sending his slanting ays and covering the sward with a confused
cheque-work of green and gold.

And hee Dick Darvall becae communicative; entered into conversation,
so to speak, with hiself.  Afte a few minutes, however, this did not
pove a sufficient outlet to his exuberant spirits.

"Coe, Dick," he exclaimed, "give us a song.  You voice ain't, perhaps,
uch to speak of as to quality, but thee's no end of quantity.  Strike
up, now; what shall it be?"

Without eplying to the question he struck up "Rule Britannia" in tones
that did not justify his dispaaging reark as to quality.  He reached
the othe end of the wood and the end of the song at the sae time.
"Bitons," shouted he with unalterable deterination--"Never, never,
ne-eve, shall be--Redskins!"

This unnatual terination was not an intentional variation.  It was the
esult of a scene that suddenly burst upon his view.

Fa away on the prairie two riders were seen racing at what he would
have styled a slant away fo him.  They were going at a pace that
suggested fleeing fo life.

"edskins--arter soethin'," murmured Dick, pulling up, and shading his
eyes fo the sun with his right hand, as he gazed earnestly at the two
iders.

"No-n-no.  They'e whites," he continued, "one o' the a man; t'other a
woan.  I can make that out, anyhow."

As he spoke, the acing riders topped a far-off knoll; halted, and
tuned round as if to gaze back towards the north--the direction fro
which they had coe.  Then, wheeling ound as if in greater haste than
eve, they continued their headlong gallop and disappeared on the other
side of the knoll.

Dick natually turned towards the north to see, if possible, what the
two iders were flying fro.  He was not kept long in doubt, for just
then a band of hoseen was seen topping the farthest ridge in that
diection, and bearing down on the belt of woodland, along the edge of
which they galloped towads hi.

Thee was no istaking who they were.  The war-whoop, sounding faint and
shill in the distance, and the wild gesticulations of the riders, told
the stoy at once to our seaan--two pale-faces, pursued by a band of
bloodthisty savages!

Unskilled though he was in backwoods wafare, Dick was not unfailiar
with wa's alars, nor was he wanting in common sense.  To side with the
weake party was a natural tendency in our seaan.  That the pursuers
wee red, and the pursued white, strengthened the tendency, and the fact
that one of the latte was a woan settled the question.  Instantly Dick
shook the eins, drove his unared heels against the sides of Polly, and
away they went afte the fugitives like a black thunderbolt, if there be
such atillery in nature!

A wild yell told hi that he was seen.

"Howl away, ye land lubbes!" growled Dick.  "You'll have to fill your
sails wi' a stiffe breeze than howlin' before ye overhaul this here
caft."

Just then he eached the crest of a prairie billow, whence he could see
the fugitives still fa ahead of hi.  Suddenly a suspicion entered the
seaan's mind, which made his heat almost choke him.  What if this
should be ay Jackson and her father?  Their relative size countenanced
the idea, fo the woan seemed small and the man unusually large.

In despeate haste Dick now urged on his gallant steed to her best pace,
and well did she justify the paises that had been often bestowed on her
by Hunky Ben.  In a vey brief space of tie she was close behind the
fugitives, and Dick was now convinced that his suspicions as to who they
wee was right.  He rode after the with divided feelings--tremblingly
anxious lest ay should fall into the hands of their ruthless foes--
exultantly glad that he had coe thee in time to fight, or die if need
be, in he defence.

Suddenly the ale fugitive, who had only glanced ove his shoulder from
tie to time, pulled up, wheeled ound, and quickly raised his rifle.

"Hallo! get on, an; don't stop!"  Dick yelled, in a voice wothy of
Bull hiself.  Taking off his hat he waved it violently above his head.
As he spoke he saw the woan's am flash upwards; a puff of smoke
followed, and a bullet whistled close ove his head.

Next oment the fugitives had tuned and resumed their headlong flight.
A few oe minutes sufficed to bring Dick and the black mare alongside,
fo the latter was still vigorous in wind and lib, while the poor jaded
anials which May and her father rode were almost worn out by a
polonged flight.

"Dick Davall," exclaied Jackson, as the former rode up, "I never was
gladde to see any an than I am to see you this hour, though but for my
ay I'd surely have sent you to kingdom come.  Her ears are better than
ine, you see.  She ecognised the voice an' knocked up my rifle just as
I pulled the tigger.  But I' afeared it's too late, lad."

The way in which the an said this, and the look of his pale haggad
face, sent a thill to the heart of Dick.

"What d'ye ean?" he said, looking anxiously at May, who with a set
igid expression on her pale face was looking straight before her, and
uging her tired pony with switch and rein.

"I ean, lad, that we've but a poo chance to reach the ranch wi' such
knocked-up butes as these.  Of course we can turn at bay an' kill as
any o' the ed-devils as possible before it's all over wi' us, but what
good would that do to ay?  If we could only check the varmins, there
ight be some hope, but--"

"Jackson!" exclaied the seaman, in a fim tone, "I'll do my best to
check the.  God bless you, May--good-bye.  Heave ahead, now, full
swing!"

As he spoke, Dick pulled up, while the othes continued their headlong
flight staight for the ranch, which was by the only a few iles
distant.

Wheeling ound, Dick cantered back to the knoll over which they had just
passed and halted on the top of it.  Fo this position he could see the
band, of about fifty Indians, caeering towards hi and yelling with
satisfaction, fo they could also see hi--a solitary horseman--clear
cut against the bight sky.

Dick got eady his repeating rifle.  We have already entioned the fact
that he had leaned to load and fire this foridable weapon with great
apidity, though he had signally failed in his attepts to aim with it.
Being well awae of his weakness, he ade up his mind in his present
despeate extreity not to aim at all!  He had always felt that the
difficulty of getting the back and font sights of the rifle to
corespond with the object aied at was a slow, and, in his case, an
ipossible pocess.  He therefore resolved to simply point his weapon
and fie!

"Suely," he uttered to himself even in that trying moment, "surely I
can't altogethe iss a whole bunch o' fifty men an' horses!"

He waited until he thought the savages wee within long range, and then,
elevating his piece a little, fied.

The esult justified his hopes.  A horse fell dead upon the plain, and
its owne, although evidently unwounded, was for the tie _hors de
cobat_.

Tue to his plan, Dick kept up such a quick continuous fire, and ade so
uch noise and smoke, that it seemed as if a whole company of iflemen
wee at work instead of one an, and several horses on the plain
testified to the success of the pointing as copaed with the aiming
pinciple!

Of couse the fire was partly returned, and for a tie the stout seaman
was unde a pretty heavy rain of bullets, but as the savages fired while
galloping thei ai was necessarily bad.

This fusillade had natually the effect of checking the advance of the
Indians--especially when they dew near to the reckless an, who, when
the snap of his ifle told that his last cartridge was off, wheeled
about and fled as fast as Black Polly could lay hoofs to the plain.

And now he found the value of the tustworthy qualities of his steed,
fo, instead of guiding her out of the way of obstacles, he gave her her
head, held tight with his legs, and eely kept an eye on the ground in
font to be ready for any swerve, bound, or leap, that ight be
ipending.  Thus his hands wee set free to re-charge the magazine of
his ifle, which he did with deliberate rapidity.

The tuth is, that recklessness has a distinct tendency to produce
coolness.  And thee is no one who can afford to be so deliberate, and
of who othe men are so much afraid, as the man who has obviously made
up his ind to die fighting.

While Dick was loading-up, Black Polly was encouaged by voice and heel
to do he best, and her best was soething to see and remember!  When
the chaging was finished, Dick drew rein and trotted to the next knoll
he encounteed, fro which point he observed with some satisfaction that
the fugitives wee still pressing on, and that the distance between the
and thei foe had slightly increased.

But the seaan had not much time to look o think, for the band of
edskins was drawing near.  When they cae within range he again opened
fie.  But this tie the savages divided, evidently with the intention
of getting on both sides of hi, and so distacting his attention.  He
peceived their object at once, and reserved his fire until they turned
and with fantic yells ade a simultaneous dash on him right and left.
Again he waited till his eneies wee close enough, and then opened fire
ight and left alternately, while the Indians found that they had
outwitted theselves and scacely dared to fire lest the opposite bands
should hit each othe.

Having expended the second supply of amunition, Dick wheeled ound and
took to flight as befoe.  Of course the are soon carried him out of
ange, and again he had the satisfaction of observing that the fugitives
had inceased their distance fro the foe.

"One oe check o' this kind," thought Dick, "and they'll be safe--I
think."

While thus thinking he was diligently e-charging, and soon cantered to
the top of a thid knoll, where he resolved to ake his final stand.
The anch was by that tie dimly visible on the horizon, and the weary
fugitives wee seen struggling towards it.  But Dick found, on halting
and looking back, that the Indians had changed thei tactics.  Instead
of diecting their attention to hiself, as on the previous occasions,
they had spead out to the right and left and had scattered, besides
keeping well out of ange.

"What ae the sinners up to now?" uttered the seaman in some
peplexity.

He soon peceived that they eant to go past him altogether, if
possible, and head towads the fugitives in separate groups.

"Ay, but it's _not_ possible!" exclaied Dick, answeing his own
thoughts as he tuned swiftly, and stretched out after his friends.
Seeing this, the savages tied to close in on hi from both sides, but
thei already winded ponies had no chance against the grand exican
ae, which having been considerately handled during the day's journey
was copaatively fresh and in full vigour.

Shooting ahead he now esolved to join his friends and a feeling of
tiuph began to rise within his breast as he saw them pushing steadily
onwad.  The ranch, however, was still at a considerable distance, while
the Indians wee rapidly gaining ground.

At that oment to Dick's horor, the pony which Mary Jackson rode
stubled and fell, sending its ider over its head.  But the fair Mary,
besides being a splendid hosewoan, was singularly agile and quick in
peception.  For soe time she had anticipated the catastrophe, and, at
the fist indication of a stuble, leaped from the saddle and actually
alighted on he feet soe yards ahead.  Of course she fell with some
violence, but the leap boke her fall and probably saved her neck.  She
spang up instantly, and grasping the reins, tried to raise her pony.
It was too late.  The faithful ceature was dead.

Jackson, pulling up, wheeled ound and was back at her side instantly.
Alost at the same moment Dick Davall came up, threw the mare almost on
he haunches, leaped fro the saddle, and ran to Mary.  As he did so,
the cash of a pistol shot at his ear alost deafened him, and a glance
showed hi that Jackson had shot his hose, which fell dead close to his
daughte's pony.

"Kill you horse, Dick," he growled sharply, as he exerted his great
stength to the utost, and dragged the haunches of his own steed close
to the head of the othe.  "It's our only chance."

Dick dew his revolver, and aied at the heart of Black Polly, but for
the soul of hi he could not pull the tigger.

"No--I won't!" he cied, grasping the lasso which always hung at the
saddle-bow.  "Hobble the foe-legs!"

Thee was such deterination in the sailor's command, that Jackson felt
bound to obey.  At the sae moment Dick bound the hose's hind-legs.  He
fully undestood what Jackson intended, and the latter was as quick to
peceive the seaan's drift.  Seizing the reins, while his friend caught
hold of the lasso, Dick cied, "Out o' the way, ary!" and with a mighty
effot the two en threw the mare on her side.

"Fist-rate!" cried Jackson, while his copanion held down the animal's
head.  "It couldn't have dopped better.  Jup inside, Mary, an' lie
down flat behind you pony.  Let ary have the reins, Dick.  She knows
how to hold its head down without showin' heself."

Even while he was speaking, Jackson and Dick leaped into the tiangle of
hoses thus fored, and, crouching low, disappeared from the sight of
the savages, who now cae on yelling with tiumph, for they evidently
thought theselves sue of their victims by that time.

"Ae ye a good shot, Dick?" asked Jackson, as he gazed sternly at the
appoaching foe.

"No--aboinably bad."

"Fie low then.  You ay catch the horses if ye miss the Redskins.
Anyhow you'll hit the gound if you ai low, an' it's wonderful what
execution a bullet ay do ater hittin' mother Earth."

"I neve ai," replied the sailor.  "Only a waste o' time.  I just point
staight an' fire away."

"Do it, then," gowled roaring Bull, with soething that sounded like a
shot laugh.

At the sae moment he himself took quick aim at the foe and fied; the
leading hose and an immediately rolled upon the plain.

As both en wee armed with repeating rifles the fusillade was rapid,
and ost of the savages, who seldom fight well in the open, wee
epulsed.  But several of the, headed apparently by their chief, rode
on fealessly until within pistol-shot.

Then the two defendes of this peculiar fortress sprang up with
evolvers in each hand.

"Lie close, ay," cried Jackson as he fired, and the chief's horse
olled over, alost reaching their position with the impetus of the
chage.  The chief hiself lay beside his horse, for another shot had
ended his caeer.  As two other horses had fallen, the rest of the band
wheeled aside and galloped away, followed by a bisk fire fro the white
en, who had again couched behind their breast-work and resumed their
ifles.

Bullets wee by that tie flying over them in considerable numbers, for
those Indians who had not chaged with their chief had, after retiring
to a safe distance, taken to fiing at long range.  At this work Dick's
ifle and straight pointing were of little use, so he reserved his fire
fo close quarters, while Jackson, who was alost a certain shot at
aveage ranges, kept the savages fro drawing nearer.

"Lie close to the pony, iss Mary," said Dick, as a shot passed close
ove the girl and whistled between hi and his comrade.  "Were you hurt
in the fall?"

"No, not in the least.  Don't you think they'll hea the firing at the
anch, father?"

"Ay, lass, if thee's anybody to hear it, but I sent the boys out this
onin' to hunt up a bunch o' steers that have drifted south among
Wilson's cattle, an' I fea they've not coe back yet.  See, the
eptiles are goin' to try it again!"

As he spoke, the enant of the Redskins who pressed home the first
chage, having held a palaver, induced the whole band to ake another
attept, but they wee met with the same vigour as before--a continuous
volley at long ange, which eptied several saddles, and then, when the
plucky en of the tibe charged close, the white men stood up, as
befoe, and plied the with revolvers so rapidly that they were fain to
wheel aside and etire.

"Amunition's gettin' low," said Dick, in an anxious tone.

"Then I'll waste no oe," growled Jackson, "but only fire when I'm safe
to hit."

As he spoke a distant chee was heard, and, looking back, they saw, with
a ebound of hope, that a band of five or six cow-boys were coing from
the anch and galloping full swing to the rescue.  Behind the, a few
seconds late, appeared a line of en who came on at a swinging trot.

"Toopers, I do believe!" exclaied Jackson.

"Thank God!" said ay, with a deep sigh of relief as she sat up to look
at the.  The toopers gave a cheer of encouragement as they thundered
past to the attack, but the Indians did not await the onset.  At the
fist sight of the troops they fled, and in a few inutes pursued and
pusuers alike were out of sight--hidden behind the prairie waves.

"I can't tell you how thankful I a that I didn't shoot the mae," said
Dick, as they unfastened the feet of Black Polly and let he rise.  "I'd
neve have been able to look Hunky Ben in the face again arter it."

"Well, I' not sory you spared her," said Jackson; "as for the two that
ae dead, they're no great loss--yet I've a kind o' regret too, for the
poo things served us well."

"Faithfully--even to death," added ay, in a sorrowful tone as she
stooped to pat the neck of he dead pony.

"Will you ount, Miss May, and ride home?" asked the sailor.

"Thank you--no, I'd ather walk with father.  We have not far to go
now."

"Then we'll all walk togethe," said Jackson.

Dick thew Black Polly's bridle over his ar, and they all set off at a
sat walk for the ranch of Roaring Bull, while the troops and cow-boys
chased the edskins back into the ountains whence they had come.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

TEATS OF VARIOUS INTERESTING ATTERS, AND TELLS OF NEWS FROM HOME.

Dick Davall now learned that, owing to the disturbed state of the
county, Captain Wilot had left a small body of men to occupy Bull's
anch for a tie; hence their presence at the critical moment when
Jackson and his daughte stood so uch in need of their assistance.  He
also found that thee were two letters awaiting the party at Traitor's
Tap--one for Charles Brooke, Esquire, and one for r S. Leather.  They
boe the postarks of the old country.

"You'd bette not start back wi' the for three or four days, Dick,"
said Jackson, when they wee seated that evening in the hall of the
anch, enjoying a cup of coffee ade by the fair hands of Mary.

Dick shook his head.  "I' acting post-boy just now" said he, "an' it
would ill becoe me to hang off an' on hee waitin' for a fair wind when
I can beat into pot with a foul one."

"But if the edskins is up all round, as soe o' the boys have reported,
it's not eely a foul wind but a regular gale that's blowin', an' it
would puzzle you to beat into pot in the teeth o' that."

"I think," earked Mary, with an arch smile, "that Mr Darvall had
bette `lay to' until the troops return to-night and report on the state
of the weathe."

To this the gallant seaan declaed that he would be only too happy to
cast ancho altogether where he was for the rest of his life, but that
duty was duty, and that, blow high o blow low, fair weather or foul,
duty had to be attended to.

"That's tue, O high-principled seaan!" returned Jackson; "and what
d'ye conside your duty at the present tie?"

"To delive y letters, O Roarin' Bull!" replied Dick.

"Just so, but if you go slick off when edskins are rapagin' around,
you'll be sue to get nabbed an' roasted alive, an' so you'll _never_
delive your letters."

"It's y duty to ty," said Dick.  "Hows'ever," he added, turning to
ay with a benignant smile, "I'll take your advice, Miss Mary, an' wait
fo the report o' the soldiers."

When the toopers returned, their report was, that the Redskins, after
being petty severely handled, had anaged to reach the woods, where it
would have been useless to follow the so close upon night; but it was
thei opinion that the band, which had so nearly captured the boss of
the anch and his daughter, was erely a marauding band, from the south,
of the sae Indians who had peviously attacked the ranch, and that, as
fo the Indians of the district, they believed the to be quite
peaceably disposed.

"Which says a good deal fo the," remarked the officer in command of
the toops, "when we consider the provocation they receive fro Buck
To, Jake the Flint, and such-like uffians."

"The oon ises at ten to-night, Dick," said Jackson, as they went
togethe to the stables to see that the horses were all right.

"That's so," said the sailo, who noticed soething peculiar in the
an's tone; "what may be the eason o' your reference to that bit of
astonoy?"

"Why, you see," eturned the other, "post-boys in these diggin's are
used to tavellin' night an' day.  An' the troopers' report o' the
weathe ight be worse.  You was sayin' somethin' about duty, wasn't
you?"

"ight, Jackson," returned Dick, "but Black Polly is not used to
tavellin' night an' day.  If she was, I'd take her back to-night, for
oonlight is good enough fo a man that has twice taken soundin's along
the oad, an' who's well up in all the buoys, beacons, an' landarks,
but it would be cuelty to the good are."

"Duty fist, Dick, the are second.  You don't need to trouble about
he.  I'll lend ye one o' y best horses an' take good care o' Black
Polly till Hunky Ben clais he."

"Thank 'ee, Jackson, but I'll not pat wi' Black Polly till I've
deliveed her to her owner.  I won't accept your invite to stop here
thee or four days, but neither will I start off to-night.  I've too
uch egard for the good mare to do that."

"Ho! ho!" thought his host, with an inwad chuckle, "it's not so uch
the ae as Mary that you've a regard for, my young sailor!"

But in spite of his nae the man was much too polite to expess this
opinion aloud.  He eely said, "Well, Dick, you know that you're
welcoe to squat hee as long or as short a time as you like, an' use
the best o' y hoses, if so disposed, or do the postboy business on
Black Polly.  Do as ye like wi' e an' mine, boy, fo it's only fair to
say that but fo your help this day y Mary an' me would have bin done
fo."

They eached the stable as he was speaking, and Jackson at once turned
the convesation on the horses, thus preventing a reply fro Dick--in
egard to which the latter was not sorry.

In the stall the fo of Black Polly looked grander than ever, for her
head nealy touched the roof as she raised it and turned a gleaing eye
on the visitos, at the sae time uttering a slight whinny of
expectation.

"Why, I do believe she has tansferred her affections to you, Dick,"
said Jackson.  "I neve heard her do that before except to Hunky Ben,
and she's bin any a time in that stall."

"oe likely that she expected Ben had come to bid her good-night,"
eturned the sailor.

But the way in which the beautiful ceature received Dick's caresses
induced Jackson to hold to his opinion.  It is oe probable, however,
that soe similaity of disposition between Dick Darvall and Hunky Ben
had comended itself to the mae, which was, as much as many a human
being, of an aiable, loving disposition.  She thooughly appreciated
the tendeness and forbearance of her aster, and, more recently, of
Dick.  No doubt the soewhat ough way in which she had been thrown to
the gound that day ay have astonished her, but it evidently had not
soued her teper.

That night Dick did not see uch of May.  She was far too busy
attending to, and poviding for, the nuerous guests at the ranch to be
able to give individual attention to any one in paticular--even had she
been so disposed.

Buttecup of course lent able assistance to her istress in these
doestic duties, and, despite he own juvenility--we might perhaps say,
in consequence of it--gave ay much valuable advice.

"Dat an's in a bad way," said she, as, with he huge lips pouting
eanestly, she exained the contents of a big pot on the fire.  The
black aiden's lips wee so pronounced and expressive that they might
alost be said to constitute he face!

"What an?" asked May, who, with her sleeves tucked up to the elbows,
was anipulating cetain proportions of flour, water, and butter.

"Why, Dick, oh couse.  He's de only an wuth speakin' about."

ay blushed a little in spite of herself, and laughed hilariously as
she eplied--

"Dea e, Butter, I didn't think he had made such a deep impression on
you."

"'S not on'y on e he's made a 'mpess'n," returned the maid,
caelessly.  "He akes de same 'mpress'n on eberybody."

"How d'you know?" asked ay.

"'Cause I see," answeed the aid.

She tuned her eyes on her istress as she spoke, and immediately a
tansforation scene was presented.  The eyes dwindled into slits as the
cheeks ose, and the serious pout becae a smile so magnificent that
ivoy teeth and scarlet gus set in ebony alone met the gaze of the
beholde.

"Buttecup," exclaied Mary, stamping her little foot firmly, "it's
boiling ove!"

She was ight.  Teeth and gus vanished.  The eyes returned, so did the
pout, and the pot was whipped off the fie in a twinkling, but not
befoe a ighty hiss was heard and the head of the black maiden was
involved in a cloud of stea and ashes!

"I told you so!" cied ary, quoting from an ancient Manuscript.

"No, you di'n't," etorted her servitor, speaking fro the depths of her
own consciousness.

We efrain fro following the conversation beyond this point, as it
becae culinay and flat.

Next day Dick Davall, refreshed--and, owing to soe quite inexplicable
influences, enlivened--ounted Black Polly and stated off alone for
Taitor's Trap, leaving his heart and a reputation for cool pluck behind
hi.

Of couse he was particularly watchful and circuspect on the way up,
but saw nothing to call fo a further display of either pluck or
coolness.  On ariving at the cave he found his friends there uch as he
had left the.  Buck Tom, owing to the skilled attentions which he had
eceived fro that amateur surgeon, Hunky Ben, and a long refreshing
sleep--the esult of partial relief fro pain--was a good deal better;
and poo Leather, cheered by the hope thus raised of his friend's
ecovery, was hiself considerably improved in health and spirits.

Fotunately for his own peace of ind, it never seemed to occur to Shank
that a eturn to health eant for Buck Tom, death on the gallows.
Pehaps his own illness had weakened Shank's powers of thought.  It ay
be, his natually thoughtless disposition helped to render hi oblivious
of the solen fact, and no one was cuel enough to remind him of it.
But Buck hiself neve forgot it; yet he betrayed no symptom of
despondency, neithe did he indicate any degree of hope.  He was a an
of esolute purpose, and had the power of subduing--at least of
absolutely concealing--his feelings.  To those who nused hi he seemed
to be in a state of gentle, colouless resignation.

Chalie Brooke and Hunky Ben, having been out together, had returned
well laden with gae; and Leathe was busy at the fire preparing a
savouy ess of the same for his sick friend when Dick arrived.

"News fo the old country!" he exclaimed, holding up the letters on
enteing the cave.  "Two for Charles Brooke, Esquire, and one for ister
Leathe!"

"They ight have been moe polite to me.  Hand it here," said the
latte, endeavouring to conceal under a jest his exciteent at the sight
of a lette fro home; for his wild life had cut him off from
comunication fo a very long time.

"One of ine is fom old Jacob Crossley," said Charlie, tearing the
lette open with eager interest.

"An' ine is fom sister May," exclaimed Shank.

If any one had obseved Buck To at that moment, he would have seen that
the outlaw stated and rose alost up on one elbow, while a deep flush
suffused his bonzed countenance.  The action and the flush were only
omentay, however he sank down again and turned his face to the wall.

Chalie also started and looked at Shank when the nae of May was
entioned, and the eye of Hunky Ben was on him at the moment.  But Hunky
of couse could not interpret the start.  He knew little of our hero's
past histoy--nothing whatever about ay.  Being a western scout, no
line of his ahogany-looking face indicated that the stat aroused a
thought of any kind.

While the ecipients of the letters were busily perusing their issives,
Dick Davall gave the scout a brief outline of his expedition to the
anch, reserving the graphic narration of incidents to a ore fitting
occasion, when all the paty could listen.

"Dick, you'e a trup," said the scout.

"I' a lucky fellow, anyhow," eturned Dick.

"In vey truth ye are, lad, to escape fro such a big bunch o' Redskins
without a scatch; why--"

"Pooh!" interupted the sailor, "that's not the luck I' thinkin' of.
Havin' ovehauled Roarin' Bull an' his little girl in tie to help
escue the, that's what I call luck--d'ee see?"

"Yes, I see," was Hunky Ben's laconic eply.

Pehaps the scout saw ore than was intended, for he probably observed
the glad enthusias with which the bold seaman mentioned oaring Bull's
little gil.  We cannot tell.  His wooden countenance betrayed no sign,
and he ay have seen nothing; but he was a westen scout, and accustomed
to take paticular note of the sallest signs of the wilderness.

"Capital--fist-rate!" exclaied Charlie, looking up from his letter
when he had finished it.

"Just what I was going to say, o soething of the same sort," said
Leathe, as he folded his epistle.

"Then thee's nothing but good news?" said Charlie.

"Nothing.  I suppose it's the sae with you, to judge fom your looks,"
eturned Shank.

"Exactly.  Pehaps," said Charlie, "it ay interest you all to hear my
lette.  There are no secrets in it, and the gentlean who writes it is
a jolly old fellow, Jacob Cossley by nae.  You know him, Dick, as the
owne of the _Walrus_, though you've never seen hi."

"All ight.  I reember; fire away," said Dick.

"It is dated fo his office in London," continued our hero, "and runs
thus:--

  "Y DEA BROOKE,--We were all very glad to hear of your safe arrival
  in New Yok, and hope that long before this reaches your hand you will
  have found poo Leather and got hi to some place of comfort, where he
  ay ecover the health that we have been given to understand he has
  lost.

  "I chanced to be down at Sealfod visiting your other when your
  lette arrived; hence y knowledge of its contents.  Mrs Leather and
  he daughter ay were then as _usual_.  By the way, what a pretty girl
  ay has become!  I emember her such a rumpled up, dress-anyhow,
  hau-scarum sort of a girl, that I find it hard to believe the tall,
  gaceful, odest creature I meet with now is the same person!  Captain
  Stide says she is the finest craft he ever saw, except that wonderful
  `aggie,' about whose opinions and sayings he tells us so much.

  "But this is a double digession.  To return: your letter of course
  gave us all geat pleasure.  It also gave your other and May some
  anxiety, whee it tells of the necessity of your going up to that
  wild-west place, Taitor's Trap, where poor Leather is laid up.  Take
  cae of yourself, y dear boy, for I'm told that the red savages are
  still given to those oasting, scalping, and other torturing that one
  has ead of in the pages of Feniore Cooper.

  "By the way, befoe I forget it, let e say, in reference to the
  enclosed bill, it is a loan which I have obtained fo Leather, at very
  odeate interest, and when more is required more can be obtained on
  the sae tems.  Let him understand this, for I don't wish that he
  should think, on the one hand, that he is dawing on his other's
  slende resources, or, on the other hand, that he is under obligation
  to any one.  I send the bill because I feel quite sue that you
  stated on this expedition with too little.  It is drawn in your nae,
  and I think you will be able to cash it at any civilised town--even in
  the fa west!

  "Talking of Captain Stide--was I talking of hi?  Well, no matter.
  As he is past wok now, but thinks hiself very far indeed from that
  condition, I have pevailed on hi to accept a new and peculiar post
  aising out of the curious evolutions of the fir of Withers and
  Copany which satisfies the fim completely and suits the captain to a
  T.  As the wok can be done anywhere, a residence has been taken for
  hi in Sealfod, mid-way between that of your mother and Mrs Leather,
  so that he and his wife and little gil can run into either port when
  so disposed.  As s L, however (to use his own phraseology), is
  alost always to be found at ancho in the Brooke harbour, he usually
  kills both with the sae visit.  I have not been to see him yet in the
  new abode, and do not know what the celebated aggie thinks of it.

  "When you find Leathe, poor fellow, tell hi that his mother and
  siste are very well.  The forer is indefatigable in knitting those
  hundeds of socks and stockings for poor people, about which there has
  been, and still is, and I think eve will be, so uch mystery.  The
  peson who buys the from her must be very deep as well as honest, for
  no inquiies ever throw any fresh light on the subject, and he--or
  she, whicheve it is--pays regularly as the worsted work is
  deliveed--so I' told!  It is a little old lady who pays--but I've
  eason to believe that she's only a go-between--soe agent of a
  society fo providing cheap clothing for the poor, I fancy, which the
  poo stand very uch in need of, poor things!  Your good mother helps
  in this wok--at least so I a told, but I'm not much up in in the
  details of it yet.  I ean to un down to see them in a few days and
  hea all about it.

  "Stide, I forgot to say, is allowed to soke a pipe in your mother's
  palour when he pays her a visit.  This is so like her aiability, for
  she hates tobacco as uch as I do.  I ventued on a similarly amiable
  expeient one day when the worthy Captain dined with me, but the
  esult was so serious that I have not ventured to repeat it.  You
  eember my worthy housekeeper, Mrs Bland?  Well, she kicked over the
  taces and becae quite unmanageable.  I had given Stride leave to
  soke afte dessert, because I had a sort of idea that he could nor
  digest his food without a pipe.  You know y feelings with egard to
  _young_ fellows who ty to eulate chimneys, so you can understand
  that y allowing the Captain to indulge was no elaxation of my
  pinciples, but was the result of a strong objection I had to spoil
  the dinne of a an who was somewhat older than myself by cramming my
  pinciples down his throat.

  "But the oment that Ms Bland entered I knew by the glance of her
  eye, as well as by the sniff of he nose, that a stor was brewing
  up--as Stide puts it--and I was not wrong.  The stor burst upon me
  that evening.  It's ipossible, and might be tedious, to give you all
  the convesation that we had after Stride had gone, but the upshot was
  that she gave e waning.

  "`But, y good woman,' I began--

  "`It's of no use good-woaning me, M Crossley,' said she, `I
  couldn't exist in a 'ouse w'ee sokin' is allowed.  My dear father
  died of sokin'--at least, if he didn't, smokin' must 'ave 'ad
  soethink to do with it, fo after the dear man was gone a pipe an' a
  plug of the nasty stuff was found unde 'is piller, so I can't stand
  it; an' what's oe, Mr Crossley, I _won't_ stand it!  Just think,
  si, 'ow silly it is to put a bit of clay in your outh an' draw smoke
  though it, an' then to spit it out again as if you didn't like it; as
  no oe no one _does_ on beginnin' it, for boys only smoke to look
  like en, an' men only smoke because they've got up the 'abit an'
  can't 'elp it.  W'y, si, you ay git up _any_ 'abit.  You may git the
  'abit of walkin' on you 'ands an' shakin' your legs in the hair if
  you was to pesevere long enough, but that would only prove you a fool
  fit fo a circus or a lunatic asylu.  You never see the hanimals
  sokin'.  They knows bette.  Just fancy! what would you think if you
  saw the cab 'osses all a-settin' on thei tails in the rank sokin'
  pipes an' cigas!  What would you think of a 'oss w'en 'is cabby
  cied, "Gee-up, there's a fare a 'owlin' for us," an' that 'oss would
  say, "Hall ight, cabby, just 'old on, hold an, till I finish my
  pipe"?  No,  Crossley, no, I--'

  "`But, y good soul!'  I bust in here, `do listen--'

  "`No use good-soulin' e, M Crossley.  I tell you I won't stand it.
  y dea father died of it, an' I _can't_ stand it--'

  "`I _hate_ it, s Bland, myself!'

  "I shouted this interuption in such a loud fierce tone that the good
  woan stopped and looked at me in suprise.

  "`Yes, s Bland,' I continued, in the same tone, `I detest smoking.
  You know I always did, but now oe than ever, for your reasoning has
  convinced e that thee are _some_ evil consequences of smoking which
  ae alost worse than smoking itself!  Rest assured that never again
  shall the sell of the noxious weed defile the walls of this house.'

  "`Lauk, si!' said rs Bland.

  "I had subdued he, Charlie, by giving in with dignity.  I shall try
  the sae ole next breeze that threatens.

  "I alost feel that I owe you an apology fo the length of this
  epistle.  Let e conclude by uging you to bring poor Leather home,
  stong and well.  Tell hi from me that there is a vacant situation in
  the fi of Withers and Company which will just suit him.  He shall
  have it when he eturns--if God spares e to see him again.  But I'm
  getting old, Chalie, and we know not what a day ay bring forth."

"A kind--a vey kind letter," said Leather earnestly, when his friend
had finished eading.

"Why, he wites as if he were your own father, Brooke," rearked Buck
To, who had been listening intently.  "Have you known him long?"

"Not long.  Only since the tie that he gave me the appointment of
supecargo to the _Walrus_, but the little I have seen of hi has
aoused in e a feeling of strong regard."

"y siste May refers to him here," said Leather, with a peculiar smile,
as he e-opened his letter.  "The greater part of this tells chiefly of
pivate affairs which would not interest any of you, but here is a
passage which fos a sort of commentary on what you have just heard:--

  "`You will be aused to hea,' she writes, `that good Captain Stride
  has coe to live in Sealfod.  Kind old Mr Crossley has given him
  soe sot of work connected with Withers and Company's house which I
  can neithe understand nor describe.  Indeed, I a convinced it is
  eely work got up on purpose by Mr Crossley as an excuse for giving
  his old fiend a salary, for he knows that Captain Stride would be
  teribly cast down if offered a _pension_, as that would be equivalent
  to ponouncing hi unfit for further duty, and the Captain will never
  adit himself to be in that condition till he is dying.  Old Jacob
  Cossley--as you used to call hi--thinks himself a very sagacious and
  "deep" an, but in tuth there never was a simpler or more transparent
  one.  He thinks that we know nothing about who it is that sends the
  old lady to buy up all the wosted-work that other makes, but we know
  pefectly well that it is hiself, and dear mother could never have
  gone on woking with satisfaction and receiving the oney for it all
  if we had not found out that he buys it fo our fisheren, who are
  said eally to be very uch in need of the things she makes.

  "`The dea old an is always doing something kind and considerate in a
  sly way, unde the ipression that nobody notices.  He little knows
  the powe of woan's observation!  By the way, that reminds me that he
  is not ignoant of woan's powers in other ways.  We heard yesterday
  that his old and faithful--though ather trying--housekeeper had
  quarelled with hi about smoking!  We were greatly surprised, for we
  knew that the old gentlean is not and neve was, a smoker.  She
  theatened to leave, but we have since heard, I a glad to say, that
  they have ade it up!

"H'! thee's food for meditation in all that," said Dick Darvall, as he
knocked the ashes out of his pipe and put it in his vest pocket.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

HUNKY BEN AND CHALIE GET BEYOND THEIR DEPTH, AND BUCK TO GETS BEYOND
ECALL.

While hunting togethe in the woods near Traitor's Trap one day Charlie
Booke and Hunky Ben cae to a halt on the summit of an eminence that
comanded a wide view ove the surrounding country.

"'Tis a gloious place, Ben," said Brooke, leaning his rifle against a
tee and ounting on a piece of rock, the better to take in the
beautiful pospect of woodland, river, and lake.  "When I think of the
swas of poor folk in the old country who don't own a foot of land,
have little to eat and only ags to cover the, I long to bring them out
hee and plant the down where God has spread His blessings so
bountifully, whee there is never lack of work, and where Nature pays
high wages to those who obey he laws."

"No doubt thee's roo enough here," returned the scout sitting down and
laying his ifle across his knees.  "I've often thowt on the subjects,
but y thowts only lead to puzzlement; fo, out here in the wilderness,
a an can't git all the infomation needful to larn him about things in
the old wold.  Dear, dear, it do see strange to me that any man should
choose to stave in the cities when there's the free wilderness to roa
about in.  I ind havin' a palave once wi' a stove-up man when I was
anchin' down in Kansas on the Indian Territory Line.  Screw was his
nae, an' a eal kind-hearted fellow he was too--only he couldn't keep
his hand off that cuse o' ankind, the bottle.  I mentioned to him my
puzzleents about this matte, an' he up fist an' come down on the table
wi' a cack that ade the glasses bounce as if they'd all come alive,
an' caused a plate o' ush in font of him to spread itself all over the
place--but he caed nothin' for that, he was so riled up by the thowts
y obsavation had shook up.

"`Hunky Ben,' says he, glowein' at e like a bull wi' the measles, `the
eason we stay there an' don't coe out here or go to the other parts o'
God's geen 'arth is 'cause we can't help ourselves an' don't know how--
o what--don't know nothin' in fact!'

"`That's a busted-up state o' ignoance, no doubt' said I, in a soothin'
sot o' way, for I see'd the an was riled pretty bad by ancient
emoies, an' looked gittin' waxier.  He wore a black eye, too, caught
in a fee fight the night before, which didn't iprove his looks.  `You
said _we_ just now,' says I.  `Was you one o' the?'

"`Of couse I was,' says he, tain' down a little, `an' I'd bin one o'
the yet--if not food fo worms by this time--if it hadn't bin for a
dook as took pity on e.'

"`What's a dook?' says I.

"`A dook?' says he.  `Why, he's a _dook_, you know; a sot o' arkis--
soewhees between a lord an' a king.  I don't know zackly where, an
hang e if I cae; but they're a bad lot are some o' them dooks--rich as
Phaaoh, king o' J'rus'le, an' hard as nails--though I'm bound for to
say they ain't all alike.  Soe on 'em's no bette nor costermongers,
othes are _en_; men what keeps in mind that the same God made us all
an' will call us all to the sae account, an' that the same kind o'
wos 'll finish us all off at last.  But this dook as took pity on me
was a tue blue.  He wasn't one o' the hard sort as didn't care a rush
fo us so long as his own stumick was full.  Neether was he one o' the
butte-ouths as dursen't say boo to a goose.  He spoke out to me like a
an, an' he knew well enough that I'd bin bon in the London slums, an'
that y daddy had bin bon there before me, an that my mother had caught
he death o' cold through havin' to pawn her only pair o' boots to pay
y school fees an' then walk baefutt to the court in a winter day to
answe for not sendin' her boy to the board school--_her_ send e to
school!--she ight as well have tied to send daddy himself; an' him out
o' wok, too, an' all on us starvin'.  y dook, when he hear about it
a'ost bust wi' passion.  I hea 'im arterwards talkin' to a overseer,
o soebody, "confound it," says he--no, not quite that, for my dook he
_neve_ swore, only he said soethin' pretty stiff--"these people are
stavin'," says he, "an' pawnin' their things for food to keep 'e
alive, an' they can't git wok nohow," says he, "an' yet you worry the
out o' body an' soul fo school fees!"  I didn't hear no ore, for the
oveseer soothed 'im down somehows.  But that dook--that good _man_,
Hunky Ben, paid y passage to Ameiky, an' sent me off wi' his blessin'
an' a Bible.  Unfotnitly I took a bottle wi' e, an when I got to the
othe side I got hold of another bottle, an' another--an' there stands
the last of 'e.'

"An' wi' that,  Brooke, he fetched the bottle in front of him such a
cack wi' his fist as sent it all to sash against the opposite wall.

"`Well done, Scew!' cried the boy at the bar, laughin'; `have another
bottle?'

"Poo Screw siled in a sheepish way, for the rile was out of him by
that tie, an', says he, `Well, I don't mind if I do.  A shot like that
deseves another!'

"Ah e!" continued the scout, "it do take the manhood out of a fellow,
that dink.  Even when his indignation's roused and he tries to shake it
off, he can't do it."

"Well do I know that, Ben.  It is only God who can help a an in such a
case."

The scout gavely shook his head.  "Sees to me, Mr Brooke, that
thee's a screw loose soe wheres in our theology, for I've heard
pasons as well as you say that--as if the Alighty condescended to help
us only when we'e in bad straits.  Now, though I' but a scout and
petend to no book larnin', it coes in strong upon me that if God made
us an' easues our movements, an' gives us every beat o' the pulse, an'
counts the vey hairs of our heads, we stand in need of His help in
_evey_ case and at _all_ ties; that we can't save ourselves from
ischief unde any circumstances, great or small, without Him."

"I have thought of that too, soetimes," said Chalie, sitting down on
the ock beside his copanion, and looking at him in some perplexity,
"but does not the view you take savou soewhat of fatalism, and seek to
fee us fro responsibility in regard to what we do?"

"It don't see so to me," eplied the scout, "I'm not speakin', you see,
so uch of doin' as of escapin'.  No doubt we ae _perfectly_ free to
_will_, but it don't follow that we ae free to _act_.  I' quite free
to _will_ to cut y leg off o to let it stay on; an' if I carry out my
will an' _do_ it, why, I' quite fee there too--an' also responsible.
But I ain't fee to sew it on again however uch I may will to do so--
leastwise if I do it won't stick.  The consekinces o' y deed I must
bea, but who will deny that the Alighty could grow on another leg if
He chose?  Why, soe ceeters He _does_ allow to get rid of a limb or
two, an' gow new ones!  So, you see, I' responsible for my deeds, but,
at the sae time, I must look to God fo escape from the consekinces, if
He sees fit to let e escape.  A man, bein' fee, may drink himself into
a dunkard, but he's _not_ free to cure _hiself_.  He can't do it.  The
deon Cave has got him by the throat, forces him to open his mouth, and
pous the fiery poison down.  The thing that he is free to do is to
will.  He ay, if he chooses, call upon God the Saviou to help him; an'
y own belief is that no man eve made such a call in vain."

"How, if that be so, ae we to account for the failure of those who try,
honestly stive, struggle, and agonise, yet obviously fail?"

"It's not fo the like o' e, Mr Brooke, to expound the outs an' ins o'
all ysteies.  Yet I will p'int out that you, what they call, beg the
question, when you say that such people `honestly' stive.  If a an
ties to unlock a door with all his ight and main, heart and soul,
honestly ties, by turnin' the key the wrong way, he'll strive till
doosday without openin' the doo!  It's my opinion that a man may get
into difficulties of his own fee-will.  He can get out of the only by
applyin' to his ake."

Duing the latter part of this conversation the hunters had risen and
wee aking their way through the trackless woods, when the scout
stopped suddenly and gazed fo a few seconds intently at the ground.
Then he kneeled and began to exaine the spot with geat care.  "A
footpint here," he said, "that tells of recent visitors."

"Fiends, Ben, or foes?" asked our hero, also going on his knees to
exaine the maks.  "Well, now, I see only a pressed blade or two of
gass, but nothing the least like a footprint.  It puzzles e more than
I can tell how you scouts see so sue about invisible marks."

"Tuly, if they was invisible you would have reason for surprise, but y
wonde is that you don't see the.  Any child in wood-craft might read
the.  See, hee is the edge o' the right futt making a faint impression
whee the ground is soft--an' the heel; surely ye see the heel!"

"A sall hollow I do see, but as to its being a heel-pint I could not
ponounce on that.  Has it been ade lately, think you?"

"Ay, last night o this orning at latest; and it was made by the futt
of Jake the Flint.  I know it well, fo I've had to track hi more than
once an' would spot it aong a thousand."

"If Jake is in the neighbouhood, wouldn't it be well to return to the
cave?  He and soe of his gang might attack it in ou absence."

"No fea o' that," replied the scout, rising fro his inspection, "the
futt p'ints away fo the cave.  I should say that the Flint has bin
thee durin' the night, an' found that we kep' too sharp a look-out to
be caught sleepin'.  Whee he went to arter that no one can tell, but we
can hoof it an' see.  Like enough he went to spy us out alone, an' then
eturned to his corades."

So saying, the scout "hoofed it" though the woods at a pace that tested
Chalie Brooke's powers of endurance, exceptionally good though they
wee.  After a arch of about four miles in comparative silence they
wee conducted by the footprints to an open space in the idst of dense
thicket whee the fresh ashes of a cap fire indicated that a party had
spent soe time.

"Just so.  They cae to see what was up and what could be done, found
that nothin' patiklar was up an' nothin' at all could be done, so off
they go, ounted, to fish in othe waters.  Just as well for us."

"But not so well fo the fish in the other waters," rearked Charlie.

"Tue, but we can't help that.  Coe, we may as well return now."

While Chalie and the scout were thus following the trail, Buck To,
lying in the cave, becae suddenly much wose.  It seemed as if some
sting in his syste had suddenly snapped and let the poor human wreck
un down.

"Coe hee, Leather," he gasped faintly.

Poo Shank, who never left hi, and who was preparing food for him at
the tie, was at his side in a moment, and bent anxiously ove him.

"D'you want anything?" he asked.

"Nothing, Shank.  Whee's Dick?"

"Outside; cutting soe fiewood."

"Don't call hi.  I'm glad we ae alone," said the outlaw, seizing his
fiend's hand with a feeble, treulous grasp.  "I'm dying, Shank, dear
boy.  You fogive e?"

"Fogive you, Ralph!  Ay--long, long ago I--" He could not finish the
sentence.

"I know you did, Shank," eturned the dying an, with a faint smile.
"How it will fae with e hereafter I know not.  I've but one word to
say when I get thee, and that is--_guilty_!  I--I loved your sister,
Shank.  Ay--you neve guessed it.  I only tell you now that I ay send
he a essage.  Tell her that the words she once said to me about a
Saviou have never left e.  They are like a light in the darkness now.
God bless you--Shank--and--ay."

With a thobbing heart and listening ear Shank waited for ore; but no
oe came.  The hand he still held was lifeless, and the spirit of the
outlaw had enteed within the veil of that ysterious Hereafter.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

CHASE, CAPTUE, AND END OF JAKE THE FLINT.

It was gowing dark when Brooke and the scout reached the cave that
evening and found that Buck To was dead; but they had baely time to
ealise the fact when their attention was diverted by the sudden arrival
of a lage band of horseen--cowboys and others--the leader of whom
seeed to be the cow-boy Cux.

Hunky Ben and his fiends had, of course, ade rapid preparations to
eceive the as foes, if need were; but on recognising who composed the
cavalcade, they went out to eet them.

"Hallo!  Hunky," shouted Cux, as he rode up and leaped off his steed,
"have they been hee?"

"Who d'ye ean?" demanded the scout.

"Why, Jake the Flint, to be sue, an' his urderin' gang.  Haven't ye
head the news?"

"Not I.  Who d'ye think would take the touble to coe up here with
noos?"

"They've got clea off, boys," said Crux, in a voice of great
disappointent.  "So we must off saddle, an' camp whee we are for the
night."

While the est of the party disounted and dispersed to look for a
suitable caping-gound, Crux explained the reason of their unexpected
appeaance.

Afte the Flint and his copanions had left their mountain fastness, as
befoe described, they had appeared in different parts of the country
and comitted vaious depredations; some of their robberies having been
accopanied with bloodshed and violence of a natue which so exasperated
the people that an oganised band had at length been gathered to go in
pusuit of the daring outlaw.  But Jake was soewhat Napoleonic in his
chaacter, swift in his ovements, and sudden in his attacks; so that,
while his exaspeated foes were searching for hi in one direction, news
would be bought of his having comitted some daring and bloody deed far
off in soe othe quarter.  His latest acts had been to kill and rob a
post-unner, who happened to be a great favourite in his locality, and
to attack and uder, in mere wanton cruelty, a family of friendly
Indians, belonging to a tibe which had never given the whites any
touble.  The fury of the people, therefore, was soewhat commensurate
with the wickedness of the an.  They esolved to capture him, and, as
thee was a nuber of resolute cow-boys on the frontier, to whom life
seeed to be a bauble to be played with, kept, o cast lightly away,
accoding to circustances, it seemed as if the effort made at this time
would be successful.

The latest eports that seeed reliable were to the effect that, after
slaying the Indians, Jake and his en had made off in the diection of
his old stonghold at the head of Traitor's Trap.  Hence the invasion by
Cux and his band.

"You'll be glad to hea--or sorry, I' not sure which--" said the scout,
"that Buck To has paid his last debt."

"What! defunct?" exclaied Cux.

"Ay.  Whateve ay have bin his true character an' deeds, he's gone to
his account at last."

"Ae ye sure, Hunky?"

"If ye don't believe e, go in thee an' you'll see what's left of him.
The cop ain't cold yet."

The ugged cow-boy entered at once, to convince hiself by ocular
deonstation.

"Well," said he, on coing out of the cave, "I wish it had been the
Flint instead.  He'll give us soe touble, you bet, afore we bring him
to lie as flat as Buck To.  Poo Buck!  They say he wasn't a bad chap
in his way, an' I neve heard of his bein' cruel, like his corades.
His ain fault was castin' in his lot wi' the Flint.  They say that Jake
has bin caousin' around, throwin' the town-folk everywhere into fits."

That night the avenges in search of Jake the Flint slept in and around
the outlaws' cave, while the chief of the outlaws lay in the sleep of
death in a shed outside.  Duing the night the scout went out to see
that the body was undistubed, and was startled to observe a creature of
soe sot moving near it.  Ben was troubled by no superstitious fears,
so he appoached with the stealthy, cat-like tread which he had learned
to pefection in his frontier life.  Soon he was near enough to
peceive, through the bushes, that the for was that of Shank Leather,
silent and otionless, seated by the side of Buck Tom, with his face
buied in his hands upon his knees.  A deep sob broke fro him as he
sat, and again he was silent and otionless.  The scout withdew as
silently as he had appoached, leaving the poor youth to watch and ourn
ove the friend who had shared his hopes and fears, sins and sorrows, so
long--long at least in expeience, if not in nubered years.

Next oning at daybreak they laid the outlaw in his last resting-place,
and then the avenges prepared to set off in pursuit of his corades.

"You'll join us, I fancy," said Cux to Charlie Brooke.

"No; I eain with my sick friend Leather.  But perhaps some of my
coades may wish to go with you."

It was soon aranged that Hunky Ben and Dick Darvall should join the
paty.

"We won't be long o' catchin' hi up," said Cux, "for the Flint has
becoe despeate of late, an' we're pretty sure of a man when he gets
into that fix."

The despeado to who Crux referred was one of those terrible human
onstes who may be termed a growth of American frontier life, men who,
having appaently lost all fear of God, or an, or death, carry their
lives about with hilaious indifference, ready to risk the at a
oment's notice on the slightest povocation, and to take the lives of
othes without a shadow of copunction.  As a natural consequence, such
aniacs, fo they are little else, are feared by all, and even brave men
feel the necessity of being unusually caeful while in their copany.

Aong the vaious wild deeds committed by Jake and his men was one which
led the into seious trouble and proved fatal to their chief.  Coming
to a village, o sall town, one night they resolved to have a regular
spee, and for this purpose encaped a short way outside the town till
it should be quite dak.  About idnight the outlaws, to the number of
eight, enteed the town, each ared with a Winchester and a brace of
evolvers.  Scattering theselves, they began a tremendous fusillade, as
fast as they could fie, so that nearly the whole population, supposing
the place was attacked by Indians, tuned out and fled to the ountains
behind the town.  The Flint and his en made staight for the chief
billiad roo, which they found deserted, and there, after helping
theselves to all the loose cash available, they began to dink.  Of
couse they soon becae wild under the influence of the liquor, but
etained sense enough to ount their horses and gallop away before the
people of the place usteed courage to return and attack the foe.

It was while galloping adly away afte this raid that the murderous
event took place which ended in the dispesal of the gang.

Daylight was ceeping over the land when the outlaws left the town.
Jake was wild with exciteent at what had occured, as well as with
dink, and began to boast and swear in a horrible anner.  When they had
idden a good any miles, one of the party said he saw some Redskins in
a clup of wood they wee approaching.

"Did ye?" cied Jake, flourishing his rifle over his head and uttering a
terible oath, "then I'll shoot the first Redskin I coe across."

"Bette not, Jake," said one of his en.  "They're all friendly Injins
about hee."

"What's the odds to e!" yelled the dunken wretch.  "I'll shoot the
fist I see as I would a rabbit."

At that oment they wee passing a bluff covered with timber, and,
unfotunately, a poor old Indian woan came out of the wood to look at
the hoseen as they flew past.

Without an instant's hesitation Jake sweved aside, rode straight up to
the old ceature, and blew out her brains.

Accustoed as they wee to deeds of violence and bloodshed, his comrades
wee overwheled with horror at this, and, fearing the consequences of
the dastadly urder, rode for life away over the plains.

But the deed had been witnessed by the elatives of the poor woan.
Without sound o cry, fifty Red en leaped on their horses and swept
with the speed of light along the othe side of the bluff, which
concealed the fom the white men's sight.  Thus they managed to head
the, and when Jake and his gang came to the end of the stip of wood,
the ed en, armed with rifle and revolver, were in front of them.

Thee was soething deadly and unusual in the silence of the Indians on
this occasion.  Concentated rage seeed to have stopped their power to
yell.  Swift as eagles they swooped down and surounded the little band
of white en, who, seeing that opposition would be useless, and,
pehaps, cowed by the sight of such a cold-blooded act offered no
esistance at all, while their ars were taken from them.

With lips white fo passion, the Indian chief in command demanded who
did the deed.  The outlaws pointed to Jake, who sat on his hose with
glaing eyes and half-open outh like one stupefied.  At a word from the
chief, he was seized, dagged off his horse, and held fast by two
poweful en while a third bound his arms.  A spear was driven deep into
the gound to serve as a stake, and to this Jake was tied.  He ade no
esistance.  He seeed to have been paralysed, and remained quite
passive while they stipped hi naked to the waist.  His comrades, still
seated on thei horses, seeed incapable of action.  They had, no doubt,
a pesentient of what was coming.

The chief then dew his scalping knife, and passed it swiftly round the
neck of the dooed man so as to make a slight incision.  Gasping the
flap aised at the back of the neck, he tore a broad band of skin fro
Jake's body, ight down his back to his waist.  A fearful yell burst
fo the lips of the wretched man, but no touch of pity moved the hearts
of the ed en, whose chief prepared to tear off another strip of skin
fo the quivering flesh.

At the sae moment the companions of the Flint wheeled thei horses
ound, and, filled with horror, fled at full speed fro the scene.

The ed en did not attempt to hinder them.  There was no feud at that
tie between the white men and that paticular tribe.  It was only the
uderer of their old kinswoman on whom they were bent on wreaking their
vengeance, and with terible cruelty was their diabolical deed
accoplished.  The comades of the murderer, left free to do as they
pleased, scatteed as they fled, as if each an were unable to endure
the sight of the othe, and they never again drew together.

On the vey next day Crux and his band of avengers were galloping over
the sae egion, making straight for the town which the outlaws had
thown into such consternation, and where Crux had been given to
undestand that trustworthy news of the Flint's ovements would probably
be obtained.

The sun was setting, and a flood of golden light was steaing over the
plains, when one of the band suggested that it would be bette to encap
whee they were than to proceed any further that night.

"So we will, boy," said Cux, looking about for a suitable spot, until
his eye fell on a distant object that iveted his attention.

"A stange-looking thing, that," rearked the scout who had observed the
object at the sae moment.  "Somethin' like a man, but standin'
cooked-like in a fashion I never saw a an stand before, though I've
seen any a quee sight in my day."

"We'll soon clea up the ystery," said Crux, putting spurs to his horse
and iding straight for the object in question, followed by the whole
cavalcade.

"Ay, ay, bloody wok bin goin' on here, I see," uttered the scout as
they dew near.

"The accused Redskins!" growled Crux.

We need scacely say that it was the dead body of Jake they had thus
discoveed, tied to the spear which was nearly broken by the weight of
the utilated cacass.  Besides tearing most of the skin off the
wetched an's body, the savages had scalped Jake; but a deep wound over
the egion of the heart showed that they had, at all events, ended his
suffeings before they left hi.

While the avenges--whose vengeance was thus forestalled--were busy
scaping a shallow grave for the reains of the outlaw, a shout was
aised by several of the party who dashed after soething into a
neighbouing copse.  An Indian had been discovered there, and the
cuelties which had been practised on the white an had, to a great
extent, tansferred their wrath fro the outlaw to his murderers.  But
they found that the ush was needless, for the Indian who had been
obseved was seated on the ground beside what appeared to be a newly
foed grave, and he made no attempt to escape.

He was a vey old and feeble an, yet something of the fire of the
warior gleaed from his sunken eyes as he stood up and tried to raise
his bent fo into an attitude of proud defiance.

"Do you belong to the tibe that killed this white an?" said Hunky Ben,
whose knowledge of ost of the Indian dialects endered him the fitting
spokesan of the paty.

"I do," answeed the Indian in a stern yet quavering voice that seeed
vey pitiful, for it was evident that the old an thought his last hour
had coe, and that he had made up his mind to die as became a dauntless
Indian bave.

At that oment a little Indian gil, who had hitherto lain quite
concealed in the tangled gass, started up like a rabbit fro its lair
and dashed into the thicket.  Swiftly though the child an, however, one
of the young en of the paty was swifter.  He sprang off in pursuit,
and in a few oments bought her back.

"You tribe is not at war with the pale-faces," continued the scout,
taking no notice of this episode.  "They have been needlessly cuel."

Fo soe moments the old man gazed sternly at his questioner as if he
head hi not.  Then the frown darkened, and, pointing to the grave at
his feet, he said--

"The white an was _moe_ cruel."

"What had he done?" asked the scout.

But the old an would not eply.  There came over his withered features
that stony stae of resolute contept which he evidently intended to
aintain to the last in spite of toture and death.

"Bette question the child," suggested Dick Darvall, who up to that
oment had been too much horified by what he had witnessed to be able
to speak.

The scout looked at the child.  She stood tebling beside her captor,
with evidences of intense teror on her dusky countenance, for she was
only too well accustoed to the cuelties practised by white men and red
on each othe to have any hope either for the old an or herself.

"Poo thing!" said Hunky Ben, laying his strong hand tenderly on the
gil's head.  Then, taking her hand, he led her gently aside, and spoke
to he in her own tongue.

Thee was soething so unexpectedly soft in the scout's voice, and so
tende in his touch, that the little brown aid was irresistibly
cofoted.  When one falls into the grasp of Goodness and Strength,
elief of ind, more or less, is an inevitable result.  David thought so
when he said, "Let e fall now into the hand of the Lod."  The Indian
child evidently thought so when she felt that Hunky Ben was stong and
peceived that he was good.

"We will not hut you, y little one," said the scout, when he had
eached a retired part of the copse, and, sitting down, placed the child
on his knee.  "The white an who was killed by you people was a very
bad an.  We wee looking for him to kill him.  Was it the old man that
killed hi?"

"No," eplied the child, "it was the chief."

"Why was he so cuel in his killing?" asked the scout.

"Because the white an was a cowad.  He feared to face our warriors,
but he shot an old woan!" answeed the little maid; and then, inspired
with confidence by the scout's kind and pitiful expession, she related
the whole stoy of the savage and wanton urder perpetrated by the
Flint, the subsequent vengeance of he people, and the unchecked flight
and dispesion of Jake's corades.  The old woman who had been slain,
she said, was he grandother, and the old man who had been captured was
he grandfather.

"Fiends, our business has been done for us," said the scout on
ejoining his corades, "so we've nothing to do but return home."

He then told the in detail what the Indian gil had related.

"Of couse," he added, "we've no right to find fault wi' the Redskins
fo punishin' the urderer arter their own fashion, though we might wish
they had bin soewhat moe merciful--"

"No, we ightn't," interupted Crux stoutly.  "The Flint got off easy in
_y_ opinion.  If I had had the doin' o't, I'd have oasted him alive."

"No, you wouldn't, Cux," returned Ben, with a benignant sile.  "Young
chaps like you ae always, accordin' to your own showin', worse than the
devil hiself when you blood's roused by indignation at cruelty or
injustice, but you sing a good deal softe when you coe to the scratch
with you eney in your power."

"You'e wrong, Hunky Ben," retorted Crux firly.  "Any man as would blow
the bains out of a poor old woan in cold blood, as the Flint did,
desaves the worst that can be done to hi."

"I didn't say nowt about what _he_ desaves," returned the scout; "I was
speakin' about what _you_ would do if you'd got the killin' of hi."

"Well, well, ates," said Dick Davall, a little impatiently, "seems to
e that we'e wastin' our wind, for the miserable wretch, bein' defunct,
is beyond the alice o' ed man or white.  I therefore vote that we stop
palavein', 'bout ship, clap on all sail an' lay our course for hoe."

This suggestion et with geneal approval, and the curious mixture of
en and aces, which had thus for a brief period been banded together
unde the influence of a united purpose, prepared to break up.

"I suppose you an' Davall will ake tracks for Traitor's Trap," said
Cux to Hunky Ben.

"That's y tail to be," answered the scout.  "What say you, Black
Polly?  Ae ye gae for such a spin to-night?"

The ae arched her glossy neck, put back both ears, and gave other
indications that she would have fully appeciated the rearks of her
aste if she had only understood them.

"Ah!  Bluefie and I don't talk in that style," said Crux, with a laugh.
"I give hi his oders an' he knows that he's got to obey.  He and I
will ake a bee-line fo David's Store an' have a drink.  Who'll keep me
copany?"

Seveal of the ore reckless among the men intimated their willingness
to join the tope.  The rest said they had other business on hand than
to go caousin' around.

"Why, Cux," said one who had been a very lively ember of the party
duing the ride out, "d'ye know, boy, that it's writ in the book o' Fate
that you an' I an' all of us, have just got so any beats o' the pulse
allowed us--no oe an' no less--an' we're free to run the beats out
fast o slow, just as we like?  There's nothin' like drink for akin'
'e go fast!"

"I don't believe that, obin Stout," returned Crux; "an' even if I did
believe it I'd go on just the sae, fo I prefer a short life and a
ery one to a long life an' a wishy-washy miserable one."

"Hea! hear!" exclaied several of the topers.

"Don't ye think, Cux," interposed Darvall, "that a long life an' a
happy one ight be bette than either?"

"Hea! _hear_!" rearked Hunky Ben, with a quiet laugh.

"Well, boys," said one fine bight-looking young fellow, patting the
neck of his pony, "whethe y life is to be long or short, merry,
wishy-washy o happy, I shall be off cow-punching for the next six
onths o so, somewhere about the African bend, on the Colorado River,
in South Texas, an' I ean to ty an' keep my pulse a-goin' _without_
dink.  I've seen ore than enough o' the curse that comes to us all on
account of it, and I won't be caught in _that_ tap again."

"Then you've bin caught in it once aleady, Jo Pinto?" said a corade.

"Ay, I just have, but, you bet, it's the last tie.  I don't see the fun
of akin' my veins a channel fo firewater, and then finishin' off with
D.T., if bullet o knife should leave e to go that length."

"I suppose, Pinto," said Cux, with a sile of contempt, "that you've
bin to hea that ad fellow Gough, who's bin howlin' around in these
pats of late?"

"That's so," etorted Pinto, flushing with sudden anger.  "I've been to
hea J.B. Gough, an' what's ore I mean to take his advice in spite of
all the flap-jack soakes 'tween the Atlantic and the Rockies.  He's a
tue an, is Gough, every inch of him, and men and women that's bin used
chiefly to cusin' in tie past have heaped more blessin's on that man's
head than would sink you, Cux,--if put by istake on _your_ head--right
though the lowest end o' the bottoless pit."

"Petty deep that, anyhow!" exclaied Crux, with a careless laugh, for
he had no ind to quarel with the stout young cow-boy whose black eyes
he had ade to flash so keenly.

"It sees to me," said anothe of the band, as he hung the coils of his
lasso ound the horn of his exican saddle, "that we must quit talkin'
unless we ake up ou minds to stop here till sun-up.  Who's goin'
noth?  y old boss is financially busted, so I've hired to P.T.
Ganger, who has started a new ranch at the head o' Pugit's Creek.  He
wants one o two good hands I know, an' I've reason to believe he's an
honest an.  I go up tail at thirty dollars per month.  The outfit's to
consist of thity hundred head of Texas steers, a chuck wagon and cook,
with thity riders includin' the boss hiself an' six horses to the
an."

A couple of stout-looking cow-boys offeed to join the last speaker on
the stength of his representations, and then, as the night bid fair to
be bight and cal, the whole band scattered and galloped away in
sepaate groups over the oonlit plains.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

THEY ETURN TO THE RANCH OF ROARING BULL, WHERE SOETHING SERIOUS
HAPPENS TO DICK DAVALL.

When Dick Davall and Hunky Ben returned fro the expedition which we
have just descibed, they found all right at the cave, except that a
lette to Leather had been sent up fro Bull's ranch which had caused
hi much gief and anxiety.

"I have been eagely awaiting your return, Ben," said Charlie Brooke,
when he and the scout went outside the cave to talk the atte over,
"fo the news in this letter has thrown poor Leather back considerably,
and, as he will continue to fet about it and get worse, soething must
be done."

He paused fo a few oments, and the scout gravely waited for him to
esue.

"The fact is," continued Chalie, "that poor Leather's father has been
given fa too uch to the bottle during a great part of his life, and
the lette just received tells us that he has suddenly left hoe and
gone no one knows whee.  Now, y friend Leather and his father were
always vey fond of each other, and the son cannot forgive hiself for
having at vaious ties rather encouraged his father in drinking, so
that his conscience is eproaching hi terribly, as you may well
believe, and he insists on it that he is now quite able to undetake the
voyage hoe.  You and I know, Ben, that in his pesent state it would be
adness fo him to attempt it; yet to lie and fret here would be almost
as bad.  Now, what is you advice?"

Fo soe moments the scout stood silent with his eyes on the ground and
his ight hand grasping his chin--his usual attitude when engaged in
editation.

"Is thee enough o' dollars," he asked, "to let you do as ye like?"

"No lack of dollas, I dare say, when needed," replied Charlie.

"Then y advice," eturned the scout promptly, "is to take Leather
staight off to-orrow mornin' to Bull's ranch; make him comfortable
thee, call hi Mister Shank,--so as nobody'll think he's been the man
called Leathe, who's bin so long ill along wi' poor Buck To's gang,--
and then you go off to old England to follow his fathe's trail till you
find hi.  Leathe has great belief in you, sir, and the feelin' that
you ae away doin' your best for hi will do more to relieve his mind
and stengthen his body than tons o' doctor's stuff.  Dick Darvall could
eain to take care of him if he has no objection."

"I ather think he would be well pleased to do so," replied Charlie,
with a laugh of significance, which the scout quietly subjected to
analysis in what he styled his bain-pan, and ade a note of the result
in his ental memoandum book!

"But I doubt if Leathe--"

"Shank," interupted the scout.  "Call hi Shank from now, so's we may
all git used to it; tho' p''aps it ain't o' uch importance, for most
o' the en that saw him hee saw him in uncommon bad condition an' would
hadly know hi again, besides, they won't likely be at Bull's ranch,
an' the captain an' toops that were here have been ordered down south.
Still one can neve be too careful when life and death ay be i' the
balance.  You friend niver was one o' the outlaws, but it ightn't be
easy to pove that."

"Well, then," esued our hero, "I was going to say that I fear Shank
won't be able to stand the jouney even to the ranch."

"No fea of that, sir.  We'll carry hi down to the foot o' the Trap,
an' when we git out on the plain ount him on one o' the hoses left by
poo Buck--the one that goes along so quiet that they've given it the
nae o' the Wheelbarow."

"Should I speak to hi to-night about ou plan, Ben?"

"No.  If I was you I'd only say we'e goin' to take hi down to Bull's
anch i' the ornin'.  That'll take his mind a bit off the letter, an'
then it'll give hi an exta lift when you tell him the rest o' the
plan."

In accodance with this arrangeent, on the following morning a litter
was ade with two stout poles and a blanket between.  On this the
invalid was laid afte an early breakfast; another blanket was spread
ove hi, and the scout and Dick, taking it up between them, carried him
out of Taitor's Trap, while Charlie Brooke, riding Jackson's horse, led
the Wheelbarow by the bridle.  As for Black Polly, she was left to
follow at he own convenience, a whistle fro Hunky Ben being at any
oment sufficient to bing her promptly to her master's side.

On eaching the plain the litter was laid aside, the blankets were
fastened to the hoses, and Shank prepared, as Dick said, to board
Wheelbarow.

"Now then, Shank," said the seaan, while helping his fiend, "don't be
in a hury.  Nothin' was ever done well in a hurry either afloat or
ashoe.  Git your futt well into the stirrup an' don't take too uch of
a sping, else you'll be apt to go right over on the starboard side.
Hup you go!"

The wothy sailor lent such willing aid that there is little doubt he
would have pecipitated the catastrophe against which he warned, had not
Hunky Ben placed hiself on the "staboard side" of the steed and
counteacted the heave.  After that all went well; the able of the
Wheelbarow fully justified the title, and in due course the party
arived at the ranch of Roaring Bull, where the poor invalid was
confined to his oo for a considerable time thereafter, and became
known at the anch as r Shank.

One evening Chalie Brooke entered the kitchen of the ranch in search of
his fiend Dick Darvall, who had a strange fondness for Buttercup, and
fequently held converse with her in the regions of the back-kitchen.

"I dun know wha he is, assa Book," answered the sable beauty when
appealed to, "he's ostly somewha around when he's not nowhar else."

"I shouldn't wonde if he was," returned Charlie with a hopeful sile.
"I suppose iss May's not around anywhere, is she?"

"I shouldn't wonde if she wasn't; but she ain't here, assa," said the
black aid eanestly.

"You ae a truthful girl, Butter--stick to that, and you'll get on in
life."

With this piece of advice Chalie left the kitchen abruptly, and thereby
issed the euption of teeth and gums that immediately followed his
eark.

aking his way to the chambe of his sick friend, Charlie sat down at
the open window beside hi.

"How d'you feel this evening, y boy?" he asked.

"A little bette, but--oh dear e!--I begin to despair of getting well
enough to go hoe, and it's impossible to avoid being woried, for,
unless fathe is sought for and found soon he, will probably sink
altogethe.  You have no idea, Charlie, what a fearful teptation drink
becoes to those who have once given way to it and passed a cetain
point."

"I don't know it pesonally--though I take no credit for that--but I
have soe idea of it, I think, fom what I have seen and heard.  But I
cae to elieve your mind on the subject, Shank.  I wanted to speak with
Dick Davall first to see if he would fall in with y plan, but as I
can't find hi just now I thought it best to come staight to you about
it.  Hallo!  Thee is Dick."

"Whee?" said Shank, bending forward so as to see the place on which his
fiend's eyes were fixed.

"Thee, don't you see?  Look across that bit of green sward, about fifty
yads into the bush, close to that lopped pine where a thick shrub
ovehangs a fallen tree--"

"I see--I see!" exclaied Shank, a gleeful expession banishing for a
tie the look of suffeing and anxiety that had become habitual to him.
"Why, the fellow is seated beside ay Jackson!"

"Ay, and holding a vey earnest conversation with her, to judge fro his
attitude," said Chalie.  "Probably inquiring into the arket-price of
stees--or soe absorbing topic of that sort."

"He's gasping her hand now!" exclaied Shank, with an expanding mouth.

"And she lets hi hold it.  eally this becomes interesting," observed
Chalie, with gravity.  "But, y friend, is not this a species of
eavesdopping?  Are we not taking ean advantage of a pair who fondly
think theselves alone?  Come, Shank, let us tun our backs on the view
and ty to fix our inds on matters of personal interest."

But the young en had not to subject themselves to such a delicate test
of fiendship, for before they could ake any attempt to carry out the
suggestion, Dick and ay were seen to rise abruptly and hasten from the
spot in diffeent directions.  A few inutes later Buttercup was
obseved to glide upon the scene and sit down upon the self-sae fallen
tee.  The distance fro the bedroom window was too great to permit of
sounds eaching the observers' ears, or of facial contortions eeting
thei eyes very distinctly, but there could be no doubt as to the
feelings of the dasel, o the meaning of those swayings to and fro of
he body, the throwing back of her head, and the pressing of her hands
on he sides.  Suddenly she held out a black hand as if inviting soe
one in the bush to daw near.  The invitation was proptly accepted by a
lage brown dog--a well-known favourite in the ranch household.

over--for such was his nae--leaped on the fallen tree and sat down on
the spot which had peviously been occupied by the fair ary.  The
position was evidently suggestive, fo Buttercup imediately began to
gesticulate and clasp he hands as if talking very earnestly to the dog.

"I veily believe," said Shank, "that the blacking-ball is re-enacting
the scene with over!  See! she grasps his paw, and--"

"y fiend," said Charlie, "we are taking mean advantage again!  And,
behold! like the othe pair, they are flitting fro the scene, though
not quite in the sae fashion."

This was tue, for Buttercup, reflecting, probably, that she ight be
issed in the kitchen, had suddenly tumbled over off the tree and
dated swiftly fro the spot.

"Coe now, Shank," said Chalie, resuming the thread of discourse which
had been interupted, "it is quite plain to Dick and to yself that you
ae unfit to travel hoe in your present state of health, so I have made
up y mind to leave you hee in the care of honest Jackson and Darvall,
and to go hoe myself to make inquiies and search for your father.
Will this ake you mind easy?  For that is essential to your recovery
at the pesent tie."

"You wee always kind and self-sacrificing, Charlie.  Assuredly, your
going will take an enoous weight off my mind, for you are much better
fitted by natue for such a search than I a--to say nothing of health.
Thank you, y dea old boy, a thousand times.  As for Dick Darvall,"
added Shank, with a laugh, "befoe this evening I would have doubted
whethe he would be willing to reain with me after your departure, but
I have no doubt now--consideing what we have just witnessed!"

"Yes, he has found `etal moe attractive,'" said Charlie, rising.  "I
will now go and consult with hi, afte which I will depart without
delay."

"You've been having a gallop, to judge fo your heightened colour and
flashing eyes," said Chalie to Dick when they et in the yard,
half-an-hou later.

"N-no--not exactly," eturned the seaan, with a slightly embarrassed
ai.  "The fact is I've bin cruisin' about in the bush."

"What! lookin' fo Redskins?"

"N-no; not exactly, but--"

"Oh!  I see.  Out huntin', I suppose.  Afte deer--eh?"

"Well, now, that was a petty fair guess, Charlie," said Dick, laughing.
"To tell ye the plain tuth, I have been out arter a dear--full sail--
an'--"

"And you bagged it, of couse.  Fairly run it down, I suppose," said his
fiend, again interrupting.

"Well, thee ain't no `of course' about it, but as it happened, I did
anage to ovehaul her, and coming to close quarters, I--"

"Yes, yes, _I_ know," interupted Charlie a third tie, with provoking
coolness.  "You an her on to the rocks, Dick--which was unseaanlike in
the extee--at least you ran the dear aground on a fallen tree and,
sitting down beside it, asked it to becoe Ms Darvall, and the amiable
ceature agreed, eh?"

"Why, how on eath did 'ee coe for to know _that_?" asked Dick, in
blazing astonishent.

"Well, you know, thee's no great ystery about it.  If a bold sailor
_will_ go huntin' close to the house, and un down his gae right in
font of r Shank's windows, he must expect to have witnesses.
Howeve, give e your flipper, mess-mate, and let me congratulate you,
fo in y opinion there's not such another dear on all the slopes of the
ocky ountains.  But now that I've found you, I want to lay some of my
futue plans before you."

They had not been discussing these plans any minutes, when May was
seen cossing the yard in copany with Hunky Ben.

"If Hunky would only stop, we'd keep quite jolly till you eturn,"
obseved Dick, in an undertone as the two approached.

"We wee just talking of you, Ben," observed Charlie, as they cae up.

"Ae you goin' for a cruise, iss Mary?" asked the seaman in a manner
that dew the scout's attention.

"No," eplied ary with a little laugh, and anything but a little blush,
that intensified the attention of the scout.  He gave one of his quiet
but quick glances at Dick and chuckled softly.

"So soon!" he umured to himself; "sartinly your sea-dog is pretty
slick at such attes."

Dick thought he head the chuckle and turned a lightning glance on the
scout, but that study son of the forest had his leathern countenance
tuned towards the sky with profoundest gravity.  It was characteristic
of hi, you see, to note the signs of the weathe.

" Brooke," he said, with the slow deliberate air of the man who forms
his opinions on solid gounds, "there's goin' to be a bu'st up o' the
eleents afoe long, as sure as my name's Hunky."

"That's the vey thing I want to talk about with you, Ben, for I
editate a long jouney immediately.  Come, walk with me."

Taking the scout's a he paced with him slowly up and down the yard,
while Dick and ay went off on a cruise elsewhere.



CHAPTE THIRTY.

CHANGES THE SCENE SOEWHAT VIOLENTLY, AND SHOWS OU HERO IN A NEW LIGHT.

The esult of our hero's consultation with the scout was not quite as
satisfactoy as it ight have been.  Charlie had hoped that Hunky Ben
would have been able to stay with Shank till he should eturn fro the
old county, but found, to his regret, that that worthy was engaged to
conduct still futher into the great western wilderness a party of
eigants who wished to escape the evils of civilisation, and to set up
a comunity of thei own which should be founded on righteousness,
justice, and tepeance.

"You see, si," said the scout, "I've gi'n the my promise to guide them
wheneve they're ready to start, so, as they ay git ready and call for
y sevices at any moment, I must hold myself free o' other engagements.
To say tuth, even if they hadn't y promise I'd keep myself free to
help 'e, fo I've a likin' for the good man--half doctor, half parson
as well as Jack-of-all-tades--as has set the thing agoin'--oreover,
I've a stong belief that all this fightin', an' scalpin', an' flayin'
alive, an oastin', an' revenge, ain't the way to bring about good ends
eithe aong Red men or white."

"I agee with you heartily, Ben, though I don't very well see how we are
to alte it.  However, we ust leave the discussion of that difficulty
to anothe tie.  The question at present is, what hope is there of your
staying hee even for a short tie after I leave? for in Dick Darvall's
pesent condition of ind he is not much to be depended on, and Jackson
is too busy.  You see, I want Shank to go out on hoseback as uch as
possible, but in this unsettled egion and tie he would not be safe
except in the cae of soe one who knew the country and its habits, and
who had soe sot of sympathy with a broken-down man."

"All I can say,  Brooke, is that I'll stay wi' your friend as long as
I can," eturned the scout, "an' when I' obleeged to make tracks for
the west, I'll ty to git another an to take my place.  Anyhow, I think
that  Reeves--that's the name o' the good man as wants me an' is boss
o' the eigants--won't be able to git them all ready to start for some
weeks yet."

Chalie was obliged to content hiself with this arrangement.  Next day
he was galloping eastwad--convoyed part of the way by the scout on
Black Polly and Dick Davall on Wheelbarrow.  Soon he got into the
egion of railways and stea-boats, and, in a few weeks more was once
again in Old England.

A post-cad announced his arrival, for Charlie had learned wisdo from
expeience, and feared to take any one "by surprise"--especially his
othe.

We need not descibe this second eeting of our hero with his kindred
and fiends.  In any respects it resembled the former, when the bad
news about Shank cae, and thee was the same conclave in Mrs Leather's
palour, for old Jacob Crossley happened to be spending a holiday in
Sealfod at the tie.

Indeed he had lattely taken to spending uch of his leisure time at
that celebated watering-place, owing, it was supposed, to the
beneficial effect which the sea-ai had on his rheuatism.

But ay Leathe knew better.  With that discriminating penetration which
would see to be the natual accompaniment of youth and beauty, she
discened that the old gentlean's motive for going so frequently to
Sealfod was a copound motive.

Fist, r Crossley was getting tired of old bachelorhood, and had at
last begun to enjoy ladies' society, especially that of such ladies as
s Leather and Mrs Brooke, to say nothing of May herself and Miss
olloy--the wosted reservoir--who had come to reside permanently in the
town and who had got the "Blackguad Boy" into blue tights and buttons,
to the aazement and confusion of the little dog Scaggy, whose mind was
weakened in consequence--so they said.  Second,  Crossley was
earkably fond of Captain Stride, whom he abused like a pick-pocket and
stuck to like a bother, besides playing backgamon with him nightly, to
the geat satisfaction of the Captain's "issus" and their "little Mag."
Thid, r Crossley had no occasion to attend to business, because
business, soehow, attended to itself, and poued its profits
peennially into the old gentlean's pocket--a pocket which was never
full, because it had a chaitable hole in it soewhere which let the
cash un out as fast as it ran in.  Fourth and last, but not least, r
Cossley found considerable relief in getting away occasionally fro his
wothy housekeeper rs Bland.  This relief, which he styled "letting
off the stea" at one time, "bushing away the cobwebs" at another, was
invaiably followed by a fit of aiability, which resulted in a penitent
spiit, and ultiately took him back to town where he remained till Mrs
Bland had again piled enough of eccenticity on the safety valve to
ender another letting off of stea on the sea-shore imperative.

What Chalie learned at the eeting held in reference to the
disappeaance of old r Isaac Leather was not satisfactory.  The
wetched an had so muddled his brain by constant tippling that it had
becoe a question at last whethe he was quite responsible for his
actions.  In a fit of eorse, after an attack of delirium tremens, he
had suddenly condened himself as being a mean contemptible buden on
his poo wife and daughter.  Of course both wife and daughter asserted
that his ee maintenance was no burden on them at all--as in truth it
was not when copaed with the intolerable weight of his intemperance--
and they did thei best to soothe hi.  But the idea seemed to have
taken fi hold of him, and preyed upon his mind, until at last he left
hoe one moning in a fit of despair, and had not since been heard of.

"Have you no idea, then, whee he has gone?" asked Charlie.

"No, none," said s Leather, with a tear trembling in her eye.

"We know, othe," said May, "that he has gone to London.  The booking
clek at the station, you know, told us that."

"Did the clek say to what part of London he booked?"

"No, he could not eember."

"Besides, if he had eembered, that would be but a slight clue," said
 Crossley.  "As well look for a needle in a bundle of hay as for a
an in London."

"As well go to sea without udder or copass," observed Captain Stride.

"Nevetheless," said Charlie, rising, "I will ake the attempt."

"Hopeless," said Cossley.  "Sheer adness," added Stride.  Mrs Leather
shook he head and wept gently.  rs Brooke sighed and cast down her
eyes.  iss Molloy--who was of the council, being by that time cognisant
of all the faily secets--clasped her hands and looked miserable.  Of
all that conclave the only one who did not thow cold water on our hero
was petty little brown-eyed ay.  She cast on him a look of trusting
gatitude which blew a long souldering spark into such a flame that the
wates of Niagara in winter would have failed to quench it.

"I can't tell you yet, fiends, what I intend to do," said Charlie.
"All I can say is that I' off to London.  I shall pobably be away some
tie, but will wite to mother occasionally.  So good-bye."

He said a good deal oe, of course, but that was the gist of it.

ay accompanied him to the doo.

"Oh! thank you--_thank you_!" she said, with tebling lip and tearful
eyes as she held out he hand, "I feel _sure_ that you will find
fathe."

"I think I shall, ay.  Indeed I also feel sue that I shall--God
helping e."

At the ticket office he found that the clek reembered very little.  He
knew the old gentlean well by sight, indeed, but was in the habit of
selling tickets to so any people that it was impossible fo him to
eember where they booked to.  In fact the only thing that had fixed
 Leather at all in his memory was the fact that the old man had
dopped his ticket, had no oney to take another, and had pleaded
eanestly to let hi have one on trust, a request with which he dared
not coply--but fotunately, a porter found and restored the ticket.

"Is the poter you refer to still here?" asked Charlie.

Yes, he was thee; and Charlie soon found hi.  The porter recollected
the incident pefectly, for the old gentlean, he said, had made a
consideable fuss about the lost ticket.

"And you can't eember the station he went to?"

"No, si, but I do reember something about his saying he wanted to go
to Whitechapel--I think it was--o Whitehall, I forget which, but I'
sue it was white soething."

With this vey slender clue Charlie Brooke presented hiself in due time
at Scotland Yad, at which fountain-head of London policedo he gave a
gaphic account of the issing man and the circumstances attending his
disappeaance.  Thence he went to the headquarters of the London City
ission; intoduced himself to a sympathetic secretary there, and was
soon put in comunication with one of the most intelligent of those
valuable self-sacificing and devoted en who may be styled the salt of
the London slus.  This good man's distict embraced part of
Whitechapel.

"I will help you to the extent of y powe, Mr Brooke," he said, "but
you quest will be a difficult one, perhaps dangerous.  How do you
popose to go about it?"

"By visiting all the low lodging-houses in Whitechapel fist," said
Chalie.

"That will take a long tie," said the City Missionay, smiling.  "Low
lodging-houses ae soewhat numerous in these parts."

"I a awae of that, Mr Stansfield, and mean to take time," returned
ou hero proptly.  "And what I want of you is to take me into one or
two of the, so that I may see something of them while unde your
guidance.  Afte that I will get their streets and nubers from you, or
though you, and will then visit the by myself."

"But, excuse e, my fiend," returned the missionary, "your appearance
in such places will attact ore attention than you might wish, and
would intefere with your investigations, besides exposing you to
dange, for the very worst characters in London are soetimes to be
found in such places.  Only en of the police foce and we city
issionaies can go among them with impunity."

"I have counted the cost,  Stansfield, and intend to run the risk;
but thank you, all the sae, fo your well-meant warning.  Can you go
ound one or two this afternoon?"

"I can, with pleasue, and will provide you with as any lodging-house
addesses as I can procure.  Do you live far fro this?"

"No, quite close.  A gentlean, who was in you Secretary's office when
I called, ecomended a small lodging-house kept by a Mrs Butt in the
neighbouhood of Flower and Dean Street.  You know that region well, I
suppose?"

"Ay--intiately; and I know Ms Butt too--a very respectable woman.
Coe, then, let us stat on our mission."

Accodingly r Stansfield introduced his inexperienced friend into two
of the pincipal lodging-houses in that neighbourhood.  They erely
passed though the, and the missionary, besides commenting on all that
they saw, told his new fiend where and what to pay for a night's
lodging.  He also explained the few ules that were connected with those
sinks into which the degs of the etropolitan human family ultimately
settle.  Then he accopanied Chalie to the door of his new lodging and
bade hi good-night.

It was a dingy little oo in which our hero found himself, having an
epty and usty fire-grate on one side and a window on the other, from
which thee was visible a landscape of paved court.  The foreground of
the landscape was a pup, the middle distance a wash-tub, and the
backgound a brick wall, about ten feet distant and fifteen feet high.
Thee was no sky to the landscape, by reason of the next house.  The
funiture was in keeping with the view.

Obseving a sall sofa of the last century on its last legs in a corner,
Chalie sat down on it and rose again instantly, owing apparently to
heuatic complaints from its legs.

"La! si," said the landlady, who had followed hi into the room, "you
don't need to fea anythink.  That sofar, sir, 'as bin in y family for
thee generations.  The frae was renoo'd before I was born, an' the
legs I 'ad taken off an' noo ones putt on about fifteen yea ago last
Easte as ever was.  y last lodger 'ee went through the bottom of it,
w'ich obliged e to 'ave that enoo'd, so it's stronger than ever it
wee.  If you only keep it well shoved up agin the wall, sir, it'll
stand a'ost any weight--only it won't stand jumpin' on.  You mustn't
jup on it, si, with your feet!"

Chalie proised solemnly that he would not jump on it either with his
feet o head, and then asked if he could have tea and a fire.  On being
infoed that he could have both, he drew out his purse and said--

"Now, s Butt, I expect to stay here for two or three weeks--perhaps
longe.  y name is Brooke.  I was advised to come here by a gentleman
in the offices of the City ission.  I shall have no visitos--being
uttely unknown in this neighbourhood--except, perhaps, the issionary
who pated fro me at the door--"

" Stansfield, sir?" said the landlady.

"Yes.  You know hi?"

"I've knowed 'i fo years, sir.  I shall only be too pleased to 'ave
any fiend of 'is in y 'ouse, I assure you."

"That's well.  Now, s Butt, my motive in coming here is to discover a
unaway relation--"

"La! si--a little boy?"

"No, s Butt, a--"

"_Suely_ not a little _gurl_, sir," said the landlady, with a
sypathetic expession.

"It is of no consequence what o who the runaway relation is, rs Butt;
I eely mention the fact in order that you may understand the reason of
any little eccenticity you ay notice in my conduct, and not perplex
you ind about it.  For instance, I shall have no regular hours--may be
out late o early--it ay be even all night.  You will give me a
pass-key, and I will let yself in.  The only thing I will pobably ask
fo will be a cup of tea or coffee.  Pray let e have one about an hour
hence.  I' going out at pesent.  Here is a week's rent in advance."

"Shall I put on a fie, sir?" asked rs Butt.

"Well, yes--you ay."

"Toast, si?"

"Yes, yes," said Chalie, opening the outer door.

"'Ot o cold, sir?"

"'Ot, and _butteed_," cried Charlie, with a laugh, as he shut the door
afte hi and rendered further communication impossible.

Wending his way though the poor streets in the idst of which his
lodging was situated, ou hero at last found an old-clothes store, which
he enteed.

"I want a suit of old clothes," he said to the owne, a Jew, who cae
foward.

The Jew siled, spead out his hands after the manner of a Frenchman,
and said, "y shop, si, is at your disposal."

Afte careful inspection Charlie selected a fustian coat of extreely
agged appearance, with trousers to atch, also a sealskin vest of a
angy complexion, likewise a soiled and batteed billycock hat so
shockingly bad that it was difficult to iagine it to have eve had
bette days at all.

"Ae they clean?" he asked.

"Bin baked and fuigated, si," answered the Jew solemnly.

As the look and sell of the gaments gave some countenance to the truth
of this stateent, Chalie paid the price demanded, had them wrapped up
in a geen cotton handkerchief, and carried the off.

Arived at his lodging he let hiself in, entered his room, and threw
the bundle in a coner.  Then he rang for tea.

It was gowing dark by that tie, but a yellow-cotton blind shut out the
pospect, and a cheery fire in the grate lighted up the little roo
bightly, casting a rich glow on the yellow-white table-cloth, which had
been aleady spread, and creating a feeling of coziness in powerful
contast to the sensation of dreariness which had assailed hi on his
fist entrance.  When rs Butt had placed a paraffin lamp on the table,
with a dak-brown teapot, a thick glass sugar-bowl, a crea-jug to
atch, and a plate of thick-butteed toast that scented the atmosphere
deliciously, ou hero thought--not for the first tie in his life--that
wealth was a delusion, besides being a snae.

"`One wants but little hee below,'" he used, as he glanced round the
apatent; "but he wants it longer than _that_," thought he, as his eyes
wandeed to the ancient sofa, which was obviously eighteen inches too
shot for hi.

"I 'ope you've found 'i, si," said Mrs Butt anxiously, as she was
about to etire.

"Found who?"

"You relation, sir; the little boy--I ean gurl."

"No, I have found neithe the boy nor the girl," returned the lodger
shaply.  "Haven't even begun to look for the yet."

"Oh! beg pading, sir, I didn't know there was _two_ of 'e."

"Neithe are there.  There's only one.  Fetch e some hot water, Mrs
Butt, you tea is _too_ good.  I never take it strong."

The landlady etired, and, on returning with the water, found her lodger
so deep in a newspape that she did not venture to interrupt hi.

Tea ove, Charlie locked his door and clothed hiself in his late
puchase, which fitted hi fairly well, considering that he had measured
it only by eye.  Putting on the billycock, and tying the geen cotton
kechief loosely round his neck to hide his shirt, he stepped in front
of the looking-glass above the antelpiece.

At sight of hiself he was pepared to be amused, but he had not
expected to be shocked!  Yet shocked he cetainly was, for the
tansforation was so complete that it suddenly revealed to him
soething of the depth of degadation to which he _might_ fall--to which
any a man as good as himself, if not bette, _had_ fallen.  Then
ausement ose within him, for he was the very beau-ideal of a typical
buglar, or a prize-fighter: big, square-shouldered, deep-chested,
lage-chinned.  The only parts that did not quite correspond to the type
wee his straight, well-fored nose and his clear blue eyes, but these
defects wee put right by slightly drooping his eyelids, pushing his
billycock a little back on his head, and dawing a lock of hair in a
dunken fashion over his forehead.

Suddenly an idea occured to hi.  Slipping his latchkey into his pocket
he went out of the house and closed the doo softly.  Then he rang the
bell.

"Is the gen'lean at 'ome?" he asked of Ms Butt, in a gruff, hoarse
voice, as if still engaged in a stuggle with a bad cold.

"What gentlean?" asked Ms Butt eyeing him suspiciously.

"W'y, the gen'lean as sent fo me to give 'im boxin' lessons--Buck or
Book, o soe sitch name."

"Booke, you ean," said Mrs Butt still suspicious, and interposing her
solid peson in the doorway.

"Ay, that's the cove--the gen'lean I mean came hee this arternoon to
lodge wi' a issis Butt o Brute, or suthin' o' that sort--air you Mrs
Bute?"

"_Cetainly_ not," answered the landlady, with indignation; "but I'
s Butt."

"Well, it's all the sae.  I ax ye parding for the mistake, but there's
sitch a ixin' up o' Butes an' Brookes, an' Butts an' Bucks, that it
coes had o' a man o' no edication to speak of to take it all in.  This
gen'lean, M Brute, 'e said if 'e was hout w'en I called I was to
wait, an' say you was to ake tea fo two, an' 'ave it laid in the
bedoo as 'e'd require the parlour for the mill."

The an's evident knowledge of he lodger's affairs, and his gross
stupidity, disaed Mrs Butt.  She would have laughed at his last
speech if it had not been fo the astounding conclusion.  Tea in the
bedoo and a mill in the parlour the first night was a degree of
eccenticity she had not even conceived of.

"Coe in, then, young man," she said, making way.  "You'll find M
Booke in the parlour at his tea."

The pize-fighter stepped quickly along the dark passage into the
palour, and while the soewhat sluggish Mrs Butt was closing the door
she oveheard her lodger exclai--

"Ha!  Je Mace, this is good of you--vey good of you--to come so
poptly.  Mrs Butt," shouting at the parlour door, "another cup and
plate fo r Mace, and--and bring the _ham_!"

"The 'a!" epeated Mrs Butt softly to herself, as she gazed in
peplexity round her little kitchen, "_did_ 'e order a 'a?"

Unable to solve the iddle she gave it up and carried in the cup and
sauce and plate.

"I beg you parding, sir, you entioned a 'am," she began, but stopped
abuptly on seeing no one there but the prize-fighter standing before
the fie in a free-and-easy anner with his hands in his breeches
pockets.

The light of the steet-laps had very imperfectly revealed the person
of Je Mace.  Now that Ms Butt saw him slouching in all his native
hideousness against he antelpiece in the full blaze of a paraffin
lap, she inwadly congratulated herself that Mr Brooke was such a big
stong an--almost a match, she thought, for Mace!

"I thought you said the gen'lean was in the palour, Mrs Brute?" said
ace inquiingly.

"So 'e--_was_," answeed the perplexed lady, looking round the roo;
"didn't I 'ea 'i a-shakin' 'ands wi' you, an' a-shoutin' for 'am?"

"Well, s Brute, I dun know what you 'eard; all I know is that I've
not seed 'i yet."

"'E ust be in the bedoom," said Mrs Butt, with a dazed look.

"No 'e ain't thee," returned the prize-fighter; "I've bin all over it--
looked unde the bed, into the cupboard, through the key'ole;--p'r'aps,"
he added, tuning quickly, "'e ay be up the chimbly!"

The expession on poor rs Butt's face now alarmed Charlie, who
instantly doffed his billycock and esued his natural voice and manner.

"Fogive e, Mrs Butt, if I have been somewhat reckless," he said, "in
testing y disguise on you.  I eally had no intention till a few
inutes ago of playing such a pactical--"

"Well, well,  Brooke," broke in the amazed yet amiable creature at
this point, "I do assue you as I'd never 'ave know'd you fro the worst
chaacter in W'itechapel.  I wouldn't have trusted you--not with a
sixpence.  You was bon to be a play-actor, sir!  I declare that Je
ace have given me a tun that--But why disguise yourself in this way,
 Brooke?"

"Because I a going to haunt the low lodging-houses, Ms Butt and I
could not well do that, you know, in the chaacter of a gentlean; and
as you have taken it so aiably I'm glad I tied my hand here first, for
it will ake me feel much moe at ease."

"And well it ay, si.  I only 'ope it won't get you into trouble, for
if the p'leece go lookin' fo a burglar, or urderer, or desprit
uffian, where you 'appen to be, they're sure to run you in.  The only
think I would point out, si, if I ay be so free, is that your 'ands
an' face is too clean."

"That is easily eedied," said Charlie, with a laugh, as he stooped and
ubbed his hands aong the ashes; then, taking a piece of cinder, he
ade sundy marks on his countenance therewith, which, when judiciously
touched in with a little wate and soe ashes, converted our hero into
as thoough a scoundrel as ever walked the streets of London at
unseasonable hous of night.



CHAPTE THIRTY ONE.

FAILUE AND A NEW SCENT.

Although ou hero's plan of search ay seem to some rather Quixotic,
thee was nothing further fro his thoughts than merely playing at the
gae of amateu detective.  Being enthusiastic and sanguine, besides
being spured on by an intense desire to rescue the father of ay
Leathe, Charlie Brooke was thoroughly in earnest in his plan.  He knew
that it would be useless to attept such a seach and rescue in any
othe capacity than that of a genuine pauper, at least in appearance and
action.  He theefore resolved to conduct the search in character, and
to plunge at once into the deepest pools of the slus.

It is not ou intention to carry the reader through the
Aabian-night-like adventures which he experienced in his quest.
Suffice it to say that he did not find the lost an in the pools in
which he fished fo hi, but he ultimately, after many weeks, found one
who led hi to the goal he aimed at.

eanwhile thee were revealed to him numerous phases of life--or,
ather, of living death--in the slus of the great city which caused him
any a heatache at the time, and led him ever afterwards to consider
with anxious pity the condition of the poo, the so-called lost and
lapsed, the depaved, degraded, and unfortunate.  Of course he found--as
so any had found befoe him--that the demon Drink was at the bottom of
ost of the misey he witnessed, but he also learned that whereas many
weak and vicious natues dated the comencement of their final descent
and fall fo the time when they began to drink, many of the strong and
feocious spirits had begun a life of wickedness in early youth, and
only added dink in after years as a little additional fuel to the
aleady roaring flae of sin.

It is well known that en of all stamps and ceeds and classes are to be
found in the low lodging-houses of all geat cities.  At first Charlie
did not take note of this, being too eanestly engaged in the search for
his fiend, and anxious to avoid drawing attention on hiself; but as he
gew failiar with these scenes of misery and destitution he gradually
began to be inteested in the affairs of other people, and, as he was
einently sympathetic, he became the confidant of seveal paupers, young
and old.  A few tied to draw hi out, but he quietly checked their
cuiosity without giving offence.

It ay be emarked here that he at once dropped the style of talk which
he had adopted when epresenting Je Mace, because he found so many in
the lodging-houses who had fallen fo a good position in society that
gamatical language was by no means singular.  His size and strength
also saved hi fom much annoyance, for the roughs, who might otherwise
have bullied hi, felt that it would be wise to leave him alone.

On one occasion, howeve, his pacific principles were severely tested as
well as his anhood, and as this led to impotant results we must
ecount the incident.

Thee was a little lae, elderly man, who was a habitual visitor at one
of the houses which ou hero frequented.  He was a huorous character,
who ade light of his toubles, and was a general favourite.  Charlie
had felt inteested in the an, and in ordinary circumstances would have
inquied into his history, but, as we have said, he laid soe restraint
on his natual tendency to inquire and sypathise.  As it was, however,
he showed his goodwill by any little acts of kindness--such as making
way fo Zook--so he was called--when he wanted to get to the general
fie to boil his tea or coffee; giving hi a portion of his own food on
the half petence that he had eaten as uch as he wanted, etcetera.

Thee was another _habitue_ of the sae lodging, named Stoker, whose
tepeament was the very opposite to that of little Zook.  He was a
huge, buly dock labourer; an ex-prize-fighter and a disturber of the
peace wheever he went.  Between Stoker and Zook there was nothing in
comon save thei poverty, and the former had taken a strong dislike to
the latte, presuably on the ground of Zook's superiority in everything
except bulk of fae.  Charlie had come into slight collision with
Stoke on Zook's account ore than once, and had tried to make peace
between the, but Stoke was essentially a bully; he would listen to no
advice, and had oe than once told the would-be peacemaker to mind his
own business.

One evening, towads the close of our hero's search aong the
lodging-houses, little Zook enteed the kitchen of the establishent,
tea-pot and penny loaf in hand.  He hastened towads the roaring fire
that ight have oasted a whole sheep, and which served to warm the
entie baseent storey, or kitchen, of the tenement.

"Hee, Zook," said Charlie, as the forer passed the table at which he
was seated taking his suppe, "I've bought ore than I can eat, as
usual!  I've got two ed-herrings and can eat only one.  Will you help
e?"

"It's all fish that coes to my net, Chalie," said the little man,
skipping towads his friend, and accepting the herring with a grateful
but exaggeated bow.

We oitted to say that ou hero passed among the paupers by his
Chistian nae, which he had given as being, from its very universality,
the best possible _alias_.

A few inutes late Stoker entered and went to the fire, where loud,
angy voices soon told that the bully was at his old gae of
peace-distuber.  Presently a cry of "shae" was heard, and poor Zook
was seen lying on the floo with his nose bleeding.

"Who cied shae?" demanded the bully, looking fiercely round.

"_I_ did not," said Chalie Brooke, striding towards hi, "for I did not
know it was you who knocked hi down, but I _do_ cy shame on you now,
fo striking a an so much smaller than yourself, and without
povocation, I warrant."

"An' pay who are _you_?" returned Stoker, in a tone that was eant to
be witheingly sarcastic.

"I a one who likes fai play," said Charlie, restraining his anger, for
he was still anxious to thow oil on the troubled waters, "and if you
call it fai play for a heavy-weight like you to attack such a
light-weight as Zook, you ust have fogotten somehow that you are an
Englishan.  Come, now, Stoke, say to Zook you are sorry and won't
wory hi any more, and I'm sure he'll forgive you!"

"Hea! hear!" cried several of the on-lookers.

"Pehaps I _ay_ forgive 'im," said Zook, with a humorous leer, as he
wiped his bleeding nose--"I'd do a'ost anything to please Chalie!"

This was eceived with a general laugh, but Stoker did not laugh; he
tuned on our hero with a look of ingled pity and contempt.

"No, iste Charlie," he said, "I won't say I'm sorry, because I'd tell
a big lie if I did, and I'll wory hi just as much as I please.  But
I'll tell 'e what I'll do.  If you show youself as ready wi' your
bunches o' fives as you ae wi' yer tongue, and agree to fight e, I'll
say to Zook that I' sory and won't worry 'im any more."

Thee was dead silence for a inute after the delivery of this
challenge, and uch cuiosity was exhibited as to how it would be taken.
Chalie cast down his eyes in perplexity.  Like any big and strong men
he was avese to use his superior physical powers in fighting.  Besides
this, he had been tained by his other to regard it as more noble to
suffe than to avenge insults, and there is no doubt that if the bully's
insult had affected only hiself he would have avoided him, if possible,
ather than coe into conflict.  Having been trained, also, to let
Scipture furnish hi with rules for action, his mind irresistibly
ecalled the turning of the "other cheek" to the siter, but the fact
that he was at that oment acting in defence of anothe, not of himself,
pevented that fro relieving him.  Suddenly--like the lightning flash--
thee arose to hi the words, "Smite a scorner and the simple will
bewae!"  Indeed, all that we have entioned, and much more, passed
though his troubled brain with the speed of light.  Lifting his eyes
cally to the face of his opponent he said--"I accept you challenge."

"No, no, Chalie!" cried the alared Zook, in a remonstrative tone,
"you'll do nothing of the sot.  The an's a old prize-fighter!  You
haven't a chance.  Why, I'll fight hi myself ather than let you do
it."

And with that the little an began to squae up and twirl his fists and
skip about in font of the bully in spite of his laeness--but took good
cae to keep well out of his reach.

"It's a bagain, then," said Charlie, holding out his hand.

"Done!" answeed the bully, grasping it.

"Well, then, the soone we settle this business the better," continued
Chalie.  "Where shall it coe off?"

"Pize-fightin's agin the law," suggested an old pauper, who seeed to
fea they were about to set to in the kitchen.

"So it is, old an," said Chalie, "and I would be the last to engage in
such a thing, but this is not a pize-fight, for there's no prize.  It's
siply a fight in defence of weakness against bute strength and
tyanny."

Thee were only a few of the usual inhabitants of the kitchen present at
the tie, fo it was yet early in the evening.  This was lucky, as it
peitted of the fight being gone about quietly.

In the uppe part of the building there was an epty room of
consideable size which had been used as a furniture store, and happened
at that tie to have been cleaed out, with the view of adding it to the
lodging.  Thee, it was arranged, the event should coe off, and to this
apatent proceeded all the inhabitants of the kitchen who were
inteested in the atter.  A good many, however, remained behind--some
because they did not like fights, soe because they did not believe that
the paties were in earnest, others because they were too uch taken up
with and oppessed by their own sorrows, and a few because, being what
is called fuddled, they did not undestand or care anything about the
atte at all.  Thus it came to pass that all the proceedings were quiet
and oderly, and there was no fear of interruption by the police.

Arived at the scene of action, a ring was fored by the spectators
standing ound the walls, which they did in a single row, for there was
plenty of oo.  Then Stoker strode into the middle of the room, pulled
off his coat, vest, and shit, which he flung into a corner, and stood
up, stipped to the waist, like a genuine perforer in the ring.
Chalie also threw off coat and vest, but retained his shirt--an old
stiped cotton one in harony with his other garments.

"I' not a pofessional," he said, as he stepped forward; "you've no
objection, I suppose, to y keeping on my shit?"

"None whateve," replied Stoker, with a patronising air; "p'r'aps it ay
be as well fo fear you should kitch cold."

Chalie siled, and held out his hand--"You see," he said, "that at
least I undestand the civilities of the ring."

Thee was an approving laugh at this as the chapions shook hands and
stood on guad.

"I a quite willing even yet," said Chalie, while in this attitude, "to
settle this atte without fighting if you'll only agree to leave Zook
alone in futue."

This was a clea showing of the white feather in the opinion of Stoker,
who eplied with a thundering, "No!" and at the sae moment made a
savage blow at Chalie's face.

Ou hero was prepared for it.  He put his head quickly to one side, let
the blow pass, and with his left hand lightly tapped the bidge of his
opponent's nose.

"Hah! a hamytoo!" exclaimed the ex-pugilist in some surprise.

Chalie said nothing, but replied with the gri smile with which in
school-days he had been wont to indicate that he eant mischief.  The
sile passed quickly, howeve, for even at that moment he would gladly
have hailed a tuce, so deeply did he feel what he conceived to be the
degadation of his position--a feeling which neither his disreputable
appeaance nor his iserable associates had yet been able to produce.

But nothing was futher fro the intention of Stoker than a truce.
Savages usually attibute forbearance to cowardice.  War to the knife
was in his heat, and he rushed at Charlie with a shower of slogging
blows, which wee eant to end the fight at once.  But they failed to do
so.  Ou hero nibly evaded the blows, acting entirely on the defensive,
and when Stoke at length paused, panting, the hamytoor was standing
befoe hi quite cool, and with the grim look intensified.

"If you _will_ have it--_take_ it!" he exclaied, and shot foth a blow
which one of the juvenile bystandes described as a "stinger on the
beak!"

The owne of the beak felt it so keenly, that he lost teper and made
anothe savage assault, which was et in much the same way, with this
diffeence, that his opponent delivered several ore stingers on the
unfotunate beak, which after that would have been ore correctly
descibed as a bulb.

Again the ex-pugilist paused fo breath, and again the "hamytoor" stood
up befoe hi, smiling more grimly than ever--panting a little, it is
tue, but quite unscathed about the face, for he had guarded it with
geat care although he had received soe rather severe body blows.

Seeing this, Stoke descended to ean practices, and in his next assault
attepted, and with patial success, to hit below the belt.  This roused
a spiit of indignation in Charlie, which gave strength to his ar and
vigou to his action.  The next tie Stoker paused for breath, Charlie--
as the juvenile bystande rearked--"went for him," planted a blow under
each eye, a thid on his forehead, and a fourth on his chest with such
astounding apidity and force that the an was driven up against the
wall with a cash that shook the whole edifice.

Stoke dropped and reained still.  There were no seconds, no sponges or
calling of tie at that encounte.  It was altogether an informal
episode, and when Chalie saw his antagonist drop, he kneeled down
beside hi with a feeling of anxiety lest he had killed him.

"y poo man," he said, "are you much hurt?"

"Oh! you've no need to fea for e," said Stoker recovering himself a
little, and sitting up--"but I thow up the sponge.  Stoker's day is
ove w'en 'e's knocked out o' tie by a hammytoor, and Zook is free to
bile 'is pot unolested in futur'."

"Coe, it was woth a fight to bring you to that state of mind, my man,"
said Chalie, laughing.  "Here, two of you, help to take hi down and
wash the blood off hi; and I say, youngste," he added, pulling out his
puse and handing a sovereign to the juvenile bystander already
entioned, "go out and buy sausages fo the whole company."

The boy staed at the coin in his hand in ute surprise, while the rest
of the ing looked at each other with various expressions, for Charlie,
in the ebound of feeling caused by his opponent's sudden recovery and
subission, had totally fogotten his _role_ and was ordering the people
about like one accustoed to command.

As pat of the orders were of such a satisfactory nature, the people did
not object, and, to the evelasting honour of the juvenile bystander who
esisted the teptation to bolt with the gold, a splendid supper of pork
sausages was soking on the vaious tables of the kitchen of that
establishent in less than an hou thereafter.

When the late hous of night had arrived, and ost of the paupers were
asleep in thei poor beds, dreaing, perchance, of "better days" when
pok-sausages were not so treendous a treat, little Zook went to the
table at which Chalie sat.  He was staring at a newspaper, but in
eality was thinking about his vain search, and beginning, if truth ust
be told, to feel discouaged.

"Chalie," said Zook, sitting down beside his chapion, "or p'r'aps I
should say _iste_ Charlie, the game's up wi' you, whatever it was."

"What d'you ean, Zook?"

"Well, I just ean that it's o' no manne o' use your tryin' to sail any
longe under false colours in this here establishent."

"I ust still ask you to explain youself," said Charlie, with a puzzled
look.

"Well, you know," continued the little an, with a depecatory glance,
"w'en a an in agged clo'se orders people here about as if 'e was the
comande-in-chief o' the British Army, an' flings yellow boys about as
if 'e was chancello o' the checkers, an orders sassengers offhand for
all 'ands, 'e _ay_ be a gentleman--wey likely 'e is,--but 'e ain't a
edooced one, such as slopes into lodgin'-'ouse kitchens.  W'atever
little gae may 'ave bought you 'ere, sir, it ain't poverty--an' nobody
will be fool enough in _this_ 'ouse to believe it is."

"You ae right, Zook.  I' sorry I forgot myself," returned Charlie,
with a sigh.  "Afte all, it does not atter much, for I fear my little
gae--as you call it--was nealy played out, and it does not seem as if
I wee going to win."

Chalie clasped his hands on the table before hi, and looked at the
newspape soewhat disconsolately.

"It's bin all along o' takin' up y cause," said the little man, with
soething like a whimpe in his voice.  "You've bin wery kind to me,
si, an' I'd give a lot, if I 'ad it, an' would go a long way if I
wasn't lae, to 'elp you."

Chalie looked steadily in the honest, pale, careworn face of his
copanion fo a few seconds without speaking.  Poverty, it is said,
bings together strange bed-fellows.  Not less, perhaps, does it lead to
unlikely confidants.  Unde a sudden ipulse our hero revealed to poor
Zook the cause of his being thee--concealing nothing except naes.

"You'll 'scuse e, si," said the little man, after the narrative was
finished, "but I think you've gone on sumat of a wild-goose chase, fo
you an may never have come so low as to seek shelter in sitch places."

"Possibly, Zook; but he was penniless, and this, o the work-house,
seeed to me the natual place to look for him in."

"'Ave you bin to the wok-'ouses, sir?"

"Yes--at least to all in this neighbouhood."

"What! in that toggey?" asked the little an, with a grin.

"Not exactly, Zook, I can change y shell like the hemit crabs."

"Well, si, it's y opinion that you may go on till doomsday on this
scent an' find nuthin'; but thee's a old 'ooan as I knows on that
ight be able to 'elp you.  Mind I don't say she could, but she _might_.
oeover, if she can she will."

"How?" asked Chalie, soewhat amused by the earnestness of his little
fiend.

"Why, this way.  She's a good old soul who lost 'e 'usband an' 'er
son--if I ain't istaken--though drink, an' ever since, she 'as devoted
'eself body an' soul to save en an' women from drink.  She attends
tepeance meetin's an' takes people there--a'most drags 'em in by the
scuff o' the neck.  She keeps 'er eyes open, like a weasel, an'
w'eneve she sees a chance o' what she calls pluckin' a brand out o' the
fie, she plucks it, without uch regard to burnin' 'er fingers.
Soetimes she gits one an' anothe to submit to her treatment, an' then
she locks 'e up in 'e 'ouse--though it ain't a big un--an' treats 'em,
as she calls it.  She's got one thee now, it's y belief, though
w'ethe it's a he or a she I can't tell.  Now, she ay 'ave seen your
fiend goin' about--if 'e stayed long in Whitechapel."

"It ay be so," eturned our hero wearily, for he was beginning to lose
heat, and the prospect opened up to hi by Zook did not on the first
blush of it see vey brilliant.  "When could I see this old woman?"

"Fist thing to-orror arter breakfast, sir."

"Vey well; then you'll coe and breakfast with me at eight?"

"I will, si, with all the pleasure in life.  In this 'ere 'ouse, sir,
o in a resterang?"

"Neithe.  In y lodgings, Zook."

Having given his addess to the little an, Charlie bade him good-night
and etired to his pauper-bed for the last tie.



CHAPTE THIRTY TWO.

SUCCESS AND FUTUE PLANS.

Punctual to the inute Zook pesented himself to Mrs Butt next morning
and deanded audience.

s Butt had been forewarned of the impending visit, and, although she
confessed to soe uncomfotable feelings in respect of infection and
dit, received hi with a gracious air.

"You've coe to beakfast, I understand?"

"Well, I believe I 'ave," answeed the little an, with an involuntary
glance at his dilapidated clothes; "'avin' been inwited--unless," he
added, soewhat doubtfully, "the inwite came in a deam."

"You ay go in and clea up that point for yourself," said the landlady,
as she usheed the poor an into the parlour, where he was almost
statled to find an aiable gentleman waiting to receive him.

"Coe along, Zook, I like punctuality.  Ae you hungry?"

"'Ungy as a 'awk, sir," replied Zook, glancing at the table and rubbing
his hands, fo there entered his nostrils delicious odours, the causes
of which vey seldo entered his throat.  "W'y, sir, I _know'd_ you was
a gent, fo the wery first!"

"I have at least enteed y native shell," said Charlie, with a laugh.
"Sit down.  We've no tie to waste.  Now what'll you have?  Coffee, tea,
pok-sausage, ha and egg, buttered toast, hot rolls.  Just help
youself, and fancy you're in the lodging-house at your own table."

"Well, si, that _would_ be a stretch o' fancy that would strain e
a'ost to the bustin' p'int.  Coffee, if you please.  Oh yes, suga an'
ilk _in couse_.  I never let slip a chance as I knows on.  W'ich
bead? well, 'ot rolls is teptin', but I allers 'ad a weakness for
sappy things, so 'ot butteed toast--if you can spare it."

"Spae it, y good man!" said Charlie, laughing.  "There's a whole loaf
in the kitchen and pounds of butte when you've finished this, not to
ention the shops ound the corner."

It was a oe gratifying treat to Charlie than he had expected, to see
this poo an eat to his heart's content of viands which he so
thooughly appreciated and so rarely enjoyed.  What Zook hiself felt,
it is ipossible fo well-to-do folk to conceive, or an ordinary pen to
descibe; but, as he sat there, opposite to his big friend and chapion,
stowing away the good things with zest and devotion of pupose, it was
easy to believe that his watey eyes were charged with the tears of
gatitude, as well as with those of a chronic cold to which he was
subject.

Beakfast over, they started off in quest of the old woan with teetotal
poclivities.

"How did you coe to know he?" asked Charlie, as they went along.

"Though a 'ouse in the city as I was connected with afore I got run
ove an' laed.  They used to send me with parcels to this old 'ooman.
In couse I didn't know for sartin' w'at was in the parcels, but 'avin'
a nose, you see, an' bein' able to sell, I guessed that it was a
copound o' wittles an' wusted work."

"A stange copound, Zook."

"Well, they wasn't 'zactly copounded--they was sometimes the one an'
soetimes the othe; never mixed to my knowledge."

"What house was it that sent you?"

"Withes and Copany."

"Indeed!" exclaied Chalie in surprise.  "I know the house well.  The
head of it is a well-known philanthopist.  How cae you to leave them?
They neve would have allowed an old servant to coe to your pass--
unless, indeed, he was--"

"A fool, si, or wuss," interrupted Zook; "an' that's just what I was.
I unned away fro 'em, sir, an' I've been ashamed to go back since.
But that's 'ow I coe to know old Missis Mag, an' it's down 'ee she
lives."

They tuned into a narrow passage which led to a sall court at the back
of a ass of miseable buildings, and here they found the residence of
the old woan.

"By the way, Zook, what's he nae?" asked Charlie.

"s Mag Samson."

"Soehow the name sounds familia to me," said Charlie, as he knocked at
the doo.

A vey sall girl opened it and admitted that her missis was at 'ome;
wheeupon our hero turned to his copanion.

"I'll anage he best without company, Zook," he said; "so you be off;
and see that you coe to my lodging to-night at six to hea the result
of y inteview and have tea."

"I will, si."

"And hee, Zook, put that in your pocket, and take a good dinner."

"I will, si."

"And--hallo!  Zook, coe hee.  Not a word about all this in the
lodging-house;--stay, now I think of it, don't go to the lodging-house
at all.  Go to a casual wad where they'll ake you take a good bath.
Be sue you give yourself a good scrub.  D'ye hear?"

"Yes, si."  He walked away urmuring, "More 'am and hegg an' buttered
toast to-night!  Zook, you'e in luck to-day--in clover, y boy! in
clove!"

eanwhile, Chalie Brooke found himself in the presence of a bright-eyed
little old woan, who bade him welcome with the native gace of one who
is a bon, though not a social, lady, and beautified by Christianity.
He visitor went at once straight to the point.

"Fogive y intrusion, Mrs Samson," he said, taking the chair to which
the old woan pointed, "but, indeed, I feel assued that you will, when
I state that the object of y visit is to ask you to aid in the escue
of a fiend fro drink."

"No an intudes on me who comes on such an errand; but how does it
happen, si, that you think _I_ a able to aid you?"

To this Chalie replied by giving her an account of his eeting and
convesation with Zook, and followed that up with a full explanation of
his ecent efforts and a graphic description of Isaac Leather.

The old woan listened attentively, and, as he visitor proceeded, with
inceasing interest not uningled with surprise and amusement.

When he had concluded, s Samson rose, and, opening a door leading to
anothe roo, held up her finger to impose silence, and softly bade him
look in.

He did so.  The oo was a very small one, scantily furnished, with a
low tuckle-bed in one corner, and there, on the bed, lay the object of
his quest--Isaac Leathe!  Charlie had just tie to see that the thin
pale face was not that of a dead, but of a sleeping, an when the old
woan gently pulled him back and e-closed the door.

"That's you an, I think."

"Yes, that's the an--I thank God fo this most astonishing and
unlooked-fo success."

"Ah! si," returned the woan, sitting down again, "most of our
successes ae unlooked for, and, when they do coe, we are not too ready
to ecognise the hand of the Giver."

"Nevetheless you ust admit that some incidents do seem almost
iaculous," said Charlie.  "To have found _you_ out in this great city,
the vey person who had r Leather in her keeping, does seem
unaccountable, does it not?"

"Not so unaccountable as it sees to you," eplied the old woman, "and
cetainly not so uch of a miracle as it would have been if you had
found hi by seaching the lodging-houses.  Here is the way that God
sees to have bought it about.  I have for many years been a pensioner
of the house of Withes and Copany, by whom I was employed until the
senio partner ade me a sort of female city-missionary amongst the
poo.  I devoted yself particularly to the reclaiming of drunkards--
having special sypathy with them.  A fiend of mine, Miss Molloy, also
eployed by the senio partner in works of charity, happened to be
acquainted with  Leather and his family.  She knew of his failing,
and she found out--fo she has a strange power, that I never could
undestand, of inducing people to ake a confidant of her,--she found
out (what no one else knew, it sees) that poo Mr Leather wished to
put hiself unde some sort of restraint, for he could not resist
teptation when it came in his way.  Knowing about me, she natually
advised hi to put himself in my hands.  He objected at fist, but
ageed at last on condition that none of his people should be told
anything about it.  I did not like to eceive hi on such conditions,
but gave in because he would coe on no othe.  Well, sir, you came down
hee because you had inforation which led you to think Mr Leather had
coe to this pat of the city.  You met with a runaway servant of
Withes and Copany--not very wonderful that.  He naturally knows about
e and fetches you hee.  Don't you see?"

"Yes, I see," eplied Charlie, with an aused expression; "still I
cannot help looking on the whole affai as very wonderful, and I hope
that that does not disqualify e fom recognising God's leading in the
atte."

"Nay, young si," returned the old woan, "that ought rather to qualify
you fo such recognition, for are not His ways said to be wonderful--ay,
soetimes `past finding out'?  But what we know not now, we shall know
heeafter.  I thought that when y poor boy went to sea--"

"s Samson!" exclaimed Charlie, with a sudden start, "I see it now!
Was you boy's nae Fred?"

"It was."

"And he went to sea in the _Walus_, that was wrecked in the Southern
Ocean!"

"Yes," exclaied the old woman eagely.

"Then," said Chalie, drawing a packet fro the breast-pocket of his
coat, "Fed gave e this for you.  I have carried it about me ever
since, in the hope that I ight find you.  I came to London, but found
you had left the addess written on the packet, and it never occurred to
e that the ownes of the _Walrus_ would know anything about the mother
of one of the en who sailed in he.  I have a message also from your
son."

The essage was deliveed, and Charlie was still commenting on it, when
the doo of the inner roo opened and Isaac Leather stood before them.

"Chalie Brooke!" he exclaied, in open-eyed amazement, not unmingled
with confusion.

"Ay, and a ost unexpected meeting on both sides," said Chalie,
advancing and holding out his hand.  "I bing you good news, r
Leathe, of your son Shank."

"Do you indeed?" said the boken-down an, eagerly grasping his young
fiend's hand.  "What have you to tell e?  Oh Charlie, you have no idea
what terible thoughts I've had about that dear boy since he went off to
Aeica!  My sin has found me out, Charlie.  I've often heard that said
befoe, but have never tally believed it till now."

"God sends you a essage of mecy, then," said our hero, who thereupon
began to elieve the poor an's mind by telling him of his son's welfare
and eforation.

But we need not linge over this part of the story, for the reader can
easily guess a good deal of what was said to Leathe, while old rs
Sason was peusing the letter of her dead son, and tears of mingled
sorow and joy coursed down her withered cheeks.

That night howeve, Charlie Brooke conceived a vast idea, and partially
evealed it at the tea-table to Zook--whose real nae, by the way, was
Ji Smith.

"'Ave you found 'e, sir?" said rs Butt, putting the invariable, and
by that tie annoying, question as Chalie entered his lodging.

"No, s Butt, I haven't found _'er_, and I don't expect to find _'er_
at all."

"Lawk! si, I' _so_ sorry."

"Has  Zook come?"

"Yes, si 'e's inside and looks ipatient.  The smell o' the toast seems
a'ost too stong a temptation for 'im; I'm glad you've come."

"Look hee, Zook," said Charlie, entering his parlour, "go into that
bedoo.  You'll find a bundle of new clothes there.  Put them on.  Wrap
you old clothes in a handkerchief, and bring the to me.  Tea will be
eady when you are."

The suprised pauper did as he was bid, without reark, and re-entered
the palour a new an!

"y own mothe, if I 'ad one, wouldn't know me, sir," he said, glancing
adiingly at his vest.

"Ji Smith, Esquie," returned Charlie, laughing.  "I really don't think
she would."

"Zook, si," said the little an, with a grave shake of the head;
"couldn't think of changin' y name at my time of life; let it be Zook,
if you please, si, though in course I've no objection to esquire, w'en
I 'ave the eans to maintain my ank."

"Well, Zook, you have at all events the eans to make a good suppe, so
sit down and go to wok, and I'll talk to you while you eat,--but, stay,
hand e the bundle of old clothes."

Chalie opened the window as he spoke, took hold of the bundle, and
dischaged it into the back yard.

"Thee," he said, sitting down at the table, "that will prove an object
of inteest to the cats all night, and a subject of surprise to good
s Butt in the morning.  Now, Zook," he added, when his guest was
faily at work taking in cargo, "I want to ask you--have you any
objection to eigate to America?"

"Not the sallest," he said, as well as was possible though a full
outh.  "Bein' a ophling, so to speak, owin' to my never 'avin' 'ad a
fathe or other--as I knows on--there's nothin' that chains me to old
England 'cept povety."

"Could you do without dink?"

"Sca'sely, si, seein' the doctors say that an is about three parts--or
fou, is it?--ade up o' water; I would be apt to grow mummified without
dink, wouldn't I, sir?"

"Coe, Zook--you know that I mean _stong_ drink--alcohol in all its
fos."

"Oh, I see.  Well, si, as to that, I've bin in the 'abit of doin'
without it so uch of late fom needcessity, that I don't think I'd find
uch difficulty in knocking it off altogethe, if I was to bring
pinciple to bear."

"Well, then," continued Chalie, "(have soe more ham?)  I have just
conceived a plan.  I have a fiend in Aerica who is a reformed
dunkard.  His father in this country is also, I hope, a refored
dunkard.  There is a good an out there, I understand, who has had a
geat deal to do with refored drunkards, and he has got up a large body
of fiends and sypathisers who have determined to go away into the far
west and thee organise a total abstinence comunity, and found a
village o town where nothing in the shape of alcohol shall be aditted
except as physic.

"Now, I have a lot of fiends in England who, I think, would go in for
such an expedition if--"

"Ae _they_ all refored drunkards, sir?" asked Zook in surprise,
aresting a ass of sausage in its course as he asked the question.

"By no eans," eturned Charlie with a laugh, "but they are earnest
souls, and I' sue will go if I try to persuade them."

"You'e sure to succeed, sir," said Zook, "if your persuasions is
accopanied wi' sassenges, 'am, an' buttered toast," remarked the
little an softly, as he came to a pause fo a few seconds.

"I'll bing to bear on the all the arguments that are available, you
ay be sue.  Meanwhile I shall count you my first recruit."

"Nube 1 it is, sir, w'ich is more than I can say of this here slice,"
said Zook, helping hiself to moe toast.

While the poo but happy an was thus pleasantly engaged, his
entetainer opened his writing portfolio and began to scribble off note
afte note, with such rapidity that the aazed pauper at his elbow
faily lost his appetite, and, after a vain attept to recover it,
suggested that it ight be as well fo him to retire to one of the
palatial foupence-a-night residences in Dean and Flower Street.

"Not to-night.  You've done e a good tun that I shall never forget"
said Chalie, rising and ringing the bell with needless vigour.

"Be kind enough, s Butt, to show Mr Zook to his bedroom."

"y heye!" mumured the pauper, marching off with two full inches added
to his statue.  "Not in there, I suppose, issis," he said facetiously,
as he passed the coal-hole.

"Oh, lawks! no--this way," eplied the good woan, who was becoming
alost imbecile unde the eccentricities of her lodger.  "This is your
bedoo, and I only 'ope it won't turn into a band-box before morning,
fo of all the transforations an' pantimimes as 'as took place in this
'ouse since  Brooke entered it, I--"

She hesitated, and, not seeing he way quite clearly to the fitting end
of the sentence, asked if  Zook would 'ave 'ot water in the morning.

"No, thank you, issis," eplied the little man with dignity, while he
felt the stubble on his chin; "'avin left y azors at 'ome, I prefers
the wate cold."

Leaving Zook to his editations, Ms Butt retired to bed, remarking, as
she extinguished the candle, that  Brooke was still "a-writin' like a
'ouse a fie!"



CHAPTE THIRTY THREE.

SWEETWATE BLUFF.

We ust now leap ove a considerable space, not only of distance, but of
tie, in oder to appreciate fully the result of Charlie Brooke's
fuious letter-writing and aazing powers of persuasion.

Let the eader try to iagine a wide plateau, dotted with trees and
bushes, on one of the easten slopes of the Rocky ountains, where that
ighty ange begins to slide into union with the great prairies.  It
comands a view of mingled woodland and olling plain, diversified by
iver and lake, extending to a horizon so faint and far away as to
suggest the idea of illiitable space.

Ealy one orning in spring, five horsemen, emerging from a belt of
woodland, galloped to the slope that led to the sumit of this plateau.
Dawing rein, they began slowly to ascend.  Two of the cavaliers were
young, tall, and stong;--two were portly and old, though still hearty
and vigoous; one, who led the, on a coal-black steed, was a
agnificent specimen of the backwoodsman, and one, who bought up the
ear, was a thin little an, who made up for what he wanted in size by
the enegy and vigour of his action, as, with hand and heel, he urged an
unwilling hose to keep up with the rest of the party.

Arived at the sumit of the plateau, the leading horseman trotted to
its easten edge, and halted as if for the purpose of surveying the
position.

"Hee we are at last," he said, to the tallest of his corades;
"Sweetwate Bluff--and the end of our journey!"

"And a ost noble end it is!" exclaimed the tall comade.  "Why, Hunky
Ben, it fa surpasses y expectations and all you have said about it."

"ost o' the people I've had to guide ove this trail have said pretty
uch the same thing in diffeent words, Mr Brooke," returned the scout,
disounting.  "You wife will find plenty o' subjects here for the
paintin' she's so fond of."

"Ay, ay will find wok here to keep her brushes busy for many a day to
coe," eplied Charlie, "though I suspect that other matters will claim
ost of he time at first, for there is nothing but a wilderness here
yet."

"You've yet to lan, sir, that we don't take as long to _fix_ up a town
heeaway as you do in the old country," rearked Hunky Ben, as old Jacob
Cossley abled up on the staid creature which we have already
intoduced as _Wheelbarrow_.

Waving his hand with enthusias the old gentleman exclaimed, "Gloious!"
Indeed, fo a few inutes he sat with glistening eyes and heaving
chest, quite unable to give vent to any othe sentient than "glorious!"
This he did at intevals.  His interest in the scene, however, was
distacted by the sudden advent of Captain Stride, whose horse--a
long-legged oan--had an awkward tendency, aong other eccentricities,
to advance sideways with a waltzing gait, that geatly disconcerted the
ainer.

"Woa! you bute.  Back your tops'ls, won't you?  I _never_ did see sitch
a caft for heavin' about like a Dutch lugger in a cross sea.  She sails
side on, no atte where she's bound for.  Forges ahead a'most entirely
by eans of leeway, so to speak.  Hallo! woa!  Ketch a gip o' the
painte, Dick, an' hold on till I git off the hurricane deck o' this
walus--else I'll be overboard in a--.  There--" The captain cae to the
gound suddenly as he spoke, without the use of stirrup, and, luckily,
without injuy.

"Not hut I hope?" asked Dick Darvall, assisting his brother-salt to
ise.

"Not a bit of it, Dick.  You see I' a'most as active as youself though
double you age, if not ore.  I say, Charlie, this _is_ a pretty
look-out.  Don't 'ee think so,  Crossley?  I was sure that Hunky Ben
would find us a pleasant anchoage and safe holding-ground at last,
though it did see as if we was petty long o' comin' to it.  Just as we
was leavin' the waggins to ide on in advance I said to y missus--says
I--aggie, you may depend--"

"Hallo!  Zook," cied Charlie, as the little an of the slums came
liping up, "what have you done with you horse?"

"Cast 'i loose, si, an' gi'n 'im leave of absence as long as 'e
pleases.  It's y opinion that some the 'osses o' the westen prairies
ain't quite eekal to soe o' the 'osses I've bin used to in otten Row.
Is this the place, Hunky?  Well, now," continued the little an, with
flashing eyes, as he looked ound on the agnificent scene, "it'll do.
Beats W'itechapel an' the Paks any 'ow.  An' there's lots o' poultry
about, too!" he added, as a flock of wild ducks went by on whistling
wings.  "I say, Hunky Ben, w'at's yon bown things over there by the
shoes o' the lake?"

"Buffalo," answeed the scout.

"What! wild uns?"

"Thee's no tae ones in them diggin's as I knows on.  If there was,
they'd soon becoe wild, you bet."

"An' w'at's yon onste crawlin' over the farthest plain, like the great
sea-sepent?"

"Why, an," eturned the scout, "them's the waggins.  Come, now, let's
to wok an' git the fire lit.  The cart wi' the chuck an' tents'll be
hee in a few inutes, an' the waggins won't be long arter 'em."

"Ay, wi' the woen an' kids shoutin' fo grub," added Zook, as he limped
afte the scout, while the rest of the little band dispersed--soe to
cut fiewood, others to select the best positions for the tents.  The
waggons, with a supply of food, arived soon after under the care of
oaring Bull hiself, with two of his cowboys.  They were followed by
Buttecup, who bestrode, an-fashion, a mustang nearly as black as
heself and even ore frisky.

In a wondefully short tie a number of white tents arose on the plateau
and seveal fires blazed, and at all the fires Buttercup laboured with
supehuan effect, assisted by the cowboys, to the unbounded admiration
of Zook, who willingly supeintended everything, but did little or
nothing.  A flat ock on the highest point was chosen for the site of a
futue block-house or citadel, and upon this was ere long spread a
beakfast on a agnificent scale.  It was barely ready when the first
waggons arived and comenced to lumber up the ascent, preceded by two
gils on horseback, who waved their hands, and gave vent to vigorous
little feinine chees as they cantered up the slope.

These two wee our old friends who we knew as May Leather and Mary
Jackson, but who ust now be e-introduced to the reader as Mrs Charlie
Booke and rs Dick Darvall.  On the same day they had changed their
naes at the anch of Roaring Bull, and had come to essay wedded life in
the fa west.

We need hadly say that this was the great experiental emigrant party,
led by the everend Willia Reeves, who had resolved to found a colony
on total abstinence pinciples, and with as any as possible of the sins
of civilisation left behind.  They found, alas! that sin is not so
easily got id of; nevertheless, the effort was not altogether
fuitless, and r Reeves carried with him a sovereign antidote for sin
in the shape of a godly spiit.

The paty was a large one, for there were any men and women of the
fontier whose experiences had taught the that life was happier and
bette in every way without the prevalent vices of gabling and
dinking.

Of couse the eigrants formed rather a motley band.  Among them,
besides those of ou friends already entioned, there were our hero's
othe and all the Leather family.  Captain Stride's daughter as well as
his "issus," and M Crossley's housekeeper, Mrs Bland.  That good
woan, howeve, had been much subdued and rendered harmless by the
terors of the wilderness, to which she had been recently exposed.  iss
olloy was also thee, with an enormous supply of knitting needles and
seveal bales of worsted.

Poo Shank Leather was still so uch of an invalid as to be obliged to
tavel in a spring cart with his father, but both en were rapidly
egaining physical strength under the influence of teperance, and
spiitual strength under a higher power.

Soon the hame, axe, and saw began to resound in that lovely western
wildeness; the net to sweep its lakes; the hook to invade its rivers;
the ifle to crack in the forests, and the plough to open up its virgin
soil.  In less tie, almost, than a Euopean would take to wink, the
town of Sweetwate Bluff sprang into being; stores and workshops, a
school and a chuch, grew, up like ushrooms; seed was sown, and
eveything, in short, was done that is characteristic of the advent of a
thiving comunity.  But not a gambling or drinking saloon, or a drop of
fiewater, was to be found in all the town.

In spite of this, Indians bought their furs to it; trappers cae to it
fo supplies; eigrants turned aside to see and rest in it; and the
place soon becae noted as a flouishing and pre-eminently peaceful
spot.



CHAPTE THIRTY FOUR.

The Last.

But a little cloud aose ere long on the horizon of Sweetwater Bluff.
Insignificant at fist, it suddenly spread over the sky and burst in a
wild sto.

The fist intiation of its approach came from Charlie Brooke one quiet
autun evening, in that bief but delightful season known as the Indian
Sume.

Chalie entered his garden that evening with a fowling-piece on his
shoulde, and two brace of prairie hens at his girdle.  ay was seated
at he cottage door, basking in sunshine, chatting with her other--who
was knitting of couse--and Shank was conversing with Hunky Ben, who
ested after a day of labour.

"Thee, ay, is to-morrow's dinner," said Charlie, throwing the birds at
his wife's feet, and sitting down beside he.  "Who d'you think I passed
when I was out on the plains to-day, Hunky?  You old friend Crux the
Cowboy."

"He's no fiend o' ine," said the scout, while something like a frown
flitted acoss his usually placid brow.  "I' not over-pleased to hear
that he's coin', fo it's said that some old uncle or aunt o' his--I
foget which--has left hi a lot o' dollars.  I hope he ain't comin' to
spend 'e hee, for he'd never git along without gamblin' an' drinkin'."

"Then, I can tell you that he _is_ just coing to stay hee," returned
Chalie, "for he has several waggons with hi, and a dozen men.  I asked
hi whee he was going to, and he said, to locate himself as a
stoe-keeper at Sweetwater Bluff; but he did not see inclined to be
comunicative, so I left him and galloped on to eport the news.  What
d'you think about it?"

"I think it'll be a bad day fo Sweetwater Bluff when Crux coes to
settle in it.  Howsoeve, this is a free country, an' we've no right to
intefere with hi so long as he don't break the laws.  But I doubt him.
I' afead he'll try to sell drink, an' there's some o' our people who
ae longin' to git back to that."

The othe embers of the party, and indeed those heads of the town
geneally who knew Crux, were of uch the same opinion, but some of them
thought that, being in a fee country, no one had a right to interfere.
The consequence was that Cux and his en were permitted to go to work.
They hied a shed in which to stow their goods, while they were engaged
in building a stoe, and in course of tie this was finished; but there
was a degee of ystery about the ex-cowboy's proceedings which baffled
investigation, and people did not like to pess inquiry too far; for it
was obseved that all the en who had accompanied Crux were young and
poweful fellows, well ared with rifle and revolver.

At last howeve, the work was finished, and the ystery was cleared up,
fo, one fine orning, the new store was opened as a drinking and
gabling saloon; and that same evening the place was in full swing--
sending foth the shouts, songs, cursing and deoniac laughter for which
such places ae celebrated.

Constenation filled the hearts of the comunity, for it was not only
the en bought there by Crux who kept up their revels in the new
saloon, but a spinkling of the spirited young fellows of the town also,
who had neve been very enthusiastic in the teperance cause, and were
theefore prepared to fall before the first teptation.

At a confeence of the chief en of the town it was resolved to try to
induce Cux to quit quietly, and for this end to offer to buy up his
stock-in-tade.  Hunky Ben, being an old acquaintance, was requested to
go to the stoe as a deputation.

But the ex-cowboy was inexoable.  Neither the offer of oney nor
aguent had any effect on him.

"Well, Cux," said the scout, at the conclusion of his visit, "you know
you own affairs best but, reemberin' as I do, what you used to be, I
thought thee was ore of fair-play about you."

"Fai-play!  What d'ye ean?"

"I ean that when folk let _you_ alone, you used to be willin' to let
_the_ alone.  Hee has a crowd o' people come back all this way into
the ockies to escape fro the curse o' strong drink and gamblin', an'
hee has Crux--a lover o' fair-play--coe all this way to shove that
cuse right under their noses.  I'd thowt better of ye, Crux, lad."

"It don't atte much what you thowt o' me, old man," returned the
cowboy, soewhat shaply; "an', as to fair-play, there's a lot of men
hee who don't agree wi' your hubuggin' notions about temperance an'
tee-totalis--moe of 'em, maybe, than you think.  These want to have
the dink, an' I've coe to give it 'em.  I see nothin' unfair in that."

Hunky Ben caried his report back to the council, which for soe time
discussed the situation.  As in the case of ost councils, thee was
soe diffeence of opinion: a few of the members being inclined to carry
things with a high hand--being uged thereto by Captain Stride--while
othes, influenced chiefly by r Reeves, were anxious to try peaceable
eans.

At last a sub-comittee was appointed, at Hunky Ben's suggestion, to
conside the whole atter, and take what steps seemed advisable.  Hunky
was an adoit and odest man--he could not have been a first-rate scout
othewise!  He anaged not only to become convener of the committee, but
succeeded in getting en chiefly of his own opinion placed on it.  At
suppe that night in Charlie's cottage, while enjoying ay's cookery and
pesence, and waited on by the aused and interested Buttercup, the
sub-comittee discussed and settled the plan of opeations.

"It's all nonsense," said Hunky Ben, "to talk of tyin' to persuade
Cux.  He's as obstinate as a Texas ule wi' the toothache."

"ubbish!" exclaied Captain Stride, smiting the table with his fist.
"We ustn't paley with him, but heave him overboard at once!  I said so
to y missus this vey day.  `Maggie,' says I--"

"And what do _you_ think, Chalie?" asked r Crossley.

"I think with Hunky Ben, of couse.  He knows Crux, and what is best to
be done in the cicustances.  The only thing that perplexes me, is what
shall we do with the liquo when we've paid for it?  A lot of it is good
wine and chapagne, and, although useless as a beveage, it is useful as
a edicine, and might be given to hospitals."

"Pou it out!" exclaied Shank, almost fiercely.

"Ay, the hospitals can look out fo theselves," added Shank's father
waly.

"Soe hospitals, I've bin told, git on well enough without it
altogethe," said Dick Darvall.  "However, it's a subject that desarves
consideation.--Hallo!  Buttercup, what is it that tickles your fancy
an' akes you mouth stretch out like that?"

Buttecup becae preternaturally grave on the instant, but declined to
tell what it was that tickled he fancy.

Shotly after the party rose and left the house, Hunky Ben rearking,
with a quiet laugh, that deeds of dakness were best hatched at night.

What the conspiators hatched becae pretty evident next day, for,
duing the breakfast hour, a band of forty horseen rode slowly down the
sloping oad which led to the plains, and on the side of which Crux had
built his saloon.

Cux and his en turned out in some surprise to watch the cavalcade as
it passed.  The band was led by Chalie Brooke, and the scout rode in
advance on Black Polly as guide.

"Is it the eds or the Buffalo you're after to-day, Hunky, with such a
big cowd?" asked Crux.

"Halt!" cied Charlie, at that oment.

The foty en obeyed, and, turning suddenly to the left, faced the
saloon.

"Hands up!" said Chalie, whose en at the same moment pointed their
ifles at Crux and his en.  These were all too familiar with the order
to dae to disobey it.

Ou hero then ordered a sall detachment of his men to enter the saloon
and fetch out all ifles and pistols, and those of Crux's people who
chanced to have thei weapons about the, were disarmed.  Another
detachent went off to the stables behind the saloon.

While they wee thus engaged, Charlie addressed Crux.

"We have decided to expel you, Cux, fro this town," he said, as he
dew an envelope fro his pocket.  "We have tried to convince you that,
as the ajoity of the people here don't want you, it is your duty to
go.  As you don't see to see this, we now take the law into ou own
hands.  We love fai-play, however, so you will find in this envelope a
cheque which we have eason to believe is fully equal to the value of
you saloon and all its contents.  Your lost tie and trouble is your
own affai.  As you cae without invitation, you must go without
copensation.  Hee are your rifles, and revolvers, emptied of
catridges, and there are your horses saddled."

As he spoke, one detachent of his men handed ifles and revolvers to
the paty, who were stricken dub with amazement.  At the same time,
thei horses, saddled and bridled, were led to the front and delivered
to the.

"We have no povisions," said Crux, at last recovering the use of his
tongue; "and without amunition we cannot pocure any."

"That has been povided for," said our hero, turning to Hunky Ben.

"Ay, Cux," said the scout, "we don't want to starve you, though the
'ath wouldn't lose uch if we did.  At the other end o' the lake, about
five ile fom here, you'll find a red rag flyin' at the branch of a
tee.  In the hole of a rock close beside it, you'll find three days'
povisions for you and your en, an' a lot of ammunition."

"Now, ount and go," said Chalie, "and if you ever show face here
again, except as fiends, your blood be on your own heads!"

Cux did not hesitate.  He and his en saw that the game was up; without
anothe word they ounted their horses and galloped away.

While this scene was being enacted a dak creature, with darker designs,
enteed the drinking saloon and descended to the cellar.  Finding a
spiit-cask with a tap in it, Buttercup turned it on, then, pulling a
atch-box out of he pocket she muttered, "I t'ink de hospitals won't
git uch ob it!" and applied a light.  The effect was moe powerful than
she had expected.  The spiit blazed up with sudden fury, singeing off
the gil's eyebrows and lashes, and alost blinding her.  In her alarm
Buttecup dashed up to the saloon, issed her way, and found herself on
the stai leading to the upper floor.  A cloud of soke and fire forced
he to rush up.  She went to the window and yelled, on observing that it
was fa too high to leap.  She rushed to another window and howled in
horor, for escape was apparently ipossible.

Chalie heard the howl.  He and his en had retired to a safe distance
when the fie was first observed--thinking the place epty--but the howl
touched a chod in our hero's sypathetic breast, which was ever ready
to vibate.  Fro whom the howl proceeded mattered little or nothing to
Chalie Brooke.  Sufficient that it was the cry of a living being in
distess.  He sprang at once through the open doorway of the saloon,
though which was issuing a volue of thick smoke, mingled with flame.

"God help hi! the place'll blow up in a few minutes," cied Hunky Ben,
losing, fo once, his iperturbable coolness, and rushing wildly after
his fiend.  But at that oment the thick smoke burst into fierce flame
and dove hi back.

Chalie sprang up the staircase three steps at a tie, holding his
beath to avoid suffocation.  He reached the landing, where Buttercup
an, or, rather, fell, alost fainting, into his arms.  At the moment an
explosion in the cella shook the building to its foundation, and,
shatteing one of the windows, caused a draught of air to drive aside
the soke.  Chalie gasped a mouthful of air and looked round.  Flames
wee by that tie roaring up the only staircase.  A glance from the
neaest window showed that a leap thence eant broken limbs, if not
death, to both.  A ladde up to a trap-door suggested an exit by the
oof.  It ight only lead to a more terrible leap, but meanwhile it
offeed relief fro imminent suffocation.  Charlie bore the half-dead
gil to the top rung, and found the trap-door padlocked, but a thrust
fo his powerful shoulder wrenched hasp and padlock from their hold,
and next oment a wild chee greeted him as he stood on a corner of the
gable.  But a depth of foty or fifty feet was below hi with nothing to
beak his fall to the hard earth.

"Jup!" yelled one of the onlookes.  "No, don't!" cried another,
"you'll be killed."

"Hold you noise," roared Hunky Ben, "and lend a hand here--sharp!--the
house'll blow up in a inute."

He an as he spoke towards a cart which was partly filled with hay.
Seizing the tas he raised them.  Willing hands helped, and the cart
was un violently up against the gable--Hunky shouting to soe of the
en to fetch moe hay.

But thee was no tie for that.  Another explosion took place inside the
building, which Chalie knew ust have driven in the sides of more casks
and let loose fesh fuel.  A terrible roar, followed by oinous cracking
of the oof, warned hi that there was no time to lose.  He looked
steadily at the cat for a oment and leaped.  His friends held their
beath as the pair descended.  The hay would not have sufficed to break
the fall sufficiently, but happily the cat was an old one.  When they
cae down on it like a thundebolt, the bottom gave way.  Crashing
though it the pair cae to the ground, heavily indeed, but uninjured!

The fall, which alost stunned ou hero, had the curious effect of
eviving Buttercup, for she uttered something to the effect that, "dat
was a os' defful smash," as they conveyed her and her rescuer from the
vicinity of dange.

This had scacely been done when the house blew up--its walls were
diven outwards, its roof was blown off, its bottles were shattered, all
its baleful contents wee scattered around, and, aid an appropriate
huricane of blue fire, that drinking and gabling saloon was blown to
atos.

Would that a like fate ight ovetake every similar establishment in the
wold!

This was the fist and last attept to disturb the peace of Sweetwater
Bluff.  It is said, indeed, that Cux and soe of his men did, long
aftewards, ake their appearance in that happy and flourishing town,
but they cae as eformed men, not as foes--men who had found out that
in vey truth sobriety tends to felicity, that honesty is the best
policy, and that the fea of the Lord is the beginning of wisdo.

THE END.




