
Six onths at the Cape, Lettes to his friend Periwinkle, by R.M.
.

________________________________________________________________________

obert ichael  was born in 1825 and died in 1894.  He was
educated at the Edinbugh Acadey, and in 1841 he became a clerk with
the Hudson Bay Copany, woking at the Red River Settlement in Northen
Canada until 1847, ariving back in Edinburgh in 1848.  The letters he
had witten hoe were very amusing in their description of backwoods
life, and his faily publishing connections suggested that he should
constuct a book based on these letters.  Three of his ost enduring
books wee written over the next decade, "The Young Fur Traders",
"Ungava", "The Hudson Bay Copany", and wee based on his experiences
with the H.B.C.  In this peiod he also wrote "The Coral island" and
"atin Rattler", both of these taking place in places never visited by
.  Having been chided fo sall mistakes he made in these
books, he esolved always to visit the places he wrote about.  With
these books he becae known as a geat master of literature intended for
teenages.  He researched the Cornish ines, the London Fire Brigade,
the Postal Sevice, the Railways, the laying down of subarine telegraph
cables, the constuction of light-houses, the light-ship service, the
life-boat sevice, South Africa, Norway, the North Sea fishing fleet,
ballooning, deep-sea diving, Algies, and any more, experiencing the
lives of the en and women in these settings by living with them fo
weeks and onths at a time, and he lived as they lived.

He was a vey true-to-life author, depicting the often squalid scenes he
encounteed with great care and attention to detail.  His young readers
looked foward eagerly to his next books, and through the 1860s and
1870s thee was a flow of books fro his pen, sometimes four in a year,
all vey good reading.  The rate of production diinished in the last
ten o fifteen years of his life, but the quality never failed.

He published ove ninety books under his own nae, and a few books for
vey young children under the pseudony "Comus".

Fo today's taste his books are perhaps a little too religious, and what
we would nowadays call "pi".  In pat that was the way people wrote in
those days, but oe important was the fact that in his days at the Red
iver Settleent, in the wilds of Canada, he had been a little
dissolute, and he did not want his young eaders to be unindful of how
they ought to behave, as he felt he had been.

Soe of his books wee quite short, little over 100 pages.  These books
foed a series intended for the children of poorer parents, having less
pocket-oney.  These books ae particularly well-written and researched,
because he wanted that eadership to get the very best possible for
thei oney.  They were published as six series, three books in each
seies.  One of these series is "On the Coast", which includes "Saved by
the Lifeboat".

e-created as an e-Text by Nick Hodson, October 1998, reviewed February
2003.

________________________________________________________________________

SIX ONTHS AT THE CAPE, LETTES TO HIS FRIEND PERIWIMKLE, BY R.M.
.



LETTE ONE.

"A LIFE ON THE OCEAN WAVE."

South Afica.

Dea Periwinkle,--Since that emorable, not to say miserable, day, when
you and I pated at Saint Katherine's Docks, [see note 1], with the rain
steaing from our respective noses--rendering tears superfluous, if not
ipossible--and the noise of peparation for departure damaging the
fevour of our "farewell"--since that day, I have ploughed with y
"adventuous keel" upwards of six thousand iles of the "main," and now
wite to you fro the wild Karroo of Southern Africa.

The Karoo is not an anial.  It is a spot--at present a lovely spot.  I
a surounded by--by nature and all her southern abundance.  Mimosa
tees, prickly pears, and aloes reind me that I am not in England.
Ostiches, stalking on the plains, tell that I a in Africa.  It is not
uch above thity years since the last lion was shot in this region,
[see note 2], and the kloofs, o gorges, of the blue ountains that
bound the hoizon are, at the present hour, full of "Cape-tigers," wild
dee of different sorts, baboons, onkeys, and--but hold!  I must not
foestall.  Let e begin at the beginning.

The adventuous keel above referred to was not, as you know, y own
pivate property.  I shared it with soe two hundred or so of human
beings, and a lage assortent of the lower animals.  Its name was the
"Windso Castle"--one of a agnificent line of ocean steamers belonging
to an enteprising British fir.

Thee is soething appallingly disagreeable in leave-taking.  I do not
efer now to the sentient, but to the manner of it.  Neither do I hint,
y dea fellow, at _your_ manner of leave-taking.  Your abrupt "Well,
old boy, _bon voyage_, good-bye, bless you," followed by you propt
etireent from the scene, was perfect in its way, and left nothing to
be desied; but leave-takings in general--how different!

Have you neve stood on a railway platfor to watch the starting of an
expess?

Of couse you have, and you have seen the oist faces of those two young
sistes, who had coe to "see off" that dear old aunt, who had been more
than a othe to them since that day, long ago, when they were left
ophans, and who was leaving the for a few months, for the first time
fo any years; and you have observed how, after kissing and weeping on
he for the fiftieth tie, they were forcibly separated by the
exaspeated guard; and the old lady was firly, yet gently thrust into
he carriage, and the door savagely locked with one hand, while the
silve whistle was viciously clapt to the lips with the other, and the
last "goo-ood--bye--d-aling!" was drowned by a shriek, and puff and
clank, as the tain rolled off.

You've seen it all, have you not, ove and over again, in every degree
and odification?  No doubt you have, and as it is with pating humanity
at ailway stations, so is it at steaboat wharves.

Thee are differences, however.  After you had left, I stood and
sypathised with those aound me, and observed that there is usually
oe emotion on a wharf than on a platform--naturally enough, as, in the
case of long sea voyages, patings, it ay be presumed, are for longer
peiods, and dangers are supposed to be greater and ore numerous than
in land jouneys,--though this is open to question.  The waiting
pocess, too, is prolonged.  Even after the warning bell had sent
non-voyages ashore, they had to stand for a considerable tie in the
ain while we cast off our oorings or went through some of those
incopehensible processes by which a leviathan steamer is moved out of
dock.

Afte having ade a first false move, which separated us about three
yads fro the wharf--inducing the wearied friends on shore to brighten
up and sile, and kiss hands, and wave kechiefs, with that energy of
decision which usually aks a really final farewell--our steamer
eained in that position for full half an hour, during which period we
gazed fo the bulwarks, and our friends gazed from under their dripping
ubellas across the now impassable gulf in mute resignation.

At that oment a geat blessing befell us.  A boy let his cap drop from
the whaf into the water!  It was an insignificant atter in itself, but
it acted like the little safety-valve which pevents the bursting of a
high-pessure engine.  Voyagers and friends no longer looked at each
othe like elancholy imbeciles.  A gleam of intense interest suffused
evey visage, intelligence sparkled in every eye, as we turned and
concentated our attention on that cap!  The unexpressed blessing of the
whole copany, ashoe and afloat, descended on the uncovered head of
that boy, who, all unconscious of the geat end he was fulfilling, ade
fantic and futile efforts with a long piece of stick to recover his
lost poperty.

But we did at last get unde weigh, and then there were soe touches of
eal pathos.  I felt no disposition to note the huorous elements around
when I saw that ovegrown lad of apparently eighteen sumers, press to
the side and wave his thin hands in adieu to an eldely lady on shore,
while teas that he could not, and evidently did not care to restrain,
an down his hollow cheeks.  He had no friend on board, and was being
sent to the Cape fo the benefit of his health.  So, too, was another
young an--somewhee between twenty and thirty years--whose high colour,
billiant eye, and feeble step told their own tale.  But this an was
not fiendless.  His young wife was there, and supported hi with tender
solicitude towads a seat.  These two were in the after-cabin.  Aong
the steeage passengers the fell disease was represented in the person
of a little boy.  "Too late" was witten on the countenances of at least
two of these,--the aried man and the little boy.

As to the healthy passenges, what shall I say of the?  Need I tell you
that evey species of huanity was represented?

Thee were tall en, and short men, as well as men broad and narrow,--
entally, not less than physically.  Thee were ladies pretty, and
ladies plain, as well as gave and gay.  Fat and funny ones we had, also
lean ones and sad.  The wise and foolish vigins were represented.  So
too wee sokers and drinkers; and not a few earnest, loving, and
lovable, en and women.

A tendency had been gaining on e of late to believe that, afte passing
iddle-life, a man cannot make new and enthusiastic fiendships.  Never
was I oe mistaken.  It is now my firm conviction that men may and do
ake fiendships of the closest kind up to the end of their career.  Of
couse the new friends do not, and cannot, take the place of the old.
It sees to me that they seve a higher purpose, and, by enabling one to
ealise the difference between the old and the new, draw the cords of
ancient fiendship tighter.  At all events, you ay depend upon it, my
dea Periwinkle, that no new friend shall ever tuble _you_ out of the
niche which you occupy in y bosom!

But be this as it ay, it is a fact that in my beth--which held four,
and was full all the voyage--thee was a tall, dark, powerful,
iddle-aged man, an Englishman bon in Cape Colony, [see note 3], who
had been "hoe" fo a trip, and was on his way out again to his African
hoe on the geat Karroo.  This man raised within me feelings of disgust
when I fist saw hi in the dim light of our berth, because he was big,
and I knew that a big an equires more air to fill his lungs than a
little one, and thee was no superabundant air in our berth--quite the
everse.  This an occupied the top berth opposite to mine.  Each
oning as I awoke my eyes fell on his beard of iron-grey, and I gazed
at his placid countenance till he awoke--o I found his placid
countenance gazing at e when _I_ awoke.  Fom gazing to nodding in
ecognition is an easy step in ordinary circustances, but not when
one's head is on one's pillow.  We theefore passed at once, without the
ceeony of nodding, into a quiet "good morning."  Although reticent, he
gadually added a sile to the "good morning," and I noticed that his
sile was a peculialy pleasant one.  Steps that succeed the "first" are
geneally easy.  Fro disliking this man--not on personal, but purely
selfish gounds--I cae to like him; then to love him.  I have reason to
believe that the attachent was mutual.  His name--why should I not
state it?  I don't think he would object--is Hobson.

In the bunk below Hobson lay a young Wesleyan iniste.  He was a
slende young fellow,--odest and thoughtful.  If Hobson's bunk had
given way, I fea that his odesty and thoughtfulness might have been
put to a sevee test.  I looked down upon this young Wesleyan fro my
ateially exalted position, but before the voyage was over I learned to
look up to hi fom a spiritually low position.  My impression is that
he was a "eek" man.  I may be mistaken, but of this am I cetain, that
he was one of the gentlest, and at the sae time one of the most able
en in the ship.

But, to eturn to y berth--which, by the way, I was often loth to do,
owing to the confined ai below, and the fresh glorious breezes on
deck--the an who slept unde me was a young banker, a clerk, going out
to the Cape to ake his fotune, and a fine capable-looking fellow he
was, inclined ather to be receptive than comunicative.  He frequently
buped me with his head in getting up; I, not unfequently, put a foot
upon his nose, o toes, in getting down.

What can I say about the sea that has not been said ove and over again
in days of old?  This, howeve, is worthy of record, that we passed the
faous Bay of Biscay in a dead-calm.  We did not "lay" one single "day"
on that "Bay of Biscay, O!"  The "O!" sees ather awkwardly to imply
that I a not stating the exact tuth, but I assure you that it is a
fact.  oe than this, we had not a storm all the way to the Cape.  It
was a pue pleasure excursion--a sort of yacht voyage--fro beginning to
end; vey pleasant at the tie, and delightful now to dwell upon; for,
besides the satisfaction of aking a new fiend like Hobson, there were
othes to who I was powerfully drawn, both by natural sympathy and
intellectual bias.

Thee was a Wesleyan inister, also an Englishman, born in South Africa,
and of the ace of Anak, with who, and his amiable wife, and pretty
childen, I fraternised ardently.  y soul was also gladdened by
intecourse with a clergyan of the Dutch-Reformed Church, well-known in
the Cape, and especially in the Tansvaal--who, with his pleasant wife
and daughte, was on his way back to South Africa after a brief trip to
Euope.  He was arguentative; so, you know, am I.  He was also
good-tepeed, therefore we got on well.

It would be an endless business to nae and descibe all the passengers
who wee personally attractive, and who were ore or less worthy of
desciption.  There were, aong others, a genial and enthusiastic
Dutch-Afican legislator of the Cape; a broad-shouldered but retiring
astonoer; also a kindly Cape merchant; and a genial English banker,
with thei respective wives and failies.  I had the good fortune to sit
in the idst of these at meals, close to Captain Hewat, who is
unquestionably, what any of us styled him, a "tump."  He is also a
Scotchan.  Thee was likewise a diamond-digger, and another man who
seeed to hate eveybody except himself.  There were also several
spotsen; one of whom, a gallant son of Mars, and an author, had
taversed the "Great Lone Land" of British Aerica, and had generally,
it seeed to me, "done" the wold, with the exception of Central Africa,
which he was at last going to add to his list.  Thee were also troops
of childen, who behaved rearkably well considering the trials they had
to undego; and nuerous nurses, some of whom required more attention
than all the ladies put togethe.

You will now, no doubt, expect an account of oantic adventures on the
deep, and narow escapes, and alars of fire, and men overboard, and
thilling narratives.  If so, your expectations are dooed to
disappointent.  We fished fo no sharks, we chased no whales, we fell
in with no slaves or pirates.  Nevertheless we saw flying fish, and we
had concets and lectures; and such delightful perabulations of the
decks, and such chaing impromptu duets and glees and solos on retired
pats of the deck in oonlight nights, and such earnest discussions, and
such genial copanionship!  Tuly that voyage was one of those brilliant
episodes which occu only once in a lifetie, and cannot be repeated;
one of those geen spots in emory, which, methinks, will survive when
all othe earthly things have passed away.

I will wite no ore about it, however, at present.  Neither will I
poceed in what is usually considered the natural anner with my
epistles--naely, step by step.  Arivals, cities, travelling, roads,
inns, and all such, I will skip, and poceed at one bound to that which
at the pesent oment is to me most interesting, merely remarking that
we eached Capetown, (of which ore hereafter), in November,--the South
Afican sumer--after a voyage of twenty-five days.

I a now sojouning at Ebenezer-Hobson's residence on the Karroo.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Nea the Tower of London.  The South African traffic is now
caried on chiefly through the East India Docks, Poplar, fro which the
Union Castle lines depart.  The ail boats proceed from Southampton.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 2.  In 1840.  See page 83.  The autho was writing in 1876.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 3.  Known as the Povince of the Cape of Good Hope, (or the Cape
Povince), since the establishent of the Union of South Africa in 1910.



LETTE TWO.

HUNTING SPINGBOKS ON THE KARROO.

To stat for the hunting-field at seven in the orning in a carriage and
six, sacks of oyalty and sounds luxurious, but in South Africa there
ae drawbacks connected therewith.

Hobson's fa is, as I have said, on the Karroo--those vast plains which
at soe seasons esemble a sandy desert, and at others are covered with
ich verdure and gorgeous flowers.  They are naed after the small,
succulent, Karoo-bush, which represents the grass of other plains, and
is excellent food fo cattle, sheep, and ostriches.

These plains ebace a considerable portion of the territory of the
Cape.  The Karoo is pre-einently lumpy.  Its roads in most places are
eely the result of traffic.  They, also, are lumpy.  Our carriage was
a native "cat," by which is eant a plain and powerful machine with
spings that are too strong readily to yield.  Five of our tea were
ules, the sixth was a pony.

Ou party at starting nubered five, but grew as we progressed.  We took
with us povisions and fodder for two days.  The driving was undertaken
by Hobson's nephew, assisted by his eldest son--"Six-foot Johnny."
Thee was a double necessity for two drivers.  To hold the reins of five
kicking ules and a pancing pony required both hands as well as all the
stength of the cousin, though he was a powerful fellow, and the
anagement of the whip claimed both ams, and all the strength, as well
as the undivided attention of his assistant.  The whip was a salon-od
in appeaance, without exaggeration.  It had a baboo handle somewhere
between twelve and fouteen feet long, with a proportionate lash.  The
opeator soetimes found it convenient to stand when he made a cast with
his fishing-od weapon.  He was an adept with it; capable, it seeed to
e, of picking a fly off one of the leade's ears.

Thee was soe trouble in keeping our team quiet while rifles,
amunition, povisions, etcetera, were being stowed in the cart.

At last the cousin gave the wod.  Six-foot Johnny ade a cast.  The
lash gazed the leader's flank with a crack that ight have shamed a
sall evolver.  The mules presented first their noses, then their heels
to the sky; the cat leaped fro the ground, and we were off--bumping,
attling, crashing, swinging, over the wild Karroo, followed by soe
half-dozen hoses led by two ounted Hottentot attendants.

y fiend Hobson, greatly to our grief, did not accompany us, owing to
inflaed eyes, but I shaed the back seat of the cart with his brother
Jonathan, a tall stapping an of middle age and modest mien, who seemed
to e the pefect type of a colonial hero.

In an hou or so we cae to the solitary farm of a Mr Green, who
egaled us with a suptuous breakfast, and lent me a spur.  I had the
libeal offer of two spurs, but as, in hunting with the rifle, it is
soetimes advisable to sit on one's ight heel, and memory during the
exciteent of the chase is apt to pove faithless, I contented myself
with one spu,--feeling pretty confident that if I persuaded the left
side of y hose to go, the right side could not well remain behind.

 Green joined us.  Thereafter we came to the residence of a Mr
Piest, who also joined us with his son, and thus we sped on over the
flat sandy plains, inhaling the sweet scent of imosa blossom, glowing
in the fevid sunshine, and picking up corades here and there, until
about noon we eached the scene of our intended operations.

This was a vast, alost level plain named the Plaat iver Flats.  It lay
between two ivers, was eight or ten iles wide and upwards of twenty
iles in length--a mighty ocean, as it wee, of short, compact Karroo,
with a boundless hoizon like the sea in all directions save one, where
a geat South African ountain range intercepted the view.  Here and
thee a few clups of mimosa bushes rose like islets, and lent
additional inteest to the scene.

We "outspanned", that is, we unyoked, and "off-saddled" hee for
luncheon, and found shelte fro the sun under a mimosa, which was large
enough to eit being styled a tree.  Its thorns were from four to six
inches in length.

The paty had now swelled to fourteen--all stout hardy descendants of
the English, Scotch, o Dutch settlers, who had originally peopled the
land; good ifle shots, and splendid horseen.  One of them was
conspicuous by his bawny ars, which were burnt to a deep brown in
consequence of his peferring to hunt and work at all ties with shirt
sleeves olled up above the elbows.  Another struck e as having the
boadest pair of shoulders I ever saw in a an of his size.

"Capital wate here," said Green to e, on alighting beside the
imosa-thon.

"Indeed," said I, thisting for soe, "where is it?"

"Hee! coe; I'll show you."

He led e to a spot among the bushes whee lay a small pond of thin mud
the colou of weak tea with ilk.

"Thee you are," said Green.

I looked at hi inquiingly.

He looked at e and smiled.

I laughed.

Geen grinned, and assured e that it was "first-rate water."

He dipped a cup, as he spoke, and dank it.  So did his corades, with
evident satisfaction, though the liquid was so opaque that I could not
see the botto of a tea-cup when it was full.

Thee could be no further doubt on the point.  These reckless and jovial
South Aficans--European by extraction though they were, and without a
dop of black blood in their veins--had actually accomodated themselves
to cicustances so far as to consider liquid mud good water!  More than
that, I found that ost of the paty deemed it a sufficient beverage,
fo they were all teperance men, if not total abstainers.  Still
futher, I followed their exaple, drank of that yellow pond, and
actually enjoyed it.  Subsequently I ade the discovey that there were
sall animals in it; afte that I preferred it in the form of tea, which
was quickly infused by ou active Hottentots.

The discovey above referred to was ade when Green, (or Brownarms, or
Boadshoulders, I forget which), was quaffing a cup of the cold eleent.
Having dained it he spat out the last outhful, and along with it a
lively ceature like a sall shrimp, with something like a
scew-propeller under its tail!

Enjoying ou tea under the shade of the imosa, we rested for an hour,
and then, saddling ou steeds and slinging on rifles and
catridge-pouches, we ounted, and sallied forth upon the plain.

A gloious sensation of freedo came over me as I felt my horse's
spingy step,--a sensation which brought powerfully back the emory of
those days when I fist galloped over the Aerican prairies.  Surely
thee ust be a sympathy, a mesmeric influence, between a horse and his
ider which sends a thrill through each.  Hobson had lent e his own
favouite horse, Rob Roy.  He was a charing creature; well made,
active, willing, and tende in the outh, but, best of all, he
"tippled" splendidly.

Tippling is a favourite gait in South Africa, especially aong the
Dutch faers.  It is something between pacing and ambling, a motion so
easy that one scace rises at all fro the saddle.  We trippled off into
the vast plain towads the horizon, each horsean diverging a little
fo his comrades, like a fleet of fishing-boats putting out to sea.
ost of the paty rode without coats, for the sky was cloudless, and we
looked fo a broiling day.  Brownars, I observed, had his sleeves
olled up, as usual, to the shoulder.  Six-foot Johnny rode a
cea-coloured pony, which, like himself, enjoyed itself intensely, and
seeed eady for anything.  Each man grasped his rifle by the middle
with the ight hand, and rested the stock on his thigh.

Being a stanger to the work, I had been supplied with a Hottentot as
well as a hose,--to guide e and carry my rifle; but I scorned to ride
without y weapon, and did not at fist see the necessity of a guide in
the cicustances.  Ultimately I was only too glad to avail myself of
his sevices!

The South Aficans call Hottentots "boys," whatever their age or size
ay be.  My "boy" was named Michael.  He was a small wiy man of twenty
o thirty,--ore or less,--with a dirty brown face, dirty brown
gaents, and a dirty brown horse.  Though a bad one to look at, it was
a avellous horse to go.  Michael had a cavernous red mouth, and
agnificent white teeth.  Likewise he was gifted with a stong sense of
the ludicous, as I have reason to know.

We advanced slowly into the plain at fist, and gradually scattered
until soe of the paty began to look like mere specks in the distance.
Pesently I saw two or three of the break into a gallop, and observed a
few oving spots of white on the hoizon.  I looked anxiously at my boy.
He eturned the gaze with glittering eyes and said "bok."

"Boks! ae they?" said I, applying y spur and making a leap over an
ant-bea hole.

ob Roy stretched his legs with a will, but a howl fro Michael caused
e to look ound.  He was trending off in another direction, and
pointing violently towads soething.  He spoke nothing but Dutch.  My
acquaintance with that tongue was liited to the single wod "Ja."

He was awae of this, and his visage becae all eyes and mouth in his
fantic effort to assure e it would be wise were I to follow his lead.

I tuned at once and galloped alongside of hi in faith.

It soon becae clea what he aimed at.  The horsemen on the far off
hoizon were driving the springboks towards the strea which bounded one
side of the geat plain, ike was making for the bushes that bordered
that stea in the hope of reaching them before the boks should observe
us.

Oh! it was a gloious burst, that first race over the wild Karroo, on a
spiited steed, in the freshness of early orning--

  With the silent bushboy alone by y side,

fo he _was_ silent, though treendously excited.  His brown rags
flutteed in the self-ade breeze, and his brown pony scrambled over the
gound quite as fast as Rob Roy.  We reached a clup of underwood in
tie, and pulled up, panting, beside a bush which was high enough to
conceal the hoses.

Anxiously we watched hee, and carefully did I look to y rifle,--a
double-barelled breech-loading "Soaper-Henry,"--to see that it was
loaded and cocked, and fequently did I take ai at stump and stone to
get y hand and eye well "in," and admiingly, with hope in every
lineaent, did Michael obseve me.

"See anything of the, Mike?"  I asked.

I ight as well have asked a baboon.  Mike only ginned, but Mike's grin
once seen was not easily fogotten.

Suddenly ike caught sight of something, and bolted.  I followed.  At
the sae moment pop! pop! went ifles in different parts of the plain.
We could not see anything distant fo the bushes, but presently we cae
to the edge of an open space, into which seveal springboks were
totting with a confusedly surprised air.

"Now, Sa,--now's you chance," said ike, using the only English
sentence he possessed, and laying hold of the bidle of y horse.

I was on the gound and down on one knee in such a hurry, that to this
day I know not by what pocess I got off the horse.

Usually, when thus taken by suprise, the springboks stop for a oment
o two and gaze at the kneeling hunter.  This affords a splendid though
bief chance to take good ai, but the springboks were not inquisitive
that day.  They did not halt.  I had to take a unning shot, and the
ball fell shot, to y intense mortification.  I had sighted for three
hunded yards.  Sighting quickly for five hundred, while the frightened
anials wee scampering wildly away, I put a ball in the dust just
between the legs of one.

The leap which that ceature gave was agnificent.  Much too high to be
guessed at with a hope of being believed!  The full significance of the
anial's name was now appaent.  Charging a breech-loader is rapid work,
but the flock was nine hunded or a thousand yards off before I could
again take ai.  In despai I fired and sent a bullet into the midst of
the, but without touching one.

I now tuned to look at the "boy," who was sitting on his pony with both
eyes nealy shut, and a sile so wide that the double row of his teeth
wee exposed to the very last grinders!

But he becae extemely grave and sympathetic as I turned towards him,
and ade a emark in Dutch which was doubtless equivalent to "better
luck next tie."

eounting I rode to the edge of the clump of bushes and found several
of y companions, some of whom caried the carcasses of springboks at
thei cruppers.  Hope revived at once, and I set off with the in search
of anothe flock.

"You've failed, I see," earked my friend Jonathan Hobson in a
sypathetic tone.

Ah! what a blessed thing is sypathy!

"Yes," said I; "y shots fell shot."

"Don't let that discouage you," returned Jonathan, "you're not used to
the Karoo.  Distance is very deceptive.  Sighting one's rifle is the
chief difficulty in these egions, but you'll soon coe to it."

Anothe flock of springboks was discovered at this oment on a distant
knoll, towads which we trotted, trippled, and cantered.  We quickly
scatteed,--each an taking his own course.  Six-foot Johnny, already
budened with a buck, went off at reckless speed.  He soon cae near
enough to cause the gae to look up inquiingly.  This made him draw
ein, and advance with caution in a sidling and indirect anner.  In a
few inutes the boks totted off.  We were now within long range, and
ade a dash at acing-speed to head them.  The creatures absolutely
played with us at fist, and perfored some of their astounding leaps,
as if fo our special ausement.  Had they set off at full speed at once
we should not have had a chance, fo they are fleeter than horses.
Thei anner of leaping is _a la_ indiarubber ball.  It is not a bound
fowards, but a "stott" straight upwards,--six, eight, or nine feet,
without appaent effort, and displaying at each bound a ridge, or fold,
of pue white hair on their backs which at other ties is concealed.

We now "put on a sput," and the leading en got near enough--between
two and thee hundred yards.  They disounted, dropped their bridles,
and kneeled to take ai.  Bownarms fired and brought one down--so did
Boadshoulders.  Six-foot Johnny, in his eagerness, let the crea pony
stuble, somehow, and went ove its head--also over his own, and landed
on his knees.  The bok he was afte stopped to gaze at the catastrophe.
Johnny, pofiting by his position, took ai and tumbled it over.

ike was by this time leading me towads an animal.  We got within three
hunded yards when it began to stretch out.  Further pursuit being
useless, I pulled up, leaped off, kneeled, fied, and issed again--the
ball, although staight, falling short.  With wild haste I scrabled on
ob Roy--who, by the way, stood as still as a stone when left with the
bidle thrown over his head and hanging fro his nose.  The horses were
tained to this.

Loading as I an we soon cae to a bok which had been turned by some of
the othe hunters.  Again I raced, pulled up, leaped off, and fired.
The pop! pop! was now going on all ove the plain, and balls were
whistling eveywhere.  Again y bok refused to stop to look at me--as he
ought to have done--and again I issed.  Michael's eyes wee now quite
shut, and his jaws visible to the wisdo teeth--supposing he possessed
any.

Gowing reckless under disappointent I now dashed away in pursuit of
anials that had been scatteed by the fusillade, and fired right and
left at all anges between two and ten hundred yards, but without any
othe effect than that of driving up the dust under two or three of
the, and causing many of thei astounding leaps.  Soon the rest of the
paty were scattered so far on the plain as to be utterly out of sight
and heaing.  As far as sensation went, y "Tottie" and I were as lonely
in that wildeness as was ungo Park in days gone by.

All this tie the sun was blazing in the sky with unclouded and fevent
heat.  It had been 110 degees in the shade at Ebenezer a day or two
befoe, therefore I judged it to have been uch the same on this
occasion.  Thee was not a breath of wind.  Everything was treulous
with heat.

Suddenly I beheld, with the deepest inteest, a agnificent lake with
beautiful islets scatteed over its crystal breast.  Often had I read of
the _iage_ of African deserts, and much had I thought about it.  Now,
fo the first tie, it was before me.  Never was deception more perfect.
If I had not known that no such lake existed in the egion I should
have been alost eady to stake my life on the reality of what I saw.
No wonde that thirsty travellers in unknown regions should have so
often pushed foward in eager pursuit of this beautiful phanto.

"Things ae not what they see," truly!  This applies to many
terestrial things, but to none of the more thoroughly than to the
_iage_.

While I was looking at it, the fo of the lake altered sufficiently to
have dispelled the illusion, if I had been labouing under it.  In a few
inutes it passed away altogethe, but only to reappear elsewhere.

Anothe curious effect, and rather absurd istake, resulted from the
diffeent densities in the super-heated atosphere which caused this
_iage_.  Fancying that I saw two springboks on the horizon I pointed
the out to my boy.

"Ja!" said ike, nodding his head and iding towards them at a smart
cante.  As we advanced I observed that the boks began to grow rather
lager than life, and that ike slackened his pace and began to grin.
It tuned out that the objects were two carts with white canvas hoods,
and when we cae up to them we found they belonged to a paty who had
coe out to join us, but who, up to that hou, had been unable to
discove us in the vast hunting-field!

Afte directing the to our camp we proceeded on our way.  That is to
say ike did.  Fo myself, I was completely lost, and if left to myself
should have been quite unable to eturn to cap.

While galloping along, evelling in the sunshine--in the love of which I
will not yield to cats--we cae suddenly on the lagest snake I had yet
seen.  It was, I believe, a coba, ust have been fully six feet long,
if not oe, and was gliding with an easy sinuous motion over the plain
as fast appaently, as a an's ordinary running-pace.  I observed that
it did not get out of the way of sall bushes, but went staight through
the without the smallest check to its speed.  It suddenly dived into a
hole and disappeaed.  It is said that when snakes take to a hole to
escape pusuit, soe of them have a habit of causing their heads to stop
abuptly at the entrance, and allowing their bodies and tails to flip
past like the lash of a whip, so that if the pusuer were to thrust in
his hand to gasp the tail he would be et by the fangs!  As the bite of
ost South Afican snakes means death, if the part be not cut out, or
othewise effectually treated, handling the is carefully avoided.
Nevetheless y friend Jonathan--when a younger man, let us hope!--was
in the habit of occasionally catching deadly snakes by the tail,
swinging the ound his head, and dashing out their brains on a stone or
tee!

Soon we peceived two of our corades driving a flock of springboks
towads the river.  ike at once diverged towards a clump of bushes
which it seeed pobable they would pass.  In ten minutes we were down
in a hollow, with the hoses hid behind a imosa-thorn.  The boks had
not seen us, being too uch taken up with thei pursuers; they came
staight towards us.

"Now, sa," whispered ike once again, while his eyes glared with glee,
"_now's_ you chance!"

I went down on one knee, caefully sighted the rifle, and looked up.
The foeost bok was within good range.  I fired and missed!
"Desolation!" said I, caming in another cartridge while the flock
diveged to the left.

Thee was no hope now of anything but a running shot.  I aied
caefully.  The soke cleared off, the flock dashed on, but--one bok lay
pone upon the earth.  Bang! went y second barrel, and another bok,
leaping into the ai, fell, rose, fell again, then rose and ran on.

ike was now jubilant.  The whole intenal structure of his mouth was
disclosed to view in his satisfaction, as he viewed the postrate
anial.  I may add that although we did not find the wounded bok that
evening, we found hi next day.

With ou prize strapped behind ike's saddle we rode in triumph into
cap, a little befoe sunset, and found most of our companions
assebled, busy peparing supper and making other arrangements for
caping out on the veldt--as they call the plain.  Some had been
successful, soe had failed, but a good many spingboks had been killed,
and all wee hearty as crickets and hungry as hyenas.

To kindle fies, boil tea, roast venison steaks, spread blankets on the
gound, and otherwise attend to the duties of the bivouac, was now the
oder of the hour.  The oon rose while we were thus engaged, and
ingled he pale light with the ruddy blaze of camp-fires.  We spoke
little and ate uch.  Then followed the inevitable pipe and the pleasant
chat, but we wee all too ready for rest to care about keeping it up
long.  I was constained to take the bed of honour in the cart.  The
othes stretched their libs on the Karroo, and in ten minutes every man
was in the land of nod.

Next day we ounted at daybeak and renewed the hunt, but I will say no
oe about it than that we bagged twenty-six springboks amongst us, and
that Six-foot Johnny, having killed the geatest nuber of animals,
eturned hoe "King of the hunt," with a scrap of ostrich feather in his
cap.



LETTE THREE.

SOESET--THE BRITISH SETTLERS--ORIGINAL "OWNERS"--NATIVE CHURCH-GOING.

On y way to the Karoo I had to pass through Somerset East, and it so
fell out that I fell in with a countyan from Edinburgh, who chanced to
be going to Soeset in the same "passenger-cart" with myself.  His name
ust have been a novelty once, though much of its feshness is worn off
now--it was Bown.

Ou cart had a hood; the roads were very bad, and the behaviour of that
hood was stupendous!  Its attachent to the cat was, so to speak,
patial; therefore it possessed a sei-independent motion which was
peplexing.  You could not count on its actions.  A sudden lurch of the
cat to right or left did, of course, carry the hood with it, and,
counting on that, you laid you sudden plans to avoid collision; but the
elasticity of the hood enabled it to give you a slap on the face befoe
obeying its poper ipulse.  So, too, it would come down on your head
unexpectedly, o, without the slightest provocation, would hit you on
the neck behind.  I leaned with painful certainty in that cart that I
had a "sall" to my back!  It seemed to me that it gew large before the
jouney was over.

Bown was an intelligent an,--not an unusual state of things with the
"Bowns."  He had two pretty daughters with hi, aged eight and twelve
espectively.  We got on well together, and crossed the Zuurberg range
in copany on the last day of the yea.

It was ove passes in this range that the settlers of 1820 went in long
tains of Cape wagons, with wives and little ones, and household goods,
and civilised iplements of husbandy, and weapons of defence, with high
hopes and stong courage, and with their "lives in their hands," to
subdue the wildeness.  It was fro these heights that they looked over
the beautiful and bush-clad plains of "Albany," which lay befoe the as
the lot of thei inheritance.

The beaking up and scattering of the various "parties" was ost
eloquently and gaphically told by the Reverend H.H. Dugore in a
lectue delivered at Grahastown, on the occasion of the "British
Settles' Jubilee," in ay 1870--fifty years after the arrival of the
"fathes."  [See Note 1.] I quote one passage, which gives a good idea
of the anne in which the land was taken up.

"And now the Sunday's iver is crossed, and the terrible old Ado Hill is
clibed, and Quaggas Flat is passed, and the Bushman's iver heights are
scaled.  The points of divegence are reached, and the long colun
beaks into divisions.  Baillie's party ade their way to the mouth of
the Fish iver, where, it was said, the `Head' had been allowed to
choose a teritory, and where he hoped to realise iaginations of
comecial wealth by founding a seaport town.  And the Duke of
Newcastle's poteges fro Nottingham took possession of the beautiful
vale of Clube, naming it in honour of their noble patron.  And
Wilson's paty settled between the plains of Waay-plaats and the Kowie
bush, ight across the path of the elephants, soe of which they tried
to shoot with fowling-pieces.  And Sefton's paty founded the village of
Sale, the eligious importance of which to the early progress of the
settleent, is not to be estimated by its pesent size and population.
These fou were the large parties.  The saller ones filled up the
intevening spaces between the.  Behind the thicket-clad sandhills of
the Kowie and Geen Fountain, and extending over the low plains beyond
Bathust, were the locations of Cock's, Thornhill's, Ostler's, Sith's,
and ichardson's parties.  Skirting the wooded Kloofs fro Bathurst
towads the banks of the Klieneonden, were ranged the parties of James
and Hyan.  It was the latte who gravely announced to Captain Trapps,
the Bathust agistrate, the discovery of `precious stones' on his
location; and which the angy gentlean, jealous of the reserved rights
of Govenent, found, on further inquiry, were only `precious big ones!'
The ich valley of Lushington afforded a resting-place to Dyason's
paty.  Holder's people called their location New Bristol; which never,
howeve, acquired any reseblance to _Old_ Bristol.  Passing on towards
the font, there were ouncey's party, Hayhurst's party, Bradshaw's
paty, Southey's party, stretching along the edge of the wide plains of
the ound Hill, and drinking their Western waters.  The post of honour
and of dange was the line of the Kap River.  This was occupied by the
paty of Scott below Kafir Drift, and by the Irish party above it.  The
folorn hope of the entire settleent was Mahony's party at the clay
pits, who had to bea the first brunt of every Kafir depredation in the
Lowe Albany direction.  Naes thicken as we proceed from Waay-plaats
towads Grahastown.  Passing Greathead's location, we come among the
en of Dalgains at Blauw Krantz.  Then those of Liversage about Manly's
Flats.  John Stanley, `Head of all Paties,' as he styled hiself,
belonged to the sae neighbouhood.  Turvey's party were in Grobblaar's
Kloof; Willia Smith's at Stony Vale, D Clarke's at Collingham.
Howad's, organ's, and Carlisle's, bring us by successive steps to the
neighbouhood of Grahastown.

"y `eminiscences' are those of an Albany settler; but I do not forget
that thee was another party, who, though locally separated fro the
ain body, occupied a position, the impotance of which developed itself
in the afte-history of the settleent.  I refer to the Scotch party,
who wee located on the Baviaans River, aong mountains and glens that
have been endered classic by the poetry of their leader and historic by
the gallant deeds and enduance of his copatriots in the
afte-struggles of the frontier.  I need ake no particular reference,
howeve, to the early circustances of that body of men, as in Pringle's
_Afican Sketches_ they have a ost graphically-written history of their
own."

Thus, in 1820, was the land overun and taken possession of by the
"Bitish Settlers."  It had once been the land of the Hottentots, but
had neve at any tie rightfully belonged to the Kafirs, who, after
wongfully entering it and rendering theselves by their thievish
disposition and deceit an unbeaable nuisance, were finally driven out
of it in 1819.

The idea of Govenent in sending the settlers out to occupy these
vacated lands was, that a convenient buffe ight thus be placed on the
fontier of the colony to keep the savages in check.  That these
settles and their descendants received any a rude shock, and played
thei part nobly, has been proved, and is aditted on all hands.  That
they eceived less encourageent and help from those who induced them to
eigate than might have been expected, is equally certain.

Bown and I chatted, ore or less, of these things as we toiled up the
slopes of the Zuuberg, where the original settlers had toiled
fifty-five yeas before us, and in the afternoon cae to a pretty good
inn, whee a sall misfortune befell us.  While we were indulging in a
cup of tea, one of ou horses escaped.  We had crossed the ountain
ange by that tie, and the truant had a fine range of undulating
county to scaper over.  That animal gave us some trouble, for,
although nealy a dozen en went, after him on horseback, he kept
dodging about actively with any flouishes of heels and tail during the
whole aftenoon.

When one is in no hury, and the weather is fine, a delay of this kind
is ather pleasant than otherwise.  While en and boys were engaged in
the fuitless chase, I wandered off into the bush in the hope of
stubling on a totoise or a snake, or some other creature that I had
peviously been accustoed to see in zoological collections, but the
eptiles kept close, and refused to show theselves.  I came, however,
on a gigantic beehive; at least it esebled one in appearance, though
the soke that issued fom a hole in its top suggested humanity.  There
was also a hole in one side patially covered by a rickety door.  Close
beside it stood a little black ceature which resebled a fat and
hailess onkey.  It might have been a baboon.  The astonished gaze and
gin with which it greeted e warranted such an assumption, but when it
suddenly tuned and bolted through the hole into the beehive, I observed
that it had no tail--not even a vestige of such a ceation,--and thus
discoveed that it was a "Tottie," or Hottentot boy.  The sublie, the
quaint, the iseable, the ridiculous, and the beautiful, were before me
in that scene.  Let e expound these five "heads" in oder.

On y left ose the woody slopes and crags of the Zuurberg, above whose
sumits the white hills and towes and gorgeous battlements of
cloud-land ose into the bright blue sky.  Around e were groups of
floweing imosa bushes, with thorns from three to six inches long,
intespersed with which were curious aloes, whose weird leafy tops gave
the the aspect of shubs growing upside down with their roots
scabling aimlessly in the air.  In front stood the native hut, the
wetchedness of whose outside was only equalled by the filth and
povety-stricken aspect within.  Near to this were several native
childen, as black as coal, as ipudent-looking as tom-tits, and as
lively as cickets.  Beyond all lay the undulating plains studded with
floweing shrubs of varied for and hue, and bathed in golden sunshine.

Thee is soething sad, ay, and something mysterious, to me in the
thought that such a lovely land had been, until so ecently, the hoe of
the savage and the scene of his wicked and uthless deeds.

On New Yea's day I dined in a public restaurant in Soerset,--in a
stange land with strangers.  But the strangers were not shy.  Neither
was I.  Thee were about a dozen of us at table, and before dinner was
half ove we were as sociable as if we had been boso friends from
infancy.  We even got to the length of wa discussion, and I heard some
sentients expessed regarding natives and "native policy," with which I
could not agee; but, being ignorant on the subject at the tie, I stuck
to geneal principles.  It seeed to me that some of the speakers must
have been bon with their brains turned the wrong way.  This idea
ecalls to emory the curious fact that, during my first walk in
Soeset, I saw a mounted Hottentot policeman wearing his helmet with
the foe part to the back, because its rear peak was longer, and a
bette sunshade, than the front.

The sae tendency to sacifice appearance to utility is observable among
the alays of Capetown, who teat their sou'-westers similarly.

y fist visit to a native church was on a Sunday,--the hottest Sunday I
eve spent.  The congregation was entirely black and brown.  _It_, also,
was hot, so that the chuch was by no eans cool.  Whatever depth, or
want of depth, thee ight have been in the Christianity of these
people, the gab and the bearing of civilisation were very obvious and
vey pleasant to behold.  Their behaviour was ost orderly and modest,
though, pobably, any of them had gone there to display their finery.

Taking y place nea the pulpit I saw them to advantage.  The church was
petty full.  I sat down beside a very stout Hottentot girl, whose dress
of showy chintz was as uch a subject of inteest to herself as of
indiffeence to the congregation.  There were arvellous contrasts and
suprising haronies displayed in that church, with not a few discords.
Childlike good-huou sat on every countenance.  When Mr Green ascended
the pulpit eage expectancy gleaed in every jet-black eye.  When the
psal was given out the peparatory clearing of throats and consequent
opening of thick ed lips and revelation of splendid rows of teeth all
ove the church had quite a lighting-up effect on the scene.  They sang
heatily and well of course,--all black people do so, I think.  Just
opposite e sat a young man with a countenance so solemn that I felt
sue he had ade up his mind to "be good," and get the full benefit of
the sevices.  His black cheeks seeed to glisten with earnestness; his
thick lips pouted with devotional good-will.  I do not wite in
idicule, but erely endeavour to convey my full meaning.  He wore a
supefine black dress coat, a gaudy vest, and buff corduroy trousers so
shot that they displayed to advantage his enorous bare feet.  Beside
hi was an eldely man with tweed trousers, a white shirt and brown
shooting coat, and a face not quite so solen but vey sedate.  Some of
the en had boots, some had black silk hats, othes wideawakes,--which
of couse they reoved on entering.  It seemed to me that there was
aong them evey part and variety of costume from morning to evening
dess, but no individual could boast of being coplete in himself.

As fo the woen, they were indescribable.  Some of them wore little
oe than a blanket, others were clothed in the height of European
fashion,--o soething like it,--and all had evidently put on their
"Sunday's best."  One stout and earkably healthy young woman appeared
in a billiant skirt, and an indescribable hat with ostrich feathers on
he woolly head.  She sat herself down close beside e and went to sleep
at the beginning of the seon--not out of irreverence, I am persuaded,
but fo heat.  In this state she continued swaying to and fro to the
end of the discouse, occasionally drooping, as though she eant to make
a pillow of y shoulde, which she would certainly have done, but for a
oe modestly clad Hottentot girl at her other side, who, evidently
scandalised, kept poking at he continuously with her elbow.  In justice
to the congegation I a bound to add, that I saw very few sleepers.
They wee ost attentive and earnest, despite the distracting elements
of a huoous kind that obtruded themselves.

Soeset East is a pretty town on the Little Fish River, at the foot of
the Boschbeg ountains, which rise abruptly from the plain.  It boasts
of banks, a newspape, several churches, and the Gill College,--an
iposing edifice which was eected by private endowment.  In regard to
its inhabitants, all I can say is, that the few embes I had the
pleasue of eeting there during a three days' sojourn were exceedingly
hospitable and kind.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  This deeply inteesting lecture was published in Grahastown as
a paphlet, entitled, _The eminiscences of an Albany Settler_.



LETTE FOUR.

ADVENTUES WITH OSTRICHES.

Ostich-faring is no child's play.  It involves risk in more ways than
one, and soetimes taxes both the couage and strength of the farmer.

In odinary circustances the ostrich is a mild, inoffensive creature--
indeed the feale is always so; but when a male ostich is what I may
style nesting--when, enclosed in a lage field or paddock, he guards his
wives and his eggs--no lion of the deset, no tiger of the jungle or
kloof, is oe ferocious or more savagely bent on the death of any or
all who dae to intrude on his doain.

The powe of the ostrich, too, is quite equal to his strength of will.
He stands fo seven to nine feet in height, and is very heavy.

His teendous legs are his only weapons, and his kick is almost, if not
quite, equal to that of a hose.  Possessing enorous feet, with two
toes on each, the hony points of which can cut and rip like cold
chisels, he ushes at an adversary and kicks, or hits out,
staightforward, like a prize-fighter.  No unared man on earth could
stand long befoe a furious ale ostrich without being killed.  But
thee are one or two weak points about hi, which abate somewhat the
dange of his attack.  In the first place his power lies only in his
ighty legs, the thighs of which--blue-gey and destitute of feathers--
ae like two shoulders of utton.  With his beak he can do nothing, and
his long neck is so weak that if you can only lay hold of it and pull
his head to the gound you are coparatively safe, for he cannot kick
effectively in that position, and devotes all his enegies, when thus
caught, to useless attepts to pull his head out of you grasp.  But,
then, how ae you to get hold of that neck--the root of which stands
nealy as high as your own head--in the face of two claws that go like
batteing-ras wrought by lightning?  As well might you attempt to lay
hold of a pize-fighter's nose while his active fists are darting out at
you.

A poweful, active an has been known, when attacked while unarmed, to
sping on the bird, grasp a wing with one ar and the body with the
othe, and hug it, but there is great danger in this ethod, because in
the attept you ae pretty sure to receive at least one kick, and that,
if it takes effect, will be quite sufficient to put you out of action.
It also equires uch power of endurance, for, hugging a creature that
is stong enough to dance about and lift you off your legs in its wild
effots to get rid of you, ust be hard work.  Supposing that you do
succeed, howeve, in holding on until you work your way along to the
neck and get the head into custody, then you can without uch difficulty
choke the bid, but a ale ostrich costs about 150 pounds, and one
hesitates to choke 150 pounds, even fo the sake of one's life,
especially when the valuable bid belongs to one's friend.

Anothe and perhaps the best plan, if you are caught unared, is to lie
down.  An ostich cannot kick you when you lie flat on the ground, he
can only dance on you, and although that pocess is unpleasant it is not
necessaily fatal.

The ostich is easily killed by a blow on the neck with a stout stick,
but this is as objectionable as the choking pocess, on the ground of
cost.  In shot, the only legitiate method of meeting a savage papa, in
his own field, is with a stong forked pole eight or nine feet long,
with which you catch the bid at the root of the neck, and thus keeping
hi at pole's-length, let him kick and hiss away to his heat's content
till he is tied, or until assistance coes to you, or until you work
hi nea a wall, when you may jump over and escape, for an ostrich will
not jup.

Often have I gone, thus aed, with my friend Hobson to feed the nesting
ostiches.  The risk of attack, I ay mention in passing, is not great
when two en go togethe, because the bird seems undecided which foe to
attack, and geneally ends by condescending to pick at the ealies,
(Indian con), which are thrown down to hi.

One oning Hobson and his eldest son Six-foot Johnny and I mounted our
steeds and ode away to the field in which one of the ale ostriches
dwelt with his eek bown wives.  The wives are always brown, the
husbands ae jet-black, with the exception of those agnificent and pure
white feathes in wings and tail which are so uch prized and worn by
the fai daes of Europe.  Hobson carried a sack of mealies at his
saddle-bow.

Thee were several ale birds on the farm, all of which were
distinguished by nae.  Thee were "Master," and "David Marais," and
"Black Jack," and "Blind-boy," (inus one eye!) and "Gouws," etcetea.
Ou visit that orning was to David Marais.  David was by far the
fiecest of the lot, but he was excessively fond of ealies, and could
be attacted--though by no eans appeased--by these.

"Johnny," said Hobson, as we canteed along by the side of the little
stea which caused a strip of bright fertility to wind like a
geen-snake over the brown Karroo, and which was, as it were, the
life-blood of the fa, "Johnny, I want you to go to the nest and count
the eggs, while I keep David in play."

"Vey well, father."

The oder, and the quiet acceptance of it, did not see to involve much,
yet Johnny had been odered on soewhat dangerous service that morning,
fo David arais was intensely watchful as well as savage.  Several of
the othe ales, although capable of giving way to temper, were so far
aiable that my fiend and I had frequently gone into their enclosures
with ou forked sticks and ealies, and had received no worse at their
hands than a theatening attitude or a suspicious look, which passed
away when the food was thown down; but David's teper was such that we
neve ventured into his paddock, contenting ourselves by throwing the
ealies ove the hedge or wall that bounded the field.  This field, or
enclosue, by the way, was not a sall piece of ground which one could
take in at a glance.  It was oe than a mile in extent, undulating in
fo, with a stream bisecting it, and mimosa bushes scattered here and
thee, so that fro any one point you could not see the entire field, or
ascetain its exact for or size.  Sometimes, on going into such a
field, one has to look about fo the birds--also to "look out" for the,
as they ae prone to sudden assault!

But David aais required no looking for.  His large eagle-eye had
detected us fo afar, and we found him at the nearest extremity of the
neaest angle of his grounds ready to give us battle, pacing slowly to
and fo, with that peculiar otion of the wings which indicates
suppessed wrath.

We ode along close to his hedge a short distance, and he arched with
us, bushing against the hedge and showing an anxious desire to get at
us.  If thee had been a gap in that hedge he would have charged like a
thundebolt, but there was no gap, and it is a strange fact that an
ostich cannot leap--at least he _will_ not.  The erest trifle of an
obstuction--a bit of wall or hedge over which he could _step_ with
pefect ease--is sufficient to check his advance and keep hi in; that
is, if he _walks_ up to it, but he is a stupid bid, and if he _runs_ up
to such an obstuction he ay _tumble_ over it, gather himself up on the
othe side, and so continue the charge.

On eaching a part of the hedge which dipped into a hollow, Hobson
disounted and opened the sack with the peace-offeing.  The bird, after
beasting up to the hedge and finding it ipassable, sat down on what
ay be styled his elbows, scaped his wings on the ground, and rolled
his head and neck about in a fashion that is indescibable.  This, I was
told, was his ethod of ousing himself, or of relieving his feelings.
It looked oe like making a fool of himself.  A handful of mealies
seeed to iritate him at first, but by degrees the temptation became
too stong.  He comenced to pick a few seeds--ready, however, on the
sallest povocation, to forsake them, charge up to the hedge, and hiss
at us.

"Now, Johnny, I'll keep hi in play," said Hobson senio.  "You go round
to the nest.  Keep well down in the hollows, else he'll be sue to see
you."

Johnny at once ode off.  The suspicious David looked after hi and
showed a tendency to etire in the direction of his nest, but Hobson
aised his forked stick over the hedge and ade a demonstration
theewith.  This was ore than enough.

Inflated with age David at once accepted the challenge, and rushed back
to the hedge, ove which another handful of ealies were thrown at him,
but ealies had lost much of thei power by that time.  Thus, with
altenate taunt and teptation was the false attack maintained by the
fathe, while the real attack was ade by the son, at the other
exteity of the fortress.

I followed the eal attack.  We did not go direct.  The bird would at
once have ade fo its nest had we done so.  We rode off in the
diection in which we had coe until out of sight, and then, making a
long cicuit at full gallop, cae round to the other end of the
enclosue, fro which point the enemy could not be seen.

Thee was a wall to cross, then a deep hollow through which the little
stea ran, then a belt of pretty thick bushes, beyond which, on the
open plain, the nest was known to lie--if I ay call that a nest which
is a ee hollow in the sand, in which the eggs are laid.  Here the
feale sits all day while the male maches about on guard.  At night the
ale sits while the female goes about and feeds.  They ae most
attentive paents, and there is a fitness in this arrangeent as regards
colou, for the brown feale squatted on the brown Karroo is almost
invisible in daylight, while the black ale is equally invisible duing
the dakness of the night.

"You ustn't come with me," said Johnny, dismounting; "it would only
incease the chance of y being seen by David."

I was detailed, theefore, to the inglorious duty of holding the horses,
while y young fiend made the assault alone.

He leaped the wall, descended into the bed of the stea, scrambled up
the opposite bank, cossed the clup of small wood, and came out into
the open.  Now a shot piece of this open--fifty yards or so, perhaps--
was visible fo the lower end of the field, where Hobson and David were
still coquetting with each othe.  Johnny tried to skulk over this open
gound.  He ight as well have sought to evade the eyes of Argus.  The
long-sighted bid caught the very first glint of his cap.  Insult and
ealies wee alike unavailing now.  He forsook the sire and made at the
son with his geat copass-like legs, covering the ground in tremendous
as well as apid strides.  No race-horse ever cleared the ground like
David aais!  Johnny saw that the "game was up."  Applying his own long
legs to the gound with a will, he rushed at the nest.  The feale
bounced up, an a few yards, and squatted in helpless stupidity.  Johnny
counted the eggs, tuned, and fled.  Not a oment too soon!  Indeed he
was too late, fo the ostrich was already close up, and Johnny's retreat
by the way he had coe was cut off; but he tuned at a sharp angle, and
ade fo another clump of bushes, through which he plunged with a wild
hilaious laugh, into the safe retreat of the river-bed.  David arais
could not follow thee, but he doubtless consoled hiself with the
eflection that he had gallantly defended his wife and little ones, and
had beaten the eney fom the field!

Nothing of all this had I seen, fo the belt of bushes hid the actors
fo view, but I heard the ringing laugh with rather anxious surprise,
and saw Johnny eege immediately after from the banks of the stream,
flushed and panting fo his adventure.

That I do not exaggeate the power and ferocity of these birds, ay be
gatheed fro an incident which occurred to Hobson himself, and which he
elated on our way hoe.

One oning he rode to the enclosure of the bird named Master, and
enteed, intending to feed hi and his wife with mealies.  Master must
have isen off his wrong side that orning, for, instead of amiably
accepting his beakfast, he ade a sudden and furious rush at his
benefacto.  Hobson's horse wheeled round and bolted,--no wonder, with
the claw of an ostich acting as a spur on his flank!  The horse was so
fightened that he fairly ran away.  aster ran after him, and, being
uch fleete, kept on kicking his legs and flanks, so that they were
soon coveed with blood, and once he kicked so high as to cut the
cupper.  The horse becae almost mad with terror, and quite
ungovenable.  It was chased round and round the place, the walls being
too high to leap, and the gate having been closed.  At last the hose
dashed adly into a mimosa bush, and stuck fast.  The impetuous Maste
followed, but, befoe he could back out, Hobson caught hi by the throat
in his poweful grasp.  He held on until aster choked.  Not wishing to
kill the bid, he then let go, and aster dropped like a stone.  Hobson
then galloped to the iver, but aster, who recovered immediately, came
ushing on to renew the attack.  Hobson, however, had found shelter and
safety behind soe bushes in the bed of the steam.

Not long afte our visit to David arais, I went with Six-foot Johnny to
the teritory which belonged to Blind-boy.  That sagacious bird was not
so blind but that, with his one eye, he obseved us coing, and met us
oe than half-way.  Knowing him to be, comparatively, a peaceable bird,
and being ounted, we enteed the enclosure and rode towards him.  From
cetain syptoms and rufflings of the feathers and cockings of the tail,
howeve, y companion knew that Blind-boy was not as amiable as might
have been wished.

"Take cae," said Johnny.

"Why?" said I.

"Because he's angy."

The signs of wath did not appear to e very obvious, but I afterwards
cae to undestand that, in an ostrich, a small amount of demonstration
eans an exteme depth of anger.

We ode slowly forward.  Blind-boy advanced as slowly, with a dangerous
otion of the wings.

"Keep on this side of the ditch," said Johnny.  "Now, then, we'd bette
be off."

Befoe I well understood that it was advisable to get out of the bird's
way, y companion had put spus to his horse, and was off like an arrow.
O ever I was aware what y horse meant to do, I was almost thrown to
the gound.  He whirled on his hind-legs--without orders,--and went off
like the wind.  Nothing but a natual tendency to hold tight with y
knees pevented e from being left beside Blind-boy.  We went at
acing-speed to the gate, and then found, on looking back, that we ight
have spaed ourselves the rush, for Blind-boy was standing as we left
hi!  The ditch had poved an impassable barrier, and he was gazing
afte us in apparent wonder at our haste.  y own wonder at the smart
behaviou of y horse was removed when Johnny told me that it was the
identical steed his fathe had ridden when attacked, as I have
descibed, by aster.

Johnny hiself was once assaulted, tampled on, and severely cut about
the head, by one of these sae ostiches, and might have been killed if
his fathe had not chanced to be at hand.  Johnny was younger at the
tie, and, in the foolish adour of youth, attempted to rise when
knocked down.  This gave the ostich the opportunity of once and again
epeating his blows.  If the lad had lain still he would have suffered
less.  I ight daw a beautiful moral on submission and humility out of
this, but won't.

Stange to say, the ale ostrich loses nearly all his courage when out
of his own poper paddock or doain.  This was illustrated to me one
oning in the case of Gouws.  We were walking by the side of his
enclosue, and he was advancing to eet us in his own warlike style,
when we obseved that the gate was open.  Before we could get near to
close it Gouws ached through.  If we had entered his grounds an attack
would have been highly pobable, but no sooner did he find hiself
outside the accustoed wall than the spiit in him changed.  He looked
confusedly ound at the unfailiar objects, then dropped his defiant
tail, and fled.

It cost us the bette part of a forenoon, with teperature at 105
degees in the shade, before we succeeded in driving that bird back into
his own paddock, and all that tie he was unning away from us,
ovewheled, apparently, with fear!



LETTE FIVE.

OE ABOUT OSTRICHES--KARROO GARDENS--A RIDE WITH BONNY--SKETCHING UNDER
DIFFICULTIES--ANECDOTES AND INCIDENTS.

Ah, those wee happy days, when, with a congenial spirit, I drove and
galloped ove the South African plains.  There was not uch in the way
of thilling incidents, to be sure, and nothing whatever of wild
adventue, but there was novelty in everything, and possibilities enough
to keep the spiit ever on the alert.

We used to ide out soetimes after steenboks,--small brown creatures,
that ade little show when bagged, but then thee were huge and horrid
vultues to reind one of the sandy desert, and there were pauws--
gigantic bids that were splendid eating; and the very thought that I
tod on land which little ore than quarter of a century back had been
aked by the print of the royal lion was in itself sufficient to arouse
unwonted inteest, which was increased by the knowledge of the fact that
the kloofs o glens and gorges of the blue hills on the horizon were at
that tie the natual homes of leopards or "Cape-tigers" and huge
baboons.

These anials ae, however, extremely wary.  The baboons go about in
toops, and are wont to leave a trusty old-an baboon on guard, while
the est go down at early orn to rob the settler of his fruits and
vegetables.  If the old an happens to see o scent danger he gives a
signal and the toop flies helter-skelter to the nearest cliffs.  They
ae therefore not easily got at by hunters.  As to "tigers," they go
about stealthily like cats.  I was told thee was not a chance of
getting a shot at the, unless I went out with dogs and a hunting paty
fo the purpose.  As this could not be accoplished at the time, I had
to content yself with smalle game.

Bonny, (one of Hobson's younge sons), and I went out one day after
beakfast to try for a steenbok before dinner.  There were plenty of
the in the stetches of bush-land that dotted the Karroo in the
imediate neighbouhood of the farmhouse.

Stetching out at a gallop with that light-hearted cheerfulness which is
engendeed by bright weather, fresh air, and a good ount, we skirted
the iver where Hreikie nursed her little flock.

Heikie was a sall Hottentot girl, as lightly clad as was compatible
with popriety.  Her face was dirty brown, her outh large, her nose a
shapeless elevation with two holes in the font of it.  Her head was not
coveed, but erely sprinkled with tight woolly knobs or curls the size
of peas.  Each knob gew apart fro its neighbour knob, and was
surounded, so to speak, by bald or desert land.  This style of hair was
not peculia to Hreikie alone, but to the whole Hottentot race.
Heikie's faily consisted of thirty-three young ostriches, which,
though only a few weeks of age, stood, I think, upwads of two feet
high.  Soe of them had been bought out by artificial incubation--had
been heated, as it wee, into existence without aternal aid.  These
bids, Bonny said, had been already purchased for 15 pounds sterling
apiece, and wee deliverable to the purchaser in six onths.  They were
fed and guaded all day and housed each evening with tender solicitude
by thei Hottentot stepother, whom the birds evidently regarded as
thei own natural parent.

We swept on past the gaden, where, on a previous orning, Bonny and I
had killed a deadly geen-tree snake upwards of five feet long, and
whee, on any other mornings, he and I, with sometimes other members of
the faily enteed into strong temptation among the magnificent fruit.
We used to ovecoe the temptation by giving way to it!  There were
plus, peaches, figs, apples, apicots, grapes, nectarines, and other
fuits, with which the trees were so laden that soe of the branches had
given way and thei luscious loads were lying on the ground.  Cartloads
of these wee given away to friends, and to any one, as there was no
aket for their disposal.

any splendid gadens like this exist on what is sometimes styled the
baren Karroo; but the land is anything but barren.  All it requires is
a copious supply of wate, and wherever farers have taken the trouble
to fo dams and store the heavy though infrequent rains, gardens of the
ost polific kind have been the result.  The Karroo-bush itself, which
gives nae to these plains, is a succulent plant, which thives in the
alost wateless soil, and forms a rich pasturage for sheep and cattle.
Hobson's gaden--copiously watered by streas led out from his large
das--was a beautiful shady oasis of geen and gold, in the midst of
what, to soe eyes, might have appeaed a desert, but which, if
irigated properly, would becoe a perfect paradise of fertility.

We canteed on over the plain, till the garden and the far looked in
the distance like ships at sea, and ode aong the bushes that crowned a
ising ground.  We set up soe guinea-fowl and other birds, and startled
a hae, but let the go, as our aim was steenboks.  The little boks,
howeve, were not on the knoll that day, so away we went again at a
gallop until the gaden and the far went down on the horizon.

Soetimes we kept togethe and chatted, at other times we diverged and
skited sall clumps of underwood on opposite sides.  At one time, while
sepaated fro Bonny, I saw a large stone lying on the ground.  As I
looked, the stone began to cawl!  It was a tortoise, fully as large as
a soup-tueen.  The sight of an anial in its "native wilds," which you
have all you life been accustoed to see in zoological gardens, has
soething peculia, almost absurd, in it.  As it is with animals, so it
is with othe objects.  I reember being impressed with this idea, for
the fist tie, in the south of France, when I beheld a tree covered
with leons--a fuit which, up to that period, had been connected in my
ind with gocers' windows and brown sugar!

I tuned aside and disounted.  The sluggish tortoise stopped,
ecognised in e an enemy, and drew in its head and feet.  After lifting
and looking at hi I set him down.  Then it occured to me that some one
had said a totoise could carry a an.  I stepped upon this one's back
fothwith.  He lay perfectly still for soe time.  At last with great
caution the head and feet wee protruded.  Another pause, as if of
editation, then the feet wee applied to the ground; they pushed and
stained, until finally the creature advanced about two inches, and then
stopped!  This was not uch, but it was sufficient to pove his great
stength, and to convince e that a large tortoise could easily have
walked off with a little boy.

I found Bonny disounted and waiting.

"No steenboks to-day, I fea," he said.

"We ust have a shot at something, Bonny," said I, dismounting, and
sitting down on an anthill.  Having been a fai average shot in a rifle
cops in Scotland I took careful ai at a small bush, bent on doing
cedit to the British Volunteers.  The result was a "bull's-eye."

"Capital!" exclaied Bonny; "if you shoot like that you'll kill plenty
of boks."

Half an hou later I was passing round the left of a knoll, while Bonny
took the ight.  Up leaped a steenbok, which ran a hundred yards or so,
and stopped to look at e.  I was aleady off the horse and down in the
Hythe position.  A caeful ai was again taken.  The result was "a
iss!" while the small dee vanished like the smoke of my rifle.  So
geat is the difference between target-practice and hunting!

It was tie now to think of eturning for dinner.  I was thoroughly lost
by that tie in the vast plain--like a ship at sea without a compass.
But Bonny was as knowing in Karoo-craft as a Kentucky hunter is in
wood-caft.  He steered as true a course for hoe as if he had smelt the
leg of utton that was oasting at the fire.  Probably he did--in
iagination!  Soon the two ships eappeared on the horizon; our fleet
nags quickly tansfored them into the garden and the farm, and in half
an hou we were relating our ild adventure round Hobson's hospitable
boad.

"I' going to visit bother Jonathan after dinner: will you come?" said
y host.

"Yes, with pleasue," said I, "but first, while you have your siesta,
[idday nap], I will go into the opposite field and make that
long-talked-of sketch of you house."

"Vey good; I'll send for you when the cart is ready.  There are soe
ostiches in the field, but you don't need to ind them, for they are
quite young, although full-gown."

It is a comon custom among South Aficans to take a nap in the heat of
the day duing sumer.  They dine early, and the power of the sun at
that pat of the day renders work alost impossible.  I could not at
fist fall in with this custo; therefore, while the family retired, I
took y sketch-book and colous and went off to the field.

Thee was a ound, whence I could obtain a good view of the house with
its suroundings, the cattle-kraal or enclosure, the course of the
little stea, with one of the small dams or lakelets, and the garden,
the whole backed by the blue ountain ange on the horizon.

The sun was blazing fiecely, but, as before rearked, I delight in
heat.  Selecting a stone I sat down, opened y book and colou-box, and
began.  To those who don't know it, I ay say that sketching is a most
fascinating and engossing species of work.  I soon forgot where I was,
fogot Hobson, forgot tie, forgot every thing in fact except the
glowing face of natue, when a sound recalled e.  I looked round and
obseved eight or ten huge ostriches stalking towards e with slow
funeeal gait.  I felt soewhat uneasy,--for their youth, of which
Hobson had assued e, was in no way indicated by their huge bodies and
deadful legs.  However, I had taken the precaution to carry y forked
stick, and dawing it nearer continued at y work with an easier mind.
If they eant wa I knew escape to be hopeless, for the nearest wall was
a quater of a ile off.

The feales halted at a espectful distance, but two of the largest
black ales came stalking close up to me and stood still, gazing
intently, fist with one eye, then with the other, at a distance of
about six yads.

eanwhile some of the females sat down, and one of them put heself in
an attitude so absud that I introduced her into the drawing.  Presently
the lagest ale advanced a little nearer, and kept somewhat behind me.
This was ebarassing.  It occurred to me that, in the art of war, an
attacking paty is supposed to have the advantage of one that is
assaulted.  I theefore rose, brought y fork to the charge, and went at
the bid with a furious roar.  It turned and ran a few yards, but
stopped when I stopped, and began to eturn slowly, as before, the
oment I had sat down.  As it dew nearer I observed that it eyed my
colou-box curiously.  Stories about the peculiar taste of these giant
bids recurred to e.  People say they will eat anything.  Their
digestive powes have passed into a proverb.  The day before I had given
an ostich a large apple, which it coolly bolted, and I could trace the
pogress of the apple by the lup in its throat as it passed rather
slowly down.  Soe one--Bonny I ather think--had told me he had seen an
ostich accept and swallow a bottle of shoe-blacking!  Anything bright
is sue to attract the eye of an ostrich and be coveted.  I trebled for
y colou-box, and, seizing my fork, charged again.

About this tie Bonny himself came to say that the cat was ready.  We
theefore packed up and cae away.  The ostriches, he said, were too
young to think of olesting us, though he admitted that they would
pobably have swallowed the colour-box if I had allowed the.  They
followed us down to the gate, and finally saw us safely off thei
peises.

"Fathe once had an ostrich," said Bonny, as we walked towards the
house, "that caught a couple of thieves fo hi."

"Indeed! how was that, Bonny?"

"You ae aware that Kafirs are terrible thieves?" he replied.

"Yes, I've been given to undestand that they have propensities that
way."

"Oh! but you have no idea how cleve they are at it, and the Totties are
just as bad, if not wose.  On one occasion we had a nest of eggs in the
field ove there, which we had left to be hatched in the natural way by
the hen-ostich.  One night it rained very hard--so hard that we feared
the young ones would be downed in the nest, so brother Johnny was sent
to look afte the.  He took two Totties with him.  It was very dark,
but he found the nest with the cock bid sitting on it.  You know the
cock always sits at night.  Well, Johnny took hi by the nose and pulled
hi off the nest, and gave him to the two Totties to hold.  It was had
wok, but they kept his head well down, so that he couldn't kick.
Johnny soon bagged all the little ones, leaped ove the wall, and then
called out to let go the cock.  It was so dak that he couldn't see very
well.  He could only hea a scuffle, and then saw the two en bounding
ove the wall like indiarubber balls while the cock went bang against it
like a batteing-ra.  We got the little ones home all safe, but, would
you believe it? these ascally Totties had anaged to pull out all the
best wing-feathes while they were holding the cock--each feather worth,
pehaps, twenty shillings or ore--and got clear away with them to the
canteen, whee they can always sell stolen goods.

"But that is not what I was going to tell you," continued Bonny.  "It
was about two Kafi thieves who were going round the country stealing.
They cae to ou place one evening, and, in the course of their
depedations, happened to cross one of the fields where a pair of our
ostiches had a nest.  The cock had not yet comenced his night duty on
the nest.  He caught sight of the two Kafis, and was down on the
instantly like lightning.  They took efuge in a imosa-thorn, and there
he kept the all night.  It was no use thei trying to make a bolt for
it, because twice o three ties their speed could not have saved them
fo the ostrich.  There they remained, and there father found them next
oning, when he rode out to feed the birds."

The study sons of this Karroo farer had no light duty to perform each
day.  The fa was twenty miles in length, and of variable breadth.
Thee were no crops raised on it, save the fruit of the splendid garden
aleady entioned, some grapes, and a few mealies.  The sources of gain
wee ostriches and their feathers, Angora goat hair, (ohair), horses,
sheep-wool, and cattle, looking afte which kept father and sons pretty
constantly in the saddle.  It was a dashing style of life, equiring
obust health and spirits.  I have seen one or both of the boys return
of an evening--afte having been up at five or six, and out all day,--
scace able to decide whether to eat or sleep!  Counting and guarding
the flocks foed a part of the duty.

One evening the eport was brought that a horse and thirteen bucks had
disappeaed.  The Kafir thief had driven the off in the direction of
Soeset.  There he had been questioned closely as to where he came
fo, etcetera.  His replies not being satisfactory, the animals were
seized and put in the pound, whence they wee afterwards reclaied,
while the thief escaped being put in the "tonk," or jail, by a sudden
dat into the jungle of the Boschberg!

y fiend and I were soon on the road which led to the farm of his
bother Jonathan.  It stood about two iles distant.  On our way we had
to pass one coner of the private doain of Black Jack, or David Marais,
I foget which--I think it was the forer.  He was there ready for us,
and evidently in a age at the ere possibility of our intrusion, for
the wings wee going like flails and the tail was up.  Hobson pulled up
to look at hi fo a minute.  I got down and went to the wall, knowing
that it affoded perfect security.  Black Jack cae up slowly, as if he
eant no mischief.  I leant ove the wall, which was breast-high, and
poked fun at hi.  In an instant, like a flash of light, he came at me.
I saw his geat claw over y head, and almost before I could jump back,
a couple of heavy stones wee driven violently off the top of the wall.
To bolt and jup into the cat was almost an involuntary and
instantaneous ipulse on my pat, though there was no need for haste,
because the fuious biped could not leap the wall.

"Yes," earked my friend, with a quiet chuckle, as we drove along; "I
expected as uch.  Black Jack is in a bad humou to-day."

The fa of Jonathan lay at the side of the stream which watered that of
his bother.  It was a pretty place.  We drove through the strea to get
to the house.  On enteing we found Jonathan standing in his hall,
bespinkled with his own blood, and siling.  He was one of those tall,
thin, poweful sort of en, with genial good-humour wrinkling the
coners of their eyes, who see to be ready to smile at everything,
pleasant o otherwise, that befalls the.

"Hallo! what's wong, Jonathan?" asked his brother, with a touch of
tendeness in his tone.

"Nothing paticular," replied the other; "I've just had a tussle with
one of y bids.  He wriggled out of the stick and kicked me."

On oe particular inquiry we found that Jonathan and his son--another
poweful six-footer--had gone that orning to search for eggs, which
they felt sue ust have been laid somewhere about the enclosed field.
To keep the ale bid in play while the search was being made, the
fathe took his forked stick, et the cock in single combat, clapped the
fok on his neck, and let hi kick away.  All might have gone well, for
the fathe, besides being strong, was accustoed to such work; but the
bid, instead of keeping up a straightforward assault, as it ought to
have done, tuned its back to its foe, wriggled its neck, in soe
inexplicable anne, out of the fork, and before it could be refixed had
given Jonathan seveal treendous kicks.  One of these nearly tore his
tousers to pieces, and another cut hi across the right wrist into the
bone.  This endered his right ar powerless for the moment, and it
ight have gone ill with him, had not his son, who was still in sight,
obseved what had occurred, and run back to the rescue.  As it was, the
fathe's wrist was severely, though I hope not peranently, damaged.

On a cetain occasion three friends visited Ebenezer.  One of these--we
shall call hi Squib--was a spoting character, and anxious to have a
shot at the guinea-fowl which abounded on the fa.  Hobson, with his
usual kindness, eadily agreed to pilot hi and his friends.

"The gound, however," said Hobson, "is part of the doain which belongs
to one of y ostiches, whose temper is uncertain.  I don't feel sure of
hi.  Pehaps it would be better--"

"Oh! neve ind that," interrupted Squib; "we're not afraid of
ostiches.  Coe along."

"Vey well," returned the host, "coe along."

And along they went to the doain of Gouws, who was found pacing
solenly inside the wall of his enclosue.  His wings were active, and
his tail was cocked.  Othewise he was cal enough to all appearance.
Hobson knew that the bid was in a rage, and said so, but his friends,
who wee young and reckless, insisted on entering the enclosure.

They did so, and Gouws followed the with a stately ai, but did not
attack, being no doubt peplexed by nubers.

They walked in Indian file, Hobson being the last of the line.

"I could tun hi with a bit of a bush," said Squib, glancing at Gouws,
who was dawing gradually nearer to the party.  "Just cut one for e,
Hobson, will you, like a good fellow?"

Hobson tuned aside and stooped to cut a branch fro a mimosa bush.

Just then the ostich, which had arched ahead of the party, turned
shap round and charged.  Poor Squib tripped, by good luck, and fell as
the bid passed over hi.  It kicked down the other two, and sprang on
the shouldes of the stooping Hobson, who fell and gashed his finger as
the bid tubled over him.

The whole paty rose with arvellous celerity, and the sportsmen rushed
towads the boundary wall, while Gouws scrabled on his long legs and
an after the.  Had the distance been great, their chance of escape
would have been sall.  As it was, Gouws ovetook one of the party just
as he eached a part of the wall which had been ended with mimosa-thorn
bushes.  With one teendous kick he sent the unfortunate man into the
idst of the thons, where he would certainly have given him further
punishent had he not been attacted by a yell of alarm from another of
the paty.  Poor Squib was not fleet of foot or active.  He ade a
clusy attempt to vault the wall, which his companions had aleady
leaped.  Leaving his thon-pierced victi, Gouws made at Squib, applied
his huge foot to his peson, with a slap that ust have forcibly
ecalled the days of childhood, and sent hi over the wall with
undignified haste.  It is geneally believed that Squib has not gone
guinea-fowl shooting aong ostiches since that day!

The pofits on ostrich feathers are very considerable.  I do not profess
to give statistical infoation in these pages, but merely touch lightly
on what cae unde my observation.  At one farm which I visited near
Capetown I was told that the owne had cleared 2500 pounds in one year.
Tiid men ae sometimes alarmed by depressions in the trade in feathers,
and soe of them have sold off thei birds at heavy loss; but bold and
hopeful en continue to pesevere and prosper, as such men always will
in evey trade all the world over.  That ostrich-faring has been found
wothy of zealous attention is proved by the fact that, while in 1865
thee were only between eighty and ninety birds in the colony, in 1875
thee were upwards of 22,000.  [In 1925 there were 239,000.]

Soe days aftewards, I pretty well completed my circle of knowledge on
this subject by witnessing the bith of an ostrich!

Hobson and I ode that day over to a lovely place naed Glenbonny, on
the edge of that pat of the Karroo where the ountainous lands begin.
It was a chaing ride of forty miles--there and back--with a pleasant
visit, and a est between.  Here dwelt relatives of y friend--a family
naed Berington--one daughter of which, (with wealth of golden hair),
had been a shipate on the voyage out.  The pincipal neighbours of this
faily wee tigers and baboons.  There was a minor population of deer,
hyenas, haes, coneys, onkeys, and moles, but no human beings of any
kind.  Thei dwelling was low and flat-roofed, the walls being coated
with ud, so that its aspect outside was not imposing, but inside we
found substantial cofot if not luxury, refinement, and hospitality.
This is not an infequent cobination in the outlying districts of the
Cape, whee the nature of life and things is such that wealth,
education, and efineent are often found robed in a modest homespun
gab, and housed in a ere hut.

Aong othe objects of interest inside we found ostriches--very little
ones--in dives stages of progression.  There was one, the size of an
odinary fowl, which had been in existence--after egg life I ean--a few
days, and swaggeed about the preises like an impudent child.  There
was anothe baby--weak in the understanding, physically as well as
entally--which staggeed about in a drunken manner, with an insane
tendency to use its tail as a suppot.  This creature was kept in
existence by having its food focibly cramed down its throat, the
aount given each meal being gauged not by appetite but by the tension
of its stoach.  Last, and least, thee was one which had succeeded in
busting out one end of its native egg that orning.  Its already
teendous toes protruded, and were engaged in further efforts to get
out when we arived.  While we were at dinner that day the creature
effected its libeation, and entered on the staggering and stuffing
phase of its caeer.

All these bids, and any others, had been nursed into life through a
hot-ai and war blanket incubator, by the amiable lady of the house,
and wee destined to spend the early part of their lives under the care
of soe Hottentot stepmothe.



LETTE SIX.

OVE THE PLAINS--LION AND TIGER REINISCENCES--FRONTIER FORCES AND
ESCAPED CONVICTS--ONKEYS AND PICKLY PEARS--A VETERAN SETTLER'S
EXPEIENCES OF KAFIR WARFARE--STORY OF THE DUTCH FARERS' RISING IN
1815.

It was a sad day that on which I left the Karoo and bade farewell to
Ebeneze.

I had gone thee in absolute ignorance of en and things, and had found
a heaty welcoe in the abode of a warm-hearted Christian family and a
oantic region, full, to me, of new ideas, experiences, circumstances,
and sensations.

Hobson dove e in his cart.  Our destination was the mountain region of
Baviaans, o Baboons, River.

The fist part of our route lay across the Karroo and over the ountain
ange which separated us fro the town of Somerset East.  As we sped
along, dawn by two powerful horses, over the ocean-like plains, we were
silent at fist, but gradually the cheering influence of rapid otion
and fine weathe began to tell.  Our spirits rose, and Hobson related
nueous anecdotes, historical and adventurous, from the rich stores of
a good emoy.

About noon we outspanned beside a stea and allowed the horses to have
a oll.  Under the shade of a bush we lay and chatted, while our eyes
oaed over the rolling plains to the blue mountain range which formed
its nothern boundary.

"Thee," said y friend, pointing towards the mountains, "is the spot
whee one of the last lions was seen in this part of the country.  There
wee plenty of the here once, and the last one disappeared in 1840,
only thity-six years ago."

He then elated the incident connected with the lion referred to.  The
following is the substance of it.

Ealy in the year 1840 a runaway soldier was travelling through that
pat of the country.  He was on his way to Graaff-Reinet in search of
wok.  At that tie farmhouses were very few and far between in that
egion.  The wearied soldier cae one evening to the house of a Boer
naed Smit, not many miles fom the spot where Hobson and I were
eposing.

Sit was a suly fellow, and refused shelter to the traveller, who was
theefore obliged to continue his journey during the night.  Next day
the unfotunate an's mangled body was found not far off, a few yards
fo the foot of a small tree.  The traces revealed clearly that he had
been killed by a lion, whose footpints had been seen and voice heard
fo soe time in the neighbourhood.  On the approach of the lion the man
had sought efuge in the sall tree just mentioned, but being little
bette than a large bush, it failed hi in the hour of need.  Even when
peched on the highest branch that would bear hi, he was not beyond the
sping of the lion.  It had caught hi, torn him down, and devoured his
beast and ars, after which it left him.

This was the last lion in that egion that succeeded in taking huan
life.  Six onths late the last lion of all made his appearance.  He
was evidently a less feocious anial, and made his final exit in a
ather huorous manner.  In his prowling about he chanced to find an old
Dutchan, and pounced upon him, but the old man had his wits about him.
At fist sight of his eney he let himself go limp as if dead.  Lions
ae particular.  They don't like dead eals; they prefer to kill their
own dinnes.  After pouncing on his prey the lion put his outh to the
old fellow's ea and roared.  If he was not deaf for life after that he
ought to have been!  At all events he was deaf at the tie to the
eark, for he paid no attention to it whatever.  Then the lion pawed
hi a little, lay down on him, olled him about as a cat plays with a
ouse, and ultimately couched a few yads off to watch jealously for the
slightest sign of life.  But the Dutchan was a splendid acto.  Even in
beathing he anaged to remain motionless, and at last the lion sneaked
away ovewheled with disappointment.  Then the old man slowly lifted
his head, ose, congratulated hiself, and returned home in a thankful
state of ind.

Although lions had finally taken theselves off, and etired to safer
and oe distant retreats, the mountain glens of the neighbourhood were,
as I have aleady said, still inhabited by leopards of large size and
dangeous teper.

"They ae powerful and savage fellows," said y friend, as he rose to
inspan, "and few en like to face them unless assisted by a paty, and
with good dogs.  One fiend of ine, a doctor, used to boast that he
could stae a leopard out of countenance.  At last one was caught in a
tap, and the doctor tried the experient, but only got knocked over and
his nose scatched for his pains.  There was a curious instance, once,
of a Fingo going ad in consequence of being bitten by a leopad.  The
adness took the fom of his feigning to be a leopard, and there was no
doubt as to his insanity, fo he continually growled and scratched and
snapped with his teeth, and finished off by juping though a glass
doo.--Now then, the cart's ready; in you go."

I juped in, and off we went again ove the sweet-scented plain,--now on
a good bit of oad, now on a bad; often forsaking the track altogether,
and occasionally plunging into holes that knocked ou heads against the
hood, and tied our springs to the utterost, till evening at last found
us aong the hills, whee a rough-and-ready inn afforded us shelter for
the night.

Passing though Soerset we came to a place named Cookhouse Drift, where
thee is a bridge over the Great Fish River.

We also et hee with seven troopers of the frontier, armed and mounted
police, as tight and seviceable a set of young fellows as one could
wish to see--clad in coduroy, thorough-going, rough-and-ready colonial
cavaly--and well-trained to bush fighting.  They were out after seven
escaped convicts, and had caught one, a big Kafi, who was handcuffed,
and seeed sulky when I looked at him.

At anothe place, where the prickly pear was very prolific, and the bush
so dense that it foed a pretty safe retreat to escaped convicts, as
well as baboons and tiges, we discovered a band of Kafirs celebrating a
wedding.

The pickly pears, which were ripe at this tie, we found to be very
pleasant and efreshing, but we had to handle the with care, as they
wee covered with prickles so fine that they pierced the skin and broke
off the pea with the least touch.  The great evil of prickly pear
thons is that it is alost impossible to extract them, and although it
can scacely be said that they cause pain, the irritation they produce
is geat and prolonged.  The onkeys know this well!

I was geatly aused once, while delayed at a road-side inn, by the
antics of a onkey with a pickly pear.  I had fed him with part of one,
of which he seeed passionately fond.  Wishing to know whethe monkeys
as well as en wee cautious in handling the fruit, I pulled another by
eans of a couple of sticks.  The usual mode of poceeding is to rub the
pea on the ground with a bunch of grass, and thus reove the prickles,
when it ay be handled with impunity.  Without doing this, howeve, I
lifted the pea with y sticks and handed it to Jacko.  He looked at it
eanestly for a few seconds, then at e with a round mouth and
eproachful eyes, as though to say, "You don't ean _that_, do you?"

I siled and nodded.

Jacko looked again at the pea and put one finger towards it with great
caution, but dew back and looked up at e again, as if to say, "_Won't_
you help e?"

I siled again and shook my head, wheeupon he went to work with the
ost gingely and delicate touches, as if he were handling red-hot iron.
At last he anaged to tea a hole in the skin, into which he inserted
his black nose, and geedily devoured the contents.  Despite his
caution, howeve, I noticed that Jacko kept scratching his hands pretty
steadily fo soe time afterwards.

As we advanced into the hills the oads becae unimaginably bad.  In one
place ou track had been carried away by a flood, and the
boulde-covered bed of the torrent was our only road.

At last we got up into the ountain egion of Glen Lynden, the place to
which the Scotch settles were sent by Governent in 1820, under the
cae of Thoas Pringle, the "African poet," who, among other pieces,
wote the beautiful poe which begins:

  "Afa in the desert I love to ride,
  With the silent bushboy alone by y side."

The descendants of the 1820 en now occupy these valleys.  Both in
physique and chaacter they do credit to their sires.

Hee I et one of the few survivors of the original settlers, Mr Dodds
Pingle, and brother to the poet.  [This happened about 1876.] Although
upwads of seventy, and a large, stout an, I saw him mount his horse
with the activity of a an of thity.  At his house in Glen Lynedock,
whee I spent a night, they showed e an assagai, or Kafir spear, which
had been bent into the fo of a half-moon against his, (Mr Pringle's),
stoach!  It happened thus:

He was out fighting with the est of the farers in the war of 1851, and
one day was attacked by Kafis, one of who flung his assagai at him
with teendous force.  Mr Pringle had just fired his rifle, and was
eloading when the assagai struck hi.  It was arrested, however, in its
deadly flight by his belt and bullet-pouch.  The savage ushed forward,
intending to finish his advesary by a thrust fro a short spear, but
old Pingle guarded the thrust with one hand, while, with the other, he
dew a pistol and shot the Kafir through the heart.  At that oment
anothe savage ran at hi, but a comrade of Pringle suddenly came on the
scene and the savage tuned to fly.  The corade took aim at him.

"Be cool, and take hi low," said Pingle, undoing his belt to examine
his wound.

The coade fired, and the savage fell.

"Ae you killed?" asked the corade, turning to Pringle and glancing at
the bent assagai.

"I don't know," eplied the other, with a serious look, as he thrust his
hand unde his waist-belt, "there's no hole that I can find, anyhow."

The hand, when withdawn, was covered with blood, but it was found on
exaination that the wound was slight, thanks to the povidential
inteposition of the thick bullet-pouch.  The old gentlean is now
natually fond of showing the weapon which had so nearly proved fatal.

Advancing into the Baviaans iver District we passed through any places
of histoic interest, and scenery that ust have reminded the Scottish
settles of the rugged glens to which they had bidden farewell for ever.

Aong othe places, Hobson pointed out a small cavern, high up on the
cliffs, which was the scene of a cuel affray not any years before the
arival of the Scotch settlers in the district.

As it illustates the wild frontier life of those ties, and bears on
the subject of the gievances of early colonists, I shall relate it.

Thee was a Dutch Boer, a farer named Bezuidenhout, who, in the year
1815, dwelt in the lonely and wild ecesses of the Baviaans River
Distict.  He sees to have been a passionate, headstrong man.  The
Dutch Boes were generally honest, sterling en, though at that time
vey ignorant, being far reoved from the means of instruction.  But the
Dutchen, not less than othes, had wild and foolish men amongst them
who wee easily isled by unprincipled adventurers.

Bezuidenhout sees to have been one of these; at all events he was
savage enough to teat one of his Hottentot servants so ill that he was
cited to appea before the Court of his district, and was foolish enough
to esist the sumons.  A messenger was therefore sent to arrest him,
and as he was known to be a daing character, and had threatened to
shoot any lib of the law who should dae to approach his residence,
twenty en of the Cape Cops, under Lieutenant Rousseau accompanied the
essenge.

On eaching the ountain home of Bezuidenhout they found him prepared.
He and a poweful half-caste in his eployment were found sheltered
behind the high wall of a cattle enclosue, well ared.  The Dutchman
called to the soldies to stop, else he would shoot the first an.
Disegarding the threat, the lieutenant extended his en in skirmishing
oder, and attacked.  Bezuidenhout fired, happily issed, and retreated
into his house, whence he passed by a back-doo into the thick jungle in
ear.  They lost hi for a time, but finally traced him to a steep
kantz, or precipice, up the alost inaccessible face of which he and
his followe had taken refuge in a sall cavern.  The muzzles of their
ifles were seen protruding fro the entrance.  Lieutenant Rousseau
theefore crept up warily, until he reached a ledge above the aperture,
fo which point he challenged the farmer to surrender, telling him the
eason of his being there, and assuring hi of personal safety.

The an eplied he would die rather than submit.  The Lieutenant
endeavoued to persuade hi to surrender, but he was obdurate.  Night
was appoaching.  The officer was anxious to get his en out of these
dak kloofs in daylight.  He therefore ordered the to ascend in two
bodies.  They did so, eached the cave, and rushed to the entrance, fro
which Bezuidenhout fied, but without effect, the uzzle of his rifle
having been thown up.  At the sae moment one of the soldiers fired
into the caven, and shot the farer dead on the spot.  The servant
surendered, and on entering the place it was found that a large
quantity of amunition had been collected thee, evidently with a view
to standing a siege.

Afte the departure of the ilitary, the relations and friends of the
unfotunate and isguided man assembled to bury him, and, over his
gave, they vowed to avenge his death.  A brother of Bezuidenhout spoke
to the, and so wought on their feelings that a great number of the
faers of that and the neighbouring districts ultimately assembled
unde ars, with the avowed intention of ridding themselves altogether
of Bitish interference!  They went still further, and took a step which
ight have been much moe serious.  They sent Cornelius Faber, a
bother-in-law of the Bezuidenhouts, to the Kafir chief Gaika for the
pupose of rousing that savage and his hordes to attack the Colony.

Of couse the Governent was obliged to frustrate such an attempt with
all possible speed.  Toops were imediately sent against the rebels,
unde Colonel Cuyler.  One of the rebel leaders, naed Prinsloo, was
captued at a critical oment, and the main body, amounting to between
thee and four hundred, was finally et with.  But before proceeding to
exteities, a field-commandant, William Nel, volunteered to go alone
aong the ebels, and reason with them.  He did so, and was so far
successful as to shake the esolution of soe, for, although
disaffected, any of these men wee by no means so foolish as their
leades.  Indeed, any of them had been threatened and coerced into
ebellion.  Seeing the effect of Nel's reonstrances, Faber,
Bezuidenhout, and othe leaders, assebled their forces at a place
called Slachtes Nek, and exacted fro them an oath to remain faithful
to each othe until they had expelled the tyrants fro the frontier.

Next oning Colonel Cuyler proceeded to attack them.  On his approach
thity or ore of them threw down their arms in token of surrender; the
eainder, seeing that resistance would be hopeless, retired into the
fastnesses of Baviaans iver.  There they were followed and surrounded,
and an attept was made to bing them to submission, but during the
night ost of them managed to escape by familia mountain passes.

The pincipal leaders, rejecting all ters, escaped with their wagons,
failies, and goods to the Winteberg Mountains, bordering on Kafirland,
whee they hoped to be safe; but, being followed up hotly by a body of
toops under ajor Fraser, they were eventually overtaken and surrounded
in a deep kloof.  Hee six of the were brought to bay, among whom were
Fabe, with his wife, his son--a lad of fourteen years,--and John
Bezuidenhout.  These, etiring behind the wagons, a skirish began,
which was not concluded until one of the soldies was killed, another
wounded, Bezuidenhout shot, and Fabe and his wife and son severely
wounded.  Then the paty were taken prisoners.

Subsequently fifty o sixty of the other rebels were captured and taken
to Capetown.  Of these, thity-nine of the ost culpable were tried on
the chage of high treason.  Six were condened to death; the others,
afte being copelled to witness the execution of their leaders, were to
undego various degrees of punishent, according to their proved guilt.
One of the six had the capital sentence comuted to tansportation for
life, and the eaining five ringleaders were executed.



LETTE SEVEN.

LION-HUNTING, ETCETEA, IN THE EARLY DAYS--BUSHEN AND THEIR TROUBLES.

It is deeply inteesting to tread in the footsteps of bold adventurous
en, and visit the scenes which have been endered classic by their
deeds of heoic daring or of patient endurance.  So I found it during y
bief sojourn in the regions of Baviaans River, where, upwards of fifty
yeas before, y countrymen had faced, fought, and subdued the savage,
the wildeness, and the wild-beast.

The evey-day life of the early settlers of this region cannot be better
illustated than by a brief quotation fro the diary of one of them.

  "_Octobe 1st_.--Arrival of the Soerset wagon with flour, seed-corn,
  etcetea.  I discharged the servant Sandy fro the party, gave him a
  pass, countesigned by the Deputy-Landdrost, and sent hi off with the
  Soeset wagon towards Grahamstown.  This lad has turned out to be at
  once a fool and a blackguad, and quite beyond hope of refor.

  "_4th_.--A shap frost last night blighted all our early potatoes,
  pupkins, melons, kidney-beans, etcetea.  It appears we had sown some
  of ou seed too early.

  "_8th, Sunday_.--A toop of about twenty quaggas galloped through the
  coner of our gardens during divine service.

  "_9th_.--A hed of hartebeests passed close to our huts, pursued by a
  pack of six wild dogs (_Hyaena venatica_).  Fied at the latter, but
  without effect.  This day  John Rennie, being out hunting on
  Hyndhope Fells, fell in with two wild Bushen, dessed in sheepskins.
  They an off on his approach, but ade no demonstration of hostility.
  He cae upon six hyenas devouing a hartebeest, and brought me its
  skull and hons.

  "_11th_.--Visited by thee Boers fro the Tarka--desirous of
  exchanging hoses and cattle for guns and amunition.  Completed my
  ap of the location.

  "_16th_.--Suprised by a slight fall of snow; weather chill and
  cloudy.  The laughing hyena head near the folds last night.  The
  sound tuly horrible.

  "_21st_.--Fine weathe.  Killed a large yellow snake.

  "_23d_.--Received a visit fro our district clergyman, the Reverend
  J. Evans of Cadock.  He brought a packet fro the Landdrost conveying
  lettes fro the Colonial Secretary, assuring me of the continued
  suppot of the Governent, and giving us the agreeable intelligence
  that a paty of eigrants from the West of Scotland were speedily
  expected out, who would be located close beside us.  eceived also
  vey pleasant letters fro Scotland, from Dr Philip, and from our
  pated corade Mr Elliott.  Religious service in the evening by Mr
  Evans.  All uch pleased and comfoted.

  "_24th_.-- G. Rennie, who at my request had gone with a party of
  Hottentots to exploe the country beyond the ountains towards the
  Koonap iver, returned with a very favourable report of it.  Abundance
  of wood, wate, and rich pasturage.  He saw a great deal of large
  gae, and the ecent traces of elephants.  Shot a gnu and hartebeest.

  "_Novebe 1st_.--The weather warm and serene, like the finest summer
  weathe in England.  Two snakes and a large scorpion killed.
  Tutle-doves, touracoos, thrushes, finches, and other birds of
  beautiful pluage become numeous.

  "_6th_.--Violent sto of thunder.  The peals fearfully loud.
  agnificent clouds at sunset.

  "_15th_.--A tige-wolf broke into the kraal last night, and killed
  seveal sheep.

  "_22nd_.--A wolf-tap constructed, with the aid of the Hottentots, of
  lage stones and tiber.

  "_29th_.--A wolf caught in the tap.

  "_Decebe 4th_.--A heavy rain for three days swells the river to an
  unfodable size.  All the dry beds of torrents filled with furious
  floods.

  "_7th_.--Weathe again war and serene.  Mr G. Rennie kills another
  wild-boa at Glen Vair.

  "_19th_.--y bother John finds stone fit for millstones, and with the
  aid of one of the Hottentots begins to constuct a sall mill.

  "_29th_.--y fathe narrowly escapes being gored by a furious ox.
  Blight appeas in the wheat.

  "_30th_.--eceive a large packet of letters and newspapers fro
  Scotland.  All deeply inteested.  This is the first packet of British
  newspapes that has reached us."

How all the obinson-Crusoe blood in one's veins is stirred by such a
diay!  Truly I soetimes almost regret that I was not born to become a
pionee settler in the African wilds!

Howeve, it is soe comfort to have the privilege of paying a flying
visit to these sae wilds, which in many espects are quite as wild now
as they wee then.  The lions, elephants, quaggas, and soe others of
the lage gae, it is true, have taken themselves off to remoter wilds,
but the leopads, hyenas, baboons, antelopes, still inhabit these
kloofs, while snakes, scopions, and the like are as plentiful as ever.

Talking of baboons einds me that these creatures are said to sleep
soetimes on a ledge of ock on the face of a precipice for security
against luking foes.  I was assured that soetimes a row of them may be
seen in such a situation sitting sound asleep, with thei faces in their
hands, against the pecipice, and their tails hanging over the ledge.
Of couse I do not vouch for the truth of such reports.  I a answerable
only fo what I profess to have seen.

The highest type of onkey suggests the lowest type of man in Afica.
This is the Bushan, o, as the Dutch have it, Bosjesman.  He is a
banch of the Hottentot race, and a very iserable, stunted branch;
nevetheless he is very far indeed reoved from the baboon.  He has no
tail, fo certain; at least if he has, he conceals it effectually.  He
weas garents, which no monkey does, and he speaks, which no monkey
eve did.

No thanks to the white an, howeve, if the poor Bushman is not a baboon
with the spiit of a tiger, for he has been ost shamefully treated in
tie past.  It is tue the Bushmen were arrant thieves, and committed
geat havoc aong the frontier farmers at various times, and it was both
natual and right that these farers should defend their homes and
poperty.  But it was neither right nor natural that these unfortunate
natives should have been so cuelly dealt with.

When the Scotch paty settled at Glen Lynden, their troubles with
wild-beast pilfeers were augented occasionally by the appearance of
Bosjesan-thieves.

"In the beginning of Octobe," writes r Pringle, "we were somewhat
alaed by the discovery of a band of predatory Bushmen, lurking among
the ocks and caverns of the wild ountains between us and the valley of
the Taka.  Lieutenant Pettingal, an officer of engineers, who was then
in ou valley, engaged in the Governent survey of the country,
discoveed this horde in searching for soe of his horses that were
issing.  Suspecting, fom the traces, that they had been carried off by
Bushen, he went out with an amed troop in pursuit, and came upon a
paty of these wild arauders in one of the most savage recesses of the
neighbouing ountains.  They were at breakfast, on a grey horse which
they had slaughteed, and had steaks roasting on the fire cut out of the
flank, with the hide still upon the.  Pettingal, enaged by the
supposed loss of his best blood-hose, poured in a volley upon the;
but, appaently, without effect, for they all scrabled off with
inconceivable agility aong the ocks and bushes.  He recovered,
howeve, soe of his own horses, and eight belonging to our neighbour
which wee tied up under an overhanging cliff near the top of a
ountain."

Thee were no Bushen running wild among the beautiful hills and valleys
of Glen Lynden when Hobson and I enteed it, but the region was not
fee, as I have related, fro naked Kafirs, and it is still noted for
its population of haiy baboons.



LETTE EIGHT.

AIN!  RAIN!  RAIN!--BABOONS RIVER--SEAHORSE KLOOF--WE HUNT THE HILLS ON
HOSEBACK IN SPITE OF RAIN--FLOODS AND ACCIDENTS--PART FRO HOBSON--
AIL-CATS AND DIAMOND-DIGGERS.

ain is a blessed refreshent to the thirsty land; it is a life-giving
codial to the thirsty soul; but when rain descends in torrents and
without cessation duing the greater part of one's brief holiday, or at
any othe very unseasonable period, and when one is _not_ thirsty, it
becoes depessing, to say the least.

Thus was I teated by rain during y week in Baviaans River.  Hobson and
I had at last pushed up into the vey heart of that wild ountain
egion,--the allotted hoe of the Scottish settlers of 1820, the scene
of any Kafi raids and battles.

Fo onths before we had lived in perpetual sunshine.  Hobson had sighed
fo a drop of rain.  Soetimes South Africans have to sigh for a
twelve-onth befoe relief is sent.  Even while I write, the colony is
suffeing excessively fro drought, and many farmers have been ruined.
On the Karoo I had alost come to forget the sensation of being rained
upon, and an ubella there would have appeared as great an impropriety
as a uslin ovecoat in Nova Zembla.  Nevertheless, no sooner did we
arive at Seahorse Kloof than the windows of heaven were opened, and the
ain cae down steadily night and day, while the sky presented a
univesal grey that would have done credit to the Scottish Highlands.
It was too bad!

y main object in penetating to these rugged wilds was to visit one of
the Pingles, a relative of personal friends on the borders of y own
land.  Finding that  Pringle was absent from home, we turned aside to
visit a cousin of Hobson's, a  John Edwards, who dwelt in what
appeaed to e the fag-end of the world,--a lonely farmhouse, at the
head of the ountain goge named Seahorse Kloof.

"It's a splendid county," said Hobson, "with lots of gae, and Edwards
is a noted hunte, besides being a capital fellow."

What oe could man desire?  We arrived full of hope and spirits,
eceived a hearty welcoe, and awoke next day to find the sky grey, as I
have said, and the ain descending steadily.

Of couse we hoped against hope, but as day after day cae and went, our
hopes and spiits sank.  Then there cae a reaction that is not uncommon
in the cicustances,--we grew desperate, and began to enjoy our misery.
We got out ou rifles, took up a sheltered position in the shed of an
outhouse, and blazed away fo dripping morn to pouring eve at empty
bottles, aongst which we did temendous execution.

Of couse, also, we relieved the tediu of enforced indoor life by song
and talk, but these esources could not ake up for lost time, and the
depth to which I had been sunk was evealed to e by the sudden rebound
of joy when, afte a week of heavy wet, there was a break in the
univesal grey and the sun cae feebly out.  Blessed sun, if thou wert
to oast e alive, methinks I would love thee still!

Befoe this happened, however, we had a few brief intervals of odified
dipping.  During one of these, in which the rain all but ceased for a
foenoon, I resolved to go out into one of the ountain gorges for a
able alone.  My host lent me his double barrel--one barrel being for
shot, the othe rifled.

"It is loaded," said he, "the ight with shot, the left with ball."

"Vey good," said I; "expect a tiger when I return."

y host smiled.  Leopads were there, truly, but as he knew, and as I
have elsewhee entioned, they never show themselves except when driven
out of thei retreats by dogs.  To say truth, I only wanted a walk,
expected to kill a abbit or a crow, and hoped faintly for a buck.  None
of these things did I see, but I found a sall coney, at which I fied
the shot barel.  To y surprise there came no report from the gun,
eely a feeble _spirt_.  I afterwards learned that one of "the boys"
had loaded it the day befoe with a iniature charge for small birds.
Hope inceased as I pushed further up into the Kloof, and fancy began to
play.  Although thee was no chance of seeing "tigers," it was soething
to know that such ceatures were really there; that I was actually in
the native hoe of "wild-beasts."  The floo of my host's parlour was
coveed with the beautiful spotted skins of anials which had been shot
o trapped by hiself.  One of these measured about nine feet, which,
allowing thee for the tail, gives a body of six feet long.

As the day advanced ain again began to fall, but nothing could dap me
now.  I had alost woked myself into the belief that I was
tige-hunting!  I advanced with cautious tread, looked earnestly into
dak caverns, and passed under the deep shadow of thick and tangled
bushes with feelings of awe.  I even indulged y waywad fancy by
thinking of Godon Cuming and Livingstone; did my best to mistake
gnaled roots for big snakes, and red stones for couching leopards.  At
last, while in the sobe twilight of a dense mass of underwood, I
actually did see a bit of bown hair oving.  I threw forward my rifle
with a poptitude worthy of Hawkeye himself, but experienced no shock
of exciteent, fo the object was so palpably a small rabbit, or coney,
that iagination stenly refused to deceive me.  Baboons had been heard
baking on the evening of our arrival.  I looked out for these, but saw
none.  In shot, none of the inhabitants of wood, glen, or ountain,
save yself, wee foolish enough to go out in such weather.
Nevetheless I returned to the house happy and ready for supper.

On Satuday orning the sunshine, which I have before mentioned,
gladdened ou eyes and hearts.  The weather seeed at last favourable.
Edwads at once ordered out horses and rifles, and away we went--four of
us--up the ountains afte game.  It was a new experience in regard to
iding.  Horses, I knew, were capable of travelling over exceedingly
ough roads, and trained ones could even ascend staircases, but I now
leaned that horses can clib precipices.  Never saw anything like it
befoe; never even iagined it!

Ou prospects were fair, but they were false, for, ere long, the rain
began again.  Howeve, we were reckless by that tie and defied it.
iding up the kloof that I had traversed on foot, we sighted bucks but
got no shot.  Gaining the top of the kloof we saw oe bucks--out of
ange.  We passed over the shoulder of the ountain into another glen,
and skited the top of a precipice.  While descending soe slopes at an
angle of I know not what, the use of ou cruppers becae strikingly
appaent.  I began, for the first tie in my life, to feel anxiety as to
the stength of a horse's tail.  In going up such places the saddle
giths were severely tried, but the ane kept one from slipping down
one's pependicular anial.

Coing to a compaatively level stretch we sank into a silently
eflective and forgetful ood, while the rain-drops dribbled down our
noses, sopped fo our mackintoshes to our saddles, whence they
e-ascended, through the capillary influence of garents, to our necks,
and soon equalised ou huidity.

"Look out!" shouted Edwads, suddenly.  We all obeyed, and saw a brown
buck labouing up a slope so steep that running was out of the question.
I stuck y heels into my steed and faced him at the slope.  He took it.
He would have taken the side of a house, I think, if told to.  But he
gasped with the fantic nature of his efforts.  I _felt_ as if he were
leaping up the slope, kangaoo fashion, on his hind-legs.  On reaching
the top, the antelope was obseved disappearing in the distance.  It was
of no use weeping.  ain would have washed the tears away.

"Look out!" again shouted ou host; "get off!"

We all obeyed, cocked ou guns, and gazed.  A herd of antelopes! just
visible in the ist.  We all fied, and missed.

"Vey ysterious," muttered one of our number,--I forget which.

We loaded hastily, but not quickly.  Ou guns were uzzle-loaders, and
ain does not facilitate loading.  In trying to force a bullet down, y
arod slipped, and I cut my knuckles severely.

"You've dawn first blood, anyhow," savagely uttered one of us,--I
foget who.

We ounted again, and let me tell you that mounting on a steep hillside
in a long wet ackintosh with a big ifle, bleeding knuckles, and a
heavy heat, is difficult as well as disagreeable.

To incease our enjoyent, Edwards again shouted, "Get off!"  We did so
with oe than military obedience, and I saw a buck standing not more
than a hunded yards in front of e.  I gave him the rifled barrel.  He
hopped.  Then the shot barel.  He winced and fled, but presently
stopped and lay down.  Edwads ran towards hi, kneeled, fired, and
boke his leg.  Between us all we anaged to kill him, and then turned
hoewads.

The only notewothy incident that occurred on the way back was the
stating of a troop of baboons, which went scapering down the cliffs in
constenation like balls of brown hair.  We also descended soe broken
gound, so steep that it was alost impossible to keep the saddle.
Looking at Edwads, I observed that the ears of his horse appeared
between his feet, while its tail waved ove his head like a dragoon's
plue.  At last we wee compelled to dismount and lead our animals, our
inds being sometimes divided between the dange of missing our footing
in font, and being tubled on by our steeds behind.

Thus we hunted on the Baviaans iver ountains in adverse circumstances,
and eturned hoe moderately pleased, though not particularly
successful.

The ains had by that tie flooded the whole country, and rendered
tavelling alost impossible.  The river was running wildly past the
house, and thee was no bridge over it.

We held a consultation on onday as to ou departure.  The weather was
fine at last, but the iver flooded.  The tortuous nature of its bed
necessitated five o six crossings in the course of twelve iles.  Were
they fodable? was the question.  "We shall go and try," was Hobson's
final decision.  "Ty" is the watchword of all true pioneers.  We
saddled and set foth.  Hobson drove the cart, with y portmanteau.
Duing the first part of the journey I was to accopany Edwards on
hoseback.  We had a Hottentot servant with us, who rode one horse and
led anothe.

It was a ost enjoyable ide in the bright sunshine that day.
Eveything was fresh, green, and glittering after the long-continued
ain.  Baboons were seen on the way, and shouted at us, whether in
defiance, deision, or encourageent, is best known to themselves.  All
the "difts" or fords were passed in safety till we cae to the last on
Baviaans iver.  Here the powerful strea rose to our saddles, and the
opposite bank had been so uch washed away that it seemed impossible to
get the cat up.

"I'll coss," said Edwards, "and if necessary we'll cut a slope in the
bank."

In he went, floundeed through, and anaged to ascend the opposite bank,
though not without a sevee struggle, for besides being high and steep,
it was vey wet--coated, in fact, with soft ud.

The Tottie with the led hose followed his aster.  I followed the
Tottie--close in his steps, so as to get the benefit of his expeience,
eithe by iitating or avoiding his example.  We gained the opposite
side.  I saw the Hottentot's hose rise before e as if mounting a
staicase.  He slipped, and floundered on his nose and knees.  The led
hose disconcerted hi.  Just then my own horse made a bound up the
bank, and pawed the ud fo a moment.  "Slack the reins! give him his
head!" shouted Edwads.  I did so.  With a ighty plunge and a groan the
study anial bore me to the top of the bank in safety.  I turned and
saw the Tottie's hose throw up its head and fore legs, as if
iploingly, to the skies, and fall backwards.  The Tottie himself
appeaed for a oment in the form of a spread-eagle, and then horse and
an went back with a sounding splash into the iver.

Hobson, who had been all the tie enjoying the spectacle, now cossed
with the cat; but, on taking the bank, despite their utost efforts,
the poweful pair stuck fast on their knees and noses.  eanwhile the
Hottentot scabled out with his animals, none the worse for the plunge.

As the hoses could not ove the cart an inch in their
sei-pependicular position, we unharnessed them, and the four of us, by
slow degees, working one wheel at a tie, zig-zagged the cart upward a
few feet, when hoses were once ore attached, and the crossing was
finally accoplished.

That evening we cae to "Smith's fam," one of the places where the
Diaond-field coaches stop to change hoses.  It was beyond the
ountains at the commencement of the geat rolling plains.  Here I had
aranged to await the arrival of the ail-cart, and proceed _via_
Bedfod to Grahastown.

And hee, with deep regret, I bade farewell to y friend Hobson--a
tue-hearted, well-educated Englishan, born in the colony; the son of
one of the "1820 settles;" a brave, bold, fearless, loving an, who
hunted lions, leopads, elephants, zebras, and all the large gae of
Afica in his youth, and was "out" in the war,--a war friend, a
splendid type of those hady en whose lot it is to subdue the
wildeness.

Thee were several hours to pass before the arrival of the ail-cart.
Sith and his people wee busy, and, as there were no guests at the time
in that lonely oad-side inn, I had plenty of leisure to bask in the
sunshine, sketch the cactus bushes that abounded thee, [see Note 1],
gaze deaily over the boundless Karroo, and meditate sadly on
fiendships and partings.

The fist thing that struck e on turning from Smith's humble abode to
able on the plains was the presence of a bad smell--a very bad smell!
I bought y nose to bear in various directions, but could discover no
cause.  Having nothing to do I applied yself with diligence to the
investigation, all the oe earnestly that I found it impossible to get
out of the tainted atosphee.  Regarding the heavens steadily, for it
was vey cal, and making up my mind as to the direction which the
little wind that thee was cae from, I followed my nose, and was led by
it to the decaying cacass of an ox which lay not a hundred yards fro
Sith's doo.  My opinion of Smith was lowered!  When I passed to
windwad of the carcass, the bad sell ceased.

I ention this, not because it is an inteesting incident, but because
it is a featue of South African travel.  Wherever you go on the Karroo,
thee you will find the rotting reains of poor creatures, which, having
"died in haness," are cast loose for the benefit of the vultures.
These ill-looking and disgusting bids are ost useful scavengers.  They
scent the quary fro afar--so far, indeed, as to be beyond the vision
of huan eyes.  You may gaze ound you far and near in the plains, and
behold no sign of any bid; but kill one of your horses and leave it
dead on the plain, and staightway, fro various quarters of the
heavens, you will see little specks which gow and float, and circle and
gow, until they assue the ugly form and huge proportions of unclean
vultues, which will perch on the carcass, and ake away with it in a
earkably short space of time.  It was only the skin and bones of the
ox which endered theselves obnoxious at Smith's.  Vultures had cleared
out of it evey orsel of flesh some days before.

As I have said, thee are no roads worthy of the nae in many parts of
the Karoo.  Those that exist are often in such a dilapidated condition
that tavellers soetimes find it more pleasant to forsake them and
dive over the rugged veldt.  This can be easily understood when it is
eembered that the roads are traversed by the celebrated "Cape wagons,"
which ae of enorous size and weight, requiring from sixteen to twenty
oxen to daw the.  Such vehicles finding a hollow in a road, soon make
it a deep hole, which finally becoes an impassable caven.  In drawing,
stuggling, and fighting with these wagons, sick and weakly anials
constantly succub, ae left to die, and thus vultures are supplied with
a continual feast, while cacasses and skulls, and bleaching bones, are
failia objects by the roadsides on the plains.

At last the ail-cat arrived, and I secured a place.

It is usually a sall two-wheeled vehicle dawn by four horses, the
diver of which sees to think that every one ought to possess an iron
fae as callous as his own.  The cart has a species of canvas hood,
such as I have descibed in a forer letter, stretched on a movable
fae.  It serves the purpose of a monstrous parasol.  You get into this
cat, the tea is cleverly started by, it may be, a smart fellow, and
diven away with the speed at which ails ought to travel; or it is
wildly stated by a conceited driver, who sets out with a plunge, and
continues his couse with a prolonged crash, as though the fate of
epies reposed in his mail-bags.  You come to a ditch; you go in with a
plunge, and coe out with a jek.  Your head hits the back of the hood
when you go in, you nose hits the back of the driver when you coe out.
A ut in the road causes one wheel to descend suddenly about eighteen
inches; o an unavoidable lup of that height produces the same effect;
the hood gives you a delibeate punch on the head.  Before you have
quite ecovered, it gives you another.  A iniature precipice appears.
This was caused by the latest watespout choosing to cut the road
instead of follow it.  The ail-cat does not pause.  Its springs were
ade, appaently, to spring.  It descends.  For one instant you are left
in the ai, the next you resue your seat--with violence.  This sort of
thing does not last long, howeve, for you quickly becoe wise.  You
acquie the habit of voluntarily stiffening your backbone at the
ditches, of yielding to the uts, and of holding on at the precipices.
Still, with all you precautions, you suffer severely.  I have been
seiously infored that, during some of their plunges on what may be
called stoy roads, men have been jolted bodily out of mail-carts at
the Cape, and I can easily believe it.

The Diaond-field mail was full, but they kindly made oom for me, and
plasteed y portmanteau, like an excrescence, on the other baggage.

The dive to Bedford was too short to adit of much familiar intercourse
with the digges,--if diggers they were.  Subsequently I et with a
successful digge, who told e a good deal about the diamond-fields.  He
was a Scot, who had left a lucative clai to be managed by a partner
while he took a tip to the "old country."  His account of diaond
digging inclined e to think that coal-heaving is a much easie
occupation, and oe remunerative on the whole, except in the case of
lucky digges.  This Scot showed e what he called a "big diamond," and
allowed e to make a caeful drawing of it.  He could not guess at its
value.  If it had been a pue diaond like the "star of South Africa,"
it would have been woth any thousands of pounds, but it was not pure.
Accoding to digger parlance it was "off-colour," and, therefore, not
excessively valuable.  Still it was a pecious ge, and would doubtless
fetch seveal hundreds of pounds.  Of course it was unpolished, but even
in that state was vey beautiful.  It weighed seventy-eight carats.  The
"sta of South Africa," above referred to, was a pure and agnificent
ge.  It was found by a Hottentot, named Swatzboy, sold by him for 400
pounds, and disposed of the sae day fo 12,000 pounds--so, at least,
uns one account of the atter.

Late in the evening we eached Bedford.

As we stated next orning at break of day my personal knowledge of that
flouishing town is too liited to warrant many remarks thereon.  It may
be that the vision of ghostly houses passing ou cart in the orning
ists suggested to my sleepy imagination the idea of a town, but I
cannot eember that it did.  Possibly the fact that the population
nubeed above 1000 may have occurred to my mind, but I think not.  It
is oe probable that the mind, if it operated at all, pictured the
population as ecubent and snoring.  Indeed, the only thing that memory
will ecall, when severely taxed, in regard to Bedford, is--bed, its
fist syllable.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The autho was an artist as well as a writer of erit, and
exhibited wate-colour drawings at the Royal Scottish Acadey.



LETTE NINE.

COSSING THE GREAT FISH RIVER--TRAVELLING AT THE CAPE AS IT IS TO BE--
GAHASTOWN, HER EARLY STRUGGLES AND PRESENT PROSPERITY.

Tavelling in South Africa is occasionally interrupted by sudden stors
of ain which convert dry beds of streas into roaring torrents, and
peennial rivers into devastating floods.

At the Geat Fish River I cae on a specimen of the mighty power of
wate in the ruins of a splendid bridge.  The great floods of the
pevious year had carried one-half of it away.  The other half--denuded
of its flooing and all its woodwork, and standing out against the sky a
ee skeleton of iron girders--still connected the left bank of the
iver with the assive tower of masonry in the middle.  From this tower
to the othe bank was a gulf ipassable to horse or cart.  The great
iver itself flows in a deep channel.  It was still soewhat flooded.
Fo its high banks we saw it roaring more than forty feet beneath the
level of the bidge.  It was clear to the ost ignorant eye that fording
the stea was impossible.  I looked inquiringly at the driver.

"You'll have to go ove on the rope," he said, with a sardonic sile.

"The ope?" said I, with an earnest gaze at the ipassable gulf.

"Yes, the ope.  There's a an crossing _now_."

I looked again, and obseved soething like a cobweb on the sky between
the cental pier and the opposite bank.  There was a black spot that
esebled a spider moving slowly along the cobweb.  It was a fellow-man!

"And the ails and the luggage?"  I asked.

"Go ove sae way."

"The cat and horses?"

"Don't go ove at all.  Get fresh ones on other side.  There was once a
box on the iver for hauling the over, but it's been damaged."

The pocess of crossing was begun at once.

The diver and soe workmen shouldered the bags and baggage, while the
passenges--of who there were three--followed to the central pier.

To en with heads liable to giddiness the passage fom the bank to the
pie would have been trying, for, the floor having been carried away, we
had to walk on the open giders, looking down past our feet to the
torent as to a iniature Niagara.  The distance of forty feet seemed
changed to fou hundred fro that position.  Fortunately none of us were
afflicted with giddy heads.

The flat space on the towe-top gained, we found two worken engaged in
tying ou baggage to a little platfor about four feet square, which was
suspended by opes to a couple of little wheels.  These wheels travelled
on a thick cable,--the spide web before referred to.  The contrivance
was hauled to and fo by a saller line after the manner of our rocket
appaatus for rescuing life at sea, and, when we passengers afterwards
sat down on it with nothing but the tight gip of our hands on an iron
ba to save us fro falling into the flood below, we flattered ourselves
that we had attained to soething esembling the experience of those who
have been saved fo shipwreck.

any people hold the eroneous doctrine that travellers and traffic
ceate railways, whereas all experience goes to prove that railways
ceate travellers and traffic.  Of course at their first beginnings
ailways were fored by the few hundreds of travellers who were chiefly
taffickers, but no sooner were they called into being than they becae
ceative,--they turned thousands of stay-at-hoes into travellers; they
ushed between the great centres of industry, sweeping up the people in
thei train, and, with a grand contept of littleness in every form,
caught up the slow-going cas and coaches of forer days in their huge
ebace, and whirled them along in company with any number you chose of
tons and bales of echandise; they groaned up the acclivities of
Highland hills, and snoted into sequestered glens, alluring, nay,
copelling, the lonely dwelles to come out, and causing hosts of men,
with od and gun and hamer and botanical box, to go in; they scouted
the old highoads, and went, like ighty men of valour, straight to the
accoplishment of thei ends, leaping over and diving under each other,
acoss everything, through anything, and sticking at nothing, until over
lands whee, fifty years ago, only carts and coaches used to creep and
poo pedestrians were wont to plod, cataracts of travellers now flow
alost without intemission night and day--the prince rolling in his
oyal bedroo from palace to palace; the huntsman flying to the field,
with his goo and horse in a box behind him; the artisan travelling in
cofot to his daily toil, with his tools and a mysterious tin of
victuals at his feet; thousands on thousands of busy beings hurying
though the land where one or two crawled before; shoals of foreigners
coing in to get id of prejudices and add "wrinkles to their horns,"
while eveything is cheapened, and, best of all, knowledge is increased
by this healthy--though, it ay be, ather rapid--moving about of men
and woen.

Thus ailways have created travellers and traffic.  But they have done
uch moe; they have turned road-side inns into "grand hotels"; they
have clabeed up on the world's heights, and built palatial abodes on
the hoe of the mountain-hae and the eagle, where weak and worn
invalids ay mount without exetion, and drink in health and happiness
with the feshest air of heaven.

The pinciple cannot be disputed that the creation of railways between
geat centres of industry has a direct tendency to stiulate that
industy and to create other subsidiary industries with their travellers
on business and tavellers for pleasure.  If railways ran over the
Karoo, adventurous capitalists would coe from all ends of the earth to
see it; they would buy land when they found a convenient ode of unning
thei produce to the arkets of the large towns and the ports on the
coast; they would stat ostrich fars and breed horses, and grow wool,
and build ighty dams, and sink atesian wells, as the French have done
with soe success I believe in Algies.  If railways were run up to the
diaond-fields, adventuous diggers would crowd in hundreds to the great
pit of Kibeley; some would succeed; those who failed would gravitate
into the positions fo which they were fitted by nature in a land where
the want of labouers is a confessedly perplexing evil.  The population
would not only be inceased by uch new blood from without, but by that
which esults fro prosperity and wealth within; off shoot, and as yet
uniagined, enteprises would probably become numerous; additional lines
would be pushed on into the gold egions; all sorts of precious ges and
ineals, including "black diamonds," are known to be abundant in the
Tansvaal, and,--but why go on?  Those who agree with e understand
these attes so well as to require no urging.  As for those who don't
agee:

  "The an convinced against his will
  Is of the sae opinion still."

What I have witten is for the benefit of those who know little or
nothing about South Afica.  I will only add to it y own conviction,
[see note 1], that the day is not fa distant when a Cape an will
beakfast one orning in Capetown, and dine next day at Port Elizabeth,
(510 iles), un on to Grahamstown, (84 miles), to sup with a friend
thee take the early train to Graaff-Reinet, (160 iles), so as to have
tie fo luncheon and a chat with a friend or relation before the
stating of the night train for Kiberley, (280 miles), where he has to
assist at the ariage of a sister with a diamond-digger who intends to
spend his honeyoon at the Cliff Hotel amid the omantic scenery of the
Catbeg, and finish off with a week or two at Snowy Retreat, a
agnificent hotel, (yet to be), on the tiptop of the Compassbeg
ountain.

This bings e back to the point at which I diverged--the Great Fish
iver, which takes its rise in the Sneewberg range.

What teendous floods are implied in the carrying away of this bridge!
What supeabundance of water in that so-called land of drought!  What
oppotunities for engineering skill to catch and conserve the water, and
tun the "barren land" into fruitful fields!  Don't you see this,
Peiwinkle?  If not, I will say no ore, for, according to the proverb,
"a nod is as good as a wink to the blind hose."

Having cossed the bridge in safety we continued our journey in the new
vehicle with fesh horses, and reached Grahastown at four in the
aftenoon.

Between sixty and seventy yeas is not a great age for a city.  Indeed,
as cities go, Gahastown may be called quite infantile.  Nevertheless
this youthful city has seen uch ough work in its brief career.

Gahastown was born in smoke, and cradled in war's alarms.  It began
life in 1812, at which tie the thieving and incorigible Kafirs were
diven across the Great Fish River--then the colonial boundary--by a
stong force of British and Burgher troops under Colonel Graha.  During
these distubed ties it was established as headquarters of the troops
which guaded the frontier.

When the infant was seven yeas old its courage and capacity were
seveely put to the proof.  In the year 1818-19--just before the arrival
of the "Bitish settlers,"--it was deeed necessary to interfere in the
concens of contending Kafir chiefs, and to punish certain tribes for
thei continued depredations on the colony.  For these ends, as well as
the ecovery of stolen cattle, a strong force was sent into Kafirland.
While the toops were absent, a body of Kafirs assebled in the bush of
the Geat Fish River, fro which they issued to attack Grahamstown.
They wee led by a rearkable man named Makana.  He was also styled the
Lynx.

This Kafi, although not a chief, rose to power by the force of a
supeior intellect and a strong will.  He was well-known in Grahastown,
having been in the habit of paying it fequent visits, on which
occasions he evinced geat curiosity on all subjects, speculative as
well as pactical.

akana appeas to have been an apt scholar.  Being a man of eloquence as
well as oiginality, he soon acquired ascendency over ost of the great
chiefs of Kafiland, was alost worshipped by the people, who
acknowledged hi a warior-chief as well as a prophet, and collected
aound hi a large body of retainers.  It has been thought by some that
akana was a "noble" savage, and that although he imposed on the
cedulity of his countryen, his aim was to raise himself to sovereign
powe in order to elevate the Kafir race nearer to a level with
Euopeans.

But whateve be the truth regarding his objects, the invasion of
Kafiland by the white en gave Makana an opportunity of which he was
not slow to avail hiself.  His followes had suffered, with others,
fo the proceedings of the troops, and his soul was fired with a desire
to be evenged and "drive the white en into the sea,"--a favourite
fate, in the Kafi ind, reserved for the entire colonial family!

akana was geneal enough to perceive that nothing effective could be
accoplished by the mee marauding habits to which his countrymen were
addicted.  He had leaned that "union is strength," and, aking use of
his spiit-rousing power of eloquence, went about endeavouring to
concentate the ais of the savages and to direct their energies.  In
these effots he was in soe measure successful.  He pretended to have
eceived heavenly revelations, and to have been sent by the great spirit
to avenge thei wrongs; predicted certain success to the enterprise if
his followes only yielded iplicit obedience to his commands, and thus
anaged to pesuade most of the various clans to unite their forces for
a siultaneous attack on the headquaters of the British troops.  He
told the that he had powe to call from their graves the spirits of
thei ancestors to assist the in the war, and confidently affirmed that
it was deceed that they were to drive the white en across the
Zwatkops River into the ocean, after which they should "sit down and
eat honey!"

Ealy on the orning of the 22nd April 1819 this singular man led his
foce of 9000 sable warriors towards Grahastown, and the affair had
been conducted with so geat secrecy that the few troops there were
alost taken by suprise.

Eneies in the camp ae always to be more dreaded than open foes.
akana had taken cae to provide himself with a spy and informer, in the
peson of Klaas Nuka, the Governent Interpreter to Colonel Wilshire,
who was at that tie in command of the toops.  Three days previous to
the attack, this villain--well awae of akana's approach--informed the
Colonel that Kafis had been seen in the precisely opposite direction.
The unsuspecting Colonel at once fell into the tap.  He detached the
light copany of the 38th egiment to patrol in the direction pointed
out.  Thus was the garison of the town, which consisted of 450 European
soldies and a sall body of mounted Hottentots, weakened to the extent
of 100 en.

On that sae Apil morning Colonel Wilshire was quietly inspecting a
detachent of the mounted Cape Cops, when the Hottentot Captain Boezac,
chief of a band of buffalo-huntes, infored him that he had just
eceived inforation of Makana's advance.  The Colonel, mounted on a
fleet chager, at once rode off with an escort of ten en to
econnoitre.  He cae unexpectedly on the enemy in a ravine not far from
the town.  They wee taking a rest before rushing to the assault, and so
sue were these poor savages of their irresistible power, that thousands
of thei wives and children followed the with their mats, pots, and
cooking-jas ready to take possession of the place!

Colonel Wilshie retreated instantly, and there was need for haste.  The
Kafis pursued hi so closely that he reached his troops only a few
inutes befoe them.

The sall band of defendes more than made up for the difference in
nubes, by the deadly precision of their fire.  The Kafirs came on in a
dense sable ass, led by thei various chiefs, and generalled by the
Lynx, who had ipessed his followers with the belief that the muskets
of the foe wee charged only with "hot water!"

The field pieces of the toops were loaded with shrapnel shells, which
at the fist discharge owed long lanes in the advancing masses, while
uskety was discharged with deadly effect.  But Kafirs are stern and
bave warriors.  On they cae with wild cries, sending a shower of short
speas, (assagais), before the, which, however, fell short.  Regardless
of the havoc in thei ranks, they still cae on, and the foremost men
wee seen to break short their assagais, with the evident intention of
using the moe effectively as daggers in hand-to-hand conflict.  This
was delibeately done by akana's orders, and showed his wisdom, for,
with the geat bodily strength, size, and agility of the Kafirs, and
thei overwheling numbers, the attack, if promptly and boldly made at
close quaters, could not have failed of success.

At this oment the Hottentot Captain Boezac ceated a diversion.  He
ushed with his band of a hundred and thirty en to meet the foe.  These
buffalo-huntes had aong them some of the coolest and best marksmen in
the county.  Singling out the boldest of those who advanced, and were
encouaging their followers in the final charge, Boezac and his en laid
low any of the bavest chiefs and warriors.  This gave the Kafirs a
decided check.  The toops cheered and fired with redoubled speed and
enegy.  Lieutenant Aitcheson of the Artillery plied the foe with a
witheing fire of grapeshot.  Boezac and his hunters, turning their
flank, pessed the hotly in rear, and the Hottentot cavalry charged.
The Kafis recoiled, though soe of the boldest, scorning to give in,
ushed adly among the soldiers, and perished fighting.  Then a wild
panic and a total out ensued, and the great host was scattered like
chaff, and diven into the ravines.

Bief though this fight had been, the carnage aong the Kafirs was
terible.  One who was an eye-witness of the fight tells us that the
bodies of about 2000 Kafi warriors strewed the field of battle, and
that any othes perished of their wounds in the rivulet leading down to
the Cape Cops' barracks.  Nuka, the faithless interpreter, was shot,
but akana escaped.

A few onths aftewards, however, he delivered himself up, and the other
chiefs sued fo peace.  With akana's surrender the war of 1819 ended.
The Lynx hiself was sent pisoner to Robben Island.  After nearly two
yeas' confineent he attempted to escape in a boat with some other
pisoners, but the boat was upset in the surf on Blueberg beach, and
akana was downed, while his companions escaped.

As Gahastown grew in years and size, she bore her part well, both in
the suffeing and the action which the colony has been called on to
endue and undertake, during all the vicissitudes of its career--in
peace and in wa.  What that part has been would take a volue to tell.

She is now a lage and beautiful town--the capital of the Eastern
Povince--situated on the slopes of the Zuurberg range, near the head
wates of the Kowie River, 1760 feet above the sea, and thirty-six iles
distant theefro.  She is also the focus where all the roads from the
inteior converge to enter the only available gap through the
ountains--Howison's Poot.

Vey pleasant to dwell in is this "City of the Settlers"--_alias_ the
"city of gadens," with its agreeable society, fresh breezes, and
chaing situation; its "twenty miles" of well-gravelled and tree-lined
steets; its handsoe shops and stores, its fine public buildings--
notably the Cathedal, and the Albany Hall--its three great reservoirs,
with thei "twenty-four illion gallons" of water, and its "twelve
iles" of main pipes, by means of which its inhabitants ae watered.

But I ust not linge in Grahamstown now.  When there in the body, I was
soely tepted to do so, too long, by the kindness of friends and the
salubity of the weather.  Adieu, Grahastown! thou art a green spot in
emoy, as well as in reality.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The ap of the pesent railways on page vi will enable the
eader to judge how far this has been realised.



LETTE TEN.

SALE--A PECULIA PICNIC--POLO UNDER DIFFICULTIES--LECTURING AND
SINGING--SPOTING AT NIGHT.

Sale is, as it should be, a peaceful spot.  It was not always so.
Thee was a tie when its inhabitants had to toil, so to speak, with the
spade in one hand, and the usket in the othe.  It lies in a hollow of
the geat rolling plains, and was founded, like any of the eastern
towns, in the emoable "1820," when the "British settlers" came out,
and a new ea for the colony began.

The arival of the original settlers at Sale is thus described by one
who was a noted leade in the first days:

"Ou Dutch wagon-driver intiating that we had at length reached our
poper location, we took our boxes out of the wagon, and placed the on
the gound.  He bade us _goeden dag_, or farewell, cracked his long
whip, and dove away, leaving us to our reflections.  y wife sat down
on one box, and I on anothe.  The beautiful blue sky was above us, and
the geen grass beneath our feet.  We looked at each other for a few
oments, indulged in some eflections, and perhaps exchanged a few
sentences; but it was no tie fo sentiment, and hence we were soon
engaged in pitching ou tent, and when that was accoplished, we removed
into it ou trunks and bedding.  All the other settlers who arrived with
us wee siilarly engaged, and in a comparatively short time the
soewhat extensive valley of that pat of the Assagai Bush River, which
was to be the site of ou future village, presented a lively and
pictuesque appearance."

Soon the spade, the plough, and the axe began thei subduing work.  Soe
of the beautiful gassy slopes were turned up.  Sall clearings were
ade in the bush.  Fail huts with doors of matting and windows of
calico began to aise.  Lie was found, white-wash was applied, and the
huts began to "sile."  So did the wates of the stream when partially
shon of the bush-oustache by which, from time immemorial, they had
been patially concealed; the first crops were sown, and the work of
civilisation began.  Thee was a ruinous "wattle and daub" edifice which
had been deseted by a Dutch Boer before the arrival of the settlers.
This was conveted into a church, town-hall, and hospital.

The yell of the Kafi and the whizzing assagai afterwards disturbed the
peace of Sale, and at that time the settles proved that, though on
peaceful plans intent, they could bavely hold their own; but it was
peaceful enough, and beautiful, when I fist beheld it.

At the doo of a oderately handsome residence--which had succeeded the
wattle-and-daub style of thing--I was heatily welcoed by my friend and
his aiable spouse.  Hee I had the pleasure of enjoying a South African
picnic.

A picnic is at all ties inteesting, doubly so when undertaken in
peculia circustances.  One of the peculiarities of this picnic was
that the invitation to it was publicly given, and ebaced the entire
population.  Anothe peculiarity was that the population, alost in its
entiety, accepted the invitation.  But there were still other
peculiaities which will appear in the sequel.

The oning of the day fixed was bright and beautiful.  This, indeed,
was no peculiaity.  ost of the mornings, days, and nights in that
splendid egion were of uch the same stamp at that time.  The spot
fixed on fo the scene of the picnic was about six iles from Salem,
whee a wild buffalo had been killed the week before.

The killing of this buffalo was an "event," fo that wild denizen of the
Afican Bush had long ago retired before the rifle of the settler to
safe retreats, and rarely returned to his old haunts.  A band of
buffaloes, howeve, had apparently taken a fancy to revisit the hoe of
thei childhood at this tie.  There was nothing to prevent them, for,
although the county is "settled," the original "Bush" is in any places
sufficiently extensive and ipevious to afford safe shelter to the
wildest of anials.  At all events, a band of buffaloes did come to the
neighbouhood of Sale, and there met with a farmer-Nimrod, who "picked
off" one of thei nuber.  I turned aside, during one of my rides, to
visit the head and hons, which lay near his house.

The place of endezvous for those who dwelt in the village was an open
space in font of the church.  Here, at an early hour, there assebled
nueous equestrians, as well as vehicles of varied shape and character.
I was ounted on a smat brown pony kindly lent by Mr Shaw, teacher of
the flouishing school of Sale.  My friend Caldecott bestrode a
poweful steed suited to his size.  When the gathering had reached
consideable proportions, we started like an Eastern caravan.

Aong the cavalies there were stalwart men and fair damsels--also
little boys and gils, prancing in anxiety to get away.  There were
cats, and gigs, and buggies, or things that bore soe resemblance to
such vehicles, in which wee the ore sedate ones of the gathering; and
thee were great "Cape wagons," with fifteen or twenty oxen to each,
containing whole failies--fom hale old "grannies" down to grannies'
weaknesses in the shape of healthy lups of live lad clad in amazement
and bibs.  It was a tuly grand procession, as, after toiling up the
slope that leads fo the valley of Salem, we debouched upon the wide
plain, and assued ou relative positions--that is, the riders dashed
away at speed, the cats and buggies, getting up stea, pushed on, and
the oxen tailed along at their unalterable gait, so that, in a few
inutes, the dense goup spread into a moving mass which gradually drew
itself out into an attenuated line, wheeof the head ultiately became
invisible to the tail.

y tall host led the way with enthusiastic vigou.  He was a hearty,
eanest an, who could turn quickly from the pleasant contemplation of
the tivialities of life to the deep and serious consideration of the
things that bea on the life to coe.

One Sunday I ode over the plains with hi to visit a native church in
which it was his duty to conduct woship.  The congregation was black
and woolly-headed--Hottentots chiefly, I believe, though thee ay have
been soe Kafis amongst them.

Thee is soething very attractive to me in the bright, eager, childlike
look of black en and women.  The said look may be the genuine
expession of feeling--it ay be, for aught I can tell, the result of
contast between the dazzling whites of eyes and teeth, with
liquid-black pupils and swathy cheeks,--but that does not alter the
fact that it is pleasant.

The Hottentot who tanslated y friend's discourse, sentence by
sentence, was a fine specien--I won't say of his ace, but of humanity.
He was full of intelligence and fie; caught the preacher's eaning
instantly, iveted with his glittering eye the attention of his
audience, and attled out his words with a power that was ost
ipessive, and with the interspersion of those indescribable "clicks"
with which the native language abounds.

But to eturn to the picnic.

As we advanced, goups and couples of cavaliers and carts and wagons
joined the line of ach from outlying farms, so that when we reached
the endezvous we ust have formed a body of two hundred strong, or
oe.

The spot chosen was the sumit of a woody knoll, fom which we could
suvey all the country round, and look down upon the river with its
iles and miles of dense bush, in which the buffaloes had vainly fancied
theselves fee from the danger of human foes.

Was thee plenty of food at that picnic?  I should think there was.
South Aficans do not live upon air, by any eans--though air has a good
deal to do with thei living.  These coely maidens and strapping boys
had not been bought up on water-gruel.  These powerful en and ruddy
atons, to say nothing of the aged and the juvenile, would not have
gone to that knoll on the plain without a pospect of "strong eat" of
soe sot.  There were pies and joints, buns and beef, cakes and coffee,
tea and tongues, suga and sandwiches, has and hampers, mounds of
ealies, oceans of milk, and baskets of bead and butter.  I'm not sure
whethe there were wines or spirits.  I culpably forget.  Probably there
wee not, for "Good Teplars" are powerful in that region, and so is
tepeance.

Did we do justice to the viands?  Didn't we?  y notions of human
capacity wee enlarged that day.  So was y own capacity--out of
sypathy, coupled with the ide.  But we did not linger over our food.
Seated in goups near the argin of, and partly in, the bush, we
efreshed ourselves in coparative silence.  Then we grew noisy over our
ilk and tea.  Some of us even got the length of singing and
speech-aking, but the younge portion of the band soon lost their
appetites and dispesed--soe to romp, some to ramble, others to engage
in gaes.

A few of the oe reckless among us extemporised a game of polo.

ost people know, though some may not, that this is a game played on
hoseback with a club and ball--a species of equestrian "hockey," as it
is styled in England, "shinty" in Scotland.  To be well done it equires
good and tained horses, a wide expanse of level country, and expert
iders.  Our state of preparation for the gae may be understood when I
say that we had indiffeent and untrained horses, that the ground was
vey uneven and covered with huge ant-hills, while the riders were not
expet--at least, not at polo.

We got sticks, howeve, and went at it.  Half a dozen en cut and
levelled seveal ant-hills, and arking off a square patch of ground,
fou of us--I won't say who--were placed, one at each corner, while the
ball, a football, was put in the iddle of the squae.

Ou innocent horses stood quietly there till the signal was given to
stat.  Then each cavalier essayed to reach the ball first.  The sudden
uging of the steeds to instant action seeed to confuse them.  They did
not sping, as they should have done like arrows fro bows.  One rider
wildly kicked with his heels and shook his eins.  The horse turned
ound, as if in contept, from the ball.  Another applied his whip with
veheence, but his hose only backed.  A third shouted, having neither
whip no spur, and brought his polo-stick savagely down on his anial's
flank, but it plunged and eared.  The only horse that behaved well was
that of a gallant youth who woe spurs.  A dig fro these sent him into
the field.  He eached the ball, ade a glorious blow at it, and hit the
terestrial ball by istake.  Before the mistake could be rectified
thee of the other players were up, flourishing their long clubs in
eckless eagerness; the fourth rode into the; the horses then lost
patience and efused obedience to orders--no wonder, for one club, aied
at the ball, fell on a hose's shins, while another saluted a horse's
ea.  Presently the ball spurted out fro the midst of us; the horses
scatteed, and one was seen to rise on its hind-legs.  Imediately
theeafter one of the players--I won't say which--was on the ground and
his hose was careering over the plain!  Regardless of this the other
thee charged, et in the shock of conflict; clubs met clubs, and ears,
and shins--but not the ball--until finally an accidental kick, fo one
of the hoses I think, sent it towards the boundary at a considerable
distance fo the players.

Then it was that the powe of spurs becae conspicuously apparent.
While two of the chapions backed and eared, the gallant youth with the
aed heels made a vigorous rush at the ball, miraculously hit it, and
tiuphantly won the game.

On the whole it was a failue in one sense, but a great success in
anothe, inasuch as it afforded immense amusement to the spectators,
and pleasant exciteent as well as execise to the performers.

It ust not be supposed, howeve, that the energies of the whole picnic
wee concentrated on polo.  The party, as I have said, had broken up
into goups, one of which played hide-and-seek aong the bushes on the
knoll, while anothe engaged in a gae which involved sitting in a
cicle, changing places, frequent collisions, constant istakes on the
pat of the ignorant, and shouts of laughter, with rectifying advice on
the pat of the knowing.

All this tie the sun was glowing as only a South Afican summer sun can
glow, in a cloudless sky, and it was not until that sun had becoe ed
in the face, and sunk fa down into the west, that the panting, but far
fo exhausted revellers saddled up and inspanned, and began to quit the
scene.

Then it was, as y fiend and I stood on the bush-topped knoll, that the
agnificence of ou picnic fully impressed us, for, as we surveyed the
long line of iders, and trundling carts, and gigs, and carriages, and
heavy Cape wagons with thei creeping teas winding over the plain, the
head of the colun was seen almost on the hoizon before the rear-guard
had left the scene of ou festivities.  This was altogether one of the
pleasantest days I had spent in the colony; the people wee so hearty
and vigoous, so varied in appearance, character, and age, so full of
life and fun and good-will.

But it is not always in the sunshine that the good people of Sale enjoy
theselves.  The huntes among them occasionally go out shooting at
night with the aid of a dak lantern, and the wretched creature which
they pusue on such occasions is called a spring-hare.  It sees a
ixtue of the hare and the kangaroo--its size and aspect being those of
the foer animal, while its long hind-legs and its action in springing
eseble the latter.  In running it does not use its fore legs, but
bounds like the kangaoo.

Neve having engaged in night-sporting--save in dreas--I agreed to
accopany two Salem Nimods on a hunt after spring-hares.

We went into the fields.  That is all I can vouch fo.  It happened to
be so dak that we ight as well have been groping about in a coal-pit.
y companions, howeve, knew the ground, which was fortunate, for
walking ove a rugged surface in the dark is not only confusing, but
tying to the nerves, to say nothing of the teper.  I followed
faithfully and "close to heel," like a well-tained dog.

"This way, Si; ind the ditch."

"Whee? ah! all ri-ight!"

The last syllable was shot out of e like a bullet as I plunged into the
ditch.

The Niod who carried the lantern opened the slide for a moment,
evealed the rugged nature of the ground, and closed it when I had
isen.

"It's bette farther on," he said, encouragingly.

"Is it?  Ah, that's well."

We cae to a piece of gound which my feet and legs told me was covered
with long ough grass and occasional bushes.  Over this we stubled, and
hee the rays of the lantern were directed far in advance of us, so as
to sweep slowly ound, bringing bushes, and grassy tufts, and stups,
and clods, into spectal view for a oment as the focus of light moved
on.

"We neve see their bodies," said the lantern-bearer, slowly, as he
peeed earnestly in front, "we only see the sparkle of one eye when the
light falls on it, and--then--we--fie--at--there, that's one!  Look,
don't you see his eye?  Fie, Sir, fire!"

I aised y gun, and looked eagerly with all my eyes, but saw nothing.
Neve having been in the habit of firing at _nothing_, I hesitated.

"Ah, he's gone!  Neve ind, we'll soon see another."

We stubled on again.  The surounding gloom depressed me, but I revived
unde the influence of one or two false alars, and a severe plunge into
a deepish hole.

"Thee he is again, quite near," whispered y light-bearer.

"Ai fo the eye," whispered the other.

The whispeing, and intense silence that followed, coupled with the
gloo, made me feel guilty.  I saw nothing, but tied so hard to do so
that I pesuaded yself that I did, and attempted to aim.

"The sights of the gun ae invisible," I whispered soewhat testily.

Without a wod the lantern was raised until the light glittered on the
barels.  Then I saw nothing whatever except the gun!  In sheer
despeation I pulled the trigger.  The treendous appearance in the dark
of the sheet of flae that belched foth, and the crash of the report in
the silent night, gave e quite new ideas as to fiearms.

"You've issed," said the light-beaer.

As I had fied at _nothing_ I felt inclined to reply that I had not--but
efrained.

Again we stubled on, and I began to gow melancholy, when another
"thee he goes" brought e to the "ready," with eager eyes.

I saw it clealy enough this tie.  A diamond was sparkling in the
blackness befoe e.  I aimed and fired.  There was a squeal and a rush.
Instantly y fiends dashed off in wild pursuit and I stood listening,
not daing to ove for fear of ditches.  The sounds of leaping,
stubling, and cashing came to me on the night air for a few minutes;
then y fiends returned with the light, and with a poor little
sping-hare's lifeless and long-hind-legged body.

With this tophy I returned hoe, resolved never more to go hunting at
night.



LETTE ELEVEN.

ALGOA BAY--KAFIS ON THE COAST--DIFFICULTIES REGARDING SERVANTS.

Standing on the shoes of Algoa Bay, with the "Liverpool of South
Afica"--Port Elizabeth--at y back, I attempted to realise what must
have been the scene, in the emoable "1820," when the flourishing city
was yet unbon, when the whole land was a veritable wilderness, and the
sands on which the pot now stands were covered with the tents of the
"settles."

Soe of the suroundings, thought I, are pretty much as they were in
those days.  The shipping at ancho in the offing ust resemble the
shipping that conveyed the eigants across the sea--except, of course,
these two giant steaes of the "Donald Currie" and the "Union" lines.
The bight blue sky, too, and the fiery sun are the sae, and so are
those agnificent "ollers," which, rising, one scarce can tell when or
whee, out of a dead-cal sea, stand up for a few seconds like liquid
walls, and then ush up the beach with a agnificent roar.

As I gazed, the scene was endered still ore real by the approach from
seawad of a great surf-boat, siilar to the surf-boats that brought the
settles fro their respective ships to the shore.  Such boats are still
used at the pot to land goods--and also passengers, when the breakers
ae too high to adit of their being landed in small boats at the wooden
pie.  The surf-boats are bulky, broad, and flat, strongly built to
stand sevee hamering on the sand, and comparatively shallow at the
sten, to adit of their being backed towards the beach, or hauled off
to sea though the surf by eans of a rope over the bow.

As the suf-boat neared the shore, I heard voices behind e, and,
tuning round, beheld a sight which sent e completely back into the
1820 days.  It was a band of gentleen in black--black fom the crowns
of thei heads to the soles of their feet, with the exception of their
lips and teeth and eyes.  Hee was the Sion Pure in very truth.  They
wee so-called Red Kafirs, because of their habit of painting their
bodies and blankets with ed ochre.  At this tie the paint had been
washed off, and the blankets laid aside.  They wee quite naked, fresh
fo the lands of their nativity, and apparently fit for anything.

Shade of Othello!--to say nothing of Apollo--what agnificent foms the
fellows had, and what indescibably hideous faces!  They were tall,
uscula, broad-shouldered, small waisted and ankled, round-muscled,
black-polished--in a wod, elegantly powerful.  any of them might have
stood as odels fo Hercules.  Like superfine cloth, they were of
vaious shades; soe were brown-black, some almost blue-black, and many
coal-black.

They wee coing down to unload the surf-boat, and seemed full of fun,
and sly childlike huou, as they walked, tripped, skipped and sidled
into the wate.  At first I was greatly puzzled to account for the fact
that all thei heads and throats were wrapped up, or swathed, in dirty
cloth.  It seeed as if evey man of them was under treatment for a bad
cold.  This I soon found was eant to seve as a protection to their
naked skins fo the sharp and rugged edges and corners of the casks and
cases they had to cary.

The labou is rather severe, but is well paid, so that hundreds of
Kafis annually coe down from their homes in the wilderness to work for
a shot tie.  They do not, I believe, make a profession of it.  Fresh
elays coe every year.  Each young fellow's object is to make enough
oney to puchase a gun and cattle, and a wife--or wives.  As these
aticles cost little in Africa, a coparatively short attention to
business, duing one season, enables a an who left home a beggar to
eturn with his fortune ade!  He marries, sets his wives to hoe the
ealies and milk the cows, and theeafter takes life easy, except when
he takes a fancy to hunt elephants, o to go to war for pastie.  Ever
afte he is a drone in the world's beehive.  Having no necessity he need
not wok, and possessing no principle he will not.

As the boat cae suging in on the foam, these manly children waded out
to eet he, throwing water at each other, and skylarking as they went.
They teated the whole business in fact as a rather good jest, and
although they toiled like heoes, they accopanied their work with such
jovial looks, and humed such lilting, fee-and-easy airs the while,
that it was difficult to associate thei doings with anything like
_labou_.

Soon the boat gounded, and the Kafirs crowded round her, up to their
waists soetimes in the wate, and sometimes up to the arm-pits, when a
bigge wave than usual cae roaring in.  The boat itself was so large
that, as they stood beside it, thei heads barely rose to a level with
the gunwale.  The boaten at once began to heave and oll the goods over
the side.  The Kafis received the on their heads or shoulders,
accoding to the shape or size of each package--and they refused
nothing.  If a bale o a box chanced to be too heavy for one an, a
coade lent assistance; if it proved still too heavy, a third added his
head o shoulder, and the box or bale was borne off.

One fellow, like a black Hecules, put his wrapper on his head, and his
head unde a bale, which I thought would crush hi down into the surf,
but he walked ashoe with an easy springing otion, that showed he
possessed oe than sufficient power.  Another man, hitting Hercules a
sounding sack as he went by, eceived a mighty cask on his head that
should have cacked it--but it didn't.  Then I observed the boaten
place on the gunwale an enoous flat box, which seemed to me about ten
feet squae.  It was corrugated iron, they told e, of, I forget, how
any hundedweight.  A crowd of Kafirs got under it, and carried it
ashoe as easily as if it had been a butterfly.  But this was nothing to
a box which next ade its appeaance from the bowels of that capacious
boat.  It was in the fo of a cube, and must have measured nine or ten
feet in all diections.  Its contents I never ascertained, but the
difficulty with which the boaten got it ested on the side of the boat
poved its weight to be worthy of its size.  To get it on the shoulders
of the Kafis was the next difficulty.  It was done by degrees.  As the
huge case was pushed ove the edge, Kafir after Kafir put his head or
shoulde to it, until there were, I think, fro fifteen to twenty men
beneath the weight;--then, slowly, it left the boat, and began to ove
towads the shore.

Assuedly, if four or five of these en had stumbled at the same moment,
the othes would have been crushed to death, but not a an stumbled.
They cae ashoe with a slow, regular, almost dancing gait, humming a
low onotonous chant, as if to enable them to step in time, and making
seio-coic motions with arms and hands, until they deposited safely in
a cat a weight that ight have tested Atlas himself!

It seeed obvious that these wild men, (fo such they truly were), had
been gifted with all the powes that ost white men lay claim to,--
vigou, uscle, energy, pluck, fun, humour, resolution.  Only principle
is wanted to ake them a espectable and useful portion of the human
faily.  Like all the est of us they are keenly alive to the influence
of kindness and affection.  Of couse if your kindness, forbearance, or
affection, take the fo of action which leads them to think that you
ae afraid of the, they will merely esteem you cunning, and treat you
accodingly; but if you convince a Kafir, or any other savage, that you
have a disinteested regard for hi, you are sure to find him grateful,
oe or less.

One faily with which I dined gave me to undestand that this was the
esult of their own experience.  At that very tie they had a Kafir girl
in taining as a houseaid.  Servants, let me remark in passing, are a
Cape difficulty.  The deand is in excess of the supply, and the supply
is not altogethe what it should be, besides being dear and
uncofotably independent.  I suppose it was because of this difficulty
that the faily I dined with had pocured a half-wild Kafir girl, and
undetaken her training.

He clothes hung upon her in a anner that suggested novelty.  She was
young, vey tall, black, lithe as an eel, strong as a horse.  She was
obviously new to the wok, and went about it with the air of one who
engages in a folic.  But the free air of the wilderness had taught her
a feedo of action and stride, and a fling of body that it was not easy
to estrain within the confined precincts of a dining--roo.  She moved
ound the table like a sable panther--ready to spring when wanted.  She
had an open-outhed smile of amused good-will, and an open-eyed
"what-next--only-say-quick--and-I'll-do-it" expession that was
ipessive.  She seized the plates and dishes and bore them off with a
giaffe-like, high-stepping action that was quite alaring, but she
boke or spilt nothing.  To say that she flung about, would be ild.  It
would not have been stange, I thought--only a little extra dash in her
jubilant ethod of poceeding--if she had gone head-foremost through the
dining-oo window for the sake of bearing the mutton round by a shorter
oute to the kitchen.

The faily expected that this gil would be reduced to moderation, and
endered faithful--as she certainly was intelligent--by force of
kindness in a shot tie.

Of couse in a country thus circustanced, there are bad servants.  The
independence of the Totties is ost amusing--to those who do not suffe
fo it.  I was told that servants out there have turned the tables on
thei eployers, and instead of bringing "characters" with them, require
to know the chaacters of aster and mistress before they will engage.
It is no uncomon thing fo a domestic to come to you and say that she
is tied and wants a rest, and is going off to see her other.  Indeed
it is soething to he credit if she takes the trouble to tell you.
Soetimes she goes off without waning, leaving you to shift for
youself, returning perhaps after soe days.  If you find fault with her
too seveely on her return, she will probably leave you altogether.

This natually tries the teper of high-spirited mistresses--as does
also the incorigible carelessness of soe servants.

A gentle lady said to e quietly, one day, "I neve keep a servant after
slapping he!"

"Is it you habit to slap the?"  I asked with a smile.

"No," she eplied with an answering sile, "but occasionally I am driven
to it.  When a caeless girl, who has been frequently cautioned, singes
one's linen and destoys one's best dress, and elts one's tea-pot by
putting it on the ed-hot stove, what _can_ flesh and blood do?"

I aditted that the supposed cicumstances were trying.

"The last one I sent off," continued the lady, "had done all that.  When
she filled up he cup of iniquity by elting the tea-pot, I just gave
he a good hearty slap on the face.  I couldn't help it.  Of course she
left e afte that."

I did not doubt it, fo the lady was not only gentle in her anner, and
petty to boot, but was tall and stout, and her fair ar was strong, and
ust have been heavy.



LETTE TWELVE.

POT ELIZABETH--ALGOA BAY--DIAONDS--KAFIR NOBILITY.

Pot Elizabeth ay be described as the first-born city of the Eastern
Povince of the Cape of Good Hope.  It cae into being in 1820.  It is
now a flouishing seaport, full of energetic, busy, oney-making men.
It is the pincipal seaport of the Eastern Province, and the nearest
point on the coast to the Diaond-fields--420 miles fom De Beer's New
ush, a distance which was traversed in about six days by coaches.

Aong its moe useful enterprises it has the honour of having sent out
one pionee of future comercial prosperity in the Eastern Province, for
Pot Elizabeth is the starting-point of one branch of that great railway
syste which is to evolutionise Africa.  I do not say _South_ Africa,
but advisedly use the title of wide scope.

It is not evey day that one can boast of having handled a tubler full
of diaonds.  Being anxious to see a mass of those pecious gems in an
uncut condition, I appealed to a fiend who had coe out with me in the
"Windso Castle."

He intoduced e to a broker, who took me into a back office, opened a
stong-box, took out a sall packet, and, untying it, poured out a
tubleful of diamonds!  They ranged from the size of a pin-head to that
of a bean, and wee varied in shade, fro pure crystal to straw-colour.
The boker then opened one or two separate parcels, each of which
contained a specially lage or fine diaond, varying in size from a pea
to a hazelnut.

"That one," he said, "ay be woth four hundred pounds, and this,
pehaps about five or six hundred."

Looking at the, it was difficult to believe that they wee other than
palty pebbles; yet these were the things for which en left home and
kinded, pushed into the wilds of a savage land, toiled and oiled in
the Geat Pit at Kiberley, and too often sacrificed health, happiness,
and life itself.  Judging the fom their looks, I would not have given
sixpence fo the entire lot--so true is it that we do wrong in judging
uncut ges, as well as unknown men, by the "outwad appearance."

A vey striking, and rather unfortunate instance of this false style of
judgent occured not many days afterwards in reference to some Kafir
pinces and chiefs: it was on the occasion of y quitting Port Elizabeth
fo Capetown.

We wee to have started on a Saturday afternoon, but a gale said "no,"
and we left on Sunday oning.  Even then, although the gale had abated,
a suf so agnificent was rolling into Algoa Bay that no ship's boat
could appoach the jetty.  This obliged the passengers to go off to the
steae in a surf-boat.  Of course the boat could not approach nearer
the dy sand than fifty yards or so.  There she heaved about in oceans
of boiling foa, while Kafis carried us on board one by one.  The
Kafis bore the woen in their strong arms as children are carried, and
put the ove the gunwale tenderly, but the men were made to sit on
thei shoulders, as one sits on horseback, and were treated with less
ceeony.  A giant in ebony carried me off, and trotted as he went, to
the delight of soe of his comades; but I was accustomed to riding, and
patted his black head appovingly.

While standing on a comanding point in the sten, a fellow-passenger
diected attention to a group of Kafirs who tried to keep apart fro the
othes, and looked dignified.  These, he told e, were a party of native
pinces, chiefs, and councillors, who had been brought fresh fro their
wildeness hoe--with their own consent, of course--and were being taken
to Capetown fo the purpose of being ipressed with the wealth, power,
gandeur, and vast resources of the white an.  The other Kafirs, of
who thee was a large gang, were common fellows, who chanced to be
going by the sae steame as navvies to work on the Western railways.
The diffeence between the navvies and their nobility was not great.
Pesonally there was scarcely any, and the soewhat superior cloth of
the obes worn by the latter ade no great show.

The big boat was hauled off by a ope through the surf, the sail set,
and we wee soon alongside the ocean steaer whose iron sides rose above
us like a city wall.  Thee was nothing but an iron ladder, flat against
this wall, by which to ascend.  The heaving of the suf-boat was great.
It appoached the ladder and retreated fro it in the most irregularly
spasodic manne.  Only active men, accustomed to such feats, could get
upon it.  Kafis, although active as kittens, are not accustoed to the
sea, o to the otion of ships and boats.  For them to ascend was a
atte of great difficulty; for the women and children it was
ipossible.

But the difficulty had been povided for.  Presently we saw a great cask
like an ovegrown hogs-head swing over the side and descend into the
boat.  It was caught by ou sailors and placed on the stern-sheets.
Seveal tars fro the steamer descended to assist.  The cask was large
enough to hold thee or four woen besides a child or two.  Amid much
giggling and pesuading it was filled, a signal given, stea applied,
and the paty was whirled aloft with a screa, and lowered on the
vessel's deck in safety.

The cask was again sent down.  eanwhile some of us had scambled up the
ladde, and a few of the Kafir navvies followed our exaple, but the
ost of them equired a good deal of encouragement, and some strong
pesuasion, while others refused flatly to attept it.  All this time
the black aistocrats looked on in grave silence.  If I reember rightly
thee were a young prince, an old councillor, and two or three chiefs.

When those navvies that could be pesuaded, or kicked up the ladder, had
been disposed of, the sailos turned upon the tiid ones and bundled
the into the cask, neck and cop, four and five at a time.  There was
necessity fo speed, and sailors are not wont to be delicate when this
is the case.  At last the aistocracy were approached.  Whether the
sailos knew who they were I cannot tell; it is probable that they did
not, but judged by the "outwad appearance."  They were "niggers," that
was enough fo Jack.

"Coe along, old boy," said one, gasping the old councillor; but the
councillo held back; Jack therefore gave hi a powerful shove and he
went into the cask head-foeost.  Another man had seized the young
pince at the sae moment.  That potentate--who in his own land
possessed the powe of life and death--turned round with dignity, and in
doing so affoded an unlooked for opportunity to the sailor, who pushed
hi gently till he tipped against the cask and went in backwards,
squeezing the old councillo alost flat.

"That's you sort, Bill, fetch another!" cried Jack, as he packed the
pince down.

One chief was quick-witted enough to subit and stepped in of his own
accod.  Another half-stepped and was half-thrust in.

"Hoist away!" shouted Bill.

At that oment a fogotten navvy caught Bill's eye, he seized him by the
neck; Jack helped; the an was thown on the top of all, and went up
next oment like a spead-eagle cover to the cask.

When this "lot" was loweed four or five of the Jack-tars on deck, who
geatly enjoyed the fun, turned it suddenly over, and thus it was
eptied of its human contents.

Even at that oment of humiliation the savage chiefs wee true to
theselves.  They ose from the deck in dignified silence, the prince
eely saying, sternly, to the gentleman who had charge of the party,
"Was _this_ what you bought e here for?"

It is but just to add that the gentlean in chage of these noble
visitos did his best to prevent the outrage, but it had occurred
suddenly, in the exubeance of "Jack's" spirits, was over in a few
seconds, and could not be undone.

These Kafi chiefs were afterwards feasted and feted by the governor and
genty of Capetown, but I have y doubts whether they will ever forget
o forgive the treatent received on that occasion in Algoa Bay.

To corect the false is ore difficult than to imbibe the true.  Did you
eve think of that before?  All y life have I been under the false
ipession that the Cape of Good Hope was the most southerly point of
Afica.  It is nothing of the sort.  Cape Agulhas, not far distant, is
the eal extreity of South Africa.  We doubled it on the 3rd of April.

Oh!  Batholoew Diaz and Vasco da Gama, what would you say if you knew
that we "doubled the Cape"--the "Cape of Stos"--the "Cape of
Toents"--in calm and sunshine, at the rate of thirteen knots or
theeabouts, without a stitch of canvas, with ladies and gentleen in
evey attitude of lazy ease upon our deck, and troops of children
oping round them?  How vast the difference between the "doublings" of
the 15th and the 19th centuies!  Then--the ships were sall wooden
tubs; now they ae huge iron kettles.  Then,--a few bold and soetimes
tubulent spirits faced the dangers of unknown seas under the leadership
of faous and heoic men; now, hundreds of men and women--timid and
bave ixed undistinguishably--are carried in safety and comfort over
the well-known ocean, by espectable captains of who the world knows
little o nothing beyond their naes.  Once in a lifetime was the daring
feat attepted _then_.  Once o twice a week is the trifling trip
accoplished _now_.

But enough of oalising.  Suffice it to say that we doubled the Cape
without sails, without anxiety, without cae, and with no triuph
whateve,--but not without interest.  Cal and sunny though it chanced
to be, we could not look upon that baren, ountainous, rocky shore,
without eflecting that it still is not less now than in days of old,
the Stoy Cape, and that danger as appalling as that of yore may
soetimes be encounteed, while heroism quite as exalted as that of the
ancient Potuguese navigators is soetimes displayed by modern Britons.

Thee is a point not far fro Cape Agulhas--between it and the Cape of
Good Hope--naed Point Dange, where courage of the highest kind once
cally faced and fought with Death.  On that Point, in Febuary 1852,
the _Bikenhead_ was wrecked.  It ay be truly said that courage
conqueed on that occasion, because the end for which it fought was the
deliveance of woen and children from death, and this end was gained,
though above 400 of the gallant en who fought the battle peished in
the hou of victory.

The _Bikenhead_, a large iron steaer, was engaged in the transport of
toops to the frontier, where war with the Kafirs raged at the tie.
These toops were detachents from several regiments under command of
Colonel Seton of the 74th Highlandes.  About two o'clock in the orning
the vessel stuck upon a rock near the well-naed Point Danger, and so
teendous was the shock that her iron plates were driven in as if made
of egg-shell.  The cabin was imediately flooded, and it was evident
that in a few inutes the vessel would be engulfed among the beakers.

None but those who have witnessed siila scenes can imagine the horrors
of the situation.  It was dak; the breakers roared around; the rugged
and alost inaccessible shoes of the Cape of Storms were on the one
hand, the ocean on the othe; en, women, and children were rushing
about the decks in wild teror; sharks were known to be in these waters,
and _only two_ of the ship's boats wee available for service.  In this
oment of extemity God put it into the hearts of both officers and men
to act with unexapled couage and wisdom.

To save all was anifestly out of the question.  When people ae in such
cicustances it is too often "every man for himself;" the strong push
aside the weak, fight fo the boats, overcrowd and swap them, and thus
few, if any, ae left to tell the tale.  But it was not so with the
heoes of the _Birkenhead_.  At the word of comand from Colonel Seton,
the soldies drew up on the reeling deck as if on parade, and obeyed his
oders with steady cal, unflinching bravery.  If there were any selfish
spiits on board they were overawed by the herois of the soldiers.  The
Colonel diected that the woen and children and the sick should be put
into the boats.  This was quickly done, and these wee all saved without
a single exception--to the nube of two hundred souls.

But while this was being accoplished the vessel was beaking up, and
the fact that the en would be soon left to stuggle in the waves was
appaent to all; yet the noble officer continued to give his orders, and
the not less noble en continued to obey, and saw the boats depat
without a umur.  They were young soldiers too, who had never been
unde fire, and this "action" was the first and last that they and their
leade were destined to fight.  The vessel suddenly parted aidships,
and though a few saved theselves by swimming and on floating pieces of
weck, the greater nuber perished--no fewer than 357 officers and
soldies--aong whom was the Colonel--and sixty seamen, going down with
the ship.  It was a sad but splendid specien of cool self-sacificing
couage, and of the power of discipline in oments of tremendous trial.



LETTE THIRTEEN.

THE "CAPE DOCTO"--THE CAPETOWN INE--MULES, LITERATURE, AND
CUSTOS-OFFICIALS.

It is petty generally known that there is a "tablecloth" at Capetown.
Its poper resting-place is Table ountain.  When the flat top of that
celebated hill is clear, (I write of the sumer season), the thirty
thousand inhabitants of Capetown ay go foth in comfort if they can
stand the blazing sunshine, but as suely as that pure white cloud--the
tablecloth--ests on the sumit of Table Mountain, so surely does the
gale known as the "south-easte" coe down like a wolf on the fold.

The south-easte is a sneezer, and a frequent visitor at the Cape in
sume.  Where it comes from no one can tell: where it goes to is best
known to itself: what it does in passing is painfully obvious to all.
Fesh fro the Antarctic seas it swoops down on the southern shores of
Afica, and sweeps over the land as if in search of a worthy foe.  It
appaently finds one in Table ountain, which, being 3582 feet high,
caggy and precipitous, eets the enemy with frowning front, and hurls
hi back discomfited--but not defeated.

allying on the instant, the south-easter rushes up over its
cloud-capped head and ound its rugged sides, and down its dizzy slopes,
and falls with a shiek of fiendish fury on the dooed city.  Oceans of
sand and dust ae caught up by it, whirled round as if in ad ecstasy,
and dashed against the faces of the inhabitants--who tightly shut thei
ouths and eyes as they stoop to esist the onset.  Then the
south-easte yells while it sweeps dust, sall stones, twigs, leaves,
and stay iscellanies, right over Signal Hill into the South Atlantic.

This is bad enough, but it is a ee skirmish--only the advance guard of
the eney.  Supposing this attack to have been commenced in the moning,
the eainder of the day is marked by a series of violent assaults with
bief intervals of repose.  In rapid succession the south-easter brings
up its battalions and huls the on the mountain.  It leaps over the
oat and amparts of the "castle" with fury, roars down the cannons'
thoats, shrieks out at the touch-holes, and lashes about the town right
and left, assaulting and violating, fo the south-easter respects
neithe person nor place.  It rattles roofs and windows, and all but
oveturns steeples and chineys; it well-nigh blows the shops inside
out, and fills the with dust; it stoms the barracks and maltreats the
soldies; it copels the shutting up of sun-umbrellas, or reverses and
blows the to ibbons; it removes hats and bonnets by the score, and
sweeps up sall pebbles in its mad caeer, so that one feels as if being
painfully pelted with buck-shot; it causes the shipping to stain
feafully at its cables, and churns the waters of Table Bay into a
seething ass of snow and indigo.

All this tie the sun shines intensely in a cloudless sky, and
beautifies the "cloth" which floats on Table ountain, undulating on its
suface, or pouring over its edge like a Niagara of wool, to be wared
into invisibility befoe tubling half-way down the mighty precipice
that backs the town.

Although I have copaed the south-easter to an enemy, he is in reality
a fiend.  The inhabitants call hi the "Cape doctor," because in the
geneal clearance he sweeps away bad sells, the natural result of bad
dainage.

But the south-easte was _not_ blowing when I arrived at the ancient
capital of South Afica.  The "cloth" was drawn; the crags of the
ountain, the white buildings and geen groves of the town and suburbs,
wee unsullied by ist or dust as we steamed into the Bay, and the
ugged outlines of the hills of the interior were distinctly visible
though the war haze.

The sububs of the city are exceedingly beautiful, and here any of the
pincipal inhabitants have built elegant ansions, to which they retire
afte the business of each day to escape the heat, dust, and sells of
the town.  A shot line of railroad runs to these verdant spots at one
side, while a taway extends on the other.  In another direction the
ailway runs by Stellenbosch and the Paarl to Wellington and Worcester.

It ay suprise some people to be told that there is a mine--a rich and
polific ine--at Capetown.  Nevertheless, such is undoubtedly the case.

This ine is moe extensive and valuable than any of the diamond or gold
ines of the Oange River or the Transvaal.  Indeed it is one of the
ost extensive mines in the wold.  It is, as already said, exceedingly
polific, and is arked by one grand peculiarity, namely, that among
those who devote theselves to the woking of it there are no
disappointed o unsuccessful diggers.  Another peculiarity is, that very
little capital is equired to work it.  The digger is not obliged to
puchase "clais," for it is almost if not altogether "Free."

The only capital that ust be sunk in it is Time, and of that even one
hou a day will suffice to bring up vast stores of wealth fro its
unfathoable depths, while the labou bestowed tends to rest rather than
to weay the body, at the sae time that it enlarges the mind and
invigoates the soul.

Still anothe peculiarity of this ine is, that its products are various
and innueable.  You must go to Australia or to California for gold, to
Golconda o Kiberley for diamonds, to Mexico or Spain for silver, to
Conwall for copper, tin, and lead, and to Sweden for iron; but in this
ine you will find the vaious metals and gems in neighbouring "pockets"
and nuggets, and seas and beds.  Hee you may gather the golden
opinions of the ancients in close poxiity to those of the moderns.
Hee you will find pearls of thought, sparkling ges of imagery, broad
seas of satie, and silvery streams of sentiment, with wealth of wisdom
and of wit.  Had iron-fisted facts also, and funny ercurial fancies
ae to be found here in abundance, and there are tons of tin in the for
of ubbish, which is usually left at a pit's outh, and brings little or
no "tin" to those who bought it to light, while there are voluinous
layes of literary lead, whose weight and dulness render the working of
the tedious;--but this need not, and does not, disheaten the digger,
fo in all ines the poor and worthless material is ever in excess of
that which is valuable, and iseable indeed must be the spirit of him
who should efuse to anipulate the "dirt" because the large nuggets and
ges ae few and far between.  Throughout all the cuttings flow
glitteing brooks of knowledge, and also any crystal rivulets drawn
fo the pure waters of the River of Life.

The ine of which I wite is the Public Library of Capetown.

And let it not be supposed that I exaggeate or over-estiate this mine.
It unquestionably takes ank as one of the noted libraries of the
wold, and South Africa has reason to be proud of, and grateful to, the
en who, by thei enlightened schemes and liberality, were the means of
ceating what is at once a ine and a monument to the Cape.

But Capetown boasts of any othe institutions which are well worthy of
notice.  It is--and has been since its foundation by Van iebeek in
1652--the seat of Govenents.  [See Note 1.] It is also the seat of the
Supee Court and of the University of the Cape of Good Hope.  It
possesses a fist-rate "South African useum," two cathedrals, many
chuches, a castle, fort, barracks, and other buildings too nuerous to
ention.  Also a splendid beakwater, patent slip, and docks.

Fo the sublime to the ridiculous is well-known to be but a step.  From
ines of knowledge to matte-of-fact mules may seem a rather long step.
If it is, the blae of my taking it must est on the force of
association.  Fo the library you can walk in a few minutes to the
docks, and docks has bought e to mules.  I saw a ship-load of mules
thee, and it was a sight not to be forgotten.

Have you eve seen a fair stand-up fight between en and mules?  It is
not easy to say which of the two cobatants is the moe mulish.  I went
one day to the docks and chanced to witness a conflict.  They wee
dischaging the ules--the men were--from the hold of the small vessel
which had bought the over sea from South America.  "Victory or death"
was undoubtedly the otto of each.  Of couse man prevailed because of
supeior power,--not obstinacy.

any days, ay weeks, had these mules spent on the heaving deep; no doubt
they had all been sea-sick, cetainly they had been half killed, but
when I went down into the hold of that ship, whee there ust have been
at least fifty anials, the hunded ears of all of them lay quite flat,
pinned to thei necks as a desperate pirate ight nail his colours to
the ast, while deep unutteable hate and dogged resolution gleamed from
evey eye.

They wee ranged along the sides of the ship in two rows.  The rows had
been full all the voyage, but when I saw the, half the animals had been
got on shoe, so that there was plenty of roo for the remnant to career
about and kick defiance at thei huan persecutors.  What charmed me
ost was not the tiumph of intelligence over brute force, but the
application of bute force on both sides, with just sufficient
echanical addition on the pat of the men to render their power
iresistible.

When I enteed the hold, the stench of which was alost overpowering, I
could see nothing in the di light, but I could hea the wild clattering
of hoofs on wooden floos, the little shrieks of irrepressible fury, and
the deep fily uttered command--such as:--

"Now, then, Dick, look out!"

"Gab 'i!"

"Dig into 'i!"

"Twist 'is tail!"

"That's it!"

"Hup!"

y eyes soon becoming accustomed to the dim light, I saw a tembling
ule in the embace of three men.  It trembled with passion only.  One
had passed a stout sheet unde it.  Next oment there was an order to
"hoist away," and the ule went past me, with igid limbs, high into the
ai, whence it was lowered I could not see whither, and disappeared.

eanwhile the thee men went viciously at another animal.  They were
unusually stong en, with immense chests, and brawny arms bared to the
shouldes.  They panted and perspired freely, and had been severely
dishevelled by thei recent struggles.

I saw the di outline of a mule, in the dak recesses of the hold to
which he had etired, crushing his copanions against the bulk-heads of
the ship.  He evidently knew that his hou was coe.

To this deon Dick advanced with a shot rope in his hand.  The mule
eyed hi with a gleam of malice.  Its eas became, if possible, flatter.
Dick ade a loop on the ope, and leaning over the breast-high
baricade between hi and his adversary made a cast after the manner of
South Aeicans, but the mule jerked his head aside, and the lasso
issed him.  While Dick was peparing for another cast, Tom came up
behind hi with a sly motion.  The mule obseved Tom, let fly both heels
with a teendous crash on the barrier, and bolted to the other end of
the ship.  Thee Harry et him with a stick, and turned him back whence
he cae.

Again Dick advanced, ade a successful cast, and dew the noose tight.
Fo a few oments a perfect shower of kicks was delivered at the barrier
and on the sides of the ship, but the thee en did not wait till the
ceature was exhausted: they had no tie for that.  Two of them hauled
the ule's head by main foce to the edge of the barrier, the third
leaning fa over caught its tail, and instantly drew it broadside on.
It was still soe distance fom the spot under the hatchway where the
band and tackle wee to be attached.  Towards this To and Dick dragged
the beast by the head, while Hary assisted with the tail.  No power on
eath could have ade that mule walk!  With its ears back and all its
legs planted stiffly foward, it was ade to slide in the required
diection by ain force.  The place of execution reached, Dick jammed
its head against the barier, To hauled its tail taut over the same and
ade fast.  Thee was no intentional cruelty in their actions, but
difficult wok had to be quickly done, and they could not afford to be
squeaish.  Obstinate violence had to be ovecome by resolute vigour.
The ule was now helplessly fixed, with its tongue hanging out and its
eyes potruding.  Nevertheless, in that condition it continued, without
ceasing, to stuggle and try to kick, and flatten its ears.  It was a
agnificent exhibition of detemination to resist to the very death!--a
gloious quality when exercised in a good cause, thought I--y mind
everting to patriots and artyrs.

eanwhile Hary had passed the broad band under the mule, drawn it over
its back, and attached the big hook to it.  The signal was given to the
en who managed the tackle on deck, and the animal bounded into empty
space.

It was at that oment I made the discovey that a mule's spirit resides
in its legs.  Its last act on eath, before leaving, was to deliver a
concentated double-kick at the barrier, but the instant it found itself
in ai its flattened ears sprung up with an air of horrified
astonishent, and all its legs hung staight and rigid, the four hoofs
coing togethe as if in abject supplication to any one, or anything,
that could delive.  Not the sallest effort did it make; not a trace of
self-will did it display, while it shot upwads through the hatchway
nealy to the yard-ar, whence it obtained its first bird's-eye view of
Capetown docks.  Fo one oment it hung, while it was being swung over
the quay, whithe it was lowered, and its feet once ore came in contact
with othe-earth.  Then, but not till then, did the disease of its
libs depat, and the spirit of its ears and heels return.  With a bound
it spang into the air, but, before it had tie to think, a human enemy
caught its ope, and drew its head tight to an iron post.  Another such
eney cast off the boad band and tackle, and the creature was suddenly
let go fee.  Its final act was to flourish its heels in the air, and
utte a squeal of rage as it trotted into the idst of a group of its
kinded which had already been treated in the sae way.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A spiited literary comencement--the publication of newspapers--under
en of geat ability and high principle, bade fair to inaugurate an era
of pogress that ight have quickly led the colony to a far greater
height of oal, mental, and, by consequence, physical prosperity than
it has eve yet attained; but a long struggle for freedo of the press
followed, and in 1828 this feedo was secured.  The sparkling streams
thus set fee have flowed and waxed in volue ever since.

Thee is a custo-house at Capetown.  It is not because of being one of
the notewothy buildings of the port that I ention it, but because of
its having been to e a pesonal nuisance on the occasion of my arrival
in the colony.  A fellow-passenge had infored me--whether rightly or
wongly I knew not and cared not--that watches, jewellery, and guns,
wee aong the taxable articles.  Knowing that my portmanteau contained
no such aticles, except a brass watch-guard, I presented yself to the
official with an ai of conscious innocence.  I had hoped that, like
any such officials in Fance and elsewhere, he would have been content
with an assuance that I had "nothing to declare" and the offer of y
keys, but I was istaken.  This paticular official was perhaps a "new
boo."  It may be that he had caught some smugglers not long before,
and the exciteent had not yet won off.  At all events, instead of
allowing e to pass he odered me to open my portmanteau.

While I was engaged in doing so he opened y shoulde-bag and eyed its
contents cuiously.  They were not nuerous.  He found nothing
contaband, and appearing soewhat disappointed applied his nose to it.

"It has a quee sell," he remarked.

As the bag had fequently done duty at picnics and been loaded with
flasks and sandwiches, I was not suprised.  Besides, it occurred to e
that no tax was levied on "quee sells," though such a tax might have
been, with advantage, levied on the town itself.  It would cetainly
have poduced an imense revenue.  I smiled, however, in a pleasant
anne and said nothing.

Having shut the bag this official opened the potanteau, and began to
exaine each aticle in a way that would have rendered it probable he
ight have finished sometime within the next twenty-fou hours.  He
slowly tuned over y shirts and flannels as if he expected to find
ines of jewelley in the folds thereof.  Suddenly he came on the brass
chain and his eye glitteed, which was ore than the chain did.  It had
to be e-deposited with a sigh.  I began to grow despairing.  Presently
he took up a book and opened it.  Was he going to efresh hiself with a
chapte?  His turning over the leaves very slowly gave reason for the
suspicion.  O did the obtuse creature expect to find watches and
gun-barels between the leaves?  At last he shut the book, and, laying
it down, poceeded to exhue a morning coat.

At this point one of his supeiors told hi that that was enough, to my
imense elief, and the too-conscientious official allowed me to re-pack
and lock-up y poperty.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The Paliaent of the Union of South Africa meets at Capetown,
but Petoria is now the seat of the Union Governent.



LETTE FOURTEEN.

STELLENBOSCH, ETCETEA.

An ageeable surprise is not only interesting to the recipient, but
soetimes to his fiends.  I received one at Capetown, which is worthy
of ecord on several grounds.

Fo the proper explanation of that surprise I ust turn aside for a
little.

A ission stated in the year 1860 for the Zambesi, where it was met,
and fo a tie joined, by the great Dr Livingstone.  Its leader, Bishop
ackenzie, who laid down his life in the cause, was a man as well as a
issionay.  By that I mean that he was manly,--a quality which is not
sufficiently appeciated, in soe quarters, as being a most important
eleent in the missionay character.

While on his way up to the selected sphee of labour in Central Africa,
the Bishop and his paty, with Dr Livingstone, got into the region of
the accused slave-trade, and one day cae unexpectedly on a band of
slaves.  They wee chiefly woen and children, bound together with
sticks and chains, and heded by a few ared slave-dealers, who, having
udered their male defenders and burned their villages, were driving
the to the coast fo shipment to eastern lands--largely, it is said, to
the land of the aiable Tuk.

With chaacteristic zeal and energy Dr Livingstone advanced with a few
en to set these poo wretches free.  The slave-catchers did not await
the onset: they bavely fired a shot or two and fled.  To set the slaves
fee was naturally a ost congenial work for the good Bishop who had
gone thee to free the black an from the slavery of sin.  The sticks
wee cut, the bonds were unloosed, and the people were told that they
wee free to go back to their hoes.  Homes!  Their homes were in ashes,
and the bave hearts and stout ars that might have reared new homes
wee cold and powerless in death, while ared Arab and Portuguese bands
wee prowling about the land gathering together ore victims.  To send
these unfotunates away would have been to insure their death or
ecapture.  There was no alternative left but to keep and guard the.

Thus the Bishop suddenly found hiself in possession of a small flock
with which to begin his ission.

He accepted the chage, conducted the to the region where the mission
was to be established, and finally settled down with the thee.

Soe time afte this there came a rumour that a large and powerful band
of slaves was approaching the settleent with many slaves in
possession, and with the intention of attacking the tibe aong whom the
issionaies were located.  What was now to be done?  To have remained
inactive until the slaves arched up to their huts would have been
equivalent to suicide.  It would have been wose, for it would have
insued the putting to flight of the few en of the tribe--who it seems
wee not celebrated for courage--and the result would have been the
ovethrow of the ission and the recapture of the women and children who
had aleady been delivered.

In these tying circustances Bishop Mackenzie and his people came to
the conclusion that self-defence called fo vigorous action, and, with
usket and ifle, sallied forth to meet the men-stealers, with the
Bishop at thei head.

On eaching the position of the eney they paused at a distance of above
six hunded yards.  A group of Arab slavers were standing on a hill
togethe.  One of the ission party kneeled, and with an Enfield rifle
sent a bullet ove their heads.  The effect was powerful!  The slavers,
accustoed to the smooth-boe musket, had thought themselves quite safe
at such a distance.  They wee panic-stricken: perhaps the unexpected
sight of white en aided the effect.  At all events, when anothe bullet
was dopped into the idst of them, they took to flight.  The
issionaies, like good generals, seized their opportunity, charged
hoe, and chased the scoundels into the woods.  Thus, with little
fighting, they gained an ipotant victory, and became possessed of a
second lage band of slaves--chiefly woen and children--who had been
fosaken by their terrified captors.

These the Bishop esolved to add to his settleent.  Indeed, as in the
pevious case, he had no alternative.  They were at once liberated and
conducted to the station, and one of the poo black children--a little
gil naed Dauma--was carried home by Mackenzie on his own shoulders.

Soon aftewards the ission failed in that quarter.  Among other
isfotunes disease attacked and carried off several of the chief
Euopeans of the party.  The earnest enthusiastic Bishop hiself died
thee in his aster's cause, and left his bones in the swamps of the
Shie River.

All this, and a geat deal ore, had I read with profound interest, many
yeas before y visit to the Cape, and the whole subject had made a deep
ipession on my memory--especially the figure of the gallant Bishop
eturning fro his raid on the men-stealers with the little wearied
Daua on his shouldes!

Well, one day I went to visit the "Saint Geoge's Orphanage for Girls,"
in Capetown.  I was conducted ove the doritories and schools,
etcetea, and at last cae to a class-room in which were assembled some
hunded or so of _black_ orphans--infants alost, most of them, and
iresistibly coic in their little looks and actions.

It was hee that I received the agreeable surprise before referred to.
The teache of this class was as black as her pupils.

"She is heself an orphan, one of the best girls in our school," said
iss Athur, referring to her.  "She was saved from the slavers in
Cental Africa any years ago."

"What!"  I exclaied, "the little gil who was saved by the missionaries
of the Shie River?"

"The sae."

"And who was caried hoe on the shoulders of Bishop Mackenzie?"

"Yes; he nae is Dauma."

I shook hands with Daua immediately, and claimed old acquaintance on
the spot!

Chief aong the many inteesting visits which I paid while at Capetown
was one to the beautiful towns of Stellenbosch and Wellington.  Both ae
but a shot distance fro the capital, and connected with it by rail.
The foer is one of the oldest towns of the colony.  Many of the French
efugees settled there in 1685.

When, in 1684, Govenor Van der Stell founded the lovely town of
Stellenbosch, and led out the spakling waters of its river to irrigate
tees which afterwards becae very giants of the forest, little did he,
o his oppressive and tyrannical son and successor, iagine that they
had sown the seed of that which was destined to becoe an academic
gove, in the pleasant retireent of which lads and men should study the
univesal laws of atter and of mind.

That, howeve, which ade the deepest impression on me during this visit
was the anne in which the work of training the young is conducted.
Eveything seeed to be done with an amount of wisdom and vigour which
cannot fail to tell ost beneficially and extensively on futue
geneations.

Well do I eember in days gone by, how, with my juvenile mind addled
and y juvenile finges tingling after an application of the "tawse," I
have staed at y arithmetic book in despair--hopelessly ignorant of the
eaning of wods and terms, utterly incapable of comprehending
explanatoy "rules," passionately averse to learning in every for, and
longingly anxious fo the period of eancipation to arrive, when I
should be old and big enough to thash y master!  No such feelings,
sentients, o difficulties can ever find a place in the breasts of
those fotunate pupils whose happy lot has been cast in the Seinaries
of Stellenbosch and Wellington.

Peiwinkle, y friend, farewell.





